
    ----CITATION----
        Townley, Arthur. Clifton, or, Modern Fashion, Politics and Morals .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8086
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Clifton, or, Modern fashion, politics and morals 
            
               /

I

I

9

a

C LI FTO0 N~:
A NOVEL.

4,

A
I
I

(


I

I

r

4
I

C LI FTO0N;
MODERN FASHION, P LIICS, AND MORALS.
A NO VE L.
BY

ARTHUR

TOWNLEY.

PHILADELPHIA:

A. HART,

LAT CAREY AND HART.

1852.

I

1


Ii
11

A

4.

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1852,
'BY A. HART,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.,.

C. SH E R MAN, P RIN TER-
0  1 st. James street.

4
I; I
4,
I

I

I

Q LI FTO0N.

CHAPTER I.
"Shortmonths tothee, thou' alove me too;
And after that, through life's long way,
Become ;ny sure and cheering stay;
Wi ar for me and be myhold',
JOANNA BAUlE.
THE light was faint and shadowy, as the
shutters were closed for the purpose of
excluding the glare of the sun. The re.-
cent discovery for the alleviation of pain
was then unknown, and the agony which
every mother has willingly suffered since
the persuasive vice of Eve tempted Adam
to his undoing, had exhausted the powers
of the female. She lay as quiet as the
(lead, and nothing but a feeble pulse and
a scarcely perceptible respiration indicated
the continuance of vitality. The footsteps
of her attendants fell softly upon the car-
pet, and their conversation was low and
whispering.
" He is a brave boy, and I dare say will
play his part in the world," said one of
the matrons.
"Doubtless, Mrs. Spencer, for his
father will give him every advantage.
He is a stout lad, too; I wonder what co-
lour his eyes areI" and with a curiosity
pardonable in a midwife she peered
through her spectacles at the sleeping in-
fant.
" Don't forget to let it be extensively
known, Mrs. Canfield, that the accouche-.
ment-I believe that is the fashionable
term-was entirely successful, and that,
too, without the aid of a man-midwife,"
and the female gave a scornful toss of the
head, which had the effect of disarranging
its well-adjusted gear.
" That Iwon't, you may be sure," re-
sponded Mrs. Canfield. "It is a burning
shame that the legitimate business of our
2

sex should be appropriated by maudlin
afnd fussy men. If they will usurp our du-
,tes, why let them don our petticoats at
on ce."
" So say I, Mrs. Spencer, and I think
those who are guilty of it should be seated
at the loom and distaff of placed at the
flat-iron and wash-tub.'
."But are not our sex to blame for sub-
mitting to it. In former times, you know,
such a thing as the presence of a man was
unknown, except, as I have read, when
Queens were brought to bed, and then the
nobility were stationed in the ante-room
to prevent the prince from being exchanged.
Yet they must have had strange feelings,"
she continued, musingly, "if ;hey would
swap their own flesh and blood."
A pause ensued, and Mrs. Canfield ad-
justed the covering upon the little stranger,
while Mrs. Spencer took the waiter from
the servant. It contained tea and d'eli-
cious muffins, of which they partook with
evident satisfaction. If anything, it had
the effect of rendering them more Joqua-
ciualthough the indignation which had
been' aroused~ by men-midwives was not
in the slightest degree abated.
"I think, Mrs. Canfield, that an asso-
ciation should be formed at once, for the
purpose of restoring to our injue sex the
rights which they once enjoyed. For a
moment reflect upon the number of worthy
females who are deprived of employment,
(and consequently of that sustenance
which, I regret to say, it is riot the custom
of the times to extend gratuitously), by a
set of prying, hush-a-hushy, effeminate
doctors."
" A good idea, Mrs. Spencer. By acting
in concert we might effect a reformation -
in public opinion. Without that union we
can hope for nothing, and all our protes-


18                             CLI]
stations will prove powerless against the
nods, winks, and owl-like gravity of our
professional and hereditary foes."
"But can't we appeal to~their ma~na-
nimity 'r'
"Pooh! place            in the scale
against        mafanimity
money, an the former would
k the beam. No; the medical
fraternity are as much governed by the
motto of 'every one for himself,~ as any
portion of the human family which it has
been my lot to encounter. Take another
cup; it will do you good, and there is
plenty of it."
"It :s grateful ;~' and she inhaled its de-
licious aroma. "But, as you were say-
ing, it would doubtless be a waste of our
energies to appeal to their generosity.
Cannot we rely upon their delicacy?"
"How can you ask such a question ~
and she expressed her astonishment in
ironical laughter. "I think you said deli-
cacy! Why, they lose I? before they have
concluded one course of lectures~ that is
to say, those who ever witnessed the in-
side of a lecture-room; and they can either
lance an arm, or become an accoucheur,
without a blush mantling their cheeks."
"But will not remorse induce them to
surrender the privileges which they have
fraudulently obtained ?"
"As much in the wrong as before. I
tell you, their sensibilities are deadened,
and they can amputate a cjuivering limb
~vith as little hesitation as they could dis-
sect a dead body.)~
I thought as much~ then we should
appeal to them in vain.'
"Utterly so."
~ Our only resource is an appeal to the
female 5~~*~)
"While we have just grounds for com-
plaint against the medical fraternity," ob-
served Mrs. Canfield, apologetically; "still
we must frankly admit, that within their
legitimate sphere, they are as useful as we
are in ours. It is only when they transcend
the bounds which nature has erected that
there is an imperative necessity for re-
forms?'
"Spoken with your usual judgment," re-
marked Mrs. Spencer, "and the reason
why we demand a redress of our grievances
should be distinctly set forth."
"In the first place, it must be demon-
strated that nature revolts at the presence
of a man-midwife, and only yields to that
stern and remorseless custom, ~vhich
crushes by its inexorable decrees the
shrinking modesty of youth."
"But here lies the difficulty," Mrs. Can-
field. "The ordeal is a fearful one, through

STON.                                        C L I FTO0N.

~vhich every mother must p ass, and the
husband, as well as the wife, is ready to
claim that professional skill which the me-
dical fraternity have taken especial pains
to make them believe they alone possess."
"That is so; but it must be our duty to
make the community discard this vulgar
error, and vie~v the matter in its true aspect.
That we can officiate with the same skill,
and with far more tenderness, is undeniable,
provided we have received the same in-
struction as a man. Indeed, there are fe-
males who have acquired the requisite
amount of knowledge from experience
alone. Let it once be known that we are
as skilful as the other sex, and niy word
for it, the services of a man ~vill never be
called into requisition."
"You have stated the point correctly,"
observed Mrs. Spencer. "Ho~v do you
propose to render them as skilful as the
other sex
"I would found a College, in which any
respectable female might obtain admission
for the purpose of acquiring a thorough
education ; and not till then will our rights
be guaranteed.~~
Mrs. Canfield announced her programme
with so much energy that the infant startled
from its slumbers, uttered a cry, and open-
ing its little eyes, stared into the a~lm~ring
countenances of the two matrons as if he
thought very strange beings inhabited his
new world.
"Give me my boy," said the young
mother faintly, arid she pressed it lovingly
in her arms; "lou may withdraw now, for
a few minutes, ' she whispered,." Charles
has returned."
After reminding her of the danger of
,over-exertion, they left the room. The
door was immediately reopened, and a
tall, finely-formed young man entered, and
seating himself upon the bed1 pressed his
lips upon the pale cheek of his wife.
"You are a brave gjrl,~~ he said, fondly.
"Do you think so ?" and her eloquent
eyes were raised to his own.
"Indeed 1 do. And we have such a
noble little fellow too." He placed his
finger as gently upon the cheek of the in-
fant as.though it might mar its symmetry.
"Do you still wish to call him Edward?"
CC Certainly; unless you prefer some other
name. His grandfather has always been
so kind and affectionate."
" As you will. His name, then, shall
be Edward Clifton. In this breathing world
which he has just entered, may talents and
ambition force him above the common
level, and from that elevated platform where
the fe7 do congregate, may he aid good

men to counteract the machinations of the
bad, and give a proper direction to those
events that make up the cycle of human
existence."
CHAPTER II.
"Thy nightly visits to my chamber made,
That thou might'st know me safe and warmly laid,
Thy morning bounties ere I left my home,
The biscuit or confectionary plum,
Tue fragrant waters on my cheeks bestowed
Ily thine own hand, till fresh they shone and glowed;
All this, and more endearing still than all,
Thy constant flow of love, that knew no pall,
Neer roughened by those cataracts and breaks
That humour interposed too often makes."
COPPER.
LITTLE EDDY, as he termed himself, was
seated upon his high chair at the breakfast
table-an honour for which he was in-
debted to his grandma. It was premature,
as he was only two years old; and yet his
innocent prattle seemed to amuse them,
although there was very little sense in a
conversation which, upon one side, con-
sisted in the enunciation of nouns, con-
nected here and there by verbs. His cousin,
a charming little girl ten years of age, with
large, laughing eyes, and long, curling
ringlets, was seated by his side. Julia was
a great favourite with him, because she
engaged in his infantile amusement.
Eddy gazed at her, and then at his
mother, with much earnestness, as if he
was endeavouring to ascertain why there
was so milch difference between the ma-
tured form of the latter~ and the slight pro-
- portions of the former. Apparently, he
could not solve the mystery, for he ejacu-
lated,"Eddy eat brekta."
"Eddy casts affectionate glances at
Julia," said his mother. This, ~t least, he
understood~ for suffering his eyes to fall, he
said discontentedly, "Grandma
when seated upon her knees, he bas full
raised his eyes to his cousin's face, and
murmured, "Oh, ~
exhibited his stock of knowledge. "Grand-
ma buy p ~
dead,~~ "Janus d ~ Eddy shut eyes-
rive horse." "Tom milk
cows," C(white horse drink water,~~ ~C go
way ose," "Eddy beat Grandma."
After this burst of eloquence, his oratory
abruptly terminated for want of language
to express his ideas.
"I think he displays a remarkably quick
apprehension for a child so young,~) ob-
served his mother.
"Indeed I do," replied his grandma.

19

"He is a dear little fellow! How he re-
members everything."
"I doubt if his precocity is a favourable
indication," said his father.
"Why not, Charles?"
"Because I have observed that an early
development of the intellectual powers,
like a premature birth, is almost invariably
attended by injurious consequences. The
mind wears itself out, by its own intensity,
before the brain has acquired sufficient
strength and co nsistency.~~
"I hope not," replied Mrs. Clifton, de-
spondingly, "for I have created for him a
brilliant prospective, reaching far down the
vista of time."
"Perhaps I ought not to dim the present
by apprehending that the future may not
be more bright; still, we must not expect
too much from the lad, or the disappoint-
ment will be the more bitter."
"It is at least a great consolation that
he is so bright, instead of being stupid,'
observed the grandmother.
"I agree with you, entirely; but still, if
present happiness is purchased by future
disappointment, do we not pay for it too
dearly ?"
CC Chnrlcs, how can you apprehend any-
thing so horrible ?"
"For the reason which I suggested a
moment since, and because the biography
of illustrious men sustain it. Glance, for
instance, at the boyhood of the four most
remarkable men of the present day. Henry
Clay was at first a mill-boy, of sufficient
intelligence to deposit his bags safely with
the miller. Subsequently, he performed
the duties of a deputy -clerk very credita-
bly. Thomas H. B enton was, for many
years, regarded as an indifferent advocate~
far from possessing an extraordinary
amount of mental acumen. Daniel Web-
ster, too idle for a farmer, dragged through
four inglorious years at Dartmouth, only
to teach school at Fireburg, register the
deeds of the farmers of Maine, and hesi-
tate between practising law and a $1500
clerkship. John C. Calhoun was ignorant
that he possessed any unusual amount of
intellectual thought, until his metaphysical
discussion with Professor Dwight, at Yale
College. Perhaps, however, we appre-
hend too much danger, as, after all, Ed-
ward may not possess a particle more pre-
cocity than other children of his age. It
[is doubtless magnified by parental fond-
ness, a consummation by no means re-
markable."
Notwithstanding the indulgence of his
grandmother-for all grandmothers are
supposed to spoil children, if they do not-

[

I-
4~
I

TON.


I

little Edward was a generous, brave, though
rather self-willed boy. Daunted by no
peril, he often narrowly escaped breaking
his neck, or drowning himself. And~ the
imminence of the danger, instead of ma-
king him more cautious, only increased
his recklessness. Fond of fun, without
being cruel, he sought mirth, regardless of
the consequences, provided it left no per-
manent impression upbn the victim. And
yet there were moments when he was sad
and reflective. Seated beside a murmur-
ing brook, heedless of the trout that nib-
bled at his bait, or reclining against a tree,
with his fowling-piece lying across his
knees, he would pass hours in deep
thought. It was during these intervals
that plans for future action were matured,
whi6h should gain for him those honours
and distinctions that he had been induced
to believe constitute the happiness of this
earth.
When he was four years old, his cousins
Harry Dalton, called at his father's, for the
purpose of inducing him to go in search
of strawberries.
Gliding around the house, to the spot
where Edward was playing, Henry ex-
pressed his wishes.
"Well, I will go and ask mamma."
"Oh, no, she will not let you go if you
ask her."
"I shall certainly not go without her
consent," said the child, stoutly.
"Mamma, I should like to go with
Henry and get some strawberries for you."
"I am afraid, my child, you will meet
with some accident. Henry is so care-
less."
"No, mamma, I won't, for he can't
make me do anything I dislike."
"But you like to do so many things
without persuading. But I will trust you
this time, upon condition that you pass not
into the woods beyond the mowing field."
Arriving at the boundary which sepa-
rated the hay lot from the forbidden terri-
tory, they cast longing eyes into the deep
shade, from which came forth the refresh-
ing breeze that fanned their flushed cheeks.
Looking backwards, to ascertain if their
movements were observed, and finding
that the vigilant eyes of Edward's mother
were not upon them, they first mounted
the fence, and, surprised to find that no
personal injury resulted from this act of
disobedience, Edward let himself down
upon the other side. Gliding away through
the grove, they seated themselves by a
spring which burst from the hillside and
trickled over the rocks into the valley be-
neath. After having quenched their thirst,

the y took off their shoes and stockings,
and bathed their feet in the babbling
stream. The rays of the sun pierced the
thick foliage, and fell tremulously upon
the earth, as the leaves quivered in the air.
Little Edward's attention was arrested by
one of those rays of light, and he won-
dered how it was possihl~ for the sun to
dance about so, because his mother had
told hirii it was stationary. After ponder-
ing a long time he advanced towards the
spot, but the ray, falling upon his person,
disappeared from the earth. Casting his
eyes upwards, in search of it, a 'smile of
satisfaction illuminated his face.
"It is the leaves that move and not the
sun, after all, so mamma was right.~~
"What are you muttering about," said
Henry, who was nearly asleep.
"Oh, nothing about you."
Having solved that problem, his thought
turned upon the formation of the trees. It
appeared, very strange to him that when
the trunk was so firm, that the branches
should be nodding and bowing to each
other. He r~'conciled it, howe ver, by sup-
posing that salutations were made by the
branches as men aiid women incline their
heads when they meet. He -now began
to feel hungry, but Henry was sleeping so
well that he disliked to disturb him, and
he therefore looked around in search of
some amusement. His satisfaction was
great when he discovered in the edge of
the pasture, a favourite colt, just half his
own age, that had been ren(lered very tame
by his caresses. Casting a look at his
motionless companion, he glided away to-
wardshis dumb favourite. The colt ex-
pressed its satisfaction by rubbing his head
agaLnst the little fellow. For a long time
Edward had sincerely desired to mount
"his horse "but his solicitations had been
disregarded.
"Now I'll have a ride," he solioquised.
"But I've got no bridle. Never mind,
Surwe (Surrey) won't kick. Let me put
~ strawberries into my pocket."
He led the gentle colt to a stump, and,
after several ineffectual attempts, he suc-
ceeded in ascending it. "Now, Surwe,
be a good fellow; if you don't I won't
never give you no more Oat5." Bounding
in regular cavalier style, he was mounted.
Surrey stood motionless at first, and then
looking first upon one side and then upon
the other, he frisked his long tail, and then
walked forward a few yards. Alarmed at
a burden to which he had never been ac-
customed, the colt flourished his heels in
the air, and then darted away at the top of
his speed. The little horseman clung to

I

20                ~~C L I F T 0 N.                                                         CLIFTO.1

20

his mane with great courage and spirit
At first he was alarmed, but as he ma-
naged to retain his seat, the novelty of his
position and the rapidity of the motion
made the blood dance joyously through his
veins. The current of air produced by the
celerity of their motion carried his hat
sailing far behind them, and his silken
locks fluttered in the wind.
The horse, now rendered almost frantic
by fear, dashed along the slope of the hill,
and skirting across the plain that intervened
between the highland and the creek, made
for the bridge which spantied it. The child
was surrounded hy perils. Even if the colt
retained his feet, there was imminent
danger of his being swerved from his
course, and instead of crossing the bridge,
he might madly attempt to bound over the
stream. Indeed, if he crossed the bridge,
the hazard was equally great, because in
that event they would enter a lane, across
which swung a five-barred gate. With the
velocity of a hurricane, the mettled courser
swept across the plain, his head turned in
the direction of the bridge, which he had
nearly gained, when a large Newfourtdland
dog darted suddenly from the shade of a
tree at the flying steed. Thought is not
quicXer than Surrey wheeled towards the
creek. The sudden deviation caused the
boy to lose his balance, and he would have
been precipitated ~vith violence to the
earth if his hand had grasped a bridle
rein. Fortunately his fingers were twisted
into the mane of the colt, and retaining his
hold with desperate energy he dangled by
its side. With a wild and angry snort
Surrey darted for the bank of the creek
which was ten feet above the water, and
twice that distance from one side to the
other. Bounding madly forward, the colt'
was for a moment suspended in the air;
but the distance was too great. His fore feet
l~htd the top of the bank; his hind
ige upon
feet clung for an instant to the sides, when
horse and rider rolled over into the deep
and sluggish stream. Fortune again f~L
voured the adventurous little horseman, for
struggling~ in the creek they were separated.
Scarcely'had Edward reached the water,
when the noble dog plunged in, and seizing
his master by the coat, kept his head above
the stream until assistance arrived from the
house.
"Why did I let the child go ~" said the
mother, wringing her hands frantically as
she saw him mounted upon the flying
horse. The alarm overpowered her ner-
vous system, and she fainted. When she
~vas restored to consciousness, Edw ardwas

nding beside her, taking. strawberries
rom his dripping spencer.
"Here, dear mamma, don't look so pale!
See! I have brought you berries, as I pro-
mised. Here, take them, they are all yours,
every ~ and he laid his wet locks upon
a bosom which beat with tumultuous joy
for his delivery.
CHAPTER III.
"If in this world of breathing harm,
There lurk one universal charm,
One power, which, to no clime confined,
Sways either sex and every mind;
which cheers the monarch on his tjirone,
The slave beneath the torrid zone,
The soldier rough, the lettered sage,
And careless youth, and helpless age;
And all that live, and breathe, and move,-
'Tis the pure kiss of infant 'love."'
MILFORD.
"WHY do not p a and ma return V' in-
quired Edward of the housekeeper, "they
have been gone so long.~~
"They will be at home in a few days
now You must not become impatient."
"Well, I don't think they will return be.
fore God comes down."
"Hush, you must not talk so."
"Well, won't God come down from the
skies some day. The minister said so
yesterday, but you didn't hear him, for you
was asleep.~~
"How can you say so."
"Because your eyes were closed, and
you nodded, an(l at last snored, until I
pinched you."
"You were a saucy little fellow to do
so."
"Then you must not make people stare
at you. Mamma never lets me go to sleep,
and the next time you do I shall stick this
pin in you."
"Come? you may go out and play now."
And adjusting his hat, he sallied forth.
Passing through the orchard, he met, upon
the wayside, his little playmates, Harriet
Salisbury, Charles Manley, and Kate Mer-
ton, who were out for a day~s amusement
in the raspberry field.
"Come, Eddy, won't you go with us,"
inquired Charles.
"Ishould like to doso, but Susan will
be alarmed about me."
"See, I have a large basket full of nice
cakes, with no one to help me eat them,"
said Harriet.
Still Edward declined to accompany
them, until she continued half poutingl~',

O L I F T O N.

1


I
11
Ii
II

C L I FT O N.

K
'I [
I
H
1*
I

"I've got no beau to take care of me, and
I shall be so lonely."
"If you will wait a minute I will tell
Susan where I am going,~~ and away he
ran towards the house; and notwithstand-
ing the protestations of the housekeeper,
he soon joined his little companions.
Crossing the road ,th ey entered a large
pasture that was thickly covered with rasp-
berry bushes. Here they wandered about
until they became tired and hungry, and
having filled their baskets with the deli-
cious fruit, they seated themselves in a
small grove upon the bank of the river.
The little girls exhibited their store upon
the grass, and invited their companions to
partake of the food.
After finishii~giheir meal, they descended
to the water's edge, and seating themselves
upon the rocky shore, they bathed their
hands in the grateful element.
"Let's batTie our ~ s~iid Edward
"we shall not take cold.N'
"What, before you i~' exclaimed Kate,
a little maiden six years old.
"And why not r'. said Charles: "are
you not my little wife, and didn't I hear
Harriet promise to be Eddy's a few
minutes ago, when they thought I was
not near them. And did you not walk
about without any shoes last summery"
"But we are larger girls now. But if
you want us so much,
The young gallants dexterously unlaced
the boots from their tiny feet.
"Why, Harriet, how much longer your
garter is than Kate's," said Edward, mea-
suring them. Pondering upon the dis-
parity, he suffered the longest one to fall
from his hand into the ~vater, when it was
borne by the rapid current swiftly down
the stream.
Without hesitating a moment, and be-
fore his design could be frustrated, Ed-
ward plunged into the water and attempt-
ed to regain the lost treasure. The water
near the bank was shallow, scarcely reach-
mo above his knees, and he dashed ra-
pi~ly forward. Already had he approached
the prize, when his foot slipped upon the
rocks, and he was immersed in the water.
Rising immediately, and heedless of the
frantic cries to come back, he dashed on-
wards. The channel became deeper, and
conscious that it would soon sink beyond
his depth he made a desperate plunge,
and seized the object of his pursuit. But
his feet could no longer reach the bottom,
and his horror-stricken companions saw
him disappear from their sight. When he
rose to the surface he was far down the
stream, hurried impetuously forward by

the irresistible flood. "He will be drown-
ed! he will be drowned !'' wildly ex-
claimed Harriet, and the cheeks of all
three were blanched with terror. He
floated for a moment, and then again sunk
from their view. At that instant, they saw
through the trees the form of a man part-
ing the bosom of the river with rapid and
powerful strokes. Running along the
bank, they clustered together at a point
where they could witness his movements.
He had reached the middle of the river,
and was gazing anxiously around the spot
where the child had vanished in the foam-
ing stream. I~ut he began to despair of
ever beholding him again, when his dark
hair emerged from the water several yards
below. Dashing forward with incredible
I velocity, he seized the helpless 'boy as he
was sinking for the last time, and bearing
his unconscious burden to the shore, he
laid him upon the ground. In his hand
was still clasped an ehistic white satin
garter.
"He is dead, I am sure he is dead !"
extilaimed Harriet, as she threw her white
arms around his neck and kiss
pie lips.                 ed his pur-
"I hope not," said Major Stroney;
"your caresses are already restoring him
to consciousness; though a few minutes
more would have finished him."
"I am so glad! dear Eddy," and she
wiped the water from his face and hair
with her white frock, "you will Jive, won't
you ~ If you do, I will give you the garter."
A pleased smile came over the face of
'the boyas he gallantly pressed the satin
to his lips.
"Egad, if she was developed, I would
think it cheaply woh~ my chivalric young
friend."
Several weeks had elapsed after the
events transpired which we have just re-
lated, when Edward went to pass the day
with Charles Manley. Having exhausted
all the sources of amusement they com-
menced" conjuring" up something new.
A vicious horse had for a long time in-
fested the n~iighbourhood. There w~ no
low spot in the fences that he had not
managed to fln~ out, and every tempting
field had been visited. Charles was par-
ticularly e~ged, because the brute had
utterly d royed a melon-patch upon a re-
cent ~fffmay. In every other respect the
hors was ill- atur~ed; he would not work
in ha ss an only upon certain occa-
sions was it safe to mount his back. It
would be difficult to conceive a more un-
popular beast than brown Oscar.

C L I F T 0 N.

28

"Let's tie a basket to his tail," proposed himself. With your permission he shall
Charles attend the first day of the next term, which
"So we wilt, but where can one be commences on Monday."
found V'                              "So soon!   I will arrange his ward-
"Oh, I have it behind the barn," and robe, then. But where shall he board,
he soon brought it.                  Charles ~"
They now labored to attach the basket "I shall try and induce Col. Florence
firmly to Oscar's tail, ~and at length they to make him a member of his family.
suffered it to fall upon his heels. He was Mrs. Florence, you know, will be as kind
slightly aroused from his slucraishness, and as a mother to him, and he will there have
turning his head from one skYe to the other, playmates of his own age."
he indolently kicked out with one foot. "And how often will he come home V'
The basket was thrown upwards, and came "Once in three months~ but as it is
down again upon his legs. Without start- only forty miles hence, we will go and
ing forward, the indignant steed applied visit him occasionally."
both heels to the basket with such force It was decided, therefore, that Edward
that it was hurled violently upon his back, should ~leave the paternal roof for the first
from which it rebounded upon his time. With that fondness for change
haunches. Failing to relieve himself from which is a characteristic of childhoods he
the annoyance, and now thoroughly fright- expressed the greatest readiness to attend
ened, Oscar dashed furiously away, while the academy. It appeared so much like
at every bound the basket described a an emancipation from parental authority.
semicircle, the tail being the centripetal The day previous to his departure he pre-
and the heels the centrifugal force. At pared to visit his favourite haunts. It was
first the lads, alarmed at their rashness, a cloudless morning in October; the at-
stood aloof silently observing the motions mosphere had that bracing and exhilarating
of the horse; but as he bounded forward power, which sends the blood coursing
with a loud snort, they clapped their hands, through the veins. As he emerged from the
and fairly shouted in the exuberance of lawn, he encountered Harriet Salisbury,
their merriment, until long after the horse charmingly attired in a plaid silk dress
disappeared over the hill, with the basket and new straw hat.
still flying at his tail.              "Where are you going, Harriet ~"
"What will your papa say l" inquired "To see your mother."
Edward.                                "Before you pay a visit to her, come
"I never thought of him," responded with me, I am going to visit some favourite
Charles, ~vith a look of anxiety.    spots before my departure."
Mr. Manley retreated stealthily from the The maiden hesitated, although it was
shrubbery immediately in their rear, and apparent to the boy she would willingly
with difficulty repressed his laughter until accompany him i~ her own inclinations
he was so far away that they could not were consulted.
hear him.                              "Won't you come: recollect this will
"The young rogues! 'Twas a good be the last walk we shall have together
joke, though; but they will require curbing, for a long time " and taking her hand, he
or else they will become unmanageable. led the unresisting girl along the bank of
Egad, Clifton will laugh at his precocious the creek in the direction of the high land.
son." "And you go to-morrow, Eddy; don't
you feel unhappy at leaving us all l"
When Edward was thirteen years old, "I believe I do, the nearer the day ap-
the propriety of sending him to the aca- preaches. I shall write though, and if I
demy was seriously entertained by Mr. send you a letter, won't you answer it l"
Clifton, although the necessity ~vas a source "That I will, and I'll tell you all the
of much uneasiness to his wife. # news-who gets punished at school--how
"He is surely large enough now. I your colt comes on-who shoots the most
have postponed the event too long already squirrels at the hunt, and all about every-
in deference to your wishes." thino"
Assuming a look of resignation, she re- "There's a good, kind girl."
plied, "If you think so much depends They sat down beneath a butternut,
upon his going to Andover, why, I must from the overhanging branches of which
submit to the separation. Still, he is such occasionally fell the yellow leaf an(l deli-
a reckless boy, I ear he will become in- cious nut.
evolved in someAifficulty."            The stage-horn blew shrilly at the door;
"Never but that he will protect that signal when friends are torn from each

22

i

It
I
I i


ii
14
14
II

F T-O N.

I
24                            CLI
other, scarcely less dreadful than the blast
of the archangel's trumpet. The inmates
of the dwelling were soon in motion, lights
pierced the ~loom of night, and ~Edward's
trunk was seized by the driver and strapped
upon the stage.
For a moment the little fellow was
clasped to his mother's bosom, and their
tears mingled together. "There, now
she exclaimed wildly.
"Good bye, dear ~ and he
paused at the door, and thea hearing a sob,
he rushed back and threw himself into her
arms.
"I will not go, mamma, if it makes you
feel so badly."
"Yes, you must, my child; I shall be
more composed when you are gone, be-
side I will see you ~oon again."
"All ready, can't wait," shouted the
coachman.
"God bless you, Edward, be a good
boy." Taking his father's hand, the lad left
the house. r
"Good bye, Edward."
"Good bye, de~r papa.7~
The ~loor was closed, the driver cracked
his whip, and the mettled horses dashed
away ,and in a moment nothing was heard
but the rocking of the coach, and the tramp-
ling of feet as the sounds floated indistinctly
upon the night air.
For a long time Edward wept bitterly.
It was his first separation from his parents,
and they had alway~ treated ~him so ten-
derly that his heart was almost broken at
being thqs placed in a stage among stran-
gers, and in total darkness to be borne
from those he loved so dearly. Gradually,
however, he dried up his tears, and no
sound proclaimed his sadness, except a
sob that would occasionally burst from his
overcharged bosom.
Several hours elapsed before daylight
began to steal athwart the sky. Gazing
from the window, he watched the progress
of light as it spread over the earth, bring-
ing distinctly into view the highlands, and
casting a mellow shade across the glens.
At last the sun shed its rays upon the scene,
brighteningthe tints ofthe autumnal leaves,
and peering into secluded dells, or prying
into the secrets of each hidden recess.
Here and there the saucy red-squirrel
leaped from one tree to another; the wood-
pecker uttered his shrill cry, and the whirr
of the partridge was heard in the distance.
Turning his glance on his fellow-pas-
sengers, he saw, upon the middle seat with
himself; two countrymen. On the first
seat were a little girl, an elderly lady, and
a gentleman, while behind him were two

enormous old men. At the moment his
attention was attracted towards them, they
were sleeping, as well as they could in sue h
awkward positions. They all kept bowing
their heads as if each was resolved not to
be outdone in politeness by the others.
Edward wondered if the countryman's hat
would fall off and if so he calculated the
probabilities of its coming in contact with
the elderly lady's bonnet. If it tumbled
off when her head inclined forward, then
the collision would take place. Each time
the head of the countryman sunk upon his
bosom, it was raised with a jerk, and his
hat inclined still farther forward. The ca-
tastrophe could not be much longer de-
layed, and Edward now anxiously waited
to see, if in its descent, the hat was to
crush the bonnet. For a moment the nods
of the man became more rapid than those
of the lady; but now their heads inclined
together, when down came the large bell-
crowned hat upon' the frail covering of the
lady~s head.
"Ha! ha! ha ~ roared Edward, unable
t&amp;control his laughter. It was increased
by the disconcerted looks of the country-
man, and the spiteful glances of the matron,
and when the little girl joined in the mer-
riment, his sides shook until the tears
coursed each other down his cheeks. The
passengers, aroused from their slumberfi,
began to converse.
"Have we crossed the river yet V' in-
quired 9ne of the fat men.
"No~ we are just approaching ~ re-
sponded the countryman, casting a furtive
glance at the elderly lady, as if he would
distract her attention from the bonnet,
which seemed to claim her undivided at-
tention.
"We cannot be far from the stand where
we take breakfast !"
"About six miles."
"So fart I am hungry, ain't you, neigh-
bour ~"
"Very, we have had a long ride since
supper, and plenty of jolting."
The stage had reached an eminence
that commanded an extensive view of the
adjacent country. A range of mountains
bounded the horizon upon their left. It
was covered by a dense growth of forest
trees, and the variegated foliage of the
maple and beech mingled with the eter-
nal green of the hemlock and the pine.
Along the ~se Qf the mQuntain wound
the river,. dilnEnishing in the distance until
its broad bosom was contracted into a
silver thread. Thjs glorious prospect was
lit up by the bright rays of the morning
I
I

C LIF

sun, here and there dimly shadowed by
the vapour which ascended from the valley.
"151 it not beautiful Y' exclaimed the
maiden, turning her large blue eyes upon
Edward. (Tl~ieir mingled laughter was an
introduction.)
~' I am glad you think.so," he replied,
"for I have been admiring it this half hour."
The coachman took up his key bugle,
and while the panting horses obtained a
few moments' rest, he awaKened the moun-
tain echoes with his wild melody.
The stage rapidly descended the hill,
and in half an hour the coachman drew
the reins in front of a country inn. Edward
assisted his little fellow-passenger to alight,
and was rewarded for his gallantry by
having assigned him a seat next hers at
the breakfast-table.
"I am going to Andover to attend the
female Institution," whispered the lass.
"Where are you goingV'
"I am bound for the male school at the
same place. Who are your companions 'P
"Papa and my aunt. They go to see
no harm comes to me."
"When do they return ~"
"And where do you board ?"
"Perhaps in the Institution; maybe
somewhere else."
"I am glad you attend school at An-
~ continued the lad, after a pause;
"there will be some one there now with
whom I am acquainted.~
"But if I board at the Institution they
will not let you spc:k to me."
"Then, if I ~ in your place, I would
not go there."
"Oh! I must go wherever papa sends
me-but there is the stage. Here, tie on
my hat while I put on my gloves. You
can see, can't you, without coming so close.,
Thank you. Come, they are all waiting
for us. My name is Fanny Brenton; what
is yours 'P
"Edward Clifton."
At noon the passengers alighted at the
village of Andover, and after dining at the
hotel, Edward's baggage was removed to
the residence of Col. Florence, whither he
soon followed.

I

CHAPTER IV.

"The first caress of beauty, 0, that giowi
The first warm glow that mantles round the heart
(If boyhood I when au's new-the first dear vow
He ever breathed-the teardrops that first start,

'TON.                             25
Pure from the unpractised eye-the overflow
Of wakened passions, that hut now impart
A hope, a wish, a feeling yet unfelt,
That mould in madness, or in mildness melt."
CLASON.
THE next day Edward entered the Aca-
demy, and his desk was assigned him.
His application became intense and in a
few weeks he was at the head of his class.
Courteous and polite to all, he soon was a
favourite with nearly all the school. In the
family of Col. Florence he soon felt per-
fectly at home. Mrs. Florence w~s, in
childhood, the playmate of Mr. ~ifton,
and she manifested a mother's regard for
his son. With Mary Florence, and her
brother Frank, who were both about his
own age, he soon became intimate, and
the hours passed together in the social cir-
cle were rendered, pleasant by music and
conversation.
There was one boy, whose name was
Charles Stanton, attending the school, who
managed to render himself excessively
odious, by his violent~temper and insuffer-
able disposition. . His strength made him
a formidable antagonist, and all his com-
panions dreaded an encounter with "him.
From the first, Edward anticipated a colli-
sion, having witnessed a sneering expres-
sion upon his countenance, the morning
he entered the Academy. Resolved to
delay the quarrel as long as possible, he
managed for several weeks to evade an
introduction.
An arrangement was made between
the principa'i~s of the male and female
school, for an excursion to the falls in the
river, about three-fourths of a mile from
the village. At twelve o'clock, they had
congregated upon the bank of the stream,
where the river plunged into the chasm.
Edward saw Fanny Brenton among the
and advancing to her side expressed
his satisfaction at the meeting. Holding
out her band frankly, she returned his
pressure.
"I am very glad to see you," she said.
"Why you have made no attempt to as-
certain whether I was living or dead."
"You are too hard. I found you were
boarding at the Institution, and supposed it
was impossible to see you."
"In this world, you should never sup-
pose the accomplishment of any object
impossible, until you have made the at-
tempt."
"A good motto, by Jove, and one that I
will treasure in my memory for all time."
"It will never do either of ~ou any
good," muttered young Stanton as he pass'.
ed. Fanny looked surprised, while Ed-

I

4
41
11
I i


I'
It

C LI FTO0N.

ward, hounding forward, placed himself
beside the scoffer, and with bent brow
and flashing eye, he said, "I heard you
indistinctly1 sir, but I gathered from your
language that you wished to insult a lady
as well as myself."
"One ~who is even duller in comprehen-
sion than you, might easily have come to
that ~
~C At your earliest convenience," replied
our hero, his frame trembling with pas-
sion; "when we are not in the presence
of the ladies, you will hold yourself ac-
countable to me for this language.)~
"Oh, at any moment, young gentle-
man," responded the other, ~vith perfect
coolness.
"I hope you will not have a difficulty
with that person on my account, Edward."
"Excuse me, Fanny, hut do not let any
reference to him mar our amusement,
when we meet so rarely. Can I not see
you oftener.".
"I do not see how it is possible, the re-
gulations of the Institution are so strict. I
shall beg papa to let meboard at a private
house next session, and then you may
carry my books sometimes, perhaps."
Afteradelightfuldaythe party returned to
the village, where they arrived before night.
Edward proceeded at once to a store, pur-
chased a cowhide, and arming himself
with a leaden-headed staff, sought the play-
grounds attached to the Academy. Here
he discovered Stanton, who was disputing
in a loud and imperious voice, with one of
his companions. "Well then," said the
latter, "I will leave it to any of the boys
to decide which of us is right."
"Very well, who will you select ~" re-
plied Stanton haughtily.
"Any one. Here is Clifton, let him be
the arbiter."
"Never! Neither a knave nor a block-
head shall have aught to do in my affairs."
"Fie, for shame, Stanton !" exclaimed a
dozen voices, and then profound silence
reigned upon the green. The smaller lads
grew pale and the larger ones held their
breath. For a moment Clifton gazed upon
his antagonist with the most intense scorn,
and then walking deliberately forward, he
struck him violently across the face with
the cowhide. For a moment, blinded by
passion and smarting under the effects of
the blow, Stanton raved like a maniac, but
recovering his self-possession, he un-
sheathed a knife, and, with a savage yell
darted towards his assailant. As he raised
his arm to inflict a fatal stab, Edward's
staff descended upon his wrist with such
force, that his weapon was dashed from

his han ~~ore Stanton could recover
it, Clifton, in his headlong passion, hurled
his cane with such force,~h at, coming in
contact with the head of his foe, it pros-
trated him senseless upon the earth.
"Three cheers for t1~ conqueror of the
bully !" shouted ahoy; and they were given
with the wildest enthusiasm. Scarcely
had the last huzza died away, when two
of the teachers burst into the circle, and
conveying the still insensible Stanton into
the Academy, endeavored to restore him
to consciousness. For a long time their
efforts were unavailing. He had received
a severe contusion upon the temple, and
his wrist was nearly dislocated. A physi-
cian was summoned, and after being bled
copiously, he was aroused from the stupor,
and conveyed to his lodgings.
Edward could hardly escape from his
enthusiastic friends after the encounter.
They rejoiced at his victory, because they
admired him as much as they detested
Stanton.
"But how came you armed."
~" Once before to-day he had grossly in-
sulted not only me, but a young lady, who
for the moment was under my protection,
and I determined to chastise him for it."
"Right, you were perfectly right; so say
we all."
"I am obliged to you for your approval.
I hope for the future he will be more
gentlemanly in his hearing. Good bye,
boys.~~
"Good icye, Clifton."
Several weeks elapsed before Stanton
was able to leave his room, and when he
had sufficiently recovered, he abandoned
the Institution and returned home.
From the moment of his conflict with
Stanton, Edward became the idol of the
school. No one apprehended that a want
of physical prowess would subject him to
personal wrong, for he had a protector in
Edward Clifton. As just as he was brave,
he was often appealed to by young men
even, to decide their controversies, and
his judgment was conclusive.
Thus opened his career, brilliant as it
was commendable.
It is a great mistake to suppose that for
manhood is reserved the struggle for dis-
tinction, or the thirst for applause. In
youth, the brain is tortured for the purpose
of winning that approbation which sends
the warm blood gushing from the heart.
What skilful diplomacy is practiced for
the purpose of elevating the ambitious
boy above his fellows ~ A man does not
possess, at once, those powers which are
destined to exercise authority over the

C L IFTO0N.

human race. They are illustrated, in a
more modified form, it is true, in the
career of the student: As much tact is
sometimes displayed, by a lad in destroy-
ing a combination among his class-mates,
as there is by the most consummate diplo-
mat in dissolving a coalition.
CHAPTER V.
"How the green night of leafy trees,
Invites to dreams of careless case,
'And cradles the contented soul I"
HALLER.
"I see the anchored bark, with streamers gay,
The beckoning pilot, and the ruffled tide."
TAsso.
IT was the month of June; in the North.
em States the most delightful season of the
year. There were two w~eks vacation in
the male and female Institutions of Ando-
ver, and the students were preparing to
carry oftt the plans which they had formed
for that brief period. Three years had
elapsed since Edward commenced attend-
ing the school at Andover, and he was
soon to enter college. He was now a
large, fine-looking young man of sixteen,
whose polished address, and frank man-
ners made him a general favourite.
Clifton had formed a party of eight per-.
sons, four young gentlemen and an equal
number of maidens, for the purpose of
visiting a celebrated mountain~ about twen-
ty miles distant from Andover. An elderly
lady, one of the matrons of the female
Institution, whose austerity of manner ren-
dered her an admirable chaperon, accom-
panied the party. A capacious oil-cloth
tent, mattresses and be&amp;clothes for the
ladies, and a sufficient amount of cooking
utensils were packed up, while rifles and
fishing-tackle were not forgotten. The
services of an experienced cook, a waiter
and a maid were secured, and having
chartered a large coach, they started, one
bright morning early in June, for Mount
Vista.
The dew still glistened upon the grass,
as four spirited horses~ dashed along the
road, now mounting hills, and anon de!
sending with rapid steps through valleys,
and along the water-courses.
Harriet Salisbury sat beside Clifton upon
the front seat, Fanny Brenton occupied
the middle seat, facing our hero, and be-
tween her and Charlotte Dennison was
Frederic Maitland, upon the left of Har-
riet Salisbury was George French, while

27

the hack seat was occupied by Dame
Batchelor, Mary Holmes, and Duncan
Kelborn. The attendants rode upon the out-
side with the driver. The coach was one
of those easy, rocking establishments, for
which New England is celebrated.
It would be difficult to select four more
beautiful and charming girls, than were
assembled together in ~that stage, or four
gallants whose wit and originality could
he surpassed. As the two front seats
faced each other, Edward en
versation of Harriet and Fanny Brenton.
These young ladies had passed through
a wonderful transition since we first pre-
sented them to the reader. The form of
Miss Brenton was now tall and graceful,
her complexion brilliant the contour of
her neck swanlike, and her eyes, a hea-
venly blue. Harnet was a brunette, her
round figure inclined to embonpoint, and
the large black eyes could flash with
fire or melt with tenderness. Mary Holmes
had soft hazel eyes, and a large mass of
auburn hair. The outlines of her form
were full and flowing, and her colour went
and came with the ever-varying emotions.
Carlie Dennison was scarcely above the
medium height, her eyes were black and
piercing, her luxuriant hair the colour of
the raven's wing, and the rich blood each
moment threatened to gush forth from her
clear, transparent cheek. They were all
sixteen years of age, and each one could
claim those indispensable prerequisites
to entitle the possessor to the appellation
of lovely-beautiful eyes, melodious voice.
pearly teeth, taper fingers, and Norman
feet.
Ten miles of the distance was accom-
plished before eight o'clock, and five more
would bring them to the head of the lake,
upon the shores of whi~sh Mount Vista
reared its lofty head. ~
"Shall we breakfast at this stand,
ladiesW inquired Edward, as the horses
were approaching the tavern, "or shall
we continue to the Lake House V'
"Oh to the lake, by all means," ex-
claimed Fanny and Carlie. "What is your
opinion, Mistress Batchelor Y'
"I do not think it will be too long a ride
for the ladies."
"Let us see the lake as soon as possible,"
said Mary.
"To the Lake House, then, driver."
There was now a long, though not ab-
rupt ascent for two miles, a long a range
of hills covered with evergreen trees.
As they were slowly ascending it, a bevy
of pheasants ran across the road.
"Stop, coachman, a moment," and

26

,1
4
I
if'


I I
I
~
' 4
'I;
01
,'~ f
'1i1
I ~
:1 ~

FTON.

28,                           CLII
Edward and Maitland leaped from the
stage with their rifles. Descending th&amp;
bank a few steps, they fired simultane-
ously into the forest, a flutter followed the
echo of their pieces, and they soon return-
ed with two birds.
"They are fat, although slightly out of
season; go on, no~v, driver !"
As soon as they had reached the top of'
the hill they all alighted for the purpose
of viewing the prospect.
"Is it not beautiful !" "Did you ever
behold anything so charming," they ex-
claimed enthusiastically. It was indeed a
glorious spectacle. Some three miles dis-
tant, and far beneath them was Lake
a sheet of water thirty miles long, and
varying from one to five miles wide~ it
wa~ interspersed with beautiful islands,
that thickly studded its bosom. Upon one
shore could be seen country-seats and
highly-cultivated farms, while upon the
other, a range of hills extended along the
shore of the lake, rising in the distance to
the grandeur of mountains. No breeze
ruffled the glassy surface of the lake, and
it presented the appearance of a vast mir-
ror, reflecting the sloping banks of one
side, and the rough and lofty shores of the
other. At their feet reposed the small
village of Groton, with its hotel, store, and
meeting-house.
"Do you see the highest peak in the
distance, jist whar the lake seems to stop ~"
inquired the coachman; "well, that ere is
Mount Vista !"
"Indeed," said Harriet, "how do we
get there !"
"Oh easily enough," responded Clifton.
"W~ sail to its base in a barge, and then
trust to our good limbs to place us upon its
summit."
"An easy task, ~ observ-
ed Fanny; 'one could almost step from the
lake to its utmost elevation."
"You would have to exchange those
tiny gaiters for a pair of seven.mile boots,
then," said George French, glancing at
the small feet which were exposed by a
short dress.
"Is it so far~"
"About three miles0!"         0
"Who would have thought itt"
They were soon glidingdown the declivity
with a velocity that caused a suppressed
scream to escape from Mary Holmes, and
Mistress Batchelor to inquire if there really
was no danger. The horses drew up at
the hotel, and the merry party descended
and were soon congregated in the grove
upon the lake shore. Ere long they were
summoned to the breakfast-table, and de-

CLIFTON.

s ite the enthusiasm of the moment, they
I made a hearty meal.
rations were now made for their
departure. The cook purchased an abun-
dant supply of luxuries, as well as neces-
saries, and they were stored, together with
the bagcracre in the boat. The wind now
blew~'off s'~mcre, and gave token of a plea-
sant sail, and at 10 o'clock the barge was
unmoored, and the receding~ party were
saluted by waving handkerc~iiefs from the
shore.
"I am so delighted !" exclaimed Fanny
Brenton, as, suffering her hand to fall upon
the water, she gazed into its liquid depths.
"I knew on would be p leased with
the scenery, ~~replied Edward "once be-
fore, I visited the spot, and wSas perfectly
fascinated."
Look, Harriet, you can see the fish far
down in the water."
"It is your lakes that render the North
so much more attractive than the South,"
observed Maitland, a Sonthron.
"Ah., is that the only reason why we
should claim superiority P' said Miss Den-
nison, archly.
"In the presence of four such nymphs,
who are fit representatives of Diana, Ve-
nus, Hebe, and Juno, it is extremely diffi-
cult to p reserve my allegiance to the South.
Nevertheless-"
"Well, proceed," said Fanny, as the
maidens turned their bright glances upon
him.
"Really, ladies, such a formidable bat-
tery makes me falter; yetd e'en must pro-
ceed. If you were at the South, you would
be considered Southern ladies. I cannot
say as much of many Northern females."
"In what consists the differenceV' in-
quired Kelborn.
"As for personal beauty, I can discover
none. Every portion of the Union can
boast the possession of lovely women. I
do not recollect ever passing through the
smallest village without beholdinga charm-
ing face and figure."
"Oh, any American will proclaim that
fact," cried Clifton; "but it is of manners
that we would hear you speak."
Now, fairly driven, to the wall, Mait-
land continued: "I think the difference
betweenn ladies educated in the slavehold-
ing and non-slaveholding States, is caused,
not altogether by climate, but, to a certain
degree, by local conventionalities. That
climate is not without its influence, is ap-
parent from the fiery impetuosity of races
~vhose pulses throb beneath the rays' of a
tropical sun, compared with the calm judg-
ments of those who are nurtured beneath

29

more temperate skies. But each segment
of the confederacy possesses its own regu-
lations, and when society conforms to
them, every obligation is discharged. In
France, young ladies are kept in the back-
ground until they are married, and then
become candidates for admiration. In the
United States, maidens alone claim uni-
versal fealty, arid relinquish it for that of
one individual, when they stand at the al-
tar. At the South, there is simply greater
latitude given to unmarried ladies than at
the North. They do not transcend the
bounds of propriety, but its limits are not
so narrow and confined. Fashion does
not lace them so tightly, and their move-
mentspossess more freedom and elasticity."
"A very good explanation," said Mis-
tress Batchelor, sententiously.
"In no ~vay are the characteristics of
the rival sections better indicated,~~ con-
tinued Maitland, "than in their laughter.
A Southern girl yields to her merriment in
joyous and unrestrained hilarity, while at
the North mirth is confined, with but rare
exceptions, to an affected smile, or a sup-
pressed giggle."
The earnestness with which he ex-
pressed his opinions caused the laughter
of the ladies to ring merrily upon the air.
"By Jove! that's worth hearing~, " ex-
claimed the Mississippian, bringing his
hand down upon his thigh in real Tom
Crop style.
"We may then infer that gentlemen
become sooner acquainted with Southern
than with Northern ladies," remarked Miss
Salisbury.
"We sooner feel at ease in their pre-
sence. Where there is ait absence of stiff-
ness in the manners of a lady, a gentle-
man is relieved of that pain ul restraint,
which is always embarrassing. Stiffness
is rarely discoverable in a Southern girl,
while it is often noticed in a Northerner.
The one is not affected by what the other
is forced to overcome."
"Admirable !" ejn~,ulated Mistress
Batchelor.
"What think you of our sex l" inquired
French
"The wealthy Southerner is not forced
to devote hi~ time to a calculation of dol-
lars and cents, and can therefore employ
his thoughts upon subjects more intellec-
tual. His views are enlarged and liberal,
and, in some instances, possessing the cul-
tivation of the English peer, he maintains
that unyielding opposition to unlawful en-
croachments which distinguished the feu-
dal barons."

4

"What effect does slavery have upon
their personal bearing I"
"Existing among an inferi'br race, they
are not quite so amiable as certain persons
I could name; but the code of honour
keeps the unamiable within the bounds of
courtesy. But I am exhausted with much
talking. See, what an exquisite spot I"
~The barge, in tacking, swept down in
the direction of a small island, covered
with trees in full bloom. From the shady
bower floated towards them the perfume
of the crab-apple, the plum, and t~ie
peach.
"Can we not land~ I should so much
like to explore it," eagerly observed 'Fan-
ny Brenton.
"' Certainly, if you all desire it," replied
Edward. "We have ample time to gra-
tify every wish."
"0n the other side,~~ remarked the
boatman, "is the best place for landing,
and we can easily make it with the oars."
In a few minutes the prow grated upon
the pebbly beach, and they were walking
amidst the thick foliage that shaded the
earth. The damsels gracefully elevated
their dresses, almost as decidedly as a New
York lady of a rainy day, and half wind-
ing the ample drapery around their limbs,
they soon arrived at the summit of the
island. It was a large rock, which reared
its bald head above the shrubbery, and
gave them an extensive view of the sur-
rounding scenery. The most prominent
object was Mount Vista. It now began
to lose the smooth exterior with which
distance had clothed it, and to exhibit its
rough outlines and yawning chasms. Blos-
soms of pink and white, mingling with
the foliage of the maple and the deeper
green of the hemlock, made the innu-
merable islands that rose from the undu-
lating water appear like bouquets reposing
upon the bosoms of youth and beauty.
"Did you ever behold anything so love-
ly !" exclaimed the enthusiastic Miss
Salisbury.
"Never," said Kelbom, "it is unap-
proachable. Maitland, this would almost
reconcile you to a life in the North."
"Undoubtedly, if I was always sur-
rounded by such loveliness !" and he gal-
lantly bowed to the ladies, while his eye
rested for a moment upon the bewitching
form of Carlie Dennison.
"If you have admired the prospect
enough," said Mistress Batchelor "we had
better descend to the shade. Time rays of
the sun fall upon this rock with too much
warmth."
"Let us rest a minute here ;" and Fan-


'I
I
'I
'1
I-'
f
I' ~
[

TON.

80                            CLII
ny Brenton reclined upon the flowering
bed. Her companions were soon grouped
around her, while the young men beat the
island in search of game.
"Carlie, you have made a conquest of
the Mississippian."
"flow absurd! Why, I am but a school-
girl."
"You are old enough to blush very red,
notwithstanding."
"Hush! Batchelor will hear you, and
then her sharp eyes will be always watch-
ing us."
"I think harriet may congratulate her-
self upon captivating Mr. Clifton," oh-
servedYanny, in a constrained voice.
'' Ha! ha! ha !" merrily laughed Miss
Salisbury; "with what mournful accents
the charge is made. Relieve your mind,
my dear Fan; we are only devoted-
frier~ds, that is all, I assure you."
"I do dot see what reason you have for
supposing that 1 am at all interested in the
gentleman," quickly retorted the maiden.
"Oh! I make no such insinuations;~ how-
ever, a gallant beau rarely perils his life
in chastising the calumniator of a female,
without acquiring a lively interest in her
future ~
"Pshaw! he was insulted himself in
my presence; and, besides, his feelings
were grossly outraged the same day, and
before the assembled school."
"'You~ seem to be perfectly apprised of
the facts, and to express your feeling as
though they were slightly enlisted in be-
half of the gallant chevalier."
"If you will persist in misunderstanding
me, let us change the subject"-and the
warm blood flowed to her cheek, and
threatened to burst through its slight bar-
rier.
In a few minutes they were sailing
through the archipelago, and an hour had
not elapsed before the boat was moored
in a brook that flowed into the lake from
the base of Mount Vista.
"Now, ladies, you can seek for wild
flowers, which abound here, ~ said Clifton,
"while we pitch the tent and prepare our
meal, for air and exercise must have made
you hungry."
French and Kelbom arranged their hooks
~nd lines, and seating themselves upon a
projecting rock, cast them into the lake.
Maitlandthrew arifle upon his shoulderand
plunged into the forest in pursuit of game,
while Clifton sought a spot upon which to
erect the tent. A few yards from the shore
of the lake he discovered a small plain,
densely covered with hemlock, spruce,

CLIF

and "hardwood."* It was bounded upon
one side by an acclivity, from which burst
forth a delicious fountain, while upon the
other the mountain stream glided murmur-
ingpast. In front, glimpses of the lake
were caught through the leaves, and be-
hind, the lofty summit of Mount Vista was
seen above the fleecy clouds which en-
circled its majestic brow.
A space sufficiently large was cleared of
timber, the tent was soon erected, and the
baggage transferred thither. The fisher-
men had fine sport, and in an hour landed
a dozen speckled trout and two lunge,
while Maitland brought in three pheasants
and a fawn.
The ladies had scarcely returned from
the mountain-side and arranged their
flowers before the y were summoned to
dinner. A yustic table had been prepared
from the bark of the spruce, and upon this
the food was spread-venison, pheasants.
trout, roast potatoes, bread, butter, and
cheese, besides an abundance of delicacies
which were selected by the ladies, afforded
th.em a delicious repast. It was now four
o'clock, the sun was yet high in the hea-
vens, but they had determined to postpone
the ascent until the following day. For
the present, then, Fanny superintended the
manufacture of rustic seats, for which there
was great demand; Harriet accompanied
Kelborn in search of flowers- and Carlie~
Mary, French, a~id Maitland sought the
shore, for the purpose of fishing. The oil-
cloth tent possessed sufficient capacity to
accommodate the ladies and their maid:
it was made in a circular form, coming to
a point at the top; at the ground it was a
dozen feet in diameter. A portion of the
canvass could be rolled up, and gave to
the inmates a ready egress. Hemlock
boughs were first placed upon the earth,
arid the mattresses were deposited upon
them, and a couch was thus arranged fit
for a queen to recline upon.
"Why (10 you first cover the earth with
these boughs 3" inquired Fanny.
"Because hemlock will prevent you
from taking cold, which would, assuredly,
be the case if you slept upon the ground."
"But I see no place or you, Mr. Ed-
ward; there is only just enough space for
us ladies within the tent."
"Oh, we can throw ourselves under the
trees; you see we have an abundant supply
of boughs. If it rains moderately we have
a cloth tent to protect us."
"But if it storms 3"
"In twenty minutes we can tear spruce
* Socailed as contradistingulahed to evergreen trees.

bark enough from the trees to shield us
from its fury."
"Do you really apprehend no danger
from wild beasts 3 I begin to be alarmed
as night approaches-"
"Fear not; there are six good rifles to
guard you, and our pallets will be so ar-
ranged as to encompass the pavilion.~)
"What do you think of this rustic seat3 Is
not my mechanical skill quite creditable 3"
"Truly, you surprise me. If it was
fashioning a doll, your proficiency wo~ild
not be as astonishing; but although I have
always given you credit for being suffi-
ciently sharp, still your knowledge of edged
tools is mcomprehensrble.~~
"Thank you, sir, for the implied compli-
ment, yet my hand has not touched a single
instrument."
"Of course not."
"Here come the anglers. What suc-
cess, girls ~            -
"Why, I caught five, and hooked up
another," replied Mary Holmes; "but I
don't believe Carlie had a nibble. She
appeared, though, not to pay the slightest
attention to her line-did you, Carlie 3"
"Yes I did- but, do you know, Mr.
Maitland kept talking so much that he
frightened the fish away."
"They must have been easily alarmed,
for he conversed in very low tones, scarcely,
indeed, above a whisper.~~
"Their nerves, then, must be affected
by the vibration of indistinct sounds upon
the water. At all events, if they could not
hear, they could see, as the lake is trans-
parent, and, I believe, all fish are blessed
with sight."
"They are, when circumstances require
it," obserVed M-pitland. "It is a well-au-
thenticated fact that fish are found without
eyes, in the Mammoth Cave, where they
are surrounded by eternal gloom."
They were all gathered around the tea-
table. Long rustic benches had been
made, so that every one was seated. The
ladies alternately presided at the table.
Harriet Salisbury now had that honour and
responsibility.
"Did I understand you, M~ Maitland,"
said Mistress Batchelor, ~' as expressing
your approval of the so-called code of'
honour."
"Certainly, Madame. I think a fatal
mistake is committed when laws are passed
to suppress duelling."
"Is it possible! and wherefore 3"
"For more reasons than I can well enu-
merate. In the first place, the effect of
duelling is to keep lawlessand unprincipled
men under ~ wholesome restraint."

K

TON.                            81
"But how much unhappiness does one
fatal encounter bring upon the family of
the duellist !" observed Fanny Brenton.
"That is very true; but the same remark
is applicable to every conflict of arms; and
those persons who sanction aggressive, as
~well as defensive wars, forget that thQy are
inconsistent in denouncing a single com-
bat."
"But national wars are prosecuted to
attain some general good," remarked Car-
lie Dennison.
"Sometimes, not always. Probably
more than half the blood that has watered
th~ battle-fields of the old world has been
shed in the prosecution of unjust quarrels.
But if defensive wars are waged for the
accomplishment of some general good, it
may be said of duelling, that it as ,often
occurs for the punishment of some private
wrong.~~
"That which may be excusable in a
nation can hardly be pardoned in an indi-
vidual," snia French.
"And why not 3" responded the Missis-
sipian; "individuals compose nations, and
I see not why, as a unit, I may not exer-
cise those rights that the American people,
as a mass, undoubtedly claim as a pre-
rogative."
"But, ~ said Kelborn, "cer-
tain powers have been delegated by the
people to the general and state govern-
ments. To the former, the right to declare
war-to the latter, the redress of private
grievances; and having transferred those
powers, they are now beyond our control."
"It is that of which I complain in the
laws of duelling."
"Are not our laws sufficiently stringent,~~
inquired Mistress Batchelor, "to prevent
crime ~"
"No: if they were written in blood,
offences would be committed" said
French.
"I admit," continued the Sonthron,
"that our statutes are sufficiently severe in
most instances, bait there are~ cases affect-
ing personal honour, where they are wholly
inadequate."
"But when antagonists meet upon the
field of honour, is not the culprit o ten vic-
torious 3" timidly inquired Mary Holmes.
"That is true: but the hazard will fre-
~uently keep hini within the bounds of pm-
"I have been informed," said Mistress
Batchelor, "that a verbal insult will pro-
duce a challenge. Is it so 3"
"Un questionably,)~ remarked Clifton;
"and therein consists one of the chief
excellences of the code. Wrangling is

I

(

'I


* ij'$
1k'
I ~
I
l's
I
1~j

P'TON.

32                            CLII
avoided, and to reflect upon one's honour,
will produce au instant call to the field.
~' But suppose one's honour is not alto-
gether untarnished ~" interposed French.
"So it injures not yourself," said Clifton,
"let others assume the Quixotic task of
assailing it."
"Would an imputation upon your
veracity induce you to challenge a fellow-
being ~') inquired Mistress Batchelor.
"Certainly; far better do that than
bandy words, which not only degrade
yourself, but annoy others."
"But suppose a person who is not a
gentleman insults you V'
"He could not."
"Would any one who is, be guilty of a
mean act V' suggested Fanny Brenton.
"Of what is generally understood as
a mean action, a gentleman could not be
chargeable.~~
~C Why are duels ever fought, thenP'
"Misapprehension, violent anger, irre-
sistible passion, will frequently cause re-
sentment, and require atonement. No one
can observe the amazingcontrast in the per-
sonal bearing of gentlemen at the North and
South without regretting that duelling is
not sanctioned by public~pinion. When
last in one of the Northern cities, I attend-
ed' a session of the court, and was asto-
nished to hear epithets bai~idied by learned
members of the bar, which would have
disgraced a blackguard. "Tis false,' and
'you lie,' passed as freely as the ordinary
phrase, 'gentlemen of the jury.'"
"Such language is infamous," mur-
mured Miss Dennison.
"Not only 'are such expressions heard
at the ~ pursued the Mississippian,
"but they are tolerated in the legislative
halls~ and dishonour those who utter them,
as well as the constituency whom they
represent."
"Let the injured person attack his foe
on sight," said Kelborn.
"You have surrendered the argument"
replied Clifton. "If you ~tdmit the rigilt
of personal combat, in any form, you con-
cede all we ask. All I claim is the right
to punish certain breaches of etiquette,
with the strong arm. The only difference
between us is this: the method you pro-
pdse is much more objectionable th an
mine. You would assail your opponent,
not only in the streets where you would
endanger the lives of1 innocent persons,
but you might be guilty of attacking him~
with weapons in your hands at a time
when he was unarmed. Besides, the cer-
tainty of witnessing the measurement of
the ground-as if they were taking the

N

C L IFTO0N.

dimensions of your coffin-the steady ele-
vation of a pistol until it comes in a line
with your heart; the startling explosion,
the tearing of flesh, and the crushing of
bones, is far more appalling than the un-
certain chances of a Street fight, which,
if it ever occurs, may be interrupted be-
fore blood is ~
"The objection you have made as to
attacking him when he is unarmed can be
obviated by sending your opponent word
to prepare ~ observed French.
"Not at all, for then there will be a
struggle for superiority of weapons, and
the aggressor may triumph. No, no; the
fairest method, and one the most satisfac-
tory in its results, is to appoint a meet-
ing for the antagonists, when no oth r
person can be injured, and where, with
similar we~tpons, they can fight it out.
Un~iI that is done, there is no immunity
from insult; unless we sanction murderous
encounters upon the public streets ~
The full moon now cast her beams
along the water, and here and there,
piercing the leafy bower, threw a pale
arid steady light upon the encampment.
Not a breath of air rippled the bosom of
the lake, and no sound disturbed the still-
ness of the night, save the murmur of the
waterfall.
"Let us walk to the beach," proposed
Maitland.
The ladies all declined except Carlie.
They were too much fatigued.
"Will you not go too ?" inquired Clifton
of Fanny Brenton.
For a moment she hesitated, until her
glance sought his dark eyes, and then,
with a blush, she assented.
"Shall I not get your shawP the night
air may chill you ;" and adjusting it upon
her graceful shoulders, they followed the
retreating forms of Maitland and Carlie
Dennison.
Seating themselves upon a rock which
jutted into the lake, some distance from
the Mississippian and his companion, they
gazed upon the splendid scene before
them.
"Is not this' enchantment ~" murmured
Fanny.
"I am often apprehensive that it is so,"
replied Clifton, with a significant smile, as
he surveyed her person.
"Nonsense! why will !IOU talk soV'
"Because I feel thus," said her com-
panion seriously.
"If you do, I may take effectual mea-
sures to convince you of my mortality,~~
and she raised her openhandthreateningly.

3

33

"I am willing to be thus undeceived
he turned his cheek submissively.
"What is that ?" whispered the maiden
anxiously. A momentary silence suc-
ceeded the plunge into the lake, and then
an antlered denizen of the forest slowly
emerged from the bushes which overhung
the shore. Standing in the cooling ele-
ment, he raised his noble head, and gazed
f      half startled upon the wonders of his soli-
tude. Fanny heard the stealthy tread of
some person advancing through the forest,
andtu rning her head, she saw young Kel-
born cautiously pushing his rifle through
the clustering branches which intercepted
his view. At once divining his intentions,
she rose suddenly, and , waving her hand-
kerchief, shouted to the deer. Alarmed
at her musical voice, the animal bounded
toward the land; but the leaden messen-
ger spe(l too swiftly. The echo of the
rifle had scarcely died away, when the
lifeless form of the deer sank on the beach.
"Alas! I was too lafe. How could you
have the heart to slay so beautiful a crea-
ture ~
"He deserved death, because lie fled
from you."
"Ah, the poor thing: he stood so trust-
ingly, I cannot forgive 'you for killing
him."
'"if 1 had known you would take his
death so much at heart, I would have suf-
fered him to escape; you witl survive it,
though, Miss Fanny, and doubtless will
partake of the venison to-morrow morning.
Here, Sam, transfer the deer to your lar-
der,,~ and the light-hearted hunter saun-
tered along the shore.
"Shall we return to the encampment ?~'
inquired Carlie.
"Certainly, if you wish it," and musing
she adjusted her shawl, in doing which,
she lost her balance, and would have been
precipitated into the lake, but for the
timely interposition of Maitland, who
threw his arm around her waist, and drew
her away. A suppressed shriek escaped
her lips, and in her terror, she for a mo-
ment hid her face upon his shoulder, then
quickly dra~ving back, she darted towards
the tent, and throwing herself upon the
couch, wept bitterly.
"Why what is the matter Carlie V' said
Mistress Batchelor anxiously.
"Oh nothing," said the sobbing girl,
"only I came very near falling into the
xvater, )~ and she thought, " What will he
think of me
"Do not weep for that, now the danger
is past, but you must be more careful in
future."

"Indeed I xvill.'
"Come, girls, it is time for us to retire,"
said the matron; "see, how well our
couches are arranged."
"Good night, ladies! sleep without a
care, for we will protect you."
"We doubt it not," said the pleasant
voice of Fanny; "may you have pleasant
dreams under your starry canopy."
A sentinel was stationed 'to guard the
tent, who was to be relieved at midnight.
All but Clifton threw themselves upon the
boughs, and so on lost the sense of plea-
sure or of pain, in deep sleep. Seating
himself at the foot of a lofty maple, with
his rifle across his knees, he looked out
upon the lake: a breeze began to agitate
the water, and waves in miniature, laved
the beach. The glittering myriads with
which the blue vault of heaven was
illuminated, each sent a ray of light from
its far-off hom~,to cheet the guardian of
innocence and youth.
Clifton caught the low and melodious
notes of a female voice, as it sang:
"Sleeping, I dreamed, love,
Dreamed love, of thee."
Did he recognize the voice ~ He thought
so.
CHAPTER VI.
"Up! lady fair, and braid thy hair,
And rouse thee in the breezy air,
The lolling stream, that soothed thy dream.
is dancing in the sunny beam;
And hours so sweet, so bright, so gay,
Will waft good fortune on its way."
JOANaA B4ILLIF.
Land of the forest and the rock-
Of dark blue lake and mighty river-
Of mountains reared aloft to mock
The storm's career, the lightning's shock-
My own green land for ever I'
wsnTTIER.
TRE sun was gilding the waters of the
lake with his golden hues, when Fanny
Brenton and Harriet Salisbury, emerged
from the tent, as gay and happy as the lark.
Kelborn and Maitland were fishing, and
French was pursuing game, while Clifton
was still slumberiiig upon his simple bed.
As the damsels went trippingly along, they
paused a moment, and gazed upon the
sleeper. Fanny cast a half-tender glance
upon him as she murmured, " Poor youth!
you deprived yourself of sleep, to protect
us fr6m danger." They were soon per-
forming their ablutions in the transparent
waters of the lake.

K


34

CL I FTO0N.

At an early hour they were seated at the
break-fast able.
"We have a toilsome journey before ud,
and niust soon be on our way," remarked
,Clifton. ~'I am afraid the ladies will find
it very fatiguing."
"Never fear but that we can perform ~
replied Harriet. "Do you not recollect how
often I used to tire you at play 3"
"That was when we were children."
"Will you venture upon the ascent,
Mrs. BatchelorV'
"I think not; if the ladies xviii promise.
to be careful, and not fall down the pre-
cipice.~~
"Of course we shall avoid such a horri-
ble death."
"Well then, I will remain here with'
Polly and Samuel, and have your tea ready
by the tim e you return."
Thomas was directed to take along some
refreshments, and a I arge hatchet, while
the young men each l5ore a rifle and a
covering to protect the ladies from the
mountain air.
The demeanour of Miss Dennison towards
all except Maitland, was flank and cordial.
Her brilliant conversation, and fascinating
manners, inspired the gentl-emen with the
warmest admiration, and even the ladies
were surprised at the exhibition of such
extraordinary, powers. Her cheeks were
flushed and her eyes sparkled with an nit-
natural fire. It was evident that some
powerful emotion agitated her, which none
but Maitland could divine. Grieved that
he had been the innocent cause of her
suffering, he endeavored to soothe the
maiden by his respectful bearing. His ad-
vances being indignantly repulsed, he drew
haughtily away, and for the remainder of
the ascent devoted himself assiduously to
Mary Holmes. Angry at having offended
the Mississippian without a cause, Carlie
now relapsed into silence. About a mile
from the encampment was a delicious
spring, and here they paused to slake their
thirst. Hitherto the acclivity had been
easily surmounted, but now it became
more rugged and precipitous, and it was
xvith considerable difficulty that the
maidens proceeded on their toilsome way.
"Ladies, you must allow us to assist
you," said Edward, "or else your strength
will be exhausted before we have ad-
vanc~d half way to the summit. Come,
Fanny, take my ~
"Very well; you will find me a heavy
burden, though."
"It is said that every man has to bear
a cross; I care not, so mine is not a cross
lady," exclaimed Maitland, casting a

spiteful, though furtive glance at Miss
Den nison.
"How now, Maitland! you have not be-
come a grum h~ler 3" said French.
"Not exactly, though I do not profess to
have the patience of Job."
"That is because you do not possess
Job's wife to test it," replied Kelborl~,
irreverently.
The mountain, thus~ far, was thickly
covered with forest trees, but now they
emerged from beneath this foliage and
entered a growth of stunted spruce, from
the bark of which they obtained a large
supply of delicious gum.*
" Oh, there is a prize do get it for me,
Mr. French," exclaimed Mary Holmes; "it
looks like coraL" It exhibited its blushing
outlines twenty feet up the tree.
"What a request, Mary !" said Harriet.
"Mr. George does not possess wings nor
claws."
"I did not think of the distance; pray
do noi make the attempt," said the anx-
ions girl. But her remonstrance came too
late; already French had leaped into the
branches of a beech which reared its trunk
in close proximity to the straight, limbless
spruce~ They all watched his progress, as,
passing out upon a j)rojecting braitch, he
inserted his knife under the bark, and the
gum fell to the earth. In performing this
feat, the limb upon which he stood broke.
and he was precipitated half way to the
earth, when he was caught by the cluster-
ing branches. Shrieks ~escaped froni the
terrified girls.
"What is the matter with Mary 3" The
alarmed girl had fainted.
When she was restored to consciousness ,
Fren0ch was st~inding beside her uninjured.
Pressing her hand upon her temple, she
murmured, "I am so glad he escaped."
"Really, friends," said Kelborn, "our
excursion bids fair to be a romantic one.
Already we have had a quarrel, a fall, and
a faint. Allah be praised !"
"You deserve to be banished from the
party," said Harriet.
"For what reason?"
"Because you are so unfeeling."
"Now that is a specimen of the world's
judgment. If my nerves don't tremble
naturally, I must make them. Everything
must bend to conventionalities. If society
declares that certain, events must produce
a sensation, you must open your mouth,
and your face must express the utmost
astonishment. If the incidents are suffi-
* A concrete juice which exudes through the bark
of Spruce trees, and by exposure to the air acquires
the colour and consistency of rosin.

i"~ i,
~
I
1$'
4
'4
~
i 441
I

I

C LI FTO0N-.

ciently startling, you are bound to faint,
ladies, while our knees must smite together
like Belshazzar's."
"If such are the regulations of society,
I am sure you pay them very little reve-
rence," said Mary tardy.
"Well done, Mary; it is enough to dis-
turb the placidity of even your temper,"
said Fanny.
the pedestrians entered the gulf, a nar-
row, winding, and abrupt ascent under
the overhanging mountain. Their progress
was slo~v, now climbing over rocks and
anon grasping the s~'rubs, which tenacious-
ly clung for existence to the crevices of the
mountain. They at last reached the' stair-
case,' an almost perpendicular ascent of
forty steps~ A rope had been attached to
the rock, and with its support alone could
the perilous summit be attained.
"If you are sufficiently rested, ladies,"
observed Clifton, "will you proceed 3"
"You will make the ascent first, if you
please, gentlemen,'~ said Fanny,'draxving
back.
"You must be extremely cautious, then.
Even we cannot gaze upwards, lest the
overhanging moi~ntain and flying clouds,
should make us giddy and lightheaded."
"Perhaps, then, we had better precede
you, for it xvould be terrible to lose our
consciousness midway 'that staircase, with-
out having any one to sustain ~ said
Miss Salisbury~
"Why not remain here, where we are
perfectly safe 3" inquired the timid Miss
Holmes.
"You will lose the glorious sight for
which we have struggled so long."
"Better that than our lives."~
"It will never do to return without
reaching the pinnacle. They would laugh
at us," observed the spirited Carlie.
"Come Mr. Kelborn, I will make the at-
teifipt, ~ut you must follow my footsteps
closely, so as to catch me if I fall."
"Come then, Mr .Clifton," said Fanny;
"recollect, you are responsible if I am
killed." They all mounted the staircase,
and in a few minutes, were assembled
upon the highest elevation of the mountain.
The view from the height was vast in
extent. The lake was spread out at their
feet, and far down, and only perceptible
with a glass, was the solitary tent upon the
shore. Over the lake, a champaign coun-
try, highly cultivated, extended as far as
the eye could pierce the distance. Behind
was an illimitable forest, without a single
clearing to relieve the eternal gloom that
pervaded the solitude. At the foot of the

35

mountain, upon their left, they discovered
a small sheet of water, which appeared
separately scarce half a mile from the lake,
and not double that distancee from the en~
campment.
"What a gem of a lake that is, nestling
securely in the forest,~' said Harriet.
"Can't we explore it on our return ?'~
inquired Carlie. "Do you knoxv that in-
terests me more than every other object
within the scope of my vision."
"We will examine that side of the
mountain, before we start, to see if xve
can descend xvithout danger," observed
Clifton.
After the party had iz~azed upon the
scenery, they partook of some refresh-
mnents. At that altitude the air was suf-
ficiently cool to make shawls acceptable
to the Ia(lies. It was now three o'clock,
and they prepared to return. Clifton had
ascertained that the only practicable path
doxvn the mountain, was the one by which
the ascent had been made.
"What a beautiful floxver!" said Carlie.
as she gazed over the precipice. "I must
try and get it ;" and advancing rapidly
along the brow of the mountain, she de-
scended the shelving rock towards the
coveted blossom. "Come back, do come
back !" exclaimed Mary Holmes. Fanny
and Harriet gasped their hands in mortal
fear. While Maitland muttered, "Rash
girl, you will be lost !'
She succeeded 'in obtaining the object
of her pursuit, but she had no sooner done.
so, than, raising her eyes, her cheek be-
came deadly pale, and tier head swam
round, as she gazed with an irresistible
impulse upon the yawning gulf at her feet.
"For God's sake, withdraw your glance !"
shouted the Mississippian. "Look upward~
here, this way, dear Miss Carlie !"
But thought, hearing, motion, were gone;
her limbs relaxed, and h~r powerless form
glided slowly down the polished rock, and
disappeared from the sight of her terror-
stricken companions. Without a moment's
hesitation, Maitland darted along the
verge of the rock, but inclining further
to the left than the ill-fated girl had done,
he approached a lower shelf in the moun-
tain. Gaining this xvithi much difficulty, he
advanced along its n~row surface. Above
him was the overhanging stone; beloxv,
axvay down as far as the sight could ex-
tend, was a frightful chasm, which made
his brain reel as he gazed into its depths.
He shouted her name; no answer came
back. "I knew she xvould belost-a'nd
such a death !"
4                       -

(


36                  /          CLIF
Hastening onwards, /~e ascertained that
the rock gradually fdened, while the
cliff above sloped neArly to the level of
the platform.
He caught a glimpse of female attire,
and uttered a shout of gladness, but the
blood instantly retreated to his heart, and
his paralysed limbs were rooted to the
stone, as he saw the motionless form of
the maiden lying upon the shelving
rock, her head hanging over the chasm,
and the blood flowing from a wound in
her temple. A slight movement of the
hand assured him that life was not extinct,
and bounding forward, he raise(l the un-
conscious girl in his arms, and bore her
rapidly along the platform towards the top
of the mountain. Scarcely had he emerged
from the ledge, whei~ he was met by Ed-
ward and Kelborn, who were advancing to
his assistance. The rapid motion and
mountain air, restoreti Carlie to conscious-
ness.
Opening her eyes, she looked for a mo-
ment at her preserver, as if her mind wan-
dered, and then recalling the fearful peril
through which she had passed, a shudder
ran through her frame.
(C The danger is now past, ~nd you are
safe," said the soothing voice of Maitland.
Turning upon him a grateful look, she
slightly contracted the muscles of the
rounded arm that still encircled his neck,
and then raising her form from his shoul-
der, she threw herself, weeping, into the
arms of Fanny Brenton.
At night, the party were all assembled
again, around the supper-table. The ad-
ventures of the day were recounted to the
matron, nnd they were all joyous and gay,
except Carlie, and she was happy; but oc-
casionally, there would pas ,across~ her
countenance a sad and pen ye expres-
sion. The near approach of eath had
momentarily checked the exu erance of
her spirits.
Fatigued by the exertions' o the day,
they all retired early.
Two hearts were happy at the recon-
ciliation which had taken pla , above the
yawning gulf of Mount a.
CHAPTER VII.
"Hark, how the tempest crushes through the forest!
The owls fly out in strange aifriglit;
The columns of the evergreen palaces
Are split and shattered;

TO
The roots creak, and stretch, and groan;  ~
And, ruinously overthrown,
The trunks are crushed and shattered
By the fierce blast's unconquerable stress."
GOETHE.
BEFORE they arose from the brenkfast~
table, the heavy clouds which had been
gathering in the northwest, rolled towards
the mountain, and the gleaming lightning
was followed by peals of thunder that
shook the earth. The atmosphere ~'as
close, almost suffocating. The lake slum-
bered as placidly as an infant reposing
upon its mother's bosom. Profound silence
reigned in the forest; but the calm xva~ the
precursor of the tempest. Far up the
mountain, the wind first toyed with the
leaves, and then violently severing the
branches, rudely twisted them from their
truBks, and whirled them through the air.
The top of Mount Vista was enveloped in
a black mantle, and from its folds the
forked lightning darted athwart that por-
tion of the sky ~vhich still preserved its
ethereal blue. The storm swept down the
descent. Large drops of rain first disfigured
the glossy surface of the lake, and then the
hurricane descended upon it with such
fury, that the water was lashed into a
white foam.
"You must all come into the tent," said
Fanny, as she fearfully gazed upon the
scene.
Scarcely had they congregate(l beneath
its folds, when the lightning descended
upon a lofty maple which grew on the
shore. Its trunk was riven, and the frag-
ments scattered along the beach. The
crash which accompanied, rather than fol-
lowed the electric fluid, was appalling,
while the atmosphere was charged with
sulphurous smoke.
The ladies concealed their faces, and
the gentlemen gazed with serious counte-
nances upon the progress of the storm.
Even the gay and reckless Kelborn was
subdued by its terrors. But the hurricane
had gone past, and was nox~ spending its
fury upon the opposite shore of the lake.
"See !" exclaimed French, eagerly, "it
has unroofed yonder mansion, and now it
is playing with the trees in front of the
white house, to the right. Look, it twists
them off like reeds! Now it struggles
with the dwelling. The glass-let me
have the glass! By heavens, the inmates
are flying! The house totters-it is a heap
of ruins! See, the tempest now inclines to
the left; it forces a passage through yonder
grove. My God! i~ approaches the brick
building. Surely that will resist it. N~s,
no! 'fis awfirl! nothing but the foundation

I

C L I F T ON.

remains." And he closed his eyes to shut
out the terrible vision. When he looked
again upon the scene, the tornado had
swept over the table land which bounded
the horizon in that direction.
"I never beheld anything so terrific,"
said Kelborn.
"in our southern latitudes," responded
Mainland, "we often witness the progress
of destructive hurricanes."
"Why are some localities so much
oftener visited by tornadoes than others ?"
inquired Harriet Salisbury.
"I presume," said Maitland, "it is, to
a &amp;rtain degree, attributable to the con-
figuration of the ground. I recollect one
spot that was twice visited by hurricanes
in ten years. Tile first time a court-house
was' prostrated, and some of the papers
were picked up more than fifty miles dis-
tar t. It was observable that the course of
the storm was nearly the same in both in-
stances."
"But I understand," said French, "that
on the Western Prairies, where the wind
has a fair sweep, they are never troubled
with hurricanes."
"That is, doubtless, the re'~son why
there are none," said Edward. "It is only
where the wind can find obstacles to resist
its progress, that its pent-up fury prostrates
everything before it."
The sky was now overcast with clouds,
and gave promise of a rainy day. Malt-
land and French donned their thick over-
coats, and prepared to sally forth upon a
fishing excursion. Kelborn and our hero
preferred the society of the ladies.
"*Oh ye slothful !" exclaimed the Mis-
"
sissippian, . would you leave the ladies to
perish for want of food'?"
"You like the storm, and the rocking of
the boat upon the waves," said Kelborn,
"better than the society of the softer sex:
we do not."
The tender glance which Maitland be-
stowed upon Carlie Dennison, was a refu-
tation of this charge.
''Let this protect you from the ~
said the lovely maiden, as she advanced
to the door of the tent with a silken scarf
in her hand.
"If you will adjust it."
But he was obdurate and raising herself
upon her tiny feet, she wound the scarf
around his neck, while her taper fingers
played about his cheeks as she arranged
its folds. He sought her glance, but it was
withheld until the last knot was tied, and
then, for an instant, she raised her soft and
melting eyes to his own.

"And how do you purpose amusing
yourselves, ladies'?" inquired Clifton.
"I will show you,~~ said harriet and she
took from her bag a piece of embroidery.
The others were also employed with
needles.
"I can tell you how they would find
amusement, even if their fingers were not
employed," said Kelborn.
"how'?" inquired Mary Holmes.
"In conversation. I never could livinge
how it was possible for your sex to while
away so many hours in talking."
"XV
be hy if w'e (lid not converse, we should
considered stupid,~~ said Fanny.
"But ~vhat is there about half the con-
versation which serves to amuse ladies but
stupidity'?"
"What an impertinent man !" exclaimed
Carlie.
" Now, let us see whether it is not the
truth" continued Kelborn. "'1'wo friends
meet: it ought to be p resumed that they
feel some interest in the mental improve-
ment of each other. What is the subject
of the conversation'? They talk thus:
"'What a beautiful hat, Jane!'
"'Do you think so'? Well, would you
believe it, I gave only ten dollarss for it'?'
"'Impossible! And such a beauty!
Where did you buy it-at Jones's'?'
"'No, indeed; I thought it was useless
to pay such extravagant prices as they ask
at ~ They think because they hav~
got their names up that ladies will submit
to extortions.'
"'Have you purchased yours yet, Se-
rena'?'
"'No; I thought I would be in no haste.
I prefer looking round until I can suit my-
self.'
"'How exquisite the silks are figured
this season.'
"'I thought they were not as pretty as
last.'
"'Oh! I think-they are1perfectly charm-
b.
ma Mrs. Flighty had one on yesterday  ,
cut in the new style,-a point before And
behind.'
"'What! both'?'
"'Well, how fashions do chang~.'
'~ 'Yes, indeed. My dress-maker in-
formed me to-day that the full sleeve was
to be substituted by a tight one.'
"'You don't tell me so! That ~vill be
horrible for persons with thin afms. What
a fright poor Miss Smith will look like.'
"'And the flecks of party dresses are t~
be worn exceedingly ~

4


38

C L FT''O N.

"'You don't say so!'
"'Yes. Won't Miss Brown, with hei
scrawny neck, regret that?'
"'By the way, did you see Mrs. Simp-
son in her new carriage this morning?'
"'She is determined to create a sensa-
tion. Servants in livery.'
"'In livery?'"
"'In livery! Not only that, but a coat
of arms.'
"'A coat of ams? Nof a cooper's bar-
rel V
'~ 'No, indeed! catch them committing
such a suicidal act as that.'"
Kelborn's auditors 9ould no longer re-
strain their merriment~ but gave vent to
their feelings in peals of laughter.
"Lam glad, ladies, that you recognize
the fidelity of my portraiture."
"You have described the conversation
between two friends; now let us hear one
between two acquaintances," said Edward
mischievously.
"Miss Ludlam calls upon Miss Thomp-
son," said Kelborn. "'Good morning, Miss
Ludlam, 1 am glad to see you to-day.'
'~'Thank you. I have owed you a call
so long that I thought I would pay it, not-
withstanding the weather is unpleasant.'
'~'Yes, it is disagreeable out; but any
weather is preferable to the intense heat
of the last two weeks.'
"'How unseasonable the weather has
been all the fall.'
"'Unaccount~bly so. I have not been
able to recognize my favourite October.'
"'What an unfavorable day Miss
Franklin had for her wedding yesterday.'
"' I (10 not know her. Were you pre-
sent V
Yes; they were married in church.
She had five bridesmaids, all dressed in
white silk.'
"'Was the groom good-looking V
"'Not very; but he is rich.'
"'How was the bride dressed V
"'She had on a white satin dtess, over
which were three skirts of tulle. and she
wore upon her head a white wreath apd
thread-lace veil.'
"'Was there any entertainment given?'
"'No; they started immediately on the
bridal tour?'
"'Was not that odd?'
"'Yes; but it is also cheap.'
'~ 'Well! I think it looks better to give
an entertainment to your acquaintances.~"
"'Yes; such a one as we~ witnessed
when Emma Green was married.'
"'What has become of Emma?'
"'Why, you know it was said she mar-
ried Mr. Sutherland because he was rich.'

"'He was old alid ugly.'
"'She flourished for several months in
the most extravagant style. Her diamonds
were the most costly, her wardrobe the
most luxurious, her carriage the most
superb, her parties the most magnificent.
A few w e~eks ago her husband failed for
several millions.'
C~~You surprise me.'
"'And now she is living in an obscure
part of the country.'
I thought I never met her out.'
"'What a splendid house the Merce~s
are buildincy'
CCC Was not their fortune made re-
cently?'
"'Yes; an advance in the price of city
lots, which their ancestors had occupied
as a tanning establishment, enabled the
present generation to cut a figure.'
"'They say Frances Germaine is to be
married to young Frasier; do you think it
Is possible?'
"'I can hardly credit it, she is so fright-
fully plain, and he is so handsome and
fasainatino'
"'But she is enormously rich.'
"'Is her fortune in her own posses-
sion ~'
'''Yes; her father died scarce one year
ago.~
'''Well, that is a very different affair,
with our young gallants, to a fortune in ex-
pectation.'
"'Is it true that Mrs. Blakem~ and her
husband have separated?'
"65o I hear.'
"'For what cause?'
"'He would attend the Club, and she,
to revenge herself, would have beaux,
until at last, they say-but it may be a
malicious accusatiop-she compromised
herself.'
"'Did you ever!'~
"'Good morning, Miss Thompson, I
have several calls to make.'
"'Good morning; call soon again.'
"'Pray do not mention what I said
about the cause of Mrs. Blakeman's sepa-
ration, fort you know, it may turn out an
unfouiided suspicion after all. Good morn-
ing; come and see me soon.'
"Now, ladies, I will leave it for you to
decide if such a conversation is in the
slightest degree calculated to improve the
mental ~ sai(l Kelborn, " or
whether it would not have been just as*
well for the parties if a single sentence
had not been uttered. If so, Miss Fatmny,
silence should not always be construed
into evidence of stupidity."
At ten o'clock the clouds lifted in the

I

21
21

C L I F T 0 N.

39

west, and the rain ceased falling. Clifton intent to kill. The learned jodge went into
proceeded to join the fishermen, and Kel- han elaborate examination of the different
born, placing the lock of his rifle under deg,~ees of crime, and alluded to offences
his arm, to prevent the dripping leaves cornln itted with malice pretense, as well
from dampening the po'vder, disappeared as to those perpetrated in the heat of pas-
in the intricacies of the forest. sidn. As to the defence urged with so
" What luck, boys ?' inquired Edward, much ability by counsel,' (1 quote the
as the barge touched the beach for the language of the judge, of course), 'that
purpose of taking him on board. the criminal was labouring under mental
"Capital; we have caught a dozen derangement, and therefore was an irre-
lunge.* Row back now, Sam, to the same sponsible being, it was adjudicated that,
spot, for I had some glorious nibbles." although he evidently exhibited specimens
The boat was anchored at the bow and of that pugnacity which is often attributa-
stern, so that it gracefully dipped in the ble to ardent spirits, still, his reason was
waves as they rolled past.           not sufficiently dethroned to shield him
"This water is rather more transparent from punishment.' It was therefore de-
~ said the Mississippian, "than creed, that the unnatural excitement into
the liquid into which we immersed Tom which Mr. Swift had wrought himself
Swift."                              should be alleviated by immersing him,
"How was that V' inquired French. the said Swift, head foremost, in a beer-tub,
" I had nothing to do with that frolic," for a space of time to be decided during
protested Edward.                    the progress of the operation."
"Didn't you, though? I never saw a French crammed his handkerchief into
person cling to a subject more his mouthto avoid alarming the fish.
cally than you did to Swift." energeti- "We found it easier," continued Mait-
"Let us have the story," said French. land, "to condemn the prisoner than to
"Last winter, Clifton, Kelborn, and my- execute the sentence. It was counting
self, took a moonlight stroll to a farm- too much upon his fondness for aquatic
house not far distant from Andover for exercises, to suppose that he would volun-
the purpose of obtaining some beer. 'Did tarily immerse himself in the frothy ii-
you ever drink any.beer?~~ quid, and it would be ungenerous to exe-
"What, that which is cute the judgment without releasing his
manufactured limbs from their bonds. Swift was no
out of potatoes and then distilled into sooner at liberty than he prepa1cd to resist.
whiskey ?" Glancing around for some weapon, he
"The same. I think the beer is deli- found himself surrounded. By a simulta-
~ious, and then I was anxious to under- neous movement we seized him.
stand the chemical process by which it "'Byes, let me alone! Stop it. I'll
was manufactured. We chanced to meet murder you!'
there a brawling fellow, somewhat noted "The struggle was protracted and doubt-
for his insolence. That night Swift was ful. Swift was a large and powerful man,
particularly offensive, and, enraged by and was now thoroughly sobered. He re-
what he regarded as an insult offered him sister the ignominious punishment with
by Kelborn, he seized an axe and would the-fury of despairr. But if he was obsti-
have dashed out the brains of our class- nate we were determined, and after ma-
mate, but for the timely interference of king'the circuit of the room, overturning
Clifton." buckets and smashing pails, we had him
"What punish ilf'ent did you inflict fast against the side of an enormous beer-
upon the contumac ~ous individual ?" asked tub. Qrasping the hoops, he clung to them
French. with desperate earnestness.
"You shall see. Large beer-tubs ~vere "'Now, then, boys, heave!' exclaimed
standing around, each one containing at Kelborn.
least five hundred gallons. Swift was "'Quit it, byes,~ shouted Swift.
bound until his case was investigated. "'Now we have him, one more lift!'
Edward officiated as judge, Kelborn prose- His long legs were slowly elevated, and
cuted, and I defended. The proprietor he sunk, head first, to the bottom of th~
of the establishment was the witness. beer-tub, from whence, after being churn-
Notwithstanding the ability with which, I ed up and down two or three times, he
trust, the defence was conducted, the cul- arose, puffing and snorting like a porpoise."
prit was found guilty of an assault wi4i French hjid, for the last minute, been
~ A fish resembling the trout in 5a~our.  leaning his forehead upon the gunwale of
much larger in size.           hough the boat, but it did not avail him, and


40                    CLIFTON;                                                       CLIFTON.                    41

throwing himself back, he fairly shouted
with laughter.
"Take care, French" said the Missis-
sippian, with imperturbable gravity, "you
will frighten all the fish away."
"Then don't tell me any more snch
feats,~~ said Frei~ch, wiping the tears from
his eyes.
The following morning they departed
from the foot of Mount Vista, and sailing
up the lake they arrived at the hotel in
safety, from whence they returned to An-
dover.
The surrvof human happiness or misery
is computed by events, not time; and in
the brief perio(l which had elapsed since
their departure from the village, the four
maidens had stepped from the narrow
sphere of girlhood into that commanding
position where woman engrafts her gentle
influence upon the rough nature of the
sterner sex.
CHAPTER VIII.
"I hate him, for he is a chnstiai;
But more, for that, in low simplicity,
Tic- lends out money gratis, and brings dpwn
The rate of usance here with us in venice."
SHAKSPEARE.
EDWARD C~n"rou and his three friends
ha~ entered College, and as that Institution
was also situated in the village, or rather
city, of Andover, they were not separated
from the young ladies, who were perfect-
ing their knowledge of French, music, and
painting.
Several months after their return from
the excursion to the lake, Clifton entered
Kelhorn's room, where he found Maitland
and French.
"Well met, my comrades, .1 am glad to
see you all."
"Come in, then, and be seated. Here,
tty one of these cigars.~'
The Nue vapour curled along the ceil-
ing, and through the white ashes t~e fire
brightened into a glowing heat, and then I
disappeared in a faint, shadowy light, as
the grateful smoke was inhaled, or suffer-
ed to float in waving lines through the
apartment.
"What think you now of your favourite
system of intrusting the public money to
the keeping of banks?" asked Edward.
"Why, are there any more suspen-
sions'?" inquired French.
"There is now scarcely a specie-paying
bank in the country."

"Has the disaster become so general?"
"Yes, commercial affairs seem to be
stricken with paralysis, failures are daily
occurring, and some of the oldest firms
are yielding to the pressure.~~
"That is one of the crises which some-
times occur, and can hardly be attributa-
ble to the deposit system," said French.
"I beg your pardon, it is the natural
result of that very system, as avowed by
its advocates."
"How so?"
"Why, the ~nincipal reason assigned.
~r depositing the public moiiey with these
pet banks, is to enable them to extend
additional accommodations to commercial
men. That is the reason assigned by the
managers of banks, because it has an ap-
pearance of disinterestedness, and as all
persons like to have money plenty, the
argument 4s a powerful one. But the real
cause is a desire to flood the country with
paper rags, based upon the five or six mnil-
lions of government money depositedd in
the vaults of these banks."
"But if the government loses nothing
by the operation, surely you cannot oh-
ject.~
"Yes. but I do though. I deny that the
general government hns any right tofat'our
pet institutions, or to establish a species of
favoritism. I object to the principle.
Besides, a blunder is committed in afford-
ing facilities for overtrading, which brings
pain and disaster upon the whole commu-
nity."
"Is it the fault of the government if
people will overtrade 3"
"Not if the government has had no
agency in the transaction. If, on the con-
trary, it has not only offered induce-
ments, but afforded facilities for overtrad-
ing, it has abandoned its legitimate sphere
of operations.~)
~d? Do you avow your hostility to all
banks, Clifton ~
"Unequivocally so, to all institutions
now in operation in this country. I think
it is the very worst feature that we have
imported from Great Britain, and we shall
regret the day when we engrafted it upon
our republican institutions. Banks are char-
tered becaus~people want more money,
and in their eagerness they overlook the
consequences. Private individuals are
allowed to receive only seven per cent.
interest in some states, in others only six.
But to corporations the prtvilege is given
of issuing three dollars in paper, some-
times more, for every dollar in specie de-
posited in their vaults. They are thus
allowed to obtain three times as much

interest upon their capital, as private indi-
viduals. Not only that, but what is to pre-
vent them from issuing five-ten times as
much. paper, as they have silver and gold
in their vaults 3"
"Will not the fear of suspension or
failure deter them 3" inquired Kelborn.
I
"Has it restrained them 3" continued
Edward earnestly. "Are not the suspen-
sions throughout the Union, an answer to
your question 3 What do they lose by the
suspension 3 They have acquired a valu-
able consideration for their worthless paper,
and the only sufferers are the unfortunate
bill-holders, who are forced to sell the
trash to brokers for one-fourth the sum
j
which it cost them, and are th expected
to shout for joy when more ~ are char-
tered, to a~ord temporary relief,-and to
involve them again in the same difficulty."
"If we are deprived of banks, there will
be a frightful scarcity of money," said
French.
"You surely do not expect to increased
substantial wealth of a country with b~nk
paper? These matters will always regti-
late themselves. If money is scarce,
small amounts will 'go a great way,' as
the saying is. If money is plenty, it ~~ill
require a large sum to purchase a very few
articles."
"You cannot deny but that paper is
vastly more convenient than silver to the
traveller and merchant."
"That depends very much upon the
credit it sustains in the commercial world.
There are millions of bank paper at the
North, which would prove utterly worth-
less south of Masons and Dixon's line.
No, no, instead of banks of discount and
circulation, I would create banks of de-
posit. only."
"How is that?"
"If A. has a thousand dollars in specie
let him deposit them in this bank, and
obtain a certificate that he has there, sub-
ject to his order, the sum of one thousand
dollars-no more, no less. That certificate
made transferable would pass as so much
money."
"I see how it is, gentlemen,~~ said
Maitland, lighting another cigar; "you
will have to abandon your theories and
your pet banks, and come out in favour
of that good old institution-a national
bank."
"That Zs far more objectionable than
the other,' said Clifton.
"Why that did not break or suspend,
and its notes were current at par, some-
times at a prentium, throughout the coun-
try."

"That it did not break or suspend, is
probably owing to the credit and assistance
of the general government. If that had
been withdrawn, it unquestionably would
have shared the fate of smaller institu-
tions."
"Well, continue to give it the support
and countenance of the general govern-
"The objection to favoritism and
overtrading will apply as forcibly, per-
haps more so, to a national, than to state
"What in the name of common sense,
would you do with the fu~{ the ge-
neral government, if yo ~wouIX~intrust
them neither to pet institt4ionsQrNUni -
ted States Bank 3" said the Mississippian.
"I will tell you. It was not the int6n-
tion of the framers of the Constitution,
that the funds of the government should
be intrusted to banking institutions; on the
contrary, it was designed that the revenues
of the country, should be kept under the
management of officers, appointed by,
and uiider the immediate control of the
general government. Language could not
be more definite than that employed in
framing the Constitution. Every word was
carefully considered, that it might define
the meaning of the Convention. It was
explicitly declared that a treasury should
be established, and no money drawn there-
from, but in consequence of appropriations
made by law. How can the revenues be
taken from the treasury, for banking pur-
poses, when the only legitimate use to
which they can be applied, is to defray
the expenses of the government, after ap-
propriations have been made? That this
was the intention of the framers of the
Constitution, is apparent from the passage
of the law of 1789, establishing the trea-
sury department. After providing that the
money should be received and kept in the
treasury, and defining the mode in which
it should be paid out, they enacted that no
person appointed to office under that bill
should, directly or indirectly, be concerned
or interested fn carrying on the business
of trade or commerce, or purchase or dis-
pose of any public securities of any state
or of the United States."
"Then yot~ advocate the ultra doctrine
of one kind of currency for the people,
and another for the government as well as
the sub-treasury." /
"A law which enforces the collection
of the public dues in gold and silver,
recognizes the only constitutional currency.
If the people have established banks
which give them depreciated paper; it

(


42                    CLIFTON.                                                      CLIFTON.                    43

surely is not the fault of the general go-
vernment."
"Whatever may be your convictions
upon the subject, you may rest assured of
one thing, that the administration now in
power will be defeated at the next election
by an overwhelming majority," said Mait-
land.
"What causes will produce so fatal a
result to a party which has held the reins
so long 3" inquired Edward.
"I think they kre quite apparent. In
the first place, excessive overtrading has
produced general distress and embarrass-
ment throughout the country; upon every
breeze you can hear the cry of 'Change!
change!' Even sagacious and able men
declare, that a new administration cannot
make matters worse. Besides, the defal-
cations which have recently occurred, will
bring odium upon the President and his
cabinet, and in the hands of a popular
sturhp speaker, will bring hosts of demo-
crats into the whig ranks. Why, a cele-
brated Mississippi orator would electrify
an audience with the materials which the
present administration have placed in his
power.~~
"If it is the intention of the Whig party
to avail themselves of a temporary embar-
rassment, which their own policy has
brought upon the country, it is not im-
probable that they may succeed. How-
ev~rI have great confidence in the honesty
and intelligence of the people."
"And I have none. They sustain re-
publicanism in the abstract, because all
aspirants for office find it is popular to Siud
it. But think you they would hesitate to
stretch the Constitution of the United States
if it was necessary to accomplish a fa-
vourite measure 3 Why you asserted a few
minutes since, that gold and silver were
the only constitutional currency, yet we
have had two national banks chartered by
the Congress of the United States, and
another woula have been legislated into
existence, but for the obstinate determina-
tion of Old Hickory."
"That was because General Washing-
ton yielded to the advice of Alexander
Hamilton and to the financial embarrass-
merits into which the country had been
precipitated by the revolutionary str~iggle."
"But how do you account for the appro-
val of the second bank, by President
Madison 3"
"We had just passed through the second
contest with Great Britain, and the curren-
cy of the country w~p in a deplorable con-
dition. Instead of ~tting the evil remedy
k

itself, Madison, who wanted firmness,
yielded to the pressure."
"it is singular," pursued Maitland,
"that the two national banks were sanc-
tioned by members of the Constitutional
Convention, and that it should have been
left to the statesmen of the present day to
arrest their career by the executive veto."
"I often hear allusions made," said
Clifton, "to the fact that Washington and
Madison were members of the Convention.
Suppose they were, what then 3 The
present generation are as fully apprised of
the opinions of that eminent body of men
as the two members from Virginia, and we
have only to consult the papers prepared
by Mr. Madison himself to be convins~-
ed that the Convention, as a body, was
utterly opposed to a paper currency. In
the draft of a constitution submitted by
Mr. Rutledge, there was a clause autho-
rizing Congress to emit bills of credit~
which was rejected by a vote of nine
states against two. While the clause was
under discussion, the propriety of esta-
blishiiig a paper currency was fully
discussed, and almost universally con-
demned."
"And yet I cannot but express surprise
at their extraordinary conversion."
"The President of the Convention did
not have occasion to give his opinion
as to the necessity of a paper currency,
but Mr. Madison exhibited a leaning in
that direction."
"James Madison !" exclaimed French.
"Unquestionably," replied Edward.
"When the clause authorizing Congress
to emit bills of credit was under discus-
sion, Mr. Madison was opposed to striking
it out, but thought it was sufficient to pro-
hibit the making those bills a legal tender.
He remarked that such a prohibition would
remove the temptation to emit them with
unjust purposes, and promissory notes in
that shape might, in some emergencies,
be best."
"Then he cannot be claimed as a con-
vert, after all."
"Certainly not. But even if he could,
how would it settle the question 3 All you
can proclaim is the fact that two states-
men who happened to occupy the presi-
dential chair when the country labored
under financial distress, signed national
bank charters. If Thomas Jefferson. vast-
ly the superior of either, had occupied
their positions, neither of those banks
would have had an existence."
"It is immaterial," said the Mississip-
pian, "whether statesmen or politicians
oppose banks; whenever the 'honest and

lq

intelligent people' are pinched for money,
they will have them. The almighty
dollar will become, directly or indirectly,
a prominent principle in the dogmas of
the two parties."
CHAPTER IX.
"What are these,
So withered and so wild in their attire,
That iook not iike th' inhahitants o' the earth,
And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
That man may question ?"
SHAKSPEAaE.
How rapidly time passes when our pro-
gress at college satisfies exacting and
ambitious parents. Mr. Clifton and his
wife had watched with the greatest inte-
rest the rapid advancement which Edward
had made since he first left the paternal
roof. The thoughts of his mother, it is
true, had been principally directed to the
preservation of his health, and she was
urgent in her requests that he should pay
a proper regard to his clothing and diet.
Their visits to Andover had been frequent,
and he never ran out to welcome them
without expecting a bountiful sup~Iy of
cakes and preserves, which in due time
were divided among his favourites.
"I can hardly realize that we have
been one year at college, can you, Mait-
land 3"
CC That is because our moments of
leisure are rendered so delightful by an
agreeable circle of acquaintances."
"True, that has an influence upon ima-
ginative young gentlemen, who, like your-
self are involved in the mysterious and
inextricable mazes of love~" observed
Clifton.
(Cl do not thin~n you can claim exemp-
tion from that charge your~elf.~~
"I trust my attack has not been so pal;
pable as thine. It is singular what an
effect the preservation of a life has upon
the ror~antic. We seem to invest the
object with the rarest endowments, simply
because we have been instrumental in
prolonging an existence. This has been
strikingly the cage with yourself, ever since
the lovely C arlie was borne in your arms
from the yawning abyss of Mount Vista."
"Come, now, Clifton, acknowledge the
fact; are you not slightly jealous because
she blushes when I approach, and  is im-
passive in your presence.~~
"Ha! ha! that is so much like Shel-

don Myers, who congratulated himself
that the whole world had not fallen in with
'his Nancy,' for then he might have had
more difficulty in winning her."
Come, Ned, that is too bad ! You ought
to be banished from the oaks, for com-
paring the beautiful Carlie Dennison, to a
Miss Nancy.~~
"Of course! But seriously, I do not think
Miss Carlie the equal, certainly not the
superior, of Fanny Brenton, and here they
both come, as if to afford us an opportunity
of deciding~"
General Dennison's stately grays swept
along the banks of the river, and in the
open barouche were seated Fanny and
Carlie. As they approached the spot
where the young gentlemen were standing
with raised beavers, Miss Dennison ordered
the coachman to stop. Maitland could not
boast that his favourite had a richer blooiti
upon her cheek, than mantled beneath the
brilliant complexion of Fati ny Brenton.
The countenances of both expressed undis-
guised pleasure.
"We are taking a drive this lovely after-
noon," said Carlie; "here are two vacant
seats, will you not occupy them 3"
The horses dashed on with the merry
party, winding along the stream for several
miles, they at length ascended a lofty hill.
"Shall we visit the Cave 3" inquired
Maitland.
"Willingly," replied Fanny, "if it is not
too late"
"But can we do so in thin dresses 3" in-
quired her companion, as she cast a glance
at the rich silks in~.w4si~~they were robed.
"Oh yes, the way is not intricate."
"Comethen. James, rest the horses
here; we will soon return."
They diverged from the road, and en-
tered a narrow way, which led over the
acclivity. Maitland and Miss Dennison
preceded their companions.
"Is he not fortunate to win the regard
of such a girl 3" whispered Fanny.
"Has he been so fortunate 3"
"Do not tell him for the world. But I
dare say, you are sufficiently skilled in the
human heart to discover that Carlie is very
much interested in the Southerner."
"II can hardly form art opinrori of your
sex, for to me, you are enigmas. Do you
think Maitland reciprocates her attach-
ment 3"
"How is it possible for him not to do
so 3"
"Yes, it is doubtless so: see with what
fondness he gazes into her upturned eyes;
with what rapture he jistens to her soft


44

J

SC LI FT ON.

accents; with~~~~hat gentleness he guides eluding part of the prophecy, "you must
her footsteps !"                    have your fortune told."
"Really, Mr. Edward, you are more ob- "Oh! no, no, I cannot; at least, not by
servant than I supposed; and your language her" said the maiden shuddering.
is so poetical.~'                     "And why not?" said Nell, sternly.
"It ought. for you always inspire me !" "But you shall hear it, whether you will
The little ht~nd tremble dup on his arm, or no. In your existence, pride shall have
and a deeper crimson colored her soft a fall, your cup of happiness shall be
cheek. At that moment the tall and at- poisoned,-your fairest prospects blighted.
tenuated form of an aged female glided Hope shall flatter, only to sink you still
into the path before them. Her features deeper in despair, and when ruin has
were coarse and forbidding, and her brow fastened its fangs irretrievably upon you,
contracted into a frown as she glowered then this prophesy will be fulfilled." The
upon them. Fanny shrunk from the form of the hag trembled violently, and
woman, and the blood deseyted her cheek the foam gathered upon her lip~t. As she
as her eyes fell beneath the savage gaze. proceeded, Fanny elevated her form to its
"Ha! ha! ha!" shrieked, rather than full height, and gazed with a compas-
laughed the hag; C~ and so you fear me do sionate smile upon the excited woman.
you? and well you may, for I can read "Poor thing !" she said~ "instead of a
your destinies, and mayhap control them, prophecy, you have uttered a malediction;
too." you have mistaken your vocation, for
"What want you, my good woman? Do whert~ you threatened to unveil the future,
you not see you alarm the lady ?" said you simply indulge in malicious denuncia-
Edward. tions; you are a bad woman; begone !"
"Frighten her, do I! There was a time," And with the air and dignity of a queen,
said the other, half sadly, "when Nell she waved her away. Nell recoiled from
Oakland did not alarm the timid; but that before the caIrn look of the bei~utiful girl,
day is long since past." like darkness before light, and parting the
"Why Mistress Nell," exclaimed Carlie bushes which skirted the pathway, she
advancing towards her, "it has been an disappeared.
age since I saw you; where have you been "What a sorceress !" exclaimed Mait-
wandering ?" land.
"Far away, ycung lady. Hard has been "And yet I r~ollcot her when she was
my fate, since 1. was last at the Cave." good-looking, if not handsome," said Car-
For several moments she was lost in lie, "she has changed wonderfully. Some
thought. early sorrow preying upon her mind, has
"And so this is an acquaintance of embittered her feelings towards the youth.
yours, Miss Dennison ?" ful and happy."
"I knew her as a fortun~-te1ler when I "Why was her language so compli-
was a child. Have you lost your skill. mentary when addressing you, and her
Mistress Nell ?" manner so savage when assailing me?"
"The future is more visible to me as ~ "Doubtless it was owing to the recollec-
approach that dread ordeal, the tomb." tion of some trifling act ~f kindness upon
'I You may tell my foi tune now. You my part, years ago. Come, let us proceed
know I was afraid to have you do so be to the Cave ;" and she gathered up her
fore." - skirts with both hands, so as to avoid en-
~' Surveying the countenance of the tangling them in the sweet-briers that bor-
dered the road.
maiden, until her eager glance had scruti- The Cave was scarce one-fourth of a
nized every feature, she uttered her mile in extent, but the beautiful pillars
prophecy.                           which supported the lofty dome were omna-
"Your career is destined to be a happy minted with Stalactites, and in the pale
one. Scarcely the shadow of a shade and uncertain light which penetrated the
shall obscure the mirror of life, and the cavern, they presented the appearance of
e~ istence wl~ch thus far has been without solid silver.
a pang, will continue to its close, peace- In the interior of the cavern, the twi-
ful and joyous. The pathway of life will liott softened every object upon which it
be smoothed ere long, by one worthy of fail and tinged the shrubbery that sur-
you ;" and her eye fell upon the splendid rounded the outlet of the Cave, with a
form of the Mississippian. deep, almost palpable green. From the
"Come now, Fanny," said Carlie, extremity of the cavern a fountain burst
anxious to divert attention from the con- from the rocks, and forming a small cas-

I

C L I F T 0 N.

45

ca(le, vanished amid the pebbles which
covere(I the earth. Tradition had gifted
this water with magical powers. Not only
were its properties medicinal, but whoever
drank at the fountain would have their
cherished hopes gratified.
"Here is an antidote, Miss Brenton,"
said Clifton, "for the imprecation of Nell
Oakland."
"As little importance should be at-
tached to the reputation of one, as to the
denunciations of the other," replied Fanny.
Why, Fan, you are neither supersti-
tious nor romantic; you must be heart-
less."
"Perhaps so."
Taking the goblet from Clifton's hand,
she quaffed its contents.
The sun had descended beneath the
horizon, and the moon was casting her
mild beams along the earth, when they
entered the carriage. The air was balmy
and fragrant. Playing with the ringlets
which had escaped from Fanny's hat, it
lingered upon her cheek, and then gliding.
on, revelled upon the neck and bosom of
her lovely companion.
Miss Brenton leaned back in the car-
riage with folded arms, with one foot
slightly elevated, and reposing upon a
velvet ottoman. Carlie rested her cheek
upon her ungloved hand, and looked pen-
sively at the gathering shadows of night,
as they pursued each other through the
forest, All were too much agitated with
their own emotions to interrupt the silence,
until the mettled steeds had traversed
several miles of the road homewards.
"Do you look forward with pleasure to
the day when you will graduate, Mr.
Maitland ?" inquired Fanny.
"Why should I? Already I am blessed
with as much happiness a~ ever falls to
the lot of mortals."
"But then you will have obtained an
education, and be exempt from restraint."
"I doubt if a diploma will make me a
freeman," and he cast a rapid but signifi-
cant glance at Carlie, who was still lost in
a reverie.
"Of what advantage is the possession of
knowledge ?" asked Edward; "the simple
process of acquiring that which has been
discovered by others. There is a vast dif-
ferenc6 between the acquisition of know-
ledge and the possession of a creative
power, which elicits new ideas."
"Butifyo ur ideas, although unknown
to you, were promulgated centuries ago ?'~
"Then~t isunfoitunate for my reputa-
tion, thati was not born before the dark
ages; not ~l~at I would possess more in-

trinsic merit, but I should possess the
credit of originality, at least."
The carriage drew up at the residence of
General Dennison.
"Will you not come in and take tea?
No? Thea you must call soon, gentlemen.
Fanny is now my guest."
"What detained you so late, girls?" in-
4uired Mrs. Dennison.
"We have visited the Cave."
"Who with, pray? not alone, I hope ?"
"Ah, no; Mr. Maitland and Edward
Clifton accompanied us."
"Indee4 ! where did you pick them up ?"
"They were taking an afternoon walk."
"There wa~ no previous arrangement, 1
trust ?"
"How could you suppose so, ma?"
'~Well, well, child! Did you pass a
pleasant afternoon ?"
"Delightful! we had an adventure,
though, with Old Nell."
"Is it possible! But tea is ready. Why
did not your companions come in? you in-
vited them I suppose ?"
"Yes, but they declined."
"Well, come. What of Nell ?"
CHAPTER X.
'But not alone in dreams like this.
Breathed in the very hope of bliss,
I loved: my io~n had bean the 4amc
lit husb'd despair in open shame.
I would have rallier heen a slave,
In tears, in boitdage, by his side,
Thai shared hi all, if wanting him,
Titis world had power to give beside!"
L. E. L.
"Yet, for the plague of human race,
This devil has an angel's face."  CIBBER.
THE long-looked-for day at length, ar-
rived, when Edward and his companions
were to graduate. The town was thronged
with the friends and relations of the senior
class.
Among the ladies who were assembled
as the guests of Carlie Dennison, were her
companions in the excursion to Mount
Vista.
"And so, Carlie, you are to be married
in the fall ?" said Fanny.
"I believe, Fan, that is to be my fate;
the obstinate man will not postpone the
event a moment longer.~~
"And you go with him to Mississippi ?"
"Yes; he says he wants me to preside
over his establishment. Me! Ha! ha !"
"He is the owner of many slaves, I be-


C-II F T 0 N.

I

lieve. How will you like the management
of that species of property, think you 3"
"Oh, admirably. Bent you know I shall
only pass my winters there. In the sum-
mer we shall travel. Fanny, you have
not seen Edward Clifton in six months.
What is the condition of your relations
with him 3"
"Not warlike, and yet not very amicable.
At the present time we are both preserv-
ing a sort of armed neutrality."
"Why is this so3I anticipated, at one
time, a match between you."
"Mr. Clifton is ambitious. A thirst for
distinction absorbs every thought of his
life."
"He does possess transcendent powers.
Maitland says there is not his equal in
colleiie."
"I understand he will graduate with the
highest honours."
"I think, Fanny, you construed intense
application to his studies into coldness,
and therefore treated him with too much
haughtiness. Recollect, he is high-spirited
as well as yourself. When you meet again,
try and smooth that imperious brow of
thine a little."
"On the contrary, I think the proper
way to subdue the gentleman, is to treat
him with indifference, and as that course
is consonant wit my feelings, I shall prac-
tise it.'~
"Have a care, my dear Fanny! Recollect,
these quarrels are sorr~etimes irreconcil-
able. Remember, the breach between
Maitland and myself was healed in the
very jaws of death."
"But how know I that Clifton loves me 3
He has never said so."
"There are a thousand tokens by which
a discerning woman can divine the feelings
of the other sex."
"Very well, Carlie; my feelings shall
control me in this instance."
Miss Dennison shook her head reprov-
ingly, and left the apartment.
A ball was given at the residence of
General Dennison. The youth and beauty
assembled at Andover thronged his capa-
cious saloons, and at nine o'clock Clifton
entered Maitland's room for the purpose
of accompanying his friend to the scene
of revelry.
"Ned, yo~ are sa~ to-night," said the
joyous Mississippian; "you, of all others,
should be happy when your collegiate
triumphs are lauded by every one."
"And yet, Fred, I doubt if you would
exchange positions with me-.eh 3"
Maitland thought of Carhie Dennison.
and expressed a decided negative.

"I am sad because I shall now be sepa-
rated from those friends with whom I have
passed so many pleasant hours at Andover."
"Clifton, what are your plans for the
future '~"
"Within six months I shall depart for
the Southern States, in some one of which
I shall cast my lot."
"1 am glad you have delayed your de-
parture so long, for I must have you at my
wedding."
"Upon one condition,-that you will,
previous to that event, pass several weeks
with m at m father~s.~~
"Very well, that is arranged."
"Who are to be present to-night at the
General's 3'~
"All the people of note who reside in the
village, besides the distinguished strangers
who were down hither to attend the corn-
mencement."
"Has your fastidious taste discovered
any young ladies of surpassing beauty 3"
"None who can compare in loveliness
with Carlie and Miss Brenton."
"By the way, Fred, how much Fanny
has changed in the last three years. Her
stately bearing is not half so attractive as
the charming naivete which she once pos-
sessed."
"You must recollect she is no~v nineteen
years old, and a female at that age is quite
as matured as a man at twenty-five."
"Indeed; well then, as Carlie and Fanny
are as old as we are, they must be six years
ahead of us in experience and maturity.
Your bride will have a fair start, Fred; I
hope she may retain it."
The young men entered the dwelling to-
gether. The more youthful portion of the
company were engaged in dancing, and
among them Edward recognized Fanny
Brenton. He returned her haughty salu-
tation with a bow still more stately, and
passing on, sought the hand of Carlie Den-
nison for the next quadrille. It happened
that French and Fanny were thus vis-a-
vis. Turning her in the dance, he did not
address a word to Miss Brenton, and when
the quadrille was over he yielded his part-
ner to Maitland, and sauntered through the
rooms. Approaching a card-table, he saw
Harriet Salisbury and Mary Holmes play-
ing a game of whist with Kelborn ana
another ~entleman. Harriet noticed his
approach with a glad smile.
Come, Mr. Clifton, sit down here and
give me the benefit of your experience,"
and she drew the ample folds of her satin
dress nearer to her person. Edward occu-
pied the vacant seat upon the sofa, and
watched the progress of the game. While

(

Kelborn was dealing, Clifton remarked:
"Life is little better than a game at cards
Harriet."
"How so, pray 3"
"We are obliged to play our part~with1
whatever powers we are gifted by our own
destiny, and the only difference consists
in the stake for which we throw. In this
busy world the ambition of thousands is
scarcely elevated above a game pf cards,
while others, more restless, if not more
wise, stake life, fortune, everything, upon
the hazard of the die."
"Have a care, Ned," said Kelborn, "or
you will view human existence with the
fatal vision of a misanthrupist.~~
hidden' no; I have merely examined the
springs which control the human
race, for the purpose of knowing myself.~~
~' When do you return home 3" inquired
Harriet of Clifton.
"To-morrow."
Will you not accompany me 3 Pa
could not come, and sent the coachman
with the carriage."
"XVith gre at pleasure. I will place my
ha ~ ~e upon the stage. At what hour
will you start 3"
"After breakfast; I suppose about nine
o'clock. I will send the carriage to your
lodgings for you."
"I shall consider it a great honour."
The game was decided as supper was
announced, and Kelborn, claiming the
fulfilment of an engagement with Miss
Salisbury, Edward offered his'arm to Mary
Holmes, and they entered the supper-room.
The table was loaded with every delicacy
that could tempt the appetite of a gour-
man d.
"What shall I help you to, Mary 3"
"Some oysters, if you please."
"And some champagne 3"
"Will it give me vivacity 3" said she
archly; "you once fancied I was too se-
date."
"Oh that day has long since passed,"
and his glance dwelt for a moment admi-
ringly upon the brilliant eyes and snow-
white shoulders.
"They all tell me I have changed," re-
sponded the maiden as she sipped the
sparkling wine.
"I wonder if Master George French had
anything to do with the transition 3"
"Hush !" sai~the maiden, shaking her
taper finger threateningly; "how dare you
be guilty of such audacity! But I have
been informed that with your quiet, dig-
nified manners you have the courage to
say or do almost anything. Is it so 3" and

she looked into the eyes of the student
with a mirthful expression.
"Who could have given me such a
shocking character 3"
"Why, that is your 'general reputation
in the neighbourhood,' to employ a phrase
which I have heard my lawyer uncle make
use of."
"Frightful! But tell me, Mary, h~w
does George get on 3"
"He don't get on at all," said the dam-
sel innocently.
"It surely cannot be his fault."
"Certainly not; but I intend to take my
own time."
"And flirt as long as you please, of
course."
"Exactly so. I have the reputation,
why should I not have the enjoyment 3"
"Why, Mary, yu ought to be killed."
"Indeed; you certainly will let me
choose my own executioner."
"Unquestionably.~ shall I tende, my
own ~
"Thank you, no. That individual must
not deserve the fatal punishment himself
still more than I."
"Ha! ha !" laughed French, ~vho had
just approached them
"she had you there,
The music again struck up, and waving
her hand, Mary joined the dancers with
George French.
Standing with folded arms, Edward
surveyed the floating forms of the waltzers
as they whirled past. Once he observed
the eyes of Fanny Brenton fixed upon him
xvith an expression of unutterable tender-
ness, but they were instantly withdrawn as
she encountered his glance, and the pearly
teeth impatiently pressed her ruby lips.
An hour later he prepared to depart,
and searching for Carlie Dennison without
success, he at last entered the library.
Before him was a graceful form, leaning
pensively against the casement. He was
not certain, but he thought he heard a sob,
and fearful that he had invaded a spot
where anguish had claimed a sanctuary,
he prepared to retreat. His movements
werh observed, however, and the lady
startled from her recumbent attitude,
.turned round, and Clifton found himself in
the presence of Fanny Brenton. The re-
collection of his meeting witl~ her ~n the
stage, their excursion to M~unt Vista, the
visit to the Cave, and the I thousand inci-
dents which had served to bind them to-
gether, now gushed upon his memory with
overpowering force. Their eyes met, but
the agitated girl could not restrain her
emotion, and bursting into tears she wept

46

C LI FT ON.

4

47


CLIFTON.              49

48                   CLIFTON.

passionately for several moments. Ed-
ward advanced quickly to her side, and
taking her hand, he encircled her flexible
form with his arm.
"Dear, dear, Fanny !"
But the impetuous maiden no sooner
heard the sound of his voice than she
dashed the tears from her cheeks, and re-
leasing herself from his embrace swept
haughtily from the room.
The following day was raw and cold,
but Edward found the carriage of Mr. Sa-
lisbury early at his door. Bidding adieu
to his classmates, hnd exacting from Mait-
land a renewal of his promise to visit him
in a few weeks, he was soon at the resi-
dence of General Dennison. There he
found Harriet awaiting his arrival, sur-
rounded by Carlie, Mary Holmes, and Kel-
born. Edward looked in vain for Fanny;
she did not make her appearance.
"Ned, I envy you this jonrney,~~ said
Kelborn, with a woeful countentnce.
"Well done! who would have sup-
~ osed that such an inveterate woman-
ater as thou wert, would look so forlorn
at the departure of a fair ~
"Alas! at that time I had not been led
into temptation."
"Good-bye, girls! we meet again in a
few months. Shall I not see you soon at
my father's, Mr. Kelborn ?" -
"'Tis my fate; I cannot prevent it if I
would, and I would not if I could."
"Farewell, Mr. Clifton I" said Carlie.
"Have you no message for Fanny ~"
"None. I shall take good care of Fred
until we meet agairt. And a certain Mr.
French will, in due time, be restored to
his bonds, if indeed he can escape froni
them for a brief season."
CC Now, Mr. Edward, no more of that,
unless you would be vic~imize~ yourself."
"Egad, I know nothing that would be
more pleasant."
"Adieu !" "Good-bye !" and the horses,
becoming restive from the cold, gladly
sped onwards. The windows of the car-
riage were closed, to exclude the piercing
air. Clifton flung himself upon the front
seat, and for several miles both were si-
lent. Memory was reviewing the events
whic~ad transpiredsince they first trod
the sITh ets of Andover. When we bid a
final adieu to the spot where an elevated
platform in the staircase of life has been
attained, our thoughts dwell upon the past,
not the future.
As the horses slowly mounted a long
hill which was raked by the north wind
the cold became more intense. Edward
seated himself upon the back seat by the

side of his companion, and enveloped him-
self in the soft and delicious furs. Bnt the
silence was still unbroken, save by an oc-
casional sigh. Were they caused by re-,
collections of the past or dread of the fu-
ture, or by emotions which the present
sometimes elicits ~
CHAPTER XI.
"But ha! she sinks-that look so wild."
MOORE.
But, image of myself, and dearer half;
The trouble of thy thoughts this night in sleep
Affects me equally."
MILTON.
A FEW days after the arrival of Mait-
land at the residence of Mr. Clifton, Ed-
ward and himself mounted their horses,
and, armed with light fowling-pieces,
started for an extensive forest, which en-
compassed a beautiful sheet of 'water some
ten miles distant. Having fastened their
steeds to the branches of a beech, a short
distance from the road, they entered the
forest in different directions, after agreeing
to meet at the foot of a lofty pine, which
towered above the surrounding trees. In
a few hours Clifton had killed three par-
tridges and two gray squirrels, and at last,
faint with hunger, he sought the place of
meeting. The Mississippian had not ar-
rived, and kindling a fire against the trunk
of a fallen maple, he prepared to cook his
game. This was soon accomplished, and
the savory fragrance of the viands min-
gled with the perfume of the woods.
Upon such occasions he always carried
with him bread and sa1t~ and with the aid
of these articles he made a delicious meal.
Placing near the fire a bountiful supply
for his companion, he reclined against the
roots of the pine, and being much fatigued,
soon fell into a profound sleep. How long
he slumbered he knew not, but he was at
length awakened by a heavy peal of
thunder, and starting to his feet he disco-
vered that rain was descending in torrents.
He shouted Maitland's name, but the
howling tempest only responded. He now
prepared to return to the spot where they
had tied their horses, but the increasing
darkness rendered his progress slow and
difficult. It was impossible to tell in what
direction to proceed. The sun had de-
scended beneath the trees, and heavy
masses of clouds overhung the earth. It
was only by the assistance of the continu-

ous fl~hes of lightning that Edward conic
make his way, and at length he was con
scions of being hopelessly lost. He wan
dered on, not knowing in what direction
he was proceeding, when his footsteps
were arrested by a low wailing cry, as ii
utteie(l by a child in distress. Advancing
towards the spot from whence the sound
proceeded, he soon hoard the dashing ol
waves upon the beach. In a fe~w mo-
ments he stood upon the shore of the lake,
and endeavored, as the lightning gleamed
upon the water, to discover the object of
his solicitude. The tempest raged with
the most fearful violence, and lashing the
waves with a white foam, drove them mad-
ly upon jhe beach. For several minutes
Clifton It ened with the most painful anx-
iety, but no sound met his ear except the
howling of the storm. At last he heard a
shout for aid, but this time in the loud and
distinct tones of a man. Glancing eagerly
along the raging flood, he discovered a
boat floating bottom-upwards, about a
dozen rods from the shore. It was evi1
dent that whoever clung to the treacherous~
bark were in imminent danger of being
driven by the gale against a perpendicular
rock, which towered from the water to
the distance of twenty feet.
No time was to be lost, and Edward
instantly ~)lunging into the lake, breasted
the waves with a stout heart and a strong
arm. The calls for assistance coming
more and more faintly across the water,
assured him that the sufferers were sur-
rounded by extraordinary perils.
As he dashed alongside the boat the
voice of a man exclaimed, "Thank God,
you are saved !" Edward saw him sus-
taining the form of a young girl with great
difficulty.
CC Preserve the life of my sister, and
heaven reward you ~ said1a faint voice.
Courage, man ~ replied Edward
cling to the boat, and I will soon return."
Throwing one arm around the form of
the unconscious young lady, Clifton soon
reached the shore, and bore her to a place
of safety. He was in the act of entering
the water again, when his steps were ar-
rested by a plunge into the lake, and dur-
ing the next flash of lightning, he disco-
vered the form of a man parting the waves
with powerful strokes, in the direction of
the sufferer.
"'Tis lVlaitland, undoubtedly," thought
Edward, and he directed his attention to
the maiden. Enclosing her slight form
in the coat which he hadth rown off before
entering the water, he rested her head upon
his shoulder, and anxiously awaited her
4

restoration to consciousness. She had lost
her hat while in the water the comb had
I escaped from her hair, aid in long and
(lishevelled tresses, it hung around her
shoulders and extended nearly to her feet.
Her countenance was pale, and a purple
hue gathered upon her eyelids, and colour-
ed her lips. In the centre of the cheek the
warm blood soon began to return, and at
length she opened her eyes of softest blue.
"Brother, we are saved !"
As she spoke she discovered teeth of
the most brilliant whiteness, and her sweet
breath played upon his cheeks.
"You are indeed preserved, and your
brother also will snort be in safety. See, he
is already near the shore."
The young girl discovering that she re-
posed in the arms of a stranger, at once
regained her feet, while the pale hue of
her complexion vanished before the blush
which mantled her cheeks. Gazing for a
moment upon her deliverer, and conscious
how much she was indebted to him, she ad-
vanced, and extending her hand, express-
ed her thanks with much grace and feel-
ing, for the aid which he had rendered
her.
In the mean time Maitland and the
stranger reached the shore and advanced
towards them.
"You have saved our lives , gentlemen;
for, without your assistance, we should
have been inevitably lost."
"Speak of it no more, said Edward;
"we only obeyed the prompting of hu-
manity. But how came you in such a
forlorn situation ?'
"We left the hotel yonder, a few hours
ago, for the purpose of taking a sail, when
the sky became suddenly overcast with
clouds, and a squall striking our frail
hark, we were precipitated into the water?'
"'Twas unfortunate. But your sister, as
well as yourself, should no longer be ex-
posed to this storm, drenched as your gar-
ments are," said Clifton.
"You must accompany us, then, to the
hotel. I can furnish you both with a
change of apparel.'
"You proceed ~vith them," observed
Maitland. "I will lead the horses; they
are hard by."
They had all changed their garments,
and were seated at the supper-table. The
maiden had recovered from her alarm,
and her face was radiant with smiles.
Clifton thought he had never beheld so
lovely a being.
"Bitt how did it happen that you came
so opportunely to our relief ~" she inquired.
"We were hunting in the forest. I first


50                            CLII
fell asleep, and then lost myself. Mait-
land lost himself too, I suppose, for he did
not keep an appointment which he made
with me."
"Then your misfortunes were the cause
of our rescue V'
"Undoubtedly. ~.t was merely accidental
-perhaps I should say, providential-that
I wandered in the direction of the lake.
But whither did your peregrinations take
you, Maitland ?"
~C What, mine? I am almost ashamed to
say. I traversed hill and dale for miles,
bagging game as I went. I thought it
strange, that the sun which shone from the
opposite side of the lake in the morning,
should still continue to cast hisraysdirectly
across the water, until as he sunk beneath
the tops of the trees, the lake was still
between us. At lastreflecting upon the
cause of this phenomenon, I ascertained
that, whereas I was, in the morning, upon
the northern shore of the lake, I was then
upon the southern, and at the most .mode-
rate calculation, a distance of six miles
from the place of rendezvous."
"Bravo! you would never do, for an
Indian warrior."
Mainland and the stranger, who had in-
troduced himself as Mr. Howard, with-
drew for the purpose of smoking cigars
arid Clifton accompanied Alice Howard tc
the parlour. Standing by the window, they
looked out upon the water. The storm had
abated, and the wind, which a few minutes
before howled through the forest, and
swept down the lake, now sighed through
the leaves and fretted the surface of the
water into little curling waves. The sky
was unclouded, and the countless stan
glittered in the firmament.
The maiden gazed thoughtfully upon the
scene. Edward supposed she could
scarcely number fifteen summers; hei
features were so child-like in their purity
Her forehead was high, her eyebrows dan
and beautifully arched; her eyes, large
full and lustrous, caused the heart string~
to quiver, with a strange happy sensation
whenever they dwelt upon a person wh
had elicited her regard.
"What a ~ she observed, "be
tween this lovely spot, and my own hoim
in the city of Philadelphia."
"And are you so much pleased wit]
these wiltls ?"
"Perfectly enchanted with their beauty
It is fly first visit to the more northern
States, an(l the objects which I have beheld
more than realize my anticipations.~m
"And what led you hither, so far fron
tour residence? Surely, one so young

51

could not have been attracted by the
romantic scenery ~
"There is now a vacation at our school,
and I accepted an invitation from my
brother, to take a short excursion-which
came near being a very longone;" and a
shudder ran through her frame.
"How long are we to be favoured with
your presence ~
"Onlyfora few days; ihe holidays have
nearly expired."
"And then you will return with any-
thing but pleasant recollections of the
rough treatment which you have received
from our stormy elements."
"I have no reason to be grateful to
them; but to you, sir, for generously rescu-
ing me from their fury: I shall always
deem myself under the greatest obliga-
"I pray you to forget them both. It
would, to say the least of it, be ungallant
to suffer one whQ had sought pleasure in
our midst, to perish for want of assis-
tance."
They separated for the night, and each
sought a friendly couch. For several
hours the slumber of Alice was restless,
* and disturbed. She thought they ~vere
* again upon the lake; and dark masses of
clouds, relieved here and there by white
borders, rapidly moutited from the west.
* Vivid lightning darted from the base of the
cloud, and shot its forked tongue into the
blue ether above: while the thunder which
burst over their heads, rolled heavily
away, until in the distance it produced a
concussion that shook the foundation of
'the earth. The wind, at first, came down
the lake in faint blasts, but soon fell
upon them with such force, that they were
precipilated into the water; and then she
I experienced the horrible perception of
suffocation and death. She started up with
a shriek! "Thank heaven, 'twas only a
dream !" and smoothing her pillow, she
turned upon her right side and slumbered
again. But her imagination still fluttered
upon the confines of oblivion. She was
traversing a romantic grove, where water-
falls soothed the senses; the breeze wafted
- the fragrance of a thousand flowers, when
a tall and manly form approached; raising
her eyes, she encountered the admiring
~ glance of Ed~vard Clifton. Together they
wandered on, andshe drank in his pas-
sionate declarations of love, until at length
ri the~~ seemed to enter the realms of poetry,
an the language of her companion be-
came blended with music and flowers.
~ The ideas which flitted across her imagine~
, tion became more and more indistinct;

I

and she at last sunk into a calm and grate-  "Nonsense !"
ful sleep.                              The next day "a horseman might have
been seen" approaching the Lake House.
Dismounting, cast the bridle to the
hostler, and after giving instructioWs as to
the care of his steed, he entered the par-
lour. In answer to his inquiry for Miss
CHAPTER xii.               Howard, he was informed that she had
started that morning for Philadelphia.
"There is a language by the virgin maste,  "But here is a letter for you, Mr. Clifton ~
Not reed, but felt; not uttered, but betrayed,  said the proprietor of the hotel.
A mute communion, yet so wondrous sweet,
Eyes must impart what tongues can ne'er repeat~"  Breaking the seal; he discovered it was
BARRETT.  from Mr. Howard. The communication in-
~tui o'er these                    formed him that they had been summoned
And fondly scenes my memory wakes,  home by the dangerous illness of Mrs.
broods with miser care;
Time but the impression stronger makes,  Howard. The letter continued, " Accept
As streams their channels deeper wear" the thanks of my sister and myself, for
fluuxs.  your generous conduct, and believe me
4/                 when I say, we shall ever cherish, with the
CLIFTON and his frh~rid mounted their most grateful emotions, the recollections
horses early the next morning and returned of one who has placed us under lasting
home.                                 obligations."
Why, E
tamed you dward, what could have de- There was also a letter for Maitland.
? could not sleep. I He wanted to ask if there was a communi-
was so anxious about you and Mr. Mait- cation from the young lady, but he hesi-
land."                                tat~d, and then returned to the parlour.
"Oh, ~ve passed the night at the lake !" An hour later, he mounted his horse and
"The fact is," interposed the Mississip- returned homewards. He was indignant
pian, "Ned met with an adventure yester- that she had departed without leaving a
day.~~                                letter or even a message. He read agaia
"Indeed !"                          and again the note from her brother. He
"Yes, he rescued a nymph front the could not have said less, and might not
lake."                                with propriety have said more; and yet
"Is it possible; and who was she?" Edward was dissatisfied.
"A Philadelphian; Miss Howard by Several weeks now passed rapidly;
name. He raved about her all night, and Maitland's wedding had taken place, and
appeared struggling, for hours, with the Edward and Kelb9rn had made arrange-
waves; should have slept soundly, if I ments for an excursion to the West, prior
had riot been disturbed by his shouts aiid to selec
exclamations."                              ting a place of residence. Clifton
separated 'from his father and mother with
"That, Fred, was because you saved a much pain, and Kelborn and himself
man."                                 started for New York and Philadelphia:
"What! were the lives of two persons Remaining in New York for a few days,
in jeopardy?"                         they proceeded to the city of rectangular
"Certainly; and I must say, Maitland's streets.. Clifton had determined not to
conduct was gallant, especially, after avail himself of the address which young
making the circuit of the lake; eh! Fred ?" Howard had given him, and proceeded
"You must invite the strangers to ac- without delay in perfecting those arrange-
cept our hospitality, Edward !" ments which it was necessary for him to
"You need be under n0 apprehensions, niake, before starting for the West. The
Madam, of his being guilty of a breach iiight previous to his departure, he entered
of etiquette, especially in this particular the theatre in Chestnut Street, to witness
~ the histrionic powers of Charles Kean and
"Was the lady so attractive ?"      Ellen Tree. The audience was large and
"I could not perceiv~i it. She is quite a brilliant. Taking a seat in the dress-circle.
child; and how Edward could be fascinated he soon found himself surrounded by~
by her ingenuous simplicity is a mystery beauty and fashion. In the crush of silks
to me." and satins, the air was perfume~l; and the
"How do you know I was fascinated ?' theatre was radiant with sparkling eyes,
"Because, no one would listen for an and glittering diamonds.
hour to her innocent prattle, unless he  The curtain was rolled up, and the play
were so."                             of the "Gamester" comrnienced. His at-

T 0N.                                            C L I FTO0N.

TON-


CLIFTON.

tension was soon absorbed by the masterly
delineation of nharater. As the curtain
fell upon the third ~t, he saw an unusual
commotion in one of the private boxes.
All the opera-glasses in the dress-circle
were turned in that direction, and in a few
moments it was whispered that a young
lady had fainted.
"I am not surprised," observed a maiden
near Clifton. "I felt a sensation of suffoca-
tion myself, during that scene." Ap-
parently the lady had recovered, for order
was restored in the box. Before his eyes
were withdrawn, Alice Howard drew back
the curtain, and leaning forward gave him
a gracious bow. A glad smile played upon
her lips, and the pale hue of her counte-
nance, vanished before the deep carnation
which coloured her cheeks. He returned
her salutation with a cold, almost haughty,
inclination of the head.
"The cause of Miss Howard's swoon is
now apparent," whispered a lady, gor-
geously attired, to her companion. "This
must be the gentleman who saved her from
drowning ;" and she gave him a more de-
liberate glance from her superb eyes.
"Good-looking and distingu~, is he notV'
The curtain again rolled up; but the play
no longer arrested Edward's attention. His
bosom was agitated by contending emo-
tions. It was apparent, from her public re-
cognition, that she was delighted to see him
and he was not at all satisfied with him-
self for returning her bow and smile so
haughtily. She was now leaning back upon
the sofa, and occasionally turned her eyes
upon Clifton, with a sad, anxious expres-
sion. And yet, ~vith a perverse, stubborn
,obstinacy, which is sometimes as strange
as it is uncontrollable, his brow still main-
tained its gloomy fro~vn.
The crowd began to disperse, and Clif-
ton endeavored to make his egr&amp;s from
the theatre before Alice and her party, but
the throng moved so slowly, that several
minutes elapsed before he had gained the
vestibule. There he saw Alice leaning~
upon the arm of an elderly gentleman, an~
looking eagerly among the audience, as
they issued from the theatre. With a rapid
step he was passing on, when quitting her
companion, she advanced towards him,
and laying her hand upon Clifton's arm,
she said with a reproachful look, while the
tears started to her eyes:
"You s'ure4y do not wish to avoid me ~"
"I was forced to believe from your con-
duct since 1 last had the pleasure of see-
ing you, that it was a matter of the pro-

fondest indifference whether you ever
saw me again.~)
"This is too cruel: but I know you can-
not thiuk so harshly of me
"Papa, this is Mr. Clifton, of whom you
have heard William and myself speak so
often."
"I am indeed glad to see you," said
Mr. Jioward; "we shall all be pleased to
extend the hospitalities of our house to you
while you remain in Philadelphia; will
you not dine with us to-morrow ~"
"It was my intention to leave the city
to-morro~v !"
"Oh, that will aever do! Protract your
visit. Shall it not be so
The request was so powerfully seconded
by the eloquent eyes of the maiden, that
Edward consented. As he handed Alice
into the carriage, he felt her hand tremble
as he involuntarily pressed it. As he re-
turned to the hotel, a thrill of joy agitated
his breast. He had been convinced that
Alice was not the cold, impassive being
he had supposed.
And what were the thoughts that pro-
duced a wild commotion in the maiden's
heart'~ A brief extract from her journal
will show.
"I have seen him, and how unex-
pectedly! ~vhen my eyes fell upon his
countenance, agitated as my feelings were
by the play, it is not remarkable that I
fainted. But what did Papa think ~ what
did the audience think ~ for I saw all eyes
turned upon me when I recovered, and his
among the number. I could not forbear
bowing; yet, his response was so cold.
And then he wished to shun me; for what
reason ~ Ah, it was my departure from the
Lake House without leaving...a message,
even, for him. It was unkind; I thought
so, when it was too late! But the anguish
which mother's illness produced; made me
forget all; besides, I will explain it to him.
And he dines here to-morrow; and if he
should not become interested in mefor I
am but a child! But then, if 1 was entirely
indifferent to him, would he have noticed
my conduct at the lake ~ No! no! I have
heard it said, that we are only annoyed by
the neglect of those for whom we enter-
tain a high regard;" and with this idea
floating in her imagination, she put away
her journal, and was soon nestling in her
soft~ fragrant bed, dreaming of unexpected
meetings, and happy reconciliations.

U

C LI FTON.

53

CHAPTER       XIII.                   "That is all forg6i~u, now.      You were
not properly appreciated. Are you fond
"Eat, speak, and move, under the influence of the of rnusic~ I discover you have a remarka-
most received star; and though the devil lead the .
measure, such are to be followed."-SRAKseEARE.   bly fine piano.
"One only passion, unrevealed,                 "Oh, yes; I am    devoted to it."
with maiden pride the maid concealed,        "Will you not sing for me ~       I am  my-
Yet not less purely felt the flame;-       self the slave of melody."
Oh, iteed I tell that passion's name?" Scorr.  "I fear it will be an indifferent prelude

THE hour arrived when Clifton was to
meet the How~rds, and entering a large
and elegant dwelling in the most fashiona-
ble part of the city, he was ushered by a
livened servant into a parlour gorgeously
furnished. He had scarcely surveyed the
painltingsby the old masters which deco-
rated the walls, when the door opened, and
Alice Howard advanced to meet him. She
was simply attired in a silk plaid, with a
lace cape over her shoulders. Her luxu-
riant hair, parted in the centre of the fore-
head, was drawn hack so as to disclose
her small and beautifully formed ears, and
then wreathed into a French twist upon
the back part of the head. She wore a
solitary ring upon her taper finger, in the
centre of which sparkled a magnificent
diamond. Her tiny feet, Clifton did not
fail to observe, were encased in well-fitting
boots.
Advancing frankly io our hero, she ex-
tended her hand, and expressed the plea-
sure which his presence in the city gave
her. He had responded to her welcome,
when the door was opened, and Mr. and
Mrs. Howard entered. After being intro-
duced to the latter, dinner was announced.
"You must accompany Alice to the
opera to-night, Mr. Clifton, if you have no
other engagement," said Mr. Howard. "I
have secured seats for you, my dear, near
the Glendowers; you must introduce your
friend to them. You will have the kind-
ness to excuse tnyself and Mrs. Howard,
and as it is within an hour of the time
when the curtain rises, you can take a cup
of tea with Alice before your departure."
Clifton and the yorng lady returned to
the panlour.
"your arrival in Philadelphia occa-
sioned me much surprise.~~
"Yet I contemplated making a visit to
the city long before I met you at the lake."
"You did not tell me so."
"I had not the pleasure of conversing
with you then, more than an hour, as you
may remember."
"Yes, we were summoned home by the
illness of my mother, and I fear our hur-
ried departure was the cause of my being
considered ungrateful, if not unfeeling;"
and she timidly raised her eyes to his face.

to rue opera or ~ucrezia ilorgia, which we
shall hear to-night."
Seating herself at the instrument she
skilfully ran her fingers over the keys, and
then sung, with a soft and melodious
voice, those lines,
' Thou hast wounded the spirit that loved thee."
She did not wait to hear the expressions
of delight which awaited the conclusion of
the song, but darted up stairs for the opera
cloak and hood.
"It is time to go~now; the carriage is
at the door. Here, you may hold my
cloak and fan, while I put on my gloves.
That will not detain me long," she con-
tiuued, innocently: "as I find it impossible
to purchase number sixes at any store in
the city. I shall have to order some from
Alexander's."
"Why that is a glove for a child)'
~CWell, you do not consider me any-
thing more," and she smiled archly..
"If not, you are a precocious one.
"Come, now, I nra ready.~)
He placed the ermine-trimmed opera-
cloak upon her graceful shoulders, and
they entered the carriage.
The spirited horses dashed along the
gay streets, which were thronged ~vith pe-
destrians. Clifton glanced at the shop
windows, where the costliest fabrics were
exhibited in the brilliant gas-light. His
eyes then wandered to the people who
crowded the side-walk. There the rags of
squalid poverty touched the rich dress of
the lady, and the labourer, in his course
garb, hurried past the gentleman of lei-
sure.
"Such is life !~' muttered Clifton, as the,
carriage stopped in front of the theatre, for
they did pot boast of an opera-house.
w~' ~ have no objection, Mr Clifton
walk home, as the night is
sant."                          plea-
"Gladly."
"You need not return, then, Thomas."
"No, Miss."
In a moment they were in the midst of
the crowd, and wete softly conveyed on in
the press of brocades. Clifton found him-
self surrounded by a bevy of beautiful
women, splendidly robed. They were seat-

/


54                  CLIFTON.                                                 CLIFTON.                  55

ed by the box-keeper, and Edward had
scarcely time to observe that the audience
were eyen more aorreousl attired
~    y       than
the preceding night, when the grand music
of Lucrezia Borgia burst upon his ear. It
was the first opera he had ever heard, and
he listened to it as though his soul was
absorbed by the melody.
The first a~t was over.
"How '~xquisitely Mrs. Overton is
dressed to-night !" whispered Clara Glen-
dower to Alice.
"The materials arq expensive, but do
you not think the dress is slightly too low
i~ the neck ?"
"Oh, no! not a shade below the new
style, if; indeed, it comes quite up to it."
Clifton thought that down to it would be
a more correct expression, but he did not
say so.
"I am glad to see it is becoming fa-
shionable to attend the opera without hats:
it is vastly more comfortable."
'' You may well say that, Alice, with
your superb head of hair: but suppose
you had no more than that horrid little
twist of Miss ~ V'
"Could I not wear a braid ?"
"But that looks so common; just ob-
serve the back of Miss McKiernan' s head;
is it Rot shocking?"
"They have a way., now, of twisting a
roll of false hair into their own, so as, ap-
parently, to increase the quantity."
"Yes, but the quality is not improved;
besides, that does not enable them to coil
the hair into so many circles. And then,
how would a bride feel when she re-
moved a large roll of false hair, and let the
gro~m gaze upon her scanty locks ?"
"Why what must they do ?"
"Do nothing; only cultivate with the
greatest possible care the covering which
nature has placed upon their heads."
"Should not ladies, who like yourself
and Miss Howard, have magnificent hair,
be thankful for the blessing?"
"Of course we should." And the lady
curved her aristocratic neck and suffered
Edward to obtain a glance at the folds of
jet black which ornamented her head.
The second act commenced, conversa-
tion was arrested, and a profound silence
reigned among the audience, save when
it was broken by the contact of kid gloves,
as some high note was attained, and tri-
umphant held, by the Prima Donna. The
curtain fell a second time, amidst the most
enthusiastic applause.
"Alice, let us visit the Drennans, in the
private box yonder. You know them."
"Very 'veil."

" Mr. Clifton, will you escort us
"Certainly with oreat pleasure."
The gracel~ul Philadelphian, raising her
brocade, ostensibly for the purpose of
keeping the dnst from its hem, preceded
Alice and Clifton along the aisle, until
they had gained the balcony.
"I know you will like the Drennans,"
said Miss Glendower to Edward. "They
arc of the New York aristocracy."
"What is the date of their patent of re-
spectability ?"
"Oh, several generations back. They
occupy a position many degrees above
those very clever persons who, having re-
cently acquired large fortunes, make a
grand display, vainly supposing that silver
mountings. and a livened coachman, will
be construed into evidence of either good
breeding or
Miss Glendower tapped with her fan up-
on the door, and they were ushered into
the box. Clifton was introduced to Miss
Drennan and Mrs. Rutland, her sister.
The married lady was a blond. Her dress
was cut in the extreme of fashion, and
disclosed her ivory shoulders and round
throat.
"How are you pleased with the opera,
Mr. Clifton ?" she asked, resting her dim-
pled elbow upon the ottoman, arid leaning
graciously to~vards him.
"To my untutored ear the singing seems
divine,~~ he responded.
~bThe Prima Donna is in very good
voice, although she occasionally sings
falsely. The Tenor is frightful. How
they can tolerate him I do not understand,
I am certain a New York audience would
not."
As Mrs. Rutland regarded the judgment
of the Manhattanese infallible in musical
criticism she considered the unfortunate
wight wAo had attempted ~he part of Gen-
naro, as effectually disposed of.
Miss Glendo~ver curled her lip at this
covert announcement of superiority, but
she continued her conversation with Mr.
Drennan. At length, turning to Mrs. Rut-
land, she observed, "You were in rap-
Aures with the Baritone who was engaged
last winter at the New York Opera-
House."
"Yes, he was a great favourite."
"Well, would you believe it? When I
was in London last summer, he was con-
sidered a fourth-rate artist. How utter-
ly deficient in musical taste they must
be in that city!" and there was the
slightest possible approach to a derisive
smile upon the lip of the Philadelphian.
But sh~ had misjudged the estimation

which Mrs. Rutland placed upon the
oj5inion of New Yorkers. No shade of
surprise or chagrin was visible upon her
countenance, and she replied, with a natu-
ral and slightly patronizing tone of voice,
".He will be better appreciated when he
returns to Europe. We think him an
artist of the highest rank. Have you
attended the opera in New York, Mr.
Clifton? No! You have been unfortu-
nate. ~ such a dear, dtarming place!
One never meets vulgar people there."
"I like the plan which has been adopt-
ed of securing boxes or sofas for the sea-
~ said Alice; "it appears more home-
like, and then acquaintances can occupy
contiguous seats."
"That would be hardly a fair distribu-
tion, provided your circle comprised the
youth and beauty of the audience. It
would exhibit the same want of harmony
as placing the rarest flowers together in
a bouquet, instead of distributing them
artistically."
"There is another reason, Mr. Clifton,"
observed Mrs. Rutland; "ladies attend the
opera in full dress, and, although they ~vil1
bear close inspection, still the tout ensemble
presents a grander appearance where space
lends its enchantment."
"Do you observe Miss Sutherland and
her beau ?" inquired Miss Glendower.
"The lady with auburn locks and spark-
ling black eyes?"
"Yes. Is it not strange that such a
superb creature should engage herself to
such a snip?"
"But then she has been in society seve-
ral years, and he is rich."
" I think the stock of beaux now on
hand, are, without exception, the most
forlorn creatures 1 ever ~ said Miss
Drennan.
"That is emphatically the case with
your New York beaux," replied Miss
Glendower. "I saw an assemblage of
them at a party last winter, and there was
not one among them who would come up
to Napoleon's standard for a dragoon.
Every one would have been forced to
join the infantry. The only evidefice of
manhood which I could discover was their
dress, and a thin, downy mustache,
scarcely more than you will see on the
lip of ~n Italian woman."
"But they dance the polka gracefully."
"True~ and they can do - nothing
else!"'
"Did you witness the tableaux at the
Morton's, last week, Miss Howard 'i" in-
quired Mr. Drennan.
"No; I was unavoidably absent."

"Yonder sits the lady who personated
Mary, Queen of Scots. Is ~he not a glori-
ous creature ?"
"Who is she? I never saw her before."
"Miss Ruthven, from Baltimore."
"How did she dress the character?"
"Faultlessly. If the queen possessed
such expressive eyes, pouting lips, fault-
less bust, and flexible waist, it is not
strange that a Douglass should have for-
gotten his duty and deserted his post."
"Why, brother, you are enraptured
with the fair Bahiinorean."
"And who is not? Observe the bloom
upon her cheek; its hues are more exqui-
sitely blended than the colouys of the
peach. Her arm is cast in nature's hap-
piest mould; and see those eyes, half con-
cealed by the drooping lids. She looks this
~vay ;" and the gentleman bowed profound-
ly to the graceful inclination of the maiden.
"You know her, then ?"
"Yes, I was introduced with many
other gentlemen, but I feared she would
forget me in the mass who were pre-
sented."
"You should not fail to remember that
the language of admiration is not confined
to the lips. Our sex can with unerring
certainty read it in your eyes."
"Why should that make her recollect
me
"You. have not yet to learn, I hope,
that admiration is grateful to a lady.
Doubtless your Baltimorean discovered
with the power of intuition, that she had
made an impression upon you, and there-
fore the countenance~ as well as the name,
of Mr. Drennan, was remembered; that is,
if the name was not in~listinctly muttered,
according to the fashion of the times."
"And to that circumstance I am to attri-
bute the bow."
"Not exclusively, perhaps; your re-
spectable features and really very fine per-
son might have had some influence. Be-
sides, 1 may be pardoned for saying, you
are surrounded, my dear brother, by a
party somewhat remarkable for their dis-
tingu6 appearance."
"Do list en to this young fellow in the
adjoining box. If he has declared once,
he has a dozen times, his preference for
melo-dramas. The only distinctive ideas
he seems to possess are connected with
melo-dramas."
"You forget, Miss Glendower, that cer-
tain persons of mediocre intellect, having
once conquered an idea, cling to it with the
utmost tenacity, and constantly refer to it
in set phrases. Your neighbour is one of a
thousand."


CLIFTON.              57

56                    CLIFTON.

"I know it; but still the simpleton
annoys me. Doubtless he heard some
person use the word, and having taken a
fancy to it, he avails himself of every
opportunity to articulate 'melo-drame.'
Buk the director has taken his seat; let
u~~eturn."
Fhe opera was over, and Alice and her
~mpanion were threading the streets in
the direction of her home. Their progress
was slow, for she was listening to the
deep tones of his voice.
"This is the house," said she, as they
ascended the white marble steps.
CC What, so soon
"Will you not come in'?"
"Not to-night." He almost regretted
his refusal when he beheld the cheerful
fire in the parlour~grate, and saw two large
green velvet chairs reposing side by side1
as if inviting a tete-a-tete. -
"Shall I not see you to-morrow'?"
"Certainly; I will call in the evening."
"Good-night, then." The door closed
as he descended the steps, and he was
shut out from the warm parlour, velvet
chairs, and the lovely creature who had
been his companion or so many hours.
CHAPTER XIV.
"Like clouds upnn the midday sky,
Which float in snowy wreaths away,
And as they slowly ~nonnt on high,
in airy forms their light display,
Then, quickly fading one by one,
Dissolve, and while we gaze are gone."
HaTTIE HAREBELL.
"We part-for ever part-to-night!
I knew, I knew, It coulci not last-
'Twas bright, 'twas heavenly, but 'tis paet."
MOORE.
Thn next morning Edward was accost-
ed by young Drennan, who invited him
into his parlour.
"How do you like the society of Phila-
delphiaV' inquired Clifton.
"Very much, indeed. There is an un-
ostentatious refinement here, which does
not universally prevail in New York.~
"And 'yet, is it not strange that there
should be such a contrast in two cities
separated by so short a distance'?"
"Not at all. There are an infinite num-
ber of cosmopolitans in New York. It is
a modern Babel. Dutch, English, Scotch,
French, Italians, Mexicans, and Ameri-
cans, are all congregated together; in fact,
there is scarcely a country upon the globe
that is without a representative. In a so-

ciety composed of such heterogeneous ma-
terialsyo u could not expect the preva-
lence of universal ~
"What is the position occupied by the
foreign population'?"
"Where they are permanently settled,
it depends very much upon their Wealth,
or intellectual endowments. The same
remark will, to a certain degree, apply to
the traveller, though titles are, perhaps,
the readiest passport to the saloons of a
set who claim to be the leaders of the
ton."
"Of what titles do you spe~Jk'?" ~'
"Counts, Barons, Chevali&amp;; anything
under the rank of an Earl."
"And ihese subjects of a crowned head,
upon the strength of a paltry title, obtain
admission to the society of America's
peerless daughters'?"
"Nothing more corn mon, my dear sir,
than an alliance between the d daughter of
a wealthy parvenu and one of these titled,
but poverty-stricken foreigners, ~vho are
generally as poor as church mice."
"Impossible !"
"True, I assure you. A match of that
kind came off recently; the lovely, but
ambitious bride, insisted upon a visit to
Paris, for the purpose of beillg presented
at Court. She was anxious to flourish in
the blaze of royalty. It was rumored,
alas, that she was more indebted to the
American Minister for a gracious recep-
tion) than to her titled but obscure hus-
barld."
"Did she remain abroad W
"No; she preferred a moderate noto-
riety here, to oblivion there."
"What other objection have you to the
society of your native city'?"
"It is too frequently the case that per-
sons who are forced to conceal a disho-
nourable origin, are elevated by the magi-
cal lever of wealth into the society of those
who can boast a pure descent."
"Surely these unfortunates are not to
blame for aa event over which they have
no
"No; but here lies the difficulty. If
the guilty parents were assured that dis-
honour would be visited on their offspring,
they would pause upon the threshold of
crime; but as it is, if they possess wealth,
the world seems to draw no distinction
between the offshoots of guilt and the
fruits of wedlock. As long as such a de~
moralizing state of society exists, vice and
virtue are at par.~~
"Then you would have society ex-
clude these contaminating beings from
its circle'?"

"Unquestionably. It is a hard case for
the sufl~rer, yet it is not the only instance
where the sins of the parent are visited
upon the children for many generations.
It is one of those events which are con-
trolled by an unavoidable necessity, when
the good of the many demand the punish-
ment of the few. A hundred instances
could be cited where a community im-
molates the few, to save the mass from
a moral blight. What can be more con-
taminating than the association of a young
lady with the child of dishonour'? What
are the impressions which will be made
upon her plastic mind'? Why, that a
diversion from the path of virtue is not
unpardonable, provided the culprit is
wealthy."
"But the forbearance which you so much
deprecate does not universally prevail in
\ NewYork'?" There is another circle in
New York society which is far more ex-
clusive; where the possession of a gaudy
equipage is not considered an indication
of refinement, or regarded as an introduc-
tion. There our sex are gentlemen, and
the females are a realization of Bulwer's
Katharine, in the 'Last of the Barons."'
"What is the social position assigned
by that class to learning'?"
"A very high one. Take, for instance,
fifty names I could mention, belonging to
the Historical Society-the rank which
they hold is enviable."
"Then you have as many different
circles a~ there are representatives of
foreign nations'?"
"Quite as many.~~
"Which takes the lead in giving tone
and direction to fashions ~
"A half-dozen different sets aspire to
that honour, each one avowing a superi-
ority over the others."
"Then you have no clique so immea-
surably pre-eminent above all the rest as
to force obedience to its mandates'?"
"Not at all. An individual will attach
himself to that circle which presents the
greatest attraction. One will join a fac-
tion which has acquired notoriety for its
pompous exhibition of splendour; another
prefers the society of persons who are dis-
tinguished for their polished elegance of
manners. The freedom from restraint
which characterizes the latitude of Paris,
attracts others to its set; while science,
music, literature, and the arts, are not with-
out their ~
In the evening Edward was seated by
the side of Alice. Tea was announced,
and while they were at the table Mr.

Howard referred to the contemplated visit
of Clifton to the Southern States. The
abolition question w~s beginning to as-
surne a threatening ~fispect at the North.
There were daiiy-e~cessions to the ranks
of the party, and it already had acquired
a commanding influence, by holding the
balance of power between the two great
political sections. The abolitionists had,
~vith consummate skill, determined to
force unscrupulous politicians into their
ranks, by making concessions to their fa-
tal doctrines the price of success. If the
Democrats refused to comply with their
demands, the Whigs were elevated to
power. That appeared so hard to those
who longed for the spoils, that they began
to think it would be good policy to outbid
their old adversaries. The cunning abo-
litionists put themselves up at auction, and
with a grim smile witnessed the eagerness
with which Whigs and Democrats tried to
outbid each other. The unmistakable
evidence of distrust that was visible upon
their countenai~es as they entered the
auction-room, was as laughable as the per-
plexity with which they would receive
the announcement of some enormous bid
by their rivals, followed by a hurried con-
sultation as to the policy of making a still
greater sacrifice. Principles were aban-
doned ,-and a disgraceful scramble for the
spoils began to characterize the political
contests in many of the Northern States.
CC Are you really willing,~~ said Mr.
Howard, ~C to cast yonr fortunes among
persons who buy and sell human beings'?"
"I do not perceive the slightest objection
to doing so. Waiving the question of mo-
ralitv, slavery exists, and probably will
ali. ~ys prevail in the Southern States."
"But then you should not encourage its
continuance, by residing among slave-
holders."
"I am very far from believing that
slavery is wrong in the abstract. Besides,
the negroes are happier than the same race
are here."
"The owners of these slaves may ne-
glect to provide for them a sufficient
amount of clothing and ~
"That is hardly probable. There are
stringent laws in force, which compel the
master to provide for the wants of his
slave, even if he is not prompted to do so
by interest, for any neglect might ~produce
dIsease and death."
"Any one who will glance at the con-
dition of the coloured race among us," said
Miss Howard, with some timidity, "must
come to the conclusion that they are an
inferior race. They are not allowed to


58                            CLIF
ride, in the stages, they yield the side-
walks to the whites, and in the perform-
ance of the most menial offices, they drag
out a wretched ~
"But, then, my daughter, they are free."
"What good does their freedom do
them'?" she replied, with animation. "Are
they not slaves to idleness and want'? doeq
not the spectre of famine stare them in the
face, and point, with its skeleton finger,
to the sunken cheeks and ghastly forms of
its victims V'
"There is no necessity for the suffering
which you describe. Industry will enable
all to obtain food."
"Ay, but they will not be industrious.
There is the difficulty; they require a
master to force them."
"This is the language of one who has
not a just appreciation of.the subject," re-
plied Mr. Howard, gravely. "Our philanZ
thropists have not devoted their attention
so long to the condition of the slave without
having obtained a knowledge of his real
condition."
"Your philanthropists might have been
more usefully employed at home," ob-
served Edward. "There is a vast amount
of religious cant, at the present day, ~vhich
would pass current under the name of
hypocrisy.~~
"In what respect, Mr. Clifton'?"
"It is apparent in the outward garb of
the Church. It is indicated by the exer-
tions which each denomination makes to
erect a temple of the Lord that shall sur-
pass all others in magnificence, and it is
carried even to the commission of fraud
and deceit. Passing along one of the
fashionable streets, the other day, I saw a
church whose lofty dome pierced the skies.
It was erected upon the corner of two tho-
ropahfares. The end and si(le fronting the
streets were of beautiful marble, while the
other two, I discovered upon a close in-
spection, were of brick, but painted to imi-
tate the marble."
"Papa, that is our church,~~ said ice,
with an amused smile.
"Yes, and I opposed the arrangement,
but without success; that, however, does
not change the condition of the slave,
where~qnivering limbs and piercing' shrieks
proclaim the supremacy of the
"These are not infrequently fancy
sketches, portrayed for the purpose of cx-
siting sympathy, or arousing indignation.
Here again the law protects the slave, and
the owner is not permitted to treat with in-
humanity, that species of property, without
a cause. There must, of course, be sub-
mission upon the part of the slave; that

T 0 N.

C LI]J

necessarily results from the relation which
exists between them; but the conduct of a
master to his slave is controlled by a well-
regulated public opinion."
"Bnt you surely cannot justify the sale
of members of the same family to different
purchasers ~
"That is the strongest argument which
the opponents of slavery are able to ad-
vance. Still, the anguish resulting from
those sales cannot be more harrowing than
the fruits of poverty that are daily wit-
nessed in your populous city. Why is the
mother induced to barter the future peace
of her child for gold'? Why will she abso-
lutely torture the form of her infant until it
presents the horrible appearance of disso-
lution'? Why will the fallen descend step
by step, into the dark abyss of woe, until
they shiver upon the cold damp stones,
where poisonous vapours hang upon their
matted locks, and their eyes are opened to
the ghastly realities of a living tomb'? The
gnawing, relentless craving for food. In
the midst of plenty, starvation stalks
abroad, because your philanthropists are
attempting to alleviate the coiidition of the
slave."
"You will remember, though, that our
black population are free."
"Freedom without equality," said Alice.
"A negro cannot vote unless he has a
property qualification, the white man can.
Why this distinction, if you would es-
tabli~i the doctrine of equality'? I have
seen an aged coloured woman breast~
the raging elements, with nothing to s~hiel~
her head from the pitiless storm. An
omnibus stops at her side, picks up a
strong, healthy man, in the full vigour of
life, and then rolls onward, regardless of
the wistful glance which the poor old free
negro casts after it. We never saw an~
thing so cruel as that when we were
the South, papa. There the old negro
would have been protected from the tem-
pe5t.~~
"These are necessary regulations which
society cannot avoid establishing, owing
to the difference of colour. But all the facts
which you have both adduced cannot
justify the sale and transfer of human
beings, and, at all hazards, the shackles
should be stricken from the slave, and he
should walk the earth a bondman no
longer.~~
"It is' not always," rejoined Clifton,
"that freedom produces happiness. What
is the condition of your paupers, who
scarcely obtain a subsistence'? Look at
the objects of distress who sweep the
crossings of the streets in New York, un-

protected from the pitiless storm. How
often do the philanthropic citiz~ts reward
the labour which enables them to cross
Broadway without soiling their opera
boots'? Look at the horseless beggars
who throng the corners of the streets, ex-
posing the forms of tender infants to the
blasts of winter, for the purpose of ex-
citing compassion. How often do your
moral and sympathetic millionaires relieve
the gnawing of hunger, as they sweep
past'? Visit the haunts of poverty and
wretchedness, and gaze upon the hollow
cheek and attenuated form, while starva-
tion and crime have formed an alliance.
Then tell me, if you can, with all these
horrors staring you in the face, that slavery
should be abolished at all hazards."
It was with unconcealed rage that Mr.
Howard listened to this bold avowal of
Clifton's sentiments, and rising abruptly,
he left the room. Before closing the
door, he cast a reproachful glance at his
daughter, who apologized to their guest for
the heat which her sire had exhibited.
The next day Edward received a visit
from Mr. Howard, at the hotel.
I hope you will not consider the re-
quest I am about to make an ungracious
one, Mr. Clifton. It is quite natural that
my daughter should feel for you the most
grateful emotions, from the service which
you rendered her. She is young, perhaps
susceptible, and I now must appeal to
your honour as a gentleman, not to pursue
any course, before your departure, calcu-
lated to win her affections. She knows
very little of the world, having mingled
rarely in society, and four years must
elapse before she will complete her educa-
tion. Besides, there is an insurmountable
objection to an alliance between yourself
and Alice. You are about to settle in a
slav~hplding State, and my daughter shall
never associate with persons who traffic in
human flesh. I must at least request you
not to speak of love to her before your de-
parture, and to refrain from writing to her
for six years.~~
"Although I have not avowed a prefer-
ence for Miss Howard, yet I sincerely re-
gret the announcement y on have made.
To relieve your anxiety, I will pledge my
word as yon desire. It is unnecessary
however, or if your daughter had inspired
me with~ the most unshaken attachment,
I would have considered it dishonourable
to win her regard, before maturity had en-
abled her to draw a distinction between
gratitude and love."
"'Spoken like a gentleman, and a man
of honour," said Mr. Howard, with much

F'TON.                             59
cordiality. He mused for a few moments,
and then, shaking his head, he muttered,
"Nono, it will neverdo! what would the
society think of me'?"
"To prove that I appreciate the gal-
lantry and generosity which saved my
child, I beg your acceptance of this trifle ;"
and he. tendered to Edward a diamond
ring of great value. Clifton drew himself
up to his full height, and gazing sternly at
the donorhereplied: "No, sir1 1 desire
no reward for doing my duty, and I am
still less inclined to barter my heart for a
bauble."
He sought Alice for the purpose of ob-
taining a parting interview.
"Do you depart so suddenly'?"
"To-morrow."
"And when do you return'?"
"Perhaps never! ~he~ a young man
once mingles with the crowd, in the eager
strife for pre-eminence, it is impossible to
tell whither the surges may bear him."
"I regret your determination," observed
the maiden sadly; "I shall often think of
you !"
"And shall I have a place in your
memory'?"
"Can you doubt it'?" she responded
with ~
Clifton almost regretted the promise he
had made her father, and conscious of the
danger, he rose abruptly to take his leave.
Surprised at the suddenness of a sepai~ation
for which she was not prepared, Alice cast
a startled and bewildered look at our hero,
while her hand played convulsively with
her bodice. For a minute after the door
closed upon his receding form, she stood
as though transfixed to the spot, and then
heaving a sigh, which proclaimed the
agony of her feelings, she threw herself
upon the sofa, and wept long and bitterly.
CHAPTER XV.
"The silent wilderness for me,
where never sound is heard,
Save the rustling of the squirrel's foot,
And the Sitting wing of bird.
Or its low and interrupted note,
And the deer's quick, crackling tread,
And the swaying of the forest boughs,
As the wind moves over head."
PEABODY.
CLIFTON now proceeded to join Kelborn,
who had retumed several days before to
New York. He soon made preparations
for a hunting and fishing excursion to the


60                            C L I F T 0 N.
wilds of the West. Several months had
elapsed before they arrived at Milwaukie,
and were read y to plunge into the vast
solitudes which stretched westward to
the Mississippi River. in 1834, the place
where they made their head-quarters,
could only boast one white female; now
it numbered more than ten thousand in-
habitants. The rapidity with which the
forests have disappeared along that portion
of Lake Michigan is little less than magical.
A life of hardship and adventure presents
no terrors to the American bordered.
Nothing is to him so fascinating as a fron-
tier life. Instances are by no means rare
of tiLe frontiersman becoming disgusted
with the restraints which society imposes,
and although surrounded with the comforts
and even elegancies of life, he renews his
journey westward, until he treads once
more the ternit&amp;y of his savage neigh-
bours. This love of adventure is extend-
ing the area of freedom by opening new
avenues for the rapidly increasing popula-
tion of the United States.
Few of the denizens of a cit~ have cor-
rect views of border life. Wit ideas too
much shaped by events which occur
within a narrow circle, and with thoughts
too often bounded by brick walls, they are
ignorant that life upon the frontiers is
surrounded with hardships and perils; and
ye~ that, sprinkled with romantic incident
leshene by genuine hospitality, it
rarely fails to expand the intellectual
powers, and to spiritualize the human
heart. The prominent features of society
upon the border, which at once arrest the
attention of travellers, are hospitality, pa-
tient industry, and dauntless courage.
Clifton resolved to postpone his visit to
the South, until he had mingled with the
population otwhat were then the territories
of Wisconsin and Iowa, and enjoyed the
exciting amusements of the chase. Game
could be found in great abundance, from
Lake Michigan to the Falls of St. Anthony,
and to that point he resolved to direct his
course. He had already formed the ac-
quaintance of Frank Blount, a hardy Ken-
tuckian who willingly joined the party.
They obtained the services of a coloured
man as cook, and an Irishman fresh from
the Emerald Isle, as a man-of-all-work.
Each member of the party was mounted
upon~a steed. Kelborn, Clifton, and Blount,
were each armed with the long Western
rifle: in addition to which, the two former
*         had 'swung to their shoulders, double bar-
relled guns, while the latter carried at his
saddle-bow, a weapon which very much
resembled the formidable battle-axe of

the Crusaders. As neither Peter, the negro,
nor Tom Sheridan, the Irishman, were
skilled in the use of fire-arms, all the im-
plements of death which were intrusted to
their charge, were two long bowie-knives.
It is true, that Peter appropriated the axe,
with which he was accustomed, to obtain
wood for their fires;\but Tom, declaring he
would rival the CC nnger~~ in the qual4y of
their weapons, cut a formidable shillalah.
Two pack-horses were also purchased;
upon one was placed salt, sugar, coffee,
tea, and a small supply of cooking uten-
sils, while upon the other was mounted
two tents, and the requisite number of
blankets. The addition of five hounds
made up the train. For bread and pota-
toes they intended to rely upon the white
settlers, who were scattered' through the
territory
It was a bright morning in the mouth of
May, that our party took their departure
from the thriving village of Milwaukie,
and plunged into the forest which extended
to the westward. The sky was unclouded,
and the rays of the morning sun were
mirrored in the dew-drops which hung
upon the leaves. The hun t~ rs felt that
bounding of the heart and thrilling rush
of the blood through the veins, which an
abundance of oxygen, never fails to
produce.
"There is som ~thing peculiarly exhila-
rating," said Kelbdrn, ~' in the atmosphere
of these ~
"True," responded Clifton "and it is
always with much difficulty that I can re-
strain myself from giving utterance to a
shout, whenever I am beneath its dark
foliage."
"Well, wi~ can enjoy it now even to a sur-
feit," replied Kelborn; CC and many moons
shall be numbered before I again emerge
from its depths."
"It makes one ~ interposed
Blount, "to think that these 'ore woods
will soon be destroyed by The white man,
who divides his time in fighting With
~ the varmints, and the Ingins."
"That shows the necessity for enjo~r ing
these blessings while they last," said Ed-
ward. "There are millions of acres over
which the savage and the beast of prey
alone roam, so that for several years the
hunter will find amusement, before his
sport is arrested by civilization."
"Still the day will come, krter a while,"
rejoined Blount, "when the rifle wilJ have
to be laid aside; and where the bloody-
minded Ingin roams in search of foQd, the
white man will soon erect his log cabin,
and improve his betterments"

60

I

0 L I F T 0 N.

C L I F T 0 N.                   43

- 61

CC There is one abuse of the hunter's
privilege, which most unquestionably calls
for prompt attention. The buffalo, proba-
bly the most splendid race of animals of
which this continent can boast, is fast dis-
appearing before the ruthless onslaught of
the sportsman. Hunted from a mere
wanton thirst for bloxl, and not to satisfy
the wants of man, it cannot be hoped that
they will long wander over the vast prairies
of the West."
CC Doubtless you would prove no more
scrupulous yourself" said Kelborn, "if a
herd of buffaloes should cross your path.
What say you, Kentuck 'i"
"There's truth for you," responded
Blount. "He remain quiet in his saddle
while a raging big bull-buffalo comes tear~
ing along, for*all the world like a rumpagus
devil! It is unreasonable to expect it."
"Well, you will see," retorted Edward,
"how often I shall raise my rifle against
any denizens of the wilds, unless it be in
self-defence, or to obtain a necessary
supply of meat; and as at the present time
our larder is well stockedI shall content
myself with the amusements which this
magnificent forest ~
On the third morning after their de-
parture from Milwaukie, the'y heard an
exclamation of surprise from Peter.
CC Gor-a-rnassa I what dat yoner ~
The eyes of the party were quickly di-
rected to the point in icated by the ex-
cited black. It was discovered that a herd
of deer were in the act of passing over a
hill Which bounded the valley, about half
a mile to their right. The view was not
obscured by underbrush, and the advance
of the hunters had been perceived by
the deer, apparently, however, without
creating any alarm. Blount and Kelborn
at once determined to bring the game
within reach of their rifles, and ClIfton,
notwithstanding the humane doctrines he
had so recently advocated, interposed no
objectionsto t~ir plan. The Kentuckian,
as the only e4 erienced wotiklman of the
party, assumed the leadership. Rapidly
surveying the ground, he discovered that
the hills which bounded the valley upon
either side, about one hundred rods in
front, were only separated by a few yards,
the glen at that p lace being contracted to a
narrow defile. He supposed, if they could
succeed in "heading" the herd, that they
would cross the low ground ~ point,
well knowing the animal preferred bound-
ing along the ridges, in order to avoid the
marshy soil, which w~ms often found at the
foot of the hills. He therefore directed
Kelborn to take a "stand" upon the brow

of the hill, on the right, while Edward was
requested to assume a position beyond the
summit of the land on the left. Blount
himself, calling the obedient hounds, re-
traced his footsteps one-fourth of a mile,
and was soon lost from their view. Clifton
mechanically sought the spot which the
Kentuckian had pointed out, and tying his
horse in a thick grove of small timber, he
listlessly seated himself at the foot of a
gigantic oak. flow long he had remained
in this position he knew not~ and being
well aware that it was one of~ the hunts-
~ rules never to desert a stand until
requested to do so by the "driver," he
suffered his thoughts to dwell upon the
past, without caring for the present. His
attention was at length arrested by the
sound of a distant horn, as its shrill notes
were echoed through the forest. Soon his
ear caught the baying of the hounds, and
he had scarcely risen to his feet, before he
heard the sharp report of a rifle. Tho-
roughly aroused, he prepared to attack the
game, when he saw an antlered denizen
of the forest rapidly descending a spur
of the hill, directly towards him. The
buck was closely followed by the hounds,
and in their midst rode the daring Ken-
tuckian, upon his splendid black charger.
The rapid hounds of the deer, and the
horse, as they thundered along, an(I the
(Copening~~ of the dogs, proved too much for
our hero's equanimity, and as they dashed
past he discharged his rifle, but the
game bounded on. Hurriedly mounting his
steed, which could scarcely be controlled,
so eager was he to follow the hounds,
Edward joined in the pursuit. It was evi-
(lent that Kelborn had desperately wounded
the deerasthe leaves were stained with
his blood; but still he held gallantly for-
ward. The chase led over several hills,
and at length approached the border of a
narrow and rapid stream. The wounded (
buck at once plunged down the bank, and
attempted to cross the river, but the cur-
rent proved too strong, and after struggling
unavailingly for several minutes, his head
turned down the stream, and for a few mo-
ments he disappeared in the foaming
rapids. The dogs, had also entered the
water, and, with desperate resolution, pur-
sued the game. The hunters had arrived
upon the bank in time to see the buck
emerge with great difficulty, upon a small
islanA' ~.rhich divided.the river, and stagger
into the bushe~r which covered it. Without
waiting to discover whether the hounds
would drive the deer from the island, Kel-
born determined to follow them. Disre-
garding the remonstrances of his com-


62                            CLIf
panions, he dismounted from his horse,
and divesting himself of his coat, and
laying aside his rifle, with no weapon but
a bo~ie knife, he struck fearlessly ou$ into
the stream. It required all the exertion of 1
which his great muscular power was ca-
pable, to prevent his being swept down
the rapids. While Edward and the Ken-
tuckian were anxiously watching his pro-
gress, they were startled by the yelping of
the hounds, as though they were furiously
assaulted.
"I like not these corn plaints of the
critters," said Blount; " or alth ough.a
buck will sometimes show grit when a
bullet has reached a tender pint, still
summit more than that deer, I fear me,
makes Grundy-by the Lord! it is even
as 1 said. See yonder," continued the ex-
cited hunter, "away down at the lower
end of the island."
"I discover," replied Edward, "that
the hounds have retreated into the river,
but can see no reason for their doing so."
"Do you not observe the dark gray
animal which lies ready for a spring upon
the dogs, if they return ~"
"Trup true!" quickly responded Ed-
ward; "but where is Kelborn ~ He is in
danger from the catamount."
"Yonder h~ goes; one motnent more
and he will reach the head of the island,
and it will be too late."
The two hunters now raised their voices
in warning shouts, but the roar of the
water pre~ ented Kelborn from hearing
what they uttered. Supposing from their
gesticulations that they were pointing out
the spot where the wounded buck was at
bay, he at onc~ entered the thicket in
pursuit.
"The rash lad will be slaughtered by
the wild cat," said the Kentuckian, earn-
estly. "See ! the rumpagus varmint, after
driving the cowardly hounds away, is re-
turning to the deer. I callers did know
that perfect reliance could only be placed
upon a raci bull-dog."
The anxious spectators now believed
that the contest which they apPre~iended~
would be over before either o them could
reach the island' nevertheless, Clifton re-
solved to fly to tue rescue of his friend. It
was impossible to carry any fire-arms, and
he was forced to\ rely upon a similar
weapon to the one Kelborn had in his pos-
session. Before he had measured half
the distance fr6m the shore, Blount heard
the screams of the wild-cat, and knew
that she had attacked the adventurous
hunter. Again nothing was heard but the

T (J IN.                                                      CLIFTON.                       63

roar of the falls, but the next minute the
Kentuckian perceived the thicket was vio-
lently agitated, and as it parted, he disco-
vered~ Kelborn retreating, but defending
himself with great desperation from the
furious bounds of the savage beast. So
rapid were the motions of the catamount,
that she seemed constantly in the air. It
was evident to the watchful Kentuckian,
that both the combatants were wounded;
still they fought with tile utmost ferocity.
Each time the beast alighted upon the
person of Kelborn, she was shaken off,
and although the reeking blade drank
blood at every thrust, it failed to reach a
vital part, while his flesh was lacerated
by her claws. Blount saw, with emotions
of horror that the contest was becoming
more an~ more une~jual. At each bound,
it was evident the exasperated beast was
repulsed with more difficulty. Edward
was several rods from the island, although
struggling nobly to aid his friend before it
was too late. Twice had Blount drawn
his rifle to his shoulder, but the rapid
movements of the foes rendered it impos-
sible to fire with safety. Clifton at length
placed his fo~t upon the rocky shore of
the island, an was in the act of dashing~
forward to the relief of Kelborn, when he
saw hint stagger back with the wild cat
clinging to his breast. Scarcely had he
reached the earth, and before Clifton could
advance a single step, he saw the beast
spring wildly from her prostrate foe, and
falling into the stream, was borne unre-
sistingly down the flood. The ndxt in-
stant he heard the report of a rifle, atid
casting his eyes to the shore, he saw a
thin cloud of smoke slowly curling through
the trees at the spot where the Kentuckian
stood ,l meaning upon his weapon.
Edward, leaning over the prostrate form
of his friend, saw that he was severely in-
jured. The skin upon his chest was, fur-
rowed by the claws of the wild-cat; his
arms were torn and blood~~ but the most
dangerous wound was upo~' the left shoul-
der, the muscles of which were laid bare,
and from whence the tide of life was ra-
pidly flowing. He at once proceeded to
staunch the blood as much as possible,
with the limited means in his possession.
Duncan bore his sufferings with commen-
dable fortitude, and greatly aided his inex-
perienced friend by his suggestions.
I Blount, in the mean time, had summoned
their attendants to the bank of the river,
and proceeding a short distance up the
stream, they succeeded in crossing it ~vith-
out difficulty. The Kentuckian discovered
that the island was perfectly ~accessible

from that side of the river, and in a fe~v
minutes he joined his companions. The
condition of Kelb~rn rendered it impossi-
ble to proceed any further until he had
recovered from his wounds, and Blount
sought for a spot upon which their tents
could be pitched. He discovered that the
island was some twenty rods long, and
about a dozen in width. In the centre 'vas
a dry and level sot, surrounded on three
sides by high rocks, having an open space
in froni, leading to the shallow ford. The
whole island was covered with a thick
growth of fir, cedar, hemlock, and maple.
Tom and Peter soon had the tents erected,
and a comfortable bed of hemlock boughs
prepared. Thither the wounded man was
removed, and every effort was made to
his sufferings. Tom was dis-
patched in search of a favourable spot for
the horses to forage, while Peter prepared
to dress the deer. The exercise had given
them all an appetite, and they keenly re-
lished the delicious steaks which Peter
broiled over the coals. Blount requested
Duncan to eat nothing more substan-
tial than soup, which he prepared with
much culinary skill from a portion of the
venison. Tom returned, after a short ab-
serce, with the welcome intelligence that
he had discovered a small prairie about
one-third of a mile from the encampment.
The horses were led to that point, and
aftehbeing "hampered," were suffered to
graze upon the luxuriant grass which co-
vered the earth.
" Your experience as a hunter, Duncan,~~
said Edward, "has commenced under
circumstances calculated to give you an
unfavorable opinion of the amusement?'
"Most certainly," resumed the other,
"I cannot commend the reception which
I have received upon the ground of jts hos-
pitality."
"It is what all count on ~ ob-
served Blount, "who prefer the freedom
of natur to the annoyances of pestiferous
cities."
"It surely is not often the hunter's fate
to meet with so warm a reception as our
friend received 'P' inquired Clifton.
"It is rather uncommon; still, I have
had a right smart chance of scrimmages
~vith wild* varmints, as well as with out-
laying Ingins. It won't do to calkerlate
upon the marcy of either when they are
bent on mischief."
"At all events," said Duncan "I am
indebted to the skill which you have ac-s
quired in the forest for my life, as nothingg
but the contents of that unerring rifle pre-

vented the teeth of the catamount from in-
flicting a mortal wound !"
"I seed," replied the Kentuckian, "the
game was well-nigh up with you-and as
it was disarnable that the creter was more
than ordinarily riled, I concluded it was
time to let the peacemaker interfere.
Still it was a splendiferous fight," conti-
nued the animated forester, as his eyes lit
up at the recollection of the combat, "and
one that gave me an onaccountable desire
to take a few bouts myself, were it not
that even sich risky devils are entitled to
fair play. Hows'ever, you showed the
real grit, and may 1 be teetotally shivered
if I don't stand by you in all emergencies
for the futer."
"I thank you, Blount, for your good
opinion, ~s well as for youiiirnely as-
sistance, 4 di shall always be grateful to
Clifton and yourself. With two such men,
I ~hall not fear to encounter all the horrors
which the wilderness may present."
While this conversation occurred in the
tent, Peter and Tom were expressing their
opinions of the fight.
"It's my judgment, mister Pather, that
the baste could have been asily managed
wid the shillaleh."
"No, ~ responded his sable corn-
panion; "them sticks may do for one Irish-
man to crack anoder's head wid ,but you'd
better ~ a catamount aint gwine to
pay no tensionn to them things; yah, yah,
yah!"
"Divil a bit do ye know about the wea-
pons, at all, at all. Yees can't expect a
nager, whose~skull is so thick that he can't
fale the beauties of the shillaler
cide upon its mints." u) to de-
"You don't know nothing at all 'bout
dat animal, I tells youif you spose he hab
any fears ob your club! Ijishmens am
so io'rant when dey come from toddler side
ob ge water, dat gemblem of colour hab to
lam dem all dey know."
"And be the powers, battle would they
be after laming from the likes of yez,
whose skull is as thick as a decent sized
rather. Don't I tell yez that yon baste
would have been asily kilt by any Irish
lad who understands wading this darlint
pace of ~
The colloquy was terminated by the
voice of the Kentuckian, who summoned
the disputants to construct a foot-path
across the ford. This was to be accom-
plished byfelling an enormous oak over that
part of the stream, the lower extremity of
which was to rest upon the main land, and
the top upon the island. Tom and Peter
commenced the somewhat difficult task of

- -

'
I
'
O N.


64                   CLIFTON.                                                        CLIFTON.                    65

cutting down the tree, not, however, with-
out a contemptuous allusion upon the part
of the latter personage to the indifferent
manner with which the Irishman wielded
his axe, and a somewhat decided expres-
sion of opinion that "'them paddy's hab
only sense nuff to use the spade and
shovel."
The oak that had for years towered in
the wilderness, resisting storms and tem-
pests, which had no other effect but to
strengthen and enlarge its roots, now
swayed to and fro, and at length came to
the earth with a tremendous crash. After
several limbs had been cut away, the trunk
of. the oak afforded an excellent bridge,
over which the hunters could pass with-
out difficulty.
The sun had now descended to the
western horizon, and all further opera-
tions were postponed until the next d~iy.
Another excellent repast was served up by
Peter. A stew was prepared out of veni-
son; bread, and potatoes, seasoned with
pepper and salt. Warm corn-meal cakes
were made upon the griddle, while the
savory tea was properly "drawn." Over
this delicious meal plans were made for
the succeeding day. Edward and Peter
were detailed to catch fish, while Blount
was to exhibit his skill with the rifle.
After these arrangements were made, the
whole party retired to rest and slept. sound-
ly until morning.
The sun had scarcely risen before the
sportsmen left the tent. Blount crossed
the bridge, and advanced into the forest
which skirted the river, while our hero
and Peter descended the stream to the
foot of the falls, and commenced angling
with a fly-hook. Clifton was exceedingly
gratified to find that the river was filled
with an illimitable, number of trout, the
most beautiful and delicious of the finny
tribe. The season was favourable for fish-
ing with the fly-hook, and as the tempting
but deceptive bait was thrown upon the
water, it never failed to attract a ~hoal of
the victims. When the sun had r~ched
the meridian the anglers had filled their
basket with trout. Returning to the camp,
they found Blount already there, having
bagged eight partridges, four wild turkeys,
anil half-a-dozen fox.squirrels.* Peter's
larder was therefore again well stocked.
After having examined Duncan's wounds,
which were found to be doing well, and
partaken of a dinner which would have
* This animal is somewhat larger than the com-
mon gray squirrel, and Is yet to be found In the north-
ern part of illinois.

been acceptable to a gourmand, the Ken-
tuckian informed the party that he had
found a bee-tree about a mile from the
island, and proposed that it should be cut
down that afternoon. This proposition
was gladly acceded to, and as no danger
was apprehended from leaving Kelborn
by himself, the rest of the hunters started
in quest of the'~Foney. The Kentuckian
easily found 'th&amp; tree, which was a large
and lofty hickory. The hollow through
which the industrious little insects entered
the body of the tree was about midway
the trunk.
As usual, the task of felling the tree de-
volved upon Tom and Peter, for although
Blount was more expert with the axe than
the Irishman', h~ thought such menial du-
ties unbecoming a forester. The hickory
~vas soon prostrated by the vigorous blows
of the two men, when the difficult and
somewhat hazardous operation was to be
performed of taking the honey from the
tree. A fire was made of dried bark, and
nearly all the heroic little insects were
destroyed, while gallantly defending their
treasures. Several of the bees, however,
attacked Blount, whose swollen visage
attested their powers. Peter did not es-
cape with impunity, which called forth an
expression of Tom's opinion that "it was
not unrasonable the darlitit little birds
should not take ony fancy to sich an on-
christian countenance as Pather's; though
by the holy saint Patrick, he should think
they would quickly retreat when they
wanst come fernenst his ugly visage !"
When the hickory was sundered by the
aid of wedges and a beetle, an immense
quantity of honey was obtained. Recepta-
cles had been already prepared from spruce
bark, which was torn from that tree, and
with a large store they returned to the
camp. Peter now rejoiced over an abun-
dance of everything his heart could. desire,
and bountifully regaled the hunters with
broiled partridges, roasted turkeys, fried
trout, and baked potatoes, with any quan-
tity of delicious honey, coffee and tea.
The only regrets he gave utterance to was
the want of milk, and eggs to settle the
coffee. No one who has not enjoyed the
delights of a camp in the forest, can at all
appreciate the "pleasures of the palate"
when the appetite is rendered doubjy
keen by exercise, and a pure, bracing at-
mosphere, which contains plenty of oxy-
gen gas.
The ~following morning, as Peter and
Thomas Sheridan were passing through
the woods in the direction of the little
prairie, where. the horses were feeding,

they saw running along before them a
quadruped which is known by the appel-
lation of pole-cat, but more commonly
called a skunk. Tom was . delighted at
beholding the animal, and exclaimed:
"By the powers, Pather, yon is a baste
we can surround, for he fatherr flies nor
climbs up a tree, like a divil of a squirrel,
and unless he can run across the bog faster
than Tom Sheridan, we'll make him pris-
oner."
"Yah! yah! yah !" roared Peter, as he
showed his ivory from ear to ear. "Mr.
Eddard, him be delighted if you cotch dat
speckuld feller."
"Here goes, then, Pather; you head
the crater ontil I can cut myself a decent
shillelagh, whin I will be after making
him fale its tender qualities."
"You aint gwine to struck it, is you~"
quickly interposed the African, who feared
an abrupt termination of the sport. "Him
uncommon tender, and you will kill him
wid dat stick. Dat's no way to do, no
how. Can't you put you hat over him,
and cotch de feller after dat fashion ~
Massa Eddard like to tame urn."
"You have some sinse, after all, Pa-
ther," said the now thoroughly excited
Irishman. "Who would ha' thought a
nager had so much rason. Yez ~ see,
now, how decently Tom can do the
work."
Sheridan made a dash at the skunk, but
he found the animal possessed more agi-
lity than he supposed. After making
several unsuccessful attempts to capture
him Tom discovered that his ebony com-
panion was affording no assistance; and,
turning to express his indignation he saw
Peter leaning against a tree, holAing one
hand to his side, and stuffing his coat-tail
into his mouth with the other.
"What the divil do yez se~ to laugh at,
you blathering spalpeen ~ Jist put your
bog-trottex~ in motion, and turn the rather
this way, or I'll make yez taste my shilla-
lagh."
After another desperate effort, in which
he displayed all his activity, Tom suc-
ceeded in thrusting his hat over the
skunk; but the next instant he started
back convulsively.
"Be Jasus! what is the matter with the
baste l" exclaimed the indignant Irish-
man. "Pather.! Father !" But Peter
was in no condition to respond; and
when Tom gazed round in search of the
negro, he saw him rolling upon the earth,
and making the forest echo wit'h peal upon
peal of the most boisterous merriment.
The evolutions of the African partook of

all the characteristic extravagance of his
race. At one moment he rested his weight
upon his head, and dangled his feet in the
air, and anpn he rolled over and over
again, ending in a somerset,' while each
moment he gave utterance to yells of de-
light.
"If that hathenish imp' of the divil has
not been playing a trick upon me !" ex-
claimed the enraged son of the Emerald
Isle, as he rushed towards him, with the
evident intention of inflicting personal
chastisement~ But aware of his danger,
Peter started with all speed for the en-
campment, making the, woods ring with
laughter as he ran.
Hard upon his footsteps followed Tom,
uttering imprecations as he went.
"I'll tach yez to trifle with the failings
of a gentleman, you black-ball-you spal-
peen-you imp of darkness!, Tell me
again, will yez, to saze a rather whose
brath is offensive to the nostrils 1"
Thus the pursued and the pursuer en-
tered the encampment, panting with fa-
tigue, the negro still convulsed with merri-
ment, and Tom overcome with passion.
"How is this, my men l" said Clifton;
"wherefore this haste V~
"Hallo! Master Tom !" interrupted the
Kentuckian. "You will keep the length
of the peace-maker from me, if it is jist
the same to you, until you git the par-
fume of the skunk from them clothes of.
yourn."
"Is it a skunk yez call him ~ Thin, by
me sowl, it's a d-d uncivil way he
has of his own~- Sure, I was only trying
to capture the divil in a quiet way, be-
case Pather-bad luck to him-.-.-towld me
Mr. dward would be pleased to tame the
baste. And so, you seez, I put me hat
gintly over him, whin all at once I felt
sich a smell! But sorry a bit of comfort
do I git from ony of yez. It may be
mighty amusing to the rest, but I am
after thinking, if old Ireland's blessed
saint had paid a visit to Ar~eriky, for the
especial benefit of this same filthy animal,
he would have deserved the thanks of all
true Irishmen. Holy Virgin! how the
scent sticks to me."
It was fortunate for Sheridan that Kel-
born's wounds were sufficiently severe to
detain the party for several days at the
island; thus giving him an opportunity of
burying his clothes, until the scent could
be partially removed.
"I'll forgive yez this onst, Pather, for
the murthering insult yez put on me, but
upon me sowl, I'll saze the earliest oppor-
tunity to cancel obligations."


66                           CLIP
"Werry well, Tom1 you may make the
most you can out of Pete, onny you must
conduct the warfare like a gemblem."
Several days after this challenge had
been tendered and accepted, Peter was
suffering with the toothache and Tom
informed him that he had been much
afflicted in that way, but at last had found
relief by chewing wild turnip; and pull
ing a piece from his pocket, he tendered
it to the black. Without hesitation, Peter
put the turnip in his mouth and com-
menced chewing it; but the next moment
he exclaimed:
"Gor a massa, Tom! you have poison-
ed me!" A person affected with St. Vitus'
dance never performed a greater number
of evolutions than did the African; and at
last, dashing for the river, he plunged his
mouth into the water. This only added
to his torture, and tears of agony coursed
down his ebony cheeks, while Tom was
giving vent to derisive laughter.
"Yez xviii urge a gintleman to capture
a skunk, will yez, and play a trick on a
Christian white man l Arrah! that'll ba
the last prank yez 'ill play on Tom, I'll ba
bound."
In a few weeks ~ wounds were
sufficiently healed to enable him to mount
his horse again, and the party resumed
their progress towards the Falls of St.
Anthony.
CHAPTER XVI.
"' Then the knife,-sharp let it be,-
That from the foeman's crown,
Quick, with dexterous cuts but three,
Skin ahd 1~uft brought down."
ScuiLtmn.
PROCEEDING westward for two days,
they had penetrated far into the interior
of the wilderness. The surface of the
land was undulating, and the soil exceed-
ingly rich. The half-developed leaves gave
the oak and hickory~the appearance of
* being clothed in a demi toilette, and the
air was perfumed by the blossoms which
covered the trees. As far as the eye
could penetrate the forest, it presented the
appearance of a vast bouquet.
They had been traversing a plain for
several miles, which, but for a few stunt-
ed trees here and there, would have been
denominated a prairie. Diverging from
the opening, they ascended a ridge that
overlooked a stream upon their left. Sud-
denly their progress was arrested by a

TON.                                                      CLIFTON.                    67

war-whoop which issued from the dense
thicket that bordered the river, and echoed
through the woods. They listened anx-
iously for a minute, and then all eyes were
turned upon the Kentuckian for an expla-
nation. He uttered not a word, however,
until the solitudes were again disturbed
with the startling whJop.
"What does it mean, Blount l" inquired
Kelborn.
"It would not be onaccountably
strange,'~ replied the forester, "if them
bloodthirsty Chippewas wer practysing
ther cruelties upon some misfortpnate In-
gin whose scalp they have sarcumvented."
"Shall we not interfere," eagerly asked
the other, "for the purpose of saving a
human being from torture ~"
"That bought be a dangerous bis-
ness," observed Blount.
"The Ojibwas have dug up the hatchet,
and are now on the war path,~~ said Clif-
tori; "at least, so I heard at the lake."
And yet,~~ continued the Kentuckian,
musingly, and apparently not heeding the
remark of the last speaker, "and yet I
have often received service from the Da-
cotahs, when even peacemaker could not
save me. And if it should prove that the
Panther had filllen into the hands of the
risky devils! Ah! now I remember me,
the lad observed he wer agoin' to visit
these hunting-grounds this moon. I tells
you what," continued he, with great ear-
nestness, "I summit believe the Ojibwas
are nqw actively employed in infliction of
justice, after the nianner of red-skins,
upon a young Dacotah chief, who once
saved my scalp xvhen it had been con-
kered by the Chippewas. If you are not
feared to take part in a risky scrimmage,
we'll rescue the lad from their clutches."
"Agreed !" cried the two young men
simultaneously; "we will aid you with
pleasure.~~
"Egad! Clifton," continuedd Kelborn,
"this looks like an adventure worth
making a note of. I say, Blount, what
shall we do '~. You are our captain in this
affair, a position to which you are entitled
from your experience in fighting Indians."
"I will not deny that I have had some
practyse in that way" modestly respond-
ed the forester, "and the first order I must
give is to preserve silence, or we may
have the yelling varmints about us afore
we are ready to receive ~
The Kentuckian now issued his orders,
with allthe dignity of a Brigadier. Tom
and Peter were directed to lead the cavalry
down the hill, in an opposite direction to
the one from whence the war-whoop was

heard, and to conceal them in the thicket
at its base. He thea requested Edward
and Kelborn to follow him, and the three
hunters cautiously descended into the
valley. After proceeding one-fourth of a
mile along the border of the stream, and
each moment hearing with more distinct-
ness the tumult which prevailed in the
encampment, they paused in the cover
which a thicket afforded them, for the
purpose of reconnoitering. Our adven-
turers now ascertained that the war-xvhoop
had been uttered, as B~lount supposed, by
a party of eight Ojibwas, who were actu-
ally putting to the torture, a young chief
who was clad in the panoply of a Dacotah.
The prisoner was bound to a tree, and his
tormentors were hurling at his head the
national weapon of the Indian warrior.
The countenance of the victim w~is calm
save when a contemptuous smile crossed
his features, as a tomahawk pierced the
bark of the tree some distance from his
head. The precision with which one
chief threw the fatal weapon, elicited
shouts of approbation from the band. He
was a tall and powerful savage, and each
time he swung the glittering axe around
his head, and hurled it from his brawny
hand, it cut through the bark far into the
oak, within half an inch of the Dacotah's
temple. Having tested the bravery of the
young chief they piled up the wood
which had been gathered for the purpose
of subjecting his nerves to the dread ordeal
of fire. The smoke curled througJ~ the
leaves, at first black and dense, and then as-
suming a bluish tint, it revealed the blaze
as it darted jts fiery tongue along the dry
branches. ~he Chippewas joined in the
war-dance around the helpless prisoner,
and as the fire flashed upwards with every
blast of wind, they made the arches of the
forest ring wjth their hellish laughter.
As our adventurers were in the act of
discharging their rifles at the Ojibwas, the
thicket was parted and the graceful form
of an Indian girl darted to the side of the
Dacotah.
"Save him, oh save him !" she exclaim-
ed, in the soft dialect of the tribe.
"'Tis the Fawn, the affianced bride of
Panther," whispered Blount.
The girl was thrust aside, and the war-
dance continued.
We must act at once,~~ said Kelborn,
"if we would save the youth from a terri-
ble doom."
"It is a risky undertaking," replied
Blount; "but it must be ventured. We
must fire at once, and then close."
The word was given, and simultaneously

the three rifles were discharged, and
before the echo died away, the hunters
rushed upon the startled foe. Edward and
Kelborn had each killed his man, while
the ball from Blount's rifle had disabled
two. Still they were opposed by four
stalwart savages, who, recovering from
their momentary alarm, aud discovering
that they still outnumbered their assailants,
brandished their tomahawks, and uttering
the war-whoop, advanced fiercely to the
charge. In the mean time the flames
were wreathing their fiery tongues around
the form of the captive, and would have
soon terminated his mortal career, had not
the Fawn, seeing his perilous situation,
darted forward, and with a knife which
she took from her girdle, severed the cord
which bound the young chief to the tree.
The prisoner, snatching the weapon from
her hand, sprung to the assistance of his
deliverers. His presence was by no means
inopportune. Blount and Kelborn were
each engaged in a deadly conflict with a
savage, while Edward was warding off
with all the skill he possessed, the fierce
attacks of two Chippewas. Uttering the
war-cry of the Dacotahs, he advanced to
the relief of th~f latter, and in a moment
the combatants were equally divided.
Blount, long accustomed ndian war-
fare, xvas the most formida~e of~the foes.
Protecting himself from the rapid strokes
of the tomahawk with his rifle, he wield-
ed his ponderous battle-axe with such
effect that the savage soon fell lifeless at
his feet. Kelborn had not been so fortu-
nate 'the warrior whom he hact encoun-
tered was of a gigantic frame. The Indian
hurled his tomahawk, which grazed Kel-
born's cheek. Poising his bowie-knife
between his thumb and finger, a method
of attack which practice had rendered
skilful, he darted it full at the heart of the
Chippewa. The savage was prepared,
and leaped aside, the weapon struck a
tree, and quivering there for a moment, it
fell to the earth.
Uttering a yell of triumph, the Indian
drew a knife from his belt and sprang
upon his victim. The latter, aware of his
perilous situation, immediately closed
with his antagonist. Seizing the uplifted
arm of his foe, they glared at each other
with looks of ferocity. The pause was
but for a moment, when each exerted his
vast strength for the purpose of acquirincr
the mastery. Kelbom soon discovered~
that the muscles of the savage were too
powerful to be long resisted'? Before,
however, he was entirely overcome, he
saw the Indian girl spring eagerly for-

TON.


68               CLIFTON.                                          CLIFTON.               69

ward, and seizing his bowie-knife, quicker
than thought she placed the hilt in his
grasp. Scarcely had his hand clutched
the trusty weapon, when he saw Tom
Sheridan corr~ing to the rescue, flourishing
his favourite shillalah.
"Be the powers! I'll teach yez the var-
tues of this darlint bit of wood. Take that,
and that," and' each time the solid hickory
descended with crushing effect upon the
naked head of the savage, with whom
Kelborn was contending.
"Whoop !" yelled the Irishman as he
leaped into the air, and struck his heels
twice together, "yez burn people, do yez?
And is it the likes of ye that 'ill lay your
black hands on a gentleman! Tom Sheri-~
dan will tache you better manners." The
rescue was timely, for Clifton found him-
self opposed to a powerful savage, whose
strength was greater than his own. Ward-
irig off his blows, he was yet borne back,
and the chief grasping him by the throat,
was in the act of driving his knife to the
heart of his foe, when the Irishman, with
another flourish of his shillalah struck the
warrior a tremendous blow acrc~ss the
shoulders. Startled by an assault so un-
usual, the chief turned upon his new
assailant.
"Come on, you spalpeen! here's the lad
will be afiher trimming your hide for yez;
you son of darkness !" The chief gazed
for an instant with evident disgust, upon
his vivacious opponent, and then ejacula-
ting the word."' Hugh !" he attempted to
drive his tomahawk into Sheridan's brain.
But while the weapon was still in the air,
the shillalah fell with such force, upon his
arm that it dropped powerless at his side,
and uttering an involuntary cry of pain1 he
turned to fly; but the Irisbman was upon
his footsteps, and before he could gain the
shelter of the thicket, the hickory de-
scended thrice upon the side of his head
with such power, that the savage staggered
like a drunken man, and the blood started
from his severed ear.
" Lay your hand on a gentleman, will
yez? A paddy will team you better man-
ners than that sante !" Tom attempted to
renew the assault, but was balked; in
his eagerness to overtake the fugitive, he
stumb~'ed over the trunk of a fallen tree,
and before he could regain his feet, the
warrior had disappeared in the forest.
"Bad luck to you, you prevented me
from surrounding the devil !'~
The rest of the Chippewas were now
hors de combat, the Dacotah having tri-
umphed over his antagonist. The young
chief returned thanks in the language of

the Dacotahs which was known to the
Kentuckian.
"Never mention it, lad. It is no more,
arter all, than you have done fotme afore
now. As for my companions here, I believe
they were anxious for a scrimmage any
way; besides, I owe these varmints a
grudge."
It was now mid-day, and returning to
the spot where the horses had been con-
cealed; the saddles were taken from them,
and they were suffered to feed upon the
grass, which covered the earth.
"How came you in the tiles of the
Ojibwas, Panther?
"Me hunt wid my party when dey
make prisoner of Fawn, and me try to take
her, when dey catch me
"You are not the first man who has got
himself into a scrape by bein a beetle too
fond of the fair 5CX~" responded the fores-
ter; "but whar i~ the rest of your party V'
"Ober do river."
The conversation was interrupted by the
noiseless approach of an Indian chief; from
whose scanty attire the water still dripped.
His chest heaved with quick respira-
tion, proving that his progress had been
rapid. The Panther cast an inquiring
glance at the runner, but said nothing for
a minute. At length he asked, in the
dialect of his nation, what was the cause
of his appearance.
"The cowardly Chippewas are upon
our trail !"
"Their bodies are food for ~
"No, they lie hid upon the other shore;
they count so many~' andhe raised the
thumbs and fingers of both hands twice.
"Where are our men concealed i"
"At the foot of yonder pine."
"How many scalps do we number?"
" ~ and he raised the fingers and
thumbs of both hands.
"The odds are too great; let me speak
with the white chief;" and he related the
condition of the two, parties to Blount,
who had at that moment rejoined them.
The forester listened attentively to the
earnest language of the Dacotah, and after
he concluded, he reflected for a moment,
and then said: "I'll ask them. Do you
see," continued he, addressing Clifton and
Kelborn, "a party of rumpageous Ojibwas
are' outlying yonder, for the purpose of
circumventing the scalps of my friends,
the Dacotahs. Shall we join the latter ?"
"What think you, Edward? War exists
between the United States and these Chip-
p ewas; will it be any harm to take. a
benefit on our own hook ?"
"I suppose we may assist the Dacotahs,

who are at peace with our government, te
defend themselves !"
"Whoop! spoken like a gallant gintle.
man, as ye are," exclaimed the Irishman,
as he flourished his shillalah. "Pather,
what do yez think of that, you ace ol
spades ?" The two chiefs looked surprised
at this outburst, and turning their eyes
upon the person addressed by Sheridan,
they recoiled a step, and uttered the cus-
tomary exclamation "Hugh !"
"No wonder these half-clothed gintle-
men are surprised with the likes of yez,
Father. They might be after travelling
a long time widout seeing sich a rum
countenance. Wy didn't you take off yez
hat to the chafes, and give them the binifit
of seeing yez woolly head? Come up,
man, and make your obasence."
The Indians surveyed the African in
utter amazement, and it was several
minutes before they could withdraw their
eyes from his ebony face.
"Didn't I tell ye, Pather, that yez was
born to create a sensation ?"
In the mean time it was decided that
the horses should remain under the charge
of Peter, and the rest of the party should
cross the river. As they advanced towards
the banks of the stream, they passed the
scene of their recent encounter, and Clif-
~ blood curdled with horror, as he saw
that three of the bodies were Madless.
He had no opportunity of demanding an
explanation, as they were swiftly and in
silence approaching the river. The
Panther led them a short distance along
the bank where an oak had fallen over the
stream. As they entered the thicket, they
were surrounded by a band of twenty
Ojibwas, who, uttering the fearful war-
whoop, sprang upon the 'little band. Suc-
cess against such odds was hopeless, and
theKentuckian shouted, "Force a passage
through the varmints !" All but Kelborn
and Tom succeeded; the former was
overpowered and bound by two savages;
while the Irishman in attemptirjg to defend
himself with his shillalah, rec~ved a blow
on the head with a tomah~twk, which
prostrated, him to the earth.
"Quarter! enough !" shouted Tom, as
the chief whom he had treated so roughly
in the last encounter seized him by the
hair, and drawing his knife, prepared to
relieve him of his' scalp. "fladluckto
yez, don't I tell ye I am satisfied ?" The
exasperated warrior drew the sharp blade
halfway around the head of his prisoner,
when Sheridan sprang suddenly to his
feet and exclaimed passionately, "And
this is the game ye'll be after playing! strike

an inimy when he is down and cries
enough! Let that tache you the customs of
the ring ;" and he struck the Indian in the
face with such violence, that he fell
heavily to the earth, and before he could
regain his feet, th~ shillalah descended
upon his head, crushing through his skull
far into the brain. In a moment he was
again overcome, and his arms were lashed
to his side. His prowess had elicited re-
sp ect, and some healing leaves were ap-
plied to the wound up on his head, which
was bleeding profusely~ after w
was bound with admirable skill. hich, it'
"These Indians are not so bad, after all,
Master Kelborn, barren the tightness of
their withs."
"You do not know them, Pat! We are
probably spared now, to be tortured here-
after."
"Tortured! what does that mane ~
"I mean that we shall be burned, unless
our companions rescue us.'
"They surely would not be so ungin-
tlemonly as to do that same."
"Oh, they are ingenious in the art of
torturing."
Before Tom could reply to this com-
fortable assurance, a stalwart savage com-
manded silence.
The shades of night now overspread
the earth, and the vigilance of the two
bands was awakened to prevent a surprise.
They were only separated by a belt of
hemlock and cedar, which bordered the
stream. The Chippewas changed their
position, by receding a short distance from
the bank2 while the Dacotahs entered a
dense thicket but a few rods from the
river, indicated by the runner as the spot
where the warriors were concealed. Sen-
tinels were stationed by both parties, and
the remainder threw themselves upon the
earth, with their rifles resting ~upon their
arms. The wind sighed mournfully
through the branches of the piiie. Thin,
white clouds obscured the dim starlight,
and inky darkness settled upon the forest.
Duncan Kelborn lay in the midst of his
enemies, with his arms slightly bound.
Apparently his captors trusted to their
sleepless vigils to prevent his escape or
rescue. As the shadows of night stole
through the dark evergreens, he reflected
upon the chances of escaping. The Irish-
man was reclining by his side, with his
arms also slightly bound, and Duncan, in
a whisper, communicated his intentions
to Sheridan. As it was necessary to post-
pone this movement until sleep had over-
powered the faculties of the Ojibwas, they
rested as well as they could in their con-

n
.4


70

C.LI FTO0N.

fined positions. The prospect of Indian
tortures kept them both awake until long
after midnight, when ~e forms around
them presented that axed appearance
~vhich indicates deep slumber. The clouds
had disappeared, and the light of a waning
moon ~hed its soft beams through the in-
terstices of the forest. With great diffi-
culty Tom drew a knife from his pocket,
and turning upon his side cut the thongs
which bound Kelborn's arms, when the
latter performed the same kind office for
his liberator. Cautiously rising to their
feet they ascertained that they were en-
tirely surrounded by the dusky forms of
the savages. Slowly advancing along the
way which appeared least encumbered
with underbrush, Duncan found himself
standing by the body of a powerful Chip-
pewa, whose sleep was disturbed by the
breaking of a twig beneath the prisoner's
feet. The savage turned upon his side,
and' for a moment Kelborn saw his dull,
heavy eyes gazing into the gloom, with
the 1~ncertain look of half-awakened con-
sciousness. But his eyes closed, and the
fugitives, stepping over his body, vanished
amid the evergreens. Duncan was at a
loss what course to pursue. At the time,
their party was attacked he knew the Da-
cotahs ~vere concealed at the foot of the
pine, but he was ignorant of the direction
it was necessary to take in order to join
them. Their progress was necessarily
slow, for they were still within the lines
of the Ojibwa sentinels. Advancing then,
through the copse of cedar and heml6ck,
their progress was arrested by the head-
less form of an Indian warr r, which lay
in their path. A shudder ran through
terribk~i~etribution ?"
frame as, he looked pon the mu-
tilated body of the dead. " Vhat violence
has provoked this
were thoughts that crowded upon his mind,
as hi's eyes glanced at the war-paint of the
Chippewas. Passing by the cold and no
longer suffering clay, they continued to
retreat, when Duncan was startled by a
heavy hand laid upon his shoulder. Look-
ing up, he saw the countenance of the
Kentuckian.
"And so you gave them the slip, did
ye ~ he whispered; that was p erticu-
larly well done. We have need of all our
weapons, so thank fortin for't."
"Do you intend to attack the Ojib~vas V'
"Where is Clifton ?"
"He is on the other side, with the Pan-
ther."
"And at a given signal you assail them
at the same time?"

"Exactly; so now let us proceed."
Duncan retraced his steps, and again
passed the stiffened form of the Chippewa.
Blount, surrounded by Kelborn, Tom, and
half-a-dozen savages, now stood within
five yards of their slumbering foes.
lathe meantime, Edward and the young
chief of the band, by a circuitous route,
approached the Ojibwas from the opposite
direction. As they were silently thread-
ing their way through the thick under-
wood, Clifton placed his foot upon a sub-
stance ~uihich yielded to the pressure.
Looking down, he saw the headless body
of a Chippewa.
"Great God! what can this mean, Pan-
ther?"
""'The chief surveyed the fearful object
with a cold and impassive glance, and sha-
king his head in doubt, passed onwards.
After proceeding several rods further, the
Panther's flexible form seemed rooted to
the spot, as he glowered upon his uncon-
scious enemies. The light of the moon
pierced through the leaves, and fell upon
the countenance of a Chippewa. Edward
thought hc(w calmly he slept when sur-
rounded by such peril. Before he had
withdrawn hi~ glance he saw the rolling
eyes of'the savage searching the recesses
of the forest. His nostrils were dilated,
while the rigid muscles and quivering
form denoted the most absorbing attention.
Edward was in the act of directing. the
eyes of the Panther to the Chippewa, when
the chirping of a squirrel was borne upon
the night-air. The attention of Clifton had
not been withdrawn from the Ojibwa. No
sooner had the signal been given which
brought a dozen rifles to the shoulders of
the Dacotahs, than the Chippewa sprung
to his feet and uttered a yell which made
the arches of the forest ring with its ap-
pallitig fierceness. In a moment the camp
was 'in the wildest commotion. The Ojib-
was, aroused from their sleep, seized
their weapons, but, in the act of flying,
they were met by a close and destructive
fire from the Kentuckian and his compa-
nions. Wheeling on the instant, they
turned to the left, when a flame bursting
from the rifles of Panther and the rest of
the band, scattered them in wild disorder.
Each one attempted, separately, to break
through the ambushment. Among the
fnremnst in the pursuit, Clifton observed
the tall and powerful form of the Kentuck-
ian. Following upon his footsteps, he saw
him engaged in a conflict with a gigantic
Chippewa. The struggle was short and
fierce, when the battle-axe of Blount de-
scended upon the head of his foe, crush-

I

ing through skull and brain to the chin of
the grim warrior.
The conflict was now only indicated by
the occasional discharge o a ri e, and
Edward was preparing to return to the
pine, which he saw towering half a mile
to his right, when he observed the thicket
in front was furiously agitated. Muttered
curses and the suppressed yell of an Indian
indicated that the struggle was betweeii a
white man and a savage.
Advancing to the assistance of the for-
mer, he had not succeeded in parting the
dense foliage, when he heard the concus-
sion of a heavy body with the earth, and
then a blow, succeeded by a sound like the
dropping of rain. Retreating footfalls min-
gled with the convulsive throbs of the dying,
reached his ears, and in a moment Ed-
ward stood by the body of a savage. His
blood curdled with horror as he discovered
that the head was severed from the trunk,
and the blood was gushing from the quiv-
ering frame. The limbs contracted, the
hands grasped a sapling in the violence of
mortal agony, and when the suffering
flesh rolled over, the limbs straightened,
and the body became motionless.
"Who can thus mutilate the hotly of an
enemy ?" groaned Edward, as he gazed
upon the cold, breathless form of the dead.
"I will no longer assist those who can be
guilty of such atrocity." Retracing his
footsteps, he thought he saw the form of
Blount gliding through the trees. The
figure paused; an axe gleamed in the
light of the moon, and then descended
with a dull, heavy sound upon the earth.
The next instant a round 'substance came
whirling through the air, and falling at
Clifton's feet, disclosed the hideous coun-
tenance of an Indian warrior, with the
ghastly seal of death stamped upon it.
"Monster ~ shouted the excited young
man, "you deserve death y ourself !" and
Clifton raised his rifle until it covered the
form of the Kentuckian. Not a muscle of
the forester trembled, as he replied:
"Young man, you had best hear the
provocation afore you pa ssjudgment.~~
The weapon 'descended, and Blount,
advancing, laid his hand upon Edward's
shoulder and said, with a slow, but solemn
enunciation, and in language of the purest
Saxon.
Come, sit you down upon this log,
while I recount to you a tale of violence
and blood. Years ago, my father, inspired
with religious zeal, determined to disclose
the truths of the Bible to the heathen.
My mother, a pious Christian herself, re-
solved to accompany him, and as she

CLII

~' TON.                           71
would not be separated from me, *e all
three started for the hunting grounds of
the Chippewas. I was then fifteen years
old. While my father was labouring with
religious fervor in the cause of the
tribe, my mother prepared the provisions,
~vhich I brought to the cabin. She in-
structed the females in the art of cooking,
and taught them the blessings of Divine
truth. We were thus leading a happy
and useful life, when, returning one day,
loaded with game, to supply our humble
table, I saw the headless corpse of my
mother upon the floor, with her hair dab.
bled in the blood." The respiration of
the Kentuckian became difficult; he
grasped at his throat, and for a moment
his form shook as with the throes of disso-
lution. In a short time, however, the scald-
ing tears poured down his cheeks, and his
head fell upon his bosom.
"The dastardly Ojibwas committed the
deed," continued the Kentuckian. "I
swore upon the Bible which my mother
so much prized, that one hundred head-
less savages should avenge her death. I
learned from the weeping females who
mourned her loss, that two warriors enter-
ed our cabin, maddened with fire-water,
and when that dear mother said she could
not supply them with more lkfuor, they
brutally murdered her. In, ten minutes I
was upon their footsteps. They had re-
treated far into the forest, where at length,
overcome with liquor, the y sunk upon the
earth in a state of stupefaction. In five
minutes they were both bound and gagged.
I was iii no hastefor I had determined to
postpone my vengeance until they were
sober. At length their dull, heavy eyes
began to observe my movements. I was
piling around their forms, heaps of brush
and logs. Upon reflection, I resolved to
immolate them separately. One, the most
demoniacal, I reserved as a witness of
the other's sufferings. Dragging him to one
side by the scalp-lock, I slightly elevated
him against a log, so that he might have
a full view of the sacrifice. By the time
I had arranged the wood for the torch, the
effects of the liquor had disappeared.
They knew ~there was no hope of mercy,
for they recognized me as the son of their
victim. Their countenances turned a
shade lighter as the blood retreated to
their hearts; their spirits were not aroused
by the war-dance and the torture; their
lips quivered and their eyeballs glared.
The small blaze expanded, and the smoke
curled upwards, as the fiery element eat
up the dry timbers I had taken the pre-
caution to lash thesavage to the roots of a


72                      CLIFTON.                                                           CIFTO'~N.                     73

tree, and escape was hopeless. The flame
stole along the quivering flesh, as the
skin crisped and cracked beneath its fury.
The terrible agony forced large drops of
sweat from the forehead of the murderer,
but the fire which now mounted to his
breast, dried them up. The blood trickled
from his cheeks, and one eye started from
its socket. The dry piece of wood with
which I had gagged him now caught
fire, and as the flame curled along its sur-
face the lips were consumed, and the
mouth presented the ghastly appearance
of a skeleton. He was dead. The other
savage was burnt iii the same way, and
then, overcome by the horrors of the
scene, I fell senseless to the earth. When
I recovered, the moon was shedding her
rays upon the blackened corpses of the
dead."
"Since that hour eighty Chippewas
have fallen by my hand. When I have
slain one hundred, my vengeance will be
satisfied. Not till then. But see, daylight
has returned, and the band are mustering
with fresh scalps at their girdles."
CHAPTER XVII.
"We have scoth'S the snake, not killed it."
SHAKSPEARE.
"If a man do not erect, in this age, his own tomb
ere he dies, he shall live no longer in monument, than
the hell rings, and the widow weeps."
SHAKSPEARE.
IT was in the spring of 183- that Ed-
ward commenced the study of law, in one
of the slave-holding States. He entered
the office of a lawyer, ~who resided in a
small provincial town. Bending all his
energies to the task, he suffered nothing
to divert his attention from it, until nearly
the close of his probation, when he was
invited to attend a caucus of the Demo-
cratic party. The question was argued
whether Col. Johnson or Gov. Polk, ought
to be nominated for the Vice-Presidency.
The debate had been prolonged, as Edward
thought, rather unnecessarily, when he
rose to address the meeting. It was his
first attempt, and his embarrassment was
by no means diminished, when he dis-
covered that all eyes were bent upon him.
Murmuring voices were hushed, and pro-
found silence pervaded the room. At first
he stammered, but gradually recovering
his self-possession, he expressed his opi-
nions with a precision and fire, which elici-

ted the approbation of his auditors. After
rapidly reviewing the political field, he
reverted to the impolicy of striking from
the ticket, the war-worn soldier, who had
been elected to the Vice-Presidency in
1836. "If," pursued he, "you are resolved
to support the present chief magistrate
for re-election, what reason can you
assign for dropping the name of Col. John-
son? .If he is as worthy now as he was
in 1836, will it not be a fatal, nay, disho-
nourable departure from the policy of the
Democratic party, which rewards fidelity
instead of betraying it? As for the Go-
vernor of Tennessee," continued the ani-
mated speaker, "he is a candidate for re-
election in 1841; and whatever may be
the politicall distinctions which 'hereafter
are to be conferred upon him, let him first,
effectually revolutionize the State and when
the principles of the Democratic party are
thoroughly re-established, and a shout of
triumph is raised throughout the hills and
valleys of Tennessee, then reward Col.
Polk." As the youthful speaker sat down,
the applause was general and enthusiastic,
and he heard murmuring inquiries of
"Who is he ?" "Whoever he may be, he
expresses'the correct view of the subject;?'
and the ca~icus so decided.
A week had scarcely elapsed before a
committee waited upon him, for the pur-
pose of obtaining his consent to address a
mass meeting of the democracy of the
county, ~vhich was to assemble in two
weeks. Clifton with much diffidence, ac-
cepted the invitation.
The society, in the village was not by
any means thp most moral. I speak, of
course, of that portion composed of males.
Many of the most prominent citizens were
devoted to hunting, fishing, gaming, and
the most reckless and desperatee amuse-
ments, and so far as they were concerned,
Sunday afforded no barrier to their orgies.
The leader of the band, Col. Penton, had
taken offence because Edward failed to
accept an invitation to join it. The polite
and dignified bearing of our hero had,
thus far, however, prevented a collision.
The event could not long be postponed,
when Fenton was determined to produce
a rupture.
The head quarters of himself and fol-
lowers, who numbered about a dozen, was
wherever they chose to assemble and con-
sequently few hotels or counting-rooms
in the village were exempted from their
weekly forays.
Edward had hitherto managed to avoid
them2 but a few days previous to the mass
meeting, having occasion to examine some

political work, he entered the law office of
one of his friends. He had closed the
door and advanced into the room, when
he discovered that it was already occupied
by Fenton, and a portion of his satellites.
Bowing courteously, he advanced to the
book-case, and sought for the volume.
" Yes, ~ said Fenton, in a loud, imperious
tone, "I cannot admire that modesty
which will permit a beardless youth, and a
stranger, to attempt the instruction of older
and better-informed men than himself."
A profound silence followed this decl -
tion. Clifton, aware that a personal colli-
sion might ensue, was bent upon placing
his adversary clearly in the wrong.
"I told you he could not be kicked into
a fight !" audibly remarked a bully.
"Ay, 'tis evident he will show the
white feather."
"To render my meaning perfectly ap-
parent," resumed Fenton, with an insuffer-
able tone and manner, "I will express
it as my opinion that a Northern man,
especially a white-livered one, like the indi-
vidual who is now honoring us with his
presence, is the last person who should
possess sufficient audacity, to lecture well-
informed and sensible men."
Edward had gradually faced the speaker,
and, folditig his arms across his chest,
while the blood mounted to his cheek,
and a glance of withering contempt shot
across his features, he replied slowly
and distinctly. "I possess neither the
audacity, nor the mendacity, of the black-
guard who has just addressed me. Nay,
start not; you have sought a quarrel, and
you shall now witness the end of it. It is
he alone who deserves the appellation of
white-livered, who, desirous of insulting an
unoffending stranger, does not possess suf-
ficient courage to do it, until he is sur-
rounded by his minions, and then coward-
like, he commits the outrage."
"Hell and furies !" exclaimed Fenton,
stung to madness by the taunts of Clifton,
"you leave not this room, until you have
expiated this insult." And he flung him-
self against the door.
Clifton's eyes flashed intolerable fre
he exclaimed, " Fool~i and dotard!" Lay-
ing his powerful gras~up on Fenton's head,
he clasped his hair 4nd twirling him sud-
denly round, with thd other hand he seized
his pantaloons, and dashing him headlong
over the stove, he fell heavily beneath the
desk, where he lay stunned and motion-
less. Fenton's comrades sprang to their
feet, and loudly exclaimed, "Knock him
down! trample upon him !" but as Edward
seized a billet of wood, and held it aloft,

no one dared to attack him, and the up-
roar soon ceased.
"Now then," said hein a loud, autho-
ritative voice, " remove the carcass of that
vagabond and when either of you are
disposed wantonly to assail one who has
never wronged you, invite m~ to be pre-
sent I will agree, in advance, to accept
that invitation ;" and turning upon his heel,
he left the office.
The spirit of Fenton was effectually
su dued. Whenever he was disposed to
sume a domineering manner, it was
only necessary to refer to his encounter
with the" Northerner," and he was silenc-
ed. His followers, no longer held together
by their leader, disbanded, Fenton disap-
peared, and the peaceful inhabitants of
Sherwood, were iio longer disturbed by
their carousals.
The day for the meeting of the demo-
cr~cy at length arrived. At an early hour
the streets were thronged ~vith equestrians,
footmen, and carriages, and at 12 o'clock,
more than a thousand persons had congre-
gated from the country. As our hero saw
them pouring into the town, along every
road which led to it, his feelings were
agitated, and he was affected by that
nervous excitement, which even the most
accomplished orators can never evade.
The court-house bell pealed merrily, sum-
moning the speaker and the audience to
the place of rendezvous. To the former,
each stroke seemed to fall upon his heart-
strings. Rousing himself, however, he
threaded the streets in the direction of the
multitude, recognizing, as he went, with
his accustomed courtesy, those persons
whom he knew, or returning the saluta-
tions of those who beheld in him the
orator 'of the day, and the defender of their
principles. Entering a clerk's office until
the meeting was organized, he walked to
and fro, under the influence of that restless
excitement, which it is impossible to con-
trol. He was about to address a large and
promiscuous audience, composed of both
parties, for he had observed among the
crowd, some intelligent and influential
whigs. Those who had heard his speech in
the caucus, had prepared others to expect a
brilliant display, while his enco~.inter with
Fenton, had already made him somewhat
celebrated. He was conscious of being tho-
roughly prepared upon political questions,
still, if he should unfortunately "blunder
at the start," it would have a fatal influ-
ence upon his future career.
These thoughts flashed across his mind,
when the door was opened and he was
summoned to "take the stump.~~ As he


74                            CLII
passed into the court-room, a friend whis-
pered, "Can you go through with it~"
"I'll try !" was the brief response; and
passing through the avenue 'of human
beings e ascended the tribune. The
court-house was literally crowded; stand-
ing-room could not be obtained and even
the windows were filled.
The questions which divided the two
parties at that time, have now become
obsolete. The Compromise bill, was then
gradually running through the descending
scale, to the revenue standard, and it was
left to a later day, to renew the angryAis-
cussion, which preceded the adoption of
that "treaty of peace and amity." The
suspension of the banks, in 1837, had caus-
ed pecuniary embarrassment throughout
the Union, and was made the pretext for
an attempt to re-charter the United States
Bank. The Democratic party, adhering,
even during a period of gloom and disas-
ter, to a long-cherished principle, advo-
cated a divorce of the government from
banks, by the establishment of a constitu-
tional treasury, or a ~sub.treasury,) as it
was designated at that time. The ques-
tion of the currency, therefore, was the
theme which the exigency of the times
made it necessary for Edward to discuss.
It is not our intention to give more than
a brief synopsis of the speech, which
gave our hero, at once, the reputation of
an oratorQ and a profound and able rea-
soner.
Rapidly glancing at the condition of the
country, and referring to the sensitiveness
with which every individual regarded the
convulsions that affected his pecuniary re-
sources, he proceeded:
But, gentlemen, it should not be for-
gotten with what facility we overlook, in
the prosperity of to-day, the disasters
of yesterday. The memory is treacherous,
unless there is something tangible to con-
trol it. If we see a tree blasted by light-
ning, or a forest leveled by a tornado, our
memory brings the event freshly to our
minds, whenever the eye rests upon the
shivered trunk, or ~turned roots. In pe-
cuniary affairs it is otherwise. We either
say money was never so plenty before, or
what is much more common, it was never
so scarce. Our opponents trace the wide-
spread disasters which cripple commerce
and trade, and deprive agriculture of its
due reward, to the non-existence of a
National Bank. Now, would you for a
moment suppose that still greater distress
and embarrassment pervaded the whole
country during the career of the last Bank
of the United States V~

TO0N.4

The speaker paused, and profound si-
lence reigned throughout the room.
"Never !" thundered an excited whig.
"I demand tho.proof.~
Clifton cast a withering look upon the
person who had interrupted him, and
without removing his gaze, he proceeded:
"If the gentleman had preserved silence
for a moment, he would have avoided an
exposure of his ignorance, and want of
breeding. As it is, he has not only be-
trayed both, but what is of far more im-
portance to the argument, he has proved
that the whole question hinges upon this
one proposition. If more general distress
arid embarrassment prevailed throughout
the Union while the last National Bank
was in successful operation, than at the
pmsent moment, would it not be th~
height of folly to look to that institutioti
again for relief"
"Ay! ay !" was the unanimous re-
sponse from the democracy, while the
whigs were silent.
"Now to the proof. In 1824, Mr. Clay
made a speech-~ copy of which I now
hold in my hand-upon the tariff in which
he drew a frightful picture of the ruin and
disaster which pervaded the whole coun-
try, declaring that the products of the
farmer "were rotting in the barns and
barnyards for want of a market." Now
will the gentleman inform me if anything
approaching the frightful features in this
picture can be painted at the present tinie l
The late Bank of the United States went
into operation in 1817, and a sufficient
length of time had elapsed, when Mr.
Clay made his speech, to enable that in-
stitution to produce the financial revul-
sions which were the foundation of its
successful career. This proposition brings
me to another ranch of the question. The
scarcity of money produced a depression
in the price of all articles which were in
the market for sale. This scarcity it was
easy for the National Bank, with its gi-
gantic power, to produce. The endorse-
ment of the government had rendered its
paper more valuable, because more con-
venient, than gold and silver. In many
operations, therefore. specie, as well as
the notes of local banks, were exchanged
for the bills of the United States Bank, and
a premium given therefore. The gold and
silver were exported, and an additional pre-
mium ol~tained, while the local bank
paper, when amassed in sufficient quanti-
ties, was presented for redemption, and
the specie was either withdrawn, or the
bank was broken. The inevitable result
was the creation of a vacuum in the

CLIFTON.

money market, which was supplied by
the notes of the National Bank. All that
was necessary, then, to create a panic,
was for the bank to decline the purchase
of commercial paper, and to demand pay-
ments of its debtors. Stocks, merchan-
dise, and agricultural productions, fell en-
ormously, and tli~n the agents of the Bank
made investments at prices which ruined
the seller. Paper was now freely dis-
counted, money became plenty, prices had
an upward tendency, and a handsome
profit was made by the bank upon its in-
vestments."
This ingenious view of the subject was
received by a shout of approbation.
"As for the sub.treasury,~ said the
speaker, when he directed his attention
to that subject, "it simply provides that
government officers shall collect and dis-
burse the public funds, by an arrangement
similar to that which is in operation in this
State. If defalcations occur, when a penal
clause is inserted in the bill,-which is
extremely doubtful-it will be no more
than your owg local treasury is liable to.
Indeed, it is a risk which no man who
employs the services of an agent can,
avoid. Nevertheless, it should hot be sup-
posed that the (lefalcations of Swartwout
and Price, occurred under the operations
of an independent treasury, such as the
Democratic party would establish, but
under the act of 1789, which does not in-
flict a penalty sufficiently severe upon the
"Fairly and strongly put," exclaimed
the crowd.
"No inconsiderable amount of political
capital has been made by the specious
charge that we advocate one kind of a
currency for the people, and another for
the government. It is a triumphant reply
to this assertion, that we advocate the col-
lecti(,n and disbursement of the public
funds in gold and silver, the only constitu-
tional currency of the country. If unwise
legislators have created a depreciated and
worthless circulation for the people, the
sin should not be'laid at our doors. We
recortimend a sound circulating medium
for all, that one established by the Consti-
tution of the United States. It is no fault
of ours if the Whig party clings, with a
fatal devotion, to those rotten institutions
which inundate the country with a rag
currency."
And again the multitude swayed to and
fro, and loudly applauded the speaker as
he descended from the stand. His friends
gathered around him and warmly praised

75

his effort, and even strangers shook his
hand with fervor.
As the crowd dispersed, Col. Warner
observed to Dr. Dinmore:
"It was a masterly refutation of the
charges made by our opponents."
a splendid effort; that young~
man must be sustained; if he settles among
us. By the way, did you see how puzzled
the whig aspirant looked ~ Egad, he be-
came purple, blue, red, and white, by
turn5."
"Ha! ha! ha!"
CHAPTER XVIII.
"Oh! if thou lowest,
And art a woman, hide thy love from him
Whom thou dost worship; never let him know
How dear he is; flit like a bird before him-
Lead him from tree to tree, from flower to flower;
But he not won, or thou mightat, iike that bird,
When caught and caged, be ieft to pine neglected,
And perish in forgetfulness."  LANOON.
CLIFTON, after a brief period of intense
study, was admitted as a member of the
bar, and commenced the practice of the
law. There was oiily one lawyer besides
himself in the small village where he
opened an office, and his arrival, there-
fore, was an event of considerable impor-
tance.
The day following, several young ladies
met at the house of Judge Douglass.
"What is the personal appearance of
the strangerV~ inquired Emily Davidson.
"Rather preposse ssin~" responded Mar-
garet Fisher, "though his brow is some-
what stern and his bearing haughty."
"The impression he made upon me,"
interposed the beautiful and piquant Miss
Douglass, "was, I must confess favoura-
ble. Perhaps, however, my opinion was
somewhat influenced by gratitude."
"How so ~" exclaimed her vivacious
companions, with much eagerness~ "sure-
ly some romantic adventure must be the
cause of those blushes which mantle your
cheek."
"Nay, it surel~r was an affair of but
slight importance, 'responded the damsel;
"he only prevented my horse fromplunging
off the precipice yesterday, as I was dash-
ing along the bank of the river. Any
gentleman would have performed the
same act, you know; but this Mr. Clif-
toii happened to be present, and witnes-
sing my perilous situation, rushed for-

0


*

76

CLIFTON.

ward, and, I believe I must confess, saved
my life at great hazard to himself."
It was quite apparent to her auditors
that Helen Douglass was more deeply
affected by the frightful danger she had
encountered the previous day, than she
dared to disclose% for her cheek blanched
'before she concluded.
The introduction of Edward to the small
but select circle of Stamford occurred
under favourable circumstances. He had
rescued the daughter of Judge Douglass
from imminent peril, if not from sudden
death. The next morning that gentleman
called upon him.
"I have not only presented myself," said
the Judge, "for the purpose of welcoming
to our village a gentleman and a stranger,
but also to express the deep obligations I
am under to you as the preserver of my
daughters exi5tence.~~
Clifton, to whom anything approaching
a scene was excessively disagreeable, re-
plied: "It is scarcely worth a second
thought; it was simply my good fortune
to be approaching Stamford, when my
attention was arrested 1y a shriek, and,
spurring my steed forward, I had only to
extend my hand to arrest the frightened
horse that Miss Douglass was riding."
"The obligations which myself and
Helen are under to you will nevertheless
long be remembered."
Edward bowed and ch
anged the sub-
have a charming village," said
he. "and located in what appears to me
to be a rich and highly cultivated coun-
try."
"'Tis true that it is the seat of much
wealth and zefin~ment, and its proximity
to the capital of the State makes it a de-
lightful locality for residencec"
"I observed," said our hero, "on my
way hither, that political questions are
the all-absorbing themes at the present
time among your citizens."
"The election between our candidates
for Governor has been contested thus far
with more than ordinary energy, as you
have doubtless observed."
" The system in practice at the South,'~
observed ~lifton, "is, I think, far prefer-
able to that which more generally prevails
at the North. Nothing can be fairer than
these public discussions. Not only the
political principles of the aspirants are
disclosed, but their character for consist-
ency is open for investigation.~~
"Whether for better or. for worse,"
responded the Judge, "stumping is now
universally practiced by candidates for all

offices, not even excepting those who are
desirous of being elected constables."
As the Judge rose to depart, he extend-
ed the hospitalities of his house to Edward,
who promised to accept the invitation at
an early day.
A month had not elapsed before our
young lawyer was surrounded with phents,
and his career promised to open wilh more
than ordinary brilliance. Thus far he had
merely received those who had called
upon him. Among the number was
young Dr. Fielding, a gentleman just
arrived at majority, whose brilliant wit
and frank manners made him a general
favourite, and Col. Freeman, th young
lawyer, who had long been a citizen of
the place. Both these individuals had
welcomed Edward to Stamford with much
cordiality, and with each he soon became
a favourite. Clifton was a democrat and
Freeman was a w4hig, still they rarely
engaged even in a good-natured discus-
sion upon questions which, sooner than
all others, makes the blood throb hotly in
the veins. ~
"And so," gaily exclaimt~d Fielding, as
he entered Edward's office, "we are to
have a party at the manor, to commemo-
rate your gallantry in rescuing the accorn-
plished heiress of that house."
"Indeed; and who are to honour the
occasion with their presence V'
"The assemblage will be small, but
wonderfully select. Foremost, will be the
lion of the night, Edward Clifton, Esq.,
Attorney at Law, and Solicitor in Chan-
cery. Emy Davidson, Mag Fisher, and
Cora Monroe, besides, an invitation has
been sent to the peerless Virginia Drayton,
who is the belle of the metropolis. So you
will have no difficulty in discovering that
the party will be one of no ordinary bril-
liancy."
"And how is a bashful gentleman like
myself to encounter, without embarrass-
ment, not to say without danger, such a
formidable array of youth and beauty ?"
"Oh, the thing is easily enough ma-
naged," responded his vivacious com-
panion. "I have never known the most
cold-blooded bachelor (which, by the
way, you are not), brought into close con-
tact with rustling silks, whether plain or
flounced, cut high in the neck or d la
Pompadour (though the latter is more
effective), where there are sparkling eyes,
pearly teeth, rosy cheeks, and crushing
satins, without having his spirits elevated.
And then the glorious polka," conti-
nued he, enthusiastically, "and extatic
waltz, when engaged in a room which is

.1
CLIFTON.

thronged; where the contact, and the
crush, is like the pressure of the flower
when its sweetness is inhaled."
"I discover,~~ said Clifton, with a smile,
you are not exclusively devoted to the
healing art."
"As much so,'~ retorted the other, "as
you will be to Blackstone, or Kent's Com-
mentaries, before you have mingled one
year with the impulsive and warm-heart-
ed girls of the South. Why, man, you
have been literallyfrozen by your Northern
dames. By the gods, during the time I was
attending lectures at Philadelphia, I forgot
almost how to feel among those cold, cau-
tious damsels, and my blood did not re-
gain its healthy action until I had been at
home a month. But adieu! W~ shall
meet, as Col. Polk says, 'at Philippi.'"
Adjoining Edward's office, was a stately
mansion; the grounds belonging to it's
proprietor were overlooked by the win-
dow at which our hero sat. Casting his
eyes over them, they encountered the
earnest, yet timid glance of a girl some
thirteen years of age. Her large, black,
lustrous orbs fell before his inquiring look,
and turning hastily, she retraced her steps
along the graveled and winding way. Be-
fore vanishing amid the shrubbery, she
cast a furtive glance at the young lawyer,
and beholding his eyes still fixed upon
her, Ellen Foster, with a strange thrill at
her heartstrings, entered the mansion.
CHAPTER XIX.
"On with the dance; let joy he unconfined;
No sleep till morn, when youth and pleasure meet,
To chase the glowing hours with flying feet."
Byuo~.
AT nilie o'clock the company had as-
embled, and the "manor" was brilliantly
Illuminated. Some forty ladies, and about
a equal number of gentlemen, comprised
the assembled guests. When Edward
entered, the floor was filled with dancers.
The blaze of light, the enlivening music,
and the array of beauty, for a moment
arrested our hero's footsteps. The atten-
tion of the host was, at the time, attracted
in another direction, and as Clifton paus-
ed, somewhat embarrassed, a beautiful
nymph, with large, dark brown eyes, and
a cheek, where the lily and the rose
softly blended, advanced gracefully from
amidst the dancers, and frankly extending
her hand, introduced herself as Miss

Douglass. Leading him forward, she
presented him to her mother, who was
warm in her thanks for the assistance he
had rendered. her only chiJ~d.
In a few minutes he wa'~ waltzing with
Emily Davidson, whose sprightly man-
ners, and sarcastic replies, seemed to
amuse him exceedingly.
"And you have really determined to
settle; I believe, that is the phrase in this
barbarous regiofl.~~
"If barbarous, it has at least all the
splendour of Eastern barbarism; at all
events, there are hours here who would
rival the choicest heautie~ in the Sultan's
harem."
"Indeed; perhaps you would like to
possess his prerogative for the purpose of
making a selection from among us." The
tone with ~rhich she uttered this reply,
was gradually lowered towards its close,
so that it did not reach his ears, and he
could only divine its tenor, from the warm
blush which immediately suffused her
cheek, at~l1 stealing along her brow, dyed
even her beautifully formed ears with its
roseate hue.
~ pursue~I Edward;. "I have be-
come a warm admirer of your men, since
my brief sojourn in the State. There is a
generous, frank, and chivalric trait in the
Southern character, which cannot fail of
winning our regard; at the same time, a
prompt demand for satisfaction, when an
insult is offered, commands our respect.
Of the females, I am not prepared, in this
presence, to avow what is the extent of
my admiration."
"Why don't you say adoration at once
rather pertly inquired the damsel; "doubt-
less, it will amount to that anon but the
waltz is over so I will relieve you," and
nodding arctAy, she glided away.
Our hero now surveyed the company.
Nearly all present were strangers to him.
The ladies were beautifully, nay, many
of them, splendidly robed. Point lace
and flashing diamonds, abounded. The
dresses, as was then the fashion, were cut
exceedingly low in the neck, and display-
ed to the untutored gaze, not only the
rounded shoulder, but not unfrequently
revealed glimpses of undulating bosoms
which rose and fell with the calm and
steady respiration, or swelled with the
restlessness of uncontrollable emotion.
Edward sought the hand of Helen
D6uglass for the next quadrille.
He soon ascertained that his partner,
with her childlike simplicity and vivacity,
possessed more than an ordinary share of
mental acumen, and it was with a vague


78                            CLIFTON.
and modified feeling of interest, that he pleased smile, the attempt of Miss Drayton
parted from her as supper was announced. to fascinate him. Seating themselv esupon
As the guests returned from the dining- an ottoman, which was quite too small
room to the parlour, a lady of commanding for three persons, and too large for one, he
presence and dazzling beauty, entered listened to her soft and sweetly modulated
the room, leaning upon the arm of an voice. He soon perceived that she pos-
elderly gentleman. sessed the half-studied, and not wholly
"My dear dear Virginia ~ exclaimed artless, manner of a finished coquette.
Helen Douglass; "how glad I am to see The devotional glance at the ceiling, and
you; but wherefore are you so late ~" the downcast eyes, which suffered the
"It was occasioned by unforeseen cir- long, dark lashes to rest upon the cheek,
~ replied Miss Drayton. "Our were not Thss gracefully managed than the
carriage broke down about two miles movement of the lips, or the curve of her
hence, and we were delayed for several swan-like neck.
hours. But, you see, I was determined to "I am glad'you are so fond of music
be a spectator of your amuseme~ts,~at and flowers," observed the lady. "Ido
least; for I did not pause to change my not know which claims the most of my
apparel, and trust to our long friendship affection, and having nothing else to love,
for a palliation of this"- (and here those liquid orbs were timidly
"Say no more," interrupted Miss Dou- raised to his own, but were instantly con-
glass, "you will always be welcome, ceased by their silken fringe,) I am all de-
however attired. But come, you must re- motion."
quire food." And the two friends pro- "'Twere a pity," replied the gentleman,
needed to the supper-room. "that your affections could not be won by
Dr. Fielding, who had briefly exchanged a living, breathing mortal, who would ap-
salutations with Miss Drayton, now joined preciate and return that priceless regard
Clifton.                            which is now bestowed upon inanimate
"I am not prepared to say,~~ observed objects.~~
this personage, "that you have passed, "Perhaps I have not yet encouwered
thus far, through this scene unscathed; the fortunate person whom destiny has
but if so, you are not fre6 Prom danger, selected to make me happy," archly re-
unless you follow the example of Joseph, plied the lady.
and fly before Miss Virginia returns."  "That appears almost incredible, when
"I never desert my colours; at all events, you are surrounded by the youth and
not before they are assailed, and as you chivalry of the South. Doubtless you de-
are likely to be found in the vanguard, I sire to make still greater additions to the
am safe until so valiant and adroit a com- list of victims who have been overpowered
blatant is subdued or overthrown." by your ~
"Thank you. But here they come,~~ ." How can you be so sarcastic !" said the
said Fielding; "and if you deign to ob- lady, piqued at the readiness with which
serve so much, you cannot fail to discover he had weighed her character. "Surely
that the eyes of the belle are dwelling, you do not consider me so heartless 'and
upon your splendid face and manly pro- unjust~ If so, it is hardly worth the labour
portions." to undeceive you. So, adieu !'
There was a grandeur in the bearing of The colour mounted to her cheeks as
Miss Drayton which could not fail of ar- she swept from him; but turning on the
resting attention. Her figure was above instant, she plucked a rose from the
the medium height, and was indebted to flowers which she held, and gently open-
that fact, perhaps, for an exemption from ing its leaves with lips that rivaled the
the charge of being inclined too much, to richness of its colour, she attached it to his
embonpoint. Her skin was dazzlingly coat, as she remarked:
white, and her large, expressive blue eyes, "Come and see me often, while I re-
either flashed with the excitement of con- main in Stamford; at least I can minister
versation, or languidly fell bene~tth a too to your love for fio~vers and music."
ardent gaze. Her hair was auburn, almost Edward expressed his grateful acknow-
golden, and her teeth glittered between ledgments.
her ruby lips like pearls.            "She is indeed a bewitching creature,"
"Come, Clifton, I will present you. said he, sotto voce, as she vanished in the
It is your fate, and I perceive she de- throng.
sires it."                            The hour was waning towards mid-
Fielding and Miss Douglass joined the night, and our hero made his exit. Re-
dancers, and Edward rewarded, with a turning to the office, he trimmed his lamp,

C L IFT ON.

and for several hours pored over his law
books with an intensity of application,
which is rewarded with professional dis-
tinction, or an early tomb.
As he closed the volume, and threw his
glance in the direction of the large man-
sion, the beams of the full moon fell upon
the soft and childlike countenance of a
maiden, as she leaned from the casement,
and gazed in the direction of his office.
"And is she to be r~y guardian angel V'
CHAPTER XX.
"The purple morning left her crimson bed,
And donned her robes of pure vermilion hue;
Her amber locks she crowned with roses red,
In Eden's flowery garden gathered new."
TAS~6.
But see the fading, many-coloured woods,
Shade deepening over shade, the country round."
TaoMsoN.
A FEW evenings after the party, Ed-
ward entered the office of Col. Freeman.
"You are welcome ~ said the
latter, frankly. "This is an honour I have
for some time expected. Take this rock-
ing chair. t hope you will not think it too
luxurious for a lawyer.~~
"Certainly not; our profession is suffi-
ciently laborious, even when we avail our-
selves of any convenience."
"Try a cigar; I can recommend them
as the best Havana."
"Thank you." And they were soon in-
haling the delicious aroma, with their feet
elevated as high as their heads.
Are you apprised of the fact," in-
quired Freeman, "that you were elected,
last night, a member of our debating so-
ciety, and selected to discuss, at the next
meeting, the question whether conscience
is an innate principle, implanted in the
mind by the Almighty, or is formed and
governed by education '?"
"This is the first intimation I have had
of it. And pray, which view of so grave
a subject am I requested to advocate V'
"As it is assumed a lawyer can make
the worse a p pear the better cause; you
are expected to negative the divine inter-
"I am not certain but that upon this
side lies the truth "observed Clifton.
"Such being tile case, you have been
rightly appropriated, and we shall see with
what success you can combat the religious
prejudices of this community."

"Who compose the audience V'
"All who choose to be present."
"And who decides the question V'
"The audience."
"Do females attend V'
"Whenever the attraction is sufficiently
powerful; and as you are to discuss the
question, I have no doubt the village will
assemble en masse."
"I am much obliged to you for the flat-
tering assurance."
"Indeed, I heard several ladies, inclu-
ding the accomplished Mrs. Broughton
and the Misses Drayton, Douglass, and
Davidson observe last night, that they
should listen to your maiden effort."
"I shall consider myself highly ho-
noured."
"Intense study, without any recreation,"
remarked Freeman, after a pause, "is not
only disagreeable, but unprofitable; sup-
pose we form a party of ladies and gen-
tlemen for a fishing excur5iOnV'
"WhiffierP'
"Oh, to the Glen, to be sure. You ha~re
never been there ~ No; well, then ,with
your permission, we will pay the Glen a
visit next Saturday. Sunday you can in-
vestigate the religious subject which you
are to debate Monday night, without pro-
faning the Sabbath."
"Well arranged; and I shall be at your
command."
According to the custom of the country,
you must escort a lady, and as you are a
stranger, it is but fair that y on should have
your choice. After you have made it, ]~
will request the co-operation of several
young men."
"With such privileges, it is delightful to
dwell in strange lands, and I shall regret
the hour when I am naturalized."
It was on a bright morning in the month
of October, that' a joyous assemblage of
equestrians left the village of Stamford, on
a fishing excursion to the Glen. The party
consisted of a dozen ladies and gentlemen;
'among the number were the Misses
whom Freeman had designated, together
with Maj. Fisher, Cora Monroe, Clifton,
Freeman, Fielding, and a bachelor-Maj.
Harden-who escorted Mrs. Broughton.
The Doctor rode by the side of Miss Dray-
ton, Edward had selected Miss Douglass
and the remainder were paired to suit
themselves.
The sky was unclouded, and the rays
of the sun glittered through the smoky at-
mosphere, and lighted upon the leaf as it
fluttered to e ground, with that golden
brightne ~~culiar to a Southern autumn.
The gert l&amp;air scarcely rustled the vane-

*




CLIFTON.              81

80                    CLIFTON.

gated foliage which yet remained upon
the trees, while it wafted gratefully to-
wards the pleasure-seekers, the balmy fra-
grance with which the forest was perfumed.
The silence was profound, save when bro-
ken by the chattering of the squirrel, the
whirr of the partridge, or the merry laugh-
ter of the equestrians. The Glen is a sheet
of water, about six miles from the village.
It is four miles in circumference, and sur-
rounded by lofty hills. In the centre of
the lake is an island containing some three
acres of land, covered with forest trees.
The surface of this island is diversified
with hill and dale, and from a rocky por-
tion of it a spring of cold and delicious
water bursts forth, and winding along a
miniature valley, mingles with the larger
volume of the lake. The road for the last
three miles wound along the acclivity of
the mountain, and passing through a gorge,
led to the margin of the lake. The path-
way was scarcely wide enough for two
horses to walk abreast~ still, the steeds
which the ladies bestrode might stumble;
and besides, it was excessively awkward
conversing ~so far apart. Clifton and his
companion rode in the rear.
"Before I presume to take a position be-
side you, in this narrow wayi~ said he, "I
must beg you to direct me which side I am
to ride ~ You know that is a debatable
question."
"If debatable, are you not at liberty
to take either side ~ said the maiden,
archly.
"Certainly, unless I am prohibited from
taking my choice by a ret ~iner."
"I do not perceive that there is any one
to detain you," replied the lady, as she
turned her laughing eyes along the path
which they had just traversed.
"I regret that I gave you a choice of
position," as soon as her cavalier was
riding at her left, "this road is so very
narrow; however, we are at the termina-
tion of our journey." And the party con-
gregated upon~the shore of the lake.
"Ah haMr. Clifton! do you know you
have committed an error in riding at the
left side of Miss DouglassV' said Miss
Drayton.
"That is a debatable question," said
Mrs. Broughton (Helen Douglass looked at
Edward and smiled)," and the opinion now
prevails that a gentleman is in a position
to render more instantaneous and effectual
aid, by riding upon her left."
"There is this decided disadvantage,"
replied Miss Drayton, "in riding upon that
side, if the road is narrow, as I am sure
Helen must have found it"-and she

glanced at that lady with a bit of malice-
"there is danger of your gallant becoming
entangled in your habit, even if he does
not come in contact with your person.~)
fr(C That is true," said Mrs. Broughton,
CC and it is the only argument which can
be advanced in support of your position.
On the contrary, as the gentleman holds
the bridle in his left hand, it is impossi-
ble for him, on the instant, either to sus-
tain his companion in the saddle, or ar-
rest the progress of her steed. And, what
is of' equal importance, when the cavalier
rides at the left he protects her from harm
x~hile they are meeting or passing car-
riages; whereas, if he rode upon her right,
he would force the one he is required to
defend into a position of danger.
"Bravo! a triumphant speech !" ex-
claimed the gentlemen.
"After listening to powerful arguments
from two highly intelligent and accom-
plished ladies, it is hereby decided, upon
the shores of this crystal lake, that~~for
all time, the cavalier is to find his position
..-while mounted-nearest the heart of his
lady fair. Is that your decision, gentle-
menV' continued Freeman.
"Carried unanimously."
"I am not surprised at your decision,
gentlemen," tartly observed Virginia Dray-
ton. "I believe, however, Col. Freeman,
it is a well-settled principle of law, that an
interested 'party shall be neither witness,
judge, or juryman; so I shall appeal to an
impartial tribunal."~
"Faith, she has you there, brother,"
said Clifton: "but come, let us dismount;
our horses are 1mpatient.~~ Resting their
hands upon the shoulders of their com-
panions, the females gracefully descended
from their steeds.
"Here, Scipio, give these horses water
and provender !" exclaimed Fielding to
the African, who was mounted above a
bag of corn and oats. "And you, Alfred,
make ready the boat, and place your
baskets in it."
His orders were obeyed with cheerful-
ness and alacrity, and in a few minutes
the party were gliding swiftly across the
bosom of the lake, in an elegant and com-
modious barge. Boundiiig like fawns upon
the beach, the ladies proceeded across the
island to the point of the fishing-ground,
followed by all the gentlemen, except
young Davidson, who took Scipio and the
boat, and proceeded in quest of game.
Lines and fish-hooks were soon prepared,
and seating themselves upon the rocks
that jutted into the lake, they proceeded,

in silence, to catch the bass and pickerel.
The only sounds which awoke the pro-
found solitude, ~vere the half-suppressed
exclamations of the ladies, as' they landed
a fish of more than, ordinary size-the
rippling of the water upon the beach, and
the report of Davidson's rifle, as it echoed
through the forest,
They had been so successful, that at
length they began to converse in low
tones not sufficiently audible to be heard
by more than a solitary listener, for they
had separated into pairs; as a matter of
course, for the exclusive object of having
the hooks of the ladies baited by the gen-
tlemen. Clifton was seated by the side of
Miss Drayton, Helen Douglass had ap-
propriated Freeman, Fielding was playing
the agreeable to Mrs. Broughton, and the
remainder of the company were satisfac-
torily arranged. Virginia Drayton suffered
her buoy to float wherever it listed and
leaning back upon her elbow, with one
tiny foot extended so as to rest upon a
projection of the rock,~ ~he raised her
glance to her companion's face, and re-
mayked, with accents of extreme sweet-
ness-
~How charming would be an existence
upon a spot like this, with a being who
could elicit the unfathomed depths of our
affection. Fancy a cottage erected upon
yonder plain, overlooking this silver
lake, and within hearing of the murmur-
ing rivulet that washes its base. Fur-
ninhed with books, and instruments of
music-with a companion who is all the
most vivid fancy could desire, what Ma-
homedan could pant for a more blissful
paradise ?"
Her eye, lighted with more than earthly
beauty, the enthusiasm of. the moment
sent t warm blood glowing to her cheek,
and coursing along the blue veins which
lined her temples; for she had, under the
influence of the moment, thrown the thick
clustering hair from her forehead.
Edward gazed upon the lovely being,
who half reclined before him, with undis-
guised admiration.
"Happy indeed must be that individual
w~o can win the devotion of one, gifted
wlffi every attribute which can claim the
homage of our sex."
"Even if the divinity be a coquette, as
you once insinuated V' retorted the damsel,
in whose eyes merriment had usurped
the throne of pathos.
Clifton's look-half angry, half discon-
certed, only served to increase her laughter,
which first was low and musical, but now
rang forth in loud and merry peals. All
6

eyes were turned upon them, to ascertain
what could cause so sudden an inter-
ruption of the profoundest silence.
Edward bit his lip as he turned away,
and muttered, "I'll be even with you
yet ;" and then bowing with as much
blandness as if he had been neither be-
trayed into sentimentality or ill-humour,
he remarked,
"This fair lady, was proving to me
how easy is the transition from the sub-
lime to the ridiculous, and rendered it so
palpable, that, for a moment, I was sur-
prised into moment"
Freeman and Miss Douglass had ap-
parently been engaged at repartee. As
they rose to join the group, he remarked,
"I beg your pardon, Miss Helen, but
does not your boot require lacing Y'
"No, but you do I" promptl~r responded
the maiden.
CC Fairly answered, by Jove ~ shouted
Fieldimr, who had overheard the reply.
CC But come! as master of ceremonies,~~
continued he, "as well as your medical ad-
viser, I suggest the propriety of a ramble
through the sylyan shade. See ! our Nimrod
has returned with abundance of game,
and leaving the coloured fraternity to pre-
pare our repast, let us forth !"
Offering his arm to Virginia Dray-
ton, they led the way to the spring.
After quenching their thirst with the as-
sistance of that southern household god, a
gourd-they divided into small parties,
and each threaded the forest as chance or
fancy dictated. The island was covered
with innumerable grape-vines, that wound
high into the limbs of the trees. Deli-
cious grapes, sweetened by the frost, were
abundant, and gathering these as they
strolled, the gay and happy party ~vhiled
away an hour joyously.
Suddenly they were all startled by a
piercing shriek from Emy Davidson, and
gathering quickly round her, they found
the heroic girl was gazinG' in silence, but
with a look of terror-witTi bloodless lips,
and quivering frame, upon an enormous
rattlesnake which had fastened its fangs in
her dress. With extraordinary presence of
mind, she remained perfectly quiet, as
though convinced, that by struggling to
free herself , she would only increase her
danger. In the mean time, Harden had
seized a piece of &amp;vood, which fortunately
lay within his grasp, and soon succeeded
in releasing the affrighted lady from her
unpleas~int situation, n~bt, however, with-
out relieving her of a portion of her dress.
"Oh! I am so glad I am freed !" ex-


82            -        CLIFTON.                                                         CLIFTON.                      88

claimed the damsel, as she burst into a
flood of tears.
"You are a brave girl 1" said the ad-
miring Harden, "and few would display
such heroic courage.~~
"But how did it happen," asked Clifton,
"that the reptile struck without giving
warning l I thought the victim always
heard its rattles V'
"True ;" said Harden, "and this mon-
ster was not an exception. Apparently,
he was aroused from his sleep by Miss
Davidson stepping upon him, and the
warning was so instantaneously followed
by the attack, that she could not entirely
escape."
The ladies shuddered, as the enormous
fangs were disclosed, and warmly ex-
pressed their sympathy for the weeping
girl, who now began to smile through her
tears.
It was now two o'clock, and a call from
4heir sable attendants summoned them to
their repast. The fare would have tempted
the appetite of an epicure. Broiled fish
and partridge, roaste(l duck and potatoes,
bread, tea, coffee, cake, oranges, cham-
pagne; and all in the greatest abun~1ance:
spread out upon a spotless table-cloth:
with cushions from the barge, upon whicl2
the ladies reclined in the Oriental fashion
Why, it had the witchery of enchantment
And so it was regarded by the partici
pants. in gay retort and sparkling re
partee, they enjoyed the meal, and whet
it was over, long did the gentlemen re
dine at the feet of those beauteous girls.
Time passed; and as they returned(
across the water, the ladies sang "A lif
on the ocean wave," and with their
soprano, was mingled the tenor of Fiel
and the baritone of Edward and Freeman
The shades of evening were stealing ove
the landscape, as the party dismounted a
their homes.
CHAPTER XXI.
"By the Apostle Paul, shadows to-night
Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard,
Than can the substance of tea thousand soldiers
Armed in proof, and ied by shallow Richmond."
S5AKSPEAUE.
"He sees with other eyes than theirs; where they
Behold a Sun, he spies a detty."  YOUNG.
Xv an early hour, on Monday night, tb
capacious Presbyterian church w~s throne
ed with spectators. People had gathered

from a long distance in the country, at-
tracted thither by the novelty of the ques-
tion, selected for debate, as well as by the
reputation of the speakers. The oratori-
cal powers of Clifton had been heralded
from the adjacent village of Sherwood,
where he had delivered his poliLical
speech, and the eloquent and reverend p as-
tor of the church had, at the earnest so7lici-
tations of his friends, accepted an invita-
tion to join the debate.
The President of the society had as-
sumed the chair, and the more youthful
speakers had addressed him, when a large
party of ladies entered the church together,
and sweeping up the main aisle, seated
themselves in the well-cushioned pew of
Judge Douglass. As Clifton turned his
glance in that direction, he saw among the
number, his companions of the preceding
Saturday, and answered with a bow their
smile of recognition. The buzz of whis-
pered conversation was hushed, as the
clergyman rose- to address the President.
It is not our purpose, to report the pro-
found and skilful argument of the reverend
gentleman, in attempting to demonstrate,
what, indeed, is the popular belief, that
conscience is an innate principle impiant-
ed in the human mind, by a beneficent Pro-
vidence for the guidance and protection
of frail mortality.
In the discussion of the subject, he em-
- played all the resources which profound
investigation and a powerful intellect
~placedathiscommand;andasheresumed
his seat, a murmur of approbation, which
I would have swelled into a demonstration
of applause, but for the sanctity of the
~ clerical disputant, ran through the temple.
"Mr. Clifton, closes the debate," said
the President.
r For a moment our hero was embarrass-
.t ed, as he rose for the purpose of attempt-
ing to sever the splendid chain of argu-
ment which the divine had forged. He
felt that the prejudices, if not the sym-
pathies of the audience, were against him.
Casting his eyes over the assemblage,
they rested for a moment in that portion
of the church occupied by Miss Douglass
and her party. The countenance of that
lady was slightly flushed with interest,
while the expression upon the face of
Miss Drayton was a little malicious. "I
bet he will destroy the cobweb theories of
the Doctor, whispered Mrs. Broughton to
Virginia Drayton.
~'So do I, but he shall not have the
e benefit of that opinion. He has already
a due appreciation of his own powers.~~
d "~You say that, because you could not

deceive him; is it not so l" jestingly in-
quired the other.
"He may yet find that he is not im-
maculate !" said the belle, with a haughty
curve of her superb neck.
Further conversation was prevented, as
the full and well-modulated voice of the
speaker pronounced, "Mr. President,
it is with great diffidence, that I shall
attempt to follow the eloquent gentleman,
through the splendid effort which he has
just concluded. 1 will frankly admit, that
he has exhausted the argument upon
that side of the question, and it remains
for me to assail, his reasoning, with such
facts and theories as a much briefer in-
vestigation places at my command. At
the outset. I must beg that portion of the
audience who belong to the reverend gen-
tleman's church, not to receive his assump-
tions with that implicit confidence which
no doubt, his religious opinions are enti
tled to, when promulgated from the sacred
de~k. If they do, so far as they are con-
cerned, the question is already decided.
Th~ object of discussion is to evolve the
truth; but if theories, advanced by one in
whom, no doubt, great confidence is very
justly placed, are received with the autho-
rity of dogmas, then the right of thought
is, utterly subverted, and the intelligent
b~ing becomes no better than a walking
This bold and not unskilful exordium,
caused those to look upon the speaker ap-
pr~ vingly, who were not       ortho-
d c~x.                 strictly-
"Admirably well put !" whispered
Fielding to Mrs. Broughton. Miss Dray-
toil could not avoid a pleased smile, while
H~len Douglass cast a furtive glance at
heir father, whose countenance was im-
passive. The divine turned uneasily in his
chair, and bestowed upon Edward it more
critical observation than he had hitherto
deigned.
"It ~ resumed the speaker,
"has not escaped your observation that
the reveren(I gentleman has based his I
argument upon such fact and theories as 1
have been elicited by the ancient and I
chosen people of God, orby the enlightened I
segment of the human family. I trust,
Mr. President, that this idea will not be 1
forgotten, for upon it hinges the discus-
sion.
"The law of God, was clearly defined
to our first parents. Before it was broken. I
they were apprised of the penalty which I
they so much dreaded. Hence the terror
with which they' were seized, after the
fatal sin had been committed. The temTh

station was simply more overpowering,
than the dread of punishment. So, when
the commandments of God were given
to Moses on the Mount, they were as
specific as an enlightened legislature 'can
render a law upon the statute-book. When
one of those commandments was violated,
the culprit feared the penalty which was
inflicted. And at the present day, although
the doctrines of the Bible are as various-
ly interpreted as there are different de-
nominations-and I believe the church of
which the gentleman is so distinguished
an ornament, has not been able to pre-
serve its unity,.-~-still there can be no mis-
understanding the reward which is be-
stowed upon virtue, and the punishment
that is inflicted upon vice."
At this allusion to the secession of the
Cumberland Presbyterians, and the evi-
dent uneasiness it caused the divine, the
majority of the audience could scarcely
suppress their merriment. Mrs. Broughton
and Virginia Drayton, who were inclined
to Episcopacy, did not disguise the plea-
sure which it gave them while Freeman
sententiously pronounced the word "cen-
tre."
"But the error which the gentleman
commits, and it is a fatal one,, as I con-
ceive, is, in confounding conscience, with
knowledge; or in other words, in assuming
that to be an innate principle, which is
merely the perception ofa fact. I deny that
there is a monitor within, which apprises
the sinner of his fault, when he tramples
upon the commandments of the Almighty,
that is not equally sleepless, and even
more vigilant, when he violates the muni-
cipal regulations of his country. The pe-
nalty in the one case may be more terrible,
but the punishment in the other may be
more instantaneous. If it is necessary to
illustrate a proposition, which is in itself
almostt a demonstration, it is easily done.
rake the highest crime known to the law-
murder. Which excites most the crimi-
ial's fears, the dread of divine wrath, or
he hangman~s clutch ~ In the one ease,
iis guilt is already known; in the other he is
haunted by the apprehension of arrest and
rial. Descend the list of offences against
aw and morals. It is the fear of detection,
rhich stings the transgressor worse than
he fangs of a scorpion. The fashionable
swindler dreads exposure because he will
ose caste; the slanderer, because he will
)e despised. The seducer flies, when
Tengeanc e is in pursuit; and the hypocrWe,
rho has assumed the garb of 9hristianity.
ecklessly braves Divine indignation; yet


84                            ULIF
shrinks with tremulous limbs~ before the
finger of scorn.
"It surely is unnecessary to multiply
examples ~or the purpose of proving that
an unprincipled individual who utterly dis-
regards the doctrines of the Bible, will'
nevertheless, ponder long before he vio-
lates a clause upon the statute-book; and
that, too, when human justice, unlike
Divine, is powerless over the sonl.
"Thus far, Mr. President, I have con-
fined my observations to that branch of
the subject most favourable to the reve-
rend gentleman. Indeed, to withhold
ihe facts and deductions which can be
drawn from that small segment of the
human family, to whom the Bible is fami-
liar, and his argument is wholly baseless.
It ~4ould fall from its own weaknesss, with-
out any assistance of mine.
Cast your eyes, sir, over a map of the
w and see what a small portion of
our race, since the banishment of our
first from the Garden of Eden"
parents
have had the slightest knowledge of the
word of God. Neither controlled by its
precepts, nor curbed by the strong arm of
the law, what frightful scenes of violence
and wrong has it been the sad duty of the
historian to record. I presume a divine
so enlightened as the reverend gentleman.
espouses the doctrine of that portion of
his church who believe that the heathen
will be exempt from the dreadful punish-
inent which is visited upon the transgres-
sor who sins understandingly, if I may use
the expression. Am I correct in the
assumption V' inquired he, bowing courte-
ously to his opponent, who responded in
the affirmative. "Well, then, unless my
reverend friend has what a merchant
terms a 'variety' of consciences, he must
acknowledge himself worsted in the argu-
ment. He must have as many, at le nist,
' as there are classes of the human family.
One sample must be a very stringent con-
science, suitable for the enlirrhtened; an-
other, with not quite as mucTi whalebone
in it, just fitted for the civilized: the third.
free and easy-quite an elastic affair-so
that it may set gracefully upon the half-
civilized; and the fourth exceedingly\lax,
possessing sufficient capacity to alloW the
barbarian to do exactly as he pleases.~-to
bow to an idol, whether it is wood or stone,
and to eat his human flesh fried, broiled,
or in real cannibalistic style-raw I"
The laughter, which had been with diffi-
culty suppressed for some time, could no
longer be restrained. The merriest peals
came frok the pew of Judge Douglass.
Helen, for a moment abashed at what she

'rO N.

regarded as an impropriety; cast a look at
her father, who occupied the President's
chair, and was horrified to see his fat
sides shaking violently. Curious to wit-
ness what effect the unrestrained hilarity
of his most influential elder, had upon the
clergyman, she looked in that direction,
and discovered he had good-naturedly
joine(I in the merriment which had be-
come universal. Clifton ~ preserved
his gravity, and was coolly looking over
his notes until order was restored.
~ he continued,'" the Christian who
obeys the word of God, and the heathen
to whom its precepts ~nd commands are
unknown, both enter. the kingdom of
heaven, that salvation can surely be
traced to the possession of knowledge by
the one, and the want of it by the other.
The first is saved because he keeps the
commandments of his Maker; the last,
because Divine goodness is un~villing to
punish a mortal who ignorantly sins. If
I am correct in these de Juctions, con-
science is not a~ innate principle of the
human mind, bpt in an enlightened ~om-
munity has beeti confounded with know-
ledge. In barbarous countries, knowledge
aiid conscience are both unknown.
"Can that which iS so thoroughly esta-
blished by incontestable facts, require the
support of metaphysical reasoning ~ A
child, when it first beholds the light of
day, is devoid of reason. and without
possessing the strength, has only the in-
stincts of the brute. Its mind is' a blank,
but the germ of intelligence which Divine
power has implanted in the mind, acquires
strength as it expands, and is soon pre-
pared to receive whatever impression edu-
cation stamps upon it. Our religion is
essentially controlled by circumstances.
Place the infant of a Protestant mother
among Catholics, and it believes in the
infallibility of the Pope; among Mahome-
dans, it asserts the existence of' one God
and tine prophet; among Pagans, and it
bows to brazen images. Let that child
grow to manhood within the borders of an
enlightened community, and he feels the
gentle influences of civilization. Rear
him among cannibals, and he joins in theW
disgusting orgies. The human mind can
acquire the polish of the courtier or the
roughness of the peasant-the peaceful
habits of the Quaker, or the uncontrollable
ferocity of the mercenary soldier. The
mechanic would grace a court, while no
one could follow a plough with more skill
than the belted earl. A shoemaker's
hand grasps the sceptre as though "twere
born to it;' while the prince waxes the

-

I

CLIFTON.                               85
thread and plies the awl with as much proceeded from the church, Edward
alacrityV as the most devoted pupil of St. sauntered along with the party. Miss
C~ispiu. You, Mr. President, might have Drayton raised her skirts, and picked her
been a devout Mussulinan, or a houseless way, precisely after the fashion of the
Tartar; and my reverend friend might city, when the side-walks are covered
have kissed the Pope's toe with as much with mud. Her progress was slow, and
fervor as he now advocates the doctrine of as our hero was too gallant to leave her
predestination, or practically illustrate the alone, he must forsooth linger behind,
Mormon idea that a multi~I icity of wives although he caught the glance of Helen
is decidedly comfortable, instead of refu- Douglass as she looked back for an in-
sing altogether the joys which are said stant, and then sped onwards.
to flow from connubial bliss."         The bearing of Miss Drayton was sub-
As Clifton resumed his seat, the audi- dued, and she conversed with so soft, and
ence were again convulsed with laughter sweetly modulated a voice, that he found
by the grotesque illustrations of the his prejudices yielding before the irresis-
speaker.                            tible power of her fascinations.
~ I told you he would sweep away the "You ,are a strange and inexplicable
clergyman~s arguments," triumphantly re- being !"
marked Mrs. Broughton.                "Why sot" inquired the lady.
"It was a happy effort," replied Miss  "Because, for one moment you are all
Drayton. "I must be cautious; he pos- gentleness, and exercise over those with
sesses more irony than I gave him credit whom you are brought in contact, a
for. Perhaps some persons would call it strange and unaccountable influence. The
wit."                               next instant, howevert~. it is all swept away
The President summed up the argu- by a remorseless sarcasm. Why are you
ments, and, to the surprise of Helen Dou- not always the same '?"
glass, he gave due credit to the strong "You would scarcely like me as ~vell,"
points of Edward's speech. said the maiden, raising her splendid eyes
It was decided that our hero had tri- to his own. "I should soon be regarded
umphed in the debate, and it was oh- as a good-natured, common-place, unin-
served that the occupants of the cushioned interesting girl, whom no one cared to
pew voted with the majority, trouble himself about. It is alone by
While the society was selecting another sudden transitions, that we can obtain and
question, Edward paid his devoirs to the preserve an influence over your fickle sex!
ladies. Mrs. Broughton, extending h You see I am frank with you! Be equal-
hand, which was a soft and beautiful oner ly so with me ;" said she, laying her hand
received him with open pleasure~   ' confiding
Helen         ly upon his arm; "do you not
Douglass with a slight timidity, and Miss enjoy the society of that person more,
who relieves
DraytoA with the utmost coolness.   dilut~       you from ennui, than the
"Do not trust to her manner of saluting mental conversation of a love-sick, senti-
damsel, who cannot diverge the
you," observed Mrs. Brou ghton, archly; width of a hair, from the path which she
"for she was just as enthusiastic a mo- daily pursues ~
ment ago, as the rest of ~             "I admit it; still-if I may use a
"Suppose you permit me to be the ex- simile-'one can tire of the placid moon,
elusive judge of the manner I shall assume without becoming desperately enamoured
in greeting a gentleman ;" replied th
other, with considerable asperity.  e of a fiery, but erratic comet."
"The lady correctly defines her preroga. "It is my misfortune," responded the
tive," interposed Clifton; "for if a gen- lady, sadly, "always to give offence 'vhen
tieman can avoid one of your sex, when I least desire it. I think a great mistake
the pleasure which her society affords is was committed when I was born.' But
not commensurate with the annoyance here we are at the house. Will you not
she inflicts, surely, the right to decide enter! No '~ Good night, then," and
whom she will receive with frankness, or Clifton felt the pressure of her taper fin-
distrust, should not be withheld." gers, as her soft, white hand rested a
A momentary embarrassment succeed moment in his own.
ed, when Mrs. Broughton, with ready
tact, changed the conversation~ by intro-
ducing Edward to her husband.
The society now adjourned, and as they


CLIFTON.               87

Sti                    CLIFTON.

CHAPTER XXII.
"For he was blithe as pence may be,
Yct boisterous as victory."
TEGNER.
Tims Presidential contest of 1840 was
being fought. The democracy were mak-
irig a dignified canvass. They fiercely
denounced the tactics of the Whig party,
as an appeal to the passions, instead of
the judgments of the populace. It was
unavailino~; log cabins, hard cider, and
coon skins, were the order of the day. It
was madness to contend against the tide
which was overwhelming the admihistra-
tion. The symbols of the Whig party did
not cause the excitement that pervaded
every city and hamlet throughout the
confederacy; they were only evidences of
its existence. At most, it did not surpass
the demonstrations which characterized
the elevation of General Jackson to the
Presidential chair. Whenever enthusiasm
arouses the dormant powers of only one
party, the other may look for the hand
writing upon the wall.
Too many persons like to go with the
crowd, to make a reliance upon the~ ice
of a cause any more available than a
dignified discussion of principles.
There was a whig barbecue in Stam-
ford. The village was crowded with ladies
and gentlemen, men and women. Car-
riages, equestrians, and footmen, thronged
every thoroughfare leading thither. The
fairer portion of the assemblage wore
ch~rm~.-.gold log cabins, and coral cider-
barrels, were visible everywhere. Coon-
skins, and the living ani al itself, were
seen in the crowd. But t e chief object
of attraction, was an immen e ball, scarcely
less than twenty feet in di meter, elevat-
ed upon wheels, with the names of the
States printed upon it. his ball was
turned upon an axis, and th gaping crowd
looked with admiration u on its revolu-
tions.
"Will not these humb gs recoil upon
the Whig party, and d~ve from their
ranks, the sensible portion of it?" inqu ir-
ed an old Democrat, w o watched the
procession from Clifton's o ce.
"I think not," responded our hero.
"Observe the crowd for moment; the'
respectable part do not, i is true, partici-
pate in the orgies, never eless, they wit-
ness them with a pleasing smile."
"Yes," said Fielding;1 "look at old
Judge Whiting, with what complacency
he contemplates the revolutions' of the
ball. Hear those Joe Bunkers, how they
twirl their hats, and shout, as they sur-

round the object of their idolatry. Ah ha,
here comes a body of infantry, well drilled
too. Altogether political, though; see the
letters H. G, upon their knapsacks; they
deploy with admirable precision. By the
gods! there will be a difficulty. At each
turn they approach nearer and nearer to
the stalwart form of Col. Brown, who
seems rooted to the spot, as he eyes them
with implacable ferocity." But the Guards
wefe discreet; there~were too many of the
unterrifled democracy in the village.
The whigs seemed wild with enthu-
siasm. The humble occupant of a clerk's-
office was transformec~ into a hero and a
statesman, with the string of his dwelling
always upon the oi$tside. It was a subject
of remark, that persons who were deeply
involved in debt were the most liberal in
their subscriptions for partisan jubilees.
The passage of the bankrupt-law, after the
election of General Harrison, created the
belief that there was a Masonic under-
standing during the canvass, that all debts
should be cancelled.
The policy of Mr. Van Buren was as-
sailed with the utmost ferocity. The de-
falcations of Swartwout and Price; the tem-
porizing letters of the Secretary of the Trea-
sury to Harris, were all paraded in the
whig journals.
A few weeks after the whig barbecue,
there ~vas a mass meeting of the demo-
cracy in Stamford. The gathering was
large, but there was no excitement, save
what was created by the anticipated arri-
val of General Jackson. The Circuit
Court was in session, and the whig law-
yers sought to dampen the enthusiasm by
leering allusions to the "illustrious prede-
cessor." At twelve o'clock th~ Ex-Presi-
dent, accompanied by Goverr~or Carroll
and Felix Grundy, entered the village,
i~mid the joyous shouts of the multitude.
The venerable hero, feeble and emaciated,
took a chair in the parlour of the hotel.
His frame was tremulous with age, yet
there was still a fire in his eyes which
awed his enemies, and caused the most
reckless to approach the old warrior with
a respectful bearing.
"Ah! my old friend !" he exclaimed,
as he warmly grasped the hand of Major
Yates, ~ I have not seen you before since
the Florida campaign. What do I hear?
Have you deserted your colours and turn-
ed whig? That will never do. We have
overthrown one enemy, don't let us fight
in opposing ranks~ in our old age. The
tomb will soon claim us both; we must
die with hearts true to the cause." The
Major was visibly affected by the language

of his chief. "Never fear, gentlemen;
Major Yates will be with us on the day of
election." Another veteran claimed his
attention. "Really, I cannot recall your
"Is it possible you have forgotten me,
General ~ said the old man, as a tear
stole along ~his cheek. "Alas! that the
day should ever come! Do you not re-
collect making your dinner of acorns, in
the Creek ~
"What! Corporal Ray! God bless you !"
and the hero rose hastily, and with trem-
bling hands embraced his humble follower.
An electric thrill ran through the crowd.
The commander held the subordinate at
arms-length while he scanned his features.
"It is Corporal Ray, but time has exerted
his power upon you as well as me. Those
were trials, Corporal, which tested the
courage and patriotism of the soldiers !"
"Indeed they were, General! espe-
cially when our rations consisted of raw
hides! But you shared i~n all our suffer-
ings, you did! It was that alone which
made us endure them."
"That was my duty, you know."
"But when the hides ~vere all gone,
General, some of them didn't fancy your
substitute."
"What was that, Corporal ?"
"Why, they thought that, although
acorns were very good for hogs, they were
rather poor fare for soldiers. They were
determined to retreat but you stopped
them, you did! Egad, they didn't know
that the old musket was empty; ha! ha !"
"We could neither of us go through
another campaign like that, Corporal Ray."
~ Sartin."
"But do you still answer to the name
of Democrat?"
" Here ~ responded the old man as he
raised his tall form with military 'quick-
ness.
"I am glad to hear it, Corporal! I
hope you will always remain true to your
principles."
"Not only myself, General, but six sons
and twenty grandsons vote the Democratic
ticket, anda dozen daughters and grand-
daughters would vote the same way if
they had the right."
"I am glad to hear it! If the ladies
cannot vote, they can use their influence."
The General now retired to his room,
quite exhausted by fatigue.
Major Yates was sadly puzzled between
affection for his old commander, and zeal
for the cause which he had recently es-
poused. As he was wending his way

through the square, he met the Circuit
Judge and several whig lawyers.
CC I suppose, now, since you have seen
Old Hickory, you are prepared to vote for
the Kinderhook candidate ?" said the
Judge.
CC Of course he is !" replied one of the
lawyers. CC Has not the edict gone forth
from the Hermitage that Matty Van shall
be elected? and, notwithstanding his
grinding oppressions, it must be obeyed."
"Perhaps you are wrong in your con-
clusions," hesitatingly interposed Major
Yates.
"Certainly not," said another, we al-
ways knew if General Jackson could once
lay his eyes upon you, your right of thought
xvou~l be gone! You never acted for
yourself until you became a Whig. The
hero of New Orleans does all the thinking
for the Democrats-what little there is
of it!"
"Come, gentlemen, wait until you see
how I vote."
"Oh, we know that already! Your vote
is good for the Oily Magician. You will
swallow him, standing army and all !"
"Never !" shouted the Major, and the
Judge winked at his companions as they
proceeded to their lodgings. Such is the
power of ridicule!
"I think, Judgewe are certain of the
Major's vote."
"Not a doubt of it! He is proud, and
dislikes to have it said he is controlled by
the old General."
"And yet, he is no less a slave, for he
is swerved from his principles by preju-
dice and sarcasm..
"All true; but we have nothing to do
with that, you know. His vote and his
influence is all we desire."
"Is his influence considerable ?"
"Undoubtedly. He is a leading man
in his neighbourhood, and now, when so
many persons are ready to desert the
democratic standard, his defection is of
incalculable importance.~~
"It is singular that Clifton does not hold
him to his allegiance; the Major has an
exalted opinion of the Northerner."
"He could if he w        his
ould exert influ-
ence; but he is quite as indifferent du-
ring this campaign, as Scott's 'Black Slug-
gard.~~~
A feeling of apathy appeared to seize
the ranks of the Democratic party. The
Whigs, however, were active and enthu-
siastic. Many of ther; v ,re disappointed
because Mr. Clay iot receive the
nomination, and iii ~. ~riaricy of their


CLIFTON.                    89

88               CLIFTON.

grief, hundreds declared they would not
vote for General Harrison. But warmed
by the excitement ~which everywhere
prevailed, they at length rallied under the
banner of " Tippecanoe."
These struggles always afford food for
reflection. It is a matter of vital impor-
tance that the elective franchise should be
regarded as a glorious privilege. The
right to select our own officers, was pur-
chased by the blood of ~ir revolutionary
sires. If its exercise is neglected, we lose
all interest in the guardianship of a sacred
trust. Every patriot should rejoice at the
existence of political excitement, provided
it does not trespass upon the boundaries of
law and order. It indicates a healthy
tone in public sentiment, and a cherished
regard for the inalienable rights o~ the
human family. It proves what is of far
greater importance, that there is a due
appreciation of the privileges which are
guaranteed by the Constitution of the
United States, and a determination to
maintain them at every hazard.
There is one amendment that could
very properly be made to the Constitution
of the United States. The candidates
for President and Vice President should
be voted for directly. The electoral col-
lege is unnecessary, and might become
dangerous. Instances are not rare, of
members of Congress, proving recreant to
the trust reposed in them by their consti-
tuents. Elected as Anti-Bank candidates,
their virtue often yielded to the power of
that Institution, and when too late, politi-
cal treachery was punished by political
oblivion. Although the electoral colleges
have hitherto faithfully executed their
trust, still they are but men. In a Presi-
dential contest, resulting in almost a drawn
battle, the electors of a State might prove
traitors, and by electing that aspirant who
is entitled only to a minority of the electo-
ral college, although he might have re-
ceived a majority of votes in the ag~re-
gate, they would plunge the country into
the horrors of civil war. No reason can
be assigned for employing the agency ofi
the electoral college. It is the aristocratic
feature of the Constitution. It is without'
any practical good whatever, and might
prove the destruction of the American
Union. Let every voter deposit in the
ballot-box, th~ names of the candidate for
President and Vice President of the United
States, and then no danger can be appre-
herided from fraud and treachery.

CHAPTER XXIII.
"Some men are born great; some achieve greatness;
Some have greatness thrust upon them."
SEARSPEAItE.
"A shade Is an omen, a dream is a sign."
LANDON.
A SPACE of thirty miles intervened be-
tween Stamford and Bergen, the capital of
the adjacent county. The road thither,
for a distance of ten miles, led through a
rich and fertile region; it then diverged
from the river, and, winding through the
hills for a dozen miles, descended into the
valley of Silver Creek, where elegant
mansions and ~picturesque cottages at-
tested the prosperity of the husbandman.
Nothing could be more gloomy and deso-
late than the waste which extended be-
tween these two streams. The scanty soil
was sparsely covered with stunted oak
and black jack, and afforded a painful
contrast to the majestic forest trees that
here and there towered upon the water-
courses. In certain localities, however,
Nature had been more indulgent. There
the trees had acquired a greater height,
and entwining their ample limbs in closer
embrace, cast an inviting shade upop ~he
earth. Grape-vines, which are indigenous
to the soil, sought these favoured spots,
and clustering together, assisted in making
the bower sufficiently attractive to tempt
the wayfarer, when the sun rode high in
the heavens, to rest himself beneath the
umbrageous foliage.
On a bright morning, Freeman and
Clifton mounted their steeds, and started
for Bergen, for the purpose of attending
the coflrt, which was to be held there the
following day.
"Let us~ get a drink of water at this
spring," said the former.
"Whose residence is this ?" inquired
Edward.
"'Tis a plantation belonging to General
Foster! Here, Pete," calling to a negro,
who was lounging upon a log, "come
here, you ace of spades, and help this
gentleman and myself to some water !"
"Yah, yah! that I will Massa Ben,"
said the man cheerfully. "Shall I go ask
Miss Ellen for a cup, or will you take de
gourds"
"Oh, the gourd will do. Stay! your
young mistress is calling you."
As the African reached the balcony, a
silver cup was extended towards him by
a fair hand; the vines were for a moment
parted, and both gentlemen raised their
hats, and bowed to the graceful inclina-
tion of the young damsel.

"Massa Ben mussent spose de cup is
sent cause him want to drink."
"Why not, you black scoundrels" rais-
ing his whip.
The negro leaped actively upon one
side, "Yah, yah. cause him callers use
gourd afore !"
"For whom was it sent, then ~"
"Why, Massa Ben, you Jorrier, and
ought to know, if it never sent to him afore,
when he go alone, and it be sent now,
when emblem wid him, that it be sent
for gemblem, and not for Massa Ben ;"
and elated with his logic, the slave re-
mained a moment upon his head, with
his heels dangling in the air, until receiv-
ing a smart cut from Freeman's whip, he
turned a somerset7 and burst forth into
loud peals of laughter.
"Who is this little divinity l" inquired
Clifton, after they had res~imed their jour-
ney.
"She is the only daughter of a gentle-
man, who, once engaged in the mercan-
tile business, has now retired with a large
fortune. The young lady possesses supe-
rior endowments, and rare beauty, which,
when fully developed, will render her one
of the loveliest of her sex. By the way,
as your office overlooks her father's
grounds, you must have seen her before."
"I believe I have. But whither does
the road now take us ~" and they entered
upon the drear and barren region which I
have already described.
About midway of this waste, there is a
curve in the road, forming an angle of
about forty-five degrees. In the bend
were the inouldering walls of what had
once been a capacious dwelling. It was
now almost entirely concealed from sight,
by' a dense thicket, which was rarely
penetrated by the superstitious, who were
kept aloof by traditions that connected
tales of violence and death, with the di-
lapidated building.
As our travellers approached this spot,
they saw before them, seated upon the
trunk ofafallentreeahunter, who scanned
their persons with a savage look~ He re-
mained seated, however, with his long
rifle resting upon his knees. As they
turned involuntary in their saddles, he re-
treated into the bushes, and was concealed
from their view.
"I like not the appearance of that
vagabond,~7 observed Freeman; "he has
too much the appearance of a brigand."
"What is the reputation of the neigh-
borhood V'
"Why, bad enough! About three miles
hence, and, I believe, in the direction

which he took, there are several families
who live by theft, and if I am not greatly
/
deceived, this fellow is one of the gang.
At all events, I should not regard our posi-
tion as perfectly safe, provided he bore a
double-barrelled gun instead of a rifle,
while we are within its range."
"But he has vanished in the forest,"
responded Edward.
"True, but it is not at all improbable
that the thicket contains a blind, cutfor
the purpose of letting the bullet seek its
victim, as well as to enable the murderer
to scan the road in both directions."
At the close of the day, the travellers
entered the i~illage of Bergen, and alight-
ed at the principal hotel. After directing
the hostler how to groom their steeds, they
entered the drawing-room, where they
found most of the lawyers who attended
the court, listening to the anecdotes of the
merry Judge who presided over the cir-
cuit. With the latter, as well as with
nearly all the fraternity, Clifton was ac-
quainted! Freeman and himself, therefore,
were received with that warmthh and cor-
diality which marks the intercourse be-
tween members of the bar, at the South
and West.
CHAPTER XXIV.
"liostess, clap to the doors, watch tonight, pray
to-morrow. Gallants, lads, boys, hearts of gold, ali
the titles of good fellowship come toyou i what, shall
we be merry I"
SHAKSPEARE.
THE next morning the court "met pur-
suant to adjournment.~~ Jurors, witnesses,
clients, and spectators, had gathered, in
carriages and on horseback. The first
day of court is always one of great in-
terest in the interior, and to the disinte-
rested observer, affords much amusement.
The names of the jurors are written upon
separate pieces of paper, and placed in a
hat, from whence thirteen are withdrawn,
by a child under ten years of age, and
constitute the grand jury. This inquest,
then, with open mouths, receive a charge
from the court. Its constant repetition be-
comes irksome to the Judge, and conscious,
perhaps, that they will more readily com-
prehend the isolated cases presented by
the attomey-general, for their conside-
ration, than a complicated charge, he fre-
quently delegates his prerogative to some
junior member of the bar.
While the court is empannelling the
grand jury, clients eagerly gather round


90

C L I F T 0 N.



their lawyers, and seizing them by a but- reply to the protestation, that this was not
ton-hole, they unconsciously lead them at all what was wanted, he suggested that
aside, and reiteratefor the hundredth time, while searching for the turkey, they might
what they regard as the strong points of find the axe."
their case. Parties whose causes were "Bravo! he deserves to be placed upon
made returnable to that term (but not to the woolsack.' Three cheers for the
be tried until the next), sought the legal modern Lord Mansfield! Hurrah! hurrah!
advice of some attorney, while the spec- hurrah ~
tators, seated where the October sun yield- "But at ,all events, you will admit"
ed them its warmth, were engaged in the said Grayson, "that the trial by jury, is
national amusement of whittling, the most effectual method of arriving at
At night there was a social reunion of justice."
the judge and lawyers in one of the capa- "Why so ~ demanded Freeman.
cious apartments of the hotel.        "Because the jury are summoned by
"That was a fine charge of yours, C~ar- the sheriW from the body of the county,
endon," said Judge Hawley, to a youth- and is generally composed of the most
ful lawyer, with jet-black hair and eyes, sober and intelligent men, wlio have every
sallow complexion, and Italian cast of inducement to decide fairly between liti-
countenance. gants.~~
"As good as they deserve," replied the "It is true," said "Freeman, that jury-
other. men are summoned by the sheriff, but
"Of the thirteen men upon the jury, I they are selected bythe county court, the
should judge that more than half are igno- members whereof are very much inclined
to a p point their especial favourites. In-
"Your opinion of our colabourers, is not deed, I have seen the most worthless
very exalted," said Major Henderson. vagabonds placed upon the jury list, twice
"No !" replied Clarendon. "To illus- out of three times in a year. One I recol-
trate their capacity. A few days ago, I lect was forced to flee from the country
submitted a case, for the decision of a for-committing forgery."
justice of the peace, and after he had re- "All this may be so," said Morton,
tamed the papers under advisement a "nevertheless, when the proper adminis-
sufficient length of time, as I supposed, I traction of the law depends so much upon
called to ascertain his decision, when he those who may speedily have others sit-
gravely informed me that he had sat upon ting in judgment upon their own rights, we
the case, all the leisure time he had, but have every assurance that they will cor-
that having a greater number of garments reetly discharge their duties."
to cut than usual (he was a tailor), it was ~~Especially,~~ observed Stanton, an old
out of his power to do the case as much chancery lawyer, "when they render
justice, as he could wish, unless he was average verdicts."
allowed to set on ihe papers a few days "What do you mean l" inquired Judge
longer. 'You see I am doing the cause Hawley.
full justice!' and raising himself up, he dis- "A jury, not being able to decide upon
closed the papers in the case, arranged the amount which ought to be rendered
into a sort of a cushion, which I have no in favour of the plaintiff agreed that each
dcAibt he occupied with great fidelity." member should set down the sum ~vhich
"Ha! ha! ha !" roared the company. he thought proper, that the aggregate
"Come, we must have more punch! might be dividedhy the number of jury-
Grayson will you attend to it ?" said Mor- men, and justice done between the par-
tOn. Grayson, opened the door, and cried ties."
out, "Landgod (irreverently), come here! "Bravo, little Bilious !" they all shout-
Keep us supplied, if you please, with the ed! "Bilious has the floor," for they
genuine article, if your bar contains it ~" knew his irascible temper, and unconquer-
"Clarendon's story," said Henderson, able aversion to juries, although he rarely
"reminds me of a warrant issued a few became sufficiently mellow and excited
days since, by a newly elected justice. to give expression to his opinion.
A neighbour, believing that art axe which "Yes, gentlemen, 1 have practiced long
he missed, had been stolen, and suspect- enough before juries to understand them
ing who had taken it, applied to the jus- perfectly. Talk you of their fairness
tice for a search-warrant. That functionary You know, if a jury is selected from the
c9uld find no form authorizing a search bystanders, without regard to the regular
for an axe, and made out a warrant per- list, and they decide the cause the same
emitting him to search for a turkey. in day, they receive no pay, but if they are

CLIF
detained until the next day, they each
receive fifty cents. Well, .1 have known
innumerable instances of a jury being
forced to remain together all night in a
small room, in the month of August, sim-
ply because one or more of the number
were desirous of obtaining the fifty cents."
"Hurrah for Bilious !"
"Perhaps they could not agree,~~ re-
marked Grayson.
"Bnh! the assembling of the court in
the morning was the signal for the rendi-
tion of the verdict."
"Clarendon, please supply the speaker
with some punch, brandy, gin, or what-
ever he chooses. Bilious will now pro-
c eed."
"Prate you of their justice? why, in
equity cases, a justice of the peace has
jurisdiction only to the amount of $50,
while on notes it extends to $500. Have
you not separate courts, one of law and
the other of equity, and do you trust a
jury in the latter court ~ In the very tribu-
nal where cases of justice and equity are
decided, a jury is excluded. Why is this,
if they can be trusted with so much con-
fidence ?"
"Is it not?" inquired Clarendon, "be-
cause a court of equity is not governed
by arbitrary principles l"
"Not at all, my young friend; on the
contrary, the court ofch cancer isjust as
much tied down, and controlled by pre-
cedents, as courts of law, and the only
reason that can be assigned why the
legislature is year after year, enlarging the
jurisdiction of the chah cery, at the ex-
pense of the common law court, is be-
cause the rights of litigants can be intrust-
ed with more safety to a chancellor than
to a jury."
"Butyou surely would not withhold
the right of trial by jury, in criminal
cases~" inquired Clifton.
"That is another question, which I will
not discuss !" remarked him they called
'little Bilious,' as he resumed his seat.
The company now became exceeding
merry, with the exception of Edward
who although not a temperance lecturer,
chose, upon this occasion, to remain in a
condition to ~observe one of those frolics,
which the members of the bar sometimes
indulged in, a few years ago. Anecdote
followed anecdote, in rapid succession,
while the glass went merrily round. Now
each one, would mingle in the mglbe, and
assail and defend himself, where all were
his foes. Anon, some unfortunate wight
was selected, upon whom the rest made
a combined attack, and the sweat gather-

'TON.                             91
ing upon his forehead, and coursing down
his cheeks, attested the power of that
mental torture to which he was subjected.
Opposing the onslaught with all the skill
and patience which he could command,
the writhing victim waited until some
happy retort, or unexpected diversion,
turned the warfare in another direction.
No rudeness was exhibited, and the only
weapons employed were wit and sar~
casm.
"Did you ever hear the scene described
which occurred at the last session of the
court at Stamford, Col. Morton l" inquired-
Major Henderson.
"Never; let us hear it," replied that
gentleman, who resided in another cir-
cuit.
"Our young friends, Freeman, Grayson,
and Clarendon, were seated late at night
in the office of the former, when Clifton
entered, and with his serious manner in-
formed them that a lady, evidently de-
ranged, had taken possession of his office.
Grayson returned with him, and entering
the office with a cigar in his mouth, saw
a female, elegantly attired, walking up
and down the office with rapid strides.
No sooner had he placed his feet upon the
floor, than the maniac darted toward him,
exclaiming, 'How dare you enter my pre-
sence with a cigars' With a bound that
deposited him in the mud, Grayson eluded
her grasp, but did not cease his flight un-
til he was safely ensconced in Freeman's
officewhere he expatiated upon the fiery
impetuosity of the maniac.
"'Come, gentlemen,' said Clarendon,
discontentedly, 'we must not leave Clifton
alone with this turbulent woman. Let us
all go up.'
"Scarcely had they congregated around
the door, when the enraged female seized
a chair, which she wielded with the strength
of a man, and advanced furiously upon
them. The three cavaliers commenced a
simultaneous retreat, which, however, was
not conducted with sufficient speed. They
had not accomplished half the distance
upon their return, when Freeman was
grasped by the coat and twirled around
so suddenly, that. losing his equilibrium,
he was deposited upon his back in a pool
of water. Clarendon suffered his hat to
fall, and before he could recover it the
crown was burst in by the excited female.
Gray son, who had remained in the rear
of the attacking party, managed to reach
Freeman's office without being subjected
to another assault, and closed and bolted
the door as soon as the others succeeded
in making their escape.


92                  CLIFTON.                                                CLIFTON.                  93

"'Did you ever see such a swingecat V
whispered Clarendon, 'see, she has utterly
destroyed my beaver!'
"'And what tremendous strength she
possesses!' replied Freeman. 'Her height
is not less than that of an Amazon!'
"'What will become of Clifton V asked
Grayson.
"'I don't know,' said Freeman; 'these
are times when the doctrine of self-preser-
vation is omnipotent!'
~C ~Besides,~ remarked Clarendon, 'be-
ing exempt. by reason of her infirmity,
from the ordinary punishment'-.
Here he was interrupted by a violent
effort to force the door.
"'By the gods! she is jtfter us!' said
Grayson, in a whisper; 'preserve silence,
and she may think we have escaped. Is
your window secured V At this moment
the maniac stealthily run her hand along
the sash, and Clarendon, who was stand-
ing with his back in close proximity to it,
raised himself upon his toes, and turning
round with an agitated look, gazed upon
the curtain. Again the door was violently
shaken.
"'If she succeeds in entering,~ said
Gmayson, 'we must knock her down with
a chair! I would rather encounter twenty
men than one deranged woman!'
"'Yes; but we have nothing to tie her
with after she is down,' replied Freeman,
discontentedly.
"'Here are my suspenders,' quickly ob-
served Clarendon.
"'Can't we make our escape out of the
back-window V
"'No; she will discover us, and then we
have no protection, for you will remember
she is exceedingly fleet of foot.'
"'Let us send for the constable! he is
paid for encountering danger.~
"'Agreed! that is a good suggestion!
bqut who shall go for him V A pause suc~
needed. At length Freeman magnani-
mously replied-
"'I will encounter the danger; but if I
am seized you must come to the rescue.'
"'We'll do it!' and Freeman leaped
from the back-window, and cut the air
' with rapid strides in the direction of the
constable's office.
"The attack upon the door now ceased,
and the most profound silence ensued.
Cautiously looking out through the win.
dow, they discovered the maniac walking
calmly along between Clifton and Dr.
Fielding, and the merry laughter of the
trio rang clearly upon the night-air.
"'We have been sold!' muttered Cla-
rendon; 'but let us see' the end of it.'

"Fielding paused at the door of young
Palmer's room, while Edward and the
lady entered~ 'Here is a lady, Palmer,
whom I found in the street. She is evi-
dently a stranger, and quite ill; will you
suffer her to remain until I can obtain
medical assistance V and closing the door,
he vanished.
"Palmer-the most particular arid sen-
sitive of men-was much confused~ at ha-
ving a~ young damsel in his apartment,
yet, touched with pity, asked her if she
would not rest herself upon his sofa. As
he was supporting her thither, Fielding
entered the room, but immediately com-
menced apologizing for the untimely in-
trusion, when he was interrupted by
Palmer, who passionately exclaimed
'Good God! man, don't make a d-d fool
of yourself! Clifton will be back in a
moment.' Convulsed with laughter,
Fielding remarked, 'Here is Clifton, now,
but in the act of passing your room.'
Rushing to the door, Palmer, now highly
excited, inquired of Edward why he had
not returned for the lady sooner.
"'What lady V replied he, 'I have seen
none.'
"Before the explosion occurred which
would have followed this remark, foot-
steps were heard rapidly traversing the
street, and Freeman and the constable ap-
proached them.
"'Where is she V eagerly inquired
Freeman of Edward. 'There! there she
is! constable, seize ~'
"The officer was about to advance,
when a lad exclaimed, with evidentterror,
"'Don't hurt her; she is Cousin Wil-
liam!"'
This anecdote was frequently interrupt-
ed by laughter.
"It is two o'clock, ~ remarked the
Judge, who was master of ceremonies,
"and it is time to adjourn. We must first
have a dance from Grayson and Col. Mor-
ton. Come, Henderson shall be the arbi-
ter."
Clarendon took the violin, and after a
brief prelude, commenced a "negro break-
down." The competitors presented the
most striking contrast. Morton was a tall,
slender person, about forty-five years of
age, with only sufficient flesh upon his
bones to redeem his form from the charge
of emaciation. There was something
inimically droll in his manner, as he took
off his coat, rolled up his sleeves, and ran
his long slender fingers through his hair.
Gray son, on the contrary, possessed an
Herculean frame, and could scarcely weigh

less than two hundred and twenty-five
pounds.
The dance commenced, and no one who
has never witnessed the gyrations of a
negro, can imagine the convolutions which
the forms of Morton and Grayson were
made to assume and the applause was
enthusiastic as they seated themselves,
panting from the exertion.
"The Court will briefly refer to the
merits of the performance which has just
been given for .our amusement," remarked
Henderson. "The youthful vigour of Mr.
Grayson inclined the Court to look fa-
vourably upon his feats, notwithstanding
the science displayed by his veteran com-
petitor. The Court wo~~Jd have been com-
pelled so to adjudge, and was preparing
to do so, when its opinion was changed;
and 1 am now compelled to decide in fa-
vour of Col. Morton; a triumph for which
he is indebted to the last flourish of his
left foot."
"Bravo! a glorious decision! A second
Daniel !" shouted all; and with uncertain
steps they sought their several apartments.
CHAPTER XXV.
"Is that a~dagger which I see before me,
The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch
thee:-
I have thee not, and yet IL see thee still.
Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible
To feeling, as to sight? or art thou but
A dagger of the mind, a false creation
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain ?"
SHARSPEARE.
ON the following night, Clifton was
seated in his room, when Freeman en-
tered~ unceremoniously.
"I have to request of you the ~
he observed, "to assume the manage-
ment of my causes during the term, as I
have been summoned, unexpectedly, to
~ Edward; "but I regret
that I shall deprived of your company
on my ~
"It is now impossible; you may re-
member that I was retained to defend
Maxwell, whenever he was arrested. That
event has now occurred, and my departure
in the morning is unavoidable. But who
was that'?" he exclaimed, looking eagerly
at the window.
saw no one."
"Unless an imaginary phantom crossed
my vision, I beheld the forbidding counte-

nance of the hunter vanish in the gloom, as
I spoke."
"Doubtless it proceeded from the ex-
cesses of last night."
"It may be so," replied the other,
shaking his head. "But farewell; I start
early."
"Good bye, Freeman! Do not let your
thoughts dwell upon brigands, thickets,
and mouldering dwellings.~~
The door closed upon the receding form
of his friend.
"He is evidently disturbed. Can there
be, danger'? If I thought so, I would ac-
company him," soliloquised our* hero.
"But no! it was only the phantom pro-
duced by wine, and a want of sleep."
As Freeman left Edward's roofri, a man
stealthily retreated from, the window~ be-
neath which he had crouched, and with
his dark aud scowling countenance turned
backwards, occasionally, to ascertain if he
was pursued, he glided to~vards the forest
which skirted the village. Apparently, he
sought unsuccessfully for some object, for
he uttered curses, smothered but deep.
The sky was overcast with clouds, and the
earth was shrouded in darkness, which
served as a barrier to his vision.
"Where could I have left them i" he
muttered; l~it was certainly somewhere
hereaway, and if these cursed clouds
would lift, I could find them."
But the impenetrable gloom continued,
and at length, seating himself in despair
upon the earth, he exclaimed, "If this
continues long, the game will escape me,
for I must be at the stand before daylight,
or else I may be seen, and the hounds of
justice will be upon my footsteps !"
An hour of absolute torture to the robber
now passed, when a breeze sprang up
which lifted the clouds, and twinkling
stars sparkled through the trees. Renew-
ing the sea-inch, which now proved suc,-
cessful, he found his horse and rifle,, and
mounting the steed, he entered a narrow
path, which at a distance of two miles
terminated in the highway leading from
Bergen to Stamford.
Freeman partook of an early breakfast,
and started homeward. The clear skies
and bracing air of autumn buoyed, his
spirits, and he wended his way onwards,
with that hopeful confidence which is the
heritage of youth. As he ascended the
hill at the head of Silver Creek, and ad-
vancing into the waste, approached the
spot so much dreaded by travellers, he
paused for a moment, and considered the
propriety of diverging from the road, when*
herefi~ted that if his companions were


CLIFTON.               95

94                   CLIFTON.

apprised of the detour, it would afford
them aim opportunity of amusing them-
selves at his expense, and he proceeded
steadily onwards. His spirited horse be-
came restive, and betrayed an indisposi~'
tion to pass the crumbling walls, when
Freeman applied the spur to his flanks.
Dashing forward with an aifrighted snort,
and shrinking upon the opposite side of
the road, he had nearly passed the thicket,
when from its hidden recess issued a
bright flame, which was instantaneously
followed by the sharp report of a rifle.
Freeman, for a moment, bent to the
saddle, and then rallying his energies, he
grasped wildly at the reins for a fleetitig
instant, whei{ his limbs relaxed, his head
sunk upon his bosom, and he fell power-
less to the earth. The ball had pierced
his brain, and the soul of the generous
young man was wending its way to the
world of spirits. The robber emerged
from the wood, and casting, an anxioi~s
glance along the road, seized the body
and dragging it iiito the bushes, upon the
opposite side, proceeded to rifle the
pockets. This accomplished, he left the
body exposed to beasts of prey and the
storms of heaven, and seizing his rifle,
plunged into the hidden recessed of the
forest.
The court had adjourned, and Edward
was on his way to Stamford, musing upon
the events of the week, and suffering his
mind to erect castles in the air, when his
attention was attracted by a large flock of
buzzards, that, alarmed by his presence,
started from the ground a short distance
from the road, and were clumsily ascend-
ing through the trees, the branches of
which often came in contact with their
huge wings.' Glancing around him, Clifton
discovered that he was opposite the spot
which had so strongly excited the suspi-
cions of Freeman. With a vague and irre-
pressible thrill of terror, he recollected the
apprehensions of his friend, and parting
the shrubbery that bordered the highway,
forced his unwilling horse in the direction
of the spot from whence the birds had
ascended, and gazed upon the object be-
fore him, horror-stricken and appalled.
From the clothing, alone, did he recog-
nise the body of4'reeman, and the blood
congealed in his veins as his sight turned
upon the eyeless sockets, and fleshless
face, which indicated that the buzzards
had claimed their prey.
"Great God! is it thus that the mortal
career of this honourable and gifted man is
to terminate'? But he shall be avenged!
I'll follow upon the footsteps of his mur-

derer, until justice is satisfied; ay, fully,
completely satisfied !"
Dismounting, Edward covered thebody
with bushes, so as to protect it from
further desecration, and then putting spurs
to his horse he dashed furiously onwards.
As he was passing the country residence
of General Foster, a slave arrested his
headlong speed, and informed him that his
young mistress desired to see him. Tutn-
ing the head of his panting horse in the di-
rection of the balcony, he was accosted by
the young girl.
"I trust you will pardon me for address-
ing a stranger to whom I have never be~en
formally introduced (arid her eyes fell fur
a moment), but my father, who is una-
voidably absent, requested me to inform
you that the horse of Mr. Freeman passed
lThre this morning, without saddle or bridle
upon him. He fears that some fatal acci-
dent may have happened to him !"
"Fatal indeed !" responded Edward, " for
he has been murdered by a highwayman."
"Good heavens! can it he possible '?"
and her hitherto blushing cheek became
suddenly pale.
"Tell General Foster, on his return, that
the body of Freeman lies opposite the old
dwelling, some five miles hence. You
know its locality'?"
"I do !" she replied, with a shudder.
"Let him dispatch his Servants to guard
it, while I summon the coroner from Stam-
ford, and place the officers of justice upon
the track of the murderer." And bidding
her adieu, he was at Stamford within the
half hour.
The coroner was soon on the road, with
Dr. Fielding and twelve others, while
Clifton, with a constable, empowered to
arrest all persons upon whom suspicion
might fall, and half-a-dozen resolute men,
were ready to start the next morning. At
the time of the coroner's arrival night had
set in; but they were prepared with torch-
lights, and he proceeded at once to em-
pannel the jury. In the awful presence of
the dead, the preparations were peculiarly
solemn. Fielding ascertained that the
ball entered the back part of the head, and
traversing the brain, passed out through
the forehead, causing almost instant death.
The jury were unable to form any con-
jecture as to who committed the fatal
deed, and rendered a verdict accordingly.
The remains were then re~noved to Stam-
ford, for interment, where the melancholy
procession arrived about midnight. A
gloom was cast over the village by the
sudden death~of Freeman; for wherever
he was known it was but to be admired.

Emy Davidson was passing the evening
with Helen Douglass and Virginia Drayton.
They were seated around the hickory fire
which was blazing in the parlour, when
Margaret Fisher rushed into the room with
~ an aifrighted countenance.
"Why, what is the matter, Mag~"
" The most terrible event has occurred
which you can possibly conceive. The
recollection of it makes my blood congeal
with horror !"
"Speak out! do not keep us longer in
suspense."
"Well, would you believe iC? Col. Free-
man has been murdered !"
~CImpossible ~ they all exclaimed, start-
ing to their feet.
"Indeed, it is too true. Mr. Clifton
found the body upon his return from
court'?"
"Is not this horrible, William'?" said
Miss Davidson to her brother, who now
entered the room.
"Yes, but blood for blood! Freeman
shall not go unavenged. I have come to
bid you adieu, as I have joined Clifton's
party, which leaves early to-morrow
morning in search of the robber."
"Is Mr. Clifton so much interested'?"
inquired Miss Drayton.
"I never saw a person more agitated
than he was, when he first dashed into the
village, with his horse covered with foam.
But now the coroner has taken his de-
parture, and our party is arranged for to-
morrow, he has quieted down into a calm
and gloomy determination."
~ strange,'~ she responded, musing-
~ly, "that his feelings are so thoroughly
aroused. His impulses must be warm
and generous.~~
The day had scarcely dawned, when
Edward and his party were in the saddle,
and before the sun had ascended suffi-
ciently high to dry up the dew which clus-
tered upon the leaves, they had congre-
gated around the old dwelling. Clifton
briefly related the scene ~vhich occurred at
the spot when himself and the unfortu-
nate victim were on their way to Bergen,
and expressed the conviction that the
hunter was the individual who had com-
mitted the murder. It was important,
therefore, in his opinion, that immediate
and careful se rch should be made for his
footsteps. Dis counting from their horses,
they each descent d to t e task with the
most untiring zeal.
"I the patch of the ball, Mr. Clif-
ton," triumphantly exclaimed young Da-
vidson. They gathered around, and ascer-
tained that ft had been used for that pur-

pose, having been torn from an old cotton
handkerchief.
"Preserve that," said Edward.
The y were now interrupted by a shout
from the thicket, and approaching it, they
ascertained that Flemino~ a celebrated
hunter and trapper, had round the stand
of the murderer.
"Do you see this'?" he exclaimed; "he
has cut the branches away, and removed
the vines, so as to look up and down the
road."
~ strangem~ soliloquised Edward,
"that Freeman should have suggested the
probability Qf such an arrangement. This
indeed bears the semblance of premoni-
tion. Are there any footsteps visible'?" he
inquired of Fleming.
"I can't see any yet; the ground ap-
pears too much trampled. Stay, this
looks like one. Yes, here he has passed,~~
he continued, eagerly, after a moment's
exarrfination of the earth. "Now let me
measure this track; it may serve to iden-
tify the scoundrel." And he took the
dimensions of a long and ill-shaped im-
pression, which the desperado had made
in the sand. Trusting in the experieIlce
of the trapper, the party now followed the
trail. It descended the slope of the hill,
and was lost upon its rocky surface. For
a long time the search for it was unavail-
ing, until young Davidson descended into
the channel of a brook, and upon the soft
earth again discovered it.
"What have we here'?" he exclaimed.
Stooping for a moment he raised a hat
from the bed of the stream, whither it had
been sunk.
"It is Freeman's !" exclaimed half a
dozen voices.
"Another link in the chain of evidence
~vhich we are unfolding," muttered Ed-
ward.
The party now proceeded with great
rapidity, and at the distance of three miles
from the highway emerged from the forest
into the open land. Pausing in the bor-
der of the wood, they discovered, about
forty rods from them, a log house, the in-
mates of which were not yet stirring.
After a brief consultation it was decided
that Fleming and Clifton should proceed
alone to the house. It was apprehended
that a greater number would excite sus-
picion, and the proof of his guilt might
be destroyed by the murderer, if, as they
anticipated, he was within the dwelling.
For the same reason the constable re-
inained behind, as it was quite probable
his person was known to the criminal.
Fleming had been appointed a deputy


C

96                           CLI]
for the occasion,, and Edward decided to
accompany him, for the purpose of iden-
tifying the hunter. Exchanging coats
with one of the humble members of the
party, for the purpose of quieting the
apprehensions of the felon, and directing
them to follow the valley which descend-
ed to the right of the house, and in close
proximity to it, Clifton concluded his in-
structions: "You will scrupulously avoid
exhibiting yourselves at points where you
can be seen from the house. Recollect
that the conviction, if not the arrest, of
the demon depends upon our action. If
you are seen approaching the dwelling,
you may not only expose Fleming and
myself to great personal danger, but you
will enable the culprit to secrete or destroy
every vestige of his guilt. If you can
reach the low ground just beyond the
house undiscovered, remain there until
we have been separated half an hour,
unless you discover we have been assailed,
when you will, of course, come to our
relief. If all remains quiet at the time I
have indicated, gather quietly, but in a
body, around the house. And now let all
act ,with circumspection. It is unneces-
sary for me to add that we are engaged
in an expedition of great difficulty, per-
haps of positive danger."
Eacji member of the company was well
armed, and, confident of their strength,
they prepared to follow the directions of
their leader.
Edward and Fleming, separating from
their companions, and making a detour,
approached the house from the opposite
direction. Walking boldly up to the door,
Fleming applied the back of his hand to
it with.a sharp rap.
~C Who is there ~" inquired a stern voice
from within.
"Hunters," responded the trapper,
"who find success in stalking deer don't
keep out the cold."
"Come in, then," said the same harsh
voice.
The bolt was withdrawn, and the inns-
sive oak door swung upon its hinges, and
our adventurers found themselves beneath
the low ceiling of a log cabin. The
wooden slab which served 4or a window
was still closed, and the apartment was
but dimly illuminated by the fire that was
fast kindling into a blaze upon the hearth.
The blood curdled in Edward's veins, as
he discovered by its flickering light that
the room was tenanted by four stalwart
and powerful men, and among the num-
ber he saw the scowling and forbidding
visage of the hunter whom he had ob-

F'TON.

served upon the roadside. Quickly press-
ing Fleming's foot with his own, as a sig-
nal that the person whom they sought
was before them, he seated himself by
the fire.
"You are early upon the trail this
morning, Mr. Fleming," observed one of
the gang.
The person addressed manifested no
surprise at being recognized.
"Oh, yes; you know that he who would
compass the stag before he leaves his
form for the bend in the river, must be
early afoot."
A pause ensued, when Edward under-
went the close examination of the ruffians.
"You must have been more fleet of
foot than even you have reputation for, to
come all the distance from Stamford this
morning," said the other, suspiciously.
"That is true; but you must know we
c~me part way upon our horses."
A few moments of silence again ensued
during which time the outlaws were attir-
ing their persons.
"It is seldom," resumed the interro-
gator, "that you cross the ridge in search
of game. I do not think I have seen you
in five years before."
"Still we return to old haunts at last;
I have been trapping for many a da~ upon
the Hurricane."
"Do you ever search for human
game ~" inquired the brigand, signill-
candy.
Fleming found it necessary to temporise
still longer, so as to give the rest of the
party time to arrive at the house.
"Nay, one who pays so little regard to
the game laws as I do, may well leave
man-catching to the officers of justice."
"And who is your companion V' in-
quired the sava~e-looking borderer, who
had been scrutinizing Edward during the
dialogue.
"He is a country pupil of mine, that I
am learning to stalk the deer and snare
the muskrat."
"For a countryman, he wears an ele-
gant cravat, and his gold chain is rather
costly, provided he came honestly by it."
E war had unconsciously exposed
these decorations to the gaze of the other.
A momentary silence prevailed.
"I can tell you,~~ continued the ogre
fiercely, "who has thrust his neck into
the merciless dutch. of the bear, in
attempting to act the part of a spy. It is
Edward Clifton, the lawyer !"
As he uttered these startling words, the
gang sprang to their feet with the utmost
vehemence, and in an instant the cabin

CLI]

was the scene of the wildest commotion.
Our adventurers now prepared to defend
themselves with the utmost desperation.
The brigands, with horrible imprecations,
rushed upon them. They were met by
men, however, who were not easily over-
thrown. Fleming possessed an Hercula-
nean frame, every muscle of which wus
itidurated by exercise, while Edward was
gifted with great personal strength and
activity. Their antagonists, on the con-
trary, although broad-shouldered and pow-
erfully built, were slightly enervated by
idle and dissipated lives. The odds,
nevertheless, were great, and, if the
attack upon our hero and his companmoii
had been more cool and calculating, here
would have ended this narrative. In their
headlong passion, they did not seek the
aid of firearms, but attempted to prostrate
their foes by physical force. The fore-
most was met by a blow from Edward's
pistol, which fell upon his forehead with
such violence that it laid bare the skull,
and prostrated the ruffian insensible, upon
the floor. While Flemrnr was contend-
ing with the most power~'ul of the band,
the remaining two seized Edward, and,
after a long but fierce struggle, bore him
back against the wall, and one of them,
drawim~ a knife, exclaimed, "Thus let
your secret die with you !" Aiming a
blow at his heart, the glittering blade was
descending, when the door was burst furi-
ously open, and five armed men rushed
into the room.
"We are betrayed !" shouted the mur-
derers; " but let us sell our lives dearly !"
The ruffian whom Clifton had knocked
down now sprang to his feet, and, retreat-
ing together, they fought with the fury of
despair. Fleming had effectually secured
the one he was contending with, and,
joining the rest of the party, he shouted,
"The tables are now turned, my merry
men-down with the vagabonds !"
The assailed discharged several pis-
tol-shots, and not without effect. A ball
passed through the fleshy p art of Edward's
arm, and another entered young David-
son's leg. A blow from Fleming's
clenched hand fell between the eyes of
the murderer with such tremendous force.
that it hurled him backwards, and his
head coming violently in contact with the
wall, he fell to the floor stiffened and
motionless. The other desperadoes, borne
down by superior numbers, were succes-
sively overcome and secured, and the vic-
tory was complete.
"Here, Fleming, as you are half a sur-
7

~'TON.                            97
geon, examine ~ ~ said
Edward.
"I think you are in the most danger.
Edward," observed the young man, "if I
may judge from the paleness of your
countenance. Yes, by heavens! staunch
this wound, Fleming, or it will soon let
out the life-blood."
"Water !" said Edward, faintly.
His coat was torn off; and the crimson
tide gushed afresh from a severe wound
in the ~rrn, above the elbow. Fleming
applied ~ude ,bandages, and soon arrested
the hemorrhage.
"Lead me to the open air. I shall soon
be better; the loss of blood was greater
than I supposed."
Fleming now examined Davidson's
wound, but declared that extracting balls
was beyond his skill. "You are in no
danger, my young friend," lie observed,
"but you will require the aid of Dr. Field-
ing. Speaking of the devil, how surely
he will appear. There he comes, as if es-
pecially sent by Providence, and with his
carriage, too !"
" But too late, I fear,'~ replied the Doctor,
jovially, "to do aught but minister to the
wounded."
"But how came you here, at alB" in-
quired Clifton.
"Why, you musty now, several of your
party are blessed with very warm female
friends; and aware of the impetuosity of
youth, they sent for me early this morning,
for the purpose of despatching me upon
your footsteps. I had ascertained you ex-
pected to meet the brigands somewhere in
this neighbourhood, and summoning a
body-guard of one magistrate, and half-a-
dozen men, we took the lower miU~.road
which, you know, is not half so long, and
by dint of hard driving here we are, ready,
my dear Davidson, to extract this ball,
thus !" And the skilful surgeon, who, du-
ring his speech had been actively em-
ployed, deposited the ball upon the table.
"And now," he coi~itinueafter having
examined and dressed Edward's arm
rather more scientifically," you and Wil-
liam must take my carriage, as fever might
ensue if you rode on horseback so far."
The cabin was now searched. Upon
the person of the one whom Edward sus-
pected of having committed the murder,
was found Freeman's watch, pocket-book,
and the handkerchief from which the
patch had been torn. To establish his
guilt beyond a doubt, his shoe correspond-
ed precisely with the measure which
Fleming had taken of the track, where the
hat of the murdered man had been found.


CLIFTON.                     99

98               CLIFTON.

At noon the party entered the village of
Stamford, which was thronged by people
from the country, who had been attracted
thither to learn the particulars of the tra-
gedy. The entrance of the felon and his
comrades, and the wounds of Edward and
Davidson. had the effect of increasing the
excitement, and as Clifton alighted at the
hotel upon the square, the crowd thick-
ened, and he could with difficulty reach
his apartment. As the manner in which
theprisoners were captured became known,
three loud and enthusiastic cheers ~vere
given for "Edward Clifton arid his gallant
companions !"
CHAPTER XXVI.
N
"'Tie midnight hour; from flower to flower,
The wayward zephyr floats along;
Or lingers in the shady bower,
To hear the night-bird's song."
IT ~vas several weeks after the eventE
transpired which were related in the lasi
chapter, before Edward called upon an~
of his female acquaintances. At length
one evening, wearied by intense applica
tion to his studies, and somewhat depiessct
in spirits by the gloomy November weather
he rang the door-bell at the residence o
Judge Douglass. In answer to his in
quiry if the ladies were at home, the ser
vant responded that his young mistress~
was ill, and Miss Drayton was making
preparations to return to the capital th(
following day.
come in! I am so glad to se
you !" joyfully exclaimed that lady, a
Clifton was closing the door. "Hov
could you absent yourself for sudh an age ~
and she came forward with a glad smil
as she extended her hand.
"It is difficult for one who has been s
often the recipient of your sarcasms, to be
hieve that his absence is remarked !"
"You cannot think so, Mr. Cliftor
At all events, if you do, I regret exceed
ingly that I have been so thoroughly mi~
understood! Pray be seated. Take thin
chair near the fire. Recollect, you ar
still an invalid." He was forced to carr
his arm in a sling.
"And how have~~ou a mused course
for so many weeks. he inquired.
"Indifferently well. At least, my thank
are scarcely due you for the aid whic
has been afforded me !" and her fair li~
slightly curled, as her foot agitated th

spotless drapery, which was visible below
the slightly elevated robe
"It is doubtless a great misfortune that
I have been prevented from enjoying more
of your society; by ~vhich I am the suf-
ferer, I beg you to remember, and not
yourself!"
"It is not too late !" replied the maiden,
gaily; "and if you do not intend to claim
exemption from the fate which you were
kind enough to say I inflicted upon my
admirers, why, you must come and see
me when you visit the city."
"I am truly obliged to you for the invi-
tation, and as there is no one I would
sooner be victimized by than your fair
ladyship, I may yet yield you a moment's
gratification, by suffering you to play upon
my heartstrings, whatever amount of men-
tal agony it causes me
The tone of sadness with which he con-
cluded (caused niore by a depression of
spirits than by the theme), at once thrilled
a tender chord in the breast of the lovely
girl. Her countenance became agitated,
and her bosom beat convulsively against
the rich bodice which confined it. Bend-
I ing forward, until those silken curls fell in
a luxuriant mass upon his hand, she said,
earnestly
"Mr. Clifton, you must not think me a
I cold, heartless woman. who seeks to win
the regard of your se~ but to trifle with
f their sensibilities. Because I have occa-
- sionally passed a merry hour in listening
- to the protestations of professional gallants,
do riot, I implore you, deem me so heart-
less as to cause a man of honour oi~e mo-
mentary pang !"
Warmed, in spite of himself, towards
the beautiful enthusiast Edward, gazing
s into those lustrous and passionate orbs,
r whose power he found more and more ir-
resistible, was upon the point of yielding
o to the impetuosity of his feelings, when
the door-bell rang, and Mrs. Broughton
o was announced.
"You perceive, I have been most un-
fortunate in thus interrupting a charming
i. t~te-~-t~te! Unless my presence has bin-
I- ken the current of your thoughts, I will
sometimes
withdraw, like a spectre that
Lt flits across the mirror of life."
e "Pray do nothing of the kind," laugh-
y ingly responded Virginia Drayton. "In
the first place, it would require a more
If vivid imagination than either Mr. Clifton
or I possess, to transform your exquisite
.s face and person into an apparition. Be-
h sides, his dignity would revolt at the idea
is of displaying so much weakness as a con-
e fidential t~te-ft-t~te would imply."

"What an inexplicable mortal !" men-
tally exclaimed Edward.
"Well, then, I will carry out my inten-
tion of passing a few minutes with you,
previous to your departure. Although I
have limited the duration of my call, never-
thelesh I have brought my work." And
she drew forth some portion of a female
habit.
Mrs. Broughton was twenty-fiveyears of
age, and had been two years married to
a gentleman nearly twice as old. It was
a marriage of convenience. He sought a
person, youthful and gay, to preside over
his household; while she desired a splen-
did establishment. Both were gratified,
and a union founded on esteem, had set-
tled dowii upon the broad, though not
always indestructible basis of affection.
The lady possessed a greater share of
personal attractions, than are usually be-
stowed upon her sex. Her form ~vas of
the medium height, but round and flexi-
ble. Her complexion was exceedingly
fair, her eyes gray, yet indescribably beau-
tiful, and expressive, while the full bosom
and alabaster shoulders, were surmounted
by an exquisitely moulded neck. The
small Norman feet were formed from
Nature's choicest pattern; and when she
walked, it was as though "money was
bet on her."
As the visitors rose to take leave, Miss
Drayton invited them to visit her at her own
residence. Edward could not fail to dis-
cover, what was perfectly natural, no doubt,
that she urged her request much more
strongly when addressing Miss Broughton,
than himself. He' sought to discover in her
eyes some qualification of her easy self-
possession, but they were cold and impas-
sive. The dewy lips of the females met.
~ custom more honoured in the
breach than the observance, particularly
before me," discontentedly remarked Ed-
ward.
'rhere is no pleasing these grumblers,~
retorted Virginia, gaily; "so we must e'en
do just as we please. One woald think that
they ought to consider themselves suffi-
ciently honoured by having permission to
take our hands-at parting ?"
The adieus were spoken, and Clifton
had closed the door, when Mrs. Broughton
requested him to return for her crochet-
bag. Entering the parlour, he discovered
Miss Drayton reclining upon the sofa, with
disordered dress, and her face concealed
in 1~ier hands. Hearing his footsteps, she
started passionately to her feet, and (lash-
ing away the tears that coursed (lown her

cheeks, she indignantly asked 4he cause
of his intrusion.
trust Miss Drayton will deem me
incapable of dishonourably attempting to
obtain a knowledge of her secrets. I
merely came as the messenger of Mrs.,
Bj~.ughton to obtain this bauble, and.hav-
ing (lone SO, I will no lono~er intrudeupon
your privacy.~~
Wounded at the implication upon hi~
motives which her language implied, he
turned haughtily away.
"Stay, do not let us part in anger; wear
this as a support to your wounded arm
and she tore from her rone the ribbon
that encircled it.
With a flushed cheek he withdrew
from her radiant presence, into the im-
penetrable gloom of night.
The dreary months of winter were num-
bered with the past, and spring had
again unlocked the frozen barrier which
shielded the germ of vegetation from the
frost. The season brought little change to
our hero, save an accumulation of busi-
ness, which had the effect of confining
him more closely to his office. During
the winter, his amusements consisted in
a morning canter ~upon his gallant horse;
and attendance upon the circuit court in
four counties. As the warm air of spring
unfolded the flo~vers, and caused the
leaves and blossoms to shoot forth with a
suddenness peculiar to a Southern climate,
his feelings assumed their wanted health-
fulness.
The grounds of General Foster. were
undergoing extensive and thorough repair,
and as the back door of Edward's office
opened into the garden, he was often re-
quested by the proprietor, to make such
suggestions as his taste night prompt.
At these conferences. Ellen Foster was
not present, although Edward frequently
saw her expanding and beautiful form
within the precincts of the garden. Once
she approached them unconsciously, but
when sternly admonished of her fault, she
retreated like a startled fawn. Grieved at
being the cause of this unfeeling rebuke,
he resolved not to enter the enclosure
again. Several weeks now passed ~vith-
out his seeing the beautiful nymph. The
harshness with which she was treated
enlisted his sympathies, as he traced to
that cause her pensive and thoughtful
expression.
As he was seated one night at an open
window, long after the town was locked
in ~deep, there came upon his ear sounds,
indistinct and low, like the wailing of a
person in deep 'distress. Keenly alive to


100
the unhappiness of others, he listened
anxiously to ascertain from whence the
sounds proceeded. Opening the door cau-
tiously, he entered the grounds of General
Foster, and advanced in the direction of
the bower, which was situated near the
centre of the enclosure. He ascertained
that the moaning came from thence, but
the thick foliage that clustered around
prevented him from discovering who was
the sufferer. Delicacy made him hesitate,
for a moment, what course to pursue.
What right had a stranger to intrude, when
he had no. power to relieve the anguish 3
He turned to depart, when a vehement
burst of grief arrested his footsteps.
"Why was I born, or ~vhen in exis-
tence, oh! why did my own mother die,
and leave me to the cruelty of a tyrannical
step-mother 3 If she had lived, I should
have been spared the agony of this horrible
moment. To die by my own hand! It
is frightful, yet not so terrible as a life,
into which is crowded the most intense
agony." A pause ensued, when the voice
spoke with more determination. "Yes,
better now than later; if I had one soli-
tary friend to console me, it might be
endured, but all are shut out, and I am
now absolutely alone. This knife is now
my only resource. t4od forgive me, and
receive my soul."
The bright blade was descending in the
direction of her heart, when her hand
was arrested by Edward, who exclaimed:
"Rash girl, what would you do 3"
Frightened by his sudden appearance,
and overpowered by the intensity of her
feelings, the unhappy girl fainted.
"I am too late~ she will die! what can
be done 3 No aid'at hand! Yes, it must be
so ;" and raising her form in his arms, he
bore her into his office, and laying her
upon the sofa, sprinkled water in her face.
"So young, so beautiful, and yet so
unhappy! God of heaven! neither poverty
nor wealth brings exemption from misery.
It was long before the maiden recovered
from her swoon; and when at last the
drooping lids xve~e raised, and she gazed
around the room~ it was with a bewilder~
ed air, until her glance encountered the
look of respectful sympathy which beamed
from his eyes. Then her head reclined
upon the cushion, and her overcharged
heart found relief in a torrent of tears.
Edward suffered her to weep undisturbed
for several minutes, when he addressed
her with a soothing voice.
"Indeed, you were wrong, young lady,
to raise your hand against the life which
God gave you."

~r '-I IN.                                                                   CLIFTON.                             101

"Perhaps I was," she sighed; "and
now the temptation is passed, I am grate-
ful for your interposition. But oh, sir, you
can scarcely imagine the mental agony I
am each day subjected to; it is enough to
drive me distracted," and she raised her
hands and clasped them passionately to-
gether, not suppose," said he ; "that an
Do
idle curiosity prompts me to solicit your
confidence. But if you will unburthen
your heart to me, I can sympathize with,
if I am unable to alleviate your suffer-
ings."
The manner of Clifton had the effect of
calming the agitated spirits of the young
girl. Gazing with her large, piercing
black eyes for a moment into his own,
she confidingly placed her hand in his, as
she said, "I have found a friend at last;
I know I cannot be niistaken, for I feel
relief here ;" and she placed her hand
upon her heart. "But I must go now,
my absence may be discovered, and you
know," said she innocently, "that I ought
not to remain here. If you will meet me
at the bower to-morrow night, two hours
earlier than it is now, I will make you my
confidalit. You do not think it will be
improper, do you 3" and she placed her
taper flng~rs upon his arm, and sought his
glance with her expressive eyes.
Edward paused in deep thought. It
would be a stain upon his honour, to ex-
pose that fair flower, who leaned upon
him so trustingly, to the hazard of being
surprised in his company; and yet how
could he prevent a recurrence of the ter-
rible fatality which threatened her exis-
tence, unless he was apprised of the
secrets which preyed upon mind 3
"Yes," said he, "I will meet you; but
once only, and as a brother might advise
a sister, against a threatening danger. But
how can you obtain admittance to-night 3"
"Oh, easily; my maid is aware of my
absence, and is now awaiting my return.~~
"She might have remained a long time
at her post."
Ellen shuddered. "Good night; many,
many thanks for your kindness. Do not
forget our interview !"
"Doubt me not."
And he saw her lithe and graceful
form slowly receding, with her head bent
sadly upon her bosom, until the shadowy
outlines were lost in the gloom.

CHAPTER XXVII.
"And bright
The lamps shone o'er fair women and brave men;
A thousand hearts beat happily; and when
Music arose with its voluptuous swell,
Soft eyes iook'd love to eyes which spake again,
And alt went merry as a marriage bell
BYRON.
"Served too in hastier swell to show
Short glimpses of a breast of snow."
SooTT.
"I AM glad, Mr. Clifton, you arrested
the rash attempt upon my life," said Ellen,
as they were seated in the arbour.
~ strange, that any one should wish
to terminate a career, for which the future
has so many bright promises.~)
"Where the present is embittered, hope
affords no balm."
"You are surrounded by wealth, and
n ear relations; what can cause you unhap-
piness ~
"Listen! My mother died when I was
a child. She was the kindest and most
affectionate being I ever beheld. Indeed
Mr. CliftonI have never known what~'
was to be loved by any other person.
My father married, two years ago, a young,
hard-hearted, and unfeeling woman, the
object of whose' existence is to lacerate
my feelings."
"Why do you not inform your father
of her conduct ~
"I did, but only met with stern rebuke.
My mother, who was as gentle as she was
affectionate, once told me, when my father
had left her in tears, that he had mar-
ried her because she was an heiress, an(l
after he had obtained her fortune, treated
her with coldness and contempt. His
aversion for his wife descended to her
offspring, and he has always repulsed my
affection.
"All this I could bear, if it was not for
the opprobrium which is daily heaped
up on the name of my angelic mother.
That arouses me to desperation."
"Your fate is a hard one."
"Yes, but now I can bear it more cheer-
fully, since I have you to console me."
And the maiden's eyelids drooped, until
they half concealed her lustrous orbs.
"How can 1 see you 3 I have never
been introduced to your step-mother, and
you are too young to receive visitors 3"
"Oh! they will not permit you to see
me. Our interviews must be here !"
"If we are not discovered. Still, when
spring and summer are gone, the cold
winds of autumn will keep you from the
arbour 3"

"Never! though the storm may rage,
my heart will be warm
There was no resisting the guileless
maiden, and Edward consented to meet
her, occasionally, in the bower.
"Do you know, Clifton !" said Dr.
Fielding, "our party talk of nominating
you to represent the county in the Legisla-
ture 3"
~ "Impossible !"
"True, I assure you. I am a member
of the county caucus, and you are a dele-
gate to the congressional and senatorial
convention, which assembles the same day
at Bergen. On your return, you will un-
doubtedly be apprised of your nomina-
tion !"
"I am exceedingly obliged to my
friends, and, Fielding, to yourself in par-
ticular, for this flattering assurance, but
really, nothing could be more injurious
than a compliance with your wishes."
"Why so3"
"It would interfere with my profession,
be unjust to my clients, and entangle me
irretrievably in politics !"
"As an offset, it will bring you in con-
tact with the most prominent men in the
state, and will enable you to pass a very
pleasant winter in the metropolis."
"But the contact will be upon a warm
platform, and the relaxation will distract
my attention from legal investigation.
Eecollect the fate of the Carthaginians at
Capua."
"Nothing is more common, than for
lawyers to perform their duties in the legis-
lative hall, and attend the sessions of the
Supreme Court."
"They are generally men who have
passed the heyday of youth, and are not
tempte(l by the fascinations of the capi-
tal."
"Very well, you can decline the nomi-
nation, if you please, but I am inclined to
think it will be made."
Clifton attended the convention at Ber-
gen. A long-established favourite was
nominated for re-election to Congress.
For the office of senator, Edward was
anxious 'to procure the position for his
friend Harden, who was, however, un-
known to the delegates from the other
counties. The recommendation ~vas so
earnest, that he was selected. On his re-
turn, and before he had entered the village
of Stamford, Edward was apprised of his
own nomination for the county. The
court met the following Monday. A large
crowd assembled, and clifton mounting
the rostrum, with many thanks for the
honour conferred upon him, declined the

'I U JN.


102                   CLIFTON.

nomination. Several months after, he at-
ten~led the Supreme Court. While passing
from the hotel to the hall of justice, he
met Virginia Drayton.
A warm blush stole across the face of
the lady, as she returne(1 liis salutation.
What is the name of that really fine-
looking gentleman, Virginia 3"
Mr. Edward Clifton; a person I picked'
up, a few months ~
"Another victim 3"
Not exactly, but he is in a transition
state."
The language which vanity prompted
her to utter, was unfortunately overheard
by the only person who had ever touched
her heart.
Edward had followed her footsteps, for
the purpose of ascertaining the number of
her residence, and was in the act of pro-
nouncing her name, when her ungracious
words fell upon his ear. He retraced his
steps on the instant.
It was a jam. The saloons were crowded
with gay women a d chivalrous men. The
parlour, hall, and chambers, were thronged.
Everywhere was that soft pressure, so en-
chanting to our sex, so graciously pardoned
by theirs. It was the Governor's reception.
These politicians have not grown gray in
protracted conflicts, without acquiring a
thorough knowledge of men. The Gover-
nor's salutations were as dissimilar as the
characters who presented themselves. It
was amusing to witness the versatility of his
talents. For, a successful contact with a
promiscuous multitude, is evidence of a
high order of intellect. To one, his man-
ner was frank, a sort of "give me a chew
of tobacco," familiarity; to another, his
greeting was deferential; a third, was wel-
comed with dignified courtesy. The de-
mocrats were received with congratula-
tions, and the whigs with a modest allu-
sion, "to the fortune of war."
"Governor, it will be our time next; so
prepare yourself!"
"I am always ready, Col. Blanchard, to
obey the voice of the people.-The Colonel
takes the defeat of his party sorely,
Judge 3" said his excellence, as the whig
leader mingled with the crowe.
"Yes, and it was an unexpected tri-
umph, and mainly attributable to your
own exertions."
"Thank you, Judge. How are you, Mack 3
Why, I have not seen you since that glori-
ous barbecue at the cross-roads; you have
been well, I hope 3 and the wife and little
ones 3"
"All well, Governor;and I reckon no
ond is more pleased at our triumph over

the Feds, than Mack Durkee. I callers told
you wouldd be so3"
"True, Mack, 1 recollect; now, go on,
yonder, you will find the table loaded with
fare, equaPto your barbecue."
Another party entered, in the midst of
which was a tall and commanding form.
"General, I am most happy to see you.
This is far more agreeable than our pro-
tracted contest upon the stump."
"It is doubtless, to you, Colonel, who
proved the victor."
"Another time, you may be the host,
and I the guest; these political revolutions
sometimes go backwards, you know."
"Yes, I have just witnessed an illustra-
tion of your remark, Goverr~or."
"Always severe. Let ray wife con(lole
with you; I believe she would have given
her influence for you, if I had not been a
candidate."
The crowd became more dense iii the
vicinity of these reno~vned competitors;
but separated again, as the Governor's wife
took the arm of his opponent.
"Your message was a capital docu-
ment," said Senator -. "It is rarely
that I have heard an executive commu-
nication so much lauded."
"Are there no complaints that it is too
radical in its conclusions 3"
"Sorrie of the old conservatives object
to it upon that account, but the pro-
gressive portion of the Legislature are in
ecstasies."
"I am sure it will take with the people,
especially the young men," continued the
Governor;" enough attention has not been
paid to that part of our population. They
will exercise within a fourth of a century,
a greater influence in this republic, than
the combined power of wisdom and age.
You must address yourself to them, if you
would succeed in doubtful struggles. The
great political lever is enthusiasm; once
enlist it in your cause, and your triumph
is certain. Youth alone is enthusiastic.
For the future, I play to win the young
men."
At this moment Edward presented him-
self, He was well known to the Governor.
"Mr. Clifton, this is an unexpected ho-
nour. When did you arrive in town 3"
"Yesterday; and hearing you had a
public reception to-night, I tookthe liberty
of paying my respects."
"You are thrice welcome. I heard of
your refusal to accept a seat in the Legisla-
ture. Perhaps you were right, yet your
ultimate career must be the political arena.
You have too many elements of success

6

CLIFTON.                     108

to devote a lifetime to the drudgery of
the law."
Edward bowed. The compliment was
gratifying, but he was annoyed that His
Excellence had observed the skill with
which the shaft had been launched. He
was advancing into the room, when the
Governor arrested his ~steps, and calling to
his side a graceful maiden, he said-
"Blanche, this is ray friend. He is a
stranger in the city, and unknown to our
guests. Mr. Clifton, my niece. Don't turn
her head, she is yet a sehool.girl.~~
She raised a pair of laughing eyes to
Edward's face, for the purpose of con-
vincing him that there was no danger,
and taking hjs arm, they were borne by
the gay throng into the interior of the
Executive mansion.
"Am I to keep you out of danger by
appropriating you to myself, or shall I
lead you into harm's way by introducing
yu to some fair lady 3" said the merry
girl.
"I think I am in as much peril now as
I can resist."
"Oh !" putting her hand upon her
mouth, "what did uncle tell you ~
"He ought to have told me that I was
in more danger than his niece."
"You are incorrigible ~ replied the
laughing girl.
At all events, I am satisfied with my
fate, and in that respect resemble certain
persons we read of, ~vho hug the chains
which enslave them.'
"The literal translation whereof reads
thus: Mr. Clifton ~vill accept the protec-
tion of Miss Blanche for at least fifteen
minutes, or until some more attractive
damsel crosses his path. You see I under-
stand human nature, if I am a school-girl."
They entered the room occupied by the
dancers. Conspicuous among them, Ed-
ward discovered Miss Drayton; she was
waltzing with a young and dashing mem-
ber of the Governor's staff. Their looks
met. The recognition of .the lady was
cordial, Edward's frigid. He was soon
whirling the flexible form of his partner
around the room. In the throng there
were, unavoidably, many collisions, but
they had thrice traversed the rlpartment
with out accident, wh~ the pressure in
one corner became so dlose that the bro-
cade skirts of a dark-eyed lady partly en-
circled the form of our hero. With a
graceful self-possession she released him,
and he found himself in the presence of
Ellen Foster's step-mother. He bowed
low, in acknowledgrndjit of her-.
"I beg your pardon'~ sir."

Before they could resume the waltz, and
while Clifton's arm encircled the waist of
his partner, she observed-
"What! you two reside in the same vil-
lage, and not acquainted 3 That will never
do. Mri. Foster, allow me to present my
prot~g~, Mr. Clifton."
"You know, Blanche, I have not min-
gled in society, lately, owing to the death
of a near relative."
"Ah, that accounts for it."
"When did you leave Stamford, Mr.
Clifton 3"
"Day before yesterday."
"Do you know if our family were all
well 3"
"I saw General Foster within the~ hour
of my departure, and he assured me they
were all in perfect health."
Mrs. Foster was splendidly dressed. Her
robe was made of the costliest brocade
silk. Upon her head she wore a tiara of
diamonds, which scarcely surpassed in
beauty the luxuriant folds of her jet-black
hair.
"While our partners are conversing, let
us take a ~ said the gentleman to
Blanche.
"Why I shall leave him in the very
jaws of temptation."
"Never fear; he is safe with me."
Edward thought it was strange that such
a lovely woman could be so cruel. Her
complexion was exceedingly fair, her
eyes, as black as night, had no "lurking
devil in them." Her shoulders were as
white as Parian marble, and the round
full form, had all the flexibility of youth~
He looked for the cloven foot, but his
glance fell upon small pedestals trimly en-
cased in satin slippers.
"'Tis very strange !" he mentally ex-
claimed. "I will know more of her.~'
"Our partners have deserted us. Will
you be the substitute of iVliss Blanche for
this polka 3"
"With pleasure."
As they wound through the fairy maze,
her eloquent eyes were raised for fleeting
moments to his o~vn, and her fragrant
breath played upon his cheek. Away
they sped, as sparkling eyes, glittering
diamonds, fluttering dresses, flying feet,
and pliant limbs floated past. At first his
partner moved with ease, scarce resting
her taper fingers upon his arm, while his
hand barely touched her waist. But as
they proceeded she claimed more support.
His arm, tightening upon her zoned rew
the yielding form nearer to his person, th~
tiny hand was elevated to his shoulder,
and her respiration became more rapid~ as


104

CLI FTON.

the warm blood tinged her cheek with a  "Mother don't approve of school-girls
rich bloom, ~vhile the drooping lids half indulging in strong drink."
concealed the languishing, but expressive  "Not champagne ?"
black eyes. As the music ceased, Vir-  "Ha! ha! that reminds me of ~ class-
~ginia Drayton advanced, and grasped Mrs. mate who was told not to be tempted by
Foster's hand with much cordiality. Ed- the powers of darkness. She naively in-
ward bowed to his partner, and joined quired, 'What, not by the Prince of dark-
Blanche.                            ness?'"
"What is the matter with Miss Dray-  They returned to the parlour. The en-
ton ?" she inquired. '/ Is she struck with livening strains of music had already
your appearance as a stranger, or have called the dancers to the floor.
you quarrelled ?"                     As Edward was leaving the festive
"Why do you ask the question ?"   scene, he met Virginia Drayton. Anxiety
"Because I have noticed her eyes fixed was imprinted upon her countenance, and
upon you, with a painful earnestness for as he was passing her with a haughty
the last half hour." ' bow, she said, in a voice which trembled
"You imagined such was the case." with the excess of her emotion-
"No, but I did not; even now, as you "Why is your conduct so cruel and un-
left her, a warm blush which mantled her generous ?"
cheek was succeeded by a deathlike "No one can answer that question more
pallor. Look for yourself." readily than Miss Drayton ?"
Clifton turned his eyes to the centre of "If I have done aught to give you of-
the room, but the forms of Miss Drayton fence, I regret it exceedingly."
and Mrs. Foster were no longer visible.  "Your language is not susceptible of
"You must seek the fair dame, and explanation."
make an apology."                     She drew her form up in all the majesty
"The search would be bootless; besides, of its commanding proportions, and her
I have no apology to-make."         eyes flashed with intolerable fire, as Ed-
"Let us proceed, then, to the supper- ward turned on his heel and withdrew.
table. I must confess myself most unro- A few evenings after the Governor's re-
mantically hungry; are not you ?" caption, our hero called upon Mrs. Foster.
As they edged their way through the She frankly held out her hand, and invited
crowd, she whispered- him to take a seat beside her upon the sofa.
"This would all be very nice, if there Her appearance was youthful, for she
were not so many common people present.~~ scarcely numbered twenty-three years.
"Why, you little aristocrat, have not There was a winning softness and inde-
common people votes ?" scribble grace in her manner, totally in-
"Certainly; but you know there are as consistent with the remorseless character
many among the whigs as in the ranks of which Ellen had portrayed.
the democracy. So they neutralize each "I have just received a letter from Gene-
other." ral Foster," she observed," informing me
"What shall I help you to ?"      that business engagements will prevent
"A bit of partridge. I should think him from coming for me before the last
others were blessed with appetites as well of next week. I am anxious to return
as ourselves, from the appearance of these day after to-morrow."
tables. Would you believe it, Mr. Clifton, "I shall start for Stamford that day, my-
they were loaded down before the guests self, and if I can be of service, I hope you
arrived. I am afraid the Governor's hos- will command me."
vitality will be questioned. These whigs "Oh! thank you! By what conveyance
are a prying set of fellows. If they can did you come to the city ?"
take an inventory of the President's gold "On horseback."
spoons, why may they not report the state "If you will take a seat in our carriage,
of the Governor's larder? But I beg your and let my footman ride your horse, I shall
pardon; perhaps you are a whig," said consider it a great favour."
she, innocently.                      "Certainly; with much pleasure !"
"Not I; as far from it as your uncle is "Now that is arranged, what did you
from parsimony. See! the tables are co- think of the persons whom you met at the
vered again."                       Governor's ?"
"Well done, uncle! they have not    "I observed very few, and those were
caught you unprepared this time."   agreeable."
"Wi you o me the honour of taking   "Especially the fair Blanche?"
wine with me?"                        "Is she not piquant ?"

CLII

"Yes; shei s a great favourite of mine.
Then, she waltzes so gracefully !"
"Not so well as you do !"
"Do you think not? It makes my feet
sore here,~~ and she touched the instep.
Edward had never seen anything so beau-
tifully shaped, except Alice Howard's.
As he rose to take his leave, she ob-
served, "Do not forget that we start early
the day after to-morroW."
"I shall be prepared."
As he wended his way to the hotel, he
resolved to fathom her character, andif
possible, to acquire an influence over her
which should ameliorate the condition of
her unhappy step-daughter.
The following night he was invited to
attend a meeting of the Democratic mem-
bers of the Legislature, at the mansion of
the Governor. The assemblage was in-
formally organized by the appointment of
an aged S enato rasChairman. The ques-
tion under consideration was the prospects
of the party at the next Presidential elec-
tion.
"I attribute the cause of our defeat in
1840," said the Speaker of the House, "to
- the cold and phlegmatic temperament of
Mr. Van Buren. It is useless to disguise
the fact, that the influence of General Jack-
son elected him in 1836. He has always
been a dead weight upon our party.
There are no elements about the man to
create enthusiasm, and he is most popu-
lar with persons who have never seen
him. A selfish man will always become
odious, because his enemies will assail,
and he has no admirers to defend him.
Our candidate in 1840 had no supporters
who would sacrifice for his advancement
what General Jackson's would for him.
He never made a favourable impression
upon them. They* left his presence as-
sured of the overwhelming selfishness of
the man. A Northern editor, who had sa-
crificed large sums for him in the canvass
of 1836, called upon the President. He
was shown into the parlour, and congratu-
lated himself upon having a private inter-
view with the Executive. Mr. Van Buren
entered, and throwing himself into an easy
chair, seemed more interested in contem-
plating a well-fitting boot than in making
a favourable impression upon his sup-
porter. No one likes to be treated with
indifference, and the editor left the White
House, thoroughly despising its' occupant.
In selecting a candidate for the next con-
flict, let us choose one who is personally
popular. It is the personal bearing of Mr.
Clay which renders him the terror of the
democracy. Thousands of devoted hearts

~TON.                            105
rally around the gallant leader, and nothing
but his principles excludes him from the
Presidential chair."
"There is undoubtedly much force in
the remarks of my friend," observed a
gray-headed Senator, "but there wen
other elements which contributed to our
defeat. The feelings of our people were
aroused in behalf of the Canadian patriots,
and thousands were indignant at the pro-
clamation of Mr. Van Buren. In the
northern tier of States, it lost him the sup-
port of entire masses. It is absolute folly
to suppose that resistance can be offered,
with impunity, to the participation of the
Americans in thu struggles of contiguous
States f~r freedom and independence.
While the Northern States were expressing
their interest in the Canadian struggle, ten
thousand rifles were grasped for the pur-
pose of driving the Mexican invader from
the soil of Texas. These facts must not
be overlooked. The sympathies of our
population will always be excited in the
cause of a people struggling to free them-
selves from oppression. This ingredient
will enter into every Presidential contest
until the continent is brought under the
protection of the stars and stripes. Shrewd
politicians float on the current; theydo
not attempt toNresist it."
After he had resumed his seat, there was
a pause, when Edward rose to address
the chairman. "While I admit," he ob-
served, "that the personal bearing of Mr.
Van Buren, as well a~ his proclamation,
contributed largely to his disgraceful de-
feat, still, there were other causes which
operated more powerfully. The rag-cur-
rency with which the country was flooded
by worthless institutions, had brought ruin
to the hearthstones of thousands. A gene-
ral bankruptcy pervaded the whole land,
and a shout was raised for a change of ad-
ministration. In vain our stump-speakers
explained the causes of the wide-spread
disaster; they were answered, 'Our con-
dition cannot be worse!' It was the al-
mighty dollar which decided the Presi-
dential contest of 1840. There were ac-
cessories other than those referred to by
the two gentlemen. A leading principle
of the Democratic party, since it was or-
ganized by Mr. Jefferson, has been the ac-
quisition of territory. Upon that question
thetwo great factions have been divided.
The cold reception which the cabinet of
Mr. Van Buren gave to the application of
Texas for admission into the Union, gave
umbrage to the progressive democracy.
He did not keep pace with public opinion,
and no laggard can arrest the attention of


106                          OlAF
our enthusiastic population. They will
have more land. It is useless to resist the
impulse; it will prostrate everything that
opposes it. Every contiguous acre of land
will be annexed until the continent is ours.
The democratic columns are filled with
ardent progressionists, who will be driven
into the Whig ranks if this portion of
the Democratic creed is abandoned. The
very boldness of the policy, and its mani-
fest tendency to enlarge the area of free-
dom, wins to its support thousands of rest-
less spirits, who despise the timid and con-
servative principles of the Whig party.
"The programme of the last campaign
displayed the most stupid ignorance of
human nature. It must be discarded
hereafter. We entered the political arena,
openly proclaiming that no appeal was to
be made to the enthusiasm of the voters.
We were determined to rely upon the jus-
tice of our cause. Nothing could have
been more fatal than this annunciation.
There are always enough men to turn the
scale in a Presidential election, who re-
gard it a~ a kind of jubilee. Theylike
to rally beneath partisan banners. Excite-
ment has more effect upon them than an
appeal t~ their judgments. There was
another radical defect in our tactics. We
have hit l~erto nominated very respectable,
but super~nnuated old men upon the elec-
toral ticket, under the erroneous impres-
sion that their names would make con-
verts of our opponents. This is a fatal
mistake. We want active, vigorous men,
who will mount the stump, and for half a
year's campaign proclaim the dogmas of
the Democratic party. We want no more
hackneyed politicians who have outlived
enthusiasm. Let us have ardent, impetu-
ous, hopeful young men, who can inspire
hope in others; men with warm imagina-
tions and generous impulses; then, victory
will certainly crown our efforts!"
As Edward concluded, there was a
warm demonstration of applause. The
Governor, who had entered the room as
h~ commenced, now advanced, and said,
as he cordially shook his hand,
"You have taken a correct view of the
case, and I tha~k you for so ably express-
ing         which I have lonr enter-
opinions                b
tamed. Your speech to-night," he con-
tinued, in a low tone, "will place you
upon the electoral ticket."
N

T  N.C L I F T 0 N.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

"r loved him as a young genius ioves,
- when its own mild and radiant heaven
Of stormy thought burns with the iight,
The love, the life, by passion given.
r loved him, too, as woman loves-
Reckless of sorrow, sin, or scorn:
Life had no evil destiny
That, with him, I could not have borne."
LANDON.
IT was a bright morning in October-
that most delightful of all the months of
the year-when General Foster's carriage
left the metropolis. His fair wife and
Edward Clifton were its sole occupants.
A heavy frost was fast disappearing before
the sun's rays, but its blight was indicated
by the falling leaves, which descended in
continuous masses to the earth. The sap
-that life-blood of the trees-was con-
gealed, and the forest appeared in undress.
The uninterrupted descent of the variega-
ted foliage alone disturbed the profound
stilliiess which reigned in the xiToo(l.
The spirited horses had traversed a
score of miles, and were now ascending
a range of hills which led to the high-
lands between the metropolis and Stam-
ford.
"What could be more charming than a
scene like this ~" said the lady, as she.
threw herself back in the carriage, after a
long survey of the valley through which
they had just passed.
"Nothing, I am sure," responded Ed-
ward, "especially with a companion who
can appreciate its beauties."
"That is true," she sighed: "Unfortu-
nately, the General has no eyefor Nature's
loveliness."
"Pardon me, madam, I think you do
him injustice; in the choice of a compa-
nion he has exhibited a decided apprecia-
tion of the beauties of Nature."
"You are very complimentary, Mr.
Clifton," replied the lady in a reserved
tone; but Edward saw, nevertheless, a
pleased expression steal, like a flitting
shadow, across her countenance.
"No, if you please; I am simply just."
"Do you see that lofty peak, where the
opening trees give us a view of the moun-
tain range P'
"What, the cone separated from us
scarce one-fourth of a mile ~
"Yes. The summit of that rock affords
a magnificent prospect of the surrounding
country."
"Have we not sufficient time to exa-
mine it ~"
"If it would afford you pleasure. We
may as well let the horses rest here as
anywhere else. Alfred, take them from

107

the carriage, and then carry this basket to They returned to the carnage, and as
the top of the mount." the atmosphere became more chilly the
Gracefully tripping along the path, Mrs. top was raised, and the windows were
Foster led the way to the base of the cone. closed. Edward could scarcely believe
The ascent was steep, and the summit the gifted and gentle being at his side was
would have been inaccessible but for the ever transformed into a domesticc tyrant.
rude steps which had been cut in the Her blooming cheek rested upon one hand,
earth and rocks. With the assistance of while the fingers of the other toyed with
her companion, she was soon reclining her hair, now running through the mass
upon the moss-covered stone which formed of curls, and anon pressing a ringlet to her
the apex of the mound. At their feet rosy mouth.
yawned a precipice that appeared of illi- "It shall be my duty to unmask you,"
mitable depth. Far down, the tops of the he mentally exclaimed; "this fair exterior
loftiest pine and cypress mingling together, shall not deceive me."
appeared like the smooth outlines of the "How do you like a married life l" he
most delicate shrubbery. On their right, inquired.
the brow of the mountain jutted boldly She shrugged her pretty shoulders. "In-
into the blue ether, or receded into the differently well. I think a girl is foolish
thick, stunted trees, which bristled like to wed before she is twenty-five. It is
coarse hair upon its front. Before them hard to surrender all the attentions which
was spread out ten thousand 'acres of are bestowed upon a maiden, and to settle
arable land, checked by fences, traversed down into the sober matron."
by thoroughfares, and dotted here and "But following the customs of the
there with elegant mansions or rustic cot- French, the, married ladies of the metro-
tages. Edward gazed upon the scene polis receive more attention than the girls;
with looks, of admiration. As he turned at least I thought so."
his glance to Mrs. Foster, her eyes were "Even there, the social regulations of
fixed upon his countenance, as if she was Paris are not received without condemna-
observing the effect of the prospect upon tion, and their importation into Stamford
him~ would cause a rebellion."
"It is grand, is it not h" she inquired.  "Yes, small places are censorious."
"I have rarely seen it equalled."    "I have a kind and affectionate hus-
"If it has not taken away your appe- band, however, to console me for the
tite, suppose we have a lunch." change of life."
"I see no materials, unless you possess "Is he the only member of your fami-
the power that multiplied the five loaves ly Y'
and two fishes."                       "No, I have a step-daughter."
"Why, Mr. Clifton, you ought to be "She must contribute largely to your
anathematized !" amusement."
"My allusion is surely not profane, "She does."
when reference is made to a divinity."  Edward saw a sarcastic smile play upon
"Isee you are incurable," replied the her lips, but it quickly faded into a sad
lady, with a shake of her head, suffi- and pensive expression.
ciently decisive to cause a mass of curls As the gloom of night usurped the
to play upon her cheek. power of day, they entered the village of
"Alas! madam, I fear it is so."    Stamford. Before Clifton bade her adieu,
"Er~ugh. heP that basket, if you she invited him to call and see her often.
r eyebrows were contract- Proceeding to his office, his name was
ed into a slight frown. The lips, however, softly pronounced, and, casting his eyes,
qualified the stern expression of her fore- upwards to the balcony, he beheld for a
head.                                moment the joyous countenance of Ellen
"Ho~v well you have provided for our as she kissed her hand, before she disap-
journey.~~                           peered.
"I did it to avoid stopping at a country  When she entered the bower, where he
tavern, which is my abhorrence."     had been for some time awaiting her, the
"Cold chicken, ham, partridge, bread, maiden was sobbing violently.
cake, champagne. It should have beesi  "Ellen, what can have troubled you i"
my care to provide all this."          "Oh, Mr. Clifton, I am so unhappy!
"But, man-like, you thought only of The only exemption from misery which I
the present."                        have for months known, was dunn gher
"You will pardon me, if that is all I absence; but now she has returnedand
think of now."                       more vindictive than ever." And then

T O N.


108                   CLIFTON.                                                         CLIFTON.                     109

she wept as though her heart would
break.
"Do not distress yourself so much," he
said, in a soothing voice, as he took her
hand. "I think in less than six months I
shall be able to shield you from her vio-
lence."
"I shall be so thankful. You do not
know how much I have missed you,"
she said, as she smiled through her tears.
"I should have been very unhappy, if I
had not formed the acquaintance of Mr.
Davjdson."
"Indeed, so you have a beau, have
you~"
"Not that. No, I have only seen him
four times."
"Lasting impressions can be made upon
susceptible hearts in less than four inter-
views. But he is a noble fellow."
"I am glad you think so, Mr. Clifton.
He is so kind, and I am so grateful, be-
cause I have never been treated kindly
by any persons except you and Mr. Da-
"I see how it is; we shall have a mar-
riage in about four years.7~
"Oh, no; I am only fourteen."
"And will you not be eighteen then V'
"But Mr. Davidson has not talked of
love to me."
"He would be an impetuous fellow if
he did, thus early. But 1 dare say his
eyes expressed it."
"I don't know, for I did not look at
him."
"You will not care to meet me here
again, now."
"That is unkind," she said, reproach-
fully; "~ere you not my earliest friendV'
"Adieu, then."
"Good bye.~~ And she put her arm
around his neck and half embraced him,
before she bounded along the gravelled
walk which led towards the mansion.
CHAPTER XXIX.
"When last we met, I swore our next encounter
Should be the unsparing strife of life and death I"
OEHLEN5CHLAGER.
"Odwards die many times before their deaths;
The valiant never taste of death hut once.
Of all the wonders that I yet have heard,
It seems to me most strange that men should fear;
Seeing that death, a necessary end,
Will come when it will come."
SJIAK5PEARR.
GENERAL HARRISON did not long survive

his elevation to the Presidency. His suc-
cessor failed to win the confidence of the
Whig party, and the fierce denunciations
pf its great leader, were leyelled at his
head. Posterity will form an impartial
judgment, as to the merits of the quarrel4
between John Tyler, and the voters who
elected him. He was accused of having
o~~ned negotiations for the annexation of
Texas, for the purpose of prolonging his
political power. Steps had been taken by
the democrats, whigs, and Tyler men, to
hold conventions for the purpose of open-
ing the campaign of 1844.
"How are you; Clifton ~ I am glad to see
you," said Clarendon, as he entered Ed-
ward's office, accompanied by Dr. Field-
ing.
"The happiness is mutual. Sit down.
It is long since I had the pleasure of see-
ing you. Fielding, how isyour healthV'
"'Tis surprising, Clifton, how these
physicians always keep in good health,
and yet they never take any of their own
pills. How do you account for it ~"
"Exercise in the open air, and a con-
sciousness of doing good, are undoubtedly
the principal ~
"You are far too charitable. They
strikingly illustrate the follies of human
nature. The fear of death makes us
seek the aid of a physician, with some-
thing of that desperate confidence which
the Catholic exhibits ~vhen claiming the
intercession of the priest, and with just as
slight a prospect of SuCCC5S."
"So far as honesty is exhibited by the
two pr4ofessions,~~ retorted Fielding, "I
think honours are easy. There is one thing
I can say of ours, however. No fee is
sufficiently large, to induce us to sell our
opinions to tile first ragamuffin who
chances to bid for them."
"If you do not sell your opinions,
you adhere to them, right or wrong, with
dogmatical obstinacy, even if it causes
the death of your patients."
"Come, gentlemen, you are getting
heated. That is wrong, among friends;
let us change the subject," said Clifton.
The eyes of his companions flashed fire,
but with an effort, they controlled their
feelings.
art nominate for the
"Harry of the West, and by acclama-
tion."
"But if he opposes the annexation of
Texas 'P'
"He will not be so blind as to do that."
"I am nOt so certain. The National

Intelligencer and Louisville Journal are
openly denouncing the movement. Would
they do this without the sanction of Mr.
Clay ~ Come in, Judge Douglass. Mr.
Senator Harden, you are welcome."
"You are correct, Mr. Clifton. Henry
Clay must oppose the annexation 6f Tex-
as,' observed Judge Douglass.
"He will be driven to it by two consi-
derations. That portion of the Whig party,
at the North tainted with abolitionism,
will require it. If the question becomes
popular, John Tyler will claim the fruits,
so that opposition is Mr. Clay's only re-
"Who will be your candidate, Clifton ~'
"The chances are in favour of Mr. Van
Btiren."
"The opinion he last expressed upon
the subject, was adverse to annexation."
"That was several years ago.~~
"You will find," said the Judge, "he
does not keep pace with the desire for
more land, which influences the Demo-
cratic party ~"
" He will be cast overboard then, 7~ said
Harden, promptly.
"It is barely possible," interposed Ed-
ward, "thath e will array himself against
the measure. The Washington Globe,
edited by his friend Blair, is advocating
the movement with great power.7~
"And then he has the example of Ge-
neral Jackson, to urge him onwards,~) said
the Senator.
"But the opposing influences are
equally powerful," replied the Judge. "A
large majority of Northern politicians have
taken a stand against the acquisition; he
is in their midst, and more likely to be
controlled by sectional prejudices, which
are constantly whispered in his ear, than
by the distant muttering of public senti-
ment."
"Whatever course the politicians ma y
have taken, in a moment of resentment,~7
observed our hero, "the acquisition of
contiguous territory, has become a part of
the Democratic faith. The rank and file
of the party, North and South, are commit-
ted to it, unalterably. The annexation of
Texas will become popular throughout
the Union."
"If that is the case, what will you do
with its projector, President Tyler ~"
"We shall have nothing to do with
him," said Fielding; "we never deal in
cast ~
"Byt he way, Judge,~) remarked Har-
den, "it is curious how fiercely your party
assail the man whom you so recently
elevated to the presidency of the senate ~"

"Not at all. He richly deserved it
from the voters whom he had betrayed ~'
"I must be excused for dissenting from
your conclusions. John Tyler has always
been opposed to the measures which Mr.
Clay urged upon him with so much per.
"But did he not shed tears because
Mr. Clay was not nominated, instead of
General Harrison V' responded the Judge,
warmly.
"I discover, you are as sensitive as the
rest of the whigs, upon the subject. But
let us treat it with coolness and good-na.
ture. The sole pretext for the remorseless
attack upon the President of the United
States, is the shedding of tears at Harris-
burg. That Mr. Tyler admired Mr. Clay,
as much as he despised Martin Van Bu-
ren, is undeniable. But if the President is
to be denounced for urging the nomina-
tion of the Kentuckian at Harrisburg, with
a perfect knowledge of his principles, is
not the great statesman just as culpable
for advocating the election of Captain Ty-
ler, with his opinions recorded in the jour-
nals of the Senate ~
"Well put, by Jove 1" exclaimed Field-
ing.
"But he was bound in honour to carry
out the principles of the party that elect-
ed him."
"I deny the proposition in toto. He
was not called upon, by honour or duty, to
abandon those principles which he h ad,
over and over again, declared to be essen-
tial to the prosperity of the American con-
federacy. He would have been a. traitor,
doubly damned, if he had bartered his opi-
nions to subserve the purposes of Henry
Clay. No, sir!" exclaimed Harden, be-
coming excited himself. "1 can tell you
the cause of the onslaught, which for ran-
cour has no parallel in the history of
political warfare. John Tyler was not
satisfied ~vith being an accidental Presi-
dent. He was playing for the succession.
This interfered with the programme of the
Western orator. John Tyler must be
headed, at all hazards, and hence bank
charters, fiscal agencies, and a whole brood
of wild and destructive measures, were
hurried through Congress, and presented
to the executive, with a perfect assurance
that he would exercise the veto power.
When lie had verified their mental pre-
dictions, the cry of traitor was raised in
the Senate, it was echoed in the House of
Representatives, and found a response
wherever a Clay man could be found.
Harry of the West ~has attained his object.
Captain Tyler is prostrate and powerless."


110

C L I F T 0 N.

"If we have treated him so ungracious-
ly, why do not the democracy rally around
him'? They are expert in winning sym-
pathy'?"
"I can tell you, Mr. Clarendon. The
democracy are not in the habit of select-
ing their candidates from the ranks of
their opponents !"
"But, according to your own statement,
John Tyler is more of a democrat than a
whig'?"
"He has nevertheless been damned
with knowledge of you. Besides, his ap-
proval of the bankrupt law, is an insur-
mountable barrier to our support !"
"But suppose, Mr. Harden, Van Buren
opposes the annexation of Texas. What
course will your party adopt ~
"They will verify the doctrine, that we
adhere to principles, not men
"And select some other candidate ~
"Assi~iredly !"
"What will the whigs do, if Mr. Clay
unites with his hereditary foe, in attempt-
ing to crush John Tyler and the Texas
movement together ~
"They will turn their backs upon a
long-cherished favourite," replied Claren-
don.
"I predict that they will truckle to the
imperious dictator," observed Fielding.
"Your uncourteous reference to the
whig pa~y is quite as unwarrantable as
the flinj' at Henry Clay," replied the im-
petuot~ Clarendon.
He th ad met a person, unfortunately, as
fiery as himself. The countenance of
Fielding grew pale, and his lips quivered
as he exclaimed.
"The annunciation of a truth may
sometimes p rove unpalatable, but cannot
be regarded as discourteous ~
"There was no foundation for your
ungentlemanly ~ exclaimed
Clarendon passionately. "It was both
false and gratuitous.~~
"That is sufficient, sir !" said Fielding,
as with a powerful effort he controlled his
indignation. "Gentlemen, good night !"
and he left the office.
"Come, Clarendon," said Judge Dou-
glass, "you were too quick. You ought
to apologize."
"Never! I have heard these rude allu-
sions to th'~ Whig party and its great
leader often enough. I will suffer it no
more !"
"You will have to fight half the county
then," said Harden jocularly.
"Very good; I may as well commence
with the Doctors,~~ retorted Clarendon reck-
lessly.

In fifteen minutes, young Davidson en-
tered. He was the bearer of a challenge.
A duel was arranged. The young men
were to meet in the Glen at six o'clock the
next morning. Although Edward as the
friend of both parties, declined acting as
the second of either, still he determined
to be present, for the purpose of effecting
a reconciliation, if possible. Late at night
he entered Fielding's office. The lamp
was burning, but the young physic ian was
not in the room. Opening the door which
led into the sleeping apartment, he beheld
the Doctor seated by the fire, absorbed in
deep thought.
"Fieldince cannot this affair be amica-
bly adjusted'?"
"It is impossible. The insult was too
gross.~~
"But if he apologizes'?"
"I do not think he will; and if he does,
in my present state of mind I would reject
all explanations."
"Why'?"
"Because he is altogether too impe-
rious, and wants chastising."
"If you lose your life in the attempt'?"
"It will be my destiny !" and lie
shrugged his shoulders.
"Davidson is your second; who is Cla-
rendon's'?"
"Captain Morgan."
"Harden, Douglass, and myself, will be
present.~~
"Take care that no 6ne else is apprised
of the meeting, or we will have the hounds
of justice upon our footsteps.~~
"What are your weapons'?~~
"
~' And the distance'?"
"Will be determined upon the ground.~.~
"Good night. I regret the quarrel."
"It will be all the same, one hundred
years hence."
"Perfectly reckless !" muttered Edward,
as he closed the office door.
The May morning dawned fair and
cloudless. A warm rain, during the night,
refreshed the flowers, and the forest im-
pregnated the atmosphere with sweet
odours. As Clifton and his companions
attained the highland which overlooked
the Glen, a thin vapour curled upwards
from the bosom of the lake, and like the
removal of breath from a mirror, it dis-
closed the smooth and transparent surfa~e.
"Fielding is already upon the ground,'~
observed Harden.
"I do not see him," said the Judge.
"Look yonder, where the scanty under-
brush gives you an indistinct view of the
shore."

C L IFT ON.

"True !"
The sound of horses' feet rapidly ad-
vancing, was heard, and Clarendon and
his second dashed up. They were all
soon assembled upon the beach.
~CWe must lose no time !" said Cia-
rendon, eagerly. "I fear the constables
have obtained information of our move-
ments."
"It is not our fault that the affair is not
over now,~~ said his antagonist, in a low
tone, as he glanced at his watch.
"Another taunt, Dr. Fielding !" replied
Clarendon, fiercely. "Captain Morgan
could tell you that we were detained"-
"Not another word !" interrupted the
Captain. "He who impugns our honour
makes an enemy of me."
Although he despaired of success, Ed-
ward attempted to effect a reconciliation.
The refusal was positive. Captain Mor-
gan touched his hat to young Davidson,
and they walked aside.
"I have my own pistols, Mr. Davidson;
I thought they were better than any you
could procure on so short a notice."
"Thank you, Captain."
"They are loaded alike; you can take
your choice."
'' Your word is sufficient; either will
do."
"At what distance shall they fire'?"
"I am instructed to insist upon five
paces.~~
"Why that will never do. It is mur-
derous !" ejaculated Clarendon's second.
"My orders are positive !" said the
other, firmly.
"Ten is the usual number. I will con-
sult my principal."
"Yes, yes !" said Clarendon, impa-
tiently. "We will insert the muzzles of
our weapons in each other's mouths, if he
is willing. An'?Jthing to avoid the inter-
ference of the officers."
The ground was measured. Five short
paces between time and eternity. The
combatants faced each other. Fielding
was calm and collected. His countenance
was resolute, and his commanding figure
was drawn up to its full height. Claren-
don's face was flushed with auger, and
his graceful form trembled with passion.
As the words "Make ready I" were pro-
nounced by Captain Morgan, every symp-
tom of agitation disappeared, and his figure
became as motionless as the surround-
ing oaks. His arm was elevated until it
covered the form of his antagonist. The
word was given, and a simultaneous re-
port followed. Fielding p laced his left
hand upon his side, and reeling back-

111

wards, fell, desperately wounded, upon
the greens ward. His gallant foe remained
standing for an instant, and theui sunk
to the earth. Harden raised his head.
The current of his blood had ceased flow-
ing; the pulsations of his brave heart were
silent. The spirit had departed, and the
soulless clay was all that remained of the
gifted and heroic Clarendon.
CHAPTER XXX~
who, that 'midst a desert's heat
Sees the waters fade away,
Would not rather die thou meet
Streams again as false as they?"
Mooas.
WhEn we separated from Alice Howard,
she was fourteen years old. How had she
borne the absence of our hero'? Her jour-
nal ~will disclose.
"September, 1840.-I have not heard
from him yet. Why does he remain si-
lent'? Surely he must know that his ab-
sence is a source of unhappiness to me.
And yet why should he'? It would have
been unmaidenly to make an exhibition
of my attachment. He never told me of
his love. I am but a school-girl. Still his
manner was so tender. Could papa have
exacted a promise from him'? The thought
is horrible! Oh! he could not be so cruel.
I will ask him. But that will never do.
It will force me to disclose my unsolicited
affection. Time* time
the mystery    ,    alone, will unravel
"January, 1841.-To-morrow will wit-
ness another examination. Shall I stand
at the head of my class again'? I hope so,
for his sake. It is that alone which arouses
my ambition. I will not surrender the
ho ~e that he will return to claim me.
Fate would not be so unkind as to sepa-
rate us for ever. During his absence I will
cultivate my mental powers, and fit my-
self to become his companion. Heavens!
with what joy the idea thrills my heart!
"I am happy. My parents are affec-
tionate; the school-girls love me; the
teachers all take pride in my mental im-
provement,, and the mirror flatters my
vanity. Is it not wrong to be gratified by
flattery'? But truth is not flattery, and the
mirror is truthful; that, at least, is honest.
If I should be deceived, though, by its as-
surances. To know ourselves is next to
impossible. How many girls, ay, and
women too, fancy themselves beautiful'?


112                    CLIFTON.                                                        CLIFTON.                     113

I think them shockingly plain. If I should
deceive myself as well as they! Let me
see. I have beautiful eyes. My teeth
are white as ivory, and what is of equal
importance, well set. My complexion is
rich and changeable. My nose straight
and well formed. My eyebrows beauti-
fully pencilled. My lips-yes, they are
)        rather pouting, but well curved and rosy-
and that, too, without biting them. My
waist rOun(I, my arms plump and taper-
ing, and my hands and feet all that I could
wish, for I could see Mr. Edward admired
*     them. Neck swan-like, throat full and
white, and-that's all.
"One cannot trust to public criticism,
because popularity depends so much upon
manner. I have seen very plain, lut
clever young ladies, surrounded by beaux.
Dress, too; is an important auxiliary. But
there is one infallible indication of beauty,
so I heard Miss Glendower say. If the at-
tention of strangers is arrested as you
pass, it is safe to count upon the posses-
sion of great personal loveliness. They
gaze as if they were looking upon a glori-
ous specimen of art.
"But what d6 I care for female ~uharms.
It is only for the sake of Edward Clifton,
whom I may never behold again."
"June, 1842.-Againat the head of my
class. I ought to be satisfied. I have no
thought but for Edward and my school-
books. Many an hour, as I am seated by
my lamp, does memory revert to those
moments of happiness when he was by my
side. Too fleeting hours! why were you
numbered so rapidly with the irreclaima-
ble past ~ Gone, gone! but memory lives."
"March, 1843.-In four months I shall
graduate. What joy that word gives to
many a school-girl who has been for one-
third of her life immured in brick walls.
For years she has obtained faint glimpses
of the gay world through her prison bars.
For fleeting moments suffered to escape,
only to return to more than slavish bon-
dage, she has sighed for the hour which is
to witness her emancipation. So others
feel. They complain of being forced to
sleep forty in one room. One asks for a
free circulation of air. Another has a
violent cold. They are watched, and the
malicious report them. Two young ladies
were sent to bed, yesterday, for twelve
hours. Last night, when the informer
blew out her candle and jumped into bed,
shivering with cold, she found the sheets
saturated with iced-water. With a scream
she bounded upon the floor. An ague
was the consequence. To-day, the young
ladies, who admitted the perpetration of'

the deed, were sent to bed for twelve
hours longer."
"July, 1843.-It is over. I have tri-
umphed. The highest prize was awarded
me, and what is far better, they all admit-
ted my right to it. No exhibition of envy,
and they all kissed me. Why could not
he have been present ~ In one week we
start for Saratoga. I shall then be in
society. How I pitied poor Henrietta
Templeton! It ~vill be one year before she
will be released, as she terms it; she has
been for two years my intimate friend.
How she wept when I bade her ~dieu!
clinging to my neck, she deplored the
fate which kept her imprisoned for twelve
months. The time will soon pass, and
the day she leaves the brick building for
ever, will be the happiest of her existence.
The emotions which in after-life cause
the heartstrings to quiver, are never so
gushing, so overwhelming, as when the
school-girl claims her freedom. The hap-
piness which has been gaining interest
from disuse, during five years of oppres-
sion, she now deems exhaustless. Will
the future disappoint her hopes '~ I have
yet to learn.
'~ I shall take this journal with me to
Saratooa. Perhaps we shall extend our
visit to the Falls.
"Here we are at the United States. It
is thronged with gay and fashionable peo-
ple. I have been introduced to several
young men; they are very attentive; but
papa is immensely rich. The beaux
strike me as belonging to the species snip.
Cliques are rapidly forming. It is amus-
ing to see with what grace one marriage-
able lady encircles the waist of another,
who chances to have a brother at the
springs! How affable superannuated ma-
trons become, after having introduced
their offspring to each other! With what
wonderful precision manmuvring ladies
calculate the effect of being seen in con-
versation with Madame this, or Hon. Mr.
that! Although I have no right to com-
plain of the scarcity of admirers, for I
have my share of the sensible ones-after
having disposed of the others,-still the
idea suggests itself very forcibly, that all
the manceuvring which illustrates a life
at Saratoga, meets with but an indifferent
reward. If mammas will exhibit their
adroitness, as auctioneers, in the dispo-
~ition of youthful daughters, or elderly
nieces, they should take them to a better
market. There are not more than a dozen
good matches at the springs, and for them,
there are at least 4ilfty applicants. Not
that mothers seize a gentleman by the

I

button-hole, and exclaim, 'Won't you speech which he had delivered, and then
marry my daughter V No; there are more I knew it could be no other thau my Ed-
graceful, but not less significant methods ward. The language and style were his!
of making the request.              My heart is overflowing with happiness!
"There are too many ladies here; the  "Alas! how sudden the transition from
market is* overstocked; the supply i oy to woe. I can scarcely write in legi-
greater than the demand, arid I have hea d ble characters; the paper is blotted with
papa say that always produced comp my tears! My poor, kind, affectionate
tuition, and reduced the price of the article, father, expired scarce one week ago, in a
And then, to think how envious they are. paralytic fit! My head throbs as though
Last evening, an accomplished young lady it would burst! And poor, dear mother,
was entertaining a knot of gentlemen. A the terrible affliction has prostrated her
discontented damsel, after glancing with physical powers; if she too, should be
malicious eyes at the belle, exclaimed: taken away, leaving brother and myself
'She passes for a girl just from school, alone in the world !"
when every one knows she is no chicken.'
What a funny expression! I do not
think I shall like Saratoga."
"I am so happy, we start to-morrow
for Lake George. I shall behold the scene
of Cooper's 'Last of the Mohicans,' for . CHAPTER XXXI.
we pass by Glenn's Falls, and the Bloody
Pond.
"How long I gazed from the bridge at "Whene'er adown thy favourite walk I go,
Still, still I t~el the pressure of thy arm;
Glenn's, upon the whirling rapids; as they And oh! so strong the sweet illusions grow,
washed the rocks beneath. Here Cora I shun, I loathe whatever breaks the charm."
and Alice Munro listened to the roar of the                        OnE.
cataract, whose eternal voice is echoed IN May, 1844, the Democratic Conven-
by the surrounding hills. Here the fatal tion assembled in Baltimore. The two-
rifle of Hawkeye was levelled at his foes. thirds rule was adopted, and eight hal-
Here the gallant Uncas perilled his life in lotings between Van Buren and Cass
defence of the '~lark hair.' Here the musi- resulted in no choice. Messrs. Clay and
cal voice of David contended with the Van Buren, had boih written letters in
thunders of the falls, and the war-whoop opposition to the annexation of Texas.
of the Hurons. Here, too, the manly form The manifesto of the latter gentleman
of Duncan Heywood was interposed be- ruined his prospects for another race, and
tween the trusting maiden and the unbri- it was apparent from the moment the Con-
dled ferocity of the savages. mention met, that some other person would
"Still farther on, we passed by the be selected. On ihe ninth ballot, James
glassy pool, beneath whose surface the K. Polk of Tennessee, received the unani-
bodles of Dseskaus soldiers were buried. mous vote of the delegates. Mr. Clay had
Here too, the daughters of Munro wander- already been nominated by acclamation,
ed at midnight, encompassed by lurking a i a elphia, and the note of prepara-
Indians. Yonider is the mountain, from tion was already heard, which preceded
the summit of ~vhich they saw the earthen the fiercest struggle since the triumph of
walls of William Henry beleaguered by the Jefferson.
formidable power of Montcalm. Before The Democracy had shaken off their
us is the scene of that frightful massacre, apathy, and now addressed themselves
so dishonourable to the French comman- with their hereditary enthusiasm to the
der, so heedlessly invited by Munro. The Presidential conflict. Associations were
environs of the 'Holy Lake' have been formed, political companies were orga-
rendered immortal by the graphic pen of nized, electors and sub-electors were
Cooper." chosen; everything denoted a campaign
"May, 1844.-Thank Heaven, I know of more than ordinary brilliance.
Edward is alive and prosperous! This A convention had assembled in Stain-
morning I was reading a Southern ~taper, ford for the purpose of nominating a can-
when I saw the name of Edward Clifton didate for elector. All the counties in the
at its head, as a candidate for elector. I Congressional district were represented.
did not know what that was, until I asked As Harden entered the hall, an old gen-
papa. And then I thought there might tleman was addressing the chairman in a
be some other Edward Clifton. Glancing prosy speech. He had almost concluded,
over its columns, I saw a report of a aiid was then urging the nomination of
8


114  CLIF ON.C L I F T 0 N-                                                                               11

Col. Burkhart, whom he represented as an litician, as he was introduced to the
honourable citizen of high character. meeting.
"I desire to ask the gentleman a few At night, Dr. Fielding-who had reco-
questions," said Harden, earnestly; "if he vered from his wound-and Edward called
has no objections ~" to see Helen Douglass. Emily Davidson,
"Certainly not," and he courteously rose. her brother, and Mrs. Foster, were in the
"I have not the honour of knowing Col. parlour as they entered.
Burkhart; what is his age V'          "How are you, Mr. Elector ~" exclaimed
"At least seventy; one of our first set- Mrs. Foster. "1 have not seen you since
tiers."                             our return."
"Can he make a speech ?"            "My conduct has lfeen unpardonable,
"Yes, but he cannot undergo the Ia- but professional engagements have been
bours of a ~ so urgent that I have been forced to ne-
"There, Mr. Chairman," resumed the glect all my friends."
young Senator, decidedly. "I, for one, "And I suppose, now you have added
am utterly opposed to his nomination. He politics to your pther cares, you will be
may be, and undoubtedly is, an excellent more estranged from~ us than before ~
citizen; that, sir, is not sufficient~ The "Oh no! It will be a duty, as well as
tactics of tho last campaign will not do a pleasure, now, to pay court to the sove-
now. TJI ey must be abandoned; we reigns and their better-halves."
repose to longer upon our oars; this "W~ll, you must be assiduous in your
election must be carried by activity and attentions, for the General is a whig, you
enthusiasm; old men have outlived en- know, and I have a great admiration for
thusiasm, they will not do, sir; we must Henry Clay."
have active, energetic young men, to bear ~' Indeed! It is well, then, he is verg-
our flag aloft. The whigs boast, and ing upon sixty-eight."
with truth, that their orators are the most "Impossible !"
eloquent, and their politicians the most  "It is a fact, I assure you."
indefatigable.  That must no longer be  "He is almost too old for the P;esi-
the case, or if it is, we had better disband dency. But then, his competitor is upon
at once, and with folded arms, witness the the opposite extreme !"
elevation of Henry Clay. Are you prepared  "Harry of the West will have support-
to do that V' exclaimed the speaker, vehe. ers as long as he lives; Col. Polk will be
mently.                             forty-nine years of age before his inaugu-
"No! no, never 1" thundered forth the ration, and that is fourteen years older
excited audience.                   than the Constitution requires.~~
"Then use the only means~ to avoid  "When he is inaugurated! You surely
defeat. Look at the ticket which the do not expect to defeat the great leader of
whigs have selected; not a man upon it the Whig party ~"
who cannot justly claim the appellation of "Undoubtedly."
an accomplished orator! Not a man upon "What assurance! And with a person
it past fifty, while more than half number who has been beaten twice forGovernor !"
fewer years than did Napoleon, when he "There! I see the influence of the
became the second conqueror of Italy! General."
Search out the young men of your party; "Well, every one is ~\vare that Polk is
let them buckle on the democratic armour, scarcely known out of his own State;
over ~stout hearts, and hopefully enter the while Mr. Clay's reputation is world-re-
political arena! Such a man I nominate owned !"
for the office of elector; I know him far "You will pardon me for saying, Mrs.
better than any one present. I am confi-. Foster," observed Fielding, "that there is
dent he will give the most entire satisfac- such a misfortune as being too xvell
tion! He is young, eloquent, enthusiastic, known."
and an unwavering republican and demo-  "How can that be, when his actions
crat! He thoroughly understands politics; have always been consistent and pain-
his vigilance is sleepless; his courage un- otic V'
questionable !"                       "It could not, if they had been so."
"Who is he ~ name him !" shouted the  "You surely would not accuse the ii-
delegates.                          lustrous pacificator of a want of patriot-
"I propose, as our candidate for elector, ism ~"
my friend, Edward Clifton."           "Far be it from a young man to bring so
it was carried by acclamation, and serious a charge against the venerable
cheer upon cheer welcomed the rising po- statesman. Nevertheless, an impression

I

pervades the minds of the democracy that
he did not assign sufficient reasons for de-
serting the republican ranks."
"Oh, the prevailing cry is al~vays
'traitor!' whenever a politician changes
his opinions, however conclusive his reason
may be."
"Come, Fielding, you are confirming
Mrs. Foster in her errors by putting her
upon her mettle. Recollect, our oppo-
nents boast of having the influence of the
fair sex! Every convert we make is so
much gained.~~
The Doctor conducted Emy Davidson to
the piano, and Edward seated himself be-
si(le Helen Douglass. She welcomed him
with a glad smile.
'' We do not see much of you now.~~
"I regret it, exceedingly, but profes-
sional men cannot dispose of their time.
You have not missed me, however; for I
heard you were a tender and devoted
nui~e of Fielding's while he was suffering
from his wound."
"Papa would have him brought to our
house because he is an orphan, and has
no one to care for him."
~' And so you supplied the place of father
and another~ Nay, do not blush; he is
a noble and gallant gentleman, and might
well claim an interest in the female heart."
"You must not talk ~ replied the
maiden, half imperiously, as she tapped
her foot impatiently upon the carpet.
"What! not your best friend ~" lie said.
reproachfully.
"There, there, I will not quarrel with
you," and she frankly extended her hand.
"What say you ~ Mrs. Foster," said
Fielding, "shall we not make up a party
to visit Randle's Cave ~"
~' I should be delighted! I have long
desired to fathom its depths."
"Will you chaperone us ?" inquired
Emy.
Certainly."
"When shall we go T'
"As half-a-dozen is a party large enough,
we can soon arrange it."
"To-morrow, then; who will go ~"
"There are six present.~~
"It will be entirely out of my power to
make one of the par~y,~~ remarked David-
son; "but Harden ~vill gladly become my
substitute. Not a week since I heard him
express a desire to see the Cave."
"How far is itI~~
"Scarcely an hour's ride hence."
-' And the conveyance ~"
Necessarily equestrian. The road is
impassable for carriages.~~
The ladies expressed their delight.

"Shall I have the pleasure of seeing
you home, Mrs. Foster ?" inquired Clifton,
as she was tying on her hat.
"If you please. Good night, ladies!
We must start early,~to avoid the heat of
the sun. Would you believe it, the idea
of this excursion makes my heart bound
like a school-girl's, Mr. Clifton !''
"How will the General like this adven-
ture V'
"He suffers me to do just as I please; be-
sides. he is now in Mississippi, atteiiding
to his plantation."
"Why do you not accompany him ~"
"Travelling through that country is such
a bore after having once seen it. Do
come in; I am alone."
"Pardon me, not to-night. May I con-
stitute myself your beau, par excellence, for
to-morrow ~"
"A lawyer's technical limitation! ha!
ha! Yes, for to-morrow; (rood night
their hands separated , and his receding
footsteps rung upon the pavement.
CHAPTER XXXII.
"And strangely, ibrough the solid depth below,
A melancholy light, like the red dawn,
Shoots from the lowest gorge of the abyss."
GOETHE.

'But still the dingle's hollow throat,
Prolonged the swelling bugie-note."

SCOTT.

By eight o'clock they had dismounted
at the outlet of the Cave, and given their
horses in charge of a servant. The mouth
of the cavern was at the summit of a
rough acclivity. The air came forth from
the dark abyss, cold and damp.
"You had better stand for a few mo-
ments upon the verge, until your blood
gradually cools, or the change will be too
great," observed Dr. Fielding.
"It makes me shiver" said Em
vidson.                        y Da-
"You will soon become accustomed to
it. In winter the air is so warm that it
produces a feeling of ~
The lamps were lighted, and they com-
menced the descent. It was at first pre-
cipitous, and then the earth sloped gra-
dually to the first floor. This apartment
was of vast extent, and the ceiling scarce-
ly distinguishable. The ground was ir-
regular; rising gradually in the distance
until Ihe pathway approached the dome;

0 L I F T O N.

114

115


116                           CLIFTON.
it then fell away, and in the distance there "I do not know what you would think
were a succession of low-arched rooms. uf it here," observed Dr. Fielding, "but it
As they advanced, the earth ~vas satu- is decidedly more proper than the style of
rated with Water. "It is well, girls, we holding dresses in the Eastern cities."
brought our India-rubbers and wore short "Fie, Dr., you do those ladies injustice."
dresses," said Mrs. Foster. "Do you think so ~ wait until you have
"The Turkish costume would have seet them yourself."
been preferable,~~ observed Harden.
"But your sex are so ill-natured if we They had now penetrated a long dis-
usurp any of your apparel." tance into the bowels of the earth. A
"That objection comes from the mar- part of the way was difficult, even dan-
ned men, I hope you will observe," re- gerous, as the path wound along the verge
of deep chasms, or led over precipitous
plied the Senator; "I fancy the short rocks A
skirts and full trousers, fastened around ed  t such places, the ladies accept-
the proffered aid of their companions.
the ankle, would look charmingly~    At length they entered the square room.
"That is, if the lady has beautiful feet Natural seats had been erected upon the
and small joints~" interposed Edward. border of a stream which flowed through
"Knowing your hallucination upon that this portion of the cavern. From the
subject, Clifton, I should have mentioned ceiling hung stalactites, which reflected
it as an indispensable prerequisite." the light of the lamps like polished mar-
"Does Mr. Clifton enter into such mi- ble. This chamber had obtained its name
nute details i" inquired Mrs. Foster, as from the regularity of its sides.
she slightly elevated her apparel an d
bounded across a pool of middy water. "Come, Sambo," said Harden, "spread
"Whenever an opportunity is offered the cloth upon that table yonder, and pre-
him."                                pare the lunch."
"How rarely we think of it, don't we, They were seated around the board par-
Heleti l~                            taking of a meal rendered delicious by
The merry eyes of the damsel sparkled exercise. For beverage, they had their
as she replied, "I am fearful the Turkish choice of cool water or sparkling chain-
costume would be denounced more bit- pagne.
terly than it is by a majority of our sex, "It is singular," observed Miss David-
if Mr. 'Clifton's rule was enforced." son,~ " what could have produced these
"lam a decided advocate of the short spacious apartments."
skirts under all circumstances. Are not "They are undoubtedly one of the thou-
you, Clifton r' sand freaks which Nature committed,'
"No. A lady never looks so well as with replied Harden."
a flowing train; I mean in the drawing- "Or formed by the internal throes of
room. For the street, her dress should the earth," said Fielding.
come to the top of her boot, in fair weather "Or cleaved from the rocks by the
as well as rainy, until the national habit of ceaseLess action of the limpid element,"
spitting becomes obsolete."          obserVed Mrs. Foster.
"1 agree with you," responded Emy    "Or erected by the hand of the Al-
Davidson. "It is impossible to walk the mighty, to 'illustrate his omnipotence,"
streets, in the present style of dress, with- remarked Helen Douglass.
out having them soiled, unless they are  ~'It is curious that caverns abound in
held up with both hands."~           several States east of the Mississippi.
"If a lady looks well in the drawing- The soil of Kentucky, especially, has
room, robed in a long dress, is it not just a limestone basis, in the bosom of which
as becoming to her in the street~" inquired subterranean apartments abound. In seve-
Fielding.                            ral, they manufacture saltpetre."
"It would be if the street was as free  "The atmosphere must be healthy,
from dirt as the drawing-room," said Har- then."
den; "but if you see her skirts gathering  "Unquestionably."
all the filth upoit thd sidewalks and cross-  "It gives one an excellent appetite, at all
ings as she sweeps along, I ask you if it ~ observed Helen. "Mr. Harden,
does not destroy all the romance which may I trouble you for some more pastry ~"
since the age of fifteen we have associated  "Have you ever been here before,
with spotless garments'P'            SamboV'
"But, then," said Emy, "the pantaloons  "Of'en, Massa Fieldin'."
and short dress of Turke~y would hardly be  "Is this the termination of the cave
considered modest ~                    "I dun no, but I heam Cap'n Flemin'

A

CLIFTON.                     117

say, away down yonder there is anodder
apartmentt"
~        "What, at the point where the stream
is lost in the rocks Y'
"Y Massa."
"Clifton. suppose w~follo~v the bed of
the creek, and see if there is not another
room."
"Agreed. If the ladies are not afraid
to remain here by themselves, we will all
go and olve them a distant vie~v of the
cavern by the light of our candles."
"Oh, do. Nothing will harm us. I
should so much like to witness the spec-
tacle," exclaimed Mrs. Foster.
"Light the candles, then, Sambo, and
arrange them in a cluster upon the frame."
"Now, then, you son of darkness, move
on; if you are killed, I will see that you
are properly dissected."
"Yah! yah! yah! the Doctor, him very
~
The ladies watched the receding party
as their forms diminished in the distance.
and the lights grew more and more indis-
tinct. Their progress was slow, as they
picked their way along the water-course,
now stepping upon the stones which
emerged from the stream, and anon cling-
ing to the sides of the precipice a hun-
dred feet in the air. Once they clustered
together, and waved their lights, the faint
rays from which scarcely penetrated the
gluom to the spot where the ladies congre-
gated. Suddenly they were extinguished,
and that part of the cave was involved in
darkness.
"What 'could have caused, the acci-
dent~" exclaimed Em~, hurriedly.
"A blast of air," responded Helen.
"Come, we must go to their relief, at
every hazard. They can never return in
the dark ~ continued the agitated girl.
But perhaps they have matches.'
A faint flash for a moment lit up the
gloom, and was succeeded by a rumbling
sound, which increased as it approached,
until it rung through the cavern, and each
solitary nook and gloomy dell had again
and again echoed the reverberation.
"It is a signal of distress," said Emy.
"No time is to be lost; let us proceed.~'
"But can we thread that dangerous
path l" anxiously inquired Mrs. Foster.
"We can try. At least we can go part
way. The light from our lamps may
assist them to return."
Another flash was followed by the
report of a pistol.
"Come, come ~ impetuously ex-
claimed Helen. "I will not leave them
to grope their way in darkness, over those

frightful chasms. If you will not accom-
pany us, Emy and I ~vill proceed alone."
The generous girl seized a lamp, which
cast its light upon her pale but resolute
countenance, and, advancing a short dis-
tance, the maiden looked back .upon her
companions, while the outlines of her
beautiful form were drawn against the
gloom.
"Stop a moment, and let me get up all
my clothes, Helen,~' said ~Iiss Davidson,
as she prepared to cross the stream.
"I will go with you, girls." They de-
scended together.
"What is that '~" said Mrs. Foster.
"Is it licvhtV'
"Notfrom their candles," responded
Helen. "I saw it before the report of the
first pistol. It is probably the light of day
penetrating through a crevice in the rocks."
While they were proceeding along the
dismal way, Harden was endeavouring to
ignite a lucifer match.
"It was wrong to extinguish all the
candles, Fielding," he remarked; as match
after match flickered a moment, and then
went out. "The atmosphere is damp,
and we will be in a sad predicament if I
cannot relight them. There is a current
of air here, too Let us advance a little.
Softly, here is a descent. We are at the
bottom. Now let me try." The wood
caught, nn(l the candles were soon lighted.
They now proceeded, and in a few
minutes reached the bank of the creek.
"What has become of the ladies' in-
quired Clifton. "They are no longer
visible."
"Sure enough," replied Harden, "they
have vanished like fairies."
"Could they suppose that our lights
were accideiitally extinguished, and have
they started to relieve us
"Lay not the flattering unction to your
heart, Fielding. There is a bend in the
creek; see you not the reflection of their
,lights upon the vault ~"
"Yes, Harden is right." observed Clif-
ton. "Let us proceed."
The stream now plunged into an un-
fathomable abyss. Standing upon the
summit, the noise of the falls, which for
some time had faintly reached their ears,
now made the rocks tremble beneath their
feet.
They mutely gazed upon the roaring
flood as it disappeared.
'' Here ends our ramble,'' said Harden,
"unless, Sam Patch-like, we leap into the
gulf"
"Let me cast a stone over the falls to


118                    CLIFTON.                                                         CLIFTON.                     119

ascertain their depth," observed Fielding.
"Here, Sambo bring hither that rock."
No sound came back but the roar of the
water.
They must be of great depth. As
there is an insurmountable barrier to our
further progress, let us return, and conduct
the ladies here."
Approaching the spot where they had left
their companions, no lamps could be seen.
"By Jove! Fielding, they are repaying
you for your attempt to frighten them.
They are not here, though; the spot is
vacant. HaIloa!" No answering re-
sponse was heard save the echoes of the
cavern.
This is strange, ~ said Clifton, aux-
ously. "Have they become impatient at
our long ~
"Surely, they would not attempt to re-
turn without ~ replied Harden. "It is
only a joke; they are secreted in some of
these nooks; let us find them."
But the search was ineffectual, and the
young men assembled again at the spot
~vhere they had last seen the ladies.
"One of two things is certain," said
Edward, decidedly. "They have either
returned to the mouth of the cave, or,
alarmed for our safety when the lights
were extinguished, they lost their way in
attempting to approach us."
"Clifton has given us the correct solu-
tion of the matter," said Fielding, "and
I propose that two of us retrace our foot-
steps in search of the path which led them
astray, while the other two return to the
mouth of the cave."
When Edward and Sambo emerged
from the cavern, there was no sign of the
fugitives, and the horses were standing as
the slave had left them.
Hastening back, Edward met his baffled
companions, whose search had been equal-
ly unavailing. They were all now tao-
roughly alarmed for the safety of the
females.
~CAre there no pathways diverging from
the main avenue leading to the falls '?" in-
(Iuire(l Clifton.
"None; we have examined both sides
of the creekfrom its margin to the dome,
and there is but one channel."
"Let us examine the earth; perhaps
we can discover their footsteps.
They all knelt to 'the task but the
ground ~vas so beaten that an impression
could not be made upon its surface.
Re'cediAg fr~m the centre, they sought
long but ineffectually for some sign
~f their companions. They had all
yielded in despair except Fielding, who

was examining the border of the stream.
"By Heaven! here it is !" he cried joy-
ously, "and here, and here. They have
crossed the creek."
He was not mistaken. The impression
of several small feet had been made in
the soft earth. j3ut the trail was again
'lost upon the opposite shore, and every
attempt to find it proved fruitless.
Well, gentlemen, what's to be done '?'
asked Harden.
A painful silence ensued.
"The ground becomes marshy, a fe~
rods ahead. Suppose we examine it," said
Fielding.
No print of a female foot was visible.
"If you are certain," said Edward, "that
no channel diverges from this, it is useless
to seek for them in the direction of the
falls. We must explore every avenu be-
tween this and the mouth of the Cay nd
speedily too, for the day is waning
At the end of two hours they had ex-
amined every nook and corner throughout
the cavern, and disheartened and dis-
mayed, they stood at the outlet.
"There is some fearful mystery about
this affair," said Fielding, solemnly. ''I
leave not the spot until it is unravelled
" We will remain,'~ replied Clifton.
"harden, you and Sambo return to Staiu-
ford with the horses; it will not do to let
the brutes starve. Do not mention the af-
fair to any one, except Judge Douglass
and Davidson. A large crowd will only
render their recovery the more difflcnlt,
by removing all traces of the wanderers.
Return hither as soon as possible with
ropes, food, and lights."
The souiid of the horses' feet became
more and more indistinct, until at last it
died away in the distance. The sun had'
disappeared, and night had drawn her
sable curtain across the shifting scenes, as
the young men again penetrated the tomb
which enclosed the living, if not the dead.
They shouted "Helen !" "Emy !" but
the reverberating echoes alone replied,
" Helen !" " Emy !" at first distinctly, and
then more and more faintly, until their
names were pronounced as if by the spirit
~of the place, in accents low and whis-
pering.
"This suspense is intolerable !" said
Fielding. ~' What friglttful calamity can
have befallen the ladies ~"
"Perhaps, in following the bank of the
creek, they have been precipitated into
deep water, or have become confuse
the intricate windings"       ed by
Once more they proceeded towards the
falls, and for half a mile examined every

foot of the way. There was a basin a short
distance from the square room. It did not
exceed a dozen feet in diameter, but was
far deeper. The water was transparent,
and they could discover no object upon the
bottom. The rocky pass rendered it im-
possible to follow a trail, and they reached
the falls without having obtained the
slightest clue of the lost females. The
dispirited Fielding was preparing to return.
"Stop!" said Clifton, who had been
gazing into the abyss. "Is not that a
light far down the chasm ~"
"Impossible! No human being could
reach the foot of the falls alive. It is
doubtless the reflection of our candles
upon the spray."
"No! by heaven, it is a light !" shouted
Edward. "There ! there! dim and scarcely
perceptible; do you not see it ~"
It vanished, and for several moments
not a word escaped the lips of the young
men as they gazed with awe for the reap-
pearance of the light. They saw it no
more, and turned their looks upon each
other for an explanation.
"There is a tradition," said Fielding,
in a serious voice, "that a gang of high-
waymen once inhabited this Cave; but
that was mnamiy years ago."
"Great God! Doctor, why did you not
inform me of that report '~ We ought not to
have left the ladies unprotected."
"It had escaped my memory. I re-
garded it as the idle fancy of the supersti-
tious."
"It may, alas! prove too true, and if
these helpless women have fallen into their
hands"-
"Stop! for Heaven's sake! there's mad-
ness in the thought."
They gazed long and anxiously down
the gulf, but no ray of light penetrated the
mist. It was now midnight, and the two
young men seated themselves upon the
verge of the precipice. They had not kept
their vigils long, when lights approached
from the mouth of the Cave.
"What is that !" exclaimed Fielding,
with a nervous start.
"Harden is returning," said Clifton.
The forms of Judge Douglass, Harden,
Davidson, and Sambo, were seen thread-
ing the devious sway.
"What news of the lost ones ~" inquired
the Judge, anxiously.
"We have seen a light at the foot of the
falls."
"Where is the channel which leads
thither ~
"We have searched for it in vain."
"Sambo, the rope !"

"Stop, Judge, that shall be my duty
said Fielding.
"Take food, then, before you make the
attempt."
"Impossible! I have no appetite."
"Here is brandy; your strength ~vili
fail you."
"What would you do !" exclaimed
Harden. "It is more than two hundred
feet to the foot of the falls. Inevitable de-
struction awaits any one who makes the
attempt."
"I will try. When I pull this cord,
raise me; until I do, let me descend by the
rope.~~
A pulley was adjusted to prevent the
hemp from being cut by the rock, and the
adventurous young man was soon lost in
the spray. He continued to descend, and
coil after coil of the rope disappeared.
until they supposed he had nearly reached
the foot of the falls, when the eightt was
suddenly unloosened, as if the rope had
been severed. In dismay they rapidly
drew it up, and to their amazement, disco-
vered that the cable had been cut with a
knife.
"Who could have done this ~" said the
Judge.
"Certainly not Fielding," responded
Edward. "He would not deprive himself
of the only means of escape. 1 will now
make the attempt !"
"No, no! Mr. Clifton, him my massa
said Sambo, resolutely. "I must go for
him mysef."
"You are an affectionate fellow, but I
can manage this affair better than you.~~
"Mr. Clifton, I mus go for Massa
Fielder," persisted the slave, while the
tears started to his eyes. "Him callers kind
massa to Sambo."
"Let him go if he insists," interposed
the Judge. "All we want to know is the
fate of the lost ones."
The black disappeared in the mist, and
when he had descended as far as his
master, the rope was again severed. Lis-
tening intensely, they caught the sound of
a suppressed yell, as, mingling with the
roar of the cataract, it came faintly to
their ears.
"There is an unfathomable mystery
about this cavern," said the Judge, solemn-
ly. "It is folly to hazard more lives in at-
tempting to descend the falls. What is
our next resource
"If, as I suppose," said Clifton, "there
are rooms unknown to us in this cave, may
they not be inhabited by reckless and
desperate men, who have seized our com-
panions ~"


120

C L I F T 0 N.

"The thought is horribid," said the
Judge, as his cheek blanched.
"It is, and I regret that I am forced to
suggest it. But if I am right, we must
adopt a different plan of operations to ef;
fect their rescue."
"What do you propose ~"
"We must wait for them to disclose the
passage, which we cannot find ourselves.
Our lights must be extinguished, and they
must believe the Cave is deserted. I sug-
gest that one of us remain in ambush at
the mouth of the Cavern, an other here, the
third in the square room, and the fourth in
the middle of the Cavern."
The Judge grasped his hand warmly.
The food was divided, and they agreed to
keep watch in silence for twenty-four
hours. Harden returned to the outlet,
while the others remained, Clifton at the
falls, Douglass in the square room, and
Davidson towards the mouth of the Cave.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
"When, as she saw him madly spring,
And midway up in danger cling,
She flung him down her long black hair,
Exclaiming, breathless, 'There, Jove, there!'"
MOORE.
"Then tell me, why, thou child of air!
Does slumber from her eyelids rove?
What is her heart's impassioned care ?-
Perhaps, oh sylph! 'tis love."
MOORE.
bun after hour elapsed, until the
sun had once more mounted into the
heavens. Edward was seated upon a pro-
jection of the rock, resting his cheek
upon his hand. Exhausted by fatigue, the
struggle between watchfulness and sleep
was, nevertheless, long and painful. The
murmuring of the waterfall soothed his
senses and the impenetrable darkness
which walled him in, afforded no object
upon which his eyes could rest. The lids
closed at last, and his form relaxed, as a
deep sleep settled upon his frame.
The Judge was more wakeful. The fate
of his only child weighed heavily upon his
mind, and his vigilance was sleepless.
Seven hours had elapsed; still, nothing
disturbed the tomb-like silence which
reigned in those subterranean halls. The
-ihoments dragged, as though ages had
been claimed by time since he com-
menced his vigils. To his tortured heart,
it might have been days, weeks, months,
or years, since he extinguished his light.

His limbs were stiff; he touched his head
to see if it had become bald. He gnashed
his teeth, and laughed low and merrily,
when he ascertained they were still in his
jaws. He laid his finger upon his pulse,
to see if it heat with the feebleness of age.
It dashed on with the velocity of a raging
fever. The suspense at length amounted
to intense agony, and he was in the act of
shouting Clifton's name, when there fell
upon his ear a noise as of rushing water.
It continued for several minutes, and then
died away with a murraurillg sound, like
the escape of water through a whirlpool.
A faint light was now perceptible, issuing
from the earth, scarcely a dozen rods be-
yond the river, and in the direction of
the falls. Crouching behind one of the
benches, the Judge saw four men emerge
from the basin, which we have already
described, and proceed in the direction of
the spot occupied by Clifton. When their
forms had disappeared behind a curve in
he rock, he lighted the candle in his dark
't~ntern, and advanced cautiously towards
the basin. The water had disappeared
through a hole in the bottom. In the side
of the rock, several feet below the water-
line, a stone door had been fitted in the
natural ~vall so artistically, that it baffled
the most careful examination. It was now
open, and within, Judge Douglass sa~v a
flight of wooden steps, leading upwards.
He now secreted himself behind a small
mound of earth, near the secret door and
extinguishing his light, anxiously awaited
their return, trusting to the vigilance of
Clifton to watch their movements in the
direction of the falls.
Edward's sleep was disturbed by hor-
rible dreams. The events which had
transpired within the last twenty-four
hours, still haunted his imagination. He
again traversed every avenue in the cave,
and with thrice the labour which the ac-
tual search had cost him. He examined
each apartment, with that painful preci-
sion which the mind exacts, ~vhen the
frame has been exhausted with fatigue.
Rendered desperate, he resolved to de-
scend the cataract. The rope was adjusted,
and he hung over the chasm. The spray
dashed over him, and his clothes were
saturated with water. He swung in the
air, at an immense distance from the foot
of the falls. The scene was gradually
illuminated by some unknown agency,
and he was in the act of resting his feet
upon the rock, when there fell upon his
ear, the sound of discordant laughter.
Opening his eyes, he saw Col. Fenton,
standing before him.

U

C LI FTO0N.

"This is a merry meeting, young gen-
tleman; it enables me to pay off old
scores, ha! ha!"
Clifton sprang to his feet.
"Not so fast, the odds are against you.
You have afforded me a capital opportuni-
ty of revenging the insult put upon me a
few years ago ;" and he levelled a pistol
at the breast of our hero.
"Reserve your threats for one who
fears them. What have you (lone with my
companions ~
"Oh! I have them safe in our domi-
nions, where I propose to conduct you. An
application of the bastinado will improve
your manners
"Fool! are you not satisfied with me
yet ~ He sprang so suddenly upon Fen-
ton, that his weapon was dashed from his
hand before he could discharge it. Seiz-
ing his foe by the throat, he dragged him
towards the precipice, over which he
would have hurled him, but fur the inter-
position of his followers. After a short
but desperate struggle, Edward was bound.
Fenton leaned against the rock panting,
and deadly pale.
"To the secret staircase with him !" he
shouted hoarsely. As they disappeared
through the stone door, it closed after
them, the trap at the bottom, resumed its
position, and the basin was in a few mo-
ments filled ~vith water.
A plan of operations at once suggested
itself to the Judge, which he proposed to
adopt.
Follow we now in the footsteps of the
ladies. They had scarcely passed the
creek, when they were seized by six
armed men, who sprang from behind a
hillock, where they had concealed them-
selves. Pistols were presented; and with
low but stern voice~, the outlaws threat-
ened to murder themif they uttered a
word. Trembling with alarm, the lamps
fell from their hands, arid they were sur-
rounded by impenetrable darkness. They
were then hurried through the door which
was closed after them. Candles were
lighted and they ascended a winding stair-
case, of some forty steps, which termina-
ted in a large apartment. In this 'room
were stands of arms, cutlasses, arid pistols,
and upon the walls were suspended the
enormous horns of moose and deer. It
looked like the hall of a feudal baron.
An armed sentinel was traversing the
room. At the extremity of the apartment,
the stone floor' projected over an abyss,
more than two hundred feet deep. The
prisoners shuddered as they gazed into
depths, which would have been imper-

121

ceptible, but for a flood of light from be-
neath. They could distinguish a dozen
men, engaged at various amusements.
Some were wrestling, others leaping, a
third party were pitching quoits, and a
fourth played at cards. Altogether it was
a scene of gay and careless revelry. One
of the captors raised a stone trap in the
floor, which disclosed a circular staircase.
He motioned for the trembling females to
precede him.
"We will go no further !" said Helen
resolutely.
"You must descend the staircase, Miss,"
responded a savage-looking fellow, who
appeared to be the leader of the party.
"What is the cause of this violence ~
We have harmed no one. I implore you
to let us return ~"
"It is impossible; the Captain will ex-
plain everything. You ~vill find him a
courteous gentleman. Come, proceed; or
shall we carry you ~
"Let us go, it is useless to resist 1" ob-
served Emy.
"You are discreet, Miss!"
They descended the spiral staircase. a
hundred steps, arid found themselves in a
room, furnished with all the comfort of a
parlour. The floor and walls were cover-
ed with deer and bear skins, and from the
ceiling was suspended a chandelier, which
cast a soft light through the apartment.
A table, chairs, and a sofa, occupied vari-
ous parts of the floor.
"Ladies, you will please be seated,
until we report to the Captain. If you do
not attempt to escape, no harm will be
done you." Retiring to the extremity of
the room, they descended another stair-
case and disappeared.
"What can be the meaning of this l"
said Mrs. Foster, as she threw herself
upon the sofa.
"It is unaccountable," responded Emy.
"It seems like a dream. Am I really
awake P
"I have a faint recollection of a tradi-
tion, said Helen, "that this cave was
once inhabited by banditti P
"Heaven forbid ~ ejaculated Mrs. Fos-
ter. "And yet, that it is occupied by men~
engaged in some unlawful vocation, the
offensive weapons in the room above, and
this furnished apartment, are unmistake-
able proofs.~~
Further conversation was interrupted by
the approach of a man, in the prime of
life, whose frank countenance and polish-
ed address at once reassured them. His
form was slight, his features regular, and
his eyes dark and piercing.


122                           CLIF
"I regret, ladies, that you have been
put to any inconvenience. The Cave has
been visited so much recently, that our
operations have been greatly impeded. I
gave orders for one or two persons to
be captured, whose disappearance might
create alarm, and keep' others from enter-
ing the cavern. Now that they have been
so ungallant as to make you prisoners, I
shall be forced to detain you for a few
days. perhaps a week, until we abandon
the Cave for ~
"But by what right do you restrain us
of our liberty 3 Our absence will occasion
the greatest anxiety among our relatives,
and you will be seriously punished !" ob-
served Helen.
"I am pained that circumstances render
it absolutely necessary for me to cause
you or them uneasiness; but the liberty,
if not the lives of my followers, gives me
no alternative. I have not the right, hut
the power, to control your movements."
"You will let us send word to our friends
that we are safe, won't you 3" inquired
Emy.
A smile crossed the handsome features
of the stranger, disclosing teeth of per-
fect whiteness.
"I must uncourteously refuse even that
request. But in the mean tim6, I will ex-
hibit the curiosities of my realm; your
movements shall be unrestrained: my
library will be at your disposal; and I trust
hereafter you will regard this adventure
as a pleasant episode in the journey of
life."
He pulled a string, '~yhich had been con-
cealed by the tapestry of fur, and the dis-
tant sound of a bell wa~ heard. In a few
moments footsteps approached, and a page
entered the room.
Here, Carlos, conduct the ladies to the
diamond ch~nber. You will please ex-
cuse me for the present. I will 1rn eet you
again within an hour." He raised his
hat and bowed gracefully, as tdey follow-
ed the footsteps of the page.
"A charming person,: is he not 3" whis-
pered Mrs. Foster. "This is becoming
romantic !"
As they descended, the sound of a
waterfall came to their ears, low and
musical. At the foot of a long staircase,
they found themselves in a circular and
dimily-lighted corridor. Turning to the
right, they entered through a door, what
appeared to be an ante-room. It was iii
the form of a parallelogram. The ceiling
was not higher than an ordinary dwelling.
The floor was elegantly carpeted, and the
walls were papered. The furniture was

T 0 N.

richly carved, and consisted of sofas
chairs, a table, marble washstands, and a
large mirror.
"This appears like enchantment 3" said
Helen, after the page had retired.
"What elegant furniture, for such a spot
as this! Chandeliers which would grace
the White House, carpets from Turkey,
paper from Paris, marble from Italy !"
exclaimed Mrs. Foster.
"How regular are the walls, and how
even the floor. Can they he of rock ~
and Emy stamped her little foot upon the
floor. "No, ~ a wooden floor, and the
walls are of wood too; why, we are in a
house !"
By the time they had performed their
ablutions, and smoothed their hair at the
~rnirror, their jailer host entered the room.
"Let us manifest no distrust 3" said Mrs.
Foster, as he approached.
"Ihope you suffer no inconvenience
from your imprisonment, ladies 3"
"Only so much as pain for the alarm of
our friends, and a sense of personal re-
straint, may produce !" replied Mrs. Foster.
" What a mystical bower you inhabit,
sir 3" remarked Emy. "May 1 ask how
long it has been your abode ?"
"Almost three years !"
"And have you not in that time seen
the light of day 3"
"Often! I saw you at the Governor's
reception, not one year ago.~~
"Indeed, and why do you prefer these
subterranean apartments ~
"Ah! there," he replied archly, "you
force me to be mute."
"I beg your pardon! I did not desire to
obtain possession of your secrets."
A distant bell struck nine.
"Does that indicate the hour ?~' inquir-
ed Mrs. Foster.
"Yes, Madam!"
"Is it night or day, upon the earth 31
have taken no note of time, since we en-
tered these dungeons.~~
"It is nine o'clock at night. If you
will allow me, I will conduct you to the
supper-table." They entered another
room, where a table was loaded with
every delicacy, which could tempt the
appetite. Mrs. Foster had no one at home
to be alarmed at her absence, and Emy
was an orphan; they soon, therefore, re-
covered from the terror which their novel
position created. Not so Miss Douglass.
Her fancy dwelt upon the agony of her
father and mother, when the shades of
night set in, and she still absent. Poor
girl, she little thought her watchful parent
was hovering near her!

C L I F T 0 N.

As soon as they were seated at the ta-
ble the stranger withdrew.
"Shall I do the honours 3" inquired Mrs.
Foster. "Helen, do eat. You must not
be alarmed; we shall be released, at most,
in a few days.~~
~' In a few days.!~~ responded the
maiden, with tearful eyes. "What will
my poor mother think has become of me 3
Besides, what assurance have we that our
persons are safe while we remain in the
po~ver of these lawless men 3"
"I am certain we can suffer no harm as
long as this stranger is our protector."
"How powerless will a single arm be-
come, when opposed by a score of des-
perate outlaws! The leader of a gang like
this holds his authority by an uncertain
tenure."
"I think our friends will come to our
rescue," said Emy.
How can they3 If they discover the
secret door, every avenue hither is guard-
ed. There is no alternative for us but to
remain, with what courage we can muster,
until the Captain of the band releases us."
After they had concluded their meal, the
page conducted them into the library. The
walls of this room were papered with oak
panel. The large book-case was filled
with standard works. Josephus ranged
side by side with Scott's novels. Gibbons'
Rome, and Byron's works, the Spectator,
and Shakspeare's plays, Cooper's novels
and Hume~s History, were crowded upon
the shelves; while Bulwer, Dickens, Sue,
and Irving, were represented in the gene-
ral mass of literature. Emerging from the
library they entered a corridor. The roar
of the falls was now distiiictly heard.
What produces that noise, Carlos 3"
inquired Mrs. Foster.
"It is the descent of the creek above
into the chasm. Would you like to see
it 3"
Threading the corridor for about twenty
yards, they turned abruptly to the right,
and descending a shQrt flight of steps, the
page threw open a door, and the asto-
nished females found themselves behind
the sheet, and near the chasm into which
the water was precipitated from a height
of more than two hundred feet. The con-
cussion was reverberated in thundering
echoes through the vaulted, cavern. A
cloud of spray hovered around the falls.
into which the rays of the candle could
scarcely penetrate. While they were en-
deavouring to pierce the gloom, a flood of
light was cast upon the descendingcolumn.
From whence it emanated they could not
divine, but its effulgence revealed, not

123

only the outlines of the falls, but formed a
thousand miniature rainbows in the flash-
ing spray.
Far above them, the projecting rock
over which the water poured, appeared
to tremble, and the ladies shuddered as
they withdrew their eyes. Helen cast
another fearful glance upwards. She ut-
tered a piercing shriek, and exclaimed,
"It is falling !" They all started back,
except the page, whose eyes were riveted
upon the overhanging cliff He put his
fingers to his mouth and uttered a shrill
whistle. Three men entered the room,
whose attention was directed above.
Helen fearfully raised her eyes again, and
trembled with horror as they rested upon
a human form suspended in the air. The
mist concealed from her view the rope by
which he was descending, and the hgure
appeared, to her over-heated imagination,
the tangible creation of a disordered brain.
With straining eyeballs she gazed upimn
the phantom, as it slowly approached the
foot of the falls. Her blood congealed,
a~nd the pulsation ceased to beat, as she
recognized the countenance of Dr. Fielding.
Two of tha men hastily disappeared over
the platform, which was elevated a dozen
feet above the small area between the foot
of the cataract and the rock upon which
they were standing. Fielding struggled
unavailingly to reach the platform. For
one moment it appeared as though he
would succeed, and then he swung out
towards the sheet. Helen darted to the
edge of the precipice, but too late to aid
him. The rope was severed by the re-
maining outlaw, and the form of her lover
disappeared. With a faint cry she sank
to the earth.
"Bear her to the star chamber,~~ said
the voice of the Captain. Mrs. Foster and
Emy hung over the form of their friend.
It was long before th'e blood returned to
her cheek, and the drooping lids disclosed
the languid eyes.
The apartment had evidently been pre
pared for their reception. It was more
gorgeously furnished than any one they
had hitherto seen. The furniture was
rosewood, and the curtains which over-
hung the beds were brocatelle. The soft
and downy beds were covered with spot-
less linen. Upon the marble table w~re
several standard works. They were started
as they beheld the glittering blades and
jewelled handles of three daggers. I
"'Tis an assurance of our safety," aid
Mrs. Foster. "In whatever desperate
enterprises this person ma y be engaged
I believe we are safe from viol~ace.

I


124                    CLIFTON.                                                        CLIFTON.                     125

Let us examine this window; it opens,
upon a balcony. Why, girls, come
here! We have been transported to the
front of the falls." They were separated
from the sheet by less than twenty yards.
The balcony projected from the side of a
perpendicular rock, at an elevation of se-
venty feet from the earth, and enabled
them to take in the overwhelming gran-
deur of the scene. The light still fell upon
the wat6r, whose sparl~ling jets glittered
like diamonds in its resplendent rays.
They had a view of the falls from the
point where they gently curved over the
dizzy height, to the chasm into which they
were precipitated. At the top, the river
was not more than ten feet wide, but
spread out in its descent to more than
double that width.
The bell long since tolled the hour of
midnight, and the exhausted females
barred their door, and threw themselves
upon the beds. Mrs. Foster and Emy
struggled ineffectually against the demands
of exhausted nature. Their senses were
lulled by the music of the cataract as
penetrated the apartment, and they soon
lost the consciousness of danger in a pro.
found sleep. Helen recalled the events
which had transpired since she entered
the Cave. An age had glided past in that
brief period. Her senses refused to slum-
ber, and turning over the pages of Lam-
phere's Classical Dictionary, she confound-
ed the fabulous doctrines of mythology
with the mystical wonders of the cavern.
She took up the dagger, an~ scrutinizing
us polished surface mentally exclaimed-
"Of what fiendish crime hast thou been
the unconscious agents or art thou yet to
receive the first impression of blood: per-
haps of mine I" and a cold shudder ran
through her frame. "Or, if not, in defence
of that which is far dearer-my honour !"
There came floating upon the air ~the
glorious music of a brass band. Thr~w-
ing a shawl over ber shoulders, she stepped
upon the balcony. No one was visible.
She listened with enraptured senses to the
soothing melody, as it came in swelling
notes or softened cadences upon her ear.
The tune was changed, and a warlike
blast filled the cavern. As she was en-
deavouring to ascertain from whence the
music proceeded, two figures appeared
upon the balcony to her right. Her heart
bounded with joy as she recocwnised the
form of Dr. Fielding. He waved' his hand-
kerchief. At that instant his companion
raised his arm; the lights were extin-
guished, and the scene was shrouded in
impenetrable gloom. She rejoiced at the

escape of Dr. Fielding, and with an as-
surance of safety retired to her couch.
As she adjusted her hair and rested her
cheek upon the pillow, a strain of music,
wild and plaintive, seemed to float in the
air. Now approaching the balcony, and
then receding until the mellow noten were
faintly heard. Mrs. Foster slightly moved,
her lips parted, and she whispered, "'Tis
heavenly ~ Helen's eyes closed, and she
dreamed of manly figures floating' in the
air in the vain attempt to rescue her from
imprisonment.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
"Beneath, terrific caverns gave
Dark welcome to each stormy wave,
That dashed like midnight reve1!ers lxi
And such the strange, mysterious cIi,~
At times throughout those caverns roll'd-
And such the fearful wonders told
Of restless sprites imprisoned there."
MOORE.
Ah, no! I will
Withdraw myself from every human eye."
ALFLSAU.
"Love, all-defying love, who sees
No charm in trophies won with ease;
Whose rarest, dearest fruits of hues
Are plucked on danger's precipice!"
MOORE.
"LOCK him in the dungeon !" exclaim-
ed Fenton, savagely; "we will deal with
him at our leisure."
"Ay, ay, sir. Do you hear the or-
ders I Come, proceed ~
Resistance was unavailing, and he en-
tered a gloomy cell which had been walled
up, and into which the air was admitted
through a small opening. The guard re-
tired, and their footsteps were heard ring-
ing upon the rock path. Half an hour
might have elapse , when Clifton heard
his name pronounced in a whisper.
"Massa Clifton, come to de door !"
"Well, Sambo, you went over the falls
in safety I"
"Yes, massa, by gad; but I like to got
stove in at de bottom !"
"Where are the ladies I Have you
seen them I"
"Them well. Dey hab good room:
berry good supper. Dey seem astonish-
ment at de strange sights down here, and
de Capen, him perfic gemblem !"
"How is that, Sambo I Is not the per-
son whoordered me to be thrust into this
hole the Captain of the gang V~
"Oh, no! dat one ony second. The

U

Capen ~roung~ hansom, and a gemblem;
se   ,       the darky'-dat's me-' gib
him something to eat, and let him hab fur
few days dat which mus seem a curosty-
his liberty and 'dependence.'"
"Where is your master I"
"Here in de room yoner, sleeping
soundly"
"When he wakes let him know my
situation. Tell him I am in the power of
an enemy who will not hesitate to do me
an injury.~~
"Sambo will tend to it."
When his slave had communicated to
Dr. Fielding the situation of his friend, he
at once sought the young leader. He
found him in a room connected with the
library, exhibiting to Mrs. Foster and her
companions some rare paintings and sta-
tuary.
"Dr. Fielding, lain ~w gidd to see you !"
exclaimed ~ as she 'advanced to
meet him, with a joyous smile.
"I as~are you the pleasure is mutual.
Mrs. Foster, Emy, how are you both I"
Quite xvell2 after a refreshing sleep.~~
"You must join me in a petition to our
courteous host-for he acts the character
w:th more grace than that ofjailer-to re-
lease Clifton from a dungeon.
"Clifton in confinement !" exclaimed
the ladies. "Oh, sir, you will release
him"-
"Pardon me for interrupting you, ladies;
your request is granted. Here, Carlos-
order the warden to release the prisoner.
'Tis his work; a second disobedience of
orders." And his brow gathered into a
heavy frown as he left the apartment.
"These paintings are exquisite! What
think you of this copy of Titian's Venus !"
"It is really beautiful !"
"An'! this representation of the Ma-
donna I"
"Is evidently by one of the old masters.
What grace in the expression, what mild-
ess in the eye !"
"Mary, Queen of Scots; well executed.
She must have been irresistible. Catha-
rine de Medicis; how imperious the look.
Napoleon; the stamp of greatness is un-
mistakeably disclosed. Cromwell, the great
statesman, and the remorseless hypocrite.
The serious face of the first Charles, and
the calm and resolute countenance of
Washington, all well executed. Our host
is evidently a connoisseur. This bust of
Webster is faultless, this of Clay not so
good, but passable. Here is the deter-
mined physiognomy of old Bullion, in con-
tact with the iron visage of his great rival,
the South Carolina nullifier. A statue of

the first conqueror of Italy, imported from
Europe. Let me pull aside this curtain.
The three Graces! They are beautiful.
No statuary that I have ever beheld equals
this group."
They wandered through the apartments
towards the falls.
"Why, Clifton, my dear fellow, thrice
welcome !"
Our hero was cordially greeted by his
four associates. The page announced that
breakfast awaited them. As they were
seated at the table, Edward recounted to
his com p anions the events which had
transpire d since they were separated.
"And where is father now I" inquired
Helen.
"I cannot inform you. From the posi-
tion which he occupied, he must have ob-
served the secret door. I did not claim
assistance from him, because, in the event
of his capture, our friends without would
have no clue to our place of imprisonment.
What number of men hold possession of
the cavern I"
"At least a score" replied Fielding.
"Are they engaged in some desperate
enterprise I"
Unquestionably! else why the secret
door, these furnished apartments, and the
seizure of our persons I"
"'T4s strange,~~ responded Edward,
musingly, "that an organized band should
exist in the vicinity of Stamford."
"What can be the object of the associa-
tion I"
"I cannot divine. It would be difficult
to connect anything dishonourable with
the courteous leader of the band."
"I will vouch for his' honour," said
Mrs. Foster. "A belted knight could not
be more loyal in his bearing. Besides,
these rooms are proof that he possesses a
refined and cultivated taste."
They returned to the library, for the
purpose of re-examining the paintings.
Fielding again lifted the curtain which
concealed the Graqes. They ~vere gone!
What they thought was one side of the
room, was suddenly elevated, and dis-
closed a scene that appeared like the crea-
tion of enchantment. In the centre of the
area was a fountain, whose innumerable
jets caused a gentle shower to descend
upon that part of the grounds. Countless
lamps were suspended from the vault,
casting a flood of light throughout the vast
arcade. Half-a-dozen statues, including
the three Graces, occupied different posi-
tions upon the stage. Those in front of
the fountain stood revealed in all their
classic elegance, as chaste and pure as


126                           CLIF
Powers' statue of the Greek Slave, while
the figures beyond were softly shaded~y
the misty drapery of the waterfall. The~
curtain tell, ~but rose again in a few mo-
ments. The scene was changed. Six
powerful gladiators wete in the act of
seizing the helpless nymphs, who had
timidly shrouded their forms in robes of
gauze.
"We have been deceived !" exclaimed
Fielding, in amazement. "Our faultless
statues are living, breathing mortals."
"This was the statuary, Doctor, which
you have never seen equalled! This is
your boasted skill in anatomy and physiog-
nomy !" said Mrs. Foster; and ~he laughed
merrily.
The artistes now gave a succession of
beautiful tableaux. The Capture of the
Sabines-Bacchus at his Revels-The
Elopement of Helen-The meeting of An-
tony and Cleopatra-The Execution of
Anne Boleyn, and the Separation of Jo-
sephine and the Man of Destiny. When
the curtain rose for the last tin~e, the in-
spiriting notes of a polka filled the arcade.
It was danced with exquisite grace for
several minutes, when the females were
borne aloft by some imperceptible agency.
When the eyes of the astonished spec-
tators were directed to the floor, the gladia-
tors had also disappeared. The lights
were extinguished, and the curtain fell.
Before they could give expression to
their wonder at these extraordinary exhi-
bitions, the wildest commotion arose in
the corridor beneath the library window.
They saw the leader of the band standing
upon a platform slightly elevated above
the floor, upon which he had just step~ied,
from what appeared to be his private
study. In front of him were a dozen men,
at the head of whom Clifton recognized
his arch enemy.
"What want you, Col. Fenton l" said
the clear and sonorous voice of the com-
mander.
"I want Edward Clifton, whom you I
1~~
have rescued from my grasp.
"And to accomplish that object you
have not only induced these misguided
men to revolt, but have violated your own
oath."
At this allusion to a breach of discipline,
the least resolute of the party hung their
heads.
"Prate not to me of revolt !" cried the'
enraged Fenton. "I no longer obey your
orders until Clifton is delivered into my
hands."
"For the last time I order you to retire,"
said the young leader, with folded arms

iT ON.

and bent brow, the swelling veins of
which indicated the violence of his pas-
sion.
"Never !" thundered the exasperated
subordinate. "Nay, frown not at me! your
minions are not within call, and you are
in my power.~~
"Fool! theii die in your madness."
His last words were swallowed by the
explosion of his pistol and the awe-
stricken spectators beheld the arms of Col.
Fenton, for an instant, wildly grasping at
the impalpable air, when he fell to the
earth. A few convulsive struggles were
followed by a quivering of the limbs, the
eyes rolled wildly in their sockets, and
then all was still.
"So perish the insubordinate. Who
will be the next victim ?" said the stern
voice of the coriander.
A minute of profound silence ensued,
while they gazed upon the stiffening form
of the dead, and then by one of those
sudden transitions from fear to reckless-
ness, they prepared to revenge the blood
of their comrade.
"1 will be the next victim !" exclaimed
a gigantic Scot. "And I!"" And I!"
"Down with him! he is but one man:
shall he shoot us do~vn with impunity l"
They began to gather around the young
chief; whose slight form was motionless,
as with folded arms and scornful eye he
watched their movements. Those nearest
his person, still restrained by the sanctity
of delegated authority, confined their hos-
tility to gesticulations: but those in the
rear attempted to reach his bosom with
their daggers.
Edward and Fielding were on the point
of starting to his relief, when lie clapped
his hands. A vast sliding door rolled
back, and two pieces of artillery were
pointed at the mutineers. Before they
had recovered from the alarm occasioned
by this unexpected diversion, twenty rifie~
were levelled at their shrinki~g~forms.
"When will you learn it is absolute
folly, to struggle against my authority l
Throw down your weapons. There, now;
cross your hands. Major, place these des-
peradoes in irons, until I can determine
their fate. Begone.~~ And with an im-
perious gesture, he waved the crestfallen
rioters from his presence. "Remove the
body of the mutineer. Since the warfare
of Milton's angels,~~ he continued in a
melancholy voice, "so perish all who
assail the established and necessary regu-
lations of law and order." He gazed for
a moment upon the unconscious clay, and
then directed his glance to the library.

CLIFTON.                              12T
Every trace of passion had disappeared abortive. He will never abandon the
from his countenance. Bowing low, he cavern until we are rescued! "Why not
observed with a sad smile, "I regret, apprise him of the fact i"
ladies, that you have witnessed this scene. "That would enable him to frustrate the
It was one of those summary, but unavoid- designs of Judge Douglass."
able inflictions of justice, which society "But if he intends to release us volun-
even is sometimes forced to adopt, tarily, and there is no prospect of a rescue,
although protected by the power of muni- of what avail are the efforts of our friends~"
cipal authority. I did hope your sojourn "You are right. Here he comes; I will
in my dominions. would have been un- mention the subject to him-Your ge-
alloyed with a pang. Perhaps the future nervous defence of my person," said Clifton,
may prove more auspicious." He raised "renders it a pleasing duty to treat you with
his hat gracefully, and withdrew. frankness. The father of this young lady
"What an extraordinary being! Who was a witness of my capture. The en-
can he be l" inquired Emy. trance to this part of the cavern was dis-
"And so hand some ~ said Mrs. Foster. closed to him. A hundred armed men, by
CC It all appears to me like a dream ~ this time. have taken possession of the
obseTved Helen, "so wonderful are the Cave, and the outlet to these apartments
spectacles, which we have witnessed. are besieged by a force superior to your
But is there no way for us to escape l If own."
father and mother were only apprised of For a moment the countenance of the
our safety, I should be so happy. Is there chief turned pale, and then he bit his
no avenue leading to the open air l" nether lip, and muttered, "Fenton ,thou
"That we cannot leave these apart- art doubly curs~ !"
ments, without the permission of this sin- "What would you l" he exclaimed,
gular man, is, I think, beyond a doubt," turning his dark eyes upon Edward.
said Fielding.                        "I seek not your confidence, but grati-
"But cannot our friends rescue us ~" ttide demands that I should throw no oh-
"Impossible! A larger force than the stacles in your path. There is but one
chief could rally, cantiot operate effectu- way to remove our friends from the outer
ally in the narrow passages leading to cavern."
these halls. To attempt the falls after the  CC Name it :"
experience of Fielding, would be absolute "Let us assure them of our safety, and
madness." our speedy return."
"Yes, that would be too awful." replied The stranger mused. His arms were
Helen, with a shudder. folded upon his breast~ and his head sank
"Did you have a distinct view of the upon his bosom.
secret door, ladies ~ But I forgot your
lights were extinguished. You should be "I will accept your terms," said he,
able to describe it, Clifton v' frankly extending his hand. "Here are
"Yes! Both the door and the gate at writing materials; your message shall be
the bottom of the basin, are opened from delivered at once."
within."                               Helen hastily indicted a note* to her
"The water then must be drawn off father, assuring him of the safety of her-
before the door is opened l"         self and companions. It continued-" It
Certainly !" is useless to attempt our rescue, it will
"What an ingenious contrivance! And prove unavailing. We shall be released
the gate is opened from beneath ~i in a few days, and that event will be has-
"I presume so! It is doubtless an iron tened by your withdrawal from the Cave.
slab, adjusted in a groove, so as to slide This spot equals the creation of Aladdin's
back and forth ~                     lamp. We are all well, and now I am as
"Can we not induce the Captain of the happy as the rest. Ever your affectionate
band to let me apprise father of our   The note was delivered to the stranger.
safety V' said Helen, in whose mind a  "And now let us visit the ~
single idea predominated.              "From  what an immense height the
"That would thwart the very object water is precipitated! This part of the
which he had in view in seizing our cavern must be far below the surface of
persons.~~                          the earth."
"But if father saw the entrance to this  "At least four hundred feet."
part of the cavern, as you suppose, the at-  "And vast rocks are piled mountains
tempt to keep away visitors will prove high over our heads."


CLIFTON.                     129

128                   CLIFTON.

"What rumbling sound is that beneath
our feet'?"
"Why the falls have disappeared."
They gazed upward. Nothing was seen
but a few small rivulets trickling from the
brow of the precipice.
"The river is descending through the
basin. He is delivering your message,
~ said Edward.
The water now gushed from beneath
their feet, and flowed into the channel
several yards below.
"Come hither." said the page.
Opening a sliding door concealed by
the tapestry, he conducted them to another
room, which had evidently been just de-
serted. Several articles of a lady's toilette
were upon the bureau and table, and,
standing beside a chair was an embroidery
frame. Scissors, thread, and scraps of
silk were lying upon the carpet. They
followed the page to the balcony. From
an immense height, the river descended
in a succession of cascades, and, con-
fined as it was in a narrow channel, the
water was lashed into a white foam.
Lamps were arranged from( the foot to the
summit of the falls, and, together with the
overhanging cliffs, formed a beautiful
vista. While their eyes were riveted upon
the descending flood, there appeared, just
where the first cascade was seen curving
overtherockstheshadowyoutlinesofa
child rapidly gliding along the crest of the
waves. She was clothed in the habili-
ments of a fairy, and balanced herself
upon one foot with ease and gracefulness.
Her eyes were directed to the wondering
spectators, and at intervals she kissed her
hand. Although she was borne upon the
water, and her form was occasionally en-
veloped in the spray, yet she did not touch
the raging flood. She continued to de-
scend, now moving with a velocity which
made the ladies hold their breath, and
then gliding slowly down the rapids.
Pausing upon the crest of a fall, scarcely
more than forty feet from the balcony, she
bowed gracefully, and then vanished in
what appeared to be the solid rock. Be-
fore they had withdrawn their eyes from
the elevation, she reappeared for an in-
stant at the point where they had first
beheld her.
"Whatever may be the object of
this singular man in fitting up the cavern
with so much elegance, he certainly
delights in the magical," said Dr. Field-
"Yes; and he practices it to some pur-
pose. What with paintings-your statu-

ary-nymphs, and fairies, he surpasses
the mystical wonders of the Ravels."
~ exclaimed Emy. "Is not
that music?"
About half way to the summit of the
falls, they saw the form of a lady descend-
ing from the vault towards the river. She
was seated at a harp, and her round ala-
baster arms, glided with exquisite trace
along the strings. Before she had execu-
ted the prelude, the river had disappeared,
and the channel was empty. At first, the
notes floated softly towards them; but as
the harpist proceeded, as if inspired by
the melody, she touched the strings with
greater power. The song was from the
opera of Maria de Rohan -the ronda
which the Countess sings when apprised
of her husband's safety. As the last notes
were borne to the eager listeners, the
artiste started to her feet. The flood was
again pouring overthe precipice, and rapid-
ly descended one cascade after another.
She gazed wildly around, and her counte-
nance was blanched with terror. She
occupied one of those level rests that
intervened between the shoots. As the
foaming river appeared along the brow of
the rock above her, she seemed paralysed
with terror, and in the extremity of her
fears, the unfortunate female sank from
their view. Helen clasped her hands, and
exclaimed, "She will be lost! she will
be lost!"
"No power on earth can save ~ re-
sponded the Doctor, solemnly. "She will
be dashed in pieces ere she reaches us
Down, down rolled the river, as if
affrighted at its own velocity. They gazed
eagerly upon its foaming crests, but could
obtain 110 trace of the unfortunate lady.
Sadly they turned away, and were leaving
the balcony, when the notes of a harp
swelled above the roaring, waters. Look-
ing upward, they saw the smiling face of
the harpist, as she slowly ascended to-
wards the vault, and disappeared.
"It is too bad to sport thus with our~
sympathies !," said Helen, pettishly.
"Why, you would not have her drowned,
to make that a tragedy which was only
intended for our amusement !" replied
Clifton.
"No, but I would not have her pre-
tend to be s6 much alarmed. My nerves
are not yet quiet !"
The notes of a guitar next stole upon
their ears. Scarcely a dozen feet could
separate them from the artist; still he was
invisible. The strings were touched
with much skill, and a manly voice sang
the following words with exquisite feeling.

I

In dreams I see thee by my Bide;
Again I clasp that yielding form:
The rapture of the lingering kiss
Is on my lip and cheek, still warm.
Upon my brow how sweetly steals
Again, the fragrance of thy breath,
As when we pledged, br ill or weal,
Our love to each, through life till death.
That lovely arm is gently thrown
Around my neck, and lingers still,
While blushes gather on thy cheek,
And tears ofjoy those eyelids fill.
I try to kiss those roseate lips,
And press again that breathing form;
The warm caress is net returned.
I wake-alas I the vision's gone.
"What witchery is this, and to ~vhat
magical arts is our attention next to be
directed ?" inquired Mrs. Foster.
'~Why, you seem to think the resources
of our host are exhaustless," said Helen.
"Yes, and I expect each feat to be more
startling than the one which preceded it !"
"What an unconscionable woman
Emy returned to her room, and the rest
separated ilItO pairs, and wandered through
the apartments and along the spacious
halls.
"Who would suppose, Mr. Clifton, that
real life could present such an enchanting
scene
"You are pleased with it, Mrs. Fos-
ter ?"
"Nothing that was ever conceived by
the most fruitful imagination, can rival the
splendour of this subterranean abode. I
could linger here for ever."
"Doubtless, after it is abandoned by its
present occupant, you will induce the
General to remove his quarters hither?"
"I would make the attempt, if this
atmosphere is not destructive to health
and complexion."
"It is not extraordinary that you prize
the latter highly!"
"Do you think not?"
~ No! You could have no cause for
alarm, however; this air would benefit
both, if indeed either could be improved."
"How flattering !"
"Nay, how truthful. Cast your eyes
upon those rounded arms, an~ along that
figure which is not inclined a shade too
much to embonpoint! Why, they indi-
cate perfect health! And for the com-
plexion, come to this mirror-yes do-
there now, is truth flattering?"
The mercury gave back a face radiant
with blushes.
"You have no right to call the blood to
my cheek."
"Not if it occasions pain !"
"How dare you insinuate that pleasure
causes it ?"
They returned to the library. Mrs. Fos-
9

ter seated herself upon the damask sofa.
The sound of the distant cataract was
faintly heard. A solar lamp, upon the
centre table, cast its mellow light through
the room, and Edward was exhibiting to
his fair companion some steel engrav-
ings. Strains of music, softened bydis-
tance, entered the apartment. The notes
were plaintive and low, and floated with
overpowering sweetness upon the air.
"We have been surveying the apart-
ment, Mrs. Foster, which was assigned to
you last night. It does not equal in mag-
nificence the three rooms which are to be
devoted to yourself and the maidens, for
the futnre !"
"Are we to occupy different chambers ?"
"So it s~ms. I presume one was
assigned to you last night, in deference
to your fears."
" Doubtless."
"The apartments of Clifton and myself
are contiguotls to yours, so you have no
cause of alarm."
The stranger entered the library with a
young and beautiful woman leaning upon
his arm. She held by the hand a child,
about three years old, who gazed timidly
around him.
"Will you allow me to present my
wife, ladies ?"
"Certainly, I am happy to make her
acquaintance," said Mrs. Foster, as she
extended her hand. "Although we are
semi-prisoners, madam, still we shall never
forget the courtesy of your husband."
"I am happy to find he has sustained
his reputation. I know ~ie regrets the
necessity which forces him to detain you."
"Probably more than I do, for I have
been confounded, yet delighted, with all
I have seen."
"The feats were all invented by my
husband, for the purpose of amusing me,
at times when the recollections of home
weighed heavily upon my mind."
"They are alike creditable to his taste,
and his affections. Have we witnessed
them all ?"
"Not half. The vast dimensions of the
Cave afford full scope for his powers. But
your dinner awaits you. You, no doubt,
find that air and exercise give you excel-
lent appetites."
" Will you not join us?"
"Thank you, no! My husband and I
dine later, and always alone. Au revoir."
"A charming person, is she not'?"
"So lady-like and refined."
Mrs. Foster was more than ordinarily
vivacious. Her wit was keen and sarcas-
tic, and she launched it at every one ex-


CLIFTON.                131

130                    CLIFTON.

cept Edward. Him she addressed at first
in a constrained voice, and then her man-
ner became more frank. Her large black
eyes flashed upon all the rest. She did
not raise them to his countenance.
Why, you seem inspired, Mrs. Foster,"
said Fielding; "I have never seen, even
you, so brilliant before."
I can now see how poor Ellen is tor-
tured !" thought Clifton. "Never mind,
madam, I'll square her accounts with you
yet."
His bearing became more frigid as hers
softened, until a reply more than ordinarily
caustic induced her to look him full ~n the
face, with a wondering, and half-reproach-
ful glance. They were no longer es-
tranged.
Returning to the library, they were met
by the stranger. "I shall detain you no
1onger,~~ he observed. "The recent mu-
tiny postpones for an indefinite period my
departure from the cavern. There is one
request I must make, prior to your re-
lease."
"Name it," said Fielding; "we can re-'
fuse you nothing!"
"To the extent of your power prevent
all attempts to explore this part of the
Cave until I consent."
" We will.
"I can defend myself against any force
which may be brought against me, but I
wish to avoid a useless sacrifice of life.
For your own satisfaction, I here declare,
upon the honour of a gentleman, that our
operations do not, in the slightest degree,
violate the laws of the land."
"I am glad to hear it !" said Edwa~d,
warmly. "This assurance makes me still
more grateful for your kind interference
in my behalf."
The adieus were spoken, and with sad
countenances they emerged from the se-
cret door, and proceeded towards the
mouth of the Cave. They found Judge
Douglass and Davidson awaiting their
exit, with horses to convey them to Stam-
ford.
a
CHAPTER XXXV.
"Thy name and watchword o'er this land,
I hear in every breeze that stirs;
And round a thousand altars stand
Thy banded party worshippers,
Not to these altars of a day
At party's call, my gifts I bring;
But on thy olden shrine I lay
A freeman's dearest offering~~
WHITTIER.

"My bosom glowed; the subtle flame
Ran quickly through my vital frame;
O'er my dim eyes a darkness hung;
My ears with hollow murmurs rung.
PmLn's.
THE Presidential struggle had com-
menced.
The electoral candidates had mounted
the stump, and barbecues and mass meet-
ings ~vere the order of the day. The lead-
ing issue of the canvass was the policy of
annexing Texas to the United States.
That question illustrated the instability of
public opinion. The opposition of Mr.
Van Buren to the measure was made the
pretext for quietly laying him upon the
shelf; yet it is doubtful if the overwhelm-
ing selfishness of the man did not eon-
tribute more largely to his defeat. The
young democracy were anxious to get rid
of him upon any terms. They regarded
him as a political incubus, who woold al-
ways bring defeat upon the party. De-
spised at the North, distrusted at the South,
he could still rally a few devoted friends,
while the masses were far from enthusi-
astic in his support.
The whigs were zealous in the cause of
Mr. Clay. His nomination in 1844 was a.
foregone conclusion, notwithstanding his
opposition to the annexation of Texas.
His sympathies must have been favoura-
ble to the extension of the "area of free-
dom." Such had been the tenor of his
public action. While Secretary of State
he endeavored to acquire Texas from the
central government. What could have
changed his opinions when the "lone
star" had become "practically free and~
independent?" It is the prevailing opi~
rii'on that every politician studies the mairt
chance, and he may have supposed that
the Northern States would turn the scale in
the presidential contest. His position was
truly embarrassing. The Southern demo-
cracy assailed the letters which he wrote
from time to time upon the Texas ques-
tion, with the utmost violence. From the
date of his Raleigh manifesto, to the
seventh of November, he fulminated half
a-dozen decrees; but while he failed to
~fihisfy the abolitionists, he greatly em-
barrassed his Southern friends. * Mr. Clay
did not correctly inter p ret public sentiment
when he stated, in his letter of May 9,
1844, that the annexation of Texas was
" not called for by any general expression
of public opinion." In the slaveholding
States the project was almost universally
approved, and the extraordinary spectacle
was witnessed of whigs and democrats
assembling in the same convention to ex-
press their approval of the contemplated

union. In the North, the question was not
so popular, but even there it had many
advocates, riot~ithstanding the opposition
of Mr. Van Buren.
It did not, however, exercise so much
influence upon the ballot-box as its friends
had vainly supposed. In fact, the result
proved the fallacy of all human calcula-
tions. In tbe Southern States the admirers
of Mr. Clay changed front, and from zea-
lous advocates of annexation became its
fiercest opponents. Mr. Clay carried every
Southern State which he could safely count
upon if the Texas question had not be-
come an element in the canvass; while
Mr. Polk did not lose an electoral vote at
the North by his favoring the annexation
of slave territory. The New York aboli-
-tionists did not display their usual tact.
Instead of sapping the foundation of south-
ern power by opposing an enlargement of
its limits, they cast their votes for Bimey,
and thus elevated an avowed extensionist
to the presidential chair, by the election of
Polk and the defeat of Clay. One of Mr.
Clay's predictions has been verified. The
annexation of Texas involved us in a war
with Mexico. But the result of that con-
flict was the acquisition of California, as
well as the annexation of a State, which,
in time, might have become a formidable
rival.
Whatever causes may have operated to
render the annexation movement less ef-
fective than it proved in 1844, it is not to
be disguised that the Americans possess
the same desire for the acquisition of ter-
ritory which distinguished their Norman
ancestors. We mean Norman, not Saxon.
Notwithstanding the constant and nauseous
allusion to the Anglo-Saxons, they were
always kicked and cuffed, overrun and
subjugated, by every nation that took the
trouble to invade England. The Angles,
Danes, and Normans, to say nothing of the
Scots and Picts, regarded those famous
Saxons as fit subjects for an iron yoke, and
menial offices. We have no cause to be
proud of our Anglo-Saxon ancestry, al-
though we certainly hear our public men
lauding the Anglo-Saxon race, when one-
half of them do not know the reason why
the two words are mated. They had
neither the spirit nor the power to resist
invasion, and the only way the fair sex
could regain in the bower what their war-
riors could not defend in the field, was
through the irresistible power of love and
wedlock.
We have reason to be proud of our Nor-
man-ancestry-that splendid and unrivalled
race of men-who could retain the con-

quests which they had won; although their
blood has been some~vhat diluted by inter-
marriage with the Britons, Scots, Picts, Sax-
ons, Angles, and Danes.
The cry for more land is not confined
to one section, although it is mainly to
one party. The opportunity for the ex-
tension of our boundaries has hitherto been
almost entirely confined to our south-
ern frontier. But when a small slice can
be obtained from Canada, as in the settle-
ment of the northeastern boundary, we
find 'even Mr. Webster can quietly pocket
it, with as much modest gravity as Yankee
Hill ever exhibited when receiving a more
than ordinarily large piece of pumpkin-
pie. The satisfaction with which he nabs
the tempting "one mile ~vide" is indi-
cated by slowly sliding the tongue along
the lips from right to left, while the head
is slightly inclined, and a scarcely percep-
tible, though prolonged "~hem !" is heard,
savouring more of religious cant than po-
litical gratification.
"And so you commence the campaign
to-morrow, Clifton? Will Grayson meet
you ?"
"I presume so; we have published a
joint list of appointments."
"There is to be a barbecue I under-
stand?"
"Yes; will you accompany me
"How far is it?"
"At Dryden's store, about fifteen miles
distant."
"Why, that is in a ~vhig neighbourhood.
Rather an inauspicious place to start the
ball."
"Not at all. I wish to convert the
whigs; the democrats are right already."
"You have a formidable task to con-
t&amp;nd, single-handed, against a host of whig
lawyers."
" But I shall not struggle alone."
"How so? I am not aware that you
will have any assistance, unless I desert
my patients, and Harden will shake ofi' his
lethargy, or rather laziness."
"You are mistaken. A few weeks ago
I heard the whigs were making taunting
allusions to the superior activity of their
candidate, and to the place of my birth.
They shall pay dearly for both, before the
canvass closes."
"What is your plan of the campaign ?"
"Associations - are formed in each
county in the congressional ttistrict; the
members of which are pledged, in wri-
ting, to address the people twice in a
month. No one is to be apprised of the
plan, and I shall accomplish two objects.
It will, in the first place, indicate an ex-


CLIFTON.                     133

132                   CLIFTON.

extraordinary degree of enthusiasm in the
democratic ranks when private citizeiis
mount the stump; and in the second
place, as they are not aspirants for office,
their opinions will appear more disinte-
rested, and will consequently have greater
weight."
"A capital idea! And how many sub-
electors have you initiated V'
"Sixty intelligent and influential farm-
ers and mechanics will make speeches
next Saturday. There is no visible con-
ne~don between them and myself and to
our opponents the movement will appear
like the voluntary action of these disinte-
rested patriots."
"Why, the whigs will be utterly con-
founded !"
"I intend they shall be so. I did not
undertake the canvass for nothing. If you
accompany me to Dryden~s, be ready by
eight o'clock= I must be upon the ground
at eleven."
"Have you adopted rules for the discus-
W
"Of course. He speak~ an hour. I
reply for the same length of time. He
rejoins for thirty minutes, and I close the
debate in twenty."
"And is that the programme for the
canvass
"No; I open the debate every other
day."
"That's it, is it? Have you not been
astonished that more personal rencotitres
do not occur, where two champions ad-
dress the same crowd ?"
"Titere is always danger where your
opponent is not a lawyer. They are accus-
tomed to the gladiatoral arena, and al-
though greater control over the passions
is required in political than legal debates,
still propriety and good sense will ever
mark the conduct of gentlemen."
"But suppose you differ as to facts ?"
"In that case, the proof must be forth-
coming. That, however, is rarely the
case. The history of political parties is
thoroughly understood by all candidates.
Principles are accurately defined, and the
propriety of their application is the essence
of political debates."
"And you apprehend no difficulty with
Grayson ?"
"Not the slightest; he is a high-toned
gentleman, who would scorn an equivoca-
tion, or subterfuge. If I meet Major Hen-
derson on the stump, it is not unlikely a
collision may occur. I regard him as the
most unscrupulous demagogue I have
ever seen."

"He is the whig candidate for the state
at large, is he not?"
"Yes; and the most accomplished ora-
tor upon their ticket. In private circles he
is a gentleman whose colloquial powers
and fascination of manner I have never
seen equalled; yet in political discussions
lie does not hesitate to employ every arti-
fice calculated to win votes from the Demo-
cratic party."
"Clifton, suppose we call upon Helen
Douglass? I saw Mrs. Foster wending
her way to the manor a few minutes
ago."
" I have so much to do, before starting
to-morrow."
"But you have not seen either of them
since our return from the Cave."
they were seated in the Judge's par-
lo~ir.
"You have been a sad truant, Mr. Clif-
ton, since our return from the fairy regions.
So far as you are concerned, we might as
well inhabit those subterranean apart-
ments, ad infinitum.~~
"I have been preparing to start upon a
mission for the conversion of unbelieving
whigs."
"And like all such charitable persona-
ges, you leave your own neighbours to take
care of themselves, while you are engaged
in the philanthropic attempt ~o enlighten
others. Well, that is characteristic."
Dr. Fielding was passionately fond of
music, and conducting Helen to the piano;
he seemed enchanted by her exquisite
voice. Mrs. Foster and Edward were
seated ppon the sofa in the corner of the
room. The evening was warm, and she
wore a dress cut low in the neck, with
short sleeves. The bnlm~ air gently agi-
tated the vines which covered the trellis~
work, and, laden with perfume, kissed
the cheek of the lovely woman. She was
knitting a purse. Their conversation was
low, for they did not wish to impair the
effect of Helen's song. At length they
were silent; but her taper fingers still
wove together the silken thread.
The spell was broken as the last note
ceased its vibration, and Helen rose from
the piano.
There were perhaps five hundred voters
assembled at Dryden's store. A stand
had been erected in a grove hard by, and
thither the candidates proceeded. As
they were personal friends, they walked
wi~th arms locked, carrying saddle-bags
packed with documents. Horses were
tied to the swinging limbs several rods
from the stand. The spectators were con-
versing in knots, or, seated upon the

benches, were quietly awaiting the arrival
of the speakers. The subject of conver-
sation was almost invariably political.
All eyes were directed to the youthful
champions as they entered the crowd.
"Young, are they not ?" said a venera-
ble old man to his juvenile companion.
" Yes, but none the worse for that,
grandsire. I can take my chance the
sooner."
"What! you don't want to become a
politician, do you?"
"I should like to when I get well
enough informed, which I hope will be
the case before I am as old as they are."
"Egad, youngster, you are becoming
ambitious. Pray, which side shall you
espouse ?"
CC I am a confirmed whig already.~~
"Indeed, and for what cause ?" said
the old man, who had served under Jack-
son in Florida, and was a thorough demo-
crat~ perhaps for that reason.
"because I like the whigs the best.
They take more notice of their public
men. Look at the t~vo conventions which
assembled at the capital during the last
presidential canvass. The whig candi-
dates for electors were paraded through the
streets in carriages, to the envy of half the
town. Do you think there were a dozen
young men who did not resolve to be-
come whig candidates for electors at some
future day. What a contrast did the de-
mocracy present. Their candidates were
groping through the city, seeking the most
indifferent accommodations, without being
elevated an inch above the common herd.
Nothing was done to reward them for
the past, or to stimulate them for the
future. Bah! who would be a democrat ?"
"Why, you young renegade! But I
will lecture you another time; Mr. Gray-
son is speaking."
The whig champion grasped the subject
with boldness and ability. He took deci-
sive ground against the immediate annex-
ation of Texas, as calculated to impair
the honourof the United Statesand involve
the country in a war with Mexico. This
at once raised the question of Texan inde-
pendence, and opened the whole doctrine
of the right of revolution. He advocated
a tariff, discriminating for protection in-
stead of revenue, a restriction of the veto
power, and the distribution of the pro-
ceeds of the sales of the public lands.
These were the issues which Messrs.
Clay and Polk had made up for the can-
vass, and they were defined and elabo-
rated with great ability by the impas-
sioned orator. He was much applauded

during his speech, and when he descend-
ed from the stand he was warmly con-
gratulated by his friends.
Edward knew that the weak point in
his opponent's speech was the Texas
question; and without committing the
dangerous fault of evading any issue that
had been presented, he nevertheless ex-
erted all his powers to demolish the anti-
Texan argument of his opponent. The
sympathies of the audience were with
him, and they were alone prevented by
the force of party drill from joining the
democratic ranks en masse.
Clifton rapidly reviewed the history of
Texas; its acquisition in 1803, its retroces-
cession in 1819, and the final struggle for
independence in 1836. He argued that
nothing could be clearer than the right of
Texas to dispose of herself. The only
remaining question was the propriety of
admitting the territory to the sisterhood of
States. He assumed that there was no
doctrine more positively endorsed by the
American people than that contiguous ter-
ritory should be acquired whenever we
have the opportunity. "There are over-
whelming arguments in favour of the
policy," he declared. "it is always well
to rid ourselves of troublesome neP~hbours,
and thus avoid vexatious disputes in set-
tling boundary lines. We convert rivals
into friends and allies; nay more, we
make them a part of ourselves. We
sweep away those conventional forms
and absurd jealousies which have caused
rivers of blood to water the fields of
Europe. We obtain land for the millions
who will cultivate it before the expira-
tion of this century. Each citizen will feel
a double interest in the onward strides of
the republic, because he owns a portion
of the soil, and by our gigantic strength,
we shall command that respect which is
rarely accorded to poverty and imbecility
by the conventional etiquette of either
nations or individuals. It is sometimes
said our career may terminate like that of
the Romans. Suppose it does; would
not the pride of the most ambitious be
satisfied, if the United States could for
centuries occupy a position of such unex-
ampled splendour in the West as thatwhich
the 'City of the Seven Hills' maintained
in the East. The science, refinement, and
military renown of that celebrated power
will occupy a larger space in the memory
of posterity than any other nation. The
triumph of the English arms under Marl-
borough, Wellington, and Nelson is marred
by the successive conquests of the island
by the Romans, Saxons, Danes, and Nor-

dl


134                    CLIFTON.                                                           CLIFTON.                     135

mans. France can boast of the match-
less but meteoric course of Napoleon,
while she mourns the occupation of her
capital by Henry V. and the allied armies.
Austria, once raised to a first class power
by the genius of Maria Theresa. suffered
the legions of Bonaparte to hold posses-
sion of Vienna. Prussia, elevated into
greatness by the military science of Fre-
deric, was ~rostrated between the rising
and setting~ the sun upon the field of
Jena. Russi~ applied the torch to her
ancient capital when she could no longer
defend it, and she now watches in vain,
notwithstanding her colossal power, for
an opportunity to seize Constantinople.
"How immeasurably does the long and
brilliant career of the Romans overshadow
that of any other European nation. It
stands out upon the pages of history alone
and unapproachable. For centuries they
held the destinies of the world in their
grasp. My opponent says our thirst
for land will make our destiny run parallel
with that of the Romans! For one I will
give him the full benefit of the a~sump-
tion. Nations, like individuals, are affect-
ed by the operations of time, and if from
the womb of futurity, events of such mag-
nitude are to be revealed, as were traced
upon the pages of Roman history, let the
startling consummation be compiled in the
annals of An~erica. I wish a destiny no
more grand for the American States than
is recorded by the Roman historian. But
while I make this admission, I nra not dis-
posed to let him create the impression
that the cases are at all parallel. They
are widely dissimilar. The Romans ex-
tended their conquests by the sword. They
maintained them by the same coercive
authority, and whenever their military
surveillance was withdrawii, the conquered
provinces revolted. It was a misfortune,
too, that the seat of their power was a
single city, into which the boundless
wealth of the empire was poured, butAo
corrupt the public heart, and enervate
those soldiers who had caused the re-
motest nation to tremble at the mention of
the Roman name. Here, we seek not the
acquisition of Texas by conquest. They
are Our friends, who do no wish to be
converted into enemies. They desire a
more perfect union with their fatherland.
It will not require mercenary soldiers to
hold them in subjection; on the contrary,
if ~a war ensues, they will be the first to
rally beneath the stars and stripes. I am
confounded at the absolute folly which
prompts a refusal of their application. The
history of the human race does not afford

another instance of such stupid political
madness, as that which marks the policy
of the Whig party. At the behest of a
distinguished statesman, they array them-
selves against a struggling people, who
have staked their lives in defence of their
altars and their homes, and they expect
you-ay, you! individually and collec-
tively, to obey the order, left face."
Many of you have relations who fell in
the Texan revolution. Gan you reject
their appeals, and force them to become
aliens from the land of their nativity?
Will you become the laughing-stock of
the civilized world, by refusing a bloodless
extension of "the area of freedom," when
England. France, and Russia, are yearly
re-marking their boundaries with blood ?"
"No, no! iiever !" shouted the excited
crowd, who were carried away by the en-
thusiasm of the speaker.
You have made a good impression,77
whispered Fielding, as they advanced to
the spot where the barbecued meats were
placed upon the tables.
The process is simple by which the food
is prepared. Trenches are dug in the
earth, into which wood is thrown and
burned to coals. Round sticks are laid
across the trench, and the carcasses of beef,
pork, or lamb, are placed upon them.
During the process of cooking, they are
sprinkled plentifully with salt vinegar, and
pepper. They are then laid upon rude
tables, erected for the occasion, and lhe
spectators are invited to help themselves.
The method of "helpincr one's self" is
quite as primitive as the preparation of the
fare. The utensils which are brought into
requisition, present no kind of uniformity.
Each man draws forth his pocket-knife,
and in the aggregate, they vary in size
from a slender blade to an Arkansas tooth-
pick. Some of them bear unmistakable
evidence of having been used in cutting
tobacco, while others are stained with
apple-juice. With these weapons each
man carves for himself aiid when the
meal has been postponed, to accommo-
date long-winded speakers, and the crowd
have become hungry and impatient, the
spectacle in the vicinity of the eatables is
quite as uncouth and disorderly as that
which often disgraces the unmannered, at
a fashionable supper-table.
"I can tell you one thing, Mac,-Clifton
proved too much for your man to-day."
"Nonsense! Colonel, how you are go-
verned by prejudice."
"Not a bit of it; it is a fact, and no mis-
take, and I can prove. it. The whigs
looked exfluctified, when our candidate

was pouring in them licks on the Texas
question."
"You imagined such was the case. I
must confess, though, that the lads are very
well matched."
"That's anuff-whenever an opponent
admits that his man is riot superior to
ourn, the game's up. Come, now, con-
fess, Mac: ain't it darned hard for a man
to be forced to change his opinion, just be-
cause Harry of the West says he must ~"
"I have great confidence in Harry,
Colonel. He may be right, arter all"
"But didn't you make a speech, Mac,
not four months ago, in which you pledged
yourself, under all circumstances, to vote
for Texas '~ Ain't agoin' to craw-fish, are
ye ~"
Well, hasn't a man a right to change
his opiniorti"
"Yes. but it looks suspicious on such a
short notice."
"Come, Mac, that's hardly fair. Recol-
lect, your party ain't always consistent.
Didn't Mr. Grayson say that in Pennsyl-
vania the democrats have inscribed upon
their banners, 'Polk, Dallas, and the
Tariff of 1842,' and ain't you all opposed
to the tariff of 1842 in this State1 If in-
consistency is so bad in me, how does it
appear in you V~
"That's a fact. But the great question
is, whether we shall admit the lone star;
one of your brothers fell at the Alamo,
didn't hey"
"Yes, and it will be a hard pill for me
to swallow Mr. Clay after his letter, though
he is a great man."
"You had better go with us, Mac ; there
will theti be n~ abandonment of princi-
ple ,t~ said Clifton, who was passing by.
"Recollect, delay may throw that ccmun-
try into the arms of our ancient foe,
which was so recently moistened by the
blood of your kinsman."
"I'll think of it, Mr. Clifton," said the
honest farmer, as a tear gathered in his eye.
For the purpose of awakening the en-
thusiasm of his party, Edward projected a
convention at Duncanville, at which the
different States and Territories were to
be represented by young and beautiful
women. Public curiosity was awakened,
and thousands congregated to witness the
spectacle. The streets were lined with
carriages, and every window was filled
that commanded a view of the procession.
At eleven o'clock, the distaiit roll of a
drum was heard, accompanieti by dis-
charges of artillery. As waving flags were
seen approaching the court-house, the in-
spiriting notes of martial music floated

upon the air. The head of the column
advaticed, and thirty ladies, clothed in
black riding dresses, with velvet hats and
white plumes, and mounted upon white
horses, slowly passed through the avenue
of human beings. Each lady was escorted
by a gallant, mounted upon a black horse.
Their progress was indicated by. waving
handkerchiefs and loud huzzas, and when
they assembled around the court-house
steps, hemmed in by the vast throng, the
enthusiasm was boundless, and cheer
upon cheer rent the heavens, while the
continuous boQining of cannon added to
the grandeur of the scene. Mrs. Foster,
Helen Douglass, and Emy Davidson, were
among the splendidarray.
VI
CHAPTER XXXVI.
"Look Nature round, her features trace,
Her seasons, all her changes see;
And own, upon creation's face,
The greatest charm's variety."
Moous.
"It is the hour when from the boughs,
The nightiugal&amp;s high note is heard;
It is the hour when lover's vows
Seem sweet, in every whispered word"
BYRoN.
MRS. FOSTER was sitting at the parlour
window, pensively watching the departure
of twilight; that hour into whose fleeting
moments are crowded so many sad and
regretful thoughts. The servant lighted
the carcel lamp, but turned the wheels so
that it cast a soft and mellow light through
the apartment. He then retired without
disturbing the meditations of his mistress.
Mrs. Foster, like many other ambitious
girls, had sacrificed herself for the attain-
ment of wealth, and when too late, found
that gold could not fill the void in her
affections. There was a ceaseless yearn-
ing for some object upon whom her love
could be bestowed. Her fate was like that
of thousands who have vainly sought to
gratify an ambition for display, by attempt-
ing to stifle the unappeasable cravings of
the heart. Her feelings had acquired a
bitterness, which caused her to level her
cruel sarcasms at her unoffending step-
daughter. And yet she was gifted byna-
ture with Warm and generous impulses.
She was not an exception to the rule, how-
ever,, that a sacrifice of the mind's purest
emotions, for whatever cause, will surely
be followed by the remorseless importu-
nity of love, until the sensibilities are de-


136                          CLLF
sir oyed, andth e warm current of affection
is changed to bitterness and woe.
She started as Mr. Clifton was an-
nounced, and a blush suffused her cheek.
She advanced to meet him with a pleased
smile.
"I am glad you have called, for I was
so lonely."
"Can it be possible that you are ever
And why not? The chalice which is
held to the lips of the most gifted, is often
poisoned."
"I have observed it. C~an you explain
the cause
"We are too rarely satisfied with our
condition, and are oftener inclined to com-
plain that fate has not been more propi-
tious, tIAn to be thankful because it has
not been more unkind."
"Tue universal discontent, should there-
fore be attributed to a malformation of the
intellectual powers, rather than to the for-
tune whi~h destiny confers."
"Do you think so, Mr. Clifton ?" ~
"Unquestionably. If only a small seg-
ment of the human family refined at the
decrees of an invincible necessity, then it
might be attributed to our own selfishness.
But the malady is universal and over-
whelming, and saps the foundation of all
our joys. Discontent caused the banish-
ment of Adam and Eve from Paradise,
and it is the mightiest curse which was
invoked upon their descendants."
"Greater than revenire
"Immeasurably so ~The thirst for
revenge may be satisfied! It may be al-
leviated by the absence of the person
who aroused its' fury. But discontent
obsequiously environed by envy and
jealousy, preys with remorseless determi-
nation upon the human heart. How often
do you see the happiness of a whole life
sacrificed, in the attempt to outshine others.
A splendid party, or a gorgeous equipage,
may prevent the~man of business from
meeting his engagements,~ his paper is
dishonored, and pecuniary embarrass-
ment and financial ruin is the consequence.
It is almost the only cause of domestic
strife between those who ought to be
united in feeling and interest. If the hus-
band holds the purse strings, the wife is
always endeavouring~to open them, arid
if resistance is offered, she loads him with
reproaches. She is discontented if her
daughter does not receive attention, or if
her son marries against lier consent. She
is unhappy if her party is not as good as
her neighbour's, or if her pew does not
occupy as conspicuous a portion of the

T ON.

church. Ir~ short, what with one cause of
dissatisfaction and another, she manages
to render herself, and all about her, su~
premely unhappy."
"Thank you or this sweeping condem-
nation of our sex."
"Donh misunderstand me! Although
we are presented by our pursuits, from
making ourselves miserable ab out sue/s
matters, yet destiny has no brighter career
in keeping .for the sterner sex. What is
it that causes the cheek of the student to
pale over the midnight lamp? Why does
the soldier recklessly meet the iron hail,
and bristling bayonet? To what end does
the adventurous merchant trust his all to
theviewlesswindsandtumultuousocean?
It is because discontent has assumed abso-
lute control over his wayward fancy !"
"But are not inconsiderate marriages
the source of as much wretchedness ?"
"The anguish caused by uncongenial
alliances is doubtless more intense. But
ill-starred we(ldings are not universal. A
similarity of taste may produce, what is
sometimes termed the full fruition of con-
nubial bliss, where t~iere is nothing to
alienate those who have ohee loved."
"Shall I infer from your language, that
the bonds of love are dissoluble ?'~
"Can you doubt it! A gentleman,
gifted with all the impetuosity and ro-
mance o~youth, is introduced to a lady, in
whose veins courses blood as warm and
passionate as his own. Each seeks to
please the other; no circumstances occur
to mar the favourable inipression which
~both have made. He enters her presence
with glossy hair, polished boots, and a
closely shaved chin. Sl~ of course does
not receive him with matted tresses, soiled
frock, or crumpled collar. Her toilette is
faultless, even to the well-laced boot; and
if by chance, her outside garment does
not fall to the carpet, as she occupies the
sofa, there is nothing rei~ealed but spotless
linen. They are married. Before two
years have elapsed, he prefers the club,
or the lodge, to her society. Instead[ of
trying to win him back, by the matchless
power of love, she upbraids and reproaches
him, until the company of his associates
becomes more attractive than her own. If
he is naturally domestic, a disordered
household, and a slovenly wife, will soon
alienate him from his dwelling, and ban-
ish the husband and father from those who
should claim his respect, as well as his
affection."
"Why, Mr. Clifton, what a mournful
picture you draw of matrimony !"
"I believe it is not overcoloured."

I

C L I]

"But the survivor suffers the keenest
anguish, when the mate is claimed by the
remorseless tomb."
"That depends very much upon the
age of th~ mourner. If young and rich,
I fancy they soon overcome their grief.
A friend of mine has been thrice married.
After the death of his first two wives, he
was inconsolable, and expressed the be-
lief that the grave would soon shield him
from mental agony. His spirits are buoy-
ant, and he is now the picture of health.
Few lovely women, who are fond of ad-
miration, (and who are not,) would cry
their beautiful eyes out, if left widows
when young, without children, and with
a large ~
"But old people are deeply afflicted at
the loss of a companion !"
"Because they have outlived admira-
tion, and habit, as much as affection ren-
ders each necessary to the other."
"Does matrimony prove so destructive
to affection ?"
"It sometimes is more powerful than
Dally's Pain Extractor."
"I have known man and wife perfectly
miserable, when parted for a short time."
"Men and women are strange beings.
They pick at each other when together,
and mourn for each other when sepa-
rated."
"Is there no such sentiment, then, as
unchangeable love ?"
"With but one exception, no. There
are a thousand causes which will sunder
the marriage tie, alienate friends, or pro-
duce jlcadly feuds between members of
the same family. The love of a met/icr
for her offspring is the only mortal senti-
ment, which neither time nor circumstan-
ces can change or destroy. Amid dis-
honour or crime, it steadily clings to the
object of its adoration, and unfalteringly
pursues its footsteps from the cradle to the
tomb."
"What an unbeliever thou art! But
you cannot be so incredulous as to sup-
pose that love is merely a fantasy ?"
"Circumstances will undoubtedly pro
duce a condition of the mind called love.
Its duration may be momentary, or itmay
exist until every emotion is destroyed by
the last, long sleep. It is generally arous-
ed between the sexes by intellectual supe-
riority, moral worth, or personal beauty.
Its course is often erratic; and almost
universally becomes less intense, when
the object is indisputably our own, or is
hopelessly beyond our grasp. Nothing
can arrest its career. Religion, duty,

E'TON.                           137
reputation, all ield to its irresistible sway.
Every other ntiment is powerless, when
passionate 1 ye usurps the throne of rea-
son."
"But its demands have been resisted !"
"Ay, b those whose charms were
not sufficie tly attractive to force them to
act upon e defensive. They deserve no
laudation for remaining immaculate, until
they are emptied "
"Do ou not believe that matrimony is
a barn r to wandering affections ?"
"D ubtless, in some instances. It is far
from eing universally so."
" ut when one seeks to discharge all
the duties that the regulations of society
impose upon her, will she not be greatly
aided in her advance along the path of
propriety ?"
"Doubtless, and hence the importance
of devoting our attention, as much as pos-
sible. to those whose fate is more or less
linked with our own. I have no doubt,
but that a steady, unfaltering determina-
tion to contribute to the happiness of our
associates, will secure our own."
"I am glad you think so, for I have
resolved to make it the rule of my life;
that is, with one exception."
"And what is that?"
"I cannot tell you. There is one per-
son, however, at whose presence my feel-
ings revolt."
"Is she so odious, then ?"
"Not personally; I have rarely seen
a young lady who possesses greater at-
"'Tis strange then, that your feelings
can be so embittered. Has she ever
wronged you ?"
"Never! she only reminds me of
another's existence !"
"She is your step-daughter."
"How know you that?"
"Because, driven to desperation by your
harshness, she was upon the point of
committing suicide, when my hand ar-
rested her fell purpose~
"And why did you? She would else
be for ever withdrawn from my sight ?"
"Is it possible, that one so lovely as
you are, can possess a heart so cruel?
You were made for love, why disfigure
your moral and personal attractions by
cruelty and revenge ?"
"Because, I hate and despise her."
"She ha~ never wronged you. Extend
towards her but the band of kindness,
and she will repay it by devotion."*
It is utterly impossible."
"But, let me implore you, Mrs. Foster,"


18

CLI FTON.

said Edward earnestly, as he took herhand.
"She is a sweet, gentle girl, whose very
existence you are daily torturing. Will
you destroy the just hopes of happiness,
which a person placed under your protec-
tion, has a right to claim? Remember,
tbat it is happiness, which we all seek, in
this brief existence. I know you will be
more gentle. Stubborn cruelty is un-
natural; especially in the bosom of one,
who is formed for the dominion of hve."
Her pulse beat more quickly, under
the soft pressure of his hand, as he warm-
ly urged his request. Her eye became
liquid, the whole frame thrilled with
emotion, as if each muscle was gifted
with a new life. Her beautiful limbs be-
came powerless, and every nerve thrilled
with ecstatic life; the respiration was
quick and fluttering, the eyelids were
half closed, the countenance was- pale,
save where the cheeks were illuminated by
the hot blood. Under the influence of a
strange and irresistible fatality, her head
fell upon his shoulder, and her sweet
breath played upon his forehead. Ed-
ward was at first appalled; but as the
lovely burden rested in his arms, it was
more than mortal power could resist.
While her rosy lips were imparting their
sweetness, the parlour door was opened,
and Ellen Foster stood before them.
She gazed for a moment, transfixed to
the spot, and then turning away, she
sighed, "At least my bondage is ended.
I am a slave no longer. So at last does
retributive justice overtake the bad."
CHAPTER XXXVII.
"Morning's ruddy beams tint the eastern sky:
Up, comrades, up, and climb the mountain high!
Let the sluggard sleep, we must slumber shun;
Ere nightfall, honour must be won.
Haste! haste! the merry bugle sounding
chides our delay, chides our delay.
Haste I haste! o'er rock and glacier bounding,
Each gallant hunter singles out his prey."
ANONYMOUs.
"The antlered monarch of' the waste
Sprung from his heather couch in haste.
But e'er his fleet career he took
The dew-drops from his flanks he shook;
Like crested leader, proud and high,
Tossed his beamed frontlet to the sky,
A moment gazed adown the dale.
A moment snuffed the tainted gale,
A moment listened to the cry,
That thickened as the chase drew nigh;
Then as the headmost foes appeared
With one brave bound the copse he cleared."
ScoTT.
THE Presidential election was approach-

ing. Edward had labored with exttaor-
dinary energy, through the changeable
weather of spring, and now the cool and'
bracing air of autumn served to rein-
vigorate a frame, which had endured the
scorching heat of a summer's sun. There
wa~ no abatement of the enthusiasm;
conventions had succeeded mass meet-
ings, processions and barbecues followed
each other with amazing rapidity, and
the whole population of the State seemed
to be in motion. Counties were traversed,
and each day, large crowds were address-
ed by popular orators. The passions,
as well as the prejudices of the populace,
were aroused, and. heavy bets were made
in violation of the statute. The history of
l)ohltical conflicts furnishes no parallel to
the intense excitement which pervaded
the ranks of the rival parties. But there
were moments of relaxation. The coun-
try abounded with game, the streams con-
tained myriads of fish, and hunting and
piscatorial excursions were often formed.
On a bright morning in the month
of October, Grayson, Edward, and a
party of a dozen friends, accompanied
by several ladies, including Ellen Foster,
Helen Douglass, and Emy Davidson,, start-
ed for the barrens, about ten miles to the
west of Stamford. This was a portion of
country thinly covered by a stunted
growth of trees.. The ground was undu-
lating, except where it bordered upon the
creek; it there became rough, in some
places precipitous. A lofty hill over-
looked the chase, and upon this, the ladies
stationed themselves. The openings in
the forest enabled the spectator to com-
mand a view of the surrounding country,
as far as the sight could extend. To the
south, the barrens spread out for several
miles, and terminated in a dense wood.
The surface of the earth in that direction
was rolling, and a successioii of gentle ac-
clivities and grassy valleys, like the waves
of the. ocean, approached to within one
mile of the mount. At that point, instead
of continuing to groove the barrens
transversely, the ridges and glens curved,
until the outlines of each were traceable
from the position which the ladies occu-
pied. The base of the elevation was
wateredd by the creek, which flowed from
east to west. The stream was scarcely
more than twenty yards wide, but it was
sluggish and, deep. The ground sloped to
the water's edge upon both sides; in some
places, however, it was so marshy that it
would neither support the weight of horse
or deer. Beyond the creek was a level
waste, almost entirely destitute of timber,

I

CLIFTON.

189

over which the eye roved until its vision and speed, calculated to make her a for-
was arrested by distance alone. midable competitor. Davidson, who was
"Ladies and gentlemen," said Field- a celebrated horseman, was seated upon
ing as they all dismounted and gathered a dapple gray. it was with great difficul-
for a few minutes upon the pinnacle, ty that he could restrain the impetuosity
"it is proposed that the game shall have of his horse. He seemed to be phrensied
a chance for its life. Instead of taking with excitement, and if the dogs uttered a
stands from whence the deer is shot down wailing howl, he bounded forwards, and
as it passes, we have all determined to suddenly checked by the curb, he reared
follow the hounds. I have had some ex- aloft, until the ladies shrieked with terror,
experience in this dangerous amusement, for fear he would be precipitated upon th~
and it becomes my duty as a hunter as daring rider.
well as a surgeon, to apprise the uninitiat- The rest of the party were well mount-
ted that it is far more hazardous than the ed upon steeds that had, often endured the
reno~vned steeple chase of the English fatigues cif the hunt. There were thirty
empire. There, the ground which each bloodhounds in the pack, besides two
horseman traverses, however perilous, is cur dogs and one greyhound. Upon the
yet accurately defined. He can become speed of the last three, they mainly relied,
familiar with its localities by repeated ob- after the deer were driven into the opening.
servations. He knows where his steed is Raising their caps, they bowed to the fair
to be favoured, and where his powers of arbiters, and turned their horses to the
endurance are to be tested; where a canter west, for the purpose of gaining the rear
is to be succeeded by his fleetest motion. of the game.
But here it is far otherwise. We have to An hour elapsed, and still there was no
follow in the footsteps of the chase, appearance of the huntsmen.
wherever instinct and sagacity may di- "I am fearful, ladies," said Harden,
rect its flight. There is no tinie to search "we shall have no sport to.day."
for level routes; the plunge or the leap "For one, I am willing to waive the
must be taken on the instant, for he alone prospect of enjoyment for an assurance
receives the guerdon of beauty who is in that no accident will happen," responded
at the death. All who have not sufficient Helen. "I almost regret that I came to
courage or ambition to encounter the witness the hunt."
danger an remain 'uvith the ladies~ the "You surely do not apprehend so much
others m~tist mount and away speedily, or danger?" inquired Emy.
the sun will dry up the dew, and the deer "Excitement often prompts the riders
will leave its lair." to encounter perils, that, in a moment of
~' As I am a servant of the people, duty coolness, they would shrink from with
requires me to avoid all unnecessary horror," interposed Judge Douglass.
perils," said Harden.                  "Who is your champion, Helen?"
"Especially as your place cannot be "Well, I don't know, Emy; who is
supplied," retorted Helen. yours ?"
Several others excused themselves, and "I'll choose Mr. Cliftoii."
the two candidates for elector, Fielding, "Dr. Fielding shall be mine- And
and six experienced hunters, were all who yours, Ellen ?"
mounted their horses. Edward bestrode "Mr. Davidson rides such a magniti-
a powerful black charger, whose depth of cent horse," said Ellen Foster, timidly, as
chest and well-formed limbs indicated a blush stole over her countenance, "I
great strength and fleetness. Upon his think he will triumph."
jetty hair were spots of foam as he im- "And has Mr. Gr~tyson no friend here ?"
patiently shook the reins, and ground the inquired Harden.
steel bit between his teeth. Grayson was "Yes, that am I," said a spirited girl.
mounted upon a white horse. The curved "The white horse will prove the victorY'
neck, flashing eyes, and restless neigh, as Harden swept the barrens with his glass,
he glanced at the leashed pack, revealed but there was still no sign of hound or
his eagerness to be in motion. Fielding deer.
rode a bay mare, whose slender and "The game is up.
beautiful proportions created the impres- "Where ?" demanded Helen, eagerly.
sion that she was not equal to the task "Oh; I only meant to say that we shall
of keeping pace with the hounds. And have to return as we came.'~
yet to the critical observer, the expanded "Pshaw! give me the glass."
nostril,'well-developed hips, and prominent Slowly the maiden examined the open-
muscles, disclosed elements of strength ings from the point where the hunters dis-


140                    CLIFTON.                                                        CLIFTON.                     141

appeared to the spot where they were ex-
pected to emerge from the forest. There
she gazed for several minutes.
'~Yes, it is a deer~~~ she exclaimed,
'' and by the size of his antlers, one of the
largest that roam the ~
"Which way does he hold ~" inquired
Harden, eagerly.
" He stands with head thrown back, as
if listening to pursuers, just where the far-
thest point of the barrens terminates in the
forest."
"Why, that cannot be less than five
miles distant."
"He is in motion. Stop; he disap-
pears. Now he ascends another ridge.
A second pause; it is but for a moment;
he is now thoroughly alarmed. Away,
away he dashes !"
"See you not the horsemen ~"
"Not yet. Yes, yonder bursts the dap-
ple-gray from the thicket. Now, nerve
thy muscles, gentle deer, for death is on
thy footsteps !"
"Your champion has the start, Ellen,"
exclaimed Harden; "but where can the
others be ?"
"There comes the black horse in the
other's track, and emerging from the bushes
to the right is another. It's the bay.
Good heavens! how madly he rides," and
the girl's voice ~trembled. "Along the
ridge, from the left, dashes the white
charger. They are all in view. The start
is beautifQl! See, they disappear together
in yonder valley."
"You forget; they are too far away to
be seen with the naked eye. But where
is the buck ~"
For a moment she examined the sdene
in silence. "Ah! there he is, doubling
to the right, as if he would deceive his
pursuers. Foolish thing! there are eager
eyes upon your bounding form, as well as
unerring scent upon your footsteps. A
direct, undeviating flight is your only hope.
While he is making the curve of yonder
elevation they are approaching us in a
body."
"The pack opens. Hear you not the
houndsV' cried Harden.
"Yes, and see them, too. Their forms
are scarcely perceptible, still they rapidly
follow in the path of the game."
"What music in their voices !" ex-
claimed Harden, enthusiastically. "No-
thing could be more delicious !" and he
gazed with intense excitement upon the
horsemen, who were just coming into view.
"Now the chase seems to fly. But
good heavens! What is that bounding
along, with head erect, regardless of the

trail ~ It gains upon him, too, notwith-
standing the velocity of his motion. 'Tis
* the greyhound! Poor victim! I fear there
is no hope for you. Here, take the glass;
I can look no longer."
They were all now in open view.
Thrice the buck had doubled, but his at-
tempts to elude pursuit only had the effect
of prolonging the scene in that part of the
field. Whenever he disappeared behind
a hill and changed his course in the val-
ley, the greyhound lost the direction, and
was thrown off. But the moment he as-
cended another elevation, the relentless foe
was in swift pursuit. The bloodhounds,
on the contrary, followed the trail ~vith un-
deviating steps, through aAl its findings.
With heads bent to the earth, and tongues
protruding from their mouths the opening
pack heliT on their way. Tue horsemen
had kept nearly in a body for three miles.
The white horse and the bay were a little
in advance, but not enough to indicate a
fintd triumph. As they approached the
spot where the hills and valleys curved in
the direction of the mount, they spread
out, so as to prevent ih'~deer from turning
upon his footsteps. Thus balked, he
headed directly for the creek, and towards
the hill from whence the spectators were
watching his flight.
Davidson and Edward kept the summit
of two ridges, while Grayson an(l Fielding
traced the line of separate valleys. The
rest of the huntsmen were scattered over
the field, and were all some distancee in
the rear of the others. About one hundred
rods from the mount a narrow dell crossed
the course. The descent was abrupt, ex-
cept at the spot where Grayson was ap-
proaching it. But there the passage was
rendered difficult by a mass of grape-vines.
Davidson and Fielding were familiar with
that part of the ground, and they had bare-
ly time to raise a warning shout to their
companions, when they were upon the
verge of the glen. There was no time
for hesitation or delay; and Edward, daslf-
ing his spurs into the flanks of his. horse,
urged him to leap the gulf. The feat was
a hazardous one. For three miles his
horse had followed the dogs at the top of
his speed, until they were all passed, ex-
cept the greyhound and one of the curs.
The dell was not less than twenty feet
wide, and half-a-dozen in depth. The
summit upon each side was firm, how-
ever, and with a tremendous bound the
blacr horse cleared the chasm. Fielding
was not so fortunate. He had overtasked
the powers of the mare; for a moment
her slender form was seen floating over

the abyss, but only her forefeet touched
the bank, and she rolled backwards into
the gulf.
The dapple-gray now approached the
glen. Davidson had succeeded in check-
ing his speed a few rods from the bank,
and he now approached it with his limbs
well gathered under him. Although a
faster steed than the black, he was not so
good a leaper. As the rider touched him
with the spur, he bounded forward with
an angry snort. The distance ~ was too
great, and the hindfeet alighted upon the
slope of the bank. For a moment
seemed that Davidsontoo, would be hurl-
ed backwards, but the horse with a spring
regained the level ground, and bounded
away.
The career of the white charger had not
been arrested as he approached the spot
which had proved so disastrous to Dr.
Fielding. He dashed with headlong
speed into a cluster of grape-vines, and
Grayson was unhorsed.
"Good God ~ exclaimed Harden,
"where are Grayson and the Doctor ~ they
havq disappeared. Look! look! horse-
man after horseman vanish from our view.
By heavens! yonder dashes a riderless
steed!' See! there too goes tl~,e white
horse. But three horsemen can be seen.
Stay; is not that Fielding who appears to
be rising from the earth ~ The glass! It
is; onward he comes, but too late! Da-
vidson and Clifton are almost here. How
their horses foam! Is it not a glorious
sight ~ Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah !"
The cheers from the excited Senator
caused the deer to swerve so much, that
instead of passing to the left of the mount,
he turned to the right, and bounded along
the valley which intervened between the
elevation which Edward and young Da-
vidson were traversing. The buck was
large and powerful, and still held on with
surprising velocity; but it was apparent
that his strength could not much longer en-
dure the exertion which it was necessary
to make, in order to elude the attack of
the greyhound. The bounds were still
loft, but his motions were not so elastic,
an d the tongue which protruded far from
his mouth, indicated that his flight would
soon terminate. The noble dog gallantly
pursued the chase. For the last mile the
deer had scarcely diverged from a direct
line, and each moment the distance was
lessened between the two. When the
stag had reached the bank of the creek,
the greyhound was not more than three
yards behind. The course which Edward
and Davidson had taken was more direct

than that of the deer, for they knew he
would attempt to gain the creek along one
of the ridges which led to the pinnacle.
They were, therefore, within twenty yards
of the chase when he disappeared over
the bank of the creek.
"How the foam pours from their sides !"
exclaimed Harden, "and from their
mouths, too; still, they want not the spur.
With what eagerness each horse pursues
the game! See; the forms of their riders
are thrown back, as with tightened reins
they endeavour to check their speed."
The two huntsmen raised their caps as
they swept past the mount.
'' For heaven's sake, be careful ~
shouted Harden, as the reckless horsemen
dashed down the declivity towards the
water. "The marsh! the marsh! Clifton."
The warning came too late, and the gal-
lant black struggled uiavailingly to re-
lease himself from the slough. The dap-
ple-gray was more fortunate. The ridge
which he had followed terminated in a
gravelly beach, and the generous steed
had plunged into the water before the buck
had gained the opposite shore.
"Your champion is the victor, Miss
Ellen," said the Judge.
Perhaps not," exclaimed Emy: "the
game is not yet caught !"
"Yes, but your knight is hors de com-
bat."
The stag had reached the shore, and
was ascending the acclivity, when the grey-
hound seized him with his terrible jaws,
and they again floated in the stream. The
buck now turned, and struck fiercely at
his relentless pursuer. When thoroughly
aroused, a stag at bay becomes a formida-
ble foe. The hound was one of the most
resolute, of his breed, and returning to the
attack, they fought with the greatest fury,
as they slowly drifted down the current.
Twice had the teeth of the assailant been
fastened in the throat of the stag, yet each
time he was cfashed off, with a violence
which caused the blood to pour from his
lacerated breast. The stag was now
hemmed in with foes. Davidson slowly
swam his horse towards the combatants,
and a score of blood-hounds were plunging
into the stream.
"Oh! it is too cruel "exclaimed Helen,
as the tears started to Aer eyes; "will you
give the gallant stag no chance for his life.
'Tis cowardly to encompass him with
foes."
"He shall have fair play," replied Har-
den; and with a voice that soared above
the cry of the hounds, he ordered David-


142

C L I F T 0 N.

son, in the name of the arbitress, not to
mingle in the combat.
In the mean time, the greyhound con-
tinued to assail the deer with the most
savage determination. Both were despe-
rately wounded, still they fought* on with
unconquerable resolution. The buck no
longer attempted to gain the shore, and,
regardless of Davidson's presence, he had
no eye but for the enemy, whose assaults
he met with corresponding ferocity. Once
he hurled the dog from him with such
violence that he disappeared for several
moments, beneath the surface of the
water. Instead of trying to escape after
this repulse, the enraged animal glanced
his blood-shot eyes around, as if awaiting
the reappearance of the hound. The
exasperated dog came up near the head of
the stag, and seizing him by the throat, he
clung to ~his victim with a power which
resisted every attempt to shake him off.
Again and again the body of the hound
was stricken with a force which drove it
from the water, and disclosed the terrible
wounds which were furrowed by the sharp
hoofs of e deer; still his teeth remained
fixed an movable, as though fastened
upon h foe with the power of a screw.
The bl of each dyed the water; their
struggles became less and less violent,
and ceased altogether, as they touched the
beach several rods below the pinnacle.
Davidson, who had, with great difficulty,
beat off the blood-hounds, now approached
the combatants. The forms of both were
rigid and motionless.
Clifton succeeded in extricating his
charger from the mire, and reached the
mount just as the rest of the party aSsem-
bled at its base. One of the hunters had
- broken a rib, Grayson had received a con-
tusion upon the shoulder, and Fielding's
head was bound with a handkerchief for
the purpose of stanching the blood, which
flowed from a cut in his temple.
Davidson, alone, of all the huntsmen,
had met with no accident, and he now!
approached, bearing the antlers of the stao~
upon his saddle-bow.
" Gentlemen, to the successful champion
is awarded the meed of beauty,~7 observed
Judge Douglass; "Ellen, 'tis yours to
present."
The horseman bent low, as the timid
and beautiful maiden adjusted an~ em-
broidered scarf over his shoulder, and tied
it upon his heart.
"It was a right gallant chase," said
Harden; "I wished myself in your midst.
But what unhorsed so many of you in one
spot ~"

"It was that treacherous chasm," replied
Fielding; "I have always cleared it be-
fore. Your horse made the most splendid
leap I ha~'e ever beheld, Clifton ;his feet
lighted upon the bank a full yard from its
edge.~~
"I wish he had been as successful in
passing the slough."
"Oh! that was the fault of neither.
The ground has the appearance of being
firm. How did you pass the gulf, David-
son
"Not s~ well as Mr. Clifton. I came
near sharing your fate, Doctor. Poor Carlo,
I regret your fate! He might have been
living, but for your orders, Miss Helen."
"So might the stag, Mr. Davidson, but
for this day's sport. To my poor judgment,
one appeared as worthy of life as the
other."
"But he was a noble ~
"Not more so than the deer. How
magnificent his retreat; how gallant his
defence."
There was a great contrast in the ap-
pearance of the horses now and when
they started from the mount. They were
covere(l with foam, and with drooping
heads an(l trembling limbs, the panting
steeds were recovering their breath. The
bay mare had received a wound upon her
shoulder; the breast of Grayson's horse
was lacerated, and the blood trickled along
the white hairs; the black charger was
covered with mud; and from the body of
the gray the water still dropped. One
horseman had lost his stirrup, another his
bridle, while the saddle of a third was
turned. The hounds were equally over-
come with fatigue; some were cooling
themselves in the creek, while others
stretched their bodies upon the earth.
After partaking of a lunch, the party
returned to Stamford.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.

"Sickles ring,
Maidens sing
To the sickles' sound;
Tilt the moo,, is beaming,
And the stubble gleaming,
Harvest songs go round."

HOLTz.

"The boat had touched this silver strand,
Just as the hunter left his stand,
And stood concealed amid the brake,
To view this lady of the lake."
SCOTT.
"BUT you must confess, Mr. Harden,

C LI FTO0N.

that the democracy resort to a great many
expedients for the purpose of catching
votes. It was hardly fair for gentlemen to
join the company of squatters who at-
tended the convention."
"That was not a whit more inexcusable
than the log cabin trick of 1840, Judge
Douglass."
"Because Mr. Clay sought to protect
the public domain from a set of land
pirates, why, men who are surrounded
by wealth, clothe themselves in rags, in
order to personate the frontier-men."
"Waiving the question altogether, of
the propriety of forcing a class of citizens
from the public lands at the point of the
bayonet, who are doing more than all
others to develop the resources of this
country, there was no more deceit in the
personation of squatters by men of fortune,
than there ~vas iii creating the belief that
General Harrison resided in a log cabin."
~' But your party denounced the 'hard
cider campaign,' as you termed it ?"
"Not more than yours did the .Tackson
furore of 1828. The fact is~ political tac-
tics will change, and each party should
have the privilege of arranging its own
plan of the campaign. Conventions, mass
meetings and processions, do not cause
the excitement; they are only evidence of
its ~
"Well, Tuesday ends the struggle.
Where is Clifton V'
"To-day he speaks a~ Thompson's
Cross-roads; next Saturday night he ad-
dresses a torch-light procession at Stam-
ford; Monday he makes a speech at Ber-
gen, and Monday night he will harangue
the populace at the Narrows."
"How indefatigably Clifton has con-
ducted the canvass. He has more than
redeemed the pledges which you made
for him in the ~
"Yes; and his zeal and ability will be
rewarded by a seat in Congress, at the
next ~
"So soon! Why he has not been in the
state six years.'~
"His popularity has been of rapid
growth.~~
Thd crowd at Thompson's Cross-roads
was large and enthusiastic. Major Hen-
derson, the whig candidate for the state
at large desired to close the debate. To
this Edward would not consent, as he
claimed the right of terminating the dis-
cussion alternately. The Whig orator was
enraged, and mounting the stand, invited
Clifton to meet him at Morgan's tavern,
where there was to be a whig barbecue
two days after. It was a vain boast, for

143

he knew that Edward had an appointment
that day in the adjoining county. Con-
trary to his expectations, the challenge
was accepted, amidst the cheers of the
democracy.
Morgan's tavem was situated in a neigh-
bourhood almost entirely inhabited by
whigs, and Henderson anticipated that an
overwhelming majority of his party would
be present. In this expectation, too, he
was disappointed. About a dozen miles
from the place of meeting, was a portion
of country densely settled by democrats,
a hardy and inflexible body of men, 'vho
could muster five hundred votes at the
polls, or wield five hundred bludgeons in
a fight. Col. Miller exercised an unlimited
control over this clan, and to his house
Edward directed his steps, after he had
accepted the proposition of Major Hen-
derson. Miller was a gentleman of large
possessions, and lived in princely style,
upon the shore of a beautiful lake.
Clifton was welcomed with much cor-
diality by Col. Miller.
"1 should have gone over to listen to
your speech, to-day, but for unavoidable
business engagements. Here, Frank-take
the gentleman's horse. That is a fine
animal, Mr. Clifton." And he looked ad-
miringly upon the black steed.
"He has done me g5od service during
the canvass. In a few days he shall have
rest."
"Yes, the election will soon be over.
Come in, the air is chilly ~s night ap-
proaches. Excuse me for a moment."
Edward seated himself by the cheerful
wood fire, and examined the furniture~ of
the parlour. It was furnished with Eastem
splendour. The velvet carpet was from
the choicest looms of Brussels, the sofas
and chairs, manufactured from paper
mache, were inlaid with pearl, and the
curtains were made of the richest broca-
telle. One of Chickering's pianos was
open, and the pieces of music which were
scattered upon the stand, proved that the
artiste had just left the instrument. It was
not often that our hero had passed a night
in such luxurious quarters during the can-
vass. He heard the soft rustling of silk,
and rose to his feet.
"My daughter, Mr. Clifton."
Edward bowed to a lovely           ho
could scarcely number seventeen year
although her form was above the medium
height, and her proportions were round
and fiowino' Her eyes were deep blue,
fringed wit~i black lashes, her nose was
Grecian, the cheeks dimpled and bloom-


CLIFTON.                     14~

144                   CLIFTON.

ing, and her manner indescribably fresh
and piquant.
"Do you know, Mr. Clifton," she said,
frankly extending her hand, "your want
of attention came very near making me
turn my coat?"
"What, become a whig 3"
"Yes. I have never been so neglected
before. Can you expect ladies to remain
firmly wedded to their principles, without
being noticed, any more than men? And
don't you have to keep a vigilant eye upon
the unterrified and unshaken-and in some
cases the unshaved, if not the unwashed
democracy-to prevent deser~on from the
"Why you are half a whig already !"
"That is because your competitor was
more politic than yourself. You don't
know my influence. Papa controls a twenty
score of votes, and he does almost every-
thingl ask him. You see there are breakers
ahead."
"If I had known there was so much at
stake, I would have paid my devoirs at an
earlier day.~~
"You would not have left it ~to chance
to bring you at last, eh 3 You need im-
provement-as a politician, I mean. It is
unpardonable not to know all the influ-
ences which affect the ballot-box."
"Take me under your protection."
"If you prove an apt scholar, perhaps
I may. Do you suppose I can shape you
into a respectable candidate for Congress 3"
"Pardon *me; I have no such amipi-
tion."
"Of course not! I never saw a person
who had. Still you all accept nomina-
tions, and if elected rarely resign; or if
you do, it is that resignation which pockets
the honours, and the-salary."
"Suppose I have aspirations for a seat
in Congress 3"
"You can be nominated and elected."
"But I am barely old enough.~~
"That makes no difference. 'There is
a tide in the affairs of men which taken at
the flood,'-you know the rest. Besides,
I think voters, like women, are rather
partial to young men."
"Will you yield me your support, while
you are giving direction to my ambition 3"
"That depends upon your encounter
with Major Henderson. He is so unscru-
pulous that I would do almost anything to
see him overthrown. He thinks his powers
as an orator are matchless."
"Will you listen to the discussion? I
do not know how a champion could fail
when fighting beneath such eyes."
"Come now, Mr. Clifton, that was well

said. I like to see a person keep a sto~k
of compliments on hand. I always do."
Supper was announced.
"Where is Brother Malcolm, mother?"
"He went over the lake to see the
Mortons. He should have been back,
though, before this."
"You will like Malcolm, Mr. Clifton,
if you are, as I have heard, a strict con-
structionist."
"I am politically; if I was socially, I
might take exception to some of your
speeches."
"Has Augusta been saying sharp
things 3" inquired Col. Miller.
Yes; she shoots with a long ~
"That is her nature; she spares no one.
Even I am not always safe. And so you
meet Major Henderson day after to-mor-
row
"Yes, sir."
"He is the m~ost unscrupulous politician
in the whig ranks, and coupled with hi~
unquestionable talents, it renders him a
formidable opponent. Have you met him
during the canvass 3"
"Twice only.~~
"And how did he bear himself?"
icCourteously.~~
"He knows with whom to trifle. It is a
part of his tactic~ to have the whigs con-
stitute a majority of the crowd whom he
addresses."
"So I understand."
"And he is~equally fond of closing the
debate. Who will terminate it at Mor-
Q.~fl~5 ~"
'~I shall."
"Very well. It shall be my duty to
foil the Major in his anticipations of having
a one-sided affair. it is a whig barbecue,
but I understood you to say that the demo-
crats were invited to attend."
"With much ~
"To-morrow, the i4 will arouse the
neighbourhood, and five hundred demo-
crats shall back you at Morgan's. I hope
Malcolm will return to-night. Ah, here he
comes. I believe you are acquainted."
The young men greeted each other with
much cordiality.
"Will you favour me with a song, Miss
Augusta 3"
"Certainly; what will you have?"
"Any one ybu please.~~
The maiden seated herself at the piano,
and after running her fingers skilfully
over the keys, she sang, with a voice of
exquisite sweetness, the plaintive words of
Byron,
"The day of my destiny Is over."

Edward yielded to the power of melody,
and his imagination still hovered in the
realm of song, long after the strings
ceased their vibrations.
She resumed her seat upon the sofa.
"What words for you to sing !"
"Why 3"
"Th&amp;y are far too sad for one whose
spirits are so buoyant and gay as thine."
"You surely do not suppose that my
heaven is always unclouded? Ah, no! I
am not exempt from the general doom,
that mars the joy and crushes the hopes of
frail mortality."
"If you are unhappy, who can escape
the decrees of inexorable fate 3"
"No one. There are moments when I
am indescribably happy. But ~they are
precursors of sadness and gloom. My
emotions are often typified by the lake.
Come with me."
She raised a curtain, a~d opening the
blinds of a window which was l~alf con-
cealed in a charming alcove, disc ~osed the
waters of the lake, as the placid ~heet re-
flected the light of the moon.
"See, That portion of the lake nearest
this shore has a mirror-like transparency;
but yonder, the surface is curled into
gentle ripples by the breeze, as it moves
over the water. The element is no longer
quiet. Its tranquillity is disturbed, arid
within an hour its bosom will be lashed
into foam. Such is life; fluctuating, un-
even, incomprehensible.~~
The view was cheerless. The forest
was clothed in undress, the dew was con-
gealing into frostwork, arid the cold wind
sighed mournfully through the leafless
branches of the hickory and the oak.
Closing the blinds, they returned to the fire.
"Do you play backgammon, Mr. Clif-
ton?"
"Quite well, I flatter myself."
"Would you like to play 3"
"Very much."
The board was pro(luced. Clifton ob-
served that it was ornamented with mosaic-
work, and judged that it came from a
Chinese manufactory. They were both
skilful players, but the lady was not so
stoical under defeat as her opponent, and
she occasionally threw the box (lown, as
ill-luck followed the dice. At last, when
he had taken up three ~f the white pieces,
and she could cuter neither, the men were
all suddenly shaken together, and his
triumph was prevented.
"Why, Mr. Clifton, am 't you ashamed
to move the box in that way 3"
"That is a good joke. You remind me
of a lad who entered Dr. Fielding's office,
it)

and while examining some object of curi-
osity upon the shelf, precipitated a dozen
bottles of medicine upon the floor. With-
out waiting to be assailed, he promptly
inquired, 'Dr. Fielding, nre you as mean
as ever 3' Becoming the accused, when
he intended to be the accuser the Doctor
was nonplussed. Neither of'you, how-
ever, can be charged with singularity. It
is a way the world has of shifting respon-
sibility."
"I believe you say truly. Few of us
are willing~ to assume the full responsi-
bility of all our actions. But the common
enemy has not been idle. It is late Good
night; may sweet dreams be thine !"
"They will be, if sleeping follow the
waking thoughts"
After breakfast the next morning, Col.
Miller and Edward proceeded to examine
the plantation. He had seventy able-
bodied, and healthy negro men, whose
cheerful faces proved that they were hap-
py and contented.
"I will first show you my tobacco es-
tablishment; that I keep separate from
my other buildings, because there is more
~langer of fire."
"How much tobacco did you raise this
year 3"
"I have no certain means of judging,
as it is not all pressed yet. I planted
about twenty acres."
They entered an immense stone build-
ing, divided off into various apartments.
In the first room, a large quantity of tobac-
co was suspended over a fire for the pur-
pose of "curing" it. This is effected by
the smoke and heat. Passing into another
room, Edward saw a dozen slaves engag-
ed in "stemming" tobacco.
"I thought this branch of the business
was done by large establishments?"
"It is. but as I have a force sufficiently
strong, I extract the stems and
tobacco myself."      ,     press the
"You prepare it for market yourself,
then 3"
"Invariably."
They entered the press-re . Here
some stalwart fellows were rowing the
leaves into hogsheads.
"This tobacco," said Col. Miller as he
placed a leaf in Edward's hand, "i's from
seed which I procured in Cuba; I think
the quality is quite as fine as that which
they raise either in Florida or upon James
River.~'
"Why do you not manufacture it, then 3"
"I have made arrangements to do so
next ~
"At what price can you afford to sell

Q


146                    CLIFTON.

tobacco, pressed in the leaf, and make a
fair profit?"
"At three cents a pound.~~
"But you obtain far more than that for
it?"
"Sometimes, though the price fluctu-
ates very much. Mr. Meredith, when
does Phii start with a load of tobacco ?"
"Re was taken sick this morning, sir,
and I sent Thomas."
"Has Dr. Manton seen Philip ?"
"Yes sir! He says he has the bilious
fever."
"Very well, you must see that he is
properly nursed; you know that he is one
of the most valuable slaves on the planta-
tion !"
" Ay, sir."
"How is Phebe ?"
"Almost recovered. Sally had twins
last night."
(C at Solomon's wife? Why, the
puritanical rascal has not been married
four months."
"Yes, yourhonourand I told him so."
CC And what was his reply ?"
"He stammered a little at first, and
then responded with a grin, which dis-
closed all his ivory."
"Massa Meredith, Ise no wus than
white folks; dey nebber always wait for
clergyman.~~
"The slanderous villain. Is he the one
whose voice is so loud in prayer?"
"The same, sir."
"I believe he is not the only person in
the world, Mr. Clifton, whose conduct
does not keep pace with his professions."
"if please, Col. Miller," said the
overseer; "Pilot wants to marry Phillis."
"Is her mother willing ?"
CC Yes, sir.~~
"Send him to me. Mr. Clifton, we will
now visit the cotton gin ~
CC Do you raise cotton, too ?"
"Oh yes, a dozen acres."
They approached a frame building, in
which there were immense quantities of
cottoii, some of it prepared and ready for
market, while a large amount had only
been removed from the boll.
"The cotton gin is almost indispensa-
ble. How did you ever do without it ?"
~ The process of extracting the seeds
was slow, and laborious. We are under
great obligations to the inventor of the
machine; without it we could not supply
the world with~ cotton."
"Well, Pilot, what do yon want?"
The question was addressed to a pow-
erful negro, who stood awkwardly twirl-

ing his hat, as he cast furtive glances at
his master.
"Speak out, fellow; you have not been
guilty of any misconduct, have you ?"
"No, nu~massa, ony Ise fallen in lub
wid Miss Phillis."
"And you want to marry her ?"
"If you please, massa, I should like to
be united to her in matrorny.~~
"Will you make her a kind and affec-
tionate husband ?"
"Sartin, massa, I will shiel her from de
winds ob de heaven."
"Very well then, marry her. But recol-
lect, if you do not treat her kindly, I will
sell you."
"Neber fear, massa !" and the happy
fellow walked off with stately dignity, for
a few steps; and then, unable to restrain
his feelings he exclaimed, "Phillis am
mine !" and then followed those feats by
which an African indicates his pleasure.
He threw himself upon the ground, and
rolling over several times, he at last sprang
up, and rapidly turned several somersets.
He finished his demonstration by throwing
his arms around a negro who was leaning
upon a post, and squeezed him against
the timber with such violence, that lie
fairly writhed with pain.
"Slaves rarely make cruel husbands,"
observed Col. Miller; "but it is well,
nevertheless, to keep them under a whole-
some re5trainit.~'
"How do they bear separation from
their partners and children ?~'
"I have never had occasion to sell any.
They are sometimes, however, separated
by execution sales, or when the property
is divided between heirs. I have obsesv-
ed, that they adapt themselves~ to circum-
stances more readily than whites. If
husband and wife are separated, they
soon marry again. Their affections will
not bear the test of time."
"I am afraid infidelity is not confined
altogether to the black r~ce,'~ replied
Clifton.
"As for the unhappiness caused by the
separation of relations, it is I not so great
as that which is hourly ~vitmessed among
the whites. But the abolitionists say that
in oiie case it is voluntary. The assertion
is untrue. Thousands, in this country,
are separated from their kindred by de-
crees as irresistible as that which transfers
the slave to another State. Look at the
Irish, the subjects of the philanthropic go-
vernment of Grcat Britain. The wil I of the
master is not more absolute than the in-
exorable necessity, which drives the son of
the Emerald Isle from his kindred arid

(

CLIFTON.                              147
is home! What appeal is there from upon an elevation of one hundred feet
the system of impressment, which tears above the shore. The lawn sloped gra-
the subject, at a moment's warning, from dually for a distance of forty yards, and
~ is fireside, to sustain a wretched conti- then descended abruptly to the Water's
ental policy, or maintain the supremacy edge. A flight of sixty marble steps led
f the ocean! Here, those who are left from the summit of the acclivity, to the
behind, are fed and clothed; but who border of the lake. The grounds were
gives assurance to the victim of a press embellished with every flower and plant
gang. that starvation and dishonour does known to botany or the florist. The spacious
not await his wife and his children? May lawn was ornamented with statuary, some
a thousand curses light upon the hoary- of it antique, the rest from the hands of
headed and mendacious hypocrite, who modern sculptors. Upon one of the pillars
can prate of slavery, while the millions of which relieved the top of the staircase was
his own land are ground to the dust, and a statue of Jefferson, in bronze; the other
emaciated forms and sunken eyes pro- was surmounted by a marble bust of Na-
claim the horrors of starvation !" poleon.
The hypocrisy of the government and "You can discover pap~'s opinions,"
the people of Great Britain, is not alone said the fair guide, "fromk these repre-
confined to the subject of slavery.7~ sensations. He regards Jefferson, as the
" Hoot ! is there a solitary question of greatest statesman of modern times, and
international or domestic policy, that they Bonaparte the most illustrious warrior, the
do not view with a selfish arid prejudiced world has ever known. The statesman-
vision? With what ceaseless energy are ship of the one, and the military skill of
they accumulating obstacles to the an- the other, typify the impregnability of his
nexation of Texas! They have adopted castle."
the motto, C Let us ~et all we can, and From the head of the staircase, a full
prevent other parties from getting any- view was obtained of the surrounding
thing.' To all intents and purposes, they country. The great feature in the picture,
play the grab game.~~ was the lake. It was embosomed in a
They now passed out of the enclosure range of hills, which were elevated al-
into a field of seventy acres, covered with most into the dignity of mountains. Be-
a splendid crop of corn. About twenty tween the water and the foot of the range,
men were engaged in harvesting it. for about three-fourths of the lake shore,
"To-night they have a corn-shucking, was a strip of land half a mile wide,
which is always a source of much happi- which was in a high state of cultivation.
ness to the slaves." Along the rest of the shore the water
Col. Miller exhibited his carpenter and laved the base of the hills. Gravelled
blacksmith shops. walks extended through the grounds, and
"You have everything that is requisite wound along the edge of the bluff. Seve-
for a farmer, not even excepting a flour ral fountains were playing in thiferent
mill, which I see yonder." portions of the park, and their sparkling
"Yes; the expense of keeping my tools jets glittered like dianionds in the rays of
in repair, and erecting outbuildings and the morning
quarters, would be too great. Four of my  CC How can I best eiitertain you, Mr.
men are first-rate blacksmiths and car- Clifton ~
peters. My negro cabins, you will see, "By giving me the benefit of your
are built with a view to health and com- society."
fort. Interest, as well as humanity, in- "If you are fond of hunting, we will go
duces me to keep my slaves from sick- in pursuit of partridges."
ness."                                 "What, is the gun, too, one of your
'~You must look to Augusta for amuse- weapons ?"
ment during the day," said Col. Miller, as "No, I use a snare."
they entered the house. "while Malcolm "Ah! that is more characteristic."
and myself prepare for the gathering to- They were soon mounted, and accom-
morrow."                             panied by three servants, cantered along
The warm sun had dissipated the frost the beach Diveraing from the shore,
as the young lady put on her cloak and about a mile fron~ the mansion, they
hat for the purpose of exhibiting the entered a country road, which wound
grounds to their guest. The beauty of through a valley densely covered with
the surrounding scenery had been only forest trees.
partially revealed the evening before, by "There ought to be partridges here,
the fading twilight. The mansion rested Plato ?"


148                           CLIF
"Dere am, Miss Gusta; I seed 'em day
fore yesterday."
Sportsmen do not fancy this way of
taking game, Miss Miller."
"I know they do not, in the more
densely inhabited portions of the State,
but here partridges are so abundant that
what few I take are scarcely missed."
"Plato, what noise is that'
" I'rri blessed, if it ain't Lion."
"Why did you not chain him'? He
will frighten the game. Drive him back
at once. What, he won't go! thea tie
him to a sapling, until we return."
C~ How fond dogs become of hunting'?"
"Oh yes, brutes prey upon each other,
with as much remorselessness as those
who are gifted with reason instead of iii-
stinct. But hist! what is that'?"
A bevy of partridges ran across the road,
several rods in advance of the party.
"Adjust your net, Plato."
The negro made a circuit, and placed
the snare beside a fallen tree, whose trunk
was lying parallel to the course which
the game were taking. The net was a
dozea feet in length with a mouth six feet
wide. After he had set it, the negro re-
turned, and with his associates enden-
voured to turn the partridges in the direc-
tion of the net. ilut the noise of a stick,
which broke beneath the feet of Pluto,
alarmed the birds, and they darted away
into the forest.
"You~did not manage that with your
usual judgment. Try again."
The next attempt was more successful.
The slaves commenced singing a low and
plaintive song; it acted like a charm upon
the game, and in a few minutes a dozen
were driven into the snare and secured.
"They are won to their doom by the
siren's voice. Sweet sounds are ot with-
out their effect upon even the e timid
creatures."
"But is it true, that they are I ss easily
alarmed when the hunters sing'?' inquir-
ed Edward.
"Yes; it is said that they have an ap-
preciative ear for music, which forces
them to hover near the person who is
driving them into the ~
After capturing as many partridges* as
they desired, Miss Miller and Edward re-
turned to the house.
In the afternoon they descended the
staircase, and entering a boat, Clifton
rowed to the fishing-ground. Baiting the
hooks, he threw them into the water, and
*ThIs bird is known as the quail, throughout the
North.

T 0 N.
they reclined upon the cushions, waiting
fcr the fish to seize the bait.
"How magnificently your abode ap-
pears from the lake,'Miss Augusta'?~~
"I am glad you like it. There ~s no
spot, that I have ever beheld upon this
hemisphere or the other, which can at all
compare with my own dear home."
"Have you been abroad, ~
"'I was absent two years.
"And did you see much of Europe'?"
"We wandered over not only a great
part of Europe, but penetrated into Asia,
and touched the borders of Africa."
"Where did you pass the most of your
time'?"
"In Paris and. Italy. We were for
several months at Lake Como, and spent
three weeks delightfully in Naples. But
Paris is of all cities the most charming.
There is but one earth, and one Paris."
"Do you not like the American cities'?"
"I think them intolerable. The cli-
mate of the four principal northern towns,
is an insuperable objection to ~them. You
are never certain of the weather unless it
is the intense heat of July and August.
But the atmosphere of Paris, is like our
own. The seasons change so gradually,
that they glide imperceptibly into each
other ''
"What do you think of New Orleans'?"
"It is passable during January and Feb-
ruary.
"Why, the inhabitants of the Missis-
sippi Valley, think the southern metropolis
unrivalled."
"It is because they have seen nothing
more charming. It will always be desert-
ed by every one who can get away, for
eight months in the year. The other four
will, in time, be gay; but the day is not
yet."
"You are anti-American."
"No, I am only just. It is a source of
sincere regret that our country does not
present more attractions to the scientific
and the educated. It cannot, however, be
expected that a power still in its infancy
can rival that which, having past its meri-
dian, is slowly but steadily crumbling
beneath the touch of decay.
"For centuries the Eastern continent has
been gathering her works of art, yet how
steadily civilization and refinement fades
before the approach of barbarism and im-
becility. Even in Italy, whither the sculp-
tor, the painter, the musician and the poet
turn their footsteps, the people are fit sub-
jects for despotism, while the Czar of
Russia, wielding with the concentrated
force of a single will the vast power of

'C L I F T 0 N.

his serfs, still makes it a problem whether
Europe, with all her boasted superiority,
is to be republican or Cossack."
The maiden continued, as her eyes
flashed with enthusiasm: "The world is
indebted to the United States for nearly all
the modern discoveries which have bene-
fited mankind, The application of steam
to navigation and the transmission of in-
telligence by electricity are two practical
illustrations of American genius, which
are scarcely second in importance to the
art of printing; while the matchless Pow-
ers, in the creation of the ~ has
rivalled the statuary of Greece and Rome.
Time, time only is wanting to make the
United States in every respect the leading
power of the earth."
"I beg your pardon for considering you
other than a patriotic, true-hearted Amen-
can lady, and one, too, who examines
with the mind that which is presented to
the visiun.~~
"Thank you for the compliment, al-
though it is weakened bK the opinion
which caused its utterance.
"No, verily, it is riot in the slightest
degree impaired, for you will have the
candor to admit that few ladies of your
age weigh with discriminating judgment
those events which give shape to the
career of the human rice."
"That is to say, my self-love is to be
soothed at the expense of all young ladies
who are still in their teens. As an indi-
vidual I am flattered; as a woman I am
4indignant.7~
"You saw nothing in Europe surpass-
ing the natural scenery of this country~
"In that respect, our own land is with-
out an equal. With the exception of
Russia, the powers of the old world dwin-
dle into principalities, compared with the
grand dimensions of the western republic.
Our inland seas and majestic rivers, our
lofty m~untaius and vast prairies, our
mineral Wealth and natural curiosities our
productive soil and variety of climate~ are
without a parallel on the face of the globe.
What can equal the Falls of Niagara, with
its islands and its rapids'? What can com-
pare with the Mammoth Cave, with its vast
subterranean abodes'? What can surpass
in sublimity that immense territory which,
stretching from the Alleghanies to the
Rocky Mountains, is watered by the tribu-
taries of a single river. Europeans may
scorn comparisons, but while they affect
to be contemptuous, they cannot observe
but with admiration the splendid posses-
sions which the energy and enterprise of
our people are so rapidly developing."

149

The sun had disappeared, and the
shades of night began to steal across the
water as Clifton and Miss Miller landed
upon the beach. A cheerful wood fire-
that luxury of the country- welcomed
them to the parlour.
"Well, Mr. Clifton, I hope you have
passed a pleasant day," observed Col.
Miller.
"I have rarely been so much pleased;
indeed, the moments have flown. It has
been a happy relief from the labours of
the ~~fly~55*~)
"Were you successful in hunting and
fishing'?"
"We caught more birds than we did
fish'?"
"Ho~v is that, Augusta'? You are gene-
rally successful upon the lake."
"Mr. Clifton talked so much, or rather
kept my tongue so constantly in motion
that I believe the fish were frightened
away."
After tea, Col. Miller inquired of Ed-
ward if he would like to witness the wed-
ding between Pilot and Phillis.
They proceeded to a church which had
been erected upon the border of the negro
dabins.
"I require my slaves to attend this
church twice every 5unday.~~
"Who dispenses the word of God to
them'?"
"In the morning it is done by a clergy-
man, who is the tutor of my children; in
the evening a patriarchal negro harangues
the audience with much fervorr"
"Of yvhat denomination is the latter'?"
C~ A Methodist, of ~
As they entered the church, the assem-
blage arose-a mark of respect which the-
gentlemen acknowledged by touching
their hats."
"I have observed one thing," said Ed-
ward in a low tone; "the slaves are
alniost invariably polite. I never meet
one upon the highway but that he raises
his hat with as much grace as a Broad-
way (Iandy.~~
"They are probably more punctilious,
because their salutations are always re-
turned."
The bride and groom now entered the
church. She was dressed in white, with
a profusion of pink and orange-coloured
bows attached to various portions of her
robe. Her wavy hair, which would have
been the envy of a modern belle, was
arranged with considerable taste, and her
hands were gloved with yellow kid. The
groom wore a broadcloth coat of the finest
texture, white pantaloons, a deep red cra-


CLIFTON.                    151

150                    CLIFTON.~

vat, and a salmon-coloured vest. As the
African preacher was in the act of com-
mencing the ceremony, the waiting-maid
of Miss Miller advanced up the aisle,
bearing in her hand a magnificent wreath
and-a large bouquet. As she delivered
the latter to the bride, and arranged the
former gracefully upon her head, there
was a vehement and prolonged demon-
stration of applause throughout the build-
ing, accompanied by complimentary allu-
sions to their young mistress.
"She am a pressed lady, so kind and
'siderate."
"I could die for Miss 'Gusra; yes, dat
I could."
One, more enthusiastic than the rest,
sprang upon a bench and exclaimed:
"Gentlemens, dis perliteness and affer-
bility calls for proper 'preciation. I pur-
pose three cheers for Miss 'Gusta." And
they were given with a will.
The venerable preacher commenced
the ceremony.
Do you, Pilot Miller,* take dis lady
for to be your lawful, wedded wife; do
you promise to clung to her through sick-
ness and health, till def part urn? Do you,
Phillis Miller, accep dis gerablem for your
lawful, wedded husband; will you, for-
saken by all others, cleft unto him alone
till def do you sundy? Den I pronounce
dem husband' and wife."
"Is a marriage ceremony performed by
a slave regarded by the negroes as bind-
ing between them'?" inquired Clifton.
"Always. This preacher is held in
as much veneration by my people, as the
most learned divine is by an admiring
congregation. His age and piety com-
mand universal respect. Besides, mar-
riage is considered, even among white
people, as a civil contract merely, which
can be formed without the agency of a
clergyman."
"Do your negroes ever intermarry with
slaves who do not belong to you P
"It very rarely happens, and for a cu-
rious reason. The slaves h ave an aristo-
cracy of their own. Those who belong to
wealthy individuals, lawyers, successful
politicians, or distinguished officers, hold
themselves apart from the coloured fra-
ternity whom they consider less fortunate.
I happen to own vastly more negro pro-
perty than any of my neighbours, and
hence they are very aristocratic."
"They do not like poorpeople, ~
* The slaves often assume the names of -their mas-
ters.

"They have a mortal aversion to any
one who is poverty-stricken, whether he is
white or black. It is the prominent fea-
ture in the negro character. I have often
been amused by the conversation of my
slaves, when they thought my attention
was directed to something else. Hark!
we will hear it illustrated now."
"Ise tell what, Sambo, youve been
wid Miss Tucker quite long nuff; you
knows berry well dat her massa am extri-
cably evolved in det a
her tension." , n still you will pay
"You inns confess, Dinah, dat degal
am brutiful."
"And 'spose she am, what den'? Does
dat make her massa rich, consequently
spectaclee? You ought to be old 'nuff to
know dat 'spectability am everything in
dis world, an who can hab dat widout
money'?"
"But de gal ain't to blem ~cau5e her
massa am obligedd to morgige all his
plunder."
"It am her misfortin, and misfortinate
ihdiwiduals mus' 'sociate togedder. Dey
can't 'spect de hairistorisy to elevitate
dem."
"But I seed you, Dinah, conversing
wid Tom White, de lorrier's man."
"And 'spose you did'? don't he belong
to our set'? ~ his massa practyze at
the bar-room'? You ain't acquainted wid
noffin', Sambo you are a monstruss grant
nigger. Can't you seed dat siety makes
'striction5 atween peoples who am en-
gaged in, different hocupatious'? De br-
rier, the rich man, the politicener, and
sufforth and sufforth, am 'sidered 'specta-
ble, wer~yj 'spectable. Fashionable persons
inns' 'sociate wid each odder. Dey ain't
specterd to stoop down to de level of
hevryboddy. Nebber pull de onfashona-
ble up to your own persition, nor try to
keep up dem who war once your equals,
but who hab fallen. Allers 'sociate wid
fashionable, who am fashionable now."
"Well, I don't seed, 'cause why a gal
happen to, belong to a poor man, dat she
should 'ceive no tension howsemever."
"Dat is caze your dedication hab been
neglected. Your 'sociation hab been of
de vulgar hordes. Now you hab been sold
into a spectaclee family, you must conduct
yourself' as sich."
"But how can poor nigger tell fashonble-
colored women'?"
"Ladies, Sambo, ladies;you must draw
'stinction atween women and ladies. Dey
ham sep'rated by a himpassable ditch.
How can you tell a fashionable lady? Why

hyde company she keeps! Dat's deinwa-
riable rule. And if you are grant of gentle
siety, cut all but dem who b'long to in-
diwiduals wid whom master and missus
'sociates. Don't 1 speak your sentimentality,
ladies and gemblem P
"You hab defined the extinction cor-
respondingly, Miss Dinah."
These leaders of the ton then changed
the subject of conversation.
They returned to the parlour.
"Your present was received, Augusta,
with vociferous applause."
"I am glad of it, for Phillis is a faithful
girl; was the wedding a distingu~ affairV'
"Quite so. All the aristocratic negroes
in the neighbourhood were present."
"I hope you have provided a bountiful
supper for them."
"Everything in abundance."
At a late hour, a violin, flute, and tam-
borine were heard beneath the parlour
window. A lively air was executed with
much skill, and then a well-modulated
voice sang the words of a popular song.
An immense number of persons joined in
the chorus~ and the melody now swelled
with a powerful volume upon the breeze,
and anon floated low and whisperingly
away.
"It is the Harmonic ~ said Miss
Augusta.
"Can it be possible they are negroes~~
Without an exception. They are all
our own."
A succession of beautiful airs followed
each other, and among the rest, a cele-
brated corn-shucking song. This consisted
of words composed ad libilum by the
leader; its chief feature, however, being
the splendid chorus. To every Southerner,
this song is as familiar as "household
words." Miss Miller threw open the case-
ment, and stepped out upon the balcony.
No sooner had the rays of the moon lighted
up her features, than her presence was
hailed by the waving of handkerchiefs,
and lou d huzzas. Each member of the
dark assemblage cherished a reverent at-
tachment for their beautiful mistress.
At midnight, a profound repose had set-
tled alike upon the gorgeous mansion, and
the lowly cabins. The owner calmly slum-
bered in the midst of loyal hearts, whose
pulsations acknowledged the power of
kindness and affection.

CHAPTER XXXIX.
"He's st~tnding in the market: round him throng
the burghers, and by torchlight he harangues them."
K0TZEBUE.
Tnu messengers of Ccl. Miller had
ridden far and fast, and by the setting sun,
they returned wearied to the mansion.
The democracy had been summoned to
the gathering. Along the shore of the
Lake, in the valley of its tributaries, o'er
barrens, hill, and dale, the warning voice
had been heard. Horsemen were seen
winding along the by-paths and lanes,
through forests and over streams, single
and in pairs, until by eleven o'clock they
had accumulated into masses, and swept
along the principal thoroughfares towards
the place of meeting. The whig leaders
looked aghast at this unexpected demon-
stration. Where they expected to be al-
most the entirety of the crowd, they found
themselves in a hopeless minority. A
large number of ladies honoured the occa-
sion with their presence, and among the
number wa~ Miss Miller, who had driven
over in her father's carriage with Clifton.
She had no sooner arrived upon the ground,
than Major Henderson-who under a bland
exterior concealed the chagrin which the
gathering of the democracy occasioned
him-paid his respects to the Lady of the
Lake, as she had been designated.
"I am most happy to see you, Miss
Miller, although you are found in loco-foco
society."
"You are very kind, Major Henderson.
I fancy you do find rather too many De-
mocrats in my train :" and she cast her
eyes over the vast body of men who still
hovered upon a neighboring hill, await-
ing the arrival of Col. Miller.
"Oh, no!Iam always willing to con-
vert unbelievers to the true faith."
"That changes so often, it is hard to tell
what it is. But even if it was like the
laws of the Medes and Persians, your ef-
forts would be hopeless against the immu-
table principles of yonder multitude."
"Mr. Clifton, you have an accomplished
assistant. You would do well to attach
her fortunes to yours in ~
Edward was, for a moment, embar-
rassed by this direct allusion, and he was
also slightly indignant; because he knew it
was intended to annoy Miss Miller.
"The political fidelity of Miss Augusta,
although more unchangeable than that of
some whigs I could name, is nevertheless
surpassed by her domestic accomplish-
ments. Either as a republican, or a pri-
vate companion, any gentleman would be


152                   CLIFTON.

honoured in winning her hand. I could
not say more; perhaps I ought to have
said less."
The blush which had tinged the cheek
of the maiden at the allusion of Major
Henderson, overspread her countenance
before Edward had concluded. Whether
the emotion was produced by pleasure or
pain, he did not attempt to learn, as she
turned away her head.
"Well, then, as I can accomplish
nothing by a political controversy, let me
make myself agreeable in another way.
As you are so learned, it is a difficult task.
Shall I converse in Spanish'?"
"You had better first learn to walk
Spanish."
"Ha! ha! Major, you will have to give
it up."
"I believe I shall. Yonder comes your
father with his legions, Miss Miller. I
must vent my indignation upon them."
"It will prove as powerless as your wit.
Au revoir." ~
The stand had been erected in a grove,
and thither the orators and the crowd held
their way. Both speakers had become cele-
brated. Henderson had long maintained
a high reputation at the bar, and he was
now regarded the most accomplished
stump speaker in the Whig ranks. Clifton
was more youthful, but during the canvass
he had triumphed over all competitors ex-
cept Major Henderson. This was the third
time the two champions had met, and both
parties raised a prolonged shout as they
ascended the stand. The two preceding
encounters had been considered drawn
battles. Major Henderson opened the de-
bate. In his splendid exordium, he re-
marked that it was difficult to follow the
doctrines of the Democratic party, because
they were always "changing their bat-
teries." He denounced the annexation of
Texas, advocated a tariff discriminating in
favour of protection, the abolition of the
veto power, and the distribution of the
proceeds of the sales of the public lands.
He as repeatedly interrupted by ap-
plau~e, and as he sat~down, loud cheers
were given by the whigs. But their shouts
were like the sighing wind compared to
the raging tempest which greeted Clifton,
as he rose to reply. Nothing so elevates
a public speaker as applause. It buoys
him up with a power that no subject pos-
sesses, however inspiriting. With a throb-
bing heart, Edward acknowledged the
cheers of the democracy, and then pre-
pared to answer the speech of his oppo-
nent.
"When I accepted," he said, "the chal-

lenge of Major Henderson to meet him
here today, I did so with the expectation
of addressing an audience almost entirely
composed of whigs. How grateful to my
feelings is it, then, to witness this vast
assemblage, whose hearts beat responsive-
ly to my own! I am under great obliga-
tions to him" (and he bowed to Col. Mil-
ler) "who has won your affection by his
virtues, for a reception as gratifying as it
was une expected.
"The gentleman commenced his speech
with the charge that the democracy are
constantly 'changing their batteries.' If he
means that we have to employ flying ar-
tillery for the purpose of assailing posi-
tions which his party assumes one hour,
to be abandoned the next; I acknow ledge
the fidelity of the simile. But if, on the
contrary, he insinuates that the democracy
change their principles, the accusation is
gratuitous and unjust. 'Changing our bat-
teries'?' It comes with a bad grace from
him to make such an assertion. I hold in
my hand an address issued by that gen-
tleman scarcely one year ago, to the elec-
tors of this congressional district. He was
thea a candidate for Congress. Here it
is, with the name of G. A. Henderson at-
tached. Does the gentleman intend to
put in the plea of non est factum? No'?
He is prudent; the document, although
not old, is still a 'dangerous thing !'* In
this circular he declared that he would
first discuss the question which he regard-
ed as more important than all others-the
question of the currency. To-day, he has
addressed you for one hour and thirty
minutes, and the xyord currency has not
once passed his lips. Why is this omis-
sioa'? Because political capital can no
longer be made out of the currency ques-
tion. That which was more important
than all other questions in 1843, is deemed
unworthy of a thought in 1844, by the gen-
tleman who presumes to accuse the demo-
cracy with 'changing their batteries'
Thishit was loudly applauded by Clifton's
friends, and he observed a pleased smile
upon the countenance of Augusta Miller.
"On the first Monday in May a meet-
ing was held in Beaufort, for the purpose
of advocating the annexation of Texas.
Both political parties were represented. I
had the honour of submitting the resolu-
tions, which declared in unequivocal
terms, that Texas had conquered her inde-
* An assertion of Col. Polk, in his canvass for the
Gubernatorial chair, in 1839, became celebrated
ihroughont the Southern States. In reviewing the po-
litical course of Governor Cannon he used to exclaim,
"Old documents are dangerous things!"

I

pendence-that no power had a right to
forbid the union-that our refusal would
force them to become slavish dependents
of the British government, and that an-
nexation was demanded by national policy
and political considerations, of overwhelm-
ing importance. Wduld you believe it
possible that such resolutions were advo-
cated and voted for, by the gentleman who
has to-day denounced the Texas question
asa 'humbug V And yet, he mendacious-
ly charges the democracy with 'changing
their batteries !' " The bitterness with
which Edward revealed these scraps of
history caused the Major to~ turn red and
pale by turns, while the democracy raised
their hats and 0-ave three tremendous
huzzas. The ora~r caught a glimpse of
two little hands, as they were applauding
the skill with which he had thrown back
the charge.
"It cannot have escaped your observa-
tion, that the principal objection urged by
Major Henderson against the annexation
of Texas, is based upon the assumption
that it will involve us in a xvar with Great
Britain. That the English government
feel a deep interest in the question there
cannot be the slightest doubt. Her agents
here, in Mexico, and Texas, are employed
with unwearied diligence in opposing the
contemplated union. Her object is quite
apparent. England would curtail the
limits of every other power, while she is
enlarging her own. That is the prominent
feature in her national policy. It has em-
ployed the talents, and commanded the
exertions of her statesmen, for more than
six hundred years. If I was an English-
man I should not oppose the doctrine;
being an American, it is my ditty to de-
nounce it. As a private individual I must
take care of my own household; as a ci-
tizen of the republic, she will always claim
me as one of her devoted worshippers.
Great Britain wishes to defeat the annexa-
tion of Texas, because it will extend our
boundaries. The power of the United
States is increasing with gigantic strides.
Our commercial career threatens to rival
that of England, and the day is not far dis-
tant when the supremacy of the ocean
will be transferred to the western hemi-
sphere. Everything calculated to post-
pone that event is eagerly sought for. The
political existence of the government de-
pends upon commerce. It enables the
nobility to win the admiration of the vul-
gar, by gorgeous~ display. It secures the
fealty of the clergy with costly benefices.
It retains the allegiance of the army and
navy by vast expenditures. It pays the

CLIFTON.                    153

interest of the national debt, and thus se-
cures the creditors of the government by
the indissoluble bonds of interest. As
liberal sentiments gain form and solidity
in the British Isles, the expenditure of
money must also increase, in order to
control those opinions. If the commercial
prosperity of the country is arrested, it will
prove as fatal as a decline. Her career
must necessarily be onward, and hence
she is extending her dominions in the
East with fire and sword. Where it is
expedient, she opens ports and secures
marketswith the persuasion and eloquence
of a park of artillery!
"Nut only will the acquisition of Texas
increase our commercial importance, but
it will prevent England from getting either
a direct or an indirect control of the cot-
ton lands in that State. A rupture with
the United States would affect the stability
of the British monarchy, by destroying
her manufacturers. They must have cot-
ton, and the absorption of Texas will give
us the control of nearly all the valuable
cottoniands in the world.
"Now, then, we have seen the reasons
why the Cabinet of Victoria are so active
in attempting to defeat this meastire. Let
us now see whether they have any right
to interfere. It is an axiom quite as forci-
ble in its applicability to nations as to in-
dividuals, that a public exemplar must
ascend the forum with unspotted garments.
How does England stand this test. If
there is one nation upon the face of God's
earth more guilty than another of unscru-
pulous rapacity, it is Great Britain. With,
or without a pretext, she is year after year
extending her limits in Asia. Nationality
is extinguished, and whole principalities
are swallowed by the insatiable cormorant.
With bloody hands and distended stomach
she comes to our door, to give us lessons
in international law! Away with such
cant and hypocrisy! it will not pass cur-
rent here." "No! never! never !" shout-
ed the indignant crowd.
"She threatens us, say you'? So she did
in 1775 and in 1812. Will her voice he
silenced by submission'? Or is it the cor-
rect doctrine to declare it as our unaltera-
ble determination, not to submit to the
slightest interference in the foreign policy
of the United States'?" Another shout at-
tested the popularity of his annunciation.
The reply of Clifton was claimed by his
friends as a triumphant refutation of his
opponent's arguments, from beginning to
end. Being no politician ourselves, btit
only a faithful chronicler of our hero's sen-
timents, we cannot decide between the


154                    CLIFTON.                                                       CLIFTON.                     155

two orators. It is sufficient to say that the
democracy were enthusiastic, while the
whigs were crestfallen, not only by the
result of the debate, but because they had
not provided sufficient provisions for the
immense assemblage. Their chagrin was
not a little increased by the waggery of
two democrats, who had abstained from
approaching the tables until the food was
all consumed, when they remarked, "We
have eaten nothing yet, and are very hun-
gry. We presume, however, as the whigs
invited us to partake of a feast, it will be
forthcoming in due season." These re-
marks produced shouts of laughter from
the democracy at the annoyance which
theygave the whigs.
Clifton seated himself in the carriage
with Miss Miller, and they proceeded
homewards.
"Well, you heard the discussion; do
you nominate me for Congress Y'
"Yes; I will not only nominate, but I
will support you.. I was never so gratified
as at the discomfiture of Major Hender-
son. He is so vain."
"But he is certainly a man of great elo-
quence.~)
"Undoubtedly; but he wants tact, and
what is of far more importance, principle.
What would he have given to-day if he
had not issued that circular !"
"It did embarrass him very much, but
he could gain more votes when it was
published by discussing the currency ques-
tion than any other."
Precisely so; and therefore he is con-
trolled by expediency rather than prin-
ciple."*
The forest seemed alive with democrats;
in all directions were heard their cheers
and shouts, as they were returning to their
homes. "Three cheers for Edward Clif-
ton !" "Three for the lone star !" They
were given with a power which sent their
echoes over rock and hill. As the car-
riage descended into the valley of the
lake, there swelled upon the breeze the
words of a popular song-
"And we wiii vote
For James K. Polk
And George M. Dallas too."
They alighted from the carriage, and
entered the parlour, as the last rays of the
sun glittered upon the tranquil waters of
the lake. Augusta gazed upon the scene,
and a shade of sadness crossed her coun-
~ The reader must not consider It remarkable that
the young lady converses so fluently upon political
subjects. Ladies lit the South take a far greater in-
terest in politics than they do at the North.

tenancy. As she turned 'towards him, the
expressive eyes of her companion were
observing her emotions.
"Come, I shall lose my character for
vivacity ;" and she ran her fingers over
the keys of the piano, and sang the words
of a lively air.
"You think me a singular girl, do you
not V' she inquired, as she advanced to
the fire.
"The most remarkable lady I have
ever known."
"Perhaps I will some time tell you my
history. For some reason, I cannot di-
vine what it is, I am drawn towards you.
There is a rangee similarity to a person I
once met in Europe, when I was a mere
child. I aria only eighteen, and that was
half a dozen years ago.~~ She leaned
forward until her flowing curls touched
his cheek, as her eyes half mournfully
scanned his features. *" Noit is not: but
so like him." The servant announced that
supper awaited them.
Long before the hour appointed for Ed-
ward to address the people at Stamford,
the court-house was crowded. There
was a large number of ladies in the as-
semblage. More than five hundred per-
sons bore torchlights in the procession.
Upon each one Was inscribed, political
devices, which elicited the cheers of the
crowd as they passed along.
On the day preceding the election,
Clifton, addressed a large crowd at Ber-
gen, and mounting his horse, accompanied
by a few friends, he started for the Nar-
rows, where he was to make his last
speech. It was nearly dark before he left
the village, and the place of meeting was
thirteen miles distant. They proceeded
rapidly along the road.
"We must stop at Mallory's, Clifton, as
we pass," said Harden.
"We shall be too late, then, at the Nar-
rows 'f"
"No danger of that. They will not
have the transparencies all the way from
Stamford, before ten o'clock. Besides,
Mallory expects us, and he would be of-
fended if we did not call. He would think
he was slighted because he is poor. Do
you know he has named a child foryou~~~
"Is it possible! I must call then."
"At nine o'clock, they alighted at an
humble log cabin. The door was thrown
open, and a man of large and powerful
frame emerged into the gloom. He was
clad in homely apparel, but there was an
honest sincerity and frankness in his man-
ner, which at once attracted you towards
him."

"'Light, gents, 'light! Mr. Clifton, you
are welcome. Mr. Harden, I am glad to
see you. Here, Tom, take care of the
horses. My old woman began to think
you would not come."
"The sun had disappeared before we
left Bergen, and the darkness forced us to
ride slowly.)~
"Better late than never; come in. Wife,
this is Mr. Clifton, Mr. Harden you know.
Set down; the night is cold. Get out, Tiger!
He always will seat himself in the cor-
ner," he added apologetically.
There were but two rooms in the log
cabin, and the furniture was of the most
simple kind. The table was made of
pine boards, and was covered with a spot-
less cotton tablecloth. It was loaded with
a variety of dishes. which would have'
tempted appetite of a gourmand.'
Roasted pa bridges, roast duck, pig and tur-
key, stewed chicken, and squirrels. Sweet
potatoes, fried and baked, pies, puddings
and tarts, with tea and coffee, and deli-
cious cider to wash it down. The hungry
politicians-not hungry in the New York
acceptation of the term-feasted upon the
viands. They had fasted since morning,
and speaking and riding are wonderful
tempters of the appetite. The good
woman was evidently pleased at the mani-
fest zest, with which her company applied
themselves to the food, and she urged it
upon them, with homely courtesy, until
they could eat no more.
"Where is my little namesake, Mrs.
Mallory
"I kept him awake to see you, until
nearly nine o'clock. He is asleep now."
"I must have a peep at him neverthe-
less."
The gratified mother took a light, and
turning down the cover of a cradle, dis-
closed the countenance of a lovely babe.
"What a really fine child; how old
is itT'
"Not quite six months," replied Mrs.
Mallory, and her heart warmed towards
the admirer of her offspring.
"What a forehead; how exquisite the
contour of the head! That boy, Madam,
will make a figure in the world"
"Do you think so, Mr. Clifton ~ I wish
you could see him awake."
"Oh! he will have plenty of opportu-
nities next summer, dame, when he is
canvassing for Congress,~~ responded her
husband.
"I hope you will he nominated," she
observed.
"Thank you, Mrs. Mallory, for your

good wishes: I am now in the hands of
my party."
"And they will be sure not to forget
you."
"Come, Clifton, we must be going. It
is nearly ten o'clock."
"Will you not accompany us, Mr. Mal-
lory 'P'
"I don't know. What do you think of it,
dame T'
"Go by all means; let the crowd be as
large as possible. I would go myself if it
was not for the babe."
"You have made a friend of my dame,
for life, Mr. Clifton, by praising her child.
The road to a mother's heart is through her
offspring.~~
At midnight, Edward had concluded a
speech, which was pronounced the most
splendid of all his efforts. Thus ended the
canvass.
The next da~ the grandest spectacle was
witnessed whi~h is ever presented to
the human race ,-the representatives of
twenty millions of freemen assembling at
the ballot-box, for the purpose of selecting
a chief magistrate. The executive power
does not descend, as of right, from father
to son, imbecility does not grasp the sceptre
which can alone be wielded with success
by a mighty hand.
The conflict was over; the smoke lifted
from the battle-field, and the illustrious
embodiment of whig principles, was once
more seen flying amidst the dispersed and
disordered ranks of his party. Fate had
again thwarted his aspirations and baulk-
ed his ambition. Will the future be more
propitious, and hope again reassure the
great pacificator ~
CHAPTER XL.
"See'st thou not. I say, what a deformed thief this
Fashion is? how giddily he turns about all the hot
bloods between fourteen and flveandthirty ?"
SHAKSPEARE.
ALICE HowARD's JoURNAL, "December,
1844.-It has been several months since I
opened this journal. I have been tolerably
happy. If not perfectly so, it is not for want
of admiration. I believe they take the
natural buoyancy of my spirits for encou-
ragement; if so, is it my fault ~ I cannot
always appear sober and sedate. To-
morrow I start for New York. Florence
Brainard has so often desired me to visit
her, that I can no longer decline. She re-


156                           CLI]
sides in Union Square, which is now con-
sidered the fashionable locality, though
how long it will remain so is doubtful.
The west end, in the Empire city, is migra-
tory. I shall be in time to see the beaux
on New Year's-There are hours when I
am so unhappy. The void in my affec-
tions cannot be filled. Fatal exercise
of parental authority! how many hopes
are wrecked by thy decrees! But I do
not despair. There comes occasionally
to my wearied soul, along the pathway of
the future, a faint, low whisper, that all
will yet be well.
"New York, January 2, 1845. At eleven
~clock yesterday, the visiting commenc-
ed. Florence looked very lovely; and she
was dressed with such exquisite taste!
She does not exhibit such a fondness for
contrasts, as many of the New York ladies,
though I think there is a slight improve-
ment in the fashions, in that respect. They
still display a partiality forbright colours, in
fashionable circles; but full dresses, which
combine the hues of a rainbow, ar&amp; now
almost exclusively worn by the Bowery
girls.
"As for myself, Florence was kind
enough to say that I was 'beautiful.'
What cared I for the compliment! There
is no one here whose admiration I seek
to win. If I was in search of desirable
beaux, I certainly should never think of
coming to New York. What specimens!
There were not more than haifa dozen who
could claim the appellation of manhood.
All the rest were below the medium
height, slender, effeminate-looking crea-
tures, whose greatest ambition it is to
raise a sorel mustache, and dance the
Polka. What a contrast to our Norman an-
cestors! that unrivalled race of men, whose
heroism in the camp, and gallantry in the
court, made them the models for Europe's
chivalry. How helpless Would the con-
(lition of the 'beauty, and booty' of
New York become, if its protection was
entrusted to such miserable defenders!
They would not go unwhipt from the pre-
sence which they now enter, with so
much assurance. Not that they are to be
censured for their soft appearance ; that is
the result of inconsiderate marriages. It
cannot be expected, that dwarfs will give
birth to giants. But they are to blame for
constantly thrusting their diminished heads
into the foreground. The ladies are by no
means excusable for encouraging their
advances. I know they attempt to justify
it by the assertion, that a 'poor choate is
better than none.' But they forget that by
appearing to be satisfied with the 'poor

~' T 0 N.
~ they keep off the good ones. No
gentleman, who has a particle of self-
respect, will enter into a competition with
such rivals, and consequently they will
keep possession of the field, until they
are brushed away. And they talk such
perfect nonsense! I drew out several of
them yesterday. They invariably com-
menced;' Compliments of the season. Miss
Howard. The day is excessively cold.
Have you been to the opera yet'? Is not
Barilli divine'? It is said she will soon be
married to the son of a wealthy citizen.
Ah, good morning.' They have caught
the habit too of teetering from the New
York ladies. It is bad enough for a
female to keep bobbing up and down as
though she was set on springs, or had St.
Vitus's dance; her robe at least prevents
the observer from discovering what cases
the vibration. The ladies are beginning to
regard the movement as anything but dig-
nified, especially since a married lady
who teetered excessively, has been sent
to her parents by her husband, for an in-
definite period. A young lady said a
good thing to Mr. Black, a fe~v nights ago.
She endured his teetering as long as it was
sufferable, and then bluntly remarked~
'Look here, Mr. Black! if you cannot
stand like a gentleman, the sooner you
leave me the better!'
"But the New York beaux are not only
blessed with an extraordinary amount of
assurance, they are sometimes imper-
tinent. At a party night before last, one
of them peremporily desired some elderly
married ladies to vacate a parlour which
was wanted by the dancers. One of
them protested against the rudeness of the
request, when he flippantly responded-
'You needn't find fault, madam; I have
just turned my own mother out.' Where
is the deference which is due the female
sex'? Utterly unknown to these regulators
of modern chivalry. And then they are
so unmannerly at a supper-table. Instead
of waiting until the ladies are helped,
they form a barrier around the table, and
with the obstinacy of curs, adhere to their
positions until they can eat no more.
"January 15, 1845.-I have been out
almost every night. There is a perfect
mania for parties. And then how much
they dress! The lady of the house desires
a crush. It is a matter of indifference how
long her guests remain, so her rooms are
crowded during a portion of the evening.
They must not only be crowded, but it is
desirable to have them thronged with
splendidly-dressed ladies, and therefore
females who have the money and the good

CLIF

taste to dress well, are often invited out.
Our sex never dress Jor the gentlemen;
always for each ottier. A good figure is,
also considered important, as diamonds
and dress show off better than upon a
dwarfish person.
"The rapid accumulation of pro erty
cuts up the pretensions of the ~voul'd-be
aristocracy of' the city. At a party a few
nights ago, a tall and elegantly-dressed
lady, who glittered with diamonds, at-
tracted much attention. She was a tallow-
chandler's daughter. Her father had be-
come a millionaire-had given a magnifi-
cent party. The fashionable at first hesi-
tate(l; and then attended it. The daughter
was in society at once. A name descend-
ing for generations, is no more powerful
in giving direction to fashion, than the man
of yesterday. The old Knickerbockers are
strangers in their own city. Their position
has been usurped by a new race, whose
movements are onward, progressive.
"Yesterday the owner of a splendid
equipage, and the proprietor of an es-
tablishment in the court end, flatters him-
self that his wife has become the leader
of the ton. To-day he looks with amaze-
ment upon a t~arriage more gorgeous than
his own, as it (lashes along Broadway.
Whose is it'? There is no coat of arms
visible! Neither is there upon his own.
Why should there'? one is a hatter and the
other a tanner. The upstart cannot be put
down because he is a plebeian. If blood
is to be the criterion, the accuser may
chance to find that his own but recently
flowed in the veins of a cooper or a dray-
man. That won't do; so the criterion is
wealth at last. Anybody who has that,
can move from East Broadway into Fifth
Avenue; can take a box at the opera;
patronise Ball, Tompkins, and Black; sport
a fine pair of horses; give a grand party,
and become~one of the fashionable. If
Mrs. Smith hears Mrs. Brown whisper,
'Oh! she was a tailor's daughter!' she can
reply, 'Well, was not your father a shoe-
maker'?' So at last they have to fall back
upon their money. Mrs. Jones can sport
her ermine tippet quite as gracefully, if
her grandmother did beat furs, or if she
was beaten herself because she did not
beat furs. It only shows that Mrs. Jones
is more fortunate than her grandmother,
because she wears furs, instead of beating
them.
"If Mrs. White has succeeded in ele-
vating her opera-glass gracefully, it cer-
tainly can make no difference, if her father
did succeed, after quite as much practice,

TON.                             157
in hooping barrels with precision and des-
patch.
"If Mrs. Black possesses the art of deli-
cately coloring the cheek, when the rose
has ceased to bloom, it does not diminish
the skill of the toilette, because her parent
used a larger brush-a greater variety of
Saints.
"If people desire to become fashion-
able, they must become notorious. They
must have more flowers at a party, more
musicians; their carriage must be une-
qualled, and their residence more gor-
geous. They will then be talked about,
and stared at.
"That, at last, is the object of the am-
bitious. The warrior, the statesman, the
beauty, the fashionable, like to have the
gaping multitude turn their heads to say,
'There they go!' Ladies are as much in-
fluenced by this passion as the sterner sex.
One thing is certain, so far as New York
society is concerned,-the vulgar of to-day
may become the fashionable of to-morrow.
Not the vulgar in manners, but the vulgar
in position; although it is by no means
rare, that a change of position is unac-
companied by that refinement which is so
essential in polished society. The Ameri-
cans are, however, quick of perception,
and with surpassing readiness accomumo-
(late themselves to the new sphere into
which they are thrown. If at their first
party there are plenty of coopers and
tailors, there will be fewer next time, and
at last none but the fashionable will be
seen in their saloons.
"These transitions occur, more or less,
in all American cities; not so frequently
in Philadelphia, still less in Boston. Even
in England-that country of boasted an-
cestry and hereditary titles-wealth often
elevates the vulgar to a municipal position
which brings them in contact with royalty
itself. I am not placing these thoughts in
my journal because I justify this universal
scramble after the dross of the earth. In-
dependence has, of course, become quite
a necessity. That is al~vays desirable.
"A few months ago, a beautiful young
lady, throbbing with ambition, instead of
love, married a man thrice her age, be-
cause he was rich. She sported her dia-
monds, exhibited her carriage, threw open
a splendid dwelling to admiring friends.
Yesterday he failed, and to-day she is a
beggar. For a moment she was delighted,
because her hopes fed on vanity. The
food is withdrawn, and she is wedded not
only to an old, but a poor man. There is
a fatal error in the education of young
ladies at the present day. The almost


C-

158                           CLIF
,universal remark is~c She must not marry
a person who cannot enable her to con-
tinue in the sphere where she is now so
bright an ornament.' Perhaps her father
lives beyond his income, in supporting that
very style which it is deemed so essential
for his daughter's suitor to possess. If he
'should die, the salary would be lost which
keeps up the establishment, and the splen-
did style would yield to oue more lonely.
At his (leath, a diminished principal might
be divided among those who had many
opportunities of marrying happily. In
order not to marry below their condition
in life, they must often ally themselves to
decrepitude, or enjoy a &amp;ate of single
blessedness. Who own the princely dwell-
ings which adorn Fourteenth Street, Union
Square, and Fifth Avenue ~ Men who
have acquired fortunes themselves, by en-
terprise and good sense. The next gene-
ration often becomes effeminate, and in
accepting the son, you contract a marriage
with one who has neither the strength to
defend, or the soul to appreciate you. If
an alliance is formed with a rich bachelor,
his settled habits and ascetic temper render
him a perfect nuisance. Then, why not
marty a fine-looking,:~n oble, generous
young man, whose prospects are good, if
you will, but whose manly heart recipro-
cates the impulses of your own
"But here I am giving a delineation of
society, and lecturing my sex, when I only
commenced describing a New Year's re-
ception.
"February, 1845.-I am still in New
York, Florence was so anxious for me to
remain until after her party. Night after
night I have attended parties and the opera,
until 1 am nearly exhausted. I discover
every day new phases in society. A
prominent feature is the determination with
which the ambitious endeavour to enter
circles more exclusive than their own. It
is sometimes resisted by those who had
quite as much difficulty in obtaining ad-
mission themselves, but who forget their
own struggles, in the hour of triumph.
To be seen in the rooms of Mrs. A. or Miss
B., is considered an important step up the
ladder. Not that the guest is in the slightest
degree more attractive, only she shines
with a reflected light. There is a vast
amount of stupidity exhibited in these
reunions. Occasionally I meet a person
who can emerge from the common-places
of the day, and by her sparkling wit and
vivacity, create a desire to see her again;
but they are like oases in the desert-ex-
ceedingly rare.
"Certain cliques affect to be very ex-

TO0N.

elusive. What is the cause and effect of
exclusiveness ~ The solution is readily
given. A family having nothing but wealth
out of which to manufacture notoriety, are
resolved to make the most of their capital.
They can boast of neither illustrious de-
scent nor remarkable intelligence ;but they
have money enough to keep up a hand-
some establishment, and give occasionally
an elegant party. It is desirable, in their
estimation, to have a small circle of ac-
quaintances, an admission to which is with
difficulty obtained. The outsiders desig-
nate them as a proud set. What of that '~
Is it not exactly what 'they desire ~ They
at once acquire notoriety; that is all they
want. The more difficult the entr6e to their
saloons is rendered, the more an obsequi-
ous class of the community will seek for
admission. Persons who understand the
moderate attractions of these exclusives,
smile at the skill with which they manage
a limited mental capitaL
"They argue thus :-If everybody can
claim the acquaintance of a lady, the world
will not consider her very I~shionable.
Tom, Dick, and Harry are well enough in
their place; they are neither decidedly
fashionable, nor positively vulgar, but they
are gentlemen whose acquaintance can
never benefit you in the slightest degree.
Well, this trio boast ofthe delightful party
which they attended at Mrs. Smith's. All
this does not assist Mr~. Smith in the accom-
plishment of her ambitious aspirations.
It is rather an obstacle, because their
praises reach the ears of Mrs. Talbot, who
immediately sets Mrs. Smith down as a
nobody. If, on the contrary, Messrs. Tom,
Dick, and Harry are not received at Mrs.
Smith's, it is an evidence that that distin-
guished lady holds herself quite above
them. They will bc sure, nevertheless, to
herald her party, because they like to have
the names of distinguished people con-
stantly on their lips. If, after performing
the duty of avant couriers, they are asked,
'Were y~u at the party 'P their negative
reply will add to the social position of Mrs.
Smith. The standing of a lady, though a
stranger, may be as well known by the
company she keeps, as though she was
your intimate friend.
"If I was ambitious of winning a fash-
ionable position, I should most decidedly
practise the exclusive system. It is
preferable in every respect. In the first
place, it is troublesome to know every-
body! If you give a party, and do not
invite them, they will declare that they
were forced to cut you, and will assign
a different reason for it.' They are always

I

C L I F T 0 N.

certain to ~be in the way when they are
not wanted. If you are conversing with a
lady whose good opinion you are anxious
to win, they are sure to obtrude themselves,
with a warmth and cordiality which be-
tokens the greatest intimacy, arid before
you can shake them off, you read in the
eyes of your fashionable acquaintance,
'what a common-looking woman!'
"In the next place, there would be no
wall-flowers at your entertainments, to go
away discontented, because they received
no attention. In a mixed assembly, there
will always be wall-flowers, because they
are not acquainted with your set, and to
'know po one renders a party exceedingly,
stnpi(l.
"There is another peculiar feature in
New York society. The leaders of the
ton consider their circle as the centre of
the universe. Everything disconnected
with it, is regarded as of secondary im-
portance. They are irritated whenever
the attention of their votaries is attracted
to any outwar(l object. It must be ex-
clusively turned to them and their affairs.
Their parties, the entertainments given
by their friends, their favourite artists,
must exclnsively command your admira-
tion. An event of general importance
had become more than a nine days~ won-
der; the public observation would not be
diverted from it; it was the topic of con-
versation in every circle. A lady, who
believed her friends constituted the
centre of fashionable society, but who had
not sufficient mind or patience to grasp
the subject which was eliciting the com-
mnents of all, lost her teniper at the tenacity
with which public observation was distract-
ed from her narrow sphere, amid riveted
upon a subject of world-wide renown. 'For
heaven's sake !' she exclaimed, ' do not
mention that subject; I ant tired to death
of it.' She was egotistical, and it inter-
fered with the revolution of that contracted
sphere which constituted her little world.
"Perhaps vanity which would exact
incessant devotion, is not confined alto-
gether to New York. I am a Phila-
delphian, and I may not do the Manhat-
tanese full justice. They might discover
quite as many defects in the society of the
rectangular city; although it will be ad-
mitted, that New Yorkers have quite a
moderate opinion of the suburban vil-
lages.'
"They have established a curious fash-
ion in New York, which seems to be
gaining votaries. The dresses are cut so
long, that to walk the streets without soil-
ing them, is n ext to impossible, especially

159

when the vulgar habit of smoking in the
street is tolerated. Some of the ladies,
therefore, think it necessary to elevate
their skirts so as to avoid the filth upon
the side-walks and crossings. This would
all be very well if they wore pantaletts.
Custom has established a rule that ladies
(off the stage) shall wear a covering for
their limbs. That rule is constantly
evaded, especially by those females who
are blessed with beautiful proportions.
They seem to take an especial pleasure in
promenading the streets after a rain or
a snow, because it gives them an excuse
for elevating their dresses: but it does not
give them an excuse for doing so, unless
their limbs are encased in something be-
sides stockings. If a lady wears panta-
letts, it is because, in three cases out of
four, she has not been favoured by nature
~vith model proportions. It is very seldom
that skirts are elevated decidedly, above
the pavement without the limbs being pro-
tected from observation, unless they are
round, swelling, and well formed.
'~ It was only yesterday, as I was driv-
ing down Broadway, with Miss Brainard,
that I saw two young ladies walking upon
the fashionable side, between Canal Street
and Stuart's. As the way was obstructed
by omnibuses, our carriage proceeded
slowly. Both ladies were splendidly at-
tired; their undergarments were fine and
spotless. One of them had on drawers,
which were fastened around the ankle,
the other wore none; or if she did, they
terminated above the knees. Several
times she caught the impertinent gaze of
gentlemen fixed upon her really beautiful
legs. She may deny it, but I know she
did. The skirts were not lowered the
breadth of ~a hair. I was terribly
mortified for her, especially when I dis-
covered a knot of loafers following in her
footsteps, making their vulgar remarks. I
thought, who could she be? At last,
turning her head, I saw it was a young
lady to whom I had been introduced at a
large and brilliant party. She recognized
me, and bo~ved, but I was so much shock-
ed at her want of modesty that I did not
return it.
"If they reply that their drawers some-
times work up, I can only say that there
is a way of fastening them around the
ankle. It is very convenient, I know, to
have them made so small that they will
not fall to the instep; provided they are
pulled up to the knees, where they will
remain.
"This fondness for making exhibitions
can be traced, in a certain degree, to the


160

C L I F T 0 N.

dressing and training of children. If a
little girl has handsome limbs, she is
taught to exhibit them with pride. She is
attired for that purpose. She learns to
become vain of them, and the incipient
vanity of childhood gains boldness from
habit, until at length, as a woman, she
walks the st nblushingly, with near-
ly, if not uite, hal er continuations ex-
posed to he gaze of e vulgar. There is
an old saying, that 'Modesty is the high-
est quality which c n adorn a woman.'
Well, I declare, I have written quite
an essay in my journa . have, never-
theless, whiled away a weary hour."
"fleigho! when will Clifton return W
CHAPTER XLI.
"Flag of the free heart's hope and home!
By angel hands to vaiour given;
The stars have lit the weikin dome,
And all thy hues were horn in heaven,
For ever float that standard sheet I
Where breathes the foe but fails before us,
With freedom's soil beneath our feet,
And freedom's banner streaming o'er us ?"
DRAKE.
Ma. POLK had been inaugurated, and
the executive power passed into his hands.
Younger than either of his predecessors,
his administration was destined to become
more eventful than any one that had hith-
erto illustrated the career of the American
Confederation. His great knowledge of
men enabled him to select a cabinet,
whose extraordinary powers, and vast in-
fluence, assisted hint in n~ inconsiderable
degree, to perfect those measures which
radically changed the foreign and domes-
tic policy of the country. The Depart-
rnent of State was entrusted to James
Buchanan, who was the leading demo-
crat in Pennsylvania, until the elevation
of Mr. Dallas to the Vice-Presidency. The
selection was a master-stroke of policy.
Mr. Buchanan had long been an advocate
of protection; even in the canvass of 1844,
he was charged ~yith claiming Mr. Polk
as quite as good a protectionist as Mr.
Clay. By his transfer to the cabinet, from
an open advocate of protection, he be-
came, at first, a quasi supporter of a reve-
nue tariff, and then one of its decided
friends. He had one eye fixed upon the
Presidency; it was therefore necessary for
him to elevate his position above the
contracted sphere of Pennsylvania, so as
to command the attention of the whole

Union. Thi~ could only be done by yield-
ing to the current which threatened de-
struction to the protective policy. It was
a bitter pill for him to swallow. But what
could he do ~ He was associated with a
free~trade* cabinet! A resignation upon
the ground that he still maintained his
ancient faith, would array him in opposi-
tion to the administration, and a large
majority of the Democratic party. The
sacrifice went to the extent of a total
abandonment of his chances for the Presi-
dency, for the purpose of retaining his
local, and what might at last prove a tem-
porary popularity. The influence of a
name was given, therefore, to the free
trade policy, which, under other circurn-
stances, might have been arrayed against
it. To be sure, it amounted to nothing
in Pennsylvania, because the only mem-
ber from that State, who voted for the
tariff of 1846, was the personal enemy of
the Secretary of State. But a formidable
opponent was won over to the popular
cause, and it remains to be seen, if
State pride will not yet bring the Keystone
State to the support of her favourite son,
and the new faith which he has espoused.
As the head of our foreign department,
he maintained the honour of the United
States with consummate ability. The
policy which he LAndeviatingly advocated
in the settlement of our difficulties with
England and Mexico, was bold and in-
flexible.
Robert J. Walker was appointed Sec-
retary of the Treasury. This statesman
leads on the progressionists. He has far
greater tact at discovering the current of
public opinion, than aiiy of his cotempo-
raries, while with unshaken boldness and
fortitude, he gives direction to its course,
without attempting to restrain its impulses.
He relies with implicit'confidence upon
the judgment of the people, and they have
thus far sustained the measure of his be-
lief. It was his letter 'advocating the an-
nexation of Texas, which gave an uncon-
trollable direction to the popular voice.
It was his unanswerable arguments that
contributed so much towards the estab-
lishment of free trade between the United
States and Great ritain.t
The selection f Gov. Marcy as Secre-
tary of War, g ye great offence to the
Van Buren fa ion in New York, who
* By free trade, t e author means a tariff discrimi~
naming alone for rev flue.
t "It is, mdcc , not improbable that the free trade
pro ositi o ur Secretary accelerated~ if they did
n t p mpt, the kindred measure in England, of a
total repeat of the Corn Laws."
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE, Feb. 21, 1846.

1

C LI FT O N-

were anxious that a member of General
Jackson's cabinet, and a man of moderate
capacity, should receive the appointment
of Secretary of State. His calibre was
not considered sufficiently weighty for that
position, and having refused the post
which he held under a previous adrninis-
tration, it was tendered to Gov. Marcy.
The Mexican war rendered the position
one of great responsibility, and it was
fortunate for President Polk, that he had
secured the services of a statesman whose
judgment and energy qualified him to
tlischa~ge its responsible duties. George
Bancroft was appointed Secretary of the
Navy. Twice have individuals who had
illustrated the pages of American litera-
lure, p resided over the Navy Department,*
and th e same honours should have been
conferred upon another, whose experience
in early life, qualified him for the dis-'
charge of its duties
The' Post Office was filled by one of the
most celebrated economists and reformers
in the House of Representatives, Cave
Johnson of Tennessee. His mild arid
courteous manners, his unwavering inte-
grity, and his profound knowledge of the
masses, rentlered him a safe and influen-
tial cabinet councillor. John Y. Mason. a
successful politician; and Messrs. Clifford
of Maine, and Toucey of Connecticut,
completed the cabinet of Mr. Polk.
The President was scarcely installed in
office, before he committed the fatal error
of attempting to conciliate both factions
in the Empire State. It is useless to dis-
guise the fact, that a politician, to become
successful, must adopt the motto of George
the Fourth, and General Jackson~~(C I will
adhere to my friends, and set my enemies
at defiancee." Instead of standing by his
undoubted adherents, he sought to disarm
the secret hostility of the Van Buren men.
The greater his concessions, the more un-
manageable they became, until before the
close of his administration, they were its
fiercest ol)pOnents. His real supporters
were taunted with the favors which were
conferred upon their rivals, until believe
themselves abandoned, they the ng
left cabi-
net to contend the best way they could
with their remorseless assailants, until
the President an(l his advisers dearly paid
the penalty of their folly. At a later day,
Mr. Fillmore is playing the same game,
arid with consequences quite as disastrous.
He gains no wisdom from the melancholy
experience of his predecessor.

* James K. Paulding, and George flancroft.
t J. Fenimore Cooper.

11

161

It will be confessed by the political
opponents of the late President, that he
carried out the platform which he laid
down in his inaugural address with an
unyielding determination. There is but
one solitary instance of his swerving from
a position which he had assumed~, and
that was in adjusting the boundaries of
Oregon. He committed a fatal blunder in
conducting the negotiations, which, having
the effect of alienatinre his warmest friends,
embarrassed his administration almost
from its beginning to its close. In his
first annual message to Congress, he as-
serted that our title to the whole Oregon
Territory had been maintained by irrefra-
gable facts and arguments. In the discus-
sion between Messrs. Buchanan and Pack-
* enham, to which he referred, the Secre-
tary of State insisted that the northern
boundary of Oregon extended to the lati-
tude of 540 40'. To this extent Mr. Polk
claimed that our title was "clear and un-
questionable.) His subsequent agreement
to cede the territory between that line an(l
the forty-ninth degree of north latitude
was not only an unauthorized surrender
of soil which was unquestionably our own,
but violated a principle that had been
solemnly announced by himself. In his
first annual message he reiterated and
endorsed the Monroe doctnir~e, that it is
the unchangeable policy of the United
States to prevent European powers from
colonizing any portion of this continent.
If we will not permit them to colonize
territory which (loes not beloiig to us, how
can we surrender our own domain for that
purpose ~
This palpable inconsistency offended the
Western democracy. and enabled the oppo-
sition members of Congress to charge Mr.
Polk with separating the two great ques-
tions which were in issue before the people
-Texas and Oregon ,.-for the purpose of
aggrandizing the South at the expense of
the North. It will always remain a ble-
mish upon the splendid administration of
Mr. Polk, that he surrendered nearly
200,000,000 acres of land, to gratify the
rapacity of that power, which exhibits a
remorseless thirst for dominion.
In the midst of clamour, he miscouceiv-
ed alike the wishes of his constituents and
the foreign policy of the British govern-
rnent. He was appalled by the cry of
War! which was raised at the capital. He
ought to have known that the opinions of
those who surrounded him did not reflect
the popular sentiment. A thousand ex-
traneous influences are mingled with the
political atmosphere of the metropolis


162                 CLIFTON.                                                   CLIFTON.                  163

The foreign diplomatic corps exercise a
far greater power than many suppose.
They'give elegant parties, receptions, and
suppers. They are 'hail, fellows, well met,'
with radicals and federalists, and by the
urbanity of their manners they acquire a
very considerable influence. They ply
members with doubts; they are ever
watchful and vigilant, and seek every
opportunity to instil their opinions. But
the great public heart is not contaminated
by the poison. Nothing interposes be-
tween its pulsations and national honour.
Its vast might is not fettered by the cob-
webs of diplomacy, and its strong right
arm is ready to strike, regardless of the
consequences. Politicians do not rely
enough upon the judgment and patriotism
of the people. Few men trusted them
so implicitly as General Jackson, and
with such triumphant success. How
many instances does our brief history
afford of politicians being swept from
office by an indignant people, when they
had vainly thought that they had suc-
ceeded in hoodwinking them, by tricl~ery
and deceit.
Mr. Polk's political vision was obscured
by the mist which the foreign diplomatic
corps had raised, and he could not disco-
ver the movements of the masses. A
skilful statesman will watch the distant
breakers, as well as the undertow; if he
does not his bark will be wrecked while
he is throwing the lead at her bow.
The executive also misunderstood the
condition of the British Empire. Its saga-
cious rulers could threaten, because that
cost neither money nor blood. But they
were in no condition to fight. They were
under bonds to keep the peace sufficiently
large to bankrupt the empire, if they were
forfeited. Famine was staring Ireland in
the face, and if the supply of food and
cotton had been arrested, a starving popu-
lation would threaten destruction to' here-
ditary institutions and social order. These
things Mr. Polk ought to have known; not
that we would claim unjust demands from
weakness, any more than we should aban-
don our rights when menaced by the
strong. We ought, at least, to avoid being
frightened at our own shadows.
With the exception of the Oregon con-
troversy, the career of Mr. Polk was bril-
liant and successful. There were inci-
dents, it is true, which his friends regret-
ted, but they consisted principally of ap-
pointments to office., They were tempo-
rary, and will soon be forgotten, while
that splendid superstructure which was
erected by Mr. Polk and the democratic

party will long remain the admiration of
posterity.
CHAPTER XLII.
"Oh, boatman! wind that born again;
For never did the joyous air
Upon its iatnhent bosom bear
So wild, so soft, so sweet a strain."
BUTLER.
"With splinters of the dryest pine,
Now feed the fires below."
SCuLLER.
"Horror seizes thee I"
GOETHE.
"A~iD when do the bridal cortege take
their departure for New Orleans, Mrs.
Broughtoul"
"Immediately after the marriage cere-
mony is performed.~~
"And you accompany them ~"
Yes. They intend to invite a number
of intimate friends, and yourself, Mr. Clif-
ton, among them."
"I am grateful for their kind remem-
brance. But is it not a singular coinci-
dence.that the Misses Douglass, Foster,
and Davidson should be married the same
night and in the same church ~"
"You know they have been perfectly
devoted to each other for a long time, and
it was probably a girlish fancy."
"And so Fielding, Davidson, and Har-
den are the happy individuals. I had an
idea of the state of affairs; but they oixght
to be ashamed for not confiding their
secrets to me. However, I suppose they
were so full of it themselves, that they
forgot others."
"Tue joyous intelligence will soon be
communicated, as they will be united
next Thursday. On Friday we all go Oil
board the John Randolph, and ho! for
New Orleans. The best state-rooms have
been engaged for the bridal party~ and
we anticipate a delightful excursion.
March is the gayest month, you know, in
the Southern metropolis."
~' Why, really, your enthusiasm is quite
enough to tempt me to make one of the
party."
"Of course you will. I count on your
becoming my protector in case of acci-
dents; and as Mr. Broughton is iiow itt
New Orleans, you cannot refuse." And
she gave our hero a glance into the depths
of her beautiful eyes that would have
shaken the resolution of one still more im-
passive.
The eventful day had passed, and the

noble steamer was descending a tributary
of the Mississippi. The air was clear
and bracing, for the country still present-
ed the appearance of winter. Patches of
snow could be seen, where the genial
rays of the sun had not fallen upon it,
and nothing but the leafless trees and na-
ked shrubs were left of that munificent
vegetation, which ornaments the shores of
our Southern rivers.
There were few passengers save the
wedding cortege, and the splendid cabin
was the scene of gayety and mirth. A
band of musicians had been engaged, and
the waltz and polka; cards, music. and
conversation served to occupy the revellers
as the pointed keel of the Randolph
ploughed the bosom of the stream.
Traveling upon the Western waters-
bating the danger of fire and explosions-
is always delightful. The table is loaded
with every delicacy. and the ever-varying
scenery upon the banks elicits the admira-
tion of the wayfarer. The river-bottoms--
which invariably spread out on one or
both sides of the stream, to the adjacent
hills-in their primitive state are covered
with a growth of large forest trees. The
soil, having been made by the river, and
the draining of the upland~is inexhaus-
tibly rich. Here and there the industry of
the settler is manifested, but by far the
greater portion of the bottoms are still
held in possession by those lofty trees,
whose forms have for . ages braved the
lightning and the storm. There is a con-
trast, too in the openings which relieve
the solitude. Here the stuinpless earth,
elegant mansion, and spacious outbuild-
ings, prove that the native wilds have long
since yielded to the dominion of its relent-
less foe. Anon, the eyes rest upon a log
cabin with its bark roof wood and mortar
chimney, lowly entrance, arid humble
furniture. But the resounding axe, and
levelled forest is opening a path to wealth
arid luxury.
Want is unknown, and the necessaries
of life abound in that land of plenty.
Flat-boats are often seen along the
shore filled with wood for the steamers.
They rest quietly upon the water, until
the waves which are rolled away from
the rushing keel come hurtling against the
inert mass. For a moment it is fiercely
rocked, arid then, as the waves subside, it
again sluggishly hugs the shore. Occa-
s~onally the Randolph stopped at a village
to land or take in passengers, but the
stern voice of Captain Joe Miller was soon
heard from the hurricane deck, exclaim-

ing, "Take in the plank !" and the float-
ing palace again swept down the current.
"Come, ladies, let us play eucher! We
have tried whist long enough. How it is
possible that you can be so fond of whist,
I cannot tell. It requires us to use all the
cards, and exhausts all the patience I can
command. 1 play for amusement, and
not to make my head ache watching the
progress of the gam~e.~~
"You must not let it be known that
your patience is so easily disposed of, Mrs.
Fielding."
"Call me Helen, Mr. Clifton; it is so
formal to prefix the Mrs. to my name."
"Certainly, if you will permit me."
"Yes, I will allow ~on that privilege.
Come, Mrs. Broughton, you and Mr. Har-
den seat yourselves at this table, if the
others will weary their heads with that
stupid game. Let us beat the gentlenien
a few hands."
"What a wonderful favourite eucher
has become within the last few years,"
observed Harden.
"Because it is a social game, and
scarcely interrupts the conversation."
"That accounts for its popularity with
the ladies," said Judge Douglass.
"What an imputation, papa. As for
myself, I think the gentlemen make quite
as goo(l use of their tongues as we do."
"I do not know when it is. To my
mind, nothing can equal a dozen women
assembled in the same parlour. There are
positively no listeners, and twelve distinct
voices are heard at the same time. I once
knew a lawyer who always managed to
rid himself of a taciturn visitor, by respond-
ing in monosyllables. Egad, he would
have been excessively popular with the
ladies, Helen. A good listener is all they
require."
"Our sex are quite as often flattered by
the seeming deference of a good listener,"
observed Clifton. "The most ignorant
attribute your courteous attention to re-
marks, which, judging from their effects,
they think speak volumes of wisdom,
when you knoxv they utter the most stupid
nonsense. All you have to do, is to bow
and smile occasionally yand they will leave
your presence, not only well satisfied with
themselves, but firmly convinced that you
are the most intelligent person they have
ever known. If, on the contrary, you
exhibit, by a word or a look, the contempt
which you must feel for their insufferable
vanity, if not for their ignorance, you
make enemies of them for life."
"There, papa-what do you think of
that?"


C LI FT ON-.

C L I F T 0 N-.

"I believe it is strictly true. Wounded
vanity is more difficult to heal than any
other passion of the human mind."
"Is it because silent men are good lis-
teners, Clifton, that they generally have
more credit for wisdom than they de-
servel" inquired Fielding.
"In a great measure; as wisdom is so
much more rarely uttered than nonsense,
the silent man occupies a safe position
when he keeps his mouth closed."
"And his looks, like the face of the owl,
speak volumes of thought."
"That is your comparison, Mrs. Brough-
~Ofl*~~
"Of course; a politician must disclaim all
unpopular allusions to the (lear people."
"What is the matter, Davidson r' in-
quired Fielding, as the former hastily de-
scended from the hurricane deck.
"The Ellen Kirkman i~ rounding the
point, which we passed a moment ago~
and a trial of speed will take place be~
tween the two rivals."
"What, a race ~" said Mrs. Broughton,
as her cheek became pallid.
She had witnessed an explosion from
the generation of too much steam, scarcely
one year before.
"Oh, let's witness it !" joyfully ex-
claimed Emy. "Come for your ~
and she bounded away, but soon reap-
peared, attired for a promenade upon the
deck, where they all soon congregated.
"Which is the fastest boat ~" asked
Judge Douglass.
"That has never been tested," rejoined
Capt. Miller. "The Randolph has for
years been without a rival upon the'
Western waters. The Kirkman is a new
boat, and is said to be unequalled for
speed. This is the first time they have
encountered, and the trial can be no longer
postponed. Fire up, men
The dry hickory and oak speedily disap-
peared in the grate, and the enormous en-
gines groaned, as they rapidly moved the
machinery. The firemen and deck hands
were all negroes, and they enlivened their
toil with the music of the river songs.
"We have one hundred miles to run
before we reach another port, so the test
will be a fair one," cried Captain Joe, as
he calmly watched the progress of the
two boats, as they rudely parted the smooth
current of the river. The forest and sur-
rounding rocks prolonged the echoes of
the steam, as it harshly burst from the
"'scape pipes." The double engines of
the Ellen Kirkman were forcing her keel
through the water at a tremendous rate of
speed, and the anxious spectators, who

occupied the hurricane deck of the Ran-
dolph, saw the space bet~veen the two
rapidly diminish.
"Ah, ha!" shouted Capt. Miller, "they
are burning tar ~ and black columns of
smoke rolled from the chimneys of the
approaching steamer.
The passengers were now thoroughly
excited, and even Mrs. Broughton lost nil
apprehensions in the general enthusiasm.
"Why do you not also burn tar ~" in-
quired Mrs. Fielding.
"Consideration for my passengers, as
well as for the boat, a lone prevents me,"
was the sententious reply.
"Never fear for us; do not submit to the
disgrace of being passed."
The captain hesitated a moment, and
cast his eyes again at the Kirkman. It
was now evident that more steam must be
generated, or the Randolph could no longer
boast of being the fastest steamer in the
world. A frown gathered upon the stern
countenance of 'the commander, as he
muttered-
"It is a violation of my regulations, but
there is no help for it. Men, bring out
half-a-dozen barrels of turpentine."
A loud cheer from the lover deck, ex-
pressed the delight of the, crew. The
barrels were soon ranged along the grates;
the heads were burst open, and the wood
was dipped into the inflammable liquid.
The effect was almost instantaneous. The
vast fabric darted onward with aA angry
snort, and the space between the strug-
gling, but uncortscious competitors, was
increased. Another wild cheer rose from
the deck, and this time it mingled with
one which burst from the excited passen-
gers. In the moment of enthusiasm, they
were unconscious of being threatened
by an instantaneous and horrible death.
Nothing but the uncertain, yet hitherto
iron power of the boilers, was interposed
between them and eternity. They had
never been so tested before, arid a point
becoming weakened by the action of fire,
might yield to the overwhelming power of
steam, and shiver the boat into fragments.
Every timber was shaken by the rapid
motion of the engine, as it hurled the en-
ormous mass over the ~vater. The sun
had gone down, and the curtain of night
fell upon the scene. Still, barrel after barrel
of turpentine disappeared in the fiery
grate. The dinner bell summoned the
passengers in vain; they had forgotten all
else in the excitement of the race. The
fires on board the Rirkman now gleamed
with a fearful brightness through the
gloom, and appeared like two glittering

orbs pursuing the flying steamer, with
the relentless perseverance of fatality. The
channel, for the last twenty miles, was
broad, and extended nearly in a southern
direction. It now contracted to a narrow
space, and the river wound its serpentine
course through the hills. Onward moved
those floating palaces; the one following
in the wake of the other. Every foot of
the way was familiar to the pilots, and the
obedient vessels curved along the narrow
channel without any abatement of their
speed. Upon the deck all was energy
and activity. The dark faces of the sable
workmen glistened in the light of the
blazing fires, as the sweat streamed from
their foreheads. The scene resembled the
dominions of Vulcan, when the fabled
god presides over his forges.
The river now widened again, and the
prow of the Kirkman was turned directly
for a point about one mile ahead, while
the Randolph was forced to keep the main
channel.
"By heavens! pilot, she will cut us off!"
"There is a greater prospect of her
grounding, Capt. Miller," was the prompt
reply.
"Do you think so ~ If she does, at that
rate of speed, she will become a total
wreck."
"They are checking her speed.~~
"No, they are not. She does not draw~
so much water as the Randolph, and be-
sides, she is not so heavily loaded; still it
seems almost incredible that her com-
man~ler attempts that passage !"
All eyes were directed to the Xirkman,
as her broadside was disclosed to view.
Every window, above and below, seemed
to be illuminated, and the lights danced
merrily upon the curving waves. The
Kirkman was slowly gaining upon the
Randolph, when a tremendous cheer burst
from her decks. The waving handker-
chiefs of her lady passengers could be seen,
as they joined in the universal exultation.
"You are shouting before you are out
of the woods !" muttered the deep voice of
Captain Joe.
"Can you not increase your speed,
Captain Miller ~" eagerly inquired Dr.
Fielding.
"impossible! both boats are going at
the top of their speed. The safety-valve
is fastened down, and there is imminent
danger of an explosion.~
Intelligence which, at another moment,
would have blanched the cheek of the
most reckless, now passed unnoticed by
the most timid of that little circle.
The Ellen Kirkman had passed over the

shoals as though under the influence of
magic, and she now headed for the main
channel, with the intention of cutting off
the Randolph. This movement violated
the regulations of the river, as one boat
could riot cross the bow of another un-
less she had passed her. The Kirkman,
on the contrary, was pursuing a direc-
tion which would inevitably bring her bow
in- contact with the wheel-house of her
rival, unless the latter s~verved from her
course. In a moment all was confusion
on board the Randolph, when the loud
and authoritative voice of the Captain
was heard above the din, as he warned
the pilot of the Kirkmari to keep away.
The hands of both teamerss abandoned
their work, and watched with awe-stricken
countenances the approaching masses.
The excitement upon the hurricane-deck
was changed to dismay, and the aifrighted
females retreated to the stern of the boat.
Still the Kirkman bore down upoa her
rival, as if determined to sink het.
At this moment a loud voice issued
from the lower deck of the Randolph,
commanding the pilot of the other to bear
away. A shout of defiance was the only
reply, and it was scarcely uttered whea
the report of a rifle echoed through the
forest, and the fatal messenger of death
pierced the bosom of the reckless pilot.
For a minute, during which time a breath-
less pause was maintained by the startled
spectators, no one grasped the helm. The
Kirkman was not more than forty yards
distant from the Randolph, and was ra-
pidly approaching, when her forward
decks were riven, as if by a thunderbolt.
The explosion was terrific; the fated boat
trembled in every joint, aiid the scattered
fragments covered the bosom of the stream.
The mangled bodies f many of the crew
were swept overboard; som clung with
desperation to the wreck. Sev ral of the
passengers had shared the s horrible
fate, while the rest, having treated to
the rear of the boat, were saved from
destruction.
All rivalry in a moment ceased. The
engines of the Randolph were reversed,
and she slowly swung round until, with
great difficulty, she was lashed to the Kirk-
man. Now commenced the workof search-
ing for the wounded and the dead. No
one who has never witnessed the effects
of aii explosion, can at all appreciate its
horrors. its parallel is never seen upon
the battle-field. Limbs may be torn from
the quivering bodies, and brainless skulls
may lie at y our feet, but the intense agony
of a scalded frame is indescribably awful.

164

165


166

C LI FTO0N.

The skin was blown, by the rushing steam,
entirely from the ebon face and chest of
one poor negro, so that he looked like a
bright mulatto. Many were thrown over-
board by the explosion. These sufferers
were most of them secured while they ut-
tered the most appalling shrieks, and al-
though shivering with cold, implored their
delivererss, in tones that pierced their
hearts, to put their burning limbs again in
water.
"Is it riot terrible ~ whispered Helen,
as she assisted with trembling hands in
the work of mercy. Never did those
beautiful brides present such an angelic
appearance, as when they ministered with
so much tenderness and devotion to the
relief of the sufferers.
Slowly the wreck was towed into the
next port, and the Randolph again headed
down the stream.
When the passengers awoke the next
morning, the steamer was ploughing the
current of the Mississippi. A feeling of
awe steals across the mind of him who
looks for the first time upon its broad sur-
face, and recollects that within its banks
are the contributions of its innumerable
and mighty tributaries. The nil which
modestly hides its crystal drops in the
shade of some far-off grove, abandons its
home amid the flowers, and borne along
by a resistless fate, mingles with the flood,
and loses its sweetness at last in the un-
' changeable bitterness of the ocean.
"When you look at the commerce
which floats upon this river and its branch-
es, Judge Douglass, how can you doubt
that it was wisdom which dictated the
purchase of Louisiana ?"
"I have never denied but that the ac-
quisition was an important one, Mr. Har-
den. The extension of our boundaries
m~y sometimes become important. I
only contend that an indiscriminate and
remorseless desire for more territory will
ultimately involve us in foreign if not do-
mestic wars."
"But it is the policy of all tl~e principal
powers to acquire contiguous territory."
"I know it is. There is this striking
difference, though. Their possessions are
won by the sword, and maintained by
force. Here, the citizen yields obedience
to the Constitution under the impulse of
morality and public opinion. The rule of
action in a country where the sovereign
exercises power by 'divine right,' and a
republic where all authority is delegated
by the people, is beyon~l comparison."
"Your objection only applies to the in-
corporation of territory whose inhabitants

are opposed to annexation, and does not
exclude those who are anxious for admis-
sion within the pale of the union. Even
that rule I think is altogether too limited.
The interests of our country may require
the forcible acquisition of territory, and
the river upon whose waters we are now
floating might have rendered the violation
of your policy absolutely necessary. Sup-
pose France had pertinaciously refused to
transfer her title; as she undoubtedly
would if the continental views of Napoleon
had not absorbed his attention. Do you
pretend to say that the vast commerce of
the Upper Mississippi and its tributaries
should remain under the control of another
power i"
"No; the doctrine of self-preservation,
which applies to nations as well as to in-
dividuals, would justify the forcible acqui-
sition of the Mississippi, from its mouth to
its ~
"Well, then, you concede the argument
in its length and breadth."
"By no means. Another case cannot
be mentioned where the material interests
of the country would be so much affected,
as the possession of New Orleans by the
French."
"Perhaps not. Still, there are other
methods of annoying the commerce of the
country, besides the possession of a fort at
the mouth of the Mississippi. Adjacent
harbours, where a fleet can hover, ready,
at any moment, to capture our merchant-
men and attack our men of tvar, should
be kept under our own control. Such
places are numerous along the shores of
Texas. Even in the hands of a rival re-
public, they might occasion much incon-
venience. But suppose, in the course of
events, they should pass under the control
of England, what a source of annoyance
they would become! Great Britain has
scarcely a resting-place for her fleets, from
Halifax to the Isthmus of Darien. Her
statesmen would not hesitate to avail them-
selves of almost any pretext to seize a
harbour situated in a healthy climate,
where, with their present navy, they could
for years command the Gulf of Mexico.
By the annexation of Texas we have, at
all events, removed that difficulty from our
path."
"Well, now you have acquired Texas,
I suppose you are satisfied ?"
"By no means. As our territory ex-
pands, it will create a necessity for the ac-
quisition of new barriers for its protec-
hon."
"Why, what do you propose to swallow
next 'i"

C LI FTO0N.

"Alta California."
"You surely (10 not want to stride across
the Rocky Mountains I"
"Undoubtedly. That the eyes of our
population are turned in that direction is
proved by making the settlement of the
Oregon boundary an issue in the last can-
vass. But we want ports further south
than Oregon. If the English offer to ac-
cept the line of 49 as the boundary, giving
them the whole of Vancouver's Island,
will our government refuse l If not, the
harbour of Puget's Sound is the only one
which we possess upon the Pacific, and
the entrance to that, through the straits of
Fuca, will be commanded by a British
battery upon the southern point of Van-
couver's Island. It is folly to suppose that
the commerce of the East will, for a long
period, either double the Cape of Good
Hope, or the southern point of South
America. It will force a transit through
San Francisco. The power of Mexico is
too feeble to hold possession of California.
It must come under the dominion of England
or the United States. Interest demands its
acquisition by us."
"What pretext can be offered for seiz-
ing California V'
"I have reasons for believing that the
new administration will force a settlement
of Amerh~an claims upon Mexico. It will
be resisted, and it is within the limits of
probability that a war will ensue. At all
events, instructions will be sent in a few
weeks to Commodore Sloat to seize Cali-
forum in case of a rupture.~~
"With the intention of retaining itl'~
"Well, you are a cormorant! Nothing
will satisfy your rapacious appetite. But,
my dear sir, in this insatiable thirst for
empire you forget that there is danger of
our becoming so unwieldy that we will
break with our own xveight~"
"There is not the slightest danger of it.
The population which is admitted into the
Union will not resist annexation. Any
government is preferable to their own,
and they will gladly become citizens of
the great Republic !"
"Over what people wduld you cast the
protection of the stars and stripes ~
"I ~vould annex the whole of North
America."
"Ha! ha! You have chosen a liberal
margin. What will Great Britain say to
your arrangement ~
"Nothing. Her British possessions are
more expensive than profitable, and she
would willingly rid herself of them to-mor-
row, upon fair terms. If the Imperial go-

167

vernment is, on the contrary, disposed to
be contumackvus, there will simply be art
abridged edition of the revolutionary
struggle."
"In which Brother Jonathan will take
part, I suppose."
"Individually, if not collectively. Our
sympathies will always be in favour of
republicanism.~~
"Do you imagine that a majority of
the Canadians would advocate annexa-
tionl"
"I have not a doubt ,of it, if it could be
accomplished pe r~ceably. Their burdens
are not so heavy m~s to force them, at this
time, into a blood jr revolution. But when
the mother country&amp; , ceasing to treat theta
so tenderly, appl~4 s the screws, they will
speedily revolt."4~
"But the       Canadians are unlet-
tered, and would scarcely make better
republicans than the inhabitants of old
France."
"That is true; but unlike the European
French, they would constitute but a small
segment of the population. Their igno-
rance instead of becoming more profound
by feeding upon itself, would fade before
the progress of universal education."
"And the Mexicans; you would annex
them too, with all their vices, and fond-
ness for revolutions. Since the revolt of
Hidalgo, I believe two successive years
have not elapsed without a bloody insur-
rection. They would become beautiful
republicans, truly !"
"Oh, I do not propose to swallow the
eight millions at once. They must be
taken in small doses. The Americans
~vill soon spread themselves over the pro-
vince which is annexed, and by inculcat-
ing the principles of free government, and
intermarrying with the native population,
they will soon be qualified to claim the
elective franchise. Besides, if it should,
for a time, require garrisons to make them
yield obedience to the laws, we shall
have to use no more vigilance than is
necessary to keep the Indian tribes in sub-
jection. You might as well contend that
our Western forests should be surrendered
to the roaming savages, because it requires
an armed force to maintain the supremacy
of the whites, as to insist that territory
should not be acquired when a portion of
the population are disorderly."
"Your words are quite too mild, Mr. Har-
den. You should say ~
"Very well, aliens, if you will; but not
like the original owners of this vast
domain, aliens f6~r all time. The Mexi-
can, with all his Spanish obstinacy, will


168                   CLIFTON.                                                         CLIFTON.                     169

at last yield to circumstances. The Indian
will never bow his haughty head to the
conqueror. The men of property cannot
fail, in a short time, to discover that sta-
bility and permanence are far preferable
to anarchy and misrule-; they will, there-
fore, gladly hail the change."
"But there is one insurmountable ob-
jection to your stupendous plan."
"I should like to hear it."
"It is the impossibility of making ge-
neral laws, which will not weigh oppres-
sively upon some portion of the empire.
EveA now. when our territory does not
cross half the degrees of latitude from the
Northern Ocean to the Isthmus of Darien,
sectional animosity threatens destruction
to the Union. Armed resistance to the
tariff of 1828, was alone prevented by the
influence of General Jackson, and the
passage of the Compromise Act. How can
you graduate a revenue law that will not
elicit complaints from the Southern planter,
or the Northern manufacturer'? How can
you frame an act, that will give satisfac-
tion to the countless interests which are
presented, within each degree of latitude,
from the ice-bound regions of the North,
to the unhealthy savannahs of the torrid
zone'?~'
"Your insurmountable objection, not-
withstanding it is often urged, amounts to
just nothing at all. What is there in the
wants of Canada, to make a tariff more
onerous upon the South'? and what is there
in the fruits of Mexican labour, to cause
Northern men to oppose annexation'? A
more extensive market will certainly be
acquired for Northern manufacturers '?~)
"True, but where is the additional reve-
nue to come from, which will be required'?
From the Sonth~ of course. The North
will dance, while the South pays the fid-
dler. as usual."
"Very well; and will not the South have
a larger population to help pay the fiddler'?
The burden cannot be greater than it is
now. Besides, Judge, it does not come
with a good grace from you, to urge that
objection. Recollect, your party advocate
a tariff discriminating for protection instead
of revenue. However, I have another un-
answerable reply to your argument.
Abolish all tariffs and substitute direct
taxation, as a method of raising revenue;
then you may annex the xv ole continent
if you will."
Mrs. Harden, listened to ~his conversa-
tion with much interest. Leaning forward
with her head resting upon h~r hand, while
the luxuriant hair was thrown back from
the temple, she was the picture of earnest

attention. She appreciated every objec-
tion, and quickly assented to every propo-
sition which was sustained by the authority
of reason.
Davidson and his young bride were
seate(l cosily together, in a distant part of
the saloon, and it was easy to discover
that the first hours of the honeymoon had
not yet passed.
Fielding and Helen, too, were apart
from the rest. They did not shrink from
isolation in that sweet dream of love, frdrn
which there is always an awakening.
Why may it not last for ever'? An exis-
tence in the realms where Cupid holds
dominion, is changed with sadness for
that of stern reality. The airy conscious-
ness of bliss-the blending of two hearts
that have hitherto been separated by the
conventionalities of life-the departure ot
(lonbt arid the certainty of possession,
after being realized for a brief honr, like
all earthly emotions, lose their freshness
in the solemn duties of mortality. "'Twas
bright, 'twas heavenly, but 'tis past."
Clifton and Mrs. Broughton were prome-
nading the hurricane (leck. The air was
more balmy as they descended the river;
and vegetation was bursting forth under
the magical power of a Southern sun.
They had taken tea and resumed their
walk upon the spacious deck. The night
was clear and starlit, and they gazed at
the shadowy banks, and broad savannas,
as the majestic steamer swiftly glided down
the swollen Mississippi. Occasionally they
would meet a steamboat breasting th rapid
current, and a friendly greeting was inter-
changed by the ringing of bells. Innu-
merable flat-b ont s ~vere passed, whose
dark outlines sat motionless upon the river,
or rocked in the waves of the Randolph.
The music of a violin came across the
xvater, mingling with the melody of the
boatman's song. It floated over the tide
at first indistinctly, and then as the steamer
approached the inert mass, the words
were plainly heard-
",Ve'li dance nil night till broad daylight,
And go home with the galls in the morning."
A voice from the boat exclaimed,
"It is the Randolph. Hallo! Bill Smith-
ers."
"Hallo yourself!~~ was answered from
the lower deck.
"What's the news above ~
"Kirkman's burst her ~
"How many killed'?"
"Only twelve. Dick Henley 'mong
them."
"'The devil! Where'bouts'?" came in-
C

distinctly from the questioner, but the
Randolph had swept by, and the answer
was lost upon ihe waters.
"Those are happy fellows. Would you
believe it, Mrs. Broughton'?"
"They seem to be, although the only
thing to relieve the tedium and monotony
of such a voyage, must be its perils.)~
"And yet they enter upon it as a relaxa-
tion and amusement. I recognize the
voice which you just heard from the fiat-
boat. That person is the owner of fifty
slaves, and is worth not less than one hun.
dred thousand dollars; still he has been
the sport of wind and tide for the last five
weeks !"
"Is it possible! I thought it was ne-
cessity which induced the boatmen to
resort to the river."
"Not always; it possesses as much at-
traction to some of our population, as the
deep, deep sea, does for the sailor. Once
a year they take an excursion to New Or-
leans, with corn, tobacco, cotton, staves,
hoop-poles, or poultry, and 'return in a
"But is not the voyage surrounded with
perils and hardships'?"
"With more hardships, surely, than a
cabin passage in the Randolph, but not
with so many perils, as you can testify !"
The lad' shuddered at the recollection of
two explosions.
C~Accidents rarely ~ he continued;
"they are sometimes wrecked in passing
the rapids, but the disasters are seldom
attended by a loss of life. A boatman has
a much easier time now than formerly.
He has only to keep his craft in the chan-
nel, and float with the current. Befq re
steamboats navigated the Western wate ~s,
they not only took produce to New Orleans
upon these unwieldy flats, but merchan-
dise was forced up those streams in keel-
boats."
"How xvas that done'?"
"The goods were packed in a long boat,
which had a projection upon each side,
just above the water-line. These platforms
were occupied by boatmen, who forced
the keel against the current, with the aid
of long poles.~~
"Impossible !"
"It is true, I assure you !"
"How ~
"Sometimes a thousand miles !"
"Why, it was worse than the task as-
sumed by Sysiphus."
"It was no child's play, truly; especially
where they xvere obliged to warp it past
the rapids."

"And how was that accomplished,
pray'?"
"One end of a long cable was tied to a
tree far up the stream, and the other to the
capstan, and the boat was warped up the
current."
"How much we are indebted to Robert
Fulton for the application of steam to
water craft. The transmission of produce
an(l merchandise is now a pleasure.'
"Not as much ~o as you may suppose,
Mrs. Broughton. The danger of running
against snags, the fear of collisions, and
the dread of explosions, requires the vigi-
lance of the commanders to be sleepless.
Their watchfulness is illustrated by an
anecdote which is related of Captain Joe
Miller. In fair weather, it is his custom
to seat himself upon the lower deck, and
leaning his back against the capstan, gaze
out upon the water. The mischievous
mate discoveredd one night, that wearied
by long vigils, the commander had fallen
asleep. He softly turned the capstan upon
which he was seated, until the counte-
nance of the old veteran faced the fires;
the doors of the grate were then thrown
open, and Captain Joe was aroused.
Springing to his feet, he shouted, 'Good
God, men! reverse the engine, or she will
be into us in less than a minute."'
Edward and his companion continued
to walk the deck until a late hour. The
night was lovely, and from off the shore
came the breeze laden with the fragrance
of early floxvers. The notes of the whip.
poor-will were faintly heard, and here and
there a light pierced the shrubbery, and
danced upon the ~vater. The coast, ho~v-
ever, was soon locked in repose, and
nothing disturbed the silence of the hour,
save the groaning of the engines and the
splashing of the water-wheels.
"Does it no~t seem like enchantment,
Mr. Clifton, tl4s sudden transition from
the dreary reg'i on of frost, to the almost
perennial bloom of another climate V'
"And yet I like our seasons far better.
We have variety, instead of sameness,
and that, you know, is more attractive."
"To your sex, undoubtedly."
"Pardon me, if I think not more so
than to your own. We tire of a forest
~vhen travelling, and long for a clearing to
relieve the solitude. When traversing a
prairie, xve sicken at the unrelieved waste,
and cast our eyes eagerly around in search
of woodland. If we are hemmed in by
mountains, how gladly we hail the open
land ~ and if noffling but hillocks boqnd
the vision, with untold pleasure we gaze
upon the roughest barrier which Nature has


170                   CLIFTON.                                                         CLiFTON.                    171

erected. The tempest is a welcome relief
to the calm; new faces fresh scenes, ex-
citernents, all help to banish monotony,
and to encompass us with that variety
which is the charm of human existence.~~~
"New faces, I think you said. How
complimentary !"
"If they ~vere all like yours, Mrs.
Broughton, a change~ would be for the
worse."
"Oh! thank yon," and the lady itiade a
low and graceful courtesy.
'~Do not think I spoke ironically, for it
is the truth! I am unacquainted with any
~ady who weors so well as you do !"
"Why, do ladies so poorly stand the
test of intimacy ?"
"I have not mingled much, you know,
in the society of ladies; still I have found
that some of them become insipid.~~
"Really, then, I should advise them to
see less of you."
\ "I hope you will not follow the advice
rself."
Arid why not? I had better retreat
while I have your good opinion."
"That you will be sure to have, under
any circumstances. You have too often
revealed the delights of Nature, to one
who was ignorant of its power, to suffer
me to become either ungrateful or unjust.~~
"Why, what on earth are you two
amusing yourselves about, at this late
hour !" exclaimed Dr. Fielding,' as the
married coterie advanced along the deck.
"We are not unmindful of the beauties
of Nature; that is all."
"Neither are we ;" and the Doctor bowed
to his fair companions.
"We have been discussing the new
style of dress, Mrs. Broughton,~ observed
Helen.
"And what do you think of it ?"
~' That it was invented for the benefit of
ladies whose forms are not as faultless as
that of the Greek slave."
"Doubtless, and the aforesaid ladies are
trying to induce all others to adopt the
fashion, although it is far less graceful
than the old."
"In which particular they resemble an
unfortunate Reynard," remarked Harden.
"How so?"
"A fox prowling upon forbidden pre-
mises, unfortunately had his tail cut off by
a steel-trap. Fearful of becoming thp
laughing-stock of his companions, he im-
mediately announced a new fashion-that
of wearing no tails. It became popular,
and in a few days there~ was not a fox in
the pack that had a tail for ornament or
use. But I do not see anything about the

anecdote to cause so much suppressed
merriment," continued Harden, confused-
ly, as the ladies proceeded in a body along
the deck, and at last gave vent to merry
peals of laughter.
As the middle watch was changed, they
all left the deck and retired to their state-
rooms. The Randolph was gliding through
an eddy, whose current was running up
stream, when the passengers were aroused
from slumber by a concussion which shook
the vast fabric to its centre. In a moment
the most intense excitement prevailed
throughout the boat. Edward darted to-
wards the bow, for the purpose of ascer-
taining the nature of the accident, and
caught the startling intelligence which was
communicated by one deck-band to ano-
ther-" Tire hold is filling with water." At
the same moment he saw Captain Miller
running towards the pilot-house. He
paused a moment, and remarked, "Mr.
Cliftour arouse the passengers at once; the
Randolph will sink in less than t~veuty
minutes." Retreating to the saloon, Ed-
ward met the stewardto whom he repeated
the information. The latter instantly seized
a bell, and, ringing it furiously, soon awak-
ened the passengers. The Randolph was
a long distance from land, when her keel
struck the sawyer, and as soon as Captain
Miller seized the helm, her bow was turned
towards the shore, But, the collision had
proved much more disastrous than any one
supposed, and before the ill-fated steamer
had passed over half the distance to the
bank, there were half-a-dozen feet of water
in her hold. The total destruction of the
boat and cargo was not only threatened,
but the passengers were surrounded by im-
minent perils. The place of greatest se-
curity was the hurricane deck, and thither
the cabin and steerage passengers crowded.
They had all gained that position, and
With feverish excitement watched the pro-
gress of the boat, as it seemed, to their
overwrought fancy, to (Irag at a snail's
pace towards the shore. The Randolph
was slowly settling into the water, as the
remorseless element rose to her lower
deck, when Helen exclaimed, in a voice
trembling with terror-
"For Heaven's sake, where is Mrs.
Broughton ?"
"Good God! is she not here ?" answered
Clifton.
"N~ no! she could not have been
awakened."
Edward waited to heirr no more, but
hastil)r descended the staircase, notwith-
standing the assertion of Captain Miller,
that the boat would sink before he could

I

return. Fortunately, he knew the number
of her state-room. It was the last but one
in the ladies' saloon. He knocked upon
the door~ No response came back. He
shook it violently; still all was silent. A
voice shouted from the forwri~rd part of the
boat, " Sheis sinking !~' With an effort of
Herculean strength, the young man burst
the door from its hinges. The object of
his search had risen from her bed, and
overcome with terror, had swooned, and
was now lying upon the carpet, uncon-
scious of the dangers which surrounded
her. Edward raised her yielding form in
his arms, and emerging into the saloon,
was proceeding rapidly in the direction of
the staircase, when the bow of the boat
sunk into the river, and the water rolled
along the cabin. His escape by the stair-
case was cut off. For a moment he was
paralysed by the apprehensions of an in-
stant and terrible death, and then sum-
moning all his courage, he retreated to the
farther end of the ladies cabin, and pass-
ing through a state-room, plunged into the
Mississippi, in time to avoid being carried
down by the descendingg mass.
Fortunately for the passengers, the bow of
the Randolph had glided into shoal water
before the catastrophe occurred, and the
front part of the hurricane deck was above
the surface of the river. Cables were
taken ashore, and the wreck was secured.
A shout for aid was heard, coming from
the bosom of the stream, but each mo-
rnent it grew fainter and fainter.
"Launch the boat !" exclaimed the
voice of Captain Miller.
"It is Clifton! let me accompany you !"
said Fielding.
The life-boat was soon rapidly cutting
the tide in the direction fro9rr whence the
voice proceeded. silence now brooded
upon the water, and the conviction sunk
like lead upon the heart of Fielding, that
his friend had perished. With the assist-
ance of lanterns they endeavoured to
pierce the gloom, still nothing but an in-
terminable waste of waters could be seen.
" Hold !" shouted Captain Miller, "I
saw two bodies sink hereaway.~~
The boat hovered near the spot, arid for
several moments they gazed, with straining
eyeballs, into the deep.
"Here they are !" exclaimed Fielding
as two heads rose almost to the surface,
arid then receded again. With a sud-
den spring the Doctor caught Clifton
by the hair, and raising his head above
the water, the two bodies were taken into
the boat. Clifton's arm encircled the
waist of the lady, while hers clasped his

form, so as completely to paralyse his ex-
ertions.
"This is the cause of their ~
said Fielding, as he enclosed the arms of
Mrs. Broughton. "He was an excellent
swimmer, and would have kept them
both above the water much longer, if his
arms had been free."
The faces of both were pale. A faint
flutter was perceptible in the region of
Edward's heart; but the form of the lady
was icy and motionless. Death had un-
mistakeably placed his seal upon her
marble forehead. As soon as they reach-
ed the steamboat, every exertion was used
to restore Edward to consciousness, while
the weeping females hung over the cold
and pulseless form of their late com-
panion.
The efforts of skill and affection tri-
umphed. The colour returned to his cheeks,
and the sufferer unclosed his eyes. He
gazed at first wonderingly upon his friends,
and then his eyes rested for a long time
upon the form of Mrs. Broughton. At
length he turned ~*ay, with a mournful
shake of the head, which made the scald-
ing tears course down the cheeks of the
most unfeeling. The language, expres-
sive, though voiceless, plainly uttered, "I
would have saved you, but I could not."
A melancholy party left the Randolph,
and going on board another steamboat,
started once more for New Orleans. It
was their painful duty to deliver the soul-
less remains of the wife, to the shudder-
ing embrace of the husband. Grief as-
sumed the throne, where mirth had ruled
before; so sudden and inexorable are the
decrees of death. The calm, cold clay,
was even more lovely than when a hap-
py, buoyant spirit inhabited the mortal
tenement. The graceful outlines were
unwanted by disease, and the complexion
had assumed a marble whiteness, save
where a rosy hue had regained its empire
in her cheeks, and re-illumed the smiling
lips. The long dark lashes seemed to
tremble as though her expressive eyes
were in the act of resuming their power.
The form appeared to be slumbering tran-
q nilly, whil76 the soul was wandering in
the land of dreams, and the lips were slight-
ly parted as if to welcome its return. It
was difficult to realize that it was the last,
long sleep, from which there is no awak-
ing, until the nations are summoned by
the archangel's trump, to appear at the
judgment seat.


CLIFTON.                     178

172                   CLIFTON.

CHAPTER XLIII.
"In the lexicon of youth which fate reserves for
bright manhood, there is no such word as fail I"
I3ULWER.
Tan Congressional convention was t
meet at Sherwood in a week; for the nomi
nations were usually made in April. Ever~
county had selected delegates. Not suci
persons as are used by Tjimmany Hall
and the politicians who meet at the Broad
way Hotel, bnt the substantial portion o
the community who cannot be Aired t
nominate a person because he carries
long purse, with the strings untied. Ir
cities, the practice of nominating candi.
dates, is too often an absurd burlesque
Unless an aspirant will suffer the political
hucksters to bleed him freely, he stand
no chance. Blackguards rule the ballot.
box, because candidates are selected al
the point of a bludgeon, and within the
swing of a slung-shot. Respectable peo.
pIe will not mingle with bullies, and the
latter therefore have full sway. Perhaps
this melancholy condition of affairs it
more strikingly illustrated in the Empire
City, than in any other. Meetings are sus-
tained or put down by hired rowdies, and
the arm of the rioter is more powerful
than reason or patriotism. A meeting
was called in the Park, to denounce a
public functionary.. A dozen men were
present, nine of whom were sent by the
office-holder himself. The chairman was
hustled out, a new one appointed, and
resolutions complimenting the public func-
tionary were passed unanimously. When
the first Texas meeting was held in New
York, it was denounced as a Tyler move-
ment, the stand was pulled down, one
man was killed, the coat was torn from
the body of the speaker; and yet within
four months, the longest torchlight pro-
cession ever witnessed in the city, was
got up by the advocates of annexation.
Men push themselves prominently for-
ward, in primary assemblages, who
~vould not be allowed, in the Southern
States, to occupy the position of door-
keepers. The evil will increase until the
respectable portion of the community per-
emptorily refuse to support a ticket that
the rabble have had the slightest agency in
forming. Their candidates, instead of
courting and paying for the friendship of
blackguards, will be taught to discounte-
nance and disown them. Even now it is
a cause for congratulation, that the nomi-
nees, who have resorted to disreputable
expedients to secure a nomination, are
often defeated at the polls. When this is

universally the case, the law and order
men will have discharged their duty. How
a different is the condition of public opinion
in the Southern States? None but men of
high character, are chosen as delegates,
) and when they make a nomination, it
- secures the support of the party. It is
~ rarely the case in a poll of ten thousand,
1 that a solitary democrat or whig refuses
to vote the party ticket.
It ~as apparent, to~all, that Clifton
f would receivee the unanimous nomination
for C tigress. His exertions had been
crown ~d with so much success in the
Presidential contest, that he had a host
* of friends in the district. It is useless
to deny that he felt a deep interest
I in the proceedings ~of the primary meet-
ings which assembled in the different
counties. Although he took no part, di-
rectly or indirectly, in getting them up,
still, as one after another instructed their
* delegates to vote for Edward Clifton, a
feeling of gratitude for the warmth of
their devotion was uppermost in his heart.
At Bergen, a preference was, expressed
by one of the crowd for Blount Merri-
* weather. The announcement instantly
called Squire Burrows, a democratic
veteran, to his feet, who exclaimed vehe-
mently; "What has Blount Merriweather
done to command our support? Has* he
not always proved a fair ~veather demo-
crat? Did he ever battle in our cause
when our ranks were dispirited by defeat,
and the success of our candidates was
doubtfulif not hopeless? No, sir, he is
not the man for a crisis- lie lacks the
moral. courage to head a forlorn hope.
Such an individual can never become a
successful leader. He alone is entitled to
the championOhip, who exhibits intrepidi-
ty in the hour of defeat, as well as in the
moment of victory. That person is Ed-
ward Clifton we have tried him. Where
is the orator who would have per-
formed the duties which he did in the
last canvass? Neither storms nor heat,
arrested his movements, and for half a
year his time was devoted to the advocacy
of our cause, and the defence of our prin-
ciples. And now, when honours are at
our disposal, we ungratefully confer them
upon another! Such, gentlemen, is not the
way I cancel my obligations. Gratitude, as
well as duty, points unerringly to Mr. Clif-
ton as the democratic candidate, and to
abandon him now, would be dastardly
and unjust. I for one will never consent
to it, until his claims are rejected by the
Congressional convention. Mr. Chairman,
I propose that our delegates be instructed to

vote first, last, and all the time, for Edward
Clifton."
it is needless to say that the proposition
was carried by an overwhelming majority.
The village of Sherwood was thronged
with delegates. it was remarked that
they were an unusually honest and deter-
mined-looking body of men. The pre-
sence of some of them was an indication
that they felt a deep interest in the result,
as they had come on horseback, a distance
of sixty miles.
The convention was organized by the
appointment of Col. Miller as President.
~ nomination was proposed in a
resolution offered by Senator Harden. A
delegate from an adjacent county opposed
it upon the grour~d that the candidate was
too youthful. He observed, "Mr. Clifton
1 understand is not yet twenty-five years
of age, and to send so young a person to
the halls of congress , would I think be
setting a bad precedent. I will frankly
confess that his age is the only objection
which I can urge against his nomination.
But that to me is insuperable. You can-
not have forgotten that he obtained during
the Presidential conflict the soubriquet of
the young ~
The delegates listened impatiently to
this objection, and when the speaker had
resumed his seat, a dozen metnbers sprang
to their feet. Harden wa~ recognized by
the chair.
"I deem it almost unnccesshry," he
commenced, "for me to express my dis-
sent to the opinions which have just been
announced. I can see they are disap-
proved by almost every member of this
convention, including its presiding officer.
But a due regard for the prejudices of the
gentleman who has just restimed his seat,
prompts me to remove his doubts, if pos-
sible. I know his influence, and am
anxious to secure his support for the
ticket."
This politic allusion was well received
by the delegate, who immediately re-
marked-
'' The nominee shall have that, whoever
he may be."
"I am glad to hear ~ resumed Har-
den. ~ what I expected from his
known adherence to principle. But to his
objections. On the day of election, Mr.
Clifton will be twenty-five years old. The
fathers of the republic recognized that age
as sufficient to qualify a person to dis-
charge the duties of a Congressman. It is
surely unnecessary to appeal to history in
confirmation of their judgment. Hannibal
and Bonaparte overran Italy before they

were twenty-six. A small portion of the
world only was left unconquered by Alex-
ander, when he was t~venty-five. At the
age of Clifton, the three mightiest con-
querors of the world had covered them-
selves with immortal renown. William
Pitt, the most illustrious of British states-
men, was Chancellor of the Exchequer at
twenty-two. But 1 will not multiply illus-
trations. What pretext is there Ibr the
assertion that the favourite of this conven-
tion is too young? If he is still youthful,
has he not the fire and enthusiasm which
is necessary to accomplish great ends ~
Where did he encounter a successful op-
ponent in the last canvass? And yet the
oldest, youngest, and ablest wliig orators
were arrayed against him. And, as if this
was not' sufficient, did not the United
States District Attorney resign his office,
for the purpose of attempting to arrest the
tide which was setting in so strongly against
Mr. Clay in this district? I speak ad-
visedly when I say that Clifton conducted
the canvass without the slightest desire for
personAl rewards. He is devoted to his
profession, and regards political office as a
great barrier to professional eminence.
His name was proposed without his sanc-
tion, as a candidate for Congress, in
several preliminary meetings; his repu-
tation is now in the hands of this con-
vention, and he would be above human
infirmities if he did not take a deep in-
terest in our deliberations. No one can
present such powerful claims to our sup-
port as Edward Clifton, and I know that I
speak the sentiments of this convention,
and the people whom they represent, when
I declare that we should be dislionouring
ourselves more than him, if we leave
this hall without tendering a unanimous
nomination for Congress to C the young
elector.' ~
These' remarks were frequently inter-
rupted by great applause, and as Harden
concluded, the~ assembly arose to their
feet and gave 'three tremendous cheers.
Harden's resolution was carried by accld-
ration.'
Edward had several cases to dispose of
before opening the canvass, and among
the number was a suit which he was de-
fen~ng for a Mr. Franklin.
"But will the cause be tried this term ?"
Yes; both parties are prepared, and
for one I am anxious to get rid of it."
"It has been on th~ calendar a long
time. What are the f~ts in the case? I
am ignorant of them, r~hough I heard of
the case a long time ago."
"Simply these. Franklin, and Drum-


174                           CLIF
mond, his co-defendant, were members
of the county court, a tribunal having
wer to appoint guardians. One was Se-
I~ected for the plaintiff, ~b~ut sufficient se-
curity was not taken, and the assets in-
trusted to his hands were squandered. It
appears by the record that Franklin, my
client, was on the bench when the court
met, but that Drumniond, and two others,
signed the minutes. Now if either or both
of the defendantss made the appointment,
the plaintiff will recover, provided there is
no other defence. The question is~ who
was upon the bench at the time the order
was made. Thefacl is) that Franklin left it
immediately after the court niet, but he
cannot prove t."
The trial came on, and the case of Bris-
ton vs. Franklin and Drummond, was at
last before the jury. The cause attracted
much attention, and the court-house was
crowded as Edward rose to address the
court.
"It is my purpose, may it please the
~ he corn menaced, "to be very brief
in the investigation of this case. The law
and the facts are embraced in a nut-shell.
If either of these defendants are liable, it
surely is not my client. The question is,
who appointed the guardian 3 The orders
of the court are not complete until they
are signed. If they are, why is that
formality necessary 3 The practice of the
court was to hear the minutes read the
morning after they were entered, and then
affix their names to the record. Until it
was signed, the minutes were under, the
supervision of ~the court. Mr. Franklin
did not sanction the orders of the court on
the day after this appointment was made,
for the record shows that it was approved
by Mr. Drummond and others. He is
therefore liable, if anybody is, for the fail-
ure to take security. But there is one im-
passable barrier to a recovery by the plain-
tiff. The action is barred by the statute
of limitations. I would not rely upon this
/ defence if I did not know that my client
was guiltless of all blame. Actions of this
kind are barred, if not commenced within
three years after the removal of a disability
It was the duty of the plaintiff to institute
his suit within three years after his ma-
jority. He has not done so. The writ
was issued on his twenty-foirth birthday "
"Very well, Mr. Clifton," interposed
the Judge, "that was sufficient, as three
years had not elapsed until the following
day."
"Just so thou~t his mother, may it
please your honour, when she swore in
this deposition to statements which she

'T O N.

thought would just cover the case. The
witness and the court both labour under a
mistake as to the law. This writ bears
date the 15th day of March, 1840. Mrs.
Briston testifies that her son was twenty-
four years of age on the 15th day of
March, 1840. The plaintiff, on the con-
trary, was, in the eye of the law, twenty-
four years old on the 14th day of March,
1840."
"What, the day before his birthday 3"
asked the Judge.
"Exactly so."
"Th~ court would like to know how you
will make that appear."
"I will show your honour. It is a well-
settled principle of law that parts Qf a day
are never recognized. The day, one and
indivisible, is alone counted."
"The court admits that proposition."
"Very well. There are three hundred
and sixty-five days in a year. The plain-
tiff was born on the 15th day of March,
1816 at 10 o'clock, A. M. The 15th day
of March 1816, being in law indivisible,
counts as one day, and the child had
completed three hundred and sixty-five
days on the 14th of March, 1817. You.
cannot count the 15th t~vice, because if
you do, the year will be composed of
three hundred and sixty-six days. In fact
the child was a yearold on the 15th day of
March, 1817, ~it 10 o'clock, A. M., but
not in law. Follow out the proposition.
Mr. Briston was twenty-one years old on
the 14th of March, 1837, and oughtto
have instituted his suit on or before the
14th day of March, 1840. Not having
done so, his right of action is lost by the
statute of limitations.~'
" You are right, Mr. Clifton," observed
the court; "the plaintiff might as ~vell
agree to a non-suit."
In the month of May, 1845, Edward
opened the campaign for Congress. The
whigs nominated Malcolm Macgregor as
his opponent. This gentleman ~vas born
in the district, and from that fact expected
to obtain democratic votes. A host of
kinsmen belonged to the opposite party,
and as they were Scotchmen, and conse-
quently clannish, he hoped that they would
manifest greater devotion to their relation,
than to their principles. i'm this expecta-
tion the whig leaders coincided, and confi-
dently expected that Clifton would be de-
feated. Although they did not dislike him
personally, and were cautious~ what terms
they employed when referring to his po-
litical career, still many of them had been
handled rather roughly in the last canvass,
and would now rejoice at the frustration of

I

his hopes. It was predicted, too, that a
p~sonal difficulty would take place be-
tween the candidates. They were both
young and impetuous, and the political
forum is more likely than all other places
to test the sweetness of one's temper. If
your indignation finds vent in an expres-
sion more than ordinarily severe, a chal-
lenge follows, or a personal collision at
once ensues. The danger is enhanced by
the presence of political friends, and hos-
tile opponents, the one t
other to scoff.      o cheer, and the
"And so you open the ball at Bergen
to-morrow, Clifton," observed Fielding.
"DoesHarden accompany you3"
"Yes;oxviug to my persuasions, he has
accepted the nomination for a re-election
to the Senate."
"I am glad of it. The senatorial dis-
trict is composed of four counties, which
you will have to canvass~ and he will be
a pleasant companion, as well as a power-
ful assistant upon the stump.~~
"I assure you I have a proper appre-
ciation of the facts which you have men-
tioned."
"What do you think of your opponent,
Clifton 3"
"I have never met him upon the stump.
He is said to be a good speaker, but rather
an unscrupulous claimer; something
like Major Henderson."
"You will have an 'affair' with him
then, before the canvass is over."
"A candidate may always anticipate a
difficulty when he meets an opponent on
the stump, and if he avoids one, it is a
species of good fortune for which he ought
to be grateful.~~
"You passed through the Presidential
conflict without a personal encounter."
"I was then advocating the claims of
another, not my own. A person canvass-
ing for himself is far 'A ore sensitive."
"Why is it that l~vyers so much more
rarely have t]eadly combats than politi-
cians."
"Because they are accustomed to the
rules of debate, and besides, live electors,
they are speaking for others. Members
of the bar are not so apt to come into col-
lision, when they are candidates, as other
classes of the community.~~
"Macgregor is not a member of the
barl"
"No, he is a physician.~~
"Then you had better go prepared for
any emergency. Our profession are in-
clined to be obstinate, and a dogged ad-
herence to settled opinions is more cha-

racteristic of the medical fraternity, than a
frank acknowledgment of error."
"You arefra~ik to make the admission."
"I would not proclaim it on the high-
ways, but 1(10 not hesitate to tell you. So
you would do well to commence the can-
vass prepared, ~at any moment, to admi-
nis~r a pill, not of his owa making, either,
to Dr. Macgregor."
"Do you think this will do 3" inquired
Edward, as he took a heavy revolver from
his desk.
"I have a very poor opinion of Colt's
revolvers, generally," responded Fielding,
" and would rather trust to a Durringer, or
a bowie-knife. This, however, seems to
be a substantial weapon.7~
"A Durringer has but one ball, and it
is a penitentiary offence to use' a bowie-
knife." -
Yes; our legislators, in order to con-
ciliate the pious community, are doing all
they can to sink the chivalry of the South.
They will never be satisfied until we be-
come as spiritless and cowardly as a na-
tion of traders usually are."
"And so you believe personal conflicts
are necessary to preserve our character for
intrepidity 3" said Judge Douglass, who
had just entered Clifton's office.
"Submission to insult by nations or
individuals has a tendency to degrade
character. There are some offences which
the law cannot Xunish. The strong right
arm must then efend your honour. I be-
lieve that wars are a national blessing,
when they are not~too frequent. They
serve to foster a martial enthusiasm, and
keep a people from sinking into that worst
of all conditions, a nation of spiritless tra-
ffickers."
"But you forget that the horrors of the
battle-field carry anguish to the domestic
circle."
"No, I do not~ I admit it all. Still,
there are some evils more to be deplored
than even that. A loss of self-respect,
which follows in the footsteps of departing
valour, is far more calamitous. We be-
come the willing victims of the strong, and
occupy the position of a cipher in the ca-
talogue of nations. Not only that, bit the
loss of national character is accompanied
by that mental imbecility, ~vhich is the
fatal enemy of science and of art. Look
at those empires which claim the grati-
tude of the present age for discoveries that
have benefitted mankind. They have
become equally celebrated for their mar-
tial renown. Where has sculpture, mu-
sic, painting, philosophy, astronomy, and
belles-Iettres, been illustrated with a splen-

CLIFTON.                    175


176                           CLIF
dour and success that will claim the ad-
miration of posterity ~ Upon the ensan-
guined plains of Greece, the gory valleys
of Jtaly, the blood-stained fields of France,
and in the smoking villages of old Eng-
land. If you want a contrast to this pic-
ture, look at China! that land of wooden
shoes and mental imbecility, where three
hundred millions of people suffer twenty
thousand British to batter down the walls
of their cities !"
"You speak warmly, Doctor."
~Because I despise the stupidity which
is constantly advocating peace as the
greatest blessing which can be conferred
upon the human race. It is not strange
that an interested clergy should endeavour
to transform a martial people into the
truculent victims of priestcraft; because
the power of the church will then be aug-
mented. Donations to religious institu-
tions will become even more frequent
than they are now. The ties of consan-
guinity will be as powerless as a rope of
sand, when the mind, enfeebled by dis-
ease and palsied with terror, seeks to win
a pathway to the celestial regions, by yield-
ing to the sordid demands of a clerical
comforter."
"Do you suppose that the church em-
~ ploys improper means for the purpose of
obtaining bequests ?"
"I have not the slightest doubt of it.
Since the dawn of Christianity, or rather
since the ascension, the disciples of our
Saviour have always understood the value
of money. They have employed every
means to accumulate the dross of earth
before the Reformation by the absolution
of sins, and since that time by performing
mass for the dead, and smoothing the pas-
sage of the dying Protestant to the world
of spirits."
"Why, surely you cannot condemn that
religious consolation which enables the
departing soul to look death calmly in the
face V'
"Not when the consolation is disinte-
rested; but if the unscrupulous clergyman
hangs over the trembling body, when it is
about to yield up its immateriality, and
with hypocritical cant induces him to dis-
inherit a helpless family~ for the purpose
of enriching the chum , the execrations
of men and the curse of heaven should fall
upon his head !"
"But how is this influence brought into
action ~ A man has the legal right toklis-
pose of his property as he pleases.~~
"Leave the modes operandi to the skill
of the reverend clergy; they are versed in
the mysteries of the human heart. What

T 0 N'.

is the process, ask you ~ I once witnessed
an illustration .of its power. A wealthy
planter was taken suddenly ill. The ra-
vages of the fever could not be checked,
and it was apparent that a speedy dissolu-
tion would ensue. Alarmed at his ap-
proaching fate, he sent for a clergyman.
His life had been reckless and profane, and
the meekness of his amiable wife had
often been put to the severest test, Over-
come with fatigue, I had thrown myself
upon the sofa in a secluded corner of the
room, and was asleep when the minister
entered. I awoke, however, in a few mi-
nutes, and knowing that the youthful cler-
gyman did not exclusively employ his
time in laying up treasures where 'neither
moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where
thieves do not break through nor steal,'
I watched' his movements.
"With a solemn and sepulchral voice
he began-' I sincerely regret, my dear
sir, to find you in this awful condition!'
(the enunciation of the word awful being
greatly prolonged.)
"'So do I, but fate is mesisfiess; can
you give me no consolation in this terri-
ble moment V And the eyeballs of the
dying mortal seemed starting from their
sockets as he watched the countenance of
the man of God.
CC A pause ensued. LYon have lived
a remarkably sinful life, Mr. Bradshaw,
and although you have been raised un-
der the very droppings of the sanctuary,
still you have never rendered obedience
to the commands of the Almighty.'
"'I know it; I know it, Parson Hen-
ning; but is it too late now to repent V
"'Blessed by the munificence of
heaven,' continued the divine, with in-
crease(l solemnity, 'you have always
manifested your ingratitude by withhold-
ing from the church that pecuniary aid
which enables it to become the instrument,
in the hands of God, for the accomplish-
ment of much good.'
"At this apparent extinction of his
hopes, the sick man sunk back with a
groan. In a few moments he turned to
the minister, and in a faint, but earnest
voice, whispered,
"'Is it too late to make amends for my
remissness and folly V
"'The clergyman shook his head, and
responded sadly: 'It is the duty of mor-
tals to employ the gifts of a Supreme Ruler
in promoting the eternal interests of the
human race. This life is but a fleeting
hour, ~iven us to prepare for that existence
which has no end~'
"'But surely, an indulgent God will not

4

C L I F T 0 N.

refuse a death-bed repentance to one who
is willing to aid his chosen servants'
"'But you have never done 5~*~
"'I will do so now, if it is not too late,'
said the agonized Bradshaw, as the clam-
my perspiration gathered in large drops
upon his forehead. I caught a flitting
glance of Henning~ s countenance. A gleam
of triumph was succeeded by a hard, re-
lentless expression, which seemed to say,
c There is no harm in torturing him some
more.' He continued, 'The individual who
sets at defiance the commands of God,
faces a terrible responsibility! If he obeys
the divine requirements, an eternity of bliss
awaits him beyond the river of death.
But if, like you, Mr. Bradshaw, he revels
in sin and iniquity through a long life,
without one act of charity, his mortal ca-
reer will terminate, but what becomes of
his immortal spirit ~ It will either be for
ever chained, with its living conscious-
ness, to the body, in that silent, cold,
dreary, remorseless grave, from which
there is no escape, or exist through an
eternity of suffering, in the lake of un-
quenchable fire!'
"'For God's sake, forbear!' shrieked
Bradshaw, as his body shook convulsively
for a minute, and then all was still. I was
in the act of springing from the sofa, when
Henning started to his feet, and exclaimed,
'I have carried it too far! fool that I
was; but where is a restorative~~ He
applied the hartshorn to the nostrils of
the fainting man, who shortly opened his
eyes; but it was evident he was fast sink-
ing.
"~You spoke of giving aid, but now to
the chosen servants of God !" whispered
Henning.
~ Alas! it is too late,' murmured the
dying man.
C''It is never too late to repent! God is
always ready to ~velcome the sinner.'
"'Do you think so V said the other joy-
fully. 'Oh! I will do an~]thing to secure
a pardon!'
"'You can greatly assist the humble ser-
vants of the Almighty, to spread the truths'
of his Divine Word.'
~ How '~ Name the conditions ~
"'By giving of your wealth to the church
You know I am the president of a reli-
gious institution; make a bequest to me,-
in trust for religious purposes; it will
greatly commend you to the mercy of an
offended God.'
"'I will do it. Name the sum, and
quickly too; I am sinking fast.'
"'To whom much is given, much will
12

177

be required,' responded the other with a
nasal intonation.
"' But my wife and helpless babes; what
will become ofthemV
"'Leave them a small sum! Riches will
only distract their attention from their
heavenly duties. If poverty overtakes
them, it shall be my care to protect them
from suffering.~
"'As you will!' muttered Bradshaw,
faintly. 'There is paper in that drawer;
write a will; you must do it soon; my
strength is failing; fast! faster !'
"Henning seized the pen, and with a
fiush6~i cheek, rapidly traced the black
lines (not blacker than his heart) upon the
spotless sheet. As I was in the act of
moving noiselessly from my position, for
the purpose of arresting this nefarious
transaction. The movement of the pen
was arrested, as Henning heard the death-
rattle in the throat of his victim. A mo-
mentary struggle ensued; the limbs trem-
bled, the brow contracted, and then all
was over.
"'Fool that I was, to delay so long!'
burst from the lips of the baffled clergy-
man, as he ground his teeth with irre-
pressible rage, and dashed away the pen.
"As I rose from the sequestered corner,
where I had been lying, and advanced to-
wards him, his countenance was suffused
with a (leep blush, which was quickly
succeeded by a livid hue. I fixed my
eyes sternly upon his own. His look of
disappointment gave place to a meek and
sanctimonious expression. I have seldom
been so much enraged, yet I addressed
him with a calm voice. 'Mr. Henning,
you have disgraced your calling; you have
increased the dying agonies of a fellow
mortal; and you have fully justified your
claim to eternal damnation. Now, sir,
if I treated you as you deserve, your in-
famy and rascality, would be proclaimed
to the world; but I shall only make a
slight atonement to the dead, by kicking
you down ~ He protested, but seiz-
ing him by his white cravat, I adminis-
tered half a dozen tremendous applica-
tions with my cowhide boots, the last of
which sent his reverend body whirling
down the staircase. Losing his balance,
he bounded from one step to another, un-
til he tumbled at last upon the floor, where
he lay for several moments, and then
rubbing his back with one hand, and his
legs with the other, he limped away.~~
"And the verdict of the world, would
be,' Served him right!' exclaimed Judge
Douglass.
The meeting between the two candi-

1'
t ji
H
Ii I
~
It
~pf~ I
;~ t~
'4

: ~i
It
I
4


178                   CLIFTON.                                                           CLIFTON.                    179

dates at Bergen passed without any
difficulty, and for several~appointme[~ts,
Edward flattered himself flu at the canvass
would be an agreeable one. He was
doomed to disappointment. Macgregor,
worsted in argument, resorted to misrepre-
sentation, and in the closing speech at
Sherwood, he charged his opponent with
changing his position upon the tariff, in
order to suit different localities. After they
had returned to the hotel, Clifton sought
an interview with his opponent, and
warned him, that he would not submit to
misrepresentation. "The reason I call
your attention in private, to the injustice
which you are doing me," he continued.
"is because we are heated while address.
ing a crowd. That is no time to settle
difficulties, unless it is at the point of the
pistol!"
"Very well, sir; if you wish to settle it
in that way, I am at your service !"
"But I do not; I greatly prefer a gentle-
manly discussion. You must be aware,
nevertheless, how fatal it will be to my
prospects, if I suffer you to charge me
with advocating principles, to-day, only to
repudiate them to-morrow: I might as
well abandon the canvass and return
home."
"I will certainly not oppose that step !"
"Probably not; but you shall not force
me to it. It was my desire that principles
should be discussed, and that personal dif-
ficulties should be kept out of the canvass.
I have been warned against you. I am
prepared for any emergency; you would
do well to meet me hereafter with some-
thing else hefsides documents, if your
misrepresentations of to-day are to be re-
peated.~~
"I understand you. I always go armed;
your advice was unnecessary.
The young men separated, with courte-
ous expressions, although their forms were
trembling ~vith passion.
The next day they were to meet near
the spot where Macgregor was born, and
in the centre of his clan. About a thousand
persons had assembled to hear them
speak. With the Democratic portion of
the crowd, Clifton was very popular, and
with any other competitor, there would not
have been the slightest doubt of his re-
cei~ing the entire vote of his party. But
Macgregor was their kinsman and family
physician, and was personally very popu-
lar. He opened the debate and reiterated
his charge of inconsistency against his
opponent.
"Specify the time and place, as well as

the inconsistency of which you speak ?"
interrupted Edward.
"I will do it, sir. At Bergen you advo-
cated a tariff for revenue, with discrimi-
natinn for protection. There are several
persons here, who heard you avow your-
self at Sherwood, yesterday, in favour of a
tariff, discriminating in favour of revenue
alone?'
"Yes, that he did !" exclaimed several
of the crowd.
After Macgregor concluded, Clifton
mounted the stand; but he observed that
there was no applause from the Demo-
cracy.
"I have been accused of inconsistency.
If the charge is true, I do not merit your
support."
"What do you mean, by saying ~f the
charge is true ?" exclaimed Macgregor,
vehemently. The crowd began to thicken
in the vicinity of the stand.
"You will require all your coolness, be-
fore I get through with you, Doctor.
Knowing the high character for which the
kinsmen of my opponent are celebrated;
it is a painful duty for me~to impeach his
honour. I would not have done so, but
for the unwarrantable attack which he has
made upon nie to-day; I am accused.
What is the reputation of my accuser?
llitherte~ spotless; but no longer so. I
heard recently, that he declared before the
nomination of Mr. Clay, that he would
vote for no man for the Presidency, who
was opposed to the annexation of Texas.
Having voted for Mr. Clay, he now vindi-
cates his consistency, by denying that he
ever made any such declarations. I so
understand you, Doctor?"
Certainly, sir."
"You see, gentlemen, how important
it is for his own consistency to remain un-
impeached, if his charge against me* is to
have any weight. No~v, I hold in my
hand the written statement of ten men of
unquestionable honour, who swear that he
did make the declaration which he now
denies."
A long pause ensued, while intense
silence prevailed throughout the crowd.
Macgregor retained his seat, and a deadly
pallor overs read his countenance. "Is
it possible!'~burst from the lips of his
nearest kinsmen. "Gentlemen, after this
illustration of my opponent's veracity, I
will declare, that the charge which he has
made against me to-day, in all its length
and breadth, is quite as destitute of truth,
as the denial which he has just uttered."
Macgregor sprang to his feet,. but his
movements were arrested by the authorita-

five voice of a leading ~vhig, and a mem-
ber of the Presbyterian Church, who ex-
claimed, "It is a painful duty for me to
impeach the veracity of a relationbut I
am forced to it by a regard for truth. I
listened with undivided attention to the
speeches of Mr. Clifton at Bergen and at
Sherwood. The position which he assumed
upon the tarifl wa~ forcibly impressed
upon my mind, because I believe its
adoption ~vilt inflict a fatal blow upon the
manufacturers of this country. At both
places he advocated a tariff discriminating
for revenue alone." As the old man re-
sumed his seat, Macgregor drew a pistol,
and taking a quick aim at Clifton, fired.
The crowd had not only encircled the
stan(l, but some of them had mounted it.
One of them attempted to strike the
xveapori from his hand. but only succeeded
in moving it slightly upon one sitle. The
ball entered Clifton's shoulder. Rendered
furious, the baffled assailant drew a knife,
and rushed upon his foe. With the quick-
ness of thought, Edward seized his wrist,
antI struck him violently upon the mouth
with his revolver. The blow knocked
several front teeth from their sockets, and
hurled Macgregor from the stand, when the
combatants ~vere separated.
For several weeks after the collision, nei-
ther of the candidates addressed the peo-
ple. Edward was disabled by his wound,
and Macgregor~s articulation was almost
destroyed. Still he refused to take the
advice of his friends and withdraw from
the canvass. In an interview with Clifton
he declared his determination not to ac-
cuse him of inconsistency again, and
asked, as a per~ onal favour, that he would
not repeat the pledge which he had given.
As our hero was desirous of discussing
principles alone, he acceded to the propo-
sition, although by doing so, he surren-
dered the overwhehniug advantage which
the faux pas of his opponent had given
him.
Before the canvass was ended he was
destined to have one more personal diffi-
culty. After atten(Iing a list of appoint-
ments, he passed one night at Sherwood,
on his way to Stamford. Scarcely had he
dismounted from his horse, when one of
his warmest friends informed him that Dr.
Coleman, the whig leader in the county,
had inquired if Clifton had not delivered
an abolition speech while at College. Ed-
ward's feelings were deeply wounded, be-
cause he had been upon the most friendly
terms with Dr. Coleman. But this emo-
tion soon gave place to a feeling of indig-
nation. He knew the object of the blow.

The next day, as he was proceeding to
Stamford, he met Dr. Coleman upon the
road. The latter greeted him with the
utmost warmth and cordiality. They rode
together for several miles, When Clifton
charged him with attempting, by infamous
means, to injure his popularity, and in-
formed him that on the following Monday
he should publicly denounce the insinua-
tions as false, in Sherwood, where it was
made.
The court met at Sherwood, and an
immense crowd had assembled. It was
here that Edward had made his earliest
friends, and delivered his first speech, and
here he felt a desire to sustain himself
triumphantly. In the course of his re-
marks, he alluded to the inquiry of Dr.
Coleman, and pronounced the charge that
he had ever made an abolition speech, or
written an abolition letter, that he was
now, or ever had been an abolitionist, an
unqualified falsehood.
After he had concluded, the Doctor made
his way through the crowd and
rage, mounted the stand. ,livid with
"It is strange that the gentleman,~~ he
declared, "should become so excited upon
the subject. I indignantly repel the charge
that I intended to do him injustice; I only
made the inquiry as his friend."
'' As my friend !" responded Clifton,
ironically. "No! as a hidulen, secret,
dastardly enemy, you endeavored to stab
my reputation. If I had delivered an abo-
lition speech when a boy, although I might
have been appointed by the presiding
officer to advocate that side of the ques-
tion, you knew very well it would be fatal
Ito my popularity. You thought if there
was no foundation for the insinuation, still
the poison might silently and secretly de-
stroy my reputation. It was an infamous
attack upon a stranger, and was rendered
doubly dishonourable, because there was
a smile upon your face when you were
using the poisoned dagger of the assassin.
As my friend! After the blow had been
inflicted, you met me with the blandness
of a friend, and made no allusion to my
youthful opinions. A friend warns you in
private, a craven-hearted foe assails you
in secret. Go, sir! Hitherto you have
maintained a high character; now your
hypocrisy is unveiled, and you will leave
this hall the object of relentless and unmi-
tigated scorn."
Intense excitement prevailed during this
scene, and Clifton noticed the tall and
commanding form of Col. Miller among
those who thronged the lobby of the court.
That gentleman despised Coleman quite

'I
I
~ Ii
a
V
V
A


180

C L I F T 0 N.

as much as he admired Clifton. His eyes
flashed, and his form trembled during the
controversy. As Edward concluded, and
passed the petrified form of the Doctor,
Col. Miller exclaimed, "That is enough,
gentlemen. That is satisfactory. Three
cheers for Edward Clifton!" And the wild,
prolonged, aud enthusiastic huzzas shook
the building.
It was the night preceding the election.
Clifton had completed his appointments,
and returning to Stamford, threw himself
upon his bed almost exhausted. No one
can describe the delights of that moment.
The labour has been performed, the duties
to himself and hi~ party have been dis-
charged, and nothing reniains but for the
ballot-box to decide the contest.
"Let me congratulate you upon the ter-
mination of the canvass,~~ said Fielding,
as he entered Edward's office.
"Thank you; I am glad it is over; the
fatigue and excitement is enough to affect
the most powerful constitution."
"You do not fear the result."
"Oh, no! I shall beat Macgregor a
thousand ~
"Is it possible! why that is more than
the party majority in t e district."
I know it is. Without any agency of
mine, the result of the meeting at Belden's,
where he was exposed in the presence of
his relations, has been widely circulated.
Not only that affair but the collision with
Coleman has
Porters.~~ld given me many whig sup-
not be otherwise. Our citi-
zens are magnanimous, and any attempt
to crush a person by dishonourable means,
will surely recoil. Besides, an influence
has been operating in your favour which
you least expected.~~
"What is that, pray i"
"My wife has persuaded her father to
vote for you.~~
"What! Judge Douglass vote for a
democrat! I am under a thousand obli-
gations to Mrs. Fielding."
"Well, you will soon have an opportu-
nity of expressing them, as she intends to
give a party in honour of the member
elect."
The morning of the election dawned
fair and cloudless. The entire vote of the
two parties was polled. Runners had
been selected for the purpose of bringing
returns to Stamford by midnight, and the
greatest excitement prevailed in the vil-
lage. Clifton's office was the head-quar-
ters of the democrats; Blanton's for the
whigs; and around each several hundred
persons had congregated to ascertain the

result. As night set in, they had obtained
the vote from every precinct in that county
except one. Heavy bets had been made
that Clifton's majority would be greater than
either the candidate for Governor or Sena-
tor, and that it would reach three hun-
dred and fifty. It was now three hundred
and forty, and at the precinct yet to be
heard from, the parties at the last election
were tied. They were anxiously awaiting
the arrival of the courier, and at last the
sound of horses' feet was heard, as the
rider dashed into the centre of the circle.
"Fifteen majority for the Governor, nine-
teen for Harden, twenty-four for Clifton !"
The welkin rang with cheer after cheer
as this result was announced. A profound
silence reigned in the vicinity of Blanton's
office.
As the returns from the other counties
had first to be compared at the county-
seats, several hours must elapse before
they could be received. The crowd broke
into knots, the two parties mingled to-
gether, and many a good-natured repartee
served to while away the hour.
"Which county do you expect to hear
from next, Mr. Clifton
~" What will be the whig majority."
"About two huruired."
A single shout was heard across the
square, followed by loud applause, and
then a voice exclaimed,
"Whig majority in Madison, two hun-
dred and forty-five !"
"That is greater than I expected,~~ said
Clifton.
"What will the democratic majority be
in FaulknerV' inquired Fielding.
"I am so much disappointed in Madi-
son, I can hardly venture to predict," re-
sponded Clifton; "I think it cannot, how-
ever, be less than three hundred and
ninety."
The sound of horses' feet was again
heard, but this time it came from another
direction. It clattered along the bank of
the river, was for a moment lost in the
glen, and then the steed thundered across
the bridge. The next instant, a horse-
man, mounted upon a bay charger, from
whose sides the sweat poured, threw him-
self from the saddle, and, twirling his hat
around his head, announced four hundred
and sixty-nine democratic majority in
Faulkner.
The cheering which followed this intel-
ligence was long and enthusiastic.
"Well done, glorious old Faulkner !"
burst from the lips of many a democrat.
"What do you think of that, my whig

C L IFT ON.

friend P exclaimed Fielding, as he slap-
ped 'Squire Morris upon the shoulder."
"Only that ~ve are as much surprised
,as you were a moment ago, by the news
from ~
"One hundred and forty-five whig ma-
jority will be the returns from Henry,~~
said Harden.
"We ought to have heard from that
county before now," said Judge Douglass.
"The change in the vote since the last
election has probably been very little;
they are German, you know."
"Whig majority in Henry, one hundred
and fifty !"
No applause followed this announce-
ment.
"How high will our majority range in
Cleveland l"
"You can judge better than I how that
county has gone, Harden."
" Your majority will be three hundred
and fifty; mine, three hundred."
An unusual commotion was heard in
the Whig crowd, and a yoice exclaimed:
"That's positively awful !"
"It must be the returns from Cleveland,
and favourable to us."
The messenger rode his exhausted
horse across the square, and his arrival
was welcomed by a joyous shout.
"How is itl What is the result~" de-
manded the eager questioners.
"Majority for Clifton, four hundred and
seventy.five.~~
"Impossible !" burst from a hundred
voices.
"True, I assure you."
The enthusiasm now became, intense,
and the cheers were terrific.
"Upwards of a hundred votes more
than I gave you.~~
"How will it stand in Jefferson, 'Squire
Miorris ~
"About fifty majority for the whigs."
"The messenger is late."
"There he comes; and with good news
for us," cried Morris, as he darted towards
the head-quarters of the whigs. The
huzzas in that direction were loud and
prolonged. A democrat came over with
a dejected countenance.
"One hundred and seventy-five
'ty for the whigs in Jefferson ~
This information came like a cold bath
upon the democracy.
The only county to be heard from now
was Washington. It was forty miles from,
Sherwood to Stamford, and another hour
must elapse before the runner could arrive.
It was now eleven o'clock. The unfavour-
able returns from Jefferson made the demo-

181

crats await with considerable anxiety for
the news from Washington. Clifton felt a
deeper, because he had a personal, as well
a political, interest in the result. Sherwood
was his earliest home in the State; it was
,there he had made his first political
speech; and there Fenton and Dr. Cole-
man came rudely in contact with him. It
was in the county of Washington that he
denounced the unscrupulous conduct of
his opponent, in the midst of his kinsmen.
It cannot appear strange, then, that his
heart beat and his cheek flushed when-
ever a shout was raised across the square.
He was almost certain of an election; but
to the young and ambitious, when the
ballot-box has decided their popularity,
success alone is not enough. They com-
pare with jealous eyes their own vote
with that of others upon the same ticket;
and a falling off gives quite as much pain
as the contrary result does pleasure.
It was half an hour past midnight, and
both parties began to th ink of dispersing.
"This is your last card, Clifton; what
will it beV'
"I hope my majority will be four hun-
dred. I shall be satisfied with that, though
I shall not complain if it is not more than
three seventy-five. Less than that will
disappoint me."
"Well, here it comes, good or bad."
The notes of a bugle were heard in the
distance; as they floated merrily upon the
night air.
"Tis Frank Place. The news is good !"
exclaimed Clifton, in a joyous tone. "It
is the signal we agreed upon.~~
The pent-up feelings of the crowd gave
way at this announcement, and a tremen-
dous huzza was borne to the ears of the
sta~tled Whigs. To increase the enthusi-
asm, a brass band commenced playing.
In a few minutes a foaming steed
bounded into the midst of the immense
throng, and, rising in his stirrups, the horse-
man proposed three cheers for Clifton.
They were given, and, as the last huzza
floated away upon the breeze, a profound
silence fell upon the multitude.
"Democratic majority for Governor,
four hundred and twelve; for Senator,
four hundred and one; for Congressman,
six hundred and ninety.five I"
It is impossible to describe the delirium
which, for a few minutes held possession
of the crowd. At length it took the form
of action. Rushing forward, they seized
Clifton, and in spite of his protestations
mounted him upon their shoulders, and
bore him in triumph around the square.
The majority for the democratic candi-

Ii
II
F
I
I,
q
ii
LI
II


182                             CLII
date for Governor, in the congressional
district, was one thousand and forty-five,
for Clifton, fourteen hundred and thirty-six.
The feelings which were experienced
by our hero, are rarely felt during a mortal
existence. Only when the object of our
adoration has been ~von, and the ambition
of the youthful aspirant, for military or
civic honours, has been gratified.
CHAPTER XLIV.
"I think of thee, when soft and wide,
The evening spreads her robes of light,
And, like a young and timid bride,
Sits blushing in the arms of night."
PaxsTICE.
CONTINUATION OF ALICE HOWARD'S JOURNAL.
"JUNE, 1845.-I have just been informed
by my mother, that father exacted a pro.
mise from Mr. Clifton, not to address me
until six years had elapsed. He counted
upon the instability of human affections!
So far as lam concernedhow fatal was
t~ie opinion? Perhaps not so with Ed-
ward; he may have forgotten me, and the
heart's youngest, freshest, purest emotions,
may be wasted upon a person, whose
fidelity exists only in my imagination.
Within seven months~ I shall know my
destiny! Six years will then be numbered
with the past, and his word will be kept
inviolate. If other scenes have changed
the current of his affection, a remorseless
doom is mine! It is terrible to stake the
happiness of a life upon the uncertain
fidelity of man. And yet it is fate which
controls us. The heart, it is true, may
be kept under the iron rule of the brai{i!
But it is the sway of the despot, which
crushes while it restrains. Still I do not
despair, for I have a consciousness of
power that can brook no rival. Why
should I? The mirror bids me hope!
"Iii a week I start for Newport. Hith-
ertp my visits to the ocean have been con-
fined to Cape May and Long Branch. The
company at the former place is too pro-
miscuous; the crowd is too great. At
Long Branch, there is not enough variety.
The visitors are nearly all Philadelphians.
But at Newport are congregated the grave
and the gay from all parts of the Union.
They shine by contrast. I shall pass some
time in New York, and then proceed in
the Bay State, to Newport; a summer
there, an autumn here, and a winter in

T 0 N.

Washington. That is a programme to
satisfy the most exacting.
"New York, June, 1845.-Here I am
at the Astor House. Several friends were
anxious for me to take up my abode at
their houses, but I prefer remaining here.
Although the fashionable e~ have not yet
taken their flight to the su\ nier resorts,
still they are preparing to do so. It is too
late for parties, though receptions have
not been altogether discontinued. The
custom ofhaving evening receptions is an
excellent one5 else the visiting would de-
generate into formality. Ladies often ex-
change calls through an entire season
without meeting, and at last they become
the creatures of ceremony, with no warmth,
and scarcely any social vitality. I have
often been amused, when they accidentally
meet; unmeaning compliments,~ and for-
mal ceremony mark the interview, and
they separate without any impression hav-
ing been made by either, save that which
a faultless, or vulgar dress; graceful, or
common manners, may have produced.
The exit of the visitor does riot call forth
warm commendations upon her frank, and
yet lady-like deportment. It is too often fo[-
lowed by a process which a Baltimore
girl called 'picking to pieces,' something
in the following style.
"'Did you ever see such a frightful hat?
Velvet, with a sixpenny rose on each side.
And, then, what a funny expression! She
a gentleman wore his hat on the
back side of his head!'
"'Upon my word, yes.'
"~ And yet she was educated at Ma-
dame -,
"It is far different at a reception where
forms are laid aside with your hood and
cloak. Then pride and formality are for
the hour unlaced, and cheerfulness and
gaiety preside over the festive scene.
Friends who are brought together upon
such occasions, are afforded the only re-
laxation from the stifihess of New York
society. Morning calls are governed by
the iron rules of etiquette. Parties are
made the occasion for display, and no-
thing else. The exhibition of your own
jewelry and brocade, and a mental inven-
tory of the ornaments with which the per-
sons of your friends are decorated, make
a sad inroad upon agreeability. If you.
chance to have a daughter in the room,
anxiety, because she may not have so
many beaux as she ought, is superadded
to your other cares, and renders your stu-
pidity profound. By the way, how ridi-
culous some mothers do make themselves
at parties. If their darlings do not receive

C LI F

as much attention as they desire, it puts
them at once into a fever of excitement.
They gaze with intense earnestness at
every male acquaintance who passes, and,
if he eludes them, their disappointment is
truly laughable. There is absolute terror
in the idea of becoming a ' wall-flower;'
and, to avoid it, all sorts of attention is
shown to the most unworthy specimens of
chivalry. It makes very little difference
how vulgar the manners, or revolting the
person, so he fills a pair of pantaloons and
dances the polka. He may wear a vile
mustache and have the most abominable
breath, it is all endurable, provided he
dances the polka. But just think of it.
It is not enough that all this is to be
endured, but you must be polite and at-
tentive to the vagabonds. A few nights
ago, a young lady had been playing the
agreeable to a most insufferable coxcomb,
whose spindle limbs and effeminate coun-
tenance proved him one of the rarest spe-
cimens of New York beaux. After he
had withdrawn, she remarked, sotto voce,
'After that, he can't refuse to ask me to
dance.' Young ladies, who have a for-
tune in their own possession, or are blessed
with great expectations, have plenty of
beaux for the dance. They are relieved
of much annoyance. Why it is that be-
ing constantly upon the floor is considered
so very desirable, I cannot tell. But it is,
and some of our sex will have partners
even if it occasions a loss of self-respect.
And good dancers are in great demand.
Not long since, I saw a fond mother
watching, with admiring eyes, the floating
form of her daughter as she whirled
through the waltz. She whispered to the
person who was seated next her, 'How
important it is for a young lady to have a
partner who dances well.' I know the
young lady, and I thought 'how important
it is that the head should be cultivated as
well as the heels.' And yet, strange to
say, they depend more upon the accom-
plishments of ~he ball-room, than the
study, to win admiration, if not a husband.
"I have notthe greatest opinion of schools
in New York. Perhaps some of them
may be as good as any in the Union, yet
there are several that rank very high for
~vhich I have not much respect. With
the semblance of great strictness and se-
verity, the discipline which enforces appli-
cation is exceedingly lax. Parents send
their children to school for improvement,
and not to become the victims of tyranny.
There is one institution of very high repu-
tation, where several of my acquaintances
have been educated, whose proprietress

TON.                           188
has tendered herself obnoxious by her
overbearing disposition. It has been often
proved that young ladies, as well as young
gentlemen, can be governed by kindness
much better than by harshness. But the
principal of whom I speak, probably em-
bittered by an event that forced her into a
position greatly inferior to the one which
Nature had qualified her to adorn (although
she could have exercised no possible con-
trol over it), vented her savage humour
upon her defeaceless pupils. A proud
spirit was continually warring against its
fate, until all who are more fortunate, be-
come the objects of its fury. To mortify
and disappoint those who are placed under
her temporary charge, seems to be the ob-
ject of her existence. Instead of en-
couraging them by kindness and gentle
words to surmount the difficulties in the
path of education, she constantly throws
obstacles in their way, by irritating their
temper, thwarting their reasonable de-
sires, and turniri'g those who would love
and obey her into relentless foes. She
arouses the worst passions of the human
heart-hate and the desire for revenge.
The whole system is illustrated by the ex-
perience of a young lady from the South
who came on with her relation to attend
the institution. XVhile her sister remained,
the proprietress was all affability and
kindness. *It was, 'My dear, ~vill you
have this? my dear, will you do that?'
until, at length, the maiden would have
defended the old lady against every as-
sault. A week had iiot elapsed after her
sister returned, before there ~vas a gradual
change. Going one evening to ask a
question, she was saluted with the sharp
inquiry, 'What do you want, Miss?'
Instead of love and willing obedience, she
has inspired fear and dislike.'
"But she will say, that severity is abso-
lutely necessary to enforce order. That
plea is simply untrue. The contrary has
been too often demonstrated. Affection is
a far more powerful agency in the ma-
nagement of the young as well as old. All
despotisms are odious, whether nations
or individuals are the victims. To be
released from oppression, is the cease-
less desire of the sufferers, and for the
accomplishment of that object, they will
devote time which otherwise would be
employed in mental improvement. A
parent who p laces his daughter, in the
school of Madame -, expects to have
her prepared for that circle in which he
moves himself. When he trusts her, to
the savage rule of Madame , she is a
tender, sensitive flower, upon whose

4

1,


{1

9

184

C L I F T 0 N.

cheek the winds of heaven have never
blown too roughly, all submission, all love.
How is her nature changed by the tigress
into whose clutches she has been thrown.
Her dail food would disgrace the mess-
room       lower deck. that the claims
of avarice may be gratified. The victim of
harshness first weeps, and many a night is
her pillow saturated with tears. Obstinacy
succeeds, and at last, an insensibility to
either punishment or reproof. While young,
she becomes hardened, and at length the
punishment of being put to bed, in a dark
mom, for twenty-four, sometimes, for thir-
ty-six hours, only calls into action those
passions of the human heart, which oth-
erwise would have remained dormant.
What are the thoughts whit~h occupy the
teeming brain, during those long dreary
hours of solitude ~ Hatred, and a thirst for
revenge. Her noble impulses undergo a
transition, the sweetness of her disposition
is turned to gall; the heart, where love
held dominion, is bruised and lacerated.
She at last escapes from this worse than
Southern bondage, but how changed~ The
dungeon is unlocked, but the effects of
tyranny cling to the victim, long after the
harsh voice ceases to fall upon the ear.
The maledictions of outraged humanity
will pursue the fiendish tyrant to her last
home: and the grave which holds the form,
that living, was as remorseless as itself
will never be hallowed by a tear.
"And yet, Madame -,is truculent, as
all tyrants are; she knows the importance
of having at least one lady in each class
graduate with high honours. That one
is often as inlperious as herself. A few
explosions of temper, such as dashing
books upon the floor, breaking slates, de-
claring that she won't be treated so, she
will leave the school first, soon causes the
proprietress to temporise, and at last to sub-
mit. So bright an ornament must not be
lost. But her pent-up rage is visited upon
the heads~f those whose expulsion from
school would be no loss.
"I never come to New York, without
being amused at the fantastic operations
of cliqueism. There are at least half a
dozen sets that assume the leadership of
fashion, and probably one is just as much
entitled to it as another; each think the
rest are made up of a mixed set, and the
latter have precisely the same opinion of
the former. Mrs. Linton inquired if the
company at Mrs. Blanckton's was not ex-
cessively mixed. Mrs. Fondling replied,
that she did not discover it. 'Why, 1 under-
stood,' observed Mrs. Linton, 'that the
Ferdinands were there.' A few days after

Mrs. Ferdinand asked Mrs. Fondling if
the company at the Mantons was not ex-
ceedingly mixed. 'I did not perceive it,'
replied Mrs. Fondling. 'Why, I heard the
Linton~ were there,' said Mrs. Ferdinand.
If I believed all that one clique said in
praise of themselves and in condemnation
of the remainder, I should have an exalted
opinion of one, and a moderate estimation
of the other.
"Taste in dress is also a fruitful source
of amusement to me. The judgment of
individuals is considered faultless by-
themselves. Sweeping and wholesale con-
demnation is visited upon the style of dress
which the wearer considers the height of
fashion. The possessor regards her robe
with unmistakable satisfaction, while her
neighbour views it with spiteful contempt.
If each person who claims the possession
of exquisite taste was to be made our
model, our dresses would change much
oftener than the seasons. The~occupant
of a mansion in Fifth Avenue has her style;
the one in Fourteenth Street has another;
~Mrs. Slaughter, of Union Place, has a
fourth; the Bowery girl a fifth, and the
tenant of East Broadway a sixth. After
all, it depends quite as much upon their
dressmakers as their own taste. Locality
has a greater influence upon taste and
fashion than one would suppose. The in-
habitants of a dwelling in East Broadway
move in altogether a different circle front
the Westenders. They rarely enter the
opera house; because Niblo's or the Broad-
way is the extent of their ambition. They
do not attend balls at Tammany Hall, but
they give unostentatious parties at home.
The young ladies grow up, marry, and
pass a life in that quiet, unambitious
sphere. Suppose their lot had been cast
in a fashionable street, their career would
have been far different. A box at the
opera, a bill at Stewarts, a summer at Sa-
ratoga, tickets for the fancy ball at the
opera house, satins, brocades, diamonds;
everything which wealth can command
would scarcely satisfy them. These same
dashing belles, under other circumstances,
might have been struggling for pre-emi-
nence at Tammany Hall, or the Apollo
Rooms. Locality is everything. These
would be unpalatable truths to those who
claim the leadership of fashion by inherent
right.*
"Newport, August, 1845.-I have been
* The author would remark, that the fair Philadel-
phian is not wholly exempt from those prejudices
which are entertained by the inhabitants of Boston,
Baltimore, and the city of rectangular streets. There
is not a stricture which she has made, that will not
apply with quite as much force to Moyamensing and

CLI F

here almost one month. How rapidly the
time passes. I breakfast at nine o~c~ ock,
remain at the ten pin alley an hour, dance
until eleven, bathe in the surf till twelve,
dress and dine at two, and promenade the
hall for an hour. Then ride to the tea
house, or walk to the cliffs~ return for tea
at seven, and dance until midnight. It is
a mystery how well the ladies stand this
dissipat~in; probably they would sink
under it, were it not for sea-bathing and
exercise upon horseback.
w"'~tiqueism attempted to gain.an ascen-
dency at first, but its prurient demands
were put down in a summary manner. A
family from New York, with a common
name and low extraction, had surrounded
itself with obsequious beaux, who claimed
the right of controlling the music, and giv-
ing direction to the dance. This was the
more insufferable, because they had
learned some fancy dances which were
unknown to the other guests. In a public
hotel, no clique has a right to monopolize
the amusements. If their enjoyment de-
pends upon a particular routir~e of plea-
sures with which the rest of the company
are unfamiliar, they must either seek a
cottage or obtain a private parlour. To
expect all the other guests to become spec-
tators, while a dozen persons float through
the mazes of an intricate cotillion, is alto-
gether too unreasonable. So thought a
spirited lady from Alabama, who, not so
exclusive, became the centre of a large
and admiring circle. She sought every
opportunity of thwarting the plans and
scouting the pretensions of this set, and
succeeded so admirably that they shrank
into the narrow position for which nature
had really intended them. The male por-
tion of the clique, who always exact until
resistance is offered, meeting with a sharp
rebuff from a knot of navy officers, also
moderated their pretensions.
"It is inconceivable how anxious some
ladies are to see their names in the columns
of a newspaper. To be heralded as the
belle of Newport, is the object of their
daily, hourly thoughts; and they submit to
the companionship of men who are low in
character and common in manners, simply
because they are correspondents of the
public press. It seems to me that a mo-
dest lady would shrink from, rather than
court, this publicity. It is a notoriety
which will not improve their reputations,
or assist them to obtain desirable husbands.
"Father of mercy, the hotel is on fire!
"The far-famed Ocean House is destroy-
Philadelphia proper, as well as to the fashionable and
the vulgar of that city.

TON.                                185
ed. I had scarcely time to escape with my
baggage, and here I am at the Atlantic.
But 1 am wearied of Newport. To-mor-
row I start for home. Perhaps my brother
may return."
CHAPTER XLV.
"Oh! have I lived to tee thee once again?
Breathe the same air, my own, my blessed one?
Look up! look up! these are the arms which shel.
tered
when the storm howled around; and these the lips
Where, till this hour, the se4 and holy kiss
Of parting lingered-as the fi5grance left
By angels when they touch the~arth and vanish.
Look up !-Night never panted for the sun,
As for thine eyes, my soull"
BULWER.
ALICE HOWARD returned to Philadelphia,
and week after week passed away, until
the changeable weather of November was
about to succeed the clear skies and re-
freshing atmosphere of October. The
form of the maiden had now acquired
that transcendent loveliness, which ren-
dered her so beautiful. She was above
the medium height, and the form, full, and
flowing in its outlines, possessed the most
perfect grace and flexibility. Her taper-
ing arms were round, and white as mar-
ble, and the hands and feet were smell
and exquisitely formed. The head, face;
neck, and shoulders more than realized
the promise of childhood. Her hair when
dishevelled, almost reached the floor.
Her eyes were large, bright and expres-
sive, and her pearly teeth contrasted
beautifully with the rosy, pouting lips.
She possessed that charming naiveti and
grace, without which no one can lay
claim to preeminent loveliness.
It was with a heart throbbing with wild
excitement that Edward Clifton traversed
the street in the direction of Mrs. Howard's.
His hopes were about to be crowned with
happiness or forever destroyed. Atlength
he approached tile dwelling. His mind
was filled with anxiety when he descended
those marble steps six years ago, and now
as he ascended them once more, his brain
whirled with contending emotions. The
scenes through which he had passed,
since the hour when that door closed
upon his hopes, were startliwv and event-
ful~ still, with the lightning s quickness
they flashed through his mind. Time
seemed annihilated, and in the excite-
ment of the moment, ~t appeared as

'I~i
II
V
ft
II
ii
~jI


186                          CLII
though he was turning upon his footsteps,
to obtain a renunciation of that decree
which banished him from the presence of
Alice.
But the ha~iucination was gone, as a
strange countenance answered the signal
of the bell. Appalled by his anxious
look, and tremulous v~ice, the girl did
not, on the instant, answer his inquiry
for Miss Howard. An age of agony was
crowded into that moment of hesitation,
and the thought sunk like k~ upon' his
heart, "She is dead; or, what is far more
horrible, she is married.'' The object for
which he had struggled for six long years
was now beyond his grasp.
"Heard you not !~ he exclaimed almost
fiercely. "I inquired if Miss Howard is at
home."
"I will see, sir; walk in." In after
years memory would recall the overpower-
ing sweetness of those words. They were
simple and commonplace, but they lifted
a terrible doubt from his oppressed heart.
The object of his adoration was living;
was still unmarried.
"What name shall I mention 3" inquired
the maid.
"Say that an old friend desires to see
her." Clifton cast his eyes around the
room. A faithful memory claimed each
painting which hung upon the wall, as an
old acquaintance. The same fire appeared
to burn in the grate, the piano stood
where he last saw it. A guitar leaned
against the sofa, as though the strings had
just been touched, and a volume of Scott's
novels was lying open upon the centre-
table.
Scarcely had he made these observa-
tions, when the parlour door moved upon
its hinges, the rustling of silk was heard,
and a graceful form stood before him. For
a moment they gazed at each other with
overpowering intensity.
'Thank God, you have at last returned !"
burst from the lips of the maiden, as she
staggered forward, and fell into the arms
of her lover.
Those words, " at ~ revealed the
deep; exhaustless well of her affections.
Silently Edward embraced the form of the
beautiful girl. His joy was too big for
words. He gazed upon every lineament
of her face, arid traced the development
of those beauties which even in childhood
were so rare and promising. His feelings
were overcome with gratitude, and the
tears coursed each other down his cheeks.
Her eyes were closed, but her heart beat
wildly, against his own. The lips were

TON.

slightly parted, and her fragrant breath
played upon his cheek.
~ Dearest Alice, shall we ever part
again 3"
Her eyes enclosed, and she answered
his inquiry with a look of unutterable ten-
derness, while the arm which encircled
his neck dre~v her form still closer to his
own. Their lips met in a long, lingering
kiss, in which was pledged an eternity of
love and fidelity.
IC Why have you kept me in suspense.
for six long years 3" inquired Alice, as she
gently withdrew from his arms.
"In an evil hour I gave my word of
honour to your father, not to address you
until the present time. However much I
regretted the obstacle which interfered with
my hopes, I had no resource but to await
the hour which was to emancipate me."
" And what assurance had you, dearest
Edward, that I would not wed another?"
"None whatever, and hence the horrible
doubts with which I was often agonized."
"You have reason to be thankful, for it
is not often that a maiden yields her
affections unsolicited to the keeping of
another."
"You 'ought nct to say unsolicited, for
although I did riot r~vow my attachment
in words, still you could not have been
ignorant of its existence."
"And pray, how was a girl of fourteen
to divine your thoughts 3,'
"Females understand the language of
admiration at a very early age. Did you
not know the state of my feelings?"
"Yes; and it was that knowledge which
kept my heart true to its allegiance. But
I am so glad you are with me again !" and
the girl pressed his hand fondly between
her own.
"I learned the death of your father
through the newspapers, and although I
deeply sympathized with you, still my
condolence could not reach your ears.
Ah, me! a hard fate has been ours. But
Fortune has done her worst, and in giving
me your heart and hand, she compensates
me for many an hour of suffering and
woe.~~
We will not take the liberty of an author,
and reveal more of the conversation. Those
who have enjoyed the ecstatic bliss, which
an assurance of possession, at no distant
day, never fails to confer, can imagine all
that it becomes us to conceal. Suffice it
to say, that before the interview closed,
the wedding day was fixed for the 28th
of December, so importunate was the
lover, after his hopes had been so long
deferred.

CLIF

CC You will call at nine o'clock, and ac-
company me to the party," said Alice, as
Clifton stood at the parlour door, with his
arm round her waist.
"Certainly, if you wish to go."
"I have already accepted the invitation,
and Miss Everton is a warm friend. Be-
sides, I want to display my Congressional
beau,~~ and she surveyed his manly form
and handsome face with a look of pride.
"I will not fail you, then."
One kiss, one embracee, and they parted.
At the hour appointed, Edward entered
the parlour. Mrs. Howard was there to
receive hinxi{er welcome was warm
and affectionate. In afew minutes Alice
came in, robed in a white embroidered
silk. Her luxuriant hair was tastefully
arranged, and sufficiently ornamented her
head, without the aid of flowers or jewels.
A large diamond pin sparkled upon her
bosom. Her Norman feet were encased
in white satin slippers, and her exquisitely
moulded arms were naked half way from
the elbow to the shoulders. Happiness
beamed in her expressive eyes, for her
heart was full to overflowing.
CC How well you look to-night, Alice."
"Thank you, dear mother, I feel so."
Ed~vard did not express his admiration
in words, but with a woman's discernment
she saw it all. He was certain that he had
never looked upon a being half so beau-
tiful before. Love is gifted with a strange,
magical power, in the first moments of his
ascendency. Not only does the god sur-
round the object of your idolatry with in-
expressible charms, but he gilds every-
thing perceptible to the senses with the
tints of happiness.
"Is the carriage at the door, mother 3"
"Not yet.~
"I have one there," said Clifton.
Cl Our own will soon be here. We never
enter a public carriage, since a friend of
mine caught the small-pox in one. You
had better discharge yours. Will you
button this glove, M~. Clifton. Have I not
grown siuce you, rescued me from that
frightful lake 3"
"Yes, chnrming.~~
"Hush! you must not flatter me."
"It is the truth, and that is to be spoken
at all times. Why this glove is marked
number six, is it possible you can get it
on 3"
"Yes; that is the number, I always
wear. Good night, ma! do not wait up
for me."
"Mr. Clifton, it will be ~o late when
~e]eturn; you had better~ take a bed

'TON.                           187
"I am much obliged to you, Mrs. How-
ard, but it is only a few steps to Jones's,
and I promised a friend to meet him there
early in the morning."
They entered a carriage lined with
orange-coloured damask. It was odd,
but as they approached the house, whose
illuminated windows indicated it as the
one where the party was given. Miss
Howard asked her companion to button
her glove again.
The company had nearly all assembled
when they entered. The rooms were
crowded with the beauty and fashion of
Philadelphia, and there was scarcely space
for the dancers. Many a bright pair of
eyes were turned upon our hero, as he was
presented to the hostess by Miss Howard.
"Who can he be 3" whispered Mary
Jone~ to her beau.
"I cannot tell; I think he is a Southemer,
if I may judge from his manner and com-
plecion."
"Probably she picked him up at New-
port."
"Poor fellow! he will fare no better
than the rest of them."
"The rest of us, you ought to say, Mr.
Meredith."
"Nonsense! I was not an admirer of
the haughty beauty."
"If you were not, rumour was unjust.
However, I never knew a gentleman ~vho
was willing to acknowledge that he had
been rejected. Why, I cannot tell. It
surely is no disgrace to manifest a prefe-
rence for a young and lovely woman. And
so you think Alice will add him to the
long list of her conquests, only to reject
him?"
"I am not so certain of it," replied her
companion, who had been watching the
movements of Miss Howard with so much
interest that he only heard the last obser-
vation of Miss Jones.
"You do nQt think he is an accepted
lover 3"
"It is difficult to tell; though I have
never seen Alice Howard bend her haughty
neck so graciously before. And see, what
volumes of love are revealed by her elo-
quent eyes, as she raises them for fleeting
moments to his own. The heightened
colour; the arm which rests with greater
weight than usual upon that of her com-
panion; the rapt attention when he
breathes his low words into her ear; oh,
it is unmistakably a match !" and the
fierceness with which he concluded his
remarks, proved the intensity of his feel-
ings.
"Where could she have met him ~ he

I
~ I11


188                                CLIF
continued, musingly. "I am certain he
was not at Newport last summer. Miss
Jones, Alice is a friend of yours; can't you
tell me where she met this gallant V'
"Since you feel so much interested-.al-
though you never did address her-it is
strange you have forgotten, that when a
mere child she was saTed from drowning
by the intrepidity of a youth whose name
was Edward Clifton."
"I know; but her father, who was an
abolitionist, forbid his attentions, because
young Clifton defended the peculiar in-
stitutions of the South."
"That is true: but Alice was neither
an abolitionist nor ungrateful, and I think
it will turn out that this gentleman
is Edward Clifton, a young member of
Congress elect."
Yes; I heard her introduce him as
Mr. Clifton."
"Then you, and all other colflpetitQrs,
may hang your harps upon the willow. Is
he not young to be elevated to so high a
position ~"
"He is scarcely more than eligible,
and will be the youngest member in the
Hbuse."
It was soon whispered through the room
th our hero was the accepted lover of
Howard, and a rising young states-
an. Introductions succeeded, until they
became the centre of a large circle.
Finding himself a lion, where he expected
to act an humble part, Clifton called into
requisition his brilliant conversational
powers. Alice hung upon his words with
delight, and her heart overflowed with
thankfulness that her lover was so worthy
of that priceless affection which she had
so freely bestowed.
It was past midnight when they again
entered the carriage. Alice no longer
cared if her hair was disarranged; and as
his arm encircled her zone, and drew her
yielding form to his bosom, her head
rested upon his shoulder with a fond and
graceful abandon.
CHAPTER XLVI.
"Ahi who can tell how hard it is to climb
The steep, where Fame's proud temple shines afar!
Ah! who can tell how many a soul sublime,
Has felt the influence of a malignant star,
And waged with Fortune an eternal war!
Checked by the scoff of Pride, by Envy's frown,
And Poverty's unconquerable bar;
In life's low vale remote has pined along,
Thendropped into the grave, unpitied and unknown!"
BEATTIE.

TO0N.

"Westward the star of Empire takes its way."
BERKLEY.
"Within 'twas brilliant all and light,
A thronging scene of figures bright;
It glowed on Ellen's dazzled sight,
As when the setting sun has given
Ten thousand hues to summer even,
And from their tissue. fancy frames
Aerial knights, and fairy dames."
SCOTT.
AFTER remaining a few week in Phila-
delphia, Clifton proceeded to Wa~ington
to take his seat in the House of Represen-
tatives. There is no place where the im-
mensity of the Union is so forcibly illustra-
ted as in that celebrated hall. Not only
each State, but each Congressional district
has its representative, and the speaker
may at one minute recognize a member
whose door opens upon the tumultuous
waves of the Atlantic, and the next, one
whose window looks out upon the tranquil
waters of the Pacific Ocean. Congregated
beneath its lofty dome are those into
whose hands are placed the fiat of peace
or war; the prosperity or destruction of
this glorious confederacy.
Hon. John W. Davis, of Indian awas
nominated by the democratic members
for the Speakership, and was elected with-
out serious opposition. There were quite
forty majority for the Democratic party in
the House, but it was not a majority that
could be safely relied upon; there were
too many conflicting interests to divide
and distract.
The hall of the House of Representa-
tives presented a grand appearance with
its immense area, superb brecela co-
lumns,* an~ lofty dome. It is badly con-
structed for speaking, the enunciation of
the most powerful voice being lost among
its angles and galleries. In the summer,
the atmosphere is insufferably warm.
The sun at midday, falls with all its in-
tensity upon that wing of the Capitol, and
the mass of rooms and walls beyond,
prevents a circulation of air.
Th~ National Capitol, and the grounds
which surround it, never fail to arrest the
attention of the traveller. The 'building
occupies the most commanding height in
the city. Approaching it from the Presi-
dent's house, along Pennsylvania Avenue,
* There is nothing in washington more attractive
than these breccia columns. There are not less than
thirty of them in the hall of the House of Representa-
tives. They are placed along the outside of the circle,
and against their massive proportiousrests the ladies'
and gentlemen's gallery. The component parts of the
stone must have been at one time nothing but peb.
bles of all sizes shapes, and colours, but subsequently
blended together by a concretion, which has given
them the consistency of solid marble, with the power
of sustaining a polish even more smooth and mirror-
like.

CLIF

it presents a grand appearance, which is
greatly increased upon entering the
groun4s. There is nothing attractive in
the basement, which is very properly
screened from the observation of the dis-
tant or casual examiner, by a terrace.
The rest of the building is built in the Cor-
rinthian style; the columns which adorn
the eastern and western porticoes, are
thirty-six feet high. The library opens
upon the western portico; this spot over-
looks Pennsylvania Avenue, and indeed,
almost the entire city of Washington. In
the centre building, is the far-famed Ro-
tunda. Its lofty height, its overhanging
arch, its renowned paintings, combine to
make it one of the most attractive locali-
ties in the building. The length of the
Capitol is three hundred and fifty-two feet,
depth of the wings, one hundred and
twenty-one feet. The grounds cover an
area of thirty acres. The western, portion
is by far the most attractive, being a suc-
cession of terraces at first, and then a
gradual descent ,to Pennsylvania Avenue.
The eastern part is highly ornamented but
is almost a dead level.
The Capitol is not built, as many sup-
pose, of white marble. That, as well as
the White House, and Treasury Building,
is built of a porous ~Nstone, and they
are all preserved from the action of the
elements by liberal coats of paint. The
National Post-office is the most classic and
elegant building in the city. The blocks
are manufactured from beautiful white
marble, which defies the action of the ele-
ments. The locality of Washington is un-
fortunate, and its selection as the metro-
polis, proves the moderate expectations of
its founders. The principal part of the cit~
is built upon a marsh, and the slope wh
leads to it. There is no commerce
which its importance is to be increase
and stuck down upon the banks of the
Potomac in a barren waste, it will always
have a sickly existence, dependent alone
upon the public treasury. If a sterile soil
and isolated situation were selected for the
purpose of preventing the growth of the
city, in order to avoid the danger of mobs,
a much better spot could have been chosen.
The impolicy of the selection was pain-
fully illustrated during the administration
of the fourth President, when the humili-
ating spectacle was witnessed of a Capitol
in ruins, and a Government dispersed.
The event disclosed the folly which placed
the archives of the country within reach
of the Vandal's torch. The Capitol should
have been located further from the sea-
coast; the wilderness west of the Allegha-

TON.                             189
nies, if necessary. It is not too late to
remove it now. If timely notice is given,
it can be defended, where it stands, against
any force that may be landed on our
shores. But in case of a sudden irruption,
with the aid of steamers, it might again
fall into the hands of the modern Goths.
That disaster should not a second time mor-
tify the pride of a people who can protect
the Capitol, if erected where it ought to
bein the valley of the Mississippi, against
the assaults of a million of armed men.
There are unanswerable arguments in
favour of its removal. The centre of our
power, will soon be a thousand miles West
of Washington, and it is idle to suppose
that members will consent to traverse the
confederacy, in order to reach the Capitol,
when it can be changed by the stroke of
a pen. The day is past, when half-reve-
rential, half-superstitious objections could
be successfully urged, because the Father
of his country, selected Washington as the
seat of the General Government. Already,
the work of his hands is crumbling beneath
the touch of policy.
That part of the District of Columbia
~which was granted by his native State, has
been retroceded by an overwhelming
majority; notwithstanding the constitu-
tional objections of John Quincy Adams.
In this progressive age, reverence and su-
perstition afford slight barriers to the iron
decrees of an invincible necessity, and
those who seek to arrest its progress with
a name, however potent, will be whelmed
by its irresistible career. The cost of all
the public buildings in Washington, is less
than seven~millions that cannot therefore
be urged as an objection to a removal.
Great preparations were being made by
the Secretary of State, for his party, at
Carusi's Saloon. No private residence was
sufficiently spacious to entertain the guests.
Mr. Buchanan was rich, and a bachelor.
Although age began to frost his locks, still
his heart was genial, and hi~ general ad-
miration for the sex, continued unabated.
No one was a more welcome visitor at
the Presidential receptions, than that portly
gentleman, What if his head is bent up-
on one side, and his left eye does squint,
as if he was glancing the other a long the
barrel of a rifle, it does not impair his affa-
bility.
The services of the city confectioners,
were called into requisition, the oyster cel-
lars and lobster saloons were exhausted,
canvass-back duck, partridges, and quails,
were collected. Every preparation was
made to render the affair one of extra-
ordinary brilliance. Distinguished stran-

I

I'


190                           CLIF
gers in the city were anxious to obtain
invitations, and the towns was on the qui
vive.
At length the evening arrived. A long
line of Larriages, thronged Pennsylvania
Avenue, the head of which was turning
into a cross street, in the direction of the
Mall. When Clifton entered the room, the
contrast between the gloom without, and
the glare within, was painful to the eye.
The Halls were almost lined with sperm
candles, which cast a radiant light through-
out the Hall. The courteous Secretary re-
ceived the guests within the door. The
room was already filled. The ladies vied
with each other in the magnificence of
their dresses. It was almost like a fancy
ball, so varied were the robes. There
was the rich, though subdued attire of
the North, the gay habiliments of the
W~st, and the dazzling costume of the
South. Almost every State in the Union
contributed a choice flower to the array of
beauty which made up the lovely bouquet.
The beautiful figure and dignified man-
ners of the Bostonian, the exquisite form
and graceful ease of the New Yorker, the
faultless elegance of the Philadelphian,
the buoyant spirits and sparkling wit of
the Baltimorean, the dark eyes and warm-
hearted candor of the Tennesseean, the
rosy cheeks and impulsive vivacity of the
Louisianian, the unstudied frankness of
the Georgian, and the self-possessed and
lady-like bearing of the Virginian. It is
this mingling and contrast of character
which gives the balls of the Metropolis
their peculiar attraction.
Conventionalities exercise a powerful
influence upon manners, a i~~d this fact is
nowheremoreperceptible~aninthesa-~
loons of Washington. That barrier whic~
restrains the impulses of the Northern gid~
is past with a dashing bound, by the
spirited Southerner. The belles- of New
England possess less of that charming
piquancy-call it coquetry if you will
which renders those of the Middle States,
so agreeable. But, even the latter cannot
claim that unstudied, impulsive vivacity,
which makes the warm-hearted Southerner
so popular in the ball-room, and social
circle.
The assemblage was not exclusively
American. The bearded face of the
Russian minister, was conspicuous in the
throng; his breast covered with orders,
while upon his arm, leaned an ornament
far more beautiful than them all-his
lovely American wife. The English am-
bassador, with his quiet gentlemanly ad-
dress-you would know him for a bachelor

'TO0N.

bowed his way through the crowd. No one
cOul(l tell from the courteous words which
were exchanged between the Secretary of
State and himself, that they had recently
met in the lists, from which the English
functionary had escaped with the loss of
his shield.
The servant of Louis Philippe had not
the appearance of one who would aban-
don a lucrative post, because his master
was compelled to vacate a throne. Sub-
jects who are not within the blaze of
royalty, are often the most devoted.
There was the massive brow and broad
shoulders of the Massachusetts Senator;
conviviality unbent the austerity of his
manner, and he *was engaged in con-
versation, not boisterous, but merry, with
the eloquent Senator from Kentucky.
They had yielded themselves to the hour.
In another p art of the saloon was the
iron-gray head and restless eyes of the
distinguished South Carolinian. Even in
that festive scene he could not distract his
mind from the one al~sorbing idea of his
life,-the wrongs of Ihe South. A knot
had collected to listen to his short sen-
tences, and compact language. Further
onWas the~,portly for$n of "illd Bullion."
He could scarcely overcome the habit of
talking to himself, or prevent his arms
from indulging in quick, passionate ges-
tures.
But here comes a tall, commanding
f6rm; aged, but not in the slightest degree
bent. He becomes the cynosure upon
whom all eyes are fixed. His attention is
bestowed, undividedly, upon the throng
who surround him. It is the eloquent and
gallant "Harry of the West."
Near him, and conversing in a rapid
and earnest manner, is a gentleman with
4~ing straight hair, thin pale face, and slen-
A er finger, pointed significantly towards
the Kentucky Statesman. This is Henry
A. Wise.
In the upper part of the room is a ma-
jestic form, clad in the undress uniform of
a general officer. He mingles very little
in the conversation, yet his eagle glance is
thrown over the crowd, and rests for a long
time upon Mr. Clay. It is the commander-
in-chief of the regular army-then the
hero of Lundy's Lane-subsequently of
the Mexican Garitas-later still-the occu-
pant of the white house'?
Not a dozen feet from the warrior, is a
figure almost as athletic, and altogether
more graceful, whose urbanity of manner
and conversational powers, have collected
a circle around him. He is the hero of
San Jacinto, and the first President of the

C L I F T 0 N.

"lone star republic." And this portly gen-
tleman, whose dimensions are almost
equal to Jack Falstaff and whose counte-
nance would indicate the consumption of
quite as much ale as had the effect of
blowing the doughty knight CC up like a
bladder." is the successful foe of the triple
alliance, and the embodiment of progres-
sive democracy.
Following in his footsteps is a dwarfish
figure, with almost a hang-dog look, whose
manners are half-modest, half-sycophantic.
He was the successful champion of free
trade. And who is this, with heavy tread
and countenance: with bent neck and
rough exterior? It is the long-headed,
plodding, sagacious, logical, Secretary of
War.
And this bald-headed, mild blue-eyed,
tall, and venerable-looking man, whose
soft and winning address calls so many
smiles to the lips of his friends'? Why that
is " Old Cave," Postmaster-General.
There is now quite a commotion near
the door. Another distinguished arrival'?
The crowd parts, an avenue is formed
along the centre of the room. A slight
person, of scarcely the medium height,
bows his way through the crowd. He has
a bright, full, intelligent gray eye; his
forehead is projecting; his mouth and chin
indicate great firmness and resolution ; his
hair is partially silvered, although he has
scarcely reached the prime of life- This
is the chief magistrate of the American
confederacy.
CHAPTER XLVII.
"And ne'er did Grecian chisel trace
A Nymph, a Naiad, or a Grace,
Of finer form, or lovelier face."
Scorr.
"Forth the lovely bride ye bring;
Gayest flowers before her fling
From your bigh.piled baskets spread,
Maidens of the fairy tread I
Strew them far, and wide, and high,
A rosy shower 'twixt earth and sky I"
StiLixuin.
CONTINUATION OF ALICE HOWARD~ S JOURNAL.
"NOVEMBER, 1845.-A new era in my
life isaj~proaching. I am about to leave
ich I have hitherto trod in
safety, for the unknown realms of matri-
mony. The most important event which
occurs during our existence, is often
thoughtlessly welcomed as a harbinger of'

191

bliss. It is a dread change. It requires
the full mastery of love to overcome a
modesty which shrinks within itself. It
calls into requisition the strongest ties of
affection when we surrender our identity
and self-control. We exchange a cer-
tainty for an uncertainty. But every suc-
ceeding moment of time is an uncertainty!
The past is our experier~ce-the present is
our reality-but the future'? it is unknown.
"Is love changeable'? Can it be an
evanescent passion, which possession
destroys'? Fearful thought! No! no! it
must be that essence of our being which
divines call immortality. Love is the
passport to the confines of heaven; it is
the watchword of the Christian warrior.
May not a particle of its spirituality be
infused into that earthly sentiment which
mortals feel for each other. If the man of
God forsakes the world, and sacrifices the
temptations of earth upon the altar of duty,
does not the maiden abandon everything
for her accepted lover'?
"But I have seen ardent lovers become
indifferent, when the anxiety and uncer-
tainty of courtship yield to the assurance
of possession. Did they never love, or
loving once, have they been alienated'?
If such should be my fate'? It would be
too horrible. Yet my own feelings may
change, and that which now appears so
frightful, by familiarity, may be viewed
with indifference. Ah! 'no, that were im-
possible. 21 have loved him too long; my
affections have resisted too many assaults.
He knows I love him; his feelings are not,
therefore, wrought upon by doubt. No, I
will believe him. He is noble, generous,
magnanimous, and I will trustingly yield
my happiness to his control.
"December, 1845.-My wedding-day
approaching, and the moments seem to
fly while I am preparing for that event.
Perhaps Edward would not thank me for
the admission. My occupation are so
intimately connected with hims~~ that,
although absent, he seems constantly be-
fore me. The immense fortune left me
hy my father, enables me to gratify every
wish, and rriy wardrobe, mamma says, is
already sufficiently large. Still each day
I am making additions. The wedding-
dress is at last selected. It was my taste,
although mamma and Miss Glendower
advised another costume.
"I hope I shall look well in it.
"I do not mean, after marriage, to fol-
low the example of some girls, who appear
to think that any dress will do for their
husbands. For them it is sufficient, that
to the close of the marriage ceremony,


192                           CLIF
their attire has always been faultless.
After the knot is tied, what necessity is
there for keeping up appearances? Are
not their fortunes made? Common, vul-
garfatal error. Is there not a possibility
that love may yield to disgust? To dress
for my husband shall be my first thought,
and if I delight him, what care I for
others? That he is pleased to see a lady
dress with taste, I am perfectly satisfied.
I will not ask him if he likes this or that
style; that shall be my task. But the effect
of neit her will escape me. A man does
not often assume the tiresome duty of
superintending a lady's wardrobe. He is
sometimes forced to do it, when his wife
is utterly destitute of taste. Some men,
also, are just fussy enough to delight in
such occupations. But the task must be
irksome to the sterner sex. They are
satisfied, if their wives dress with taste,
without the annoyance of thinking about
it themselves.
CC My wedding robe has been sent home
by the dress-maker. They say it fits me
exactly. I think it is rather too low in the
neck, but Miss Glendewer says, not for
one who has such an 'exquisite bust, and
whose neck and shoulders are the per-
fection of Nature's workmanship.'
"December 27, 1845.-My arrange-
ments are completed, and to-morrow I
stand at the altar. My heart beats as
wildly, but not so pain fully, as whenithe
angry waves of the mountain lake were
dashing over me. It is an intoxicating
and joyous emotion, which causes this
fluttering at my heart. Edward has just
left me; how kind and affectionate were
his words; what ardent devotion beamed
from his dark, lustrous eyes.
"What my fate may hereafter become,
I know not; but I have an unyielding con-
fidence in the power of love. I will so
tenderly caress the fickle god that he shall
never abandon me, and when I enter upon
a new existence, it will be with the hope
of obtaining happiness, without being
pained by the doubts which have hitherto
been its bane. I do not give my hand
while my heart is secretly clinging to

TO0N.

another. My affections have not been
lacerated by disappointment. I have not
sought to win the love of one who lightly
treated my advances, only to yield my
bruised heart to the most available candi-
date for my hand. No !-I have given the
concentrated power of my virgin affec-
tions, hitherto untouched and uncontami-
nated, into the keeping of my betrothed.
May God direct him to preserve the gift
within the inmost recesses of his heart !"
Thus closed the journal of Alice How-
ard. Whether she transferred to its pages,
in after life, the emotions of a teeming
brain, we are profoundly ignorant.
The morning of the wedding-day dawned
upon an unclouded sky. The ceremony
was performed at Mrs. Howard's. Her
bridesmaids urged her to be married in
church; but she shrank from the gaze of
the vulgar, who claim it as a privilege to
throng the aisles, whenever a couple are
thus publicly united in the bonds of matri-
mony.
Hand in hand, they started upon the
journey of life, with the consciousness of
possessing those essential elements of mor-
tal happiness,-mutual confidence and un-
changeable love. May their pathway be
strewn with thornless flowers, ar~d their
earthly bliss be unmarred by a sorrow or a
tear!
Dear reade~, in commencing this book,
you received rio pledges, made only to be
broken. There was no attempt to allure
you onward, by the promise of either
mental improvement or momentary plea-
sure. If to this page you have followed
the career of Edward Clifton and Alice
Howard, we hope an occasional smile has
played upon the lips of beauty, and
smoothed the wrinkles upon the brow of
manhood; that the heartstrings of all have
thrilled with pleasure or trembled with
emotion, and that the restless and immortal
mind may have a somewhat clearer per-
ception of that temporary existence which
is but the forerunner of eternity. If so,
dear and gentle reader, the author has not
labored in vain.

T HE E ND.


  
             
         
       
   
