
    ----CITATION----
        Townsend, Frederic.. Clouds and Sunshine .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8087
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Clouds and sunshine 
            
               CLOUDS

AND-

SU NT S HI NE.

I.

BY ,THE AUTHOR OF

MUSINGS OF AN INVALID, FUN AND EARNEST, FANCIES

R PRODUCED FROM THE -COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY

OF A WHIMSICAL MAN, &amp;c.

)

FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

A

I

N EW-YOR K :

J OH N S. T A.Y L OR, 17 ANN-STREET.

p

'1 8 5 3.

I


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1853, by
JOHN S. TAYLOR,
In the Clerk's office of the District Court of the United States,
for the Southern District of New-York.

TO

M Y F RI E ND A-ND K I N SMA N,

R U S SE LL H . N E V INS,

TIS LITTLE BOOK

AFFECT~IONA TEL Y INSCRIBED.

JOHN J. REED, PRINTER,
16, Spruce-street.

4

I

t


CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

Page.
5

INTRODUCTION, .-
CONVERSATION I., --
CONVERSATION II., -
CONVERSATION III., -
CONVERSATION IV., -
CONVERSATION V.,..
CONVERSATION VI.,-

- -  13
-   -  38
-   -  159
- -207

INTRIO DIUTCT I ON.
THANKSGIVING DAY.
WELCOME to this dear old festival!I Again, with
cordal sauaondwgetis                  cmn.    May
it be kept through all time ! May it be set
apart, dedicated ever as .now, to holy thoughts, and
hymns of gratitude, and deeds of love !
And to-day, we bid it a thousand welcomes. To-
day, for the first time in our history, has it become
a National Holiday, and all the members of our
great family of States have come together, with
heartfelt unanimity, to sing praises, and to pour out
thanks to the great Father of Mercies. Oh, may
the good example this day set, be faithfully followed,

Ier

CONTENTS.


(~f4(~Tf)$4 ANt) 5(~(fNi~.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

Ij

)

11115
4

I

and may this, henceforth, be a fixed feast in our
national calendar!
And will it not be so? I believe it. I believe this
day is to play a glorious part in our great future, to
exert a' mighty influence on our career. how many
noble deeds will date from it! How many princely
benefactions, right royal charities, will it bear wit-
ness to, with each coming year.! How many happy
firesides, renewe&amp; friendships, buried quarrels, sa~.
cred vows, how many, many precious things of all
kinds, wilforiginate in the impulses of this blessed
period!
Thanksgiving day, two centuries hence! What
a day! And what a land! One great garden,
its walls washed by either ocean; one vast congre-
gation of cheerful, thriving workers. But this d
their labors are suspended, and they go. forth, with
one accord, to offer their prayers and praises to the
great Giver. ilark to the myriads of church-bells,
as they send forth their, invitations from city and
hamlet, from hill-side and valley! Behold the
countless multitudes of worshippers, young and old,
thoughtful parents and happy children, as along
every lane, and 'road, and street, and avenue through~

out the land, in scattered groups or orderly proces.~
sion, they take their way alike to rural chapel, and
dicer fYtI village church, and sumptuous cathedral.
And now we hear the blended strains of ten thou~
san(l org~n5, and the sweIlin~ notes of innumerable
voices, chanting their festal hymns unto the alP
bountiful Creator. Arid now all, is hushed in silence,
and presently the low, solemn tones of prayer are
heard, ascending unto heaven, rising alike from the
hearts of stately cities, and from lone vales, deep
hid in woods; ay, from every vale, and hill, and
plain of this vast, this thrice-blest land; the accept-
able incense of grateful souls unto the great Father~
What a spectacle, what a service is here Oh. that
the poor, tempest-tossed men of Plymouth could
have beheld it, could have had their souls cheered
by such a vision, Their eyes greeted with sounds like
these!
Thanksgiving day throughout ~ the world! Will
not that day yet come, upon the earth? I believe it.
A day of solemn, universal recognition and. coin-
memoration of God's goodness; a day on which, IU-
lowing the example of the great parent republic, all
the other commonwealths of the civilized, Christian-

6

I

14.


8         CLOUDS 4ND SUNSHINE.                                    CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.         9

*1

ized world will, with one consent, come together and
join their orisons and hymns with hers; when every
nation, and tongue, and island, and valley, and hill-
side of earth, shall bear part in the glorious service;
when every Art shall lend its choicest inspiration,
to render that service worthy of the great Father;
when, in a word, this our once little New England
festival, shall become the great holiday of earth!
Blessed consummation, thrice blessed spectacle,
whereat the angels pause ~to gaze with rapture! A
world in prayer; a world chanting its Maker's
praise in glorious concert !
And are these things to come to pass, indeed?
Is this blissful future in store for our dear planet?
Are all these triumphs of truth, these precious vic-
tories over evil to be secured? Are the bloody rites,
the gloomy superstitions, the cruel wars, the. igno-
rance, apathy, imbecility, the groveling appetites,
the savage passions of men, to be exterminated, and
all nations to be resolved, at last, into one great,
peaceful, loving, Christian family, and earth itself
to become a miniature heaven, and every day that
dawns upon it a day of Thanksgiving ~*
I believe it. I cling to the glorious thought.

6

Call me dreamer, visionary, if you will. Be it so;
Maj I ever dream such dreams, and be blest with
such visions!
Yes, I confess it; mine is a hopeful, cheerful na-
ture. I love to look on the bright side ~of things. I
love to draw good omens from the past, to put a corn-
- portable construction upon all the mysteries, and
trace a paternal hand in all the trials of the pres-
ent, and above all, to keep ever in view an inspiring,
magnificent future; to look along the vista of ages,
and behold, not sullen clouds and angry spectres,
but golden smiles, and waving palm-trees, and smil-
ing angels, to cheer the ~pilgrim on.
Well, who of us are right in this matter, we the
children of hope and believers in progress, or the
croakers, the chanters of perpetual lamentations;
the men who see nothing in the world of to-day,
wiser or better than in the world before the flood;
and who see nothing ahead, but the same dreary
round of folly, vanity, rand vice, that they declare
human life to have ever been, from the first syllable
of recorded time? the men, whos6 whole creed may
be summed up ~in those most dismal lines that ever
poet wrote:'

~1
I

8

9


!;I~~V;I~i AND ;1r:8f(f'4k.                 I'

10           CLOlri)$ AND ~UN:4tI IN i;.

~( ~ i&amp;t we live for ? tell lifb's fiw~~E tale--
To eat, to drink, lo ~1eep, love, ~nnl et~joy,
And then to love no more
To t4Uk of thing~4 We know not, and loknow
Nothing but things not worth tlI(~ talkii~g of 1"

it
p
~ij~

IN'ly fricrid 8. l~t an eXc('ileht PJIow. full ~ ~Pr/4
irtiJ)uIf4e~4, arid (~oIJt1r)uaJiy r~r~derirg ~t'1th~~ a;t~ %
JfJfi(Iflt;E{f1 to thos~c about him ; but he is~ sadly girer~
P) $l(t~J~t~J(i~Ifk ~A4Jd de4~ponder1ey, ~ al' rri1 al ~ra~y'~
Cxpr(~R~e5 hiirriself on rhorai 5~Ihje(;tS; in a
arl(l                                         (
(jUitO tOO sarcastic style. IL ~kAr'~i *
little or n' faith either in himself or K bretr~re~
in the progress of the race, or in the bles~A Kf.s t~
come.
Friend (U. on the other hand; is a mrxs~ firm a~d
ardent believer in irnrflortalit7 tno;ffi
perhaps, rests far less than he ~ouid h~ wiIa~ :~-
allow, upon a Scripture basis. and far ~;m ~
he reads in the great viumes of nat~e and :r~T-
dence. But he is not a believer La aa~ st.~aiv. :ez-
manent improvement of the hum~ a family. Zh~
movements of society (he will ~ U. have ~
ever since the first page of his:cry ~is
vibratory, not progressive, in :he~ cc;er. M::~
or fewer degrees of the great cLrc hive
ascribed, in the various eras ~ Lis:~:-v:
itoscillation. not progress. \XKe I n::
to the blessed thought of a        s~ssx in:. wiz~.iz-
cent theatre of action ~ cv

I

~fr

MEW;

Again I :isk, which of us are right in this matter ?
With whom is the truth, with whom the wisdom in
this controversy ? XX hat Says the ~reat teacher,
history 3 What say the phenomena of daily life?
Dotl~~y bid us despond, despair, or do they cheer us
on to ever-renewed exertions, in behalf of ourselves
and our brethren)
I have had a good deal of talk on this and kindred
topics, of late, with my good friends B. and C. Our
conversations have b~een, of course, entirely familiar
and immethodical in their character; spontaneous
expres4ons of our ideas as they rose; by no means,
models either in the way of style or sentiment, and
at times, it must be acknowledged, somewhat tinged
with levity; but on the whole, ash trust will appear,
animated by a becoming heartiness of feeling, and
integrity of purpose. Else I certainly should not,
as I have, ventured to reproduce them, with be-
coming modifications and amendments, and in their
original form.

11

10


12         CLOUDS AND SUNShINE.

1!
41

CONVERSATION. I.

soul, however humble or abject on earth, but also
cherish the belief of a slow, steady, sure and tri&amp;
umphant progress to perfection~ of the great brother-
hood here below, and of the final conversion of this
dear world of ours into one grand, delightful family
mansion, as it were, of loving, happy kinsmen,.
Such are our differences of opinion. In one thing,
I trust, we will be found to agree, and that is, a due
sense of our own frail, erring, sinful natures. Far
from us be the temerity, the presumption to set up'~
for models, or teachers, or to suppose that we have
been particularly profound, or brilliant, or witty, in
these our interlocutions. A fair share of naturaL
ness and truthfulness, enlivened here and there it
may be, by an occasional bright thought, or happy
illustration, such is the sum total of our pretensions
in the premises.
With this brief explanation, I submit the 'follow-
ing pages to the consideration of such kind and
courteous reader as may be willing to throw away
a little hour o' two upon them.

W-
4

* A. Pensive as ever, my dear B., this morning!
A penny for your thoughts.
B. Too much, too much. , As a conscientious
man, Ii should have to give you at least three far-
things' change.
A. But what were you thinking a1~out 3
B. Oh, nothing special-the same old story;
the beautiful uncertainty of life, the magnificence
of human nature,' the sweet gloom and mystery that
o 'erhang the grave; in short, the usual agreeable
topics.
A. And you were discussing them, of course, in
your usual gloomy and cynical spirit. Always harp-
ing on the same melancholy string, always chanting
in the minor key! Ah, my friend, you are. very
wrong in this.
B. You think so, do you?

12


-I,

14

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

{tt
I I

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

15

A. .I do, indeed. I think it most unmanly and
unchristian in you, to cherish such sad,. such per-
verse feelings. You, of Ell men in the world, too ;
who have so much to be thankful for ; you, who have
youth, health, friends, means, talents, Leisure, all the
prizes of life, indeed; who have every motive to be
happy, and to make those about you happy. You--
B. Stop, stop, my good friend.' Be pleased to
recollect that this is Monday, and that I have hardly
had time yet to digest the very able and effective
discourse of yesterday morning. Besides, it's ask-
ing too much of a nman, to be text and audience both.
A. You're bitter.
B. Not at all. I really do think, though, that
you were cut out for a clergyman, You'd have been
a most devoted one. You'd have been in the pulpit
full seven days in the week.
A. Better the pulpit of the Christian, than the
tub of the cynic.
B. Now you are complimentary.
A. But sarcasm apart, and talking over the mat-
ter like the true friends that we are, I must repeat,
my dear fellow,, that you are terribly off the track,
in cultivating the gloomy views of life that you do.
I think you are alike sowing the seeds of unhappi-.
ness for yourself, and defrauding society of its just
claims upon your services. You have no right to
keep in a corner thus, and to be cherishing this fas-
tidious, morose, sceptical, inactive disposition. You

I

ought to be up and about, doing good, lighting up
the clouded faces of your poor brethren with words
arid deeds of kindness. At your time of life, you
ought to be full of hope and faith, over sanguine,
ever cheerful,-
B. Preach away, preach away. Don't spare
your powder.
A. I don't intend to; nor the offender. lHar-
dened sinner that he evidently is, he miay yet live
to profit by a friend's advice, and thank him for it.
B. I ask pardon. I was wrong in interrupting
you thug. But seriously, my friend, I cannot look
upon this matter as you do. I do not consider ex-
istence such an unqualified boon, nor my own par-
ticular lot in life, however favorably it may compare
with that of the majority, as carrying with i tany
such overwhelming weight of obligation or of grati-
tude. If you think you can alter my views, how-
ever, go ahead. I am quite ready to listen ; nay, I
cheerfully admit the excellence, both of your inten-
tions, and of your oratory.
A. .There you are again, sneering as usual.
B. Sneering?
-A. Yes, sneering ; but the-fact is, you have got
into such a habit of sarcasm and irony, that you are
not conscious of it.
B. Forgive me, my dear fellow, forgive me. I
certainly meant no offence. But 1 say again, I dif-
fer with you, toto cwlo, on this subject. I can't see


1.~

16

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE-

any such cogent reasons why I or my neighbors
ought to be so wonderfully cheerful. Cheerful, for-
sooth, in a~ world .like this, where all is frailty and
instability ; where a man is liable to fall down in a
fit every moment; where his nearest and dearest
friends are snatched away from him, oven while his
head is turned, by perpetually recurring casualties
where ten thousand subtle and malignant diseases
are flying about, and Death is incessantly discharg-
ing his poisoned shafts at him and his, from every
nook and corner ; cheerful, in a city like this,, where
every man's neck is at the mercy of bullies 'and
omnibus-drivers ; cheerful, say you, in a community
like ours, where a citizen is afraid to go a few miles
up the river to make a friendly call, lest he should
be burned, or drowned, or scalded to death ; with the
comfortable assurance, too, that his murderers, in-
stead of being brought to condign punishment, will'
at most be dismissed with a gentle rebuke, and with-
in a twelvemonth, perhaps, of the occurrence, be-
come the recipients of massive services of .silver-.
What-is there in all this, to call for any such super-
abundance of gayety or of thankfulness ? Look at
that morning paper on the table there, and then a'slk
me to be cheerful! Is'nt it crammed with all sorts
of horrid crimes and disasters? Not to speak of
the thefts, robberies, murders, suicides, just glance
at that frightful list of fires, and explosions, and
railroad accidents, and above. all, at that heart-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHIINE.

17

sickening account of that steamboat collision. If
there is anything to move mirth in all this, it must
be the ,mirth of some 'grinning,. mocking demon.
And isn't every day's paper filled with the same dis-
mal records ? the same dreary' evidences of human
wickedness and wretchedness ? Cheerful, indeed !
no, no. So far froxg singing these psalms of thanks&amp;
giving that you are so eternally harping upon, I con-
fess I do feel at times disposed. to 'call in question
the goodness of the Creator, and to curse the very
hour that I saw daylight.
A. .Don't, don't, my dear friend, talk so unrea-
sonably, so wildly.
B. So you say ; but I maintain that the facts
and the reason are with me in this matter.
A. I deny it. I join issue with you. most dis-
tinctly on- this point. Nay, I will call your own 'wit-
ness. I 'take up this very paper of yours, and I say
that I see far more in it to fill me with pride and
admiration and gratitude, than with their~piposites ;
far more manifestations of enterprise, skill, and be-
nevolence, than of folly and villainy. There are
some sad accidents here, to be sure. There are
many things to grieve, to weep over, but far more to
make me rejoice in my country, and in my race, and
,to pour out, my soul ~in thanks unto the great
Father.
B. What say you to this item? (pointing to the
Inspector's Report.) Two hundred and fifty, chil-


18         CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.                                   CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.         19

dren swept Qif last week by Chole~ra Infanturn and
2
'Dysentery! Is that a theme for thanksgiving..
Could you see the dear little massacred innocents
'all in a heap together, you wouldn't talk so. Look
a~ that black list of victims to Consumption, too'
and all the rest of those grim weapons in Death's
magazine of terrors. What is there to glad the
heart of friend or parent, in such a statement as
this?
A. At first blush, I grant you, the record seems
a dismal one; the sad index of a sad volume of suf.
ferings and bereavements. Faith alone can solve,
can reconcile us to dispensations like these. Still,
my friend, do not, forget how many of these same
departures weke blessed releases from long suffer-
ings, how many were in the order of nature. But
above all do not forget, as you seem disposed to,
while dwelling on the fallen ones, the tenfold greater
number of those who have been rescued from the
/
destroyer, by generous Nature herself, or by timely
skill. Is it logical, is it decent, to take the ground
you do? Is it fair, either, to make so much of (and
in such a shamefully bitter and heathenish spirit)
the thousandth casualty that occurs, and have not
one word of gratitude to offer for the nine hundred
and ninety-nine safe' arrivals, by sea and land, that
are' coternporaneous with it? I see in this very col-
umn to which you have referred, an account of two
vessels foundering at sea. It is a sad' story, cer-

'1~
nil'
"-"4
:

tainly; but then I cast my eyes upon the column
alongside, and I see a long, long catalogue of ships
from all corners of the world, that have reached
their journey's end, unharmed. Had it been the
other way, now, there would have been some ground
for lamentation, some excuse for grumbling.
B. Plausible as ever.
* A. Just, just. 'Tis yotj that are plausible. You
judge by the exceptions, I by the rules. You take
for standards the crimes, shipwrecks, and casualties
of life; I the wise, ~brderly, beneficent course of na-
ture.
B. In other words, I suppose, I'm a grumbler,
and you an optimist.
A. Be it so: between two such extremes what
heart can hesitate? At the same time, I think the
truth is far nearer my end of the line than yours.
B. Of course you do.
A. And 1 think I could demonstrate it; that is,
if we were to discuss the subject in 4a friendly and
liberal spirit, anti not an acid and sarcastic one.
B. You seem to think that verjuice predominates
in my composition. Don't you now?.
A. Candidly, I do somewhat; not by nature,
however, but' from a wilful cherishing of perverse
habits and opinions.
B. That is, what you call perverse. That's
just the difference. What I think a reasonable cau-
tion, and slowness of belief; for instance, you denomi-

18

19


20                                                                                                       21

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

nate crabbedness and skepticism; and on the other
hand, what you would call a noble generosity, I
should be apt to resolve into vanity and enthusiasm.
Who is to decide between us?
A. No doubt, my dear friend, persons of our oppo-
site views and temperaments, are too apt to misun-
derstand, and undervalue each other. The only way
is to toil faithfully after the truth, and to own up
handsomely, and act accordingly, when convinced.
But to return to our paper.
B. True, true. I suppose now you think those
three miles of advertisements there, are gratifying,
inspiring objects; are each and all models of truth
and soberness. I must take the liberty of consider-
ing at least nine-tenths of them abominable, false-
hoods, worthy of Falstaff himself; got up by quacks,
showmen, swindlers of all sorts and sizes, to mislead
and victimize the verdant. Indeed, I doubt whether
a single one of that page-full of certificates of the
superhuman qualities of all those pills, candies, lini-
'ments, cordials, and razor-straps, is signed by a
bonafide human being, a living, breathing ta~x-payer.
Of course, you think differently. So far from seeing
~ ny thing to awaken that pride and admiration, of
which yo~ speak, in such a frightful aggregation of
fibs, I consider them a disgrace to the metropolis;
II see in them most shanieful evideitices of the cor-
riipting, degrading tendencies of trade.
4. Severe and unjust criticism! That there is

some trifling with truth here, especially under the
medical head, I grant you; but that the great bulk
of these advertisements are the representatives of
facts, ay, and of most creditable facts, I am convin-
ced.* Yes, I ant proud of them; prQud of these
silent witnesses to so much wealth, and thrift, and
enterprise. I do look with gratification at these
long files of ships, and steamers, and rail-cars; at
the millions and millions of tons of merchandise set
forth in these one-line notices; at these solid columns
of banks and insurance companies; at this goodly
array of amusements, that tells us where a world ~of
innocent fun may be had, after the day's work is
done; at this long, bristling catalogue of wants, that
bespeaks a bustling, thriving population; yes, at the
whole record, as bearing testimony to a free, active,
flourishing, ingenuous, noble-spirited community.
B. Well, well, one of us must be terribly mista~
ken in this matter. I can't help thinking that you
are surveying the ground through your usual rose-
colored., magnifiers.
A. And you, it may ber through your usual
cloudy and yellow tinted ones. But even were this
same journal, the gloomy record you try to make it
out, is it altogether fair to pronounce upon human
life and human nature, from such data as the col-
umns of newspapers and the pages of historians ?-
Are they not perpetually overlooking~ the orderly
and commendable parts of both, in their chase after

1/

EW/
V

21

20


4~,i4
I

22

CLOUDS AND STJNSTIINE.

the piquant and surprising? When the current of
existence flows smoothly and beneficently on, they
have nothing to say about it; when swollen and mis-
chievous, we are sure to hear the full particulars of
all its evil doings: What cares the historian for the
piping times of peace, for quiet villages, and thriving
towns? his laurels, like those of his heroes, are
only to be gathered in revolutions, and on battle-
fields. What interest does a journalist take in a
respectable, well-regulated neighborhood? Let some
foul scandal, or black crime spring up, to overthrow
the happiness and fair fame of a whole household,
and he will not fail to do ample justice to the sad
theme~ while he passes by, in barren silence, the
hundreds of peaceful firesides around him; just as
he will blazon forth the ostentati~us bequests of some
rich neighbor, while the hundreds of poor widows'
mites that are daily dropped h~to the* treasury, do
their blessed work without a chronicler. Yes, there
is a world of unrecorded goodness all about us, that
we are quite too ready to overlook and ignore, in our
rash denunciations of human nature.
B. And, by the same rule~ is there not a loath-
some mass of meanness, vice, and villainy, to which
we are equally blind, in our rash eulogiums upon it?
A. I think not. I think the evil parts are* far
more apt to see the light; to be talked and written
about, and to find their way into print. Rogues, like
invalids, are always chattering, and betraying them-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.         23

selves, whereas goodness ever keeps its own counsels,
an(l is chary of singing its own praises how many
glorious entries are there, on the records of the angels,
that we dream not of; how much stealthy bone vo-
lence, how much patience under affliction, how much
faith and resignation; ay, and in countries that we
look down upon, as heathens ~nd~barbarians! how
many humble women are there, scattered all over the
globe, whose lives are spent in ministering unto sick-
ness and sorrow! Every river-side, every village,
liam~e t, every sequestered dell of earth, bears witness
to them; bears witness also, to a little world of ob-
scure but heai~tfclt happiness, that we quite forget
in our sweeping lamentations over human life.
B. I can't agree with you. Of course, I admit,
there is a good deal of worth, and of happiness, that
don't find its way into the pages of the annali~t, or
the columns of the journalist; but I also maintain
that there is a fifty-fold greater amount of obscure
misery and rascality. As to the angelic records, to
which you allude, I confess I shudder at the thought
of them. For every page in them that is matter of
rejoicing, I believe there are h1indreds that are
themes for bitter, burning tears. Nor do I see how
any accurate reader of his own heart, or of those of
his brethren, can come to any other conclusion. Yes.
we are a poor, wretched, sin-loving set. We love to
commit it ourselves, and we dearly love to read about
the sins of others. And the journalist who does not

K

23


CLOUDS ANt) SUNSHINE.

duly recognize and cater to this propensity, and stuff
his columns accordingly, is only courting a speedy
bankruptcy. Didn't our neighbor -~ try that ex-
periment to his cost? Didn't he resolve, one fine
morning, that he would thenceforth banish from his
sheet all acrimonious, scandalous, and criminal mat-
ter; and did not his subscribers fall away from him
like autumn leaves'? A newspaper without lies and
casualties, forsooth! As well talk of a bank without
specie, a quack without his gamboge, a magician
without his army of placard-bearers
A. Cheerful, cheerful views, these; so inspiring,
too; so calculated to arouse a man to noble effort!
B. And yet, does not every page of history, from
Adam down, proclaim their truth?
A. Not so, not so: I cannot, I will fiot believe it.
I will not cherish, nor can I bear to see yo.u cherish,
sentiments that I consider alike blasphemous towards
God, fatal to one's own happiness, and Qpposed to all
heroic exertions for the happiness of others; senti-
ments that seem to me to spring far more from a
selfish and rebellious spirit, than from a calm, wise
survey of nature or of providence.
B. You speak plainly.
A. But not in anger or bitterness.
B. No, no; I believe you. However skeptical
I may be on most subjects, I have yet never ques-
tioned the truthfulness of your nature, or the since-
rity of your friendship.

Er
V

24

25

Ii~

K
CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

A. Well then, let us discuss these matters, like
friends, fairly and coolly, if I am wrong, l~t me be
convinced, and let me cheerfully surrender my opin-
ions. If right, let me have the satisfaction of feeling
that I have done something towards expelling these
(for so I can't help thinking them) most gloomy and
unsound notions of yours.
B. If you think any good can come of such dis-
cussions, so be it. I have no great faith in them
myself, and moreover think them far better suited
for seraphim, than for poor earth-worms. At the
same time, I feel that it would ill become me to meet
your evident earnestness and heartiness in this mat-
ter, with either a dogged obstinacy, or an uncourteous
*   silence. There certainly is a\world-wide difference
between us, on these points. 1 cannot construe my-
self, or my brethren, or life, or history, as you do.-
*    I see little in the pas~t to beget complacency, nor can
II look with your longing, credulous eyes, into the
Future. On the contrary, the more I ~ee aud observe.
both within and around me, the more hollow, unsat-
isfactory, and worthless does existence appear.-
Within, what is there, but weakness and frailty;
faculties, feeble in their best estate, and which the
merest trifle may, at any moment, impair or destroy;
irn ever-present consciousness of ignorance; a mom-
Dry that betrays and torments, far more than it.serves
or soothes; that tells of wasted hours, neglected op-
portunities, cherished sins; of most magnificent pro-


26        CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.         27

mises and most contemptible performances: what is
there, but a soul groaning under the iron rule of a
body; a reason mocked with royal titles, but shorn
of all true sovereignty; a conscience that hardly
shows fight even, with the evil one, but falls before
every pitiful temptation. What is there here to be-
get any great degree of self-love, or any very ardent
desire after immortality? And do I wrong my
brethren and neighbors, when I say, that I see in
nine-tenths of them pretty much the same charac-
teristics? the same imbecility~ and ignorance, the
same mad chase after present pleasures and excite-
ments, the same wilful turning of their backs upon
true wisdom and goodness? Yes, I confess it; life
does seem to me a fright complication of mysteries
and evils and inequalitie~; here the pangs of penury,
there the nausea of s ~iety; here the artyr to
business, there t1~e victirA to idleness. Is not man-
kind the sa~ne motley crowd that ever it was, of
peer4 and paupers, priests and pick-pockets, scholars
and sots? And is there not, now as ever, the same
frightful predominance every where, of folly, sin and
sorrow? Of course, you will say, no, and will, as
you did just now, utterly repudiate ~and denounce
such sentiments.
A. I do, indeed, and it grieves me to the soul to
see you entertain and dwell upon them thus. I say
that you do injustice alike to yourself and your
brethren; that the world never was so bad as you

3
I

4, '4

26

n
47

l)aint it; that it is far wiser and better to-day than
ever it was, and that I firmly believe it will go on
growing and advancing in goodness and happiness,
unto the end. But above all, do I believe in a bless-
ed life to come, that is to sol~ these same mysteries
and sorrows, of which you so ceaselessly complain
(while you have no word of thanks to utter for
your ten thousand benefits and privileges), and that
is to reveal in him that hath sent or permitted
them, an infinitely wise and gracious Father.
B. Well then, if you will discuss the matter,
which of us is right-you, who entertain this belief
and these expectations; or I, who have no faith in
the amendment of this world, and (I own it) little or
no faith in,.or even hope of a world to come?
A. What, not even a hope of immortality?
B. No, no. I ask no future life. The present
is quite burthen enough. I would fain drop that
burden at the grave, and there have an end. I
covet not the possible glories, I shrink from the pos-
sible sufferings of any second existence. No such
risk for me. No, no; give me the sleep thajt knows
no waking; not a mere truce between two turbulent,
tumultuous worlds, but a sweet ar}d lasting peace.
I ask no more. Heaven knows I have no claims
upon it, in the shape of future rewards, nor shall
have; and I woidd most gladly evade its punish-
n~ents. I am for closing the account, good and all,
at the tomb. Yes, let that be the finis of my little

i


'-ii

1'

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

I,
U

volume. No continuation, no new series for me;-
no enlarged or amended edition ; no-
it. Don't, don't talk so wildly.
B. Wildly, absurdly, if you will; but still, hon-
estly. I speak what my heart dictates - and oh,
how many, many hearts are there, that if their own-
cers interpret6d them as fairly, would with one accord
cry, Amen, amen !
A. What?2
B. Yes, would gladly drown alike their hopes
and fears of an hereafter, in endless slumber;- would
gladly compromise for annihilation.
A. I cannot think so. On the contrary, it seems
to me such cases are even more rare than they are
sad. Nay, I had .almost said, I do not believe that
any such case exists, if fairly tested. -The vilest
wretch and murderer even, that ever disgraced and
desolated the earth, who knows that there is no be-
ginning, even, of adequ te punishment for hini here,
and who can only look forward to long and bitter
sufferings hereafter, would he not yet, does he not in
his inmost heart, prefer to face those sufferings, to
the dread thought o~f -nothingness ? Does he not
cherish the latent hope, that beyond all this terrible
but most righteous retribution, there is something
of comfort and encouragement; that there will yet
d awn upon his-poor benighted soul a day of peace
and of' favor, a day that is to usher in a useful, a
glorious career in the service of Hleaven ? I be~'ieve

/

28

it. And, apart from this hope, does not. the vanity
of human nature reluct at the idea of being thus
summarily and contemptuously dismissed into obli-
vion ? Is there any punishment that a poor sinner
would not be willing to undergo, rather than to owe
his release to any such humiliating, crushing though
as this ? No, no, my dear fellow ; I disagree wit
you entirely on this point. You do not speak fom
the very, very depths of your heart, when you utter
such sentiments. It cannot be. No future life ?
What, have you so little curiosity, even, as to be
willing to go down to your grave and be extinguished
for ever, having seen no more than this little corner
of God's glorious universe, and tat btdmyan
hurriedly ?  Are you so easily satisfied?2 Would
you explore no farther ? Have you no desire to
taste the blessed air, and behold the lovely flowers
of Heaven? Or to know more of the stars above
yoand their histories, and to survey the blessed
*    plan of creation from other points .of view, and to
gaze upon earth from some brighter, happier orb?
Would you not, if you could, scale the heights and
pierce the depths of this wondrous frame of things,
*    and go on, perpetually enlarging the boundaries of,
your knowledge and your experience ? Have you
no desire for any new organization, or sei'ies of te,
each ~surpassing its predecessor in strength, and
beauty, and capacity ; for faculties of motion, and
perception, and thought, compared with which the

29

I.
'ii
Li


30

I
/

choicest endowmei~ts of mortals and their exertions,
are as the timid creeping of the babe, alongside of
the vigor of the full-grown man ? Would you tiot
have a vision that could pierce through thousand
leagues of air, and a hearing that could embrace
alike the chirp of neighboring cricket, and the strains
of distant angels, and a power to Course through
ether, and to perform heavenly journies, compared
with which the poor travel of earth is as the brief;
fluttering voyage of the butterfly, to the soaring
flight -of the eagle? Have you no wish, either, to
meet the loved ones of earth in some happier home;
to behold in brighter climes, and under more genial
influences, the brave, and Wise, and good, and lovely
that have adorned the planet in times past; and that
are to grace and bless it in times to come? Ijave
you no longing for the glorious society of angels, no
ambition to become, yourself; a ministering angel of
God? to go on, growing ever in grace and wisdom,
and becoming more and more familiar with the plans*
and purposes of the Creator; to read more and more
clearly and deeply the book of Providence; nay, to
be a partaker of God's counsels, to be employed by
him in heavenly missions, to have the charge and
guardianship, it may be, of stars and systems filled
with intelligent, accountable beings; to enlighten,
rescue, and redeem them from the thraldom of sin, -
and from the wiles of the arch-enemy? Or do you
see nothing to inspire or cheer, in such hopes and

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.            31
aspirations ',~ No, no, my friend; I will not so libel,
J
so insult you, as to suppose you the incurious, unam-
bitious, cold, dull, groveling creature that you would
fhin declare yourself; to suppose you capable of thus
wilfully turning your back upon visions and possi-
bilities like these, and of preferring to go down to
your gravq, and rot, and p~iss away forever, of no
more worth or signmfic~nce than the meanest weed
or vilest reptile of earth..
I?. Fine talk, brave words these; but as usual,
my dear friend, you have quite left out the shadows
in this fancy sketch of yours; you say not a word.
about those other visions and possibilities That be~
long to tl~e future. You talk of angels and arc~h-
angels, and of happier climes and hoi~nes above, and
of ever-expanding capacities, and, joys, and duties;
but you quite overlook the lemons a'nd arch-demons,
and their dismal abodes, and their ever-increasing
powers of inflicting and of suffering evil. You talk
as if all these stars around us were miniature hea-
vens, dedicated unto peace and love. Where then,
let me ask, are Satan's dominions? Are then, the
seeds of good so scantily sown here on earth, to
yield such glorious fruit hereafter, and are the far
more plenteously sown seeds of evil to come to
nought? If there is to be this illimitable growth
in grace, why not in wickedness also? You seem
to think this world a mere nursery for angels, but
may it not be far more of a primary school for dcv-

I,

4

c~5

J

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

U
p

31


us? I fear so. If there he any thing beyond it, it
seems to me that the powers of darkness will be
tenfold more the gainers thc
of light; that-          reby than the powers
A. How can you talk so? The idea that God's
bright and beautiful earth is a mere infant school
for flends---mons trous, blasphemous assumption!
B. I see not how. I think my gloomy picture
has far more truth in it, than your brilliant one.
That the great mass of men do, and ever have served
the devil most devotedly, here, who can gainsay?
And why shouldn't they continue those services
hereafter? Why shouldn't the same cursed infatna..
tion that leads and keeps us astray on earth, lead
and keep us astray, through all eternity? Will it
not be so? Is not the future far more alarming
than inspiring? If I should exist beyond the
grave, are not the chances altogether in favor of my
continuing the same wretched, wicked part that I
have been playing here; of my becoming, nut a min-
istering angel of God, but a vile emissary of Satan;
going about on 14s cursed errands, corrupting youth,
Seducing innocence, doing all I can to disturb the
Peace and poison the happiness of the universe'.
ever growing in guilt and wretchedness and in the
Power and will to cause and to inflict them? And
is not annihilation to be preferred to a career like
this? I repeat it, then, I ask no future life. I
wish to lake no such risk. I am Willing to foi'ego

CLOUDS AND ~JIJNSfIINE.

ti
I:
F

I';

I        CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.          3.3
its possible joys and glories, so I may be secured
ag inst its perils and its horrors. Let me stop here.
Make an end of me in the grave. There may pos-
sibly be one seraph round the throne the less in
consequence, but it is far, far more likely that you
arc thereby nipping in the bud an abominable limb
of Satan.
A. What language! Far more suited, certainly,
to a henighted Persian or llindoo, than to this Chris-
tian age an(l land. Nay, you are. far worse than a
Manichean. They were willing to allow the Lard
at least a divided sovereignty in his own universe
but from your talk, I should think the Evil Onehad
almost exclusive control over it. You cannot be in
earnest, in expressing such sentiments . You do
not anticipate any such horrible career for yourself
hereafter. Nor have you the remotest idea, and you
know it, that that dear little boy there, who is smil-
ing so sweetly in his slumber, can ever become a.
howling fiend in hell.
B. God forbid! And yet, why not? Cain him-
self, no doubt, was a very pretty baby. And how
many just such 'little rosebuds as this, have fond
young mothers cherished in their bosoms, who have
turned out Satan's own minions at last; have d ~ne
all that in theta lay, to make a hell of earth!
A. Don't speak so bitterly. Oh, no, no; this
dear young soul was destined for happiness, for hea-
ven. So were all human souls. Who c~n doubt it?


fi

I

IL4

CLOUDS AND SUNsIIINj~.

'if
1.
1k
[
I~i
I
14

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

Who can doubt that we shall all, in God's good sea-
son, our trials and perils past, our sins and sufibr-
ings over, meet in that blessed land at last ; shall
enter on a glorious career of joys, and duties, and
contemplation, compared with which all the beauty,
and glory, and wisdom of earth~ are the veriest toys
of children? You smile, and will no doubt call
these the, dreams of an enthusiast. But are they
not better than the horribly gloomy picture you con-
jured up just now? Nay more (if you were in ear-
nest in what you said), are you not fur more ultra
and visionary in your notions, than I in mine; far
more unreasonable and wild in your despondency
than I ill my high hopes? If I have left out the
shadows, as you say, in my picture, have you not
utterly banished every glimmer even of cheerful
light from yours?
B. Well, to tell the honest truth, I was rather
replying to you in your own, fanciful and extravagant
strain, (for so, my dear friend, I must consider it,)
than speaking the real sentiments of my heart. I
confess, I have very few hopes or fears about the
matter. I certainly do not look forward to any such
horrible hereafter as I hinted at, any more than I
do to the magnificent one, which ,you have painted in
such glowing colors. To me, the terrors and the
splendors seem alike visionary. Your angel-throng-
ed palaces of light, and my demon-haunted abodes of
darkness, are they not alike the creations of o'erbusy

?ep

fancies, alike devoid of any solid foundation in reason?
I confess, I am more and more inclined to think so,
every day.
A. As you will. In either case, your views seem
to me as little consistent with sound reasoning, as
they are gloomy and repulsive. You begin by find-
ing fault with every thing in this world. Not a
thing suits you: all is vanity and vexation, gall and
bitterness; and you end by rejecting any other; or
should there possibly be another, you can only see
in it a thousand fold more guilt and wretchedness.
You seem to ha~v~ no faith whatever in your own
freedom, or in God's goodness; in your power to re-
pent and reform, or in God's acceptance of your pen-
itence; should you possibly survive the grave, you
take it for granted that you will be consigned to the
tender mercies of Satan; but on the whole, you do
not believe in any such survivorship. In other
words, you deliberately accuse your Maker of amus-
ing himself at the expense of His poor children; of
putting them here, surrounding them with trials and
sorrows, vexing 'their souls with all manner of rid-
dles and problems, tantalizing them with all manner
of desires and aspirations, and then, so far from
vouchsafing them a single word of explanation, or a
single look of coaifort and encouragement, of wan-
tonly stemming the door in their faces, of delibe-
rately stopping their mouths forever, in the grave!
~2~an you believe this? What would you say to an

4


1'
si
''I

earthly father, who Would take his little d:ivliigs on
his knee, and talk to them about (111iiMtIllas and
Santa Claus. and e~eite their ~'ouuv~ ilitagitiat jotis
flfl(l kiiidl~ theji' hopes (A COUliuig toys and da i cities,
awl after all mock the poot' things With Clnl)tY stock-
ings, or fill them ~ithi odious rods ? Would yTOll
speak to such a wretch ? Woul~~ you li~'~ in the
same hemis1)here with hun .~ AVId yet you (10 hot
hesitate to tax the heavenly Parent with lust such
cruelty and malice. Beautiful doctrinee ! Does, not
the bare statement of it demonstrate alike its folh~
'I
and wickedness?
B. You speak warmly; but notwithstanding the
strength of your language, my friend, II am not con-
vinced. I cannot see thcs~ things as you do. If we
must discuss such subjects, why not go to the bot-
torn of the difficulty ? I repeat it, then; I have not
the faith you speak of. I cannot get up that confi-
dence, in ~yseIf or my brethren, in the present or
the future, that seems so to sustain and elevate you.
Isay it not sneeringly, still less in~any tone of tri-
umph. I often wish it were 'otherwise. I often
envy you that cheerfu1, sanguine, credulous nature
of yours. But so it is. I cannot look with your
eyes. I cannot read those glorious meanings (as
you call them) in every event that occurs, nor per-
ceive those magnificent developments that you say
are in store for us. The longer I look at life, the
more dreary and complicated does the snarl appear;

f~II y rather a taw(tVy, flashy mio-drarfla; fiil I of fiOl Th
au4 T1f)!)Wri~~, Itaving ~Il thin gloom of a trigr~ i;~;
\VI thout i t~ dignity, all the afBurdi ty of a f~trce, ~'. irA
OUt it~ fun.
A. True ; and it is these sarfiC (hgrrial, horrible
TiOtIOTIS of yours, that 1 80 SCCk to combat. I can2
not hear to 8CC one whom I estecifi and lovf ~'iVifl~
'way tO their thus.
I;. vVV~ell, it am willing to listen. As I said be-
fore, I have no great faith in the utility of ~ur;h dis-
cussIonS. I inety-ninC times in a hundred; they only
end in the exchange of unpleasant epthets. and in
leaving the parties clinging with firmer grip than
ever to their respective opinions.
A. But why should it be so? Surely such
themes as these, discussed by true friends; an I wil
becoming can(lOr, courtesy, and modesty. oujit to
lead to profitable issues. However; I have no uma
of taxing your patience any farther: to-day. I shall
insist, though, on renewing the argument when next
we meet.
B. As you please, my dear fellow; ~ I mean-
while farewell.
A. Goc~ bless you.

V
I'

Si
S-s
5~S
5'
5*
is

CI4OUl)8 'A Ni) ~t~N8Ii I N IC.                                                            ('f.0fjI)8  AN~~   8UN8fTfNf';.


7'

N
CONVERSATION II.

t

A. IN our last conversation, my dear friend, I
expressed a wish to discuss farther, certain senti-
ments of yours, which, the more I reflect upon them,
the more and more dreary and frightful do they ap-
pear. Let m~ ask you again, were you in earnest in
uttering them? IDo you really entertain a skepti-
cism s~o dismal, so fatal to all peace and happiness,
to all noble ambition, and to all hearty effort ai'f~r
improvement?
B. Why should you doubt my sincerity? I
certainly did speak as I felt, on these subjects;
gloomily, wickedly, if you will, but God knows, frank-
ly. I might better have held my jiea~e, no doubt.
As I then told you, I have no faith, myself; in such
speculations, or discussions. We poor mortals have
been puzzling over, and prattling about these myste-
ries, from the beginning, and what good has ever

cOme of it all? Are we not just as much in the dark
as ever? For every wise word that has been utter-
ed in these controversies, have there not been ten
thousand foolish and wicked ones? Why seek to
multiply them, then? What have I to say, in the
premiseS, worth combating, or worth hearing? ~
poor, whimsical, ignorant, frail sinner, like me
Wouldn't silence be far more becoming? how vis-
ionary too, the attempt to make any peri~ianent im-
pression upon ea4ch other's opinions, any more than
to alter our temperaments. No, no. You, my friend,
are blessed with a cheerful, hopeful nature. You
appear to have a faith, and teal A enthush~sm
upon all subjects. You canno ,if u would, look
upon the dark side of things, past, pr sent, or to
come. I am differently constituted. I neither have,
nor sympathize with these sanguine views of yours.
But why should I seek to shake your faith? If you
can see your way clear through this world, and have
a beautiful vista beyond, to cheer and inspire you,
why should I wish to interpose clouds, if I could ?-
Oh, no, enjoy, make the most of this generous ardor
of yours, and leave, leave me to r~iy gloom and un-
belief.
A. Not so. I am not willing to drop the matter
thus. These themes are, indeed, as you say, old as
man, but are they any the less vitally important o~
that account? Is not the peace of our souls as
deeply involved in them as ever? I am not willing

y
p.-.-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

4'

39

I
pq ~t[

4


([f~1rJPF-4 AN ~ 8rfN~rffNf~

to b% li( ~~Q I hTl I' Ct 1111 COUIOI'Q1ICCS 1 bOUt Ihen), and
friendly explanations might not (l() good. If 1 an,
the 'wild enthusiast YOU seem to think 1)10, 1 ought tO
be set ~ , C ~O1l ~fl
rirht  i        '0 UU1'Oa$OUably despoiidiiig
flfld skeptical. lOt me, at least, try t~) 8110(1 801110 little
ray of light upon your gloom. 1 should. indeed, like
to know more of the grounds ~1U(I details Of these
opinions c~f yOurs, and by what proee~s you have
arrived at ~ueh dismal conclusions.
B. Well, if ~ iflSiSt. I ai~ bound by all the
hiws of friendship an(l of courtesy, to sp~k honestly
and to listen patiently.
A. Tell me, then ~io you really mean to say,
that you have no faith in any future life ?
B. I will answer you candidly. 1 have neither
any lively faith in. nor ardent desire 4lftcr immor-
tality. If I should exist hereafter, if I should
dwell in other worlds. I have no confidence that I
should be a gainer thereby; nay, might I not be a
terrible loser? Apart from all moral considerations,
may not this earth, with all its troubles and sorrows,
still be. the most tolerable part of creation? May
hot we children of men, with all our follies and our
crimes, yet be GoXs best work? Who shall say?
I have as much right to my conjectures, as you to
yours, wher~ all is f~g and ignorance. Suppose it
to be so. How dreary, then, the thought of any
thing beyond the ~ax-e I The idea ~f perpetuity
here, is sufficiently uistressing; but to go from bad

I
'4
4
1k-

t'i W(,VF~O ; tO 1)0 t1~1 risVrifl(d lo a planet~ ~;til I TflOr~'
(Ii51il~I 1, 1Ii~tl t~) srwiety still i~iOre Worth le~A to 'K
COI)(1O1111)('d, fhr jj~5kt1tU~, to ~ long term of eOTj5f:1Of1~
in i ut)iter', that (hr aught we know to tie con-
trary,) t~ ~ggy, sti pi d, jail k-and- water, shoeki n~tI y
iL~Imt~l, st,(TiIO On) ; where there iS nothi rig genial
(W CXl)ihIVatil)g ; Wh(~V~ nO 511(41 tliiri~~ ~)3 a f~r)wer or
fruit is ever seen, or lovely lmdsc~' pe, or bnl Writ
sunset ; nothing, nothing but4 one eternal rein4 1
(lull, leaden skies, au(l bitter herbs ; to go threuA~
~ueh a dreary routine as this, half brutaL half hn-
man, 'with ever and anon, the tormenting recoilCCt~;~i
of the (with all itS vexations and SilffCViWrS1 thOU~{~ nt
fold pleasanter earth that I had left ; and to find no
* escape from such an ~~i5tCflCC ; or if .1 sh~ill sue-
ceed in severing the tie that bound inC to ft. to be
still worse off; to find myself suddenly remove1 to
some such tumultuous and inflammable planet. per-
haps, as Mercury; who knows? and there to ~'i
through a career, all fret and feverish exettement:
my blood ever at the boiling point: m  brain one
whirling gulf of fantasy and flame: no peace. n
quiet; and so on, on, on, ad infinitum. shifiin~ about
from one theatre of action to another. each more
wretched than the one before it. and always tn ez~-
tremes ;, now, all that is dull and dreary and sta
nant, and now an insane and ceaseless uer~y
idea of such an immortality as this Is i~ ~ot

4

40             (4 LOP 1)8 AN1~ 811N811 iNE.                                                                                              41

41


~I4
p
IiII

CLOU~~ AND SUNSHjN~*

gather frightful and intoh~rable? Wouldn't extin&amp;
tion be perfectly delightful in comparison? -
A. Unquestionably it would; but what right have
you to indulge in any such wild and absurd conjec-
tures? Precious notions yours, of the Creator and
his universe! How ca~ you talk s'o, with that Bible
on your table, too; with God's own promise of a glo-
rious life to come, if ~you will but secure it; of a
world of beauty and grandeur and happiness, infin-
itely beyond all human conception, even, in store for
his faithful, obedient children? The idea that frail,
sinful man, with all his capacities, is the highest
effort of creative wisdom, or that this little earth of
ours is the masterpiece in the great gallery of Na-
ture, would be absurd enough, I should Think, to the
mere philosopher; but to give vent to such whirnsi-
cal, such presumptuous speculations, right in the
teeth of that blessed revelation there, it seems to me
perfectly inexcusable.
B. But, my friend, suppose I were to. tell you,
that I have no faith in that same revelation?
A. WeB, I ought to have expected it; at the
same time, I confess, it grieves me to the soul to
hear you say so.
B. Why should it? Why should I not speak
out honestly? If we must discuss thc~e subjects, I
am for going to the root of the matter. I am for
making a clean breast of it. I have no faith in that
Volume, other or greater than I have in that Shaks-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.           43
peare alongside of it, and I feel just as much at lib-
erty to criticize it. I see no more of a divine origin
in Job, tliuii I do in hamlet. I no moi~e believe that
God dictated theparables of Christ, or the Epistles
of Paul, than lie did the eloquent pleading of Portia,
or the sublime talk of Prospero. This grates harshly
on your ear, I see, but so it seems to me. I would
not speak disrespectfully nor ungratefully. I have
read with delight the exquisite story of Joseph and
his brethren; but is it one whit more exquisite than
the Winter's Tale? Or is Ruth herself, standing
amid the golden corn, one whit more pure and love-
able than thc flowei~-crowned Perdita, or is Jepthah's
* daughter a finer conception than Cordelia? Is the
wis(Iom of Solomon any more genuine and world-
embracing than that which the bard kee~~ pouring
forth continually, alike in the palaces of kings, and
the dungeons of convicts-in the caves of Bohemia,
no less than under the pleasant trees of Arden? If
the man of Jerusalem was inspired, surely the man
of Stratford was. Nor have I any more confidence
in the truth of the statements of Kings and Chroni-
cles, than I have in those of the historical plays;
nay, not half so much.
A. I suppose not. You mean to say, then, in a
word, that you have no more faith in the facts of the
Bible, than in those of any other respectable quarto;
that you build no bright hopes upon its promises,

42

I

43


44

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

~      4I~
fI~
t '~
I
"p
II
'~1
II
1k
II
'4$
fr4~1
p1f~ I
~4f'; ~
'4
"4'

.1

I.

that you fear not its threatening, and that you feel
under no obligation to obey its commandments.
B. I do. I say, too, that I see at least a score
of works on those shelves yonder, philosophical, his-
torica~I, poetical, and ethical, for which I have quite
as much admiration and reverence.
A. '(flowing full well, too, when you say it, th~~(
the learned, wise; and good men of The last nineteen
centuries, have nearly all received it, and bowed
down before it, as the Word of God.
B. True, true. I know, too, the utter insignifi
cance and worthlessness of any opinions of mine
upon this and upon all subjects. Still, I must be
honest about it. I have read some few of the writ-
ings of the great and good men you speak of. I
should be sorry to think that I did not, in some small
degree, appreciate the force of their genius, the zeal,
learning, ingenuity, eloquence of these illustrious
champions of the Church. But if; after all, my own
slender and feeble 1~J~erstanding remains uncon-
vinced, I must claim the liberty of saying so.
A. Certainly. But not to dwell upon this point
at present, let mc 'further ask you, do you see no~
thing in God's book of nature, or in the workings of
His providence, or in the phenomena of your own
heart, ~Iereon to ground a faith in immortality?
B. I do not. I see abundance of material for
hope, fear, conjecture, but no evidence at all satisfhc-
tory. So far as my poor senses can interpret this

141
CLOUJ)S AND SUNSLJINI~
same bo6k of nature, they tell me that all is over at
the grave; that this soul and body, as we call them,           t
are born, ~ro~v, and die together; that I have not .1
had any previous existence, and why then ar~y future
one; that wheiY the brain is wounded, the soul is            F4'
wounded-when it slumbers, the soul slumbers-                  j
when it is destroyed, the soul is destroyed. You , I
will, of course, repudiate their testimony ; will have ~ ~
it, that the spirit survived but you will not,, and.
cannot answer any one of the ten thousand. c{ues-
tions of the doubter. You cannot begin to explain
the nature of that partnership, of which you say
death is the dissolution. how does the mind act?
Separate, if you can, the several f~cultie5 and. pro~        it
cesses whereby I perceive, and remember, and. rca-
son, and. moralize. Give us the analysis. Show us
how the machinery works, while the man is alive,
before, rashly and. dogmatically pronouncing upon
the phenomena of death. Whither does this sur-
viving spirit go 3 IDoes it still linger about the
earth, or does it straightway pierce the clouds and.
the air, and soar far away into the illimitable ether?
What bright, what dark scenes does it visit? When
does it return, and. what tidings does it bring of its
wanderings? Where is it in sleep, in swoons, in
trances?' Till you can begin to shed some little
comfortable light on any of these points, cease *to
wonder, or to chide, if I can find in the phenomena
I,
4                             '4

I


F

around me, rno materials for any rational, much ,less
any lively faith in an hereafter.
A. But the daily occurrences of life, its mnequal-
ities, casualties, bereavements.; the innocent suffer-
in gs, the unpunished iniquities, that-cach hour bears
witness to; how can you explain these things, how
reconcile them to the goodness and justice of God,
save by the life to come ?
B. What do I know of the goodness and justice
of God ? What data have I for forming any opin-
ion, one way or the other ? For aught you can
show to te. contrary, He may be capricious and
cruel. This sounds horribly to, you, of course;- but
is it one whit more presumptuous and impertinent
than to take the opposite ground ? What would you
say to a poor, ignorant ilibernian; who, after a two
days' 'residence in this country,(j ould undertake to
pronounce upon the attributes o~ the government,
either in the way of eulogy or condemnation-? -You
would tell the 'fool to hold his peace ; that he knew
nothing about it, and that it would be infinitely more
becoming in him to keep his 'gratuitous and worth-
less opinigis to himself. Just so gratuitous and
worthless seem to me the opinions of us poor fools
of' nature, upon the attributes of God's government;.
opinions based on our feeble, scanty investigations
of some few natural laws, in this little corner of cre-
'ation. The idea of our speaking in a positive, per-
emptory .way, either pro or con, is monstrous.-

46

I

CLOUDS AND) SUNSHINE,

CLOUDS AND SUNS3HINE.

41

~I
h~1 ~
[1
r
II I
[p
i1~ I
B
i~i
Ii
H

I
A
I
I

What do we know about it ? What do we know of
God's motives, in making earth or man? The
whole panorama of life may have been got up, awl
may be kept going, without any particular regard
for our welfare, but for the amusement and instruc-
tion of some other order of beings ; an experiment
for them to'learn by. Or it may have been a mere
wanton display of creative power. Who can tell?
Who can tell if Goal does actually govern the world ?
He may have abandoned it to inferior intelligences,
who, while they are incapable of destroying his ex-
quisite workmanship-nevertheless so bungle matters,
that we poor mortals are thereby involved in contin-
ual vexations and mishaps. We know nothing
about it. All is sheer guess-work. We have no
opinions, worthy the name;: we have our whims, and
humors, and conjectures, varying as a man's health
varies, or his capacity, or his 'situation in life, or -the
conipany he keeps;- and above all, modified by the
temperaments our parents give us. You, my friend,
are by constitution an optimist, and are forever
dwelling on the cheerful aspect of things-the flow-
ers and fruits, the music and beauty of nature. 1
ride in the regiment of grumblers (so, at lea st, you
say), and dwell with corresponding power and elo-
quence- on the tornados, diseases, reptiles, poisons,
follies, crimes, that I see scattered about, in such
frightful profusion. But are we- not both equally
*wide of the mark;- mere ignorant chatter-boxes ?

Th~

[


ii"
K
II

The truly wise man smiles at us both, confesses tim
profundity of his ignorance, and holds his peace.
A. Charming doctrine, this! How delightf~1a one
to impart to a child, or to comfort a mourner with,
or to encourage a poor penitent! A doctrine ~that
turns all prayers and thanksgiving into a mdckery;
that converts all the bounties of God into caprices,
all the sorrows and sufferings of life into wanton dis-
plays of cruelty! But go on. Let us have all the
articles of this lovely faith of yours.
B. You accuse rn~ of ~being sarcastic. I think
you are quite a proficient in the art. I was merely
answering your own question. I say again, I' don't
pretend to explain the ten thousand mysteries and
miseries of life. 1 have no opinion, one way or the
other. I see things, certainly, that seem to speak
of a kind Creator, and bountiful provider above; I
see others that look ~ll harshness and injustice. I
saw but yesterday, a spectacle that II confess seemed
to me alike unnatural and cruel; I saw a sweet
young bride, torn by a merciless disease from the
arms of her husband, and from all the delights and
endearments' of home and consigned in a narrow
box to the damp ground. II saw, recently, three
lovely children~, snatched away by the same fell
agent of death, all within a few hours; borne off
from loving parents, and from the bright joys and
hopes of childhood, and laid side by side together in
the dismal tomb. Every hour, as you say, bears

witness to' such occurrences; every hour shows us
the sufferers by others' crimes and vices ; shows us
good men involved in perpetual mishaps, and sleek
scoundrels thriving in their iniquity, and going down
to their graves, unwhipt of justice. Who can com-
prehend these puzzles? If I say that they betray a
cruel or negligent Creator, you take me to* ta~k at
once as a heathen and a rebel; as rashly, in turn,
pronouncing them the manifestations of God's love,
and the pledges of immortality. But are not both
criticisms alike worthless? Are we not utterly in
the dark? I certainly cannot derive any comforta-
ble faith from such phenomena. What is such faith,
but the mere creature of vanity and self-love? We
don't like to be treated in this way. We don't like
to' be de~p rived of our friends and comforts thus.
Wounde~1 pride, and mortified vanity, and *dis~p-
pointed.ambition, all p test against such dealings;
all join in the cry for an hereafter. We insist upon.
it. We call on God to explain himself, and to clear
up Ilis conduct. We poor worms of the dust call
on the great Creator to demonstrate to our satisfac-
tion, the accordance of His dispensations with our
notions of justice! But suppose He should not con-
descend-to do so? - Suppose He should utterly with-
hold from us the illumination, and the compensation,
that we so clamor for ! What then? What are we
to do about it? 'Who shall presume to read the riddles
of the Almighty? It may be a part of God's plans,

48         CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.                                     CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.         49

48

49

ft
t
''V
Ii
$
If


~4 'fjfj
Jft~ '~ jb
1111
it;P~4~
~f
ft4~
.4;

5O~           CL

that this puppet-show of earth is to continue for hun-
dreds of thousands of years yet; the individual
puppets all the time coming and going ; each gene--
ration destroyed in its turn, to make room for an-
other, as flower supplants flower, or wee(l weed; the
race still surviving, the entertainment still kept up,
not for our edification or happiness, but for ~urposes
to us unknown; a panorama perhaps, as I said be-'
fore, for youthful angels to learn their lessons by,
or to try their young wits and hands on, in the way
of government. Who knows? it may be a part
of those plans, that we shall all be annihilated be-
fore another sun sets; tha.t this globe and all which
it inherit, shall be crushed to dust ore then, or
melted in some vast, fiery gulf; or if not thus vio-
lently disposed of;. taken up, and thrust aside, hito
some dark, silent corner of the universe, as so much
old rubbish, or as an experiment with 3vbich the
Creator has become completely tired out and disgust-
ed. Why not? Who knows any thing about it?
Such a consummation is not very palatable to our
pride, certainly; such a reply to all our claims and
entreatie~ may seem very harsh and cruel. Thit
what are we to do? Here we are, poor, blind, igno-
rant slaves, depending for every breath we draw on
God's good will and pleasure. What cam we do but
grumble, or grin and bear in silence, whatever he
sees fit to send?
A. Still more exhilarating and inspiring, these

CLOUDS AND SUNSLItNE.

51

last sentiments of yours ! You improve as you pro-
coed; to say nothing of the fine vein of filial piety
and resignation that pervades them!
B. You're severe* but recollect that this discus-
sion is not of my seeking. You asked for my views,
and you must take them as they come, however
gloomy, or absurd, or wicked they may seem to you.
A. Certainly; and I ask pardon for interrupting
you thus unseasonably. Go on, go on.
B. Well, I was merely about to add, that in this
thorough and universal ignorance of the~ workings of
God's providence, one conjecture appeared to me
quite as admissible as another, and all alike unsatis-
factory. Your cold-blooded philosopher would laugh
at us both. He would say that all these occurrences,
these inequalities, casualties, bereavements of which
you speak, explain themselves pretty well, after all,
if rightly considered, without any necessity for call--
ing in any hereafter. On the whole, he would tell
you, the distribution of life's prizes and sorrows was
a pretty equal one; that he who had a liberal share
of the gifts of nature or of f5tune, had a correspond-
ing share of cares and anxieties, just as the musician
has his tortures, no less than his delights, that the
unlearned ear is spared. And so with life's casual-
tics. While, at iirst blush, they seem stunning,
heart-rending things, on a more deliberate investi-
gation they are found to have their bright sides. A
steamboat blows up on the Father of Waters, carry-

IGUDS AND SUNSHINE.

I
4j
* I
it

.4:


CLOUDS AND SUNSHiNE.

CLOIJI)8 ANI) SUNShINE.

'I'
'-4

ing with it its hundred victims. Is it harsh to say,
that full half of these victims were~ useless, nay mis-
chievous members of the community'? If some val-
uable labor and talent have been withdrawn from it,
more drunkards, and gamblers, and reckless fellows
of all sorts, have been cut short in their career of
folly and knavery. Tl~e apparent wrong is, after all,
a benefit to society. The same with the bereave-
ments of life. There are such things as broken
hearts, and griefs that death alone can cure; but
oh, how rare! He would point quietly to the sta-
tistics in the case, and ask if an overwhelming
p~ajority ~f widowers and widows were not speedily
reconciled to their losses did n~t often consider
such bereavements as most seasonable separations
of parties mutually disagreeable; and did not take
unto themselves accordingly, second, third, fourth,
yea, fifth mates successively, should their lives be
sufficiently prolonged for such indulgences; obey-
Ing, no doubt, the customary decencies of life; and
going through the customary gradations of mourn-
ing, in each ii~terval; but wearing, too often, jubilant
hearts beneath their saiAe garments and hypocriti-
cal countenances. The little children, too, who are
borne each summer by thousands to 'their little
graves, martyrs to dysentery and cholera infantum,
how many of thedear things, had they lived, would
have been presidents,~ or the wives of presidents,
would have been true heroes or heroines in the strife

9h

of life? how many might not have been poor, aban-
(lofled drunkards or harlots? Some few, we know,
must' have ended their days within pri~ofl walls, or
have perished ignominioUSlY on The gallows. l9IIow
much better, then, for them and the community; that
they were swept away just as they were! And so
would he go on, probably, smoothing over and ex-
plaining away, all the ills anti sorrowS of life, with-
out any reference whatever to any thing beyond the
grave. Or' he might even go farther, and say that
the great mass of men neither had any real confi-
dence in, or care for a future life. They might go
to church indeed, antI repeat creeds,~nd even pen
obituaries, and put inscriptionS on tombstones to the
contrary, but in their very heart~ and when talking
and acting honestly in the matter, t~hey would ac-
knowl~dge their skepticism and indifference. Nay,
he wdild ask, do not their language and conduct be-
tray them, in spite of themselves? If they really
believed in a future state, would they talk of death
as they do? Would they apply such epithets to it
as they do? The sleep that knows ItO Waking ,
peaCe to his ashes ; he has gone to his long home;
after life's fitful fever, he sleeps well; we are such
stuff as dreams are made of, and oar little life is
rounded with a sleep; what mean these and ten
thousand such expressions, that we hear continually,
if men really believed that death was a mere intro-
duction to another world? Why do we dodge the

53

ii
fi

94

2
I


V

subject, too, as we do, and take refuge from
it behind our pipes and pots? Why do we
keep away from funerals, and out of church-
yards as much .as. possible? Why (10 we lament
over and pity the dead as we do, if they have
only gone to sonic bright land before us? Why are
we so anxious about the disposal of our remains?
Would Shakspeare himself have expressed himself
so feelingly about the repose of his bones, had lie
really thought that in dying, he was merely exchang-
ing his frail tabernacle of flesh for a more glorious
body and a higher sphere of action?
A. Excuse me, but I must interrupt this same
philosopher of yours, for a moment. I should rather
say, that had the poet not behicyod in an hereafter,
he wouldn't have cared the toss of a copper about
the matter.
B. I can't agree with you. On the contrary,
had he been a firm believer in immortality, he would,
I think, have been at the same time far more indif-
ferent about the disposal of his bones, and far more
anxious about the disposal and preservation of his
plays.
A. Oh, no; the poet's indifference about the fate
of his plays is, to my mind, far more agreeably and
satisfactorily explained by the thought that, con-
scious as he was of their merits, they nevertheless
fell so far below the glorious ideal that was ever
present in his mind, that he got out of patience with

them. Nay, is there not a tradition that on being
visited by a brother poet one morning, he threw
aside his unfinished Othello in disgust, saying~ as he
did so, "I hope the day will yet come, my friend,
when I shall (10 something worth showing to the
world"?
B. I must say, I never heard that story. You
must have dreamt it, I think. But we are wander-
ing from the subject. Do not all these things, then,
(our philosopher would ask), this clinging to the
good things of life to the last possible moment, this
unwillingness to think or talk about death, and the
expressions ordinarily made use of in regard to it,
all go to show the latent mistrust in men's minds of
any thing beyond it? And do they not treat it ac-
cordingly? When young, and hearty, and prosper-
ous, death is then a presumptuous intruder, or rather
a vile kidnapper, come to snatch them away from.
the half-tasted banquet of life, from their boon corn-
3anions, and pleasures, and excitements; when old,
and poor, and weary, and wretched, then is he a
kind friend, who comes to light them to their beds,
where they may straightway forget all .their aches,
pains, and sorrows, in sweet and endless oblivion.
Is not this, he would ask, and has it not always been,
the real, honest creed of the great mass of the
world?
A. I don't believe it. I reject alike the facts
and arguments of this plausible friend of yours. He

I

4

54        CLOUDS AND SUNShINE.                                  CLOUDS AND SUN8LIINE.

fr~

54


I

has not Cond~$cended by the way, to explain the
Puzzling case of those others. umbra cod in my pies-
tion ; I mean the victims of others' crimes anti vices,
and the criminals themselves, whom human justice
never overtakes. Does he dispose of them also, in
the same oflA~and and superficial style?
B. Well, he would tell us, of course, that God i~
not ~o be taxed with these evils, but man. 'Tis our
own abuse of our freedom, that is at the bottom of all
these troubles. If we lived right, if we obeyed the
dictates of reason, there would be no Crimes or vices
or wars or famines or diseases in the world. Every
man would have his fair share of years and of com-
forts. God has done his part. lie has given us the
materials and ~apa cities for happiness, if we will only
make a good use of them, flow monstrous to charge
God with all the paupers and lunatics and criminals
that deface society. 'Tis our own accursed folly and
infatuation. iliad mei~ employed aright their time
and powers, from the beginning, what a magnificent
spectacle would earth and man both present, this day!
IBut we have chosen to do otherwise, to give th~
reihs to our ~ppetit es and passions, and lo, the result.
These evils explain themselves, and man must mend
them, without calling on God or a future life, to iii-
terpret them, or compensate for them. Let us live
according to nature, and she will reward us accord-
ingly. Natural geath, now fast becoming obsolete-
will once more be heard of. Is it not sc~? In this

I

false, feverish life that we are leading, are we much
better than suicides? Nay, worse than this, is not
every other babe almost, that is born, a matricide?
Call you this God's plan, or man's perverseness ?-
Who can hesitate about the matter'? Who can doubt
that if men set about it in earnest, these troubles
would soon be remedied, the world be changed into a
smiling garden, and that length of years, peace,
plenty and prosperity would soon become the portion
of every family between the poles? Every man
would be as rugged and as flourishing as the trees of
his own planting, and would give way at last, from
sheer decay of nature; and so, with slowly dimmed
perceptions, and gently fading faculties, drop quietly
into his grave, and be gathered to his fathers; per-
fectly contented to make way for the new-comers,
and satisfied that he had got all God ever meant to
give him; undisturbed by any idle Thars, unvexed by
any idle aspirations after any thing beyond. Such
would probably be his explanation. Of course, you
reject it with disdain. But, after all, may he not be
nearer the truth than either of us? Are not such
views more sound and just than my growling, grum-
bling ones, than my spectre-haunted and terrible
hereafter, on the one hand, or than your fond, credu-
bus reading of the book of life, your angels and an-
gel-worlds to come, on the other? I can't help think-.
CLOUDS ANJ) SUNSHINE.         57
ing so, at times. But here I am, prattling away,

Ni

N
$1              36

CLOtUI~S AND 8UNSH1N1~,

&amp;T


"~
IL
I

my dear fellow, and having all the conversation t6
myself.
A. Not at all. You are doing what I wishcd.-7-
Go on. Speak out freely. I am anxious to know
your real sentiments on these points. You have the
fioor. Depend upon it, I shall claim the privilege of
replying at length, in my turn.
B. Certainly.
A. Well, then, let me repeat the third branch of
my question, though you have partially answered it
already. Do you see nothing in the phenomena of
your own heart, whereon to build a faith in immor-
tality? Are you conscious of no desires that this
world cannot meet, no capacities that it cannot de-
velop, no ambition that all its prizes and conquests
cannot satisfy?
B. Candidly; 1 am not ; that is to say, when 1
look at those same phenomena, coolly and deliber-
ately, and not through the magnifying glass of self-
love. II do not see in myself any 'such thirst after
knowledge, truth, or goodness, as this world cannot
satisfy, and therefore none on which to base any
reasonable claim to a future life. I confess I have
a childish curiosity, at times, to know more about
my Maker, and of these ~tars around me, and to find
out what they are made of; and who occupy them,
and to see the crops, and the curiosities, and the
amusements, etc. A journey through the sky would
be an agreeable novelty, no doubt. But ~hat is it,

after all, but a mere traveler's fancy? What poor.
man does not, at times, by the same rule, feel a desire
to go round the globe, and have a peep at its different
nations and kingdoms? But is it a reasonable, or
practicable wish? has he any more right to grum-
ble, if not indulged in it, than a small boy would
have, because he may not be treated to the contents
of every toy-shop and confectionery that he may
happen to pass in the streets? Are such whims as
these to be the basis of a claim to immortality.? If
I I~ad a real, ardent wish to lead an arduous, honor-
able career of truth and duty, hereafter, it would be
one thing; but I detect no such generous ambition
in my nature, no, nor any corresponding capacities.
Yanity, indeed, may sometimes whisper in my ear,
that I have parts and powers above my station ; that
I might figure in a loftier theatre and drama than
this earth affords; but meanwhile, how abominably
I am playing the hi~mble part, the great Manager
Ita.~ assigned me! How much knowledge i~ there
here, that I have neither the wit nor the will to find
out; now many golden opportunities of doing good,
that I am too indolent and selfish to avail myself of!
And what is worse, 1 see no symptoms of any thing
better in myself. I can make cheap and copious
confessions, to be sure; but as to any thorough,
hearty reform, I have not the courage or grace to
attempt it. If I were allowed another life, I should
only throw it away as I haye this, so far. And, my
K

~. I

58        CLOUDS AND SUNSLIINE..                                CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.         59

I

p
i
I
ii
I-
It

58

59


4?
I

CLOUDS AND ~3UNSiiINE.

G 1

friend. ~ n speaking thus for myst li, (10 I i~ot speak
br the great mass oC my brethren, from the begin-
ning ? I do not dewy that there have been sonic
brilliant CXCC'ptiOllS, scattered OVCL the pages of hu-
man history, or the obscure annals ot daily 1db.-
'What particular action the Lord may see lit to take,
in these rare cases, ~we may not presume to coujec-
ture : but as for the majority of' us, are we entitled
to any hereafter ? No, no ; let us find out more of~
God's secrets here, let us turn this earth into a fitr
more respectable and agreeable place, before we pro-
sunie to cry aloud foi' any other world. I see you
consider these sentiments unjust, nay, libels on hu-
man nature. I can't help it. I say it again ; I
really believe that ninety-nine out qf every hundred
of the sons of Adam. that have been born into the
world, from Anno Mundi I. to this hour, have neither
deserved nor desired any heaven worthy to be so
called. They have always avoided the thought of
an hereafter, when ~possible. and when forced to dwell
upon it, what sort of c~n options have they formed
of it? What. but this et/rth over, with such fanciful
improvements, as each man's whims, humors, condi-
tv~n, or temperament may have suggested. Let me
illustrate the point a moment, by referring to our
rxi:hb~rs. Take our fretful, nervous friend ~-,
OpYcsite. What sort of a heaven is his, b utanex~
enaprkn from the petty annoyances of life; from
corns. dims. mosquitoes. east win dsp, poor relations,

I

ilku

long sermons, political (lisdussions, anniversary gath-
~s, national ,jubile~s, railroad eXcuiSIOriS from
(Tifl(f                                  J
crowds and nOises. of all kinds. ive hun quiet, an
oven temperature, an easy chair, a good fire, arid he
papers, hot an(I punctual meals, a good bed to sleep
in, a good toddy to sleep on, and the glorious privi-
lege of grumbling upon all occasions, and his happi-
ness is complete. Promise him a perpetuity of these
things, and he will ask no brighter paradise. Our
invalid neighbor would probably put up with
much humbler arrangements. A r~ere tea-and-toast
heaven, with a guaranty against a torpid liver, rebdl-
lious bowels, and lying awake of nights, would no
doubt satisfy his proudest hopes. Not so, though,
with the gross epicurean, who lives alongside of him.
Who cannot see at a glance, the ingredients of his
cu~ of happiness ~? Viands, and dainties, and spark-
ling ~vines, and the caresses of hours. and voluptu-
ous i~usic; the utter oblivion, in a word, of every
care and duty of life, in one eternal round of selfin-
dulgence. Precious paradise his! And that hauzht~
beauty of a sister of his, has she any loftier concep-
tions? No, her heaven is the preservation of that
fine complexion, and attrac~iv'e figure of hers. Let
her be petted, caressed, fazed, surrounded by wor-
shiping beaux and bouquet-hcdders let heP be the
cynosure of all eves at bails ~nd operas ensure her
these, and will she nqt snap those pretty ~nzers ef
hers, in disdain at all your spiritual jays ? ShE eon-

Ad

CLOUDS AND SUN5IIINfl.


4
i 1~4:4
4,

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

descCnd indeed, to become a pure, serene, thoughtful,
ano'el
di~itiful , (n humble chanter of her Maker's
praise ! She would prefer extinction to aiiy such un-
selfish, honorable part as that. She migi it be will-
ing to take it for a moment, in some tableau vivant
nothing more. IDe J wrong her, when I say that
she would set infinitely more store by a sonnet, con-
cocte(l by some fop, in honor of her eye-brow, than
by the grandest anthem angel Aver Composed?
A. Stop, stop. Don't be so cynical, so merciless
in your criticisms.
B. I am not cynical. I know the creature too
well, and all her hollowness: beautiful, I grant you;
yes, a superb spectacle, when duly arrayed and
equipped for ball-room conquests ; but, my friend,
dust, dust and ashes within. And that dainty and
fastidious cousin of hers, that man of wit and taste,
what sort of a place would' he turn heaven' into?
What but a grand gallery to lounge in, filled with
masterpieces, crowded with all manner of delicate
thoughts in arabesque, and mosaic, and fresco, and
relief-work; with comfortable sofas scattered about,
whereon to loll, and to look along the beautiful per-~
spectives. and to have his fancy ministered unto by
every form and attitude of beauty, and to trace all
sorts of delicate analogies~ and to deliver himself of
sharp and sparkling criticisms, and to be duly ap-
plauded therefore by kindred spirits; a fancy heaven,
a paradise of self-conc&amp;it and super-refined sensu-

ality. And our other neighbor here, . , the
philosopher, as he sometimes presumes to call him-
self; will his ideal of a future life bear inspection
any better? What is it, but an indulgence in fine
talk and dreamy speculation, over sempiternal pipes
and coffee; weaving curious theories, and discussing
nice problems, not to benefit his brethren or promote
"the cause of truth, but for his own gratification, or
to win the admiration of brother wits, who have in-
telligence enough to keep his faculties agreeably
stimulated, but not to shake his sway over their
minds: a heaven, not so gross, certainly, but full as
selfish as that of the epicure. And that silly wife
of his, her heaven seems to be lying abed all day,
reading novels; having at the same 'time, neither
memory to retain, nor judgment to discriminate be-
tween them. Nothing comes amiss to her, from the
Lady of the Manor down to Jack Shepherd, from
Peregrine Pickle to Salathiel. I dare say she is,
this very minute, deep in her ten thousandth, with-
out being one whit more wise or witty, than she was
when cutting the leaves of her ~rst, a quarter of' a
century ago; having' just about as intelligent an a
precaution of the contents, as that board-fence op-
posite, has of t e long generations of play-bills that
have been pas ed upon it, for the last ten years.
And will God c descend to humor such whims as
these? Will lie perpetuate such a set of fools, fops,
profligates, and self-seekers as most of us are

A

62

4.
CL0UD~ AND SUNSHINE.

6~3

A


t;4        CLOUVIS ANI) SUNSHINE.                                                                65 (A~OUD~4 ANI) SUN8IIINE.

Yes. I repent it. slanderer though you think me. 1
(lOfl~ b(djeVC thCl\' ~ a hUndred men Oil the round
~'lobe il~is mOfl'I( fl~ there mai/ be a~ many women).
who would take. if they could get it. the spiritual
heaven you speak of: a heaven of ~etive duty, of
going about the universe (lO1~~ ~'ood. of temperancQ
and faith. and holy meditation : no, they would alto-
g'ether prefer annihilation.
A. A meiancholy~ans~ver this.1 to my question.
eei'tainly. Such ~ jews. from a man of threescore.
would sound harshly enough : but in you. mu y friend;
who are not yet near the top of life's hill. how un-
natural. how repulsive do they appear
fl. WciL I dare say I have ~ot old somewhat
before m~ time. [But. acc~rdimig to your theory of
life. why should a man of threescore Years have
bore ZiOOm~ \~iCW5 than OflO of twemitv ? On the
contrary, ought he not to be far more hopeful and
enthusiastic. heinz 53 much farther on the road to
that perfection which you say is his destiny ? Your
lan~uaze and sentiments seem hardly consistent.
The top of lifc'shilL indeed ! Don't that very form
of speech betray the real feelings of men on this
subject? Would they use such language. if they
thought life was only the ,first step of an endless
progress? Would-
A. Excuse me. but this sounds to me very much
like livper-criticism. In discussing a~l subjects, we
must. of course. draw our illustrations from familiar

64

65

objects. liE my faith5 like yours, rested merely on
the evi(lenCO of' my senses, II should acknowledge
the Lree of your remark. But I do not care to ar-
gue the point at present. Go on, finish what you
were ~OIfl gto say.
B. I was merely going to~ add, that the phe-
nolnena that I see in my own heart, and in those of
others, in connection with these same advancing
years of' life, only ten(1 to make me more and more
distrustful and indifferent about a future existence.
What are they? A word or two on this head, and
I surrender the floor. Youth, I grant you, is not
without its generous impulses, its lofty aspirationS,
its dreams of victory over the ignorance and wicked-
ness around it. There is something beautiful in its
faith and enthusiasm, its gay visions and gorgeous
cloud-palaces. Its very failings are not without
their fascinations. But how long do these things
last? how long is it before we begin to doubt and
criticism our brethren? How soon, alas, does Cufl-
tact with the world rob youth alike of its lustre and
of its hopes ! How soon does the uncomfbrtabie
business of self-inspection begin; the cross-~Iues-
tioning of each desire and motive; the constant dis-
covery of latent evil, in our own hearts, and those
of others ; the dreary task of analysis; the pulling
to pieces of all the bright creations that before so
engaged and cheered us, and the erection of far dif-
ferent structures in their stead, where suspicion sits


pit
f 1K ~,
ii ;!'t:
'4'
II
'a
~4~

* ever watchful at her window, and selfishness ever
guards thc portal ! Ilow skepti&amp;il, and calculatijio'
aiid sordid do most of ~us become, 1long before reach-
ing iniUdle life'! how do we weigh, and measure,
and cotmt the cost alikb of avery pleasure and ,of
cverv.ta~k ! There is something~ to forgive in the
heedless dissipation' of youth ; but this cool, ~cien'-
tifle sensuality of middle ago, thi~ deliberately strik-
ing the balance between evexy indulgence and its
price, in the way of h&amp;d~h, or property, or rep~ta-
tion, this arithmetical debauchery, how, dis~ustip is
0
it ! And yet how all but universal ! If we gain in
vigor of intellect; too. as we advance, do we Pot lose
in loftiness of ideal? We may have clearer percep-
tions, and more tenacity of purpose; we may grasp
a few things more firmly, but that ndble ambition
afte~' excellence iI~ all things, where is it'? Does
nc~t e~{ry added hour find us with a lower standard
of goodness and of greatness m ore disposed to ac~
quiesce in small performances ; more willing to fore-
go the pursuit. now of this accomplishment, now of
that branch of science, no~ of the other plan of be-
nevolen Ce; and to concentrate our faculties upon
mere money-making. or offlce-seeki~g, or the acqui-
sition of a c4fortable position in Society? And
so on, on, with the horizon ever growing narrower
and narrower, even to old age. And what do we see
in old age, even in its pleasantest aspects, that re-
minds us of that immortal life and endless progress

I

CLOUI)3 ANI) SUNSLITNE.         67
you speak of? WhaIJ, at best, but a quiet resigna-
lion to fate, and conviction of the folly of struggling
with the decrees of nature, and not a ii eful look-
ing forward to the future; arid as we ordinarily see
it, a fretful, peevish thing, jealous of little attentions,
fhr more anxious about its meals and small comforts,
than about its own gro th in grace or the progress
of the race ; singing the praises of old times, per-
haps, in feeble strains of mingled vanity and regret,
but seldom or ever pointing us to any bright vfsta
beyond the grave; spelling of that grave, in which
it is so soon to be laid, not as the portal of eternity,
but as the. end of the journey, the long home, the
place of rest~ how can you reconcile such phe-
nomena as these, such language as this, with the
doctrine of imn~ortality'? I know you will reject
this as an untrue picture. You will deny that the
mind decays with the body. You will say that th~
senses bear false witness in this matter ; that this
apparent~ imbecility and peevishness are merely on
the surface; that the Soul itself is as sound, and
bright, and hopeful as ever, could we get at it, with-
drawing more and more as it do~s~t6 its inner
world, ais its means of communication with the outer
one are impaired. I must differ with you~ I can-
not recognize the truth of this version. There is a
kind of attractive plausibility about it, at rst blush;
but it soon resolves itself into a mere comfortin~
suggestion of our own self-love. At least it deems

(36

CLOUDS ANI)   '~li1NE.                   '4


p
~I.
~'t~
~Il Y
II'
4
p
It

f~LOUt)5 ANi) 5UN~4111NE.

4LOUI)8 AND SUNSIIINB.

so to me. I3ut why multiply words? I can ofily
repeat, by way of conclusion to this feeble reply to
your questions that the more I think of all these
thiiigs, the less disposed am I to believe i~i any fu-
ture life, or to see any other destiny in store for my-
self, than for the tree that may have chanced to give
me shade or shelter when li~ ~ or that may wave
over my bones when I am gathered to my fathers.
I have done.
A. Still the same gloomy conclusion, then; and
the road that leads to it full as gloomy ! I don't
wonder, my friend, that you are a dull, moddy, soli-
tude-seeking man. You ow~1it to be wretched, with
such a horrible creed as this. That it is utterly un-
sound. that it blasphemes God, that it libels man, that
4t stands in the way of all true progress and peace,
are. I think, demonstrable propositions. I may
not have the ability to demonstrate them to your
satisfaction. I certainly do not propose to under-
ta~ e any such task to-day. Still I should like to be
heard in reply, when we meet again. I should like
to splinter a lance, humble champion that ii am, in
behalf of the blessed cause of Faith and hope, and
see if I can make no impression on this frightful
skepticism of yours.
B. Sob e it, then. I am bound to listen, though
this discussion was not of my seeking. If my opin-
ions are so very frightful, I ought certainly to try
to exchange them for something better. Ii will hear

patiently~ awl if conViflCC(I (though I confess I do
not anticipate any such result), I hope I shall be
honest enough to say so.
A. Very well, then; I claim the floor for to-
morrow, and so, my dear friend, good morning.
B. Addio.

68

69

I,


CONVERSATION III,

A. AND now, my dear friend, I propose, to re-
ply, somewhat at length, and in order, to the re-
marks that fell from you yesterday. You began,
you remember, by saying that even if you were to
live hereafter, and be transferred to other worlds,
you felt n'o confidence that you would be a gainer
thereby; that this world and man, bad as they were,
might, after all, be God's master-works, etc., etc.
Now I must say, this notion of yours seems to me
altogether fanciful and unsound, opposed to all that
science teaches us about the 1~niverse, utterly op-
posed to all our ideas of proportion and harmony.
had you started prPcisely the opposite doubt, you
would have been far nearer the mark. I should
haye put the question thus Can it be that this
earth, filled as it is with life and beauty, crowded as
it is with specimens of creative wisdom and good-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

71

ness, is, after all, anything more than a mere intro-
duction to grander things to come? or that man
with all his marvellous gifts, can furnish us with any
but a very feeble image of the powers and attributes
of grander performers on grander theatres of ac-
tion? I should feel as a stranger would, standing
before the sculptured portal of some vast cathedral;
not, that the architect had exhausted all his skill
on the outside, but all the more eager to explore the
world of splendor and majesty within, of which it
was thearnest. If this planet of ours, with its
scanty proportions, and its narrow circuit through
space, is yet so laden with lovely and precious
things, what must the treasures and splendors be,
of the hundred-fold greater Jupiter? If a summer
evening on earth be so charming, with its soft moon-
light and lustrous stars, what sort of a spectacle
must that be which is nightly presented to the fa-
vored inhabitants of Saturn? And why may they
not have a correspondingly greater power of appre-
ciation and comprehension of that spectacle? have
faculties oi~ mind and body, compared with which
those even of a Milton are faint and feeble? Why
may not the science, and art, and poetry, and faith
of Saturn, have a corresponding grandeur, anti beau-
ty, and fervor, which we humble occupants of earth
can hardly imagine? This it seems to me, would
be the more fair and philosophical way of putting
this question. Again, this idea of yours is, as I

9


I

72

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

said at the time, directly opposed to the promises of
the Bible. You immediately replied, however, that
you had no faith in those promises, or in their divine
origin; and you straightway began to draw a most
unbecoming and profane parallel (excuse me, but I
must call it so) between the-Scriptures and the plays
of Shakspeare. -Had the poet himself been by to
have heard it, he would have been the first to frown
indignantly at any such comparison, or at the
thought of naming all the uninspired writers of
earth put together, in the same breath with that
blessed book. Do, my dear friend, revive your re-
collections somewhat of those same parables and
epistles you spoke of so slightingly, ay, and of the
Psalms and Prophets, before venturing on any such
criticism again. I will not dwell lorig upon this
point. You say you have read several of the writ-
ings -of the -more illustrious champions of Chris-.
tianity, but without being convinced by them. Why
then waste any feeble words of mine 3 I can only
reply that we differ loto colo.. My. mind is con-.
vinced, overwhelmed by the weight of evidence for
it, internal and external. Its, long array of wit-.
nesses, sealing their testimony with their blood ; the
entire harmony of the sacred writers on all essential
points of fact or doctrine, strengthened as it is by
their occasional differences on unimportant ones ; thie
precious quality of the truths revealed ; their quan-
tity also, enough to give us cheerful hopes and comn-

ill

/
*'~1

!If

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.             7
fortable glimpses of the life to come, and not enough
painfully to pique our curiosity, and so seduce us
'from the legitimate tasks and enjoyments of earth ;
the feeling of the absolute necessity of some such
tidings from heaven, as the, only thing that could
meet the great crying want of humanity, the only s lu-
tion of and balm for the troubles and sorrows of life ;
what have I to say, on these and kindred topics, that
has not been a hundred fold better said already?~
Thc idea of rejecting such a revelation as this, is to
my mind inconceivably painful and horrible ; and
the idea of criticising, or finding fault with it, be-
cause it contains things not quite in accordance with
our humble notions of the sublime and beautiful, or
because it contains puzzles too deep for our frail wits,
seems to me the 'very height of impertinence and
presumption. As well might the rescued sailor
presume to criticise the vessel that had just snatched
him from destruction, or the prophet of God to have
sneered at the very chariot that bore him to heaven.
But to proceed. I next asked you, if you saw no-
thing in the great volume of nature, on which to
build a rational faith in immortality. Was it not
so ?
B. It was ; and I replied, that so far as I could
make out the contents of that same volume, with
these poor senses of mine, their report seemed to be
on the side of annihilation.
A. Even so ; and you went on to ask a series of

I

I

V
''1

I

I

4


4~t
4

(JLCWf)~4 AN[) sf;NSIIJNE.

qU('5t~fl~. ~I5 tO (110 tVUO mivire ol the Thi;ivi~~ be
Iwoen soul and bo(iv. and tho  moment of death
ClOstions to which flO human I)O1P$22 Over dii or ever
(Th. ~JVO any Sati8f~'ietony  s'w(hrs, ~I~iP ~Viat of
: Is the iHtOPCviCO WhiTh you won Id derive from
this nnporh'oIic~i of the sensor. awl our visequent
flOI'~1W0. the jns~ one ? Oh no. no. It 'ems to
mE~ fh~P as in the previous
~Ofl ot the eot1~ara
tive ~-ahies vt earth an~nan. and of the other ~xorIds
ahout us ant their inhabitants. so in this von ought
to have tak4Cil inst the opposite ground. You ought
to ha~-e ar~ned thus if these senses, of earth. Ijin-
ited and perishiuc as they are. vet do their offices so
thorouzhW within the ran ~e assigned them. what
onicnona will not be reve~iei to me. "hat nwste~-
rms ThM exphrinoi. ~hen. in G-ods ~I season. I am
en~llwe~ v~izn facu~ties more subtle and po~erfuI
V these fraL senses of earth vet manifest to me. m
mvsel: anu in all around me. such evidenees of di-
vine skill and hounn-, what ma~ I uci expect to b&amp;
1~w aim to re~lize, ~ben en3owed with the glorious
orzaiiizazion of an anzcd If this delicate. sb rink-
WZ. scnsmv ev~ of mine hath vet such ma~nifeent
blQUrCS sr~rea~i CU r~eThre ;ris tender. easily
v r
wounded ear is thin ~nLz~ru          sterel unt~.
wiia: n~ust be the beaur-~ and the music. what iLe
revt:ations of aJJ sorts. that are ~cueLsafej unn
anzeiw Peeppo~ ~ rLc2wrT ThEfV I 7(0? ior~k fL~r-
warci tc ~ucL I'ercep:icrns. an~ ta ~ ~

ate to tbern ? 'II he J(lCa that there IS nothing worth
seeing or knowing in the universe, oft' this litt1~
e~irth ; that (Al has exhausted all lbs resourceS
and if is kindness on one small fragmentt of his
works, is, as I said before, one which4 the mind in-
stinctively r~ject5 ; nay, it is precisely the opposite
0110 that is irresistibly forced upon it, and That all
~the (liSCOVOrICS of science, be they in the skies above
us, or in the dew-drops at our feet, are continually
strengthenifig and confirming. hf then, these won-
(lers, thus feebly shadowed forth on earth, do exist,
far more profuse and perfect, in more favored worlds,
why may we not be permitted to visit those worlds,
and to contemplate those wonders? If God has
gratified u~ thus far, if lie has let us into some few
of the secrets of His creation, and has thereby
aroused our curiosity and stimulated our ambition,
will he let us penetrate no farther-? Were. then,
the powers of a Shakspeare to be exerted on ea~th
alone? Was he to study human hearts and portray
human passions only ? Was a Newton doomedd to
be a mere pebble-gatherer on the shore of truth, and
were none of the treasures of the great deep to be
revealed to him? Was a liersehel to be teazed
with a few stray glimpse of the wonders of the
skies, and there an end? Who can. believe it? Is
it not more reasonable and fair. then. to cherish cx-
pectations of a future life. tbunded on our experi-
'~'nce hci~e~ thati to take the ground yoa do. and ~o

*t

71              OUDS' XNV' S~1i\5H1~T\E.

I,

t


76         CLOUDS AND SUNSHiNE.

call in our senses as witnesses on the side of skepti-
cism and materialism, and to argue from their imper-
fections, against the existence of all phenomena be-
yond their grasp? These same phenomena of death,
this giving up the ghost as we call it, this wondrous
process, far too subtle and delicate for our feeble per-
ceptions, how simple an operation may it not be to
more curiously and rarely organized being; and jus
as palpable a matter of observation and calculation
to him, as to us the beating of the pulse, or the
changes of the countenance. But, my dear friend,
does not a moment's reflection teach us, how utterly
unsuitable any such organization would be for us?
Suppose such a revelation y'ere made to our senses;
suppose we could, trace the flight of the spirit from
the bed of death, till it were lost in the depths of
space, would we be the gainers by any such addition
to our knowledge? Wouldn't it only serve to unfit
us the more for the duties of life?. Why, all the
world would stand gazing curiously at the heavens,
or would be hurrying away in pursuit of the depart-
ed ones; earth would los~ all charm for us, would
soon be abandoned to neglect and decay. Just as
any more explicit statements in God~s word* would
have been inappropriate, so any more light shed
upon our senses on these points, would have only im-
paired our affection for those about us, and have
taken ~way the due interest from our tasks and rel-
ish from our enjoyments, here. Who can help see-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

77

t
1

in4 that we have just the organization, alike in its
strength an(lrn its weakness, for our position; the
organization that makes us at once the appropriate
and willing instruments for carrying out God's de-
signs on earth? And is it not fair to infer, from this
exquisite adaptation of means to ends here, that when
we take our leave of earth, we shall receive a neW
endowment of faculties, just as felicitously contrived
for the new and loftier scenes and employment that
await us? isn't it quite as reasonable a view of the
subject as yours, to say the least?
B. Perhaps it is; at the same time there seems to
me to be a most uncomfortable preponderance of hy-
pothesis over fact, in all such speculations. But I
must not interrupt you. You were to be the talker,
you know, I the listener, to -day.
A. Well then, let me say a word or two more on
this point. The more we examine this same argu-
ment of yours, which would ignore the existence of
an hereafter, upon the imperfect testimony of the
senses, the more and more untenable does it appear.
For how many processes are going on continually
around us, just as much without the range of those
senses, as is the translation of the soul in death. I
am not speaking of the tricks of jugglers, or of cu-
rious experiments in science, but of the most familiar
mental operations that every moment bears witness
to; that marvellous process, for instance, whereby
a few words ~ung or spoken will melt an audience to

76


CLOUDS AM) SUN5J1INf~.

CLOUDS ANT) SUNSHINE.

tears, or ~onvulsc them with laughter ; that subtle
alchemy whereby, at the sight of a little. (51'055, the
hardened ruffian is straightway converted into the
trembling, crouching penitent ; in a word, all those
curious inscriptions, 1)0 they sad or Joyous, beautiful
or loathsome, that the passions are perpetually writ-
ing upon these countenance~ an(l forms of ours;
what light, I ask, do tit C senses sited upon these
phenomena? The effects are ever before us, but the
processes themselves, are they not as completely be-
yond the cognizance of those senses as the soul's
flight is in the dying hour? Certainly they are
and the only difference that I can see in the two
eases is this, that in the one the effects are necessa-
rily presented to us, for our well-being and guidance
through life, while in the other, they are as wisely
withheld from us, because the perception of them
would utterly unfit us for all hfe's duties and enjoy.
ments. So it seems to me, and I should therefore
think it just about as i~nreasonable, to call in ques-
tion the imi~ortality of the soul, because I cannot
trace~ the actual' separation of that soul from its
body, in the act of dying, as I would to call in ques.
tion the reality of thz~e telegraph, because I cannot
trace with these eyes the flight ~ its mysterious
messenger along the wires. Let me then, in conclu-
sion, once more staie my proposition. I say, then,
that it appears to me far more rational and philoso-
phical to infer a continued existence, with new pow-

(

78

79

'I

(~1'S Ifl flOW spheres of action, from our actual exist-
(11CC hero, and the wonders that this life reveals to
us, than to argue against it, simply because our
senses cannot solve the problem of death.
B. Or, in other words, you are for carrying the
good, old-fashioned motto of "Live and Learn" be-
yond the grave.
A. Even so. But to our next point. I. then
asked you, how you could reconcile the daily occur-
rences of life to God's goodness and justice, gave by
an hereafter; arid what was your answer? A most
unsatisfactory, a most gloomy one. You quarreled
with my premises. You said that for aught you
knew, God might be a capricious and cruel being;
that you had just as much right to take that ground
as I the opposite; that neither of us had any data
for any intelligent opinion on the subject, &amp;c., &amp;c.
You threw doubt on that great cardinal truth of
truths, in which the mind has sought refuge; in all
ages, the goodness of the Creator. You would de-
prive us of that feeling of filial love and confidence
towards 6-od, which every child instinctively feels
towards his eart ly parent. bay, you went on tt)
as~some      ~cro~
describe him,        vile N    throwing ~orlds
about, in sheer wantonness, or crushing them to pow-
der, or. tossing them inti dismal gulfs of fire. Mon-
strous conception! The idea of our Father in Hea-
ven's taking up this earth of his. a~d. without one
glance of pity either for his own work or fbr man's,


80         CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.                                     CLOUDS AND SUNSHtNE.         81

(1

heedless alike of its pleading beauty and of all the
recollections clustering round it, of its hallowed spots,
its sacred battlefields, of the homes of the living and
the resting-places of the dead, of the cries of its poor
innocent women and children, of the infirmities of age
and the helplessness of infancy, without one word of
\ warning or explaiiation, no, not even giving us tjme
to toll our bells, or say our prayers, or chant one last
sad funeral hymn together, and so expire with de-
cency, but, in the twinkling of an eye, and in the
veriest caprice of tyranny, consigning us to a destrQc-
tion so cruel and ignominious, such an idea as this,
how revolting, how blasphemous is it! how can
you, how can you, iivy friend, allow your imagination
to wander in such forbidden paths? You, who have
been so blest of heaven, \YhQ have been permitted to
taste so many of the beauties and bounties of nature;
who, this very summer past, while others have been
chained to their desks, prisoners in sultry cities,
have been free to go forth among the sublime and
beautiful scenes of earth; whom I have seen gazing
delightedly on lake and mountain and waterfall;
you, who have been surrounded by havingng grain-
fields, and fruit-laden trees, and the music of birds
and bees, and the sweet company of flowers, scattere(i
o'er fields and hillsides, or daintily arrayed in gardens;
you, my friend, to preach such a doctrine as this,
and to call in question God's goodness, when it has
been thus inscribed all around you, in letters of light,

.1

81

attested by myriad forms of loveliness ! Thank
heaven; I look with far different eyes upon these
things, I read far different lessons in them. They
tell me, not of heaven's unkindness, but of my own
unworthiness; of my own frail, sinful nature; of my
tardy, scanty thanks for all this munificence; they
bid me awake from my sloth and self-indulgence, and
be hearty and diligent in my duties, and so earn an
entrance into worlds still more bright and beautiful,
still more crowded with tokens of a father's love.--
But, my friend, you did not stop there; you would
accuse your Maker of neglect, as well as cruelty.
Beautiful consistency, indeed! One moment you
call God a tyrant, and the next you attribute all the
evils of life to the mal-admini~tration of inferior in-
telligences, to whom he has abandoned the charge of
earth. Abandoned the charge! How, can you use
such language; you, (excuse my being again thus
personal) who see the north star nightly from your
chamber-window, who hear the constant music of
the waves that wash your own lovely villa, and the
punctual morning service of the birds, and the faith-
ful evening chants of the insects; the meanest peb-
tIe of whose garden-walks, bears witness to the care
and bounty of God; how can you, I say, talk thus,
thus call in question the reality of the divine gov-
eminent; with all this exquisite machinery in mo-
tion about you, this prodigality of thought expended
on the very minutest details* that appertain unto


I

82         CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

your comfort and well-being? But I ~will not stop
*to argue such a point as this. You then went on to
throw suspicion on the feeling itself, which leads us
all instinctively to refer to another life, for the solu-
tion of the mysteries and sorrows of this. What is
it, after all, you asked, but mere mortified vanity or
wounded pride, or disappointed ambition? A pretty
basis, indeed, to build a faith upon! Yes, 'you were
for resolving it all into the mere idle clamor of chil-
dren at having their sports stopped, their toys taken
from them; the mere remonstrance of self-love,
vexed and indignant at being cut short in the midst
of its follies and indulgences. As unjust in this, to
your brethren, as before to your Maker: as if no
noble career wais ever interrupted by death, no laud-
able ambition thwarted, no holy zeal for others' good
untimely snatched away from its labors, no pure and
lofty genius cut down in the morning of its triumphs,
no single case ever made out of a fair claim on God's
equity, for light or recompense hereafter. Such an
explanation belies humanity. Take the, case, too, of
the poor penitent, who from his bed of death looks
back upon a misspent lifp, who feels how miserably
he has fallen below 'that ideal of excellence that is
yet ever present to him, who in the anguish and bit-
terness of his heart prays God yet to give him a
chance to redeem his character; not to be released
from punishment, but after the dread penalty is
paid, to reappear in some brighter world, and by a

CLOUDS AND su: SIJLNE.

83

long career of faithful service, atone for all the fob
lies and the sins of earth ; do you mey~n to say there
is nothing pure and genuine in such a feeling as
this? Will you explain it all away into a mere
childish whim, or morbid vanity, or selfish shrinking
from annihilation? I do not accept any such inter-
pretation of the matter; nor do I believe that God
will turn a deaf ear to such a claim as this; still
less to the cries of innocent suffering, or the prayers
of a true ambition, and thus cruelly shut the door in
thA'aces of His poor children. As to the idea you
suggested, that this world may have been construct-
ed, not for man's welfare, or for his education and
preparation for loftier scenes, but as a mere puppet-
sho~~,to amuse youthful angels with, and after hav-
ing, served it's turn, ~o be thrown aside, like some
old, worn-out panorama in a museui~,to make way
for some new entertainment, so far from being rea~
sonable, it seems to me the veriest caprice of an
o' erective fancy. And yet, you seemed to think this
explanation quite as~admissible 'as any other, and
that we were utterly in the dark as to all Goa's
plans and motives all opinions (so you said), are
alike worthless on the subject; what do we know
about it? what are we, at the best, but poor, blind,
ignorant captives, utterly at God's mercy; what can
we do but grumble, or else bear in grim silence,
whatever He sees fit to inflict? Yes, you spoke of
our Father in heaven, just as the poor tenants of the

':1


85

CJ~OfJl)8 ANT) SiJN5FJfN~.

84

dismal dungeons of Venice might have spoken of the
cruel and mysterious o'ovcrnmcnt of which they
were the victims. I terrible pervei'sien ; utter mis-
reading of the text of the great volume of provi-
dence ! But, my friend, when I taxed you w.i th
these sentiments, as being alike unreasonable a
unfilial towards God, you chopped suddenly round,
and from grumbler turned cynic. You intro(luee(l,
you remember, a philosophical gentleman on the car-
pet. A pretty philosopher, truly ! Allow inc to
say that he had far more of the squalor of the tub,
than of the dignity of the academy, about l~im. his
was a very pleasant, off-hand solution of the prob-
1cm of evil. He thought this world explained itself;
on the whole, quite satisfactorily, withQut bothering
our brains about an~ ~ther; that the inequalities
anti accidents of life resolved themselves away into
pretty much nothing, when critically investigated
that the punishment of having to take care of one's
property, was about equal to the blessing of owning
it; that an ear for music was the source df quite as
much torture as pleasure to its owner; that such
casualties as fhe burning of the Henry Clay, for in-
stance. or the sinking of the Atlaut~c, far from
being the themes of lamentation, or of indignant re-
monstrance, were en the whole, blessings, as tending
to rid society of far more nuisances and villains,
*1
than they deprived it of valuable citizens; and that
the sufferers themselves, were they reasonable,

WOUl(I take that view of the suhject. Ito would say
to one of' those sufferers, whose heart might still be
bleeding for the loss of some (lear w~fo or (laughter,
"Cheer up, my friend, cheer up; true, you have
been suddenly deprived by this disaster of loved
companions; but hark'ye, a word in your ear. Krrnw
then, that when this accident occurred, there was a
the fo
gang of counterfeiters on   re part of the boat,
and that every rascal of' thorn has perished, together ~
with the implements of their accursed trade. Many
similar facts connected with this occurrence have
also come to light, all going to show, in the aggre-
gate, a most decided balance of good, with which it
ought to be credited on the books of the community,
and which fairly earns for the individuals who
caused it, the title of benefactors. how unreasona-
ble, then, how unpatriotic your grief! So cheer up,
dry your tears, and be a man." Such would be the
consolations of your philosophical friend. Oh. out
upon such shallow sophistry, such hideous mockery.1
as this! In the same heartkss, flippant way did he
speak of all life's bereavements~ Death was a kind
friend, come to put a stop to family jars; decreeing
divorces that were not to be had in chancery, and so
paving the way for other and more agreeable alli-
ances; death in infancy, especially~ was a matter ~f
cono'ratulation; the dear thincrs were thereby dcliv-
ered from far more temptations and troubles, than
they were defrauded of en2ovlnents: let the bened~c-


86

CLOUDS AND SUNSIIINi:.

tiO~S of patrulrelv~ say what they will, let the hearts
01 mothers 1)1(3(1 as they will, for length of days for
their loved OUCS ; they are wrong, wrong in the mat~*
ter ; illerod was rio~ht ind ~, of the slaughter-
~ ~ the (bAr
od innocents was a blessed day for Judea. Charm-
ing conclusions ! Beautiful tribute to the wisdom
and goodneSS of the Creator! He then went on to
say that the great mass of men, however much they
might i~4~y the hypocrite in public on the subject,
yet in their ~cry hearts were alike skeptical and in-
different about a future life; nay more, that their
language and conduct betrayed them in spite of
themselves. He would have made out the groat poet
lihuself a materialist, on the strength of his epitaph,
and of some few equivocal expressions scattered
over his plays; as if for every one such passage,
there were not a thousand that would be alike worth-
less and meaningless, save on the supposition of an
here fter. I could cite fifty from Hamlet itself, of
this ription. Let me repeat a few only:

Do not, forever, with thy veiled lids,
Seek for thy noble f4hcr in the dust.
Thou kriow'st 'tis common; all that live must die,
Passing through nature to eternity.
*       *.       *       *       *
Thus was I. sleeping, by a brother's hand,
Of life, cf crown, or queen, at once dispatched;
Cut off even in tile blossoms of my sin,
No reckoning made, but sent to my account,
With all my imperfections on my head.

L2

(~L0UDS ANT)       NSIffNE.
*        *       *
In the corrnpte(l currents of this worl(l,
OffericO's gil(1Cd hand may ~li0v~ by jtt?~tI((~
But 'fis n~t so abovc~
'IYicrc is mie shuffling, there the action lies
In his true nature.
*        *        *        *
We Aefy augury. Thero is a special providence
in the fail of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not
come; if it be not now, yet it will come; the readi-
mess is all.
4        *        4        *
Lay her i' the earth;
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh,
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest)
A ministering angel shall my sister be,
When thou best howling.
*        *        *

*

Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince)
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
What rest'? Annihilation, say you? the extinc-
tion of those glorious faculties? no, no; rest for a
while, from the troubled world that he had left; from
that polluted court, where incest, murder, treason,
tainted the very air; whence wisdom had fled in dis-
may, and where love had been driven to madness; a
release from such harsh, dismal scenes as these. and
a reunion with the loved and lost, in brighter worlds.
Shakspeare a* materialist? The interpreter of lin-
man life, the expounder of the heart, a materialist?
Monstrous calumny! To cite his own epitaph, toot

/

I,

I

4


88           CLOTJDS AND STJNSH1NE.
as a witness against him; that epitaph so full of
pathos, informed as it is, with such an intense hu-
manity.
Good friend! for Je~us"sake forbear
To dig the dust enclosed here.
Blest be the man that spares these stones,
And cursed be he that moves these bones.
The poet is not here speaking in his o~vn behalf
merely; no, he is pleading for the great family of
man, pleading for the repose and sanctity of the
grave, and invoking a world's denunciation upon its
ruthless violators. But, my friend, to return to our
philosopher; I deny utterly his statement that the
world generally are disbelievers in immortality, and
are merely playing upon each other, in their profes-
ions of faith. I wonder how any reasonable man
could ever make it. It seems to me a most outra-
geous libel on n~ankind. The annals of every age
and nation belie it; nay, the experience of every
human heart, from Adam's down, if honestly set
forth, I believe, would demonstrate its falsity. Yes,
the most perverse of reasoners, the veriest hair-
splitter that ever abused his understanding~ cannot
run away from the great cardinal truths of God, and
immortality, and accountability; truths coeval with
man; truths never expounded, indeed, in their sub-
lime purity and simplicity till Christ came on
earth; still, recognized alike in the rudest rites

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

89

of the rudest savages, and in the brilliant and
fascinating polytheism of Greece; defaced, more or
less, in both, by unworthy conceptions and by cruel
and obscene ceremonies; still, shining conspicuous
through th~in all, the essential, vital parts of every
creed under heaven; truths, without which, the
world would seem the most pitiful of snarls, the earth
itself the merest mass of rubbish; without which,
there would have been nothing for history to record,
or art to commemorate; nay, all the transitions of
life, all its loves and feuds and excitements would
have been of no more interest or consequence than
the amours of so many cats, or the squabbles of so
many curs. But I have not patience to discuss a
point, that seems to me so clear as this. There was
still, my dear friend, as you will remember, a part of
my question, which you did not undertake to answer.
I mean that which referred to the unpunished crimi-
nals of earth, and their poor, tortured, slaughtered,
violated victims. How were they to be disposed~ of?
This most painful and puzzling part of the problem
of life, how was it to be solved? You were silent,
but your philosophical friend undertook to put the
matter at rest, in a most off-hand and comprehensive
way, to be sure. He said, that all these evils were
to he laid at man~s door, not God's; they were sim-
ply the result of our abuse of our freedom; God had
given us the capacities and the materials for happi-
ness; had given us the light of nature and of reason;

I

4

'-

Ii

I

I
I
I
*1
I
I
12
dl


90         CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE~                                   CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.         91

we had hut to follow them, and farewell, at once, to
the crimes, diseases, sorrows of the race; every man
would be happy; every man would have length of
days and abundance of comforts, in fact, all that his
Maker ever intended to give him; arid therefore, so
far from having a right or a disposition to grumble,
if' no other world were vouchsafed him, he would still
be a contented, thankful debtor for the blessing of
this. Plausible statement, truly ! Why, look aI~ it
a moment. According to this reasoner, God has had
nothing to do with the world, since creation morning.
After making man and earth, and the laws that were
to govern them, he 'has turned us adrift, to look out
for ourselves. Every thing that has happened on
the planet since, is of man's doing. Let him be duly
credited then, with all the blessings, and debited with
all the evils of life. GodTs not accountable for any
of these things. His care and bounty were exhaust..
ed on the work of creation. As to any subsequent
interference or supervision, save through these same
unbending laws of nature, there is no such thing.-
Ask not then, poor sinner or sufferer that' thou art,
for any light or help or re&amp;ompense from above, for
this must be the reply to thy petition: 'I have
nothing to do with the matter. I refer thee back to
thy brethren. In their hands alone is thy destiny.
I made man. I gave him the hints and the mate-
rials for happiness, and I left liini to himself. If he
hath not availed himself of them, tax not me with the

consequences. I have not interfered. I will not in-
terfere. Man must work out the problem for him-
self. Call not on me, then, in thy distresses. Ask
me not, to hurl my lightning against the transgres-
sor, or to stay the assassin~ s hand, or to stop the
breath of the pestilence, or to arrest the subtler poi-
son of the slanderer. These things are not of my
doing. As human guilt and folly caused, so must
human wisdom and goodness relieve or compensate
for them. Back then, to thy brethren, and impor-
tune me not with thy vain appeals? Horrible as
this sounds, yet what other answer to his prayer,
could the poor sinner have, according to this theory?
Away, away with it! Who that hath any heart or
soul about him, can tolerate it for a moment? A
doctrine utterly at war, not only with all the state-
)
ments of scripture, but with all the analogies of na-
ture. What, the Being who created this beautifpi
earth of ours, who hath arrayed it in such robes of
splendor, who hath stocked it with such boundless
varieties of life, who hath contrived all this exquisite
machinery for making it comfortable and agreeable
to his children, who hath expended such a world of
care and love upon us all, from imperial man, down
to the vagrant sparrow; He turn his back upon this
blessed work of his, from the very moment of its con-
summation, and never since vouchsafe a single kind
look, never condescend to interfere, with a solitary
act, Or even suggestion, for its welfare! It seems to

*1

j
4
-p

90

91


I                                       -

92

CLOUDS AND SUNSINE.

me that the bare statement of such a proposition as
this, sufficiently demonstrates its absurdity. Far,
far better believe the opposite doctrine, that there is
no event in life, however insignificant or repulsive we
may deem it, that is' not controlled by God. Yes,
with all its liability to misinterpretation and abuse ;
with all the excuses that it may seem 'to furnish to
the criminal, with all the scope that it may give to
the shallow and presumptuous reader of God's book
of providence, how much better is it than this other
notion, which thus isolates us from our Maker, thus
damps the spirit of prayer, stops the mouth alike of
thanksgiving and of penitence, banishes from earth
alike its guardian and avenging angels, and consigns
it to a sullen, wretched independence. I confess, my
friend, he longer I live, the more and more convinced
I 'am of the perpetual supervision of the Almighty,
of his perpetual interference with human freedom.
How far this interference was decreed from the be-
ginning ; .how far the Creator may ee fit to modify
his plans from time to time ; how fthe mysteries
of foreknowledge and free-will may be reconciled to
each other ; these, and such like knotty themes, are
not for us poor laymen. We must humbly leave
them to the 'grave and reverend doctors of the church.
And even of these, how few seem willing or compe-
tent to discuss them aright, to bring tQ them the pro-
per discipline of mind or body: a chosen few, indeed,
there have been, scattered over the pages of history,

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.       93

I I

/

I

I~IF ~
u~'~
Irv
j~i
'ii
41 1

pure and holy men, who, in the quiet o their lonely
cells, far from the smoke and stir of theTorld, have
dedicated clear heads and pious hearts to these deep
problems ; but they are not for us, the turbulent, the
giddy, the care-worn dwellers in cities. Far then be
it from me to offer any worthless speculations of
.mine concerning them. Thank heaven, the peace of
our souls is not involved in these mysteries. For all
the practical purposes of life, we have our freedom.
It is this very ignorance of ours that makes us free
and responsible ; that gives significance to the lau-
rels that we may win, or the stripes that we may
incur. Still, that there is this constant divine inter-
ference ; that there are messengers forever on the
wing between earth and heaven ; that humiliation
and sickness and death are continually sent as spe-
cial lessons to our pride and ingratitudle; that God's
grace does mysteriously descend, to soften the stony
heart of the sinner, and his anger, to overtake and
destroy the oppressor ; that there are often, special
interpositions between the murderer and his victim;
that we are often warned in dreams, of impending
perils or disasters ; all these things do I firmly and
fervently believe. Why should I not ? Is not the
good book full of them ? Wherein do they contradict
.reason ? Nay, will our hearts be satisfied with any
thing less ? Why pray at all, then ? Yes, I do be-
lieve in these special interventions ; not merely im
those that have been revealed to sense, and duly re-

'I


94

CLOUDS AND SUNShINE

I   ji~f

7,
I

CLOUDS. AND SUNSHtINE.

95

corded in God's holy word, but in those innumerable
ones that are continually occurring about us, lgt, for
wise ends, hidden from our sight. I believe, not only
that God talked with Adam and with Noah, that
angels conversed with Abraham, and ministered
unto Hlaga r in the wilderness, that the ravens were
sent with food to the prophet, in a word, all those
touching, those beautiful stories of holy writ, but. that
unseen spirits guided the bark of the great discov-.
erer, and saw the Mayflower safe to her haven, and
kept off the venom of the pestilence from the self,
devoting philanthropist, and turned aside the death-.
*shafts from our own patriot-hero ; that they are con-
stantly -doing "God's bidding on earth, constantly
modifying or controlling human conduct; and that,
while many of these interpositions sufficiently explain
and vindicate themselves, in this life, all will be made
clear hereafter. Call me credulous and visionary,
if you will. I repeat it, I would far rather believe
all these things, than that opposite doctrine, which
would deprive us of the light of God's countenance,
which would leave man to his-own wilfulness and
ignorance, which would substitute for our Father in
heaven, a system of inflexible laws, beneficent in the
main, of' course, but still ne'er tempered with equity,
that no prayer can ever bend, no plea avert. All
ou best affections and aspirations seem to me to
favor such belief; and to justify the expectations that
all these mysteries of the divine government, however '

7

r

(lark and painful many of them may seem here, will
be exp)ounded, andI~ their wisdomn and justice madle
.clear to us, in the work to come. I cannot then,
accept your philosopher's interpretation of this mat-
ter. So far from this world's explaining itself; as he
would have it, it seems- to me that it is only when we
have left it, that we shall begin rightly to comnpre-
hend it ; just as its physical features and beautiful
movements through the heavens, could only be fairly
perceived and appreciated, when surveyed from be-
yond it. And as I cannot but cherish. the hope of
being, in God's good season, endowed with an organi-
zation, that will enable me to behold and enjoy a
panorama so magnificent, -so do I humbly look for-
ward to* an intellectual capacity, with which to pene
trate the meaning and the moral of the great drama
of human existence. But, my dear friend. I must
not abuse my privileg , 'and tax too much your
patience.
B. Not at all, not .at all. I am listening with
interest, I assure you, though I confess I am by no
means convinced of the soundness of your reason -
ing, upon this last point. But go on, go on. Your
earnestness is certainly entitled to my respect, if
your arguments may not convince my understand-
ing.
A. Well then, allow me a few words upon the
last part of my question. I asked you, my dear
friend, if you saw nothing in your own nature, where-


on to build a faith in immortality ; no aspirations,
no capacities, that all the acquisitions, all the expe-
rience of this life failed to meet or satisfy. No, said
you, no ; nothing that will bear inspection ; nothing
that does not resolve itself into a mere traveler's
fancy, or schoolboy's whim, or the merest exaggera-
tions of self love ; no honest thirst after knowledge,
no real desire to do good ; nothing, in short, either
in the way of power or of disposition to make my-
self useful hereafter, that God would condescend to
recognize as a claim to a future life., And in speak-
ing thus for yourself, you insisted that you were
speaking for ninety-nine, hundredths of the human
family, in all ages ;. that they uniformly avoided the
thought of an hereafter, when they could ; and that
when their minds were forced'in that direction, their
conceptions were of the most gross and unworthy
character. You proceeded to illustrate your remark
by some most biting and unreasonably severe (as I
thought) criticisms upon your neighbors ; and you
concluded by asking, will God humor the whims of
~creatures like these ; will lie perpetuate such a set
of sensualists and .self-seekei-s ? No, no, no. We
neither desire nor deserve immortality. What a re-
ply ! -You 'could not have beenr in earnest, mny
friend, in making it ; in thus belying your own bet-
ter self, your friends, your brethren; in thus deny-
ing all noble qualities to human nature. What, no-
thing worth preserving, no solitary germ .of excel-

96      ~CLOUDS AND SUNSHlINE.                                         LUSADSNHN.9

A

1*

lence, no one element of growth or promise, that
God might turn to account, might put to glorious
uses hereafter ?
B. I admitted, however, that there were a few
brilliant exceptions, you remember, who-
A. True, but the great, the overwhelming ma-
jority of us were neither fit for, nor had any right to
expect anything beyond the grave.-
B. I certainly said so, and I can't help thinking
so.
A. And I say, that such a doctrine is to me in-
expressibly painful and repulsive. Nay more,- I
consider it an atrocious libel on humanity. I take
directly opposite ground. I say there is no human
being so sunk in vice and ignorance, but there is
something precious and sacred about him, which,
however we may overlook or deride it, God fails not'
to recognize, will not fail, in His own good season, to
ripen and develop, unto glorious issues. There is
nothing about us, thus absolutely worthless. It is
our own want of perception that makes us thus decry
,and condemn human nature. -Just as the child sees
nothing in the collection of the mineralogist, but a
mere congregation of worthless and misshapen stones,
so we thoughtless, ill-judging children of men, pass
through the world, throwing about our presumptuous
criticisms on each other, our wholesale censures of
God's works. I don't believe in them. I never yet
saw the man or woman, so stupid or degraded, but


98

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

could teach me sometl~ng, could beat me at som&amp;
- thing. I doubt whether there is a creature alive,
that hath not some latent gift about him, some tab
ent or other, that only needs auspicious influences,
and kindly culture, to be a positive blessing to soci-
ety. Out it will come at last, too, depend upon it,
at some time or other, in some part or other of God'g
dominions. How unreasonable to suppose it other-
wise I What, when IF see so many marvellous re-
sults produced by human skill, in, the development
of the animals, and fruits, ~and Ilowers of earth, am
I to be told that the soul of man has nothing impro-
vable in it; and that, if defrauded of its due culture
here, it may not, when transplanted to some more
genial sphere, there flourish and bear golden fruit?
Are we so intrinsically worthless, then, and on the
ground of that worthlessness to be consigned to
ignominious extinction; to perish forever, and be of
no ~iore validity than the meanest worm or vine that
may creep over our graves? Is a man to be put out
of the way, then, just as you would pull down an old
house, in soi~e crowded thoroughfare, forgotten ere
the very foundations are laid of its successor, and
there an end forever? Oh no, ho. I have no pa-
tience, my friend, with a doctrine so degrading as
this; a doo1trine which shocks alike my imagination,
and reason, and affections. The idea that all the
sweet babes, and gentle maidens, and dear old men,
all the heroes, and martyrs, and sages, that have

been consigned to their graves with solemn rites and
tributary tears, have passed into mere corruption
* and nothingness; that this earth, instead of being
the honored depository of such precious relics, as a sa-
cred trust to be surrendered on God's great day of
audience and of judgment, is nothing more than a
mere heap of rubbish, a mere aggregation of matter,
a mere succession of ever shifting forms; that in-
stead of being a theatre where a grand drama is cease-
lessly enacted for our instruction, it is a mere idle,
g~udy, meaningless spectacle ; who can be recon-
ciled to~such a thought as this? If so, indeed, fare-
well all the beauty. and venerableness of the planet;
farewell all the charm of its lan~lscapes, all loveli-
ness in tree or flower, all glory in the skies above it;
farewell the majesty of sea and mountain, the
sacrQdness of its battle-fields, nay, of all its associa-
tions what a mockery are all its shrines and mon-
uments; what a very harlequinade are all the toils,
and trials, and achievements of men! Yes, the man
who has really brought his mind to acquiesce in
such a doctrine as this, who has deliberately turned
his back upon all the glories an~ responsibilities of
an hereafter, has wilfully made himself brother to
the perishing brute, what satisfaction, what pleasure
is there left to him? What can be do, but sit and
grin, in scorn, at the pitiful mummories around him?
What else can they be to the holder of a creed like
this?

4

Li

I
1
I
It

99

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.


100

CLOUDS AND SUNShINE4
For, from that instant,
There's nothing serious in mortality.
All is bitt toys: renown and grace is dead;
The wine of life is drawp, and the mere lees
Is left this vault to brag of.

I must not quote Scripture, my friend, on this point,
for you, alas, repudiate its authority; but how con-
trary to reason your doctrine seems ! how deroga-
tory to the Almighty! All the rest of God's works,
the more their properties are revealed to us, the
more and more do thpy show forth His wisdom and
bounty. To the eye of science, there is nothing in-
significan.t or valueless in nature; the meanest peb-
ble at our feet tells us of the matchless contrivance
of the great Architect, of the exquisite adaptation
of means to ends, in every department of his works.
But if there be no future life, what a pitiful~ excep-
tion to the rule is man; what a' standing satire on
that same wisdoxu and goodness ! In this regard,
how worse than contemptible seem all the thought
and labor expended upon his creation anteducationi
If there is no other world, wherein to profit by the
lessons learnt in this, then is the heavenly parent
far less wise than any earthly one. What earthly
parent would go to the expense of a multitude
of teachers, and complicated course of studies,
and costly apparatus, for a poor sickly child,
that he knew must soon be taken from him, without
ever having the slightest opportunity of turning the

/

K
F
F

.1
F'

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

101

knowledge thus sct before him to any practical ac-
count? Such an illustration seems to mc neither
irreverent nor unjust. What is this world but a
magnificent and thoroughly appointed institution for
the development of human souls? Take away the
life to come, and all this training, all these elaborate
and munificent arrangements, what a perfect mock-
cry are they! Who can endure a doctrine that
leads to such absurd results, that thus isolates this
earth from the rest of creation, instead of making it
a link in a glorious chain, a primary school in a
grand scheme of education? I believe it to be such,
and If believe that we shall all, as, under God's good
guidance, we go on advancing to higher and higher
steps of this spiritual' development, come to look
back on it with the same affectionate veneration,
with which the man looks back in after years, upon
the old school-house where he learnt his first lessons.
You may call all this very fanciful and visionary.
Be it so. Any thing rather than this horrible skep-
ticisin of yours. Yps, I do cherish all sorts of glo-
rious expectations, in the 'life to come. I do believe
that all the mighty intellects of earth will go on, in
other worlds, continually gaining in vigor and re-
sources, and advancing from loftier to loftier careers
of usefulness. I believe that the great jurists of
earth, the Marshalls, the Storys, the Rents, will
meet hereafter their learned brethren of other lands
and ages, ay, and planets ; will confer together; will

~F.

1
I


102

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE

develop together new and loftier systems of juris-
prudence. Why should not a Marshall meet his
elder brother Coke, in some other sphere, and talk
over with him, not merely the rule in Shelley's case,
and other pleasant old subtleties of the law of iRcal
Property on earth, but newer and grander systems;
or discuss higher and more comprehensivee doctrines
of commercial law, with his brother Mansfield, thaLn
they ever dreamt of in their earthly tribunals ?-
Consider such a suggestion flighty and absurd, if you
will; and yet what is there more strange in it, than
that two such intellects are permitted to confer to
gather, here below,~either in person or through their
writings? Till you can get over, or explain away,
the miraculous realities of this life, call me not ro-
mantic, for indi~lging in such anticipations, as to the
next. I believe too, that a Shakspeare will study
hearts, and portray characters, and build the lofty
rhyme, for the delight of other worlds; that a Milton
will be inspired by grander scenes and contempla-.
tionsto the production of still grander poems; that
a Newton will go on, enlarging and expanding his
researches, from more central and commanding points
of the universe; that a Raphael is destined to em-'
body far loftier thoughts and lovelier visions, in
brighter worlds. Tell me not that a Michael Angelo
is to rear no more stately dom~s, or more gorgeous
palaces than those lie left behind him; or that a
Beethoven is to compose no more glorious music, to

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

103

hear no sweeter hymns than those of earth. Tell
me not that that mighty intellect, that was recently
borne away from us, the sage, the statesman, the
patriot, he who was so gi'and in the forum, so majes-
tic in the senate, so sublime on the hallowed spots of'
his country's history; tell me not that that august
soul is to slumber in oblivion forever; that it is never
more to impart or receive wisdom in other spheres;
never to confer with its great brother-spi4ts of
Greece and Rome and England, or with those who
have swayed the destinies of other planets. Tell me
not, either, that these, and all the great spirits, who
have here labored unto mighty issues, are not
permitted to return at times, and behold the
blessed fruit of their toils; that a Washingtou
may not look down upon the magnificent republic
that he founded, or a Columbus see the results of
his discoveries, or a Fulton behold the ceaseless,
world-wide miracles wrought by his inventions4 Say
not that this notion is unscriptural, either; that it
interferes with God's moral government. Not so.
Let the claims of divine justice be met. Let every
human soul, however regally or humbly endowed,
pay to the full the penalty that its errors and its
sins have earned. We ask no exemption from mer-
ited punishments. No, no. Givo us a future life.
Give us the sufferings that are fairly ours, e'en to
the last drop of bitterness, the last groan of anguish
and remorse; but oh, defraud us not of the duties,


CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.        105

104

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

the privileges, the glories that are beyond them. I
need not stop, my friend, to dwell upon the blight-
ing influence of this doctrine of yours upon the af-
f'ections; to say how it renders all the moral disci~
pline of life as unmeaning and worthless as it does
the intellectual; how it degrades our love of friends
and kindred into a mere animal attachment; how it
robs the mementoes of that love of all lustre and
significance; what a perfect mockery it makes of
all the tears, and vows, and prayers we offer at their
graves. What, tell me that the Thother who bore
me, the wife of my bosom, the children of my hopes,
have all crumbled away into nothingness; have be-
come less significant, in God's eyes, than the clods
of the valley that cover them; do you really, my
friend, wish to persuade me of any such doctrine as
this? Tell the mother, that the son who has just
been taken from her, in the pride of his manhood
her prop, her comforter, flie delight of her eyes, is
to be hidden from her sight forever; that there is to
be no heavenly recognition, no interchange of ~ym-
pathies or endearments hereafter; or that that other
poor son of hers, who has neglected alike her and
her counsels, who has disgraced his name, and has
just terminated a loathsome life by an ignominious
death ; tell her ihat that wretched soul is to have no
opportunity of redeeming itself of yet blotting out
the memory of its crimes on earth, in some worthy
career hereafter; tell the friend who has just heard

I

of the death of one with whom he parted in anger,
that there are no such things as blessed explana-
tions, and peace-makings, and the renewals of earth-
ly vows, in brighter worlds; that it is all a mere de-
lusion, an idle dream of fancy.-Oh, what heart can
listen to such suggestions as these 3 There is, there
is a life beyond the grave; there is a glorious desti-
ny yet in store, even for the vilest sinners. Yes, it
is pleasant to think that the veriest monsters of
earth, whose names degrade and deface the pages
of history, and must ever be associated here with all
that is infamous and detestable, have already, per-
haps, become burning and shining lights elsewhere
in God's universe; that our Neros and Borgias are
even now, perhaps, playing the blessed parts of Fen-
dons and Howards, in other worlds. You will of
course call me credulous and fanciful; and yet, why
seek to rob me of a thought that has in it so much
of comfort and encouragement, so much of stimulus
to honest effort? But enough of this. You went
on to say, that the phenomena of advancing years,
as you watched them, in your own heart, and in
those of your brethren, only served the more to con-
firm your skepticism and indifference about the fu-
ture. You would have it, that every added hour
of life took away something from the ingenuousness
of youth, and from the loftiness of its aims; that
we all became more sordid and narrow-minded, with
every step we took towards the grave.; the standard


106        CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE9                                      CLOUDS AND SUNShINE.       107

:
x

of excellence ever sinking, the horizon of' our
thoughts ever contracting, eve~ to the imbecility and
helplessness of age. And what saw you in age?
At best, you said, a sort of stupid acquiescence in
the decrees of destiny ; and ordinarily, a mere bun-
dle of peevish, fretful humors, and small jealousies,
and perpetual disparagements of the present, and
whining over the past, but no bright looking for-
ward into the future ; nothing cheerful, hopeful, he-
roic about it ; nothing, in short, but growing klecay
of mind and body, till overtaken at last by the same
extinction and oblivion that await the trees of its
own planting. Oh, what an unjust, what a perverse
picture ! In the name of all the dear parents and
children of this broad land, do I protest against it.
You to talk thus, who know at least a scoi'e of fam-
ilies. within a stune's throw of' us, each one of which
is presided over by a venerable g~'aiidsire, whose
pleasant, wrinkled face and silver hairs are the great
crowning charm and ornament thereof; tell me, that
because time hath robbed them of somewhat of their
suppleness, because their senses will not do their
bidding quite as promptly as they did, because they
cannot pick up the passing incidents and sentiments
around them as readily as they once could, that
therefore these dear old men are fast going to decay
and annihilation: that all the virtues they have
been forming, all the treasure~ of wisdom and know-
ledge they have been having for years, are to be thus

~,T~LI

summarily disposed of; to be thus swept away in ob-
livion; (10 you ask me to believe any such blighting,
monstrous doctrine as this, and that, too, merely on
the evidence of my own frail, fallible senses? If so,
ifl(lCCd, then is life ~he most contemptible of farces,
and the vilest old hat that was evel" kicked about in
a gutter, or tossed by dogs, is the fittest emblem of
our dcclini~ig years! That there are painful and
puzzling phenomena accompanying old age, what
heart feels not? What heart would not gladly solve
them if it could? But how much wiser and more
filial in us, patiently to wait for God's solution of
them, and of all the other lilysteries of life, than to
preach the doctrine you do! 1 would not speak ar-
rogafitly, my friend, or presumptuously. What light
can I shed QU themes like these? I am no man of
science, or metaphysician, and but a feeble reasoner,
at best. I speak merely as a man of common sense
and common fe4ing; as I believe ninety-nine hun-
dredths of my brethren and sisters would speak,
when I say, that our reason and affections alike pro-
test against the monstrous, crushing results involved
in the thought of annihilation; that all the texts
and parables of Scripture, all the fables of the hea-
then world, all the allegories of art, all the analogies
of nature are, when interpreted aright, on the side
of immortality. But Ii must not tax your patience
further. You took me up rather abruptly, my dear
friend, you may remember, in our last conversation,

106

4
4
4


108

CLOuDS AND SUNSIIINFX

CLOUDS ANT) SIJNSIHNF.

for                 the expression, the downhill qf
makin~ use of
1~fe ; you seemed to think such lanma~e utterly
b b
inconsistent with the doctrines I was advocating.
Let me, in reply, quote a passage from the great;
poet of our age, whiclv I think most appropriate to
this very point ; in which he seems disposedd to coin-
bat the popular notions and phraseology on this sub-
ject, and to illustrate the phenomena of age by those
of the mountain-top, and not of the valley. It
seems somewhat subtle and elaborate, at first, but a
second reading (as ever in his works), makes it lumi-
nous with wisdom and beauty. Allow me to repeat
it; and so take leave of the subject:
"Rightly is it said
That Man descends into the V~z1e of years;
Yet have I thought that we might also speak,
And not presumptuously, I trust, of Age,
As of a final Emiacncc; though bare
In aspect and forbidding, yet a point
On which 'tis not impossible to sit
In awful sovereignty; a place of power,
A throne, that may be likened finto his,
Who, in some placid day of Summer, looks
Down from a mo~untain-top,-say one of those
2High peaks, that bound the vale where now we are.
Faint, and diminished to the gazing eye,
Forest and field, and hill and dale appear,
With all the shapes upon their surface spread:
But, while the gmoss and visible frame of things
Relinquishes its hold upon the sense,
Yea, almost on the Mind herself, and seems

-          I  11~I~1IlI

eq

109

I

All un~uhstantialized,-liow loud the voice
Of waters, with invigorated peal
From the full river in the vale below,
Ascending ! For, on that superior height
Who sits, is (lisencurnbered from the press
Of near obstructions, and is privileged
To breathe in 5&amp;litU(le, above the host
Of ever-humming insects, 'mid thin air
That suits not them. The murmur of the leaves
Many and i(lle, visits not his ear:
This he is freed from, an(l from thousand notes
(Not less Unceasing, not less vain than these,)
By which the finer passages of sense
Are occupied, and the soul, that would incline
To listen, is prevented, or deterred.
And may it not be hoped, that, placed ~by ago
In like removal, tranquil though severe,
We are no~so removed, for utter loss,
But for some favor, suited to our need 3
What more than that the severing should confer
Fresh power to commune with the invisible world,
And hear the mighty stream of tendency
Uttering, for elevation of our thought,
A clear sonorous voice, inaudible
To the vast multitude, whose doom it is,
To run the giddy round of vain delight,
Or fret and labor on the plain below."


ii

CONVERSATION IV.

A. THERE are seine other points, dear B., on
which I confess II should like to have a little more
free and full interchange of opinions with you; not,
you will believe me, from any mere idle wish to.hear
the sound of my own voice; still less, I trust, from
any presumptuous expectation of being able to over-
throw your doctrines; but, as I said before, because
I really think such discussions, if conducted iii a
courteous and truth-seeking spirit, may be made
mutually profitable. So, if brother C., here, has no
objections, we will renew our colloquy. 'Perhaps he
may be willing to act as umpire between us.
C. Oh, no, no; far from me be any such pre-
sumption as that. I will be a cheerful listener, how-
ever, and may perhaps venture on a stray remark or
two, myself. But what was the particular point,
you proposed to discuss, this evening?
A. W~i1, let me briefly explain myself. Our

CLi0UDS AND SUNSHINE.

111

friend B. here, in the course of previous conversa-
tions, and indCC(l whenever we have met, almost, has
taken the ground, and will ~.insist upon it, that this
world of ours has always been a poor, miserable, de-
plorable place; in its best estate, scarce fit to live
in; that it is no better now, than ever it was; and,
moreover, that it is never going to be any better;
that the men of to-day. are pretty much the same
ignorant, stupid, wicked set, as were their antedilu-
viari brethren, &amp;c. &amp;~. Such is the constant burden.
of his song. Now I should like to have him a little
more explicit, and give us some of the reasons for
his arriving at conclusions so very uncomfortable,
and, as I think, so exceedingly unjust.
U Coine then, brother B., unfold your views.
B. Well, I. told A. before, that I had no faith in
such discussions. Even where the parties are com-
petent, and their tempers good, there ~is still so much
uncertainty hanging over these subjects, there are
so few substantial, well-authenticated facts to argue
from, that they hardly repay the arguers, for the
time and breath invested in them. And then, when
I think how meagerly I am furnished forth for any
su~h speculations; when I call to mind, what an in-
competent historian, feeble geographer, miserable
chronologist, wretched linguist, and most inefficient
reasoner I am, with no very great surplus either, I
fear, in the way of amiability, I am all the more dis-
posed to hold my peace.

III.

1


112

CLOUDs AND SUNSHINE.

t

I

CLOUDS- AND SUNSHINE.

113

0. Come, come; we can't all expect to be Mil-
tons or Coleridges, of course; but what of that ? I
believe, that honest, hearty expressions of opinion,
on these and such like subjects, from almost any
quarter, are not without their interest. So, speak
out. Do I understand you then, to say, that the
world has made no progress worth speaking of, in
the way of knowledge, goodness, health, liberty, gen-
eral development, since the great submersion ? How
is it?
B. I certainly am inclined very much to that
opinion. I believe that the points of resemblance
between ourselves and the men of antiquity, are to
those, of difference, as ten thousand to one; and as
you insist upon going into particulars, let us look at
the items, a little. First then, in the matter of know-
ledge. I believe that the ignorance of the masses,
and the learning of the few, are now, substantially,
what they were in the slays of Belus ; that the great
herd, in all ages, have leen condemned to a little
better than -animal existence, by their incapacity,
and the necessities of their position ; and that thae
few who have had brains, time and diligence to devote
to study, have been learning pretty much the same
lessons, in every century; that science and art are
pretty much the same, now as ever ; that many of
our fancied discoveries are mere revivals ; that while
thinking that we are laying out new roads in -the
realms of knowledge. we are merely removing the

2

rubbish, under which Time had buried the 01(1 ones ;
and that the actual gains we may occasionally make
in both, are counterbalanced by corresponding losses.
I believe that if the savans of to-day, are ahead of
those of-old, in natural science and its multiform ap-
plication to the useful arts, they are as far behind
them in metaphysics and the fine arts ; that if
Aristotle and his brother philosophers, or the sages
of the East, could be revived to-day, and confronted,
they and their works, with the intellectual lumina-
ries of our own time, the Edwardses and Kants and
Cousins and Coleridges, that the latter would have
all they could .do .to hold their own, in any discus-
sions with these elder brothers ; that they would
find a strength and agility and acuteness of under-
standing, and a profundity of research, quite equal to
their own, with far more facility and vigor of expres-
sion ; that, in a word, they would learn quite as much
as they would impart in any such conferences. ,Is it
not more emphatically true, in literature and the fine
arts ? Does not the whole world swear, to-day, by
Homer and by Pindar ? Who but Milton is to be
named with the one, and where is the other's peer ?
The tragedy of Greece, what is there like it, out of
Shakspeare ? Surely not in France or Spain, or
even in Germany. The comedy of Greece, little as
we have of it, and dimly as we-perceive its qualities,
is there any thing in MIoliore, or Congreve, or Sheri-
dan, like it ? Is there any thing short of the blessed


114        CLOUDS AND SUNSHiNE.                                     CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.        115

Twelfth Night, or the delicious As You Like It, that
could bear away the palm from it? And. even
Shakspeare might tremble, perhaps, for his supre-
macy, were he confronted with those hundred spark-
ling plays of Menander, that all the wits and scholars
of antiquity went crazy about. And what must
those audiences have been, who insisted nightly on a
new one, considering it a rare compliment to allow a
second hearing, even to the Frogs? What must
* their calibre have been, and culture, and readiness at
repartee*? And the sculptors and architects of old,
are not their works, to-day, the delight and despair
of their modern brethren? And even the music of
old, on which w~ think we have-made such wonderful
improvements ; were we not told the other evening,
by a learned lecturer, that on the banks of the Gan-
ges, a thousand years before Christ, the young men
and maidens were chanting the very melodies, that
now take captive the ears of our beaux and belles at
the opera? Our orchestras may be stronger and
more varied, our harmonies more full and expressive,
but the airs themselves, like the passions they inter-
pret, the very same ; fashioned according to the
same rules, just as they appealed, with the same re-
sistless power, to the same throbbing hearts. In all
that appertains unto the passionate, the beautiful,
the picturesque, have we gained any thing, to say
the least, upon our brethren of antiquity? I think
not. I think the world is gro#ng more homely every

hour. Every art and craft of life, good or bad, seems
to me to be losing some of its poetry, continually.-
Take the art of war. A fight was worth looking at,
iii old times; worth transferring to canvass. An
Achilles preparing for a m~l~e before Troy, as painted
by homer, or an Alexander arraying himself for his
bloody, but brilliant day's work at Arbela, as he is
described by Plutarch, was truly a magnificent feb
low; and an army of such fighters, when once fairly
engaged, heart to heart, and hand to hand, with their
gay and glittering antagonists, call it what else you
will, ~~as surely a most superb and fascinating spec-
tacle. how different from the mechanical, angular,
sombre, sm6ky, unmusical transaction, called a bat-
tle, in our times, which defies even the skill of a
Vernet, to make it attractive! There was some
pomp on the sea, too, formerly. The galleys of
Greece and Carthage, with their shapely prows and
sterns, and purple sails, and oars that moved to the
sound of flutes, whether going in procession, on some
pious pilgrimage to a neighboring island, or when
involved in "all the heady currents of the fight,"
were certainly objects that an artist might look at
with satisfaction, might take pleasure in perpetuat-
ing in fresco or mosaic; but what is there poetical
in our ships of war, or in, the representations of
modern naval fights? Who ever dreams of explor-
ing their beauties, as they adorn the galleries of
provincial museums, except an occasional small boy,

1-

I
'I
If
I

115

114


116

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

or grog-inspired old salt? The splendid turn-outs
of Venice, too, her gay gondolas, her sumptuous
Bucentaur, where are they now? Sleeping the sleep
of death, with the poor fallen city they adorned.
The stately ships that loom ~up so, in the pictures
of Claude and Yander Velde, with their lofty, gild-
ed sterns, and quaint mottoes, and dainty carvings,
and images of saints, how are they banished from
the deep! A group~ of such tall argosies, dressed
out in their gay robes, and lit up by the setting sun,
might indeed, have kindled the imagination of poet
or of painter. But their day is over, and a far dif-
ferent generation has succeeded them; a generation
of saucy, sharp-set, officious clippers; far more nim-
ble and serviceable, certainly; that would go round
the globe four times to th~ii' predecessors' once; but
no more to be compared with them on the score of
beauty, than a locomotive is to the car of Phoebus;
and it looks as if even these last would soon be
driven from the ocean, yes, everything that sails
with wings, and as if every sea, and bay, and river
of earth were to be monopolized by little, black,
noisy, ugly steam-tugs, and huge; unsightly propel-
lers. And the costume of men, as well as ships, is
it not taking the same direction; got up exclusively
for purposes of utility and rapid motion, and in defi-
ance of all the laws of beauty? Take even the
dandies and bloods, the Pelhams and Waterfords of
our times, and are they to be named in the same

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

117

breath with those of antiquity? Do they sail such
yachts, or drive such teams? An Alcibiades dash-
ing along the Ceramicus, in his superb chariot, with
his Thessalian steeds, was he not far ahead of any
thing the Champs Elys6es or Hyde Park ever wit-
nessed, in the way of costume and appointments?
The epicures of old, were they not far more learned
than their modern brethen? Is there any Fish-
Sauce extant, which is to be compared with that
which Ileliogabalus used to put upon his turbot?
Could Soyer himself have devilled a crab with
Apicius? Is there a cook on earth this hour, either
snoring in his night-cap, or issuing his edicts in the
kitchen, that could begin to get up a supper with
the chef of Lucullus'? Is there any such wiiie in
any chateau of Metternich, or cellar of Dijon, Ii will
not say as Priam or Xerxes used to go to bed on,
but as was stored away in the vaults o~ Tiberius or
in the Aurca Domus of Nero? Beckford himself;
with all his wealth, and wit, and taste, was he any
thing more, after all, than a third rate Sa~llust or
Ma~cenas? Are there any entertainments coming
off, this day, in any quarter of the globe, at all com-
parable, either in the intellectual or physical depart-
departments, to the Olympic Games? I don't
believe it; no such poetry, no such jumping. Where
are the individuals in this century, who clear fifty-
five feet at a leap, and ring~ quoit at hundredd and
fifty? Even Gabriel Ravel, Efear, would have cut

-u

4

f


118

CLOUDS AND SU~NSfllNE.

I ~

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.         119

rather a small figure at Corinth, and the double som-
erset of Hiram Franklin have been coldly received.
Ought we not to remember these things in the midst
of our self-laudations? Because we can analyze
substances more minutely, and have found out a few
more secrets in electricity, and can calculate dis-
tances and eclipses with more certainty, anti can
plough the waters and rattle over the earth faster
than our antique brethren could, and manufacture
more paper money, anchcirculate more cheap pen-
odicals, we should not forget that they could raise
heavier ~weights, rear loftier piles, make better stat-
ues, and if they could not illuminate their buildings
with the same rapidity, knew far better how to ven-
tilate them and to clear them of crowds. Think of
the Colosseum, that would hold an audience of a
hundred and twenty thousand, and yet~ could be
emptied in ten minutes, while we enlightened Go-
'~ thamites nightly put our persons in peril, at (what
we call) ijionster concerts,' and lectures at Metropo-
litan ll~dl. Besides, as I said before, how many of
our fancied novelties are mere revivals: we ~ow
know, that the youngsters of Greece used to rub
their little noses and fingers against window-panes,
and that the fine women of Rome used to take their
opera glasses to the theatres; that balloon excur-
sions were common things in the days of Sanconi-
ath, and spiritual rapping no novelty in the time of
Zoroaster. They, no doubt, had their Mesmerism

too, and their Socialism, and their miracle-working
pills and ointments, their quack remedies of all
sorts, for all the physical, moral, and social ills of
life. And why should not these same Greeks and
IRornans have had their contrivances for multiplying
manuscripts, and their water, or even steam-propelled
machinery, for grinding their corn, and for making
their purple and fine linen, and for facilitating the
operations of their mints' and foundries? I can't
believe that the men who could put a Parthenon in
marble, who could manufacture such superb plate
and jewelry, who could furnish so daintily a palace
of the C~sars, were so ignorant of these auxiliary
forces in nature, and of the art of using them, as we
suppose. It seems more reasonable to believe, that
most of these inventions of ours, as we call them,
are mere reappearance of what the world has seen
already; that they had their day, and gradually fell
into desuetude and decay, from ~he diversion of hu-
man thoughts and wits into other channels; that
the same causes will kill them again, and again re-
vive them, and that they will continue to play this
game of hide-and-seek, for aught we know, through
all eternity. The more I think of these things, the
more disposed am I to believe that the capacities anti
acquisitions of men have been substantially the
same from the beginning; that there is the same
ignorance of the learned, afid learning of the igno-
rant, now as ever. I believe that the doctors who

'1
lix

119


C[,OUJ)5 AM) SUNSHINE.          121

1'20          CLO~ii)S AND St1N~Wi1NI~

prescribed for Darius, knew just about as much, and
about as little, concerning the real causes of dis-
eases anQ the operations of remedies, and the plie-
nomena of sickness a~nd death, and the true relation-
ship between. soul and body, as the medical advisers
of her Britannic Majesty do ; and that then as now,
the wisest and best in the profession, ~xonld have
been the very first to avow their ignorance. In a
word, I believe what Solomon preached, and Shaks-
peare sang, and our own hearts re-echo, and Pompeii
has proved, and Nineveh is hourly proving; that
there is no new thing under the sun. I shouldn't be
surprised, at any moment, to hear of some Rip Van
Winkle of a city, suddenly roused from its sleep of a
thousand generations or so, in some silent, desolate
corner of the Old World, perhaps on the banks of the
Euphrates itself, with its buried locomotives, and
steam-tugs, and gas-pipCS, and telegraphic wires, and
all the appliances that we so coolly a1)propriate7 as
the exclusive property, of our own century. May not
*the Creator condescend, some fine morning, to show
it to the world, through the medium of some silly,
-wandering shepherd, for the very purpose of mortify-
ing and humbling this most conceited and self-glori-
fyin g generation? But enough on this head. You
spoke of health, too. Is the world any healthier now
than it used to be? Are there more hearty, ruddy
specimens of humanity, mc~ving about the globe, this
morning, than there were in the time of Nebuchad-

nezzar? I have no idea of it, myself. I believe,
moreover, that, could we have taken a walk through
the streets of Athens in the days of ,~' ericles, or of
Rome in those of Augustus, and imme~ijately after~
have had a peep at our own Broadway, as we see it
to-day, we should have found a frightful balance
against us, in the way of bright eyes, and good looks,
and general muscular developments. There can be
little doubt where the sculptor would have gone for
his models; little doubt in which of the cities the
largest share of round shoulders and spindle-shanks
would have been found, or nine-tenths of the cough-.
ing and sneezing and general complaining would
rave been heard; or in which metropolis a sudden
call for an outlay of physical force would have been
least satisfactorily answered; or in ease of a colli-
sion between the ancient and modern promenaders,
where the victory would have been. Could we have
had ime to get at our fire-arms, I grant you we
mig~7t have carried the day; but, with nature's own
weapons, can there be any doubt that we of the 19th
would have been soundly thrashed? But seriously,
I believe that the world is a sad loser in this regard
.-that there is far less of high health and animal
spirits on earth than ever before; less of God's
fresh air tasted; less out-door work or. play; less
familiarity with the beautiful sounds and sights of
nature. There are far more prisoners than ever,
toiling in mines, and galleys, and factories; more

121

120


I

CLOUDS 'AND SUNSHINE.

CLOUDS AND SUN$HINI~.

people than ever, killing themselves in crowded cit~
ics, martyrs to fashion, and care, and business
more poor wretches locked up in narrow, noisome
lanes, who scarce ever see a star in heaven, who
only know of a sunrise or sunset by hearsay; poor
caged birds, who see no more of the blessed fields
and woods of earth, than a stray flower-pot or box
of turf can show them; pale, puny, meagre things,
just fit to be swept away by the first disease that
may be prowling round for victims, the first pesti-
lence that may ride the tainted air. Is it not so?
Am I wrong, when I say that there were never more
miserable, unpromising babies brought into the
world than now, more deaths in child-birth, more
cruel, fatal disorders, more little contemptible aib
ments of all sorts, more personS in every walk of
life, who are defrauded, or who wilfully defraud them-
selves of their fair share of years? IF thinl~ not.
But I will not dwell any longer on this point. Let
us look a moment at the item of Freedom, of which
you next spoke. Is there any more of the real,
'genuine article in the world now than ever? There
are great apparent gains, certainly, in some quar-
ters;' in our own and the mother country, and other
parts of Irthern Europe, and in some few scattered
colonies; but are there not quite as many palpable
losses in Spain, Italy, Greece, Turkey, Asia Minor,
Syria, Palestine? Are they not worse off than
ever in this and all other desirable things? What

a 5l)ectaCle does the Holy Land present, this very
hour! Look at Bethlehem itself; the spot of all
others, one would~ suppose, that guardian angels
would hover over, to keep the peace and protect the
pious traveller; why, it is as much as a poor pil-
grim's life is worth, to visit the shrine of his Mas-
ter: in no part, even of Judea, are robberies and
murders so plentiful. And so throughout all these
regions; the only freedom to be found there is that
of prowling Arabs; the freedom of ruffians and cut-
throats ! Look all through the continents of Asia
and Africa, and show me any thing like a Runny-
mede or a Bunker's lull, in either; any spot amidst
all those millions of acres, and myriads of souls,
where a solitary battle has ever been fought for hu-
man rights. Not one; tyranny and ignorance have
pervaded them from the beginning.; the same savage
wars and superstitions deface Africa, the same apa-
thy and stupidity preside over all the trades and
arts of Asia to-day, as did thousands of years ago.
The freedom of the South American Republics, too;
what a bitter mockery is it! The privilege of the
strongest arm and sharpest sword, to mow down all
opposition, and amuse and plunder its subjects, till
in turn driven out by superior power. How much
better is it, too, in Austria and Russia? France,
too, after all her demonstrations ~and fine words, her
fetes and fireworks, how quietly at last has she suc-
cumbed to a miserable usurper; about whom there

[4                              _________________

122

123

L

'4'
'4
4
4


124

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

is nothing lustrous or fascinating; whose whole life
has been a lie, a mere mass of humbug and self-
indulgence! Freedom, indeed! Even in our own
comparatively favored land, how much downright,
bona fide liberty is there'? I grant you, that our
rights are more explicitly defined than elsewhere, in
constitutions, and statute-books, more discussed by
the press and the pulpit, more harangued about by
orators at all sorts of gatherings ; but what do they
all amount to, when fairly analyzed? Leaving the
embellishments of rhetoric, and the exaggerations
of self-love out of the question, and coming down to
sober, naked facts, IL ask how much real freedom
does a citizen, and especially one of small income,
enjoy in this same metropolis of ours? How far
may he express, unharmed, his honest opinions'?
In Religion, for instance, suppose I were to say to-
day, aloud in company, not in any sarcastic or ma-
licious spirit, but frankly and modestly, that IL did
not believe in the divine origin of Christianity;
what would probably be my portion? Not melted
lead, certainly; I should not be roasted alive before
morning, I grant you, nor imprisoned, nor even
lined, nor excluded from The ordinary places of re~
sort. But just a~ certainly, I should be exposed to
all sorts of little annoyances and persecutions; doors
now open, would be closed against me; daughters
would be denied me in marriage; custoxner5 would
drop off from me; my notes would have a harder

CLOUDS AND SUNSflINE.         125
time of it in bank; my creditors would be more im-
portunate than ever; my very servants would be
less attentive and respectful. I should pay, in ten
thousand small ways, for the luxury of giving breath
to an opinion, which was unpalatable to the majority.
My prospects in life would be materially injured by
any such honest, but injudicious statement ; it mat~
ters not, though my skepticism may be the result of
the reading and reflection of years, while the so-called
faith, of three-fifths of my persecutors, may be mere
hypocritical assumption, or the fruit of servile fear
and ignorance; I must none the less pay the pen-
alty. Let me express any unwelcome opinion to any
party in power, 1 care not in what department of
thought or branch of trade, and am I not quite as
likely to pay roundly for it, in this as in any other
era? I may not have to gulp my poison down on the
spot, like Socrates, but I may confidently rely on the
slow poison of misrepresentation and abuse; I may
not be shot down wiLh that promptness and mystery
with which plain-spoken men are sometimes disposed
of; in the court-yards of imperial palaces, but I, in all
probability, will be pelted, even to the edge of my
grave, with the missiles of hired scribblers and slan-
derers. And so the poor wife may not have her
throat cut by her husband, with the same impunity
now, as of old; but he may torment the very soul
out of her, by his ceaseless neglect or cruelty, just
as thoroughly and effectually as in the days of Nero.

V

m.L~.


CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.       12

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

Again, how much freedom of motion have I, in this
thriving g city of ours ? How far is it modified and
restrained, in the day-time, by the- lawlessness of
omnibus-drivers, and the incursions of cattle-droves,
and in the night, by the aggressions of rowdies and
ruffians ? How much of what is so liberally accorded
to me in my Bill of Rights and Declaration of Inde-
pendence, do I practically enjoy, if caghtoto
Broadway, and one or two other thoroughfares, after
nine P. M., without the guaranty of Bowie-knife or
revolver ? Honest answers to these questions, how
mortifying, how- disgraceful are they, to us and to too
many of, our sister-cities ! Freedom of election, too,
that booh -of the race, that- showiest flower in the,
bouquets of our orators, what becomes of nine-tenths
of it, when fairly sifted ? What proportion of the
votes polled in our town, last November, were the
embodiments of intelligent, unbiassed, honest convic-
tion? I speak not of the sae~rifices made, the degra-.
ding exactions submitted .to, by the candidates for .
office, in order to get their names formally before the
pople;- but the sovereigns themselves, and above all,
te colored portion of those sovereigns, how much free-
dom of choice or action, did they have in the prem-
ises ? Why, even the white Whig voter has found
it a sufficiently perilous undertaking, in some of he
wards of our city, to indicate, in the usual way,is
plitia p references; but wo betide the colored tax-
payerawho, in some unguarded moment, should un-

dertake to turn into realities, the promises .of the
Constitution ! Freedom, say you ? And not only
must this worthy old soul be frightened away from
the polls ; he is not even allowed to show that plea-
-sant face of his, nor his excellent wife, inside of any
omnibus or rail-car, in this enlightened town. I am
no abolitionist, my friend. I have no sympathy with
them. I consider them a set of ultraists and aggres-
sors ; but I confess, it has made my blood boil, at
times, to see an old man turned out of a car, in a
cold, rainy night, because of his black skin, a~t the
bidding of a set of creatures, infinitely below him in
all the substantial qualities of humanity. These are
disgraceful, damning facts, and are of far more signi-
ficance, to every thoughtful mind, than a frigate-load
of Fourth of July odes or orations. Need I say, how
many other things there are, to compromise my free-
dom ? The tribute to be paid to fashion, if one would
avoid unpleasant, notoriety ; the tyranny of tailors,
who one month incarcerate you in horribly tight gar-
ments, and the next, set you adrift in a perfect fog of
clothing ; the innumerable exactions of etiquette ;
the ceaseless invasion of bores, duns, and quacks of
all sorts ; the visitations of tax-gatherers, both pro-
fessional and amateur ; the small slavery to one's
own whims and caprices. and bodily needs and in-
firmities, and to those of kindred and friends ; and
the cruel fetters that our appetites and passions are
continually forging for us : what becomes of all this

126 -

~1f~

'I,
I

19/[


128       CLOUDS AND SUNSHIN1~.                                   CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.      129

boasted freedom of ours, when we think of these
things? I say again, I see about as little as ever of
it in the world. I see the same predominance of'.
tyranny as ever; the same disposition to over-ride
and crush opposition, in all ranks and classes; the
same unwillingness of the intellectual man to surren -
der his sway over the minds of his brethren, and of
the belle to bear a rival near her throne, and of the
prima donna .to divide plaudits and bouquets with
the new-corner, and of the wit-but why illustrate
further-of every wilder of power, to share it with
his fellows. Tyranny, where is it not'? At hearth
and at altar, at social and political gatherings; the,
tyranny of the majority, as we feel it, in our own
land, to day, is it not about as cruel and unwise as
any thing we read of; in Grecian or Roman history?
A majority that wilfully turns its back upon the
most politic measures, the most imperative duties of
the Republic; that excludes its oldest and most
honored sons from its high places; that rushes reck-
lessly on, in the career of annexation and aggression;
that would plunge us in a bloody war, to-morrow, for
the sake of a few paltry acres, while it utterly neg-
lects the legitimate development of its resources, and
protection of its industry. And then, that most
grinding4 crushing tyranny of all, the tyranny of
mammon; the great autocrat, who has ruled the
world from the beginning: when was the money-
power ever more firmly established than now? In

4

what pai$ of its dominions, is it more omnipotent,
than in this same boasting ~netropolis of ours ?-
What iwill it not buy here, to-day, that should not
be bought? What votes, and signatures, and puffs,
and unlawful merchandise of all sorts, can it not
freely command, for itself; and for its enemies, what
pens of hireling scribblers, and pencils of caricatur-
ists, and, if' need be, bludgeons of ruffians? We
talk, with horror, of the degrading rites and obscene
ceremonies of the Bacchanalia and Eleusinian Mys-
teries of old, but were they, after all, much worse
than the abject prostrations and cruel sacrifices that
belong to this wide-spread Dollar-worship of our own
times? I can't see much difference in them, I con-
fess. The -more I think of all these things, the more
unsubstantial and illusory Joes this vaunted freedom
of ours~appear. Toleration is just as scarce an arti-
cle as ever. If tyranny deal less' racks and faggots
than she did, she has far more ~s ~nall ways of punish-
ing her , victims, than ever she had. An opinion,
however honest, if unpalatable to her, is about as
costly a luxury, and truth-telling generally as unpro-
fitable and perilous a business, now, as it was under
the C~sars; nay, the whole pilgrimage of life is just-
as hill of clogs, and restrictions and annoyances and
perils, to-day, as when the first generation of sinners
performed it. Brother A., of course, has no faith in,~
or sympathy with such a doctrine, and I will not
dwell upoii it. A few words upon the item of good-

128

129


4

'p
CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

ness, and I have done. Is the world, then, any bet-
ter than ever it was Th Is the spectacle which the
earth presents, to-day, one whit more acceptable to
its Creator, in a moral point of view, than in olden
time? I don't believe it. I don't believe that the
sum total of the thoughts, words, and deeds, that will
have transpired in this metropolis, between sunrise
and sunset of this pleasant day of December, in the
yeal of grace, '1852, will any better bear divine in-
spection, than a similar aggregate would have done,
in Tyre, or Babylon, or Rome, in the days of their
plenty and prosperity; and if there be, indeed, as we
are told, a record kept above, of all these things, and
we could turn to the celestial book~, and make the
comparison for ourselves, we should find the points
of difference, in this regard, as nothing, alongside of
the multitudinous, the hideous points of resemblance.
There wduld be less open bestiality and throat-cut~
ting, in the modern city, I grant you;, less blood of
men shed in theatres, and of beasts in places of wor-
ship; less downright brutal ignorance in the lower
walks of life; but not one whit less of secret vices
and villanies, of wide-spread selfishness and sensu-
ality; the same domesticc bickering, the same cease-
less squabbles about nothing, the same multiform
frauds in trade, and quackeries of all sorts; the same
corruption in high places, and small stealing in low
ones;

The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
The insolence of office, and the spurns
That patient merit of the unworthy takes;
all, all the same; t14 same sad, guilty story that
human life has been, from the beginning. Is it not
so? Look again at the two multitudes, as they
sweep by us; the one, as revived by the magic wand
of thc~ poet, the other as we see it with our own
bodily eyes, this day. Where is the difference, save
in the hue and fashion of their garments? I can't
see it. There are in both, the same passion-stained
faces, the same martyrs to care and business and
avarice and lust and gout and glory; in both, the'
same tender babes, and frolicking children; the same
tottering age; the same few scattered philosophers,
the same hand~1 of men and women, going about on
errands 6f love; in both, the same overwhelming
majority of fops and clowns and pickpockets and
sleek hypocrites and smooth-tongued scoundrels and
painted harlots; the same frightful preponderance
of oaths and falsehoods and filthy jests, over words
of gentleness and prayer and thanksgiving. Gloomy'
and repulsive as the picture may be, in either case,
yet is it not the true one? Are we not enacting the
same old drama, in New-York, to-day, with some
slight changes in costume and scenery, that the men
of Babylon were, in the days of Semiramis? II can't
help thinking so. Else have I utterly misinterpret-

130

131

if
4
.1

I


182

CIoUDS- AND SUJNSHIINE,

ed the teachings of history, do I utterly misread the
records wherein- our -passing life is mirrored, do I
belie the workings of my own heart, and of the hearts
of my brethren. IBut why dwell upon the sad theme?
It was not of my seeking. My friend here, will of
course reject this version of the matter, as unsound
and unjust. Be it so. Meanwhile I am prepared to
listen respectfully to whatever he may see fit to say.
in reply.
-C. Well, fried d A., what is your answer to all
this ?
A. I certainly do reject it, as utterly untenable
and unjust. I say there is a decided balance in fa-
vor of us moderns, in all those particulars which
brother B. has glanced at ; and with your leave, I
will follow briefly in his track. First, then, as to
knowledge. I say there is far more knowledge to:
day in the world, in. every department of science and
art, than- ever there was ; far more acquaintance
both with the outside and the inside of the earth,
and with the properties of its contents, animate and
inanimate ; farA more, with the attributes of the
other heavenly bodies, and with the laws that govern
them; and above all, there is a thousand told great-
er power of imparting, and multiplying, and circulat-
ing our knowledge all over the globe, and of pre-
serving it safe, forever, from the power of accident
and the clutches of time. In this last respect, how
marked our superiority ! We may defy all the

4
'4

I A

-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

133

torches of all, the Omars. If every imperial and
roya~library of Europe were destroyed this day,
nay, if the Old World itself were to disappear be-
neath the waves, what is there really precious and
substantial, either in Art or Letters, that we men
of America would not -still have, or could 'not, with
these materials and resources, these keen wits *and
ironwills of ours, in good season, reproduce ? Not
a-thing. All that is valuable in science and the
literature of every clime, we should of course have,
safe and sound already ; and as, for the rest, even
the dearest and most famous master-pieces oi' Paint-
ing, Sculpture, and Architecture,' is there one of
them, that American 'genius could not in time re-
place ? No, not one, from the Cathedral of Cologne
down to the daintiest knick-knack of Paris. Thanks
to modern skill, no precious thing of earth need ever
again perish. No triumph of genius, no noteworthy
deed of art or arms, no act of piety or patriotism,
need ever pass from memory, but may live forever,
and be scattered freely abroad, for the delight and
instruction of the children of me'n. Think of these
marvellous powers of multiplication and circulation
that we have, and then of the slow processes of an-'
tiquity : with what ado have a few stray fragments
of their choicest poets, orators, and historians, b/n
rescued from the jaws of oblivion. But I maintain
that we have equally the advantage over our breth-
ren of old, in the amount of our acquisitions. lNo

I'


I

134

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE'.

addition to the knowledge of the world, indeed ! I
have no patience to argue such a point, andl I con-
fess I am amazed that any man vwho has ever made
the tour of a menagerie, or of a museum, or turned
over the pages of an encyclopaedia, or 'even cast a
curious eye over his own drawing-room, could think'
of maintaining it for a moment I deny it in~ toto-.
I say again, there is no branch of science, no walk
of Art, from highest to lowest, wherein we are infe-
rior to the ancients, while in ninety-nine hundredths
almost, we are immeasurably their superiors. I
deny their superiority in Metaphysics or the Fine
Arts. I do not believe there were any more pro-
found or subtle reasoners, in the days of Aristotle,
than Fearne, or Cousin, or Edwards, or Calhoun ;
nor that there were any grander or more beautiful
thoughts embodied in stone, either in statues or in
buildings, in the age of Pericles, than our own land
can show to-day. Our sculptors are already the
worthy brothers of Phidias and Praxiteles, and as
to Architecture, I would ask what more princely
structure did Athens ever contain, than the Girard
College ; what building of its kind to be named in
the same age -with the Philadelphia Penitentiary,
that masterpiece of skill and invention, which every
capital of Europe, almost, has imitated ? And so in
music. If the specimens of Grecian music that
liave recently been exhibited to us, truly represent
the art, it is perfectly monstrous to -compare it with

I
1:

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

135

the strains 'of Haydn, and Mozart, and Rossini. .If
such were the melodies wherewith the Athenian
maidens were serenaded, or the Athenian bride-
grooms summoned to marriage, I can only say I
pity then. They certainly sounded 'to me far more
like that eccentric and lugubi-ious piece of vocaliza-
tion, the morning song that poor old Red Jacket
used to mumble over his cups, than like any thing in
the Messiah, or the Sonnambula. And in painting.
I cannot believe that the best specimens of the art
ever produced in Rome or Athens, were to be com-
pared with the apostolic heads of Rubens, or the an-
gelic faces of Raffaelle, and Correggio, and Over-
beck. I believe Christian art, in this department,
to be as far superior to pagan, as are the themes within
which it deals. Take Raffaelle himself, and who
would compare, for a moment, his Galatea, or his
Councils or Banquets of the Gods, with his Holy
Families or Transfiguration ? -or the Hours in Gui-
do's Aurora, lovely as they are, with his Madonnas
and Saints? .By. the same rule, how much more
grand and suggestive, how much more eloquent in
its appeals, both to our imagination and our affec-
tions, is a modern Cathedral, such as the Duomo of
.Milan, for instance, with its pictured windows,
its countless spires and angels, than any of the cold,
cheerless temples of antiquity, for all their rich
facades and harmonious proportions ! Nay, so per-
suaded am I of our superiority in this walk of art,

I

:1
I

/


.1

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

that I would not, on a venture, exchange the Mercy's
Dream of Huntington for all that was ever done, in
oil or fresco, by the greatest masters of the heathen
world. And in poetry; who will say that we have
fallen behind our brethren of old in this depart-
ment? Or rather, who will not say, that Shak-
speare and Milton alone are worth all the classic
-bards put together? It seems to me sheer profi~nity
to compare the Iliad or IEneid with the Paradise
Lost, whether we consider the theme itself, the won-
drous stores of learning with which it is illustrated,
or the daring flights of imagination with which it is
filled. And as to tragedy; would not the loss of
King Lear alone, be a far greater one to the world
than that of all the tragedies of old that have come
dQwn to us? And I believe the same would be
found1 true in comedy. Sparkling as Menander's
plays must have- been, and bright the wits that list-
ened to- them, I yet doubt whether they had any such
brilliant passages-at-arms in them as those between
Benedict and Beatrice, Orlando and Rosalind. No,
no; there has been but one Mercutio, one Hamlet,
one Imogen, since the great drama of life itself be-
gan. But not to dwell any longer upon the fine arts,
let me venture to cast a hasty glance over the broad
domain of the useful. And here, si~rAy the supe-
riority of as moderns is . most apparent, and over-
whelming. In every branch of natural science, in
our investigations of the laws of light and heat and

motion and attraction, in our analysis and classifica-
tion of all the objects about us~ animate and inani-
mate, can there be any doubt about our wonderful
progress in all these things? Why, England alone
can produce four names, within a century back, that
represent, I believe, fourfold more knowledge of all
the secrets of nature, than would those of all the
philosophers of Egypt, and Greece, and India com-
bined. Could we bring together, to-day, all the wise
men of the East, from the flood down, on the one
hand, and the four intellects of Newton, Davy, Her-
schel, and Brewster on the other, and have their re-
spective acquisitions tested, if you will, by a select
committee of seraphim, who can doubt to whom the
prizes of victory would be awarded? And in the
application of this knowledge to the business of life,
is there not a corresponding progress? What sort
of a figure would Archimedes cut to-day, as engi-
neer and mechanician, alongside of the architect of
the Crystal Palace? And which of his country-
men would you select as the worthy counterparts of
Watt, and Fulton, and Daguerre, and Morse, and
Ericssorr? his very easy to say that the ingen-
ious contrivances of these and kindred benefactors
of their race, for the multiplication of objects and
images, for the transmission of men, an(l things, and
thoughts over the globe, and for saving, in ten thou-
sand ways, the labor of their brethren, are all mere
reappearance of lost arts; but what thoughtful

I

136

if

137


I

188

CLOUDS AND SUNSHiNE.

man can believe it for a moment? I have no more
idea, in yself, that steam, and caloric, and lightning
were ever before pressed into the service of man, as
we now behold them, than I have that the mantifac
turers of Babylon turned out mord beautiful and
truthful time-pieces, in the days of Semiramisthan
do those of Geneva to-day; or that there were Power-
Loom Carpet Factories in Jericho, in the days of
Joshua, supplying Judea with more superb fabrics
than those of our own Manchester and Lowell.
Lowell itself; where was its counterpart among all
the cities of antiquity? What land did it enliven
and benefit? What stream fed its industry? The
Indus, or the Ganges, or the Tiber? Ab, no; these
names are associated with deeds of blood and con-
quest only ; not of peaceful, honorable labor. Sup-
pose Confucius himself were alive to-day, and on his
travels; is there a sight on earth that would so im-
press and delight him as this same Yankee-notion
of a city? How would he contrast its exquisite ma-
chinery, its comfortable dwellings, its various and
intelligent industry, its comely, bright- eyed, well-
clad laborers, with the stupid, squalid, wretched
creatures, that did the work of the world in his time!
Tell me not, that all this is a mere repetition of the
past. Such a spot could not have perished from
the face of the earth, without mark or record. No,
no: as I said before, nothing short of the destruc-
tion of the planet itself, could deprive us of these

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

139

same steam-presses, anJ steamships, these railroads
and telegraphs of ours? and of their mighty results.
They defy all that time and chance can bring against
them. Once ours, we will keep them, and their
fruits, safe and sound till doomsday. had they ex-
isted before, why, we should only have been so much
the farther on the road to our destined perfection,
than we are; should have had so much the more
material to study and to work from, so many the
fewer problems for the philosopher and the philan-
thropist to work oat. Ah no, these things are not
mere revivals, but the genuine growth of our own
tirvies; the legitimate result of the enlarged experi-
ence and matured thought of the world; the natu-
ral forerunners of still greater improvements and
blessings to come. And so in all that belongs to
commerce, navigation, agriculture, manufactures;
to state is, it seems to me, sufficiently to argue the
question of superiority, as bet~veen us and the an-
cients. Take the merchant of Tyre, or of Babylon,
in its prosperous days, and the merchant of New
York; could we follow them from their respective
homes to their counting houses, and through the
business of the day, who can doubt that in every
item connected with that business, from the ink he
writes with, up to the lawyer he consults, the man
of New York would be found to have the advantage2
I have no idea, for one, that the Tyrian or Babylo-
nian had any such set of books, or system of book-

4


i

U

9

F

140

CLOUDs AND SUNSHINE.

keeping, or Salamander safe, or Manifold Letter-
Writer, or gas fixtures, any'such comfortable Cus-
tomn House, or Exchange, or Reading Room to fre-
quent, any such Commercial Dictionaries or Prices
Current to consult, any such facilities in the way of
Insurance, or of transmitting funds and orders all
over the globe, as his American brother enjoys to-
day. I have no idea that the lawyer of Tyre had in
his library, any books that were fit counterparts, to
Abibott on, Shipping, or B ayley on Bills, or Park* on
Insurance, any more than I believe that the fellow
of Lord Stowell ever sat on the Tyrian- bench, or
that a Joseph Story ever administered justice in the
courts of Babylon. No, no; such jurists, such
treatises, such improvements of all sorts, could not
have existed in those days; the world was not ripe
for them. Theymare the genuine results of the en-
larged commerce and knowledge of the race, and we
ought so to consider them, and be grateful for them,
instead of grumbling as we do, and perversely chant-
ing the praises of the past. The commerce of anti-
quity, indeed! I should as soon think of comparing
it with that of our own times, as, of comparing the
eomi-piratical cruise of Jason and his companions in
search of the golden fleece with our own Australian
and Californian expeditions. The old Persian kings,
we are told, -used to keep the bottled waters of the
Nile and -Danube, in their palaces, to show their
guests, as memorials of their travels and conquests.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

141

Such a fact might have had its significance, in those
days ; but how small and childish a thing does it
seem to us, whose Newark cider is drank at the base
of Ararat, and who, in one little month, can circulate
all over the globe the healthful waters of Saratoga
or of Sharon ! The products of ancient commerce,
what were they, compared with ours?&amp; Not to speak
of cotton and sugar, I verily believe that there is
more business done to-day, in India Rubber alone,
with its myriad shapes and uses, than all the com-
mercial transactions of Greece would have amounted
to, put together. .The navigation of antiquity, too !
The timid, creeping navigation of the shipmasters of
Tyre and Carthage, how monstrous to speak of it in
the same breath with our world-searching merchant-
men and whalers ! But I may not stop to multiply
illustrations. Brother B., in the course of his re-
marks, then went on to assert and to mourn over the
departure of the beautiful and the picturesque from
earth. . He said the planet and every thing on it,
were growing homelier every hour, and that every
calling of life was fast losing all its poetical surround-
ings. More especially was this the case, he said, in
the art of war ; a battle, now-a-days, was -a very
ugly, dingy affair, compared with a similar exhibition
in the time of Coriolanus. .Well, it may be true, to
a certain extent. The description in Plutarch, to
which he referred, of Alexander arming himself, in
true Homeric style, for conquest, is indeed most

4

* It
I
I


*1

MU

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

graphic and spirited ; and no doubt it would have
given a Salvator Rosa more pleasure to have painted
a fight, in which such combatants figured, than to.
have transferred those of Bunker's Hill, or York-
town, to canvass. But in all other points of view, IJ
should say, our modern warfare was far the more
interesting of the two. Take the battle of Arbela,
as one of the most memorable specimens of antique
fighting, and look at it, alongside of. Waterloo.--
Think of the scale on which things were done, the
character of' the agencies employed, the amount of
science and art expended in getting up the respective
exhibitions, and who can hesitate for a moment in
deciding as to which was the grander and more terri-
ble display of strength and of genius ? Why, the
former sinks into a mere dog-fight, in comparison.--
In the same way, put Salamis alongside of Trafal-
gar ; for mere pictorial purposes, no doubt, the former
would have been more acceptable to a Claude ; but
as a manifestation of physical and intellectual power,
how altogether inferior is it ! Why Nelson, with his
good ship Victory alone, had he been there, would
halve scattered the combined fleets of Greece and
Persia, like so many chickens in a barn-yard. In
one thing, however, I must join -issue with brother
B., most distinctly ; I mean, in seeing more beauty
in the painted tubs that figure in Yander Yelde's
pictures, 'than in our own gallant clipper-ships. I
think he libelled these last most atrociously. How-

142

IdB

ever, every one to his notion. If he prefers creeping
round the globe, in one of the former, with its awk-
ward decks and clumsy arrangements and comfort-
less accommodations, to a smart, dashing trip in one
of the latter, it seems hard that he should be depri-
ved of the privilege. By the same rule, he would
no doubt also prefer, were it practicable, to go to sea,
to-day, and test his stomach, and take his chance, in
one of those same gilded galleys of Greece, or of
Carthage, that he so eulogized, utterly unprovided as
they were, with chart or compass, life-boat or life-
preserver, to all the appointments and luxuries of a
Collins' steamer. To me, I confess, such language
.seems most unreasonable; a most ungrateful return for
the manifold blessings and comforts that we moderns
enjoy. Hie then went on to say, and seemed to take
it for granted, that in pretty much all matters of
taste and luxury, we were far behind the men of im-
perial Rome ; that we could not begin to get up such
dandies or curricles, dinners or dinner-services ; that
our turbots, and the sauces we put upon them, were
alike inferior to those discussed by Heliogabalus,
etc., etc. I don't believe a word-of it. I believe the
-facts are all the other way, and that there are a
.thousand-fold more dainties and knick-knacks and
objects of luxury, as well as of comfort, in the world,
this day, than there ever were before. I am amazed
that any man should think otherwise ; should pre-
sume to say, that there was any such show or variety

Ii
$1
r I
f~
I


I

lli~

CLOUDs AND SUNHINE.

CLOUDS -AND SUNSHINE.

in the shops of Roinie, in the days of Augustus, as
we see in those of the Boulevards or of Broadway.
Tell mne, that Cicero had any Appleton's to look in
at, or turnover dainty books in ; or that his wife had
'any place to buy bonbons in, for the, children, to be
named with Thompson and Weller's ? LIdon't be-
lieve it, any more than I do that. the counterpart of
Stewart's Palace or the St. Nicholas Hotel, was then
extant. Santa Claus himself, who can doubt that he
has a thousand-fold more materials to fill his blessed
old. pack and wagon from, to-day, than were ever
dreamt of-in those hea-then times ? Nbr have I an~y
idea that Horace ever washed down his jokes, with
any thing comparable to our own Chateau Margaux;
or that Moecenas ever set a supper-table, half so
crowded with dainty dishes superb specimens of con-
fectionery, bright thoughts piut into sugar or choco-
late or jelly, as those of our own merchant-princes
nightly groan under ; or that the kitchen of Lucullus
ever turned out any such complete works of art, as
the foies gras and dindes truffees of Strasburg. I
believe Heliogabalus would have given a province to
have sat down to such a meal, as the carte of the
Trois freres, or Very can furnish. That famous
house of Nero, too ; what was there in it, to be named
as a combination of beauty and utility, with one of
the chandeliers of Cornelius ? Where, too, were its
Paris clocks, and grand pianos'? No such pleasant'
music, in those days. Where was their Punch, and

Lantern, and Comic Almanac, and Illustrated News ?
Where their Gift IBooks, and Monthlies, and Quar-
terlies ? Why, a man has only to put his hands into
his own pockets, to find a score of evidences of the
progress of the world. Is there indeed, any want or
whim, either of fop, epicure, or scholar, that cannot
be gratified, in this age of contrivances ? But not to
illustrate by small things, let us look at large ones.
Take Chatsworth, then, as the exponent of modern
civilization, and Adrian's villa, as that of the ancient ;
and in which of these microcosms would the philoso-
pher and the poet find most materials for thought
and fancy ? Whose grounds would shew the most
scientific planting and gardening, whose gardens the
finest fruit? From whose conservatories could the
lover cull the choicest bouquet for his mistress ?-
The magnificence of the latter might be on a grander
scale, but. surely it would be far more monotonous.
There might be a few chef d'oeuvres in his galleries
that his English brother could not rival; but as to
the variety and suggestive character of their -con-
tents, who can doubt which would 'have the prefer-
ence ? The imperial library, too, might be more
lofty, and its frescoes more brilliant. There might
be some charming manuscripts in its alcoves, that
we would gladly have, to-day.; but we see no Bible
there, no Shakspeare, no Waverley Novels, no Rob-,
inson Crusoe, no Vicar of Wakefield, none of those
ten thousand other dear and precious books that

I

144

145

4

ii

~ii

71


~4

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

grace the English shelves. And so throughout the
two domains.. And what a shame it would be, if it
were not so, seeing that the Duke hath a world
twenty centuries older, and twice as large, to pick
from, as the Emperor had. The discovery of Ame-
rica; who can begin to estiftiate aright the accession
to our knowledge, in all the kingdoms of nature, that
has grown out of it? Why, had Niagara itself been
the sole fruit of* the researches of Columbus, he
would have been still entitled to the hearty thanks
of the world; but when we think of the magnificent
rivers, and forests, and boundless seas of fertile acres,
that he has revealed to his brethren, and of the
mighty part they are playing and to play in the
drama of earth, what language can express his
claims upon our admiration and gratitude? What
are all the demi-gods of antiquity, alongside of a hero
like this? But I must not linger any longer on this
topic. How is it, then, as to the health of the world?
Are we gainers in this regard, or losers? Here
again III must differ from friend B. I think the sta
tistics would be found against him. That we shame-
fully neglect the rules of health, too many of us, and
have to pay the bitter penalty, in consequence, and
our children after us; that there are far too many
martyrs all about us, to all sorts of intemperance, is,
of course, not to be gainsaid. At the same time, I
have no idea that we have any thing like the num-
ber of sick, famine-pinched, deformed, crippled, muti-

lated creatures, that defaced and disgraced the times
of old. I believe that, take the world through, there
is far more health, and comeliness, among the chil-
dren of men, this day, than ever before, and that the
improvement in this respect is the necessary result
of a higher culture. I have no patience with the
doctrine, that as the civilization of the race advances,
its bodily vigor declines; that mental and physical
power may not go together; that disease is the ever
attendant slave upon the triumphs of genius. Oh,
no; I believe that the greatest minds of the world
have been, almost universally, in its soundest bodies;
I believe, moreover, that there are far more such
minds and bodies at work, this hour, than earth ever
knew before. Besides, who can doubt that there are
far more preventive against sickness, known to us,
than there were to the ancients. Let me again cite
India Rubber, that boon to humanity. What such
shield against the assaults of the elements, had they
in Greece or Rome 7 Surely, Hippocrates or Pliny
would have made honorable mentiQn of it, had it ex-
isted in their time, with its ten thousand ministra-
tions unto human comfort. And as to remedies:
who will say, that twenty added. c~rituries of obser~
ovation, have not enlarged our stock of them? have
not augmented our knowledge of the
Grace that lies
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities 3

146

147

III
ii
1~
t

I
ii


148  LOUD ANDSUNSINE.CLOUDs AND SUNSHINE.                                  14

Surely, we have a larger assortment of mineral
springs, than our elder brothers had, a more tho-
rough analysis of them, and infinitely more facility
of scattering their treasures' abroad ; we have a far
choicer stock of climates to select from; a far more
copious medicine-chest to prescribe from. Can any
one doubt it ? Wouldn't Galen himself say so, were
he here, to-day ? Wouldn't he confess, too, that
there were no such hospitals in Rome, or Alexandria,
or Athens, in his time, as our cities contain ; no such
resources for the student, in, the way of lectures and,
galleries and hqboratories and libraries ; no such
comforts for the patient ? When he was Marcus
Aurelius's doctor, Rome was in the very zenith of
her splendor, having millions of souls within her
walls, and filled with sumptuous edifices ; but among
them all, we read of no asylum for orphan, foundling,
or lunatic ; no Institution fc.- the Deaf and Dumb or
Blind ; no Home for the Friendless ; no Eye or
Ear Infirmary ; no Dispensary; in a word, of no
provision, either by prince or people,:for the relief
of the poor, infirm, or aged. It would be unjust,
certainly, to infer from this silence, that the ancients
utterly neglected these duties; but it would be
equally unreasonable, I think, to suppose, that had
there been any truly munificent outlay for such pur-
poses, any thing at all comparable to the Greenwich
or Chelsea Hospital, the Hotel Dieu or Invalides of
our own day, that the memory of such benefactions

A4

could have thus utterly perished. Fame could not
have been so neglectful~ of her deserving children.
No, no ; these institutions belong to a far more civil-
ized, Christianized age, as do all the appliances and
contrivances that we find in them, to a far more
learned one than that of Greece or Rome. I cer-
tainly cannot believe, myself; that there were any
such surgical instruments or performances then, as
we now have ; any such beautiful operations in den-
tistry, any such application of ether, any such arti-
ficial legs or eyes, as ours. I have no idea that
there was any apothecary's shop in any metropolis
of antiquity, to be named in the same breath with
our own Rushton's or Delluc's. The world -wasn't
old or wise enough, hadn't half mineralogical, bota-
nical, chemical knowledge enough, in a word, had
neither the tools nor the wits, adequate to the pro-
duction of any thing so superb, so complete and
thorough in all its appointments, such a charming
combination of science, skill. and taste. Will any
one tell me, then, in the face of all these numberless
resources in the way of prevention, and alleviation,
and restoration, that the health of the world has
gone behind hand ? It seems, to me, most unrea-
sonable. 'But far more unreasonable and unjust
still, was brother B.'s statement, that there was no
more Freedom in the world to-day, than ever. How
he could make it and contend for it as he did, in the
face of such palpable, such glorious facts as we see

11
d
I

148

169


150

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

all around usis' to me surprising. I shall, very
briefly, reply to some few points urged by him. Af-
ter first casting a very sorrowful glance over the'
rest of the work1~ he then went on to illustrate his
remarks by our own country, and to call in question
the reality and~value of our privileges as freemen.
And first, in matters of religion. He could see no more
toleration in that regard, now than ever. He almost
said, in so many words; that there was very little to
choose, so far as peace and comfort were concerned,
between the position of the infidel in New York to-
day, and that of the Christian in Tarsus in the time
of Paul; that the only change, indeed, that he could
see, was in the character of the missiles employed,
and not in the hearts of the persecutors, and that if
the modern skeptic were less exposed than was the
ancient believer to the downright, brutal violence of
a mob, he was yet pretty sure to be pelted, all
through life, with small slanders and libels, and to
be subjected to affronts and annoyances innumera-
ble. Now, this seems to me a most extravagant and
unfair representation of the matter. I see no such
spirit of persecution ~n the community myself. On
the contrary, I see a great and constantly increasing
spirit of toleration and courtesy, not merely between
different denominations of Christians, but towards
infidelity. I have no idea that the modest expres-
sion of disbelief has any such penalties annexed to
it, as brother B. so fancifully described; or that a

V

I'

CL0UD~ AND SUNSHINE.           151
young man of fai talents and blameless life, even
though he be an avowed skeptic, need therefore be
defrauded of a good wife, or a good business, or any
other lawful prize that he may aspire to. If, indeed,
he go out of his way to s~ieer and rail at Christi-
anity, if he make a mock of the most sacred func-
tions of the church, wherewith all our best affections
and dearest associations are entwined, then must he
be treated accordingly; must expect to have the
doors of worthy men closed against him; and most
righteously, as an offender against good-breeding and
decency, and a disturbed of the public peace: but as
to the honest doubts of the well-disposed man, surely
there was never such a readiness as now, all over
Christendom, to meet them in a spirit of candor and
conciliation. How any intelligent observer can deny
a fact so plain, so cheering as this, I confess amazes
me. Equally fanciful and, extravagant seemed to
me friend B.'s assertion as to the restrictions upon
the freedom of motion, of the citizen, in our metro-
polis. He could not have been in earnest, when he
undertook to infer, from the occasional outrages of a
gang of rowdies, in some obscure quarters of the
town, or from the occasional shortcomings of a not
yet perfectly developed police-system, that the great
blessing in question is not practically enjoyed by the
people; still less, when he undertook to say, that
because there has been a breach of the peace now
and then, in one or two wards of one or two cities

I I
Ii
1;

II

~: ~
I
ii
'I

ii ~
j
7
I


i

f

7

152

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

of the Union, 'in times of political excitement, that
freedom of election is not a great and glorious real.-
ity throughout the landj, bnt a mere figure of speech
in our statute books, a mere rhetorical embellish-
ment -in the flights of our orators. How unreasona-
ble, how ungrateful to talk thus ! Why, when I
look back upon the fourth of last November, and
think of the spectacle which America presented to
the world on that day; when I think of the prompt,
quiet, orderly way in which twenty-five millions of
people changed their rulers, without a solitary loss
of life or limb, no, not even of an eye or tooth, that
I have heard of; I am lost in wonder and admiration.
When-did men ever see any thing like it before?
Show me its counterpart, if you can, in Grecian or
Roman experience, or in that -of any .other nation.
Was it not as great a novelty in. the political history
of the world, as the magical rapidity with which the
result was sent by steam and lightning, all over the
globe, 'was without precedent in its social experience ?
And again, when I look forward to the fourth of
March coming, and consider in what an unpretend-
ing, pleasant, courteous waypour excellent Chief
Magistrate will hand over the lkeys of office, and the
chair of state, that loftiest and most honorable chair
on earth, to his successor ; what a simple, old-fash-
ioned, republican ceremony it will be, with no absurd '
parade of troops, no superfluous precautions against
outbreaks ; with nothing in it either to dazzle or ter- .

CLOUDb AND SUNSHINE..

.153

rify the beholder ; occasioning, too, 'not a feather's
weight of disturbance in the nation, interrupting not
for a moment the grand, beneficent movement of the
great wheels of government ; I say, when I think
. of these things, I am far more disposed to fall on my
knees and thank God, for having permitted me to
draw breath in such an age and land; and to be an
humble .participant in such privileges and blessings,
than to carp, and rail, and make unfavorable com-
parisons, and deny the palpable, the glorious progress
of the world in all that belongs to freedom. Is .it
necessary to argue a point so clear as this ? Will
any man deny, either, that the people of Europe
have far more rights and~ comforts now, than they
ever had before; that the tyrants of Europe are far
more afraid than ever of public opinion ; that politi-
cal crimes can no longer be hushed up, but are
straightway dragged forth from the strongholds of
autocracy, and branded with a world's execration ;
that WiTt is. more free than ever to throw its shafts
at all sorts of abuses; that Truth has a far better
chance than ever before, of triumphing over the ca-
bals of cliques, or the bayonets of ruffians ; that a
good word, from a wise man, is listened to by a hun-
dred-fhousand fold greater audience than ever; that
any good thing, be it in matters of Faith, Art, or
Science, hath far more potency and significance than
ever, traveling as it straightway does into all lands,
translated as it is into all languages ; in' a word,

44

ii
I
I
i
'I


A

154

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

that the masses are hourly gaining in intelligence,
dignity, and pqwer, while their eneniies and opprcs&amp;
ors ar~ hourly losing strength and heart? I should
as soon think of denying my own existence, as of
questioning these things, nor will I stop to discuss
them. Need I say, finally, t~iat I think brother B.
was equally astray from the fruth in his last state-
ment, that the world is no better to-day than ever it
was? Surely, surely the facts a6re all the other
way. I believe there is a mdst cheering progress in
thi~ respect; that the spectacle daily presented by
our New York is far more acceptable to God and
holy angels, than was that of Rome or Babylon in
their happiest days ; and that alike' the fallible re-
cords of men, and the unerring ones of heaven, had
we access to them, would demonstrate it; that we
have far more happy homes and virtuous households;
more good women going about, ministering unto sick-
ness and poverty; more good men devoting their
time and money to purposes of charity ; more be-
nevolent associations of all sorts; more looking after
poor vagrants, and foundlings, and idiots; more asy-
lums for all manner of distresses and infirmities;
more good preachers, and sermons, and the blessed
fruits thereof. Do we not, every day, hear of some
munificent donation, or see the corner-stone laid of
some building dedicated to charity, that may be
traced directly to the timely wprds of some good
priest, whose eloquence has aroused the zeal, or con-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

155

firmed the, wavering purpose of the benevolent ?-
These are not idle fancies, but substantial and de-
lightful realities, to which every ward bears witness.
I have no idea that any metropolis of old had any
such blessed list of charities to show, no, not imperial
IRome herself, in any period of her career, as our own
dear town can, to-day, with all her imperfections and
short comings; else has history most cruelly belied
them. And so throughout the world; looking, not
at mere isolated spots, but taking a broad, generous
survey of the whble, will any one deny that there is
a most marked improvement in the moral condition
of the race; that there is more good feeling among
nations, more equity in international law, more lib-
erality in treaties, more humanity in war; a more
merciful administration of justice, a better prison-dis-
cipline, a far more wise and gentle dealing with all the
maladies of the body politic; more efforts made, both
by ~governments and individuals, for the diffusion of
knowledge; more grand gatherings for lofty and
honorable ends; more disposition to speak and listen
to the truth, to bury old animosities, to promote the
arts of peace, and the interchange of the products of
industry, and to put an end to the horrible business
of throat-cutting'? Will any one deny that there is
far less profanity and bestiality in the world; less
cannibalism, less abominable superstition of all sorts;
less of that bitter, malignant spirit that so disgraced
the feuds of rival states and cities, in old times, that

'I
I
I.
I
4
rL~ifIt2


16

CLOUDS. AND SUNSHINE.

warred alike with the dead and the living, and that
made a slave of every captive ? I cannot hesitate,
for one, in my answers to all these questions.' I be-
lieve, too, that the march of mind, of which we hear
so much, has been, not the mere figure of speech
that brother .B. Would inamke ~t out, but a .veritable,
arduous, glorio us progress ; that the mission of
*Christ has been, not the miserable failure it would
be, if his picture of humanity were the true one, but
a source of infinite blessings to the race ; the fount
'froin which all the best thoughts, words, and deeds
of the world have been 'derived. 'No culture less
tliorough,, no creed less lofty could have given us the
innupmerable privileges and improvements, moral and
matali al, that we enjoy. To say that these. things
are all mere repetitions of the past; that they have
had their day before on earth, and have disappeared
a1$sumbered for ages, without trace or record, and
have then been revivejl, only to go through the same
round and to die the same temporary death ; such a
view of human life .and destiny, however it lnay
amuse the fancy, seems to me as unreasonable as it
is discogiraging. I have no belief in it 'myself. 'I
believe in the steady progress of the race, ever since
creation-morning ; and that the. things that most
adorn and bless our day were utter strangers to the
men of antiquity. I have no idea' that we shall
ever stumble on that slumbering fac simile of Lon-
don'or New York either in the deserts of Arabia,

A

ii

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

157.

pm

or beneath the waters of the Euphrates, to which
friend B. alluded; or that any Asiatic records will
ever be exhumed, wherein the counterparts .of our
own Washington or Webster will be found ; any
-more than I have, that a Peace 'Congress ever came
together in Babylon, or iny Grinnell Expedition
ever left 'the port of Tyr~e, or Crystal Palace ever
drew travelers to Athens, or that our own glorious
common school system was known to the lawgivers
-of Egypt. iNo; such men, such deeds, such 'ideas
as these, are the' blessed, result of an older, vwiser,
better world; as far superior to any thing antiquity
ever witnessed, as I believe they will be found infe-
- rior to those of twenty centuries ahead. And now,
friend C. (for I have talked quite long enough), let
me appeal to you in this matter. What say you'?
Which of us seems nearest to the truth'? Are
these improvements that I see all around me, and
these bright hopes that I build upon them, the mere
creations 'f a credulous enthusiasm, as brother B.
~seems to think them, or is he himself unreasonably
skeptical and gloomy in his views ? I confess, I
should like to hear what you have to say on these
points.
B. AndLI
C. -Well, friends, I certainly have some rough
notions of my own, on these matters, though I'hardly
think them worth listening to. At any rate, I have
no idea of .inflicting them upon you to-day. If when

I

A
4

I

jv


T
158          CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.
we next meet, you are disposed to renew the discus-
sion, you shall be heartily welcome to them, such as
they are.
A. Very well, let us so understand it.
U. Till when, farewell.
CONVERSATION '~
I                                            -______
A. And now, friend C., for your opir
matters discussed at our last conference.
you'? Am I right, in my rose-colored v:
present and the future, or brother B. he]
gloomy ones? How is it'?
C. Well, to be candid, brethren, I dc
with either of you. I certainly have nc
with the sad and skeptical spirit that see
vade brother B.'s remarks. I think he
too hard and bitter upon poor human n
yet I cannot help thinking, also, that th4
onthewholefar more on his side of tI?
I do not believe, in a word, that there ha
material progress, either in the ~isdom
of the world, since man first set foot upo
any detached age or nation, and compare
other, we see, of course, marked differ
looking at the whole earth and race, fron

I
4
iion on the
What say
iews of the
~e, with his
agree
not
sympathy
~med to per-
was quite
ature; and
~ facts are,
~e question.
sbeenany
)r goodness
nit. Take
it with an-               [
ences; but
~ the begin-

'4
11


1(30         (1 LOUDS AN]) SUNSHINE.

161V

(~LO1Jr~5 ANY) STTNTSITINE.

fling, I believe that what we call human life afi(l htv
man nature, are just the same flOW flS CYCP, aU(l that;
they will be so, unto the end. 1 believe that the
history of 11w future will be substantially the his-
tory of the past ; with the same lights and shadows.
the same alternations and vicissitudes. I have no
idea that the twentieth century of our era will 1)0 as
brilliant a one as the present, or that the historian
of the twenty-first will have any such triumphs of
art or science to record, as we see to-day; but that
there will be the same reaction that there always
has been ; nay, that we shall have, in due season,
t}ie dark ages over again; that the Course of Em-
pire must be everywhere fulfilled; that it is not
henceforth to be a mere flourish of rhetoric, a mere
thought elaborated on canvas, but just as much the
experience of nations yet unborn. as of those that
perished ages ago. I believe that London and Paris
are destined to be the same heaps of rtt~m~. that old
iome and Ephesus now are; that our own land, after
going through a glorious development, and reaching
a higher point of culture in some respects, perhaps,
than human annals have yet borne witness to, must,
in tnrn, bow her. lofty head, ahd droop and. die, and
return to her primitive desolation; must become the
same beast-and-savage-haunted wilderness, that the
men of Plymouth found her. I believe, in short,
that the perfection to which brother A. looks for ward
so hopefully, exists only in hi~ own ardent irriagina-

A

tion; that there never will he any better or wom~e
men on earth than we have had already ; no IHtol
leot more subtle than that of Aristotle, no heartier
lover of truth than Socrates, no patriot that will
ever dim the lustre of Washington's fame; and, en
the other hand, no wretch that will ever make its for-
get the atrocities of Ilerod or of Nero; that the
planet was never intended to be the abode of angelic
loveliness, or of ~endish malice, but the home of
man, our brother; the same yesterday, to-day, and
forever; the same compound of strength and of
weakness, of good and of bad qualities, in the one
hundred thousandth, as in the flrst century of hu-
man history. I believe that the same impassable
barriers exist now, and ever will, that ever have, to
man's knowledge of those very things that yet most
interest and disturb him ; to the know~ed~e of hi~
own origin and destiny, of the principles of life, the
phenomena of death, the wonders beyond the grave:
that God hath not, either in his work3 or word, and
never will give his children: while on earth. any
more than the vaguest hints concernin~ these mrs-
teries. I believe the same obstacles exist. and will
exist, as ever, to the mental and moral progress of
the race; obstacles growing out of these frail. crav-
ing bodies' anti wayward minds of ours out M our
native aversion to labors and l~ve of ease and self-
indulgence ; and upon which no conceivable orgam-
~atiou of society, no stimulus of precept or example~

ii
I
I

160


I

162

CLOUDS. AND StTNSTJ'INF~

ao multiplication of books,' or schools, or teachers,
can ever make any permanent unpression ; and
therefore, that the great and good of earth will
always be, as they have been, in sad disproportion
to the ignorant and sinful. I believe that all the
inequalities of endowments and condition, all the
accidents, struggles, feuds, pains, sorrows of life,
will exist while earth exists ; just as much as I be-
lieve that men will ah~ays be looking sup at the same
stars, climbing the same mountains, and sailing over
the same oceans that they now do; in a word, that
the orchestra of nature, the drama of life will never
chai~ge. I have not the remotest idea that we mor-
tals will ever become so peaceful, wise, and happy,
that the plays of Shakspeare will cease to interest
us; save as curiosities; as the representatives of in-
firmities and evils no longer extant; but that they
will be the same faithful mirrors of humanity, ten
thousand years' hence, as to-day. I have no doubt
that there will be just as many whims to humor,
follies to laugh at, vices to lash, crimes to punish,
just as much work for the satirist, and caricaturist,
and magistrate, in A. D. 18,530, as in the year of
grace 1853; that life will be the same web of min-
gled' yarn; the same many-colored thing as ever.
I believe, too, that the children of men will be found
living in the same old-fashioned homes as ever; not
distributed in any orderly array of groups and se-
ries and phalan.xes, but scattered about the valleys

G'JAOIJJ)S AND SUNShINE.

163

ami hill-sides of e~rth, or congregated in cities, as we
110W 5CC them; that the same fa ruilyjoys and farnily~jars
will, then us now, cheer and torment humanity ; that
the same visionary schemes for supplanting them, will
continue to haunt the brains of dreamers; that the
men of those days, like their bre Ijhren of to-day, will
persist in loving their own kin~re{~, and firesides,
and land, and language more than those of the anti-
podes; that there will be as great a multiplicity as
ever of' creeds, governments, and opinions in the
world; that
CC the king's crown, and the deputed sword,
The marshal's truncheon, and the judge's robe,"
will be, not obsolete ideas, extant only in the verses
of forgotten poets, but living, significant realities;
that liberty, equality, and brotherhood will still con-
tinue ~o be the same objects of desire, the same
bright and beautiful illusions as ever. In short, I
believe that the world will remain the same primary
school for souls that it always has been; with the
same feeble understandings to deal with, the same
limited range of studies, the same rough discipline;
that the brevity of life, the liability to sudden death
and loss of reason, the infirmities of age, nay,
that all the disappointments, inequalities, doubts~
temptations, perils, evils, about us, must ever exist
on earth, as the indispensable accompaniments of
that very scheme of education which God intended

)

C                       -.


I

164.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE*.

for his earthly children. .But not to expand or illus~-
trate this thought at too great length, I would ask,
what is there in it -so very irreverent, or unphiloso-
phical, or discouraging. If I believe, as I most
fervently do, in immortality, as proclaimed alike by
reason and scripture, and in all the glories and ter-
rors that are involved in it, what is there so repul~-
sive in this picture of humanity Why should not
just such a planet as earth have been set apart by
God for just such as purpose ; as the first of a series
of experiences, for the formation and .development
of spiritual character ? Why, then, seek to disturb
the arrangements-? Why break up this beautiful
order of things ? Why call for a course of lessons, or
system of discipline here, that would be inappropriate
to our position ? Why fondly expect to realize on
earth, those visions that can only become realities in
a more advanced stage of our career ? Or why, on
the other hand, madly and blasphemously pronounce
all about us, mere vanity and rubbish ? Are not
both these extremes, of credulous enthusiasm, and
sneering skepticism, alike unreasonable ? There are
ten thousand subtle and puzzling questions, of course,
that grow out of such a thought, and which our poor
wits cannot begin to fathom; but the thought itself
seems to me the most natural and appropriate, nay,
encouraging, that, could enter the mind ; certainly
the mostin accordance with Christianity. Why else,
indeed, was Christ sent on earth, to establish a per-

(iLOUD'3 AND SUNShINE.

165

nmanent religion ? Why was that blessed medicine
for souls given us, to last, as we believe, while man
lasts, but because these very infirmities, sins, and
sorrows with which it deals, are to be with us always?
I am for taking the world, then, as I find it, with all
its rough teachings and heart-vexing mysteries ; for
playing my humble part and studying my. humble
lesson as best I- may, without asking impertinent
questions, the answers to which are wisely withheld
from mc ; without clamoring for impracticable im-
provements ; without grumbling, because the stripes
may appear to be laid, at times, on the wrong backs,
or because the sweets and bitters are not distributed
according to my poor notions of right ; believing that
as I advance from stage to stage of my spiritual edu-
cation, all these problems will gradually be cleared
up, and the wisdom and gopdness of the great Teacher
.be made manifest. Of course, then, holding these
views, I. cannot look forward to any such revolutions
here below, as brother A. speaks of. As I said be-
fore, his idea of a steady progress to perfection on
earth, seems to me a mere fancy sketch. I have no
faith in it. I believe thie world will remain as it is;
that it will present the same motley spectacle, ages
hence as now ; the same variety of phenomena, alike
in nations and in individuals ; that it is not going to
become one great garden, one scene of uniform peace
and plenty and happiness ; or mankind a band of
.brothers, speaking the same language, sitting down

ii
It

V

I',
1*
A
A


[

CLOUDS AN'D 'SUNSHINE.

to the same bounteous table, interchanging tasks and
sports and civilities, without distinction of rank,
clime, or color. Oh, no ; I believe the poet will have
the same old song to sing in the long ages to come,
as he is singing this hour ; the historian the same
many-sided story to tell; that earth will have, then
as now, her sterile and accursed spots, her noisome
weeds and venomous reptiles ; that there will always
be wildernesses enough for beasts to roam and howl
in, ruins enough for owls to build in, and moralists
to- muse over ; that her church-yards will always
hold the saffie motley gathering of wise and simple,
of young and aged sleepers ; that wars and famines
and pestilences will still be sent forth upon their
terrible missions ; that whirlwinds and earthquakes
and volcanoes will still play their fearful, but God-
appointed parts ; that there will always be, as now,
the same warfare in the elements, and in the hearts
of men ; yes, while the earth continues. to perform
her journey through the skies. These things make
life the battle it is ; 'this is the schooling, the train-.
ing whereby God prepares his children for the more
lofty and arduous tasks that are to follow. And is
not the planet itself, all 'the more dear and interest--
ing to us, on this very account ; as a place ,not in-
tended to be handed over, either to angels or to
devils, but set apart, forever, as the theatre of human
action'? Why do we so love to linger over the tombs
of old, or to mieditate among the ruins of dead cities ?

4

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

167

Because the men they commemorate or recall, were
our brethren ; because their joys, feuds, sins, sor-
rows, were the sane as ours ; the drama of life pre-
cisely the same then, that it is now ; the 'still, sad
music of humanity,' that we listen to, the same that
was chanted of old. And will not, for these very
reasons, the same sighs be heard, the same homilies
be read over our own remains and monuments, here-
after ? -I have no doubt of it. I have no doubt that
some future Marius will yet moralize over this same
shattered metropolis of ours ; or that the traveler
will, ages hence, be gathering wild flowers among
the ivy-hidden ruins of Marshfield, as he gathers
them, to-day, at the tomb of the Scipios.. And why
not ? 'I repeat the question ; is not this view of hu-
man, destiny more reasonable, than that which on
the one hand would turn this world into a paradise,
for which God has not furnished the materials, or on
the other, would treat it as so much rubbish only fit
for the flames'? So it seems to me. Why then seek
to alter God's arrangements ? Why should not the
earth continue to play the. part thus assigned her,
and as she still keeps on in her thousand-fold re-
peated journey through the heavens, so keep on,
through all time, telling the same old story, reading
the same old lesson as ever, to man ; to man, alike
when here,, in the midst of the strife of life, and to
nman, when translated to other spheres of action ?-
What different systems og, discipline, what higher

I

166


I,

U

168

CLOUDs AND SUNSHiNE. ~

courses of study, what more grand or subtle organi-
zations may await us, in those other worlds, these
things are all, in God's wisdom, hidden from us.- -
Meanwhile, here we are, in the preparatory school,
with its teachings and trials, corresponding to this,
our spiritual childhood. Surely it is not a discour-
aging, but a grand and inspiring thought, that this
earth of ours is thus the beginning of a magnificent
scheme of education ;' the first of a series of divine
academies, for developing and perfecting that spirit-
ual cultur-e, which our affections and understandings,
which nature and revelation alike proclaim to be the
destiny God hath in store for all his children. ~In
this light, all the evils, and sorrows of life are as
much divinely appointed teachers as their opposites;
aidd that very preponderance of sin and suffering
that we see about us, the arrangement of all others,
the best suited to bring out both the passive and the
active virtues; in a word, to make our schooling
here, the most complete and thorough. Such, my
friend, is my humble interpretation of the matter,
an interpretation, endorsed, I think, by the soundest
philosophy and poetry of the world, and by the Scrip-
tures themselves. But I see you' don't agree with
me.
A. I certainly do not. Your doctrine seems to
me to have far more assumption than proof about
it, far more plausibility and ,poetry, than truth. It
wodplelzzle you too, exceedingly, I think, to recon-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

169

cile it with the old-fashioned, scriptural notions,
eithei- of this world, or the next. But, not to argue
the point on scriptural grounds, the great cardinal
objection I have to your theory, is its inevitable ten-
dency to depress and discourage all efforts after im-
provement. What can be. more disheartening than
to tell me, that whatever I may do, or the genera-
tion to which I belong, towards transmitting this
trust, the earth, which we have received from our
fathers. in a sounder condition to our children, will
all amount to nothing ; that those very children, or
theirs, will only undo all that we have been doing ;
and that this is the history of the world from the
beginning; that not an inch of veritable progress
has been made, but that -we have. been describing
the same dreary round ever since God .first made
and blessed man? Why, what is this but a direct
invitation to sloth and despondency ? I cannot, I
will not accept such an idea. I do not believe that
the deeds and lessons of the past have been so
thrown away upon us. I will not so insult my Ma-
ker, or -belie history, or the instincts of my own
heart, as to cherish such a notion, and turn human
life-into such a pitiful game of see-saw as this. I
believe that God has a far higher destiny in store for
earth, than the one yoiu describe ; nay, that h~tas
given men the capacities and materials for working
out the problem of perfection, here ; and that they
are now, and ever have been, slowly and painfully,

A
F

I,
I,

1~
Ii
II

L

i
1-


I

170

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

but surely, working out that problem; that every
day is adding facilities for its solution ; that there
are now far more brains employed upon it, more
truths shedding light upon it, than were ever known
before ; and that, in God's good -time, the glorious
consummation' will be reached-; yes, here, on earth,
by living, breathing man. I cannot accept any
thought less cheering than this.' This alone can
animate me aright to the discharge of my humble
part in pushing forward the blessed work. -I must
discard your doctrine, then, my friend (fancifully and
poetically as you have set it forthh, as an unsound one;
as not in harmony either with the 'facts of history,
or the statements of Scripture, or with the exquisite
machinery and munificent arrangements of the nat.
ural world ; in a 'word, as derogating fi-om the wis-.
'dom and goodness of God.
C. I see not that. .On the contrary, this' very
distribution of parts and duties, among the different
worlds of the Universe, whereby every star hath
alike its prescribed path in space, and its prescribed
system of discipline, differing from those of every
other ; such a picture as this seems to me far more
in keeping with our ideas of the divine perfections,
and presents a far more varied, grand, and- exciting
whole, for our contemplation, than yours of a monoto-
nous perfection, alike toiled after, and alike consum-
mated, in all. .
A. Well, all such speculations, perhaps, ought to

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

171

be frowned upon, as unbecoming and presumptuous
in us poor mortals.. Still, if our imaginations will
wander, at times, in such paths, I can't help think-
ing my picture a far more delightful one than yours.
Surely, the thought of a universe, in which good is
everywhere finally triumphant, with -no solitary sin
or sorrow lurking in a single star thereof, is more
grateful, more worthy of our Father in heaven, than
this ceaseless, terrible conflict between good. and
evil, that you would thus seek to perpetuate. Be-
sides, if this earth be the primary school you speak
of; what right have you to assufie that its discipline
has already been perfected; that. there will be no
grander developments of character in it than the world
has yet witnessed; no more profound discoveries -in
moral and natural science, no new revelations of his
will vouchsafed by God ? In. other words, that the
future is to be a mere fac simile of the past'? I say,
that- such a remark is mere gratuitous assertion. I
don't believe it. I believe that there are manifold
precious secrets yet to be found out by human wits,
and that they are to work mighty influences on hu-
man character and destiny; that these same schol-.
ars are to have a far better chance than ever before ;
that their numbers are to be continually augmented;
.that the course of lessons is to be continually en-
larged and amended ; that the comforts and conven-
iences of the pupils are to be more and more stu-
died ; that alike the means and ends of education

I'
1
h
4'

I
I:

/7

ii"

4
I


*1

m

172

CLOUDS -AND SUNSHINE'.

are to be better understood-; that the cannon and
the bayonet are to give way to the sweet constraints
of reason and of love ; yes, that brotherly love is to
prevail at last in the whole human family.. I repeat
it, no vision less bright than this satisfies me ; for
no issues less glorious, was this exquisite mechanism
'of earth, were these marvellous faculties. of man de-
signed-.
0. And I say again, in reply, that I do not bei
lieve that vision will ever be realized here ; and that
in attempting to realize it, we are -striving against
God's own decrees ; against the very means where-
by our wits are trained, our virtues formed. The
whole machinery of life, is it not based on those
very evils that you would thus vainly seek to ban-
ish ? What becomes of all the professions and
crafts of men, of .all the triumphs of genius, all the
blessed charities about us, in this ideal scene, which
you so insist upon? But why needlessly illustrate
a thought so obvious ? It seems to me as clear' as
sunlight that this pseudo-perfection of yours, is but
another Paine for destruction ; for taking all its
form, color, relish from existence;- for knocking out
of' the play all its meaning and moral. No, no, it
may not-be ; that day may never dawn on earth,
when sin and sorrow will not abound ; when chil-
dren will not be brought forth in pain ; when the
whole pilgrimage from cradle to grave will not be
beset with perils. Such is the divine ,programme ;

t

I

CLOUDS ANL SUNSHINE.

173

why madly see to change it ? Why run away
from that very c nilict that calls forth 'our best affec-
tions, and furnishes us with our brightest thoughts ?
Why seek to bring about a state of things, wherein
the poet would have no more elegies to chant, the
preacher no mor warnings to sound ; wherein all the
finest, most thri ling passages of the drama would
be left out ? 'It is altogether unreasonable.. As if
we could have, qr appreciate the calin wisdom of the
judge, without ti e previous wranglings and sophisms
of the advocates ! Banish the waylaying, murder-
ing thieves, and what becomes of the blessed part
of the good Samaritan? Blot out the blasphemous,
crucifying Jews, and where is the meek and suffer-
ing Saviour ? How monstrous, then, to seek to
sever what God has indissolubly linked on earth!
As well talk of leaving out the minor keys from the
music of life, as of leaving out its evils and suffer-
ings from huma experience. Just as surely as our
ears would be cl yed and wearied with the never-
ending allegros, in the one case, so would our hearts
sicken, our souls droop and pine, for want of nourish-
ment in the othe.
A. Plausible, but most dangerous doctrine ; pal-
atable enough, c rtainly, to the sluggard and the
criminal.; easily twisted to their evil purposes ; but
not one, that the philanthropist can ever be recon-
ciled to. Yes, ny friend, this view o-f life seems to
me, alike narrow-minded and presumptuous. What

51 t
55

1
5'
-5


174

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

right have you to take for granted, as you do, that
when this blessed consummation, this reign of peace
and good-will, whi~~li both reason and scripture set
before us, is reached at last, then forsooth, the world
will not be worth living in; that there can be no
entertainment, instruction, relish in life, without the
perpetual presence of evil? Is there no such thing,
then, as skill in art, or progress in science, but what
is necessarily based on bodily or mental infirmities?
Can there be no love, but that which binds up
wounds? Are the secrets of nature, the domains
of thought so easily e4austed'! Will there 15e no
new varieties of beaut\Y, no new fields of inquiry,
where all are alike students and brethren, to keep
up the charm of existence, and to stimulate the wits
of men? Nay, will tiiere not be loftier themes than
ever, for the poet's lyre, the philosopher's homily?
To doubt it, seems to me to call in question the re-
sources of God's wisdom and goodness.
B. I cati't agree with you. I can only say
again, what I have so often repeated, that I do not
believe the materials are.. to be found on earth, either
for a natural or moral paradise. Every boy, of
course, dreams of it in his turn.; but every thought-
ful man must reject it as utterly impracticable.
Yes, this same world-wide diffusftn of plenty, peace,
and good will, that you are so forbi of dwelling upon,
would be the very worst thing fo~ us, could we get
it; the most unpalatable and unprofitable arrange-

1'

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.        175

me1nt for humanity. The point seems to me too
clear for argument. As certainly as the inequali-
ties in the face of nature are necessary to give
beauty and interest to the landscape, so are the ine-
qualities of human condition essential to all enjoy-
ment and instruction. As certainly as the coming
together of the sour and sweet gives its flavor to
the fruit, so the perpetual collision of good and evil,
of pain and pleasure, constitutes the very relish of
existence. The idea of altering this divine arrange-
ment, of banishing these eternal contrasts, seems
little less th~r~ blasphemous. No; I am for taking
the world as God made it; for swallowing the
draught as the great Physician hath mixed it. I
ask no emancipation from the temptations or the cas-
ualties of life. Let me fight the good, old-fashioned
fight appointed unto Adam, and all his children.
Let me fairly earn and receive my stripes or laurels,
according to my conduct. Let me struggle as I best
may, with the motley crowd about me; not idly at-
tempting to convert it into an orderly procession of
philosophers, but taking it as I find it; the same
par ti-col~red gathering of peers and paupers, of
saints and sinners, that it has been from the begin-~
ning; the same old crowd that homer sang to, that
Raffaelle piiinted from, that Shakspeare studied;
and life itself, the same diVinely prepared compound
of good and evil, of sweet and bitter, of jest and
earnest, that it always was, and will be through all

~1


~'1

I

I 7e

Pine. Yes. 1'IW fricmL thO 11101W' 1 think of this
~ogrsAoctriue 01 VOUPS. t he 11101W' wild aIl(l vis-
'~onarv does d ~PP~"~ Progress old WOL'l(l to
world. fro~ni the tasks and discipline of this life to
those of a hi her sphere of action. and so on, on, till
the mind is swallowed Up in the abyss of the infi-
nite ; such a progress as this. (luniM as I apprehend
~t. N~et seems to me a tar more philosophical and ani-
mating thought.. than yours. of solving the problem
of perfection here on earth. or in any' other single
world of the universe and, as I said before\ pro-
sents a far more sublime and varied whole for our
contemplation. It is not fair. I know. to argue from
physical to thin~
things                s spiritual ; and vet, what is
there in this same universe, from the revolving
planet down to the passing shower. that suggests
the progress y~u speak of? Oni the contrary. is it
not all circular movement; a return to the place of
beginning; n giving up of the thing taken; death
erthrowing life, life springing up out of death; and
this as well in the career of the proudest empire, as
same circles, great and small, he ever thus comple-
ted. as in the past 2 Will it not be so? Yes,, the
stateliest metrcpcdis of earth, to-day. must go down
t~ the same du~'rv death as have all that have gone
4,
P3Lre it: must return to that wilderness state from
which it came. and in its tum. furnish the stone and
the timber ~ut of which future builders are to rear

(~IA)UJTh ANI) ~1JN8IIINE.

177

future cities; and human luxury, and corruption,
and war, and wretchedness, must be, as they have
ever been, (iod's own selected agents for the carry-
ing out of the decree. Who can doubt it ~ Call
this a dreary round, a pitiful game of see-saw, if
you will; but to me it seems the beautiful fulfill-
ment of the very mission that the Creator designed
for earth.
*A. I cannot accept this interpretation of the
matter; nor do I think the records of history jus-
tify any such assumption. Nay, they tell quite the
opposite story to me. A~e there not cities on earth
this hour, that have celebrated their thousandth
birth-day; and which, so far from manifesting any
symptoms of corruption or decay, are growing arid
thriving continually? II have no idea, myself that
either London, or Paris, or New York will ever die
that death you speak of; that they will ever be
lodgings for wild beasts, but will continue unto the
end, the same centres of. trade, the same head-quar-
ters of art and science that they now are. I reject,
altogether, your version, my friend. Dr~ss it up in.
what gay robes you will, plead for it as persuasively
as you may, it yet seems to me unsound, sophistical,
nay, heathenish. It may minister unto a morbid
fancy, but it discourages all healthful exertion. I
have no patience with it; this perpetual holding up
of the past as the model, this want of faith in the
present, this unwillingness to admit what appears to

I

I


iL~~s ha~~ c a(k ~\~vtvt ih~' ~nk!K ~nd n~4
'prcb~ern v~'g. iihc I~"m c~f p{Vj{\ jj~'1~, \~iiCh~ I
'~~c&amp;k ~'rU on rth~' si~d VIC4 tC~ 'he (4('T~aIh ~'~ibin~
hvlrn~ir~ cP~trr~.
-# w
(     Nc'i s~  'not i~            ~&amp;   . ~ 'd a ~C~Y
a~poirtte~i 'r~h~n. A n~ 'v~ ir~ ~hc~'iX~ t'h  ~c~~s~a'nd {~'dd
~'O1'Oi;i hon 6f ~h~i t pTh ~n. 11 ~inv thc~ h~ss di~iv~e.
~                  ~                ~  ~    r~ictive to ~s 7
IP~$OThiflC ~ vohi'S c a~i&amp;~s 't~ i jn I tA~ vcT\
bz!i~ of heaven. anc~ w~t~ thc s4s~rs ~Yr ~. 1$ Ihe
~ wipe. then er~ '~cs~ ~ee~bTh bc n~s~c c~r fort
t~'s ~~~he:'oe trepc~s ~:'orr. the i~rec ~vi~s~ ! Is
~ h1\ o ~~Tanm.r~ am~' tt'e less c~a~rrr.bec~use
F"
h~thiuz Pome=rure1e~     a~e~   t~im~c      )c~es tt.~e t'c~ s
Ics~s~n1 stin~utat 1k15~ TrOUL.Cj t~rait LIC ~CJt.C Zi~
vounz ItuaQuu~ztor1. ~rT tP~ it~ss L f'~'b4'~iT. 14?W. ~
CaUS( 1~iTh~ WC~t 511CV111t, TD~f~iWT ThW~L T2 ~
au( mtf.Y~'QStflic~ Pe~.u~    o: ;lilf V~y'W  I~L;7'v     IA
I      ~4.-
2~et1iQ7~ lflt( 0111 m'eat wiiuit~ IhU gi ~ L~ Iii ~JI2.I4r %

I7

hif4tOry, ~ ~i~'rii fiar~~ to the        thf~ (F"i~th '
)
A ,,d, by the ~iiee ru he, Will th~ 'ath~i ~'a1 fl7~ai; 4
DOW ~4hll1WY'Irag in the quarry, with a~1 its rnarb ~
4ailit$ nnel arigel~, any thE~ less charm and ir~3tfl~f;t
111080 WhO WJII L{~ wmd~rin~ ~,bO1It 1 t~ ai~Ie3, ari'~
ts. a; CK~
F4ttUly in g i t~ mon uir~cn  /  r ~    ~
f~etu'~4 i~ playing that 8~i~fh(~ p~rt fr ~ to-day 3
Or ~Lt'0 tli~ pIE 8111'05 W~ r(~43(~JVt~, tb~ 1~~or~s we
from St. J~ctcr's, any the h~s~ 1~able, ~ ~
kw)w titiat it uiu~t critmbl(~ tO (IU3t jfl it~S torY;- m~i3t
go through the same mill yhat tne CdOS~'1m ha~
before it, and become a quarry for f~it~re buiider3 to
~plunder materials from 3 Does not the very fict~
that time, and neglect, and yi~1~n~~ are to brm~
about this same destruction, make it all the rAir~
beautiful and dear to us 3 The idea of it~ ~'~main~
ing safe and fresh, always, in mad emulation of me
works of nature, is it not intolerable :o u~ ~ W ;uM
not future ages turn away from it. a~ an. ~n~er:i~ent
nuisance, that had no business in a. ~i ii~
And why should not the same reascr~ig a.~pq ~c v
nation 3 Why should not oar own. lan.4: become m~
wilderness again, and fade away trcm. im~i4n~ how-
ledge, and again be brQu2lit to li~2~ 07 tJ.OtIICr
Columbus? Such an idea is t~ir less r~piiisPr~ ~
unnatural than yours~ of ~ ss~aUy ~r~g~t ss tO a~ iou-
summation frota ~v hich the~re is ~ be ~io :cciuie~ ~
-L       ~  ~f) r~iiUW
meridian sph'udor which. m.~     "~ ~
a mcrt  dr~tu~that ~ be ~eaii~ed t:i ~

I


I

180

CLOUDS AND 'SUNSHIINE.

like ours, the very laws of' whose being are ceaseless
change and conflict. No, no; .a world without its
sorrows and its ruins, what charm could it have for
student or traveler'? A history, that had no bloody
wars and tottering thrones to tell of, no crimes and
vices in it, how soon would it weary and repel the
reader ! And why ? Because it would not be the
history of man;. of man as he was in the firstrage,
as he will be, in the last age of earth. How idle to
question, how wild to seek to change these things !
I say again, then, call. this a dreary round, if -you
will;- to me it is none the less a divine drama ; nay,
I take comfort, I rejoice in the thought, that the ~
scenes and characters of this drama, will remain the
same, through all time ; to feel that I am heaving
*      the same sighs; shedding the same tears, struggling
*  ~  with the same doubts, obstacles, temptation, as did
my brethren of the patriarchal ages ; just a~s much
as I am looking up at the same stars, am surrounded
by the. same flowers, listening to the music of the
same brooks.
A. Well, well, my friend, we shall never agree' on
this point. You cling to your idea, certainly, with
commendable firmness, and illustrate it, with char-
acteristic copiousness. None the less, however,
must I fight against it. Especially do .I deny the
force of your last illustration. I deny that we men
of to-day, are looking up at the same stars, .are con-
lined 'to the same scanty range of flowers or fruits,

1~

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

181

that the patriarchs were. I say, there are far more
stars in Our heavens, and that we know far
more about them; that we have far more copi-
ous and dainty fare, both for mind- and bodyr, than
the men of old had.; that the brook's music hath far
more meaning in it than ever before ; that the brook
itself is playing a nobler part than ever ; that its
waters are less often stained with blood ; that all
the brooks and rivers of earth have far more beauty
and significance, than ever ; that they are not, as of
yore, mere boundaries of hostile kingdoms, and scenes
of conflict, but are more and more becoming peace-
makers, and blessed ministers unto human industry ;
that the landscapes of earth have more amenity, more
of the smiling labors of peace in them, than ever ;
nay, that the prospect from every mountain-top, bears
witness to the glorious progress-doctrine that 'I
preach, and shall persist in preaching, my friend, in
spite of all that you have urged. I say again, the
facts of history are all on that side of the question.
Every day's reading and observation strengthen me
in this belief. I have already dwelt on this point, in
talking with brother B., and must not repeat myself.
I believe then, most fervently, in the reality of that
progress. I believe that there are far more acres,
and brains, under cultivation, to-day, than the world
ever knew before ; more hearts alive to truth, more
rational faith, more ardent piety
C. Ah, no, no' ;I can't agree with you there. It

I '1

I


182        CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.                                    CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.        183

seems to me, that there was a fervor about the piety
Qf antiquity, that we have quite lost, in our day; a
hearty, earnest communion with God, to which our
worship is tame and frigid; a simple, child-like faith,
for the loss of which, we are poorly compensated by
all our pompous rituals, all our elaborate treatises
on Natural Theology.
A. I don't think so. I say, on the contrary, that
we are far nearer God than ever we were. I cannot
listen to the doctrine, that science tends to withdraw
man from his Maker. He that knows best the works
of God, sees best the friend and father in them. The
most learned philosophers have ever been the most
filial and devoted worshippers. If here and there a
rebellious nature is found, perverting the lessons of
the - great volume, thank heaven, they are rare ex-
ceptions. And how can it be otherwise? Piety and
knowledge must, from the very nature of things, sus-.
tam and elevate each other. As the learning of the
world increases, so must the intensity and fervor of
its faith increase; I quarrel not with the faith of
the patriarchs; it was a blessed thing, in its day,
and in entire accordance with their scanty knowledge
of the frame of things about them; but oh, compare
it not with the enlightened, the sublime faith of a
Newton. And this latter kind of faith it is, that I
maintain is continually increasing in the world, with
all other desirable things, in the ever onward march
of mind. Progress, progress, progress; yes, my

182

'ii

193

friend, I must cling fast to the glorious thought. I
bQlieve in the ultimate redemption of the race from
sin anti ignorance. I believe the day will yet dawn,
when the whole earth will bear witness to the same
blessed changes, the same emancipation from idolatry
and bloodshed, that the great poet so eloquently sets
forth, as having taken place on the borders of his
own loved lake. You may remember the passage.
He is pointing, as he speaks, to a placid cove, shut
in by hills, and illuminated by a magnificent sunset,
which he has just been describing.
"Once, while the name, Jehovah, was a sound
Within the circuit of this sea-girt isle
Unheard, the savage nations bowed the head
To gods delighting in remorseless deeds;
Gods which themselves had fashioned, to promote
Ill purposes, and flatter foul desires.
Then, in the bosom of yon mountain~cove,
To those inventions of corrupted man
Mysterious rites were solemnized; and there,
Amid impending rocks and gloomy woods,
Of those terrific idols sore4 received
Such dismal service, that the loudest voice
Of the swoln cataracts (which now are heard
Soft murmuring) kvas too weak to overcome,
Though aided by wild winds, the groans and shrieks
Of human victims, offered up to appease
Or to propitiate. And, if living eyes
had visionary faculties to see
The thing that hath been as the thing that is,
Aghast might we behold this crystal Mere
Bedimmed with smoke, in wreaths voluminous,

41


184        CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

Flung from the body of devouring fires,
To Taranis erected on the heights
By priestly hands, for sacrifice performed
Exultingly, in view of open day
And full assemblage of a barbarous host;
Or to Andates, female Power! who gave
(For so they fancied) glorious victory.
A few rude monuments of mountain-stone
Survive; all else is swept away. How bright
The appearance~ of things! From such, how changed
The existing worship; and with those compared,
The worshippers how innocent and blest!
So wide the difference, a willing mind
Might almost think, at this affecting hour,
That paradise, the lost abode of man,
Was raised again; and to a happy few,
In its original beauty, here restored."
And is not this same blessed chang~~, my friend, yet
to be the destiny of earth? I believe it. I believe
that Civilization and Christianity are to play no less
a part than this; are, in God's good time, so to mould
and temper our passions, and develop our powers,
that this same paradisewill be raised again, and re-
stored, not to~ the happy few, but to the whole family
of man.
C. Never, never; 'tis 'the enthusiast's dream,
that you describe, not God's future. But suppose it
realized; suppose this ~blessed consummation to be
reacl~ed, and all the wars, famines, and pestilences,
all the follies,, sins, and sorrows of earth banished;
what then? How long, my dear friend, do you sup-
pose this delightful state of things would last ?-

184

''1

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.          185
Where would it finally lead us? How many gene-
rations would it take to bring us to the inevitable
upshot of it all, an overstocked planet? Yes, a
world groaning under a load of life, that it could no
longer carry; crowded with beings, whose mental as
well as physical wants it could nQt supply? He
would be a bold calculator, to be sure, who would un-
dertake to furnish dates and figures, in reply to
these questions; but, my friend, what child cannot
see that such a catastrophe would be the necessary
result of that unrestrained prosperity, that world-
wide reign of peace and good will to which you look
forward? You smile, I see, at the idea of &amp;ertask-
ing the productive power of the earth, and of ex-
hausting its sources of knowledge; and yet, who
knows but what we should have reached that very
result this very hour, had the past been what you
would make the future? Who knows whether there
would have been an acre of wild land left for the
cultivator, a solitary new enterprise to stimulate the
capitalist or the philanthropist, a single new field of
knowledge for the student? At any rate, this would
be the final result of such a state of things. Where
then would this vision of yours be? How gladly,
then, would you hail the return of those very evils
that you are so intent on banishing, as blessed min-
isters sent to relieve the earth from its frightfu4
burden! Are not, then, these same crimes and cas-
ualties and diseases of the world an indispensable

I

1

'I


186&amp;

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

part of the divine economy? I repeat it; had men
all lived out their threescore and ten years from the
beginning, ahd women all been fruitful ; had there
been no undeveloped faculties, no wasted hours, no
neglected enterprises, no lost arts, no follies, vices,
wars in the world, no relapse of nations into barba-
rism, and of cities into wildernesses, is it not alto-
gethe r likely that there would have been a most
comfortable crowd of us on earth, this vcry moment,
clamoring for food and employment, I had almost
said for very standing room? Would we not have
reached a crisis, the only relief for which would be
that same throat-cutting, pestilence, and untimely
death, that we so idly seek to extirpate from the
world? Would we p&amp;t be enduring at last, and in
one hideous mass, tse very calamities that the
race has been receiving piece-meal, as we find them
scattered over the different ages and nations of
earth? Would not this be the issue of this same
Visionary paradise of yours? I think so.
A. Not at all, not at all. On the contrary, had
men played their parts in the way you describe, I
believe that earth would have presented, today, a
spectacle as much more lovely and interesting than
the one we see, as that surpasses what~it was when
it came wild from the. hands of God. There would
have been some precious things missing from the
picTure, that we now have, certainly; many rare
works of art, commemorative of past trials and sor-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.           187
rows; many monuments to goodness, many piles
dedicatedd to charitable uses there would, of course,
have been no occasion for, no significance in these
things, in a world where all were alike good and
happy; but who can doubt that there would have
been glorious substitutes for them; temples reared
to Faith, and Science, and Industry; ten thousand
additions to our flowers and fruits, to all the pro-
ducts of intelligent culture, in every walk of art:
ten thousand new manifestations of beauty and of
truth, in every department of knowledge. Your pic
ture seems to me as untrue as it is horrible. The
idea that any such catastrophe as you speak of,
should be the result of an universal obedience to the
Creator's laws, what a reflection is it on that Crea-
tor's goodness! How unreasonable, too, for you to
insist as you do on sin and sorrow as divine ordi-
nances, as indispensable parts of God's government!
I have no patience with a doctrine that may be so
readily perverted as this; that endorses and sanc-
tions wickedness; that turns every vagabond and
ruffian into an agent of the Almighty, an essential
feature in the discipline of life. I do not believe
that God thus seeks to perpetuate evil. Every
transgression, every abuse of our freedom is offen-
sive in his eyes, and must be paid for in full, here or
hereafter. He hath no pleasure either in the sin or
the suffering. lIe would infinitely prefer that all
his children, this hour, all over the universe, were

I

I


1

188

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

walking in the paths of wisdom, and reaping its
blessed fruits. To suppose that God would abandon
us to starvation and wretchedness, in the way you
speak of; that he hath made no niore generous pro-
vision than that for his earthly- tenants, and that
this same blessed consummation which they had
reached at last, would soon compass its own destruc-
tion, how monstrous, how blasphemous a notion is
it ? .He would be a bold arithmetician, as you said,
who would presume to fix a date for any such ca-
lamity, or to set down in figures the productive pow-
er of a planet like ours. To count, weigh, or meas-
u-e the returns it gives, even now, to our scanty and
11 methodical labor, would be no light undertaking ;
but what imagination can conceive of the extent or
variety of the crops that would respond to a world-
wide and scientific culture? And is there not a cor-
responding munificence in God's provision for our
intellectual wants ? How romantic to suppose that
we can so easily exploreand exhaust -the treasures
of truth, all around us ; that the charm and stimulus
of novelty could ever be wanting ; that there would
not be new beauties continually springing up for the
poet to celebrate, new discoveries continually reward-
ing the toils of 'the philosopher ! But suppose we
did know (as in God's good time, we will,) precisely
the number of human beings that the earth could
comfortably sustain, when tasked to its utmost capa-
city, where would be the difficulty ; what the neces-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

189

.sity for any such horrible scenes as you describe ?
Would not the good sense of mankind accommodate
itself to the limits thus ascertained? In the univer-
sal temperance, loyalty, wisdom, that would prevail,
would there be any danger of transgressing them ?
C. And do you really, my friend, think the day
will ever- come, when the passions will be thus tho-
roughly subjugated ; when wisdom will thus every-
where preside, alike over all the great and small
things of life ? If so, indeed, why then of course
this same paradise of yours will be reached, and
kept, safe and bright and beautiful, for aught I see,
through all eternity. But I repeat it, I see nothing
to justify any such expectations, either in the his-
tory of the past, or the phenomena of the present,
I see no preparations making in my own inner man,
or around me, for any such thorough revolution in
-the planet ; nor do I see either the physical or
moral materials adequate to produce it. I cannot
.look forward, therefore, to any such radical changes
in the feelings, experiences, annals, and dictionaries
of the world. On the contrary, I believe that the
old passions will be just. as vigorous, and .the old
.song-books, story-books, play-books that tell about
them, will be just as fresh and popular in the last
year of earth as they are 'to-day ; that Scripture and
history and reason will be teaching precisely the
same lessons, sounding the same warnings, then as
now ; in a word, that human nature was not design-

I

I

I
'1
'I

4"


190        CLOUDS AND SUNSHiNE.                                 CLOUDS AND SUNSHINEX        191

ed for, could not endure that bright and beautiful
scene you so love to linger on, any more than these
poor, easily fatigued senses of ours could endure the
glare and noise of an uninterrupted day.
A. Well, well, we can't agree, I see. None the
less, my friend, must I cling to the blessed thought,
far more animating and inspiring as it is; far more
likely to make heroes and philanthropists, than that
perpetual preponderance of evil, that endless series
of sins and sorrows, that you so insist upon!
C. But what says brother B.? He certainly
don't look as if he saw any very brilliant prospects
ahead, in either world. How is it, my friend 3 Do
you still hold fast to your old views, or has friend
A.'s eloquence here, somewhat shaken your skepti-
cism?
B. Oh, I've nothing to say for myself, more than
I have already said. There is an individual, to be
sure, could we only get at him, wh6 might favor us
with some really valuable facts and prophecies upon
these points.
C. Andwhomayhebe?
i~. The man in the moon. He, of course, has
watched all that has been going on here below, from
the commencement; ~and I dare say, has kept most
copious and accurate records thereof. If we only
had power, now, to send for persons and papers, he
might shed a deal of comfortable light on these
vexed questions.

4

C
A. Sarcastic and skeptical as evcr, I see.
B. Yes, I am. I own it. I cannot get up any
faith, either in your own fancy-future of this world,
or in brother C.'s picture of endless progress in the
worlds to come. Both seem to me alike visionary,
alike unsatisfactory. I certainly agree with him,
however, in looking forward to none of these radical
changes that you do, in human affairs. I believe
that human life will continue to be the same old song
in the grass it now is, while that grass continues to
grow. So long as God condescends to keep this
sorry ball in motion, so long will the children of
men keep up the same old, sorry game on it, as ever.
I can't help thinking so. Why these things are
thus decreed, why God permits all these puzzles,
sins, and sorrows, how long they are to last, what is
,to be the upshot of it all, these are topics, as I said
before, about which we have been fretting, chatter-
Ang, scolding, shedding ink and blood without meas-
ure, ever since language was first organized; and
yet, what comfortable knowledge have we about
them to-day, any more than when the sun of the first
day went down? At least, soit seems to me. Oth-
ers may be fortunate enough to rea4 in God's book
of nature, or in what they are pleased to call reve-
lation, or in historic records, satisfactory answers to
all these questions ; to me, all is doubt and perplex-
ity. Meanwhile, with brother C., I see no indica-
tions of any change of programme. I see no pre-

I

~1

190

.191


i

K

192         CLOUDS AND ~UN~HINE.
operations making, moral or physical, for these same
~aradisaical developments of yours. 1. see schemers
and dreamers enough, to be sure, as of old, who are
perpetually promising all manner of good things and
good times coming, and embarking in all sorts of
visionary experiments, to that end; but 1 cannot
see any thing in them, or their schemes, which should
rescue them from the same thorough failure, extinc-
tion, and oblivion, that have uniformly befallen their
predecessors. Of course,. therefore, I am far from
being on the qui vive for their predicted revolutions.
I certainly do not anticipate, at least in m? day, any
general clubbing of lands, goods, and coins, the
world over; nor do I see any symptoms ahead, &amp;f a
world-wide movement, having .for its object the
prompt conversion of the globe into a fascinating
combination of orchard, flower, and kitchen-garden,
with every laborer therein a capitalist, every capi-
talist a laborer, and every mother's son of us re-
ceivin.g daily his owen fair share of fruits, and bou-
quets, and garden-sauce. Nor do I see any very
imminent danger of the extinction of the gains of
the translators and interpreters of earth, from the
universal adoption of one common language; or any
immediate prospect of having one current hand for
all our letters of love or of business, or one uniform
currency for the cash-books and ledgers of both hem-
ispher~s. On the contrary, I can't help feeling that
there will be full as much bad English uttered by

4rj
.1

I

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.           193
Frenchmen, and worse French growled forth by
Englishmen, in the far future, as to-day; full as
great a variety in the show-cards of the\ then flour-
ishing writing masters; full as great opportunities
for swindling, among the then extant exchange-
brdkers. Nor do I believe there is to be any such
immediate and uniform good health, the globe over,
as will render obsolete the fees of doctors, or the
manifestos of quacks; any such all-prevailing piety
and love of justice, as will vacate the mission of the
clergyman, or the vocation of the judge; or that the
schoolmaster, however wide a circuit he may make,
whatever new means of education he may devise,
will very speedily, or indeed ever, make any perm~-
nent impression upon the stupidity, indolence, and
self-indulgent propensities of the massed ; but
that they will always be the same creatures of
appetite and impulse, the same sheep following after
their leaders, that all history proclaims them. The
idea that education will alter these things, ~ivill ever
root out the native perverseness of oi~r hearts, or
overcome the essential inequalities of our minds, how
unreasonable, how opposed to all experience is it !-
We may wish, and theorize, and plan, to the contrary,
till doomsday; but there are the naked facta, old as
Adam, that defy alike explanation and alteration.
As if any conceivable method or amount of culture
could have turned Shakspeare's next door neighbor
into a ~hakspeare! Monstrous supposition! I do

I,
*1
I
I;


194        CLOUDS AND SUNShINE.                                    CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.        195

not believe, then, in the triumphal career of the
schoolmaster, victorious over all the evils and follies
of men. I do not believe that all the children of the
next, or any coming generation, are to be little Bate-
~qfl~~; but that their fascinating inte and
sprightliness will be just as much exceptions to~ the
rule, and that performances like theirs, will be just
as profitable to ihanagcrs,.ages hence as now. I do
not 'believe either, in any forthcoming revolution in
their moral na tures ; but that they will continue to
manifest the same old4hshioned frowardness; anti
turbulence, and, disposition to overload their young
stomachs, the same proclivity to naughty words and
actions, as ever. Still less do I believe that the
pains and perils of childbirth are to be evaded; or
that "the piping cry of lips,. that brook no pain and
small suspense," is no longer to be heard on earth;
but, in its stead, the merry notes of babes, that will
come singing and dancing into a world, all light and
gladness. And so with the adults. It is a pretty
idea, certainly, that of the sun shining on a world-
wide family of brethren and sisters, all alike well-
formed, well-fed, well-dressed, and well-behaved; all
alike good talkers, sound reasoners, faithful doers;
but I would ask, not in what kingdom, but in what
township of earth, are there any bona fide prepara.-
tions making, for any such consummation? Where-
ever I go, I ~ee the same old-fashioned infirmities
and troubles, the same inequalities of' condition and

endowments, the same preponderance of bad gram-
mar, and bad logic; of selfishness and sensuality;
the same imperfect sympathies, and unreasonable
antipathies, and absurd jealousies and feuds, the
same vices and crimes, that have formed three-quar-
ters df the histories of all nations and parishes, from
the beginning.
A. You have no faith whatever, then, in any sub.-
stantial improvements in the morals or manners of
the world; any real progress in its knowledge or
religion?
B. Not much. I believe with brother C., that
we have already, pretty much sounded the depths
and scaled the heights within which all human effort
is doomed to vibrate. I dare say there are a few
scientific truths to be found out, yet; a few inven-
tions in store for us, that are to be of more or less
service to humanity. I have no doubt, either, that
we are going to have pretty stirring times on earth
for some years ahead; that there are to be a good
many miles of wires stretched and rails laid; a large
and growing family of locomotives and steamers, to
run our errands; in short, a great and unreasonable
expansion of business, throughout the world; to be
followed by as unreasonable a panic, and revulsion,
and absurd fall of prices, and 'extinction of fancy
stocks. No doubt there are, still, a few latent trea-
sures, in all the kingdoms of nature; a few stray
herbs, and fruits, and minerals, that the eye of sci-

I

194

195


196       CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

ence has not yet lighted on. They will doubtless
come along, in God's good time, with the customary
perils and sacrifices on the part of their discoverers.
will be duly christened and sent forth into the world
with the usual trumpet-flourish, as wonder-workers
and revolutionizers ; will be received with the same
old-fashioned sneers and shrugs, on the one hand, the
same gaping credulity, on the other ; and so- fall in
time to their proper level, of greater or less utility
or harm to the race. Whose experience does not
suffciently enlighten hiin on these points ? You
and I, my friend, are old enough to remember when
the Tomato first left its native woods, and made its
debutin the civilized world. What a cold shoulder
people gave it, at first ; what an absurd reaction
there was in its favor, afterwards ! For weeks, the
papers were full of .it. Its praises were chanted
without measure, as the great boon of humanity,
God's last, best gift to his children; at once, meat
and sauce, fruit and vegetable, tonic and cathartic.
Nothing was heard of; in all circles, but Tomato
soups, and salads, and catsups, and tarts, and pud-
}ings, and pills, and powders. It even gave its name
to clubs and benevolent associations and packet-ships.
One enthusiast, you may remember, our friend .
(like yourself, by the way, an ardent admirer of
Wordsworth,) even went so far as to commence an
epic poem, in its honor. But it sank, at last, to its
true position, as a piquant addition to, and not a re-

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

197

volutionizer of, our kitchens. Is not this the history
of every new pill that heaves in sight, every new
mineral spring, either of God's making, or of man's ?
None ar6 positively worthless ; none do more than a,
thousandth part of the work assigned to them, by
the inventor or discoverer. And so with the patent
contrivances and quack remedies of all sorts and
ages, for the social and moral disorders of humanity;-
these fanciful organizations of society, these ever-shift-
ing groups of laborers, and ceaseless interchanges of
tasks, whereby every man is to be, at once, master
and servant, judge and crier, sexton and pastor, cap-.
tain and cabin-boy ; these laws for the immediate
extirpation of vice ; these periodical distributions of
property, that dreamers and demagogues have been
crying up, from time immemorial, as grand panaceas
for all the ailments of the body politic: no man will
deny, that there are some few grains of wisdom and
goodness, mixed up with all the folly and madness of
their projectors; that there may be peculiar cases,
and local affections, wherein even Agrarianism and
Socialism might be of service;' but the idea of hold-
ing them up to the world, as the great medicines of
humanity, the miracle-workers, that are to revolu-
ticonize alike the hearts of men, and the face of nature,
seems to me too thoroughly childish to waste one' s
breath upon.1 Still, I doubt not that there will
always be, as' now, quacks and visionaries enough to
cry them up, and try to force them down the throats

I

I'

I:
I

F

I

V.


198

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

of their brethren. Meanwhile, the old chronic com-
plaints of the race will subsist in full force, the old
passions retain their supremacy, and life itself re-
main the same sad, strange drama, with the same
motley performers, as ever. I say again, then, with
brother C., that I cannot see any of the preliminary
movements towards this paradisaical consummatiQn
of yours. It looks to me as if the old' arrangements,
the old contrasts of good and evil, sweet and bitter,
high and low, fat and lean, wise and simple, were
going to last, as long as night and day last; and one
half of the world Thontinue to live as ever, by minis-
tering, not merely to the necessities, infirmities, and
innocent desires, but to the caprices, vices, crimes of
the other half. I do not believe that we shall ever
outgrow these arrangements-that with all our pro-
gress, we shall ever outrun the constable; or that
Jack Ketch will retire from business, any sooner
than Jack Frost. I can't help feeling as if Counter-
feit Detectors were to form a part of the literature of
every coming generation; and as if there would al-
ways be a fair market, not only for false teeth and
wigs, but for Anglesey legs, and pasteboard noses;
a fair' opening for chir~podists of talent, even unto
the closing scene. I believe, too, that the balls of
the pawnbroker will be found suspended, in the
streets of the last metropolis of earth, and that his
windows, with their wiedley of curious contents, will
be, then as now, the same fit emblems ~f many-color~

A

-rip'                   -.~m ~m

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.            199
ed life. I believe that the nettle and the flower, the
clown and th~j~hilosopher, the hero and the hog- thief;
the beauty an~ the fright, will continue to jostle
against each others as they have jostled, ever since
the centripetal and centrifugal forces began to act.
Call me croaker, if you will; I still can't help think-
ing that the last generation of earth will have full
as many small and great vices, and oversights, and
shortcomings in it, as our own; as many unreturned
umbrellas, unsettled bills, uncalled-for dividends,
robbed orchards, stolen kisses, runaway matches,
fraudulently obtained signatures, feloniously exchan-
ged hats; that there will be quite as much Punic
faith shown towards its tailors, as much turbulence
~nd villainy in its hack-drivers, as much struggling
and scuffling for the choice dishes, in the hotels o?
its watering-places. So far from looking fo rward to
the balmy airs, sweet flowers, and pleasant music, of
this same Paradise of yours, I can't help feeling that
the same old eyesores and discords of earth will ever
prevail, as now; and that the noses of the long gen-
erations to come will have the same vile smells to
encounter, as our own; and that the same neglect,
filth, and corruption, will be at the bottom of them.
I have no faith, I confess, in any thorough o~ lasting
victories over nature, or ourselves. I do not believe
that ~S1aharct can ever become that smiling garden,
dotted with fruit-trees, and enlivened with phalan-
eteries, that some enthusiasts predict. Where are

I;
'Iii
/
'I
*1


200

CLOUDS AND SUNShINE.

the faith, and patience, and skill, and guano, to come
from, that are to work such changes? It is easy
enough to sit in our arm-chairs, and talk down all
the nuisances, drain all the marshes, subdue all the
stubborn soils, soften all the harsh climates of earth,
blot out all the Dismal Swamps and Dead Seas, and:
Hard- Scrabble hills,' and Break-Neck hollows from
the face of nature; all the Rotten-Rows, and St.
Gileses, and Five Points, from our cities; but what
man of sense believes in the practicability of these
things? God has withheld the materials, both with-
in us and around us. There is neither faith nor
courage enough in the moral, manure or sunshine
enough in the natural world, for any such revolu-
tion. As well talk of extirpating all the blemishes
and infirmities of the outer. man! Who really be-
lieves that the day will ever come, when there will
be no bad profiles, on earth, no lisping, stammering,
hobbling, shuffling, squinting, face-making; no nasal
twangs, no murders of royal or republican English?
Who believes, either, that there will ever be a coin-
plete extermination of the great brotherhood of rats,
skunks, scorpions, spiders, mosquitoes, and other
such nuisances? I am old fogie enough, my friend,
I confess, to have little or no faith, either in the ex-
tinction, or in any radical change in the proceedings
of these creatures. I believe that the mosquitoes
of a hundred centuries ahead, will be at their posts;
will be found biting the youngsters of those days in

7~7~7TT~T~VThT1

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

201

the same old-fashioned way, and to the same old mu-
sic as ever. I believe the sharks of the far future
will go about in the same schools; will nip off the
legs of their victims, in the same prompt, quiet mo-
dus operandi that they now practice, without stop-
ping to inquire whether said legs are attached to the
bodies of pirates or of missionaries; and that the
discipline in said schools of sharks will remain un-
changed; the great leading idea of that discipline
being, then as now, to keep as much as possible out
of the way of the larger fish, and in the way of the
smaller ones, during meal-times. I believe, too, that
there will be quite as many land-sharks about; and
that the same shark-like views and propensities will
continue to be manifested alike in the business trans-
actions of nations, and of individuals; that there
will be as many absurd wars about trifles, as many
bad treaties negotiated over good brandy, as many
government frauds and frauds on governments, as
the truth-telling historian of our own century will
have to stain his page with. You may call it per-
verse blindness on my part, but I really cannot de-
tect any symptoms of o}~ solescence, myself, either in
prize-fights or pou1try-r~ffles, in fi-fa's or fire-arms;
nor do ii find any greater~ scarcity of quacks or pick-
pockets, now than ever; or any reason to believe
that we shall shortly seK no more elephants than
what are already stuffed, and under glass. I cannot
think~ either, that the lion is to be put out of the

A

I

I
I


202       CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.                                CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.      203

way in this summary style, but that he will keep
up his royal state for some time yet; if he be com-
pelled to retire before the march of mind, and va-
cate some of his kingdoms, will not time, and lux-
ury, and war, be preparing new wildernesses for him,
as of old? I believe it.* At any rate, I have no
idea that he will ever so far forget his native ~ma-
jesty, as to bow the neck to, and become the drudge
of man. I have no faith whatever in any thorough
or permanent subjugation, either of the wild beasts
or wild lands of earth; but think, with brother 0.,
that there will always be ruins enough scattered
about for artists to sketch from, deserts enough for
winds to howl over. Still less2 do I believe that we
are to bow the elements to our wills; that any con-
trivances of art can rob the whirlwind of its terrors,
or turn the thunder-storm into a pastime, or the
earthquake into a pleasant excitement, or convert.
the volcano into' a mere piece of pyrotechny. On
the contrary, I believe that a gale at sea will be just
as unwelcome a guest to all coming voyagers, as it
was to Jason; that it will be the same trial to the
temper of captains, the same severe test of the
nerves and stomachs of passengers, as ever. And
so with the fevers and pestilences of earth. What
reasonable man believes that any resources of sci-
ence, any energies of association, will ever be ade-
quate to their expulsion? Not I, for one. I believe
that Death will be setting more traps than ever for

us, as the world waxes older; that there will be
more obstinate diseases, with unpronounceable names,
on his list, than ever; more Latin and Greek hiero-
glyphics, round the jars of apothecaries; quite as
many pseudo-consultations, and professional murders,
and patients dying, while the doctors are bowing or
squabbling outside; quite as much go~ut and rheuma-
tism, among the buyers of Bibles and readers of
Shakspeare, in A. ID. 10.000, as to-day. No, no;
we shall never get the better of these monsters, or
ferret them out of their hiding-places, or track them
to their mysterious births, either in the loathsome
haunts of men, or amid the rotting weeds and stag-
nant waters of the wilderness;* but they will con-
tinue to steal upon us, to torment and destroy us,
and make lanes through our families, and snatch off
our dear children by clusters. We may talk, and
scheme, and found new systems, and erect new pro-
fessorships, till doomsday; but as to dodging or get-
ting round these things, who is wild enough to be-
lieve it, any more than that we can escape from the.
shrunk shanks, and dimmed eyes, and cracked voices
of old age? I say again, then, and for the last time,
I have no faith whatever in these glorious revolu-
tions, this bright, and beautiful~ and world-wide Eden
of yours. I believe in the old alternations of shine
and shade; the old intermixture of frowns and
smiles, alike in the face of nature, and in those of
her children; the old vicissitudes that have consti-

I

ii

V
ii

202

203


204       CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

tuted human experience; now a season of plenty,
now of scarcity; now a period of temperance and
prudence in our pursuits and pleasures, now of wild
speculation and excess; and their corresponding
fruits of bankruptcy and ruin in the business world,
of headaches, shame, and remorse in the social. I
believe these same ups and downs will last, while
moons wax and wane, tides ebb and flow. I believe
it, just as ~much ~is I do that the future occupants of
the planet will continue to have the same average
number of inches in their stature, and of pounds'
Weight in their bodies, and ounces' weight in their
brains. I do not believe that any coming generation
will ever celebrate the solution of your perfection-
problem, any more than that they will pick posies
and gather peaches on the summit of Mont Blanc;
or behold a grove of nutmeg trees rising of its own
free will, and in~ the quincunx form, on the shores of
Nova Zembla; or gaze delightedly on a Home Circle
of icebergs, formed round the equator.
A. Well, well, fray friend, notwithstanding all
your quips and sarcasms, I am not to be frightened
away from my faith in this same perfection; no,
nor to be seduced from it, or lulled into inglorious re-
pose by all the plausible sophisms (for I can't help
calling them so), of brother C.
G. But don't misunderstand me, my dear friend,
or tax me with. indifference or lukewarmness on
these points. I would hail, as gladly as you do, all

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

205

these blessed changes, these glorious improvements,
in our hearts and our homes, all over the earth, if I
could see any good reason for believing them within
our reach. But I cannot. The more I look at these
same evils and troubles of life, which you would thus
banish, the more clearly do I see God's hand in
them; the more necessary do they seem to the com-
pletion of our earthly education. But I have
already dwelt sufficiently on this thought, and can
only reiterate my conviction of the folly of trying to
separate the lights and shadows about us, and to
alter the decrees of heaven. In a word, I believe
that the folly and wickedness of the world, are just
as necessary to bring out and set off the splendid
exhibitions of wisdom and goodness, for which we
build our epics and rear our monuments, as the
blood, and garbage, and putrid carcasses that we put
about our draperies, are needed to impart that
warmth and richness of soil which is to nourish our
luscious Ilamburghs and dainty Camelias. We
must take the two things together, just as we must
take the reptiles and fevers of the tropics, with their
gay plumage and brilliant flowers; and as to any
social organization ov legislation, which is to extir-
pate these same vices and crimes of humanity, it
seems to me just about as visionary to expect it, as
to expect to see any machinery of man's contriving,
for cooling, at will,' the hot sands of the desert, or
smoothing down the turbulent waves of ocean.

p

I

I'I
Li
Ii
If
ii
II
I
I'
I
I.


206         CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.
A. I can't agree with you. I am not convinced.
Ii believe there is a great deal to be said on the oth-
er side of the question, both in the way of vindica-
tion and illustration. I am not going to trouble you
with it to-day, however. When we next meet, I
shall claim the privilege of a hearing, for a few mo-
inents, if you are' not tired of the subject.
C. Most willingly.
CON VERSAT
C. Well, brother A., here ~
what you have to say for yours
fast,, do you, to this same doctri
tamed and kept, on earth, and '~
by any thing that friend B., o,
urged to the contrary?
A. JdomyfriendIdo. I
r                                                                           this, do I believe that God deE
man. Butlet'mefirstbrieflye
or two points, wherein I think
1         what misinterpreted. II am not
in his sarcastic remarks would
the advocate of any new-fangle
ciety, or of any patent legislate
way to brino' about all these gl(
I;                                                                          more than I am of any of th
pills or powders, that he is so f4
1

I
9
JON VI.
~e are, ready to hear
elf. You still cling
ne of perfection, at-
vill not be persuaded
~ myself; may have
~To less a destiny than
dgns for earth and
explain myself on one
I have been some-
;, then, as brother B.
seem to insinuate,
d organization of so-
on, that is straight-            I
)rious changes; any
ose miracle-working              j
nd of satirizing, for
I


208         CLOUDS AM) SUNSHINE~.
the instantaneous extirpation of all the diseases of
the world. I am no Socialist. I believe in home;
in the endearments, joys, sorrows, cares, duties of
home, as a divinely appointed institution, the place
of which cannot be supplied, the blessed functions
of which cannot be performed by ~ny substitute of
man's contriving. But at the same time, my friend,
I am for looking with '~an eye of tolerance, nay of
encouragement, on every honest experiment for the
amelioration of the social and moral condition of my
brethren. I am for giving them all a fair hearing
and trial, in this broad domain which God has en-
trusted to us. I do not believe in any contracted
modes of thinking, or of action, or in any spirit of
bigotry or persecution, in a land like this. They
have no business here; are utterly out of keeping,
alike with our principles, and with these magnifi-
cent estates, these world-traversing rivers and world-
feeding allies of ours. I am for listening patiently,
then, nay for giving the right hand of fellowship to
every sincere reformer. Let theni all be heard.
Let the principle of Association be fairly tested. If
the truth be with it, let it vindicate that truth, by
its successful action; if it be based on false views
of human nature, let its failure fairly demonstrate
that falsity to an impartial world. Again, I am not,
as I just now said, the advocate of any pet law or
series of laws, that are straightway to revolutionize
human nature, to heal all the wounds and dry up

N

I

all the sores of the body politic. I rely on no such
quack medicines as these, ftw the blessed Cli;ltIg(s
that I look forward to. No, no ; but on the sl~~v,
toilsome, patient, faithful, but in the end triumphant,
world-including march of mind; on the gradually
enlarged circuit of the schoolmaster, the gradually
expanded and amended course of lessons that he is
to teach; till at last, the whole family of man is em-
braced in his ministrations, and the minds and hearts
of all are fairly developed, under his instructions.
This is the perfection that I dream of (if you will), and
this the road to it; a perfection, too, which does not, as
brother B. also seemed to take for granted, imply
any necessary equality of all intellects or conditions,
or equal aptitude of each man for all employment,
any more than it does an equal fertility in all the
soils, or an equally genial character in all the cli-
mates of earth; but which does imply equal rights,
the recognition of every man as a brother, the world-
wide reign of peace and good-will, the extirpation of
idleness, poverty, disease, vice, and crime; which
does imply the bringing about of improvements, phy-
sical, moral, and intellectual, which so far from being
measured by, can be but feebly apprehended, from
any ~hin~ that has hitherto been realized on earth;
scientific discoveries, triumphs of art, varied forms of
industry, and manifestations of beauty, compared
with which, all our doings, hitherto, are little more
than chills play: a state of things, wherein preven-

!


210

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

tives and remedies will have been found for all that
was before held noxious, latent virtues and uses dis..
covered in all that was before thought worthless, and
the wisdom and goodness of the great Designer, more
and more completely manifested, in the more and
more thorough~ exploration and comprehension of his
wotks ; a state of things,' wherein violent and un-
timely deaths will no longer be known, but every
departure be a gentle dismissal from a scene of faith-
fully completed labors, and innocent enjoyments, a
gentle introduction to new spheres of action. This,
my friend, is the perfection which I believe God has
in store for his children. Far, far off; indeed, the
consummation; .but none 'the less certain-is it, that
the first steps of the progress thereunto, have been'
taken, and that its course is ever onward. Yes, this .
imy dream, which I am unwillingtsurnetil
less exchange for that perpetual succession of nuis.-
ances, follies, troubles, on which brother B. seems to
take such a perverse pleasure in dwelling;' that
ceaseless conflict of good and evil, which you so in-
sist upon, as indispensable to the true discipline and
~relish of life. I see not the' necessity of that conl-
flict ; on the contrary, I believe that in the universal
diffusion of peace and innocence, there would be far
more significance and charm in existence, than ever ;
far more employment for the goodness of a Howard
or a Fenelon, for the genius of a Raphael or a
Shakspeare. I have already, in a brief, glancing

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

211

way, undertaken to make out, in reply to friend B.)
a veritable, progress, thus far ; to show, (and how
any reasonable man should~ deny such a proposition,
,is to me most strange,) the existence of all manner
of inventions and improvements about us, that the
world never knew, till now, and that would fill our
brethren of the patriarchal ages, with wonder aptd
delight, were they here to-day, to behold them. I
shall not trouble you with'any'more illustrations on
that point ; but, with your leave, I will venture, with
all due sense of my incompetency to the task, to sha-
dow forth some few of those good things, that I be-
lieve the future is to reveal; and will endeavor not
unreasonably to tax your patience, in so doing.
C. Well, my friend, I shall listen with pleasure.
As I said. before, this same perfection of yours seems
to me the veriest dream of enthusiasm ; a consum-
mation, that no sun will ever rise upon. None~ the
less, however, do I respect the earnestness and
heartiness of your faitlz. Take us, then, with you,
(our sarcastic, incredulous brother here, and myself,)
and let us see some of the bowers and walks of this
.Paradise of yours, and of these pleasant things that
are so to enliven and bless it.
A. Briefly then, and ivith all due modesty, to my
task. Far indeed be it from me to presume to- por-
tray, or to imagine, even, the full splendors of such.
a consummation. 'Tis but a hasty glance -at some
few of its features, that I propose to take, and that

i

i~' ~'
1'~
;:
I

Ii

K.


I

Ii

212

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

without any special order or niethod. Let us then,
my friends, suppose ourselves to be making an orial
voyage over th is same perfected world of ours ;
stopping here and there to see how the old homes
and fire-sides, the old social relations will appear,..
how the old cities and landscapes will look when
peace and plenty, innocence and intelligence are thus
presiding over them. We will alight, then, at one or
two prominent points, if you please, and look about
us, for a moment. And first, what sort of a specta-.
cle will our own dear town present, in that happy
period ? Charming, charming, indeed, the .picture,
as we approach it ! What comely dwellings, what
spacious, well-kept -streets, what clusters of bright
handsome, courteous citizens ! What clear, ringing
voices, what pleasant salutations ! What order and
decorum everywhere prevail! No sots or paupers,
or pickpockets, or harlots, or cripples -deface the
scene ; no turbulenahackmen or insolent policemen,
no haggard victims of business, hurrying down to
their speculations, no martyrs to idleness lounging
listlessly along ; but a pleasant stir, a gay, sprightly
movement, everywhere diffused, proclaims the reign
of health and temperance alike in tasks 'and pleas--
ures, and of the light hearts and pleasant fancies,
that follow in their train. -What splendid shops,
too, are here, filled with fabrics from all corners of
the earth ! What magnificent 'porticoes greet the
eye in, all directions, and gymnasiums,- and baths,

ii

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

213

and fountains, and conservatories, and markets of
all kinds, models of beauty and neatness, and crowd-
ed with all manner of good things ! What a charm-
ing; intermixture, everywhere, of stately mansions,
and temples dedicated to Faith, Art, and Science ;
every science having its own hallowed .pile,- every
art its own special theatre for the display of its tri-
umphs. Such churches, too ! As magnificent in
their architecture and adornments as their rites are
simple and solemn. No multiplicity of sects here be-
wilders the worshipper, no-jargon and falsehoods of.
priestcraft, no vile confessionals, no monstrous nunner-
ies,no dry and pedantic display of scholastic subtleties
deface these services. One blessed creed alone pre-
vails throughout the' earth, and there are but two
articles in it ; -Christ's precious commandments, love
to God and love to our brethren. These alone are
the themes of the preacher, the Creator's goodness
as everywhere displayed in his works and ways,
man's goodness and happiness, as he humbly imitates
the great Master ! And how admirably do the brief,
but beautiful prayers, and the swelling anthems re-
spondi to them ! What groups of school-houses too,
and colleges are here, with their pleasant walks, and
gardens and play-grounds ! What companies of
beautiful, and ingenuous youths, are they sending
forth continually, no longer to contend with a harsh
and perilous world, but to apply, with generous emu-
lation, and prompt success, the lessons learned. in

I
:1
'I
41


CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.        215

214

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

them, to the infinitely varied, 'and ever instructive
pursuits of life! There are structures, that we miss,
indeed, in this pleasant scene, as we miss the quar-
rels and infirmities, with which they dealt; Forts
and Barracks, Hospitals and Courts of Justice,
Prisons, Asylums of all sorts; no longer extant,
thank heaven, save in the records and pictures of
the past, save in the venerated images of the heroes
and benefactors, who fought, or founded, or labored'
in them, of old, and who, by their ministrations
helped along that blessed consummation, that we are
now beholding. But what comfortable dwellings
abound everywhere! No, such thing as an unsightly
or rickety structure is to be seen. And what pleas-
ant sounds issue forth from them! What happy
groups are scattered about in them ! No scowls, or
scolding, here; no reciprocation of harsh language;
but harmony and sympathy, both in their labors and
their recreations; but mutual esteem, and regard
everywhere prevailing between husbands and wives,
parents and children, masters and servants. Good
hours, good wages, good habits here tell their own
bh3ssed story, without needing any interpretation of
ours. Ah, what stately building have we here;
crowjied too, with all, the statues of the great philos-
ophers and inventors of old? 'Tis the Observatory.
What a pile'! What ~magnificent apparatus and in-
struments! What precious discoveries have they
made, are they continually making, in the great dcep

of air! What would a Galileo or a Herschel have
said to such soundings as these? See too, the su-
perb Custom House; and the Post Office, thattri-
umph of architecture. Qh, how different th~ contents
of those myriad letter's and journals, that are mo-
mently passing through it, from those of older time;
Here are no records of fraud, of horrible casualties,
of hearts broken by neglect, or base ingratitude;
all is glad tidings and gentle messages. And so, in
that other priiicely pile, whose sculptured entabla-
ture makes the Parthenon itself seem rude. Here,
too~ are no unwise tariffs, no fraudulent valuations,
no vile tricks of trade to deal with; but equity, in-
telligence, courtesy, and promptness preside over its
portals, pervade its manifold chambers. See the
warehouses too, of the merchants; how commodious,
how capacious, how filled with all manner of contriv-
ances for the facilitation and despatch of business!
What massive, what magnificent quays are here!
Dotted too, with the bronze and marble images of the
great navigators and discoverers of earth. No vaga-
bonds or rag-gatherers, no vile smells, or profane or
filthy language here annoy us. All is decency and
decorum. But who shall describe the infinite variety
and beauty of the vessels that are continually
coming and going, in this classic bay, these histori-
cal rivers of ours, or lying in graceful groups, in
their capacious docks? And now we look out upon
the blessed sea. Let us venture forth upon it, in our

I

I

I
,4.j
j4

215


4

2163

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

little trial craft. Here are the old Narrows,, to be
sure; but where are the Quarantine Grounds, and
the gloom-suggesting Hospitals, and the bristling
cannon, and frowning fortresses? Gone, gone, thank
heaven, never more to re-appear on earth. Gay villas
and gardens, and solemn temples have supplanted
them, and they live only in the quaint records and
curious engravings of olci times. But what a goodly
gathering of &amp;raft of all sorts, is there, below us
propelled by all manner of ingenious motive powers;
going forth, not as brother B. said, in any spirit of
irreverent defiance, or mad mockery of the tempest,
b~t none the less, armed and equipped with abundant
contrivances for robbing the gale of its terrors;
with wise atid good masters aboard, with temper-
ance, intelligence, good will, animating their crews.
Oh, what a spectacle does. ocean present, in this
happy period! Not a solitary pirate lurking in any
bay or cove thereof; not a skulking slave-ship, not
a frowning frigate to be seen; nothing but fleet and
comely vessels, going about on their peaceful errands,
everywhere exchanging civilities and good offices;
every coast thoroughly surveyed and lighted, every
hidden rock and shoal ferretec~ out, and proclaimed
to the mariner; every haven open to him, a pleasant
welcome in every land! Let us cross these waters,
and take a peep, for one little moment, at dear old
England, and see how she looks, in these happy
lays. Every where the same blessed changes , and

CLOUDS AND SUNSHiNE.

217

improvements! Science has long since banished
the black clouds that overhung her towns, philan-
thropy has long since smoothed the brows and p11-
lows of her laborers. What cpnveniences and, com-
forts of all sorts in all her mines and workshops and
factories! How have all the old stenches, and perils,
and nuisances been extirpated from every craft!
What a well-row arded, bright, intelligent thing h~~s
labor become, throughout the land! What a world
of good books, cheap. amusements, innocent recrea-
tions are within reach of the laborer! Nor palace
nor work-house ~ ~ ~een in the picture; noP are the
streets lined with policemen, or crowded with gay
uniforms, or the haVbors thronged with ships of war;
but, blessed substitutes therefore, we see a world of
smil~ngiittle se o'MThiises~ and happy little homes,
with frolicking children about them, and Singing
'bird~, and gay flowers ~o false pride of birth, or
place, or pursp, prevents the free interchaPge of
kindly greetings,. thro ugliout this happy land. Ab,
what Depots! models of elegance and convenience
nothing uncouth or unseemly meets the eye. What
order and precision ! What admirable accommoda-
tions and reasonable charges! What time they
keep ! Every man knows his place, is at his post
no collisions, fractures,, explosions, b~t all is perfect
comfort and.clock-work; and why not, when temper-
ance, intelligence and .self-respect rule the hour?
What magnificent exhibitions of cattle; are here. and

f

V
.3,  3.
33
3,
4

33.
Ii
II

'I


218

CLOUlIS AND S1Jr~$HINE.

flowers and fruits ; ~to which those of famous old
Chatsworth itself, that we read of, seem tame and
primitive!
B. Excuse me, my friend, for this interruption.;
but I really cannot help asking what, meanwhile, has
become of the NqXional Debt, the Income and other
taxes, the descendants of. Her Majesty, the pe~rs
temporal and spiritual, the overgrown estates, mo-
riopolies, fat livings, sinecures of all sorts, that to-
day so crowd the picture?
A. Gone, gone, gone, my friend, all of them; not
put oust of the way, however, by fraud or violence;
no, no; but they h~ve slowly and gently melted
away, under the light and warmth of the blessed
day of equality and brotherhood; they, an~l the vast
domains and piles that were devoted to them.-
Crowns, and coronets, and armorial bearings, have
4'long since lost their lustre and significance; while
centuries of peace and prudence have cancelled the
debts, and annulled the taxes that the wars and fol-
lies of old brought with them. And their substi-
tutes are these same happy'homes, these everywhere
multiplied and circulated comforts that we see
around us. Think not, howe~er~ that the picture
suffers any. even in the artist's eyes, in consequence.
We miss, indeed, a few stray palaces and stately
hospitals, a few pompous parades and military fune-
rals; but we have, instead, the splendid processions
of peace and infinitely varied industry, the number-

*                      -rn   -w

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

219

less ddmes that Freedom everywhere rears to Faith
and Knowledge. I must not linger over them, how-
ever. Let us go, if you will, and look foi' another
brief moment upon old Rome. We can but throw a
passing glance at the smiling fields and gardens of
lovely France, with their ten thousand improve-
ments in drainage, tillage, and culture; or a~ the
stately bi~idges that cross her streams, her bea~iful
system of telegraphs, her railways radiating ~n all
directions, each set in flowers, and bordered by su-
perb trees; or at the cities that dot her surface, so
admirably built, paved, cleaned, lighted, ventilated;
or at the innumerable new employment 'and com-
forts that science has found, for the dwellers among
the Alps. Here we are, at the gates of the impe-
rial city. No traces, though, do we see of imperial
or jxipal tyranny, but the same blessed transmuta-
tions as before. No lounging soldiers, or mutilated
beggars, or crumbling towers disfigure the picture,
but peace, plenty,, industry, everywhere enliven it.
The Campagna is~ covered again with farms and vil-
las, never, more to return to desolation. The Pala-
tine is again crowned with stately; buildings; not
the scenes, though, of royal riot and brutal debauch-
cry, but dedicated to science. Here are vast libra-
ries, an(l halls where chemistry unfolds the subtle
mysteries of' nature, where astronomy pores upon
the never-tiring volume of the skies. iI3ut one ruin
meets the eye; the shattered~ silent Colosseum;

4
*1

9,

'I

114
411
III
ii
V


220

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

not the original stones, indeed ; they long since
crumbled into dust; but they have carefully pre-
served the aspect that it wore, with its broken arches,
and vacant arena, in the 19th century of Christ;*
that it might -remain, a lasting memento of the
crimes of old, might sound its solemn warning to
humanity, through all time. There is another Co-
losseum, hard by ; even more vast and beautiful;.
but oh, how different the entertainments presented
in it! Here grand conferences are held, of the wise
and learned of all lands.; magnificent flower-shows ;
beautiful scientific experiments ; here concerts are
given, with music such as was never before heard on
earth. What hymns, what choruses are here, and
grand and infinitely varied orchestral effects ! Think
of all these things. and then of the harsh clangor of
the trumpets, the mad conflicts of wild beasts and
wilder men, that disgraced and made terrible the
arena of its namesake !
C. But St. Peters, and its precious works of art,
and its superb pageants, and, the palace hard by,
with-its manifold treasurers; have they all perished,
are they all forgotten, in tliese golden days-of yours'.?
A. The originals, of course, were dust, ages ago.
But think you, the world would have let such pre-
cious thoughts and images perish ? No, no ; careful
. copies have been made from time to time, of all these
wonders. Still glows the. fresco with the Hours of
Guido ; still bright are the mosaics, that tell the

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

221

I

\~xJ

* 37~IP~ ~I

blessed story of the Transfiguration ; the School of
Athens still holds its scattered groups of philoso-.
.phers ; all the old forms of Greece and Rome are
here, in undimmed beauty and majesty. But where
stood the old church itself, is now a pile far more
grand and beautiful, more rich in monuments ; and
what is more, they were not so many years in build-
ing it, as they were centuries in putting up the other.
Contributions flowed freely in, from all lands,,and in
one little week, the sum required was raised. Not
a dollar, stained with fraud, or extorted from super-
stitious fear, was expended upon it. Well-paid, and
worthy, were the laborers who reared its walls ; and
the rites that are celebrated in it, how do they con-
trast,'in their sublime purity and simplicity, with the
mummeries and absurdities that so marred the beauty
of that famous one of old ! And so throughout the
happy city ; peace, freedom, brotherhood ; every
street bears witness to them ; they beam forth -from
every countenance. Naples, too, has the same plea-
san ts tory to tell for herself. No longer that Paradise
of devils, that some old cynic once called her ; but, in
her loveliness and goodness, perfectly according with
the exquisite scenery around her ; long since extinct,
those crimes, vices, diseses, that gave her such a "bad
eminence," in the annals of the past ; long since
vanished, those turbulent, half-savage lazzaroni of
hers, though their sparkling eyes and mnanly limbs
still set off the virtues of their descendants. But I

If
4
j

1.~
*1~


222        CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.                                      CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.        22.3

must not trespass on your patience, my friends.
Else might we linger over restored Thebes, rebuilt
Athens, all Greece, revived, free, happy; over Tur-
key, redeemed for ever fNom despotism and supersti-
tion, and the magnificent Constantinople of these
days. One little glance at Egypt, and 'old father
Nile, and I have done. Glorious revolution, indeed,
in man' aaid nature! Smiling fields an~l shining cit-
ies everywhere greet the eye; innumerable struc~
tures and devices, too, for controlling and for circu.-
lating the precious waters of the river, through all
the veins and alleys of the land; canals, aqueducts,
and reservoirs, exquisite machinery for draining and
for irrigating the~ lands, to which the contrivances
of old, even of renowned Holland herself, seem. the
veriest toys. What factories, tod, where innocent,
happy labor plies its pleasant tasks, in airy, well-
lighted' chambers; what academies, filled with
bright-eyed scholars! Ah, here are the famous old
quarries; but to what different uses are they put!
No more gloomy sphinxes or monster deities are
carved out of them, or long lines of dismal pyra-
mids, or temples dedicated to hideous rites, and vile'
beast-~yorship. Oh, no; but Christian churches,
halls of legislation, observatories, yiaducts, statue-
crowned bridges, forms of the wise and good of all
ages. But listen to the sweet chimes from yon tow-
er. Strange music this, is it not, for grim old
Egypt? Let us venture forth, a moment, on the

Lybian Desert, nay, on the great Sahara itself.
What do we behold? It is not, indeed, quite yet
given over to Socialism, as brother B. seemed to ap-
prehend; a mere orchard, dotted with phalanste-
ries; but there are 'glorious changes in it, neverthe-
less; improvements quite practicable in this period
of universal loc6motion; of rapid, constant inter-
change of thoughts and products, between all lands.
There are orchards here in abundance, and thriving
towns and villages, and intersecting rail-roads, and
all the evidences of high culture. Cam this be
Africa, my friends; the Africa that old' records tell
of; that accursed, desolate land, with its unexplored
rivers and wildernesses, its burning heats, fevers,
reptiles, savage menand beats, its murderous feuds?
Is this fair coast, studded with cities, alive with
commerce, the scene of that infamous traffic in hu-
man flesh, that staineil the annals of past ages?
lEven so~ After long centuries 'of toil and struggle,
Faith and Science have won these glorious victories,
at last; have righted all these wrongs, extirpated all
these vile passions, drained all these marshes, rooted
out these treacherous beasts and lurking fevers; Art
has fouud out many precious secrets, in the way of
planting and building; has contrived many cunning
modes of. cooling these hot airs, and of rendering
these regions, not merely tolerable, but, as we see,
the fIst abodes of all those comforts, refinements, em-
bellishments, all those moral and intellectual devel-

I

222

223

A
/
A
~i4


I

y
224         CLOUDS AND 5TJN~J1INE.
opmcnts, that the philosophers of old times fondly
imagined were confined to certain favored zones of
earth. But you ~mile incredulously, my friend.
You have evidently no 'faith in this same brilliant
future of mine, and so I will dwell no longer upon it.
0. 1 have not, indeed. As I said before, I re-
spect most sincerely, this hearty, enthusiastic nature
of yours; I listen with pleasure to your glowing de-
scriptions. Nor can I I~elp wishing, at times, that
all these good things were in store for us, and that
men were destined to' become the terrestrial angels
that you paint themb But no, no, it may not be. God
hath decreed it otherwise. The ~me old obstacles
and objections, that I have already glanced at, still
stare me in the face, as pertinaciously as ever, not-
withstanding this bright, vivid picture of yours.
A dream, my friend, a very dream! I say again;
the whole machinery of life, as I understand it, is
based upon these very evils and infirmities, that you
have so carefully excluded from your 'sketch; and
this pseudo-perfection 'yoif so insist upon, is but an-
other name for destruction. Is it necessary to illus-
trate a 'point so clear as this? Can you help seeing,
my dear friend, that you have been pulling to pieces,
all this while, far more than you have been creating;
impeding the very march of mind that. you so seek
to urge forward;. narrowing the circuit, alike of the
schoolmaster and the merchant.; virtually shutting
up three quarters of the shops of these same vision-

225

ary cities,' that you have just been showing us?
Pretty progress, truly, that annihilates, at one fell
swoop, all the armies and navies of the world, and
the vast and manifold industry, dependent on them;
that cuts off all the fees of its judges and lawyers;
that' puts an end to the visits of its doctors; blots
out the shining lights of its apothecaries; seriously
injures, if it does not destroy, all those crafts, that
live by ministering unto the elegant desires and
caprices of men; worse still, that takes away. from
the priest, the best half of his mission, and from
love, the most sacred part of its ministrations, that~
of reclaiming the erring; and binding up the wounds
of the broken-hearted; that robs the artist, in every
walk of art, of so many sources of inspiration; that
deprives us all of so much innocent fun, too,~ in re-
moving all those little absurdities and contre-temps,
with which it deals. Are not these, my friePd, the
inevitable accompaniments of this insane attempt
(pardon the epithet) to revolutionize human nature?
If indeed, you can find adequate employment and
appropriate excitements, for all these good people,
whose callings you have thus rendered null, and
whom you have turned adrift upon the world, in this
wholesale and summary fashion, then will I acknow-
ledge the injustice of my criticisms, and become a
convert to your doctrine. Meanwhile I must con-
tinue to call it the veriest dream of the enthusiast.
A. Well, well, my friend; I admit that there is

I

4f
I
'4
I

CLOUDS AND SUNShINE.


i

226

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

some force in these objections of yours ; but don't
misrepresent me. I have not looked forwai4 to any
such violent and rapid revolution in the hearts and
affairs of men, as you speak of. I have taken no
such ground. No, no; long, long ages of toil, ex-
periments, struggles,)I know, must be gone through,
before this blessed victory is won; a host of preju-
dices and passions must be grappled with; ten thou-
sand practical difficulties, such as you suggest, must
be met and overcome first many parts must be
dropped from the great drama of life, many new
ones introduced, before this vision of mine can be
realized. I am. not blind to, still less do I presume
to solve these puzzling problems. All I say is, that
II believe time will bring t1~e solution of them all, at
last; will demonstrate the practicability of all these
improvements; will yet show ~o future ages, an
earth all alive with innocent ~/id happy workers.
Such is my faith in human nature; in the capacities
and dispositions which God has given man, and in
the materials with which he has surrounded him.
Yes, I believe that the* gradual diffusion of the
sublime doctrines of Christ, and the sublime truths
of science, will achieve all these wonders ; will
finally gain the day, everywhere, over the ignorance,
indolence, sensuality of men, will wake us all up, at
last, yes, the whole brotherhood, from pole to pole,
to a true sense of our position, and of the lofty tasks
set before us. Slowly indeed, but surely, will all

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

227

these bad passior~s, and brutal appetites, be subju-
gate~, or transformed, by them. Avarice will give'
up its long-grasped treasures; ambition will no
longer seek to reign by force, over the persons, but
by love, over the hearts of its brethren; inte mper-
ance will be redeemed from its vile thraldom; false
pride will no longer turn its back on proffered kind-
ness, or keep men away from honest callings ; all
the f.dse estimates, petty jealousies, absurd preju-
dices of men, with the feuds and wars that grow out
of them, yes, all the blunders and wickedness of the
world, in God's good time, be banished, and thus will
all these puzzles, social, political, moral, that now so
embarrass and annoy us, be cleared up, in that day
of world-wide wisdom and good-will. These evils are
not to afflict earth forever.; they are not an indis-
pensable part of the machinery of life. The world
will be worth livin~ in, my friend~ when they are
gone, Will have plenty of good work and play in it,
for all, and pleasant excitements of all sorts. Our
affections will not droop and languish, because the
objects of them will J~e all bright, and gentle, and
beautiful ; our intellects will not flag, because they
are not stimulated continually, by the moral and
physical infirmities of our brethren. Oh, no; on the
contrary, there will be far more to keep both heads
and heart~ in healthful action, than ever; a thousand
fold more delightful and instructive objects all around
us, making every day, every hour of life precious; and

*     - -~.

V

.1

4{
I
IL
if


I

I
I

228

CLOUDs AND SUNSHINE.

we shall all be enjoying these blessings alike ; not a
man alive, defrauded of his own proper share of la-.
bors, studies and enjoyments. Then too, will the true
dignity of labor be recognized ; every calling be
(alike honorable and attractive; merit in every walk
of industry appreciated; every man of genius have
a fair hearing, a fair field of action. Nor will there
be any want of innocent fun, my friend, as you seem
to fear ; fun growing out of the pleasant niistakes
of childhood, the little infirmities of age, the eager-.
ness of enthusiasm, the blunders of absent-minded-.
ness;, but the fun based on'malice, and kept up by
the vices and follies of the world, there will of
course be no room f'or that, in those blessed days.
Nor will tha_ artist have any lack of inspiring
themes, but every face, e-very group, every landscape
that he sees, will be delightful study for him.' Nor
wil there be any want of' those dainties, knick..-
knaceks, gems, and objects o$ luxury, that so enliven
the windows of the confectioners and fancy-stores of
our own times, nor of the purple and fine linen of
the merchant. We shall have all these things ; and
shall value them aright,.neither doting on nor despi-.
sing them. No, no; the philosophers of those days
will be no scowling cynics, railing at the good things
and innocent recreations of their brethren, but we
shall all rationally enjoy, and equitably distribute
them. Many, innocent employments, as .well as
guilty, will be missing from the scene, I grant you ;

I,

/

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

229

but who can doubt that there will be abundant sub-
stitutds for them; that other and better uses will be
found for the drugs of the apothecary, other and no-
bler fields of labor for the physician and the lawyer ?
*Yes, my friend, the more I think of it, the more faith
have I in the reality of this glorious consummation.
No less a task than this do I believe God intended
for man, both in the moral and physical world. One
needs but glance at this same globe of ours, to, see
what magnificent enterprises have been shadowed
forth, alike for the merchant and the schoolmaster ;
what seas to be explored, mountains pierced, rivers
pressed into service, wild men, and beasts, and lands
to be reclaimed,,and put to good uses.; what under-
ground explorations to be made;- and hidden treas-
Ures and truths brought to light; what secrets innu-
merable to be won from air, earth, and water, and
made available to human industry ; what new reve-
lations in the heavens ; what a mighty interchange
of products, ideas, sentiments, between nations. All
this work hath pod cut out for us. -We have fairly
entered upon it. We must, we will finish it. No
less an achievement will satisfy the ideal of poet or
p)hilosopher, will vindicate God's wisdom and good-
ness in creating us. Say not, then, that this con-
summation is impracticable ; still less, that when all
these mighty victories shall have been won, over na-
ture and our own hearts, that then, forsooth, there
will be no stimulus or relish left in existence. Think

'(1

C

[


a

j

I

230 -

/CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

of the endless themes of thanksgiving for our medi-
tations ; the innumerable pleasant objets of con-
templation, and pleasant paths of labor, that will
surround us ;.not a moment will be without its de-.
lights and profits. Think of the glorious walks and
talks of those days. Oh, think of 'a world where
every eye will be bright, arm strong, brain -cleari;
where no labor will be lost through sickness or in-
temperance, or diverted, to keep watch over the stu-
pidity and wickedness of others, and where all the
laborers will be pulling together. What must the
public works, dwellings, gardens, cathedrals of such
a planet bce! How must it be stocked with inven-
tions of genius, and infinite manifestations of beauty !
How delightful to watch and tend such a world, to
renew, embellish, and transmit it, in all its' lustre
and happiness, to our children ! Oh, call not this a
dream; call not the hasty glimpse I have ventured
to take of such a woi-ld, the wild vision of the en-
thusiast.: No ;tame, tame iiideed the picture, com-
pared with those realities that I verily believe God
hath in store for earth. Such a thought as this,
my friend, is it not far more inspiring than the. one
you so love to dwell upon, of ceaseless alternations,
and never-ending jars of good and evil? So it
seems to me, and as such, I must continue to cher-
ish it.
C. 'Well, well, my dear friend, 'as you will. I
certainly cannot help admiring the hearty way in

CLOUDS AND SUNSI.INE.

231

-which you advocate your doctrine. At the sae
time, I must say, I do not see the force of your ar-
gumients. You have not shown, at all to my satis-
faction, the ways ai ens by which this paradise
of yours is to be attained. You express, generally,
great faith in human nature, and the wonders which
religion and knowledge are finally to work in it ;
and you infer, as a matter of course, corresponding
wonders in the outer world ; but you do inot describe
the processes by which they are to, brought about.
You do not tell us what these -new and delightful
parts in the great drama are, that are to take the
place of the old and bad ones ; or how the happy .
crowds of these ideal cities of yours are to be sus-
tained, or all these brilliant shops supported. You
indulge freely in vague and glowing generalities, but
you carefully shun the statistical and practical ques-
tions involved-in so stupendous a revolution. You
insist upon it, and with characteristic earnestness,
that that revolution must and will come ; that these
bad passions &amp;f ours must give way, at last, before
the power of Faith and Truth ; and that when this
is done, then. all these embarrassing and exciting
problems,--that noiw disturb society, will be happily
solved. You then paint a glowing picture, as be-
fore, of the blessed results of such solution. This
is all very well ; but I confess, I should like to. see
a little more of the machiery that is to work these
wonders, should like to have something a little more

I
I
:4

I


I

232

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

definite and explicit, than these picturesque fancy-
flights of yours, before 1I become a believer in them.
-A. Well, I can only say again, in reply, that the
machinery seems to me simple enough ; the same ma-
chinery that has worked the wonders we witness to-
day; the gradual diffusion of moral and scientific
truth. As to going into the particulars you call for,
I. certainly shall not be so presumptuous as -to at-
tempt it. Who, indee, shall dare to -recast this
g reat drama, to foretell the innumerable revelations
of science and creations of art that are in store for
us, or the new callings they are to give birth to, or
the ameliorations and improvements they are to
cause in the old ones ? Who shA 1 presume to antib
cipate the solution of all these problems, moral, phi-
losophical, economical, that. are involved in .the
bringing about of these glorious changes ? That
the world will meet, face, overcome them all in time,
however, I doubt it -not. My position,. my dear
friend, is simply this (and it seems to me a perfectly
reasonable one); I look around me, and see the won-
ders already achieved by Faith and Knowledge,
alike in the hearts andl institutions of men, and in
the face of nature, and I can't help feeling that they
will go on achieving them unto the end ; in the same
slow and toilsome, but certain and triumphant way ;
till 'the generation will come at last, that shall see
and enjoy, as a blessed reality, that very consumuma-

t

tion that I have so feebly and unworthily shadowed
forth.
G. Never, never. Excuse me, my dear friend,
for saying so; but it seems to me that you are so
carried away by the generous enthusiasm of your
nature, so fascinated by this brilliant fancy sketch
of yours, that you cannot, will not, see the innumner-
able, insuperable obstacles that must- ever prevent
us from realizing it.
A. And you, my friend, may you not be so per-
versely attached to things as they are, that you can
neither appreciate aright the improvements that ac-
tually exist around us, nor see the practicability of
future ones ?
C. Too much so, certainly. Yes, I acknowledge
that the Conservative element is quite too. much in
preponderance in my composition, and I think the
Progressive equally in excess in yours. We shall
never agree on this point, I fear ; nor would I need-
lessly prolong the discussion. I have no such faith
in human nature, myself; as you profess, nor in the*
future. I do not believe that religion and knowledge,
however attractively presented, eloquently expound-
ed, widely circulated they may be, are to work any
such miracles as you describe. It is not in us, it is
not in earth, to bring about such stupendous chan-
ges. As brother 11. said, there is neither faith nor
courage enough in the moral, materials nor sunshine
~Nnough in the natural world, therefor. No, no;

4 F
4:

- unna

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

00)


I,

284       CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

these visionary cathedrals of yours; my friend, with
their pure and simple rites, will never be reared,
save in the dreams of poets ; nor those post-offices,
whose mail-bags are crowded with glad tidings only.
We cannot thus revolutionize either the hearts,'oi'
thie letters of the world ; but they' will ever contain,
as now, the same, strange medley of good -and evil
propensities, in the one, of. ups and downs, sudden
revulsions and wind-falls, wise and simple criticisms,
gracious and ungracious messages, in the other. Oh,
no ; we may not thus sever the thorns and roses of
life; keep thus the innocent flower, and not the ser-
pent under it ; thus take away alike the pangs of
parting lovers, and the raptures of their meeting,
by putting them in a woi-ld all sunshine and con-
stancy ; thus separate the mother's love from the
mother's care and an hish, or the triumphs of gen-
ius from its toils, and tears, and heartaches. Nor
is it given us to work corresponding changes in the
face of nature, or to win those brilliant, lasting vic- .
tories over the ,elements, that you anticipate ; to ex-.
tirpate all the vile and desolate spots of earth, light
up all its caverns, tame its angry seas and whirl-.
pools, turn all its howling wildernesses into gardens.
To expept any such revolutions as these, either in
the moral or physical world, seems to me most vain
and visionary. Angelic powers, indeed, might
achieve such feats, angelic natures might enjoy and
perpetuate a scene so brilliant as you portray ; but

V

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.,

235

how utterly beyond the reach, nay, how undesirable
is it, for us frail, fickle, sinful children of men !
.- You have but little faith, then, in the divine
efficacy of Christianity ?
C. Certainly not, so far as the conversion of
earth into heaven is- concerned. If I understand
aright Christ's mission, he came for no such purpose,
predicted no such result. On the contrary, while he
sends forth his disciples, to spread the gospel abroad
in all lands, does he not tell them, at the same time,
that but few will listen to their teachings or apply
them to the business of life ; that these very evils,
which you would banish from the world, are there-
fore, a permanent part of the divine arrangements,
and his religion, in consequence, a -permanent re-
li gio n; not a -revolutionizer of humanity, but a rev-
elation of inmnortality ; a perpetual source, both of
comfort and of warning, for the ineradicable sorrows
and sins of earth. Yes, my friend, from whatever
point of .view I consider the subject, whether from
Scripture, or history, or my own daily observation
of myself anad my brethren, I am forced to abandon,
as perfectly idle and romantic, those expectations
which you so seem 'to cherish. I say again, it i's not
in us, or about us, the wherewithal to achieve any
such conquests, over ourselves or Nature. When
indeed, we have found out a way~ to stop the course
of the tornado, or to push back the icebergs to their
polar homes, or to silence. the angry voice of the

I

1~

I

4

~1
-I

L


*1

~23G      CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE

thunder, or prevent the mischiefs of the earthquake,
then shall we have also found out a charm potent
enough to lull to sleep all the angry passions of men,
to relax their clinched fists, smooth their wrinkled
brows, win, from them their weapons and their ha-
treds, ay, to turn all the parti-colored tribes of earth
into serene, beautiful, loving angels. When the first
of these series of victories has been achieved, the
other will have been won also ; and not till then.
B. And what monstrous delusion, to suppose
otherwise ! I ask your pardon, brother A., for the
expression, but do you, can you really mean to say,
that you look forward to all these fine things that
you have been painting ~ And if so, pray how many
tens of thousands of years do you expect to roll by,
before those blessed days come round;, those days
of world-wide peace and brotherhood; wherein every
brother will be alike ~omfortable and comely and
courteous, every calling alike attractive and honors
able, every house the home of cheerful industry,
every~mind the abode of happy meditations ; when
all the pitoducts of labor, from epic poems down to
umbrellas, will be freely interchanged, all over the
world, without money and without price; when no
poet's reveries or philosopher's speculations, will
ever more be invaded, (as in these harsh times,) by
clan~orous duns, or by the croakings of a neglected
stomach; those blessed days, in which every wearer
of a coat, that may have become too venerable for

237

beauty or utility~ will only have ~to step in at the
very first fraternal tailor's shop that he may see,
and make the appropriate 'exchange, without tender
of payment, without encountering either ill-looks or
unpleasant language; at any rate, without hearing
the, then obsolete expression, stop thief grating on
his ears; wh c~n evcry hungry brother also, ma ysit
down, without ceremony, at the very first dinner-
table, that his eyes or nose may happen to intimate
to him, and be just as certain of finding that dinner
a good one,' and the company choice, as of finding
himself a welcome guest; he in turn, when at home,
being equally ready to share, and with the same
cheerful alacrity, the products of his own industry,
be they what they may, with the first passer-by, that
may feel the want of them; those days of universal
order, prudence, and security, when all the delays,
fractures, collisions, That now so disturb passengers,
and keep penny-a-liners busy, will be unknown;
when no boiler will ever more burst, no train get off
the track, ~no traveler get intd the wrong car, or
point out the wrong luggage, to his porter-brother;
when all the treacherous memories, bad spellings,
vicious penmanships of earth, with the innumerable
troubles and squabbles that follow at 'their heels,
will be no more; when there wi!l be no more beggars
for Murillos to paint, or little children to ask queer
questioiis' about, or ill-bred dogs to bark at; no more
Shallows or Slenders, to be laughed at, or Falstaffs

I

1'

CLOUDS AND S1JNSHINE~


I

238 .

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

to crack their jokes upon them; when Hogarth will
be looked upon as the veriest caricaturist, Fielding
the veriest libeler of humanity; when Lear and
Othello themselves, will have become grotesque;
hideous nightmares, and not those sublime pictures
of the storms which rage in human hearts, that the
fond critics of to-day deem them; when the artist
will see no careworn -or passion-stained countenance,
in any group of brethren or sisters about him, but
instead, one perpetual succession of ruddy, smiling
faces, and round, comfort-speaking figures; those
glorious days, when the pick-pockets will have all
turned astronomers, policemen philosophers, mounte-
banks mathematician~; when the bolts and bars,
and iron safes, and revolvers of 'our own times,
will exist no more, save in the collection of antiqua-
ries; when war will have vanished, with all its hor-
rors and splendors~; when navies will be extinct;
when grog and pig-tail will be unknown to the mer-
chant-service; when all the drugs and spirits of
earth will be playing other and better parts in the
great drama ; when~ the sting of the scorpion, and
the odor of the skunk, will be alike forgotten, in the
latent uses and beauties, that science will have
brought to light in them; when mixing mortar, and
laying bricks, at high noon, in midsummer, and
taking in sail, at' midnight, in mid-winter, will both
have become attractive employment, in which every
member of the great brotherhood, will gladly patti-

4

U

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

239

cipate; whenguns and drums and trumpets will be
banished from all the toy-sb ops of the planet; when
equity and temperance will preside over all its gold-
diggings and silver mines; those blessed days, when
death shall have been robbed of all his terrors, and
the spectres driven from all the 'churchyards; when
consumption shall, indeed, have been cured, and the
clamors of dyspepsia no longer be heard in the land.;
when the jokes of the clown will be hushed, and the
mission of Punch be at an end; when all the whims
and 'sorrows, that were vented or portrayed by the
Hoods, Mathewses, Cruickshanks of the ages past,
will have been. swallowed up, in a world-pervading
wisdom and happiness; do you, do you, my friend,
really believe that any such good times as these, are
ever coming, on earth? Will the newspapers of any
such days ever be published? If so, what, pray,
will be the contents of their leaders, and of their
telegraphic despatches? A fanciful man might
amuse himself; indeed, by framing articles~ and ad-
vertisements, for the Ajorning' H~xa1d. of~~MilThn-
nium-day; but will 4 ~on of Adam ever see such
tremendous revolutions as these, in the journals and
,the literature of the world, such thorough changes
in the contents of its shops, and Museums, and Pa-
tent Offices? No, no, no; any more than he will
ever see snow-balling, in the 'streets of Congo, or
good skating among the coffee-plantations of Java
or see the polar bear bringing down that warm win~

I

'if
I
I'


I

240

CLOUDS AND SUNSLIIlNE'

ter garment of his which his Creator gave him, for
an arctic home, and rolling and tumbling in it, amidst
the hot sands of Arabia; or the camel going up to
take his place, and hunt seals in Greenland, or rove
and swim about, among ice-islands.
A. Well, well, my friend, notwithstanding this
smart shower of grape of -yours, I still survive.-
Neither brother C.'s arguments, nor your sneers,
have been able seriously to disturb my faith, but I
must still look forward to these same fine things that
you so deride. Just such sneers have ever been the
portion, both of the inventors and ,predictors. of all
the improvements about us. We all know how river
and ocean steam navigation, and railroads, and tele-
graphs were received at first;. how the idea of edu-
cating deaf mutes, and treating lunatics like human
beings, and of amending the condition of prisoners,
were scouted at, as the dreams of just such vision-
aries as you are pleased to consider me. What vol-
leys of sarcasms have been discharged at them all!
But the jibes have passed away, and. are forgotten,
while the improvements themselves everywhere sur-
round us, and are hourly 'enlarging the circuit of
their good offices. And so will it be, I believe, even
unto'the glorious end. Had a far-seeing contempo-
rary told one of the Pilgrim Fathers that within
three centuries from the landing at Plymouth, one
of his descendants would travel, in ten little days,
from ocean to ocean, without fatigue, without stop-

,~ I
4-

I

CLOUDS AND ,SUNSHINE.

241

b

I

ping -to take a meal or bed, at any inn upon the road,
nay, without even dismounting, unless he saw fit,
from the steed that bore him, what would the reply
to such a prediction have been? WVhy, of course, he
would have been looke d upon as a miserable lunatic.
Had he gone on to say, that this same descendant
would dispatch a message by lightning, just before
starting, in order to let his friends on the Pacific
know that he was coming, and that said message
would not be as many minutes reaching its destina-
tion as the sender of it would be days, who can
doubt that the prophet in question would straight-
way have encountered the harsh discipline to which
the poor maniacs of those days were subjected?
And yet, are we not perfectly certain that this con-
summation will be reached long before the period as-
signed in this imaginary prediction? In the face
of such obstinate, such glorious facts as -these, my
friends, who shall presume to assign a limit to our
victories over nature ? They are the credulous -
men, I should say, who refuse to see in these won-
ders an earnest of still greater ones. Brother C.
spoke derisively, just now, of stopping the tornado
in its path, and of silencing the angry voice of the
thunder, and so following ; when these thing are
(lone, said he, then will the bad passions of men be
subdued, and not before ; -but I say, that we have
already robbed the tornado of half its terrors, have
taken away its angry tones from the thunder,.

it

1

0


A

CLOUDS AND SUNSUINV.

Think of the imperial C~sars, burying their heads
in the earth, or skulking away like felons at every
passing thunder-shower,, and then think of our old
republican philosopher, quietly bringing down the
electric fluid intd his workshop, and putting it to all
manner of uses! Does ~not a simple statement like
this, speak volumes for the progress of the world?
flow many other phenomena; tao, such as mir~i go, for
instance, that the ignorance of old times had dressed
up in superstitiouS terrorr, is science continuaRy
solving; driving away the spectres with which child-
ish fear had surrounded them, and giving us the
beautiful forms of truth, in their place. And. will
not these blessed explanations of her's continue, till
the whole earth, at last, is radiant with intellectual
light? I believe it. II say again, how any man can
deny the reality of the progress already made *by
humanity, in spite of the imperfect education an(l
undisciplined passions that have hitherto prevailed,
is to me amazing; and above all, the progress of the
last half century. If' we have been asleep, indeed,
hitherto, who can doubt that we have fairly woke up,
at last, to the grandeur of the task assigned us; to
the true meaning and value of this domain of ours;
the true significance and dignity of all these moun-
tains and rivers of earth, and the glorious destiny
in store for them; no longer the boundaries of hos-
tile nations, no more to be stained with brothers'
blood, but the agents' of commerce and civilization,

CLOtJT)$ ANI) ~STJNSH1NE.

243

the links in a vast chain of 'beneficent influences,
that are to convert us all, at last, into one loving
family. Yes, 1 repbat it, the fraternity of tl~e race;
this is to be the great consummation of all these im-
provements.' For no less a result was all this work
cut out, for the engineer, and merchant, and school-
master; and, thank heaven, they are all alive, as
never before, to the true extent and drift of their
labors. We know already, my friends,, on ~ small
scale, what the benefits of judIcious graftir~g, and
crossing of breeds are, in the vegetable and animal
kingdoms; and our scientific culture and breeding
are rewarded with flowers, and fruits, and cattle, that
the world never saw the like of before; and what
are these, hut humble precursors to the great experi-
ment, that is to be carried through, on the whole
family of man; the world-wide intermixture of
breeds, languages, and opinions, and interchange of
products, from the poles to the equator; from the
rocks, and ice, and guano, up to the daintiest crea-
tions of art, the subtlest thoughts of the poet and
philosopher? And is not science 'hourly adding
facilities, for thjs grand commingling' of men and
things; hourly increasing the speed and security
with which all these materials, moral and physical,
are transferred from land to land? When ever be-
fore, could men be brought to~~ther in'
b        such crowds,
and at such short notice, for business or consulta-
tion? When ever before, was so much cheap, por-

I

I

242


244

CLOUDs AND SUNSHINE.

table, attractive knowledge (and in all tongues), sent
abroad, even to the very humblest doors, ,as now?
Who shall presume to estimate the extent and value
of the crops that are to spring from the good seed
thus freely scattered, or to imagine even, the devel-
opments that are to grow out of this grand coming
together of the nations ? Ay, and the moral part
of the problem ; can we doubt, that it will be solved,
in the same satisfactory, glorious way as the physi-
cal and intellectual parts ? As I said before, I am
not blind to the many obstacles. that 'stand in the
way of that solution. There are ten thousand pas-
sions and prejudices to be grappled with ; the way-
wardness, slothfulness, sensuality of men must be
met and subdued first. FaitIL and Truth have a
long, hard fight before them, I know ; but equally do
I know and feel, that they will win the glorious day,
at last. There are good omens all around us, my
friends ; there are motive powers working for ~the
good cause, as they never, worked before. Chris-
tianity has not been, is not that sluggish and un-
fruitful thing, that some would represent it. It has
already worked its miracles, blessed 'and numberless,
in human hearts. The monuments of its labors, are
they not every where about us ? Has it not given
birth, also, to a world of secret goodness, and unob~-
trusive charities, that were never dreamt of in hea-
then times ? That greatest of all moral motors, too,
the influence of woman, is it not hourly gainig in

I

245

strength and purity ? Nay, more, is not the ,whole
world far more crowded to-day than ever, with ob-
jects of interest and productions of genius;- with
good poetry, science, art, innocent amusements of
al sorts, to excite and instruct us, and wean us from
'low tastes and brutal appetites ? The press, what
wonders is it working continually! When ever be-
fore, were the printer, artist, engraver, laboring to-
gethier to such* purpose, and' for such a circle of
readers and students ? Cheap books, arid' lectures,
and illustrated newspapers, are they not lit rally
searching the earth, penetrating to the remotest
streams, invading its most distant islands ? Tell
me not that all these agencies have no glorious con-
summation to achieve ; still less, that when they
have achieved it, the scene then presented will be
less stimulating and desirable for men, than the im-
perfectly developed one about us. I cannot assent
to any such notion. Tell me not that a worl4 thus
explored, purified, embellished, will not be a thou-
sand fold more attractive than ever; that God's
book of nature, when thus read. and expounded
everywhere, by bright-eyed, innocent, intelligent
readers, will not have far more glorious mearnings in
it, than the feeble vision,, and half-finished tasks of
to-day, can give us. To talk thus, and to insist thus,
on keeping the world as it is, in preference to the
magnificent~ world that the future has in store, seems-
to rme just about as unreasonable, as it would be to

ii
"I

r
4

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.


248       CLOUDS AND SUNShINE.                                      CLOUI)3 AND SUNSHINE.      249

this same glorioiis problem; the perfection appro-
t          private to each,, implying, of' course, tasks more and
4           more lofty and difficult, and pleasures more and more
intense and exalted, with every advancing stage of
our spiritual education. And why may not this
problem be thus going on, harmoniously, unto solu-
ti&amp;n, throughout this same course of instruction; be
thus successively worked out, in each stage of the
discipline, from this earth, the scene of pu r spiritual
childhood, up to that blessed star, wherever it m~y
be,~ that is to witness the full and final perfection of
our being? WI4 may not the Universe be filed
with such series of Academies, where the same
divine lessons are taught, the same spiritual culture
is carried out, the same gradual amendment in the
discipline going on, the same '~glorious consummation
destined to be achieved; till, at last, perfect peace
and love will prevail, every where, and in every part
of these innumerable systems of education; not a
sin, not a sorrow loft, to mar a single star inheaven;
till each child of Qod, in his turn, shall be brought
at last to comprehend all the mysteries of His works
and government. Yes, tb~s final victory of Truth
and Love, not only on our own little earth, but
throughout the Universe, dimly indeed, as we poor
infants, in this infant school of our career, can ap-
prehend the thought, yet is it not the only one
worthy of God, or satisfactory* to his creatures?
Will not the Creator's omnipotence, and goodness be

I

248

j

thus every where vindicated, at last, and all the
powers of darkness, after having fulfilled their dVead
mission, be again transformed into their original
brightness? But f~r from me, my friends, be the
temerity to dwell too curiously or minutely, on
speculations such as these, or to presume to shadow
forth any of the wonders, or splendors of such an
Universe. Bold enough were the task, P5 portray
an earth, all light and innocence, but what irnagina-
tion shall dare to penetrate into these wonderful
worlds to come? And yet, our thoughts will wan-
der at times, in spite of us, into these far off regions;
will fondly seek to explore these pleasant homes, to
paint their landscapes, rear - their piles, compose
their happy groups; will fondly dwell upon the
flowers and fruits, the music a;nd language~ of these
new abodes ;. the new organizations that are in store
for us; the new powers of perception, though~ feel-
ing, evermore growing in strength and subtlety, as
we advance from stage to stage of our spiritual de-
velopment. What faculties, indeed! What powers
of motion, hearing, vision, may be ours! Of con{em-
platioi~, too, no longer invaded by the daily calls of
appetite, the manifold bodily needs and infirmities
that belong to earthly experience! What ever en-
larging Science, Art a~d~ Faith, as we goon, scaling
the heights, sounding the depths of this wondrous
frame of things, learning more and more the proper-
ties and uses of God's works, finding out more and

it

249


250    CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

more, continually, of the secrets and motives of His
government ! What grand gatherings, too, and con-
ferences, of the wise, the learned, the beautiful !
What marvellous contrivances for interchanging
thoughts and sympathies! What wondrous modes
of communication between stars. and star ! What
sights, what sounds, what infinitely varied labors
and enjoyments, compared with which, all the
scenery, and music, and tasks, and recreations- of
earth, seem as diminutive, as unto us, seems that.
little world, in which the bee toils and sings ! Think,
nay friends, of faculties and privileges, such as
these ! Think of a being, so gifted with powers of
motion, that he could pierce at will the depths of air,
could course from star to star, could follow the earth,
in its flight, and gaze at pleasure upon the fair map
beneath him, or tract the beautiful succession. of
sunrises or of sunsets, that .are -forever flitting over
its surface ; whose vision could embrace, alike the
grand outlines and the minutest details of -a whole
hemisphere, from its proudest city to its humblest
village-spire; whose hearing -could take in all the
sounds that rose from it, from the shouts of its as-
sembled thousands, down to the faintest note of its
smallest bird or insect ; and whoa could receive all
these impressions, undazzled, unfatigued, and with-
out tumultuous passion, but with a serene and holy
joy ; a being, whose mind too could grasp the mean-
ing and .moral of the drama beneath him, with the

250

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.           251
same promptness and clearness, that his senses
could perceive the panorama itself, with all its va ied
sights and sounds; who could see, underneath all
this strange, conflicting play of thoughts and gas-
sions, God's goodness gradually working. out the
problem of human happiness . Fanciful and vi ion-
ary as this may seem to you, my friends, I ca not
forego the glorious thought. I cannot see wh we
ourselves may not yet, in God's good time, be the
recipients of just such powers and experience ,as
these. What is there more strange or incredib e in
it, than that we should be here on earth, to-day, vith
these faculties of mind and body, that we have, and
the manifold uses and enjoyments unto which th y
minister'? But enough of this. I have alrea y,'I
fear, taxed your patience quite too far.
C. Not at all, not at all. These are, indeed, far-
off regions, my friend, into which you have geen
wandering ; speculations far better suited to an elic
natures, than to poor, mortal wits.- I have no great
faith in them myself; I confess, or in any profit go be
derived from pursuing them. We had far betg r be
minding our own proper business here below, it
seems to me, than be making these fanciful e cur-
sions, through the realms of space. It may be,
nevertheless, as you say, that these experiences are
in reserve for us ; nay, that all these marvellous gifts
and privileges are yet to be the portion of -ery
child of Adam, however humble or worthless. Far

'I
"I

if


25  ~CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE-               CODANSUHNE25

sooner would I believe this, than cherish the gloomy
and incredulous spirit of our brother. here; but as
usual, my friend, in this fanciful picture of .yours,
youi seem most carefully to exclude all the terrors,
while you expatiate on the splendors of the future-.
Pray, what right have you to infer, as you do, this
final and universal victory of good over evil, to turn
all these stars about us into palaces. of light, these
fiends into angels, nay, to transform Beelzebub him--
self, into a loyal, obedient son of God ? What war-
rant hiave you for all this ? I find no such expecta-
tions held forth in my Biblei. I hear .no such doc-
trine from Christ's lips. On the contrary, he tells
me of lost souls, and of regions set apart for endless
sufferings ; 'of progress unto perfection in evil as
well as good. He paints no such brilliant and fanci-
ful universe as yours ; promises no such all-pervad-
ing love End light; but preaches of horrors as well as
joys ineffable, of desolate, accursed realms, where no
cheerful ray, no happy. thought ever enters. How
can you reconcile these things, my friend ? How can
you escape the imputation of heresy, in setting forth
such notions as yours ?
A. Well, if it be -heresy, to receive with reluc-
tance the doctrine of eternal punishments, I. must
plead guilty to the charge. I know the difficulties
of-the case, my friend. There are texts, certainly,
that seem to proclaim that doctrine, with terrible
clearness ; but I confess, I gladly run away from

I.

252

i

them, and take refuge in others, that speak'a lan-
guage far more comfortable and encouraging, and
far more in accordance, as it appears to me, both
with the Creator's omnipotence and goodness. No,
nio; I cannot believe that. God has doomed any
creature of his, in any part of his dominions, to end-
less misery. That every sin must have its attend-
ant sorrow ; that the. penalty of every transgres-
sion must be paid to the full - that no sophistry or*
ingenuity can evade that payment ; that guilt pnd
wretchedness still, abound on -earth, and in other
worlds, and that they will long continue to impair
their beauty and happiness, all these things who
will presume to question ? -But. that this sad'# his-
tory is to remain so forever,.or that any star in sthe
universe is destined to be the theatre of eternal suf-
fering, or that any being exists in any part of it, so
steeped in guilt and anguish (no, not Satan himself),
as to be beyond the redeeming love or healing power
of the Creator, I no more believe it than I do that
there is any intellect that can baffle God's wisdom,
or any force that can resist his supremacy. .Oh,
no; on the contrary, I believe that in this mysteri-
ous, but divinely ordained conflict of good and evil,
the powers of light are, everywhere, slowly but
surely gaining the ascendancy over the powers of
darkness, and that it will continue to be so, even
unto the perfect day; yes, that perfect day, wherein
all these blessed victories- over~ sin and ignorance

I,

253


254         CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.
shall have been consummated, these transformations   4,
completed, and no solitary stain of folly, guilt, or
grief, be left to mar the lustre of the Universe.
But, my friends, I will no farther tax your kindness;
Let me then, in conclusion, 6nce more declare my
faith in this same doctrine of perfection, unshaken
~as it is, by all that you have urged against it; alike
{~V          in that perfection appropriate to earth, to be won
and kept by man, in this, the first stage of his
schooling, and in that other and inconceivable glori.-
ous perfection, that is to be developed in the blessed
worlds to come.

~,1
'4
~1

~1

44~~


,~
~
~
VALUABLEBOO
PUBLISHED BY JOHN S.
No. 17 ANN-STREET
Near Broadway, New-
OPINIONS OF THE PIVE
CC FUN AND EARNEST." By the author of CC
lid," "Fancies of a WhimsicaLMan," etc.,
If, with all the nameless species of books e
to write one sui generis, the author of Fun
fairly in the race for popularity. He is jude]
the fashion of his fancies or his reflections, I
not from wholly original materials-which' n
ity-at least in styles exclusively his own. ~I
like the two preceding from the same rapid b
tion. It is neither tale nor essay; announce:
avows no aim; affects neither didactics nor s
yet it is a compound of fancy and philosophy
humor grave views of life and science-sa
cheerful trust in the future of humanity.
The book opens with a plunge in!o the yea

the long spy-glass of the author's imagination
terity at the distance of more than two centu
new in this age of great changes and rapid p
V

KS
TAYLOR,
York.
:ss.
musings of an Inva-
etc.
xtant, it is any merit
and Earnest starts
L~ted to no model for
)ut weaves them, if
iay be an impossibil-
The work before us,
and, defies classifica-
s no proposition, and
mtimentalism. And
',blending with light
tire sweetened with
~r 2076, and through

n, we see our pos-
ries. It is nothing
regress to guess at                        I
/


OPINIONS OF THE PRESS,

the world unborn; but here we have the forms of things unseen
bodied forth with so familiar an air, that we half believe the -divi-
miation already verified. Here and therg dash of wilful extrava-
gance, so far from correcting the illusion, only sets us to thinking
that all things short of tunneling the globe, or building a bridge
to the moon, will be possible to the science and art of future ages.
Another part of Fun and Earnest is entitled "C Extracts from the
Epistles of Whimsiculo the Elder,"-the themes and drift of
which are quite too various for our present notation. All prove
the writer, however quaintly he may dress his ideas, to be a clear
and close observer and thinker.
The author, in this and his preceding essays; gives ample evi-.
dence of I'aculties which we should wish to see exercised in some
systematic production-something, the form as well 'as the
substance of which would be memorable. He clearly belongs to
the new order of mental workers, who have, no notion of pulling
in the traces with old school plodders, or being hitched to the
common .vehicles of sentiment, satire, or philosophy. The fun of
Fun and Earnest is but the light, bright froth, capping~ a well-.
brewed and wholesome beverage. The earnest of it we- accept,;
as an earnest of still better draughts by the same, ready and in-
genious compounder.-Piladelplhia Evening Bulletin.

FUN AND EARNEsT. -By the Author of Musings of an Invalid,
Fancies of a W~himsical Man, &amp;c.
This is the third of a series of very peculiar books, the prede-
cessors of which we have already noticed favorably. The author,
a humorist and'a scholar, evidently mixing little with the world
he observes, has yet the keenest sympathy with the life of -the
times, the nicest observation f all the tendencies Qf-society, but
with an irresistible proclivity to measure them all by the foregone
history of our kind, and the universal laws of our nature. An
ingrained moralist and natural preacher, he tries to hide his wig

and bands, his table of commandments and moral philosophy,
under the robe of a harlequin, or the mask of a mummer. No-
thing would frighten him so much as to be suspected of a wish to
teach, and yet he is as busy as a Yankee schoolmaster with his
lessons ; nothing disgusts him more than a charge of sanctimoni-
ousness, while it takes all his wildest pranks and funniest grima-
ces, to-hide his sober and chastening lineaments. We have read
-his three books-the very titles of which oil the risibles for im-
mediate use, and which are full of extravaganza,'wit, satire, fun
-without one hearty laugh, nay, with as serious a heart as we
read many of the best chapters in D~on Quixote, or the queerest
papers in Elia-with such a sense of the deep earnest, the sad or
bitter truth under the jokes, that. the medicine outsavors the
syrup, and compels our thoughtfulness instead of moving our
mirth. When we see what a burden of weighty thought and
feeling the author carries, we cannot help wishing that the rich
scholarship, cunning Wit, and felicitous phraseology he possesses
Were employed in a more direct manner, to Adorn and point and
urge his wisdom.
*  Fun and Earnest is own brother to the two preceding volumes,
but we confess we like him better than the other members of the
.     family. The same protest against the follies and falsities -of soci-
ety,; the same plea for charity towards human -frailties ; the same
lash for cant and excess; the same plucking off of' the disguises
of pseudo-philanthropy ; the same check-rlein on too ardent hopes,
we observe in all the volumes. But we seem to find a finer feli-
city of phrase, a richer freight of thought, a more careful schol-
arship in "'Fun and Earnest,"' than in the ''Musings," or the
''Fancies."
The imaginary conversations of Walter Savage Landor are un.-
approachable in the serious line ; but we never saw anything so
good in thie comic way as our author's classical dialogues, and
Athenian and Roman billet-doux! Among all his various papers,
we select from the three volumes all of a classical sort, as of the
first order of excellence in their kind, and sincerely wish the au-
thor had given us one volume exclusively of this matter.

I

I

I
'1
1*

-

8


4

OPINIONS OF THE ,PRESS.

It surprises us that it did not occur to the writer to make and
entitle his last volumes CC Two Thousand Years Ago and to Come,"
for he clearly has a decided penchant for keeping at about that
distance on either side of the present, in his satires on the life of
the nineteenth century. This would have given a missing unity
to his volume.
With all our abatements, we shall not have conveyed our real
mind or purpose in this notice, if our readers are not curious to
see "Fun and Earnest" and its older brothers. We promise them
no common banquet. Whatever faults these works have, they
are "alive and kicking ;" they excite strong feelings; they do not
make us laugh, but they make us think and admire; they may
bring the broadest grins from faces differently constituted from
ours; and they cannot fail to amuse, instruct, and reward all
their readers.-N. Y. Christiam Imquirer..

FUN AND EARNEST.-Th~5 is the good title of a good b6ok, re-
cently published in New York, by John S. Taylor, and having no
other mark of parentage save that it is by the author of Musings
of an Invalid, Fancies of a Whimsical Man, etc.
Fun and Earnest is full of vigorous and most original thinking,
and the reader has no difficulty in determ4iing when the writer
is in earnest, or when the playful humor of his satiric and versa-
tile pen deals with the comic muse. The Boston Letter,
for insLnce, beginning at page 88, must be regarded as a spe-
cimen ~f chaste and elevated writing, that would do no discredit
to the clear and lofty mind of Edmund Burke, or even to the
presupposed advancement of American taste and knowledge at
the period at which our author has fictitiously assumed to be
~writing. His ambition and aim are high ones, and we are disposed
to predict that, ere he has exercised his strong and classic intel-
lect a few years more, his productions will have earned all the
fame his best friends can desire for them. Criticism cannot do
justicee to the varied and endless wit, good sense, and sound re-

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

5

buke that find utterance through the unbeaten track of our au-
thor, and we do not here attempt to enumerate his subjects, or
describe the manner in which they are handled. We have thus
briefly called attention to these volumes, as having afforded us
great pleasure, as well as useful instruction; and we recognize in
much of their pungent 'satire-whether of fun or earnest~the
best caustic for removing the unhealthy excrescences that grow
upon our morals and our manners.-~Philadelrhia North American.

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY)$~ THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LiBRARY

FO~ REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION
There 'is more truth than poetry in this, and it's not all of the
same sort in the book, either. It is full of fun and wit, and ear-
nest enough, we hope, to attract the attention of the "Christian
Banker," as well as others less given to "whimsicalities."-.~..Ghi
cago Daily Journal.

FUN AND EARNEST.-SUCh is the title of a volume lately pub-
lished by John S. Taylor, 17 Ann-street. It was written by the
author of Musings of an Invalid, Fancies of a Whimsical Mar),
etc., and shows a continuance of the pungent~ and racy humor

At

I

*1

* I
I
4
I
:iI
II


  
             
         
       
   
