
    ----CITATION----
        Reid, Christian, (1846-1920). Valerie Aylmer .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8073
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Valerie Aylmer 
            
               C H RIST T IAKN

R EI D.

A woman's will dies bard,
In the hall, or on the sward.
. B. B3. Bnowmue.

NEW YORK:
*D. A PP LET ON ANdD CO MA NY
90, 92&amp;O 4 GRANDBTREET.
1870.

4

A NOVEL.
BY .-


I                                     A

C O NT EXNTS.

BO00K 1.
CHA. I.-Striking the Flag, ..
1.-A Son of Neptune, .
1HI.-Putting it to the '1'ouch, .
IV.--On the Wing, .'  .

ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870,
BY D. APPLETON &amp; COMPANY,
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

CuAP. L-"My Pretty Page,"  . .   .
1.-A Free Lance of To-day,  . .-
11.-The General gives a Warning, ..
IV.-A Wilful Woman,  . .    .
V.-Derring-do, .  .  .   .   .
VI.-Those who dance must pay the Piper,
V1.-A Declaration-not of Love, ..

CHAP. L.-A Test of Power, .-.
11.-Overtures of Peace, .
111-The Diamond of the Desert,
IV.-On the Heights, .
V.-Out of the Depths,.    .
VI.-Reaplng the Harvest, .    .

PAGE
, 5
12
.17
23

29
83
41
48
57
62
70

.81
.91
.99
.105
.111
.114

BOOK IV.
CHA. 1.-Sir Artegall, ..
I.-Radegunde,  .   .    .
11.-Fetters of Roses, ..
IV.-The Forfeit Pledge, . .
V.-Faee to Face,  .  .
VL.-Paying his Debt, ..
YH.'-Tout'est perdu, . .
ROOK V.
CHAI'. L-Le Bean Confddre, .-
11.-Sursum Cords, -.    .
- HL-SThe liver Lining,..
IV.--The Hidden Skeleton, .
V.-The Hero of Sadowa, .
Vt.-Who laughed last? . .
BOOK VI.

CAP. 1.-The Shadow of Blood, ..
11.-The Right of Reparation, ..
111-Out of the Jaws of Death, y
IV.-The Sunlight from the Sea, .* ,

PAGE
120
127
132
138
146
153
159

. .163
.109
r   178
.179
. .189
.194

. 205
209
.213
217

N

'I


VALERIE AYLMEIR.
-4**---.
BOOKL

CHAPTER I.
STRIKING THE rLA~Q.
"BEAD that, Valerie! "said General Ayl-
mer, as he strode hastily to his daughter's
side, and tossed an open letter into her lap.
Now, being* a man little addicted to
choleric impulses, the passionate tone in
which he spoke-the very act itself-were
so different from his usual voice and man-
ner, that the girl whom he addressed start-
ed perceptibly. Then, instead of touching
the letter, she looked up with evident aston-
ishment into his face.
"Why, papa! " she said, after an instant
-and her tone of surprisespoke volumes
for her father's usual amiability-" what
can the matter be? Nothing about Eugene,
I h6pe?" she added, anxiously.
"No-nothing about Eugene."
"Something about the New-Orleans
business, then?"
"No;. certainly not."
"Then what-"
"Suppose you read the letter 3" inter-
rupted her father, with an impatient acerbi-
ty altogether new to him. And as she pro-
ceeded to obey a suggestion,' the tone of
which made it a command, he turned from
her, and began to walk restlessly up and
down the long piazza, with a very flushed
and angry counteliance.
It was plain that something of more than
ordinary importance had gone wrong with
thegexe~al; since, under ordinary, and even
~xtraordhiary inisforttu~es, his philosophy

/

was invariably that of the Stoic, with a
strong dash of the Epicurean. "Grieving
over a loss never yet helped a man to* bear
it," the general was wont to say; and few
people ever reduced theory to more perfect
practice. C/he sard, *ar4 had been his life-
long motto; resignation, strongly tinctured
with indifference, his life-long mode of.
meeting danger or di~lculty; and this de.
bonsir creed had borne him lightly. ~and
scatlilessly through mai~y a peril, ~and ever
many a misfortune which would utterly
have wrecked ordinary men. There had
been more than enough of these peril~'a~d
misfortunes in their time, yet they had
scarcely marked a line on his, fra&amp;ik~ ha~id-
some face, or tempered by a shade his
genial, pleasant manner.~ So~ it followed
that in all the gay and hospitaWe country-
side of St. Stephen's Parish; L~iiisiaua, ~io
man was more popular, ormo~'e ~3.eservingof
popularity, than GeiieralAyImero!~Ayliner~.
No man understood half so well the art of
pleasing all men-and nil women~ too-wi~1i
hardly an effort ~eyo~xa th~t~ot the ~wiU~ ~zto
man better united knowledge of ~thQ wQ~r~d
with the ~onAomie of his open-hs~ided,*p~u-
hearted race; no'man lived~ faster; and yet
few men ever suffered less in the. opinion
of~ society. Indeed, he wasone ofthoezcep-
ti4nal people wh6seeinbornto rule~opinion,
instead of being ruled by it-.4hough why
this was sQit would be hard toi~y. The
sources of power are almost afrays inyst~..
rious,'and If we'atte~npted to'an1y~e1~Jz0*-
which Heaven forbid we should~ 4~d~44s


6                            VALERIE AYLMER.
should be apt to find ourselves sadly at a open in their hospitable welcome, and the
mm to nooonnt fov mnnv o1oviithin~ to n'r~.nt- old thlp of lifo hid to flow hank R~aiTL

ii

ness, social or otherwise, unless we accept
as a solution the plausible theory of a spe-
cial ruling faculty. If there be such a thing,
General Aylmer undoubtedly possessed it
in singular degree. It had made him a man
of mark andinfluence all his life; it had ren-
dered him foremost in every enterprise in
which he engaged, from his college esca-
pades and early social triumphs, to the po-
litical successes and military renoWn of later
life; and yet, in what it consisted, his near-
est friend could not have told. "He had a
wonderful way with him," they all said;
and there they stopped. The secret of his
fascination seemed as subtle as the charm
of his hospitality-a hospitality which had
been quite famous during the anoiem re'-
gime, and' still held its own bravely,' even
under the changed aspect of affairs. For
affairs had changed very much in the year
eighteen hundred and sixty-five, when our
story opens; and General Aylmer, like the
rest of his class and geuei~ation, had paid, in
subjection to wholesale robbery, the penalty
of being a gentleman by birth, and an aristo-
crat ~y position. Yet it chanced that For-
tune had been a degree kinder to him than
to many of his compeers. After that terri-
ble end-that end full of bitterness and deg-
radation unutterable !-which came with
the earlyroses of the fair Southern April,
he returned to the home from which for
four long years he had 'been an exile, and
found that this home had fared somewhat
better than ha had dared either to hope or
expect. Defaced and injured it was, un-
doubtedly, but in less degree than most of
the habitations near at hand, and certainly~
not irreparably, since1 in a short time, some-
thing of the old beauty began to appear
again-something of Eden to bloom once
more out of Sahara. The general was not a
man to sit down in useless refining, and still
less was he a man to tolerate, even for a day,
the least discomfort which effort could re-
move. So, the plundered rooms were refur-
nished; the empty stables and cellars at least
inoderatelyrefilled; thetrampledshrubberies
trained into order; 'the barren fields put
under cultivation; the great doors thrown

STRUNG T~E FLAG.                      7

In view of these facts, it was not singu-
lar that St. Stephen's Parish returned quick-
ly enough to its old allegiance-swearing
as cordially by the general's wine and the
general's horses as it had ever done in the
past. And yet it was not singular, either,
that, once safely out of the domain of Ayl-
mers, the parish did not hesitate to shrug
its shoulders, and ask very injuredly, how
the deuce he managed it. He was a man
whose apparent sources of wealth were no
greater than those of his~ neighbors; but,
while they were daily forced into closer re-
trenchment, 1'he had resumed a mode of life
which bordered closely on extra~ragance.
It was very pleasant, of course, to know that
one house at least was yet open, where a
capital dinner 'and a good mount were al-
ways ready for a friend, where the best of
Hochheimer and the best of cigars were
things at command, and the brightest of
eyes smiled a welcome; but still that did
not solve the puzzle as to how he managed
it; and this rendered the pleasure something
of a discomfort also. "To be sure, it is
none of my business," everybody said; but
then everybody felt that he or she would very
much like to know~ True, the general was
the lucky possessor of a rich father-in-law,
to whose fortune his daughter was sole heir-
ess; but this father-in-law, so far from being
an~ old man, likely to step off the scene at
any moment, was a man of little more than
middle-age, who, not long before, had taken
unto himself a new wife, and apparently a
new lease of life; so his existence was
scarcely to be assumed a solution of the
enigma. Then, although Gerald Aylmer
was the most "steady'~ of young men, and
really an excellent planter, there was
Eugene, the handsome scapegrace, whose
dissipation and recklessness were known to
all the parish, and who had gone to Europe
immediately after the close of the war,
where of course he was spending any
amount of money. While, as for Valerie-
but the extravagance of General Aylmer's
only daughter had been known to her
friends and neighbors ~o long that they had
ceased to marvel over any fresh manifesta-

tion of it, and indeed considered it rather a
commendable quality in the presumptive
heiress and beauty-regnant, who was chief
among the charms of Aylmers. For other
men might possess horses as good, and wine
as unexceptionable, but no other man could
possibly boast, as head of his household, the
loveliest girl of the Mississippi Yalley, the
queen of a hundred loyal hearts, the toast
of a hundred gallant lips, from the Potomac
to the Rio Grande.
All of these things, Valerie Aylmer
made good her claim to be esteemed, and
yet her head was not absolutely giddy-a
fact which in itself entitles her to respectful
consideration. She had been a beauty and
an heiress from her cradle; she was clever
enough to hold her own in any fair intel-
lectual tilt without falling under the terrible
odium of being blue; and she was, besides,
thorough mistress of all the thousand fas-
cinations which some exceptional women
possess, and which are more charming than
the beauty of Helen, or the dower of a prin-
cess; and yet, if it is impossible to saythatehe
was quite unspoiled (for that would be saying
she was an angel, and no woman at all), it
is at least possible to say that the spoiling
had not done her much harm. It had made
her wilful and daring, and fond of her pow-
er, perhaps; but it had not darkened over
the sweet, frank charm of her girlhood with
even so much as a shade ~f that intense self-
appreciation, that offensive vanity, and more
offensive affectation, which make bellehood
a thing to be dreaded rather than desired
for any girl. "A shameful coquette," people
called Miss Aylmer; but they said it half in
jest; and never a man or woman of them
all loved her the less for her gay flirtations.
She amused herself with the admiration of-
fered her, and broke hearts, as it is called,
by the dozen; but it was so much as a child
accepts sugar-plums and demolishes play-
things, that even the very victims would
not have had the heart to deny her the en-
joyment, "It is so pleasant to be pretty
and to be admired," she said once to an in-
timat~ friend; and the sentence embodied
her whole opinion on the subject. It was
so pleasant to feel that, whoever looked on
her, desired to look agaiu-so pleasant to

know that, go where she would, she carried
a talisman, potent ever to win kindness and
service-.-so pleasant that men strove with
each other which of them should do most to
gain even such a trifling favor as her hand
for a dance-so pleasant that the roses of life
and love were all scattered, as it were,
under her very feet! She exulted in it, and
enjoyed it, with the pull, glad exultation, the
keen, fresh enjoyment of youth, when youth
has known few troubles. And her troubles
had been very few; for even the war, with
its attendant horrors, had fallen lightly on
her 1~ead. She had seen havoc and death
around, but it had not been brought home
to her, since her father and brothers came
safely through the baptism of blood. She
had been exiled from her birthplace, but
she had roughed it very gayly in camps and
beleaguered cities, shedding the glory of her
youth and beauty wherever she went. Con-
sidering her many attractions, it was scarcely
wonderful that her fame spread far and wide,
or that few women of her day and genera-
tion counted more loyal subjects. Yet her
beauty was only the beauty of her country-
women intensified to superlative degr~e-
only the graceful features, the pearly com-
plexion, the soft, dark eyes, and silken-dark
hair, which we meet in every wayside vil-
lage, from Maryland to Mexico, making a
type of loveliness that is to be found under
no other sky. Of all of these personal gifts,
Miss Aylmer possessed a trifle more than
her due share, together with something
which rendered them specially and entirely
her own. It is very hard to draw the exact
line where prettiness-which is so common
-ends, and where beauty-which is so rare
-begins. And the effort to do so is nQt
made more easy by the fact that a great
many people never draw such a line at alj;
never trouble themselves to remember that
there is any higher standard than that of
their own individual~ taste; or that a face
which seems to them all loveliness may,
without losing a tittle of this loveliness; fall
outside the magic circle of beauty, because
its tints lack harmony or its fetitures fall
in proportion. Yet, nevertheless, there are
certain plain rules of art, which, if we
choose to call. them in, settle' the matter


8                            VALEIIIE AYLM1~R.
very summarily. One of these rules-4he J over with sunny lights and soft languors

most absolute, perhaps, among them-de-
clares thatperfection of physical beautycon-
sists, above all things, in finish of detail; and,
judged by this test, Valerie Aylmer's beauty
was perfect. From head to foot she was
without a flaw, and in her own style (of
course it was a matter of taste whether or
not one admired that style) quite faultless.
She wa~ tall-taller than the medium
height of her sex-but with nothing what:
ever "grand" or Amazonian abouther. On
the contrary, her figure, which was exqui-
sitely proportioned and rounded, had a
charming womanliness all its own, and was
daintily slender-though straight as a palm,
and flexible as a water-lily. From the small
neck, down to the shapely feet, there was
not an angular line about her, not a curve
which was not the ourve of beauty, o1~ on
which an artist's eye would not have de-
lighted to rest.' Consequent upon this, she
possessed that gift which is even more rare
than beauty-superlative grace. One could
not, imagine her doing an awkward thing.
In all her moods-and they were many-in
all her alternations of bearing and manner,
she never lost this distinction; and was
charming always, principally because' she
was graceful always. Her face was ln'une,
possessing a complexion clear enough to
show every pulsation of the blood beneath,
and smooth as a camellia petab-a complex-
ion that lay like ivory on the brow and tem-
ples, but seemed charged with a flush of
rosy color, covered, as it were, with a sort
of roseate veil, on the lower part of the face.
It is not often that such a complexion is
seen; and the difficulty of finding is only
equalled by the difficulty of describing it.
It is more brunette than blond, for its tints
are all rich and warm; butt it is absolutely
neither-it is something between the two,
and more beautiful than either. When the
flush deepened on Valerie's fare, she 'was
positively dazzling, for it was as vivid and
clearas the hue of the pon~egranate; but,
even in her hours of lassitude, she was never
wholly without color-only then it pervaded
the skin like the delicate' pink that lines a
sea-shell. Her eyes'were large and dark
and lustrous; magnificent eyes, all flooding

-eyes that would have lifted into the
splendor of beauty the plainest face alive.
The brow above them was very fine' and
pure of outline; exquisitely finished about
the setting of the eyes, and, where the slen-
der, dark line' ~of 'the eyebrows ran, broad,
somewhat square, and framed in abundant
masses of rich, dark hair. Her nose gave all
the distinction to the face which it is in the
power of a feature of perfect symmetry to
bestow. It was Greek, as far as a nose per-
fectly straight in itself, yet not straight from
the brow, can be held to appertain to the
Greek type; and about the delicate, arched
nostril there was a look of pride, only re-
deemed by the sweetness of the mouth,
whose crimson lips made a Cupid's bow
beneath it. Looking at Miss Aylmer, it
was impossible not to perceive the physical
traces of French blood; and in listening to her
voice, or watching her manner, you caught
many a token in which, even through the
lapse of two generations, fair Provence
claimed her child. There was all the gift
of ready wit and fancy, the saucy eerve and
soft tendresse, which appertain to the wom-
en of France above all other women, and
which had already ensnared more willing
captives than even the light of her lustrous
eyes.
Those eyes looked up at her father now
with something more than surprise in their
depths-a shadow of unusual gravity was
gathering in them.
"I am afraid this decision is very disap-.
pointing to you, papa.," she said.
"Disappointing!" cried General Ayl-
me; almost fiercely. "It is-" He stopped
and swallowed the remainder of his sen-
tence-not without a considerable gulp.
"It does seem hard-when grandpapa
has always taught us to regard his fortune
as our own. But then, I suppose, we ought
to remember that he has a right to dispose
as he pleases of his own property; and-"
"A man has no right to sacrifice his pos-
itive duties to Quixotic sentiment," inter-
rupted her father, impatiently. "In disin-
heriting his rightful heirs, to endow a stran-
ger with his wealth, he is guilty of nothing
less than fraud!',

STRIKING THE FLAG.                     9

"But he did not disinherit mamma," said
Valerie, simply.
"What else is he virtually doing now?
Her marriage-portion was a mere bagatefle
compared to the magnificent fortune which
he is about to will away from her represent-
atives."                             -
"But this boy-our cousin-does not his
claim seem to be at least equal to ours?"
"Equal to ours!" repeated the general,
too angry to be quite as punctilious as usual
in the proprieties of conversation-" why,
he is only XE. Vacquant's nephew, and you
are the daughter of his only child. And
even the claim of relationship itself was for-
feited by the conduct of his mother, who
married some fortune-hunting adventurer-
an Irish painter, I believe-in open opposi-
tion to the wishes of her brother. Why
your grandfather should suddenly have tak-
en up her son in this manner, is beyond my
~~~prehension.i~
"He was in our army, was he not?"
"Yes-but what has that to do with
it?"
Miss Aylmer's glance fell on the open
page of time letter again, some part of which
seemed to attract her attention; for, after a
pause, she said:
"Grandpapa seems to feel great remorse
for his treatment of his sister."
"He is late in manifesting it," said Gen-
eral Aylmer, with a sneer. "She has been
dead nearly thirty years."
"AhI So long? Then this nephew of
grandpapa's must be quite old."
"Old enough to be a very clever saliemer,
I should say; or he could not have suc-
ceeded, as he has d9ne, in ingratiating him-
self into the confidence of your grandfather,
who is not a fool; or, perhaps I ought to
say, was not a fool when I saw him last.
He may be in his dotage now. Certainly
his conduct justifies such a suspicion," he
added bitterly.
"It is very provoking," said Valerie,
thoughtfully. "I don't wonder you are
vexed, papa. But it is some consolation,
is it not, that we don't need this money very
much? I have often congratulated myself
that we are not so poor as most of our
friends-for poverty is dreadful I-and I re-

joico still more now that this is so-4or
your sake, papa. You are not fit to be a
poor man. But we are not poor-compara-
tively speaking," she went on-" and so we
ought to be resigned, even if grandpapa does
not give us his money. We can do without
it."
"Do you know what doing without it
means?" said her father, in a tone so al-
tered from the merely impatient and irri-
tated one in which he had before spoken, that
she looked up with a startled expression of
face.
"It means ruin-that is all I-irretrieva-
ble ruin," he responded, in answer to the
look.
He had been standing beside her as they
talked, leaning against the pillar nearest
the steps on which she sat; hut now he re-
sumed his restless promenade of the piazza,
while she remained ashehadleft her, but very
still-the hand which had been toying idly*
with the silver bells decorating the collar
of a little spaniel, that was crouched at her
side, now rested motionless on Sprite'ssilken
coat, and her large eyes were full of a new-
ly-awakened surprise and consternation.
After a few turns, General Aylmer paused,
and took up the thread ~f conversation
where he had dropped it. "Yes-ruin!"
he said, gloomily. "You think I have suf-
fered less in fortune than most of our
friends. You are mistaken. I have not
thought it necessary to retrench in my style
of living, as they have done, because I natu- -
rally looked to the fortune you would in-
herit as security against any difficulty
about the debt I have been incurring.
Failing this inheritance, thave no means of
meeting my liabilities, excepting by the
sale of my landed esti~te; and, if I de-
cided to sacrifice that to-morrow, I should
only be beggaring myself without materi-
ally benefiting my creditors. I suppose
Eugene shares your own delusion on the
subject of my fortune, for he is as reck-
lessly extravagant as ever; seems to consid-
er himself still the son of the rich man I
was; and the demands he has made on me,
since he has been in Europe, have contrib-
uted in no slight degree to involve me so
deeply, that if I sold every acre of land I.


10                        VALERIE AYLMETh                                                             STRIKING THI~ FLAG.                      121

possess-even the very soil around "-he
waved his hand toward the prospect before
them-" the very roof that shelters us-I
should not, at the present nominal prices of
propertyrealize half the amount of my in-
debtedness."
Valerie's eye had followed the motion of
his hand as he was speaking, and still dwelt
with wistful sadness on the familiar scene
which was now enwrapped in the soft Octo-
ber gloaming. Manyof the marks of wanton
destruction, so painfully apparent by day-
light, were concealed by this kindly veil;
and something of its old serene beauty was
in the scene. The rich sweep of emerald
lawn (emerald now, although, not twelve
months back, squadrons had charged, and
men had bled and died there!) -the stately
trees, whose tops rustled above the roof
beneath which her eyes had first seen the
light, as her mother's closed to it forever
-the winding depths of shrubbery-the
luxuriant garden all overgrown with wild
beauty-the swelling fields that, alternating
with woodlands, stretched as far as the eye
could reach-and, on the other side, the
rushing flood of the mighty Father of
Waters!
When she . looked again toward her
father, her eyes were swimming in tears.
"Oh, papa!'~ she cried, with mingled
reproach and distress, "why did you not tell
Eugene all this long ago? Why did you
not tell both of us I-for I, too, have been
very extravagant! If you had only told us,
we should, like every one else, have learned
economy."
"Hum! ~ said the general, incredulously,
"' it is very easy to talk of economy. Prac-
tising it is a different thing-as you will
soon find, if yott make the trial. It would
be economy, for instance, not to order an
expensive new dress for Mrs. Hautaine's par-
ty next week-but-ha! "he gave a short,
saroactic laugh, as his daughter's face changed
perceptibly at the latter part of his sen-
tence.-" there - you see now that theory
and practice are by no means the same."
It was true that Valerie's face bad fallen
'when the matter was brought thus directly
and feelingly home to her. She looked very
'blank, indae~, for an instant; but then she

rallied-and the light laugh of amusement
that burst from her lips contrasted strangely
with her father's cynical mirth of the mo-
ment before.
"It is not pleasant to practise economy,
I admit," she said, becoming serious again.
"We had enough of it during the war. But
it can be done. You shall see, papa, that
I can do it! Not only will I dispense with
a new toilet for Mrs. Hautaine's party, but
I will not order a single new dress this sea-
son. I can do very well with what ~
"My dear, you are talking nonsense,"
interposed her father, coldly.
"Why so, papal You think I am incapa-
ble of acquiring the art of economy: I want
to convince you to the contrary. I have
been very thoughtless, very inconsiderate-
even selfish, I fear-not to have remembered
that it was impossible you should not have
some difficulty about money at such a time
as this. Now, that I am aware-why,
papa, what is the matter? What have I
said to displease you?"
The question was a pertinent one. Gen-
eral Aylmer was looking very much dis-
pleased, and also not a little embarrassed.
"You are talking nonsense, as I told you
a minute ago. Like a woman-or like a
child, rather-to the utter disregard of all
common-sense. Keep to the subject under
discussion, if you please. The question is not
of future economy, but of impending ruin.~~
Her attempts at consolation having been
so ill received thus far, Valerie did not at
first hazard a response, but waited for her
father to proceed. This he did not seem in-
clined to do; and, after a silence of some
minutes, it was she who spoke again.
"Surely," she said, a little hesitatbigly
-" surely grandpapa does not mean to leave
the whole of his fortune to his nephew. I
should think he would give us something,
papa-enough to pay this debt, perhaps."
General Aylmer drew a deep breath-a
sigh of relief, Valerie thought, at the pros-
pect suggested by her remark. Yet he an-
swered, dryly enough:
"Do not flatter yourself with any such
expectation. I see but one way out of.the
difficulty-and that, I am afraid, you will
not be sensible enough to adopt."

"I! Does it depend on. me?"
"Entirely."
"Then, you know, papa, that I would
do any thing possible to relieve you from
this burden. What is required of me?"
"Did you not read that letter?"
"Yes-part of it, that is. The first page."
"Read the remainder" said General
Aylmer, and, for the third time, he returned
to his sentinel-like walk.
Miss Aylmer endeavored to obey; but
the twilight had deepened since her last at-
tempt. She held the paper close before her
face for several minutes, but finally shook
her head, and suffered her hand to drop
upon her knee, as she said: "It is too dark
to decipher these hieroglyphics. Cannot
you tell me what it is, papa?"
"Your grandfather,, Frenchman-like,
suggests that what he calls the conflicting
claims of yourself and this nephew he has
taken up, may be reconciled in the most sat-
isfactory manner, by a family arrangement
-that is, alliance. He has already been
urging you to spend the winter in Baltimore,
you know, and he now presses his request
still more earnestly. This-what is the
man's name I-this Darcy, is to be there;
and M. Vacquant is sure that, with the op-
portunity of familiar association, which a
residence in the same house would afford,
you could not fail to be mutually attracted
etc., etc."
General Aylmer spoke with sneering
sarcasm. Nevertheless, he waited anxious-
ly to hear what his daughter would say to
a proposal which might amuse, but which,
he feared, would more probably excite her
anger.
"Well," he said, as she did not speak,
"what do you think of this fine proposal of
your grandfather's?"
"That, if it came from any one else, I
should resent it as an insult," she replied,
in a tone so chilling that her father frowned
-for he understood perfectly the nature
with which he had to deal, and this did not
look promising.
"Fiddlesticks!" he said, impatiently.
"The idea of your marrying this Irishman
is quite absurd, I grant-but you can let
your grandfather make that discovery him-

self in due time. What he~ asks of you now
is not a consent to the proposed 'alliance,'
but merely that you will go to Baltimore
and pay him a visit."
She turned passionately.
"Go to Baltimore! That is, accede to
this insulting-yes, insulting proposal, to
place myself on exhibition before-papa,
you surely are not serious! You surely do
not wish me to compromise my own dignity
and yours, by doing such a thing!'~
"I thought I said, distinctly, that the
proposal itself is absurd," answered the gen-
eral, coldly. "It is, however, preposterous
to take the view you are adopting. Your
grandfather means well; and I am sur-
prised," he went on, gravely, "that you, who
pique yourself on your French blood, should
be so much opposed to the most ordinary
of French customs. You are as inconsistent
as the rest of your sex, I perceive."
"I never professed to fancy mcsragee do
oomvonance, sir-and I am sure I never in-
tended to make one."
"Who is talking of manages do eonee.
nanco? Not your grandfather, certainly.
He asks you to come and see if you can like
this adventurer well enough to marry him;
and I ask you-to temporize."
"That is what you always say, papa."
"I could not say any thing better in
eleven cases out of twelve. Now, listen to
me: you will do as you please, for I have
no intention of placing a single fetter on
your freedom of action. But if you do what
is wise, you will go to Baltimore. Long
absence has weakened your' inflilence over
your grandfather; and it is desirable that
this influence should be recovered at once, by
personal intercourse. Is there any harm in
looking after your own interest inthis way?"
"There is the harm that it would make
me feel like a scheming iatnigante."
The general shrugged his shoulders
scornfully. Such scruples and niceties
seemed to him, as to most worldly-wise peo-
ple, so absurd that he could scarcely believe
in their sincerity.
"You are very foolish, then-that is
all! "he said, shortly. "The truth of the
matter lies just the 'other way-for you
would be going to protect your rights

.1

10

n


12                        VALERIE AYLMER.                                                           A SON OF NEPTUNE.                      13

against the schen~es of another person.
However, it is not worth while to argue the
question. As I said before, you may go or
not, as you choose. It is, not likely that
much depends on it for yourself. , There i8
a little wealth still left in our country here;
and, with a word, you can marry the best
fortune afloat. The rest of us-but that
does not matter."
The girl looked up quickly.
"It is all that does matter," she said.
"What about the rest of you I"
"I thought I told you, a moment ago,
that ruin is staring us in the face."
"And I could prevent it?"
"Your grandfather's fortune could pre-
vent it, certainly."
Valerie looked away again, absent and
troubled. This last appeal had been quite a
master-stroke of policy, and proved how
well General Aylmer knew his daughter's
character - a character th~t, with many
faults, both natural and acquired, had yet
enough of the heroic element to respond at
once to that key-note of all noble natures,
generosity. When she turned round again,
it was quite abruptly.
* "Papa" (a great gulp)-"papn-.-I will
go to Baltimore."
The general started. lIe had expected
the concession, but not so soon, or with so
little trouble.
"You will go to Baltimore? '~' he repeat-
ed, as if he did not quite trust the evidence
of his own hearing.
"Yes," said Valerie, swallowing some-
thing in her throat, and speaking hastily but
firmly, "I will go to Baltimore. But you
know, of course, that I don't mean any
thing of this-this sort "-she touched the
letter., "I will go because you assure me
that I can do good by going. But if grand-
papa thinks that I entertain for a moment
the proposal he has made, you must unde-
ceive him."
"But hold a moment? If you go, you
must make up your mind not to irritate him
by injudicious opposition to his scheme;
but simply to suffer matters to take their
course..
"He must be told that I cannot consent
to it."

"Yes--but not told in an offensive man-
ner. Leave that to me; and do you avoid
the subject as entirely as possible. Mind,
I don't counsel any thing like deception-
only reticence.~~
"Reticence is deception sometimes~ pa-
pa."
The general shrugged his shoulders again.
He always did shrug them over moralities
of this kind.
"You have yet to learn that there is no
wiser maxim in the world than Quieta non
movere," he said. "You are young, how-
ever. You will learn it in time, if you are
sensible. Meanwhile, I consider the fact of
the visit settled; and I am glad to be able
"Don't praise or thank me, please,~~
said his daughter, who seemed to know
what was coming. She rose hastily from
her seat, and descended the steps-then
paused a moment, with her foot on the low-
er one, and turned to speak.
"Excuse my having interrupted you,
papa, but I don't feel as if I deserved either
praise or thanks. I make this sacrifice so
i~nwillingly, that it cannot be counted to
my credit. I hate it bitterly, and I am no
more reconciled to the necessity now than
when you spoke first. I tell you this, that
you may perhaps overlook the ungracious
manner in which it has been done."
With the last words, and before her fa-
ther had time to reply, she gave her pretty
musical whistle for Sprite, and, attended by
this satellite, walked away across the lawn.
General Aylmer stood watching her, until
the misty outline of her white dress van-
ished in the soft purple dusk. Then he
turned and entered the house, whistling soft-
ly to himself, in a way he had when he was
particularly well pleased.
CHAPTER II.
A SON OF NEPTUNE.
As for Miss Aylmer, she bore away with
her into the sweet gloaming as restless and
disquieted a heart as it has often pleased
our poor humanity to render itself uncom-

portable with. In all her life, she had rare-
ly, if ever, felt more angrily stirred than by
the scene just passed-rarely, if ever, been
called upon to place so great a constraint
upon her own wishes and inclinations as she
had just agreed to do. And, as she told her
father, she did not accept the necessity at
all gracefully; indeed, she rebelled against
it with all her might, even while she volun-
tarily bent her neck to endure it. Sacrifice,
and the denial of her own will, were very
fiew to her, and not at all pleasant. But
still more new, still less pleasant, was the
sense of positive insult tingling in every
vein, as she realized the proposal her grand-
father had made, and set her teeth and
clinched her hands over it. "That he should
think I would do such a thing!" she
thought-and she was so indignant, that
she felt her pulses beating with a rush, as
she thought it. The longer she considered
the proposition, the mora inexcusable it
seemed, and the more she felt inclined to
regret having struck her flag even as far as
was implied in the consent to go to Balti-
more. She was so strongly tempted to re-
scind this resolution, that it required a very
earnest consideration of all her father had
told her, concerning his pecuniary difficul-
ties, before she could entirely put aside the
temptation, and resign herself to the ~inevi-
table. "If I must, I must," she said, half
aloud-and then she stopped short, for she
found that she had walked much faster, and
much farther, than she intended, and had
reached the extremity of the grounds on that
side.
She stopped, and, as she stopped, she
looked around. She had been so entirely,
occupied with indignant thoughts, that she
had not noticed how much the dusk had
deepened, or that one by one the silver
stars had gleamed into sight. The atmos-
phere was heavy with fragrance, for an ar-
bor covered by luxuriant creepers stood
near; and where the shrubbery ended, and
the outside domain began, there ran a
hedge of orange and laurel; the air was so
exquisitely clear, that, even through the
shades -of evening, the fair picture of level
fields, and distant, shadowy woodlands, was
yet distinctly visible; and the low, far-off

coo of the wood-pigeon was the only sound
that broke the absolute stillness. A scene
ore suggestive of repose could scarcely be
conceived, and it was not without effect on
the girl who gazed. She stood for some
time where she had paused first, quite mo-
tionless, with the flush gradually fading from
her face, and the excitement dying down in
her breast. She began to feel ashamed to
remember how angry she had been-and all
for what now seemed a very trifling cause!
There was something of sanctuary quiet,
something of sanctuary awe, in the subdued
beauty, the deep, serene pathos-for when
Nature is peaceful, she is always pathetic-
of this twilight hour; and there came over
her that hush of rest which only the sanc-
tuary or Nature can bestow. She raised
her face to the deep, steel-blue of the heav-
ens, that looked down with glittering eyes
upon her, and it seemed to shed peace, like
a soft dew-peace that fell on her with the
same subtle influence which had already
touched the trees and the flowers, the
broad plains, and the deep, shadowy woods,
toning her spirit into unison with their
repose. She was a girl not much habituated
to serious moods-a girl who, at this period
of her life, lived rather on the froth than
in the depths of her own nature-but,
just now, serious mood 1~ell on her, before
she was well aware of what was coming.
She sat down in the door of the arbor, and
Sprite nestled close to her side, laying his
little silken head on her knee, as the twi-
light gathered deeper and deeper, wrapping
them about, like a mantle.
They had remained there for some time,
and this friendly mantle cQncealed them
effectually, when, after a while, there came
a strain of music-very, sweet music, for
a mellow whistle was executing deftly
"Within a Mile of Edinboro' Town "-the
click of a latch, as a gat&amp; set in the hedge
swung back, and a crisp, ringing ti~ead on
the gravel-path. Through the dusk, the
single, burning eye of a cigar glowed vividly
into sight, and an odor of unexceptionally
fragrant smoke came floating over the
young lady, who drew back as if she desired
to remained undiscovered. If such were the
case, she reckoned without her host, how-


14                        VALERIE AYLMER.                                                            A SON OF NEPTUNE.                        15

ever, for Sprite, as it chanced, was of an-
other mind. He gave a low growl, which
changed suddenly into a whine of recogni-
tion; and, before his mistress could inter.
fere, had rushed forward, and was springing
up on the approaching figure.
"Why, Sprite 1" exclaimed a frank
voice, "is it possible that this is you ?-are
you out here by yourself; this time of night,
you little rascal? I wonder what your mis-
tress will say to you, sir? I should not be
surprised if she was-. Why, where the
deuce are you off to? Sprite! Here, sir!"
Sprite, who had rushed back to Valerie,
now rushed forward again, and was captured
for his pains. He set up a cry of piteous
lamentation, as he was tucked under his
captor's arm, and this brought his mistress
out of her retreat.
"Stop, Oharley! " she cried, with a
laugh. "Sprite is not out by himself-I am
here. Put him down, please. I am afraid
you are hurting him."
"I am not hurting him in the least,"
said the same voice that had spoken first-.
but Sprite felt himself swung to the ground,
nevertheless. "He is howling, like a spoiled
ohild, purely by way of amusement. I was
going to take him to you, as a sort of treas-
ure-trove," he went on, approaching the
young lady, who had paused on the arbor-
steps.
"Thank you-but you see it is not ne-
cessary. He has not been lost."
"Can his mistress say the same of her-
self?"
"What do you mean?"
~tOnly that you must surely have been
lost or belated, or something of the kind, to
b~ found in such a place as this, at such an
hour."
"What is the matter with the place?"
"It is very lonely."
"And with the hour."
"It is very late."
And what then?
"Well-nothing, then, excepting that I
wonder y~u are not afraid."
"Afraid of what? Ghosts, snakes, or
waiidering sailors?"
"Nat the last, certainly," said the in-
visible gentleman, who loomed up, in the

* starlit dusk, like a dark, indistinct outline-
his burning eye, that is, the cigar, having
been thrown away when he heard Miss
Aylmer's voice-" not the last, certainly;
for the cause of fear would need to be on
the other side in-"
"Pshaw!" said the young lady, inter-
rupting him unceremoniously. "Do you
think I care for such a threadbare compli-
ment, Oharley? If you could only correct that
habit of paying compliments-such high-
flown, foolish compliments, too !--it would
improve you so much," she added, candidly.
"You are breaking me of it, by degrees,"
answered he; "but it -18 a habit, you know,
and one of very long standing."
"I can't see the sense of it," said Miss
Aylmer, meditatively. "If you only deceived
anybody now-but you know you don't. 1
am confident that there is no woman alive
silly enough to believe such nonsense as you
were about to utter a minute ago."
"Speak for yourself;" retorted he, with
a laugh. "The majority of women like it
exceedingly, and believe it unhesitatingly.
Singularly enough, when it is flattery, they
accept it undoubtingly; and it is only when
it is truth that they distrust, as you are
doing now."
"Charley, you are incorrigible!"
"Am I? Well, think so, if you like.
Now tell me how you came to be out here,
You must have been very much abstracted
to have wandered so far."
"No: I was very angry.~~
"You!"
Trust a lover for expressing himself
well. A hundred panegyrics on her mani-
fold charms could not have brought so for-
cibly to Valerie's appreciation 'the supreme
height to which this brave heart's devotion
ha4 raised her, as did that one simple mono-
syllable. She flushed brightly under color of
the darkness-then answered, with a laugh:
"Yes-I! I hope you don't overrate
me so much as to think me amiable? You
should know better."
"I think you all things fair and noble,'~
the young man replied, with such a soften-
ing in his tones, that this time Miss Aylmer
did not think it necessary to call him to ac-
count. for a compliment.

"Then indeed you do overrate me very
much," she said, quickly. "I am very im-
patient, very wilful, and, a little while ago,
I was very
"For that matter, I would not give a
farthing for anybody who could not, under
just provocation, be very angry-and I am
sure you had just provocation."
"I thought so, undoubtedly. But then,
when we want to be angry, don't we always
think so?"'
"Reasonable people do not so deceive
themselves. And you are reasonable, are
you not?"
"I hope so. How is it with yourself?
But then I forgot-you are never angry."
"No," he replied, with candor. "I
am afraid I must acknowledge myself as
belQnging to my own class of weak-minded
people-for I really think I am incapable of
becoming very angry. At least I never,
to my knowledge, have been so-." He
stopped suddenly, and added - "that is,
never but once."
"But once? What a pity to spoil such an
angelic whole by one exception! And how
did you take the unusual occurrence, on
that occasion?"
He shuddered, and answered in a tone
very different from her jesting one:
"I can scarcely endure to think of it!
It is like looking back on some paroxysm of
madness-somewhat, as I imagine, a mind
that is deranged must feel in lucid intervals.
A sort of devil seemed to take possession of
me for a time-and in that time murder
would have been as easy a thing to me as
now to lift my hand and break off this
flower."
There was a moment's pause, disturbed
only by the snap with which he decapitated
one of the slender stems clambering near
him of its crowning blossom. Then he went
on:
"Ever since that revelation, I have been
afraid of myself. It was such a terrible
thing! I was no more myself-no more
capable of controlling my passions when
that raging fiend entered into me-than the
madman who is put in a strait-jacket un-
der lock and key."
"How very strange!" said Valerie, the

more interested, as the speaker's tones had
deepened into positive agitation. "How
long ago was it that you made this dis-
covery?"
"Several years-in fact, it was just be-
fore the war."
"About the time of your last cruise in
the Mediterranean?"
"Yes."
"And-" She paused a moment, in
doubt as to the propriety of the next ques-
tion-but curiosity overcame her scruples.
"And did you do any thing very dreadful
under that influence?"
"I did something which I shall never
cease to regret until I cease to live." There
was a silence of several minutes after that re-
ply. There was such a tone of agony in his
voice, that Valerie felt 8orry for having
started the subject, and also, for once, rather
uncertain what to say next, until she sud-
denly bethought herself that, all things con-
sidered, this starlight t4te-d-&amp;ite was not the
most "proper" thing in the world. With
her accustomed promptitude she at once
acted on the recollection.
"Dear me!" she said, with a start;
"What will papa think of me? It must be
long past tea-time, and here I am a quarter
of a mile at least from the house! I hope
you are not very hungry, Oharley-for I
really did not mean to entertain you on rose-
petals."
"Pray don't allow any consideration for
my appetite to drive you away," the young
man laughingly replied. "I am satisfied to
go supperless, provided you will bear me
company."
"I am afraid papa would object," Miss
Aylmer answered, as she descended the
steps, and turned toward the house. "He
is in need of somebody to pour out his cof-
fee, you know. It must be growing cold,
by-the-by; and I am confider~t he has sent
two or three messengers for me. Yonder!
is not that one now?"
"I think it is my friend Mark Antony,
whom I surprised in the humane occupation
of 4rowning a kitten in your fountain, this'
morning," her companion replied, as a small
black figure ran up to them, and paused
breathlessly.

15

14


16                       VALERIE AYLMER.                                                   PUTTING IT TO TIlE TOUCH.                 17

"Miss Valerie-" puff-" massa says "
puff-" as how he's a waiten-" puff-
"supper for you, ma~am~ puff, puff!
"Go hack and tell him I am coming,"
the young ladycoolly replied; "and that Mr.
Hautaine is coming also.-You ought to be
obliged to me for that piece of information,"
she said to Mr. Hautaine, as the sable mes-
senger sped back again, with an utter disre-
gard of his insolvent condition in the mat-
ter of breath. "It will give papa time to
order up a bottle of some fine champagne
which he received only this afternoon. He
says it is a pleasure to offer you good wine;
you are such' a capital judge of vintages and
flavors, and the like."
"Yes,"~ said he, with something of a
sigh; "I wish I had bestowed half the cul-
ture on my head that I gave to my palate,
~nd then I might be able to talk German
mysticism and French sentiment, to quote
Goethe and Lamartine, and Jean Paul, and
the rest of that ilk, as well as your priggish
friend Morton."
"I'll thank you not to call him my
friend," said Miss Aylmer, stiffly. "You
know I don't like him!"
"I never did you so much injustice as to
suppose you liked him-but you like the
same sort of things' that he likes."
"I really don't see that."
"Don't you? Well, I do. Heaven only
knows where he got his learning-out of
hand-books of literature, and dictionaries of
quotation, I am inclined to think-but at
least he seems to amuse you moderately
well'; and that is more than I always, or
often, accomplish."
"Charley, you. are absurd! "~ said Miss
Aylmer, half-amusedhalf-indignant. "You
know I only tolerate him. Re is a prig,
and a detestable one-and, I give you my
word, I hate even Raphael, and Mozart; and
Dante, when I hear him talk 'of them!*
A ~ropos de rien, where is Mark Boyd? I
did not meet him at Mrs. Lysle's last night
-didl?"
"I think not-since he went down to
the city some days ago. He'll he hack, how-
ever, before you leave for Arkansas-or, if
ijot, he will soon follow you there."
"Re will not find me, then," said Miss

Aylmer, with malicious coolness. "I shall
indeed leave soon, but it will be for-Balti-
more."
"Baltimore!" The exclamation was a
violent one. There followed a moment's
pause, and then-" You are surely jesting?"
"Jesting! Why should you think so?
Grandpapa lives in Baltimore, you know.
Is there any thing strange in my going to
see him?"
"No-of course not," said Mr. Ilautaine,
who had now somewhat recovered himself.
"Only it was a surprise, and therefore-
last night, you know, we were making
plans for our month on Red River."
"YesI know. But last night is not-
to-night! A profound truth, which means
that, since I was making those plans, circum-
stances have arisen-that is, come to my
knowledge-which will bear me off on the
wings of discontent to Baltimore."
"Then you don't wish to go?"
"Ask meif I wish to put my hand in the
fire," she replied, with rn-restrained bitter-
ness. "I might, under some circumstances,
tell you that it was necessary, but I could
never tell you that I wished to do so."
"Then," said the astonished gentleman,
"why do you go?"
"Because - I must," she answered.
"Lookj There is poor papa in the dining-
room all alone, waiting patiently for his
truant daughter. Come in, Oharley. Per-
haps the sight of you will console' him.
Gerald is not at home to-night-I should not
have forgotten to say so, for I suppose, of
course, you came to see
"Of course," said Mr. Ilautaine, dryly.
Then he drew back the sweeping folds of
the lace curtain, that the night breeze was
gently swaying to and fro, and held it on
one.' side, while his companion stepped
through a French window into the dining-
room, where a tea-table all glittering with
silver and china stood, and where General
Aylmer was solacing himself with a n~ws-
paper during his period of enforced walt-
ing.
-4-

CHAPTER III.
PUTTING IT TO THH TOUcH.
"1'aAv, Charley, put that guitar down.
I have a question to ask you; and one can't
talk with thrum-thrum in one s ears all the
time."
"To hear is to obey," said Charley; and
he submissively laid the guitar down at the
feet of his fair mistress, and looked up into
her face.
They made a very pretty picture, as they
sat at one end of the large~ drawing-room,
for it was two or three hours after supper,
and General Aylmer had taken himself off
some time before-not out of consideration,
as might perhaps be supposed, but simply
because he would as soon have considered
one of his own sons "company," as Chariey
Hautaine, who was the daily visitor of the
house, and had been the intimate companion
of his children ever since they knew what
it was to have a companion. So, he had
taken himself off, and the two young people
had been singing duets to a guitar accom-
paniment for a while, and then had been
talking gay nonsense while Charley still ran
his fingers over the strings, until Valerie
suddenly broke in with the words recorded
above. As already stated, her vassal obeyed
at once. He laid the guitar down, and
looked up for her next commands. She
paused a moment-.~.and jnst then the pic-
ture was prettier than ever. Miss Aylmer,
who was at all times fond of assuming atti-
tudes which were out of the routine of
social habit, was nestling among a pile of
cushions placed immediately beside one of
the open windows; and the POSS of careless
languor was also one of inimitable grace,
while every waving outline of her figure
was thrown into strong relief by the dark
cushions against which she leaned. Her
late emotion, or, perhaps, her late exercise,
had given to her cheek the rich pomegran-
ate flush peculiar to it-the proud scarlet
lips, always so mutiny and lovely, now wore
their most enchanting smile-the dark eyes
were all aglow with a thousand varying
lights and shadows-.-and, in short, it was
'evident that ta leZlo dee befl~s (as the cap-
2

tives of her bow and spear had long since
styled her) meant business, and was play-
ing wild havoc with the heart of her at-
tendant cavalier.
That this attendant cavalier was very
"hard hit" was a matter not in the least
open to doubt; indeed, it was a matter of'
such long standing that nobody in St.
Stephen's Parish ever thought of doubting
it. Everybody took it for 'granted that
Valerie would end by marrying the hand-
some young sailor, who had been in love
with her ever since he was in round-jackets
and she in bib-aprons, and everybody was
ready to cordially indorse her conduct when-
ever she did 'so. Nothing could possibly be
more suitable, people said. They were of
equal social position, both heirs-presump-
tive to more than moderate fortunes, both as
charming and handsome as possible, and the
gentleman, at least, so much in love that
he made no pretext of concealing the fact.
What more 'could any reasonable woman
desire? According to the inference, Miss
Aylmer was not a reasonable woman, for,
Up to this time, she had evinced no inten-
tion of surrendering her pleasant freedom;
and, although she treated her sworn retainer
with a kindness and cordiality only a shade
different from that with which she treated
her own brothers, she, nevertheless, fenced
off any demonstrations of serious devotion
very cleverly, and kept him at a distance
as entirely as she kept many others. It
somewhat puzzled his friends and acquaint-
ances to imagine why Rautaine, who a good
deal resembled young Lochinvar in the item
of impetuosity, and had always shared the
latter's cordial scorn for "a laggard in love,"
submitted to this capricious tyranny so
quietly; and yet the reason was very sim-~
ple. The young man was seriously an4
passionately in love-so much in love that
diffidence of himself, and distrust of his own
powers, had come to him fo~ almost' the first
time in his life, and made him heait~ite, as
better men had hesitated before him, to put
his fate to its crowning touch. Perhaps he'
felt, too, that this suspense, this uncertainty,.
was, after all, only a kind of tar trdionis for~
his past trifling with other and more sus-~
ceptible hearts than his own weather-beaten


PUTTING IT TO THE TOUCH.

18                       VALERIE AYLMER.

organ; for it was not to be denied that he
had done more mischief in that line than
lies~atthe door of most of his lady-killing
profession. lie was clever, high-spirited,
brave to a fault, thorough-bred within and
without, and handsome as a prince in a
fairy tale; so nobody wondered at this, or
took the responsibility of blaming him-not
even the girls with whom he flirted, or the
men whom he rivalled. Indeed, nothing
proved his complete distinction from that
contemptible species styled the "male flirt"
more than the warm and cordial liking which
people of all ages and all sexes gave to him.
* The macst spiteful never found sny thing
worse to say than that 'he was a spoiled
puppy, while his many intimates were
ready to swear by him as the most delight-
ful of companions, and fastest of friends;
and no one could show a better war record
~than this young sybarite of idlesse and
luxury. He had not been long at home, nor
did he propose remaining there. The only
charm which now. held him in America
was, his love for Valerie Aylmer. Whether
or not this charm would long continue to
hold him, was a question yet unanswered;
but, if Miss Aylmer had, taken the vote of all
her friends on the subject of his suit, she
would have found their verdict singularly
unanimous on the point that she "would
never do better than to take him." Per-
haps this was true; for there was about
Oharley Hautaine the best of all assurances
that his youthful follies were only the sur-
face froth that would pass away and leave,
after a while, pure wine; the assurance, with-
out which it is vain to hope for any young
man's reform, and 'with which hope need
never die-he was emphatically a gentle-
man !-gentleman, in that nameless~ refine-
ment which no self-culture can ever give,
but which comes alone of birth nud breed-
ing-gentleman, in the, chivalric impulses
and instinct which made the mere shadow
of dishonor an impossible thing-gentle-
man, 'in all that touched the knightly creed
of his race and his land-else, verily, he
had~ never won a single approving glance
from Valerie Aylmer's dark eyes, or merit-
eda word of'this already too prolix descrip-
tion.

He was redlining his well-formed figure,
in an attitude not without grace, at her
feet, and still gazing into her face, when
at last Miss Ayhner spoke abruptly:
"You have been in Florence, have you
not, Charley?"
The question was a very simple one,
and by no means seemed' to warrant the
quick start of surprise, and yet quicker
change of color, with which her companion
heard it. lie glanced up into her face, with
a half-furtive scrutiny, as if searching there
for a hidden motive in the words; but the
frank, open gae he met seemed to reassure
him, for his brow cleared of its momentary
cloud as he answered, readily enough:
"In' Florence? I have been there, yes
-but not very often; only once or twice,
in fact. Why do you ask?"
"Nothing of much importance. I was
only going to inquire-but it is scarcely
likely, since you were there seldom-if you
ever met, or heard of, an Irish artist of some
note, who formerly lived there, named
Darcy."
This time there was no mistaking the
shock her words gave. Every vestige of col-
or forsook Hautaine's face, at sound of the
name which concluded her speech. The gui-
tar dropped to the floor with a clang of
its silver strings, and his eyes remained fast-
ened on her in mute inquiry, that was not
more startled than shocked.
"What is the matter? " Valerie inquired,
with very natural surprise. "Why do you
look at me so strangely? Was there any
thing remarkable about the man?"
"About the man! Is it-is it possible
you know him?"
"Know him? Of course not !-indeed,
it was a very absurd question, now that' I
think of it: for I believe he has been dead
for years."
"Oh! you mean the fa-" he stopped
short, seemed to remember, and collect him-
self; for he added, more indifferently," I
did know a man of that name, but not the
one to whom you allude."
"It might have been his son," said
Valerie, with an interest which her com-
panion thought very misplaced.
"Perhaps so. Here !-see how well I

have tuned this miserable 0 string! Now,
will you sing O7ia~jri~i d'Amour?"
"Not just now. I am in the humor for
talking, I believe. Tell me something about
this Mr. Darcy-what manner of man is
he?"
"I-really scarcely know how to de-
scribe him. Portrait-painting is his trade
-not mine. I used to lounge in his studio
.-that's all."
"He, too, is an artist then? A portrait-
painter, you say?" She looked rather sur-
prised.
Hautaine gave a keen and not a little
troubled glance at her face, before he said,
slowly:
"You seem very much interested about
him!"
"Oh, not at all!" She sank back into
her cushions, and the face relapsed from
animation into listlessness. "I only felt a
slight curiosity, because he is-I believe-a
connection of mine."
"What! Darcy a connection of yours?"
Miss Aylmer win6cd somewhat at the
tone of this exclamation; then, after a
pause, she spoke rather distantly: "Will
you please be so kind as to tell me what
you know of Mr. Darcy? As I said, he is a
connection of mine, and this fact must ex~
cause my curiosity to learmrwhat can possibly
be so dreadful about him."
"Dreadful!" said her companion, hur-
riedly. "Excuse my repeating the word;
but indeed I have expressed myself very
badly, if any thing~ which I have said has
conveyed an unfavorable opinion of him."
"It is evident that you do not like him.
Why?"
"You are mistaken, I do; I mean I did,
when I knew him, like him-" Hisvoice
faltered, but he added, earnestly, "I never
knew a man more perfectly 'unexception-
able."
"Then why did you consider it neces-
sary to seem so much surprised-almost
shocked-when I mentioned our relation-
ship?"
"Relationship? I thought you said it
was only connection!"
"Well, connection, What was there in
that so startling?"

"Upon my word, you are a close ques-
tioner," he said, forcing a smile. "I was
surprised, because-well, because naturally
I never had imagined connection between
yourself and this Irish artist."
Valerie bit her lip. Such is the weak-
ness of human nature that, although a mo-
ment before the truth concerning that close
connection which existed between this un-
known relative and the projected visit to
Baltimore had trembled on her tongue, the
tone which pronounced those last words-
"this Irish artist "-effectually hushed them
back into silence. When she spoke next, it
was to say, quite indifferently:
"Do you know that he served in our
army during the war?"
"No; but I am not surprised to hear it."
"Why not?"
"Because-" he hesitated a moment-
"because it is what I would have expected
of him."
"Why? Excuse my persistence, but a
fighting artist is something so entirely
unique that one cannot help feeling a little
curious about such a rara avi8. Why did
you expect it of him?"
"Because if he had not been an artist I
am sure he would have been a soldier; and,
as it was, he had quite as much' stildier as
artist about him. Is that enough?"
"It is enough to stimulate my appetite
for more, if that is what you mean. Es he
young?"
"Not very."
"Handsome?"
"I-really don't remember. Moderate-
ly good-looking, I believe. I would have
paid more attention to him," he went on,
with another forced smile, "if I could have
foreseen your interest."
"I hav'e no interest, only a little curios-
Thy," said Miss Aylmer, somewhat piqued.
Then she rose and sauntere~l toward the
piano.
"Bring the guitar with you," she said
to Hautaine, who had risen eagerly to fol-
low. "We will try that duet from 'Rigo-
letto' once more, since we are not likely
to have many more opportunities to do so."
"I think this is at least the third time,
since supper, that you have made that in-

I


20                       VALERIE AYLMER

spiriting ren~ark," said the gentleman, doing
as he was bid, coming forward with the
azure ribbons of the instrument slung across
his shoulder, as if he had been troubadour.
"Pray, how do you intend to dispose of
yourself in Baltimore, that you think it ne-
cessary t9 adopt such a farewell tone?"
"One naturally looks forward to a dis-
agreeable thing as a very long one," she an-
swered. "I am sure you ought to sympa-
thize with me, for you remember the pas-
asge you are so fond of quoting from
Buiwer-' A chord, stronger orweaker, is
snapped~ asunder at every parting, and
Time's busy fingers are not practiced in re-
splicing broken tics?'"
"I remember," the young man said,
quite gravely, as he unslung the guitar from
over his shoulder, and laid it down across
the piano-" I remember-and, if indeed
'eternity itself cannot restore the loss struck
froixi the minute, 'imagine what I feel, when
I see slipping from me now moments so gold-
en that I dare not hope they cau ever be
restored or repeated."
"I am sure I'm much obliged to you,"
Miss Alymer returned, laughingly. "Your
misgivings are certainly complimentary!
])o you think I will grow so dreadfully old
and ugly, in a few months, that I cen never
again make an hour golden by the light of
myeyes?"
"No," he answered, reproachfully. "You
know I do not think so! I only think-I
only feel-that for me all may be changed
when we meet again. It would be heresy
to doubt that your eyes wrn be as bright,
and your smile as sweet, as now; but yet,
all the same, they may have lost their sun-
shine.
'If they be not fair to me,
What care I how fair they be?' '~
"I suppose you mean that you will
have transferred your wandering devotion
to some worthier shrine, by that time-"
said Valerie, maliciously. "IV'importe! per-.
haps I may be able to console myself; even
for such a desertion?"
"You seem wilfully determined to mis-
understand me," her companion answered,
looking down into her laughing eyes with
a serious gravity that made Mademoiselle

I'UT2~ING IT TO TEIE TOUCH.                      21

Valerie feel rather uncomfortable-as if a
crisis was at hand, and the helm had some-
how slipped out of her dexterous grasp.
She made one bold effort to regain the man-
agement of affairs, and, to do her justice,
she was generally equal to any emergency
that might arise in a matter of this kind.
"Oh no," she answered, gayly, "I don't
misunderstand you, I am sure; and I don't
at all blame you. It is the most convenient
philosophy in the world, that of the enjoy-
ment of the hour, and one I always make a
rule to practise. Vise la lja~gttelle! Life is
too short tobe spentin remembering people,
when they are not immediately in one's
si~ht." And, turning round to the key-
board before he could reply, her clear voice
was ringing out.            /
""Tis good to be merry and wise,
Tis good to be honest and true:
'Tis good to be off with the old love,
Before you are on with the new."'
"That is a~l very fine," said Mr. Han-
tame, coolly; "but when one has no inten-
tion either of being off with an old love or
on with a new, I confess I don't perceive
the application."
"Qui 8 eXCU8C, 8 accuse! How do you
know that I was not applying my song to
myself?"
"I would not do you such injustice."
"Injustice! What do you mean I"
"Only that a woman should never at
least acknowledge more than one love..
"She is most fortunate who acknowl-
edges none," said Miss Alymer, throwing
back her head. "Of all my favorite hero-
ines, Beatrice stands chief-if only for the
spirit that 'would rather have heard her
dog bark at a crow, than a man swear he
loved her."'
"I will not pray, with Benedict, tha~t
'God may keep your ladyship long in that
mind,"' Ilautaine answered; "for, at pres-
ent, I am rather bent on bringing your lady-
ship out of that mind I In other words,
you have stopped me a hundred times, when
you knew as well as I did what I was go-
ing to say. Now I defy you to prevent
yourself from hcarin~ that I love yonl-
Valerie, I love you! "
Few words, but expressive-se expres-

sive of a passion which she had not credited
in this versatile, pleasure-loving nature, that
Valerie actually started, as they fell on her
ear. But she did not lift her eyes from the
page of music she had taken up; and when
a deep silence fell, in which she could al-
most hear the quick throbbing of the heart
whose pulses were beating beside her, she
only said, in a half-careless, half-petulant
tone:
"Well-and what of that?"
Hautaine turned suddenly, and looked
down at her, in a sort of mute exasperation.
She had been a puzzle to him, and a trial to
him at all times; but never more either puz-
zle or trial than as she sat before him now,
the picture of cool nonchalance, with a mis-
chievous light gleaming in the eyes that at
last raised themselves to meet his own.
"Well, what of that?" she repeated,
lightly. "I hope you don't expect inc to
feel overpowered by having drawn forth
that novel observation? Tell me, candidly
-as a matter of abstract curiosity, I should
like to know-how much do you vary the
formula of that speech with the dozens of
applications you have already made of it in
the past, and will make of it in the future?"
"You are paying yourself even a poorer
compliment than you pay me," said he, a
little haughtily, "if you suppose that I have
ever said to any other woman what I say to
you when I tell you that I love you; but
thenit is folly to tell you that, for you know
it now, and have known it all the time.
When I ask you, then, as earnestly as possi-
ble, to consider the proposal which, in all
solemn seriousness-"
"Solemn seriousness? Why, we are
growing terribly grave! And suppose I
humbly beg leave to decline considering it
at all?"
"In that case," he answered, quietly,
although his face paled at her words, "I
can only regret to have pained myself-
not you, fortunately-in an unnecessary
manner; and bid yen good-evening."
He bowed very low and very gracefully.
Like all of his race, t'.ie spirit of the cheva-
lier came to the surface, whenever any sud-
den dart probed his nature to the quick.
Then he turned toward the door. Now, this

unexpected evacuation of the field was not
at all what Miss Aylmer had either expected
or desired. One moment she watched him
in silent astonishment; the next, her power
of speech returned, and with it her power
of action.
"Stop, Charley! - stop!" she cried,
springing forward, and throwing down the
music-stool with a crash that waked Sprite
from a comfortable nap in the sofa-corner,
and brought Hautaine to a halt at once. The
next moment, her hand was on his arm,
and voice and glance together brought a
battery to bear.
"Oharley! You surely are not angry
with mc?"
Poor Charley I-it was all up with him
then. He had not so effectually stopped his
cars with injured feeling, for the tones of
the siren not to penetrate the insufficient
guard.
"Angry with you!" he repeated, in a
tone of mingled tenderness and reproach.
"I do not know that I have ever been that,
Valerie; although you have tried me right
hardly, sometimes, and hardest of all to-
night. At least, if I ever was, you know
your own power too well to think that I
could continue so."
"Well, come back, then, like a sensible
man, and don't let us have any more hero-
ics," said she, leading the way again toward
the piano. "Just look at that stool 1-and
at poor dear little Sprite's eyes!-Never
mind, pet, Mr. Hautaine has promised better
behavior; and we won't be so impetuous
any more."
"Mr. Hautaine must make his own con-
ditions, then," said that gentleman, as he
lifted the recumbent stool to its proper p0-
sition. "He has put his fate to the touch,
and he means to have his answer to-night,
come what will."
"Let us interlude business with a little
music," said Miss Aylrner, sinking down into
a deep chair. "Please sing the .M'appari
for me."
"If I sing any thing at all, I think it had
better be 'AA! ride del mio pianto,"' he
answered, leaning against the instrument,
but evidently with no intention oftouching
it. "Sorry as I am to be disobliging, I


VALERIE AYLMER.

ON THlE WING.

must, however, decline to gratify you, until
this matter of mine is disposed of."
"Do you know that you are very much
polledd? You are growing absolutely dic-
tatorial."
"If I am spoiled, your conscience cer-
tainly need not reproach you with any
share in the blame of it. And it is high
time that I became a little dictatorial-if, by
that, you mean considerate of my own self-
respect."
*        "You use strong words, sir!"
"Strong words are the only exponents
of strong feelings! I may be forced to use
yet stronger ones before I again have the
honor of saying good-night2'
Miss Aylmer sat up in her chair-she
had been lying indolently back before-and
indulged in a stare at the flushed and reso-
lute face looking at her.
"Charley, I confess I don't understand
you to-night; you don't seem at' all like
yourself."
"So much the better," said Charley, with
imperturbable composure. "Myself you
have long known, and treated, I am sorry
to say, with profound disregard. I now in-
troduce to you a man whom you may con-
sider worthy of a little more respectful at-
tention."
"And what does this new acquaintance
who I am not sure I shall like half as
well as the old one-expect of ~
"He has no right to expect any thing.
He only asks a return from your heart for
the love of his."
The tone of mingled dignity and feeling
could not have failed to touch anywoman-
and it sent a quick throb through Valerie's
,     breast. She felt at once that trifling was at
an end here, ~ud that she stood face to face
with a crisis of her life-a crisis of the two
lives whose future fate she held at that mo-
ment in her ha~id. She looked up with a
sudden strange gravity on her face, a hesi-
tancy and regret in her voice.
"Charley, I fear I cannot give him that."
A profound silence followed those words
--words so few and simple, yet which gave
a sharp death-stab to the hope burning so
brightly the moment before. Hautaine
made no answer, for he could not trust his

voice to speak, lest some rising weakness
should betray him. He had -scarcely real-
ized how infinitely dear to him this woman
was, until her own lips withdrew her be-
yond his reach; and a sudden darkness
seemed to fall over all the things of life, in
the certainty that her smile was gone from
them forever'! He still stood looking down
at her-but perfectly motionless, with only
a slight twitching of his long, silken mus-
tache, to indicate how strong was the feel.
ing the manifestation of which he repressed.
Valerie waited vainly for him to speak:
waited until she grew almost frightened, at
his unmoved quietude. Then she spoke her-
self, very timidly:
"Charley, do you really care for me-
very much?"
"I don't think I need to answer that
question," he said, a little hoarsely.
"No," she replied, quickly. "I know
you do-now. But now is so very differ-
ent from hereafter-with you, especially!
Therefore, I am not sure that it would be
right-"
"Good Heavens!" he interrupted, pas-
sionately. "If it can be that you hesitate
to accept me, only because you doubt wheth-
er my love for you is as far removed as the
poles from my fancies for other women,
don't hesitate for one moment to try me!
Let the test be as long and as hard as you
please! Only try me-only believe me!"
Valerie flushed warmly. No woman
could have heard those tones, and met the
glance which accompanied them, unmoved,
even if she had entertained no tenderness
toward the speaker; far less when, as in
the present instance, her warm and cordial
liking for him stopped only just short of
love-that love which the majority of the
human race die without ever having knownn,
and of which ten thousand counterfeits
worse than this pass current in the world
every day. She held out her hand,'with a
grace all her own-as a queen might have
extended it to some faithful knight who
had done gallant battle in her service.
"I do believe you, and thank you," she
said simply, but with so gentle and alto-
gether charming an accent, that tlantaine
would have been something less than man

it he had not raised that hand to his lips.
But he knew his lady-love well enough not
to release it at once then; for, with all her
gay coquetries, no prude ever less allowed
the shadow of a personal liberty than Miss
Aylmer; nor was he so blind as to mistake
that frank impulse of woman's gratitude
for the shyer token of woman's love.
"Now listen," she said, in her usual
tone, "and see if you are ready to accede
to my conditions, which, I warn you before-
hand, are very unreasonable ones. You are
mistaken in one thing: it is not you whom
I distrust, but myself. I like you better-
much better-than any one else I have ever
seen; but I do not think I love you. I do
not think so, but my ideas of that passion
may be too exalted, and I may care for you
as much as I am capable of caring for any-
body. Now, there is only one way to
solve the question. It is said that absence
strengthens a real passion, and extinguishes
a false one. What I propose, therefore, is
to try absence."
"On ~
"No, on myself. Six months from to-
day I shall be able to tell you whether my
liking-my affection-for you, is only that
which one entertains for a charming friend,
or that which one should bear one's future
lord and master! But it is for you to decide
whether or not you will wait six months
for the answer which you have a right to
demand to-night."
A vivid flash of hope and joy lit up the
handsome face, and the hazel eyes were
glowing and dazzling, as Hautaine bent low
over the hand which this time he did not
release, saying:
"Six months or six years-if, at the
end of that time, I can hope to claim this
for 'my own!"
CHAPTER IV.
ON THE wi~a.
IT was part of General Aylmer's world-
ly-wise policy to be always prompt in ac-
tion, especially with any one whose resolu-
tion of any kind he had reason to doubt.

If L -

22

,23

Now, he had reason-or thought he had
reason-for very seriously doubting his
daughter's resolution in regard to the prom-
ised visit to Baltimore; so he took care to
give her no timefor vacillation or retreat.
When she came down to breakfast on the
morning after the decisive interview, he
told her that ho had already written to M.
Vacquant, announcing her coming, and that
he hoped she would begin herpreparations
at once. "I know, of course, that they will
be tremendous," he said, with a shrug, "but
you must try and be ready by the end of
the month, Valerie. Iwant to start then."
"So soon, papa? '~ said Valerie, naturally
taken aback, and opening her eyes not a lit-
tle. "Why, surely there is no hurry! If
we reach Baltimore by Christmas, it will be
time enough."
"Hadn't you better say by spring?"
asked her father, in an irritated tone. "If
you are not going to do the thing gracefully
and well, you had better not have agreed to
do it at all. Besides, I shall be able to find
time to take you about the close of this
month; but, after that, I shall have no lei-
sure. My business engagements will keep
me in New Orleans all winter."
"But Gerald-"
"Gerald has to remain here. He can't
be spared to play escort at a moment's no-
tice."
"But three weeks, papa! How can I
ever be ready?"
"By going to work at once. Come, I
have to go down to the city to-4ay. Make
out a list for Madame What's-her-name, and
I will take it to her."
"Can't I go with you? I should like to
see her myself."
"If you won't keep rae waiting, you can
go. The boat is nearly due, however."
"I will be ready," said Valerie, draining
a cup of coffee, with' a sigh. She saw ~that
the general's mind was mad'e up, and that,.
if she meant to go to Baltimore at all, she'
might as well submit with' a good grace5
and go at once. So, by dint of vigorous
preparation, she announced at the. end of
three weeks that she was in travelling or-
der, and her father at once set the day of
departure.


24                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                      ON THE WING.                      25

On the eve of that day, Miss Aylrner
chamber presented a scene of confusion sue
as only the chamber of a young lady o
the present careless time possibly couk
Into no other place could such a mass o:
rainboW-tinted dresses, scarfs, ribbons, lace~
trinkets, and shawls, have been gathered i
disorder so complete, yet so picturesque, o
such monster trunks have stood yawning~
for the reception of what seemed likely ti
overflow even their mammoth capacities
Wardrobes and drawers had emptied thei
contents over every available article of fur
* nature in the room-.--covering the snowy ex
pause of the bed, and every chair, with mu]
titudinous odds and ends; so that the oub
thing which at all fulfilled its natural us
was a low, broad conch under one of th
windows, where the titular goddess of thb
overcast shrine reposed in the luxurious
alx&amp;ndon of the siesta-apparently undis.
turned by, and, in fact, unconscious of; all
the confusion around her. Not even the
~ound of voices roused her, though these
voices were not slightly animated; for the
young lady, who knelt before a large trunk
that occupied the centre of the floor, was
in the act of demonstrating to a couple of
sable attendants that art of good packing
which consists in getting the largest possi-
ble amount into the smallest possible space.
"Now, Fanchette," she was saying, "I
hope I have proved to your satisfaction
that It was perfectly possible to put every
thing in one tray, which you intended for
two. Hand me another of those skirts. I
believe I can ge# it in here also. What sire
you about, there? Don't you know you
must not put that heavy silk on top of those
light organdies?"
"It won't- hurt 'em, Miss Netta."
"Won't hurt them! You must be
crazy I I wonder what Valerie's dresses
look like, when she reaches the end of a
journey, if ~you have the packing of her
trunks Now, understand, once for all,
that thick things always go to the bottom,
and thin ones on top-do you hear?"
Fanchette said "Yes'm" very meekly,
and lifted the silk from its condemned posi-
tion; but, for all that, the glance which she
exchanged with her ce-laborer did not sa-

I

- vor much of reform; and, if Miss Fane had
I, seen it, she might have been assured that
f lessons for. general application are always
I. wasted on the race to which Fanchette be-
t' longed; and that her friend's dresses were
;, quite as likely to be crushed by bad packing
a in the future, as in the past. She did not
r. see it, however; so she went on with her
~ efforts to reduce order from chaos.
"All the heavy dresses must go by
themselves in that trunk yonder-this is for
r the light ones. Hand me that poplin, and
- let me give you a lesson how to fold the
skirt-for Charlotte, I see, is ruining the
- one she is attempting to put together.
Now look, both of you I back and front to-
gether thus-the .train laid over, so-then
folded this way-and then that! Valerie,
dear, where shall your grenadines go?"
Miss Aylmer opened her eyes at this
appeal, and cast a helpless glance from the
I garments in question to the waiting trunks.
"Indeed, Netta, I don't know-any-
where that they can get, I suppose."
"Thank you," said Netta, dryly; "that
is so very satisfactory! Here, Charlotte,
bring them here.-Valerie, do you want
either of them leftout for this evening?"
"What are you going to wear?"
"The bar6ge I had on yesterday," said
Valerie, as if every word was wrung from
her by the severest effort.
"You know that won't do! There will
be at least a dozen people here to-night."
"What do I care? Can't you let me
sleep in peace now?"
"No, I can't. It is five o'clock, and
fully time you were up. Before you have
accomplished that endless business of your.
toilet, somebody wrn come, in- Charley
ilautaine, I'll answer for."
"Charley Hautaine can wait until I am
ready to receive him."
"Valerie, I wonder you are not ashamed
of yourself!"
"Ashamed! What, of teaching one
man-and a very badly-spoiled man-his
proper place? I hope I shall never do any
thing to be more ashamed of. Now let me
rest in peace."
"Rest in peace, if you please; ~but I

hope you will some day be made to feel in
your own person something of all this
which you treat so lightly in others."
"What do you mean by 'all this?"'
"I mean this passion, this impatience,
this-this love, in one word."
"You had better wish me dead, at
once!" said Miss Aylmer, rousing at last
to a point of some energy.
"So at last you have an inkling of what
it is? No, I had better not wish you dead.
On the contrary, such an event would be of
service to you, in more ways than one.
And when you do feel it, and are made
thoroughly uncomfortable, just oblige' me
by remembering a few of the mice you play
with at present-my poor young cousin,
especially."
"Your poor young cousin! To hear you
talk of him, one would think that he was a
tender lamb, just escaped from the parental
fold, instead of an accomplished wolf in
sheep's clothing, fully capable of taking care
of himself-and of other people, too!"
"Whatever he may be, as far as other
people are concerned, you know you have
put it out of his power to show any wisdom
about you-else, certainly, he would not
ride over here every day to be snubbed for
his pains.~~
"Oh, nonsense!"
And, with this. summary conclusion to
the conversation, Miss Aylmer buried her
head in the pillows, and went to sleep
again.
She was not destined to slumber long
undisturbed, however. Before th~ clock on
the mantel had chimed a quarter-past five,
a knock at the door was followed by the
intelligence that Mr. Hautaine was down-
stairs, and had asked for Miss Valerie.
"Miss Valerie is asleep. But 12 will
waken her, and make her dress. Tell
Charley she will be down in about an
hour,"
With this consolatory message, Miss Fane
shut th~ door in John's face, and returned
to make a decisive charge on the enemy's
lines.
"Move those trunks out of the way,~~
she said, to the maids. "We have nearly
finished, and the few things that remain to

be packed can go 'in to-morrow morning.
Now, Valerie, my dear, you must get up."
"Who days so?" inquired that young
lady, without moving an inch.
"I say so. You may treat Chancy as
you please-or as he pleases to let you-~-but
you know your father will expect you to be
ready to receive your friends who are com-
ing to bid you good-by, and who will cer-
tainly be here before you are dressed, if you
don't rise at once. So, up with you I
Miss Aylmer raised herself suddenly,
and threw her arms round her friend, as if
with an intention of smothering her, ac-
conipanying this unexpected demonstration
with a tone ~f the most genuine pathos.
'"Oh, Net~a I-my dear, good Netta, how
shall I ever live without you? Who will
make me do things when you are away?"
"You foolish '~hild I" said Miss Fane,
as she smoothed back the heavy masses of
hair, and looked down into the dark eyes
with one of the sweetest smiles that ever
made at once lovely and lovable a human
face. "I should think you would be more
glad than sorry to part with your trouble-
some ~
"It is you who are foolish now," said
Miss Aylmer, decidedly. "Sit down here,"
she added, pushing her into a low chair be-
side the couch, "I want to talk to you a
little while before we go down to all those
tiresome people who are coming."
"But, Valerie, indeed, it is time that
you were dressing!"
"Qu'importe? I will show you that I
can dress in ten minutes, if you wrn just'be
still and listen to me. Netta, dear, do-do
you reallythink that I have treated Charley
Ilautaine very badly?"
"Valerie,, dear," answered her friend,
gravely, "I don't think you have treated
him well; but I don't think you have acted
any worse toward him than I. have seen
you act toward i~iany others."
"Consoling, upon my word!" said Va-
lerie, with a comic grimace. "Well, then,
perhaps you may think a little better of me,
if I tell you that I firmly expect to make
amends for all my high crimes and misde-
meaners, by endin~ my days as-Mrs.
Charles Hautaine I"


VALERIE AYLMER.                                                       ON THE WiNO.                        27

"Valerie!-you must be jesting!"
"I assure you I am not jesting in the
least-unless Marshal McMahou or Owen
Meredith should hear of my manifold
charms, and feel impelled to come over and
make me an offer. I should certainly accept
either of the two; but I am afraid I am
scarcely justified in reckonii~g very confi-
dently on a proposal from one of them."
"Valerie, there is really no time for me
to sit and listen to such nonsense! If you
wrn not dress, I must do so."
But Valerie had no idea of allowing
this. Being in a talking mood, she was de-
termined that her companion should listen;
and she kept a firm hold on Miss Pane's
dress, as the latter attempted to rise.
"No, no, mignon, not yet! You think
I am jesting, but indeed I am not."
Her friend turned and looked at her in-
teutly.
"Valerie, I do not understand you. Is
this on your honor ?"
" On my honor.~~
"You are engaged to Oharley, then?"
Valerie laughed.
"Why should you think that? No; I
have not yet given 'a clod of wayward
marl" such dominion over me."
"Then what do you mean-if you real-
ly mean any thing?"
"I only mean that I have promised to
tell Charley, six months hence, whether or
not I like him well enough to immolate my.
self on the matrimonial altar for his sake,
and I rather think he will be made happy
by an affirmative decision."
"Do you seriously mean that Oharley has
consented to wait six months for the pleas-
ure of being rejected?"
"The pleasure of being rejected! In-
deed, Netta, I don't know what you mean,
when I have just told you-"
"Yes, I remember what you have just
told me. But I take the liberty of knowing
you a little better than you know yourself
it' you really think that, six months hence,
you will not like some other man as well or
better than you like Charley now."
"You are certainly complimentary!"
"~ I am not trying to be complimentary.
There are enough peoPle to play that r4le,

without my attempting it. What I am
anxious to hear is, whether Charl~y has con-
sented to such a proposition."
"Undoubtedly, he consented~ And was
glad enough to do so!,,
"Then," said Miss Fane, rising, as if to
give additional force to her expression of
opinion, "I wash my hands of all concern
in his affairs; and deliver him over to your
tender mercies, without even a desire to
save him. He deserves all that he will be
sure to get, for he is more hopelessly ab-
surd than even I had imagined!"
And with this final disposition of the
ge~4~iman, who was jusb then impatiently
pacing the front piazza, and rushing into
the hail, every time he heard a step on the
stairs, she walked to the mirror, and began
to take down her hair, as a preliminary to
its rearrangement. Valerie lay back on her
pillows, and watched the process with an
indolent interest which lasted some time.
The massive and glossy knot behind (Miss
Pane possessed a magnificent chevelure)
had received its finishing touches before
she spoke again, with a sort of dreamy
languor in her tone.
"Netta, would you like to see me marry
your cousin?"
"No," ~aid her friend, promptly. "I
should be very sorry to see it."
"Why?"
"Because I do not think you would suit
Oharley, and I am sure Charley would not
suit you."
"Why would not I suit him?"
"For one thing, because he would soon
become conscious, in the wife, of what he
overlooks in the mistress-the absence of
that devotion which would set him up on a
pedestal, and worship him as a divinity.
Also, he would feel what he has less sense,
than I give him credit for, If he does not ac-
knowledge now that you have twice the tal-
ent, and three times the intellectual culture,
that he possesses. And the one thing of
all others which a man can least forgive in
his wife, is mental superiority to himself."
"Por argument's sake, granting what
you say to be true, you surely cannot think
so poorly of Chancy, as to suppose that he
would everindulge a feeling which is, after

all, nothing more nor less than a petty van-
ity I"
"I think-I am glad to think-that
Oharley is, in every sense of the word, a
gentleman; and that therefore he would
never, even to himself, give expression to~
the feeling. But it would exist, neverthe-
less - a consciousness that could not be
stifled."
"And pray why would he not suit me?"
"For the very best reason in the world:
you need the hand of a master-poor, dear
Charley would always be a slave."
"Netta," said her friend, decidedly," I
think you are the most disagreeable person
I ever knew! I wish you would make haste
and take yourself off down-stairs to enter-
tain your poor, dear Oharley! "
"You are very kind; but I have not the
least intention of going, until I see you en
toilette, and hear when it was that you en-
trapped that misguided son of ocean into.
this six months' postponement of a proposal."
"About three weeks ago-the night I first
heard of this hateful visit to Baltimore."
"Ah, I see! You wanted to settle be-
forehand any hopes M. Vacquant and his
nephew might entertain. But I wonder
that even such a consideration as that in-
duced you to think of relinquishing your
dearly-prized freedom.~~
"It is a dreadful thought, this surrender-
ing one's self to a life-long bondage," said
Valerie, with a shudder. "But one has to
marry some time-at least 1 have to; for an
unmarried woman's place in the world is
simply nil; and I have never discovered a
vocation in myself for any thing but the
world. Now, I don't suppose I shall ever
find a more desirable parti than Charley,
or a person less likely to prove disagreeable
in the matrimonial connection."
"Poor Charley!~~
"And pray why should you say 'Poor
Charley' in that tone of commiseration?"
"Because I feel sincerely sorry for any
man who offers honest devotion, and in re-
turn is only accepted as apis-aller! I have'
been shocked by hearing other women talk'
so, Valerie; I confess I never expected it
from you."
"You never expected it less than I did,

Netta," said Valerie, gravely. "But. we
learn wisdom as we grow older; and, after
all, are not we getting beyond the school-
girl idea of romantic passion, and the like?
Of course we be1~eved in it devoutly four or
five years ago, but do we believe in it now?
Honestly, I don't! I don't believe that, ex-~
cepting in novels, and with foolish women
who set up idols, and fall down and wor-
ship them, there is such a thing as the love
we have dreamed about. Do you?"
~ said MissPane; "yes, I d~. I'm
never likely to know it, but I believe it n6iie..
the less-believe it, just as I believe many
things which are of faith, and not of sight."- -
"Well, I don't," said Valerie, decidedly~ - -
and she leaned back on her cushions,. aii&amp;
gazed out of the window. "I think it-is~
fiction that the poets and novelists- are in
league to keep up, and the rest of the world
are afraid to declare exploded. 1sthatnon-.
sense? You look as if you thought so. But
just tell me, Netta, did you ever know a
real case of real love?"
Miss Pane thought a moment. "In my
own experience, do you mean?" she asked.
7~
"Of course, jn your own experience.
"I am afraid I must say meyer did; but
still, I believe in it."
"I envy you your credulity," returned
her skeptical friend. "But how can you
believe what you have never seen? If I had
ever seen it-seen, that is, not the flirtation
of a few weeks, ending in a proposal, and a
wedding, but the love which is strong to
conquer, and stronger to endure-the love
which absence cannot change, which diffi-
culty only quickens, which saffenin~ only
elevates-I, too, might believe. But now-
bahi I am a heretic of the straitest sect.
Do you mean to say that,, if women ever
really felt as heroines are represented to
feel, I should not before this have conceived.
a grands passion for some of thqdear, charm-
ing boys I have known so well, and liked so
much, while they were with me, and never
cared a straw about, when they were
away?"
"That is hardly a fair argument, Vale-
ne
"I should like to know where you could
find a fairer one. I confess that I should

VALERIE AYLMER.


28                       ~VALERIE AYLMER.

like to fall in love, if onlyTor the novelty of
the sensation," pursued the young lady,
with meditative frankness. "I should like
to know what it was to fa~icy somebody well
enough to admire every thing he said or did
-even bi~ very absurdities-to put away
the roses he had touched, and wear the
dresses he had praised, to care as much
about him when he was absent as when he
was near-to count the hours of his absence,
and look eagerly for his coming-to be will-
ing to endure any degree of danger, or dis-
comfort for his sake-and, finally, to let
love c~ver even wrong and injury, if wrong
or injury came.' But then, I never shall
know it, and this is all nonsense! I like
Charley, as well as I can like anybody;
and I mean to take him. I think I was fool-
ish not toniake the engagement absolute at
once. Many women- women better in
every way than I am-have waited longer
than I have for their knight, and waited'
vainly. Some of them do as I am about to
do-make respect and affection serve the
place of love, and marry some pleasant and
e1igibl~person, whom they Iil~e well enough,
for all practical purposes, to the end of their
lives. Others, like yourself, disdain to take
this course, and so go down to their graves
in' maiden meditation fancy free.' I am in-
clined to think that this class is much larger
than the world believes."

"I certainly think it is a mistake to sup-
pose that every woman has had, or must
have, her love-story."
"I know it is a mistake; or, rather; it is
a vulgar belief of vulgar minds, which no
demonstration to the contrary could uproot.
If the entire feminine sex were suddenly
conveyed to the Castle of Truth, and exam-
ined on the point, I think we should hear
some strange revelations from maids, wives,
and widows; and I think the vast majority
would be on my side, and declare that the
coming man had never come into their lives
at all."
"That would be my evidence, at least,"
said Miss Fane, laughing. "Now you have
oratorized long enough. Suppose, by way
of variety, you get up and dress I"
"You are not interested in my subject."
"Indeed I am-interested enough to
hope that your coming man may make his
appearance in time."
"Is that for my sake, or for Charley's?"
"For both-and equally. Only-don't
fall in love with this cousin of yours."
"Had you not better caution me against
throwing myself headlong into the Pataps-
co I" said Miss Aylmer, rising. "Please
ring that bell for Fanchette. I want my
blue grenadine, and I feel morally confident
that it is down at the bottom of that largest
trunk."

CHAPTER I.
~~MY PRETTY PAGE.'~
Tun cold N~ovember morning was break-
ing drearily through a heavy white fog, that
enveloped from sight all the low Maryland
coast, and even the roofs and spires of Bal-
timore, when the Portsmouth boat steamed
slowly up to her dock; after a very trying
and disagreeable run. A stiffish gale is by
no means to be despised - even on the
Chesapeake-and, although 'there had been
no~very heavy sea the night before, yet many
uncomfortable stomachs on board the Lou-
isiana might have compared honorable
notes with those belonging to any ocean-
bound steamer the second day out. Sounds
of woe had proceeded all night from various
state-rooms; calls for sympathy, and for
brandy, had been unnumbered; and, among
the knot of passengers who stood on the wet
deck in the cold, gray morning, and gloomily
regarded the few landmarks that peered
through the fog, the only feminine presence
was that of Miss Aylmer, who, leaning on
her father's arm, watched with evident in-
terest as much of the surrounding prQspect
as could be seen.
"It does not look very interesting, does
it, papa'?" she said, as the fog partially lift-
ed, and showed that portion of Baltimore
which lies along the water's edge.' "But
then, I suppose one should not judge 'of a
city by its approach, and in a fog, too. I
only wonder-"

"Draw your shawl around you more
closely; this air is very penetrating," said
her father, as she paused. "Well-what is
it you wonder?"
She hesitated a moment before she went
on, rather thoughtfully:
"I only wonder whether I shall ever be
reconciled to this visit. I am almost sure I
never shall. I am almost sure this coming
six months will prove as long in reality as
it now seems in prospeetive.~~
"I, should think you would know your-
self better," said the general, dryly. "One
opera; two balls, and a few conquests, will
quite cure your homesickness. Indeed, I
am half inclined to wager that, at the end of
the six months, you will voluntarily prolong
your visit, perhaps indefinitely."
"Don't wager much then, papa~," retort-
ed the young lady, with very nonchalant
sauciness, "for I know you are not fond of
losing. ttgh I what an odious cliniate! I
cannot understand how1 grandpapa en-
dures living in it-after New Orleans, too!"
"It i~ singular, considering that the
climate of New Orleans is well known to be
one of perfection."
"Itis oneof comfort and de.sncy, at least,
so ~ beg you won't' sneer at it, papa. But
then, grandpapa's coming here was all the
fault of' this second wife of his-was it
not?"
"Entirely," the general answered.
'LAnd, by-the-way, I am glad you mentioned
her-for I had almost forgotten that 'I meant
to give you a warning on that sedre. She

BOOK II.

/


"MY PRETTY PAGE2'                         31

30                       VALERIE .&amp;YLMER.

is a very disagreeable woman; but you must
really endeavor to conciliate her prejudices.
tier influence over your grandfather is much
greater than that of any one else; and
there's no wiser policy than that of throw-
ing a sop to Cerberus, you know."
He spoke with studied carelessness-for
no one better understood the art of clothing
unpalatable advice in unpremeditated guise
-yet the words brought a sudden cloud
over his daughter's face. Her brow slightly
contracted, and her lips compressed them-
selves, before she replied:
"I hoped I had heard the last of such
warnings, papa. Surely there is nobody else
to be conciliated, is there? And yet-in
the face of all this-you think I shall find a
visit here more than bearable? For my
part, I shall be very glad if it does not
prove mueh less. I believe I am 'chilled
through. Will you please take me, in?"
Her father complied very willingly. In-
deed, it was quite time, the last motion of
the boat having ceased, and the downward
rush of passengers fairly begun.
General Aylmer and his daughter were
experienced travellers, hoWever, and pos-
sessed to perfection the rare capability of
taking matters-even from a steamboat and
railroad point of view - with a supreme
quibtude. They' did not trouble themselves
in the least about making haste to be gone;
and Valerie was still standing by a table in
the saloon, drawing on her gloves, and wait-
ing for her father, who had returned to his
state-room for some missing' satchel, when
a step on the gangway caused her to turn
round, and thus confront a gentleman, who
came forward with a look in his eyes that
even' diilness' might have interpreted-a
half-doubt, half-recognition, which made her
absolutely certain he would, in another mo-
ment, utter her own name. During that mo-
mant, while he still passed irresolute, she
took arapid survey of his appearance; for
one fact at least Was undoubted-that of his
complete strangeness to her.
Her firs1~ impression was, that sbe bad
never 'seen a handsomer man-if nian he
e~arld~properlybe called, who was apparent-
ly s6 little past the age 'of adolescence that
almost any one might have been temptedto

[..

exclaim, "What a beautiful boy!" There
was all of boyhood's smoothness of outline,
and clearness of tint, in the face whose re-
fined features and waxen complexion suited
its rich broww curls and lustrous eyes; all
of boyhood's grace in the slender figure,
that bore upon it a stamp of such thorough-
bred elegance-yet there was about both an
air and manner which proved conclusively
that, for this man, boyhood was long since
over. True, the downy softness had not
yet left the rounded cheek, the pearly
whiteness had not yet vanished from the
smooth brow, and there was a curve of:al-
most child-like beauty about the shapely
mouth; but, on, each and all of these fea-
tures, there also rested a shade of intangi-
ble expression which aged the face without
strengthening it, and marked it so plainly
with the sign-manual of worldly inter-
course and worldly thought, that no one,
after a second glance, could possibly have
mistaken the presence of manhood for that
of youth. It was a beautiful face, but that
was almost all that could be said of it. If
there was any thing else about it at all re-
markable, it might, perhaps, have been
found in the total lack of any decided ex-
pression, either for good or ill. Nobody
could have called it a pleasant face or a dis-
agreeable face, an intellectual face or a stu-
pid face, an honest face or a deceitful face,
a face that prepossesse&amp; liking or inspired
distrust; for, in truth, it was simplynega-
tive-a face of the kind that we see very
often in the world, and that belongs to peo-
ple who, as a general thing, lack both
mental and moral force, and are exactly
and entirely what circumstances make
them. It was also emphatically, and in
marked degree, a spoiled face. There was
a curve of disdain about the mouth, and a
cloud of petulance on the' brow, whieh
deepened and lightened continually, with-
out ever quite vanishing, and made even the
most careless observer sure that this man
had never in his life known the curb of
wholesome restraint, imposed either by oth-
ers or himself~
With all her quickness of glance, Miss
Aylmer hadn't noted more than these few
general points, when the unknown ad.

iranced directly to her side, saying, in a
voice that suited his face, it was so very
melodious:                  4
"I am sure I cannot be mistaken in
'thinking that I have the pleasure of see-
ing Miss Aylmer. Let me bid her wel-
come to Baltimore, and introduce to her-
Julian Romney."
Valerie started-then looked up with
recognition. It was a name not wholly un-
familiar, though long forgotteu-.-the name
of her grandfather's step-son, who had been
sent to a German university before his
mother's second marriage, and whom, con-
sequently, she had never met. Indeed, the
gulf 'of non-intercourse between the two
families-M. Vacquant remained in Balti-
more during the war-had almost sivept
the recollection of his very existence out of
her memory. She did not say' so, however;
~n the contrary, she smiled cordially, and
held out her hand in reply.
"I am charmed to meet you," she said,
"for of course I have heard of you very
often. I am only ashamed that my recog-
nition was not like your own, instinctive."
"I trust my recognition would have
been instinctive," the young man answered,
smiling in his turn; "but, unfortunately, I
cannot claim that merit for it. My step-
father has a miniature of you, and its want
of justice does n~t altogether detract from
its possession of likeness."
"Ah, of course-it was very stupid of
me not to think," Valerie laughed. "I
think I should have known you, though-
after a while. But graixdpapa and Madame
Vacquant-I hope they are both well?"
"Quite well, and very anxious to see
you; indeed, M. Vacquant is.waiting below
in the carriage now. Will you let me take
you to him? That is-surely you are not
travelling alone?"
"Oh, no.-Fapa-but here he is.-Papa,
this is Mr. Romney, who has been kind
enough to come to meet us."
The general's memory of names was
much better than his daughter's, as well as
his memory of faces; and, looking at the
young man before him, he saw a slightly-
masculinized edition of his father-in-law's
wife~' He would have found no difficulty,

therefore, in determining his identity, even
if Valerie had not spoken, and his hand
went out at once in its frank, genial greeting.
"I should have known you, Mr. Born-
ney, by your likeness to your mother," he
said. "I congratulate you on your return
to America. As matters stand at present,
a Baltirnorean is almost the only person
whom we coa congratulate on such an event.
When did you leave Jena?"
"Only within the last few' months,"
answered the other, while Valerie marvelled
now, as she had marvelled often before, at
her father's wonderful recollection. Noth-
ing seemed to escape him-not even the
name of Julian Ilomney's university-when
of Julian Romney himself she never re-
membered to have heard him speak. "Only
within the last few months," repeated that
young gentleman; "and, but for the fact
that home is home, I might have been sorry
enough to do so. As a place of residence,
Germany is infinitely preferable to America,
you know."
"Any place short of the Inferno would
be~ that, just at present,~~ said the general,
with a shrug. "However, you might get
on very well. You don't know any thing
about war and devastation, just here."
It was now Romney's turn to shrug his
shoulders, which he did very indolently and
gracefully.
"You don't suppose I was thinking
about war or devastation, or any thing of
that kind?" he asked. "I don't trouble
myself about those matters. I was thinking
that the people are such barbarians, from
an aesthetic point of view. But NL Vac-
quant must be very impatient. Will you
excuse me if I suggest that you take com-
passion on him."
"M. Vacquant!" said General Aylmer,
quickly. "I did not know that he was
here-of course we will go at once.-Vale-
ne, I wonder you waited for me. Give that
shawl to Fanchette, and now,' take care-
these steps are confoundedly steep."
"Take care, Miss Aylmer," echoed
Romney, for, he saw that her eyes ware not
at all where 'they should have been, but
rather on the dock beyond, where a private
carriage was drawn up, at the door 'of


32                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                  A FREE LANGE OF TO-DAY.

which her grandfather's face looked eager-
ly forth. "Take care-take care!"
The last caution went off like a pistol-
shot, bet it was too late. Valerie sudden-
ly missed her footing-stumbled-made a
grasp at the support-missed it-and fell
heavily forward.
General Aylmei~ was too far in advance,
Julian too much in the rear, to save her.
They could only hasten to her assistance,
and, asit chanced, the younger man was the
first to reach her, the first to lift the prone
figure, and look into the pale, stunned face,
the first to inquire anxiously if she was badly
hurt.
"I-I don't think I am hurt at all," she
said, after a. minute's pause. "At least-
I cannot tell. I saved my head, and only
my wrist pains."
"Take my arm, then, and try to walk,"
said the general. "Your grandfather is
getting out of the carriage, I see. You
must have alarmed him very much."
"Oh, I am sorry for that," she said,
quickly; and she at once made an attempt
to step forward, but it was only an attempt.
A spasm of pain came over her face, and
Romney, who was watching her, said, as he
caught her just in time to prevent another
fall:
"You have sprained your ankle?"
~ she answered, with a gasp, "I
think I have. What shall I do ?-J cannot
walk."
"We shall have to support you," said her
father, with some annoyance in his voice.-
"Mr. Romney, may I trouble you I--Valerie,
there would ~iave been none of this, if you
had only looked where you were going."
Valerie did not reply; in fact her whole
attention at that moment was concentrated
on her ankle. The lightest pressure of her
foot on the ground made it pain intensely;
and she did not even remember until ~ome
time afterward how solicitous and careful
was the support rendered by her new ac-
quaintance. When they reached the car-
riage, M. Vacquant was very much con-
cerned by the palloy of the face, which never-
theless contrived to greet him with a smile.
"Ma pause enLfatzt I" lie said, in the
midst of his effusive embrace. "To think

that such an accident should be your wel-
come among us! What was Julian about,
that he did not take bettor care of you? I
wish I had gone for you myself."
"Mr. Romney took very good care of
me," said Valerie, with a grateful smile into
the handsome face just then bending over
her. "But he could not prevent my fall,
you know. That was your fault, grandpapa-
if it was any body's besides my own-for it
was only because I was looking at you that
I missed the step."
"Don't be ungrateful, Valerie, or your
grandfather will think he had better have
stayed at home," interposed General Ayl-
mer, with a smile.-" My dear sir, I am
delighted to see you again, and to see you
looking so well. How much you escaped in
not being battered about like the rest of us,
during four years of hardship and ~
"I don't know, I am sure," said M. Vac-
quant, a little shortly, for he always felt as
if be had been somewhat derelict in not
sharing the suffering of his country, and he
did not much relish congratulations on the
score of his exemption. "I am really un-
able to see that you are at all battered, Ger-
ald. On the contrary, you seem quite as
young-looking and good-looking as ever.
But we may as w~ll defer compliments until
we are under way. Come in-petite looks
too pale to be detained.-Home, John, and
drive fast."
The coachman obeyed to the letter; but
the foot of Union Dock and the head of
Washington Place are two points of the
good city of Baltimore which lie rather far
apart; and, with all his speed, they had not
made more than half their distance, when
Romney, who was watching Valerie quite
anxiously, said-
"I am sure you are suffering very
much."
She looked up with a faint smile, but an-
swered nothing, for she could not deny the
assertion. The pain almost amounted to
agony by this time, and required every par-
ticle of her self-control to endure it silently..
So she only smiled, and clinched her bands
tightly together, as. people always dowben
they want to bear passively, while they
rolled on-her father end M. Vacquant talk-

ing to each other of Louisiana people end
things, Juliati watching her silently, and she
engrossed by the pain-along the crowded
thoroughfares of business life, past the gay
shops and streams of pedestrians, past the
towering cathedral-dome, and into sight of
a tall white column-When, just as she
thought, "I cannot endure it another mo-
ment!" the carriage stopped, and Julian
hurst open the door before the footman
could spring down to do so.
Dimly, Valerie saw that they had paused
before a large gray house, with a stately
portico and flight of marble steps guarded
by couchant lions, and that, as they drew
up, a gentleman, who was in the act of as-
scending these steps, turned hastily and
came down again toward them. But physi-
cal agony had nowreached the point of physi-
cal blindness, and she had onlya vague idea of
a strange face, in which there was a good
deal of surprise, and heard her grandfather
make some hurried explanation. Neither the
face nor the explanation moved her to the
least interest, however, until M. Vacquant
turned round, saying with his most gr~ziuZ-
seigneur air:
"Valerie, my love, your cousin-Maurice
Darcy."
Then she looked up-curious to see this
rival claimant of her inheritance, this cause
of her present exile and suffering, this man
whose name had been her ~te noire for many
weeks past; but, at the very moment when
she raised her eyes, the tortured ankle gave
one hot, sharp pang, that misted all th3
kind pity of Maurice Darcy's face, and made
her extend her hand, with a sort of blind
impulse, past him to Julian Romney.
~ Take me out, please," she said to the lat-
icr, with a certain knowledge that in another
second she would scream, despite herself.
Darcy drew back-Valerie never knew
that his hand had been held out toward her
with a kinsman's frank greeting~ when she
thus put it aside-and Romney assisted her
to the ground, not without much difficulty
and intense pain, however. Indeed, the
blanching cheek proved such sharp suffer-
ing that it brought the other to her side all
of a sudden, with one quick step.
"Let me assist you," he said to Julian. I
3

"Miss Aylmer is evidently suffering very
much-4oo much for even an attempt at
walking, I should say. Would it not be bet-
ter if she was carried-"
But here Valerie interrupted him, al-
most rudely, for pain gave a sharper tone to
her voice than was meant:
"Thank you, no. I can walk very well
-with Mr. Romney's assistance."
"Pray let Maurice carry you, Valerie,"
said M. Vacquant's voice in the rear. "He is
stronger than any of us-and well able to do
so.
But Valerie only shook her head wil-
fully; and, as General Aylmer was not near
enough to interfere, lifted her foot to take
the first step of the flight before her. The
result was easily to be foreseen-she gave
one sharp cry, and fell back on Romney's
shoulder.
The partial swoon which ensued was
not so deep but that she heard M. Vacquant
say, "Maurice, take her! "-but that she
felt herself lifted at once by a pair of strong
arms, carried like a child into the house,
and, amid much feminine commotion, laid
gently down on a softly-cushioned couch.
-4-
CHAPTER II.
A FBEfl LANCE OF TO-DAY.
WUEN the doctor, who was hastily sum-
moned, arrived, his first care was to relieve
the injured foot of all ligatures; his ~eoond,
to apply arnica-saturated bandages; and his
third, to assure M. Vacquant that the pa-
tient needed only entire quiet. "She will
not be able to walk for some time," he said,
on taking his departure; "but she may
probably be carried down-stairs andi join:
the family circle to-morrow." ~
He was mistaken, however. The~ sprain.
proved more serious than had beek im-
agined, and several days elapsed before Miss
Aylmer summoned courage or inclInation~
to make an appearance down-stairs. At
last, one evening, a sudden whim, or fit of
loneliness, seized her. She tossed the novel,~
over which she was yawning, clear across~


34                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                  A FIIEE LANCH OF TO-DAY.                35

the room, rang her bell, made a toilet, and,
with the assistance of her own and Madame
Vacquant's maids, managed to descend to
the drawing-room, while dinner was yet in
progress, and the coast clear.
"That will do, Fanchette," she said, to her
faithful attendant, who, after she had been
established, on a sofa, still hovered over her,
suggesting a pillow here, and a cushion there.
"That really will do. I am very comforta-
ble-more comfortable than I deserve to
be," she added; "for I begin to think it was
very foolish of me to come down."
"'Deed, ma'am, I think it was very
right," Fanchette said, earnestly. "You
was so lonesome-like up-stairs! It'll do
you good to see some company.
"That's rather a question," her mistress
answered, languidly. "I feel just now more
as if it would tire me; and then, I never
looked worse 1"
"You looks pale, ma'ani-but paleness is
becoming to you," said Fanchette, consol-
ingly; for Fanchette stood chief among the
admirers of Za belle des belles-a fact which
in itself is no contemptible proof of the gen-
uineness of Miss Aylmor's loveliness, since
few scorns are more sincere than that of a
maid for the beauty she daily aids in mak-
ing up.
The invalid acknowledged her friendly
comfort by a smile; and then nestled deep-
er iato her cushions, saying, as she stretched
out, with a slight grimace, the pretty san-
dulled foot that was resting on a pillow:
".1 don't trust you, Fanchette; you con-
sider me so entirely in the light of your
handiwork, that you regard me with partial
eyes. Throw that afghan lightly over me.
There !-Is not some one coming?"
'Before Fanchette could answer, the
doer opened, and a lady entered-a lady
so handsome and stately, that, as she
came forward in the full light of the
chandelier, she looked more like some rare
old picture stepped from its frame, than a
mere flesh-and-blood woman of the present
time.. She 'was not. a young woman, by
any means, and not a woman who made
any ill-judged attempt to look young; but
every thing about her ha9monized so per-
fect~y, and. was in such admirable keeping

with her personal style and her manifest
age, that it was a question whether she was
not better worth looking at than the fresh-
est beauty in her teens. Girlhood i~ a
very pretty and a very charming, thing, no
doubt, but girlhood, even in its brightest
and sweetest form, has never been able and
will never be able to hold its own, with any
moderate measure of success, against the
charm of a woman who, instead of fading,
has ripened into maturity; and whose per-
sonal gifts have gained the toning and ex-
pression that only time can bestow. It is
not often that we see the warm zenith of
feminine loveliness attained-for there are
many dwarfing and blighting influences .at
work in almost every woman's life, that
se~id her into the port of middle age, shat-
tered, if not wrecked-but a glimpse of it
is vouchsafed to us sometimes, and we are
richer for that glimpse to the end of our
lives. It is something inexpressibly grace-
ful and beautiful, something that has no jar
or clang of discordance in it, something that
is refined to the exquisite point of needing
no further refinement, and something which
was breathed like an aroma over the woman
who came forward now. She was certainly
a beautiful woman. Her delicate features
were chiselled with the clearness and regu-
larity of sculpture, her rich brown hair was
abundant as any ehevelure of twenty, and
had a glow upon it which proved conclu-
sively that the art of the dyer had'never
been called into requisition; her violet eyes
had lost not a tint 'of their color, during the
half-century that had passed over them;
and her slender, symmetrical figure bore it-
self with a dignity' which seemed to add at
least two inches to her real stature. Gen-
eral Aylmer had been right in saying that
he would easily have recognized Julian
Romney by his likeness to his mother;' yet,
alike as the two faces were in cast of fea-
ture, there, was a difference between them,
which, resting in diverse expression, some-
times deepened into positive dissimilarity.
it could, scarcely have been otherwise, since
the younger face was mobile to excess-the
lip ever ready to curl, the brow ever ready
to bend-while the elder was locked in the
passionlessness of marble. The finely-arched

brow seldom met~ in any frown; the cold,
calm lip rarely smiled; and, whatever
strength of passion or capability of emo-
tion existed in the depths of this woman's
nature, she had long since placed a strong
curb over-a curb that gave a repressed
quietude to her manner, and was the cause'
of a certain repulsion, which more than one
person confessed to experiencing when un-
der her influence. Yet few people have
been more universally admired, or more
justly commended; and, as she crossed the
floor in her rich silk and soft laces, Valerie
acknowledged, for perhaps the fiftieth time,
that, when her grandfather chose a second
wife, his taste, in beauty at least, had been
irreproachable.
"What !-you down I" she said, as she
came forward, and perceived the occupant
of the sofa. "I doubt if it 'was prudent to
walk on your foot, yet a while, Valerie.
You should have been carried down, as the
doctor advised."
"Fanchette and Rose helped me," said
Valerie. "I scarcely walked at all."
"Fanchette and Ros4 could not give all
the assistance you must have needed. Your
grandfather was just speaking of taking
Maurice up to bring you down."
"That would have been more imposing,
certainly, but not more to my taste," said
Valerie, with a laugh. "I had a suspicion
of that plan of grandpapa's, so I was all the
mere anxious to steal a march on him. Be-
sides, I really was dreadfully tired of my
room and my novels."
"I don't wonder at it," said the elder
lady, as she sat down in a high-backed
Gothic chair, which made her look more like
a picture than ever, and drew forward an
eiubroidery-frarae. "Needle-work has quite
gone out of fashion, I believe," she went on,
"or I' should think you would have found
that a pleasanter as well as a more profita-
ble occupation."
"Do you mean hemming handkerchiefs
or embroidering ottomans?" asked Valerie,
more flippantly than was quite proper; but
the temptation to rejoinder was strong, and
liking, between this handsome lady and her-
self, there had never been enough to insure
an amicable t~te-d-t~te. "Fanchette relieves

me of the Ilrst, and, as for the other, I don't
belong to any charitable association; so I
should have no means of disposing of them
after they were finished."
"If you have no room for them at
Aylmers, your friends might like them as
'souvenirs," said Madame Vacquant, whose
sneers were never apparent on the surface.
" You are so well provided with friends,
that there would be no difficulty about find-
ing recipients. I hope, by-the-way, you left
Miss Fane quite well?"
"Quite well," Vulerie answered, with a
saucy sparkle in her eyes. "It is kind of
you to inquire about Netta, for I know you
do not like her; but then that is not singu-
lar. I-believe we all failed to please you in
our poor Louisiana.~~
"The climate did not agree with me,"
said Madame Yacquant, quietly; "other-
wise, I had no fault to find. The fruits are
delicious, and the people charmingly hospita-
ble. But I really think I should have died
if I had remained, the lassitude and prostra-
tion were so great. I don't wonder that
women there fade early-or that 'you have
gone off so much, Valerie."'
"I never knew that women faded ear-
lier there than elsewhere," returned Vale-
rie, nonchalantly. "And, as for my going
off, I know I am hideous just now; but I
have Baltimore to thank for that. When I
left home, everybody said I was looking re-
markably welL"
"People who see one constantly are not
always the best judges of one's looks," said
Madame Vacquant. "Perhaps, after you
have been in Maryland a while, you may re-
cover something of your bloom. You used
to have a very bright complexion."
"One needs to come to Maryland to hear
unflattering truths," Valerie answered, with
undiminished good-humor. "Nobody in
Louisiana ever spoke of my complexion in
the past tense; but then probably our stand-
ard is not a good one. I may beable to do
something toward improving it when I go
back. Are not those the gentlemen's voices?
How soon they leave the table!"
"Your grandfather does not like to sit
long," said Madame Vacquant, pausing in
her work to listen; "and JulianI know, has


VALERIE AYLMER.                                                   A FREfl LANCE ~F TO-DAY.                 37

/an engagement 'or this evening. That is
Maurice Darcy speaking now. You have
not met him yet, I believe?"
"Not unless you consider my fainting es-
capade in the light of a meeting. He must be
very strong; for I weigh a great deal, and-"
The opening of the door cut short her
sentence; and the next moment, her father,
accompanied by a tall, stalwart stranger,
entered the room. They were speaking to-
gether as they crossed the floor, and did
not notice her presence for an instant; then
General Aylmer looked round, and was not
a little surprised '
"You here, Valerie!" he said. "How
did you manage to get down?. Your grand-
father has just gone up-stairs to see you."
"I am very sorry," said Valerie, with
more contrition than was perhaps sincere.
"But, you see, I meant to surprise him, and
-won't yon.please call him back, papa?"
"He will soon find that the bird has
flown," answered the general, coolly.
"Meanwhile, have you forgotten CaptaiTh
Darcy?"
Valerie lool~ed up at his companion.
Even despite the disadvantage under which
she .had seen tt before, she thought she
would have re~ognized again the face that
had gazed at her' through the mist of past
suffering. But she must have been mistaken
-for, if she had appreciated one-half of its
compassionate kindness on that day, she
could scarcely have spoken with as much
coldness as when she answered:
"No, I have not forgotten Captain Dar-
cy, and I am glad to be able to thank him
for his assistance and strength, when I
needed both sadly. Without them, I don't
know how I should ever have found myself
in thehouse that day."
"I only hope you are better," said Cap-
tain Darcy, speaking very courteously, but
making no effort to ahakehands or, any thing
of the kind.' "It is a pity that your arrival
in Baltimore should have been so disagree-
ably signalized."
"I don't kni~w about its being disagree-
able," she answered, carelessly. "I have
had several days to myself, and I have read
many entertaining and a few instructive
books; and both of these novelties are

worth the price of a sprain, I dare say.
Oh, I am always philosophical-am I
not, papa? Eugene used to declare that, if
the house were burned down, I would say at
once that it was the pleasantest thing, izna-
ginable, since trees and grass were a great
deal more healthful and comfortable than
roofs and floors. I must not quote Eugene,
however, for here comes grandpapa."
M. Vacquant entered as she spoke-a
little out of breath, and a good deal out of
humor.
"What is the meaning of this, Valerie?"
he asked, quite injuredly. "I thought you
could not walk, so I go up-stairs to see you,
and am coolly informed that you have gone
down! Did you time your descent exactly
for the purpose of giving me a useless jour-
ney? By Jove, how tired I am!"
"So you have taken to swearing in Eng-
lish!" Valerie laughed, as he sat down
by her. "No, I didn't time my descent for
any reason of the kind," she went on. "I
down to give you a pleasant surprise,
and this is all the thanks I get. I wonder
you are not ashamed to be so ungrateful."
",So that's the light, is it?" said he,
with.a shrug. "Well, I'll make apologies,
when I recover breath enough. Meanwhile,
let us hear whom you were quoting when I
came ~
"Nobody you care about," said Valerie,
giving his hand an affectionate little pinch.
"I was only quoting my hero, my darling,
my soldier of fortune, my-"
"Oh, Eugene," said he, in a very unen-
thusiastic tone.
"Yes, Eugene. What have you to say
against him?"
"Only that I hope he has not been fished
out of the Seine in a starving condition yet."
* "Tell him about him," said Valerie,
turning triumphantly to her father, and
getting decidedly aground among her per-
sonal pronouns. "Tell him all that we
beard last about the dear boy: how well he
is doing; and how steady he is; and how
much everybody likes him; and-"
"And how ready you are to believe It
all," said NI. Vacquant, stopping her mouth
with peremptory good-humor. "I don't
want to hear any thing about the ~camp!

If he had, stayed at home, and turned shoe-
black, now, I might have' forgiven him;
but, to go off and join the eondotti~sri I"
"I thought you liked condottieri, grand-
papa," said Valerie, and her eyes turned
more significantly than she intended toward
Captain Darcy, who was standing beside
Madame Yacquant, and who caught the
glance at once.
"I don't know why you thought so,"
said her grandfather. "I like them so lit-
tle, that Maurice and I have had more than
one disagreement on the subject."
"Captain Darcy likes them, then?" said
Valerie, making an ill-judged assault on the
enemy's lines.
That depends upon whether you mean
condotti~ri in the literal or the social
sense," answered Captain Darcy for him-
self.
"In the social seine, undoubtedly," re-
turned she, promptly.
"Then I don't like them in the least,"
he answered. "But, in the literal sense, it
would be strange if I had not at least a sym-
pathy for them, since I belong to a race that
for the last three hundred years has fur-
nished soldiers of fortune to the whole
world."
"And liked nothing better!" said M.
Vacquant. "Deuce .take the fellow !-
he'd be a free lance to - morrow, if he
"He was a free lance yesterday," said
General Aylmer, with a smile. "We must
not forget that."
Darcy turned away, and walked down
the room. General Aylmcr followed him,
and, while they stood together, in a broad
glow of light, Valerie had no better occupa-
tion for her eyes than to note the appear-
ance of this soldier-artist who had been ad-
vanced to the dignity of kinship with her.
This. was all that she aaw.-a tall, well-
built figure,, whose deep, broad chest, and
lithe, sinewy limbs, were pleasant sights for
people who had apenok4nt in the way of
manly strength or manly prowess- and
whose stalwart, . well - carried shoulders
looked as if they could have borne the very
burden of Atlas without blench or quiver;
a face that suited the figure excellently well,

for it was frank and bold, more soldierly
than artistic, and only moderately hand-
some. Indeed, as Valerie regarded it from
behind the friendly shelter of M. Yacquant,
she did not think it handsome at all. Cer-
tainly there was wonderfully little of the
petit-maitre or trim gallant-about it-little
to please the eye that admired Charley JIau-
tame's insouciant grace, or Julian Romney's
ideal beauty-but a good deal, nevertheless,
that many women, as well as many men,
liked to look upon. There were straight,
clearly-cut features, deep, dark-gray eyes
that might have been handsome, if they had
not been too cold and critical; a mouth that
was 'somewhat set and stern, under the
thick chestnut mustache; the square, bel-
ligerent chin, that mars the beauty of many
a born fighter's face; the broad artist-brow,
that is never wholly-without attraction, and
an abundant amount of crisp chestnut hair.
Together with these things, there was a
striking absence of that which, for want of
a better name, we may call the conventional
.stamp-the stamp that in these days squares
and trims everybody and every thing into
conventional shape-and a striking presence
of 'fresh and vigorous individuality. The
man had his faults-they were written, in-
deed, onhis very face-but you felt more
than half-inclined to forgive them all, in
gratitude for the novelty of seeing one who
looked, moved, and spoke, not according to
certain social rules and canons, but accord-
ing to the exigence of the hour and the
need of the minute; yet who never, in even
the faintest shade of word, look, or tone,
violated that higher law of perfect courtesy
which is the flower of true refinement. The
man was a man, but he was also a gentle-
man, and none~ the less the 'first for' being
so entirely the last. You could see at once'
that he was frank and straightforward to a
fault, formed for action rather. than for di-
plomaey~ very apt to clear his way with
clean, even strokes, andlittle likely to ~h6w
tolerance in any case 'of attempted' wiles;
but you also felt sure that he was-a man who
would be gentle to 'the weak, 'and tender to
those whom he loved, with the supren~iegen-
tleness and tenderness that a'e born' of
strength. Nevertheless, let it not, be sup-


38                       VALERIE AYLMER.                                                  A FREE LANCE OF TO-DAY.                   39

posed that there was any thing of the Titan,
or the genius, or the hero, about him. He
was simply a man who had some of the best
attributes of common manhood stamped
upon him-the courage and simplicity, the
generosity and faithfulness, the scorn of all
things base, and the very unconsciousness
of all things mean, which are 'uncommon
enough, Heaven knows, but which go fur-
ther to make up our idea of true manhood
than all the polish or all the learning of all
the schools.
"He looks like a free companion," Va-
* lerie thought to herself, while Madame Vac-
quant described the manner in which halr
was dressed, and dilated upon the latest
style of bonnet. "I wonder if the soldiers
of the Irish brigade at Fontenoy were men
of this kind? If so, no wonder the English
- Yes, madame, I think that must have
been a lovely bonnet; but you know I could
not wear any thing of the sort. Pearl and
blue would make a fright of me."
" No; of course you could not, ~ said
Madame Vacquant. "I was only describing
it. You always have scarlet somewhere
about your bonnets, I believe."
*   "A knot of scarlet roses, or perhaps a
cluster of fuchsias," said Valerie, who was
not a whit behind the most of her sex in
devotion to 'the toilet. "I like fuchsias-
they are so graceful andbecoming.-Grand-
papa, I wonder if Captain Darcy had any
ancestors at the battle of Fontenoy?"
"I don't know, I am sure," said M. Vac-
quant. "What on earth put that into your
head?"
"Nothing," she laughed; and then she
hummed under her breath, to an impromp-
tu air:
"'On Fontenoy, on Fontenoy, nor ever yet elsewhere,
Rushed onto light a nobler band than those proud
exiles were."'
"You must try and get down to Easter's,
to-morrow," Madame Vacquant went on
"There is a silk there, I am sure you will
like. I saw it a week ago, and told them to
put it aside; but such people are so unre-
liable. It is a lovely gold-color; and under
black lace-you still have that overdress of
Spanish lace, I suppose, Valerie?"
"Oh, yes," 8aid Valerie; "of course I

have it yet-such things as that are heir-
looms, you know. I need a silk for it, too;
and I shall certainly get the gold-color, if it
is pretty; but then, I have no doubt of that.
'On Fontenoy, on Fontenoy, like eagles in the sun'-
What's the next line, grandpapa?"
"I never heard the thing, Valerie."
"Oh, of course you have-only you've
forgotten:
'Like lions leaping at a fold, when mad with hunger's
pang,
Right up against the English line the Irish exiles
sprang:
Bright was their steel-'"
The battle of Fontenoy ,came to an
abrupt end just here, for the door opened,
and a radiant vision entered-to wit, Julian
Romney, in full evening costume. He en-
tered listlessly, with something of a fretful
cloud on his face; hut a single glance at th~
sofa was enough to dispel it, and the next
moment he came forward, smiling brightly.
"Miss Aylmer! What an unexpected
pleasure this is! But why was I not allowed
my share in the triumph of bringing you
down?"
"There was no triumph in the matter,"
Valerie said, with a laugh. "I came down
very quietly, assisted only by Fanchette and
Rose."
"When?"
"While you were all at dinner."
"While we were at dinner-and I just
to know it!"
"It has not been long."
"It has been long enough to make me
wish that Mrs. Jennings and her party were
both in Halifax; or that I had looked in the
drawing-room when I came up-stairs. How
could I have been so obtuse as not to know
by instinct that you were here? ' Don't
laugh, Miss Aylmer-it is a very serious
matter, I assure you."
Miss Aylmer did laugh, however. His
petulance and vexation seemed so little
more than that ofa spoiled child; and there
was so much of the "pretty page" about
him, that she felt half-inclined to extend
her hand and caress the curl-bedecked head.
A timely recollection of propriety inter-
fered, however; and she only shook, her
own as she answered:

"Your flatteries deserve a pleasanter re-
ward than any thing they have missed; or
are likely to gain. My mirror tells me that
I never looked worse, and my conscience
assures me that I never felt more stupid."
"For the peace of our city, don't look
any better, then," said he, with only a half-
tone of jest. "And as for stupidity-pity
mine, when I have not yet inquired about
your ankle. Is it well enough for you to
walk at all?"
"I think not," answered she, with a du-
bious glance toward it. "But really, I have
not tried. I limped down on one foot; for
I have such a vivid remembrance of my ag-
ony the other day, that I did not have the
courage to put this one on the floor."
"You ought to do it," however, said
Madame Vacquant. "Your ankle will nev-
er grow strong again unless you use it. Is
not that so, my dear?"
"Certainly it is so," said M. Vacquant;
"but petite knows best. She can judge
whether it feels equal to the exertion yet."
"I am by no means sure of that," said
Julian, while petite herself looked doubt-
ful. "Suppose you try to walk?" he add-
ed, turning abruptly to the latter. "I am
confident your ankle is strong enough by
this time to bear the exertion. Come! let
me assist you."
He held out his hand, but \Talerie shook
her head.
"Not this evening - to-morrow, per-
haps," she said.
"To-morrow I maynot be able to help
you," answered he~ "Pray, try now-if
only a few steps. I should like to feel that
I was making some amends for allowing
that dreadful fall."
"Allowing! How could you have pre-
vented it?"
He only smiled, and held out his hand
again. "Will you not try? Just a few
5teps.7~
He looked s&amp;, imploring, and so hand-
some, that for once Valerie developed an in-
capacity to say no~
"If you will not insist, in case it hurts
me, "she began.
She was interrupted by protestations and
assurances to the contrary; so, after a mo-

meiit, she slowly brought the injured foot
to the floor, and tried its strength, before
rising.
"Does it hurt?" asked M. Vacquant.
"N-o. Mr. Romney was right, I be-
lieve. It scarcely hurts at all-as'yet. Now
I will try to walk."
"Let me call Maurice to assist you also,"
said her grandfather, in a tone which was
unluckily loud enough to reach Captain Dar-
cy's ears. He started and turned, just in
time to hear Valerie say with decision:
"No; certainly not. Mr. Romney will
assist me; and, if I need any one else, I
can ~call papa."
Then she laid her hand on Julian's arm,
and, thus supported, walked slowly down
the room.
"Take care. Don't over-exert your
ankle," said General Aylmer, turning round
as she advanced. "How does it feel?"
"Very well indeed,", she answered. "I
am ashamed to remember how cowardly I
have been about trying it.-No, Mr. Romney,
you need not turn back; I think I will
walk down the next room."
"Had you not better be cautious I" asked
Darcy. "Your foot must be weak yet."
"Of course it is weak; and that's the
reason I want to strengthen it," said she,
lightly.-" Mr. Romney, I am sorry to lean
so heavily. I hope my weight is not very
great."
Neither of the gentlemen heard Rom-
ney's reply, for he moved on before it was
spoken; but they saw the light that came
into his eyes, as he answered; and being,
in different ways, men of the worltlboth
shrugged their shoulders mentally.
"I must give Valerie warning that her
favorite game won't answer here," thought
the father. "Fooling this pretty-faced boy
would be a trifling affair in itself; but mak-
ing an enemy of his mother would ruin
every thing."
"A thorough-paced coquette," thought
Maurice Darcy; "and more ripe for mis-
chief than even themost of her class. Poor
Julian I "
Poor Julian was meanwhile leading his.
companion through one after the other of
-'the suite of reception-rooms, until they


40                       VAL1~RIE AYLMER.                                                THE GENERAL GIVES A WARNING.       .       41

found themselves at the entrance of the con-
servatory.
"What a beautiful place I ~' Valerie said,
pausing in. the door, and gazing with loving
eyes at the interior, where the luxuriant
children of her fair South brought some-
thing of their tropical bloom and beauty
about the chill existence of the North.
"How exquisite the plants are !-l3ut is not
that a fountain I hear?"
Romney answered by leading her for-
ward, and the next moment she saw that,.
almost immediately in the centre of the con-
servatory, a jet of water was playing in a
marble basin, making a soft, fairy-like mu-
sic of its own, and gleaming like a silver
mist through the mellow gloom. All around
it broad-leaved water-plants were arranged
with unusual taste and skill; while the
most rare of the flowering shrubs were clus-
tered in the immediate neighborhood, and
tall, feathery crests nodded, or seemed to
nod, in the dimmer background.
This. time Valerie did not exclaim,
"What a beautiful place!" She only felt
a sharp throb, half-exquisite pleasure, half-
exquisite pain, which all forms of the beau-
tiful bring to some organizations; and then
she said softly, "It looks like home."
"I am glad I was the first person to
bring you here, then," said Romney, quickly.
"I am glad that the place which reminds
you of home, must also remind you a little
of me. Sit down. You must rest before
you try to go back."
There was everything to second the re-
quest; so Valerie yielded without much
demur. "We cannot stay long, or they
will miss us," she said, hesitatingly; and,
having cleared her conscience by this re-
mark, she sat down and gave herself up to
the charm of the spot. The soft lamps
glimmered so far away that they threw only
a sort of moonlight radiance through the
heavy tropical foliage; the brilliant blos-
soms of the Southern flora were blooming
on every side, and their rich, subtle fra-
grance was heavy on the air; the water
rose and fell with the measured rhythmthat
in itself lulled to quiescence; and so, while
the party, a few rooms distant, sat down to
whist, counted their tricks, and scored their

honors, these two lingered and yet lingered
in what seemed, to one of them at least, a
fairy-land.
Ali, it is a subtler and a deeper question
than many of us think, that of determining
whether the women who are gifted with
the fatal gift which we call fascination,
are strictly accountable f~r all the harm
and evil this woful charm may work upon
others. There are some women-we do
not usually meet more than one in a lifetime
-whose simplest tones and most careless
glances contain more of magic then all the
philters ever compounded by cunning necro.~
inancers-women whose powers no man has
ever been wise enough to define, and few,
very few, strong enough to resist; women
than whom hundreds are fairer, and nobler,
and wittier; but to whom Nature has given
one dower that only Nature can bestow-
the rare and perilous dower of being all
things to all men. Now, are such women
morally accountable for all the pain, the
suffering, and the harm, which-unwitting-
ly often-they never fail to cause? Are
their white hands stained with the blood
which has flowed for them, the pangs that
have been endured, the lives wrecked, the
curses breathed I Surely, if so, we might
be more willing to accept the guilt of that
poor wretch whom they are leading yonder
down the long sunlit road toward the high
hill where, tall and dark, one sombre outline
cuts against the sky; him whose pale lips are.
even now moving in agonized prayer; and
whom the great surging multitude willhun-
grily watch when the cord is drawn. around
his neck, and he goes from man's justice to
the bar of God's mercy.
There is more point in this digression
than is at once apparent. We are told that,
in a matter of this kind, guilt or innocence
is all a case of "intention." This seems
hard, sometimes-hard that the instigator
may go scot-free of penalty, while the vic-
tim bears the weight of sin, as well as of suf-
fering; but, after all, who can draw the line
of that "intention?" Who of us does not
know
"That evil Is wrought by want of thought,
As well as by want of heart?"
And who of us can believe that want of

thought will plead our excuse in the awful
Reckoning, when every idle word will rise
up against us? One thing at least is cer-
tam: in after-days it will go hard with Va-
lerie Aylmer if her conscience be not clear
of all intention to modulate her tones so
well, to sheathe her glances so soft, and to
let kindness-plain and simple kindness
only, she would tell you-dwell in every
word on that night when Julian Romney
sat 1y her side, and found his fate in her
eyes.
Found his fate! That is a term of which
romantic school-girls are very fond; and,
like as not, it may sound absurdly exagger-
ated to the men and women of the day, who
sneer at human passion as they sneer at
every thing else on the earth beneath, and
in the heavens above the earth; but, for all
that, there is such a thing yet, and will be
such a thing, as long as women are beguilers
and men are beguiled. Whether the term
be correct or not-whether or not, in the
fullest sense, Julian Romney found his fate
in Valerie Ayliner's eyes-the sequel may
show; but at least something of the fact be-
gan to be apparent to herself before the
evening was over. After the last good-nights
had been exchanged, and when the fair
Southern head laid itself down upon its pil-
lows, a vision came back of the beautiful
boyish face that had kindled and glowed so
warmly during those hours beside the foun-
tain-the face that just then was close to
that of a blond belle in the vales d deux
temps, and which saw before it, not the gold-
en curls and azure eyes of sweet Violate
Arle, but the lips which were even then
murmuring:
"Poor boy! J must try and not do him
any harm."
-4--
CHAPTER III.
THE GENERAL GIvES A wARNING.
No one was very much surprised the
next morning when the door of the break-
fast-room opened, and Miss Aylmer made
her appearance, looking so blooming and
bright in a rich crinison cashmere, that even

Madame Vacquant felt inclined to doubt
whether the climate of Louisiana was quite
as injurious to complexions as she had sup-
posed. The young lady received her con-
gratulations and greetings very quietly;
then, subsiding into a chair by Romney, she
bade him tell her how the night had gone
in the way of the Jennings's party.
"Heavily enough, as far as I was con-
cerned," he answered. "Other people
seemed to be enjoying themselves in usual
degree; but I never found aA evening more
hopelessly dull. I am glad you have come
down to give us a glimpse of your face this
morning; otherwise, I should have carried a
nightmare about with me all day."
"What was so dreadful?" asked his
step-father-" the wine, the women, or the
music?"
The young man shrugged his shoulders
petulantly.
"How can I tell? It was all a hideous
conglomeration of sight and sound-so hid-
eous, that the wine might have been goose-
berry, the women dressed in bunting, and
the band playing a dead-march, for aught I
knew, or cared, to the contrary!"
"Oh, we understand," said the elder
gentleman. "The fault being in yourself-
as it generally is-Mrs. Jennings's entertain-
ment must bear the blame. It strikes me
that, instead of saying 'the evening was dull,'
you should have said 'I was dull,' and stated
the matter more fairly."
"Do9sn't it come to the same thing?"
asked Valerie; for her quick eye caught the
sudden cloud that came over Julian's face.
"By no means," her grandfather an-
swered. "Here's Maurice, for instance,
who, not being given to morbid fancies,
enjoyed himself, I will venture to say, like
a sensible man.-How was it, mom ami ?-
am I not right?"
Darcy looked up from a ~iewspaper-
both General Aylmer and himself had
drawn back from the table, and were en-
gaged~ one with the Gazette, and the other
with the Sun-but did not seem to need any.
information about the subject under discus-
sion.
"I thought the evening went off very
well," he said; "but, then, I'm n~ver hard


42                     VALERIE AYLMER.                                              TIlE GENERAL GIVES A WARNING.            43

to please, you know. Julian certainly must
have found a bitter savor in every thing,
for not the melancholy Jacques himself
could have looked more wearied. I heard
more than one 'bright-eyed lonnilelle' ask
what misfortune had befallen him."
He spoke carelessly, but in a tone of
good-humored pleasantry, that did not at
all justify Romney's sharp retort:
"I am glad you found so much time to
observe my proceedings, and I am sorry I
can't return the compliment by bearing per-
sonal testimony to yours. I only remember
that one 'bright-eyed Ionnilelle' at least
could have made no inquiry about me-the
one, I mean, whom you engrossed the
greater part of the evening."
"Who was that?" asked Madame Vac-
quant, speaking for the first time since she
bade Valerie good-morning.
"I suppose he means Miss Rivi~re," said
Darcy, with a smile. "She was looking
charmingly last night, and I danced with
her several times; but I should hardly have
thought that made out a case of engrossing."
"Rividre!" Valerie repeated. "That is
a Louisiana name."
"These are Louisiana people," said M.
Vacquant.-" Aylmer, you remember Henry
Rivi&amp;e~ II am
"Perfectly," said the general, looking
np. "And, by-the-way, his is one of the
worst cases of utter smash I know of."
"So I supposed; for he is here in busi-
ness."
The other raised his eyebrows with an
expression of surprise.
"Rivi~re! If it were possible to be
astonished by any thing, these days, I
should certainly think you must be mis-
taken. I can fancy him connected with
every thing in the world except business.
By-the-by, that is a very indefinite term,
and means any thing, from ship-owning' to
shoemaking. What does it stand for in
this ease?"
"Some banking position or other, I
think. He seems to be getting on tolerably;
and is clever enough to succeed very well,'
if he will only keep away from race-courses,
and let cards and dice alone."
"Ab! if he only can," said the general,

in a tone of profound incredulity concern-
ing the probability of any thing of the kind.
And then he went back to the Sun.
"Has he a daughter, and is her name
Alix?" Valerie inquired.
"He has a daughter, and her name is
Alix," Romney replied. "She has made
something of a sensation here. Do you
mean to say you know her?"
"I met her once or twice-not oftener,
for she was very young, and not in society
-but I remember that I thought her very
attractive. Is she not very petite, with
soft brown eyes, and shy, caressing man-
ners?"
"And a color that comes and goes
twenty times in a minute-exactly. She
is said to be very charming; but Darcy
there has cultivated her more than I have,
and can speak with better knowledge."
"she is one of the most thoroughly
natural and thoroughly attractive people
I ever knew,,~ said Darcy, warmly. "I
sincerely congratulate you, Miss Aylmcr, on
the discovery of such a friend."
"Such an acquaintance," Madame Vac-
quant corrected. "Valerie did not speak
of her as a friend-did you, my dear? I
should be sorry, if so, for I have heard one
or two rumored about her,, which, if true,
make her rather undesirable even as an ac-
quaintance."
'~ One or two rumors about Miss Ri-
vi~re 1" said Darcy, quickly. "Excuse
me, madame, if I ask what they are-for
nothing could possibly be true that would
render her an undesirable acquaintance for
Miss Aylmer."
"Excuse me for not remembering that
she had such a warm champion at hand,"
said the lady, smiling, though not very
pleasantly; "and moderate your warmth,
my dear Maurice, for I meant nothing in
the least dreadfuL I have heard that Miss
Rivi~re is studying music, with a view to
going on the stage-that is all. But I
am sure you will agree with me that it is
enough to justify what I said. Valerie
would scarcely care to make a friend of a
future cantatrice."
"That would depend very much upon
circumstances, or, rather, upon the person

in question," said Valerie, coolly. "Now I
should make a friend of Alix Rivinre, not
of the future cantatrice-if the rumor is
true."
"Let us hope that it is not," said M.
Vacquant, lifting up his spoon to break an
egg, and balancing it in the air as he spoke.
"In my opinion, it is one of the worst signs
of the times that the new generation begin
to throw off somany of the old traditions
of gentle blood, and to disregard so entire-
ly the ohl no1~ease-oilige theory of gentle
birth," he went on. "Equality and fra-
ternity are vile enough in a political sense;
but the devil himself could not imagine any
thing worse than their social enforcement
would be! Yet all these latter-day notions
are paving the way for little else. We are
told that it is a very fine thing to be liberal;
that a gentleman may be a gentleman,
though he turn blacksmith; and a lady may
continue a lady though she becomes an ac-
tress; that good ancestry is of no account;
and a good name worth exactly what it will
bring at the bottom of a check! I may be
illiberal," continued he, bringing down his
spoon with a crash into the egg-shell, "but
I don't see the force of such reasoning, and
I have an unmitigated contempt for such
practice ~
"Don't excite yourself grandpapa," Va
lerie laughed. "And, besides, I don't see
the force of your reasoning in the present
case. There are no better people in Louisi-
ana than the Rivi~res."
"So much the more cause for their not
forgetting the fact," said he. "However,
we'll be charitable. The rumor about the
young lady may not be true. I am sure I
hope it is not, since I don't know a more
charming woman than her mother.-Mau-
rice, have you forgotten that you promised
to attend Cox's sale of horses for me this
morning?"
"Not in the least, sir," Darcy answered,
pushing aside the 'Gazette, and giving a
glance at his watch; "but there is plenty
of time yet, and General Aylmer spoke of
going with me."
"I am at your service," said the gen-
eral, rising as he spoke. "It has been my
life-long practice to keep no man waiting

my business or pleasure, and I should be
sorry to begin at this late day."
"Remember that, from two such judges
of horseflesh, I shall expect a simply un-
paralleled span," said M. Vacquant, as they
turned to leave the room.
"It would have been wiser to send them
apart, then," said Romney, after the two
gentlemen were safely out of eai'-shot. "To-
gether, their opinions are sure to clash-I
never knew two jockeys who didn't-and
the result may be any thing but the one you
desire."
"I should have sent you along as um-
pire," said the step-father, a little shortly.
"Your judgment served you so well when
you bought that showy-looking animal the
other week, which turned out just as sound
as Maurice prophesied."
Julian's cheek flushed darkly, and his
bi~ow contracted in its quick frown. There
could not possibly have been found a sorer
point with him than the 'one to which M.
Vacquant alluded - a certain equine pur-
chase against which Darcy had strongly ad-
vised him, and which proved to be utterly
worthless. His reply would probably not
have been very, temperate, if his mother
had not interfered.
"You are hard on poor Julian," she said,
reproachfully, to her husband. "I am sure
he' 'will give Captain Daroy all the credit he
deserves as a jockey; and as for that un-
lucky horse-isn't he ever to be left in
peaceful disgrace?"
"With all my heart," said M. Vacquant,
good-humoredly.-" I beg psi-don, Julia;
if I have said any thing to. wound: your
feelings; and we'll certainly let that de-
posed czar rest on his laurels. -Are you
engaged this morning, my dear, or can you
write some letters for me? There's quite
an accumulation of them up-stairs, and the
gout in my hand is 'worse than @ver."
"Let me be your 'secretary, grandpapa,"
Valerie said; but, to her surprise, Madame
Vacquant interposed at once.
"Quite. impossible,' Your grandfather
is accustomed to7 me, and I understand his
business. You would only incommode him,
and tire yourself. I shall turn you over 'to
Julian for an hour or two, and as soon as I


'   44                    VALERIE AYLMER.                                           TilE GENERAL GIVX~ A WARNING.

give some directions to Pierre, I will be in
the library, my dear."
"I am in no haste," said M. Vacquant;
then, gathering together several letters
which had arrived that morning, he left the
room.
Madame Vacquant followed him almost
immediately; and, thus forsaken, Miss Ayl-
mer and Mr. Roinney looked at each other
and smiled.
"Yea are given into my hands for amuse-
ment," said the latter. "Will you tell the
humblest of your slaves what diversion wiLl
please you best?"
"In the first place, I should like to k-now
something of the house I inhabit," she an-
swered. "Do you feel inclined to play cice-
rone? It may involve another offer of
your arm, for my foot is not strong yet."
"To hear is to obey, if it involved the
offer of my head Shall we set out at once?"
"Yes, certainly."
She rose and walked slowly down the
room. 'By the time the door was reached,
his arm had been offered and accepted; and
then they set forth, as gayly as a pair of
children, on a thorough tour of inspection.
It was certainly a very pleasant one.
-Beautiful and luxurious appointments,
breadth of space, and comfort, unspoiled by
economy of arrangement, are charming
things to almost any one; and, although the
residence of M. Vacquant was by no means
extravagantly "palatial," a cultivated and
refined taste had breathed into it an individ-
uality of aspect which the most gorgeous
upholstery rather diminishes than increases.
Velvet carpets, damask curtains, tables and
ottomans, even pictures and statues, have
their money. value, and are at the command
of the most uncultured buyer; but the
knowledge how to use these things is a dif-
ferent commodity, and by no means mark-
etable. Whatever else she may have lacked,
Madame Vacquant plainly did not lack this
-the rare knowledge and rarer artistic ap-
preciation which are the very first proofs
of eavoir eiere, that a hostess, aspiring to
raise her head above the level of or~Hnary
hostesses, must give. The most exacting
sybarite could hardly have found fault with
the arrangement of the rooms, the very air

of which inspired thoughts of social ease
and social pleasure; and the most sensitive
artist could scarcely have suggested a mul-
tiplication or abstraction of the well-chosen
and well-hung pictures, the costly bronzes,
the exquisite statues, or the treasures of
ormolu and mavgueterie, that occupied unob-
trusive corners, and conducted themselves
in all respects like ordinary furniture.
When the Whole lower floor had been
explored, Valerie led her companion back to
the music-room, and bade him ~open the
piano.
"I am sure you sing," she said, when he
had obeyed; "and, if you please, I want to
hear you. Ah, there is no good in denial.
I flatter myself I know a little of physiog-
nomy; and, if yours is not a musical face, I
never saw one; besides, you have lived in
Germany."
"That settles the matter, does it?" said
Romney, laughing a little. "Of course, I
know something of music-we all did at
Jena-but nothing you will care to hear."
"Let me be judge of that," she an-
swered. "Run your hand over the keys.
Ah, yes 1-I knew y~u had a good touch.
Do you play much?"
"Scarcely at all. Singing is my strong
point."
"Sing, then."
Transcribed, those two words look
rather curt; but, given with the expression
that Miss ,Aylmer knew excellently well
how to infuse-the half-persuasive, half-
commanding accent which she possessed to
perfection-few' men would have hesitated
longer than Romney did about obeying.
lie smiled slightly, modulated a few
chords, by way of prelude, and began one
of those artfully-simple German ballads that
the poetry of TJhland and the music of Men-
delssohn have made familiar to every ear.
The harmonization of the melody was so
perfect that; for some moments, Valerie
scarcely noticed the voice that rendered it;
then, all at once, the consciousness flashed
upon her that she had never heard a purer
tenor, and, notwithstanding her previously
expressed opinion concerning the musical
face, she felt herself completely taken by
surprise. The natural power, sweetness?

and compass of the voice, were remarkable;
and as the result, perhaps, of good training,
the style was almost perfect-being only
sometimes a little strained and marred by a
few florid exaggerations. They were very
few, however; and, on the whole, his vocal-
ization did such entire credit to himself, that
V'alerie had no disposition to find fault, but
sat in a state of enjoyment which was all
the greater for being unexpected, while the
rich, clear tones floated on, full and even, to
the last cadence. When he finished, she
looked up at him reproachfully.
"I suppose people never do tell the truth
about their own performances," she said;
"but that you should speak of singing 'a
little,' seems to me sacrilege, or, worse yet,
affectation."
"Let us consider it sacrilege, then, by all
means," he answered. "One aim of my
life ha~ been to steer clear of the odium of
affectation, and I think I have partially suc-
ceeded. People don't often call me affected
-unless I forget myself far enough to be
natural."
"Now you are trying to be cynical."
"On my honor, no. Nothing suits me
less. And, seriously, I am more pleased
than I can say, if you like my singing."
"Like it? You must know how weak
that expression is-you must know that it is
beautifully Sing something else."
"What shall it be?"
"Some of your student-songs, if you re-
member any of them-with a drinking cho-
rus, and all that sort of thing. I have al-
ways been~ curious to hear how they go."
"They go delightfully when you have a
*hundred or two voices in the chorus, the
beer-cans, and the hurrabs; but how they
will sound in solo I can hardly imagine.
Nevertheless, you shall hear."
And, suiting the action to the word, he
burst into one of the ringing student songs
that seemed to embody in every note the
freshness and enthusiasm, the mirth~ and
daring, the gayety and earnestness, of that
wonderful Young Germany whose sponta-
neous outbursts they were, and whose
national lyrics they have become. lIe
threw himself into it with a force that was
electrifying, and to his listener's ear left

nothing to be desired--even in the chorus,
where he stopped to assure her that the
clashing of wine-cups and swords was ne-
cessary, as well as the volume of united
voices. "If you could only hear 'The
Sword-song' given in that way," he said,
when he finished, and she was expressing
her approbation- "K~rner's, of courseI
mean-and Schiller's 'Trooper's song.' You
have heard that, I suppose." And he dashed
into itas he spoke:
'Up, comrades, and saddle I To horse and away,
To the held where freedom's the prize, sirs i
There hearts of true metal still carry the day,
And men are the kings and the kalsers I"'
When the end came, he gave her no
time for comment, but rose at once from
the piano-scat.
"I have done my share," he said;
"now it is your turn."
But Valerie shook her head.
"I don't sing often," she replied-
"never in cold blood and bread daylight.
Lower the curtains, light the gas, fill the
rooms, put me at a fever-heat of social ex-
citement, and I may sing for you perhaps
moderately well; otherwise, I cannot think
of such a thing."
"What shall we do, then?"
"Is it absolutely necessary for us to do
any thing? I like sitting still very well-
especially when my ankle pains."
"Does it pain now?"
"Yes, a little-but pray don't look so
niuch concerned. It will soon be better.
If you want to make yourself entertaining,
you may tell me something about Jena.
You can't.imagine what a fancy I have al-
ways had for German student-life!"
There could be no doubt of the fact that
Miss Aylmer's popularity was very easily to
be accounted for. By the bright waters
and over the fair fields of their own favorite
pursuit, or best-loved hohby~ she led her
willing victims; giving to each the sweet
smile and vivid interest that rarely flagged
under any infliction, or had been known to
falter in any emergency. It puzzled ordi-
nary people-people who had none of this
gift themselves~-to linagine how she could
possibly adapt herself so readily to so many
diverse minds and diverse tastes; but the


48                     VALERIE AYLMER.                                              THE GENERAL GIVES A WARNING.             4'7

truth really was, that half of it was done un-
consciously. It was not that she meant to
do it, or even wished to do it; but simply
that she could not help doing it. It was
her birthright-this chameleon-power of
variation, this capability of tuning herseig
as it were, to so many keys-and she could
no more have explained her own modu8 qc-
randi than the most puzzled among the
lookers-on. It came natural to her. That
was all she knew about the matter. It was
the fairy gold which some elfin-power,
more malicious than kind, had left beside
her cradle; and she scattered it abroad
with a lavish unconsciousness of its value-
thinking only, caring only, that it won for
her the homage which had never yet been
missing from her path, and which she
thought it would not be possible to live
without. Sometimes, when she lookedmost
interested, she was, in truth, dreadfully
bored; but kindness of heart, as well as the
tactics of coquetry, had some effect in teach-
ing her that smiling endurance which dis-
tinguishes the martyr of society, and both
together bore her triumphantly through al-
most any ordeal. Neither kindness of
heart nor the tactics of coquetry had much
to do with the earnest attention which she
paid Julian Romney, as he obeyed her last
request to the letter, and told her a great
deal of his "wandering youth in the far, fair,
foreign lands." He talked well, in a pictu-
resque, graphic way of his own, and might
have engrossed a less interested listener.
As he talked, she listened-ever with those
eloquent eyes that said more than many
words-until her father's voice made her
start, and her father's presence suddenly
appeared in the doorway.
Few people ever learned any thing from
General Aylmer's face, but there were one
or two signs known only to his daughter,
and these told her at once that some serious
concern was battling there with grave dis-
pleasure. Before she had -time to indulge
in a single conjecture, however, he advanced
into the room, speaking quite as usual.
"Valerie, I am sorry to disturb you, but
I have just received a telegram from New
Orleans, which necessitates my Immediate
departure, and-"

"A telegram 1"
It was no wonder that the bright cheek
grew so pale, or that those two words broke
almostunconsciously from the lips. Few fem-
inine nerves came so intact out of the four
years' agony, as not to quail at that fateful
word; and then war had spared her a brother.
"Yes, a telegram," said her father, quiet-
ly; "but there is no need for being alarmed.
It is only Gibson, who telegraphs to me on a
matter of business-but I must go at once."
"You are sure it is nothing 'about Eu-
gene, papa?"
"Perfectly sure. But you can see for
yourself if you desire."
He handed her the well-known form of
the telegraph company, filled in with' three
or four written words. After reading them,
her brow cleared wonderfully, and she
looked up quite cheerfully.
"I suppose you must go, papa, since
you and Mr. Gibson both think so; but it is
very provoking. Can't you at least wait
until to-morrow?"
"I can't wait an hour longer than the
first train that leaves southward," the gener-
al answered, a little impatiently. "Will you
come to my room with me for a few min-
utes? I have something to say to you.".
Valerie knew her father better than to
hesitate about complying with this request.
She rose at onceand followed him up~
stairs.
Once there, the general closed the door,
and plunged into his subject without pre-
liminary.
"I have a very short time in which to
say any thing, Valerie," he began; "so you
need not be surprised, and I hope you will not
be offended, if I speak plainly and forcibly.
In the first place, I am very sorry t~ ~e
that you have commenced a flirtation-or
whatever else you choose to call it-with
this young Romney."
Valerie started and colored, biting her
lip half-angrily. She had expected to be
taken to task, bait not so soon, and not
quite so abruptly. As it was, she was
thrown off her guard, and could only take
refuge in the thrice-commonplace---
"I don't understand you, sir."
"Pardon me," her father retorted, '~ but

I think you understand me perfectly. Per-
haps you dom't understand my reasons for
alluding to this, however, so I had better
explain them. I never interfere with your
amusements, as you know; partly because I
have seen that you are perfectly capable of
conducting them yourself, and partly be-
cause you have never done any serious mis-
ehief that I am aware of. A few broken
h~jrts, more or less, are of small impor-
tance; but let me tell you that you are play-
ing here a heavier game than for a broken
heart."
His voice changed with the last words,
and deepened so 'much in earnestness, that
Valerie looked at him in simple surprise.
Once more she said-this time sincerely-
"I don't understand you."
The general answered by one, straight-
forward question:
"What do you propose to yourself by
turning this boy's head?"
"Really, papa, I have no intention of
turning his head."
"You have not? Well, then, I wonder
you take such a direct means to do it.
Come, come, I have no time for feminine
fencing. You can answer that question to
yourself, if you don't care to answer it to
me; but I warn you, solemnly, that you had
better stop short in the matter. If ever
you played with fire in your life, you are
playing with it now!"
Valerie looked up a little rebelliously.
"If you twill say disagreeable things,
papa, I really think you might express them
more clearly. What are you afraid of?
Surely, not that I will marry lAm?"
"No," answered her father, coolly, "you
are too ~sensible for that. A pretty face is
n~ li*tely to ensnare you, and I don't know
that there is any thing else here. The boy
seems a mere spoiled 'child, and is said to be
very much given to gambling and dissipa-
tion besides. Your grandfather plainlydoes
not lik~ him; and you would entirely alien-
ate him by such a choice. NoIam not
afraid of your marrying him-you wrn be
tired enough of your toy in less than a
week; but the mischief will be done then."
"What mischief?"
The general was packing his trunk; but

he suspended the operation to turn round
and look at his daughter.
"I am afraid you are growing stupid,
Valerie," he, said, quietly. "Is it possible
you do not see that, if you bring any harm or
suffering to Julian Romney, you make a bit-
ter and unscrupulous enemy of his mother?"
Miss Aylmer started - then recovered
herself and laughed a little.
"Why, we are growing quite melodra-
matic, papa. People don't have enemies,
these days; or, if thty do, they take it out
in saying spiteful things about one another.
Madame Vacquant reached that interesting
stage, as far as I am concerned, long ago,
and I don't see what other harm she can do
me."
"Then you know very little of the
woman, or of her influence in this house,"
said her father, gravely. "She can harm
you bitterly, in a hundred ways'; if she has
never done so before, it has been because
her dislike was more passive than active.
Make it active once, and you had better
doubt that the sun is in the heavens than
that she will work you ill."
"I don't see-"
"No," he interrupted, impatiently, "it is
like a woman never to see, until too late for
sight to be of any service. But, remember
that I warn you 1-remember, too, that this
boy is of somewhat different metal than
those you are accustomed to dealing with.
If he blows out his brains-"
"Oh papa, pray hush!"
"Why, you need not be surprised. He
looks quite absurd enough to do it. Now,
mark me: if you go on with this, it Will be
at your own risk, but it is next to impos-
sible that the consequences should fall on
yourself alone. What do you say? Will
you promise me to let the young fellow
alone?"
He asked the question somewhat doubt-
fully; but there was no hesitation in Va-
lens's reply. She looked up, and answered
readily:
"Why did you not ask me that at once,
papa, and spare yourself all this long tirade 2
Of course, I will promise. There's not the
least difficulty about it; for I never meant
any thing else than letting him alone. I al-


48
most feel as if he were a child-quite as if I
should take undue advantage of his youth
and ignorance, if I made him fall in love
with me. Is that all?"
"Not quite-" and here the general
hesitated before going on: "by-the-way,
you have not told me what you think of this
Darcy."
"Is there any thing to think?" she
asked, carelessly. "He seems to me quite
a nonentity-muscular, perhaps, but certain-
ly not interesting."
"Then you are a worse judge of charac-
ter than I supposed," said her father, with
some perceptible chagrin in his voice. "I
confess I was in hopes you had estimated
the man more justly. For myself, I was
very agreeably disappointed in him-he is
thoroughly a gentleman, and one of the
most companionable men I have met in a
long time.~~
"Ah, yes; but then you forget, papa,
that you have horses and politics to talk
about; while 1 have nothing-besides, he
takes no notice of me."
"Whose fault is that?"
"Indeed, I don't know-mine perhaps.
But I don't- think it matters. I never appre-
ciated the full absurdity of grandpapa's pro-
posed arrangement, until I saw the object
of It. lie is a very good sort of person in
his way, I suppose; but I laugh whenever
I think of him as a lover."
The general looked grave.
"What are your objections to him?" he
asked.
At which question, the demoiselle
laughed gayly.
"Objections? Why I could not begin
to remetnber them. Perhaps I had better
sum them all up in one-I don't like him!"
"But you scarcely know him."
"Qt&amp;'importe? It is all the same.
You won't credit it, papa, but these things
are matters of instinct, not of reason. I
could not tell you why it is that every thing
Captain Darcy says and does impresses me
disagreeably; but, the fact remains the fact,
none the less."
She spoke very decidedly; and her fa-
thor. turned away, with grave displeasure
*in his face.

AX1i~4~.

"You wrn live to regret all this, Va-
lerie," he said. Then he rang the bell for
his servant, and, taking the hint, Miss Ayl-
mer left the room.
An hour or two afterward, the general
took his departure, leaving, as his last
words to his daughter, when he kissed her
good-by-
"Remember your promise."
-4---
CHAPTER IV.
A WILFUL WOMAN.
Iv view of much that is to be told here.
after, it may be well to say now, that Miss
Aylmer was perfectly sincere in making the
aforesaid promise, nor less sincere in the
intention to fulfil it. Even before her fa~
other's warning, she had begun to think that
it might be as well to keep "hands off"
Julian Romney; for she estimated none too
strongly the undisciplined passion of which
that mobile face was an index, and felt none
too truly that of the "lightly-won, lightly-
lost" philosophy, this nature was incapa-
ble-but after the general had delivered
himself, she made a very decided resolu-
tion to steer clear of all possible danger or
trouble in such a quarter; and, for a time,
kept this resolution with a constaney'that
did her credit. It was something quite new,
and something very tiresome, she found, to
be all the time on her guard against making
herself too attractive; but still she per-
severed in the face of all difficulties, and,
by this perseverance, proved conclusively
that, of the sin of wilful and deliberate
coquetry, her hands were stainless. If, after
a while, she yielded to the temptations held
out by idleness and levity, and borne on to
consequences grievous as any that follow
upon premeditated wrong, at least it will
be seen that she did not forfeit all claim to
compassion, and that she may be allowed a
place in the wide ranks of those who have
learned, from bitter experience, that it is
one thing to sow the seed, and another to
reap the harvest; one thing to set a storm
in motion, and another to quell it; one

A WILFUL WOMAN.                      49

thing to loosen a dam, and another' to stop
a lisod; one thingto commit folly, end quite
another to avert evil. If this story oan be
said to contain a moral, it may indeed be
compressed into a few words just here: it
may be defined as an attempt (not strikingly
successful, perhaps) to show how the con-
sequences of folly are often as great and
wide-spread as the consequences of crime;
how no one is so insignificant but that his
most thoughtless develictions of duty may
prove fruitful of harm and suffering to many
besides himself; and how one tiny peb-
ble of wrong-doing, cast into the waters of
human life, will widen into circle after cir-
cle, until human eyes lose sight of its far-
thest vibration.
For some time after the general's de-
parture, matters went on very smoothly,
Valerie played her new rile, if not to per-
fection, at least very creditably; and there
were no more charmed ttite-4-t.~tes, no
more fascinating smiles or liquid glances
for the puzzled Romney, who found him-
self suddenly removed to a ceremonious dis-
tance-and kept there. She managed this
the more readily, since there was a great
deal to be done in the way of preparing for
the winter campaign, and Madame V'ac-
quant insisted on launching her into the
midst of dress-makers and visitors without
delay. As for Romney himself, he was
enough a man of the world to feel that the
barrier thus unexpectedly erected was none
the less decided for being quite intangible;
and he wasted no useless strength against
it. He took the place assigned him, and
bided his time-assured that it would come
all the sooner for this quiescence. If a man
is very much in earnest, such a policy is
next thing to impossible to him; yet it is,
o~ all policy, the wisest-and so Julian -
(who, truth to tell, adopted it sorely against
his own will) soon found. Valerie would
easily have steeled herself against his efforts,
if he had been foolish enough to make any,
but the wistful reproach of his eyes was
quite another thing, especially when that
reproach was seconded by his unexception-
able conduct. So, of hey own accord~ she
began to thaw a littie-unbending all the
more willingly, since she had really taken
4

quite a fancy to him. Not a fancy that was
very deep, or that promised to be 6f lon~
duration, - but which wtis, - nevertheless,
tolerably deeid&amp;I, in the half-patronizing
way that women of her stamp ave fond of
affecting toward men of his. Indeed, while
the gloss of novelty was on him, he in-
terested her very much. He had no depth,
either of talent or culture-she soon Ais-
covered that-but the ~urface was very well
polished, and sparkled alittls, indep~ndeutly
of the polish. He had no stamina or force
of character whatever, and was the soi~t of'
person ~ho would, as he grew older, either~'
go to the dogs completely, or else 'settle
down into commonplace medkcrity. But.
while he was young, he had that quickiiess,
that somewhat adaptive cleverness, which
goes a great way in society, and often gains
for its possessor a reputation for talent~ 6r
even positive genius, which is deservedithe
least in the world. Almost any 'one, of
ordinarily keen perception, looking at~ his
face, could have read a tolerably accurate
horoscope of his future-could have said at
once that he would never resolve any thih~
with sufficient earnestness for its fulfilment,
and, if he ever achieved any thing~ 'would
mar it by his own hasty passion or ill-
judged action; but tha eyes of youth are
not ordinarily of keen perceptio~i, and that
face was a very beautiful one. If anybody
else at all attractive had ebme across Va-
lerie's path just then, she inlght, not~$th-
standing her interest in him, have let' his
evident tendre&amp;se die of inanitiou; but ther&amp;
was literally nobody. Ilatitaine, poor fellow~,
had been left behind in Louisiana, aii&amp; all
the new acquaintances Which Baltimor.
society had thrown into her life were' abs~
lute nonentities. It is true there wasDarcy
-but, then, Darcy was her abhorrence.
And so, perhaps, the convenient abstraction,
which we call Fate, waa more, to blame
than any one else, as days elided into weeks
and the general's caution giew more, and~
more dim in his daughter's remembrance.
After all, had he not 'been unreasonable in
requesting her to "let alone" the' only
available x~iaterial f~r am~isement on hand?
She began to think so; and then she also
began to think that Romney belonged t~


/

50                           VALERIE
h~r, world, and knew as pinch about flirta-
t~on a~ she did, and ~was as little likely to
be hurt by ~t, ~ etc. After that point
w~s, reached, i~ was not difficult to conjec-
ture what became of the promise.
Meanwhile, it is time that a word or
two was said c.on~arning one who is, in a
certain sense, the hero yar excellence of the
story in progress -i.. e., Maurice Darcy.
But let no one fear an analysis of his i~har-
acter, or a~ history ~f his life. That charac-
ter must speak, for itself in the pages before
us, or else it will be hardly worth speaking
at all; and that life has little or nothing to
do with the position he occupied during the
last days of theyear 1865. Notwithstand-
ing the uncomfortable perplexities to which
ithad given rise, this position was a very
simple one. Artist as he was by profession,
foreigner as he was by birth and rearing,
there had been enough of straightforward
heroism about this man to bring him to the
aid 4f his mother's country.when that coun-
try~was lighting her desperate fight for in-
dependence against those overwhelming
odda which the civilized world arrayed
against her; and enough of enduring forti-
tude to keep him in her thinned and starv-
ing ranks to the very last. When that last
caine- when the Cqnfederacy, with one
great death-gasp, sank bleeding and helpless
-he was lying wounded and sick in a hospi-
tal at Richmond. While there, he fell under
the kind care of some exiled Marylanders,
and, it was through them that M. Vacquant
learned his condition. Now, it chanced
that the remembrance of his sister had been
fur years the skeleton at the latter's feast of
lif~;. and he caught gladly at the opportu-~
nity thus offered of reconciliation with her
sen. His advances were so eagerly, so al-
most humbly made, that it would have been
impossible for any but a churl to reject
them; and so, by very natural and. simple
me Maurice Darey became a guest in his
uncle's house. That his stay had length-
ened so greatly, was partly the fault of M. -
Vacqnsnt, who closed his ears to the least
hint of departure; and partly that of his
wopnd, which had given him a great deal
of trouble; and was only just beginning to
heal in a satisfactory way when the year

AYLMER
during which, it had been received, was
drawing to a close: b~it was not in the least
owing to any hopes of heirship, or to 'any
desire for a remembrance in that last will
and testament which his uncle would one
day needto make. Darcy knew very, well
that his mother's portion of her father's es-
tate had been forfeited when she married
against her brother's wishes, but it never
occurred to him that even this portion
might be his right. He was not a man
whose thoughts turned readily to such things
-indeed he was a man whom the majority
of the world would have counted culpably
indifferent to them-and therefore he was
slow to appreciate that even lie might per-
haps fall under the odium of making mer~
cenary calculations. The decision to which
NJ. Vacquant had arrived-the decision of
giving to him, instead of to Valerie, the
prominent place in his will-was entirely
unknown to him; as was also the matrizno-
nial plan which had so moved Miss Aylmer's
indignation. In his own opinion, the, prince.
ly revenues of the Viceroy of Egypt, con~
cerned him quite as nearly as his uncle's for-
tune; an~1 if he yet lingered in Baltimore,
instead of plumbing his wings for. distant
flight, it was more because one who has
been long storm-tossed is apt to like a
peaceful harbor, than for any other reason.
With regard to Miss Aylmer, he thought
so little, that there is little to be said.. He
had been prepared to meet her cordially and
frankly, as became a kinsman; and she had
seen fit to repulse his advances from the
very first. Hedid not take the trouble to
resent her dislike, but still less did he feel
inclined to take the trouble to conquer. it.
Difficulty here did not quicken him to exer-
tion, as it would have done in any other
case, because he saw no result that was
worth the gaining; and so he let any
chance of obtaining her friendly regard go
by default. She was not the kind of wom-
an who possessed any attraction for hir~i;.
and therefore her good or ill opinion was.
very much a matter of indifference to him~
.-a fact which, after a while, Valerie her-
self perceived. Whether her disposition to
coquetry disgusted him, or whether he fan~
cied her much more foolish and vain than

A WILPU

was really the case, she could not tell; but
at least it was impossible to doubt that,
from some cause or other, her beauty and
fascination fell harmless on him. If he ad-
mired her, as an abstract work of art, that
was quite as far as he went. sometimes she
doubted even that. Sometimes a glance of
those cool, critical eyes filled her with a cu-
rious sense of detected guilt, when she met
them in the midst of some fascinating by-
play. After a while, she grew rather shy
of exercising her arts of coquetry when
that quick ear was near at hand, and was
obliged to take refuge in commonplaces-
conscious that she was held at a disadvan-
tage. Of course, none of this made her like
Darcy more cordially: on the contrary, she
honored him with quite an aversion, and
never by any chance spoke to or of him
when she could possibly avoid it.
Several weeks elapsed before a very mild
autumn cameo an end, and Winter an-
nounced the beginning of his reign by a fall
of snow, which immediately set all the
sleigh-bells of the city jingling. Consider-
ing her Southern birth and rearing, it was
not singular that Valerie should have felt
some curiosity to test the enjoyment of this
novel amusement, and her face was bright
as a sunbeam when she entered the break-
fast-room on the morning after the storm.
"Your promise, grandpapa 1" she cried,
before even the morning greetings were ex-
changed. "You have not forgotten it, I
hope? The first snow, you said-and the
first snow is here."
"Of course I have not forgotten it," said
M. Vacquant, hissing her, as she bent over
him. "A sleigh-ride was it not?-a sleigh-
ride you shall certainly have."
"Was that all?"
"Quite all, I think."
"Then I must refresh your memory,~~
returned she. "It was a sleigh-ride, un-
doubtedly; but it was also the thorough-
breds. No, 'you need not try to look sur-
prised. I remember it perfectly; and so, I
am sure, do ycu."
So, indeed, he did-much better than
he liked, as his face-rather blank and crest-
fallen-said at once. The matter stood
thus: the thorough-breds in question were

L WOMAN.                             51
a pair whioli Darcy and General Ay1~ner
had bought at the sale they attended to-
gether, on the day of the general's. dep~rt-
ure. NJ. Yacquant had been enthusiasti-
cally pleased with them, and not without
good cause. They were nearly perfect in
bone and blood, as beautiful as pictures, and
wonderful in their qualities of speed; but-
they were by no means safe. They had
gone to the hammer on account of a serious
accident caused by their running away with
their last owner; and Darcy had only pur-
chased them because he intended to break
them himself. As yet, no one else had tried
them, but Valerie looked at them with eyes
of desire, and, to silence her importunity, M.
Vacquant had promised that, as soon as the
first snow fell, she should see what they
could do in a sleigh. Perhaps a rash prom-
ise was never more heartily regretted than
this, when he heard Valerie claim it, and,
looking up, met the grave eyes of his
nephew.
"Enfan4" ho said, uneasily, "I am not
sure about this.-Maurice, what do' you
think? are the horses sufficiently safe to be
trusted?"
"I should certainly say not," Darcy an-
swered. "I have not taken them out for
several days, but I should have been very
sorry to have had a lady for my companion
then."
M. Vacquant turned to his grand-daugh-
ter. "You hear that, Valerie I " he said, in
the tone of one who considers a matter defi-
nitely settled.
But so, evidently, Valerie did not regard
it.
"Yes, I hear, grandpapa," she answered,
coolly. "But is Captain Darey always in-
fallible? I am sure it seemed to me that the
horses were going beautifully, and as quietly
as possible, when I saw them 'the other day.
At all events, I am not afraid-a~d that is
the question."
"Pardon me," Darcy remarked," but I
cannot agree with you in considering that
the question. Your lack of fear would not
save you from serious consequences, if those
horses behaved as they are likely to do."
Valerie turned and looked inquiringly at
Romney, who was carelessly sipping his cof-


VAL~R~E AYL~ER.

A WILFUL WOMAN.                       53'

fee. "Are you afraid ?~' she aaked1 with a,
smile that would haye dared eyeu a coward
to answeI~ in theaffirmative.
lint, w~iatever his other faults? Julian
was nqt, a 9(~warAl, a~id there wan no affec-
tation ii~l~s rpply.
" Yo~ k~ew. that I am at your service;
buti confess I should not lil~eto be art and
part in any accident.-Darcy, do those
houses invariably run away?"
They invariably trr, to dQ 50.~~
Absurd! "broke in Valerie, petuIantl~.
"As if you cannot see that Captain Darcy
is~giving the poor fellows as had-a character
as he po~sib~ean! For my part, I always
inpilue t~~tb~e side of the rnaligned.-]3e-
sides, grandpapa, this is not an open ques-
tion-you bavo promised!"
Poor M. Vacquant looked genuinely dis-
tressed, ~ud did not answer for several
minutes. Then he said, doubtfully: -
"I can only consent on one condition,
Valerie-that Maurice drives you."
"I cannot think of ti'oubling Captain
Darcy5" said Valerie, coldly. "And I en-
tirely question your right to make condi-
tions about an unconditional promise. At
least I don't mean to imitate your example;
for, having promised Mr. Romney that he
shall have the perilous honor of driving me,
I, mean to keep my engagement."
At those words, Romney looked up
quickly, with a bright flush of pleasure dye-
ing his face, while Darcy's countenance did
not change in the least, notwithstanding
that something of quiet amusement flickered
into the deep-gray eyes. When he spoke,
however, it was as courteously and kindly
as possible.
"I know you would be making a great
sacrifice, ~iss Aylmer, in exchanging Juli-
an's society f~r mine; buthe must excuse
me it; i~or ex~oe,. I press you to do so. I do
not mean to question either his nerve or
ability, but he has never driven these
horses, and therQ is a great deal-almost
every thing~..4n a thorough acquaintance
between )~orse and driver."
"I certainly should not like to take him
into danger~'~1 Valerie was beginning,
whoRL Julia~i interrupted her.
"Exonac me, but that is no question at

all. If you would feel more safe under Dar-.
cy's care, I should not hesitate a moment to
waive any claim which your goodness may
allow me; but when you come to consider
me-why, then, I have no option but to re-
mind you of your promise.
Now,, the tone of this pleased Valerie.
There was more of straightforward manli-
ness, less of boyish petulance, thau was
usual with the speaker; so, after giving hini
one bright smile, she turned to Maurice.
"You hear that, Captain Darcy? Of
course, after this, I can do nothing save
thank you for your offer, and decline it."
Darcy apparently had not expected~ any
thing else. At least he did not look at all
disappointed, but only said:
"Then let me hope you will not insist
on driving the thorough-breds. Surely
Raven and Falcon may once more be al-
lowed the honor of serving you.~~
"Yes," said M. Vacquant, eagerly. "I
am sure you wrn be reasonable, Valerie."
"I hope I am reasonable, grandpapa,"
Valerie answered. "But what has reason
to do with this? It seems to me that in-
timidation is the only argument which has
been employed6 Now, I never was intimi-
dated into a thing in my life; and as for
Raven and Falcon, they may suit Captain
Darcy, but they are entirely too fat and lazy
to suit me! I must have the thorough-
breds-or nothing."
It was plain to see that this wasan tilti~
matum. The flushed cheek and compressed
lip said so, even more plainly than her
words; and, with a sigh, N!. Yacquant gave
up the point.
"You are acting like a child, and a
spoiled one, into the bargain, Valerie," he
said; "but I suppose you must have your
own way.-Julian, I shall look to you for
her safety-remember that!"
Of course, Juhian made a suitable and be-
coming response.; but, after that, conversa-
tion sensibly languished. N!. Vacquant
seemed to be seriously disquieted; Madan~e
Vacquant, though she had i~ot interfered by
word' or glance, looked grave; and even
Valerie began to feel i~aguely uncomforta"
ble,
After breakfast this feeling decidedly in-

creased. It was not, in the least, one of
fear-of that sensation she was physically
incapable-but rather one of shame, as if
she had extorted some concession to which
she had no right, 'besides acting very foolish-
ly. If her grandfather only had been con-
cerned in the matter, she would certainly
have gone to him and offered a compromise;
but then-as she steeled herself by think-
ing-it was not to him that she would be
yielding, but to Maurice Darcy. She thought
of his cool, decided advice, and-no-she
could not give him this triumph. Any thing
else would be preferable! She was on her
way down to the library-half-ready to
make a sacrifice of her inclination-when
this consideration brought her to a sudden
pause. It chanced to be just under a richly-
stained window, which threw its gules of
gorgeous color down from above, making
her look like some transfigured picture after
the old Italian school, when Maurice Darcy
came suddenly upon her. For a moment,
he caught his breath-few artists would not
have done so, at sight of such rare loveli-
ness-and then he advanced directly.
"I am glad to meet you, Miss Aylmer,"
he said, in his frank way. "I was just
coming in search of you. It has occurred
to me, since breakfast, that perhaps I did
not speak strongly enough to deter you
from your intended drive, or to induce you
to accept my escort. I sometimes err on the
side of ~rusquerie, and I may have done so in
this instance. But I beg you to believe the
sincerity of my warning and my offer."
"I never doubted either," Valerie said-
touched despite herself by his tone and man-
uer-",and you do yourself injustice when
you talk of bru&amp;juerie. I saw nothing what-
aver that savored of it. But, in repeating
your offer, you forget that I am engaged to
~Xr. ~omney."
"Julian, I am sure, would not hesitate
to release you; and I feel less compunction
in urging the sacrifice, than I should if my
motive was a selfish one."
Perhaps this too candid statement jarred
on the ear which had been so long accus- I
tomed to flattery's softest accents; at least,
Valerie bit her lip as she answered, rather 1
coolly:

"thank you. But my drive would not
give me much pleasure, if I khew that I was
victimizing you all the time. Now, Mr.
Romney will not regard it so purely in' the
light of an unpleasant matter of~ duty.
Therefore, I prefer to run a shade more
risk with him."
"I am afraid you have misunderstood
me again," Darcy said; "or else I am very
unfortunate about expressing myself. I am
sure nothing could be less of~ 'unpleasant
duty'than such a service; hind, if "I did not
speak of myself in the matter, it was only
because I did not fancy that my enjoyment
would interest you.~~
"Probably, also, you could n~t do so,
conscientiously."
There was much of sarcasm in the tone
which made this amendment; but Darcy
ignored it entirely-answering simply and
honestly:
"You are mistaken. I have not been
able to contribute any thing 'to your enjoy-
ment hitherto, but nothing would give me
more pleasure than to do so now~'
The accent of kindly sincerity in his
tone conquered, for the moment, Valerie's
petulant wilfulness. She felt ashamed of
herself; and action was quick upon feeling,
with this impulsive nature. The dark eyes
looked up with the contrition of' a penitent
child in their depths, and the voice, that was
never without the music of the sweet South,
sounded unusually soft and low when she
answered:
"Pray pardon me. It is I 'who have
been brusque, and, I fear, ungrateful. You
are very kind to be concerned about piy
safety, and I shall be glad-"
Afoot fall, and a soft, rustle of silk, mache
ber break off abruptly. The next moment,
N!adame Vacquant comedown the staircase,
on the lauding of which they st0od.
ng them, she paused.'
"So Maurice is trying the effect of per~
~uasion, since intimida~iou ~faik~," shesaid,
with a smile, "and apparently' witli more
~ffect. At least I thought I'iiear~i some-
~hing about 's~iaIl be 'giamdY-ahdi~wjoor
milan's sake, I hope it does ~.ot m~n
leaving him in the lurch?"
"I have been trying to persuade Miss


54                       VALERIE AYLMRR.                                                       A WILPUI WOMAN.

Ayhner that, for Julian's sake, as well as
her own, it would be well to inflict the
desolation upon him," Darcy answered, be-
fore Valerie could reply. "You will agree
with me, I am sure."
The lady smiled-that cold, calm smile
which never, by an~v chance, warmed into
genial expression-and shook her head.
* "Perhaps I ought to agree with you,"
she said ; ~" but theil, mothers are very fool-
ish, and I can't help thinking of poor Juli-
an's disappointment. He will feel it so
much!"
"I-I was thinking more of him than
of myself," said Valerie, quickly.
"Then I have his reputation for cour-
age suflibiently at heart, to beg you not to
think of him any more," answered Madame
Vacquant. "He would never forgive me if
I did n.ot assure you that nothing is needed
less than consideration of his safety. Be-
sides, I can testify, from personal knowledge,
that he is really an excellent whip."
"But these horses "-Darcy began.
"Encuse me," Valerie interrupted, "but
please don't abuse them any more, for my
mind is made up. If I am not to consider
Mr. Rumney, I am sure I don't consider my-
self; so the use of the thorough-breds is .a
settled fact. I am much obliged to you
for your kind offer to drive me; but a prom-
ise given should be a promise kept, you
know."
She bent her head very gracefully at the
last words, and, before Darcy could reply,,
washalf-wayup the stairs, vanishiuginaflood
of purple and golden light. He looked af-
ter her for a umment, then turned to Madame
Vacquant with a slight shrug of his shoul-
ders.
"Awilful woman always does have her
own way, I believe," he said. "But I
confessI am sorry Miss Aylmer is so obsti-
nate. ik'r Julian's sake, as well as for her
own, it is a pity, madame, that you had not
thro~i*n your influence in the other scale."
The face before him paled a little.
you-~-.do you really think there is
any danger I" sh~ asked.
"Ithiiikit is a great risk, to say the
least. If you could even yct persuade Miss
Aylmer.-.

"There's not the faintest hope of that,"
she interrupted. "You see, for yourself,
how spoiled and wilful she is. She is cer-
tainly going; and I do not think that, even
if I had not spoken, she would have ac.
cepted your offer."
"She is good enough to honor me with
quite a dislike, I know," he answered. "I
might be sorry, if I was conscious of ever
having done any thing to deserve it; but, as
it is, I really have not troubled myself on
the subject-feeling sure that I fail in some
point which it is out of my power to mend."
They were descending the stairs togeth
ci', and, at these words, Madame Vacquant
looked at him with a slight laugh.
"You are wonderfully honest and sim-
ple, my dear Maurice," she said. "Is it possi.
ble you are really so blind as not to know
why Valerie dislikes you?"
"How should I know?" he asked, care-
lessly. "I take it for granted that she does
not fancy ray brus~jvuerie and plainness; but,
beyond that, I have not even hazarded a
conjecture."
"I don't suppose she fancies your stand-
ard of gallantry," the lady answered; "but
I doubt if she would go to the length of
positively disliking it. The truth is-and
any one but yourself would long since have
seen it-she thinks you may come in for a
large share of her fortune."
Darcy's eyes opened in the most genu.
me astonishment.
"For a large share? Why, what have I
to do with her fortuiie?" he asked.
"Pahaw 1" said his companion, a little
impatiently. "I am afraid I must vote you
dull as well as honest. Look at the matter
yourself; and you will see what you have to
do with her fortune; or, rather, with her fu-
ture prospect of fortune. She is her grand-
father's direct heiress; but you are his
nephew, and she evidently fears that your
influence over him may result in your shar-
ing her inheritance."
The words were scarcely uttered before
the speaker saw that she had not overrated
their probable effect. A dark-red flush
surged hotly over Darey's brow, and a quick
gleam of haughty indignation flashed into
his eyes. Taken by surprise as he was, the

insult of such a suspicioninade itself felt at
once, and the whole natureof the man rose
in arms to resent it.
"What does Miss Aylmer consider me ~"
he said. "What kind of a dastard does she
think it would be who could scheme to rob
a woman of her inheritance, without a
shadow of claim! She would have paid me
a higher compliment if she had suspected
ineof open theft!"
"Don't be foolish, or I shall be sorry for
having told you," said the lady, eagerly.
"You know the world, and the ways of it.
Every man takes what he can get, by cun-
ning or by force; and we judge men, not
according to the exception, but according to
the rule. Valerie, no doubt, thinks it very
natural that you should desire to supplant
her in her grandfather's will."
"Thinks it natural that I should desire
it!" said Darcy, who plainly could not see
the force of such an explanation. "Pardon
me, madame, but, if she thinks so, it only
proves one thing-that nobody ever yet
was ~'eady to suspect another of what she
was incapable of herself!"
They had reached the library-door by
this time, and, opening it for her, he saw
her in, then bowed, and went his way.
At luncheon, every one avoided, with
great care, the debatable ground, and it
was not until they rose fi'om table that
Romney said to Miss Aylmer:
"Will threc o'clock suit you as the hour
for starting ?-the afternoons are so short
now, that we ought not to be later than
that."
"It ~will suit me quite well," she an-
swered, hesitating a moment, as if about to
~tdd something else, but, catching Darcy's
ey~, she colored and remained silent. After
that, nothing further was said, excepting by
Madame Vacquant, wholooked up as Vale-
rie was leaving the room, and advised warm
wrappings. "For I really think we shall
have another fall of snow," she said, rising
andwalking to one of the windows.
Julian followed her, and, while they
looked out on the dreary scene, which was
made up of snow-covered roof and a leaden
sk~r, the mother spoke fast and eagerly:

"For God's sake, take care of your-
self!" she said, passionately. "My heart
begins to misgive me terribly. I scarcely
think the end is worth the risk-at least
not such a risk as this! If her neck was
broken, it would not be much more than
she deserves; but for ~~ou-O Julian, Juli~
an, promise me that you will not be rash!"
Juhian frowned impatiently. No eyes
save his had ever seen that pleading look
on his mother's face; but he seemed
strangely unmoved by it.
"Of course I will not be rash," ho said.
"I have Miss Aylmer's safety, as well as
my own, to think of; you know. I hope
you won't be so absurd as to make yourself
uneasy, mother-I have told you that there
is really no danger in driving the horses.
All this talk about their vicious habits is
pure braggadocio on Darcy's part, t~ reflect
glory on himself."
~ she answered. "I know you
told me so, or else I should not have inter-
fered as I did this morning, when Valerie
was on the point of accepting his escort. I
have been sorry for it ever, since; I am still
more sorry now that the time draws near."
"Sorry for it I "-the handsome face
was all set and lowering-" you are cer-
tainly kind to say that, when you know
how much depends on this. I thought you
would walk on to your end, over any thing,
mother!"
"Over any thing but' your safety," the
mother answered, shivering slightly. Then
she drew back, and said no more.
An hour or two later, Pierre, the most
dignified and urbane of arzcien-rA~'im# ne-
groes, knocked at the door of Darcy's room,
and announced the arrival of the sleigh.
"Well," said the latter, who was deep
in a sketch, "what have I to do with it?
Mr. Roinney is the person whom, you
should inform of the fact."
"Mr. Romney has gone a~wn, sir,"
Pierre answered; "but I thought-maybe
you meant td see him oft; and so I; niade
bold to tell you." .
Darcy looked upand read-as a duller
man might hate done-~.-a painful anxiety in..
the honest, bronze face before him. He re-~
membered how long the. ~ld servant had~


VALERIJII AYLMER.                                                                DFIIIRThIO..DO.

knp~n~and loved Valerie; and it was char-
~a4eistic of th~ man. that he answered as
fr~ikly an4 ~kin4ly as ig he had been speak-
ing to the best gentleman in the lai~d.
"I see wh~t yo~ mean, Pierre~ but~what
ea4n F 4~? Literally nothing. Miss Ayhner
is determined to be driven by Mr. Romney,'
qud alJ'that we can hope is, that the thor-
pugh-breds will for once behave them-
"You couldn't hope that, if you looked
at them, sir," Pierre replied. "I've seed
vicious horses in my life, but I never seed
*~y thing that looked like these. It's as
mnch as t~o boys can do to held 'em now."
Darcy's fa~e settled gravely; but he
only shook his~head and repeated again:
:1 can do nothing." and see 'em off,
You can come down
end' maybe give them a warning, sir,"
Pierre pleaded. "I've seen Mr. Julian
drive, and L9rd bee you, sir, Miss Valerie
herself can manage the reins as well as
him I,'
"It would be strange if he did know
much about it," Derey muttered. The next
moment he was on his way down-stairs.
lie found only Jalian and his mother in
the hail, for Valerie had not yet made her
appearance. Neither was M. Yacquant vis-
ible; so, merely .eying.-
"I have coma to see you off, Romney,~~
he passed on to the outer door.
The sleigh-a very light and elegant lit-
tle cutter-looked graceful and inviting
enough to hqve tempted almost any gaze to
linger on it; but Parcy's eye did not do so~
aven for a moment. His glance settled on
the b.er~es, and he recognized at once the
justice e~ ~'ierre's judgment. They were in-
deed so restive that it required all the
strength of two grooms to keep them still,
and, if there was any teuth in the warning of
eye or movement, they meant mischief, as
surely as thos~ firm hands were once taken
~ft~enm ~their $ts.
"They're awful bad to-day, sir," oneof
~the men an ,jtouehinghiacapas h~ caught
Thirey~s eye.,- iitp'xaps a hand like your'n
may do 'em some goo4. ~I have never seen
'~n po fractions b~forpthQugh."
"I am not going to drive them," Mau-

rice answered, shortly; and, as be spoke, a
light, silvery voice in his rear cried gayly,
"Oh, what beautiful creatures!" And the
next moment he drew aside to let Miss
Aylmer pass. She was looking radiantly
lovely in her close-fitting velvet jacket and
becoming ermine furs. So, when she
paused, he felt his face relaxing in spite of
himself.
"Won't you at least give me a lion von-
age, Captain Darcy?" she said, with a
bright smile. "I am sorry to seem so dread-
fuUy obstinate, but I am sure nobody could
ever plead a greater temptation thanthat;"
and she pointed to the horses, whose spir-
ited heads, and curving necks made a very
attractive picture just then.
"Eon eoyage, with all my heart," Darcy
answered, "and I trust sincerely that I may
prove the most unreliable prophet in the
world. May I put you in th~ sleigh?"
She looked back, and, seeing that her
grandfather was holding fast the impatient
Julian, nodded assent, and extended her
hand. The next moment she was ensconced
in the deep, luxurious seat, and Darcy
was drawing the buffalo-robes well round
her, when Julian came up and sprang in.
While he gathered up the reins, the other
found time for one last caution.
"Be sure and keep a firm, steady rein on
them, Romney; never relax it for one
moment, although there are some things
plensanter on the arms. I would not advise
you to begin any very interesting conversa-
tion, either; for they need constant watch-
ing. If they once take the bits between
their teeth, turn the sleigh over in the first
drift you come to-any thing will be better
than leaving yourselves at their merey~ end
yen are not likely to 'stop them. I hope all
will go well, however.-I~Tow, let go their
heads, 'boys."
The grooms fell back on each side, and
the same instant, with a bound that nearly
draggedJulian from his seat, the thorough..
breds were off,
As, they whirled out of sight, around the
sharp corner of the street, all that conld be
seen was the hand which Valerie wave4
over ,the hack of the sleigh in triumphant
~enjoyment.

Darcy watched them with suspended
breath, as long as they were visible. When
they vanished, lie turned round, and per-
ceived his umde Atanding on the steps, with
a very disturbed face.
~ he said, anxiously, "I wish
I had not allowed this I-I wish I had inter-
fered even a moment ago. Surely you see
that that boy will never be able to control
those horses?"
"You could easily have prevented his
attempting it, sir," Darcy answered, dryly;
for in truth he felt very little sympathy with~
the weakness which M. Vacquant ha7l so
conspicuously displayed.
"I know !-I know !-" the other said,
impatiently. "I was very foolish to allow
it; but it won't save Valerie, that I recog-
nize the fact now.-Maurice, for God's sake,
follow them, and try to do something!"
Maurice shrugged his shoulders. Ft cer-
tainly seemed rather singular that, after dis-
regarding all his advice, M. Vacquant should
now implore his aid; but perhaps the re-
quest tallied with his own desire-at all
events, he only answered, by turning to one
of the grooms, and saying:
"Bring Bayard out at once. Don't
waste time about it, for I will be down
again in a minute."
In little more than that time, he was
mounted, and galloping after the sleigh.
-4--
CHAPTER V.
DERRING-DO.
MuAvwmLn, the thorough-breds were
behaving so well that, as they whirled into
the park-gates without having met with any
misadventure, Julian could not forbear a
sneer on the absent horseman, who was just
then cantering down Garden Street toward
them.
"You see now how much season there
was for Darcy's fears; and how much prob-
able trulili in his representations of danger.
Tho horses are certainly spirited, 'but as for
the rest-it was nonsense, to say the least
of it! We can make allowances, however,

'for the weaknesses of athletic nature. There
really is no creature alive so vain of muSCu-
lar repute as your would-be 'plunger."'
lie spoke with more bitterness than Va-
lerie fancied; but, as she herself was very
much reassured by the good behavior of the
horses-she could not see the vicious devil
in their eyes, which only waited a suitable
opportunity, or plausible pretext, for exhibi-
tion-she, too, began to entertain very much
the same opinion of Darcy's warning. So,
she did not utter any rebuke, but only said,
with a laugh:
"He probably wanted to keep the en-
joyment and the glory all to himself. I can
scarcely blame him-they do go so delight-
fully I-but still he need not have made
me feel as uncomfortable as I have felt all
They were skimming down? one of the
snow-covered roads which branched to the
right from the main entrance, when she
said this, and Julian repeated her words at
once.
"Uncomfortable all day! I am very
sorry to hear that, and-surprised too. I
did not think you would have let him influ-
ence you, and "-a sensible lowering of the
voice-" I thought you might perhaps have
felt some reliance on me."
"I don't know that he influenced me-
that is, made me afraid," she answered,
nonchalantly; "at least if only myself had
been concerned, I am sure I should not
have hesitated a moment; but I felt rather
ashamed of insisting on a mere caprice, and
I began to be a little apprehensive lest I
might be taking you into danger.~~
Words conld not have been uttered in a
more matter-of-fact tone than these last,
yet they brought a warm light into Rom-
ney's face, and a yet warmer tone into his
voice.
"You were very good to tl4k of me,"
he said. "To be so considei'ed,, I fe~i' I
should hesitate very little over real dangei~.
I am almost sor~y that there is none in this
-thtit I might prove to you how much I
would do to ~ratify even a 'caprice" of
yours."
"I am sure you are doing a great deal,"
she said, cordially. "Captain Darcy 'would


'58                          VALERIII~ AYLMER.                                                                  DIIIIIRING.DO.                         59

ta~re yon to task.very severely for speaking
~o diareapeetfully of our present enterprise ;
and, whether or not there is danger in it,
there is at least risk enough to make me
grateful for your willingness to give me
.pleasure."
"I would empty my veins to do that!"
he, answered, with a touch of the boy's
high-flown exaggeration, yet enough of the
man's earnestness to fire Za ?elle des 1)ellee
with the spirit of her favorite sport.
"Pshaw! " she said, with the saucy
smile of half-challenge, half-defiance, which
had turned more heads than a few. "It is so
easy to make professions-especially when
there is not the least danger of beizig taken
seriously... You had better rest contented
on your laurels; for there's always risk in
giving a carte Idaneke of that sort to fem-
inine vanity. I might be tempted to make
a heavy draft on your daring."
"Draw to any amount, and see if it be
not promptly honored," he replied, readily,
for his had been a very fair flirtation train-
ing before this.
Miss Aylmer shook her head.
"I beg you won't tempt me, for I am so
strongly warned by the past. More times
than I would like to count, I have been on
the eve of bestowing my favor on some
~allant knight .who called all the gods to
witness that he was wholly 8~fl8 peur, hut
when the test came-well, then I found
exactly what I said a moment ago, that
professions are easy to make, and hard to
fulfil. Therefore, I have grown rather in-
credulous, and- Oh!"
The exclamation was uttered very sud-
denly, for a deer bounded across their path,
and the horses gave a simultaneous bolt, a
rush, and then indulged in a rearing which
tested all the strength of Romney's wrists.
Valerie sat quite still, making neither sign
nor sound while the short battle lasted;
but after a moment the thorough-breds
proved that they had not meant serious
business. They settled down to their stride
again, and then Julian looked round at his
companion with a flash of not unnatural tri-
umph in his eyes.
"lou see how easily they are managed,"
he said.

"I see how. wise I. was in placing myself'
under your protection," answered Valerie;
who knew better than any woman living
when and how to compliment. "I d~uht
whether Captain Darcy could have brought
them to terms any sooner, or probably half
as soon. I can well believe that any draft
on your daring would be promptly hon-
ored."
"Then-in view of the promised reward
--may I hope that you wrn speedily make
She looked up with a smile.
"Don't be foolish, please. Who talked
of reward I"
"You did-when you spoke of the favor
that has never yet been won."
"Ah, but perhaps you think this favor
something greater than it really is. Would
you do much for thisI"
She touched, as she spoke, a knot of rib-
bon that fluttered at her throat; and, watch-
ing the hand which made the gesture, Rom-
ney answered quickly:
"I would do anything!"
"Then perhap.~, some day, I will set you
a deed of derring-do," she said, gayly.
"These are my colors, that I have never yet
given any one the right- A-h!"
This was rather a prolonged gasp than
an exclamation, and there was good cause
for it. Lulled into carelessness by the ease
with which he had mastered the horses a
few moments before, Romney had forgotten
Darcy's caution against ~entering into any
very interesting conversation; and, listening
eagerly to Valerie, he had paid little atten-
tion to them. Nothing~ perhaps, is so quick
of perception, as a horse; and, when the
restive thorough-breds felt those slackened
reins upon their backs, there was but one
thought between them-" Now is our time."
A jingling sleigh that glided past, laden
with a merry crew of school-girls, gave a
color of excuse to the frantic bound which
threw Valerie violently back, and nearly
jerked the ,reins out of Romney's hands.
The next moment the bits were between'
their teeth, their heads were downy and
they were off.
l~ow, although none of it is very pleas-
ant, there are great differences in the differ-

ent modes of running away. There is the
foolish horse, who, having a chronic distrust
of white logs, cows, sheep, and children,
loses his head entirely at sight of any of
these objects, and runs from pure and simple
fear. There is the gamesome horse, who is
fond of his own joke, and runs away when-
ever he sees a good chance of frightening
anybody, or doing a limited ai~iount of dam-
age. There is the passionate horse, who
gets angry occasionally, and asserts his dig-
nity by committing a good deal of mischief,
but who is easily amenable to reason. And,
lastly, there is the vicious horse, in whom
no wise man will ever put trust, who is
ruled onfy by the strong hand, and whose
outbreaks invariably mean serious harm to
every one concerned.
The merest child, looking at them now,
could not have doubted to which of these
classes the thorough-breds belonged. That
wild rush had little of genuine fright in it;
but the glaring eyes and distended nostrils
-more than all, that fatally significant
clamp of the iron jaws-promised little hope
of checlelng them. Perhaps Julian realized
this as fully as need be; but he clung to the
reins with desperate energy, nevertheless.
Bracing his feet against the front of the'
sleigh, he twined the lines many titles round
his hands, and brought all his strength to
bear. It was not verymuch; but, if it had
been that of Hercules, it would have availed
all the same; for the staunchest muscles
alive might as well have pulled against
stone. Of control over their movements
he had not so much as a pretence. He felt
this with horrible force, as Darcy's last
words recurred to him; and he saw that he
could not even guide them sufficiently to
follow his advice and capsize the sleigh.
There was prospect, indeed, that the speed
which sent it dashing from side to side of
the road, would eventually do this; but
there was little consolation in such a hope,
since the fall of snow had been so light that
drifts were few and the ground not more
than barely covered. They were whirling
down a steep declivity, with a narrow bridge
before them, when he turned and looked at
Valerie. She had not uttered 'a sound, or
made a movement since her first exclama-

tion some time before; but s.lthough her
face was as pale as possible, the dark eyes
met big calmly and steadily. There must
have been something reassuring in their
gaze, for the next juBtant they flashed over
the bridge-how neither of them ever knew
-and then Julian said, quite coolly:
"This must end soon. They will either
throw us out, or-"
The words were cut short suddenly, as
the sleigh was hurled headlong against a
post that marked the boundary of the road,
the tense reins broke with a loud snap, as of
a whip, and Julian was shot headforemost
out a distance of at least twenty yards. It
all passed with the rapidity of a flash of
lightning. Valerie had barely time for one
gurgling cry-barely time for one glimpse
of the figure that lay motionless where~ it
had fallen at the foot of a tree-when she
was whirled out of sight and away.
After this she had very little idea of any
thing that occurred, or very little fear for
any result. She knew that the horses were
shaping their course down the main avenue,
and, unless they were stopped at the gate,
would. soon be in the open highway; but
this, which meant certain destruction to her-
self, scarcely dwelt on her mind an instant
-she. was too absorbed in wondering
whether Julian was killed; too much ab-
sorbed in picturing over and over that .last
awful sightof him. Strange as it may seem,
she did not even pray. "My fault! my
fault!" were the only words that rang
through her brain, while the familiar forms
of supplication seemed to have faded far
away from her recollection. Me9hakkioally
she unclasped a small rosary fron~er wrist,
but even the names "Jesus" and "Mary"
caine faintly and slowly, as from palsied lips.
It was only when she saw before her the
open gates and the massive blocks of granite
that were scattered before it-~-only when
she realized that there, in all probability,
would be the end at once of life and beauty
-did she find voice for one cry which we
must all sooner or later make, "God have
mercy on me!" Then she closed her eyes,
and waited for the end.
l~Tow it chanced that the thorough-breds
having made better time than even he had


DRRRINA-DO.                        61

~3O                            VAVIIRIII 'AThMER.

counted on, Darcy had only just paused at
the arched entrance to question a loitering
policeman whether the object of his search
had entered before him, when the runaway
horses came thundering into sight, dragging
behind them the sleigh, which bounded to
and fro like a living thing in agony.
"By G-d, there's the very team you're
asking after, now!" cried the man, excited-
ly, recognizing at once the handsome chest-
nuts he had admired so much as they swept
past him with their long, swinging trot,
half an hour before. "Stand out of the
way, sir-it's more'n a man's life's worth to
try to stop "em now! "
But Darcy did not heed the admonition.
He only stood up in his stirrups and looked
forward with a quick, eager gaze-a gaze the
meaning of which the policeman at once un-
derstood, for be looked too, and then said,
rapidly:
"You're i~ight, sir-the sleigh's empty.
That's something to be thankful for-there
was as pretty-"
"I can't tell," muttered Darcy between
his teeth. "If I could only see-"
* "~tand back, for your life!" shouted
the other, his anxiety getting the better of
his fear, so far that he even rushed at Bay-
ard's bridle and drew him out of the path
of the horses now charging down upon
them. But to his utter amazement, as he
did so, Darcy was out of the saddle-the
next moment he rushed full at the thorough-
breds and grasped their bits.'
Of course he did not stop them-no mor-
tal hands could have done that-but he
swufig to them desperately, and the police-
man saw him dragged past at the same mo-
ment that he recognized a woman's presence
inthe sleigh. That honest guardian of the
peacenever had any very clear remembrance
of what ensued. He only recollected swear-
inga great oath in sheer astonishment, and
letting Dayard go about his own devices,
whflehe ran full tilt aft~r'tlio sleigh, withn~
ulterior intentions Whatever. The next mo-
mont, he saw something which brought him
to a horrified pause. Although he had been
dragged several yards, bleeding and half-
stunned, Darcy had never once relaxed his
hold upon 'the bits-if he had done soit

would have been all over with him, as well
as with Valerie, atid after a while he strug-
gled to his feet. Then, breast to breast, be-
~an one of the most awful sights in this
world-the 'sight of man against brute!
The horses were quite beside themselves, by
this time, and seemed possessed of a strength
tenfold their own as they reared and plunged
against the iron muscles that held their
'heads. The sleigh swayed to~ and fro, like
a wicker-basket, with their frantic struggles,
while the wild, glancing eyes and foaming
mouths made a strange contrast to the man's
face, which was set in the rigidity of marble.
The contest was so unequal, that it could
only have ended in one way, and that very
speedily, if the policeman had not gathered
his senses sufficiently to run forward when
he saw the progress of the horses once fairly
arrested. With his help, they were at
length brought to a panting and exhausted
stand. Then Darcy staggered back, and sat
down on a block of stone, pale and gasp-
ing.
"I'm afraid the brutes have hurt you
badly, sir," the former said, respectfully.
He could scarcely bring himself to pity the
man whose pluck had fought such a good
fight.
But Darcy only shook his head; and, ris-
big after a moments walked to the side of
the sleigh, where he found Valerie, as he
had half-expected, too weak from the mere
physical reaction to think of moving. ~he
looked so white, that he thought at first she
might be about to faint, but the tone of her
voice reassured him-it was perfectly firm
and steady, although strangely tense and
unnatural.
"I am glad you were not killed, too,"
she sald. "But we must not walt here a
moment. We muet go back to-him!"
"Do you mean 5ulian?" Darcy asked,
startled into a sudden fear by her tone and
manner. "Where is he?"
He was scarcely surprised, and a little
reassured, at hearing all that she knew.
After hearing it, he did not waste any time
in comment. He only lifted her from the
sleigh-disencumbering her of the many
wrappings which had probably saved her
life by keeping her fast-and asked if she

could show him the place where Romney
had been left. She assented, eagerly, and,
after sending a mounted, messenger to town
for a carriage, he was about to Bet forward,
when a sleigh, that had been jingling up the
avenue for some inmates, paused beside
them, and a gentleman sprang hurriedly
out.
"Darcy!" he said, quickly, "this is bet-
ter luck than I expected. See here I-we've
picked up Romney, and I fear he is badly
hurt."
"Only hurt!" repeated Darcy, hearing
Valerie's sudden gasp at his side. "Only
hurt, then?"
"Only hurt, certainly-not killed, if you
mean that. But I don't like the look of
him. He is either stunned, or he has fainted
very dead away."
Darcy put Valerie down on a block of
stone. "You had better stay here," he said;
and, without giving her any time for ex-
postulation, he strode away at once to the
sleigh.
"He must have received a severe blow
on the head," he said, after looking at Rom-
ney's pale, insensible face, and feeling his
pulse. "I am afraid it may prove to be
concussion of the brain; but, of course, I
can~ tell. We must get him home, and into
a doctor's hands, as soon as possible. Do
you think any bones are broken?"
* "I fancy one arm is-at least he moaned
when we touched it, and it hangs like a
fractured limb."
"Which arm?"
"The right."
Darcy leaned over and touched it gently,
but with all his care he brought forth a low
moan of pain, and the eyes opened for a mo-
ment, but closed again immediately.
"I don't think there's a doubt of its
being broken," he said. "How did you
chance to find him?"
"He was lying immediately on the side
of the road," the, other answered. "Arle
saw him at once."
"Arle was with you?"
"Yes-to his cost. You know how he
hates walking, ~nd he is, footing it home-
ward now. I suppose he will reach the gate
here about dark. I~fow, what is to be done

with this poor fellow? Shall I take him
home, or will you?"
"I would, ask you to take hira on ~t
once, if it were not for 'his mother," said
Darcy. "Somebody ought to prepare her,
and it is impossible for me to leave Miss
Aylmer here alone."
"Pray don't think of met" said Va-
lerie, who had come forward unperceived
by either of them. "I will stay here-any-
where-sooner than keep you a moment.
Captain Darcy, pray go!"
"Unfortunately I forgot, when I spoke
of doing so, that my horse has been sent
away," Darcy answered. "Thornton, I sup-
pose there's nothing for it, but to let you
take him on. They will be partly at least
prepared, by my sending for the carriage.
At all events, we have no right to risk de-
lay."
Thornton-a pale, slender, keen-faced
man-evidently thought the same thing.
So he sprang into the sleigh, laid Julian's
head as comfortably baek as he could, and,
in a moment more, whirled out of sight.
Then Darcy, turning round, discovered
two facts: the first, that snow had been fall-
ing for some time; the second, that Miss
Aylmer looked almost as pale as the boy
who had just been sent away. Now, there
never was a man who had less sympathy
with any form of caprice or coquetry, than
this brave, simple "straight-goer," and of
both he held V~Ierie so guilty that only a
moment before his heart had been wholly
steeled against pity for any suffering of hers;
but now it melted suddenly at sight of her
wan face and sad eyes, and he said, kindly
and cordially:
"I fear I have forgotten how ,c~ld and
tired you must be. Let me take youto the
sleigh, and wrap you up4 That will be some
protection until the carriage comes."
She held out her hand without a word--
he could not help remembering~ how di1~'er~
ently, an hour or two before, she had ex-
tended it for the same purpose-and let hint
take her and cover her up under the af-
ghans and buffalo-robes. Then she leaned
back, gtill quite silently, while he went up
to the policeman, who held the thorou~h~
breds-now safely out of harness-.~.aud re-


62                           VALERTh
turned his thanks both verbally and sub-
stantially. After a while he came back, and
asked Valerie if she felt very cold.
"Not cold at all-you have covered me
so well," she answered. "I am truly
ashamed not to have asked you before, but
I hope you are not much hurt?"
"I! Oh, no," he said, with a smile. "I
am cast-steel-warranted not to break or
injure under any provocation."
"I hope you will never need to do such
a thing again," she said, with a shudder.
"It was horrible !-~--I seem to see it yet!
And-and I have not thanked you."
"I trust you will not think of doing
so," he replied, quickly. "Pray don't fancy
yourself under obligations, or any thing of
that kind. I hope I should have done the
same for anybody."
"I don't doubt that," she answered;
"but it should not lessen my gratitude that
I chanced to be the person whom you
saved."
Involuntarily, as it seemed, Darcy
frowned a little.
"win you pardon me if I repeat that
such a word does not apply to me in the
least?. I could not have 'saved' you if our
friend yonder had not been at hand; or if
the horses had not been nearly spent."
At another time, Valerie would doubt-
less have felt and resented thls repulse; but
now she looked up almost appealingly.
"At least, then, you will let me ask you
to forgive the folly and wilfulness which
caused all this?"
It was an unfortunate question-for,
gentleman as he was to the core, and
mailed in all gentlemanly courtesy, Darcy
could sometimes speak an abrupt home-
truth very sharply. Now he answered al-
most without thought:
"It is scarcely my forgiveness that you
should ask, Miss Aylmer. I have not suf-
fered for the gratification of your whim, as
that poor boy whom we sent home has
done, and will yet do."
The next moment he felt sorry for hav-
ing so spoken-sorry when he saw the pale
cheek flush, and the delicate shoulder shrink
as from a blow.
"I know-" she said, with something

AYLMER.
of a gasp. "But I think he will forgive
me."
"I do not doubt it," Darcy dryly an-
swered. "I believe there is the carriage at
last. Will you allow me?"
He assisted her once more out of the
sleigh, and put her into the carriage, which
had drawn up beside theni. Then he closed
the door, and raised his hat.
"Are you not coming?" she asked in
surprise.
He shook his head.
"No. I shall drive these horses in.-
Did you bring the reins I sent for, John?
Yes-that is all right. Miss Aylmer I
would recommend a glass of wine ni. s~~on
you reach home.-Drive on, Green."
CHAPTER VI.
THOSE WHO DANCE MUST PAY THE PIPER.
WHEN Miss Aylmer reached home, her
grandfather came hurrying down into the
lower hall to meet her; and from him she
learned that the surgeon was then setting
Julian's arm.
"Oh, g~randpapa, how can I ever forgive
myself!" she cried, with all the terror, the
anxiety, the vexation of the last hour cub
minating at length in a burst of weeping,
which quite startled M. Vacquant by its ~i-
olence. "I have half-killed that poor boy,
and I came very near quite killing your-
your nephew, while I, the cause of it all,
am not hurt in the least. Oh, I am a
wretch !-I don't know what you must
think of me!"
"I think you will know better next
time, and be guided by the advice of older
people," answered her grandfather, sooth-
ingly. Like all men, he had a nervous hor-
ror of tears, and he would have said any
thing to stop the lachrymal flow that was
pouring over th~ shoulder of his coat as
he held his granddaughter in his arms.
"Don't be foolish, petite; and don't cry
that way-it is dreadful! Julian is not
much hurt, and you are safe-let us thank
God for that."

THOSE WHO DANCE MUST PAY THE PIPER.

"I wish I had been hurt!" cried Vale-
rie. "I deserve any thing! I was the per-
son in fault, and I-I am the only one all
safe."
"What! Is Maurice hurt also? ~' asked
M. Vacquant, quickly. "Nobody told me
that."
"Hurt! He says he is not, but I know
he must be. 0 grandpapa, it was awful!
If you could have seen the fight he had, to
stop those horses! I expected every mo-
ment that they would dash him under their
feet and trample him to death. They must
have hurt him !-I know they must-and
all for ~
At which consideration, Miss Aylmer
sat down on one of the library-chairs-her
grandfather had drawn her into this room
-and sobbed more like a child than like
the bright, haughty La balls des belles.
"He is a brave fellow-Maurice!" said
M. Vacquant. "I knew he could be relied
on-and, mom .Dieu! how glad I am that
I sent him! I hope you won't forget, en-
faint, that you owe your life to him."
"Forget it?-no! And that is just the
hardest part of it all!" cried enfant, with a
burst of tears that were now solely born
of vexation. "I could bear all the rest,
but that is intolerable! To think how I
have treated him, and how I despised him,
and how I went against all his advice, and
how I snubbed him, and-and that he
should have been the one to stop the
horses! If it had been anybody else in
the wide world, I could have borne it bet-
ter; but this is too bard!"
"Valerie!" said MS Vacquant. He was
quite aghast, and he could say nothing
more.
"0 grandpapa, you don't know how
hard it is! ~tou never had to endure such
a humiliation! I don't believe any body
ever had to endure the like before! Under
obligation for my very life to-to a person
like that!"
"Valerie, this is very improper-very
ungrateful language," said her grandfather,
severely. "You force me to remind you
that you are speaking of my nephew as
well as your cousin; and of a man who has
just saved your life at the risk of his own."

"I don't need to be reminded," cried
Valerie, in a tone of exasperation. "That
is exactly what is the matter! I wish he
had let my neck be broken-I do! This is
the second time he has laid me under obli-
gation, and I-I hate him!"
"That will do, I think," said M. Vac-
quant, with quite an imposing wave of the
hand. For once he was so thoroughly out
of patience with his petted, spoiled grand-
child, that he could not forbear expressing
it. "That is quite sufficient, Valerie. When
you are cooler, you will 'see the impropriety
and ingratitude of this conduct. At present
you had better go and change your dress."
Valerie rose at once from her seat, but,
instead of going to change her dress, she
went and twined her arms round her grand-
father's neck.
"I am sorry," she said. "I know it
sounded very badly. I won't talk so any
more-I will indeed try not to feel so any
more. But don't let him come between you
and me, grandpapa-especially after I have
been so nearly taken from you."
"Yes," said M. Vacquant, in a hushed
voice; and he kissed tenderly the beautiful
face of which he was so proud. "Yes, you
were nearly taken from me, and you are
given back to me again-thanks to is bon
.Dieu, and, after Him, thanks to Maurice."
Valerie set her lips hard, but, true to
her promise, she said nothing. She only
thought that it was part-the hardest part
-of her punishment, to hear this, and to
know that it was true. After God, she cer-
tainly owed her safety of life and limb to
Maurice Darcy; and there is not a doubt
but that, as she said, she would rather have
owed it to anybody else in the wide world.
It was not enough that she had resisted his
entreaties, and set his advice at naught, in
this particular matter; but she had so dis-
liked him, from the first, so gloried in pro~
yoking his tacit disapproval by h~er manifes-
tations of caprice and coquetry, and now
this very caprice and coquetry had called
down upon her the weightiest obligation to
him that one human being can incur ~om
another. It Was a retribution-she felt
that-but she also felt that it was almost
more than she could bear.


64                       VAJ~E1UE AYLMER.                                               THOSE WHO DANCE MUST PAY THE PIPER.              65

"Grandpapa, toll me about Julian," she'
said, after a minute. "Is he much hurt?"
"The doctors think not," answered her
grandf4ther. "lie is still, I believe, lying
in a half-stunned condition; but they say
-at least Dr. Preston does-that he will get
over that in a few hours without any ill
effect, and that his arm is the only serious
injury."
"Serious! Do you mean dangerous?"
"Oh, no. Who ever heard of danger
from a broken bone~ The only injury that
will trouble him after a day or two, they
mean."
"Thank God!" said Valerie, fervently.
"Not but that a broken arm is bad enough,"
she added, hastily; "but one feels as if it
was little, because it is so much less than
might have been. Poor Julian I poor boy!
o grandpapa, I never expect to forgive my-
self for, causing him all this!"
* M, Vacquant smiled a little-Julian's in"
juries did not seem to weigh much on his
mind-and smoothed her hair indulgently..
"Don't worry about Julian," he said. "He
will, soon be well. Only take care," he
added, gravely, "that you never inflict a
deeper injury on him than~ auy you have
caused to-day."
Valerie's face flushed. Her conscience
told her at once what he meant-and, for
once, she did not reject or fence off the un-
palatable advice. "Never, if I can help it,
grandpapa," she said, earnestly. Then she
kissed him again, and, gathering up her jiat
and cloak, which she had cast aside on her,
entrance, went up-stairs.
Just as she reached the head of the
staircase, she came upon Madame Vacquant
and Dr. Preston, who were standing outside
the door of Julian3s chamber, talking to-
gether.
"I think all will go right now~" the doe-
tQr was saying, "if you, will keep things per-*
feetly quiet, and don't allow- Ab, Miss
Aylmer, how are you? I am glad to see
that you at least were not hurt by your ac-
cident."
"I ean scarcely be glad myself; doctor,
when I think that others suffered instead of
me," answered Valerie, yielding her hand to
the physician's cordial grasp, but looking

past him to Madame Vacquant, whose face
had hardened at her approach. "How is-
Julian?"
She hesitated a moment before uttering
the name, and then gave it with a softness
which, if Julian could have heard~ he would
certainly have thought quite irresistible.
But his mother's face did not relax. in the
least; and it was the doctor who answered.
"Oh, Julian is doing as well as we could
hope or desire; and, like a gallant knight,
I am surd he does not regret the wound he
incurred in so fair a service "-he thought
it necessary to point this compliment by ~
little bow, "The fracture was a simple one,
and has been well set. As for the insensi-
bility caused by concussion of the brain, that
wrn soon pass off-has, in fact, almost en-
tirely passed off now."
"May-inay I see him now, then I"
"I am sure he will be very much de-
lighted-and I really think he deserves
such a reward," answered the doctor, mov-
ing aside, and laying his hand on the handle
of the door t9 open it for her. But as he
did so, Madai~ue Vacquant interposed.
"Stop," she said. "There must be no
further risks run. Are you sure it is quite
safe for him to be excited by seeing her?"
"Safe! Oh certaluly, certainly," an-
swered the doctor, who had a ~iot uncom-
mon ~enc7uznt for pretty faces in general,
and Miss Aylmer's in particular. Indeed, it
will be the best thing possible to let him
see with~ his own eyes that Miss Aylmer is
all right. "His first question was whether
you were safe," he added, looking at the
young lady; "and I think he was decidedly
incredulous of our replies. Show yourself
to him at least, and his mind will be set at
rest."
Madame Vacquant made no further de-
mur, but when he opened the door, and
Valerie entered the chamber, she only
waited to say a few words and then hastily
followed.
The surgeon who had set the fractured
limb, and one or two servants, were in the
room, but Valerie paid no attention to them.
She walked straight across the floor, and did
not pause until she stood by the richly-
carved and luxurious bed, gazing down on

Bomney's white face-the face whiter by far
than the snowy pillows on which It rested.
He looked almost as if he wera dead, so
rigid and colorless were his features; but
the breath came perceptibly, almost audibly
through the parted lips, and more than once,
while she stood there, a slight convulsion as
of pain passed over the face. The eyelids did
not lift, however; and when at last Valerie
heard the rustle of a woman's dress, and
knew that his mother stood beside her, she
whispered, without turning her head-
"Is he insensible?"
Before Madame Vacquant could answer,
the darkly-fringed lids flew up, and the vio-
let eyes opened full and wide on her face.
For a moment there was almost incredulous
surprise in their gaze-then a smile came
over the pale lips.
"So they told me the truth. You are
quite safe!" he said, faintly.
She knelt down by the bedside and cov-
ered his uninjured hand with both her own.
~kyes, Tam quite safe," she said. "But it
breaks my heart to look at you and think-
it is all my fault."
"No, no," he said, eagerly; "you must
not think that, even for a moment. It is
not your fault, or-or if it was~ it does not
matter. I am not much hurt, and I shall
soon be well again."
"You are suffering now - that is
enough."
"I am not suffering now. I would not
change places at this moment-" he grasped
firmly the hands that were holding his-
"with any one in the world."
He did not try to restrain the passion in
his voice; and, as he spoke, there rushed
over Valerie the recollection of her grand-
father's words a few minutes before: "Take
care that you never inflict a deeper injury
than any you have caused to-day!" At an-
other time she would have known exactly
how to repress any undue exhibition of feel-
ing like this; but now-how could she do
it now? Let him disclaim as he might, she
knew that it was her fault alone that he lay
stricken and injured before her; and to be
cold to one who had suffered and would yet
suffer so much for her wilfulness and ca-
price, was more than she could do. Let us
5

hope that it was more than any woman
could have done.
"I think I shall never forgive myself;"
~he said, aftir a moment's pause. "It is a
mercy that you are alive-a mercy for which
I can never be sufficiently thankful !-and
the horses nearly killed Captain Darcy,
"Darcy! What did he have to do with
them?"
She saw that he knew nothing about her
rescue; and, remembering his jealous dis-
like of Darcy, she felt sorry for having spok-
en of the matter-but it was too late now.
She must go on. He would have to hear
the particulars sooner or later, and he had
better hear them now while she could soft-
en the blow to him.
"Did you not know that he stopped
them?" she asked. "I don't know where
he came from, but he was at the gates, and
-and he stopped them."
"Darcy!"
It was all he said; but a deep flush of
mortified feeling came over his face, and his
eyes closed again. This was the end of it,
then! He had been thrown aside and left
behind, helpless and useless, while Darcy
was the hero of the adventure! On Darcy
fell all the honor and glory of the occasion!
It was hard-it was bitterly hard-and it
seemed all at once to take away even the
consolation of Valerie's presence, and to
give a sharper edge to every throb of pain
in the fractured limb,
With the quickness of her sex, Valerie
read these thoughts, and her own rebellious
chafing against the fate that had made Dar-
cy her rescuer caused her to do more than
comprehend-to sympathize with them. If
all had been equal between the two, in the
way of her personal liking~ she would have
felt most warmly toward the one who had
all the suffering and none of the~glory; but
as it was, her whole heart went out with a
rush in the endeavor to comfort him.
"Captain Darcy was very hard on me,"
she said, softly. "I don't think he will soon,
if ever, forgive me the trouble I cost him.
I-I cannot help wishing that it had been
any one else who chanced to stop the
horses."


88                       VALERIE AYLMER.                                              THOSE WHO DANCE MUST PAY THE PIPER.             67

The violet eyes opened again on her face
-this time full of sadness and pain.
"But he saved your life! And I was
lying, like a helpless log, far away."
"Julian! "
She uttered the name almost involun-
tarily-then smiled at his start, and went
on:
"May I call you that? I almost feel as
if we were blood lFindred, and quite near
enough for it. We~~ulian, I wonder you
can be so foolish. I wonder you can pain
me by mentioning my debt to you, and my
debt to Captain Darcy, in the same breath.
He saved my life, it is true, but he saved it
as he might have saved the life of any stran-
ger who had crossed his path; indeed, not
half so graciously as he would probably have
done that. My obligation to him would
x~ever have been willingly incurred, and is
an unutterable weight to me; while my ob-
ligation to you~-to you, who have suffered,
and are suffering, merely for my'whim-ah,
can I tell you what that is?"
He smiled a little.
"I am afraid I will never win the favor,
though. This-" he glanced toward his in-
jured arm-" does not look much like der-
ring-do."
For an instant, she did not comprehend
him. Then a recnllection of the gay non-
sense they had been talking, just before the
horses put a summary end to their conver-
sation, flashed across her. In a moment her
fingers went up to her throat-the next, a
knot of bright ribbon was lying in his
hand.
It was just at this juncture that the sur-
geon touched the arm of Madame Vacquant,
who~ had walked away from jhe bed and
stood by a window not far off, looking ofit
at the falling snow, with a strange, absent
kind of gaze.
"I am sorry to disturb such an interest-
ing conversation as the one yonder~ seems
to be," he said, with a dry smile; "but I
must really beg you to take the young lady
away. She is exciting our patient too much,
I fear."
Madame Vacquant turned hurriedly.
"I was afraid of that," she said. "It was
Dr. Preston, not I, who let her come in.'

He thought it would set Julian's mind at
rest to see that she was safe."
"S-c'! She was the lady he was driv-
ing?"
"Humph!" said the surgeon; and he
looked round at Valerie, with his quick,.
keen glance. "I could warrant her for
being at the bottom of any harm or mischief
whatever," he thought. Then he said
aloud: "I must beg you to send her away,
at all events. His mind has been set at rest
now, and that is sufficient."
Madame Vacquant needed no further
bidding. She walked forward at once, and
laid her hand on Valerie's shoulder.
"You must go," she said, Without taking
the trouble to soften the command at all.
"Dr. Warner says you are exciting Julian
too much. You must go!"
Julian uttered an exclamation of impa-
tience; but Valerie rose to her feet without
an instant's loss of time.
"I am sorry," she said. "I did not
mean to excite him. Yes, I know I must
go. I only meant to stay a minute," she
added., looking at Romney. "Of course, I
knew it would not do.-You must be quiet,
and oh, do try to 8et better soon: I shall
be so miserable-thinking of your suffer-
ing!"
"I must certainly try to get better soon,
then," he said. "That you should be mis-
erable on account of my sufferings would
double them at least. But you will come
back again-will you not?"
Fortunately, Madame Vacquant gave no
lime for reply to this. She had already
drawn Valerie away, and the young lady-
who even in that moment of excitement had
no idea of forgetting 1e8 eonvenancea far
enough to promise to play romantic nurse
to her wounded knight.-was spared.the dif-
ficulty of expressing a refusal. Before she
knew what she was about, she had left the
room, and was standing in the corridor with
Madame Vacquant. The latter spoke first.
"Excuse me if I was abrupt-but I can-
not run any risk, you know. The doctor
told me to take you away."
"Run any risk! I should think not,
indeed!" said Valerie. And than, for the

first time in her life, she put her arms round
her grandfather's wife and kissed her. "Try
to forgive me," she whispered. "I am so
very sorry."
The tone was full of the most sincere
contrition-all the more sincere, because the
words were so simple-and might have
touched the elder woman, if any thing pos-
sibly could have done so. But her face
scarcely changed by a shade, and, when she
turned and laid her lips on the girl's cheek,
with a light, cold caress, Valerie felt instinc-
tively that the mother's heart was mailed in
steel against her.
"I have nothing to forgive," she said;
"hardly even a right to blame. It was my
fault as much as yours. I should have lis-
tened to Maurice Darcy."
Maurice Darcy! That name seemed des-
tined to meet Valerie at every turn-stab-
bing her with a sharp remembrance of the
discomfiture which she could not help feel-
ing as if she owed to him. In a moment, at
sound of it, all, her softer feelings vanished;
and she drew back, biting her lip.
"Captain Darcy ought to be gratified,"
she said. "Accident chanced to justify his
opinion of the horses, and immediately ev-
erybody exalts him to the highest pedestal
of wisdom and heroism. For my part-"
She stopped short-blushing violently,
despite herself-for Darcy, who had come
down the thickly-carpeted corridor quite
unheard, paused at this moment beside Ma-
dame Vacquant.
At first, Valerie hoped that he had not
caught the tenor of her interrupted speech,
he looked so entirely as usual, so little as he
might have been expected to look, under
the circumstances; but, the next moment,
she saw a 'gleam in his eye that she knew
very well-a gleam, half-amused, half-sa-
tiric-which made her heart sink for very
shame until it could sink no lower. She
knew then that her hope was vain, and
that, although he had presence of mind
enough to suppress any outward tokens of
the fact, he had certainly overheard her.
With this dismaying consciousness pressing
on her-dismaying necessarily, since she
was, at least, thoroughly aware of the ex-
tent of her obligations to the man who had

stood between herself and a horrible death
-it was not wonderful that she was hardly
able to pay any attention to what he said,
that she had only a vague idea of his inqui-
ries about Julian, and his explanation that
he had only just arrived with the thorough-
breds, or that she gave a quick start, when
at last he turned to herself.
"I hope you followed my advice about
the wine, Miss Aylmer? You look very
pale, and this afternoon's work will, I fear
prove to have beentoo much for you."
"I have not taken it yet, but I will go
now and send for it," said Valerie, with
most unusual meekness. Then she bent her
head and hurried away-never once paus-
ing or looking back, until she found herself
safely locked in her own chamber, where,
sitting down in t~he first convenient chair,
she finished at her leisure that salutary fit.
of weeping which M. Vacquanthad tempo-
rarily stopped., When she was aroused..at
last by the first dinner-bell, and, ringing for
Fanchette, sent her down with an excuse
for her own no~i-appearance, even Darcy
might have thought that her pale, tear-
stained countenance looked as if she had
been punished enough.
It is scarcely necessary to dwell on the
convalescence which followed this accident.
After having nearly broken his neck, and
quite broken his arm, Miss Aylmer felt
very truly that she would have been the
most ungracious and ungrateful of human
beings, if she had kept up her intended re-
serve with Romney, or had not endeavored,
by every means in her power, to lighteu the
hours of his captivity. So, when he recov~
ered sufficiently to leave his own oham~
ber, and lie day after day on a broad,
low couch in his mother's private sitting-
room, she set herself studiously to the task
of entertaining him. She read to. him, sang
te him, talked to him, with an aZ.encZez&amp;
which came of her self-reproach and desire
to make atonement, but which was so
charming in itself that it might well have
turned an older and a wiser head. Natu-
rally, therefore, it turned Romney's. l~Tat-
urally, also, they grew to be very intimate
with one another, to exercise the right of


THOSE WHO DANCE MUST FAY THE FIPER.              69

68                       VALERIE AYLMER.

tutolA'nent which their near connection
gave, to glide from amusement into senti-
ment, and from sentiment into-neither of
them very well knew what, without anybody
taking the trouble to interfere or reprove.
Madame Vacquant of course saw what
was going on, but it is not uncharitable to
suppose that it tallied too exactly with her
own wishes for her to desire, far less to at-
tempt, any disturbance of the work of fate
-while, as for M. Vacquant, he had deliv-
ered himself of one warning, and, man-like,
he thought that would prove sufficient. In-
deed, as far as regarded any serious dan-
ger, he was wholly blind. In his eyes, his
granddaughter was peerless, and his step-
son a pretty, spoiled boy. That the latter
should like the former was, of course, to be
expected, and that the former should en-
courage the liking was, perhaps, excusable,
considering that it is the nature of women
to be foolish; but of any serious conse-
quences to their manifest flirtation, he nev-
er once dreamed. If anybody had hinted
such a thing, he would indeed have been
simply incredulous. There was a great
deal of the gs'and .seigneus' about him, and
he could not, or did not, realize that mat-
ters had changed ~in These latter days, and,
with manners, many other things that he
had been trained to reverence. He had
received one sharp lesson in his life about
attempting to carry out his noldeaee-oilige
theory in all its bearings, and to force a
woman's inclination where it had no mind
to go; but, as is too often the case, this les-
son had not made him wiser. He was
ready and anxious to play the same part
over again with his granddaughter, that he
had already played without success, in the
case of his sister. He remembered how
women were trained in France to take the
husband which competent authority pro-
vided for them, and to love, honor, and
obey, exactly that person who seemed most
desirable to the head of the house; and he
was still unable to realize the different
canon that regulated another country. It
seemed good to him that Valerie should
marry Maurice Darcy, and he could not
credit any possible objection on her part.
It was true that they were within the for-

bidden degrees of kindred, but, with all the
weighty reasons for an alliance taken into
consideration, he was sure that they could
easily obtain a dispensation; and, in every
other respect, the plan was unimpeachable.
It was also true that be had been a good
deal surprised and somewhat shocked to
hear Valerie declare that she "despised"
and "hated" this desirable parti; but then,
she had spoken in a moment of excitement,
and .some faint remembrance of the manner
in which the wise old Vicar of Wakefield
read backward his daughter's expressed
opinions, floating through M. Vacquant's
remembrance, he had hoped that even these
unpromising expressions might be favor-
ably construed. A woman's dislike, any-
how, he felt inclined to shrug his shoulders
over as a mere liagatelle. Valerie was
spoiled, and Maurice was rather uncom-
promising-that was all I They would get
on all the better for the difference; indeed,
La petite sadly needed a little control, a lit-
tle wholesome awe of somebody to keep
her caprice and coquetry in check.
This was the manner in which M.
Vacquant reasoned, and the manner in
which, almost unconsciously, he consoled
himself for his granddaughter's perverse
mode of co~iduct. It was true that she and
Darcy rarely noticed each other at all, and
never without eliciting some clang or jar of
feeling; and it was also true that, day by
day, Romney advanced to a closer degree
of privileged intimacy with her-but still
M. Vacquant was aware that he had an-
nounced his sovereign will and pleasure;
and, therefore, although this nonsense
might be a rather dangerous amusement,
he could not bring himself to the serious
contemplation of any serious harm oc-
curring from it. Nevertheless, it sudden-
ly one 'lay occurred to hin i that he might
as well enlighten Darcy concerning the
matrimonial project of which as yet the
latter was profoundly ignorant, and, with
him, action was not slow upon resolve. In
the course of an hour he had called lfau-
rice into the library and made his an~
announcement rather grandiosely than other-
wise. To his utter amazement, it was met
by a short and decisive refusal.

"I suppose you mean kindly, sir," the
latter said, "but, once for all, the thing is
impossible. Once for all, I must earnestly
request that my name may not be considered
in connection with your future testamentary
arrangements-much less, considered with
reference to any such plan as this. Were I
ten times as poor a man as I am, I should not
desire a woman who accepted me, or whom
I accepted, as a mercenary compromise I
You need not start, sir; I do Miss Aylmer
the justice to believe that she would repudi-
ate the idea as quickly as I, and I would
quite as soon put my hand in the fire as to
insult her by such a proposition."
M. Vacquant bit his lip angrily, and per-
haps at that moment felt little inclination to
say that General Aylmer had not spoken as
if his granddaughter would be insulted by
such a proposition.
"You are exciting yourself unnecessa-
rily," he said, coldly. "I have little inten-
tion of forcing either my fortune or my
granddaughter on an unwilling recipient of
either, As for mercenary compromise-
that is quite a novelesque phrase; but I con-
fess I don't understand it in its present ap-
plication. Nothing was further from my in-
tention than forcing anybody's inclination.
I paid you the compliment of thinking yon
might please Valerie if you chose to try, and
s/ia has certainly proved fascinating to men
as wise as yourself."
"Pardon me," Darcy said, a little con-
tritely. "I suppose I did speak more warm-
ly than occasion demanded-it is a bad fault
of mine-but I have neither taken, nor
meant to gh~e, offence. Indeed, how could
I be otherwise than grateful for your con-
sideration of me? I only meant what I
now repeat with more humility than pride
-it is impossible. Your kindness blinds you
to the insurmountable obstacles opposing
~uch a plan."
"What obstacles? ~7 his uncle asked,
sharply. This plan had lain so long near
to his heart, that the disappointment was
keen to him.
"There are many; but two will suffice,"
Darcy answered, quietly. "In the first
place, you are mistaken in thinking that I
could ever please Miss Aylmer. Were I

ready to-day for the r6le of Suitor, I would
play to no purpose, as far as she is concerned.
I do her only justice when I say that not
even the glamour of an inheritance could
make her look favorably upon me. In
the second place, yon must pardon me if
this sounds ungracious - I should never
choose Miss Aylmer out of the world of
women as my wife. Perhaps, the fault lies
in my own insensibility-since, as you say,
wiser and better *men than I have found
her fascinating; but I scarcely think I shall
ever choose. any woman half so fatally
tempted by the dower of beauty."
"This is the first time that I ever heard
a man-and a painter to boot-quarrel with
a woman's good looks."
"It is not the looks I quarrel with, sir~
but the use made of them."
"Ab, she is something of a coquette; but
what pretty woman is not? And matrimo-
ny is a sure cure for the worst cases of
that."
"Do you think so? My experience goes
rather the other way. At least~ I should
have neither patience nor inclination to play
Petruchio to a Kate who flirted instead of
scolded. I think~ indeed, that of the two
I would prefer the shrew, since she, at least,
would not play fast and loose with-but,
once more, it is doing Miss Aylmer a great
wrong to bring her name, even indirectly,
into such a discussion. Don't think me
churlish, sir, when I beg you to draw up
your will without any reference to me; and
assure you, indeed, that the only favor you
can do me, is to leave my name out of it.
Now let us consider the matter finally ~t an
end."
"If it must be "-began M. Vacquant,
with a sigh.
"It must, indeed," said the other, firmly.
"And now, if you will allow me to ask one
question: has Miss Aylmer heard of this
plan?"
The old Frenchman hesitated; but in all
his threescore years he had never know-
ingly spoken a falsehood, so, after a pause, he
answered in the affirmative, adding, "Why
do you ask?~~
"Only because I would like to disabuse
her of a false impression as far as I am con-


'go                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                     A DECLARATION-NOT OF LOVE.                  71

earned," his nephew answered. "I would
have set her mind at ease some time since
by assuring her that' she had nothing to
fear from my rivalry in your good graces,
but that it seemed scarcely worth while to
take the trouble, as I am leaving so soon."
At 'these words, M. Vacquant's face fell
suddenly and strangely. "Leaving!" he
repeated. "So you are going to torment
me with that cry again. I think it very
hard that you should treat me soMaurice!
-very hard indeed, that you cannot spare
me a few xiionths without continually agi-
tating this subject. What is the matter that
you cannot stay here, at least until spring?"
"You forget, sir, that this is an idle life,
and that I am far from being an idle man;
that I have, indeed, to make my bread by the
labor of my hand."
'"I have offered, again and again, to re-
move that necessity from you."
"I remember that gratefully, but y6u
must indulge me in the obstinacy which pre-
fers to retain it."
"Paint here, then !-what is 'to prevent
your painting here?"
"Nothing to prevent my painting; but~
a great deal to prevent my remaining here.
You surely forget that your own claim is a
new one, and a slight one, compared to the
other which is calling me away."
"No, I don't forget it," said M. Yac-
quant, in a voice which subdued itself at
once; "' but then, Maurice-you cannot say
he needs you."
A sort of wistful look swept over the
face at which he gazed, and sudden tender-
ness softened the gray eyes, making them
almost beautiful.
"I need him," he said, softly, as if to
himself. Then he turned to leave the room,
but paused againin the door. "I fear I have
notthanked you for yonrkin~Iness as I should
have done," he said. "But pray. don't let
my bruaques'ie make you forget that I do
thank you,' that I am very grateful for the
affection you are kind enough to express
for me, and that I hope to see you choose a
better heir t~ian I should be. I was never
made for a rich man, and the burden of
wealth would ill become me. Now I am
going down to my studio; if you say so, I

can call and see Payne about those stocks
he wants you to invest in. Shall I tell him
no, as decidedly as he deserves?"
"As decidedly as you please."
The next moment, the firm, steady foot-
step died away along the hall, and M. Yac-
cjuant leaned back in his chair, a very with-
ered and old-looking man, sighing bitterly.
"So he puts tkat atonement out of, my
power," be said, half aloud. "Well, then,
there is only the other. It is very bitter-
very bitter-but I suppose that is part of
my burden. Atonement! -restitution! -
easy words for priests to say; but whe
among them all can mark the way to fulfil-
ment?"
-4---
CHAPTER VII.
A DEOLAHATION-NOT or ~ovz.
WHILE this discussion had been progress-
ing in the library below, another of quite
a different order was going on in Madame
Vacquant's sitting-room above; was indeed
still at its height when, hearing Darcy's step
on the corridor outside, the lady opened the
~door and invited him to enter.
He complied, more for lack of a ready
excuse to decline than for any other reason;
yet the picture presented to his gaze was
pretty enough to have tempted almost any
~one to enter for the mere sake of admiring
it at a closer point of view. Through the
half-open door he had something more than
a glimpse of the room within-the room
~over whose luxurious and elegant appoint-
ments Madame Vacquant's taste reigned
supreme-and he saw, with something of
the effect of a stereoscopic picture, the
graceful furniture, the white statues, and
the gleaming picture-frames, as they were
relieved by the rich toning of the carpet
and walls. There was nothing heavy, noth-
ing out of keeping or out of taste, in the
apartment, but an indescribable harmony
and cheerfulness pervaded all its ai'range-
ments; the latter, in part at least, owing to
the bright flood of golden sunshine which
was pouring through a large bay-window
filled with plants, until it resembled a small

conservatOry, in the midst of which a canary
was trilling loudly from its gilded cage.
Near the window the piano stood, and at
the piano Miss Aylmer sat, half-turned aside
from the key-board, but with the sheets of
music plentifully scattered about, proving
what her occupation had been, while, in a
deep chair by the side, of the instrument,
Romney reclined, his arm still hanging use-
less in a sling of crimson silk, which became
him wonderfully, and his whole air one ofauch
intense listlessness that IDarcy set it down
unhesitatingly to the score of affectation.
He modified this judgment a little, however,
when his first step in the room brought its
warm air heavy-laden with fragrance rush-
ing over him; and he was on the point of
entering a protest against the injurious
effects of over-heated apartments, when
Madame Vacquant anticipated him by
speaking.
"Do, Maurice, see if ~on can bring this
perverse boy to hear reason. Valerie and I
are 'going down-street, and he insists on ac-
companying us. Now, you know that will
never do! The doctor-"
"Au dialile with the doctor!" inter-
rupted Julian, impatiently. "Really, I am
tired of his very name, though of course he
would have nothing to say in a matter of
this kind. Indeed, why should he? He je
a sensible man, though nobody would think
so who listened to you, mamma. It has
been three weeks since this con-trouble-
some arm was l~roken; and I should have
been out a week ago, but that I was too
lazy, and home was too pleasant."
"You did well to stay," said Valerie.
"I give you fair warning you lose all your
invalid privileges as soon as you cease to be
an invalid."
"Now, you are trying to frighten me
into good\ behavior," answered he, languid-
ly. "Bul I flatter myself that your words
are harder than your resolution. At all
events, I mean to go down-street with you
to-day."
"When I tell you that I don't want you?"
C~ Yes-for once-even when you tell me
that you do not want me."
"I have a mind to stay at home myself,
then."

"IDol We shall practise that duct from
Romeo ~ Giulietta so charmingly!"
"Indeed, you need not fancy any thing
of the kind. If I remains it wrn only be to
shut myself up by myself, until Madame
Yacquant returns."
"You see how she rules me," said Juli-
an, throwing himself back in his chair, with
an. air of mock resignation. "I am a lion
led by a thread; I shall soon have no more
volition left than-.--than a puppet 1-Darcy,
can't you say a word for me?"
"There is really not the least reason
why he should not go," said Darcy, turning
to Madame Vacquant. "He speaks very
truly when he says that he might have gone
a week ago."
"But the day," she said, hesitatingly.
"It is so cold!"
Maurice shrugged his shoulders, with a
laugh.
"I never heard of a fractured limb suf-
fering on account of the depression of the
thermometer," he said, good-humoredly.
"Besides, it is not in any unpleasant degree."
"And you think there is positively no
danger?"
"Positively, not the least."
"Then, Valerie, we had better get
ready," she said, turning to that young
lady.-" Maurice, if you are going down-
street, you may as well wait for us. You
can afford to do so, since we are going to
walk; and-we are going to see your pic-
ture."
Darcy could not repress~ a slight start.
"My picture!" he repeated.
"Yes, your picture. Ah, you may well
look detected and'ashamed to think that all
the city should be talking of it' before we-
your own friends and relations-ever even
heard of its existence."
"It was only placed on exhibition yes-
tei~day," he said, apologetically. "Of
course, I meant toask you to si~e it-if you
cared to do so. But I don't understand-
how did you hear of it?"
"flow did we hear of it! Have you not
seen the Gazette this morning?"
~ She turned round, and, taking up a copy
of he paper from a table near at hand, fold-

I


72                       VALERIE AYLMER.                                                  A DECLARATION-NOT OF LOVE.                 73

ed down the sheet at a particular place, and,
pointing to the head of the paragraph, hand-
ed it to him. He took it in some surprise-
surprise which perceptibly increased when
he saw not less than a column of printed
matter devoted to a critical and judicious
notice of the picture concerning which Ma-
dame Vacquant had just spoken. He flushed
slightly, as one whom praise has taken una-
wares, glanced his eye down over the terse,
well-written sentences, and then looked up
half-laughingly.
"This is some of Thornton's work," he
said; "I recognize his tricks of the pen,
and-there is no one else who would be half
so flattering."
"Mr. Thornton is the best art-critic in
the city," said Madame Vacquant, who was,
when she chose, the best flatterer in the city.
"If he is the writer of that article, of course
there is no question of its correctness."
"That does not exactly follow," said
Darcy, smiling; "for he took a fancy to this
picture before it was finished; and so is fair-
ly ~hargeable with partiality toward it. He
is a good art-critic, though," he went on;
"for besides being a brilliant writer, he. is
as thoroughly trained and cultivated, in an
artistic sense, as a man can be with regard
to a thing which is not the pursuit of his
life. His criticism is always judicious, and
his praise is worth having, because he knows
what to praise, and how to praise it-which
is ~nore than can be said for nine-tenths of
the scribblers who display their ignorance
even more conspicuously than they display
their ill-nature in every thing relating to art
or artists."
"It is evident that Achilles has been
touched on the heel in the past, if not in the
present," said Julian, with his ready sneer,
aside to Valerie.
"You are mistaken," said Darcy, whose
ears were of the quickest, and who often
discomfited people by overhearing things
which were not intended for him. "I have
never suffered much from criticism, because
I have never been eminent enough to pro-
voke it-but in the little which I have
known, I cannot remember to have ever
been even momentarily resentful of any
thing that was just. Besides, I am thick-

skinned, I suppose-at least I am singularly
indifferent to the praise or blame of these
mouth-pieces of the COUflOSeenti. l3ut I have
seen other and more sensitive natures suffer
so keenly from their cut-and-thrust attacks,
that I have learned to rate them as they' de-
serve to be rated, and to remember that
lions are sometimes stung to death by gnats."
"Yet, if I were an artist, I do not think
I should mind them," said Valerie, looking
up. "If I had the consciousness of genius
to support me, they might sa'y and do their
worst. I would fight my way to fame by a
longer, but a surer road; for, after all, it is
the public, and not the critics, who build up
an enduring renown.~~
"It was the public, perhaps, in the days
when Cimabue painted his Madonnas, and
when all Florence made a grand holiday,
and strewed flowers in his path," answej~ed
Darcy; "but it is not the public in this age,
and least of all, in this country. Even in
the old-cultured centres of art, the critics
lead opinion: here, they simply make it. If
every one is not of the same mind with re-
gard to a work of art, it is only because their
oracles sometimes disagree, not because they
take the liberty of judging for themselves
concerning its merits."
"How very flattering you are!"
"Am I? Then it was quite uni~ten-
tionally; for I did not think there could be
flattery, or the reverse, in merely stating an
admitted fact. The general rule in Ameri-
ca is a want of artistic culture. But there
is no general rule without exceptions; and,
judging from my own experience, I should
think these exceptions quite numerous."
"Judging from the Gazette this morning,
perhaps you mean?"
"No: for I regard this more as the kind-
ness of a friend than the decision of ~ critic.
As I said before, however, I am very indif-
ferent-too indifferent, I fear-to things of
this kind. I work out a conception to the
best oP-my ability, according to the manner
in which it is given me; more than that I
cannot do, at the bidding of all the critics
who ever wrote. When I first began to use
a brush-and that was as soon as I could
use any thing-I chose for my own the mot-
to of Van Eyck. You may remember it?"

"I don't think I do."
"It is 'Ale i/o kan!'-'T'll do my best!'
Having done my best, I ciin afford to care
very little for what is said of my efforts. I
am grateful for praise, especially intelligent
praise ~~-his eye glanced toward the paper
in his hand-" but I do not work to gain it.
I am quite unmoved by fault-finding, be it
ever so severe."
It was evident that he meant in the full-
est sense all the words that he uttered; in-
deed, looking at him as he uttered them,
nobody could have doubted the fact. It is
either the intensely self~distrustful, or the
intensely vain, who are easily affected by
the outside influences of which he spoke;
and, plainly, this man was neither the one
nor the other. He was too firmly self-reli-
ant for the first; too proud, in the best sense
of the word, for the second. Not one of the
three people listening to him had any cor-
dial liking for him in their hearts; y'et each
one of them was forced into a belief of his
sincerity, and a half-reluctant admiration of
his simple, earnest creed-the creed so far
removed from the morbid sensitiveness and
overweening self-consciousness which is so
often the curse of genius. that it has grown
to be recognized as one of its distinguishing
characteristics. True, Julian curled his lip
and shrugged his shoulders, as he would
have done if Raphael himself had spoken;
but even he felt the presence of something
which had the ring of reality in it, and no-
body spoke until Madame Vacquant at last
said, lightly:
"You shame us all, my dear Maurice;
for there are few people nowadays who
take life or any thing about life in this spirit.
It is terrible to consider. how frivolous and
skeptical we have become; and how the
taint of cynicism is in every thing we do or I
say. As for you-you ~houh1 have been
born in the twelfth instead of the nineteenth I
century! You would have suited that ex- I
aetly."
"You pay him a high compliment," said.
Valerie. Then she turned abruptly to Dar-
cy. "Of course, you have read Montalem- I
bert's 'St. Elizabeth,' have you not?"
"Yes-long ago."
"And of course you remember and ad- ~

mire-who does not ?-the matchless intro-
duction, in which he gives a living, breath-
ing picture of that age of faith where Ma-
dame Vacquant would place you?"
"Yes," he said, a little wonderingly.
"Well," said the young lady, rising as
she spoke, and moving toward the door,
which she opened, "I agree with her. I
think you ought to have lived then. I think
you would have suited that period. But I
don't think you suit, or are likely to suit,
the age of to-day."
The door closed in a way that gave em-
phasis to her last words, and effectually cut
off all chance of reply, if Darcy had been
disposed to make any. lie was by this time
used to Miss Aylmer's little amenities, so he
only smiled, and then turned to Madame
Vacquant.
"I am sorry to be obliged to hurry you,
madame, but I have an engagement down-
street in the course of the next hour or so,
and I should not like to break it."
"I should not like you to break it on my
account, certainly," answered the lady. "I
will be ready in a few minutes."
She, in turn, left the room; and then,
while Darcy was glancing his eye over Mr.
Thornton's art critique, Julian roused him-
self from the depths of his chair and the
depths of his languor sufficiently to say:
"I suppose I ought to go too. This"
looking down at his velvet morning-coat-
"is not exactly en re~gle for Charles Street.
What a deuce of a trouble it is-the contin-
ual dressing and undressing to which civil-
ized humanity is doomed! If I ever commit
suicide, it will certainly be from sheer wea-
riness on this account. Darcy, my good fel-
low, I wonder if the sight of your picture
will prove a sufficient reward foZ~ the exer-
~ion that lies before me?"
"I don't wonder any thing about it-I
know it will not," answered Darcy, careless-
y. "I hope you are net so foolish as to be
;oing down to see my picture, Romney."
"I am, though-and why not?"
"Because I doubt if you would be repaid
or the walk by a master-piece of Oorreggio
-and I am sure you will iuot be any thing
sear repaid by the inspection of my handi.-
york."


74                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                  A DECLARATION-NOT OF LOVE.                75

"Don't you like it?"
"Of course I like it.. In fact it is one of
the few things I have ever painted, that sat-
isfies me as much as one can be satisfied by
one's own execution, I suppose. But you
won't like it."
"Why not? Is it pre-Ilaphaelite?"
Darcy laughed andshruggedhis shoulders.
"No: I was infected with the ~Ruskin
fever when I was a much younger man, and
there has been time enough for the madness
to partially subside; but it is not according
to flegel and Schelling either, and the ab-
sence of the Dftsseldorf element will be a
much graver fault in your eyes than the
presence of any amount of pre-Raphaclitism,
I s~ispcct."
"I trust I am not hopelessly biased in
my admiration or my views."
"Most of us are, I think. But here is
Miss Aylmer, and your coat yet unchanged."
'Romney started, for, truly enough, the
door had opened, and Miss Aylmer in full
walking costume stood before him. He
rose hastily, made the best excuse he could
muster, and went hurriedly to perform his
obnoxious toilet duties, while the young
lady came forward with an air too negligent
t~ have been quite natural.
"Pray don't put down your paper," she
said, as Darcy laid aside the Gazette. "I
am going straight to the piano-I always do
when I am waiting-and I won't disturb
you in the least. I know how provoking it
is to he disturbed, especially when one is
pleasantly engaged."
Whatever Darcy's other social short-
comings, want of tact was certainly not one
of them. Some men would have been fool-
ish enough to have persisted in laying aside
the paper, and in forcing the fact of their
presence upon a reluctant companion; but
this man 'was never one to fall into such a
vulgar error. On the contrary, he took up
the Gazette again, and,'with a quiet bend of
the head in acknowledgment of the lady's
consideration, devoted himself to the polit-
ical-intelligence column with very edifying
assiduity, while she sat down to the piano
and amused herself with modulating the
soft chords and harrnonieus of the "Conso-
lation I,'

They were still t~te-d-t6te in this in-
teresting' fashion when Madame Yacquant
came back, and, Julian soon after following,
they set forth.
Of course, there was no hesitation about
the order of march. The elder lady took
quiet but undisputed possession of Darcy,
and entertained him with high-art criti-
cisms and Huskin quotations down the whole
length of Charles Street, to the very door
of that charming place of resort which was
popularly known as "French's," and official-
ly as the "Art Emporium." Here Horn-
ney suddenly excused himself. "Since I
have come thus far," he said, "I might as
well go a little farther, and see one or two
troublesome people on a troublesome matter
of business. I will be back in about half an
hour. I suppose you wrn have exhausted
your raptuyes by that time, and I can ad-
mire the picture at my leisure."
He lifted his hat-bowed-smiled-van-
ished-while the others, by no means dis-
consolate at his departure, entered the se-
rene and somewhat dim region (it would be
sacrilege to call it a shop), the popularity
of which as a lounging resort needed no ex-
planation after a ~ingle glance at the vista
of beauty which opened at once on the gaze.
It speaks well for the taste of the multitude
that, provided they can obtain the luxury
free of cost, they always like to be sur-
rounded by things that embody the beau-
tiful; and that, even in a community which
is substantially unheedful and unappreciative
of art, any gallery thrown open to the public
is sure of being wellpatronized by sight-seers.
Wise legislators and wise philanthropists,
knowing this, provide such places of resort,
and so, by indirect means, educate the pop.
ular taste, and, by slow degrees, bring into
the barren popular life some of the soften-
ing and grace that comes alone of beauty
as we know it in art; but, such legislators
and such philanthropists being rarer than
precious jewels in America~ the careless
majority, as well as the art-loving minority,
are fair to content themselves with and be
grateful for such substitutes as this "Em-'
porium" of Mr. French. Yet there have
been worse ones, even in an artistic sense
It was certainly a beautiful place-a place

where pictures~in gleaming frames rose tier
after tier on the walls; where groups of
statuary, in all their white motionless grace,
met the eye on every side; where alabaster
vases and Parian statuettes abounded; and
where there were always to be found the
finest specimens of marqueterie and the
rarest trifles of vert~&amp; that enterprise could
command or wealth obtain - a place, too,
where the real connoisseur was always cer-
tain of being able to find good paintings at
terms not-well, not extravagant. If Mr.
French demanded a good price for a good
thing, it was no more than he had an un-
doubted right to do; and people who spent
their annual thousands on dresses and horses
and jewels, had the grace not to grumble
overmuch at the necessity of paying a few
hundreds now and then for the privilege of
hanging a picture worth calling a picture
on their walls-especially since they knew
that these hundreds would go to the artist,
and not to the convenient agent who trans-
acted the business and pocketed the profits.
From this well-known and very common
character Mr. French was indeed as com-
pletely distinct as it is possible to imagine
two things. He was far less dealer, than
gentleman, far less merchant than liberal
patron and lover of ttrt. In his eyes, the
laborer was always worthy of his hire; and
no artist had ever known him buy a picture
for one price and triple or quadruple the
amount when he sold it to some wealthy
dilettant. "Fair profits are one thing," he
was accustomed to say, "and gross robbery
is quite another. I would as soon steal a
man's purse as to buy his picture for a song
and sell it for a fortune." And no one had
ever been able to say'that these principles
belied themselves. On the contrary, he had
made mat~y a noble outlay, and done many
a generous deed which his right hand-
that is, the world-never suspected, but
which those wham he benefited not only
knew, but remembered so well, that his
praises were sounded far ani wide among
the genial art' brotherhood.
Groups of people were loitering about,
admiring various pictures, criticizing various
statuettes, moving softly, and speaking with
the well-modulated voice of well-bred con-

versation, when the two ladies attended by
Darcy entered. They did not pause, how-
ever, but passed directly up a flight of stairs
to a room above-a room that was evidently
the adytum of this sanctuary of art. It could
not have been called a gallery, for it was of
moderate size, finished with the simple ele-
gance of a drawing-room, and containing
only three or four pictures, together with a
beautiful marble group which occupied the
centre of the floor. But even a tyro's glance
would have seen at once that each of the
three or four pictures were works of the
highest excellence, and the names attached
were of world-wide fame; yet none of them
at present occupied the place of honor-a
position at the head of the room where the
light fell broad, and full from a carefully-
toned sky-window-this was reserved for
the new painting, before which an attentive
group were standing when the three entered.
"Pray, let us wait until those people go,"
said Valerie, sinkiri~ down on a divan. "If
there is one thing I detest more than an-
other, it is looking at a picture over half a
dozen shoulders."
"I am rather tired, and a rest will be
pleasant," said Madame Yacquant,. follow-
ing her example.-" Maurice, don't let us de-
tain you. I see Mr. French wants to speak
to you.~~
She gave a gracious bow to the pleasant-
faced, gentlemanly man, who came forward
from the group aforesaid, and drew Darcy
aside; then sank back, and devoted her-
self to a landscape opposite, until the knot
of people passed from before the picture,
and, with a few last words to Darcy~ Mr.
French accompanied them from the room.
Then Maurice came forward. A value man,
or a man more distrr~stful of his own powers,
might have been fluttered by the ordeal be~
fore him; but he only smiled quietly, as he
said:
"Will you both come and tell me what
you think of my work?"
They both came and stood before it-.
each secretly steeled against admiration.
This was what they saw:
A deep woodland glade-~--a sort of delI it
seemed-in the' heart of an almost tropical
forest. Save f~r the want of sufficient depth

I


VALERIE AYLMER.

A DECLARATION-NOT OF LOVE.

of coloring, and the lack of gorgeous para-
sites, the character of the scenery might
have been identified with that of Mexico or
Brazil, but as it was-with the fresh, eme-
rald verdure, the familiar forms of the well-
known forest - trees, the graceful swinging
creepers, and, farther back, the long, draping
gray moss that gave its only funereal aspect
to the scene-there was no mistaking the
royal forest that, with little break or change
of character, clothes our fair land, from the
Potomac to the Rio Grande; deepening only
in luxuriance and beauty as it sweeps down
from the green Carolina hills to the golden
sands of the Mexic Gulf. Far back into
dim distance stretched awall of liv~ig green,
*but the foreground of the picture was en-
tirely occupied by the nook that formed an
island in the midst of this ocean of tangled
verdure. Here the light fell soft and dim
through the shade of overhanging boughs,
and the short turf was green and smooth as
any garden lawn; here, also, it was evident
that the artist had striven to embody the
exuberant fullness of rejoicing with which
Nature sometimes breaks forth, filling all
inanimate creation with that pulse of joy
which thrilled it on the creation morning.
The spring that bubbled up between the
roots of a giant live-oak, the graceful wil-
low that bent to touch the stream, as it glided
away, the flowering vines that fringed its
course, the large moss-covered stones, the
fresh, emerald grass, the golden sunbeams
that glinted and quivered down through the
thick canopy of leaves, the bright-eyed bird
that arched its dainty neck to drink a fairy
draught of water, even the lizard that sunned
itself luxuriously on a fallen log-had all been
touched by a brush that lingered lovingly
and carefully over eac~i detail. And, in the
midst of this glad and lavish loveliness, there
lay stretched the dead figure of a soldier-
thrown as if in the careless grnce of slumber
beside the stream. There were no signs of
strife to mar the sylvan quiet, no trampled
grass, nor bloody tokens of mortal hate, and
deadly carnage-only the overflowing vi-
tality of Nature in contrast with the man
who, like a wounded hart, had crept to this
covert to die-only Life mocking the still
presence of Death. The uniform was that of

a private in the Confederate army- the
worn and faded gray-but no roughness of
costume could conceal the fact that it was a
gentleman who had lain down there to die.
There was not a personal mark that did not
tell the story of gentle blood and gentle rear-
ing. The slender build of form, the finely.
tapering extremities, the white and delicate
hand thrown up over the soft, silken curls,
and the clear, handsome outline of face (the
gazer could almost ~ee the gray death-shade
stealing over it, and feel how proud and
beautiful those dark eyes must have been be-
fore the long lashes fell over them forever),
were all eloquent of culture, hereditary as
well as personal. One glove lay on the
grass, and near it the soldier's overturned
cup; while, farther away, the carbine rested
where it had dropped from the failing grasp.
The other clinched hand held a handker-
chief to the ghastly wound upon the chest,
from which a dark-red tide poured on the
velvet mosses; and over the whole picture
brooded a pathos unutterable. Few eyes
could have looked on it undimmed, and it
was not strange that, after a moment, Vale-
rie was raining a shower of tears beneath
her veil, while even Madame Vacquant was
subdued and silent. When she did at last
speak, it was in that hushed tone which in-
voluntarily we adopt in a death-chamber,
for truly it seemed more as if the reality
than the shadow was present here.
"Maurice, it is beautiful-it is wonder-
full I almost feel as if the poor fellow had
just died before me! But what is the name
of it?"
"Missing," he answered, briefly,
"Nothing more?"
"Nothing more."
"What more would you have?" asked
Valerie, speaking with an effort. "Only
it reminds me of something-I scarcely
know what."
"Perhaps I can tell you,7~ said Darcy,
with a smile. "Is it not of an anony-
mous poem which appeared during the war
under that title? I thought it exquisite;
and it suggested this to me."
"Yes-I remember now," she said.
And then in a low voice, often broken, she
repeated two verses:

"'In the cool, sweet hush of a wooded nook,
where the May-buds sprinkle the green old sward,
And the winds, and the birds, and the limpid brook,
Mingle their strains with a drowsy sound,
Who lies so still in the plushy moss-
His pale face pressed on a grassy pillow-
Just where the light and the shadows cross,
In the flickering fringe of the willow-
Who lies, alas!
So still, so chill, in the whispering grass?
"'A soldier clad In Zonave dress,
A bright-haired man, with his lips apart?
Onehand thrownup o'er the frank, dead face,
The other clutching his pulseless heart,
Lies here in the shadows cool and dim,
His musket swept by a trailing bough,
Withi~ careless grace in each quiet limb-
But a wound on the manly brow-
Awound, alas?
Whence the warmbl3od drips on the quiet grass I ~
After that, they were silent a long
time.
Finally, however, Madame Vacquant
looked at her watch, and said that she must
go. She remembered a dozen things she
wanted, and especially that she meant to
look in at Easter's, and see if it was possi-
ble to find there a piece of velvet that
matched her purple silk. She turned to
Miss Ayjmer.
"Valerie, will you come? We can leave
a message with Mr. French, telling Julian
where to find us."
"I believe I would rather remain, if you
will excuse me," said Valerie. "Easter's
is farther down, is it not? Then you call
for me on your return. I have not seen:
half enough of this picture yet."
She kept her seat on the sofa that Darcy
had wheeled forward, with evidently not
the least intention of stirring; so Madame
Vacquant looked at Maurice. "Do you
stay too?" she asked, a little significantly.
Before he could reply, Valerie answered
promptly:
"No. I would not think of keeping Cap-
tam Darcy. Pray take him with you, for it
cannot be very interesting to sit and look at
one's own picture."
"More interesting than you would im-
agine," he said, with a laugh; but he add-
ed, turning to Madame Vacquant: "Of
course I am at your service for Easter's or
elsewhere."
She accepted the offer very graciously,

and they left the room together. Then
Valerie leaned back with a deep sigh of re-
lief, and, resting her cheek on her hand,
looked steadily at the canvas before her-
looked until the lines wavered and grew
dim, and the pale, handsome face of the
dead soldier seemed resting in a mist. She
had only just raised her hand to dash away
the obtrusive tears, when a familiar step
made her turn quickly, and she faced Darcy,
who was entering the room.
Perhaps she did not care to dissemble
her not-very-well-pleased surprise. Her first
words were:
"I thought you accompanied Madame
Vacquant."
"Madame Vacquant was kind enough
to dispense with my attendance," he said.
"She found Mrs. Jennings down-stairs, and
they have gone together, after agreeing that
I would doubtless make but a poor appraiser
of silks and laces. So I came back-glad to
find you still alone."
Now, in the course of her life, a great
many people, at a great many different
times, had been glad to find Valerie alone;
so that the formula was quite a familiar one
to her ears. But it was certainly the last
she had ever expected to hear from Maurice
Darcy. Of course she did not misunderstand
him, or fancy, for a moment, that whatever
he wished with her could bear a tender sig-
nificance; but still, all things considered, it
was scarcely wonderful that the large eyes
opened in her astonishment.
~ she said. "Of course I am still
alone. Did you expect to find any one with
me?"
"No," he answered, with his cool, quiet
smile, which she never exactly understood,
and therefore never exactly fancied. "But,
luck favors me so seldom-and this is luck
-that I can afford to be incredulous when
there does come a manifestation. May I sit
down? I have something to say to you
which I hope will not take very long; but
one may as well talk at one~s ease."
She bent her head a little, and swept
back her flowing draperies, so as to leave the
other end of the divan clear; then she said
carelessly:
"I confess I am at a loss to imagine

I,


U'1

VALERIE AYLMER.

A DECLARATION-NOT or LOVE~

what you can possibly have to say to me in
-in this way."
"You would hardly be likely to guess,"
he said, with another flitting smile. "it is
seldom, I fancy, that you have been enter-
tained by matters so prosaic as legacies and
rights of inheritance. Nay, you need not
start~"-she had started very perceptibly-
"I will not bore you if I can help it."
But here she interrupted him, her face
flushing slightly:
"I don't. know that you need trouble
yourself to explain any thing, Captain Dar-
cy. I already understand 'the nature of our
conflicting claims, and, if the matter at all
rested with me, would be perfectly willing
to waive mine-but it does not do so.
Grandpapa alone can decide about his fu-
hire arrangements; and you must excuse
me if I decline entering into a discussion
from which no good can possibly ensue."
She spoke in her usual clear, silvery
tone, fluently and without hesitation. Dar-
cyheard her to the close, and then answered
calmly:
"And you must excuse me if I still press
my desire to be heard. Perhaps I had bet-
ter begin by explaining that you totally mis-
understand all that I wish to say. You
speak of 'conflicting claims '-there I must
beg leave to correct you. No claims of
mine do, or possibly can, conflict with
yours."
She looked up at him-thinking in her
heart, the while, that he was even a subtler
schemer than she had fancied, or else he
would net attempt to spllt hairs in this way,
and waved her hand with a slight gesture of
scorn, as she answered:
"What does it matter? You know
what I mean-even although I may have
used terms that were a shade incorrect. I
do not see that it makes any material differ-
~nce whether you have a claim on grand-
papa, or whether he enriches you by his
own free will. Once more, believe me that
the matter is not of sufficient importance to
me for jrour definitions to prove of interest."
"And once more I must be uncivil
enough to force them on you," lie said, be-
ginning in turn to speak a little :haughtily.
"At least," and the 'tone softened down

I again, "for your sake. No, pray don't
speak-" as Valerie enclosed her lips evi-
dently with that intention-" we shall never
get forward, if we keep on talking at cross-
purposes. Let me make matters clear, and
then you may answer what you please. It
will not take me many minutes to do so, for
I have not much to say."
Still he paused-as if rather uncertain
how to say even that much. But Valerie
gave him no assistance. She only leaned
back silently, waiting for him to speak.
After a moment, he resumed-dashing at
once and very summarily into the heart of
his subject:
"I believe you regard me as a mercenary
schemer, endeavoring to deprive you of your
inheritance. I do not resent the suspicion9
It is perhaps natural, for you do not know
me. But I ask you to dismiss that appre-
hension entirely and forever. I have never
had the least intention of accepting any be-
quest from my uncle. What his intention
has been, I do not know, nor does it matter
-since I have already told him explicitly
that he must not put my name in his will."
The firm, clear tones paused at those
words, and Valerie looked up with a start.
"I am sorry to hear that," she said, still
coldly, but with some appearance of inter-
est. "I have been thinking what a good
thing it was that grandpapa had found an
heir who. seemed to suit him so welL 4s
for me, I regret that you, that any one, for
that matter, should consider me so merce-
nary as to have been coveting this money
and not wishing you to have it. As I un-
derstand the matter, grandpapa withheld
his sister's fortune, and it is only right-it
is only common honesty-that he should re-
store it to her representative. I have
thought so ever since I heard any thing
about it. I should indeed feel very great
contempt for myself if I had thought any
thing else."
She spoke quietly, almost indifferently,
toying the while with the tassels of her
muff; and, when she finished, sank back
again into her former: languid attitude.
From this, however, Darcy's next words
roused her perceptibly-spoken as they
were very simply:

"This morning my uncle-who seems to
share your opinion about conflicting claims
-proposed to me a mode of compromise
which I should never think of mentioning to
you if he had not said that you were already
aware of his wishes on the subject. I see
you know what I mean."
lie might well see, since the blood surged
up to the very roots of her hair, and her
hand, closing over the silken cord with which
she was toying, snapped it quite in two.
When she lifted her eyes, they were all
ablaze with indignation.
"Yes, I have heard of ~ she said. "Do
I need to tell you what I thought of it I"
"No," he answered. "I have never
done 'you such great injustice as to require
a word on the subject. Of course, I knew
that you would only reject the proposition.
But then you did not know that I would be
inclined to do likewise; and you might very
naturally-perhaps you have-feared serious
annoyance from me."
Here she interrupted him. "You are
mistaken. I have never~ yet feared or en-
dured serious annoyance from any one."
"I beg your pardon, then," he said. "I
only thought it probable that I might ac-
count in this way for much that has been
repellent in your manner toward me. I
thought that perhaps you meant to mark
decidedly the absence of hope for me; and
that it would be well if I put your mind at
rest on the subject, by assuring you that I
have never for a moment entertained any
intention of becoming a suitor for your
hand; and furthermore "- the speaker
could not restrain this-" that no such in-
tention is at all possible in the future."
Now, it chanced that Valerie possessed
a very keen sense of humor, and this state-
ment, at once so explicit and so earnest,
struck her with such a sudden sense of the
ludicrous, that even vanity was, for the mo-
ment, subordinate to amusement, and she
startled her companion by an irresistible
peal of laughter.
"Pray forgive me," she said, after a mo-
ment-for it is surprising how a hearty
laugh can scatter the mists of ill-humor-
"but I really could not help it. I have
never in my life been rejected before, and

something must be allowed for the novelty
of the sensation. You are very kind, but
do you think it was necessary to be quite so
candid and uncompromising?"
"I have always found plain speaking
answer best," he replied, "It was an un-
complimentary explanation, but I fancied
you would pardon theincivility for the sake
of the truth. Once for all, set your mind at
rest with regard to your inheritance, and
believe that you have neither a rival nor a
lover to fear in me."
He spoke the last words decidedly, and
rose at their conclusion. Evidently he had
said his say, and meant to go, if Valerie had
not made a motion to detain him. With all
her faults, there was not in her an atom of
the false pride which cannot freely acknowl-.
edge an error; so, after a moment, she
spoke-hurriedly, as if somewhat doubting
her own resolution, but bravely, as if de-
termined to go through with it:
"You are perfectly right, Captain Darcy.
Plain speaking is best; so I hope you will
not be surprised that I follow your example~
and give you a return of it. The project of
which you only heard this morning, I was
informed of before I left home;, and I am
sure you need be at no loss, to imagine the
consequences-even if you had not seen
them. I came here against my will, to be
placed on exhibition before a man to whom
my hand had been offered, as I supposed!
That was a pleasant position, don't you.
think so? Well, the result was, that I tried
to show you that I had no part in such a
plan, and that you might keep the fortune
forever and a day without my sending a sigh
after it. You say that I considered you a
mercenary schemer? Frankly, I did. I
thought you were here to acquire and retain
influence over grandpapa; and, although I
never grudged you the fortune-part of it,
at least, I thought your right-~till I felt
very sincere contempt for the fortune-seek-
er. I now recognize the injustice of these
opinions, and I am not ashamed to beg your
pardon for them."
Half-proudly, but very gracefully, she
held out her htnd, with a gesture which
the veriest churl could scar4~ely have disre-
garded; and which made Darcy appreciate,

y78

I


80                           VALERIE
as he had never done before, her singular
power of fascination. He only held the
little pearl-gloved member for a moment,
however; then released it, saying:
"You are very good-but we won't
speak of pardon at all, if you please. I
don't blame you in the least for your opin-
ion-as I said before, it was very natural,
and scarcely mattered to me at all. I
should never have cared to make this expla-
nation for my own sake."
Valerie looked up, biting her lip a little.
Indeed, such a tone would have been apt to
irk most women. "I cannot sufficiently ad-
mire your frankness," she said, with a very
deoi4led dash of sarcasm.
"Don't trouble yourself to do ho," Dar-
cy answered, with a pleasant laugh. "Peo-
ple who admired my frankness would find
a good deal to occupy them. And now I
leave you to the solitude which I inter-
rupted. Will you be kind enough to make
my excuses to Madame Yacquant, and say
that a business engagement prevents my ac-
companying her home?"
Valerie bent her head, and, as she made
no answer, nor any effort to detain him, he
left the room.

AYLMER.
For the next five minutes, Miss Aylmer's
face was a study-amusement, vexation,
surprise, and pique, were so plainly mingled
there. Then they all suddenly cleared
away, and the dark eyes lifted themselves
clear and bright, while the lips enclosed in
a low laugh.
"So my opinion 'scarcely mattered at
all! "' she said, with the glance of a ebal-
lenged champion. "Truly, I begin to think
this haughty gentleman needs a lesson-
in good manners, at least. It may prove
worth while to give it to him-I have
rather a fancy for a man who does not low-
er his flag at once-and then he can remem-
ber for his comfort q'ira bien ~ue ri~ra le
dernier!"
It is almost useless to say that to will
and to do-in matters of conquest-were
quite the same thing with the speaker; but,
if she could have foreseen what this resolu-
tion was to cost herself and others, she
might, perhaps, for once, have paused. She
did not foresee it, however; and so she
walked on to the end. Doubtless we all .do
that, but it goes doubly hard with us when
that end-if it be a dark or bitter one-is
of our own making.

should hardly have been blockhead enough
to meet such a woman and forget her."
"But perhaps you might-"
"There's no perhaps about it! I didn't,
I tell you!"
"Of course you didn't," said another,
laughing. "The thing would be impossible.
Don't excite yoi~vself, Hal; for nobody's
going to believe it. Even Thornton, cold-
blooded as he is, knows it would be impos-
sible."
"I don't know any thing of the kind,"
retorted he of the hearth-rug. "She is i~
pretty woman, undoubtedly; but, in those
days, men's heads were not running on pret-
ty women; and, as it is, I am ,sure I should
forget her to-morrow, with any thing of im-
portance to drive her from my recollection."
"You! Who ever set you up as a stand-
ard to go by?"
"Nobody, I hope; since he mightreadlly
find a better one."
"And easily find a worse," said Arle.
"Don't abuse yourself; Thornton. It is such
bad taste, and so nuziecessary, too, as long
as one has any friend left. So this is tke
Miss Aylmer," he went on, meditatively;
"the same that all those Louisiana fellows
used to swear by so tremendously. They
called her-~-deuce take my nmnioi~y !-what
was it they called her, Darford?"
"La belle de8 belles," answered the per-
son addressed. "I remembered the name
the first moment I saw her. - Strangely
enough, too, I i~emembered Estmann's face
when he used to spring to his feet-about
half~seas over-crying out, 'Full glasses now,

BOOK III.

CHAPTER I.
A TEST OF rownn.
* CHRISTMAS had come and gone, and the
season was fairly at its height, when, on a
certain January evening of sleet and snow,
a party of three or four gentlemen were tak-
ing their ease, not exactly at an inn, but at
our civilized and latter - day substitute-a
well-warmed and well-lighted club-house
apartment. Their conversation had~ been
ranging over many topics, social and other-
wise, for some time, until at last it chanced
to fall upon the most noted among the
reigning belles of the s~son.
"It is rather singular," said one of them
-Harry Arle, by name-" that all the time
I am dancing and talking with her, I feel a
positive conviction that I' have seen her
somewhere before, and an equally positive
incapacity to even imagine where it could
have been. The thing tornients me-as a
recollection playing at hide-and-seek always
will-and is the more remarkable since no-
body can say that she is a person likely to
be forgotten~."
"Decidedly not a person likely to be for-
gotten," said one who occupied the hearth-
rug, d Z'Anglaise. "It is singular, certainly.
But then, after all, you may have met her
and forgotten it, Hal. Didn't you seri~e in
the trans-Mississippi for a while?"
"To be sure I did, but what has that to
do with it? If Ihad never heard of Valerie
Aylmer~.-and I scarcely heard of anybody
else after I entered the Confederacy-I
6


82                        VALERIE AYLMER.                                                                A TEST OF' POWElL                       83

boys; for here's health and long life to La
belle des belles I' Poor fellow! he was about
as far gone in the matter of love as I have
ever seen anybody; and now he's there,"
-the speaker nodded toward the silent Yir-
ginia battle-fields--." while she's here."
"In full blast, too," ~aid Arle. "Well
-such is' life. 'To-day for me, to-morrow
for thee,' youknow; so by all means spend
to-day as royally as you can. That's the
philosophy the times have taught me. Est-
mann was not the only one of her victims,
though. There was Chrtard of the twenty-
ninth-he was killed at Malvern Hill, you
know-and Boyd of the Washington Artil-
lery; and.-"
"Pshaw!" interrupted Thornton. "If
you begin counting over her list of killed and
wounded, you will find that half the Louisi-
ana brigades were spoon about her. She
was the standing toast at every mess-table
to whThh I ever was invited; and I am sure
that. at least one-third of the 'field-pieces
were named after her. Do you remember
that splendid mare Alston had shot under
him at Ohancellorsvile? I really believe he
hated the loss of the creature, principally
because she was named 'La belle dee belles."
"Well, can anybody tell me what is the
secret of it all?" asked Number Four,
whose name was Stuart, and whoseforte was
mild cynicism and skepticiSm. "She's pret-
ty, of course; though a great deal too dark
for my taste-but there are plenty other
pretty women in the world, and they don't
make such a nois&amp; I should really like to
know the secret of it."
"You'd really like to know the origin of
evil too, wouldn't you?" asked Arle, laugh-
ing. "The questions are equally abstruse,
I take it. At least, I h~'re known a great
many wise men in my life; but I have never
yet known any of them wise enough to tell
how it is that one pretty woman goes through
the world unnoticed, while another, in no
degree prettier, is answerable for the imbe-
cility of dozens."
"I shouldn't think of making her an-
swerable for their imbecility," saidThornton.
"In oases of this kind, 'a fool's a fool for a'
that,' and it would go hard with women if
they were made accountable for all the ab-

surdity that has their name for its war-
rant."
"That's where we always disagree," said
Darford. "I don't know that it's worth
while arguing with you; but my opinion re-
mains the same: 'no man ever made a fool
of himself without just provocation and en-
couragement."
"Take care, then, when you come within
range of this fairlady," said Arle. "Report
has slandered her terribly if she does not un-
derstand this provocation and encourage-
ment better than any other woman of her
day and generation."
"Perhaps that is what is the matter with
~omney," put in the cynic. "Has anybody
noticed a change in him lately?"
"For better, or for worse?"
"Well, not exactly for either. There's
a difference; but I should not feel justified
in describing it as an improvement.~~
"Perhaps you mean that crimson sling,7~
suggested Arle. "It is remarkably becom-
ing!"
"Hold your envious tongue! " retorted
Thornton. "You haven't forgiven him for
that walk in the snow yet.-Don't mind his
interruption, Stuart. Explain what you
mean."
"I don't know that I can explain,",said
Stuart, in an injured tone. "Anybody that
had eyes might have seen it for himself.
He isn't as fretful and ready to take offence
of late, but he's twice as supercilious and
full of self-conceit."
"He hasn't played any to speak of since
he got well," said Arle, "and that's some-
thing remarkable."
"Nor flirted any, either," subjoined
Darford.
"And from these facts you argue that the
pretty Prince Charmingis probablynetted!"
"Something more than probably, I
should say; considering that he is on terms
of the most evident intimacy with this fair
lady, and, with all his b(ae~ affectations, I
really think Romney is sp~ony at bottom."
"Oh, he was completely knocked over
some time ago," said Darford, carelessly.' "I
shouldn't be surprised if he succeeded, too;
and, if so, he'll make a good thing o1~it. Ntis~
Aylmer is her grandfather's sole heiress.~~

"She's got a brother," said Stuart. "
met him in Paris this fall."
"She's got two of them, for that mat
ter," answered Arle, coolly; "but they ar
her half-brothers-no relation to NI. Vac
quant. I have heard on the best possible
authority, however, that he means to leav4
the bulk of his fortune to his nephew."
"My dear fellow, what do you consider:
the best possible authority?"
"What do you think of Madame Yac
quant I"
Darford, who had asked the former ques
tion, shrugged his shoulders contempt
ously.
"I don't think any thing at all. I shouk
not trust a statement of hers any further
than-I wanted to. She'd say the moon
was made of green cheese, if such an asser.
tion would serve her purpose in any way.
As for this, it's not like h~r habitual caution
to speak so openly of a family matter; and
that in itself would make me suspect some-
thing. Ten to one, Miss Aylmer is the
heiress; and she spreads this report to keep
the course clear until her pretty darling has
come in at the winning-post."
"You are right," said Thornton, nodding
toward the speaker. "I give you credit for
your sagacity. It's not many people who
see that far into la madame. For my part,
I hold her to be a woman whose diplomatic
power is so great that she is simply wasted
in her present position. She should have
been born to the throne of all the Bus-
sias, where she eould have revelled in af-
fairs of state to her heart's content. But
I can't help hoping it may be true about
Darcy's heirship!-~--he is such a capital fel-
low!"
"He is indeed!" said Arle, warmly-
"the very best of fellows! But his picture-
painting does not look much as if he were a
presumptive inillionnaire, does it? I wish,
by-the-way, he'd settle here. We need a
first-rate artist deplorably. Wouldn't Miss
Rivi~re be enchanted if he did? Do you
know, I really think there is something seri-
ous in that quarterS I wouldn't blame him,
either. She's charming in every thing but
the one great essential-..-confound it i-By-
the-way, Thornton, you are an~ couranC of

I every thing musical can you tell me
whether she is really meditating a publi&amp;
appearance?"
e "Not I," said Thornton. "But, for her
own sake, I hope the report is unfounded."
e "Why?"
o "Simply because she would fail, if she
were foolish enough to attempt such a
r thing."
"I don't see that."
"Don't you? Then I trust you never
may-that's all."
"Have you ever heard her sing?"
"Never."
"Then how the deuce-"
"Oh, nonsense, Darford 1 Don't you
know Thornton is wholly incredulous of
'native talent,' and 'native culture,' and all
that sort of thing?" interrupted Arle, laugh-
ingly. "He puts his trust in Italian sing-
* ers, and disdains every thing below Ger-
* man fiddles. I only wonder he ever said a
* good word for anybody born this side of
the water."
"I certainly don't put my trust in ama-
teur vocalists, who have had their heads
turned by drawing-room applause, and want
to carry theirweak falsettos on the boards,"
said Thornton, indifferently. "Ihave never
heard Miss Rivi~re sing; but I don't know
where she would stow away a voice in that
childish figure of hers; at all events, she had
better think twice before she comes before
the public."
"Then there's Bomney," said Stuart-
not very relevantly, as it seemed. "I've
always thought it a pity he would not try
the lyric stage. He has a capital tenor, and
the profession would suit him. The perpet-
ual incense and flattery might do sometls~ng'
toward soothing that chronic discontent of
his, if any thing could."
"A proviso well ndi od," said Arle,
throwing away the burning en~l of his cigar.
"At least if he ever doestake ~siich a step, I
should be profoundly thankful that Fate did'
not make a stage-manager of me. Now,
dp~vpQe dee bottle, who is opera-bound t&amp;
night?"
"All of u14 I' fancy~" said Darford. "Do
you mean to say it is time~? If so, I must
be off, for I have troublesome couple of'

~1'

&amp;


84                         ~rALRUI~ AYLMEI~                                                                  A TEST OF P~WRR.                         85

cousins on my hands.-Thornton, do you
take anybody?"
Thornton shook his head. He rarely
took anybody in the way Darford meant.
"No," he said. "I need to keep my
ears open-as I shall have to tell to-morrow
how often the tenor sang B natural when he
ought to have sting B fiat-and if you ever
succeeded in doing that with a woitian by
* your side, it is more than I huve. No mat-
ter whether a cavatina or a duo is going on,
the pretty creatures 'will prattle about the
basso's eyes and the prima donna's dress!
Is it an off-night of escort-duty with either
of you two?"
"Not with me," said Stuart, gloomily.
"I half promised Violet to come back,"
said ArIa; "but I doubt if she expects me
-the Tracys were to call for her anyway."
"Then you'll come with ~ said
Thornton, "and, after. the opera, we'll ad-
journ for supper to Guy's."
"Agreed."
Then the quartet broke up.
An hour or two later, when Messieurs
Arle and Thornton were shown to their
stalls in the parquet of a crowded house,
they found the saat adjoining them already
occupied by a gentleman who, turning round
on their entrance, proved to be Darcy. Sal-
utations were cordially exchanged, and then,
while he and Thornton fell into animated
conversation, Arle screwed his lorgnette
into place, and applied himself to a survey
of the scene. It was a very brilliant one;
for with the exception of a ballroom, there
are few prettier sights than an opera-house
-especially in Baltimore. From the dress.
circle down to the verge of the orchestra,
there was a perfect sweep of light and
beauty, of fleecy dresses, and downy opera
cloaks, of waving fans and gleaming jewels
of fair hair elaborately arranged, and faii
faces brightly smiling, until the coup d'eeii
was of almost dazzling effect. To one keen.
ly alive to such impressions, it was an over
ture in itself, this bright gala-picture, this
surging, flashing sea of human life pew
within these narrow walls at the bidding ci
a thousand different caprices, and broke
into a thousand different waves of though

and feeling that were all soon to be toned
to the beating of one great pulse by the ne-
big harmonies of the mighty power of music.
Arle recognized a dozen acquaintances, and
bestowed at least a dozen bows in half as
many minutes, when suddenly his glass
stopped short in ifs transit round the glitter-
ing horseshoe, and remained fixed on one
of the right-hand proscenium-boxes.
Nor was his the only one thus attracted,
for Miss Aylmer had just entered, and taken
her seat behind the curtains, drawing them
back with one handwhie her glance nwept
over the house as quietly and indifferently
as though from every part of it the ivory-
mounted "double-barrels" had not been
levelled upon her. There is a great deal in
the consciousness of looking well to support
a woman under such a scrutiny, however-
and Valerie had never looked better. She
was not at all one of the people whom the
French have in mind when they say, con-
temptuously, that by artificial light it is im-
possible to tell a woman from a gnat-but
she "lighted up" splendidly. If she was
beautiful in ordinary dress, and by broad
daylight, she was something positively daz-
zling in evening costume, and amid evening
surroundings. She was now evidently
dressed for some after-ball, for, when she
loosened and partially threw back the soft
mass of cashmere and swan's-down that did
duty for a cloak, her shoulders gleamed like
polished marble above a corsage of rose-c9l-
ored silk cut d la Grecque, and the shimmer
of large pearls encircled her throat. In her
masses of raven hair-no chignon or water-
fall monstrosity had been called into play
.-the same beautiful gems gleamed with
their soft, fitful light, while her cheeks
glowed, her eyes shon4, and her whole face
was so full of beauty-so like in tint to a
fervid tropical blossom-that even the im-
passive Thornton murmured as he lowered
his glass:
"La belle dee belles indeed! No wonder
she does so much mischief-.only I should
think she would have accomplished her ap-
L pointed share by this time."
"Look at Romney, if you want to see
i. about that," said Arle, with a laugh. "No
L doubt of his being hard hit, eh, Darcy?"

"L'amour et la fum~e tie peuvant ec
caclier," answered Darcy, turning one care-
less glance on the handsome face and silken
sling that appeared just behind Valerie's
white shoulder. Then the overture clashed
forth, and there was silence with the trio.
Not so, however, in the box which, beside
Miss Aylmer and her cavalier, held~ Ma-
dame Vacquant and a certain ami de la mai-
eon-Harvey Wilmer by naine-who was
the most convenient person imaginable for
hack-duty, being always ready to play es-
cort at a moment's notice, and never of-
fended or disquieted at being dropped with
any amount of summary haste. When the
overture began, he had just discovered Mau-
rice Darcy's presence in the house, and an-
nounced the fact to his companion.
She nodded, with a smile.
"He has been in Richmond for a day or
~ she said, "and I quite forgot his in-
tended return when I asked you to accom-
pany us. Of course, after that, I had no seat
to offer him. He promised to look in dur-
ing the evening, however. Is not some one
entering the opposite box? I will trouble
you for my
The glasses were surrendered and fixed
just in time to catch the timid grace with
which a dainty, brown-eyed girl entered the
box in question, and, without throwing off
her wrappings, at once eank out of sight
behind the curtains, ~while a pale, elegant
woman advanced to the front with a high-
bred composure which was very perfect.
They were quite alone, and Madame Yac-
quant lowered her lorgnette with something
of a shrug.
"Mrs. Rividre and Alix," she said.
"They make a point of being present at
* every thing musical, I believe-p-and rarely
accept an escort. There must be some
foundation for the rumor that~- Ah! the
curtain is going up!"
The opera was "Faust;" and since this
was among its earliest representations in
Baltimore, quite a hush reigned over the
house during the act which ensued. The
Marguerite of the occasion was one who,
since then, has almost made the r61e her
own-playing it with unbounded applause
before the most critical audiences of the Old

World; but, though she has gained power
and culture, none who see her to-day will
say that she has gained grace and expres-
sion since she charmed us in those early
days, when she came shyly moving across
the stage in her peasant kirtle, with her
downcast eyes, and a missal closely clasped
in her slender hands. When the act ended,
there was a surging movement all over the
house, as of some anxiety safely passed;
then, while the tribute of enthusiasm was
still echoing, Darcy and Arle rose with one
accord from their seats.
"Of course," said Thornton, "you do
well to be in haste-if you want even so
much as a smie-~.for there are plenty more
moving in the same direction. I take it for
granted you are both going there?"
He nodded toward the box where Va-
lena was already holding court; but Dan-
cy shook his head.
"Arle may speak for himself," he said;
"but I am bound for quite another part.
How is it, Hal? You are going there?
He moved away, and a few minutes later
opened the door of the box that contained
Mrs. Rivi~r~ and her daughter. Both ladies
turned round on his entrance, and both of
their faces brightened so cordially that it
was easy to see what a welcome visitor he
was. A familiar visitor, too, their gteetings
proved; and the sweet face of the girl
looked pleased and happy as that of a child,
when he sat down by her, and- asked how
she liked the prima douna. Her raptures
made him srniea little; but he listened to
them, with that indulgent air which plainly
shows that even nonsense from the lips of
the speaker would be pleasant; and, us he
listened, he also.-looked.
Artist as ha was, he had certainly rarely
seen a prettier sight at which t~i look. No-
body had ever called Alix Bivibre beautiful,
and probably nobody, ever 4~vould do so,
since in the popular estimation there are
certain elements ~of brilliance~ needed to
make a type of even moderate beauty; and
brilliant Alix never was; Indeed,~.y~rytint
of her face~ and- every line of her tflgiwe,
was so subdued and harmonious, that,"un-
less attention were called to the fact, people


A TEST OF POWER.

86                       VALERIE AYLMER.

rarely noticed how exquisitely delicate was
the one, how perfect in symmetry was the
other. They said she was "lovely" and
"charming," and a dozen other things be-
sides,' and they knew that she was as grace-
ful and fresh as a wild-flower of her native
woods; but they never opened their eyes
to see what a refined and dainty beauty she
really possessed. Darcy saw it to-night,
however.-~-saw the fitful blushes coming and
going under the transparent skin, saw the
sweet curl of the flexible lips, the clear, clas-
sical outline of feature and head, the coronal
of brown curls, silken as the plumage of a
bird, and waving all around the fair, open,
childlike brow-a brow in form and shape
like Mozart's-and, above all, the large
brown eyes, full of soft gloom, and deeply
set. under the arched brows. Once only he
glanced away from her-glanced aci~oss the
house, to the vivid face just opposite-and
then back again. It was, after this, that he
said:
"What is the reasout you have been am-
buscading in this dark corner all the even-
ing? I watched for even so much as a
glimpse of yow-but .1 watched vainly.
There are not so many fair fates here to-
night that we can afford to dispense with
one of the fairest."
She looked up at him with very genuine
rebuke in her eyes.
"That do9s not sound like you," she
said. "I don't fancy compliments from my
friends. To tell the truth, I have kept in
the background because I wanted to listen
to the music without being interrupted by
visitors.. You need not raise your eye-
brows. You know I don't mean you. But
if. I had .come forward, I should not have
been afraid of much observation-with Miss
Ayh~er just opposite. Is she not looking
brilliantly?"
"Very," he answered, quietly; "but I
did not know that you especially admired
her."
"I! Oh, indeed yes. It is a matter of
obligation with every Lonisianian to admire
La ?i~fle .~.1ee 1)ellea, you know. I think' she
is the most beautiful-the very most beauti-
fizl woman I ever saw. What a grace and
charm there is in her every movement!

Look~ Captain Dar~y-.-lobk at that atti-
tude!"
With a smile, he took the lorguette she
eagerly extended, and raised it to his eyes
-.-looked for a moment, then lowered it
again.
"It is a very perfect picture," he said,
coolly. "Only, don't you think it is a pity
that one feels sure it has been so well
studied?"
"What do you mean?" she asked, a' lit-
tIe wonderingly.
"I mean," he answered, carelessly, "Miss
Aylmer remembers exactly how many br-
gnettes are levelled on her, and knows to a
shade how far to advance her hand or ar-
range her drapery-not to speak of those
smiles and glances which are as plainly
stage-effects as the prima donna's flaxen
tresses."
Alix looked lip-all indignant reproach
-but the curtain rose at the moment, and
Darcy was spared jhe task of justifying his
aspersions. She turned at once to the stage,
and for the time being had neither eyes nor
,ears for any thing else. Her absorption was
so complete, that she was entirely uncon-
scious of the interest with which Maurice
watched her; or that he smiled at her
eagerness as she leaned forward, drinking in
every note of the plaintive and beautiful
"King of Thulo." She looked up at him
when the air was finished, and their eyes
met with that fulness of common sympathy
which some of us know, or think we know,
once or twice in life-but never oftener.
"Oh, was itnotexquisite?" sighed the little
enthusiast, out of the very depths of her
music-loving heart. Then her gaze travelled
back to the stage, and soon she was bound
in a spell of rapture by the brilliant and
difficult strain of the "Air des Bijoux." It
was here that Darcy began to share her ab-
sorption-that the great prima donna ex-
tended the spell of her power over him too.
Of course he did not throw himself body
and soul into the tide of harmonies, as the
trembling, quivering, impressionable nature
beside him was doing; but he forgot other
surroundings for a space, and was swayed
bythe pathos and power of the scene before
him. Ab, that matchless music of Gounod!

I

Most of us have heard it again and again,
and yet we learn a deeper lesson each time
that we do hear it, and we go away as if we
could never, never learn all its subtle mean-
ings and hidden beauties-but will any of us
ever forget the hour when we heard it first,
when through and through us the mighty
pulse of the master's genius rushed till earth
seemed fading away beneath our feet, and
the hot, sharp pleasure was more intense
than, and almost as bitter as, pain? In the
famous "garden-scene," the prima donna's
al~aiu~oa of passion, her intensely dramatic
powers of acting, her marvellous voice,
which momently developed new fulness and
compass, held her audience enchained as
one man. As one man, that vast, silent
crowd hushed its breath-struggled with
her-thrilled with her-trembled with her
-sank with her into the depths' of woman's
loving weakness! When at last the curtain
fell, it was not strange that, from gallery to
pit, the applause broke forth in one wild
storm, rising and falling only to rise again,
when a fair, smiling girl, who had nothing in
common with poor, impassioned Marguerite,
made her appearance before the curtain,
bowing her graceful thanks to right and left.
Then Alix turned round in a perfect
fever of enthusiasm.
"Is she not charming? Is she not glori-
ous? Ah, who would not be a great canta-
trice?" was her cry.
"Would you be a great cantatrice in
opera?" asked Darcy, a little significantly.
She hesitated a moment-then looked up
at her mother and smiled. "Well-no,
not in opera, I believe. I had forgotten the,
acting, and was thinking only of the sing-
ing. That is ~o beautiful! I wonder-I
wonder-" H~r voice broke down here,
but her companion seemed to understand
what she meant.
"Don't wonder any thing about it," said
he, kindly. "Remember that confidence
in your own power is sometimes half the
battle. The day is not far distant when you
will be as well or better known to fame
than the singer you have heard to-night."
"You are very good to say so, but-"
"But what?"
"I cannot think so; and indeed I do not

care much for it to be so. I love Music so
well that I would gladly serve her as bond-
woman all my life, without any other rec-
ompense than she herself gives. But since
that is impossible, since I muat hope, for a
little reward, I hope for it in the shape of
money, not of fame."
"Hush, Alix!" said her mother, laugh-
ing. "You shock Captain Darcy by such
mercenary avowals."
"Captain Darcy does not look shockedd"
said Alix, glancing at him shyly. "I am
not afraid to talk so before him-he under-
stands me."
"Yes, I think I do," said Darcy, quickly,
and in his heart he truly did. lie under-
stood how this sensitive nature shrank from
the fierce glare of that publicity which we
call fame, and how still more deeply it re-
coiled from making merchandise of the ser-
vice which was to her-as it is to every true
child of music-only a degree less holy than
the service of God. In her soul there was
music always, her whole life was set to the
half-unconscious rhythm of noble harmonies,
and there was not a thought or an act of it
apart from this great worship; but still, she
faced bravely and steadily the necessity of
taking these heaven-born powers and inspi-
rations into the rude market of the world.
It was out of the very depths of her devotion
that she said those words which disgust us
so often in their sordid application-" I de-
sire money, not fame."
"I have a favor to ask of you," Darcy
said, after a moment's pause. "You dine at
my aunt's to-morrow evening, don't you?
Yes-I thought so. Well; I want'~you to
sing for Thornton!"
Alix drew back and looked at him-a
good deal surprised, and a little aghast.
"For Mr. Thornton-the great musical
critic! Oh, Captain Darcy, I would do any
thing -almost any thing y~u asked me.
But I cannot do that!"
"Why not? He is no lion going about
to de~rour unwary singers."
"Isn't he? Well, I really thought he
was, and you must admit that such is his
character. ITo, no. I cannot think of it. Ii
am sure I should disgrace myself it' I e.vcn~
tried-"


88                           VALERIE
She broke off here, for the box-door
opened at that n~oment, and two gentlemen
entered. They were not Baltimoreans, but
Louisianians, who, chancing to be in the
house, had recognized. Mrs. Rivi~re and
herdaughter, and came up to renew an old
acquaintance. So, rendered quite do trop
by the cordial greetings ~nd inquiries which
linmediatelytook place, Darcy surrendered
his seat to one of them, and went back to
Thornton.
Meanwhile, matters were not progressing
as smoothly as might have been desirable~ in
that box where, for the time being, Miss Ayl-
mer had established her court. There was,
indeed, very serious revolt on hand, though
no. one would have suspected as much from
the fair sovereign's cloudless brow, and.only
a close observer could have detected an oc-
casional glance stealing now and then tow-
ard the; dark corner where, moody and jeal-
otis, Romney had retired to chew the cud
of injured meditation. His grievances had
begun early in the evening-begun with
some trifling cause of offence even before
they left home-and every successive hour
had swollen them into greater magnitude.
For some time, he held lila ground steadily
at the back of Valerie's chair; but she had
neverbeen in brighter spirits, and so many
thronged arimnd her, that he found even a
whisper in her ear the next thing to impossi..
'ble. Almost any other manwould have had
sense enough to perceive that, for once, she
preferred word-play with a dozen to senti-
ment with one,; and, perceiving this, have
been reasonably content to bide his time.
But Julian was never reasonable, nor ever
content to see attention, that should have
been given ti~ him, monopolized 'by one
othei~ or twenty others. His offended jeal-
ousy waged apace with every fresh offering
of incense, and every gracious smile which
rewarded each, until at last.the cup of his
indignation overflowed, and, heedless of his
mother's remonstrant glances, he pushed
back his chair like 'an angry school-boy,
and retired into a cornarto sulk. There he
sat, dark' and lowering, while ~Arle took
possession ot~ the vacant seat, and listened
eagerly while' Yalerie told him how she had
.once~nursed himthrough a fever in one of the

AYLMER.

hospitals of Shreveport. When she finished,
the young man looked up at her with a
grateful light shining' in his frank eyes.
"So that is why your face has always
seemed so strangely familiar to me," he
said-" more like some fragment of a dream
than an~ thing else? I remember it all
now! I remember that, when I got well,
and thanked Sister Theresa for my life, she
told me that it was not to her I owed it,
but to some lady who had nursed me night
and day until I was out of danger.' I little
thought I should ever find that lady-in the
toast of every Louisiana soldier."
- "Yes,'? said Valerie, with a blush and a
smile. "'The hospitals were so crowded,
that the sisters could not do all the nursing,
and several of us volunteered our aid. Yours
was the worst case in my ward-I shall never
forget how you raved 1-and so, of course,
I knew you again as soon as I saw you. I
was only very sorry that I had to leave
town before you were entirely recovered-
but papa was transferred to another com-
mand, and the doctor assured me you were
out of danger."
"I am glad he was right," said the young
man earnestly. "I am glad that I am alive
to thank you for your kindness, and am still
more glad to hope that I may some day find
means of repaying it-~-at least in part.
Will you remember that iyou have one
sworn defender and champion, if ever you
should need either defender or champion?"'
"Yes; I will remember," she said.
~' But pray don't talk of thanks and repay-
ment, or else you will force me to tell you
that what I did for you I would have done
for any other soldier-and did do for many
others."
"And do you think tjiat lessens the ob-
ligation?" he asked. "I should rather
think that it increased it. In one sense, at
least, we are more grateful to strangers
than to friends for care or aid. I won't
trouble you with thanks if you do not like
them, however. I shall only hold Fortune
my debtor until she gives me one good
chance to render you service."
Valerie smiled. She liked the gallant
young Marylander who had given up so
much, and suffered so much, for the cause

I

U

A TEST OF POWER.

89

she loved; and for whom her heart had
bled when he lay tossing in burning delirium
thousands of miles from his home; but
these words had a very unreal sound to her
ear-as indeed such words will have in the
midst of surroundings like hers. It was
hardly likely that it would ever be in the
power of this stranger to do her service;
but still she thanked him as she well knew
how to thank, adding half sadly: "We only
did our duty.-we women-but it was a'
duty that was its own best reward. I am
sure there is not one of us who, if we could,
would take back the sacrifices, or forget
the privations, of those years of glory and
suffering. I don't mean to talk hackneyed
sentiment; hut there is nothing more true
than that life has never given us, never can
give us, a greater pleasure than the pleasure
of serving the men who were fighijing for us.
But this is serious talk for an opera, is it
no3 I-and see! here is the chapekscene, to
be in keeping."
She turned her face toward the stage, and
her companion had discretion enough to be
silent, while the mild, sad refrain wailed
from the orchestra like the cry of a lost
spirit, as the long procession swept slowly
into the church, leaving Marguerite prone
among the desolate tombs. It must be a
soul inseparable wedded to levity, a heart
wholly given over to frivolity, which this
weird, haunting dirge does not move to its
utmost depths-does not stir and shake in
every chord, by the hopeless desolation too
deep even for the agony which 'breathes in
its unutterable mournfulness. Just now, it
touched Valerie like the voice of her own
bereavement. Arle's words - indeed, his
very presence-had brought back, slit so
vividly, the bitter pain, the sweeping deso-
lation; which is all that the name of ~' coun-
try" can give to any of her race; and, as
she leaned back behind the curtains, shel-
tered by their shade,~and the gloom hanging
over all things, burning tearsrose into her
eyes, and there seemed an answering pang
of her heart for every wail of the dying
melody. We talk of the fitness of things;
but perhaps there is nothing so striking in
life as their very unfitness-as the fact that,
whenever some great emotion seizes us, as

it were, despite our will, it does not choose
what we would consider a fitting time or
place, but overpowers us amid surroundings
that add to its force by their very elements
of discordance!
After a while, when Valerie looked round,
she found, to her surprise, that Darcy had
entered the box, and was standing behind
Madame Vacquant. She felt a little piqued,
for she thought he might have come earlier,
or not come at all; but she was about to
summon him with a motion of her hand to
the chair which .A.rle had by this time va-
cated, when Romney suddenly came' back
and took possession of it. It would have
been well if he had cleared his face before
doing so, or atleast modulated his voice to
some proper tone; but, on the contrary, he
looked as lowering as ever, and spoke ab-
ruptly-almost rudely.
"I thought that fellow was never going!
Can I at last have, a little of your atten~
tion?"
Valerie's brows contracted. Insolence
and familiarity were two things for which
she had ever possessed little tolerance and
less patien~e.
"My attention has been at the service
of whoever chose to claim it, all the even-
ing," she said, coldly. "If you-"
"Yes," he interrupted, bitterly; "if I
had felt inclined to take a nod now and
then between the words and smiles you gave
to others, I might no doubt have had it;
but you ought to know, by this time, that I
cannot do that-I will not do itt If I can-
not obtain what I desire-what you gave
me. a day or two ago-I prefer~to take
nothing."
"I am afraid you will have to content
yourself with nothing, then," she said, coolly.
"As for what I gave youa day or two ago,
that was nothing, that I am aware ef~, be-
sides friendliness and courtesy. They are
still at your command, unless you choose to
throw them away of your own accord. In
that ease, I beg that I may not be held ac-
countable."
Perhaps General Aylmer was~ right-
perhapa sh~ was already growing tired of
her pretty toy. At least, she 'would' not
have spoken thus a week ago, and he felt


00                       VALERIE AYLMER.                                                           OVERTURES OF PEACE.                     01

it. lie grew very pale, and bit his lip al-
most savagely, as he answered:
"Of course. It is only I who can be
accountable for any thing-not you. It is
a fine farce that we have been playing, but
if it turns into a tragedy, who is to blame?
Tones and smiles are impalpable things, and,
hoWever well they do their work, cannot be
brought forward as witnesses. Only-you
might keep that tone for those who have
never known them."
Before he finished, he saw that he was
losing all he would have risked so much to
gain; but the spirit which urged him on
made him reckless of consequences, until the
last words were spoken. Then he would
have given any thjng to have recalled them;
but it was too late. Whoever doubted
whether Miss Aylmer could be haughty,'
should have seen her as she answered:
"That is quite enough, I think. You
surely cannot be yourself, or you would
kn~v that such a tone as this in the last
that I can tolerate from any one. You must
excuse me if I dispense with your attend-
ance for the remainder of the evening; and
you may take this comfort with you: the
tones an~l smiles of which you speak shall
trouble you no more.~~
He was about to answer, but she turned
from him, and so-the angry devil upper-
most for the time-he rose and left the box.
Then, after a moment, Valerie leaned for-
ward and touched Maurice Darcy, who bad
striven twt to hear the brief ttite~d~teAte just
concluded. When he 'turned, she pointed
to the vacant chair.
"Sit dawn, please,~~ she said "I have
something to say to you; and I confess I
like to talk on a level. Now-that is bet-
ter. To begin, then, did I hear you tell Ma-
da~ne Vacquant that you were not going to
Mrs. More's to-night?"
"Yes," he answered; "I told her that it
was probable I should not be4there. I am
not fond of crush balls, and I pron~ised
Thornton to join a supper-party at Guy's."
"Would Mr. Thornton care very much
If you broke your promise?"
probablyy not; but why do you ask?"
"For a singular reason, I suppose you
will think," she said, with a laugh. "I have

taken a fancy to recall you to a sense of
duty. Mrs. More, and especially Miss Nel-
lie, will think very hardly of your treating
them in this way. You ought to go to the
bali-you must go 1"
"You speak like a born empress," he
said, smiling. "But I cannot admit the
force of your reasoning. Mrs. More ana
Miss Nellie will not miss one face from their
five hundred friends."
"Suppose I say that I will miss it, then?
Will you refuse to please me, too?"
If she meant to test her power, or dis-
cover whether she possessed any, she must
have been greatly disappointed at the tene
in which Darcy answered:
"I regret to be obliged to do so. But
an engagement, in my eyes, is always bind-
ing; and then I am sure you can be only
jesting when you affect any interest in
whether I go or stay."
"You are mistaken," she retorted. "I
never trouble myself to affect interest in
any thing. Just now, I have a genuine
fancy to change your resolution. Can I not
tempt you by the first waltz?"
"If I could be tempted, I would not
need such an inducement."
She looked at him steadily, and saw that
he meant what he said; sawalso, that this
was evidently dift~ent material from that
which she was accustomed to bend to her
will; and so, with a rather equivocal smile,
gave up the point.
"I have always heard that Irishmen
were proverbial for gallantry; and I confess
I am not used to finding engagements stand
in ~n~j way," she sald. "You have disa-
bused me of two erroneous impressions,
Captain Darcy, so I suppose I ought to
thank you. Is the house absolutely empty-
ing? Well, at least, I hope you will relieve
Mr. Wilmer of double duty by seeing me to
the carriage?"
What Darcy's reply was, it is not hard
to conjecture; but, for all that, La lelle des
1$ellea went to the ball alone, and he joined
the supper at Guy's.

CHAPTER II.
ovERTuRES or PEAcE.
IT was a very pale face, and very heavy,
bloodshot eyes, that Romney brought down
to~ the breakfast-room the next morning,
when he sauntered in so late that every one
had long since departed, and only his
mother was left to bear him company. Per-
haps he had not expected or desired to see
her, for he frowned at meeting her glance,
and flung himself; without speaking, into a
chair. He did not even thank her for the
cup of coffee which she extended toward
him, but took it silently, with a somewhat
tremulous hand, and then pointed to the
sideboard. The servant in attendance evi-
dently understood what was meant, for he
brought forward a small decanter of French
brandy, from which Julian poured a liberal
"sharpener~~ into his cup. Then, meeting
his mother's eye, he muttered half apologet-
ically:
"It is the best thing in the world to
steady one's nerves."
Madame Yacquant made a motion dis-
missing the servant before she answered,
with cold reproach:
"Nerves 'don't need steadying that have
not been racked overnight by dissipation."
"Not by drink, at least," he retorted,
angrily. "I drank not a drop more than
just enough to keep me up."
"Up to what?"
He raised his eyes half-defiantly, an(I
perhaps something in the hardness of her
tone may have provoked the reckless dis-
dain of his.
"Up to play, if you must know."
With all her self-control, Madame Vac-
quant could not prevent a slight change of
color, nor a slight gasp of the breath, as she
said, bitterly:
"And this is your promise?"
"My promise was a very indefinite one,"
he answered, coolly. "I hope you did not
understand it as a total abstinence pledge."
"No; I only understood this-that, if
you played in 'future, it must be with the
certainty of having to pay your own debts."

"You mean that you will advance noth-
ingmore?"
"I mean that, emphatically."
He drained his cup, and pushed it back
violently. "Then I' might as well buy a
dose of prussie acid," he said, bitterly.
"One thing is certain, 1 will not endure the
disgrace of shirking debts of honor, and I
have not the means to pay one-third of the
sum I lost last night."
"How much was it?"
He named the amount--a large one in-
deed-but his mother did not start. She
only said, icily, "You should have thought
of your ability for payment before staking
so much."
He looked at her steadily, but there was
no change at all in her face, and at length
he muttered, sullenly: "I see I should have
thought of it. But now there is nothing
left save to pay what I have lost. If you
won't help me-of course you can if you
'choose-I shall only have to borrow the
money on usury, and then-leave here! If
I once do that, Baltimore is not likely to see
me again soon.~~
"We can dispense with threats," she
said, coolly. "You might know, by this
time, that they have very little effect on me.
Perhaps I am not heroically inclined, but I
am not at all afraid of your committing sui-
cide, or going away to starve. We had bet-
ter come back to the point, and let me cor-
rect one statement in your last speech. You
say there is no doubt of my being able to
help you if I choose: you are mistaken. l~
don't choosebut if I did, I should find it
hard to do so. You exhausted my private
resources when you made your last de-
mand. If I helped you again,.I would have
to call on M. Vacquant."
He looked up eagerly; cold as her tone
was, he seemed to find so~e assurance of
hope in it. "What' is more easy than
that?" he inquired.
"It is like a man's selfishness to ask,"
his mother answered, with something be-
tween scorn and indignation in her voice.
"Very easy and verynatura! to yonI grant,
that I shoi~ld lie and dissimulate, for the
sake of your vices-but not so easy or so
natural to me! Does it never strike you

Ii

I'

90


92                           VALERIE
that, in applying to M. Vacquant, Ihave to
assign some pretext for the demand ~"
"I should think you would only need to
choose among a dozen pretexts. He must
be a strange millionnaire if he grudges his
wife a few thousands for pin-money."
"He does not grudge it-he is liberal to
a fault. But he is not easily blinded. He
would not hesitate a moment to give me
any reasonable amount for which I asked;
but he would suspect at once for what pur-
pose I wanted it."
"Well-let him!"
"Let him! You say that, when you
know that he does not like you now?"
"Yes, I know," Romney answered, with
a sneer. "But what then? His like or dis-
like does not matter to me, so long as he
does not order me from his house, or forbid
me the use of his cellar. As for any hopes
of heirship, I should think you would have
seen, long ago, that they were mere moon-
shine."
"I see that you have only yourself to
thank for their failure. Do you think he
would have cared to take up this adven-
turer, if you had not disappointed him?"
He shrugged his shoulders. "You flat-
ter yourself~ So far from disappointing
him, he never even thought of me. As for
the adventurer-I suppose you mean Darcy
-he seems to.sult him, and I am sure it is
all a question of taste. He is not likely to
suit anybody else."
"I am not sure about that. I begin to
think, of late, that he may suit somebody
else."
Her tone was so significant that Juliau
started quickly. "Whom do you mean? "he
asked, curtly:"
She answered, briefly, "I mean Valerie."
"You think that this-this painter is
likely-to please her?"
"Yers, I'think so."
"May-" The curse was none the less
bitter because something :of conventional
courtesy made the speaker finish-it beneath
his breath. Perhaps Ms mother did not.
hear him; at all events she only said quiet-
ly, ~ftera moment:
"The onlyhope is, that he may not care
to take advantage of her caprice."

AYLMER.
"Then there is no hope at all," the oth-
er retorted. "Better men would give half
their lives for such a chance."
"Better men, perhaps, but certainly not
wiser' ones," she answered, coldly. "I~o
woman is worth half a man's life; and a
coquette like Valerie Aylmer is not worth
one day of it. Maurice may not see that
her nets are thrown in his direction just
now, but, if he does, he at least 'has sense
enough to decline giving her vanity another
triumph."
"What do you ~
"I 'mean this-" and she repeated to
him the scene that had followed his depart-
ure the night before. ":N~ow," she said, in
conclusion, " you see what was the re-
sult of your folly and obstinacy. If Mau-
rice had not played into your hand, you
would only have thrown up the game to
him. When will you learn that moody
looks and angry words have lost many a
cause, but never yet gained one-especially
with a woman? If you were engaged to
Valerie a dozen times over, you could not
act with impunity, as you acted last night.
And in a man whose chances hang on a
thread, it was simple madness. I shall not
be surprised if you have ruined yourself ir-
reparably."
She paused, but he sat sullenly silent-
making no effort toward answer or self-jus-
tification; and after a moment she re-
sumed:
"You surely forget how much hangs on
this, or you would never have been betrayed
i~nto such folly. You surely forget that~ if
you do not succeed here, your last chance
of the fortune is gone. It is a matter of
life and death with you to make a claim on
M. Vacquant by marrying his granddaugh-
ter."
He flung himself back in his chair with
a sort of fierce impatience.
"It- is likely to be death, then."
"Yes," she said, contemptuously, "if
you choose to surrender the field-and I
never saw a fairer one-without a blow."
"You say that, because you don't know
how 'little she means, or has meant'any
thing beyond this foolery of flirtation."
"There you are mistaken. I know ex-

I

U

OVERTURES

aetly what she means-and I also know
what, if you were wise, you would mean.
She' means amusement-you would mean
earnest. If you, only knew how to play
your cards even tolerably, I see the end so
clear."
He looked up eagerly. "Show it to me
then! Show me any certainty of gaining
her, and you will never need to find fault
with my vacillation again?"
"The ~first thing is to go and make your
peace for last night's conduct. Bring mat-
ters back to the footing of a day or two ago,
and that will be one step gained. But -you
must keep your temper under control in
future. You will find her in the sitting-
room."
The last words were spoken in some-
what of a tone of surprise, for Julian did not
stir. On the contrary, he sat still-a pic-
ture of resentful obstinacy.
"That'is all very fine, but, before I play
puppet in the dark, I must have some assur-
ance about that money. It must be forth-
coming-by some means or other. Do you
mean to get it for me, or shall I go to the
usurers ?"
"If I do get it for you,. you must remem-
ber that it is for the last time."
"Yes-of course."
"And that I will receive no more 'in-
definite' promises in exchange."
"I will give my bond not to touch cards
or dice again until I can stake some of my
affectionate step-father's thousands on them
"We will te1I~ of oonditione when the
money is ready," she said, rising. "N'ow
will you 'go to Valerie, or will you wait un-
til some visitor comes in, and the opportu-
nity is lost?"
He answered by shrugging his shoulders
and leaving the room.
A few moments later, Vakrie, who' wa~
seated at the piano, playing strains and
snatches from "Faust," heard the door be-
hind her softly open, and looking up into a
large mirror against the wall, saw Romney's
face as he entered the room. It was a good
thing that he hadpaused outside to banish all
trace of its late expression from it, and sum-
mon up a languor which rather became the

OF PEACE.                         93
pallid complexion and purple-ringed eyes,
for he had not counted on such a speedy ob-
servation as this, and Valerie, in her turn,
was less inclined to suspect the genuineness
of what she saw. His appearance, indeed,
struck her so forcibly, that involuntarily her
hands fell from the keys, and she turned
round as he advanced.
"You look shockingly!" she said, be-
fore he could speak. "What is the mat-
ter?".
Romney was not at all lacking in natu-
ral readiness, or slow to take any advantage
offered him. He saw his opportunity in a
moment, and followed it up with commend-
able quickness. "I may well look shock-
ingly," he said, "if repentance can write it-
self on the face. I have endured more than
I can say since last night, and have had
only one thought-how I can ask you to
pardon me."
"That is not hard, if you can say that
you did not mean-"
Ilerehe inteiruptedher quickly: "Mean!
Ah, how can you think that I meant any
thing excepting that I was half beside my-
self? I scarcely know what I said; but I
am sure it must have been very dreadful, or
you would not have punished it so severely.
I would not sentence my worst enemy to
such a night and such a morning as you have
given me."
"As for the morning, perhaps that has
been your own fault," she said, smiling.
"You could certainly have shortened it by
several hours, if you had chosen. But the
night-well, we won't question whose fault
that Was. Mine, perhaps, in a measure-
for I have remembered since tha~t I was
neither so patient nor so considerate as I
might have been. If you are penitent-and
I think you look so-we wrn cry quits, and
be friends again."
Was not this better than he had a right
to expect? Romney evidently~thought so, for
his thanks were poured out warm and fast,
together with his justifications. It was in
the midst of these last that Valerie stopped
him.
"One ~moment, if you please; Your
claim to be angry last~night was founded on
something about which I don't care to ar-

-'If

I


94                           VALERIE
gue; but, in resuming amicable relations,
we must understand one another. I have
said that we are friends. You know what
that means-and you also know that friends
are not jealous of each other."
"No," he answered, with a good deal
of creditable self-control; "and, perhaps,
that is one reason why I never had much
fancy for friendship. But it seems I am to
learn it. Do you know how bard a task
you set me?-or do you care?"
"I don't know why it should be a hard
task," she retorted. "If you think so, how-
ever, I bad better declare us strangers-or, if
you like it better, enemies.
"You are jesting, while I am in earnest,"
he said, gravely. "I am not your friend-
in the sense you mean-or ever likely to be.
But I would do any thing in the world to
please you; and I can play at this, if you
desire it. Only don't be angry if I some-
times forget my r6le, and speak as I
feeL"
"I shall be angry, however-especially
if you speak as you did last night."
"Don't mention last night. it is like a
nightmare to me. I was half mad when I
went away from you, and cari you imagine
what Idid?"
Perhaps not quite truthfully, she shook
her head. -
"I went straight to the hazard-table,"
he said, "to try and forget every thing in
the excitement of play. But I could not
succeed. I was thinking all the time of you,
and wondering what you were doing. I
lost one game, I remember, trying to ima-
gine who was enjoying my waltz."
Valerie blushed deeply. She remem-
bered how vainly she had offered that waltz
to Maurice Darcy.
"I will tell you who enjoyed it," she
said, "and then you will see that your anx-
iety was lost as well as your game. It fell
to George More, quite the stupidest man in
Baltimore. Now I hope you are as much
ashamed of yourself as you ought to be.
By-the-by, do you know that I feel nearly
as badly as you look? Dissipation don't
seem to agree with us. I wonderif a can-
ter would~-do you think the day is too cold?
No? I &amp;ni se glad to hear it. Then pray

.AYLMER.
order the horses, while I go and put on my
habit."
He obeyed-only too well pleased to do
so-whilelMladtune Yacquant's brew smooth-
ed, as, sitting alone in her own room, she
heard Valerie's clear voice lilting the
"Flower-Song" on her way np-stairs, and
knew thereby that the overtures of peace
had been successful. When she heard the
same light step descending, however, she
opened her door to give a warning.
"Are you going to ride, Valerie? Pray
don't over-exert yourself; so that you will
be tired and dull to-night. You know we
are martyrs to a regular dinner-party, and
I look to you for assistance in making it
agreeable."
"As ir you needed any assistance!"
Valerie laughed; "or as if your dinner-par-
ties were not the only endurable ones I ever
knew. Don't be afraid of my over-exerting
myself, however. Nothing, will do me do
much good as a canter-indeed it is myonly
hope of being able to enjoy Mr. Lawton's
good things at all."
She nodded gayly, and glided past. The
next moment ~he was mounted, and canter-
ing over the paving-stones of Charles Street
Avenue, much to the astonishment of the
lookers-on, who, in their Northern igno-
rance, associated equestrianism only with soft
air and bright skies, and could not conceive
that she inhaled with positive zest the damp
salt breeze, which brought her hair out of
curl, put a glorious color into her cheek, as
she shook the reins on her horse's neck, and
looked at Julian with a smile.
"Is not this enough to make us forget all
the disagreeable of last night?" she asked.
And truly few men would have failed to
give the cordial~affirmative which was his
reply.
Descending the staircase that evening
about twenty minutes before dinner,,Valerie
suddenly met Darcy. It was the, first time
they had seeti each other since the night be-
fore; and the remembrance of that fact
made the bow with which she was passing
him rather cold and stately; when, to her
surprise, he paused-thus barring her way,
and forciugher to do likewise.

I

K

OVERTURFE

".l~xcuse me," he said, with a glance at
her dress. "I see you are all ready for the
drawing-room, but perhaps you won't mind
being detained a moment to hear some news
which may interest you. It is no longer a
matter of doubt about Miss Rivi~re's appear-
ance in public. She makes her de'1'ut in
three weeks."
"Her debutt" Tepeated Valerie, startled
out of her reserve, by this intelligence, which
did interest her very much. "Why, this is
i~ews indeed! I had very little idea that
her courage would ever be equal to the de-
cisive step. You are sure of it?"
"Perfectly sure," he answered. "She
was kind enough to ask my advice on the
subject, and I gave it unhesitatingly in favor
of an immediate plunge. Craning over a
venture is the best thing in the world for
sapping away the courage drop by drop-
but not for any thing else that I know of."
"But-I don't understand. Is she to
appear in opera?"
"No. Her parents would never consent
to that, I am sure. She is to appear,. but I
forget that I was charged not to anticipate
her. She wants the pleasure of giving you
the particulars herself."
"But you can tell me-"
"Nothing whatever, I am sorry to say,"
he interrupted, with a smile and a glance at
his watch. "I am bound over to secrecy;
and I see that I have barely fifteen minutes
in which to make my toilet. I am sure you
are glad I cannot detain you longer. Only
one word-may I trust to your influence in
inducing her to sing for Thornton to-
night?"
"I will try, but-is that necessary?"
"It is very necessary, since he repre-
sents all the good musical element of the
city."
"But he is very incredulous of Alix's
powers."
"So much the more triumph in convert-
ing him, as I mean to do-if you promise
your assistance."
"Of course, it is entirely at your ser-
vice."
"Then I am sure of success," he said,
with a laugh; and the next moment they
parted.

OF. PEACE.                        95
When Valerie entered the drawing-room,
she found it well filled-almost the due pro-
portion of guests having arrived, and that
appalling solemnity which precedes the an-
nouncement of dinner being already heavy
in the air. The conversational murmur
which filled the saloon had none of that regu-
lar, unbroken sweep that~ characterizes it
when the full tide of evening has set in, but
was low and fitful; broken by intervals of al-
most entire silence, that were only bridged
over by Madame Vacquant's tones, as she
glided from guest to guest, uttering to each
the same form of compliment or inquiry,
slightly varied to suit the different individ-
ual. There were groups of middle-aged
gentlemen who chiefly affected the hearth-
rug, and talked a little polities amouig them-
selves, as they regarded the light ivory-and-
gold car of Aurora over the mantel, on
whose side the tiny hands were moving fast
to the magical stroke of eight. There were
elderly ladies, magnificent in heavy velvets
and stately mores, enthroned upon sofas
and in the depths of dormeuses, exchanging
spasmodic confidences about schools and
committee-work. There were young ladies
scattered like gay birds of tropic plumage
in the various nooks and corners of the
room, making many picture-like effects
with their gleaming dresses and golden hair.
There was a brace of English officers, w~io
surveyed the company superciliously from
over the collars of moming-co~ts, and
talked principally to one another. There
was enough of the literary and artistic ele-
ment to relieve the insipidity of a purely
fashionable T~union-and there was the
usual amount of jeune gens of whum it is
the highest compliment to say that they
were, as a whole, sufficiently unexceptiona-
ble to escape notice. Finally, there was Alix
Rivi~re who,, nestling under the wing of a
severe-looking chaperon-her mother rare-
ly attended any evening ei~tertainment-
gave an exclamation of pleasure when she
saw Miss Aylmer, and toward whom the
latter at once made her way.
Before 'they had time for more than a
cordial greeting, however, dinner was an-
nounced, arid all the stir and rustle of exit
began. "We will bide our time, ~etite,'~

lI

U


Valerie whispered; as she found herself
claimed by that same Mr. Lawton, for the
appreciation of whose good things she had
declared a canter necessary; then, while she
still hesitated 'to see who would be sent by
Madame Vacquant to the service of Alix,
Darcy made his opportune appearance, and
they wheeled into line.
To more than one person the long cere-
mony which followed proved infinitely
wearying, certainly to Julian, who had been
consigned to the tender mercies of avery live-
ly young lady who was "devoted" to every
thing, from religion to skating, and possessed
an opinion ready-made and very glib of utter-
ance on every subject under heaven; cer-
tainly to Valerie, even despite Mr. Lawton's
genuine wit and fresh conversational power;
certainly to Mr. Thornton, who had fallen
into the hands of a femalePhilistine who con-
ceived that she was doing exactly the right
thing in talking musical "shop" (of a very
questionable quality) in unlimited quantity;
perhaps even to Darcy and Alix, although
they seemed ~very well entertained by one
another; but the end came at last-as, if we
are only patient, the end of every thing must
-and Madame Vacquant gave the signal for
the departure of the ladies. Once more there
was the soft rustle of silk and velvet, as
they filed ont in glittering array, leaving
the gentlemen to close, with a sigh of re-
lief, round the mahogany, and do that jus-
tice to good' olives and better wine which
feminine presence had before restrained.
Nobody was more glad of this release
than Valerie. Not' that she was fond of,
the' unlimited gossip which always ensued,
of hearing why Sarah Randolph persisted
in marrying that dissipated young Carroll;
of ho~ Mr. Wilson, who compromised with
his editors for fifty cents in the dollar, last
winter, could afford to give such entertain-
ments this seasons of whether Mrs. Kerr's
poir~t d'Aleng~rn cost the price sh6 profess-
es to hate' given for it in ?aris and if it is
likely "the bishop" will allow Rev. Mr.
Ray, of the straitest sect of the ritualists, to
burn candles on his communion-table-but
simply because she was anxious to learn
from 'Alir Rivi~re's own lips the particu~
lava of her intended d~ut. Avoiding, there-

fore, the group which surrounded Madame
Yacquant, audthe still less interesting knot
at the piano-where some enterprising mu-
sician with a very brilliant left hand began
to sacrifice over 'again that oft-murdered
"Home" of Thalberg's-she beckoned to
Alix, and led the way to the conservatory.
They found it still uninvaded, serenely
quiet, and beautiful as ever. The soft plash
of the fountain was the only audible sound,
the moonlight lustre fell a~ mellowly down
through the giant ferns' as when Valerie had
first stood there, and the iAch tropical fra-
grance was heavy on the air. It was with a
very deep sigh of relief that Alix sank into
one of the seats that bordered the marble
basin, where the gold-fishes darted and
played, and the water rose and sank with
such melodious cadence.
"How charming it is! "she said, "and
so beautiful I I don't wonder that people
say that this conservatory has seen more
flirtations and beard more declarations than
any other in Baltimore I I am sure that, if
I were one of your captivOs, I could not re-
frain from love-making, Valerie-especially
in this bewitching light."
"Youwill allow me to be glad, then, that
you are not," Valerie answered. "There are
a great many things more agreeable than
love-making--especially when the interest is
all on one side. And just at present I am
only interested in an item of news which
Captain Darcy gave me before dinner; Cau
you possibly imagine what it was?"
Alix looked up with a world of innocence
in her eyes.'
"How should I, dear? I am the last
person in the world to be clever at di-
vining."
"Keep your powers of acting for the
stage, little hypocrite," Miss Aylmer an-
swered, giving a twitch to the curl nearest
her," and tell'me at once why I am left to
hear from a third person, that you are about
to make your d6but."
"I did not know it myself until this
morning," Alix' replied, with a mournful
sigh. "The maestro came in with the de-
cision, papa and mamma ratified it, and
when, as a forlorn hope, I appealed to Cap-
tain Darcy, he too went against me. If

B

r had thought you would have helped me to
form an opposition, I would have called you
into the council, but I knew better."
"Yes, I should have agreed with the
rest. If the step is to be taken, it should be
made at once. And tell mesome of the par-
ticulars, for your confidant was too obsti-
nate or too scrupulous to do so. Where
are you goingto sing? and how? and what?
Is it at an amateur concert that you will ap-
pear?"
"No, Mr. Rosenberg says that would do
me no good. It is too professional, and-
but of course you have heard of the famous
singer, Madame Baroni, who landed the
other day in New York?"
"Of course."
"Well, Mr. Rosenberg, without telling
me any thing of his intentions, went to New
York to see her, and ask her if she would
allow me to appear at the concert she is to
give here a few weeks hence. He says she
was as kind as possible, and assured him
that it would give, her sincere pleasure to as-
sist at the debut of 'a young aspirant for
musical honors '-as 'the newspapers say.
Was it not kind?
"Very. But then, I think, most artists
who have climbed the heightss of their pro-
fession are willing to aid those who are
taking the first hard steps. Only, mi-
gnomne, don't you feel a little afraid of such
a wonderful cantatrice as this Baroni must
be?"
The child-she was scarcely more than
that-.--looked up with her soft eyes shimmer-
ing like stars out of the brave young face.
"I might be," she said, simply, "if it were
not for papa and mamma. But, when I think
of helping them, I do not feel as if I could
be afraid of any thing."
"You are a true knight-errant! "Valerie
said, stooping to kiss the fair; up-turned
brow. "And you are right! The older I
grow, the more do I think that self-forget-
fulness is the best secret of courage. With
it, you will succeed, I think-and, if so, do
you mean to go on the lyric stage?"
She shook her head.
"I think not. Papa, I am very sure,
would never consent. And, even if he did,
mamma's health is too delicate for me to
'7

90                         VALEl~IE .&amp;YLMIIR.                                                             OVERTURPJS OF FEACE.                      97

leave her. Besides, I could never succeed
there without the prestige of European cul-
ture."
"What will you do, then?"
"Remain here, I expect-for some time
at least. Mr. Rosenberg says that a public
success will open a good many doors to me.
rar exemple, I am already promised a choir
position, with a good salary. Then, I shall
sing in concerts, you know."
She spoke very quietly and simply; but,
as Valerie listened, a vision rose before her
of the luxurious home, where she had first
seen this young soldier of fortune, of the fair
inheritance of which she was then sole heir-
ess, of the petted life that seemed to stretch
before her; and now, in contrast-this!
Her voice was hardly steady as she said:
"A poor prospect, Alix, for talent like
yours! You are sentencing yourself to the
mere drudgery of your profession, when you
might earn its highest rewards."
"I know-but what can I do?"
What can I do? A sternly practical
question that, which few of us are able to
answer for ourselves, far less for others. It
was no wonder that Valerie evaded it when
she said:
"You should go to Europe."
"You might as well tell me I should go,
like a pen, to the gates of Paradise," Alix
answered, sadly. "And now-but some one
is coming."
The words were scarcely uttered, before
Maurice Darcy and Mr. Thornton came from
around a tall shrub. After their first greet-
ing was over, Darcy turned at once to the
matter which seemed to be just then occu-
pying all of his attention,
"Miss Rivi~re, Mr. Thornton is very
anxious to hear you sing; and I have ven-
tured to promise that you will gratify him.
I am sure you wrn not make me guilty of
guaranteeing more than I could perform."
"I am sure you deserve fhat I should!"
said Alix, with a glance which meant more
than the words-for she had changed color'
a little at the ominous beginning. "No
man of discretion would risk his word on
any thing so unreliable as a woman's ca.~-
price.-.Don't you think so, Mr. Thorn..
ton?"

96

97


98                     VALERIE AYLMER.                                                     THE DIAMOND OF' TIlE DESERT.

Mr. Thornton answered; "be-
cause the one thing concerning which a
woman seldom has a caprice, is the redeem-
ing of a friend's word."
"And that means-"
"It means that Captain Darcy has
promised that you will sing, and that I hope
you will do so."
lie spoke cordially and gracefully, for he
was not a man to do things by halves, and
did not choose to be ungracious to the song-
stress, because he really had no desire to
hear her ;iind, as there was little of the con-
ventional young lady in Alix Rivi~re, she
rose at once without further urging.
"Of course I will sing, if you desire it,"
she said, quietly, though it would be hard
to say how much she was secretly trem-
bling. Then she accepted the arm which the
formidable critic offered, and walked for-
ward, leaving only one reproachful glance
behind for Darcy.
He smiled slightly as lie met it, and, turn-
ing to Valerie, said:
"You will come also, will you not?"
"Of course," she answered, a little
piqued that he should have thought the
question necessary. "You do not monopo-
lize all interest in Alix, pray remember, I
think I deserve credit for a moderate
amount at least, and-. Ah, Julian, you a~e
just in time!"
She did not say for what-nor was it
necessary that she should, since she held out
her hand, and laid it in Romney's readily-
tendered arm. If Darcy felt the slight at
all, he gave no sign of it, but walked along
very quietly by her side, talking of Alix and
of Alix's prospects, until they reached the
grand piano, to which Mr. Thornton had
conducted his charge, and where a group of
eager listeners were already gathered. The
sweet young face of the girl looked very
pale, she had never undergone an ordeal like
this before; but Daroy was glad to observe
hew" cool and. self-possessed she also seemed.
Her gloves were off by the time he gained
her side, but it was he who seated her at the
plane-whispering a few last words of en-
couragement as her hands fell on the keys.
"II is a pity she should have to play her
own accompaniment," Thornton muttered;

but, before he could utter a remonstrance,
the tiny, lissome hands had struck their first
chords, and the next moment she burst into
song.
Valerie saw Darcy flash one glance of
triumph at his friend, when the first clear
notes fell on the ear. Then ho stood satis-
fied and quiet, while Alix sang with a
power and purity which electrified every
musical ear in the room, and proved at once
her rich natural gift and her careful musical
training. The fresh young voice, llexile and
reed-like as a flute, was well worth hearing,
as it carolled over the most intricate pas-
sages and brilliant ToUla4 68~ without one mo-
mentary hesitation or faulty cadence; but
Thornton's face was still better worth seeing,
as astonishment deepened into admirationn,
and admiration into sincere and absorbed
enjoyment. He was completely taken by
surprise, and when Alix ceased~ and glanced
timk~ly toward him, he held out both his
hands with a warmth which nobody had
ever seen him display before.
"Miss Ilivi~re," he said, cordially, "I
have always, before this, doubted your pow-
ers, and I am heartily glad to be able to tell
you, what I shall soon tell every one else,
that I was entirely mistaken. If you are
not yet one of the greatest singers of your
day, it wrn be the fault of yourself-not of
l{ature."
After that, it was a perfect ovation-a
foretaste, perhaps, of many to come-which
Madame Vacquant's guests paid to the
young songstress thus presented to them.
Young and old thronged around the piano,
bidding her to play again and yet again-
only too eager to follow the path thus
marked out for them.
Watching the scene from a distance.~-.for
after a while she yielded to Julian's solicita-
tions, and drew back from the crowd-Va-
lerie was glad to see that the gentle, girlish
manner lost nothing in simplicity and grace,
but that Alix's bearing was quite as frank
and unaffected as when she had nestled by
the fountain half an ~honr before. She was
very self-possessed, too-for only the deep-
ened roses in her cheeks evinced how fast
her every pulse was beating and thrilling.
It may be that Darcy was to thank for this.

At least he did not leave her side, and it
seemed as if his presence might have been
the secret of her ease, since an observer
more careless than Miss Aylmer could have
seen that, whatever others were doing or
saying, her eyes and her smile sought con-
tinually the kind response of his.
CHAPTER III.
THE DIAMOND or THE DEsERT.
"I ~ said Valerie, with something
of a yawn, "that I will go to see Alix this
morning. It has been more than a fortnight
since she was here, and I have some curi-
osity to learn how the de' but comes on."
"It will certainly be a kindness," Ma-
dame Vacquant answered-they were quite
alone, and perhaps she was glad to dispense
with a very restless and listless companion.
"I suspect Mrs. Rivi~re is sick; otherwise I
am very sure we should have heard some-
hing from them. Shall I order the carriage
for you?
"Thank you, no. It is so clear and bra-
cing, that for once I mean to walk."
"You will find it very cold."
"Tant mieux! I feel as if I needed a
tonic, and the air may prove one.'~
She felt as if it had already proved one,
when, a few minutes later, the hall-door
clanged behind her, and she found herself
on the frosty pavements. The day was very
cold, but still and bright as possible, so
bright that The glittering masses of half-
frozen snow were painfully dazzling to the
eyes. The air was alive with the music of
bells, as sleigh after sleigh dashed past; and
the hurrying pedestrians were wrapped to
their very noses, as if afraid of the touch of
the frost-king. So cold, indeed, that Va-
lerie half repented of her resolution before
she had gone very far, and her teeth were
chattering like castanets, when, after a walk
of five or six squares, she mounted a flight
of steps at the Rivi~res' door, and sent a
sharp peal ringing through the house. The
servant who answered it informed her that
Miss Rivi~re had gone to take a music-les-

son. Mrs. Rivi~re, however, was at home;
and, on asking for her, she was shown in at
once.
A flood of sunlight was streaming so
brightly across the room into which the
maid ushered her, that for a moment Vale-
rie's eyes were quite dazzled; then she rec-
ognized the charming home-like aspect of
the apartment, though it contained scarce-
ly a single fashionable article of furniture.
But a few green plants arranged in a win-
dow, a few va~es, a few flue engraving~ ,
and abundance of books, produced an effect
which many a gorgeous drawing-room might
have envied. Over the piano hung two
pictures which were evidently specially
prized. One was the well-known "Matinte
bei Liszt," where Berlioz, Czerny, and
Ernst, are listeningto the great master of the
piano-forte harmony; the other, the poet-
brow and soul-lit eyes of Felix Mendelssohn.
In a niche near the fire stood a low couch,
and from this a frail, lovely woman raised
herself-a woman whose eyes were bright
and whose cheeks aglow with the deceitful
lustre and more deceitful bloom of that vic-
tor disease which has never yet struck its
flag to mortal skill.
She came forward as soon as she saw
who her visitor was, and met Miss Aylmer
with a very sweet and cordial smile, with a
grace too so perfect in its dignity and pol-
ish that it contrasted strangely enough with.
her plaln surroundings. Ah I the French
say well of many a noble old tradition and
custom, "La B~volution apas~~ 8Ur tout cela,"
and to us of to-day the familiar phrase
comes in a newer and sadder sense. Yes,
the Revolution passed over much, over al-
most all that was tender and beautiful in
our lives-but it spared us one relic of our
past? It wrested from. us the fair heritage
of our fathers, it tore our hearts, and dark-
ened onr lives, it laid upon. our freeborn
necks the yoke of slavery,~it made us exiles
and aliens in our native land, it left us
scarcely a wish on earth, and scarcely-God
help us I-a hope in Heaven, but it failed to
take away the high thoughts and noble
manners which dignify adversityTas much as
they ever adorned prosperity. In many an
obscure spot, fallen forever from their high
1.


100                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                        THE DIAMOND OF THE DESERT.               1(31

estate, we meet, in poverty and grief, the
children of our conquered land, but nor pov-
erty nor grief can change the old frank
grace, the old hospitable impulse, the old
inborn and kindly courtesy for high and
low. Valerie had felt this often; but never
more strongly than when this fair gentle-
woman came forward now with outstretched
hand, and spoke in the soft, flute-like tones
that are so sweet in their every accetit,
and so different from the harsh Northern
gutturals!
*" Miss Aylmer, I am charmed to see you!
I am sorry Alix is not at home. But, if you
will accept a very indifferent substitute in
her place, you will not have to wait long, I
hope. I am expecting her return moment-
ly. Pray come to the fire. You must be
so cold."
"I was nearly frozen a moment ago,"
Valerie answered, looking into the soft
brown eyes, and with all her heart envying
Alix her mother. "But this room is so
pleasantly warm, I am already beginning to
thaw. If you wrn allow me, I will lay aside
my furs."
"Pray do i-and your hat and cloak
also. Let me indulge myself in the luxury
of feeling that you are not likely to take
wing at any moment, but will certainly be
good for an hour or two at ~
Miss Aylmer did not need much persua-
sion to be induced to comply with this re-
quest. Her wrappings were yielded to the
soft hand which touched them, and when
Alix came in, half an hour later, she found
her installed in a low chair by Mrs. Rivi~re's
sofa.
"Valerie I is it you?" she cried, eagerly.
"Mary told me there was a lady with main-
me~-but I never thought of you! I am so
glad to see you-so glad you came. Have
you been here long?"
"Notvery long," Valerie answered, with
a smile-" indeed not long at all, if I may
trust my own ideas of the length of time.
But then I have been very pleasantly en- I
gaged, while you-.--"
"Have been at work," said Alix, gayly,
as she came and stood on the hearth-rug,
tossing her muff and roll of music on the
unoccupied end of her mother's sofa. What

a pity it is that everybody's work is not as
pleasant as mine! I don't believe I ever
8ItQUZZ tire - even of practising scales and
trills. -Mamma, Mr. Rosenberg says my
notes in the upper register improve every
day!"
"Does he?" said Mrs. Ilivi~re, laughing
a little. "I am glad to hear it-but I am
afraid he compliments you too much, Alix."
"lie is trying to encourage me," said
Alix, gravely. "He thinks I don't know that
-but I do! The dear maestro! It certain-
ly will not be his fault if I fail-"
"It certainly wrn not be the fault of
your own daring," said Valerie, who had
opened the roll of music and was looking
over it. "Your ambition flies high, I per-
ceive. The 'Magic Flute,' after Mozart!"
"The maestro insisted on it," said Alix,
apologetically. "I know I cannot give the
echo as it should he done-but he in-
sisted!"
"Ah,, here is something calculated to
take away one's breath -' L'Usignuolo.'
Why, miunonne, people will say you are bent
upon showing how many conjuror's tricks
you caii play with your voice! And what
is this-the 'Isoline' of Stigelli! 'Why, how
many solos are you to sing?"
"Only three," said Alix, smiling. "I
shall give that in case of-of"
"An encore! Oh, yes, I comprehend-
but I suspect you would please your audi-
ence better if you sang 'Il Bacio,' or some-
thing of that sort, when they call you back.
What was it you sang for Mr. Thornton the'
other night ?-I mean your last song."
"That lovely thing of Abt's-' Dort sind
wir Herr.'"
"Yes. If you could only give that-
but I suppose the maestro knows best. If
you are not too tired, go to the piano and
sing some for me."
"I am ~never too tired to sing," said
Alix; and she crossed the room, humming,
is she went, that exquisite morceau from
bhe "Acis and Galaten:"
"'Love in her eyes sits playing
And sheds delicious death,
Love on her lips is straying
And warbling In her breath."'
Miss Aylmer smiled to herself. She was

fond of tracing cause to effect, and it'
chanced that she remembered just then
how often she had heard Darcy humming
those1identical strains to himself. She did
not mention the coincidence, however, but
only bade Alix sing the song for her. After
it was finished, she glanced at her watch.
"I wanted to hear these others, but I
see I have not time," she said; "so I will
only take my favorite aria from 'St. Paul'
before I go."
Without answering, Alix changed the
measure in which she was playing, struck a
few minor chords~ and at once began. Mrs.
Ilivi~re lay back on her cushions with closed
eyes, and, as the full, silvery voice rose in the
touching strains of our Lord's lament over
the doomed city of Israel-as all that is
most fraught with mournful and tender
pathos seemed breathed like the voice of a
pitying angel in the cadenced rise and fall
of the plaintive melody, large tears slowly
gathered on her lashes, and rolled one by
one like glittering diamonds over her thin
cheeks:
"Jerusalem! Jerusalem! thou that kill-
st the prophets, thou that stones them
hat are sent unto thee, how often would I
not! ~             cold winter
gathered unto thee thy children, and
as Valerie listened she seemed to see
daylight, but the glowing sky and rich
plains of Palestine-not the city streets of
throng and noise, but smiling mountains
crowned by stately cedars - not ordinary
men and women hurrying past, but swarthy
forms in picturesque attire, wending their
way with camels and horses toward the dis-
tautgolden line that marked the domain of
he desert-not bare and stunted boughs
waving past the window, but feathery palms
and shining waters-not dull lines of duller
brick, but afar off the royal city of David,
and the gleaming walls of the magnificent
Temple.
It was like a rude sudden call to reality
when the music ceased, when one listener
dashed away her tears before they had been
observed, and the other saw the golden
sands, the fringing palms, and distant camels,
fade bacl~ into the fair Shadow-land, as the

singer turned her radiant face toward them.
Before either could speak, however, the
door opened, and, with an air of a familiar
friend, Darcy entered the room. He did~
not see Valerie, who was partially concealed
by the sofa; so, with only a smiling saluta-
tion to Mrs. Rivi~re, he spoke to Alix.
"I am glad to find you in such good
voice. I never heard that air better ren-
dered, though I have heard it often. I did
not care to disturb you, so I waited in the
hall till it was finished."
"That was unnecessary," said Alix, with
a laugh. "I would have finished it all the
same, if you had come in-and you never
disturb me. Music cannot sound very well
through a closed door-do you think so,
"Valerie!" Durcy could not help re-
peating, in a tone of surprise. Then he
turned quickly and saw a pair of 'familiar
eyes regarding him from over the arm of
Mrs. Rivi~re's sofa.
"Did you speak to me, Captain Darcy?"
their owner asked, with supreme gravity.
"I beg pardon. I really had no idea
that you were here," he answered. "No;
I did not speak to you when I repeated your
name-that is the last liberty I should ever
think of taking with Miss Aylmer."
The young lady bowed with a good deal
of graceful mockery.
"Miss Aylmer is much obliged to you.
It has not often fallen to her lot to be
treated with such grandiose respect; and
she is grateful accordingly.-Alix, what did'
you ask me?"
"Nothing much- only whether you
thought music would sound well through a
closed door?"
"I should say that it depended entirely,
on the music. We might be very grateful
if we could put half a dozen closed doors
between ourselves and some forms of melo-
dy. Whether or not tke 'Jerusalem' was
improved by it, however~,' is a question for
Captain Darcy, not me."
It was a question which Captain Darcy
did not trouble himself to answer. Tie only
smiled; and, taking up a piece ~finusic, be-
gan to ask questions about the all-important
d~1,ut. Alix answered them as candidly


102

and freely asif she had been talking to her
own brother; but, naturally enough, the
subject (discussed at second-hand) lacked
interest to Miss Aylmer. She turned away,
and began a conversation with Mrs. Elvidre,
from which, after a while, her attention was
drawn, by hearing Alix exclaim:
"It is finished! Oh, how charming!-
Mamma, do you hear this-the 'Diamond
of the Desert'is finished!"
"Indeed!" said Mrs. Ilividre, with evi-
dently genuine interest. "Captain Darcy,
I congratulate you! Or is it a matter for
congratulation? I should think it would
be a great pleasure to be done-and yet a
pain."
"You are right," Darcy said. "It is
both. Yet, in this instance, more pleasure
than pain, I think; so you may certainly
congratulate me."
"I do, then-most heartily. Of course
you have seen and admired it?" she added,
turning to Miss Aylmer.
"What is 'it' I-a picture? Indeed I
have not even heard of it. We see very
little of Captain Darcy, and nothing what-
ever of his pictures."
*" This is an old picture-begun long ago
-which I am finishing at the request of Mr.
Howard," Darcy said. "He saw it in my
studio, took a fancy to it, and offered to
buy it; so finishing it became a matter of
necessity. It has never been a favorite of
mine, however; and that is why I feel
more pleasure than pain in the conscious-
ness of having it off my hands."
"So much the more shame to you!"
cried Alix, indignantly. "Valerie, it is
beautiful! You ought to see it-indeed, a -
bright thought strikes me! Mamma, could 1
you bear to be left alone for a little while?"
* "I think I could support the desolation
for a reasonable time."
"Well, then, Captain Darcy, will yuu t
take us-Valerie and I-down to your stu- e
die?" e
It would be hard to say who was most s
surprised by this cool request-Valerie or s
Darcy. To his credit, however, the latter I
recovered himself in a moment, and an-
swered readily-
"I shall be very happy to do so." a

"But here Valerie interrupted. "I am
sorry; but you must excuse me, Alix. I
have an engagement at home, and it is time
that I went to fulfil it."
"Gh, no, no!" Alix cried, barring the
way as she rose. "Indeed, you must
do as I say, this once! Never mind about
the engagement! No heart will be broken
-or, if it is, you can easily mend it again.
You don't know what you will miss, if you
don't see the 'Diamond of the Deserts' It
will not be put on exhibition, but will be
sent at once to Mr. Howard. Besides, I
want to go, so much! Mamma is not well
enough to accompany me-and of course I
cannot go alone. I shall not get to see the
picture at all again, if you refuse to go with
me. 0 Valerie, please! ~
The imploring tones were hard enough
to resist, but the fawn-like eyes were infi-
nitely harder; and, after a moment, Miss
Aylmer surrendered at discretion, saying:
"You were certainly born to have your own
way, Alix. If I must play chaperon, for
the first time in my life, why-I suppose I
must! There! go and get your hat."
"You will go?"
"Yes, I will go."
While Alix ran out of the room, her new
chaperon looked round for her furs. They
chanced to be lying on the piano, and, as she
went there after them, Dai~cy seized his op-
ortunity and spoke:
"Let me thank you for your kindness in
giving Miss Rivi~re this pleasure. I am
rery glad you have consented to go."
* "I feel as if I ought to apologize to you,"
he said, coldly. "But you saw how it was
-I could not refuse. If it had been possi-
)le, I should have done so."
"I am sorry to hear that."
"Are you? I don't mean to be rude-
)ut pray don't let us begin saying pretty
hings to each other. We have been hen-
st at least, heretofore-let us continue hon.-
st to the end. I am going, to please Alix;
~ad you don't mind my presence, since it
cures hers. That is the state of the case,
think-and so, we are neither of us at all
edebted to the other."
She had been buttoning her cape around
s she spoke. She now took up her muff,

.4

I,
'1'

VALERIE AYLMER.

THE DIAMOND

I

and walked back to the fireplace, leaving
Darcy to think what he pleased of this un-
gracious rebuff.
After a while Alix came back, as bright
and fresh as a sunbeam, and, bidding Mrs.
Bivi&amp;e good-morning, the trio started-
wending their way from Eutaw Street down
to Charles in the teeth of a cutting wind.
They walked briskly, however, and soon
reached the large marble building at the
corner of Lexington Street, where iDarcy had
some time since established himself. They
climbed a flight or two of stairs, and were
rewarded by finding themselves shown into
a somewhat cheerless apartment, full of the
rubbish and litter that an artist soon gathers
around him.
"I am only here temporarily," Darcy
said, as he saw Valerie's eye wandering
over the empty packing-cases that did duty
for chairs and tables, the variously-shaped
canvases, the unfinished paintings, paint-
boxes, paint-rags, the lay figure draped
in an Arab ljernowqe, and the other sig-
nificantly-artistic tokens of disorder. "It
seems scarcely worth while to make one's
self comfortable when one may be on the
wing any day. Take care of your dress
there. Here is the 'Diamond of the Desert'
on the easel. Don't compliment it, unless
you can do so conscientiously."
"I am not likely to flatter," Valerie an-
swered, with very unmistakable candor.
Then she stood and attentively regarded the
picture.
If she had expected any thing like the
tender and suggestive pathos of "Missing,~,
she must have been very much disappointed.
Yet perhaps her first feeling was one of as-
tonishment that the day vision into which
she had fallen over the aria from "St. ~
should be, in part at least, so faithfully
represented before her. There were the
feathery palm~, there the sparkling waters,
there the golden sand; there, also, the
swarthy, dark-eyed groups in their white
turbans and flowing robes, the camels, the
barbs, and far off, on the verge of the pur-
ple horizon, the domes and minarets of some
distant city faintly outlined against the sky.
It was a very simple composition-only a
group of Arabs resting at an oasis-but it

I"a

OF THE DESERT.                      103
was charmingly painted, the colors soft and
clear with all their brilliance, and a pervad-
ing tone of freshness and reality that must
have struck the most inattentive observer.
It was very evident that of idealization, much
less of pure fancy, there was literally nothing
-it was plainly faithful copy, not of Nature
in general, but of Nature in particular. The
oasis might perhaps have been a shadow of
many oases, but no one could doubt the
individuality of every one of the Arabs,
whohad unloaded their camels, dismounted
from their horses, and lain down on the
fresh turf. Perceiving this, Valerie turned
to Darcy, and daid, in the tone of one who
asserts an undoubted fact:
"~You have been in the East, then?"
"Yes," he answered. "I spent several
years there; and Eastern scenes were, for a
time, my specialty. If I were to put on can-
vas half the sketches which I outlined on
paper-you are fairly tormented with pictu-
resque effects in those countries-I should
need two lives instead of one to achieve the
mere manual labor."
"And this is a scene from actual life,
then?" asked Alix, eagerly.
"Every face there is a portrait," he an-
swered; "from old Yusuf the sheik -you
see him sitting crossed-legged by the stream
-down to the youngest boy. The oasis it-
self is to be found not very far outside the
walls of Cairo."
"That distant city is Cairo ?"
"Yes."
She looked intently at the picture for a
long time, then turned and said, half-
timidly:
"How I should like to see your sketch-
es! "
"Would you?" he asked, with a soft
light in his eyes that almost always came to'
them at any remark of hers. "Well, that
is a very moderate desire, and easily grati-
fied. I have a good many with me, and, if
you would care to see them now-or any
other time-"
"Now, of course," she said, eagerly..
"Valerie, don't you say so?"
But Valerie did not hear. She was~
looking at the picture, through her half-.
closed hand, and did not even notice that4~


104                           YAI~F4UIE
the others tur~ied sway. When she did at
last wake, with a start, to a consciousness of
their absence, and look around, they were
deep in a large portfolio, and so absorbed
4zat her presence was notat all neee&amp;sary
to their enjoyment. After one glance, she
moved away in an opposite direction. The
studio was a narrow but rather long apart-
ment, and, as she strolled toward the lower
end of it-pausing now and then'to examine
the unfinished pictures and outline etchings
which.lined the walls-she almost lost sight
of those two heads bending down together,,
behind the large easel. It was quite invol-
untarily that, coming at last to a corner
where several canvases were stacked to-
gether, she turned the first one around. A
glimpse was enough to make her draw it
into a better light, and then she stood trans-
fixed by admiration.
The scene represented an opera-box,
from which, drawing aside the curtain with
one hand, a girl, with a face of richly-tinted
beauty, looked forth in what seemed a flush
*        of triumphant power and self-possession.
At least the attitude could only have been
so interpreted-there was such a regal pose
of the head, such a challenge in the dark
eyes, rippling over with all the sunny light
and soft languor of the South. An ivory-
mounted lorgnette lay on the cushions be-
*        fore her, together with a libretto and one
white kid glove, while a half-closed fan was
held to the scarlet lips by the most slender
of hands. The shoulders, from which the
cloak had slipped back, gleamed lustrously
white against a dark background, and the
whole effect was so glowing and perfect,
that Valerie exclaimed half aloud, "How
exquisite!"
Yet, even as the words passed her llps, a
discovery flashed upon her which made her
sink into a seat, and' stare at the picture in
blank amazement, Surely there was some-
thing strangely familiar in the face, which
bent so graciously and smilingly toward
her! Surely she had met before the soft
depths of those liquid eyes! There was n~
doubt of it-the face was her own!
What she would have said or done, it is
impossible 'to conjecture, for at that moment
a quiet voice behind her asked:

AYLMER.                                             ON THE HEIGHTS.                     10

'~"And what do you think of your like.
ness?"
She started and turned-for once visibly
confused-to meet the smiling eyes of Mau-
rice Darcy.
'"Mine! is it really mine?" she stam-
mered.
"Can there be a doubt of it? Did you
ever see a face like that, out of your mirror?"
"But how could you-I never gave you
a sitting!"
He laughed outright.
'"Never a conscious one, I grant you;
but I am very quick to catch a likeness, and
you know I have seen you constantly. I
ought to explain and apologize, perhaps," he
added, more seriously. "You would have a
right to think that I had taken a great lib-
erty, if I did not assure you that I have only
done so to gratify my uncle. He saw some
of my portraits once, and said that he would
like me to paint yours. I knew you would
never consent to a course of sittings, so I
could only promise him to catch the likeness
without troubling you-and that is my ex-
cuse."
Valerie bit her lips quickly; and it
would be hard to tell-hard, perhaps, for
herself to have told-the cause of the sud-
den shadow which came over her face, as
if his explanation had been in some sense a
disappointment.
"You give me credit for more perversi-
ty than I possess," she said, coldly. "Of
course I would have sat for you-if grand.
papa wished it."
"It was more the desire to spare you a
disagreeable thing, than a beief in your per-
versity, which induced me to choose this
mode of obtaining a portrait," he answered.
"You see I have succeeded-~.moderately at
least."
"I see you have flattered my face al-
most beyond recognition."
"Yen think so?" and his eye travelled,
with the quick artist-gaze, from original to
copy, and then back again. "Well-I do'
not agree with you."
~" I doubt if you are a good judge," she
retorted. "How should you know any
thing about my face? You certainly don't~
know me."

"Is that a necessary preliminary?"
"I have always thought so."
"And I have always thought the re
verse. Instead of knowing the face fron
the character, we know the character fron
the face. That is the reason why artists ar
generally good physiognomists."
Valerie looked quickly at the picture
There were many soft lights common to he
face, many gentle and tender expressions t
her eyes-but none of them were there
The artist's hand had transferred to his can
vas, line by line, and tint by tint, her phys
ical beauty, but never a shadow of augh'
that was spiritually lovely. In the brillian'
eyes she only saw the satisfaction of con
scious power; on the perfect lip, only
smile of haughty vanity. She turned to hin
at last, and spoke with a strange bitterness~
in her voice.
"Then what I see in that face is you:
conception of my character?"
"Do you object to it?" he asked, smil
ing.
She made a gesture of impatience
"That is no reply to my question. Please
be good enough to answer me."
Then he answered, gravely: "It is th~
only one I have been able to form. W4
jud~e according to sight, you know."
"Yes," she said, with a half gasp, ~~W4
judge according to sight-no matter ho~
far wrong sight may take us~ Not that yoi
are wrong in this. You may be very right
No one knows less than I do."
At that, she turned away, and walke
toward Alix, who looked up in some sur
prise.
"how long you have been, dear!" shi
said. "I sent Captain Darcy for you, and:
thought neither of you was coming back
I wanted to show you this scene in Damas
ens. Is it not charming-just like the Ara
bian Nights?"
"Yes, exactly," Valerie answered, a
she bent over the sketch. A moment later
one large hot drop had blurred the dome o
a mosque thereon, though where it cam
from no one could tell.

CHAPTER IV.
O~I THE HEIGHTS.
1.
As the days went on, and the time of
Miss Rivi~re's dibut approached, a knowl-
edge of the fact which, up to that time, had
been kept a partial secret, began to transpire
among her friends and acquaintances. Con-
sequent upon this, the poor child was forced
- to run a gantlet of inquiries and remon-
- stances, of dark intimations of failure, and
t darker threats of certain social penalties
t that in such a case would be enforced
against her and hers. Ali this came sudden-
~ ly and without preparation, and those who
1 knew her best scarcely realized the courage
with which she had nerved herself for the
issue until they saw how gallantly she
breasted this preliminary storm of opposi-
tion. If such an ordeal had been foretold
- for her, no doubt they would all have feared
that it would shake her resolution. But,
on the contrary, it only seemed to strength-
~ en it. Inquiries she answered with calm
affirmation; remonstrances she put aside
s with quiet disdain; while the threats of
~ social penalty brought a ~nore scornful light
to her eyes than had ever been seen there
~ before. "What is your idol to me?" she
r cried, contemptuously. "When we were
1 rich and prosperous, society ,was at our feet
-in our reverses, it has barely tolerated us,
extending one finger when we met! Now
I it may ignore us, for all I care. Our friends
- we shall keep-the rest are better lost than
retained!" For the prophecies of failure,
s she had only one answer-" That remains
[ to be proved." And, as she went on her
way, all faithful and unsparing of labor to
- herself, all gentleness and tenderness to her
- parents, all steadfast defiance to the world,
many thought, and Valerie among them,
~ that they had never witnessed a more touch-
ing and beautiful sight.
f But still there were moments when the
s head drooped and the courage gave way-
moments when the poor little flower came
to her friend trembling and downcast. "Oh,.
I dread it so unspeakably! " she would says
with her wistful eye full of tears. "I am

AYLMER.

105


106                       VALERIE AYLMER.                                                                  ON THE HEIGhTS.                      107

afraid-oh, lam terribly afraid! I feel as if
I should not he able to utter one note when
I stand before all that sea of faces. I feel as
if something wouldrise up in my throat and
choke me, and that I shall end by disgracing
myself."
" And gratifying all your kind friends,"
said Miss Aylmer, coolly. "Don't forget
that!"
"Yes, that is just it! "she cried passion-
ately. "It almost kills me to think how
they will exult and shake their heads, and
say 'Poor thing, I told her so!' And when
I think of them, I feel that I will suc-
ceed."
" Think of them all the time, then.~,
"Ah, but sometimes even that thought
fails me. Sometimes I feel as if to meet the
cold glances and the critical eyes must extin-
guish all my courage, and that I shall cover
my face with my hands and cry out to Mr.
Rosenberg to take me away. I can see
myself do it, as plainly as if I were looking
at a picture."
"Alix, you must put such fancies as
these out of your head-you must not en-
courage them. They are enough to make
you fail. There is no danger-there cannot
be the least danger-if you do not give way
to nervous fear. Think what your failure
would be to your parents!"
"I do think of it," she answered, mourn-
fully. "That thought alone enables me to
persevere, I try to reme~nber that God has
given me one talent-one poor little ewe-
lamb-and I must not strangle it with my
own hands when it may enable me to aid
them. But Valerie, Valerie, it is hard-
harder than I ever thought it would be!"
Mrs. Rivi~re, too, confided to Valerie
forebodings which were never by any chance
betrayed to Alix herself. "She suffers very
much," the, mother said; "and it pains me
to the heart to think that I cannot aid her
in bearing it, My poor child! So young,
and so totally unfit for such a burden!"
"But she has such a brave heart," Miss
Aylxner answered, "And she is so confi-
dent of her own power! Do not fear. She
is resolved to succeed-she will do so,"
Mrs, Rivi~re shook her head. All
.Alix's buoyant bearing had not availed to

deceive those watchful eyes. "You are
mistaken," she said. "You do not look so
closely as I do, or you would hear many a
quiver under those gay tones, and see many
a doubt lurking under that bright smile.
She is brave, but she is fighting against her
own fear. I begin to dread lest it prove an
unequal combat; I begin to think that at
the very last she may fail, from pure ner-
vous terror."
"I cannot think so," Miss Aylmer said
-but, in truth, she began to be dismayed
herself. "I cannot believe but that the oc-
casion will give her the courage of desper~
ation, and so carry her through."
"I do not know whether to wish for it
or not. It might be better for her not to
sing at all, than to sing so badly that she
will ruin her future prospects."
"Does Mr. Rosenberg share your fears?"
Valerie asked, after a pause.
"Not at all. But then Mr. Rosenberg,
like yourself' does not look below the sur-
face."
"You dome great injustice," the other
protested. "I do look below the surface,
and I see all that natural fear and doubt to
which you allude. But I don't believe that
it will prevent Alix from appearing, and
from doing full justice to her voice when she
does appear. And now, dear madame, it re-
mains for time to show which of us is the
true prophet."
"I doubt if anybody ever desired more
earnestly that honor should fall on a rival's
head," Mrs. Rivi~re said, smiling; "or if
ever a prophet was more willing to forfeit
all claim to the reputation of seer."
Strange to say, for once in her life Ma-
dame Vacquant acted in a manner which
nobody expected of her. Notwithstanding
her previous censure of such a step, she took
up .AJix's cause warmly, applauded her cour-
age, promised all possible assistance, and in
short (to Mr. Rosenberg's great disgust!),
took the whole affair under her sublime
wing. What was the meaning of this sud.
den change of opinion, it would be difficult to
say; but there was at least good reason for
supposing that the consideration of Darey's
penokant, and a desire to encourage it, had
something to do with the matter. Certain-

ly there was a long consultation wih Julian,
then the carriage was ordered, and the lady
drove straight to the Rivi~res to tender her
all-powerful aid and countenance. Of course
it was gratefully accepted-the more grate-
fully, because almost every other one of their
newly-made friends had been loud in re-
monstrance, or cold in disapproval; and also
because the world of fashion was always
sure to follow wherever that white finger
pointed. When Madame Vacquant said in
her soft, high-bred voice, "My dear, I will
be glad to do all in my power to insure
your success," she was pledging not only
herself, but the entire l~eau monde; and
Alix, knowing this, was proportionally
warm in thanks-thanks that would not
have been rendered if there had been a sus-
picion of vulgar patronage in the matter.
But her worst enemy never failed to admit
that the fair society-leader knew how to
confer a favor with inimitable tact and
grace; and she was scarcely likely not to
have employed both the one~ and the other
here.
The day of the concert at last came, and
in the afternoon Miss Aylmer went to see
whether Alix's courage wavered or in-
creased as the hour of fate approached.
She found her sitting by her mother's sofa,
very 'quiet, very pale, hut also very com-
posed. They both glanced up with a smile
when the well-known face came in, and
Alix gave one cry-
"She is charming!"
"Who is charming~~~ Valerie asked.
"Why, Madame Baroni, of course 1"
the other answered, a little indignantly.
"Who else should I mean? Mr. Rosenberg
took me to see her this morning-and oh,
Valerie, I can never be afraid of her again!"
"Well, that is one comfort," her frieild
replied. "I should think this might serve
to convince you that your other fears are
quite as shadowy.-Mrs. Rivi~re, does she
need a tonic?~'
" I don't think so," Mrs. Rivi~re an-
swered, with her peculiarly sweet smile.
"She went off very pale and trembling to
see Madame Baroni; but she came back
full of courage, and I don't ~believe it has
ebbed since."

"She is so kind," Alix said, with effu-
sion. "It would have been ungrateful to
feel afraid any more-at least of her. She
encouraged me to persevere - praised my
voice-told me about her own dti but, when
she was so frightened she could scarcely
sing a note-and predicted that sonxe, day I,
would be a great cantatrice. Think of that,
mamma!"
"Yes, think of it," Valerie said. "Think
of cities at your feet, and nations ringing
with your praise, of whole assemblies trans-
ported to enthusiasm by your voice, and of
ovations that royalty might envy-"
"Not to speak of substantial profits."
"Not at all. Oh, child, how happy you
,are 1-and how little you appreciate your
happiness! You hold your future in your
own hand, and you win bread and fame by
the exercise of that which is to you delight.
Think of the myriads who spend life in a
toil that is utterly hateful to them; and
thank God for giving you the capability of
labor that can be loved."
"I do," she said, humbly; "I do thank
Him with all my heart. I look at the poor
drudges who teach, at the poor slaves who
sew, and I ask myself what have I done to
be so greatly blessed above them-blessed
in a gift, but, for which, I could anticipate
no higher existence than theirs."
"And when you think of Music-of her
grand and glorious loveliness-of the beauty
that is nearer Heaven than aught alse left
us at the Fall-do you not feel your terrors
grow petty and unworthy in presence of a
mistress so sublime?~~
"Yes," she said, with the shining smile
of a St. Cecilia, "I do-indeed I do!"
"That, then, is a point where it will he
well to leave you,~~ and she rose to go.
"No, I cannot stay longer. It will soon be
time for you to begin your toilet, and I
must not detain you from that. Alix, when
I see you again, the Rubicon will be passed;
and, as I now say to you, be of good heart.
-and prove that the blood which has made
the sons of our land famous is not less fruit-
ful of' heroism in her daughters. So I will
then congratulate~ you on having won a two-
fold victory: one over circumstance, and a
harder one over yourself."

I


108                           VALERIE
"God grant it!" said the mother's
solemn tones.             -
"Amen!" said Alix, softly.
-When Miss Aylmer reached home, it was
nearly 'sunset, and the western sky had
been dazzling her- eyes with its glory, so
that she did not at all recognize a dark fig-
ure hurrying forward to meet her until they
met on the door-step, and then she saw
Roinney. As he uncovered his head, and
the full light of the incarnadine west fell
over his face, she was startled to observe -
how worn and pale he looked.
-. "Julian!" she said, stopping short.
"Something is surely the matter-or has
happened to you. What is it?"
- She asked the question anxiously, but i1~
was more the auxietyof one who fears some
unpleasant responsibility, than that of a
woman quick to perceive through her affec-
tions.
"Nothing of any importance," 'he an-
swered, with a forced smile; "at least I
don't suppose you would consider it of im-
-portance. Your friend Miss Rivi~re seems
to occupy all your available attention just
now."
"I thought she needed it, but you look
this evening as if you needed it more. Pray
tell me what is the matter-if it is any
thing I can help."
"So you don't care to hear, in case that
it is not?"
"Did I say- that? How strangely per-
verse you are! Surely you are not foolish
again," she added, a little impatiently.
"If foolish means jealous, no," he an-
swered. "But-~-ah, the door is open, and
perhaps- it is as well I should not take all
Charles Street into my confidence. Will
you come in?" -
She went in, but paused at the- foot of
the staircase with decided determination on
her- face.
"Now," she said, "I insist on the com-
pletion of that sentence. But-what?".
- "As if you cared!" he said, passionate-
ly. "-As if I might not be swept out of
your path to-morrow without your sending
a single eigh after me-unless it was a sigh
of relief! For Heaven's sake, don't~ mock
me with such a question, or-I wrn not an-

ii
AYLMER.
swer for the consequences. You should not
tempt me to break your own commands,
and~ then grow angry at the temerity."
"I did not mean to do that," she said,
softly-moved more than she cared to con-
fess by his tone and manner-then she came
a step nearer and laid her hand on his arm.
"Julian! why will you always speak of me
as if I were ready to work you great harm?
Why not regard me as one who would do
almost any thing to spare you pain?"
"Almo8t any thing?"
"Yes."
"Then," he said, with something of a
hoarse laugh, "be sure I will test you very
soon. There I I dare not say any thing
more now. And don't look at me in that
way, or-I will! You have to dress, I
know. Don't let me detain you."
"I am going, but-say something first,
that is like yourself. I can't bear to leave
you in such a mood."
"What shall I say? That your eyes
were never brighter or your voice more
sweet-that is like my usual self, I believe.
But I should think you would grow tired of
such platitudes."
"Yes, tired and vexed," she answered,
withdrawing her hand, and turning away.
"I don't understand you. I did not think
you would treat me so, but-no ~
He let her go without a word, and she
was half-way up the staircase, before he sud-
denly rushed after her, caught her hand,
and, before she knew it, had pressed it many
times, passionately to his lips.
"Julian!" she cried, half-angrily.
Then he dropped it, and looked up with
imploring eyes.
"Forgive me!" he said. "Forgive me,
not for this, but for my churlish despair.
Yes, I will hope. It is only a coward who
dare not do so. You shall not find me in
this mood again."
Nor did she-at least not that night.
When she came down to dinner, i~ was a
very gay and gallant cavalier who met her
at the door of the dining-room, and, while
dessert was still on the table, the carriage
was announced.
"We cannot afford to be late to-night,"
said Madame Vacquant, rising at once. "I

ON TE

would not miss Alix's first appearance for
any consideration. -My dear, I am so sorry
you cannot come "-this to M. Vacquant,
whom the gout kept at home.-" Maurice,
may I trouble you for my cloak?"
While Darcy dutifully wrapped the
white folds around her stately figure, Julian
was performing the same office for Valerie;
and, in so doing, found time to ask:
"AmI forgiven?"
"That depends on your future conduct,"
she answered, with a bright smile. "But
you must take me down to the carriage as
an earnest of it."
They soon disembarked before the bril-
liant entrance of the Concordia; but, truth
to tell, Valerie had very little appreciation
or recollection of the concert as a concert.
And after-events completely drove from her
mind even the faintest remembrance of how
the great prima donna sang. Mr. Rosenberg
had thought it best for x~o one to b~ with
Alix but himself, so the Vacquant party -
found Mr. and Mrs. Rivi~re in the orchestra-
chairs, adjoining their own-~hairs very
near the stage, and altogether the best in
the house for the double purpose of seeing
and hearing. Valerie's heart was with the
poor child who was struggling, and fighting
herself, all rtlone behind the scenes; and, for
once in her life, she, was deaf even to music.
She had only a faint, dream-like impression
of the magnificent-looking woman, with her
powerful voice, her brilliant execution, her
gleaming silk, - and flashing jewels, who
brought down such storms of applause from
the - house. Even a Polonaise of Chopin,
and a concerto of Mendelssohn, failed to
move her. She heard little, and saw less,
until near the close of the first- part, an eager
movement of Mrs Rivi~re's said more plainly
than words, "There she is! "-and a round
of welcoming applause made -Valerie look up
quickly to see Mr. Rosenberg's white-kid
glovesjeading forwaul a brown-eyed Tita-
nia in a cloud of India muslin.
All the interested party drew their
breath- quickly, and then held it in a sharp
tension of anxiety and hope. Indeed, the
most indifferent stranger might have found
it hard to gaze quitc unmoved at the fair

HEIOUTS.                           109
face and childlike form of the young de~bu-
tante, as she stood before the foot-lights -in
all the solitary grace of her youth. She
looked so refined, so modest, so altogether
beautiful, that there was a quickening in-
terest on many a face lately apathetic, and
a half-murmured, "How l~vely!~~ from
many lips lately careless. Lovely, indeed,
she was-rarely lovely; but one glance at
the poor little flower showed those eager
eyes watching her ~o closely that her cour-
age was ebbing fast. She was terribly
pale, and trembled visibly-but she was
making a brave battle of it, and fighting a
stern fightfor self-control The first spon-
taneous tribute of applause subsided, was
acknowledged by a timid salutation, and
then silence settled over the house-silence
profound and expectant; but, to that trem-
bling heart, who shall say how awful! Mr.
Rosenberg took his seat at the piano, the
first violinist of the orchestra drew his bow
softly across the strings; but the singer
seemed momently losing both self-possession
and self-control. The maestro was evidently
very uneasy. He played a prelude of un-
usual length-during the course of which
Valerie saw Alix's fingers lacing and inter-
lacing over the sheet of music she held, and
her breast heaving convulsively-but at last
he could delay no longer. He murmured
something hurriedly over his shoulder, and
struck the first chords of the accompani-
ment. Alix made one desperate ~ffort to
sing-her voice failed her! Another equal-
ly desperate-with equally ill success. Then
she paused, evidently struggling with a~ wild
desire to burst into tears, and rush from the
stage. The stillness of the next few minutes
was terrible. Mrs. Rivi~re laid her hand
down on the one beside her with a g~sp
Miss Aylmer never forgot; but her glance
did not once tarn from her daughter's face.
Mr. Rosenberg rose and went to-Alix's side,
the leader of the orchestra leaned forward,
and spoke a few kind words of encourage-
ment. But it all seemed to little purpose,
and a perfect despair settled over the watch-
ers. To f.~il-and thus! Murmurs of com-
passion began to be heard, together with
well-meant whispers of "Better take hey
off!"


OUT OP THE DEPTHS.                     111

110                     VALERIE AYLMER.

At that moment Darcy, who was sitting
just behind Valerie, laid his hand on her
shoulder. "Let her mother show herself,"
he whispered, eagerly. "That will restore
her courage-if any thing can!" Miss Ayl-
iner turned to Mrs. Rivi~re, but she had
heard him, and immediately rose to her feet,
and leaned forward toward the stage, utterly
unmindful that she was thus a mark for the
observation of the whole house, if the house
had not been too much occupied to observe
her. Alix's eyes were w~stfulIy turned on
the audience, as if seeking that face among
all others, and many noticed the start with
which s~e recognized it. The effect was
scarcely less instantaneous. Color flashed
into her cheeks, and light into her eyes; she
made a motion as if swallowing some im-
pediment in her throat, and, laying her
hand on Mr. Rosenberg's arm, pointed to
*    the piano. He hesitated, but she said a few
words, and he resumed his seat. Then, as
she once more fronted the audience, with
resolution on her face-such resolution as
that with which men go to storm a battery
-some kindly chivalric hand in the gallery
gave a signal of applause, to which the body
of the house eagerly responded. When it
subsided, the battle was fought and won!
She began to sing, and the first tone of her
voice assured everybody that the worst was
over, and that no further hesitation was to
b~ feared. Perhaps it was desperation
which gave her strength, but at least it bore
her bravely through. She had never in her
life done fuller justice to herself or to her
teacher. Even those whose hearts were
bound up in herforgot for the moment the
singer in the music, and listened with enrap-
tured attention to those fairy-like cadences,
that exquisite elfin rise and fall of delicious
harmony which is the immortal heritage be-
queathed usby the master's immortal genius.
There was not a musical ear in the house
which was not charmed by the sweetness!
and compass of those wonderfulnotes, which
did not perceive at once the rare natural
power of the voice, and the purity of execu-
tion, the almost perfect style of the vocaliza-
tion. They had expected at best little more
than a mediocre capability in this trembling
debutante, and they found themselves coin-

pletely taken by surprise! When the last;
echo of the " Magic Flute" died away, there
was a pause of absolute astonishment; then
the Concordia walls had rarely echoed to a
more overwhelming torrent of applause than
broke.forth in one wild storm. The Rubi-
con was passed indeed! As. far as this gen-
erous city was concerned, the young exile's
fame was inade-.and even now they were
calling her back with every token of fervid
enthusiasm. Half-frightened, and trembling
more than ever, Alix was led back, and
when at last the curtain fell, at the end of
the first part, it was amid the still echoing
sounds of that which is sweeter than all
other music to the ear professional.
In the interval which followed, all the
Rivi~res's acquaintances gathered round the
proud and happy parents with warm con-
gratulations. First of all, came Mr. Thorn-
ton, though he knew neither of them per-
sonally, and held out his hand with frank
cordiality. "The tone-world has gained
another star!" he said-and it was worth
while saying it, to see the bright smile
which came, in answer, over Mrs. Rivi~re's
face. But, though such compliments as
these are the pleasantest of all compliments
in the world, no one was sorry when the
curtain rose again and the concert recoin-
menced. La Baroni sang with all the pow-
er and ~pirit which had gained her a world-
wide fame; but, nevertheless, there were
others now, besides the small group of im-
mediate friends, who eagerly waited the re-
appearance of the new songstress. At last
she came - smiling, blushing, all alive
with the full, delicious realization of her
success. And how divinely she sang I
How purely and evenly the tide of melody
flowed from the slender throat-how rich,
yet flexible, the voice proved itself whenever
there was a demand on strength or a trial
of skill-how exquisitely birdlike were the
trills-how regular and smooth the scales-.
how brilliant the whole execution! It was
no wonder that the people applauded as if
they were mad; that they encored her again
and yet again; or that, when she was recalled
for the third time, and stood before them
with her glowing face and happy eyes, even
ladies joined in the enthusiastic outburst,

4

and gave up their bouquets to be cast at
her feet.
CHAPTER V.
our or THE DEPTHS.
SUDDENLY a startled voice cried, "Look
at Mrs. Rivi~re!" and, turning quickly, Miss
Aylmer saw that she was lying back in her
chair, white as marble, with her eyes closed,
and a crimson tide flowing from her lips.
Her husband had not heard the first voice,
but he caught Valerie's exclamation of hor-
ror, and turned also.
In a moment his face was almost as pale
as hers.
"My God!" he cried, "it is another
kemorrhage I
The words had scarcely passed his lips,
before all was confusion in their immediate
vicinity-a number of people pressing for-
ward, an uproar of voices, a dozen different
demands in a dozen different keys. Salts
-ammonia-water-a fan-the carriage-a
doctor-all were recommended and called for
in a breath, as it were, while those farther
off only thought a lady had fainted from the
heat The house went on thundering its
plaudits, Alix went on bowing and smiling,
while her mother's life was bleeding away.
Yet the confusion did not last long. It
scarcely needed the grave face of the has-
thy-summoned physician to assure the gazers
that Azrael had made his own time, and
that she on whom they gazed had received
the summons which none ever disobey.
There was something unspeakably awful-
something that no one, looking on, ever for-
got-in the contrasts of the scene. Here,
the garish realm of pleasure and life, ~he
glittering, swaying crowd, the painted ara-
bosqued walls, the brilliant Jights, the illu-
minated stage-there, the ghastly shadow,
the inexorable pre~nce of agony and
death. Fortunately the concert was over-
all, save an orchestral piece which nobody
seemed to care about hearing-Alix had
vanished, and the house was emptying
fast. The pealing instruments rose and
swelled in a harmony which only served to

keep time to the rustle and tread of depart-
ing numbers, but which formed the last ele-
ment of discordance in this horrible scene.
Nobody seemed to notice them, excepting
Miss Aylmer; but she, who was kneeling
by the insensible women, looked up at Dar-
cy with a piteous appeal. "For Heaven's
sake, go and tell them-go and stop them!"
she said. He went, and, a moment later,
the gay strain ceased, and the ghastly death-
march was over. But, years afterward, Va-
lerie heard that air played by other musi-
ciansin a far-distant land, and it brought
back, as vividly as if she again gazed upon it,
the scene of that night, with all its terrible
accompaniments.
After the first shock was over, Mr. Rid-
~re recovered something of his usual self-
possession, and sent a note to Mr. Rosen-
berg, bidding him detain Alix until some
one called for her. Then Mrs. Rivi~re was
slowly carried out of the empty house to
the carriage which was waiting for her.
Miss Aylmer seemed most to retain self-
possession, and so it was to her that the
doctor turned when he said, "Get in!"
She did not understand what he meant to
require of her, but she obeyed at once.
After she was in the carriage, Mrs. Rivi~re
was laid half on the seat, half within her
arms, and the doctor following, with Mr.
Rivi~re, they drove rapidly away. Nobody
mentioned Alix, but Valerie's heart was full
of her, and it was a great relief to remember
that Darcy had taken on himself the duty
of telling her, and bringing her after them.
Valerie now began to realize son~iething of
what he was, as a sure and steadfast help in
time of need; at least there was no one else
who could have given her such a feeling of
confidence that the blow to that poor, un-
prepared heart would be softened as much
as human care and tenderness can soften
such a stroke-and, God knows, that is little
enough!
It was very strange and awesome, that
drive! Every thing seemed so terrible, and
had been so sudden, that it was all unreal to
Valerie; and, once or twice, she half-won-
dered if she were awake, as the carriage
rolled on over the paving-stones, as the pass-
ing gleams of the street-lamps fell across the


112

VALERIE AYLMER.

death-like face, pillowed on her white opera
cloak, and the two men sat opposite, like
graven images, neither speaking, and the
doctor only leaning forward now and then
to lay his finger on the faint pulse.
The hinmorrhage had almost entirely
ceased by the time they reached upper Eu-
taw Street, and, lifting the frail form with
as little difficulty as if she had been a child,
Mr. Rivi~re bore it into the house which she
had left so shortly before in all the flush of
life's fullest hopes. He made no pause on
the lower floor, though the doctor would
fain have drawn him into the first room
they reached, but passed directly on to her
own chamber, laying her gently and tender-
ly down on the bed from which sh~ would
never rise again.
Every thing that ensued was afterward
a very dim remembrance to Miss Aylmer.
She knew that she must have been cool and
capable of intelligent service, at the 'time,
for it was to her that the doctor~ made his
demands for every thing he needed, and it
was on her that the duty of bringing the
frightened household to some order fell.
She had not more than accomplished this,
and taken her place once more to wipe away
the red drops that still slowly came from
between the parted lips, when a carriage
drove almost at a gallop up to the door.
There was the sound of quick voices and
hurrying feet, and, before the doctor could
interfere to prevent, Alix had rushed into
the room, and thrown herself on her knees
by her mother's bedside.
"0, mother, mother!" she cried, "is
this my triumph 1-0 God! she is dead!-
it is I who have killed her!"
"Hush!" said the doctor, sternly, and,
laying a heavy hand on her shoulder, forced
her away. "You ~vilZ kill her, if you bring
on that hinemorrhage again! Hush, mad~
am! "-this to Mrs. Bivi~re - whose lids
quivered and whose pale lips faintly strove
to speak. "I command you to hush-your
life depends upon it! There must not be
one word spoken in this room-either by
you or any one else.-Miss Bivi~re, come
with me down-stairs."
"Oh, no, no! "exclaimed poor Alix, witir.
a piteous cry of entreaty. "Let me stay

with her !-do let me stay with her! I will
not utter another word-I promise that!
Only try me-you can send me away, if I
do!"
Th~ doctor 'released his hold. He evi-
dently did not like to trust her, and did so
reluctantly. But she sank on her knees
again so hushed and still that, after amo-
ment, he turned away and went to Miss
Aylmer.
"I suppose I can depend on you!" he
said, shortly. "Don't, on any pretext, allow
a word to be' spoken-especially by Mrs.
Rivi~re herself, or-" he pointed over his
shoulder to Alix. "Keep perfect silence.
I have sent for Preston, and I must go down.
stairs a n~oment. If there is any change,
call me."
Valerie bent her head, and he walked
away. From some cause or other, he
did not return for a considerable time,
and the still, solemn aspect of the chamber
seemed to awe and oppress Miss Ayhner,
like the very presence of death itself. In
lesser degree, there was the same contrast
which had given so much deeper horror to
the scene in the opera-house, only now the
world was subordinate-sunk into nothing
as it were, by the side of that eternity
which was so near at hand. We are told
very often that we walk on the bolder of
eternity, that there is ever only a thin
veil between our faces and its awful myste~
ries; but it is doubtful whether we ever re-
alize the fact until we are brought face to
face with some swift tragedy in which the
curtain is lifted before our eyes, and we
catch a glimpse-a brief, fieetin~ glimpse-
of the existence beyond, and of its unspeak-
able nearness to our daily lives. Just now,
Valerie had this glimpse-just now she
seemed to feel in every throb of her own
abounding life the sense of death which we
carry about with us all the time, and the
actual presence of that shadowy world-
which in our poor human blindness we call
shadowy, when indeed it alone is real!-
at whose entrance, this life, now fading from
earth, was soon to stand. She had~ not of-
ten before come face to face with d$th;
and it was long before the scene on which
she gazed ceased to haunt her. There lay

(1

it

I

OUT OF TE

"V

the almost dying womail, with her white
face and faintly-pulsating breast-so faintly
pulsating, that more than once Valerie
thought the breath had ceased. The dim,
hushed room looked vast and weird with
the dark shadows gathering in its corners,
and the outline of its still figures thrown in
gigantic relief on the walls. Mr. Rivi~re
stood so unmoving at the side of the bed
that he might have been taken for a sculp-
tured figure, while the gala-dress of Mix,
with its misty flounces and French roses,
lay all unheeded on the floor, as she knelt
with only a convulsive quiver now and
then running over her frame; while Valerie,
in her shining silk and blood-stained cloak,
sat on the bed, with her fingers on the fail-
ing pulse of the hand that was lightly clasp-
ing hers.
It seemed as if many hours passed thus;
but it could not have been nearly one-
since the confessor who had been sum-
moned in haste had not yet arrived-when
a slight pressure of her hand made Valerie
bend over Mrs. Rivi~re to see what she de-
sired. Before it was possible to remon-
strate, she had whispered four words-
weak and low, yet quite distinct:
"Comfort my poor child."
Scarcely were they spoken, before the
effort brought on the hemorrhage again-
and the red tide gushed once more from her
lips over the pillows. Alix sprang to her
feet and fled to the head of the stairs, calling
wildly for the doctor. He came-looked-
placed his finger oh the pulse-then turned
to Mr. Bivi~re, and said aloud, but very
gently, "She is dying."
Mrs. Rivi~re~ evidently heard the words.
Perhaps he had wished that she should.
K      Her eyes opened slowly, and met his with
an expression which said, "I know it."
Then they turned to Valerie, and, remember-
ing the appeal of a moment before, she an-
swered instinctively, "I will-I will! "-
and that strangely-expressive glance wan-
dered to Alix, who stood a little back from
the bed, her han~ hanging loosely at her
side, and a stonyhorror on her face. The
rapidly-dimming sight dwelt on her face
for a moment, in unutterable and pitying
love; and then the last look turned to her
8

[R DEPThS.                '       113
husband, who was bending over with agony
too great for utterance. What a volume
was in that long gaze !-so much that was
perfectly intelligible to the stranger looking
on, that it must have been plain as spoken
words to him. Once the steady regard was
raised toward heaven-~returning immedi-
ately to fix itself a gain on his-and the poor
blood-covered lips strove to fashion them-
selves into a smile-last token of the love
which was undying. I~either eyes nor lips
moved again.
It scarcely needs to dwell on the des-
olation which followed. All of us have
passed through, or will pass through, such
valleys of the shadow of death, and all of
us know the black pall which at such times
comes over all things-shutting out even
the sunlight of God's smile. With Alix,
sorrow took the form of dumb apathy.
She crouched by the side of that which was
once her mother, and moaned to herself like
some stricken wild creature of the forest,
all the day long 1-she paid no heed to any
one-no voice was powerful enough to
rouse her-people came and went, spoke to
her, talked of her, but she never raised her
head-she never acknowledged any other
presence than that of the dead. Perhaps
of all the forms of human grief, there is
none more touching, none more hopeless
than this, none so powerful to wring our
own hearts with the sorrow of unavailing
pity! When thirty-six hours had passed, and
still the stunned quiescence was unbroken,
still no morsel of food had crossed the pale
lips, the doctor thought it necessary to in-
terfere. "This will never do 1" he said, de-
cidedly. "The body must be removed as
soon as possible, or this child will die." Ac-
cordingly the funeral arrangements were
hastened, and, on the third day after death,
they buried away in the kind bosom of
Mother Earth the cold shell of mortality
that had once enshrined so fair and pure a
spirit. To the last, Alix was resolved to at-
tend the funeral. But Nature had already
been taxed too far. When she went to take
a last look of her mother's face, and she saw
the lovely and ineffable peace that reigned
in every line of it in contrast with her own
grief-tom heart, the poor child gave way in


114                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                         REAPING THE HARVEST.                   115

one mighty rush of emotion, that east her
prostrate beneath its violence.
"0 mother, mother!" she sobbed, as
the burning shower ran over the face of
her who never before had been uncon-
scious of her voice, or deaf to her suffering.
"Mine is the anguish, but yours the peace!
All is over for you-all pain, all fear, all
trouble! Your rest is won-but oh, my
burden is heavy, heavier than I can bear
without you! Oh, come back to' me-or
teach me at least to say 'Thy will be done."'
She was borne away unresisting, and a
strong opiate administered by the doctor's
orders. "She will rest now," he said.
And she did rest-so deeply that the sad
procession passed out of the darkened house,
as she lay in unconscious slumber. And
while in the dim cathedral the solemn tones
of a requiem mass were chanted ~over the
silent dust, she still slept-still forgot her
pangs for a brief while, as she lay with a
crucifix clasped in her hand, and so sweet
a smile onthe pallid face, that Valerie hushed
her breath, thinking it must be that the
mother's spirit had come to comfort her
even from those-
"Shores where tideless sleep the seas of Time
Soft by the city of the saints of God."
'-4--
*         CHAPTER VI.
REAPING THE HARvEsT.
A FORTNIGHT after this, Valerie was still
domicilod at the Rivi~res'. Her heart-al-
ways a gentle and pitiful heart to sorrow
and distreas-had been sorely touched, and
she was as loath to leave Alix and 'go back to
the dissipation of the Vacquant household,
as Alix would have been loath to see her go.
Indeed, as the first wild violence of 'grief
abated, giving place to that deep and settled
sorrow which time alone can heal, there
came also the 'aching sense of desolation-
the deep longing for huma~i love and com-
panionship which made Valerie's presence
with 'her a positive necessity. 'Already,
however, the former had mooted a plan
which could alone secure this companion-
ship for any length of time: Already, she

had declared her anxiety, that Alix should
leave her own home, so full as it was of
painful memories, and accompany her to
Washington Place. By degrees only could
the latter be brought to entertain such a
proposition. She clung passionately to the
spot last associated with her mother, and
even her father's persuasions were of little
avail. Indeed, when no other excuse was
left, she would look up at Valerie piteously,
and say, "But I cannot leave poor papa all
alone." To this Miss Aylmer wisely for-
bore immediate answer, for she was sure
that even the daughter's eyes could not long
fail to perceive that her absence would be to
her father more a relief than a deprivation.
His love for his wife had been singularly de-
voted; l~ut there was little or nothing of
what is called "the domestic man" in his
nature. He tolerated home-life for her sake
but he never learned to like it for its own,
and the most superficial observer could not
have failed to perceive how strong was his
desire to escape the haunting presence of
grief-embodied in the darkened house, the
vacant couch, his daughter's pale face and
black dress-and plunge headlong into the
world. There was no doubt but that he
would be unfeignedly glad to see Alix safely
established at M. Vacquant's fireside, and to
lock within the vacant house ~he ghost of
his past life and his dead love.
Nor was it very long before this desire
was plainly manifest even to Alix; not long
before she yielded a reluctant consent to
Valerie's entreaties, and those which Ma-
dame Vacquant came in person to add; not
long before she bade a weeping farewell to
the rooms where her mother's smile last
shone on her, and was driven away to the
stately Vacquant mansion, where a sunny
room awaited her, and where one heart at
least was ready to give her a tender and un-
wearied attention.
Is it necessary to say that this heart beat
within the broad chest of Maurice Darcy?
Truly, if he had seemed to like this fair child
before, he now devoted himself to her with
an~ affection that was touched into deop rev-
erence by her silent but enduring grief.
Her mother could not have watched over
Alix with more untiring care, more con-

A

stantly studied her unspoken wishes, more
zealously striven to ease her heart and~ amuse
her mind. His regard fairly encompassed
her. If ~he remained in her chamber, books,
papers, and flowers, were going up in broken
detachments all day; if she came, down, he
rarely failed to meet her at the foot of the
stairs and lead her into the back drawing-
room, where her own special sofa stood cov-
ered with cushions which he never allowed
any one but himself to arrange. Then he
would take his seat by her, and leave no
means untried to make the rare smile and
rarer laugh, until Valerie, looking on in won-
dering surprise, could only murmur half-un-
consciously to herself:
"The bravest are the tenderest,
The loving are the daring."
Not that Valerie had overmuch time just
now for observing Maurice Darcy, or aught
that concerned him. Since her return, Ju-
han had been her shadow, in public as well
as Private-a shadow whom she found it
~vellnigh impossible to shake off, and who
cost her many an hour of deep and painful
disquietude. The end was fast approaching
.-she saw that! Not much longer could
the "pretty fooling" go on, or could she
stave off a serious declaration and its conse-
quences; not much longer could shehold at
arm's-length the devotion that daily grew in
passion and exactitude. An explanation
must soon come, and after that-well, per-
haps it was part of her punishment that she
remembered now her father's warning, and I
wished vainly and bitterly that she had
heeded it. Ahi there is no telling, but per-
haps we might not sow quite so recklessly
if we would only bear the, reaping-time in
mind; if we would only remember thatthere
is no question of liking or regret, no alter-
native of evasion, when that inevitable h~u~
comes, and the relentless scythe is put into
our hand, but, whether we will or no, the
harvest must be gathered. Even in the
merest worldly sense~there is no wiser max-
im than that of "Look to the end." Ay,
look to the end, for if we often or ever did
so, that end might not be so full of ashes
and gall when it comes. Slowly and paln-
fully, as all great lessons must be learned,
this truth came home to Valerie Aylmer;

but the harvest was to be gathered in for all
that; nor was it long before the reaping
began.
It seemed that Madame Vacquant had
laid her plans well, for by degrees Valerie
began to perceive that society at large con-
sidered the affairs between Julian and her-
self in the light of a recognized engagement.
Men fell back from her side when he ad-
vanced, as 'if conceding an acknowledged
right; women began to speak of her as of one
outside the circle of the disengaged'; and a
thousand trifling occurrences proved to her
that the matter was regarded as finally set-
tled. Perhaps Madame Vacquant would
have been wise in this move, if she had not
reasoned too much on feminine nature in
general, and not enough on Valerie's nature
in particular. Some women-many women
-are easily influenced by any thing of this
kind, and are readily brought to think that
when society utters its dictum the matter
had best be considered settled; that they
have committed themselves past recall, and
that it is better to accept the situation than
to dare the vague and shadowy consequences
of rebellion. But no such womanwas this
girl, through whose veins beat hot and strong
the warm Southern blood, that, in great or
small, never yet benched at a penalty, or
regarded a consequence. Therefore, it was
not strange that this species of social coer-
cion, instead of retarding, rather gave im-
petus to the explanation which seemed so
near at hand. It seemed near at hand, yet
it came at last unexpecte4ly-as most things
do come.
Valerie's indignation had been very much
roused by Romney's attempt to claim a privi-
leged right to some favor over the heads of
half a dozen other aspirants at a certain ball
one night. So when he came, instigated by
his mother, to make overtures of peace the
next morning, he found his fair mistress in
a far from playable mood.
"Yes," she said, after listening to all his
ready-made penitence, "that is very fine, but
I have heard it rather too often. I should like
some substantial proof of regret before issu*
ing another official pardon. No-pray don't
interrupt me. I know exactly what you are
going to say. I atn fully prepared to hear

A


AYLMER.

116                           VALERIR
that I must stand your excuse, and all that
sort of' thing-but, once for all, I must de-
cline standing your excuse any longer. I
should think people could like each other in
a reasonable manner, like each other without
this continual jealousy; but if not-why,
then they had better stop liking one another
at all!"
"Ah, lady fair, that may be even beyond
your power," Julian 'answered, with a smile
-for he thought her only a little more than
usually hard to propitiate. "'Like each other
m a reasonable manner? '-why, the very
stones could afford to laugh at such a senti-
ment from La belle des belle.,. When, in ull
yoi~r life, did you ever find any one who liked
you in a reasonable manner?"
"I never found any one who liked me in
quite such an unreasonable one as yourself,"
she retorted.
"Granted, with all my heart; for it only
goes to prove that none have ever liked you
half as well. You surely have not yet to learn
that, 'to be wise in love, exceeds man's
strength."'
It was not the first time by many that he
~ had used this word, and used it unrebuked,
but now it seemed from some cause or other
to jar on Valerie's mood; and her brow con-
tracted as she said, coldly.
"I confess I don't see the point of the
quotation. Shakespeare is always right, of
course; but we~ were not discussing either
love or wisdom, that I am aware of."
"Were we not?" he replied. "Well, per-
haps I am very stupid, but I really thought
we were. At least you arraigned me for
faults having only that origin and that ex-
cuse,"
"Having no excuse at all then," said she,
with increasing coldness, for she felt out of
sorts that day, and very indifferent whether
the crisis came or not.
Julian started. Perhaps something in
her manner warned him, for he glanced
keenly into her face, and his tone greatly
subdued itself when he said: "You are in
the humor to be hard on me to-day~ I see.
Well, I deserve every thing that you can say
in the way of reproach: but I don't deserve
wispicion. Blame every thing, doubt every
thing-except my love."

REAPING T]

He did not mend matters by that; and
so he 'felt, the moment after.
"You forget yourself!" she cried, almost
angrily; "and you forget a greatdeal besides.
I cannot and will not listen to any thing
more of this kind. Remember that-and
don't force me to tell you so again!"
Her tone was more peremptory than she
had probably intended it to be, and was ill
suited for her purpose, since' it woke the
angry obstinacy never long sleeping in Rom-
ney's nature. He looked at her steadily;
and it was easy to see that the look promised
no moderation.
" You surely don't think that, after all
that has passed, you can lay such a command
on me?" he asked.
"I think," she answered concisely, "that
it will be your best policy to observe it."
He laughed a little scornfully. "A man
who feels as I do cares little for policy and
less for penalties. Your worst may be as
death to me, but nevertheless I shall dare it.
I told you three weeks ago that this should
end soon. I tell you to-day that it shall end
-now. It remains only for you* to say
how."
"You had better not force me to say
how," she answered, shrinking in spite of
herself from the issue, now that it was at
hand. "You had better, indeed, forget all
of this. Ah, Julian, why will you not be
content to let us remain pleasant friends
without any of this weary recrimination?"
"Friends?" he repeated; "that is non-
sense! I told you once before that lam not,,
an~l never will be, your friend. As for this
'weary recrimination,' you are not more
tired of it than I am. I have only failed to
end it heretofore because-well, because I
am the veriest coward alive, and I feared my
fate too much. :Now, at least, I have a right
to sit at your side and look in your eyes-I
will forfeit even that if my tale is told to no
purpose. For there is no middle ground for
me, Valerie. Henceforward, I am either
~your betrothed husband-or-your bitter
~flemy~~~
"Julian!
She was sincerely startled now-and
with good cause. It was no pretty page
lisping a love-story, who stood before her,

but a man in whom she had roused all of
manhood's strongest passion. At that mo-
ment, she would have given any thing to
have been able to summon the gay badinage
that had fenced off so many an awkward
issue; but nothing came to her lips save
once again that half-frightened, half-expostu-
lating "Julian!"
For once he paid no attention to her
voice. N~t a line of his face altered-the
face that had suddenly hardened into unac-
customed resolve-and his eyes had lost all
their dreamy beauty, as he stood looking
down on her.
"Well, which is it?" he asked, hoarsely.
"Julian, you-you frighten me!" she
cried. "Which is what!"
"Don't tell me you don't ~ he said,
passionately. "Don't tell me that at this
late day, I have to begin and say to you in
due form that I loved you from the moment
I saw you first, and shall love you till I die.
It is for you to say whether, that love shall
be God's blessing or the devil's curse!"
"Julian, pray hush !-pray forget this!"
"Forget it! He gave a short, hard
laugh. "It is like 'a woman' to say that.
Forget it! As if your sign-manual is ever
forgotten! As if I shall not carry your
mark, for good or evil, to my dying day! It
is a fine thing to draw men on and bid them
hope, by every art in your power-then,
when they grow too earnest to amuse you,
coolly say, 'Forget It.' But have you never
thought what that forgetting means?"
She glanced up at him mutely. No, she
had never thought-that much, at least, can
be said for her. She had never once con-
sidered. It was all merely amusement with
her; and she had scarcely ever dreamed
that it was other with them-until now.
N~ wonder that for once, face to face with
'the truth, her cheek grew pale.
"Juhian," she whispered, "for Heaven's
sake, let there be an end of this! I may
have been to blame, ~but see-I ask your
pardon so humbly. Indeed, meyer dreamed
hut that you, too, were amusing yourself in
a pleasant way. Indeed, I never dreamed-"
She stopped short, for with one quick
step he had reached her side and grasped
her arm.

tIE HARVEST.                        11~.
"Hush!" he said, sternly. "All this is
folly, and you ought to know it. Amusing
myself! :No, you never thought that. You
knew only too well that you were playing
at life and death with me. But-it is not
too late yet. For God'8 sake, pause! Stop
-think! N'o man on this earth ever loved
you half as well as I do-will not even that
love win something in return? Have you
no woman's heart in your breast~? Can you
not even tolerate me enough to marry me?
I would try so hard, that I would force you
to love me after a while. Valerie, I never
thought to sink so low! I never thought to
say to any woman what I say to you now-
Have pity on me!"
Ab, that is right. Veil your face from
those beseeching eyes! Shut out from your
ears those pleading tones! But you can
never banish the voice that says over and
over, "Behold your work." And silence in
itself is a wrong; so, after a moment, she
raised her face, pale and calm, but resolved.
"I dare not deceive you," she said, sad-
ly. "There never has been, there never can
be, the least hope for you. I don't defend
my conduct toward you-for I suppose you
will think it no justification to repeat once
more that I had no such intention as this-
and if you will not grant me your forgive-
ness, there is nothing left for me but to bear
my burden of self-reproach as best I can. I
would like it very much, though, if youoould
say once-only once-that you forgive me."
She looked at him' wistfully; but there
was little hope of generosity or pardon in
those eyes so full of bitter anger.
"I feel more inclined to curse you,
when I think of all that lies before me," he
said. "But then one should not violate the
l~den&amp;~ances so far as that-at least in a lady's
presence. No, I shall never forgive you
while I live-for you can' never even ima-
gine the full breadth and depth of the disap-
pointment you have dealt me this day.
Whenever you think of it, only remember
this-that I do not blow out my brains,
simply because I hope yet to see you suffer
[n part at least as I am suffering now!"
With those words-words the bitterness
~f whichmade her shudder as if a cold hand
~ad been laid upon her-he dropped the


~1! i

IlE AYLMER-.

REAPING T]

118                          VALER
arm which up to that moment he had sti
lightly held, and left the room without or
backward glance.
An hour or two later, there came
knock at Valerie's door, and when si
opened it Madame Vacquant stood on tli
threshold. There was no perceptible chan~
in the perfect discipline of the beautify
features, but the eyes had proved harder t
tutor, and in them was a look which migl~
have warned Miss Aylmer of what was cOn
ing, if she had needed any warning. Th
soft voice, however, sounded quite as usm
when it said:
"May I come in? I will not occup
you more than n minute, but I have some
thing of importance to say to you."
"Come in, of course," Valerie answered
"I beg pardon for not speaking, but I wa
not expecting to see you, and-"
"The sight of me surprised you. VerI
naturally, I am sure. Certainly the las
person whom you might reasonably hav(
expected to see was myself. But I hope yoi
will believe that I only come because I fee:
it my duty to do so."
"Yes," Valerie said, a little stiffly-and
then she drew forward a chair, adding,
"Will you not sit down?"
The other shook her head. "I shall only
remain a ~ she repeated, and she
continued standing, one hand resting on the
top of a table which occupied the centre of
the floor. Of course, Valerie stood also,
with her head somewhat haughtily erect, as
if yet uncertain what that word "duty -
always an ominous word on the lips of cer-
tain peopl~-might portend. Neither was
she long left in doubt. Almost without
hesitation, Madame Vacquant spoke-clear-
ly and calmly, though somewhat formal-
ly:
"I have just left my son. He tells me
what I can scarcely belie~e-that you have
rejected him. Witnessing, as I have done,
your uniform encouragement of his suit, I
have no alternative but to think that he
must be mistaken. I cannot, but believe
that he has interpreted some rebuke or dis-
agreement in a morbid spirit. If you could
see him, you would not wonder that I come
to ask you who is right-he or I."

ill   Now, long before this, Miss Aylmer was
ie herself again, and not likely to blench before
Julian's mother, as she had done to Julian's
a self. So her answer was made with becom-
to ing respect, but very decidedly.
te "I am sorry to say, madame, that it is he
~e who is right. He did me the honor to
il offer me his hand, and I was compelled to
o decline it. There was no misinterpretation
tt possible, and, much as I regret every thing
connected with the matter, I cannot wish
e that there should be."
tl It was well that she was so brave, for
there was much in the eye steadily regard-
y ing her that would not have been pleasant
to weak nerves; and through the silvery
voice there rang a tone of\menace when it
spoke again-softening toward the last,
s however, into appeal:
"Are you in earnest in this? Are you
~ sure that no anger or pique is influencing
you, instead of deliberate resolve? Julian's
temper is, I know, trying; but I can prom-
ise you any concession or submission on his
I part that you choose to ask. See I-I am
his mother, and, for his sake, I am willing to
do any thing to secure his happiness. Give
me one word of hope to take back to him,
and all this shall be forgotten."
"Madame," said Valerie, kindly, "trust
me it is you who misinterpret now. And
you ask me to do your son a great wrong.
I desire neither concession nor submission on
his part; and to give him hope would be to
deceive him. I cannot do that."
She spoke with profound consideration
and gentleness; but, for the first time in her
lifeshe saw passion flash into the face be-
fore her, and passion quivered in the tones
which answered almost vehemently:
"You mean, then, that you intend to put
his love and his life down under your foot?
You mean that you have drawn him on by
every art in your power only for this heart-
less triumph? You mean that you fling him
out of your path to go to destruction, as he
surely will, and that this-this decision is
final?"
Miss Aylmer drew back, coldly. "We
need not argue whether you are right or
wrong in your reproaches," she said. "I do
not resent them, because you are suffering

through me; but I do repeat that this decis-
ion is final."
"That you will not change it?"
"That it is not possible for me to change
They looked at each other steadily for a
moment. If Madame Vacquant wished to
read her chances of failure or success, a very
bitter realization of the former must have
come over her at sight of the resolution ap-
parent in Valerie's eyes. Certainly when
she spoke again, all the late passion and ap-
peal had died out of her voice, and it was
now only measured and chill.
"I see, indeed, that I have misinterpreted
you greatly. For one thing, I fancied my-
self addressing a woman-not a coquette,
without the ordinary impulses of humanity
that temper the worst of coquetry. It
seemed to me that the part you have played
was too pitilessly cruel for belief. And it is
hard, very hard, that I should learn my mis-
take too late. If I had only dreamed of this
a little earlier, I might have interfered at
any cost. I might have sent Julian away-
anywhere! No fate could have been worse
than this! "
"I hope and trust that you are mis-
taken," Valerie said. "This can be only a
boy's disappointment. Before long, I will,

FIE HARVEST.                       119
go out of his life, and he wrn forget me
quite."
"You say so because you know nothing
of him," his mother answered, with a grand
sort of scorn. "How should you, indeed?
He has been to you only a toy, and we do
not study our toys very deeply. But you
are wrong. This has been the sport of afew
weeks to you-it will be a lifelong curse to
him. Remember this, I beg. Remember,
when you go on to act the same story over
again, that you have left at least one
wrecked life in your path. However, I need
speak of him no more; if you have decided,
all is said. I should like now to speak of
yourself. Has it never occurred to you
that, for your own sake, you would do
well to pause in this matter, before it is
too late?"
Full of astonishment, the dark eyes
looked at her. "For my own sake, madame?
I confess I don't understand you."
Still less did she understand the cold
smile that came round the pale thin lips, or
the cold tone that answered:
"If any thing whatever lies very near
your heart, pray that you never may under-
stand-that is all."
She turned and walked slowly from the
room.


F

SIR ARTEGALL.

CHAPTER I.
SIR ARTEGALL.
IT was nearly a month after Romney had
put his fate to the toWch, and lost it all, that
Alix said to Darcy when they chanced to be
alone in the library one morning:
"I fancied I saw Mr. Romney's face at
oi~e of the club-house windows this morn-
ing, as I was coming home from early mass;
but I suppose it must have been a mistake.
He is not in the city, is he?"
She asked the question carelessly and
simply, but was instantly struck with the ex-
pression which it brought to Maurice's face.
He even hesitated a moment before answer-
ing:
"You are sure it was his face? You
may have been mistaken."
"No, I am not sure at all," she replied.
"But I thought I recognized him, and-and
I was glad Valerie was not with me."
"Why?"
"Because he looked so strangely and so.
badly, that it would have made her feel
wretchedly. She suffers very much about
him now."
Her companion smiled.
"You are so thoroughly illogical in your
sympathy!" he said. "Does it never strike
you that Miss Aylmer's sufferings-grant-
ing that she does suffer-are hardly so much
to be pitied as those she has caused?"
"No," said Alix, stoutly. "On the
contrary, it strikes me as far from just to

make Valerie accountable for the absurd
conduct of a man who chose to fall in love
with her and get rejected-as of course we
all know Mr. Romney has been."
"BuLsuppose the falling in love was as
much her work as the rejection?"
"Indeed, I shall not suppose any thing
of the kind."
"Then you must obstinately shut your
eyes to the plainest possible state of facts."
"What do you mean?"
"I mean that I have seen a good deal of
latter-day flirtation and coquetry in my life;
but that I never saw any thing to equal the
remorseless science with which your friend
led that poor boy on to the end, which every
one but himself foresaw."
"I know very little about it," said Alix,
with a puzzled look; "for Valerie has never
mentioned Mr. Ilomney~s name to me since
he went away a month ago. But I can see
that she suffers-you could see it too, if you
chose to look; and I don't believe that she
ever meant any harm to him."
Darcy's lip curled in a sort of cold scorn.
*   "I have no doubt she told him so," he
said; "but we judge deeds rather by result
than by intention; that is, even if some of
us could imitate your charity with regard to
the latter."
"You mean that you think she deliber-
ately broke his heart for mere pastime?"
He looked smilingly into the flushed, in-
dignant face before him. "Why do you want
me to say what you are sure to resent?" he
asked.

"Because I want to know if you are real-
ly so unjust."
"Then I really am so unjust, as you con-
aider it. I hold Miss Aylmer guilty of all
that Romney has suffered, and still suffers;
shnply because she inflicted every pang gra-
tuitously for her own amusement."
"I think I could convince you "-Alix
began warmly, when a hand fell lightly on
her shoulder, and a clear, quiet voice startled
them both by speaking:
"Never waste exertion, mignonne. How
often must I tell you that? Captain Darcy's
mind is thoroughly made up on this point,
and you could not change it if you spoke a
volume. So I beg you will not speak a word
-in my behalf."
Darcy started, and turned. Alix was
seated at the table, drawing, and he had
been standing by her side sharpening one by
one her pencils; so they had neither of them
caught Miss Aylmer's soft tread as she
crossed the thick carpet; and he was quite
unconscious how much or how little of their
conversation had been overheard. The doubt
did not disquiet him outwardly, however;
for there was no sign of confusion in his face
when he met her eyes, although, before he
could say any thing, she spoke abruptly:
"I am sure you think there was never a
better exemplification of the old proverb
about listeners; but I ought to apologize.
I was reading in that recess yonder when
you both came in, and I did not think it
necessary to speak. Your conversation was
very harmless for a while, you know, and
after that-well, perhaps I might have inter-
fered; but then it is not often that one has
the opportunity of accompanying a friend,
or acquaintance, into the palace of Truth, to
hear what is thought of them, as I have
done. The temptation must excuse me."
"You have heard every thing, then?"
"Every thing."
"I am glad of that," he said, somewhat
to her surprise. "You are aware, then, how
I was betrayed into expressing an opinion on
a matter which assuredly does not concern
me; and about which, consequently, I should
not have spoken, if Miss Rivi~re's questions
had not demanded answers."
"Yes, I am perfectly aware of the cir-

121

cumstances, and entirely excuse you," she
answered. "Don't fancy that I am either
surprised or hurt. I have known all along
what your opinion of me was, and I believe
you don't change your judgment."
"Not certainly without good cause."
"I never did you the injustice to think
so, or to imagine for a moment.that the con-
sideration of human weakness or human
frailty would weigh a feather's weight in
your decision. But perhaps even you may
yet live to learn that justice-mere justice-
is the most hard, welinigh the most cruel
thing on earth."
To Alix, merely looking on, it was strange
to hear the suppressed passion in Valerie's
voice, and yet more strange to see how she
and Darcy seemed to understand each other
-how his face settled sternly at her last
words.
"It is all that we need ask," he said.
"God help us then! Yes, God help even
you, if; at the last He deal not mer~y, but
justice 1-if, like you, He looks not to inten-
tions, but to results."
"I have never knowingly wronged or
pained a creature of His making," he an-
swered, coldly. "I am ready-even for
justice."
"So, no doubt, the Pharisee thought,
when, standing apart, he thanked God that
he was not as other men."
"You are mistaken," ho said. "But
then, when have you not mistaken me? I
have both sins and errors enough to answer
for; but I trust they affect only myself. I
cannot help thinking that many wrongs done
thus, will not count so heavily in the last
reckoning, as one wrought against another."
"But how if that wrong was not know-
ingly wrought?"
He looked at her intently for a moment,
and then answered, still coldly:
"I am not a theologian, Miss Aylmer;
and that is a question for priests. They will
tell you much of 'intention;~ but I am a'
plain man, and I prefer to look at results."
"Yes, so you said before. I should have
remembered it."
She had spoken from the first in a
low, quiet voice, and now she ceased al~-
ruptly. They were all three silent for

BOOK ITT.


122                       VALERIE AYLMER.

SIR ARTEGALL.                         123

a moment, during which they made quit
a striking picture-a picture which woul~
not have failed to please Darcy's eye if h
could have seen it as an outsider, and migh
have afforded him a study for some scene fa
more dramatic than the simple one the~
were enacting. Perhaps it was the under
lying earnestness, which had not escaped ii
word or tone, that thus unconsciously t
themselves asserted itself in attitude; but ai
least their grouping was singularly express
sive. Surprise and concern were shown ft
every line of Alix's face, as she looked uj
from the shadow of her capacious chair and
heavy mournIng draperies; the poor, little
pale face that had only its wistful eyes and
sun-tinted hair to give it beauty now. But
neither of the others heeded her. Tall and
straight, Darcy stood by the table, almost as
if he had braced himself to resist some dan-
ger, or defy some temptation, the knowledge
of which hardened the pleasant face, and
brought into the genial eyes their look of
coldness. He, too, was somewhat iii the
shade; but Valerie stood farther forward,
and on her the whole light of the picture fell
-as if it loved to seek out and dwell upon a
thing so lovely. The dark oaken panels be-
hind her threw into full relief the richness
of tint for which her beauty was so remark-
able, from the topmost braid of hair which
caught the light on its polished surface, down
to the last violet fold of the dress that swept
the carpet. She was paler than usual-there
was no doubt that the bright cheek hiid lost
much of its color during the last month-
but she had never looked more beautiful or
more proud. When she spoke again, how-
ever, there was only gravity in her voice.
"You did not tell Alix, Captain Darcy-
will you please tell me, whether Julian is in
the city?"
"Yes," Darcy answered, as gravely as
herself. "lie is here. He has been here
for a week, I believe."
"And why have you not tried to induce
him to come 2home?"
"I should suppose you might be aware
that no oue is less likely to possess any in-
fluence with him than myself."
"Still, you might have tried."
"I did try-without effect."

e     "And does his mother know this?"
He shrugged his shoulders.
e     "That I cannot tell; but I heard her say
t yesterday that he was still absent."
r "But what is he doing here, that he
~ should adopt this secrecy?"
She asked the question eagerly, almost
1 ~passionately, but waited vainly for an an-
swer. None came. No sound broke the
L silence, save the quick, steady strokes with
which Darcy was sharpening Alix's pencil.
Then, instead of repeating her inquiry, Vale-
rie bent down and whispered a word or two
I in the latter's ear. Their tenor was at
once apparent, for Miss Rivi~re rose and
left the room. While Darcy was still look-
ing after her, Valerie spoke.
* "I have sent Alix away, because I wish
to speak to you on this subject, more freely
than I could before he5 for she knows little
or nothing of Julian's weakness. I asked
you a moment ago what he is doing here,
and your silence is answer enough. I ask
you now if you will make an effort to bring
him back to his senses?"
"I would willingly do so," Darcy an-
swered, "if I could flatter myself that there
was the least likelihood of success. But I
know that there is not."
"Why?"
She asked this sharply, and he looked up
in some surprise.
"I should think you would scarcely need
to inquire.'
"Is it my presence that keeps him
away?"
"I can only presume so."
She was silent for several minutes, clasp-
ing her hands over the back of the chair, and
looking down on them with a strangely-set
and bitter expression-her brows knitted,
and her lips compressed. But when at last
she looked up, he saw that she had arrived
at some determination.
"Then I will not be here a day longer
than I can help," she said. "I will write
to papa, and as soon as he can come for me,
I shall leave.-I hope forever. But, in the
mean while, for this will take time, I must
do something. You are the last person in
the world on whom I have any claim for
service, or of whom I would like to ask a

favor. Yet it is part of my hard punish-
ment that I am now forced to ask both
service and favor of you."
She paused a moment, and he began to
speak, but she interrupted him:
"No. Please don't make any protesta-
t~ons. It would be rather late for those-
between U8. I have no doubt you will do
what I ask you without demur or grudging.
But it is none the less hard to ask it. In
one word, you will deliver a note to Julian,
and add your entreaties to mine that he will
come home?"
"I will deliver the note certainly," Darcy
answered; "but, as for the entreaties, you
must allow me to assure you that they will
be useless."
"Even mine?"
He looked at her steadily.
"Unless there be something more than
entreaty offered, even yours."
"You mean-?"
"I mean that Julian is not likely to re-
turn, save as your accepted lover."
The blood rushed over her face in a mo-
ment.
"Then he will not return," she said,
haughtily. "But-" and her tone changed
and softened-" I must do something. I
must at least attempt to move him I Surely,
Captain Darcy, you do not think it would be
utterly useless?"
He certainly did think so, but the eyes
that looked at him were so full of pathetic
appeal that, for once, something like com-
passion even for her crept into his heart,
and he compromised with the truth.
"It can do no harm," he answered.
"That is all I can say."
"That is enough," she answered. She
sat down in Alix's vacated seat and drew
toward her paper, pen, and ink. It did
not take her more than a minute to dash off
a few lines and push them toward Darcy,
saying, "Will that do?"
"Do you mean itie to read it?" he asked,
in surprise.
"Yes," she said. "Why not? If I had
needed any proof that the whole circum-
stances of the case were known to you, your
strictures of this morning would have given
it."

After that, there was nothing for him
but to take up the paper and read what she
had written. It was only a short appeal to
the wayward heart she had cause to know
so well-an appeal chiefly to its own gener-
osity, but so well and delicately expressed,
avoiding with such fine tact too much and
too little allusion to the past, that Darcy was
fully justified in his commendation. "This
will certainly move him if any thing can,"
he said, cordially.
She looked up wistfully.
"If any thing can! You say that in a
tone of very grave doubt."
"I cannot help feeling very grave doubt,"
he answered. "lie has not-of course I
need scarcely say that-mentioned your
name to me; but he is very far from being
eien his usual self."
"How is he changed?"
"Perhaps you can imagine-at least I
cannot well describe the change."
"Yes," she said, in a low whisper, "I
can imagine." Then she was silent for a
moment, until at last, looking up at him, she
murmured, "And you too think it is all my
work?"
"I acquit you this fai'," he answered,
"that you did not comprehend the inflam-
mable material with. which you dealt. No
doubt you have often made this experiment
with less disastrous results. You were un-
fortunate in your subject this time, that is
alL"
"You are mistaken," she said, in a low
voice. "But that is where you wrong me
so deeply that I suppose I need scarcely at-
tempt a word of justification. I never in all
my life made any experiment in the way
you mean. I may have been careless and
thoughtless sometimes-youth lovespleasure,
and woman loves admiration-but I never
knowingly injured any one. However, that
is not to the point at all. You promise me
that you will see Julian, and deliver this
note?"
"Yes," he said. "I promise to bring
you an answer in the course of a few hours."
"And-may I give you one caution ?-.
Please urge him to return; and do it kindly,
Don't be hard on him."
"You think me likely to be so?"


124                           VALERIE A.~LMER.
"Yes; you ~re like most strong people, as she entered Valerie's room while the din-
very intolerant of weakness." r ner-toilet of the latter was in progress.
"II hope not-.-.J trust not; for no one is "But ybu are going out?"
secure from weakness. And I am sorry you "Yes," answered Miss Aylrner, who was
think I could possibly be hard on this poor, dressing, with a very overcast face. "I for-
foolish boy." got completely that we were engaged to dine
"Ah, but I know so well how you de- at Mrs. Bird's, until Madame Vacquant re-
spise his folly-all of it. Sir Artegall, I am minded me of it a few minutes ago. And
sure, did not hate much sympathy for love- you see I have to make a toilet in double-
loin youths." quick time now. It is very provoking; for
"And I am Sir Artegall? Well, there I wanted especially to se~ Captain Darcy
have been more odious comparisons. Sir this evening. But then-I am beginning to
Artegall was brave of heart and strong of believe that every thing in life takes a most
arm. For that much I owe you thanks. malicious pleasure in being provoking, and
But he was also captive to a woman's fair so it hardly matters. Come in, by all means,
face; and that, while Fortune befriends me, petite, and tell me what it is that has
I shall never be." brightened your eyes with something of
Something of her usual arch spirit flashed their old lustre?"
into Valerie's eyes as she answered:.~     "Good news," Alix answered, "if any
"So I fancy Sir Artegall may have said news can be counted good now-news, at
before he saw ~adegunde."               all events, that I am very grateful for. You
Quick as thought came the ready reply: know how I have longed to go to Europe?"
"Then I am wiser than he, for I have seen "Know I-of course I do."
many Radegundes, and yet dare say it."     "Well, it seems that Captain Darcy has a
This was evidently no idle boast. The great many friends in Germany, and, thi~ough
eyes that met hers were steady and firm as one of them, he has obtained an offer for
few eyes had ever been. They said many papa's consideration-an offer of a position
things, but chiefly that, if she had ever flat- in a large banking-house of Leipsic-which
tered herself with any power over this heart wrn give me all the musical advantages I
of~ oak, she was even more deceived than could not hope to obtain in any other way.
deceiving; and, for once, La belle dee belle Is it not kind-is it not good of him?"
'laid the knowledge to her soul with strange "It is very kind indeed," said Valerie,
humility. struck by the thoughtfulness of the service.
"I know what you mean," she said, with "And your father, Alix-will he go?"
a faint, grate smile. "I hope it will do one "That is what I came to tell you. I
Radegunde some good to appreciate that her have just received a short note from him,
empire is by no means so universal as she telling me that he has accepted the offer. So,
once flattered herself it was. And perhaps it is settled-we go."
she respects Sir Artegall all the more for his She said the last words more mournfully
insensibility. Now I will go and send Alix than joyfully, and there was so little of ex-
back to her drawing-lesson. You deserve ultation or happiness in the face at which
that reward for being so patient with this her friend turned to look, that Valerie could
tiresome interruption." not help expressing a little incredulity.
He made no effort to detain her as she "You cannot be in earnest," she cried.
glided from the room; but only stood where "You surely cannot announce such a pros-
she left him, with an expression strangely set pect as that in such a tone! Why, it in
and stern on his face-an expression that did enough to take away one's breath! If it is
not soften until Alix's sweet voice sounded true, I don't know whether to scold or con-
in his ear, and her brown eyes looked up into gratulate you! How is it that this is the
his. first I have heard of such an important mat-
ter? But I can guess. Captain Thtrcy bade
"Dear, will I disturb you?" asked ~Alix, you keep itsecret-even from me."

SIR ARTEGALL-.

"So far from that, he only told me abou
it this morning, saying that he had not don
o before, because he was uncertain of papa
consent, and did not care to raise my hope
without some secure foundation. I hard~
ought myself that papa would accept; bu
he has done so."
"And I should have been sure that h
would. Why not, indeed? There are me:
who would give half their lives for an assure
independence out of this wretched country
And, as for breaking ties, or leaving friend
-I believe those are the usual objections ti
going abroad-a mightier Hand has already:
done that for him. He could not stan(
among the ruins of Thebes more alien fron
his past life and past hopes than he stand
here to-day."
"Yes," she said, sadly; "and so it ma~
be best. While as for me-"
"As for you, there is a glorious vision of
Music that beckons you with shining eyes
and outstretched arms across the ocean."
She shook her head mournfully. "~To~
All that is over for me now-and I don'l
think it will ever return. I am anxious tc
resume my studies, but it is with none ol
the old love-rather with a heavy conscious-
ness of toil. ~ must work; for my future
support may depend upon my own exertions.
But it is only work. It has ceased to be
delight."
"You are not yourself now, Alix ;you
are morbid in your view of your future as
well as of your present life. This will pass
away after a time, and the old allegiance
will return."
"I scarcely think so," she said, slowly.
"A spring seems broken within me. After
a while I may learn to take interest and feel
pleasure in the art again; but the full glory
of its worship can never return. Th~ old
love-the old beauty-ah, they are buried
in gravel"
voice ceased, choked by tears. And
alth gh Valerie knew that she was mis-
taken-although she was sure that her art
would soon claim all its former devotion-
she could not say so. She could only smooth
back the bright hair, and murmur softly the
grand old words that ha~re given strength
and courage to many a failing heart since

125

Lt they first fell from the inspired pen of that
e poor monk whom millions upon millions have
risen up and declared blessed-" He who
s best knows how to endure, shall possess the
y greater peace!"
it Then she went back to her toilet; and
when it was completed hurried down-stairs
o without further delay. Pierre was loitering
a in the lower hall, and she paused a moment
~ to ask if Darcy had yet come in-hoping al-
most against hope for an affirmative reply-
s but he answered at once in the negative,
c and, with a sigh, she went on into the draw-
~ ing-room. Strange to say, although it was
I growing quite late, Madame Vacquant was
i not there. The sumptuous rooms were all
s ablaze with gas, but profoundly silent, and
wholly empty, the chairs and sofas, the tall
mirrors and gleaming statues having all the
light and warmth and bright luxury to
themselves. To and fro Valerie wandered,
in restless impatience, anxious to be gone
only because waiting was tiresome, and be-
* cause of a wholly illogical feeling that the
sooner they left, the sooner it might be pos-
sible to return, yet dreading very much the
evening before her. She dreaded every
- thing now that connected her with Madame
Vacquant, and, as society pr5eminently did
this, she had begun. to dislike society. As
she sauntered aimlessly back and forth, all
unheeding the lovely reflection which mir-.
ror after mirror gave, she yawned wearily
in anticipation of her coming 'boredom;
then she looked at her watchand wondered
how much longer Madame Vacquant would
be, and finally she went to the window,
drawing back the heavy silken curtains, and
looking out on the gathering night and
misty rain. Almost unconsciously she shiv-
ered, then turned away, and sauntered back
toward the music-room. She sat down to
the piano, but she had not played six bars
before she rose again, and again looked at
her watch. Surely it was strange that
Madame Vacquant still did not come! Per-
haps she was iu her sitting-room. It was
foolish of her not to have thought of that
before, and not to have gone 'there. She
had not often entered this room during the
past month, and had been averse to doingso
even when it was necessary; but now mi-


120                     VALERIE AYLMER.                                                              RADEGUNDE.                       12~

patience mastered every other feeling, anc
she turned in that direction. Although form
ing no part of the reception-suite, this apart
ment was connected with them, so she had
not far to go. She passed hastily through
the different rooms, until she came to the
one in question. The door was closed, but
her hand was on the lock when suddenly a
sound fell on her ear that made her pause
-the sound of voices speaking.
Not ordinary voices in ordinary conver-
sation. Even through the heavy oakenpan-
els there came, sufficiently audible, the quick
tones of impatience, and the deeper accents
of anger. The speakers were plainly only
two, but they spoke so fast and eagerly that
before a minute had elapsed Valerie knew
that she stood with only a partition between
herself 'and the man she had rejected-that
Julian Romney was with his mother.
He had come home, then 1 That was the
first thought which flashed 'across her with
a feeling of intense relief-relief scarcely
tempered by the realization it was no happy
or even peaceful interview from which that
door separated her. Plainly there was bitter
strife of words between the mother and son
-none the less bitter because restrained by
the former at least within due moderation
of speech. Involuntarily, on realizing this,
Valerie turned away; but as she did so,
Julian raised his voice from its low key, and
her own name fell on her ear, coupled with
another which made her start in uncontrol-
lable surprise, for it was not the name of
the man whom Julian might have been sup-
posed to mention, but of the loyal-hearted
lover whoi~ she had left in far Louisiana-
not of'Maurice Darcy, but of Charles Hau-
taine!
She had turned awe~y involuntarily;
now, involuntarily, she paused, but it was
only for a moment. She heard Madame
Vacquant utter a few words which were
evidently a question; and then, instead of
waiting for the answer that would have told
her all, she fled swiftly and eagerly-fled as
if from some sudden temptation, and never
paused until she found herself standing.
breathless by the same window from which
she had gazed inlistless impatience so short-
ly before.

Then she could not avoid asking herself
* what could be.the meaning of this strange
* knowledge of Hautaine by one to whom, she
I had never uttered his name-nay, more,
this strange knowledge of his claim upon her,
the claim which the more engrossing in-
terests of these past months had almost
swept from her recollection. Now she
waked with a start to the remembrance
that her word was indeed staring her in the
face-that the~ six months of her promise
would finish their course within the next
few weeks. She stopped a moment, and
put her hand to her head in bewildered sur-
prise. Could it really be so? Had time
slipped away so fast, and brought her for-
ward-only for this? She had given her
promise to Hautaine in October, and this
was the last of March. Yes; in a short
time, the bond was due. In a shqrt time,
Hautaine might come-and would he not
come-to claim his promised answer, his
promised reward for long and patient wait-
ing? She knew that he had been in Eu-
rope for many months, but-a stir, a, fra-
grance, and Madame Vacquant's silken robes
swept into sight.
"So you are down," she said, with a lit-
tle start. "I am sorry to have kept you
waiting; but your grandfather detained me
so long from my toilet, and RQse was so
stupid about my hair, that I could not help
it. Shallwe~onow?"
"It is quite time," Valerie answered.
For her life, she could not have said any
thing more with that face fronting her-fal-
sifying, as it were, the testimony of her own
ears, and those musical tones still vibrating
on the air. At that moment, Pierre an-
nounced the carriage, and they went down-
stairs. In the hall Valerie found time to
say a few words to him, which she flattered
herself were unheard:
"Tell Captain Darcy that I will be back
early, and ask him to wait for me in the
library."
Then she hurried after Madame Vac-
quant, and they were hastily driven away.

CHAPTER II.
BADEGUNDE.
Tnz clock on the library mantel rang
out with its clear, silvery voice the single
stroke of one, as Maurice Darcy looked up
from a letter that be had been writing, with
something of impatient surprise on his face.
"So late?" he muttered. "On my
word, Miss Aylmer has a very royal faculty
of forgetting or ignoring-I suppose it is all
the same thing-everybody's convenience
but her own. Three hours have I been
waiting here, in obedience to her command,
and yet there is no sign of arrival-Mrs.
Bird's parties are not usually so entertain-
ing either. A different sort of woman would
remember-but, pshaw! Of course she has
been taught to believe that everybody must
submit to her caprice; and so, perhaps,
the fault is hardly hers. I might as well
give Gaston another sheet, I suppose; by
that time she may condescend to enter an
appearance."
He. drew a fresh sheet toward him as
he spoke, dipped pen in ink, and wrote on
rapidly thus:
"You ask me what I am doing, and the
question is harder to answer than you
would at first imagine. I have been paint-
ing, of course; but only in a desultory sort
of fashion, and to very little effect indeed,
Chiefly, I believe, I must bring myself in
guilty as 'idler at ease '-and this is a pro-
fession the hardships of which we are very
apt to undervalue until we have tested them
by actual experience. I remember that I
used to be incredulous of their existence:
but call no man happy till he dies; and from
henceforward I take my pity from the liard- I
working children of toil, to tender it respect- 1
fully to the fine gentlemen who are depend-'
out on their own sensations for their amuse- I
mont in life, and whb wear out those sensa-
'tions, as onewears out the strings of an instru-
ment, by constant use. Plainly, I am wearied s
to death of this life, and every thing connect- ~
ed with it! My wound troubles me very lit- I;
tle now, and my health is almost entirely re- t
stored; so I shall soon 4rop this artificial -

shell, and resume the old existence in so-
ber earnest in the old a~elier.- By-the-
by, have you seen about renting it for
me? I should like that special one, if
possible, since so* many pleasant associ-
ations are connected with it but any that
suits you wrn be sure to sui me. As for
further talk of Florence or Rome, I will
not listen to it! You are better in Paris
than anywhere else, and out of Paris you
shall not stir with my consent-least of all,
with my connivance. Besides, I honestly
prefer it myself. There are many things
'that unite to make it the most desirable
residence in the world, for the poor as well,
as for the rich, for the struggling as well as
for the famous. If I ever succeed in my
art, it is in Paris that this success will be
worth most. If I were not so entirely a
cosmopolitan-one of the Bedouins of civ-
ilization-I think I should make my home
there in preference 1o any other spot of
earth. But such a supposition is particu-
larly absurd when I am just now possessed
with the roving fever worse than ever, and
longing for a wider flight than I have taken
yet. Do you remember Valdor ?-him who
served with the Spahis in Algeria, and had a
portfolio of sketches that would have done
honor to Gavarni? But of course you do, for
he was nota manlikelytobeforgotten. Well,
the other day I heard from him. He is
down in Mexico, serving in the archduke's
-.1 mean the emperor's-Foreig'n Legion.
He heard of me from some of my old Con-
federate comrades who are there in force
just now, and wrote such a letter! It is
Valdor himself!-half made up of calli-
~raphy, half of etching, and quite the
most amusing, reckless, devil-may-care pro-
luction that ever was laughed over. What
talent the fellow has, and yet he is nothing,
~ili die nothing! However, this is not to the
)oint. I mentioned him to explain my new
'ever. Heurgesme to come to Mexico-prom-
se~ a plentiful share of blows and honor, a
omission certainly, a dukedom probably,
rid the most glorious scenery in the world!
~ou would laugh if you knew how strong-
y the whole picture tempts me. I always
old you that I am as much soldier as artist
-and of late I really begin to think~ that


128                     VALERIE AYLMER.                                                           RADEGUNDE.                      129

the element of soldier predominates. It
provokes and yet It amuses me to observe
how~ my colors ~ok interest to me, and how
I long for one more call of bugle or drum.
If it were not for you, I think I should lay
my palette aside again, take a portfolio under
one arm, and a sword under the other, and
start for Mexico. But, diavolo! I am writ-
ing nonsense like a girl; for not all the blows
and honor in the world could keep me long
from you6 I shall 8a11 by the first of next
month, at latest, and so, perhaps-"
His hand stopped short in its rapid pas-
sage over the paper. His quick ear had
caught the crash with which a carriage drew
up before the door; the next moment, a
quick peal echoed through the quiet house,
and then there was a rustling ~of dresses and
murmur of voices in the hail. Good-nights
were exchanged, then a light step ap-
proached the library, ahand touched thelock,
the door opened, and Darcy rose to meet-
not Miss Aylmer, but Madame Vacquant.
His surprise must have been manifest in
his face, for she laughed a little.
. "You here, my dear Maurice?" she said.
I did not expect to find any one up. It is
after ona o'clock, I see. You must have been
pleasantly engaged."
"I have been writing," he answered,
with a glance at the letter before him ~ "not
unpleasantly engaged, therefore. But it. is
yon who are late. Surely Mrs. Bird's din-
ner-party has not detained you until this
hour?"
"Oh, no," she answered, carelessly.
"After we left, Valerie remembered Mrs.
Maitland's reception this evening, and we
drove there. We found a very pleasant
party, and Mr. Arle engrossed Valerie so
much to her satisfaction apparently, that I
disliked to disturb them by coming away
early. She seems quite tired, however, and
has gone to bed. But I am not sleepy at
all, so I came in to read for an hour or two.
Don't let me disturb you."
"You don't disturb me, for I have fin-
ished my letter," he answered, quietly. "I
think I shall bid you good-night."
"Good-night," she answered, with a
smile. "I would wish you pleasant dreams,
only dreams are such very disappointing

things-almost as bad in that way, as
women, it is said."
"When one has not cherished expecta-
tion, one cannot well be disappointed," said
Darcy, with his pleasant laugh. "I hope
you will have pleasant dreams, and, once
more, good-night."
The door closed on him, and he went his
way up-stairs, secretly no little puzzled by
the word-play just passed. Evidently she
knew that he had been expecting Valerie,
and that Valerie had seen fit to break the
appointment of her own making; but what
then? Truly, she also knew Maurice Darcy
very little, if she fancied that the disappoint-
ment was more to him than mere matter for
a smile over this fresh proof of Miss Ayl-
mer's fickle caprice.
He was still smiling that smile to him-
self, as he passed to his chamber, when, from
a corridor on the left, Fanchette advanced
and suddenly waylaid him.
"Miss Valerie told me to give you this,
sir," she said, presenting a card; "and will
you please send an answer by me?"
He looked at the bit of pasteboard. It
only held four lines:
"Be kind enough to suspend judgment
on my apparent incivility until you see me.
Will you be in the library to-morrow morn-
ing? If so, I must ask you to wait for mc."
He turned the card over, and in the dim
light wrote a line or two on the reverse
side:
"Of course, I will be at Miss Aylmer's
service to-morrow morning. I send the
answer to her note-trusting that it may
prove favorable."
He took a sealed envelope from his
pocket, handed it together with the card to
Fanchette, bidding her deliver them to her
mistress, and then went his way to his own
room.
Darcy did not have long to wait next
morning. He went straight to the library
after breakfast, and, before many minutes,
Valerie followed him. He thought when
she came in that she looked rather pale and
worn, but neither of them spoke until she
had crossed the room to where he stood by
the fireplace. Then she asked, quickly;

"Did you wait for me long last night?"
"Not very long," lie answered-" not
longer than I should probably have waited
even if I had not received your message."
"What must you have thought of mel"
she said, passionately. "It was bad enough
that I, who have no claim upon you, should
have made an appointment at all; but to
make it and break it-what must you have
thought of me!"
"What should I think, excepting that
you exercised your feminine privilege of ca-
price?" he answered, with a smile. "Pray,
don't apologize-I know how tired and how
little like talking you must have felt after a
Bird dinner and a Maitland party."
"But I must apologize, or rather I must
explain," she said, hastily. "You evidently
don't understand at all. Caprice! you are
kind to call it that; but I think it would
have been something infinitely worse if I had
acted so. I suppose Madame Vacquant told
you about the Maitland party-did she also
tell you that it was she who persisted in
going, though I begged her not to do so;
and that she only consented to come away
when she found I absolutely would not re-
main any longer?~~
"No," he replied, with a slight arch of
the eyebrows. "She certainly did not tcll
me that."
"Nor how she prevented my seeing you
by announcing her own intention of coming
here to read? Well, those were my reasons
for not appearing: and now you can see
how much 'caprice' had to do with them.
I should not have troubled you again this
morning, if I had not wished to explain this."
"There was really no necessity for ex-
planation," he said; "still I am not sorry
you have made it. Only, one thing puzzles
me-why Madame Vacquant should have
wished to keep you from seeing me."
"It might puzzle me if I had not long
ago ceased to wonder at any thing she
does," Valerie answered; "and also if I had
not been thinking of other things. You saw
my note to Julian, and it is only fair that
you should see his answer. But first, one
question-did you find any thing in mine
that was hasty or inconsiderate, any thing
that co-ild have given offence?"
9

Assuredly not;" he answered. "Noth-
ing could have been more kind or consider-
ate. There was not a single expression that
could possibly have merited resentment."
Her lip curled-he thought with scorn-
and she handed him the envelope he had
sent her the night before. "Well, now,
look at his answer," she said.
He drew forth the enclosure-simply a
sheet of paper torn completely in two. A
glance showed him that it was her own note
thus sent back to her without one word of
comment. For a moment he looked at it
incredulously; then Valerie was almost
startled by the angry light that flashed into
his eyes. and the angry color that rose to
his brow.
"Was this all?" he asked.
"That was all," she answered.
"And he made me the bearer of such
an insult! Miss Aylmer, I beg you to be-
lieve-"
She interrupted him by a gesture of si-
lence. "Pray don't think any assurance of
your ignorance necessary," she said. "Of
course you knew nothing about it; but what
does this prove to you-concerning him?"
"That he is an unmannered churl!" he
answered, concisely; "and that he needs a
lesson in breeding, which I shall take great
pleasure in giving him."
"Indeed, you niust do nothing of the
~kind," she cried, quickly. "I should never
forgive myself for my folly in showing you
this, if you, of all people, resented it on my
behalf."
"You forget the position in which it
places me."
"And whose fault is that? Surely mine,
since I made you my ambassador. No, Cap-
tam Darcy, you must never mention the mat-
ter to Julian. Promise me that you will let
it rest as if I had not shown you this."
"Let it rest I-why, you surely don't
think me absurd enough to be drawn into
a quarrel with a foolish, spiteful boy like
this?"
"No matter what I think. Promise me
that you will not let him know that you are
aware of his incivility."
"He deserves-."
"No matter what he deserves. If we


130                     VALERIE AYLMER.

RADEGUNDE.                      131

- come to deserts, the most of us would fare
badly enough. Promise me, I say!"
tie looked at her with a smile. Already
his -brief anger had passed, and he was
amused by the imperious command of her
tone. "I imagine a great many people must
have told you that to hear is to obey," he
said.
"You neyer did, at all events. dome,
have I your word of honor that this remains
between you and me?"
"If nothing les4 will satisfy you-yes."
She smiled brightly-so brightly that he
saw at once why many people had found liv-
ing sunshine in her face. "Thank you!"
she said, with her pretty, gracious bend of
the head. "I am quite satisfied. And now
let me tell you something that you may be
astonished to hear: Julian was in this house
last night."
She lowered her voice in making the
statement; but, to her surprise, iDarcy heard
it quite unmoved.
"Well," he said, quietly, "why should he
not be here I"
"Then why should he not stay here?"
she asked, impatiently. "Why should there
be all This mystery, unless for the purpose
of making me uncomfortable?"
"Probably that may be the cause of it,"
he answered, coolly.
"Was there ever any thing more ungen-
erous,-then I
"Rot often, I grant you. But don't
* blame Julian more than he deserves. He
may not be able to meet you as an ordinary
friend."
For answer her eye turned tQ the torn
letter lying on the table between them. He
saw the glance, and touched the envelope
rather disdainfully with ihis hand. -
"Even this might be accepted as proof
of it," he said. -
a~o::,Yet you did not think so a moment
"Pardon me. I only could not excuse
him for ceasing to be a gentleman, because
he became a lover."
He spoke very indifferently, but Valerie
could not1 help thinking how little likely it
was that e would ever be swayed from his
even course by any such vagaries o~ passion

as those they were discussing. She even
gave pi~rtial utterance to this reflection:
"You are the last man in the world to
judge Julian," she said, a little indignantly.
"You are as cold as he is mercurial; and
you know nothing of the passion which in-
fluences him so entirely."
"I am certainly very ignorant of how far
common-sense and love are incompatibili-
~ he answered, carelessly. "Well, ha~re
you any further commands for me?"
"Rot unless you choose to comfort him
with the assurance that before long I hope
to be in my dear Louisiana."
"And I in France. So, as we are about
to go our different paths, may we not bury
the tomahawk, and smoke the pipe of peace
together during the few days still remaining
of our accidental association?"
"With all my heart," she answered.
"Indeed, I am glad to he able to feel that
the tomahawk might have been buried and
the pipe smoked long ago, with my full con-
sent."
He looked at her in smiling surprise.
"Do you mean that it is I who have been
accountable for our want of friendly under-
standing?"
"Yes, I mean exactly that," she an-
swered. "I offered you my friendship when
you made your frank explanation that day
in the picture-gallery.- Do you remember?
you thought fit to put it very coldly aside;
and I need hardly say that I am not accus-
tomed to making such proffers twice. I see
you cannot deny this."
He certainly could not, nor did he make
an effort to do so. He looked at her, and
said, "Perhaps such conduct was only wis-
dom."
So little idea had she of any thing like a
compliment from him, that she asked simply,
"Why?"
- "I think you should know why," he an-
swered. "There is said to be no middle
ground for those who come near you. - In-
difference can never soften into liking, and
stop short there. Row, I hadno mind to go
farther. I am very sure you are not sati-
ated with conquest, and there was safety
only in distance. You can best tell whether
I misjudged you or not; butl fancied at one

time that you would not have been averse
to adding even my poor scalp to the many
trophies already hanging at your belt!"
He spoke composedly, almost coldly; but
Valerie heard him with a dismay and bitter-
ness hardly to be described. Then he had
read her so thoroughly as that !-read even
her paltry vanity, her poor ambition, her
pitiful resolves to attract him! No wonder
that he despised her I-no wonder that he
wore an armor of mail against all her
shafts !-no wonder that they wakened in
him only scornful contempt! Mortification
tingled through every vein, until her cheeks
were burning and her eyes were almost
overflowing, before she had found a word to
say. At first she lifted her head haughtily
enough, but then-was denial possible? She
* ,'sad striven to attract him, solely for the
gratification of her own vanity; and, even if
he would have believed her, she disdained
equivocation. Indeed, she had a regal scorn
of any thing like pretence, and nobody had
ever been able to say of her thatshe benched
from the consequences of any action. When
at last she lifted her eyes to his, they were
proud even in their humility.
"You are right,7~ she said,; "I did en-
deavor to attract you-and failed entirely.
And-perhaps you may be surprised to hear
-I was glad to do so. I should have felt a
contempt for you if you had yielded, as so
many others have done; but I was glad to
learn what I have always believed, that there
are some men strong enough in heart and
head to see how much a coquette's beauty
and a coquette's arts are worth. I have liked
you honestly and sincerely ever since that
day of which I spoke a moment ago; and
I liked you all the better, and respected you
all the more, when I tried my experiment and
failed; when I found that, instead of attract-
ing, I only repelled- you. You will think
this strange, perhaps. I don't pretend to ac-
count for it. * I only know that it is so, that
I have long been conscious of it. I know
what you think of me-how vain, and weak,
and cruel, you consider me-but if you ever -
remember me in the future, let it be with -
this scant justice, that lam glad ~iome at least
never suffered a pang through me."
Suddenly and without warning, the quick

tones ceased; and turning abruptly, so as to
give him no time for answer, she moved
toward the door. To her surprise Darcy
was there before her, with his hand on the
lock.
"One moment, Miss Aylmer," he said.
But Valerie scarcely heard and did not
at all heed him. Some strange, wild emotion
was tugging at her heart so fiercely that
her ungovernable impulse was to rush away
with it-anywhere, so that it was out of
sight and reach. Sharply, almost angrily,
she said:
"Let me pass, if you plea~e."
"Will you not even hear me?"
"Ro. Let me pass."
But he stood perfectly still, looking down
on her with something like a smile of tri-
umph on his face, and his hand still resting
upon the lock.
- "Ray, then, I must be rude enough to
detain you," he said, gently. "Valerie!-
look at me. Are you indeed so blind as not
to see and know what this is?"
She looked up at him in sudden amaze-
ment, but not doubt-never again doubt.
Let the future hold what it would for them,
they could never again mistake each other.
Never again could they unlearn the knowl-
edge read in one another's eyes as they stood
face to face in that brief moment. Never
again fail to see that this was love. Like a
flash it came to one at least, as, with a great
gasp, the proud head of La belle des belles
went down-on Maurice Darcy's shoulder!
All conflict was over. The victor's hand
gathered up the reins of power, and there
was nothing to be said or done. He asserted
a fact, and claimed a right-that was all.
Men, many men, had offered theinsetves to -
this woman, and pleaded their cause with
force and passion; but n~ man had ever be-
fore taken quiet possession of the citadel as
of his own unquestioned property; no man
had ever closed in a hand-to-hand grapple,
and wrested the sword from the fair grasp
that had held it so long triumphantly; and
perhaps this was the only way in which
victory was ever possible.
It was not very long before Valerie
rallied, however-not long before she raised
her flushed face and shining eyes with a


132                     VALERIE AYLMER.

FETTERS OF ROSES.                       133

question that proved how strong the ruling
passion was, even in defeat.
"What does Sir Artegall say now?"
Then Darcy bent his stately head, even
as Sir Artegall may have bent his, before
Badegunde's fair face and lifted vizor, while
he answered;
"He says that his weapons lie at your
feet. He Waits his sentence from your lips.
Whatever it be, he hopes to bear it bravely,
but he prays one favor: speak it quickly!"
It was a favor that she did not grant. On
the contrary, she stoodlooking athini silently
and long-the sense of weakness and the
sense of power mingled in a manner which
would have set a metaphysician frantic, but
which is perfectly intelligible to anywoman
within whose breast there beats a woman's
heart. She was conqueror, yet she was con-
quered! For one long minute she exulted
in the consciousness of the first; then the
still more delicious realization of the second
rushed over her, and she held out her hand,
with a proud grtice like that of no other
woman, saying only:
"Be gentle with your captive."*
CHAPTER III.
FETTERS OF ROSES.
"VALERIE, you are dazzling!'~
It was Alix who spoke thus in a tone of
surprised admiration, as Miss Aylmer entered
her roqx~ to bid her good-evening before
going down to dinner. The little lady was
confined to her chamber with a severe cold,
and bore her enforced exile on the whole
very cheerfully; but she looked up with aln-
cere pleasure on hearing her friend's step
outside, and when the door opened she gave
vent to 1~his exclamation-and an exclama-
tion so evidently wrung from her by the im-
pulse of the moment, that Valerie started
and blushed.
"What is there extraordinary about
me?" she asked. "Am I looking better
than usual?"
"Very iuucb better," Alix answered.

"But-.but I really cannot tell what the
difference is, though there is a difference."
"You are sure of that?"
"Quite sure."
Miss Aylmer laughed to herself-a soft,
happy laugh-and then she went over and
looked in the mirror. It showed her a face
that was indeed literallytransfigured by some
bright inner light-a light that would have
made even an ugly face beautiful, and that
rendered hers, as Alix had said, literally
"dazzling? "-a light that shone in every
glance of the eyes, and smiled in every curve
of the mouth; that lay like a sunbeam on the
fair, serene brow, and pervaded every line
of the graceful features. Truly the great
glorified, Happiness, had touched her with
his magic wand! Truly she might well wear
that quiet dress, and relieve her glorious hair
by only one knot of bright ribbon; for the
woman so adorned needs no aid from art.
~he is above and beyond it. So long as her
eyes shine with that happy lustre, and h~er
lips wear that enchanting smile, she need
give no heed to the toilet, for homespun
could not lessen, nor satin heighten her
charms. So Valerie seemed to feel, for she
looked at herself from head to foot, with one
radiant and satisfied glance; and then she
went over and kisse'1 her enthusiastic ad-
mirer.
"I am so sorry you are not well enough
to come down," she said. "We shall miss
you, especially as we are all alone to-night.
It is very likely, too, that Mr. Thornton will
make his appearance. ~'ou have certainly
achieved a serious conquest of that redoubt-
able critic. He met me on Baltimore Street
the other day, and absolutely walked home
with me!"
"And can you account for that in no
other way ethan by a serious conquest of
mine?"
"Not when it is taken in connection with
the fact that he talked of Miss Rivi~re, and*
Miss Rivi~re's voice, without intermission.
from French's to the Monument."
"If it depended upon you," said Alix,
with a faint laugh, "I think I should soon
be an exceedingly dangerous person. You
are continnaily laying some fresh slaughter~
at my door, and bringing me in guilty of

some new act of malice. What a pity that
other people-and especially the reported
victims-cannot be induced to see matters
in the same light! I mighf really, after a
while- Ab, what exquisite flowers!"
She broke off with this exclamation, as
the door opened, and Fanchette appeared,
carrying a large bouquet.
"What lovely camellias! what a superb
daphne!" Valerie said, eagerly, taking it
from the maid. "Whom are they for?"
"I don't know, ma~ am," Fanchette an-
swered. "Pierre was, in a hurry, and he
just told me to bring ~em up-stairs1"
"There must be a card," Alix suggested.
And, truly enough, a moment's search
resulted in finding one. "L. Howard Thorn-
ton," Valerie read triumphantly from one
side, while on the reverse was pencilled,
"With best wishes for Miss Rivi~re's speedy
recovery."
"Victoria!" she cried, gayly. "A Saul
among the prophets! Alix, I congratulate
you. These flowers are tokens how com-
pletely you have won over for ever and ever
the lbrmidable critic of the Journal."
"It is very kind of him to remember
me," said Alix, receiving the bouquet and
blushing like a rose. "The flowers are love-.
ly; and I am very much obliged. Please,
tell him so, if he comes, Valerie."
"I wish you could tell him so yourself,
yotite. He will lose the blush, and miss the
smile dreadfully, when I deliver the message.
Now I must go. Enjoy your flowers, and
be sure you don't grow lonely."
"Xo, Ishall not be lonely. Besides the
flowers, I have that new Blao7~woo~Z which
Captain Darcy sent me to-4ay. Don't for-
get to give my love to him."
"Ah! that, too, will lose value in the
transmission through a third person. Love
always does. Good-by."
She flitted from the room, and went
down-stairs, singing like a bird, out of the
very joyousness of 1~er heart. But, when
she opened the drawing-room door, a face
rose up before her which hushed the words
on her lips in sheer surprise. Certainly the
last person she ht~d expec~e4 to meet was
Romney; and yet, there he was, leaning
against the mantel in a well-remembered at-

titude, with the same stormy face and the
same frown that she had seen last. Aston-
ishment caused her to make one pause, then
she advancedinto the room with outstretched
hand.
"JulianP' she cried, eagerly. "What
a pleasant surprise! I am very glad to-"
"See you," she would have added, if his
manner had not frozen back the unfinished
words. But few women would have cared
to waste a cordial greeting on any man who
met it as Romney met this-with simple re-
pellent coldness. He barely touched the
slender fingers held out to him; and his few
words of reply were wholly inaudible, while
the dark cloud never once lifted from his
brow, making it a relief to Valerie to turn
round and plunge into conversation with her
grandfather; for both M. and Madame Vac-
quant were~present. There was an embar-
rassed interval of several minutes thus
bridged over, before the door opened, and
sunshine entered the room in Maurice Dar-
cy's eyes ~nd smile. Almost immediately
afterward, dinner was announced.
They went down-stairs in silence, and it
is impossible to coxijecture how the next
hour would have passed, had it not been for
Darcy's persevering efforts to make conver-
sation. They were so indefatigable that they
deserved the success which they partially
achieved. Only partially, however~ for Ju-
han's moody face and petulant remarks
were not conducive to social ease, and, to-
gether with his mother's unusual gravity,
so seriously burdened the air, that eyen 1!.
Vacquant's efforts to talk had an unmistak-
ably forced air, and Valerie was almost to-
tally silent. After a while the two gentle-
men drifted into the dreary sea of politics,
and remained there until the ceremony of
dinner came to an end.
Juhian did not renter the drawing-room,
but left the house almost immediately, while
Valerie, who had little inclination to remain
under Madame Vacquant's eyes, wandered
away until she found herself in the conserva-
tory. There she sat down-to wait.
Not long, however. Not long had the
fountain risen and fallen in its steady, z'nisi-
cal cadence, before there came a sound which
banished all the melody of waters from her


134                      VALERIE AYLMER.

ears-the echo of a distant voice, the soun
of a nearing tread, the parting of the leaf~
screens, and, in the mellow light, the gran(
head and stately figure of her royal-lookin~
free-lance lover.
He saw her in a moment, and came for
*    ward, a world of light in his eyes and on hii
lips, yet his first words were almost of vexa
tion.
"I wish I could have spared you that,
Are you weary, liellis8imc$?"
She looked up at him, wonderingly.
"Weary! What, that dreadful dinner,
do you mean? :N~o, I had almost forgotten
it. You see how little power annoyances
have over me now."
The last word was almost inaudible,
but so significant that the warm blood swept
brightly over Darcy's brow. A little while
back, and he would have steeled himself
into granite against such a tone from her
lips; but now-well, had he not surrendered
himself to the sweet enchantment, and what
was there further needed of cold wisdom
and colder self-discipline? And so his mur-
mured tones were full of that poetic folly
which is sweeter in the ears of those who
love than all the wisdom of all the philoso-
phers who ever rounded periods - from
Socrates down. And Valerie listened to
him with a wistful, eager look on her face
which might have seemed strange, if her
next words had not explained it.
"Then, if all this be true, if I am indeed
so fair and charming in your eyes, surely
your distrust of me must have vanished.
Tell me if it be so? Don't be afraid to
say no-I only care to hear truth from
yQu.~~
"Distrust," he repeated, quickly. "What
do you mean?"
5h9 looked up at him a little reproach-
fully.
"If you ask me that, I shall think that
you know only too well, and don't wish to
answer. Ah, what cam I mean save the
wretched coquetry which held you from me
so long? Maurice, tell me-do you still
think so badly of me ?-do you still distrust
me so utterly as you did even a few days
*ago?"
There was no art in the question, no striv-

FETTERS OF ROSES.                       135

I ing to draw forth protestations or vows, but
~ a strange, earnest pathos and doubt, which
I gave a yearning inquiry to the eyes lifted to
his own, and touched to its very core the
heart of the man who loved her. For
answer, he only drew her to his side, and,
bending down, laid his lips lightly and
tenderly on her own.
"There is my reply," he said. "There
is my seal on all the past. Let us never
speak of it again."
But still she was not content.
" Tell me" she repeated. "Tell mein
so many words, that you trust me-that you
believe I never meant wilful harm in the
past, and that you are sure I can never mean
it in the future."
"I do believe it, and I am sure of it," he
answered, proudly. "Do you think I could
love you, and doubt you ?-do you think I
could hold you thus, and distrust you even
in the least degree? No "-and it was a
very grand scorn that quickened in the deep-
gray eyes-" I never practise half-measures..
I demand a perfect and entire faith from all
who love me. Like Cnur de Lion, I never
bade man do what I would not do myself.
I do trust you wholly and entirely. And
from henceforth there is but one evidence I
shall receive against you-the evidence of
yourself. Now, are you satisfied?"
Satisfied! Ah, he might have read that
in the eyes that looked up at him so warmly
and gratefully, in the smile of perfect con-
tent that came around the lips, in the tone
that murmured softly-
"You have made me so happy!"
He smiled brightly, perhaps again with
a shade of triumph, and passed his hand
many times caressingly over her rippling
hair. He seemed made to woo in a royal
fashion of his own-made to gather fresh
dignity from a position in which most of his
sex grow for the time being pliant and hum-
ble. It was next to impossible to imagine
him suing for favors instead of taking them,
captive instead of captor, conquered instead
of conqueror. And yet it was the simplicity
about him, the utter absence of all vanity or
pretence, which. made this, that in another
man would have been unutterably revolting,
so rarely attractive in him. It was because

Nature had stamped him with such a regal
signet, that it was not a bitter sight to see
this fair, proud woman-this woman who
had long been free and timeless as any wild
creature of the forest-own subjection at
his hand, and yield herself unreservedly to
be rendered happy or miserable by the breath
of his lips.
But at least she was happy-perfectly
and entirely happy. No one looking on
could have doubted that for a moment and
though neither of them knew it, some one
did look on. Once, for a minute only, a
~ale face gleamed on them from between
the blossoms of a gorgeous azalea, and then
vanished. A woman's dress swept noise-
lessly over the marble floor, and all was
quiet and silence again when Valerie said,
gently:
"I have stood in awe of you so long,
that I do not think I shall soon learn the
perfect love which casteth out fear. I have
little doubt that I shall be afraid of you for
a good while to come.~~
"Afraid of me! Then it is I who need to
complain of distrust. Afraid of me? When
have you ever seen any thing to teach you
that?"
"You surely forget how hard and stern
you have seemed-especially to my poor
failings-many a time."
"And you did not know that I was steel-
ing myself against loving those failings?
But the charge may be just enough in some
aspects. You would scarcely wonder, either,
if you knew the history of my life; if you
could know how entirely without softening
infiu~nces it has been, what a bitter hand-to-
hand fight with the world and adverse cir-
cumstances, owning but two ties of human
kindred, since my mother's death. From
different reasons, each of these ties has teen
the source of sorrow and suffering. A
character of suffering, too, which corrodes
and hardens a man's nature. Yet even now,
I don't think I am ever implacable,, save to
deception or betrayal-and I have neither
deception nor betrayal to dread from your
hand. Look up, my love, and tell me if
you think I could ever be hard or stern to
you?"
She did look up, and met an almost-

womanly tenderness of gaze in the eyes bent
upon her, an almost womanly gentleness
around the lips.
"You certainly don't look very formida-
ble just now," she said, with a soft laugh.
"But I feel very much as Una must have felt
when she first' made the acquaintance of her
lion-dreadfully uncertain how long his good
behavior will last."
"Ah, but remember that, with all his
faults, he was a generous beast," he an-
swered, "and was never known to betray a
trust. Then, have you forgotten your talis-
man? Have you so little reliance on your
-' angel-face
That makes a sunshine in a shady place?"'
She lifted it up, so that the mellow lamp-
light streamed full upon its fair Southern
grace and beauty, while the lustrous eyes
looked at him, full of their old archness.
"Very little indeed of the angel in it, I
fear," she said; "but, if it makes sunshine
for you, I shall think it has found its right
use in the world at last."
"If it makes! And do you doubtit?"
"Never at least foi' lack of will on my
part," she answered, with sweet gravity.
And after his answer-the answer of a
lover-brief but happy silence settled over
them.
It was broken at last by Darey, who had
not overrftuch 'of the Romeo in his composi-
tion, and whose mind had already left the
"sweet nothings7~ of courtship, to consider
its practical issues.
~"Douce arnie," he said, in his frank,
straightforward way, "our happiness must
not make us forget our obligations to others.
Have I your permission to write to you'r
father to-night, and to announce our engage-
ment to my uncle in the morning?"
He put the question simply, and in a
matter-of-course tone-as little prepared for
any thing like denial as for the manner in
which that denial came. But those two
names were gall and wormwood to Valerie,
since, alas for our poor heroine I the bitter
drop in her cup of rapture was the recollec-
tion that she had fallen into the snare of
the obnoxious "arrangement ;" that she was
on the eve of being forced to recant every


156                        VALERIE AYLMER.                                                                  ]flITTERS OF ROSES.                      1 S'7

declaration she had ever made concerning
it, and to give the most signal triumph to
her father and grandfather. So, when Darcy
spoke thus, she started; then a cloud swept
over her surniy face, and she answered, al-
most petulantly:
'KNo. I will not give you permission
to do any thing of the kind. The present
state of affairs is very pleasant-why should
you wish to change it? Why wish to usher
in all the disagrecables of a public engage-
ment?"
He looked at her in surprise. "Simply
because it is the only right and honorable
thing to do," he answered.
"Right and honorable!" repeated Va-
lerie, with a light laugh. "Those are very
grand words, men. ami-too grand by half,
considering that we know as well now as
we can know hereafter that everybody con-
cerned will be only too pleased."
"Will they?" he said. "Then there is
so much the more reason for owing them an
immediate announcement."
"Ab, grant me grace," she cried, plead-
ingly. "I love my freedom so dearly, and
-and I dread so much to give it up."
"You count it still your own, then?"
Half-earnestly, half-jestingly, he asked
the question; and she looked up with the
proud humility he had seen in her once be-
fore.
"No," she said, softly, "It is not my
own. But my fetters are of roses now; and
I dread lest they become links of steel.
And I also dread lest I chafe against them
then. Let me grow accustomed to captivity.
Nfaurice, &amp;few days-only a few days-can-
not matter about making this announce-
She looked up imploringly-she, ever ac-
- customer to command-but although he left
a tender caress upon the lips that spoke his
name so sweetly, it was plain that he had no
thought of yielding-it was plain that this
request was to him only a child's caprice,
to be humored and treated gently, but not
indulged.
"Mignonne," he said, kindly, "a few
days can matter a great deal. We are in a
false position as long as this continues-a
false position to those whose right It is to

know our future as soon as we know it our-
selves. It is not so much that secrecy in
this case would be wrong, as that the prin-
ciple of secrecy is wrong."
At another time she might have admired,
as she had often admired before~ the open,
~hivalric spirit that spoke here as it spoke
in every thought and action of his life; the
clear, brave stroke that cleft in two any diffi-
culty, and the frank gaze that never even
seemed to see any path save the one straight
avenue of honor. But now it clashed with
her own desire-a desire grown stronger by
the opposition it had met-and she felt al-
most impatient of his punctilio as she an-
swered:
"You ought to remember that we are
not in the Old World; and that matters of
this sort are not conducted here with any
of the stately decorum and disagreeable
publicity which attend them there."
"Surely decorum cannot be objection-
able," he said. "And publicity, it seems to
me, only becomes so when engagement is
regarded as a convenient cloak for co-
quetry)'
Valerie flushed hotly. Perhaps con-
science had something to say on this score
-at least she drew herself back from his
embrace, and there was a ring of defiance in
her voice as she asked-
"What do you mean?"
"What should I mean excepting what I
have said?" he answered, quietly. "You
must certainly see that I am right. There
would be much less of disgraceful flirtation
in this particular, if engagement were hero
esteemed the public and binding contract
which older states of society consider it.
However, that is a question for moralists,
not for me. The point now is, that I should
think poorly indeed of any woman who en-
tered into a secret engagement, and that I
cannot consent to see you fill such a posi-
tion, even for a few days."
"'Yet I think you might remember that
my wishes are entitled to some regard," she
said, half haughtily.
"Entitled to every regard," he answered,
so gently that she felt instantly ashamed of
herself. "But surely you must admit that
I am in the right."

"No," she replied, perversely. "I do
not admit that. But, even granting that you
are, it is a trifling concession to make to me
-as well as the first."
There was a pause. They had each mo-
mently grown more earnest, until now the
strife of adverse wills had reached its point
of issue. With a start, Darcy recognized
this; with a start, he saw that Valerie's ob-
stinacy and pride were enlisted against him.
Something in her face-in the flushed cheek
and compressed lip, reminded him, too, of
the day when she had persisted in driving
the thorough-breds; and he thought to him-
self-as men of his stamp are always ready
to think-that such a wilful, impetuous na-
ture stood in strong need of the steady curb
of authority. It was in his hand now, this
curb, and should ho neglect to use it? Tru-
ly he had not a thought of doing so. And
yet, that last tone was very hard to resist.
He rather evaded the direct question, when
after a moment he said, gravely:
"Valerie, tell me frankly, why you are
so anxious for this."
"I thought I had already told you," she
answered-feeling herself blush in her own
despite-" of what do you suspect me? Do
you think I want to use this engagement as
a convenient cloak for coquetry?"
"I answered that question when I told
you that I trusted you," he said. "No, I
do not suspect you of any thing excepting
caprice-caprice that is scarcely worthy of
you, though. I have already told you why I
wish to make this announcement at once-
it is a mark of respect due to our friends-
and the same reason mu~t l4ead my excuse
for disregarding your first request."
She looked at him steadily.
"You mean that you do intend to disre-
gard it?"
lie answered as quietly but as firmly as
ever: "What else can I mean, when I say
that I think it is right?"
There was silence ~for several minutes.
The fountain filled up the pause with its
fairy-like inpusic; and Darcy never knew
what a fierce fight was meanwhile waged in
the heart of this woman, who, had never be-
fore known any one bold enough or strong
enough to say her nay. It was a good thing

that she had little of the pettiness of her
sex about her; that in her nature-spoil~d
though ithad been-there were many noble
and generous depths; and that, above all,
there was a capability of self-surrender and
self-conquest only possible to the mould
which, however-warped it may have become,
is still the heroic. Some women would have
taken refuge in pettish anger, others would
have hardened into obstinate defiance,
others again would have provoked still fur-
ther the useless strife, but she did none of
these things. She fought down her own
struggling heart in silence, then looked up
calmly and gravely, making no pretence of
evading her defeat, but accepting it with a
dignity that redeemed it from the character
of defeat~
"Let it be as you think best," she said,
holding out her hand. "I too can trust.
Only remember this thing, when I seem to
you passionate and obstinate-in all my life,
I have never given up my will before."
He made no vow that she should never
need to give it up again, for ho knew bet-
ter. He accepted the sacrifice as freely as
it was offered, and there was a very stately
chivalry in the air with which he raised her
hand to his lips, and the tone in which he
answered:
"And remember this of me - that I
would sooner die than ask any thing of
you for my own advantage or lie your
injury.
And so the light cloud parted and fled
away, the broad sunlight came back, and
what wonder that they basked in it to their
hearts' content? What wonder that they
let all points of past or future dispute rest
untouched, and only dwelt on the present,
only read over the opening chapter of that
old romance whose first pages are ever so
fair and tender, only whispered the old
vows, and glided down the smooth stream,
with ~iren strains echoing in their ears-
strains so sweet that they efibetually dead-
ened that dull, ominous roar of breakers
ahead?
Yet, when Valerie stood before her mir-
ror that night and looked at her radiant
face, shining lil~e a star out of the heavy

186


138                     VALERIE AYLMER.

masses of her unbound hair, a sudden, sharp
pang seized her heart.
"He talks of secret engagements, and of
convenient cloaks for coquetry," she mur-
mured. "What would he say, if he knew
about Charley? What will he say when he
does know? I ought to have told him to-
night; but-I dared not. I am a coward,
I know; but I dread so unutterably what
he will think of me! I must not keep his
love on false pretences, however. I must tell
him-I will tell him to-morrow."
To-morrow! How often we say that,
when a resolution is taken, or a purpose de-
signed, and how mockingly Fate laughs hack
at us! To-morrow! As if time was in our
,poor mortal hands, or as if; to the cowardly
and procrastinating, there ever is a morrow!
As if that word alone has not been the bane
ofimore good intentions, and the death-knell
of more noble actions, as if it does not stand
for more harm, and ill, and suffering, than
any other common to the lips of man! Yet
dream on, Valerie !-quiet your conscience
with that cunning salve, call back the sun-
ny smile to your lip, and, as you sink off to
sleep, murmur again, "I will tell him to-
morrow." Yen mean what you say-you
intend it honestly and sincerely, for it is not
in you to intend otherwise; but many be-,
fore you have waked to the bitter knowl-
edge that, in a world of deeds, acts resolved
can never stand for acts executed; and that,
while you whisper to yourself; "To-mor-
row," one of the veiled sisters grimly an-
swers:
"But will that to-morrow ever be?"
CHAPTEI~ IV.
TIlE POEFEIT PLEDGE.
"I HAVE been waiting for you some
time, Valerie," said M. Vacquant, a little
impatiently, as his granddaughter made her
rather late appearance the next morning.
"When you have breakfasted, I want to see
Maurice and yourself in the library."
He left the room abruptly, scarcely wait-

ing for her surprised assent; and then she
turned to Darcy, who was quite alone in
possession of the breakfast-table.
"So you have told him already!" she
said, reproachfully. "But why does he
want me?"
Maurice shook his head smilingly. "I
have not told him," he answered; "and
whatever he wants with you must necessa-
rily be quite apart from the matter which it
has pleased you to make a secret."
"What is it, then?"
"I cannot even eonjeeture.~~
"Very singular," said Miss Aylmer; but
she said it composedly, and sat down qui-
etly to her breakfast. Whatever M. Vac-
quant wanted was certainly not to be com-
pared in importance to her cup of coffee, or
to the admiring eyes that told her over and
over again how lovely she looked. Perhaps
the task of telling her so would not have
fallen entirely upon the eyes, expressive
though they were, if that obtuse Gilbert
had not stood so steadily upon guard with a
salver under his arm. But, as it was, Darcy
had to content himself with reading aloud
the telegrams from the Gazette, while Va-
lerie trifled with a roll, and talked politics
in a tone that redeemed even politics from
dryness.
The telegrams and politics could not last
forever, though; and after a while she said,
with a sigh of resignation, "I suppose we
must go to grandpapa now."
"Yes~~~ Darcy answered; and, pushing
back the paper, he came round the table
and offered her his arm. She took it half
laughingly-no thought coming to her of
how once before, in that very place, she had
accepted Julian Romney's-and then they
proceeded out of the room, crossed the hall,
and entered the library.
M. Vacquant was already there-was
already settled in his own chair beside the
cabinet where his letters were always writ-
ten-the chair, the purple-velvet lining of
which brought out with the clearness of an
ancient cameo his fine, regular outline of
face and crest of silver curls. He nodded
kindly but gravely as the two came in, and
motioned them to sit down. Then, while
they did so, he opened a drawer at his side,

drew forth a folded paper, and held it in h
hand when he turned round again.
".3Ies en~fanta," he said, in his state~
courteous way, "I have summoned you i
this formal manner because I consider
right that you should be informed together
and not apart, of my final intentions towar
you. In the order of  ~ature, I cannot cx
pect to live much longer, and the conflicting!
claims of you two have been the cause ol
much uneasiness and the sul~ject of mud
thought to me. At last, however, I hav4
arrived at a decision; and I am anxious P
explain my reasons for it, since it may seen
to you-to one of you, at least-not onl~
capricious, but unjust. Valerie, you hav(
been reared so entirely as my heiress, thai
a bequeathment which gives to you only a
share of the inheritance, may seem to you
like a wrong. Therefore-"
"Grandpapa," Valerie interposed, re-
proachfully, "I hope you would have
spared me this. I hoped you would believe
that I am willing, even anxious, for you to
make that disposition of your property
which seems to you best."
" I do believe you, petite," he said,
kindly. "I am sure those are your senti-
ments now. But there are others who would
neither think nor feel as you do, and who,
as time went on, might persuade you that
you had been hardly dealt with."
"If you mean papa or Eugene~~~ began
Miss Ayliner, a little indignantly; but she
was cut short very summarily.
"Ohut I" said the old Frenchman, in his
French fashion. "Of course 12 don't mean
either of them. Your father does not value
money more than most men of the world
do; and, as for your brother, unless he has
changed very much, he values it consider-
ably less than is either wise or expedient.
I was thinking principally of your future
husband-for I suppose you will find one
some day"
Valerie smilei1t s~uelly~ "Most people
do, grandpapa. But y~u may be sure of one
thing-he will not quarrel with your testa-
mentary arrangements."
"Who can foretell that, petite? "said he.
"And there is no doubt of~one thing-the
fact of your having been taught to expect

.CiJJ!JV~J~j.                  139
is this inheritance would render a different
disposition of it an undoubted wrong on my
r, part, if I had not sufficient reason for what
n I do."
it His granddaughter bent forward, and
; laid her hand over the one which rested on
ri the arm of his chair.
"I am sure of it, grandpapa," she said,
~ gently; "and, once for all, trust me that I
1' shall be perfectly content with that disposi-
i tion, whatever it may be."
He smiled slightly, gratefully it seemed,
and then retained her hand, holding it in
1 his own, and smoothing it down with a ten~
der sort of caress, while he turned to Darcy
and spoke abruptly:
"Maurice, you have been so 'immovable
in your resolution to accept nothing from
me, that I am forced to urge upon you the
last appeal which one generous mind can
make to another. Do not deny me the poor
satisfaction of making all the atonement
possible for a sin which I have bitterly re-
pented-that of making reparation to you
for the wrong 12 4id your mother. That
wrong was deeper than you or any one else
ever supposed."
Darcy started, and his face hardened
suddenly and strangely, as Valerie had often
noticed; it was apt tQ harden at any men-
tion of his mother's name.
"That plea had best be left untouched,
sir," he said, coldly. "I fear that, if you per-
sist in urging it, I shall only proi~e that I
have not a 'generous mind.' I do not admit
that you possess any right or any power
of reparation for her wrongs, and I would
rather not speak of them under this roof."
"You mean that you cannot forgive
them?"
"I mean that I cannot forget how she
died, in want and privation, while her for~
tune was withheld from her."
The elder man did not shrink as this an-
swer fell on his ear. Perhaps his own con-
science had uttered it too often for human
lips to give the words added force. He
only looked up with an unconscious pathos
which touched his granddaughter to the
quick, and made her turn one keenly-re-
proachful glance on Darcy.
"You are right," he said. "Even more

m1rD WDt'DDDrm nflnn


THE F0R1~'EIT rLEPGE.                        141

140                      VALERIE AYLMER.

right than you think. I have always meant
to tell you the story, and you might as well
hear it now. It is not very long. You
know already how entirely your mother
was left in my power by our father's will;
how, according to that will, all her proper-
ty reverted to me if she married without
my consent; you know also how bitterly I
opposed her marriage with your father; how,
when she persisted in marrying himI carried
into effect the condition of the will; how,
from the hour in which she took the name
of Darcy, I refused to see or hold any com-
munication with her. But you do not know,
nor did she or any one else, save myself, that
this stern condition was only intended by my
father to guard against a danger to which he
considered women especially liable-the dan-
ger of ill-advised marriage. He thought he
might thus prevent Aim6e from throwing
herself away; but he never intended that,
even in such a case, her inheritance should
really be forfeited. It was a species of se-
cret trust; and the last thing he said to me
before he died was, 'Deml gently with your
sister."'
He stopped abruptly at this point-evi-
dently more from agitation than because he
desired any comment or reply-so, for a mo-
ment, all was silence in the room. Valerie
heard his quick breathing, as he strove to
regain composure; but she could not see
his face, partly because of her own position,
partly because he sat with his back to the
light. But that light shone full on Dar-
cy's face, and it was not a pleasant or
encouraging sight to either gazer. All the
genial expression had faded from it; the
clear eyes looked cold and dark; the frank
features set and stern; while over the whole
there broqded less of anger than of chill,
hard severity. Valerie looked at him ap-
prehensively, almost imploringly, but he
scarcelyy seemed to see her; he scarcely
seemed conscious of the dread which was
upon her. It was a relief when at last M.
Yacquant resumed, still steadily and grave-
ly addressing himself to Maurice:
"It is only due to myself that I should
assure you that the love of money did not
influence me in the course which I pur-
sued. I disliked your father prom the first,

and I never forgave your mother many bit-
ter and scornful things which she said to me
before she left my house. Concerning the
first, he was your father, and he has gone
before me to the bar of a higher judgment,
so I need say nothing as to the grounds of
my dislike, save that they afforded me good
cause for opposing the marriage, as even
you may be aware, from your knowledge of
his character. He was the most reckless,
the most incorrigible spendthrift I ever
knew-though not a fortune-hunter, as in
my anger I called him at the time. Perhaps
this charge incensed your mother more than
any thing else. At all events, it rendered
her more obstinate than ever; and she mar-
ried him. I was very hot and passionate in
those days. I vowed to make both of them
feel the weight of my anger; and, to do so,
I violated the trust of the dead."
Another silent pause-a pause in which
Valerie looked again wistfully at the un-
moved face before her-and then the speaker
once more ~vent on:
"I have forced myself to this painful
statement for two reasons: first, because I
want to prove to you, Valerie, that if I do
not make you the great heiress you once ex-
pected to be, it is only by the interposition
of something which is at once a reparation
and a duty; and, secondly, I wish to con-
vince you, Maurice, that you accept not my
bounty, but your mother's right."
He looked at Darcy, as he spoke, with a
deprecating entreaty that was as painful as
it was strange.' It must have touched the
younger man, for his face softened some-
what, and his voice sounded more gentle
than Valerie had dared to hope it would,
when he answered:
"The past is past, sir. Surely we need
not dig from its ashes the bitter and pain-
ful memories that still remain there. I have'
not forgotten my mother's last words, which
charged me to forgive you; and that I break
your bread, is proof enough of my having
done so. We need not dwell on the nature
of her wrongs. It is too late now to do her
justice; and your present duty is not to me,
but to those who possess the nearest claim
on you."
"It is to you," said NI. Vacquant, almost

sternly. "You talk of forgiveness, and yet
wish to send me down to the grave with the
burden of an unexpiated sin upon my con-
science-a sin that has outlawed me from
God and His Church these many years?
Hush! hush!" he uplifted his hand, as
Darcy strove to speak. "I will not hear
another word. Talk as you will-refuse
what you will-after I am dead. Nothing
shall induce me to alter one line of this
paper which I hold here-my will."
His will! They both looked at it with
something of awe; that paper concerning
which there had been so much of conjec-
ture and more of scheming than either of
them dreamed; that gave away into other
hands the wealth for which its owner had
so sinned and suffered; that would deal a
death-blow to so many hopes, and gratify
scarcely any! Ah! surely that must be a
bitter hour to a man who has loved the
world, and the possessions of the world,
when he comes at last to say, "I do hereby
give and bequeath;" when absolutely and
irrevocably he bestows upon others all that
has been the delight of earth to him, and
goes forth naked and stripped, as the poorest
pauper, to face the everlasting justice of
God! Meanwhile, M. Vacquant slowly un-
folded the large sheet which he held, and
taking up his gold eye-glass began to read.
aloud. The will was by no means ~ long
document, and, shorn of all its legal tech-
nicalities, might have been briefly stated
thus:
First came the minor bequests; old ser-
vants were pensioned oft; and old friends re-
merabered. Then-
To his wife, Marian Vacquant, in token
of "affectionate regard," the interest of
one hundred thousand dollars, and the
use of the town-house during her natural
life.
To his son-in-law, Gerald Aylmer, the
sum of one hundred thousand dollars.
To his step-son, J2ulian Itomney, the sum
of twenty-five thousand dollars.
To his young friend and connection, Eu-
gene Aylmer, the sum of twenty-five thou-
sand dollars.
The large bulk of the fortune (eight
hundred thousand dollars, clear of all be-

quests) was left jointly to his granddaugh-
ter, Valerie Aylmer, and his nephew, Mau-
rice Darcy, on condition of their marrying
each other-in case of either refusing to do
so, Valerie Aylmer inherited three hundred
thousand dollars, and Maurice Darcy the
half million remaining.
To the reading of this document ensued
a profound silence. Considered from her
point of view, it was not Valerie Aylmer's
place to speak-besides, she had already
signified her assent to any thing; and Darcy
also held his peace; so, after waiting some
little time, M. Vacquant was the first to
break the silence.
"I. am afraid that this compromise, like
most compromises, has only succeeded in
pleasing nobody; but I hope you both com-
prehend, and do justice to my reasons for
making it. I have no hope that you will
eithe~ of you accept the condition which
would render my double duty so plain, but
I thought it right to afford you the option of
doing so. I hope and believe-"
But what he hoped and believed was
left to conjecture; for, as he paused, with a
somewhat troubled look, Darcy rose, and
came forward to Valerie's side. He took
her hand, and then spoke with an air of
very quiet and self-possessed deference.
"Sir," he said, "you may be glad to
hear that we have anticipated your kind in-
tention toward us; that once more a Darcy
sues for the hand of the daughter of your
house; and that he needs only your consent
to call it his own."
M. Vacquant started, and, for the space
of at least a minute, gazed at th'em-at his
granddaughter's blushing face and his neph-
ew's proud dignity-in mute amazement.
Then he said, slowly-
"Mes enfants, is this true?"
"It is perfectly true," Maurice answered~
gravely. "Henceforth, there will be no
m~eed of compromise or division, for any in-
terests of ~
Another minute N!. Yacquant was si-
lent-striving perhaps to realize this unex-
pected stroke of Fortune-but at last he said,
solemnly:
"Maurice Darcy, I owe your father's
memory a great debt. Pray for me that


142                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                          THE FORFEIT PLEDGE.                    143

this may be received as some small pay
ment of it, and-God bless you both, m~
dears!"
Ten minutes after that, Valerie had lef
her grandfather and Darcy together in th4
library, and was walking toward Alix's roon
with a very sunny smile on her face, when
at a turn of the corridor, she suddenly en
countered Romney. Remembering his re
pulse of the night before, she was about t
pass him with a single bend of the head,
but he paused before her, and held out hi~
hand.
"Forgive me," he said, "and-tell m~
so."
"I have nothingto forgive," she answered
cprdially. "But I am very glad to see you
back again; and I hope you mean to remain
now."
"Youhope so?"
"Indeed I do, most sincerely."
"Without thinking what it would cost
me, or without caring-which I"
"Hoping that, after a very little while, it
would not cost you any thing," she saifi, de-
termined not to heed his tone. "Ah, Julian,
we shall part soon, never perhaps to meet
again-can we not be friends?"
Some violent reply seemed to tremble on
his lip, but he controlled it; and, after a
moment, answered quietly, with only a
quick gleam in his eyes:
"I told you once that we could never be
friends. But the last month has taught me
that I can be any thing save your enemy,
do any thing save remain away from you.
If you wi{l, promise to teach me friendship
half as well as you taught me love, I might~
after all, prove an apt pupil."
"You will try at least?"
"Yes, I will try-as others have tried in
the past. But perhaps my success may prove
as indifferent as theirs."
She looked at him in surprise. "What
do you mean?"
"I mean," he said, "what I should not
have forgotten-only you make me forget
every thing--that one of these 'friends' is
waiting with for his you and here

He gave it to her, watching with a smile,
~ which it was well she did not see, her grow-
ing paleness, as she read on the bit of card-
board the familiar autograph "Charles Ver-
t non Hautaine."
For a moment, a dark mist came over her
1 sight, and a choking sensation rose up in her
throat. The impulse of physical cowardice
- rushed over her, as it had never done before
- in all her life; and if it had not been for the
gaze fixed on her-the gaze whose malice
she instinctively felt-she would have fled
away anywhere, for a little respite, a little
time to consider what was best to be done.
But it was no part of Julian's policy to al-
low that; and his voice broke now on her
ear.
"The absent are said to be always
* wrong-I shall certainly begin to believe
that they are always unwelcome, if you give
your friend's card no warmer glance than
that. What is the matter I"
Valerie raised her head haughtily. The
tone was even more significant than the
glance, and both together acted on her like
a restorative. Whatever she felt, Whatever
she feared, this man should see neither. So
she looked at him, as she answered, very
coldly and nonchalantly:
"You are mistaken. The absent are
never either wrong or unwelcome with me
-especially such a dear old friend as Mr.
Hautaine. If I hesitated over his card, it
was simply because I was very much sur-
prised. I did not know he was in Balti-
more. I must go down to him at once. Will
you please let me pass?"
He moved aside at once; but continued
to stand at the head of the stairs, watching
her as she descended, watching h~r as she
swept in her soft violet draperies across the
hall, watching her as she opened the draw-
ing-room door, watching the panel even
after it had closed upon her, with the same
smile on his face.
He was still standing there, when a hand
was laid gently on his arm, and his mother's
voice spoke:
"Has she gone down?"
He did not look round, but the smile
faded from his face, and its quick, stormy
frown came over it, as he answered:

"Yes, she has gone down, to play off he
fooleries on that poor devil. Your work wil
be done, if you wrn only find an excuse foi
sending the new l9ver in upon them aboul
a quarter of an hour hence. He may be sc
far gone he won't mind any thing of the son
-curse him I-but if he does care, she can'I
make matters straight-granting they told
even half the truth about this affair down in
Louisiana."
With that he turned and descended the
staircase, passing with a scowl by the draw.
ing-room, and out of the front door into the
street.
Meanwhile Valerie had gone down armed
with the courage of desperation, shrinking
in spirit like the veriest coward, but out-
wardly perfect in bravery and composure,
as she moved forward under Julian's eye;
even when she put ~r hand on the lock
of the drawing-room or, when she opened
it, when she stood within the threshold,
when there came eagerly hastening to meet
her the same impetuous, handsome cavalier,
with hazel eyes and sunny curls, from whom
she had parted six months before. He was
so entirely himself, so wholly unchanged in
look or manner, that, for the moment, all
her fear and embarrassment fled away, and
she saw only the intimate companion of
years; the boy-lover with whom she had
flirted and quarrelled eVer since they were
children together; the man whose brave,
bright, generous nature had always pos-
sessed such a rare attraction for her, whom
she liked to the very boundary of love, and
who brought all the breath of home, all the
soft skies and golden days with him, in the
first tone of his frank, clear voice, the first
grasp of his loyal, gallant hand.
Their greeting was every thing that the
greeting of such old friends had a right to b~,
and then Valerie swept into oblivion the
awkward issues of the awkward present, and
looked at her slave with much of the old
arch smile.
"ifercil how much~ you are improved!"
she cried. "Is it Paris that has made you
so irresistibly handsome?"
"Paris!" he repeated, as he tossed back,
with a well-remembered gesture, the graceful
curls which many fair ladies had secretly

* envied him. "I flatter myself that even
I Paris could not improve me! The thing is,
belle arnie, that you had forgotten how good-
looking I am."
"At least I had not forgotten how im-
pudent you are," she rejoined, laughingly.
"It is certainly out of the power of Paris,
I or 'anywhere else, for that matter, to im-
prove you in self-conceit. Come, sit down,
and tell me all about yourself and your trav-
els. Do you know I heard that you had
* gone to Constantinople, to enlist in the
Turkish army?"
"You might have heard many more im-~
probable things," he answered, taking a seat
beside her own. "I am a sworn free com-
panion now, and there is no telling where I
may find myself some day. You know my
motto:
'La guerre eat ma patrie,
Mon harnols ma mason,
Et en toute season
Combattre c'est ma vie I'"
"In that case, I don't see what brought
you back to America," said his listener, with
a shrug. "There is no field for such a creed
here-a creed, em passant, which merits and
receives my full approbation."
"You wonder-Valerie, ?,'ou?"
As may be imagined, the tone of this
question warned La belle des belles that she
had ventured on dangerous ground. She
smiled-then frowned-then blushed, and
finally changed the subject abruptly, by
asking "if he had seen Eugene in France?"
Perhaps Hautaine was not overmuch
pleased by this transition; but at least he
submitted to it with a good grace. He an-
swered in the affirmative, and went on to
describe various particulars concerning
young Ayhner, who was one of a corps of
civil engineers engaged in surveying a rail-
road in the south of France. He assured
the somewhat incredulous sister that the
young Confederate accepted his changed po-
sition with very perfect philosophy, laughed
refining to the winds, with the gay fortitude
of his light-hearted race, professed to prefer
civil engineering to the kindred military sci-
ence which had been his profession, and to
find surveying railroads more agreeable than
planning fortifications. Then he told her

142

143


144                      VALERIE AYLMER.

something of his social triumphs, how the
fair Farisiennes called him Le beau Con-
f&amp;Z~r~, how much he had improved in cool-
ness of head and steadiness of purpose, and
how many friends were ready and willing to
sound his praises, even in the strange land
where he had gone with only a brave heart
and a strong arm to aid him in the fight for
fortune.
Valerie looked up with kindling eyes.
"You can't tell l~ow glad I am to know
this!" she said. "My poor, gallant boy!
I was almost the only one who encouraged
him to cast his fortunes abroad, and who
bade him God-speed when he went. So I
feel as if half the responsibility of his suc-
cess or failure rested on me. Papa only
half agreed, and Gerald was bitterly op-
posed to anything so far out of the ordinary
routine of planting cotton or practicing law."
Hautaine laughed.
"Gerald certainly will never swell the
ranks of condottieri," he said.
"No," Valerie answered, with some-
thing like a curl of her lip. "Gerald was
made for his own groove; and I don't know
what would become of him if he was taken
out of it. He was born to be a planter at
Aylmers, and a planter at Aylmers he is
still determined to be, although every thing
that made the life pleasant- has forever
passed away. He is a good specimen of a
certain class of the men of the day-the ad-
vocates of expediency-who are ready to
make the best of any thing, even of their
country's dishonor."
"Yes," said Hautaine, absently; for he
had not come all the distance which lies
between Paris and Baltimore, to talk over
this oft-discussed subject. "But then," he
added, suddenly,, "Gerald may be right,
after all-Who knows? Sometimes I feel
terribly uncertain whether I may not be in
the wrong path - whether there is not a
duty to one's country when she is down, as
well as when she is up; whether-"
He stopped short, for Valerie was look-
ing at him in grieved surprise.
"Et tu, Brute!" she said, reproachful-
ly. "I never expected to hear such soph-
istry, and-if you will pardon the word
-such cant, from your lips, Charley.

Wrong! wrong to consult your own self-
respect, after having done all for your coun-
try that an honest man could do !-after
having fought for her to the last gasp, and
gone with her down into the depths of hu-
miliation and despair !-wrong to fly from
her shame, though you shared her suffer-
ing! Tell me this-what could you, do for
her if you. remained? As she ishow can the
bravest heart that ever breathed, the stout-
est arm that ever dealt blow, help her in
her bitter servitude? And how can you
even help yourself? What path of manly
enterprise is there which you do not need to
enter with a lie on your lip, and at the door
of which you do not leave all the honor
of rectitude that is half-religion to the men'
of our race? True, you might abjure all
public paths-you might stay here and eat
out your heart in obscurity:, a constant wit-
ness of all the treachery and corruption that
is rampant; but would that help the poor
patrie? No, Charley, no! Go and save
yourself from all that must be learned in
such an atmosphere! Go with a true heart,
and a clear conscience-for I cannot do you
the injustice to doubt one thing-when your
country needs you, you will be at her call."
He looked up at her with a gaze of hon-
est admiration. For a moment she had for-
gotten every thing save the sore wound
which still bled in her inmost heart, as it
bleeds and will ever bleed in that of every
woman of her race. For a moment the
same old fire leaped into her eyes that had
quickened them when she spoke brave
words of cheer to the gallant hearts thathad
gathered under the Red-Cross banner, and,
for a moment, something of the old ringing
eloquence rushed to her lips, which in those
days had shamed even cowards while they
listened to her. She looked like an inspired
sibyl, as she uttered her last "Go," and he
who. listened was only too ready to heed
the oracle.
"You are right," lie said, quickly~ "In-
deed, I never doubt or hesitate, excepting
in some moments of depression and dis-
couragement, when I do Dot see my way
very clearly; for I have not an available
profession that can be turned to civil use,
like that of Eugene."

THE FORFI
"Are youtired of the sea?"
"Yes," lie said, with a sudden shadow
falling over his face. "Besides, Icoi4d only
turn pirate, or enter some merchant-service
-and both of those paths are liable to ob-
jections. I think I shall turn my ambition
in a military direction. Austria has always
given a cordial welcome to soldiers of for-
tune. I have a strong inclination to go
there. Tell me what you think of it?"
"I think very well of it," she answered,
gayly. "The uniform is said to be the hand-
5~mestin Europe, and I can fancy you a count
of the empire, with a marshal's baton, and
a Theresian cross."
He laughed slightly, then bent forward
and laid his lips on her hand.
"It all depends on you," he said, quickly.
"You know what I am here for. You know
the promise you gave me six months ago.
I have tried not to hope too much, but I
cannot believe that you doom me to such
long waiting-only for disappointment. I
am here for your decision, and I tell you
now, what I told you before-take me and
my ambition, and make them both what you
will."
"I cannot believe that you doomed me
to such long waiting-only for disappoint-
ment." Out of all his speech those were
the words that rang in Valerie's ears like
the voice of an accusing angel. He could
not believe it ~f her; and yet-it was what
she had done! What matter that she had
done it ignorantly, carelessly, even thinking
it for the best, when the bitter result was
now staring her in the face? Yet she dared
not hesitate-each moment of longer wait-*
ing was a deeper wrong-so she looked at
the man, whom her promise had brought
across the broad Atlantic, with a gaze that
told him his sentence even before her lips
uttered it, and answered almost mechani-
cally:
"I was wrong, Charley, and-mistaken.
I hoped to spare you this. I meant to have
written to you, and told you what I have
known for some time-that I do not love
you well enough to marry you."
She spoke these few sentences so coldly
and formally, so much like a lesson learned
by rote, that it was no wonder Hautaine
10

E~IT PLEDGE.                       145
looked at her in mute, sorrowful amaze.
There was silence for a moment, and then
he uttered only one word-
"Valerie!"
The sound of her own name, spoken out
of the very depths of his wounded, loving
heart, touched her deeply. She looked up
with an almost pitiful entreaty in her eyes.
"Oh, Charley, dear friend, try to forgive
me! I never meant to treat you so! I
never meant any thing so utterly heartless
and shameful! I thought-indeed, I thought
-that I loved you; but I find I do not, save
as the best and kindest brother. You would
not accept that love from your wife? You
would not__ "
"I wcmld accept any thing in the world
that gave me you," he interrupted, hastily.
"If your refusal is based on the fear that
you do not love me enZ)ugh-Oh, Valerie,
never hesitate. Come to me, and trust the
rest with time and with me. Or wait, if you
would rather do that. I am willing to be
your bondsman six years instead of six
months, with hope to lighten the way. Do
any thing, sooner than put an end to every
expectation that has been my life. For
Heaven's sake, think of what you sayl-for
Heaven's sake, remember what you mean!"
He spoke eagerly and passionately, spoke
*with a force and pathos which showed Vale-
rie plainly how much deeper was the disap-
pointment now than before Hope had been
whispering her siren song for months; be-
fore he had almost felt and owned her-his.
Then out of the depths of her bitter humil-
ity came a great cry:
"Oh, Charley, Charley, believe me it is
best so. Believe me, we are not, we never
could be, suited to each other. Oh, it grieves~
me to the heart to think that I have seemed
to trifle so wantonly with you-.-to remem-
ber that I might have saved you all this, if r
had only been honest and true, last fall-if
I had only told you then what I am sure of
now-that I can never, never love y~u well'
enough to marry you."
She repeated this as if it were her one~
stronghold of defence, and he looked at her
with a dark cloud that seenied like despair
~thering over his face, as he said-
"You have learned thissiacewe parted? "


146                      VALERIE AYLMER.

"Does it matter how I learned it, if it be
true?"
"And it is true?"
She bent her head slowly. "It is true."
There was nothing more to be said-
nothing more to be urged. Hautaine seemed
to feel this, for, after a moment, he spoke
again, drearily enough:
"Then there is nothing for me but to
~
"To go!" she repeated.
"Yes-back to the life which you have
made such an empty and useless thing.
Don't think I mean to reproach you. It
may not be' your fault, but-"
She interrupted him passionately:
"Not my fault? It is mine alone. Oh,
Charley, if I could bear' s~ the suffering-
yours as well as mine-I would n~t care so
much. But it is the thought of you that
breaks my heart-that makes me feel myself
a wretch-that ahuost ,makes it a sin to
be-"
"Happy," she would have added, if her
voicehadnotbroken down inarush of tears-
a perfect thunder-shower 'of emotion. Poor
Charley was fairly frightened at its vehe-
mence, and did his honest best to soothe
and comfort her, but with very little effect.
Half from nervous agitatio; half from sin-
cere self~reproach, she still wept on, and he
was still bending over her, when the sound
of an opening door made them both start
-made Valerie look up through her tears,
and Hautaine turn sharply 'round to see-
Maurice Darcy framed on the threshold.
-4--
CHAPTER V.
PAOE TO FAcE.
IT was evident that he had only just
entered-in time perhaps to hear Valerie's
last words, but certainly not before; for, as
she looked up, she caught his start of aston-
ishment, and saw the same astonishment in
his eyes as they glanced from herself to her
companion6 Involuntarily, she was about
to speak, to say something-any thing that
would explain; butthe euddendarkening that

came into those eyes, the sudden change
that swept over his face-a change very
much as if a stone mask had been fitted over
the features-hushed all sound on her lips,
and, when she turned toward Hautaine, sur.
prise gave way to absolute terror.
In all her life, she never forgot the look
with which those two men faced each
other! Yet there was not in it any thing
very desperate or very tragic. They did not
look as if they meant to spring at each
other's throats, or demand each other's
lives, or do any thing else common. to the
rivals of melodrama. Indeed, it was easy to
see that there was little or no recollection of
rivalry between them. They knew each
other-that was plain-but it was not as
lovers of the same woman, but as men with
some strong tie, some strong link of thought
or deed in the past. Darcy still stood out-
lined in the door, but his very attitude had
changed, and seemed to express the same
stern immobility that marked his face, while
Hautaine had risen, and was clutching ner-
vously the back of a chair-his face strange-
ly pale, his eyes full of mingled amazement
and appeal. It was in this way that they
stood gazing at each other in the hushed
pause which fell over the room-in this way
that they still remained when a minute,
which seemed an age to Valerie, had passed
away.
It was Chancy who first broke the
silence by one cry-a cry so full of mingled
feeling that it would have been impossible to
tell whether yearning passion, or pain, or
entreaty, spoke most plainly in it;
"Maurice!"
That was all. But a hundred words
could not have said more. It seemed as if
Darcy's face softened for an instant when
the sound went out toward him; but, if so,
it was only for an instant. It looked as set
and stern as before, when he spoke, very
coldly:
"I regret that accident should have
caused this meeting. You know' me well
enough to believe that it has not been inten-
tional, and that it will be the last.-Miss
Aylmer, I beg your pardon for such an in-
trusion. I had no idea that you were en-
gaged."

FACE TO FACE.                            l4~
He bowed slightly and distantly to Va- "Why did you stop me, then?" Darcy
lerie; then, without further sign, turned to demanded. "To hear this?"
go. But Hautaine made one eager step for- "No. To tell you that ke has forgiven
ward-uttered one eager, imploring call. me, and to ask-Maurice, to ask if you can
"Stop, Maurice!" he cried. "One never-"
moment-only one moment!"                 He paused-almost despite him~e1t as it
Darcy turned, with a look on his face 'seemed-and Darcy finished the selitence
that might have warned the other how little for him without an instant's hesitation:
power could he gained by words over any "If I can never forgive you? The an-
resolve or decision of his. swer to that is short. Never."
"To what. end?" he asked, not angrily, "Yet he-"
but in the same cold voice that was infinitely The other interrupted him almost
more relentless than anger. fiercely.
"You ask me that~" the other cried, "He is not a man, but something mu-
passionately. "My God! Do you think I nitely higher. And I, too, might forgive an
have not suffered enough to make atone- injury dealt only to myself: but when it is
ment for the past? If you could only twofold-nay threefold- Let us talk no
know !-if you could only tell__" longer. The very saints of God might feel
"Why should I care either to know or that there are some wrongs too deep for
to tell?" Darcy interposed, sternly. "What atonement, too bitter for forgiveness, too
are your sufferings-granting their existence lasting, even for vengeance!"
-to me? Can you give back to him the All the passion within him seemed to
aims and objects of life? Can you give back reach its climax in those words, so that
to me the faith you betrayed? Can you Hautaine shrank from their fiery energy as
give back to yourself the honor you for- from a blow, and Valerie suddenly woke
feited? Do even one of these things, and I from a sort of trance, wit*~ dignation and
will acknowledge that your sufferings have pity swelling high in r breast. They
worked some atonement for the evil they might have forgotten 'her presence in the
can never repair. Until then, go your way, room, for all the notice they had taken of
as I shall go mine. But take this one warn- her; but now, suddenly and without warn-
ing with you-be careful how you cross my' ing, she rose up between them-a woman
path. I spared you once; but I am only a born to quell strife by command rather than
'man, and I may not spare you again." by entreaty. Strange to say, she did not
The scarcely-repressed fire of this men- even look at Darey, she only turned and
ace seemed to restore Hautaine to himself spoke to Ilautaine-Hautaine, who had been
more quickly than any thing else could pos- her playfellow and friend when they were
sibly have done. He looked up, and his children together under the Louisiana or~
voice was dignified, though grave and sub- ange-trees-in a voice infinitely tender:
dued, when he answered:                  "Charley, why should you mind what
"You used to know me very well, and he says? Why should his cruelty hurt you
you may perhaps remember whether threats so? What is his forgiveness, that you
of that kind are likely to influence me. Be- should humiliate yourself to gain it? Ibe-
sides, you could not take vengeance in cold lieve in you-lam sure you never worked
blood on an unresisting man; and I don't a deliberate harm, or inflicted a deliberate
think any words of yours would make me wrong. Stand fast in your own integrity.
lift my hand against you. The great wrong Surely; surely that isenough!"
which I wrought you-the wrong that has Both men started with irrepressible sur-
darkened my life over with the shadow of a prise as she rose up and began to speak;
curse-stands ever between us. Do what then the effect on both was as different as
you please, say what you please, remem- could have been imagined. Oharley held
being this-that I shall not resent any out his hand, with a silent gesture~ of gri.!~
thing."                               tude, and a glance more eloquent than


FACE TO FACE.                          149

148                      VALERIE AYLMER.

words, while over Maurice Darcy's face
there rolled a cloud heavy and dark as
night.
He was not likely to reason at such a
moment as that-few men perhaps would
have been-yet he might have remembered
how pitiless he had been in his severity, and
fhat a woman's sympathy never fails to
range itself on the weaker side. Surely if
any thing about the sex may still be termed
"divine "-may still be held above the
rougher humanity of man, it is this one at-
tribute, this unfailing impulse, which makes
it ten times sweeter to bind up the wounds
of defeat than those of victory, and which,
since the beginning of the worid has made
them constant and persistent advocates of
the losing side. Utterly illogical ones, it
may be-but what of that? There are few
advocates of any thing who can carry their
principles more stanchly into action, and,
however defective their 'reasoning may be,
their practice, at least, is irreproachable.
Acting on impulse,~ like most of her sex,
Valerie did not realize, until her words~
were past recall, what harm they had
worked; then it all rushed over her, in the
tone of Darey's reply.
"Let me congratulate you on your par-
tisan," he said to Hautaine, with icy bitter-
ness. "And let me counsel you to follow
her advice. My cruelty need not give you
a moment's further concern, for we are not
likely to meet again."
Then he tni.ned nnd quitted the room.
4s for the two left behind, they looked
at each other in silence, until Hautaine ex-
tended his' hands to his champion, who now
sat down pale and trembling.
"Thank you," he said. "Thank you
more than-"
But she interi'upted him almost passion-
ately. "Nd' don't'thank me. I only said
it because he was so bitter and hard, and
because-because I am sure you never did
any thing unworthy Qf yourself. That was
all."
"That was enough," he said, "if-if it
were only true; But I would be even more
pitiful than he thinks me, if I allowed you
to believe any thing but that I am wrong,
and that he is wholly right."

He spoke simply but earnestly, and, lift-
ing her head, Valerie looked at him in mute
surprise. He could say that!-when the
stinging words and contemptuous tones of
his stern accuser were still ringing in her
ears. He could say that, remembering the
unsparing denunciations which had becA
heaped upon him, and remembering, too,
that he had even been charged with a for-
feited honor! When she spoke, after a
while, it was wonderingly.
"You know best; but it seems to me
that scarcely any thing could justify all-all
that he said. I am very sorry if you, really
have done any thing wrong-and still more
sorry if you meant to do it-but my regard
would be a worthless thing, indeed, if it
failed you just when you have most need of
it; or if I could let a single doubt shake
the trust and affection of a lifetime. I want
you to remember this thing: that there is
no wrong which cannot be' expiated; and
that you would need go far on any road
of error before you could estrange niy-"
She stopped short, for a flash of sudden
hope had banished all gloom and pain from
the eyes fixed on 'her face; and there was
in them 'an anxious entreaty that it was bit-
terly hard to disappoint. At that moment,
she wellnigh wished that she could have
added "love "-but at that moment she
also felt, more strongly than ever before,
that her lips would never, save in false-
hood, utter that word to him.
"Your--what, Valerie?"
He asked this when the pause on her
part had been very long, and she bent' her
head before him as she answered:
"My friendship, Charley."
He gave a deep sigh. "If you' knew all,
you might think, perhaps, that even your
friendship was more than I had a right
to expect, but it is very little to have
crossed an ocean to receive. Valerie, I am
very weak and very guilty-scarcely worthy
even to touch your hand-but out of this
very desolation, I cry to you: Come to me!
Come to me !-love me-strengthen me!
and, by the heaven above, us, I swear that
you can make me what you will."
He stood before her, more impassioned,
more vehement than she had ever seen him

before. Ab, yes, he did love her-there
could be no doubt of that. He had loved
her so long, so faithfully, so well, and per-
haps it was true that, if she went to him,
she could make him what she would. Had
Maurice Darcy ever looked or spoken like
%iis? Had he ever put himself, his fate, his
very life, into her keeping? Yet with what
a great rush the woman's heart went out
toward him-away, forever away from this
eager, passionate paladin, who was ready to
do and dare any thing for her sake, ready
even to lay all freedom at her feet, and be a
serf for evermore!
"Hush, Charley, hush!" she said,
gravely. "Don't you see how that would
be reversing all the right order of things,
and how no happiness could ever come to
either of us from it? You overrate my
strength as much as you underrate your
own. At all events, if you could stand
with me, you can stand alone, and I am
sure you will do so."
"Are you?" he said, with a faint, sad
smile. "Well, for the sake of others, I
trust you may be right. I see you are de-
termined, so I will not weary you with any
more useless entreaty. I hope I can meet my
fate like a man-at least I can bid you good-
by. This afternoon I leave for Louisiana."
"Oh, Charley, dear Charley," she cried,
with all her heart in her throat, "speak to
me once like the old time. Tell me once,
before you go, that you forgive me. You
don't know how I shall suffer in the
thought of having pained you-you, my
friend, my brother!"
It was almost the same appeal that she
made to Julian Bomney-as she remem-
bered, the moment after she finished speak-
ing. Yet nothing could have caused her to
realize the immeasurable distance between*
these two men, who had both loved her to
the utmost. of their capability, as the, an-
swer which the young Southerner made-
made in chivalric f9rgetfulness o~ self, in
generous desire to shield her even from her
own reproach:
"There is no need to mention such a
word between us," '~he said. "You have
not the slightest ground for blaming your-
self. I was fully aware of the uncertainty

of success; and, more than that, I had your
own warning. I thought then that the
merest chance was worth a trial, and I
think so now. I have so little to regret,
that I would freely do it all over again.
Therefore, you see how misplaced any suf-
fering of yours would be. You have not
harmed me. No man ever yet was harmed
by loving a pure woman, however hopeless
that love might be, and it is only a coward
who repines over the inevitable. You need
not be afraid of that, Valerie; time will
heal the wound, even if it can never efface
the scar."
He spoke cheerfully, even with an at-
tempt at lightness, which touched her more
than any despondency could have done.
Once more the warm tears rushed forth, as
she knew that he was bidding her good-by,
and she only managed to whisper a few last
words.
"Charley, don't regret me! If you only
knew what I am-indeed, indeed, I am not
worth one throb of pain from.such a heart
as yours."
He only smiled faintly by way of reply.
"Whatever my future life may know of love,
you will still stand forever apart from all
other women in my remembrance," he said.
"There !-good-by. God only knows when
we shall see each other again."
He left her fairly sobbing. Yet, when
the hall door closed with that dreary clang
which echoes "Good-by" so mournfully,
she gathered back something of her usual
composure and self-control. It was all over
-over and beyond recall completely, so that
refining was, as he had said, worse than
useless, -and all the tears of all the bright
eyes that ever wept could not ease his beart-
ache of one pang. There was a good deal
of the philosopher, and still more of the
fatalist, in Valerie's composition; and, more
than any thing else, it was the realization
of their uselessness which helped to dry her
tears. She had just dashed the last glit-
tering drop away, and had risen to go to
her own room, when once more the door
opened, and once more Darcy stood on
the threshold.
He made ~no. pause this time, but ad-


150                          YALEIIII
vanced directly into the room, until he met
the woman whom he loved in exactly the
same spot where he had faced the man whom
he hated.
Then they stood looking at each other
almost as long and as silently a~ the two
who were friends once had done in that
other meeting. It was only the old story
with both-the story older even than Love
-the uplifting of idols; and finding theni pos-
sessed of feet of clay. They had not been
very deeply steeped in the glamour of pas-
sion; each had fancied that he saw more
than enough of mortal fault and mortal in-
firmity in the other; each had thought, as
lovers like to think, of the change and im-
provement to be wrought in the nature knit
unto his own; and, as their little disagree-
ment of the night before had proved, each
recognized the fact that there were many
angles and outlines of character that might
jar roughly together. Vet what of all this?
They4had faith, and love, and trust, between
them; they might differ or fail to correspond
on unimportant points, but they had perfect
and entire belief in one another; while now
-Ah, it was no wonder they gazed at each
other in that sad, bitter silence. The dark-
ness of desolation was upon them ; for at
their feet lay the shattered fragments of
what they had possessed not twelve hours
before, and what all the powers of earth
could not give back to them now.
Darcy was the first to speak, with grave
though somewhat formal composure.
"I am sure you do methe justice to be-
lieve, Miss Aylmer, that my intrusion, a short
time ago, was entirely accidental, and with-
out any knowledge that I should find you
engaged. I am sincerely sorry for the an-
noyance I caused you, and I trust my en-
trance did not shorten the visit of your--
your companion.~~
"No," Valerie answered, as coldly as he
had spoken, "Th~ Ilautaine was on the point
of leaving when you entered."
lie glanced involuntarily toward the sofa
where he had found them-she weeping, and
Charley bending over her-before he spoke
again. Then it was in the same tone.
"Among the letters which I received
this morning was one at which I barely

AYLMER.
glanced, and on which I failed to bestow
even a moment's attention. I did not destroy
it, however, because I wanted to find, if
possible, some clew to the writer. Here it
is. Will you read it?"
lb drew several letters from his pocket
as he spoke, selected one, and handed it to hei~
with an air of distant courtesy which at once
recalled the first days of their acquaintance.
She took it with a sort of preoccupied ~qui-
etude - wondering certainly, but scarcely
enough to rouse her to even ordinary inter-
est. At this supreme moment of her life--
this moment quivering with great issues-
what heed or care had she for any thing that
could be contained in any letter that was
ever written? So, although she took it with-
out demur, she opened it carelessly, and still
more carelessly ran her eye over the first
lines; then there came a start, and a flash of
blood to her face: but, although the hand
which held the envelope closed over it tight-
ly, she read on, without pause or comment,
to the end. Yet this was what it proved to
be:
A letter purporting to emanate, not from
the usual anonymous "friend," but from an
avowedly anonymous enemy. There was*
none of the usual cant concerning a sense of
duty in the affair; but, on the contrary, the
writer spoke with very candid bitterness.
"I don't pretend to take any interest in you,"
the unknown said, "t~nd it is not at all for
your sake that I take the trouble to give
these particulars, but Valerie Aylmer in~
flicted a deep wrong on me once-when or
how does not matter-and I have waited
for many a long day to pay my debt in kind.
Nothing will be easier than for you to ascer-
tain the truth or falsehood of all I assert,
since there is scarcely a man or woman in
LoUisiana who is not able to vouch for every
thing I say. If you think fit to disregard
the warning, I can wish you no worse pun~
ishment than that which will speedily over-
take you; I can wish you no more bitter
memory than that of your wedding-day,
even though you receive with your bride the
magnificent dower of the heiress of a million-
naire.'~ Then followed a record which would
have made the cheek of any woman burn
with rage and shame. All her old gay

FACE T

coquetries were brought up against her in
blackeniug array. The names and the bare
outline of facts were given accurately, but
every incident was distorted, every folly mag-
nified, every indiscretion heightened, every
result darkened, until she who had dealt only
in that light, playful warfare which never
yet worked serious ill to ~ny head or heart,
was painted as a sort of baleful enchantress,
somewhat after the model of those who have
lately figured in the pages of a certain class
of fiction. Poor Valerie! Her sins, if sins
they could be called, had lately been falling
heavily enough upon her head, but this
seemed the last drop in the cup. Still she
read on-on through the cunning mixture of
falsehood and fact-until she reached the
climax of the whole. That climax was her
life-long qfl'airo with Ilautaine. There, in
pitiless black and white, she read the history
that had culminated and ended forever that
day. There was not much exaggeration in
this, nor much need for it, and, save as regard-
ed the statement of an absolute engagement
existing between them when she left Louisi-
ana, there was scarcely a single assertion
that it was possible for her to deny. Of
course they bore a different interpretation
from that of reality, but then who of us have
not, at some time of our lives, felt powerless
before this? Can we bring back the dead
acts of the past, and shdw what a difference
in their seeming the circumstances of the
time, or the subtlety of intention made?
Can we refute the words of our own lips by
putting back into them the vanished spirit
which made their living meaning so different
from their cold, dead evidence? Ah, never!
And it was this chill certainty which gath-
ered round Valerie's heart, as she looked up
at last, with a single monosyllable:
"Well?"
"Do you recognize the hand, or any turn
of words, that can tell you who the writer
is?" Darcy asked, quietly. "I should like
to know."
She looked down' again for a moment,
and then shook her head, as she handed it
back. "Ko," she said, wearily; "and--
what does it matter? The post-mark is
New Orleans; but I cannot think I left any
enemy at home who would stab me in the

O FACE                             151
dark like this. We Louisianians ma~ hate
to the death, but we never express our
hatred like cowards. I would rather not
conjecture any thing about it, for I am sure
my conjecture would fail to touch the right
mark, and I could never forgive myself if I
wronged my worst enemy by such i~ sus-
picion. Besides, as I said before, ~what does
it matter? I see it hasdone its work.. I see
you believe it."
"Believe it!" he repeated, and ~ll~ his
outward calm suddenly vanished before the
generous light that flashed into his, face.
"Believe it 1-this vile thing? What do you
take me for? See 1--this is how much I be-
lieve it."
He crushed it in his hand as he spoke,
and the next instant it lay shrivelling on
the glowing coals that heaped the grate-
sent there by one quick gesture. Then he
faced round upon her, with a sudden passion
of resolve in his eyes.
"That is how much I believe iii" he
said. "There is the measure of credence I
give its calumnies I Have you forgotten so
soon what I told you last night? Have you
forgotten already that my honor is pledged
to receive only one evidence concerning you
-the evidence of your ow~i lips? If I
showed you this letter, it was only that you
might justify yourself-that you might ex-
plain what I saw here this morning, which
seemed to come in such apparent confirma-
tion of all that was written there."
The frank chivalry of the man's nature
rang in every tone of loyal trust and truth
-yet what a dull, heavy echo it was that
Valerie's heart gave back! Justify herself!
As if justification was possible in the sense
he meant it! A cold torpor seemed creep-
ing over her, as she answered, almost me-
chanically:
"Why do you trouble me? It is evident
that you have already judged me unheard.
Why not condemn me unheard also?"
"Am I not waiting to bear you now?"
he asked, quickly. "If I had judged you
unheard, do you think I should have cared.
to enter your presence again, after the scene
I witnessed scarcely half an hour 'ago?-
after the: words you uttered when you
turned against me .to take the part of the4

V


152                          VALERIE
man who has injured me beyond repair?
Have you forgotten all this? And does it
look like condemnation?"
"No, I have not forgotten," she an-
swered, with the same listless quietude;
"but I have nothing to say. Your very
questions prove that you do suspect me;
and I did not need your conduct to Charley
to prove how hard and stern you can be. I
have no intention of implori4 your mercy
as he did. Perhaps it will be best that
every thing should end, for I do not think
we are likely to learn even a moderate de-
gree of tolerance for each other. I might
bear severity; but I should revolt once f9r
all against cruelty-and you who suspect so
early, would hardly grow more trusting as
time went on. And yet-"
Her voice broke down here,. for a sud-
den remembrance of what she was doing,
of what she was ending, rushed over her.
If Darcy had spoken one word of love or
trust then, all might have been welL But
the coldness of her repulse stung him deep-
ly-him who was very far from being a
model hero of romance, but only a man un-
reasonable and loving, like other men; a
man who had striven hard to put his just
doubts aside, and ask as a favor the explana-
tion which he might have demanded as a
right, and who found this requital very
bitter. So he took up her sentence, finish-
ing it coolly~
"And yet happiness seemed very near
to us last night. lint you may be right;
we may be too unlike ever to agree. It
would seem so, at least, since you will not
give me one single proof of good faith. It
is only afew words I ask; but perhaps you
had better consider before you even think
of speaking them. lam undoubtedly a stern,
even a hard man-though I scarcely think
a cruel one-and a man who, ha always
received obedience from others, cannot dis-
pense with it in my wife. That point is
best made clear at once. And, if impulse
swayed you yesterday, don't allow compas-
sion to influence you to-day; or, in other
words, do not think of me. I have lived
without love in the past, and* I can live
without it in the future. Think only of
yourself, and decide only for yourself."

AYLMER.
Alas! If she had thought only o~ her-
sell; she would have held out her hauds to
him with one cry of weary relief, and closed
her eyes forever to all the doubt around
her. It might have been the wisest course
to adopt; but she was not the woman to
see this. On the contrary, his hard tone
hardened her in turn. She contrasted it
with the tones that 80 shortly before had
echoed in that room. He could not speak
thus, she thought, if he had ever felt one
throb of real passion. If he had desired
to hear the words of which he spoke, he
would never have pleaded for them like
that. So the moment of opportunity rolled
by for both, and, when she spoke, it was
half haughtily.
"This is very useless indeed. I have
not forgotten your judgment of Charley;
and, if I humiliated myself as you desire, I
would only bring down such another on my
own head. Even now you4alk of hearing
me; but I should be blind indeed if I did
not see that you believe me to have been
engaged to him, even when I accepted
yourself."
The tone of the assertion made it a qucs-
tioi~, and she paused as if for an answer.
After a moment, one came-steady and firm.
"Remembering what I witnessed here
half an hour ago, I am constrained to say
that I hope so."
Had she looked at the matter for a mo-
ment, from his point of view, she might have
acknowledged the justice of this; but, as it
was, all tenderness, all regret, all memory
of the past, all hope of the future, vanished,
leaving only the sense of keen injustice.
"You insult me!" she cried, passionate-
ly. "You insult me, as I have never been
insulted before in all my life! And, after
that, do you expect me to justify myself in
your eyes? A thousand timesno! Ifyon
can believe that I deceived you so shame-
fully, believe it! Only do me the justice
to believe also that I shall never offer you
any proof to the contrary. You may credit
all that-that letter said, if you choose! If
you think I could act in such a manner,
why, it does not matter in the least whether
I really did it or not. The capability is the
only point of importance. And poor Char-

PAYING
ley-~my poor friend! To think that your
hate should follow him so bitterly that you
must use his honest love by means of which
to brand me with duplicity! If you only
knew what a comparison you are forcing me
to institute! If you only knew how utterly
he would scorn the part you are playing
now !-he who has never broken a pledge,
or uttered a vow that was falsehood-he
who has never harbored an unworthy sus-
picion, or made love the tool of interest.
But then-he has never been tempted by
the glitter of an inheritance."
She scarcely knew how her flood of
bitter passion would terminate, until the last
words passed her lips. Then she gave a
great gasp, for she saw that it was all over;
that no repentance, no regret, could undo it
now. Any other taunt, any other charge,
might have been forgiven-but never this!
Even as she looked, the features hardened,
and into the deep-gray eyes there flashed a
quick gleam; yet he gazed at her almost
incredulously for a moment, before he an-
swered. Then it was with very proud dig-
nity.
"You are not yourself at present," he
said. "I think you are scarcely conscious
of how much your words imply; so I do not
consider it necessary to resent them. In
your cooler moments, you will see the in-
justice of such a charge; but, even if not,' it
hardly matters. You were right a little
while ago, in saying that this had better
end. You do not deny the existence of
another engagement when you accepted
me; in. confirmation of which I cannot help
recalling your reluctance to make a pub- 1
lie acknowledgment of that acceptance. I
Whether you meant to keep faith with him
or with me, I have no means of knowing;
but your grief at his departure, your pas-
sionate espousal of his cause, leave me no
room to doubt that your heart at least was in
his keeping, even while you promised your
hand tome. Of how little worth a hand so t
given would be, it is~not for me to say. ~
Then you have seen fit to charge me with ~
deliberate falsity. That alone would end c
all between us. And now, I have only one t
thing to add. If you merely wished to grati- g
fy your vanity by another triumph, it is

EIIS DEBT.                        153
yours. But it would afford you scant grati-
fication if you could know the sentiments
whi~h have forever taken the place of love
toward you. You have done your worst
and your last. It will never again be in
your power to inilict another pang upon
mc."
The grave, chill tones ceased-the tones
so entirely without one modulation of pas-
sion, that they sounded like the inexorable
fiat of Fate-and then he walked deliberately
to the door. It opened and closed upon
him. Silence complete and deep settled
over all things; and, as Valerie sat motion-
less, she felt as if her life had cometo an end
then and there.
-4---.
CHAPTER VI.
PAYiNG HiS DEBT.
"Wny, Hautaine, my dear fellow, is this
really yourself? By Jove! I am delighted
to see you!'~
It was the most frank and cheery voice
in the world that spoke thus, as Hautaine,
absorbed in his own moody thoughts, was
striding along the lower part of Charles
Street. The touch of a hand on his shoul-
der accompanied the words, and turning
sharply-almost impatiently-he met the
cordial eyes and more cordialface of Harry
Axle. A misanthrope could hardly have
failed to thaw at such a genial sight; and
Ilautaine was the farthest the world from
L*ing a misanthrope; so he held out his
taud with something not very unlike his
isual air of good-fellowship.
"Arle, isn't it?" he said. "There's a
rood deal of change, but still I think I
recognizee my~ six-months' companion on a
I~exas gunboat."
"Ah, yes, we didn't dress this way in
hose days," the other said, gayly, "~ but
rt~'importe? They were the very best of
!ays-the cream of life-and we know each
ther when we meet, despite the tailor and
he barber. I wish I could tell you how
lad I~m to see you again!"
"And I you," said Hautaine, sincerely;


154                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                          PAYING 1115 DEBT.                   155

*   enough, though ten minutes before he would
have done any thing reasonable to avoid the
encounter. As it had come about, however,
he accepted it philosophically, and was not
the mau to chill an old comrade's honest
warmth by coldness or indifference.
"And to think that this is our first
meeting since we blew up the old Chicora,
and. shook hands on the beach with the in-
tention of running for our lives in different
directions!" ArIQ continued, as theyloosed
the friei~dly grasp of their hands, and
walked on together. "What have you been
doing with yourself in the interim? Some-
body said you had turned free lance, and
gone to the Holy Empire of Mexico.~~
"Somebody was quite right as far as
* turning free lanc4 went," Hautaine an-
swered, "but as for the Holy Empire of*
Mexico-I must really be excused, if I prefer
some service where a long rope or a quick
bullet are not the invariable rewards of
merit."
"But you haven't been in Louisiana ever
since you lowered your flag, have you?"
"No-I have been in Paris most of the
*   time."
"Ab, happy fellow! "said Arle, with a
very genuine air of envy. "If that's your
place of service, I should have no objection
to turning free lance myself. And what in
the name of wonder brings you from Paris
to Baltimore?"
He asked the question heedlessly, and
the next moment felt as much embarrassed
as a man who has made an egregious blun-
der, and is conscious of it, can possibly feel.
He had been long in Louisiana, and suffi-
ciently among Louisiana men, to hear most
of the gossip afloat about La belle iea beZlea,
and he knew that this gossip had coupled
her name ~nore often with Hautaine's than
with any other among her many lovers and
countless admirers. He remembered her
presence in Baltimore, and-~.-well, the rest
was So clear that h~ felt very ~nuch ashamed
of his stupidity, and hastened on hurriedly,
beforehis companion could reply.
"I hope you mean to spend some time
among tie. We can't; of course, offer any
attractions to. a travelled cosmopolitan who
is freshfrom Les Italiens slid Y~ry'sbutwe

can show you some pretty women-though
the prettiest comes from your own state-.
and you'll meet plenty of old comrades who
wrn be delighted to see you.
"I need not say how much I should en-
joy both," Hautaine answered as truthfully,
perhaps, as the most of us answer when we
say such things; "but the fact is, I am
Southward bound this afternoon."
"Necessarily?"
"Necessarily."
"Indeed I am heartily sorry to hear it "-
and for once the commonplace words had in
them the ring of genuine sincerity-" I was
just thinking of several people who would
he wonderfully charmed to see you, and
wonderfully chagrined to miss. that pleasure.
You remember Lawton?"
"Of the James River fleet? Undoubted-
"Well, he was talking of you only the
other day. And then there's Conway-Jack
Conway-you surely know him? He was
7'
in the old service.
"Know him!" and the abstracted eye
suddenly brightened with pleasure. "I
should think I did indeed! We went out as
midshipmen together on our first cruise.
The best fellow !-Is he really here?"
"He realty is. And Darford, and Mere-
dith, and-and plenty more. So you see it
is impossible for you to go, without at least
one reunurn to put us in mind of the past.
Come! Defer your departure until to-mor-
row afternoon, and take supper with me to-
night. Every man of them shall be there to
bid you welcon~e. Do you say yes?"
Ilautaine hesitated. The frank invita-
tion was not nearly so much of a tempta-
tion as it should have been. But he felt so
reckless, indifferent about almost everything,
that he was half inclined to say "yes," from
pure indolence about saying "no." There.
was no earthly reason why he should hot
defer his departure twenty-four hours, and
he could more easily drown thought in a
jovial supper-party, than wal~dng the deck
of the Portsmouth boat. And yet he hesi-
tated. Itmighthave been his guardian angel
that caused him to do so; that whispered im
his ear so urgently, "Go;" that wade him so
strangely averse to delay; but, if so, the ad-

vice was not a whit more regarded than that
of guardian angels usually is.
"You'll stay?" Arle said, who saw how
the scale was turning.
And the other answered, with a reckless
defiance of instinct:
"It is very good of you to urge it, and
yes-~-I'll stay."
So the weight fell heavily in the scale of
fate, and the matter was settled. He stayed.
It was by no means a large or very
noisily convivial party who assembled that
evening to do justice to Arle's hospitality;
and their enjoyment was that of men who
were accustomed to do things decently and
in order. They were all "old Confed~rates,"
all men whose laughing glances had looked
on danger and death in countless guise,
whose bronzed faces had taken sunshine
and rain as either came, on the deck or in
the camp-with but one exception. This
exception, strange to say-and it accounted
for something of a cloud on the sunny brow
of the young host-was Julian Romney.
41t's deucedly unpleasant," he said, in answer
to an aside interrogation on the subject, from
Thornton; "I know that as well as you do,
but-I couldn't help it without next thing
to insulting the fellow, lie was with Dar-
ford when 1 asked 1~im, and-well, I thought
it would not matter much, and I might as
well be civil once in a way. I think we've
all rather cut him of late, and he feels
it."
"So it's a philanthropic thing you're in
for doing?" Thornton answered, with a
shrug. "I wish you joy of your subject;
but I'm sadly afraid you've spoiled your
party. There's not a man here who even
barely likes Romney; and he's so devilish
bad-tempered of late that there's no count-.
ing on consequences. However, I'll do my
best to keep the peace-perhaps we have
been a little harden him-but don't pu1~ me
opposite him. That face of his would be
intolerable to me."~
But perhaps the most thoroughly sur-
prised and least pleased of the party was
Hautaine himself, when the stranger was
presented to him, and he remembered his
close connection with the Yacquant family.

A hot, sharp pang of jealousy shot through.
and through him, as he looked at the hand-
some face-handsome yet, although evil lines
had been ploughed around the beautiful
mouth, and on the smooth white brow-and
thought in his heart that this young Adonis
must necessarily be the rival who had stolen.
from him the prize of his life. And it chanced
that, as he thought this, with wistful, honest
envy, Arle said, suddenly:
"By-the-by, I am very sorry that Darcy
could not join us. I don't suppose you ever
met him, Hautaine; but he served in Yir-
ginia during the whole war, and is the most
capital fellow you can imagine. It's rather
curious, too, that we were speaking of
Mexico, this morning,; and he tells me he's
going there."
This unexpected statement created so
much of a sensation, that no one noticed
Hautaine's silence or his change of color.
"What, Darcy going to Mexico!"
"The deuce! You Tnust be mistaken."
"It's rather late in the day for that!"
"I can't believe it possible!"
"When did he say so? Are you sure
about it, Hal?"
"lam perfectly sure that he told me so,"
Arle answei~ed; "and I don't think he's a
man to say one thing and mean another-or
to say a thing, even if he means it, and then
change his mind. I~went to his studio and
found him busy packing up so I naturally
inquired if he was going to change the apart-
ment. He said yes-for good. Naturally,
again I asked, 'How so?' and then he said
that he leaves for New York to-night, and'
sails to-morrow for Havre."
"And do you call that Mexico?" put in
an incredulous listener.
"No-I don't. And neither did he. Of
course, I sald-sincerely enough too-bow
sorry we shall be to lose him; and then I
asked him if he meant to set up an ateli~r in
Paris. The answer was, that ha was tired
of paii~.ting, and, in less than a month, he ex-
pected to be in Mexico."
"But what for?" demanded two or three,
impatiently.
At which the Signor Arie shrugged his
shoulders.
"Who can say, mes amie? Do you al-


158                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                            PAYING HIS DEBT.                      15,T

ways kilow what you intend to do, and why
you mean to do it? Darcy simply told me
what I tell you, that he is tired of painting
-I have heard him say that before-that
he liked action, that. he wasn't tired of
fightiiig, and that he meant to go to Mexico
and get enough of it-~voila tout!"
"I'erhaps he thinks Maximilian will
make him a duke or a marshal," said Dar-
ford, lazily.
"Perhaps you will pass the decanter at
your elbow," Thornton said, "and we'll
drink to his success and happiness, wher-
ever he 'goes. He is one of the few men,
whom I ever met, that I am sorry to see
drop out of my life. It's rather early in
the evening for toasts, but still, as long as
he's on the tapis, let us pledge him in the
wine he is not here to enjoy."
So they pledged him deeply, and, as
Romney set down his glass, he looked at
Hautaine with a glance which the latter
met and understood as little as possible.
How could he, indeed, be supposed to know
that this man, whom he esteemed his fa-
vored rival, was just then thinking with
bitter rage that he-Hautaine-had by his
success sent the lover of yesterday out of
their common path. "Curse him! He
musthave won the day after all!" Romney
thought;. and then he set his teeth together
with a sudden, savage resolve which did not
accord very well with the gay tonesand peals
of laughter, the lights and wi.ue, and gener-
ally festive ainof all things around them.
For the next bour or two1 however, ev-
ery thing went on. as smoothly and pleas-
antly as a host's 'heart. could desire. They
all kneW each other so well, they had gone
through so much of adventure together, and
lovedand drank and fought in intimate com-
radeship so long, that there was nothing
whatever to chill or repress the genial
warmth that pervaded every thing said or
done, even to the very stories and jests6
Roinney conducted himself in quite an irre-
proachable manner: he said little, for remi-
niscences of field and flood were not exactly
in his way, but that little was in very good
taste, and only one or two of those who sat
nearest him noticed that he drank more
constantly and deeply than any one else at

the table. He was so accustomed to this,
however, that it had no perceptible effect
on his head, when, by some chance, the
conversation veered round to-Darcy again.
"I shall never forget ])arcy's gallantry
that day," one of the party said-he had
been telling~ a campaigning anecdote of
some description or other-'~ he was serv-
ing on R-'s staff then, and there was
no earthly reason for his going into the fight
with us; but he did-as a volunteer, you
know.-and distinguished himself wonder-
fully. Maximilian may be glad to see such
nerve and pluck coming into his empire, I
can tell you. But, then, I can't help think-
ing that the move is a confoundedly queer
one-ifl~ him."
"Certainly the land of the Montezumas
is about the last place in the world that 1
should care about finding myself in just
now," said Conway. "I remember the last
time I was at Vera Cruz-"
"Yellow fever, or a revolution, was
there also, no doubt," said Thornton, in-
terrupting him. "We'll take either fact
for granted; but I decidedly *object to
your spinning another long-winded yarn.
You've only told half a dozen already this
evening. But you're right about Darcy.
It's so very queer, this move of his-that
for once, 1 have some curiosity to know a
little of motive and meaning. Can't any-
body throw any light on the subject?"
"If it wasn't Darcy," said Arle, with a
laugh, "I should think that I detected the
mark of feminine claws in the business;
but he is quite above such a suspicion."
"No man is above it," said Darford, sen-
tentiously. "We are all fools, sooner or
later; and why n~ot Darcy, like the rest of
us? He has been very attentive to Miss
Rivi~re lately-mayn't she have proved
hard-hearted?"
"You might as well talk of a canary's
proving hard-hearted," Thornton an~were4,
impatiently. "She's ,a perfect child, in the
first place, and one of the~ women who
couldn't say~ no to anybody, if her life de-
pended on it, in the second."
"She said it to one late lamented friend,
Godon Bird, without much hesitation," Dar-
ford rejoined. "I have that much of

knowledge, for I was penned in a corner,
and heard the whole declaration. She did
it very neatly too, I can tell you; and fin-
ished up poor Bird so completely, that he
donned his feathers, and took flight for
some other region next day."
"And you call that a case in point?"
asked Ark. "Any woman in her sane
senses would have said no to that fool; but
as for Darcy-the thing's absurd. Besides,
I don't believe he ever thought of falling in
love with her. She's pretty enough; but
she's more in your style than his."
"I'll leave the matter to Romney. He's
been living in the house with both of them,
so he ought to know," Darford answered.
"Julian, old fellow, can you tell us who's
right?"
Julien looked up quickly, with a sudden
light in his eyes which the other did not
understand-a light of exultation at seeing
his chance so soon and so clear.
"Neither of you is' right," he an-
swered. "Miss Rivi~re has no more to do
with Darcy's movements than I have; but
-I wonder you never thought that he had
been very closely under the guns of a more
dangerous woman than she will ever be, if
she lives a hundred years."
*   "By Jove!" cried more than one voice.
"You don't mean that La belle des belles has
crippled him too?"
Julian turned round to Hautaine, with a
smile.
"I mean," he said, "that Mr. Hautaine
can sat~fy your curiosity on that score bet-
ter than I, and that he can also tell you
exactly why Captain Darcy's resolution to
go to Mexico has only been formed since his
own arrival in Baltimore."
The 'wor ls fell clearly and distinctly on
every ear at~ the table, and every eye turu~ed
at once' to Hautaine's face-the face that
had 'suddenly grown pale and full of star-
tled surprise. The attack was as unexpect-
ed as any thing couhl, possibly have been;
but it did not deprive him entirely of self-
possession; on the contrary, he answered,
readily and coolly:
"I don't understand you, Mr. Romney.
Perhaps you will be kind enough to explain
yourself."

"The matter is scarcely worth an expla-
tion," Julian answered, carelessly. "We all
know the old proverb about ignorance be-
ing bliss, and we also know-most, of us-
Miss Aylmer's fttvorite modes of disposing
of her troublesome admirers."
"It is a matter of profound indifference
to me what you may or may not know,"
Hautaine answered coldly, "except in thus
far-that neither you nor any other man
has ever known, or can ever know, any thing
of MisS Aylmer whinh is not to her hoAor
and credit."
Julian laughed-a sneering laugh which
made the blood stir angrily in the veins of
more than one of his listeners-and then
answered in the same clear, musical voice:
"It is a very fine thing to be chivalric,
Mr. Hautaine, especially about the woman
whom you wish, or expect, or intend, to
marry. But it's rather late in the day to
take that tone about the most notorious flirt
in America. I don't pretend to know how
the matter was settled between Darcy and
yourself or how Miss Ayhner made good
her story to either of you; but I do know
ihat she was engaged yesterday to the
man who, whether filter orjilted, isgoing to
Mexico to-day."
Hautaine gave one uncontrollable start.
It was impossible that he could have avoided
it, since the thought of any thing between
Valerie and Dercy flashed on him for the
first time with overwhelming surprise. His
mind went back like lightning to the scene
of that day-the scene when she had come
between them end taken his part-and he
gave a gasp, half of astonishment, half of
incredulity. He was so taken by storm, as
it were, that for a mome~it he could not an-
swer Romney. Then, it was more the con-
ventional instinct than any thing else that
made him say:
"And whether this be true or not-you
must excuse me if I say that ~the presump-
tive evidence is all against it-will you al-
l~w me to inquire in what manner it con-
cerns you?"
Julian looked at him for a moment before
he answered, slowly:
"It concerns me exactly as ut concerns
any one else-yourself for instance~-~wbo

156

15*


158                      'Y~LERIE AThMER.                                                               TOUT EST PERDU.                       159

has contributed to the amusement antI en-
joyed the favors of La belle de8 belles."
The tone of this sentence made its insult
to the woman whose name he spoke so ap-
parent, that it was the yoi~ng~ host who said
quickly.
"Romney, you forget yourself. This is
no mode in which to ~l.is~uss a lady. Let us
~chan~&amp; the subject."
"No," Hautaine interrupted, before any
one 'else could ~jeak. "Don't change the
subject before I have said one word to Mr.
Ilomney. He has thought fit to put me in
the same category with himself, as having
couttibuted to the amusement and enjoyed
the favors of' Miss Aylmer. What my con-
nection with her has been, doas not concern
him in the least; but his conduct to-night
has proved that, if he ever contributed to her
amusement, it was too much honor for a man
who cannot speak of her as befits a gentle-
man; and that the only favors he could ever
have enjoyed must have been in common
with the servants who place chairs and open
doors for her."
"Do you mean-" Julian began, hotly,
when Thornton's hand fell on his shoulder.
"That is quite enough, Mr. Romney,"
he said, sternly. "This is not a drinking-
saloon, where you can quarrel and fight as
you please; and 'we are not blacklegs, but
gentlemen. You have strangely forgot-
ten several things to-night; among others,
courtesy to your host, when you attack one
of his guests in this unprovoked manner."
It is doubtful if Julian even heard the
words, forcibly uttered as they were, for he
only sl1ook off the restraining hand, and fin-
ished his sentence~to the young Louisianian,
who looked at him with eyes full of con-
temptuous disdain across the table:
"t~o you mean to insult me, Mr. Hau-
tame?"
"I had no such intention," Hautaine an-
swered, coolly; "but you can construe my
words as you please."
"You will answer for them, then?"
"No," he replied, scornfully. "I should
not dream of beingguilty of such a disrespect
to Miss A~4mer as to allow her name to be
drawn any further into a discussion where
it has no right to be at all. I have told you

'what I think of yourself and your state-
ments, and that is all I shall do.--Arle, you
~were right a little while ago - shall we
change the subject now?"
But it was hardly worth while to do so,
for all their pleasant spirit and ease seemed
suddenly to have forsaken the party. Of
course they made an effort to be gay and
genial once more; but it was so palpably
an effort, that the failure 'which ensued was
only what might have been expected. If
Romney would have done the only proper
thing, i. e., gone away, perhaps they might
have got over it after awhile; but how was
it possible to be any thing hut awkward and
uncomfortable with that overcast presence
in their midst? So they drank their wine
absently, and talked heavily on business,
and politics, and the like topics, but nobody
even attempted to go back to the themes
of adventure and daring which had stirred
them into such warm life a short time
before. They were all gentlemen, and so,
accustomed to submit unhesitatingly to the
conventionalities of social life; but the
ruder instincts of the man made. more than
one of them look at Romney, and think how
pleasant it would be to rid themselves of
him by a very summary process of eject-
ment. Before long, Arle made the move-
ment to leave table, and then, while 'the
rest were scattered about the room smoking,
he drew Julian aside.
"lam the last man in the world to wish
to revive anything unpleasant," he said, "but
I am sure that, if you think a moment, Rom-
ney, you will see that you owe Hautaine an
apology. He is not only entitled to special
courtesy as a stranger among us, but he has
been a life-long friend of the Aylmer family.
Of course I take it for granted that you did
not know this, or you could not have spo-
ken as you did. It only makes it the more
imperative, though, that you should apolo-
gize.
"And suppose I decline to do so?" Ju-
han asked, sullenly.
The other looked at him with surprise,
that had not a little of contempt in it.
~ "I am totally unable to suppose such a
t ing," he answered, gravely. "You do not
forget, I am sure, the obligation of courtesy

which rests upon us as Baltimoreans and as
gentlemen. You cannot even forget what
you owe to me-since you insulted my
guest at my table. But if you should for-
get these things-"
"Well," said Juhian, in a tone of defi-
ance, as he paused, "if I should forget them
-what then?"
"Why, then," said die young Maryland-
er, haughtily, "the matter becomes person-
al between us two; and, as no man living
owes a deeper debt of gratitude to Miss Ayl-
mer than I do, I shall take upon myself the
duty of demanding full retraction and apol-
ogy for the sneer cast on her a little while
ago."
"This is all nonsense, Mr. Arle, and you
ought to know it as well as I do," said Ju-
han, bruskly. "I am not a man to be
browbeaten; and I haven't the slightest in-
tention of retracting or apologizing for any
thing I may have said or insinuated about
Valerie Aylmer. If you are anxious for a
quarrel, I am not likely to balk your humor.
If notI shall have the honor of wishing
you good-evening."
The calm insolence of his tone provoked
Arle, as it might have provoked even a
milder man. He looked at him with quick,
contemptuous scorn, when he answered in a
tone that did full justice to the words:
"You can go, if you like, of course; but
I hope you will be kind enough to strike my
name from your list of acquaintances after
to-night. I gave you credit before this for
slandering like a woman; but I didn't give
you credit for refusing to accept the conse-
quences like a man."
"That is quite enough," Julian said, in a
tone of suppressed passion.' "I see it is the
quarrel you want, and you might have had it
without this last insult. I take it for granted
that you're not so pacific as your friend, and
that you mean to answer for your words."
"I am at your service," the other an-
swered, coldly. Then, with a formal bow on
each side, they part&amp;1.
An hour or two later, all the prelimi-
naries of the meeting were arranged, and
this was how Harry Arle paid his debt to
Valerie Aylmer.

CHAPTER VII.
TOUT EST PEBDU.

AFTER Darcy left her, no one saw any
thing more of Miss Aylmer. She went to
her own room, and, locking the door, refused
admittance to every one, even to Alix.
There was a dinner-party arranged for that
evening, which caused Madame Vacquant
to send up several appeals for her presence;
but the same inflexible refusal was returnedd
to all. For once in her life, lee COflA)C7Z~flCC8
had lost all power over Valerie; and sh~
~who only a short time before thought ~he
would have died ore a single pang of hers
should have .been~exhibited to curious or
malignant eyes-she, like many another,
when the test came, found that theQry
and practice are essentially different th5i~igs.
The same impulse took her to her chitrk ber,
and closed her door upon the outer'woz'ld,
that takes a wounded wild animal io its lair
to suffer-it may be even to die-alone.
How much she suffered, she could not
have told herself; for the blow had been so
sudden and sharp that it partially deadened
sensation; and the time remained in her
after-memory almost a blank. She could
only recall the utter and forlorn abandon-
ment of misery that seemed to weigh upon
her, as sh~ tested the first bitterness of her
desolation. She could only recall a dim pic-
ture of herself; as she sat by the window,
watching, in a sort of passive stupor, the
falling snow, and listening to the church
clocks as they told the passage of time that
had lost all significance for her. The sounds
of the house and of the street came as to
muffled ears. The hours passed, but left
not a token of their flight behind them; and
when the day wore on, and at last the
shades of night began to close over the
scene on which she gazed, she could scarcely
have told whether the 6onsciousness of this
was most relief or pain. That day, which
should be marked in black as the most mis-
erable of her life, was past. But then,
what an interminable vista of other days
stretched before her! To-morrow, and to-
morrow, and to-morrow! They were all to
bear, all to suffer, all to live through-


160                        VAL1~RIE AYLMJIB.                                                            TOUT EST PERDU.                         161

alone 1 This prospect, which is bitter some-
times even to the naturally patient and well
disciplined, was something far more than
bitter to this uticurbed, rebellious nature.
She told herself with fierce emphasis, that
it was unendurable, that sh~ would never
bear it; and then she broke down in a burst
of burning tears, because she felt in her in-
most heart that the barrier against which
she dashed herself was granite; and that,
come what woulc~ of grief or pain; she must
endure, she must bear it. She had sown the
seed: she must reap the harvest. There
was nothing for It but resignation; and yet
the mere thought of such a thing came to
her as a mockery. Resignation I That
might answer for the pale, heavy-eyed chil-
dren of suffering and toil; for those on
whom was branded deep the signet of fiery
trials, for whom life was nothing save one
long martyrdom; but for her-her in the
royal zenith of her youth and power-her to
whom enjoyment and pleasure, and the
sweets of love, and the gifts of life, were all
of right divine-how should she ever learn
the grand lesson of those grand words which
shehad spoken, with only a dim, half-heedful
sense of their meaning, so short a time be-
fore-" He who best knows how to endure,
shall possess the greater peace I"
At dark, Fanch ette brought up the coffee,
which she considered the only proper thing
for such a headache as Miss Aylmer was
supposed to be suffering with. Then the
blinds were closed, the fire replenished, and
she was left again to silence. Then again
the same lethargy crept over her, and she
lay in a large chair, watching the glowing
bed of coals as blankly as she had watched
the feathery wreaths of snow, listening
vaguely to the strains of music and echo of
gay voices that floated up faintly from the
drawing-room whenever the doors were
opened, and wholly unconscious how late it
was growing, until Fanchette came up at
midnight sincerely surprised that she had
not been summoned to her usual night
duties of the toilet. Perhaps le. conve-
nancee began to resume something of their
sway, for her mistress murmured a half ex-
cuse for the omission, and then prepared to
go to bed. Once there, strange to say,~she

slept deeply-slept the spent sleep of ex-.
haustion. But this period of rest was not
very long. The first gray gleam of morning
waked her, as it streamed through a half-
opened blind, ovei her bed. The first im-
pulse was to turn her face away, and strive
to win a little longer unconsciousness-but
that was vain. The tyrant Thought had re-
sumed his mastery, and sleep was impossi-
ble. So sharp were the recollections which
rushed over her, that almost unconsciously
she sprang from her pillows as if they had
been filled with thorns. Endurance-pas-
sive endurance, at least--had reached its
farthest limit. Come what would, she felt
goaded to the last verge, she felt that she
must for a time escape from herself. She
looked round the walls of her room that
yesterday had seemed to her a shrine of ref-
uge; now it took the aspect of a prison.
And then it was that there came another
impulse-the impulse to carry her misery to
the sanctuary, and lay it down before the
altar where never yet a human soul has gone
for comfort and failed to find it.
She rose at once, and dressed herself
quickly, scarcely observing the cold atmos-
phere of her room, where the last night's
fire had died away to blackness. Then she
went down-stairs, and along the dark pas-
sages, unfastened the heavy bolts with a
good deal of difficulty, and let herself out of
the front-door. The snow and sleet of the
night before had changed to a fine rain,
which the wind drove straight in her face as
she hook her way down Charles Street; ~but
she scarcely felt, and certainly paid no heed
to it. The hour was so early that as yet
there was scarcely any thing astir, or any-
body to be seen, save a few milk-wagons, in
the first place, and one or two drowsy police-
men in the second. But when she opened
the cathedral door a pleasant sense of
warmth stole over her, and there were many
kneeling forms scattered over the demi-ob-
scure of the lt~rge church, the spacious aisles
and lofty dome of which looked solemnly.
vast as a few gas-lights which illuminated
the seats nearest the altar strove vainly to
pierce the general gloom. The priest was in
the act of consecration when she entered,
and a profound stillness reigned over all

things-only broken now and then by the
silver tinkle of the acolyte's bell giving warn~
ing of the elevation. The door clanged be-
hind her, and her steps fell with an almost
painful distinctness on the paved aisle; but
there was no stir among the kneeling forms
between whom she passed, not a head was
lifted, not an eye turned from the altar, nor
did a single lip cease its fervently-uttered
prayer. This in itself was a relief-this in
itself proved that she had come to one place
in the world where curiosity does not find
admittance, where the wretched and the
weary may go, sure that no inquisitive
glances will seek them out, and force upon
them the scrutiny which they feel to be al-
most more than they can bear. She sank
down in one of the farther pews that had
been left to darkness, and then, for a brief
time, the sore heart found rest. She knew
that the pang would return-all the sharper
and sterner, perhaps-but for a time it was
stilled. For a time, she could lay down the
burden of error and grief, for a time sink in
humiliation before the altar, and, with her
eyes on the thorn-crowned head above her,
say, "Lord, I am weak and frail-be Thou
my strength." And it seemed to her alone
-to her in her bitterness and rebellion-
that the priest spoke when, turning round,
he uttered the solemn "Sursum corda."
Sursum corda! Ay, lift them up !-up
from the clouds and mist of this troubled
world !-up from the trials that meet, and
the temptations that beset !-up from the
~weary struggle !-up from the failing flesh!
-up from the constant sin !-up from the
wrong, the strife, the suffering I-up to the
glorious vision of a realm where neither sin
nor pain shall have any more dominion over
us!
Two masses had been said before Vale-
rie thought of leaving the church, and then
it was only when a sick faintness-the result
of physical exhaustion-r~shed over her, that
she felt the necessity of doing so. Yet it
was very hard to quit that serene sanctuary,
to leave that one haven of rest and refuge,
and go back to the fierce turmoil and dreary
hopelessness of existence. She rose from
her knees lingeringly, and yet more linger-
ingly looked around her. ihe slight stir of
11

priests and acolytes at the high altar scarcely
disturbed the pervading calm which brooded
over the whole interior; and her heart-her
poor, aching, yearning heart-seemed hushed
and stilled by the ineffable peace. But long
and painful entotion had done its work, and
she felt that she must go, for even now a
strange giddiness seized her, and a strange
mist rose over all the objects at which she
gazed. She walked slowly down the aisle,
but at the door paused again. There was
only one more step, and. the noise of the
world would rush over her, the excitement
of the world would claim her; so, crossing
herself with holy water, she looked wistfully
back toward the distant altar, the calm
statues, the sanctuary lamp gleaming like a
faint, pale star, and felt-was it an instinct?
-as if she could not bear to go. But a little
child, who was entering, held open the door
for the beautiful lady who stood there so
strangely motionless; two women stared at
her as they came down the aisle together;
and, waking to a knowledge of these things
with a start, she drew down her veil and
went away.
She walked slowly homeward through
the misty rain-how well she remembered
afterward the aspect which every thing bore
that morning !-thinking to herself that this
was a type of what her life was to b~ here-
after. This dull-gray sameness was to be
hers, instead of the sunshine of love and
hope that had made existence ~o fair and
beautiful only yesterday. Yesterday! Was
it only yesterday? It seemed as if it must.
have been so long ago, as if the gulf which
divided her from happiness was years, in-
stead ofmerelyhours. Dimly these thoughts
came to her, and her 'heart was throbbing
once more with its sharp, sick pain, when
she came in sight of her grandfather's door.
She started. Perhaps her nerves were~
overwrought, but a sudden wild instinct of
fear seized her as she saw several carriages
standing there, and the first on which her
eye rested was that of Dr. Preston. Mau-
rice! Had any thing happened to 1~im 7
that was her only thought, as she hurried
forward-and came face to face with him in*
the door-way.
He was standing there with a knot of


162                           VALERIE
two or three gentlemen, all speaking low,
all looking as men only look when they have
been brought in contactt with some great
tragedy, and all of whom fell back in sudden,
hushed silence when they saw who was ap-
proaching. Darcy alone remained perfectly
~.till, and so it was that they met again-he
pale and grave with the gravity of some
awful certainty; she quivering and trem-
bling all over with surprise *~nd apprehen-
sion.
"Maurice," she said, quickly, "what-
what is thematter?"
He made a step forward-a pitiful light
in his eyes, that was quite apart from ten-
derness, yet almost as deep-and, taking
her hands, led her up-stairs and into the
very room where they had parted yes-
terday. By that time she felt that some
terrible blow was hanging over her, and
she looked at him in dumb, half-stunned ex-
pectancy.
"Tell me what it is!,, she said, with a
sort of strange calm.
Then he told her-how, she never re-
membered-that there had been a fatal

AYLMER.
duel, axid that, since she had left the house
an hour before, Julian Bomney had been
brought into it, a corpse. He told her, but
she heard him as in a horrible dream, and
the sense of unreality onjy deepened when,
before he finished speaking, the dcor was
burst open, and a figure, terribk as the
avenger of blood, rushed in upon her; a
voice, awful as the voice of final judgment,
poured out frantic imprecations on her
head, and bade her know herself a mur-
deress!
How the scene ended, she neverknew;
for all sights and sounds were soon merged
into merciful nothingness. Horror, an~
guish, remorse, came too heavily on the
worn braijri and exhausted heart. She lis-
tened, without answer or appeal, to tile
avalanche of accusation and reproach that
never in all the years of life would cease to
haunt her; and then, when others inter-
fered, when her grandfather came and gen-
tly forced his wife away, she looked up at
Maurice Darcy with an expression of de-
spairing misery which he never forgot, and
fell heavily forward in a deep swoon.

CHAPTER I.
LE BEAU coNFflDflEfl.
A uosy-w~n~ sunset in the south of
France, a white chAteau hanging like an
eagle's nest, half-way down a rocky slope,
with a sunny valley below it, and a glorious
mountain-range behind, a village nestling
amid the trees beneath, a gray church-tow-
er looming against the evening sky, a per-
vading sense of all things soft and fragrant
in the atmosphere, and a group-rather so-
cial than gay-drinking their after-dinner
coffee on the chAteau terrace, with the
golden light failing through the leaves and
marking many a flickering tracery of spray
and tendril on the white dresses which two
of the ladies wore.
Foremost in this group was General
Aylmer's soldierly figure and handsome
face, the latter looking scarcely a day older
for all the trouble and difficulty which had
encompassed him before he drifted tempo-
rarily into this quiet haven of rest. It was
right hard, the general thought, that the
perversity and folly of other people should
fall on his shoulders, as if he had not
worries enough and to spare of his own!
But, then, his conscience said something to
him concerning his. own share in the
unpleasant matter. He remembered how
much averse his daughter had been to the
visit which ended so disastrously; he re-
membered that she had gone to Baltimore
only at his solicitation, and,~as he was the
farthest in the world from a brute, he had

put a very sensible constraint on himself
and did not betray, by word or tone, the
deep irritation which was perhaps his pre-
dominant feeling toward everybody con-
cerned-toward his father-in-law, for the
absurd quixotism which had been at the
root of the whole imbroglio; toward his
daughter, for her obstinacy and wayward-
ness; toward the unhappy boy, whose ill-
fated passion had hurried himinto a bloody
grave; but chiefly toward that man who
was fighting far away under the tropic sun,
with only the hard blows and poor pay of a
soldier of fortune-the man whom Valerie
Aylmer had never seen since she sank down
at his feet on that awful day, the shadow
of which was upon her yet.
For no ono, looking at her as she leaned
over the terrace balustrade in her. sweep-
ing, ~white draperies, could have found one
trace of the radiant charm that had kindled
the fame of La belle des belles amid the
orange-groves of distant Louisiana. Not
that she was faded, but rather, that a sort
of cloud had come over her. The beauty
of feature, the 'clearness of tint, and the
softness of glance, were still hers, even de-
spite the long illness which had prostrated
body and mind after the shock of Julian
Romney's tragical death. But a subtle
something had gone from her face, and
there were ~iot wanting candid friends who
declared' that in this very something lay the
spirit and essence of her beauty. They
made a point of placing the blame of it on
her illness; but Valerie herself knew bet-
ter. She knew that the change had struck

BOOK V.

f


164

VALERIE AYLMER.

deeper than the mere outside garb of hu-
manity; that an ineffaceable brand had been
set upon all the fair freshness of her life;
and that the woman who rose up from her
sick-bed to bear existence and its stern bur-
den of remorse, could never be one with
the girl who had cast herself in passionate
despair down upon it. It was in compliance
with her own request that, immediately af-
ter her recovery, General Aylmer took her
abroad. "I want to see Eugene," she said,
wistfully, "and I want to leave Amcrica% so
far behind that I need never think of 3t
again. Please, papa, let us go to France."
So to France they went-to that sunny Pro-
vence where Valerie's ancestorshad lived and
died for countless generations, and where the
young Confederate was supposed to b~ hard
at work surveying a new line of railway.
Gerald was perfectly competent to take care
of every thing at home; so the general
rented a modest chateau near Eugene's scene
of labor, and settled himself for a temporary
residence, hoping that the soft air and sunny
smiles of this fair region might bring back
health to his daughter's pale cheek-the
cheek which was such a serious discomfort
to a man who had a profound horror of
gloom or sadness iii any shape. He also con-
sidered that perhaps cheerful associates
might do something toward making Valerie
herself again; so he urged her to write to
Allx ]I~ivbire, then in Leijfsic, and invite her
to pay them a visit.
"Poor little Alix! I know she will
be glad enough to come," Valerie said,
thinking more of the home-sick child than
of herself; so she wrote the invitation,
which was eagerly accepted - very much
to Miss Fane's disgust. For, strangely
enough, as it may seem, and yet it was not
strange at all, Netta had accompanied her
friend abroad. "You need somebody to take
care of you," said this experienced friend,
"~ind you must have somebody-for what is
aman? I am old enough to do as I please,
you know, and, thank Heaven, I have enough
fortune left to pay my passage; so you need
not say a word, Valerie-I am going." And
Valerie, weary and sick, could only smile
in the bright, tender face, and answer, "I
haven't the least desire to say a word, dear.

Themere sght of you is good for me; and
I would rather hedi~ this news than any other
in the world." So the warm-hearted Louisi-
anian, who was, as she said, old enough to
go her own way without molestation1 who
was an orphan of moderate fortune, and who
loved Valerie Aylmer better than she did her
own sisters, packed her trunk, and an-
nounced her intention so decidedly that no-
body even thought of offering any opposition.
She could not help being disgusted, however,
when she heard that Alix Rivi~re had been
summoned to share their retreat; and she
absolutely reproached Valerie for yielding
the point.
"I know you don't want her your-
self," she said, "and the general is foolish
enough to think we can be 'cheered' by
a child with her head full of ehzftbfl8 and
admirers. She will be bored to death here;
and then she will bore us to death, and that
will be the end of it. I wish you had been
more firm, Valerie."
"I don't," said Valerie, in the languid
tone which was in such strong contrast to
her former brightness; "and you won't
either, Netta, when you see her. Her head
is no more full of ehijj'ons and admirers than
yours is; and, although it will be painful, I
shall be glad to see her again."
"Painful! Of course it will be pain-
ful; " thought Miss Fane, indignantly.
"More so than she has any idea herself-
poor dear! The general ought to be
ashamed of himself; but then I suppose he
oan't help it-being a man!" But it was a
great relief to her anxiety when she saw the
shy, gentle little creature in deep mourning,
witJ~ soft eyes and quiet ways, who made
her appearance, instead of the vivacious, self-
possessed young lady of the period that her
alarmed fancy had pictured. In five minutes,
she saw why Valerie had made no opposition
to this addition to their circle; and, although
Alix had arrived only the day before, they
were already good friends as they sat to-
gether on the terrace, enjoying the close of
that bright afternoon.
There was only one stranger in the party,
and he was leaning back against a broken
moss-grown sun-dial, while his bright, clear
eyes were roving from point to point like

LE I3EAU 4
a humming-bird's movements. This was
Eugene-Le 1~eau Cor~fiid&amp;~-who had once
made no mean fame for himself in the land
from which he was now an exile. Like
most of his countrymen, he was of goodly
stature, and straight as a pine on a Carolina
highland, with the small extremities that
betoken good blood, and the indefinable ease
of manner which attests good breeding,
with a cast of feature that was moderately
regular, and a complexion that had been
originally florid, but was now bronzed by
outdoor life to a healthy brown, save where
the white brow lay like a snow-drift under
the rich waves of brown hair. This hair
matched exactly the eyes that always looked
frank and sunny-let the brow above frown
ever so darkly-and the long trooper mus-
tache of the Confederate army-a mustache
which might perhaps have been more silken,
but could not possibly have been more lux-
uriant. Altogether, the young evile was
sufficiently attractive, even on the surface,
to make it a matter of little wonder that al-
most everybody fancied him on first sight,
and liked him cordially on second. He was
gay and pleasure-loving to a fault, but he
had a certain power of concentration not
often found united with a mould of charac-
ter so much inclining to the volatile, which
had frequently stood him in good stead. He
was also one of a large class who take very
little care of themselves, and of whom For-
tune seems fond of taking a great deal-
who are continually coming to grief in some
unforeseen manner, and, like a cat, continu-
ally failing on their feet. These are the kind
of people for whom lucky chances abound;
and who grow to expect them so confidently
that they rarely think it necessary to stretch
out a hand to make one for themselves-
people who are always missing some good
thing or other, that a little exertion wctuld
have secured to them, and then being re-
warded for this culpable carelessness by a
still more golden favor showering down upon
their graceless heads-people, altogether,
with whom it is impossible not to find con-
stant fault, and to whom it is equally impos-
sible not to give warm and honest regard.
Plainly, the young ex-colonel of artillery,
and present sub-surveyor of civil enginee~'s,

~ONF~D1~R~.                         165
had been accustomed, all his life, to obtain-
ing his own way by force of arms, or force
of any thing else that was necessary; and
plainly, also, he had not changed his habit in
changing his position.
After the coffee was disposed of, the
whole party had been silent for some time,
not so much for absolute want of some-
thi~ng to say, as from the pleasant indolence
which is apt to seize people occasionally,
and keep them quiet despite themselves. In
accordance with a special request of the
ladies, the two gentlemen were smoking,
and only a few desultory remarks were ex-
changed, a0 the golden light slowly faded
from the gray church-tower with its glitter-
ing cross, the valley lay in deep shadow, the
mountains wrapped themselves about in pur-
ple dusk, the sun went "down behind the
western hill to die," and only on the terrace
still lingered a rosy Claude light that seemed
to throw a tone of sentiment over the group,
when the diligence came slowly rumbling
past on its way to the village. It was a
warm, dusty sort of conveyance, and more
than one of the tired passengers looked out
at the white ehflteau and the pretty home-like
scene, as they passed, envying the fair, cool
retreat, it may be, and wondering vaguely
what aims and interests life held for those
to whom so much of life's good things
seemed to have fallen.
"What strange, uncomfortable things
those diligences are I', said Miss Fane, look-
ing after the heavy vehicle as it rolled on.
"I don't think I shall ever grow accustomed
to their appearance."
"Yet they seem so much in keeping with
every thing else here, that I shall be sincere-
ly sorry when Eugene's railroad comes,"
said Valerie, without turning round. "I like
them 1-they look so quaint and old; and
travelling must certainly be pleasanter in
them than in steamboats and cars, I should
think."
"You would not think so, if you had
ever tried it," said Eugene, dryly. "How-
ever, their day is over-naus a~ons o1iang~
tout oe~a. They have only one merit that
I know of-the ease with which one can
make acquaintances."
"That is a merit with every thing, so far


166                       VALERIE AYLMER.                                                           LE BEAU CONF1~D~RIi.                   167

as you are concerned, I believe," s4d the
general.
Eugene shrugged his shoulders in a way
he had caught from his French companions,
and given a certain expression of his own-
a way that spoke a great deal of gay ineou-
cianco without any trouble of words.
"You are perfectly right, sir," he an-
swered. "It's a trick one learns after living
a cosmopolitan life some little time. I make
it a rule to stand on ceremony with nobody,
and you have no idea how amazingly well
I find it answer. But then it isn't by any
means my monopoly. I thought, for in-
stance, I heard a good deal of talk in Paris
~about a certain travelling companion with
whom you crossed the Channel."
"You are mistaken," said Miss Fane.
"The person of whom you are speaking-
our friend of the bover boat, whom we
hoped to meet in Paris-was not the gen-
eral's acquaintan~aIat all, but Valerie's and
mine.-You ren{~mher, de~ar?"
"The cripple, you mean?" said Miss
Aylmer.
"Yes, the cripple-poor fellow!"
"Who was he?" asked Alix.
"Ind~ed I don't know," answered Miss
Fane. "We none of us found Qut any thing,
excepting that he was a very charming
gentleman, though an almost entirely help-
less cripple. You can't tell how pitiful it
was to see him lifted about like a child; and
he was so young, too-not more than thirty-
five or six, I am sure."
"Then his voice," said Valerie, breaking
in abruptly. "You remember how sweet it
was-and his face was so bright and cheer-
ful, whenever a paroxysm of pain was not
convulsing it."
"Poor fellow!" said Alix, with all her
heart in her tone. "What was his name?
-but I forgot you said you did not know.
How much he must have reminded you of
one of our dear soldiers! Perhaps he was
one of them."
"I don't think that is likely,' said Miss
Fane. "Indeed, I am sure he was not. I
think he must have been an Englishman."
"I thought people Were only injured
that way in war," said Alix, simply, "like
poor Frank Russell, who. was left for dead

in th.e trenches of Petersburg, you know.
What sort of a wound had this-this Eng-
lishman received?"
"He was evidently suffering from a
spinal injury of some sort," said General
Aylmer, "Probably it was only a case of
spinal disease," he added, carelessly. "He
was very agreeable; and, like Miss Netta, I
incline to think that he was an Englishman."
"There is one very good proof of it,"
said she. "Finding out where we were
from, he told me he felt with the Con-
federacy deeply, and that, if he had not been
a cripple, he would have been in our army."
"Beihg a cripple, he could afford to say
so," remarked Eugene, who had lived long
enough abroad to become very skeptical of
such professions.
"And that he had a brother in the ser-
vice.
"Tndecd! But I am sure he did not
mention his name."
"Eugene, you are one of the people
whom Sir Walter Scott classes as vulgarly
incredulous," said Valerie, turning round
with something of the sunset glow still
lingering in her eyes. "Good people, the
river mists are rising. Suppose we go into
the saloon?"
They all agreed with her; though it was
hard to leave the sweet outer dusk, with its
burnished horizon and silver stars; but when
they entered the saloon, where the globe-
like lamps showed such bright, clear lustre,
and every thing looked so cheerful, they
forgot the starlit terrace, and fell to their
usual occupations, while Eugene went at
once to the open piano.
"Come and sing some, Miss Rivi~re," he
said. "J have heard so much about your
voice, that~1 am prepared for any thing
short of astonishment."
Alix went at once~-thereby pleasiughim
much more than she was aware-and, while
she sang one of the charming Scotch ballads
which she thought likely to suit a taste that
could not be severely classical, the young
man leaned against the instrument, study-
ing, not the notes that floated in such silver
purity past his ear, but the fawn-like eyes
and the fair face of the young singer. Gen-
eral Aylmer took a budget of I'~ew-Orleans

papers over to a side-table, to open at his
leisure, while Valerie and Miss Fane sat
down to their needlework, and talked over
it in low tones, for the length of the room
divided them from the two at the piano.
It was a pleasant room, barring a cer-
tain emptiness of aspect, to which the eye
grew accustomed by degrees. The floor
was of dark, polished wood, with here and
there rich Turkey rugs covering portions of
it; the furniture, of ebony and damask, was
ancient and massive, and, though moth-eatei
in parts, still had a certain faded grandeur
of its own. Three or four full-length mir-
rors completed all the original furniture;
but there were traces of a new rt~gime in
the piano-a magnificent Erard-in Va-
lerie's work-table, in a flower-basket which
was suspended from the large chandelier, in
several Parisian cabinets and tables, in the
pleasant easy-chairs, and in the books and
journals which were scattered everywhere.
Altogether, notwithstanding its quaint, old-
fashioned aspect, a pleasanter drawing-room
need not have been desired-especially on a
soft summer evening when the windows
overlooking the terrace were all open; and
when moonlight and fragrance~ and the soft
ProvenQal air came in, together with the
distant murmur of the river.
"Did you like that?" asked Alix, ceas-
ing her song, and glancing up so suddenly,
that she quite took her companion by sur-
prise, and absolutely made the young
gentleman look confused for the space of a
second. "You did not tell me what you pre-
ferred; and a ballad suits almost everybody."
"Yes," he said, hastily. "I liked it
very much; and-and my taste in music is
certainly not very cultivated. Sing some-
thing else, won't you?"
"Don't you sing at all yourself?"
"I whistle Partant pour Za Syrie-ttiat
is all."
She laughed. "So that is your taste, is
it? I am afraid my sentiment did not suit
you, then. I should~have sung something
martial-only my repertoire is not very ex-
tensive in that line. I learned K3rner's
Sword-song the other day, and shocked my
maestro very much by singing it for him.
But-"

She stopped with a suddenness which
her companion did not understand, and
looked apprehensively toward the other end
of the room.
"Well," he could not help asking," what
is the matter?"
"Nothing," she saidhurriedly, and speak-
ing very low; "but I forgot-I should not
have mentioned that before Valerie. I hope
she did not hear me. It would make her
think of-of Mr. Romney, who used to sing
it; and I would not do that for the world.
No; I cannot sing any more just now-after
a while, perhaps."
She rose as she spoke, and left the piano,
Eugene following, by no means well pleased.
He could not understand what 'a horrible
reality that tragedy was to her, ~which to
him had been only a far-off story; nor how
vividly: her own words had recalled the
memory of Julian Romney's living presence.
So, although he followed her to the work-
table, where Valerie and Miss Fane were
sitting, he did not exert himself to be very
companionable, and in fact stood gazing ab-
sently out of the window while the others
talked of the news from the seat of war-
the Prusso-Austrian campaign of '66 was
in full jirogress-and especially of the per-
sonal items which Charley Hautaine's letters
furnished, he being regi.ilarly enrolled in the
Austrian service. It was Net1~a's voice at
last that roused him from his reverie.
"By-the-by, Eugene," she was saying,
"I wonder you never looked upon this war
as a chance for action-you who, like Char-
ley, call yourself condottiere."
"Because, unlike Charley, I don't see the
beauty or utility of having my brains blown
out to settle the Schleswig-Holstein question,
or determined whomtheQuadrilateralrlght-
fully belongs," answered he, carelessly.
"I thought I heard you not long ago'
giving your opinion as to whom it rightfully'
belongs?"
"To Austria? Well and good. Let
Austria keep it . then-if she can. I have'
neither concern nor interest in the matter."
Valerie looked up from her work at the-
young man's half-careless, half-scornful face.
"I am sorry to see that you are becoming
narrow-minded in your sympatbie;" she:


168                       VALERIE AYLMER~                                                                SURSUM CORDA.                         169

said. "A few years ago, you would have
been all interest and fire in this matter."
"A few years ago, my dear sister, I had
a little surplus sympathy and interest to dis-
pose of-oaow I have none. I doubt much
if Ismael measured matters by any other
than the ego standard; and I and all my
kind are Ismaels now. I owe nothing to the
world, nothing to civilization, nothing to the
rights and wrongs of national quarrels. As
an exile and an alien, I stand apart from them
all; and who is up or down in the scale of
the world, matters little or nothing to me."
Alix's soft eyes looked at him in appar-
ent reproach. Evidently the little lady was
not prepared to endorse this creed; and,
meeting her glance, Eugene addressed him-
self to her without a moment's warning.
~ You don't agree with me, Miss Rivi~re.
Why not?"
"I-oh, dear! I am sure I said nothing,"
answered Alix, quite taken aback. "I con-
fess I don't agree with you, Colonel Aylmer;
but then-I'm only a woman, you know, and
so my opinion is not of any importance."
"I wonder who has been telling you that
nonsense?" said the uncivil Eugene. "Of
course, your opinion is of importance-of the
greatest importance, in fact. Come, let me
see if I can't make you agree with mc. Why
do you think I'm wrong?"
Thus singled out for combat, Alix looked
appealingly round at her companions. Argu-
ment was not at all her' forte, and she al-
ways shirked it if she could. "Oh, please.
don't ask me," she said. "Valerie and Miss
Fane
"I don't care about hearing the opinion
of Valerie and Miss Fane," interrupted the
still more uncivil Eugene. "I want your
own reasons for thinking me wrong. You
must have reasons, you know-or else you
could not have an opinion. Come, let me
shear them! I want to convince you."
"Suppose I don't care about being con-
vinced?"
-"Ret~sonable people always do care, if
they are wrong."
* Fenced into a corner in this way, Alix
had nothing to do bat make the best of the
situation, and try to explain herself.
"I don't know," she said, "but it seems

to me there's such a thing as abstract right
and wrong, isn't there? Well, it seems to
me as if right was right, and wrong was
wrong, the same now as ever; and I think
one ought always to feel with the right, and
against the wrong."
"But suppose you don't take interest
enough in the matter to care to find out who
is wrong and who is right?"
"Then I think you're in a bad way your-
self," said she, gravely. "People ought al-
ways to ta ore not, they grow to
be narro , and selfish, and all that sort of
thing, yo know."
"The I'm afraid I must bring myself in
guilty o being narrow, and selfish, and all
that so t of thing!" he said. "Honestly, I
don't care a fig who is down or who is up.
The nations of the earth stood by silent and
apathetic while we were fighting desperately
for more than life; and now I should de-
spise myself if I raised a voice, far less a
sword, for one of them. In fact, I have no
care-I don't pretend to say it is right, for
it may be a11 wrong-but I have no care for
any thing save self-interest."
Alix shook her head despairingly. He
was all wrong-she felt that instinctively;
but she also felt that he was beyond her
powers of putting right. "There is such a
thing as heroism for the sake of heroism,~~
she said, in last appeal.
"Perhaps there may be for Bayards and
Sidneys and the like," answered Eugene,
with the scoff of the nineteenth century on
his face. "But I am not a Bayard or a
Sidney-in fact, I'm only a commonplace
man, who thinks a great deal more of him-
self than of heroism in general, or heroism
in particular, either. Don't look so shocked,
Miss Rivi~re! It's all right that you should
believe such things, and I wouldn't shake
your faith in them for the world-"
"You couldn't," put in she, indignantly.
"EI&amp; bien I" said the young cynic, with
a shrug of his superior masculine shoulders,
"I don't mean to try. But you may con-
vince me, if you want to. Will you do so?"
"That is nonsense," said Alix, severely.
"You think I have only a woman's foolish,
visionary idea; and then you talk of my
convincing you, who are evidently as obsti-

natel~r set in your own way of thinking as
possible. It is nonsense!"
"Indeed it isn't," said he, smiling.
"Only try. I will be very good, I promise
you. And indeed I stand sorely in need of
missionary labors."
"I don't think there's a doubt of that,"
returned she, sincerely. And something in
her tone made Eugene laugh so heartily,
that at last she was fain to join, and from
that moment a league was struck, and they
were friends.
CHAPTER II.
SUBSUM cOnDA.
Iv was late on the afternoon of the next
day, and the sun was throwing long shad-
ows across the terrace, and the formal gar-
den, that lay on one side of it, when Valerie
came forth from the chateau alone, and took
her way down to the village.
It was not a long walk, for just beyond
the gates a small river flashed over its
rocky bed, and was spanned by a bridge-a
single arch of heavy masonry-which was
the beginning or end, as the case might be, of
a crooked street. Prom this bridge the view
of the surrounding country was beautiful.
Not so extensive or varied, not even so pic-
turesque a view as might have been gained
from any of the heights near by; but full
of the alternation and contrast, the half-
hidden beauties and snatches of distant
loveliness which add so much to the charm
of a landscape. It was like a sweet, serene
idyl of pastoral love and content~to stand
on the dark old arch with the bright river
flowing beneath, the vine-clad banks on
each hand, the purple mountains rising in
the background, the golden fields opening
sunny vistas only to be abruptly broken by
some stretching belt of dark woods, the
quiet village with its gray church-tower
below, and over all the blue, intensely blue
sky, of this most fair and pleasant nook~. in
all the fair and pleasant land of France.
That Miss Aylmer was quite well known
in the village was very evident. The blue-

blouse men whom she met took their pipes
from their mouths to salute her-there was
scarcely one of the bright-faced women who
had not a "Bon. jour, mademoiselle "-and
the little children, as she passed, rushed tu-
multuously forward to secure a smile or word
of greeting. It had been a strange, foreign
scene, this village, to the child of the transat-
lantic, when she first looked upon it-recall-
ing nothing so much as old pictures that
she had seen, or the yet more vivid pictures
which imagination had drawn from the word-
painting of pens that had dipped themselves
in all the warm beauty of the south-but
already it all seemed as familiar as if from
the knowledge of years. All the tall
houses, with their green blinds and over-
hanging balconies, all the narrow dark ~
streets, and all the glimpses of green trees
and sunny walks, as some garden-door was
left open, had grown as natural to her sight
as the landmarks of her native city. Even
the Place (once the Place Royal, now the
Place Imp~riale), with its restaurants and
wine-shops, its shade-trees and benches,
together with the beautiful front of its
church, had grown to wear a friendly fa-
miliarity to her. And there were well~
known faces here also-faces that smiled
a friendly greeting to the young foreigner,
and looked kindly after her, as she crossed
the square with her shaft-straight carriage,
and sweeping robes of silver gray.
Having made the trifling purchase which
hadbeenherostensibleobjectincomingtothe
village, Valerie went to the church. It was
very cool and dark, and a great contrast to
the gay, sunshiny square outside, when she
drew back the baize door and met a half-
dreamy fragrance of incense floating in the
quiet air; for it was a salt's day of obliga-
tion, and high mass had been celebrated in
the morning. A few candles were burning
at the side altars; a few women were tell-
ing their beads, as they knelt on the stone
floor before them, and a golden nimbus
poured from one high window over a palm-
crowned martyr's marble head! It was all
like and yet unlike that distant cathedral
by the Chesapeake, or that more distant
and yet dearer one to the exile's yearning
heart, by the blue waves of the Mexic Sea!


170                       VALERIE AYLMER.                                                             SURSUM CORDA.                        171

After she had finished her altar-prayer,
Valerie went softly up to ~the organ-loft,
aiid in a few minutes a flood of melody rolled
forth, and seemed to bathe aisle and altar, pic-
tures and statues, in a halo as golden as the
falling sunshine. What she played, it is im-
possible to say; she could not, indeed, have'
told herself; for the deep tones of the music
slumbering in those mighty pipes seemed
to. mass themselves, as it were, into har-
monies, and her hands wandered over "the
beautiful cold keys," in chords that might
have been only recollections of other
strains, but that were for the time steeped
in herself, and made as eloquent of her own
heart as if that heart had found voice in ab-
solute words. Louder and fuller rolled the
tide of melody, swelling under the stone
arches and up to the vaulted roof like the
solemn chant of a kneeling host, then dying
away into low supplication, like the single
cry of some fainting soul! It was evidently
an accustomed thing to the women below,
for they did not even turn their heads, as
the grand notes rolled forth; but pursued
their devotions with stolid fervor, while
wave after wave of harmony swept over
them, and the very air seemed vibrating
with the passionful power of the music.
And, when a stranger who was standing just
inside the door stopped an outgoer to in-
quire concerning the musician, he received
only a stare, and a surprised" O'~8t made-
moieefle la bSlle An~flaise!"
This stranger had evidently been strange-
ly attracted by the musicfor, moving with
extreme difficulty across the floor-he was
on crutches-he took his seat immediately
below the loft, and quite in the shade of one
of its large pillars. There he remained mo-
tionless for nearly an hour-remained until
the music at last died away like waves ebb-
ing and breaking on a barren shore, and
silence settled over the church. He sighed
then, strangely and wistfully, and only almost
as he did so, a light step sounded at his side,
and a shimmering dress swept by him tow-
ard the open air.
Gathering up his crutches, he rose and
followed as quickly as was possible. But,
with all his haste, he would have been too
late for Valerie, if she had not paused on

the church-steps to say a few words of
thanks to the child who had worked the
pipes for her. She was on the point of
turning away, when that peculiar noise pro~
duced by crutches on a stone pavement
caused her to look around, and she sawa
man coming toward her whom she at once
recognized as the invalid-cripple of the Do-
ver boat.
People-especially people of very sensi-
tive nerves-generally turned away, when
they met this man, and said to each other,
with a shudder: "What a dreadfully pain-
ful sight!" But again there were others-
especially th~se who had looked at him long
-who felt as if they would ask nothing bet-
ter than to look at him forever-for to do
so was a grander sermon than ever sound-
ed from any pulpit! He was a man who
might naturally have been above the me-
dium height, and strongly made; hut who
was now bent-partly by intense physical
pain, partly by the habitual use .of crutches
-until he seemed to have lost several inches
of stature. From the waist his lower limbs
hung in semi-paralyzation; and his gar-
ments fitted what was once a man's muscu-
lar frame, as if hung on the dry bones of a
skeleton. It did shock unutterably to see
this, to watch the hands clinch themselves
together, and the head bow itself down upon
the chest, in some fierce paroxysm of agony;
but there could be nothing of such a feeling,
nothing even of pity, when the face raised
itself again-stamped though it was with
the drear signet of pain !-and the great
soul looked at you calmly and bravely
through the clear blue eyes. A great soul it
was !-few greater have ever lived and
striven to endure! Most men, seeing life
and all life's uses lie shattered before them
-all its bright ambition, all its golden
pleasure, all its magic love, killed at one
sheer stroke !-realizing that death alone
would release from an existence of torture,
and that to live in the world was to live for-
ever apart from the world, most men would
have closed such a prospect very summarily.
And if the courage to end existence-for, let
people cant as they will, it ia a certain sort
of courage which suicide requires-had been~
lacking, there were yet fewer who would

not have sunk into a moody despair that
neither hope nor promise could lighten by
one ray of cheer. This man had done
neither. On the lined face there was a se-
rene light, around the mouth a smile so ge2-
tIe that "the sweetest lips that ever were
kissed "might have envied it, in the eyes a
light ever kindly and pleasant, on the brow
a patience nothing less than sublime. The
face might have been handsome once, but
symmetry of outline and freshness of color-
ing had forever'departed now-leaving only
the noble power, yet nobler fruits of endur-
ance, that had laid their own charm upon
the wasted lines, and sealed them with a
beauty far above the beauty of flesh.
As the stranger paused before Valerie,
he rested his crutch under his arm, and
raised his hand with a sort of cavalier grace
that in him was at once inexpressibly touch-
ing and inexpressibly charming, uncovered a
head where the chestnut curls lay in rich
profusion, curls so like those that crowned
another head-a head which even then
might be sleeping beneath the tropic sod-
that Valerie's heart gave one quick throb
that nearly suffocated her.
"I did not know," he said, in a peculiar-
ly soft and musical voice, "that the invisible
musician would prove to be my fair travel-
ling companion. May I not recall myself
to her recollection, and at the same time
thank her for the pleasure she has afforded
me?"
The tone and manner in themselves
would have proved a passport to favor; and
Valerie at once extended her hand, with a
smile.
"I am glad to have afforded you pleas-
ure, and still more glad to see you," she
said, simply and cordially. "This is avery
pleasant surprise. I had scarcely hoped we
should meet again."
The stranger smiled slightly.
"I was sure we should-some time," he
said. "But I, too, scarcely hoped that it
would be so soon, orzso unexpectedly. I
congratulate you, however, on finding this
lovely provincial nook. It is a favorite re-
sort of mine; and I felt, when I arrived last
night, a sense of ease and refreshment in the
very air."

"Last night!" repeated Valerie, with a
slight start of surprise. "In the diligence?
Excuse me, but it seems so strange !-we
saw it as it passed our chAteau, and it made
us all think of you. We were talking of
you, and wondering about you for some
time afterward."
"Your chAteau!" said the stranger, and
it was now his turn to look surprised. "Do
you mean the chAteau just beyond the river
.-the one belonging to the De Launay fam-
ily? Really, I consider this quite~singular,
for I was very much attracted by the ap-
pearance of the group on the terrace, and
asked old Tonsard who was living there.
He told me an English family."
"They seem to consider us English
here," Valerie said, apologetically. "It
seems impossible to make them understand
differently; and in truth I am not very sor-
ry : I am afraid that, if they knew we were
Americans, they might consider us Yan-
kees," she added, gravely.
"There would be no danger of that, if
they had ever seen any of the latter," said
her companion, smiling amusedly. "And
you are living here, then?"
"Yes, we are living here-temporarily,
at least-and it enables me to say that we
shall be very glad to see you at the chA-
teau," she added-" for I suppose you mean
to spend some time in our neighborhood."
It was a strange invitation to be given
so frankly, by a young girl to a man, of
whom she knew nothing; but the old hos-
pitable habit of her Southern rearing was
strong upon Valerie; and then she felt so
old and grave, so separated by a deep gulf
from her girlhood and all connected with it,
that she would scarcely have hesitated if
the case had been much more extreme.
The stranger looked a little a~tonislmed-he
evidently had not expected such a prompt
waiving' of ceremony-but the sudden ex-
pression that swept ever his face proved
how much he was charmed by the grave,
gentle dignity with which it had been done.
Yet, he did not answer for a moment. In-
deed, he hesitated for several moments bed
fore speaking; 'then it was rather slowly:
"You are very kind, Miss Aylmer.
Ah !-" for Valerie started-" you see I


172                          VALERIE
know your name. I heard your servant
mention it before I saw you, though I think
I should have known you instinctively. I
have heard a great deal of you, and I had a
very fair picture of you in my mind."
He had heard a great deal of her! Sure-
ly there was nothing surprising in that.
Scores of people, whom she had never seen,
might have said the same thing; and scores
whom she had seen might readily have men-
tioned her name to this stranger, and yet-
and yet there was no reason for it at all,
but she gazed at him with very startled eyes.
"You have heard of me?" she repeated.
"That is very strange, for I-I hardly think
we have any acquaintances in common."
He looked at her with something very
sad and wistful in his deep.blne eyes. They
were walking slowly across the Place by
this time, and more than one of the villa-
gers, who did not understand the unknown
tongue, noticed how singularly preoccupied
both of them were. Yet there was nothing
morethanusualinthestranger'svoiceand
manner when he answered:
"You are right. We have no acquaint-
ances in common; but I think we possess
at least one friend. I did not mean to offer
at once the only claim which I can advance
on your kindness; but-well, perhaps lt is
best after all. Mademoiselle, Maurice Darcy
is your cousin, and it has made amends for
much misfortune in my life that he is also
my brother."
The simple words were spoken with so
much deep and evident feeling that, for a
second, Valerie scarcely realized the fact
which they stated. Then a dim memory
swept over her of having heard something
like this before; of Madame Vacquant hav-
ing once said in the agee long ago, when she
did not care for Maurice, that he had a
brother-a half-brother-who was an im-
becile, or a cripple, or something of the
sort. And now she knew that this was the
man. It came over her with a rush-a sud-
den, indescribable sensation of almost joy.
It was something belonging to him-some-
thing that was his- some link between
them, severed though they were-and so
there was more gladness than surprise in
the tone that said quickly:

AYLMER'

"You I-you his brother I"
"Yes," the cripple answered, almost
sadly. "You would scarcely think it, but I
am his brother."
They were passing just then under the
shade of a tall, dark house with .overhang.
ing balconies, where only one or two chil.
dren were playing in the door-way; but
even these looked surprised to see Valerie
pause and turn to her companion-her hand
extended, and her eyes shining with the
first gleam of pleasure that had flickered
into them for many months.
"I greeted you as a stranger a little
while ago," she said, in a low, quivering
tone, "but now I bid you welcome as Mau-
rice's brother. I am very, very glad to
know you. Tell me something about him.
Is he well-is he happy?"
"He was well when I heard from him
last," the other replied. "But-do you
think he is likely to be happy?"
"I hoped so," she answered, quickly.
"And, indeed, why not?"
"Why not?" It was something of in-
dignation which came into those honest blue
eyes. "Why not? Mademoiselle, you can
ask me that?"
She smiled faintly, for she knew what
he meant, and it seemed strange to her that
any one should think she had still any
power over the man who had left her with
such cold scorn.
"Yes," she said; "I asked it in all sin.
cerity. There is not, as far as I know, any
reason why he should not be happy."
"You think that he-he of all men-
could cast off feeling like a worn glove?"
"No," she answered, a little drearily.
"I only think-I only know-that he is
what few men are-his own master. I am
sure that, if any feeling troubled him, he
would put it down under his foot, and it
would never stir again. Therefore I hope
that he is happy-indeed, I can scarcely
doubt it. I only trust, for your sake, that
he will soon return. Does he speak of doing
so?"
Her companion shook his head. "He
does not speak of it at all. I hardly think
he will return until the fate of the empire is
decided-one way or another. He is a horn

THlE SIT1VI

soldier-my poor Maurice 1-and I would
not wish him other than where he is, if I
could only be with him. Sometimes I am
ungrateful enough to feel it hard that he is
there, while I, his younger brother, whose
place should be at his side, am here."
He spoke almost unconsciously, more as
if thinking aloud than talking; and then he
caught an astonished look on Valerie's face
which made him wonder what he had said
to excite it. Her next almost involuntary
words enlightened him:
"His youngerbrother! Ah, pardon me"
(for she suddenly felt her own rudeness),
"but it ~
"Very strange, no doubt," he said, con-
cluding her unfinished sentence. "But,
then, it is true, you know. My mother was
our father's second wife; and I am much
younger than Maurice. Indeed, I fear you
will hardly believe me when I tell you that
I am only twenty-five."
Only twenty-five! She was so much
startled, so unfeignedly shocked by this
statement, that for more than a minute she
could only look at him in awe-struck sur-
prise. Only twenty-five-and bearing upon
the shoulders of sixty the face of welinigh
forty!
"Only twenty-five!" she repeated, as if
by an irresistible impulse. "Oh, how cruel
God has been to you!"
The cripple lifted his hat-reverentially,
as if he had stood upon a sanctuary thresh-
old.
"His will be done! "he said, calmly.
And in the act and tone was that which
humbled her to the dust. There, in the
wreck of years and youth, with his dead
hopes clinging round him, and the sad vision
of his past life rising before him, this man
could say, with such sublime simplicity,
"His will be done;" while to her all God's
bounteous gifts had turned to ashes, and
denial of Him in her heart had almost come,
because He seemed to deal hardly with the
human needs and hunian impulses Himself
had created!
"I am rebuked," she said, handing her
head with strange humility. "And yet I,
too, have striven to feel that, for I too have
suffered! Oh, if you would only teach me

a little at least of' the patience which can
enable you to bear so much!"
Jie laid his thin, wasted hand down upon.
hers. She never afterward forgot that
scene-the last golden sunshine streaming
through the linden-boughs, or the light on
Gaston Darcy's face.
"We can all of' us learn the patience to
endure any thing that lie pleases to send,"
he said. "But that patience is born of
love and trust."
-4--
CHAPTER III.
THE SILVER LINING.
PERHAPs it was only an exemplification
of that most merciful law in all God's mer-
ciful providence-the law of calm succeeding
tempest-which gave some very quiet and
peaceful days to the chateau, after this-
some days which came very unexpectedly,
but were nevertheless welcomed and en-
joyed as people only welcome and enjoy
things of which they have been long de-
prived. At General Aylmer's hospitable
entreaty, Mr. Darcy left his village quarters
to make a temporary abode with them; Eu-
gene came and went, bringing his gay young
engineer friends for short visits, which they
enjoyed amazingly; Alix brightened into
her old self, and listed like a mocking-bird
about the quaint old garden and shady
courts; the few chAteaux in the neighbor-
hood condescended to recognize tl~e new-
comers and exchange civilities: while Netta
Fane, who was watching all this very sus-
piciously, took heart and comfort when she
saw how well Valerie bore it. Yet in truth,
if she had only known it, Valerie scarcely
heeded it at all. The tide of life whi~h sud-
denly flowed in upon them was very pleas-
ant to every one else; so, even, in her own
mind, she did not wish the conventual seclu-
sion of the first mouth or two back again;
but, naturally enough, the bright faces and
the gay tones, the laughter and the happi-
ness, jarred upon her; and she drew herself
away from it, not outwardly, but inwardly,
which is, after all, the better and more com-
plete way. She devoted herself to Gaston


144  VAERIE AMER.THE SILVER LINING-                                                                            1~

flarcy, for the sweet, subtle charm of his
beautiful patience, his sunny, even nature,
became daily more powerful and more po-
tent for good. But the others felt instinc-
tively that, though she was among, she was
not of them. No one ever knew her fail in
a duty of courtesy or hospitality; but be-
yond that there was a barrier which seemed
to bar further progress. In fact, this was a
transition period of Valerie's life, a period
when sorrow threatened to deepen into mel-
ancholy, and natural remorse into morbid
gloom, and when it was well for her that
there chanced to be a monitor near at hand
to speak gentle counsel and offer kind en-
couragement. The first shock of stunned
grief was over, the first horror of self-re-
proach had given way to calmer reason,
but a weary, listless apathy, a deadened tor-
por had crept over her, numbing her brain,
and chilling her heart into a lethargy from
which she felt little desire to rouse herself.
Gaston Darcy never did a better deed than
when he broke in upon this darkness with
his life which was more eloquent than many
words. And Valerie listened to him as she
would not have listened to any other on
earth, for he was not only Maurice's broth-
er, he was not only saint-like, in the perfec-
tion of his faith and resignation, but he
spoke "fts of knowledge." That was the
great secret of it. He had suffered. He did
not preach as those who, from regions of
tranquil security, exhort the quivering soul
to hope and courage, but as one who had
traversed the dark valley before reaching
the heights beyond. Love and trust I The
words came to her dimly, With a far-off
sound, but 'yet she felt their glory and
beauty out of the very depths of herwretch-
edness. They had been mere names to her,
as, alas! to so many of us, symbols of some-
thing transcendental and unattainable-.
something only half understood, and wholly
unregarded, but now-ah, now ~man love
came a~uide and teacher of tha1~Tove which
is divine. For, after all, it seems as if these
poor hearts of ours are only to be trained
upward by props, as if our earthly affec-
tions are only the steps by which we climb
slowly toward the higher affection that is
waiting to absorb all, as if we are taught

the knowledge of love by its mortal objects,
only that, when they fall away, we may look
into our hearts, and, recognizing their infi-
nite capacity, their boundless capability of
passion, learn the best lesson of mortality-
the lesson that finite love is only given to
show the depth and mystery of love which
is Infinite.
Slowly and by degrees, this knowledge
came to Valerie, softening her passionate re-
pining, lightening her dull, heavy grief into
the calm of something like resignation. Yes,
her earthly love had at least done her this
service-it taught h~r the depths of her own
nature as she had never even imagined them
before, itmade herrealize the possibility of ab-
negation, and sacrifice, and self-forgetfulness,
and those like things which the world deems
veriest folly, but on which the angels of God
look with loving eyes; it waked her from
trifles to realities, it killed utterly all the old
leaven of vanity and pride, and gave instead
that sad, bitter humility which is more
fruitful of good than all else whatever, save
only God's grace. She accepted the end
which had come to all her hopes very quietly
-never once dreaming of rebellion after that
awful blow which had showed her all at once
the depth and darkness of the gulf on which
she had trifled so loi~g. She 1-how should
she dare to dream of happiness, with the
guilt of blood upon her soul; for would not
Julian Romney have been among the living
if her face had never crossed his path I And
would not that memory rise up to haunt her
if she could forget it long enough to love
and be loved again? No, Maurice was right
-right to leave her coldly, almost cruelly, as
he had done. She was no fitting wife for
him, and the end was better as it was. He
had done well to scorn her, well to think he
could never trust her again-she deserved it
all. Now, at least, she conld offer her hive,
her life, her very self, perhaps, some day, in
expiation of the bitter wrongs she had
wrought, of the cruel use to which she had
put her many gifts. Something of this was
written on her face one day, as Netta Fane
watched it at benediction; and when they
rose to leave the church, the twilight gloom
of which was scarcely dissipated by the
myriad tapers shining like stars on the high

altar, and, glancing back from the silver
monstrance which had just been lifted in
blessing, she said, abruptly:
"You know the proverb about every
cloud having a silver lining-well, I think
that perhaps you will find the lining to yours
after a while, Valerie."
But she was not prepared for the shrink-
ing start which Valerie gave.
"Hush!" she said, and her voice thrilled
with a strange awe in it through the falling
dusk. "Never say that again, Netta-never!
If it were only for myself; do you think I
should not have found it long ago in the con-
viction that I have deserved every thing? But
for-for "
Since the day of his death, she had never
spoken Romney's name, and it was wcllnigh
impossible to do so now. But Netta knew
what she meant, of whom she was thinking,
and Netta gave a great gasp over the knowl-
edge. It was hard for her not to speak her
mind out on the subject; a much greater
self-denial than Vale'ie ever appreciated;
for, with all the zeal of a thorough partisan,
Miss Fane directed the whole weight of her
indignation against the man who had been
mad enough and foolish enough to throw his
life down at a woman's feet. "He deserved
nothing better than to be shot!" thought
this stanch friend and advocate; "I only
wish I dared tell Valerie exactly what I
think of him!'~ But Miss Fane was discre-
tion itself-at least on important occasions.
She knew that she did not dare to do any
thing of the kind; that she would only make
matters worse, *uid that Valerie needed to
recover the healthful tone of her mind by
slow degrees; so she only said: "Look l~ow
the lights gleam from the chAteau! They
are very home-like and pleasant, don't you
think so? And yonder is Alix on the ter-
race, I see, with somebody else in attend-
ance. Eugene must have arrived."
"There is nothing more likely," Valerie
said, glancing in the direction indicated, as
they crossed the bridget. "Eugene does not
seem to find the least difficulty about getting
off duty; and his visits are certainly much
more frequent since Mix came.~~
"Yes," answered Miss Fane, with her
dry, shrewd smile. "I think I can con-

gratulate you on your future sister-in-law.
There are not many people who are as fortu-
nate as you will be in this respect."
"You mean-?"
"I mean, of course, that Master Eugene
is in earnest at last, and that Alix seems by
no means averse to his suit."
Valerie looked at her friend as if a new
and strange idea had been suddenly pre-
sented to her. "I never thought of that
before," she said, simply. And the remark,
which was a very true one, proved in itself
how deep her preoccupation had been, how
little her real self had mingled with the peo-
ple among whom she moved.
There is a great deal in having the eyes
opened to an affair of this kind, however;
and, now that Valerie's wore couched, she
saw how just Netta's conclusions were. She
had seen Eugene so often in love, that it had
rather grown to be his normal state in her
eyes; but there was no mistaking the fact
that this was something more than a com-
monplace love-affair with him. She watched
him that night-for of course it proved to be
himself who had been loitering on the terrace
with Alix, in the summer dusk-and realized
with amazement how blind she had been.
Yes, there was not a doubt of it; the boy
was in earnest at last. La lelle de8 belle,
who had seen so much of love in her life,
was the most unlikely person in the world
to doubt the sign-tokens of the familiar pas-
sion-the last person in the world not to
understand the quick lights and shadows
which chased each other over the young
~ face at a word from Alix's lips, or the
tender gleam in his eyes whenever they
rested on that dainty brown head bent over
the board where Mr. Darcy was vainly try-
ing to teach her the mystery and science of
chess. It was quite hopeless, however; and
Eugene was very glad when she laid her-
self open to an. ignominious checkmate, thus
ending the game, and giving him an oppor-
tunity to bear her off to the piano, while the
general took her vacated seat. Then Valerie
still watched them, with a growing wonder
over her own previous obtuseness. It was
all so plain 1-all Alix's pretty tyranny and
Eugene's devoted slavery! So plain that, as
she looked, a very pleasant sketch of the

1:74

VALERIE AYLMER.

175


176                           VALERIE
future rose before her. Alix and Eugene
would marry and settle here, the general
might go back to Louisiana, if he wi~nted to,
but she and Netta would remain. A wing
of the chAteau could be fitted up for them,
so that when the others took flight-as of
course they would very often-their life
would flow on all the same. She fancied
herself niched in this quiet nook while the
great world roared and rushed beyond, and
dreamed a life something like the lives led
by the chAtelains of old time, a life of serene
contemplation, yet active with good works,
a life in which she saw the children sh~
would teach, the sick she would attend, the
charity she would bestow, and, more than
all, the peace she would win. For that,
after all, was the great point-peace, rest,
repose of conscience, quiet of heart, all those
things which we possess in anticipation or
in retrospection, but rarely indeed in the
reality of the present. Valerie went on
dreaming of them, however, in time to those
exquisite strains of the Moonlight Sonata
which Alix was softly playing; and then she
started, when, with a crash, the nimble
fingers glided into the chords of some mar-
tial air for which Eugene had preferred a
petition, and smiled us she realized how en-
tirely all her fabric of thought had l~een
built on a probability-a probability which
others besides herself discerned, however;
for, when she looked up, Gaston Darcy
laughed and said: "Did that abrupt change
of measure startle you? For my part, I
think I should have asked for a wedding
march-I am very fond of Mendelssohn's."
Meanwhile, Eugene, who was not at all
an indeterminate sort of person, but always
knew his own mind perfectly well, had very
little objection to anybody or everybody's
seeing that he was thoroughly in earnest,
and that it would be no fault of his if Alix
did not consent to share his adventurous
fortunes. He did not entertain much fear of
the result, either; for what could be easier
than to teach this gentle, confiding little
creature the lesson of love which she seemed
horn to learn? He could not help thinking,
too1.what a fortunate thing it was that he
had. not married any one of half a dozen
girls with whom he had been on the brink

AYLMER.

of matrimony in the past, but that Fate had
reserved him for such a happy fortune as this.
"She suits me as nobody ever suited me
before," he thought. "She is a perfect little'
pearl-so exquisitely dainty and refined,
that it is impossible that she could be im-
proved. There is such an air of repose, too,
in every thing she does; and she never of-
fends by a loud tone or an awkward move-
ment, like these dreadful prononc~ women
who have become the fashion of the day.
Her profession is the only drawback, and I
would soon put an end to all that. It is
hard enough to think that she ever was
subjected to such a trial, my poor little
flower!"
The poor little flower, however, was by
no means of his way of thinking on this
point, and many were the battles to which
their difference of opinion gave rise. "You
are illiberal; you have no culture," Alix
would say, indignantly. "You don't know
any thing about how an artist feels toward
art. I love music for music's sake, and not
for the fame and the noise you talk about.
The people who go to hear me sing don't
think of me-they think of my voice, and
that is what I think of too."
"I don't care what they think of;" Eugene
would retort; "but it is not a fit place for you.
And if I had been your-your brother, you
never should have set your foot on any stage
under heaven-no, not for an hour 1"
"I am very glad you were not my brother,
then," Alix would say. And, as Eugene could
not honestly declare that he was sorry, the
matter generally ended there. Apart from
this subject of dispute, they might be said to
get on very smoothly, however; and mat-
ters certainly looked very much as if Va-
lerie might soon be called upon to welcome
a sister-in-law whom she could thoroughly
love and approve-a gift of fortune which, as
Miss Fane very sensibly said, not many peo-
ple are lucky enough to possess.
This evening, like many evenings which
had gone before, was a very golden one to
the young Confederate. He had Alix all to
himself; with nobody to interfere, to distract
her attention, or to make him jealous. The
two gentlemen playing chess, and the two
ladies stitching away at their needlework,

THE SILVI
were as much apart from the two at the
piano, as if an ocean instead of a room had
divided them; 'and, although Alix sung a
snatch of song now and then, it was impossi-
ble not to perceive that music played a very
small part in their mutual entertainment .
They were both very agreeably engaged, and
Eugene at least Was in Arcadia-but, even
into Arcadia, disturbances sometimes come;
and his, if he had only been able to foresee
it, was not far off. When he bade Alix good-
night at the end of the corridor that evening,
he did not know that he was also bidding
adieu to all the tranquil charm of their inter-
course- and perhaps it was as well for him
that he did not. At least we are told to
be thankful that "Heaven from all mortals
hides the book of fate," and there is no doubt
but that Eugene's slumbers would scarcely
have been so sound, his dreams scarcely so
sweet that night, if he had eveu faintly
guessed what the next day had in store for
him.
Yet the next day passed away very much
like most days until near its close. The
ladies spent the morning on the terrace, tri-
fling over their sewing and embroidery;
while Mr. Darcy and Eugene read aloud to
them by turns froni a volume of B6ranger's
which the latter had brought. "You talk
about poetry," he said, one day. "I will
show you something which is worth all that
stuff of Lamartine and Hugo put together!"
So he made his appearance with those stir-
ring verses which in their day electrified all
young France. They did a good deal to
electrify the company that heard them that
morning, and the ringing measure was still
echoing in Valerie's mind when she went
to dress for dinner. It reminded her of
Hautaine, who had once been very fond of
B6ranger, too and as she fastened her col-
lar, and smoothed her hair, she could not for'.
bear a sigh over the gallant young free lt~nce
who had loved her so long and so well.
"Poor Charley! I wonder where lie is, and
what he is doing?" she thought. "I wonder
if he has quite forgotten me; and I wonder,
too, if he has come to any harm in these
dreadful battles? I am sure I{etta must be
very uneasy. I will ask her about him this
evening."
11

EIR LINING.                        177
So that evening, when they were alone
on the terrace, while the gentlemen were
still lingering over their wine, and Alix had.
wandered down into the garden, Valerie
mooted the subject. "I have not heard you
speak of Oharley for a long while, 1~Tetta.
Have you heard nothing from him, or-or
about hun?"
"Kothing whatever," answered Miss
Fane, sadly. "I have not spoken of it, Va-
lerie, because I did not care to distress you;
but I am very seriously uneasy, and neither
the general nor Eugene gives me much en-
couragement. The people at home look to
me for news of him, and what can I say?-
We have not heard from him since Sadowa,
you know."
"But we would have heard if-if any
thing had befallen him."
I~etta shook her head. "Hardly. Ha was
a foreigi~er, and so entirely unknown. Your
father wrote to Vienna the other day, and,
until we hear from there, I still venture to
hope. He may have been only wounded, or
-or something of the sort. I have come to
counting on that now."
"Yes," Valerie said, almost under her
breath-for they both knew only too well
what "counting' on that" meant-and then
she laid her head down on the stone balus-
trade. "God help us! ~ 'her cry. "It
is so' terrible! The shadow of blood seems
upon all things. 'The whole earth is rock-
ing and ringing with the tramp of armed
men; and, after hearing of battles and~sieges
all day, I dream at night of wounded men
and gi~astly corpses, of blood, and carnage,
and death, until I wake up sick and shud-
dering."
"And the effect is very visible," said
Miss Fane. "Do you know that, instead of
regaining your healthful looks, you are daily
growing more pale, more hollow-eyed, more
unlike yourself?"
"~o," was the indifferent answer, "I
did not know, but I can believe it."
"Valerie," said her friend, abruptly,
"you are thinking, not of Prussia, 'but of
Mexico."
"And how can I help it?" said Valerie,
wearily. "Did not I jend him there? If'
ho i~ killed, will' it not be ray work? Will


l'78                    VALERIE AYLMER.

not his blood 1,~t on my head, as much as
-as the other does? You may be sure of
one thing, Netta-it is no lovesick regret
that I am nursing, but a terrible fear, which
haunts me night and day. J would will-
ingly covenant never to look on Maurice
Darcy's face again, if he were once safely
out of danger."
"Child, such men as he are never out
of danger."
"But no other danger would be my fault
-no other would make his death my work.
You don't know what remorse is, Netta-
indeed, how should you? But, if you had
ever suffered for one hour what I have suf-
~fered for months past, you would not won-
der that I pray to be spared its increase, at
any cost."
Her friend looked at her wistfully.
Then a sudden impulse made her lay her
hand down on that bowed head. "Your
prayers will be heard," she said, almost
solemnly, "I am sure of that. God tries
us severely, sometimes, but never beyond
our strength. And He is not like us poor
mortals-He never forgets mercy in jus-
tice."
As she spoke the last words, the gentle-
men stepped through one of the dining-
room windows, and came across the terrace
to join them. General Aylmer and Mr.
Darcy walked slowly in advance..-move-
ment was very painfully difficult to the
latter-while Eugene followed with the
cai'eless, swinging tread that took him over
ground so easily, and would have proved a
fortune to a professional pedestrian. One
glance was enough, to satisfy him that the
terrace lacked its chief attraction; so he
sauntered off to the garden, whistling, as he
went, his favorite gallop. Mr. Darcy sank
int'o one of the chairs which were always
ready placed, and laid his crutches on the
grass beside him.
"This is really charming," he said, with
his pleasant smile. "I never grow weary
'of the beautiful view we have from this
spot; and I cannot help fancying that our
group is no inconsiderable addition to it.
We make a very picturesque effect, I am
sure; and it is only a great pity that Mau-
rice is not here to sketch us."

lie often spoke of his brother thus-al.
ways with a lingering accent of tenderness
on the name-and Valerie had grown quite
accustomed to the allusions. She rarely
answered them, however, but, as in the
present instance, left some one else to 'do
so.
"Your brother must be a very fine ar-
tist," said Miss Pane. "I have heard a '~
great deal of his pictures-though I have
only seen one of them."
"You have seen one, then?" said Mr,
Darcy, lifting his head, which a spasm
of pain had lowered while she spoke.
"What was it?"
But to this simple question, Miss Pane
made no reply. She found that she had
betrayed herself unwittingly, and she
directed: a half-frightened, half-apologetic
glance at Valerie, who, after a moment's
hesitation, answered in her stead:
"It was a picture which Maurice paint.
ed for grandpapa, and which I have, that
Netta has seen-a portrait of myself."
"Indeed I" Mr. Darcy's gentle eyes,
which were yet very keen ones, looked at
her intently for a moment; then he said,
with a smile: "I wonder if Maurice did
you justice?"
"You shall see the portrait if you
wish," said she, quietly. "Some day, I
will have it brought down t6 the snloon for
your inspection."
"I propose an amendment to that," said
her father. "Have it brought now, and we
can inspect it while drinking our coffee."
~
"Why ndt? Do you keep it in any inac-
cessible place?"
"No; certainly not," she answered,
flushing slightly. Then she turned to the
servant who was handing coffee: "Bap-
tiste, go and tell Panchette to give you the
picture which is in my dressing-room. It
has only been out of its packing-case once
-for Netta to see-since we came here,"
she added, turning again to Gaston.
Before many minutes elapsed, Baptiste
reappeared, bearing the canvas, which was
only cabinet size, and, therefore, no great
burden. By Miss, Pane's direction, he
paused some distance from them, and held

I

TEE HIDDEN SKELETON.                   1'T9

it aloft. After two ror three shifting of
position, a good light was finally secured,
and then the glowing beauty, with her
dreamy eyes and brilliant tints, looked
down from her curtained opera-box upon
them.
"Now; is it not admirable?" cried
Netta, triumphantly. "Is it not herself?"
The general rose and came forward-ad-
justing his eye-glass as he did so. He was
an excellent art-critic, and they all felt that
a certain responsibility rested upon hi~ de-
cision. Perhaps he felt this himself; for,
when he came within proper range of the
picture, he said "Hum! "in a way peculiar
to him, a way as of one startled into reluc~
tant admiration; and then he stood still,
and gazed intently on Maurice Darcy's hand-
iwork.
"It is excellent" he said at last~ rather
slowly. "I had no idea that Captain Darcy
was nearly so good an artist. Not that I
ever saw any of his productions; but still
-those flesh tints are singularly transpar-
ent," added he, breaking suddenly into
criticism. "I never saw any thing better,
although he has too much warmth of color-
ing-a sort of Gorgione dash which is
hardly-"
"You forget that Valerie's complexion
was not then what it is now," interposed
Valerie's friend, rather indignantly.
"I beg your pardon," said the general,
courteously, "but I was not thinking of
Valerie's complexion at all; I was dealing
with the picture, as a picture. The fore-
shortening is admil~able, too. The only
thing, in fact, to which it is possible to ob-
ject, is that heightening effect obtained by
means of__"
"But as a portrait, sir," said Netta, who
~vas terribly uncultivated, and cared noth-
ing whatever about tints, tones, and effects.
"What do you think of it as a portrait?"
"I think it is grossly flattered," said the
general, who did not fancy such remorseless
interruption.
But meanwhile Gaston Darcy had not
spoken. He sat quite motionless in his
chair, gazing so earnestly, so almost mourn-
fully on the canvas, that at last Valerie laid
her haiid softly. on his arm.

"And what do you think of Maurice's
work?" she asked, as he turned to her.
There was a moment's pause-a pause
in which he looked from original to copy,
and from copy back to original. Then-
"What do I think of it?" he repeated,
sadly. "I think there in a heart-throb in
every stroke."
Before the bright blood had died away
from Valerie's face-the blood which quick-
ened her resemblance to the picture till
even the general could have found no fur-
ther fault with the Gorgione dasl~-.-.she
heard a quick cry, whether of joy or pain it
was impossible to tell, and Netta Pane's
white dress went by her like a flash.
They all turned simultaneously in the
same direction, and there, coming along the
terrace toward them, was a soldierly-looking
man in undress uniform,' with his arm in a
sling- a man whom Ketta was eagerly
bounding to meet; and as they looked she
threw her arms round him with these glad
words of welcome:
"Charley !-my own dear Charley! Is
it indeed you?"
CHAPTER IV.
THE HIDDEN SKELETON.
If was indeed Charley Hautaine-but
Charley Hautaine looking the mere shadow
of his former self. A hollow-eyed, wanted
ghost, bearing the traces of long illness on
his pale face, where the eyes shone un-
naturally large and dark, and of a painful
wound in the disabled arm, which hung usO-
less in its sling.
When l{etta's greeting had a lilttre sub-
sided, he found General Aylmer's cordial
welcome ready for him, together ~1th Va-
lerie's outstretched hands and eager vOiCe.
"Oh, (Jharley, dear friend, I am so glad
to see you' again!" she said.
"But, my poor boy ~ cried ~etta,
~hovering between tears 'and lt~ughter;
"how badly he looks!--Aiid your arm,
Charley !-what is the matter with your
arm?"
"A bullet is, or was, the matter with


180                     VALERIE AYLMER.                                                   THE HIDDEN SKELETON.                  181

it," said Charley, laughing as people do
laugh in the very midst of agitation. "A
souvenir of Sadowa-I only wish it had
been the worst!"
"And what could be worse?" asked
she, breathlessly.
"An attack of fever in a prison hospital.
Don't you think so?"
Then they overwhelmed him with a
storm of questions. Where had he been I-
what had he 1~een doing I-had he been
taken prisoner?
"I am a prisoner on parole now," he re-
plied.
"A parole that don't signify much," said
the general. "The war is virtually ended."
"I suppose so," the other answered.
"It is just my luck to be always caught on
the losing side! I did want to thrash those
rrussians, if only to feel myself oncemore
having the best of it-but Fate was against
me, as well as against Austria! I have
heard, however, that sympathy is a balm for
every ill-and, I hope, I am sure of that
here."
"Sure of any amount of it," said Va-
lerie, warmly. "But come! we must not
keep you standing here, and you looking so
pale and tired. We are just taking our
coffee; but I shall order something more
substantial for you."
"I have already dined," he said; "and,
if you wrn allow me, I will only join you in
your coffee. how delightfully pastoral you
look!"
"Yes, we have dancedd upon a pleasant
home," she said, as she led him forward to
the spot where Mr. Darcy and the coffee,
Baptiste and the picture, had been left to
keep each other company. The latter was
amusing himself by an open-mouthed stare
at the stranger whom the whole family had
rushed to greet in such an effusive manner,
while the former was sitting quite still, with
his head bent forward on his chest in the
manner usual with him.
"We have another-a new friend with
us," said Valerie, as they advanced.
And, just as she spoke, the cripple slowly
lifted his head, and turned his face to them.
If that face had been one from the dead, its
effectupon Oharley Hautaine could scarcely

have been more startling. For a second he
recoiled, and stood gazing mutely-a mingled
astonishment and anguish in his eyes-then
he uttered one cry so low and hollow that,
involuntarily, Valerie's hand fell from his
arm.
"My God!
The pause of the next moment might al-
most have been felt, it was so deep, and yet
so short. ~o short that General Aylmer
and Netta had not reached them when,
after making a sign to Baptiste for his
crutches, Mr. Darcy rose and limped for-
ward.
"Come with me a moment," he said to
Hautaine. Then to Valerie, "You will ex-
cuse us-we shall not be long."
And the first th~ng she knew, she was
standing alone, gazing in dumb amazement
at the two men slowly moving away. It
was something more than strange, such
conduct; but still she managed to quiet the
astonishment of the others, when they came
up, or at least to restrain its expression.
They were evidently old friends, she said,
and Mr. Darcy had probably something of
importance to tell Charley. They bad said
they would not be long. But there was an
awkward sense of mystery in the air, de-
spite this plausible statement; and very little
use in trying to ~conceal that they each felt
curious, far more curious than they would
have liked to acknowledge. Conversation
languished, for, while each one strove to
preserve an appearance of dignified uncon-
cern, each in reality watched anxiously the
two who had paused not far off, and were
talking earnestly. At least Mr. Darcy was
talking earnestly. His companion listened
with bent head, and only occasionally ut-
tered a few words, which the lifted hand of
the other more than once stayed. But at
last the pantomime came to a close, and,
turning, they walked slowly back, side by
side, to the group waiting for them.
"I hope you did not think I meant to
abduct your cousin, Miss Fane," said Mr.
Darcy, in his usual tone, as he relapsed in-
to his fori~aer seat, and allowed Valerie to
relieve him of his crutches; "but we are
such old friends, Charley and I, that I almost
feel as if I had the first claim upon him."

"Old friends!" repeated. the general, a
little curiously. "Why, how did you two
ever chance to know each other?"
"You forget that Charley was in the
navy, papa," said Valerie, coming to the
rescue; "and naval officers knew every-
body, I believe."
"Gaston and I met in Italy, before the
war-our war, I mean," said Charley, who
looked many degrees more pale and weary
than when Netta had caught sight of him
coming along the terrace, twenty minutes
before.
"You are to drink a cup of coffee imme-
diately," said Valerie, turning to him. "I
sent Baptiste to order some of Jules's very
best; and here he comes with it-for once,
just in time.-Papa, don't you think it
ought to have a strengthening dash of bran-
dy in it?"
"Something more than a dash, I should
say," the general answered. "Come with
me, Charley, and Twill give you something
better for your nerves and your looks than
even Jules's famous coffee."
"I believe I prefer the coffee, sir," said
Ilautaine, with a glance at the hand which
offered it-a very pretty hand, as all Miss
Aylmer's admirers had long since acknowl- 4
edged.
"Pshaw!" said the unromantic father.
"You can drink that afterward, if you 1
choose, but I insist on the Otard first. I I
have some that is capital."
"Go, Charley. You can come back for
your coffee," Valerie said.
And, with only tolerable grace, Charley
went. He looked so much better when he a
came back-thus proving the efficacy of the 1
general's prescription -that Miss Aylmer t
smiled approvingly, as she dropped a lump I
of sugar in his cup and handed it to him by c
way of reward.                         I
The cloud seemed somewhat to pass 1
away from them after this, and they sat and ~
talked very pleasantly in the rosy sunset a
-pleasantly to outwarl appearance, that s
is; but Valerie noticed, with a woman's t
quick observation,, how deeply Ilautaine's n
brow contracted whenever his glance fell on 5
Gaston Darcy's bent frame-the frame of t
an old man as he sat drawn together in his c

large arm-chair-and, when the first one of'
the constantly-recurring spasms of pain
seized him, Char~ey pushed back his chair,
as if by an uncontrollable impulse, turning
his eyes away, as he saidwith a'gasp:
"I cannot bear it! It is too horrible!"
"You will grow used to it after awhile-
we have done so," said Valerie, softly. "And
he bears it so patiently."
"It is not much to bear," said Gaston,
who had caught her words, low as they were.
And he raised his face, still lined and dis-
torted from agony. "I have not learned to
suffer and be still yet-that is all."
"Don't slander yourself, Mr. Da~rcy,"
said Netta, quickly. "I have never heard
you utter even a groan."
"No-I hope not. But it is quite as
inconsiderate to manifest 'pain by gesture;
and really I do not suffer-very much."
He hesitated a moment before uttering
the last two words-words which were al-
most sublime. They all felt it; and, from
some vague instinct, they were all silent.
Nobody contradicted the assertion, though
they each knew that, but for' the mighty
and beneficent aid of opium, he could
scarcely have borne for one day the weight
f bodily anguish laid upon him. "Let
Liim take as much morphine as he pleases,"
a noted physician had once sald to his
other. "Its influence will outlast his
ife."
Then Charley began to ask questions
)f the home people, and by degrees the con-
rersation drifted to the scenes and the
friendss they had left behind in the distant
native land, so that, as the shadows
lengthened, as the golden light, faded from
he gray tower and 'gilded: spire of St.
loche, and the soft evening shades began to
lose about them, they almost forgot Gaston
)arcy's presence, so qtiiet and still he lay
ack in his chair, while over the wide
raste of tossing water they went back for
space to the old scenes, and the bright
ky which looks down as lovingly on desola-
ion as it ever looked on peace! Familiar
iames flashed from lip to lip; allusions, so
light that they were almost trivial, brought
he quick tear, the ringing laugh. A word
r a tone was sufficient to summon up pic-


182                     VALERIE AYLMER.                                                     THE HIDDEN SKELETON.                  183

tures on'whieh their eyes would never gaze
again. The charm of the old, glad, careless
existence swept over them; but it was with
that pang, at once so unutterably tender
and so unutterablybitter, which stirs with-
in us as we stand by the newly-rn de grave
of some fair creature whose grace an beauty,
gone out of our life, have left i forever
desolate! But even as the smiles of the cad
come back to us, at once to agonize and to
soothe, so that halcyon Long Ago of them-
selves and their country started out of the
tomb at their bidding-so the laughing eyes
and the happy voices came across the gulf
of time and the ocean of blood 1-so the green
leaves (greener than they will ever be
again!) rustled over their heads once more-
so the golden sunshine (more golden than
any sunshine of to-day!) slept on their
path-so the fair faces and gallant forms
(there are none so fair or so gallant left!)
rose out of their dark resting-places under
the cold sod, and the frank hands seemed
stretched out across the dark abyss!
At last, in a voice half choked with tears,
Valerie said:
"Friends, let us stop! We feel - we
know-~at we, ~exiles though we be, have
chosen the better part; but, if we would
rest content, let us not talk of home. I, for
one, cannot bear it!"
"We have certainly talked enough to
give us all the blues," Netta said, with an
attempt at lightness. "And indeed-but
yonder come Eugene and Alix at last!"
"Alix! "repeated Hautaine.
"One of our own people," Valerie said.
"You haven't forgotten the Rivi~res who
lived i~t River-view? Well, this is-"
"Not the pretty little brown-eyed child
I remember, surely I"
"Yes, the very same. You will like her,
I know."
She said this, as the two truants came
sauntering slowly up the garden-walk tow-
ard the terrace-steps, the last crimson glow
from the west giving a warm tinge to the
pale-browu curls that fell around Alix's
slender throat, and, to the white dress she
wore, with its broad black sash. She looked
lovely, exceedingly, as she mounted the
steps and ptuised a moment in natural sur-

prise at seeing a stranger, with one hand
still resting on the stone bahistrade.
"This is Mr. ilautaine, Alix," said Va-
lerie.
And Alix, who had heard a great deal'
about Mr. Hautaine within the last few
weeks, gave a start of surprise and pleasure.
"I am very glad," she said, simply and
cordially; "and I-~I hope he is not badly
hurt," she added, looking at the young man
with her shy, sweet eyes full of sympathy ~or
his pale face and wounded arm.
It was provoking certainly, but before
Charley had time to ~ie~nowledge the gentle
graciousness of this reception, Eugene, who
had lingered a moment behind, bounded up
the 'steps and confronted him with all the
effusion of that good-fellow welcome which
at any other time he would have appreciated,
but which, just then, he could not help feel-
ing a bore.
"Why; old fellow, is this really you?'~
Eugene said, full of cordial astonishment.
"1 am delighted to see you !-delighted to
have this optical evidence that you haven't
gone to hobnob with the shades of Alex-
ander and Napoleon! But falth, mom ami,
you look as if you had come very near being
admitted into that illustrious company!
What the mischief have you been doing to
yourself?"
"He has been wounded, Eugene," said
Netta, in a tone of expostulation.
"01-has he? Well, I should certainly
feel justified in affirming that something of
the sort had befallen him. Pray, Master
Oharley, have you received your Theresian
cross, in recompense of your distinguished
services and sufferings for his Imperial Ma-
jesty Franz Joseph, yet?"
Charley shrugged his shoulders.
"Don't twit the unfortunate, thou happy
wilder of the compass and lines! When I
do receive my Theresian cross, you shall
hear of it, you may be sure !-Miss Rivi~re,
I am very grateful for your kindness. I
don't feel at all as if I needed to be intro-
duced to you, I have been so often in your
father's house, and I remember you so well,
when you were young enough to make me
feel quite old in looking at you now."
Alix laughed. "That must have been a

* good while ago," she said, with an arch nod
of her pretty head. "I don't think i'm very
young now. But I remember you, too, Mr.
Hautaine-at least I think so."
"You might do so very easily," Netta
said. "But don't you all think we had
better go in? It is too lath for Mr~ Darcy to
be out-besides, we have another invalid on
our list now. So, en avant!"
"I would rebel against being made a
kill-joy in this style," said Mr. Darcy, taking
up his crutches, and preparing to rise, "but
that I think the saloon will be better for all
of us, and we can hear some music then."
"'Stay with me, lady, while you may,
For life's so sad, this hour's so sweet;
Ah! lady, life too long will stay,
Too soon this hour will fleet,"'
muttered Eugene, disconsolately. "Are we
really going in, like a set of-of insensi-
bles?"
"We really are," answered Miss Fane,
in her short way, that always settled mat-
ters. "Mr. Darcy will get sick, and Alix
will get a sore throat, if we stay out here
any longer."
"I'm not at all afraid of a sore throat,"
said Alix.
"I don't suppose you are-to-night!"
their mentress retorted. "But to-morrow
you will not fancy croaking like a raven; or
taking pepper-tea like a salamander, either.
Come, don't be obstinate. Move on!"
"One moment," said ilautaine, laying
his hand on Valerie's arm, when she rose to
follow the rest. "You are not afraid of the
mists, are you? Will you give me a few
minutes longer out here?"
"As many as you please," she answered
readily, although her heart misgave her
terribly. "I hope he is not foolish about
me yet!" she thought. And then she said
aloud, "Let us go into the garden and walk
a little. It is beautiful down there."
It was beautiful down there, for the
wild luxuriance of Nature had quite over-
grown the trim regularity of art, and the
result was one never achieved by a gardener's
hand. The moon shone in three-quarter pro-
file above the groups of aeaeia4rees, and her
light was already beginning to prevail over

the soft dusk, and faint, melting outlines of
shadow along the paths they tkillowed, while
the terrace, with its massive stone balustrade'
and large vases, rose behind them, the white
chAteau gleamed above, the windows of the'
saloon were wide open, and light and music
and gay voices floated out together on the
still night air.
"It is all wonderfully lovely!" Ilautaine
said, as they stopped by a fountain, the
sparkling waters of which caught the moon-
beams, and glittered in them like showers of
diamonds. "A man should be a poet on
'such a night, and in such a scci~; for, after
all, there is a charm about the south of Eu-
rope which is only to be felt-never to be
described."
"No," said Valerie. "For, much as I
have always heard and read of it, I did not
realize in the least its exceeding beauty un-
til I saw it."
"And do you think you are settled here
for good?"
She shook her head.
"I wish I could think so. I would ask
nothing better than to spend my life in this
way-but papa has nothing pastoral about
him. He likes the world, with all its rush
and roar."
"So did you once, if I remember rightly."
"Did I?" she said, dreamily. "I be-
lieve I did; but it is so long ago, I had al-
most forgotten about it. At all events, I
don't like it now."
"Don't you even like Paris ?-yoii, who
used to adore New Orleans wWh all your
French soul!"
"No - not even Paris. When I was
there, I only found that it wearied me un-
utterably. Papa talks of Rome for next
winter, or Naples, or Madrid, or ever so
many more places; but I shrink whenever
he mentions them, for all I ask is to stay
just 'where I am."
"I don't understand you," said her com-
panion, a little curiously. "Once those very
places were the desires of your heart."
"I don't understand myself," she an-
swered, "unless it be that they are those
deferred sugar-plums of existence of which
Guy Darrell talks. I longed for them when
I could not reach them-i panted for them


184                     VALERIE AYLMER.

when they were afar off-and now that they
are so near, I feel as if they were the fairy
gold that turned to moss and leaves in the
grasp.~~
There was a pause which remained un-
broken for several minutes. They turned
into another one of the long, straight alleys,
and had nearly reached its extremity, when
Hautaine sp6ke, quite abruptly:
"Valerie, when I was in Baltimore, I
heard that you were engaged to Maurice
Darcy."
Valerie started-started as if a rude hand
had been laid on a bare nerve; but she did
not speak for some time. Then she said,
slowly-
"Who told you so, Oharley?"
"It is true, then?"
"Never mind about that, just now. Tell
me who told you so."
"I-I'm not sure that I remember who
it was," Oharley said; for instinct taught
him better than to mention Julian Romney's
name. "I heard it after I saw you. I think
my old friendship gives me the right to ask
what I sho~ild very much like to know-if it
is true?"
"It was true," she answered-for her life
she could not say more.
"You were engaged to him? " -
"And-and you are not engaged to Pm
now?"
Another pause. Then-
"I have been fighting against my love
for you ever since then," Hautaine said sadly,
"and I have been so far successful that I can
now say-.I am sorry to hear it is not true."
"Then, dear friend," said Valerie, hold-
ing out her hand, with a sudden impulse,
"somebody did us both a great service. A
great service to you if you, were cured of a
weakness which only brought you pain; a
greater on~ yet to me, if it gives me back the
old affection which we felt for one another
when we were children together in our be-
loved Louisiana."
"I said that I had been fighting against
it," answered he, pausing short in his walk.
"And I thought I had entirely succeeded in
crushing it out, or I would never have come

here! But the first sight of your face, the
first tone of your voice, told me that one
word would be enough to waken it again-.
and-and I'm almost afraid that word has
been spoken!"
"I am not afraid of it," said Valerie,
firmly, for she felt that a moment had come
when she must put an end to all false hopes
for very honor's sake. "You might have
clung to me so long as I was heart-free,
Oharley, but I know you too well to fear
that you will do so when I tell you that, al-
though my engagement with Maurice Darcy
is broken forever, he is the only man I have
ever loved, and the only man I would ever
have married ! '~
He looked at her wistfully-so wistfully.
"And-when you say that he left you?"
"Yes, through my own fault, lie left me."
After this, they walked silently along for
some time. It was bright moonlight now,
and their shadow~4~ell sharply and distinctly
on the path before them. Almost as sharp-
ly and distinctly Hautaine's tones sounded~
when he spoke again:
"GAo sard, sard! Yet it seems right hard
that the prize for which I have striven a life-
time should be seized at last by a stranger's
hand; but-there is very little courage in
groaning over defeat. I should certainly by
this know how to practise the resignation
which comes of despair. I don't mean to
break my heart, either, Valerie-if that is
any consolation to you."
"It is a great consolation, dear Oharley."
"And I did not bring you away to tor-
ment you with the old story that has troubled
you so often before. I wanted to tell you
something-which you ought to know-and
-to ask your advice. Will you sit here a
little while-or are you afraid of the night
air? "
"Not the least afraid," she answered, as
she sat down on a stone seat that ran around
the~fountain to which they had returned.
"I am all attention, and all interest, ns long
as you want me."
He sat down beside her, but he did not
speak for a considerable time. When he
did, his eyes were fixed, not on her face, but
on the water before him.
"Valerie, do you remember the day I

I

I

THE HIDDEN SKELETON.                  185

met Maurice Darcy in your grandfather's
house."
"Yes," she answered, in a low voice.
"I remember it very well."
"And did he ever tell you the meaning
of what you saw and heard that day?"
"Never."
"He - Gaston, I mean - told me he
thought you did not know. Ho wanted me
not to tell you; but I, could not-" he gave
a gasp as if for breath-" I could not stay
hero in the house with you, and with him,
and let you think-let you not think, that
is-all that I deserve should be thought of
me!"
"Charley," she said, quickly, "I could
never think any thing wrong of you.~~
"I remember you said that-or some-
thing like it-once before. It hurt then-
it hurts now-worse than a blow. Good
God! Valerie, when you say that, you do
not know that I am worse than a murder-
er!"
"Oharley!"
"Yes," he went on excitedly, "a hun-
dred times worse! A murderer at least
makes short work of his victim, but I hav~
condemned mine to a lifetime of torture!
Valerie, think if you can-if indeed auy-
body besides myself can imagine-think of
what I endure, when I look at Gaston Dar-
cy's crippled form, when I remember his
blasted life, and when I know that it is all
my work 1"
"Oharley!"
"Yes-all my works"
Valerie sat aghast. Her wildest conjec-
tures had never gone so far-her most ex-
treme fears had never pointed to this.
This, then, was the wrong which Maurice
Darcy could never fo~give-this the crime
which he had declared brought its own
worst punishment! And, as the cripple's
lined face and bent figure rose before her,
surprise and horror together seemed to
chain her tongue, until she could scarcely
have uttered a single ward if her life had de-
pended on it; but indeed Hautaine went on
rapidly, as if he did not care to wait for
Comment:
"I sometimes think that even the suffer-
ings he has endured have scarcely equalled

mine-scarcely exceed the remorse I have
endured for years! I have seen that face of
his wherever I went-and in every sound
I have heard his voice! I have endured al-
most a thousand deaths, and borne within
my heart a canker which has poisoned for
me sometimes even your smile! The war,
when it came, was a blessing to me-but
the bullets never found their best mark.
Other men-men to whom life was all fair
and bright-were stricken down beside me;
but I-I was spared!"
"Oh, Charley, hush!" cried Valerie,
finding her voice and a half sob together.
"Hush! It is terrible to talk in that way!
Yes, you were spared, and I will tell you
why-you were spared to feel that there is
One above us who does all things well.
You were spared to know that there is no
human wrong or error to which He does
not grant the power of expiation. Oh, be
comforted! Look at that poor face of Gas-
ton Darcy, and see what a sublime pa-
tience suffering has put there; then, do not
dare to say this suffering has been ill sent."
"I know! I know! But then, it was
not God who sent it."
"It was God who permitted it."
A pause-longer than any which had
preceded it-and then Hautaine lifted the
head that had sunk uponhis hands, and said
hoarsely:
"I believe you know that Maurice Dar-
cy and I were once friends."~~
"Yes."               ,
"Frieiids the very best that ever were,
I think. We never made any formal pro-
testations of the sort to each other, but I
am sure I never cared for any other man-
scarcely even my own brother-as I did for
him. And he liked me just as well. We met
in Ital~y, and were together whenever I was
there; indeed, in many other places besides,
for Maurice was almost as much of a rovei'
as my profession made me. In the summer
of '60, the Argemone was ordered to the
Mediterranean."
"I remember it."
"Yes-I suppose you do. Well, as soon
as possible, I procured leave 'of absence, and
took up temporary quarters with Maurice,
then painting in Florence. I found with


188                          VALERIE
him (his father had died very shortly be-
fore) a younger brother-this Gaston-
then ~. boy of nineteen or twenty. You
don't know how plainly I see him yet as he
looked at that time. lWot handsome, I sup-
pose; but so full of life and generosity that
his face was irresistibly attractive. I liked
the boy-no one could have helped liking
him; and he took a great fancy to me.
How strange it seems, to think that that
man yonder is lie-I have not learned to
realize it yet. Well-he took a fancy to
me. Maurice more than once laughingly
declared that I was rivaling him in Gas-
ton's affection, and that Gaston was ousting
him from mine. One day-" he spoke very
rapidly now-" Maurice received a letter,
summoning him on business to Paris~ and
he asked me if I could not remain with Gas-
ton until his return, for the boy was rather
inclined to dissipation (his only fault), from
which the elder brother was trying to wean
him by gentle degrees; and he was very un-
willing to leave him alone in a foreign city,
'exposed to its many temptations and conse-
quent dangers. I promised willingly to re-
main, and I remember Maurice's smile, as
he said, 'Thank you, arnico mio-I thought
I could depend on you!' He did depend
on me-and for what?"
There was a long silence, during which
an instinct prevented Valerie from lifting
her eyes to the face near her. So she sat
with them steadily bent on the four stone
triton, that stood in unchanging attitude,
while the water danced and sparkled over
their upturned heads. And when Hau-'
tame resumed, it was in the same quick,
nervous tone as that in which he had be-
fore spoken:
"M~turice want away, and I do not
think I shall ever forget the cordial fare-
well grasp of his hand, for I never felt
another! The last words he said to me
were: 'I trust you implicitly~; but, pray, i~e-
member to be watchful.' I knew what he
meant, and for several days Gaston was
scarcely out of my sight. I felt the nature
of the trust the more, because I knew that,
if I had not been in Florence, he would
have taken Gaston with him to Paris; for I
had long been aware why he was more

f
AYLMER.

than ordinarily anxious about the boy's
habits. Iu the mother's family-Gaston's
mother's, I mean-there was an hereditary
tinge of insanity, and, in every instance
where madness occurred, it had been the
result of dissipation. Well, two or three
days after Maurice left us, I met, very unex-
pectedly one day, a squad of two or three
officers from the Argemone. Of course,
they were delighted to see a comrade, and
the rencontre ended in an invitation to a
post-opera supper that night-an invitation
in which young Darcy was included, and
which all the circumstances rendered it im-
possible to refuse. I went, in a state of
uneasiness, but it was a great relief to me
to find that Gaston kept entirely within the
bounds of moderation. Indeed, be behaved
so very prudently that I began to revolve
and consider possible a scheme which only
the devil himself could ever have put into
my head, and, before the supper ended, I
had invited all the party to dine with me
on the followix~g evening. I think some-
times of that next day with such vain exas-
peration as I imagine to be the portion of
the lost spirits in hell. A dozen times, be-
tween sunrise and sunset, I was on the
point of excusing myself on an?,' plea, and
withdrawing the invitation-but still the
sun went down behind the Arno, and it
was not done. A dozen times at least, an
instinct warned me of coming ill, and I put
the warning from me. I remember that,
just as I sat down to table, Maurice's face
rose before me, with a look of stern re-
proach-but it was too late then! Several
additions of artist-friends had been 'nude to
the party, which made it quite a large one;
and, with all my efforts to preserve order,
the wildest conviviality soon set in. I must
hurry over this-it almost kills me to think
of it, even now. Among all the jests and
songs and peals of laughter that made the
roof ring, I grew more and more uneasy,
for I soon saw that G~iston had thrown off
the restraint 'of the evening befQre, and
was drinking with the deepest. liemon-
strance would have done no good, I knew,
for intoxication always made him resent-
ful and quarrelsome. My only hope was
in breaking up the party soon, but this

seemed almost an impossible thing with a
set of men who were my own invited
guests, and who, furthermore, had just de-
dared an intention to make a night of it.
What I endured as I sat there, with a smile
on my lip, it would be impossible to say;
but it was only a foretaste of that which
was to come. At last, my worst fears were
realized !-a violent quarrel began between
Gaston and one of the guests-one of the
Argemone officers-in which I strove to in-
terfere. The former at once turned on me
fiercely, charging me violently with an at-
tempt to domineer over him. I remember
that I was patient a long while-longer
than was thought a virtue by the men
around me-but, at last, the blood began to
boil in my veins, and the wine I had been
drinking to heat my brain. A bitter insult
-I have long since forgotten what it was-
finally proved too much for me. I flung a
glass of wine in his face-and then we
closed together. Of what followed I have
little or no recollection. For the first and
last time in my life, a perfect devil seemed
to enter into and take possession of me;
and, in my overmastering rage, murder
would have been as easy to me as the rais-
ing of my hand. I forgot Maurice-I for-
got whom I fought-I forgot every thing
save the brute instinct of ferocity. I have a
faint recollection of struggling like an infu-
riated tiger-a recollection, still more faint,
of lifting Gaston Darcy's slight form in my
arms and hurling him bodily out of the
window !-Then a cry of horror burst even
from the half-intoxicated men aroimd me-
and I came to. myself-and the sickness of
an unutterable death rushed over me.
"When they took him up, he was still
breathing, but the doctors said the spine
was fatally injured. You see, however, that
he has lived-a cripple!"
Silence again-silence so deep and pain-
ful that Valerie almost heard her heart beat
in her ears, as she sat, chilled in ~rery limb
and sickened in ever~ fibre, so that motion
would have been almost as impossible as
utterance. She did not see Hautaine-she
only saw the moonlit gravel at her feet-
when he spoke again: -
"I was by his brother's bedside when

THE HIDDEN:

~T SKELETON.                       18~
Maurice came back, and I had rather he had
cursed me-~-a thousand times rather he had
killed me-than said the bitter words that
ring in my ears yet. I sat there, and it
seemed the voice of God that ordered me
forth, that called me what I felt myself to
be, the 'betrayer of trust!' I thipk he
would have killed me-I hoped that he would
-if lie had not felt that life was my worst
punishment, and his best revenge. From
that day to this, I have endured worse than
death-I endured more than that to-day
when I saw the man I ruined writhe be-
neath the agony which I laid upon him!"
The voice sunk now with an intonation
which said: "I have done "-and, after one
moment's pause, Valerie's clasped hands
covered his own, and a cry, so tender and
yearning that it might have burst from a
mother's lips, sounded on the still night
air:
"0, Ohariey! My poor-poor boy!"
was what it said.
He laid his hot brow down upon those
cool soft hands, and neither of them spoke
for some minutes. At last he said, without
raising his face:
"Now you know all about it. Tell me
if I can dare to do as he wishes-dare to stay
here and meet him, like-like any one elsQ."
"Why not?" she asked.
"Why not? 0 Heavens! You don't
know how I have fled from his presence-
how I have shunned him as men shun a pes-
tilence! I feel as if the same roof c&amp;uld not
-should not-shelter us both!"
"And I feel-I know-that if you were
once thrown with him, alid once saw his
marvellous content, his beautiful patience,
as we see it who live with him, you, too,
would feel that, although your act may have
robbed the world of a man, it gave God a
saint! You, too, would realize, as he does,
that all ends work for good in His hands.-.
and you, too, would learn resignation to the
inevitable."
"Resignation!" he repeated, almost
fiercely, "yes, resignation for any thing
which was not my own work. But I did
this, not God. How should you know what
it is to feel this agony of remorse, this knowl-
edge-"


188                      VALERIE AYLMER.

lie stopped short, for even the moon-
light showed him the change which had come
over his companion's face. He saw a spasm
of pain contract the pale features, and a
mournful light shining out of the large eyes
raised to his own.
"You are mistaken," she said, slowly.
"You judge only by the surface, and you do
not know that I bear on my life a weight of
remorse to which your own is, or ought to
be, almost nothing. You ruined Gaston
Darey's mere physical life, and you gave
him the means by which he will ascend to
Heaven; but what would you think if you
had killed body and soul both? What would
you feel, if you had deliberately led him to
some point of despair, and then seen him
rush on a death for which he was all un-
prepared, and which was as much your
work as if you had killed him with your own
hand? Answer me-what would you think
of that?"
Her voice had risen into solemn pathos,
as she uttered these words; and all the an-
guish of her soul seemed going out toward
him, and being laid open before him. In an
instant he knew of whom and of what she
spoke. He remembered Julian Romney's
face and manner on that night which proved
so fateful, and then a sudden impulse came
over him.
"Valerie, dear ~ he said, quickly,
"I know what you mean, but believe me
you are all~ wrong. It was no thought of
you, no act of yours, which sent Julian
Romney to his death. Did you know that I
was there, at the party where the quarrel
occurred. If you would only-~"
But she silenced him by a gesture.
"Hush, Charley! It is very good of
you; but all this has been said to me before,
and still it does not lighten my burden. I
know all about it-I know how unlike him-
self; how morbid, and wretched, and desper-
ate he was-all through me. We will not
speak of it. I cannot do so yet-I scarcely
think I ever shall. I only did so now, that
I might convince you that others suffer as
much as you; and to bid you take comfort
and faith. This is not surely the first time
you have seen Mr. Darcy since-you have
met him before?"

"Once. But he sought me out himself
then. It was in Paris; and he came to offer
his friendship, he was too generous to say his
pardon. A few months after that, I met
Mauricefor the first time since we parted at
his brother's bedside-and you remember he
would as soon have touched a viper as my
hand!"
"Maurice is very hard," said Valerie,
mournfully.
"But is he not right? Have I-I, with
more than his blood upon my head, any
right to touch that other band?"
"Yes, you have," she said, firmly. "And
Maurice is wrong. It will do you good to stay.
It will please kim-and surely you would
count any sacrifice well made that did that."
"Does he indeed wish it?"
"Did he not tell you so?"
"Yes, but-"
"There is no 'but' in the question 1',
she interrupted. "You must stay. First,
because he requests it. Secondly, because
this is your proper home, now that you are
wounded and sick. Indeed, you shall re-
main until you are well again. We will not
give you up! Put these morbid thoughts
from you, dear Charley. Recognize God's
will over and above all things; and, when
we recognize that, we may as well bend to
it, you know; for resistance is utterly use-
less. Remember how many years of suf-
fering have atoned for the act of one hour;
and then remember, also, that it is time to
cease mourning. I know there must al-
ways be a saddened regret, but the bitter-
ness of unavailing remorse is bitterly mis-
placed. Sinning and suffering! Ah!it is
only what we all are doing; but the suffer-
ing need not be prolonged eternally, for
even God does not do that, save to those
who have never given one thought of regret,
or made one aspiration for pardon. Promise
me that you will stay?"
"I did not ask your advice without
meaning to take it. I will do whatever
you decide."
"I have decided, then. You shall not
leave us until you must. Now let us go
back to the chMeau-I am sure this night
air cannot be good for you-and I will
make Alix sing something."

THE' HERO OF SADOWA.                  189

CHAPTER V.
THE nzuo OF sADowA.
Tnnnn was one person at least to when
Valerie's decision proved far from agree
ble; one member at least of the chtteai
party who wished its new inmate at-well
at Vienna!
On the very first day of his arrival
Hautaine developed a marked admire
tion for Alix-an admiration which sensi
bly increased with every succeeding honi
of his stay, and which caused Eugene'~
friendly regard and friendly cordiality tc
diminish in exact ratio. For, alas! the ir-
ruption into Arcadia was come, the golden
hour was over, the magic charm was van-
ished, and the rough world, where every
man takes what he can get, burst in upon
the fair idyl which had a little while back
seemed flowing so smoothly to a peaceful
close. Xow all was changed. Ohan~ed how
much, or how little, no one could tell; but
even Eugene's bold heart misgave him some-
what. He would not have feared ordinary
rivalry at all; he had not cared in the least
about the effusive admiration those bearded
young engineers expressed for La petite )Yiie,
as they dubbed Alix, but then-well, this
was different. A rival of any sort would
have been bad enough, but a rival who
threw him-Eugene-completely into the
background, ~d took the highest place in
everybody's regard, by virtue of his pale
face and his wounded arm, and his general
halo of heroic circumstance-a rival who
sang an excellent baritone, who could tell a
false semitone as soon as he heard it, and
who had the whole array of musical terms
at the end of his tongue, why it was no
wonder that Eugene beg Em to think a good
many disagreeable things, and sometimes to
say them.
"I think I shall go back to work," he
said, one day, moodily enough, when he
and Valerie chanced to be alone together.
"I got a letter from Ledoc this morning,
and-well, there's no earthly good in stay.
ing here. I think I shall go, Valerie."
Valerie looked up at him quickly. She
had seen for some time how matters were

drifting, and it would be hard to say
whetl~er her relief at Oharley's desertion, or
her sympathy for Eugene's annoyance, had
been greatest. But now, as she noticed
~ what a dark cloud rested in the usually sun-
- ny eyes that were bent on the distant line
1 of purple mountains, the latter came over
her all at once with a rush.
"Did M. Ledoc write for you. Are you
obliged to go?" she said. "If not, I am
sure I don't see why you should do so."
- he mentioned nothing about
wanting me," her brother answered. "But
there's no good in staying. I might as well
go, and be done with it."
"No good in staying," repeated Va-
lerie, who was a little puzzled, and thought
he might perhaps have been rejected. "Yo
good !-I don't understand. What do you
mean ?."
"Just what I say," answered Eugene,
shortly. For in truth he did not mean any
thing, excepting that he was vexed and out
of temper, and wanted somebody to "take
it out" on. "You are so well occupied
there is no need of me," he went on, after a
while. "I think I'm rather in the way
than otherwise. I had better take myself
off for a time, and perhaps when I come
back-"
He stopped, partly because he felt a lit-
tle ashamed of his pettishness, and partly
because Valerie looked so grieved.
"I am very sorry," she began. "We
never any of us meant to neglect you-I
least of all-but we only thought that you
were at home, and that you could entertain
yourself better than we could entertain you,
and-"
"Pshaw! You know I didn't mean
you!" interrupted the ungrateful brother.
"Indeed, I don't know that I meant any
thing, excepting that I am tired to death of
Hautaine's braggadocio stories of Sadowa
and K~niggritz. How long is he going to
stay?"
"Until he is thoroughly recovered, I
hope," Valerie answered-for, although she
felt very sorry for Eugene, she had no in-
tention of giving up Charley.
"Humph!" Then, after a pause-" Is
that arm of his never going t~ get well?"


190                          VALERIE
"Doctor Fontaine says it is doing ex-
cellently; but that he must not use it
yet."
"The sling is too interesting to be given
up soon, I suspect. And then it must be
pleasant to have three or four women wait-
ing on him and cutting up his food as if he
were a great baby."
"Eugene!" said Valerie, indignantly,
and then she stopped. It was natural, no
doubt, that he should be jealous; but still,
even jealousy has its due limits, at least in
expression. "Eugene, I am astonished at
you," she went on; "your ideas of hospi-
tality must surely have changed very much,
for I am sure you would not have talked
this way once. If Alix is the matter-"
Alix is not the matter!" said Eugene,
who felt the justice of the rebuke so sharp-
ly that it made him irritable. "Alix is not
the matter at all," he repeated, tossing his
cigar as far out of the window as he could
send it. "She is at perfect liberty to be-
stow as much of her time and attention as
she pleases on this-this wounded hero. I
beg your pardon for having said any thing
about him. He is a puppy, but then I ought
to have remembered that he was always a
sensitive point with you."
* "He is no more a sensitive point with
me than any other old friend would be,"
Valerie answered, flushing slightly; "but I
am very sorry to hear you talk so. It looks
as if-as if you were a little envious.
Now, Charley speaks for himself-"
"He does indeed, to an uncommon de-
gree!"
"But you-ah, Eugene, I wish you were
more generous. Besides, I don't see why
you are s~ jealous. As far as I can judge,
your chances of success are as good as, or
better, than his."
"Better I-you think so?" he cried, for-
getful of his late denial that Alix had any
thing to do with the matter.
"Yes, I think so," his ~ister said, smiling.
"But what is the good of tormenting your-
self in this way? You h~ive surely forgot-
ten your old motto, 'Let the best man win.'
It is a fair field; and if Chancy wins-"
"That he never shall," interrupted Eu-
gene, quickly. "Thank you, Valerie. I

AYLMER.

see what a fool I was, and I suppose I ought
be a little ashamed. The lists are open,
certainly; and he-but then I'll make a
death-fight of it, and you'll see that I will
win."
"I should be very glad to see it," she
said. But still, in her heart, she thought
that she had rather Charley won~ -poor
Charley, who had had such a hard time with
his love for her, and was besides unhappy
in a way Eugene never dreamed of.
Meanwhile, Charley was certainly very
much attracted by the dainty, brown-eyed
fairy who had such pretty, artless ways,
~and who looked up so confidingly sure of
admiration, when she had executed a high
trill or a low scale in very finished style.
And there was nothing singular in this, for
he was one of a large class of men who are
incapable of entertaining a passion which
has proved hopeless, and who possess a
great, and, for them, happy faculty of trans-
ferring ~their affections on very short notice.
He had been in love with Valerie for years
-more deeply in love than he could ever
be again with any other woman-and, as
long as he entertained the least hope of
success, had been entirely loyal and con-
stant to that affection. But, when once she
made clear the undoubted fact, that he need
cherish no expectation of return, he had
been able to resign himself to disappoint-
ment without the least danger of a broken
heart. He spoke simple truth when he told
her that he had conquered his love for her,
or he would not have sought her presence
again-and, although the old fancy may
have stirred a little at sight of the old smile
and the old glance, yet she administered a
very effectual quietus in the garden that
night when she made her confession of love
rfor another man, Difficulty did not spur
him on, as it would have spurred some peo-
ple; for he was naturally indolent, and,
like too many of his passionate, changeable
race, did not fancy trouble. High grapes
were always sour to him, and that fruit the
best and ripest which was most easily
plucked. If Valerie really preferred Man-
rice Darcy to himself, why-
"There were maidens in Scotland more lovely by far,
Who would gladly be bride to the young Lochinvar"

THE HERO
So he sang duets with Alix, which were
all horrible discord to Eugene'~ soul; he
talked German with her (German, so exe-
crably bad, on both sidus, that it would have
ao.onized any ear of the fatherland); he re~
counted all the musical gossip of Vienna,
where musical gossip abounds; he encour-
aged her professional aspirations, which
Eugene abhorred; he praised her voice
until she glowed into grateful rapture; and
he finally put the climax on his audacity by
offering to become her maestro during the
period in which they both remained at the
chflteau.
"Not that I think I know as much mu-
sic as you do," he went on, in explanation;
"but I have heard that a poor teacher is
better than no teacher at all. Now, I
could at least make you practise regularly."
"And I am sure I need to be made,"
Alix said, laughingly, but with a depre-
cating glance at Eugene, who was glower-
ing over the familiar proceedings of the new
acquaintance, "I promised Herr Volkner
that I would do so, but I am afraid-ab,
one's good resolutions are worth so little."
"Unless there is somebody to help one
keep them," Hautaine answered, in his easy
way. "And I am afraid you have only
been aided to break yours.-Eugene, for in-
stance, seems to be absolutely jealous ~f
the piano."
"Colonel Aylmer thinks it is horrible,"
said Alix, with another little glance at Eu-
gene-this time one of resentment.
"What is it that I think horrible?" 1
asked Colonel Aylmer, who was ready for
a battle at once.
"Music," said the little, would-be canta-
trice indignantly. "You know you talk '
about it-oh, dreadfully!"
"I don't talk about music-I don't care ~
any thing about it-I only say that it is no6
a fit profession for you."
"I should like to know-"
But here Charley interfered. "He is a ~
heretic, Miss Rivi~re. ~We will leave him p
to his heterodoxy. 'If there is one thing in
the world he likes better than another, it is o
argument; and I make it a point of con- ~
science never to gratify him. Will you
take your first lesson now?"           b

OF SADOWA.                        191
After this, instead of mending, matters
grew rather more serious. True, they had
a short interval of quiet, when Eugene was
obliged to go back to his work; but he
came again as soon as possible, and was
more than ever outraged at the state of in-
timacy existing between Alix and Charley.
Then it was that the former found herself
placed in rather a trying position. Some
women, women fond of flirtation and its at-
tendant good things, would have liked
nothing better than two admirers-two
pieces of tinder, rather-to play oft' against
each other in this way. But Alix, being of
another metal, found nothing whatever at-
tractive in the situation, nothing pleasant in
the consciousness that there was a strife for
her favor going on all the time. Hautaine
was too easy in temper, and too perfect in
breeding, to allow himself to be betrayed
into indiscretions, or tokens of vexation;
but Eugene, far more impetuous by nature,
also had himself less well in hand; and he
not seldom looked both sulky and savage.
He would get into " ways" that were posi-
tively dreadful, and distinguished himself
by being brusque to Hautaine, rude to Alix,
and generally disagreeable to everybody
else. He did not succeed in making any-
body uncomfortable, however, unless it was
F~is ladylove. She, poor child, did not at all
understand the meanitig of the black looks
md sarcastic speeches freely cast in her di-
~ection, and strove sedulously to propitiate
aim by every means in her power, sai~e the
'ight one. As, for example:
"You seem very busy of late," Eugene
aid, entering the saloon one morning where
he chanced to be alone. "What with your
needlework, and your music, and your
valks, I have hardly been able to obtain a
vord for days past."
"I did not know you had tried," said
~iix, looking up with a snAle that might
~ave soothed a bear. "I thought it was I
~ho had not obtained a glance for days
'ast."
"That was because you were too much
occupied to notice them," said he, a little
~iortly.
"I am sure I don't know how I have
ecu more occupied than usual."


THE HERO 0]? SADOWA.                  198

192                        VALI~IRIE AYLMER.

"Don't you? Well, no doubt I am mis-
taken. That seems to be my habit of late;
but, whether you were or not, I should not
have thought of troubling you with my
indifferent powers of entertainment. I can't
sing like Mario, or play like Liszt; I can't
criticism like the Saturda?, .1?evieu', or talk
German like-like Bismarek; so, all I can do
is, to keep i~iyself in the background."
"As for music," said Alix, "I think you
might know a little more about that, and be
a little more liberal-but, for the others, I
am sure you can do them all quite as well as
the rest of us. For my part, I am very sorry
that such a fit of modesty has seized you;
for I liked you better when you didn't keep
'in the background."
"Humph I" said Eugene-mollified in
spite of himself.
He amused himself for some time then, by
playing with one of her spools; and, after he
had tied at least a dozen knots in the thread,
and broken each one of them off, he tossed
it back into her work-box, and inquired
what~he was doing.
"Not very much," she answered. "I
am only making a sling for the wounded
arm of. our hero of Sadowa. See! I have
made it out of the Austrian colors in com-
pliment to his new nationality. Is it not
pretty?"
She held it up before him, and Eugene
looked at it, and felt that he hated it. The
hero of Sadowa! Perhaps, after all, that
was the great sting, since he, poor fellow,
was not the hero of ally thing. If he cher-
isheft a wish in his heart at that moment, it
was that he, too, had been at Sadowa (in
the Prussian ranks), .and thus possessed one
good chance at least tQ have had it out with
this detested rival.
"I suppose it is pretty," he said at last,
somewhat ungraciously; "but I am not fond
of either yellow or black. Indeed, I don't
know that I'm fond of any colors, excepting
the red, white, and red."
"Then, when you need a sling," she said
laughingly, "I will make it for you out of
those beloved colors."
"Thank you,~~ he returned, "but, as I am
not likely to be the hero of another Sadowa,
I shall not prabahly call upon you. My

fighl~ing-days are over for good and for
all."
"Ab, that is your same old philosophy,
but-do you think it is necessary?"
"I certainly don't think it is worthy of a
Confederate officer to descend to the rank
of a mere mercenary," he answered, with ill-
restrained bitterness.
"You surely do not mean it," said Alix,
looking at him with eyes full of indignant
reproach. "You surely do not mean it,
when you remember how many of our best
and bravest officers are soldiers in other
armies now; and when you remember, too,
the great names that Jiave made the profes-
sion illustrious.~~
"I suppose you see promise of another
Duke de Ber~wick in your hero of Sadowa."
"I don't know about seeing that," she
returned; "but I am sure he could not select
a more glorious model."
Eugene bit his lip angrily. There were
never any Dukes de Berwick in the engi-
neer service!
"He must be very much gratified by
your approbation of his profession," he said.
"I don't suppose he cares any thing about
it," she answered. "A soldier thinks more
of his laurels than of woman's opinion."
"His laurels! I did not know that any-
body owning allegiance to the double-headed
eagle won any laurels at Sadowa."
Alix laid down her work and looked at
him with a regard which he did not much
approve.
"Were there no laurels brought away
from Appomattox?" she asked, at length.
"A Confederate soldier, it seems to me,
should be the last person in the world to
think that honor always goes with victory,
or shame with defeat."
Woman as she was, she had the best of
it; and her opponent was frank enough to
confess as much. After that, he was not
again heard to demur when the hero of Sa-
dowa laughingly responded to his title. But
whether he liked it or not-
"God bless us all, that's quite another thing!"
"To-morrow is Alix's birthday," said
Valerie one evening, a week or two later.
"What can we do to celebrate it properly?"

"To-morrow Alix's birthday! repeated (
the general, who was deep in whist. "In
deed! And how old will she be?"
"I am getting quite old," said Alix, witl
a sigh. "I shall be eighteen."
"Dear me! So old as that?" asked Mist
Fane. "No wonder your face should b(
wrinkled, and your curls becoming gray~
flow fast old age comes on, to be sure!"
"Now you are laughing at me," said
All; good-humoredly. "But, indeed, I dc
feel as if it was strange that I should be even
so old as that."
"We all have that feeling of astonish.
ment at every birthday," said Hautaine.
"I am sure it was with difficulty I realized
not long ago that I am fast approaching
that bourne where, according to the prov-
erb, a man must be either a fool or a
physician.'
"And your prudence about you arm en-
titles you to hope that you may be included
in the latter category," said Mr. Darcy, smil-
lug. "Isitnotno?"
"He has been very prudent and very
obedient," said Valerie, looking at him with
a smile; "and I, for one, will grant him the
full benefit of a diploma. But you are all
forgetting my question-what shall be done
to celebrate Alix's birthday."
"I can suggest nothing better than a din.
ner-party," said the general, who was medi-
tating whether or not to play a king second
in hand, and thought that the most impor-
taut matter of the two.
"Dear me, papa," said his daughter,
with a faint laugh. "You surely forget
that we are not now at Aylmers, with a
whole neighborhood at our call. The cure,
and Dr. Fontaine are our bnly available
guests, you know; and I really ilon't think
that either of them would enliven the oc6a-
sion very much. No; whatever we decide
upon, must of necessity be limited to our-
selves."
"Shall I tell you what to do?" asked
Mr. Darcy, making a rash play, and laying
himself open to a trump on his strongest
suit. "You have been talking of an excur-
sion to the hills for some time. Why not
go to-morrow, and celebrate Miss Rivi~re's
birthday there."           -
13

"Why not, indeed?" exclaimed Eugene.
- "What say you, ladies all?"
"I think it is a very happy suggestion,"
answered Valerie; "but what does Alix
say?"
"I shall be delighted," said Alix, looking
radiant.
"And I shall be resigned," said Miss
Fane. "As a general rule, I abhor picnics.
I They are indissolubly associated in my mind
with earwigs, caterpillars, and bad colds;
but it will afford me pleasure to victimize
myself to-morrow."
"We will go, then," said Hautaine. "Is
it settled?-all of us?"
"All who can ride," said Mr. Darcy.
"Naturally, I am not ov~ of that number."
"And are we to leave you behind?" said
Valerie, turning quickly to him. "That
will never do!"
"Why not?" he asked. "My time was
always spent alone, until I Imew what such
kind friends were. Besides, I have a long
letter to write to Maurice, and I shall be
fully occupied with it."
"After that declaration, Valerie, I fancy
you can have nothing more to say," laughed
Eugene, as he rose to leav0 the rQOm. "If
it is decided that wego, I mu.~ at once send
down to the village find secure Lucien and
his mules, or-from the pure perversity of
human circumstances-some oz~e else will
anticipate us~ This is the season for tour-
"I s~e my concern is wasted on your ac-
count," said Miss Aylmer, looking at Gaston.
"I wonder if there ever was aman whose
idea of comfort was not aswociated with the
entire absence of every thing feminine?"
"And abominably i~ngrateful It is," said
Netta, indignantly; "for I should like to
know what 4In~ or all of them would do
without us."
"There are men on record who have
tried the experiment," said Hautaine, "and
they found that they did so well without
you, that the only wonder then became how
they ever managed to do toitk you."

192


19~                      VAtERIE AYLMER.

CHAPTER VI.
wno LAUGHED LAST?
THE next morning was as bright as could
have been desired, even for a picnic excur-
sion, and, at a very early hour, the whole
'party were gathered on the terrace ready
to start. Lucien, the handsome, sunburnt
guide, stood below the steps with his four
gayly-decorated mules, on one of which
Baptiste was busily engaged in packing a
hamper, while the group above talked and
lingered, and did not seem in any haste to
beoff.
"Dear me! "said Miss Fane, who was
the last person to make her appearance,
looking very sleepy and rather injured,
"are we going to ride pillion-fashion ?-or
are we going to take it turn about walking?
-or are three of us going to stay at home?
-or what is the meaning of there being so
few mules?"
"You are each expected to mount a
gentleman behind you," said Mr. Darcy,
who wSs leaningon his crutches and enjoy-
ing the bustle of departure as much as those
immediately interested in it. "As, by your
own admission, you are the ranking lady in
point of age, you will be allowed the first
choice of a companion. Shall it be Mr.
Hautaine or Colonel Aylmer?"
"Neither," she answered, with a shrug
of her shoulders. "I don't want to be
shoved over the first precipice we reach-
General Aylmer, is there anybody else you
would particularly like to accompany?"
"No one else at all, Miss Netta," said
the genei~al, gallantly. "There never iv any-
body else when you are present."
"Then, pray consider yourself invited to
ride behind that extraordinary-looking affair
on which I suppose I am to be perched."
"Is she really in earnest?" cried Alix,
turning to Mr. Darcy, in genuine consterna-
tion. "Are we really to have a gentleman
behind us? Oh, my dear general, please-
please go with me!"
"I am very sorry that a previous en-
gagement prevents my having that pleas-
ure," said the general, laughing. "But I

WHlOs LAUC

will delegate the duty to my representative.
Eugene
"No, no!" cried Alix, quickly, "I can-
not think of troubling Colonel Aylmer.-
Mr. Darcy, do come with us-Mr. Darcy,
* pray! Indeed, no harm shall happen to you,
* if you will only ride behind me."
"Listen to that mighty offer of protec-
tion, will you?" saidflautaine, with a laugh.
"Miss Alix, you had better take care of me.
I am wounded yet, you know."
"The linked music of Sadowa long
drawn out," said Eugene with an only half.
suppressed sneer.-" Miss Alix, I cannot
call upon you for protection, but I flatter
myself that in any emergency-and these
mountain ascents are dangerous, you know
-I should be able to render a littler Come,
which of us will you accept?"
Alix stood.twisting a little riding~.whip
rather nervously in her hand; and looking
with an embarrassed face from one to the
other of her would-be escorts.
"I don't accept either, Colonel Aylmer,"
she said at last. "I-I wish you would
please let me just go along by myself."
"That is flattering to you both, at any
rate," said Mr. Darcy, laughing.
"It would provide me well with attend-
ants," said Valerie; "but I don't know that
they would be worth much under the cir-
cumstances.-Come, Alix, which shall it
be?"
"Indeed, I'm very much obliged to ydu
both," said Alix, still looking at the two
gentlemen with a troubled expression;
"but-but I think you would either of you
be too heavy fur my mule I You ece I have
already chosen the smallest."
She made this announcement with the
most sincere gravity, and was not a little
surprised that its only reception was a burst
of laughter all round.
"You absurd creature!'? said Miss
Fane, "do you mean to go through life be-
lieving every thing that anybody chooses
to tell you? Moderate your fears! We are
each to have a cavalier, but he is only to
lead our mule."
"But-but is not General Aylmer really
going to ride behind you?" Alix asked,
still rather doubtful.

Netta laughed as, by the joint efforts of
the general and Lucien, she was safely de-
posited in the saddle. "Not unless he com-
pletely breaks down with fatigue," she said.
"I only hope I may live to get down from
this rickety affair," she added, resignedly, as
she gathered up her reins and started for-
ward with a jingling of many bells.
The next couple to set forth were Eugene
and Alix, for, to the great delight of the
former, the privilege of attendance had de-
volved upon himself - Hautaine having
gracefully surrendered the point, and of-
fered his escort to his hostess. It is to be
hoped that duty. was, in this instance, its
own reward, and that he did not think of
the use to which Eugene might put such an
opportunity. But as Alix moved off with
her stalwart escort, Oharley certainly set
his teeth together for a moment, muttering,
too low for any one to hear, the familiar
proverb, "He laughs best who laughs last."
This jealous paroxysm was only momentary,
however; for there was no shadow on his
face when he looked up and waved a very
spirited farewell to Mr. Darey, as they two
moved off.
They passed through the vineyards, and,
where the regular mountain ascent began,
came suddenly upon the general and Miss I
Fane, resting comfortably under the shade I
of a gigantic chestnut.
"We are waiting for Lucien and the I
sumpter-mule," the former explained, when
they came in sight. "Is he with you ?-Ah,
there he comes. .3fons Ii rave, the place of a
guide is always in the van." t
"Oui, m'sieur," said Lucien, who un- c
derstood the gesture, if not the words; f
and he led his mule forward immediately. I
The tinkling cavalcade fell into line be- l
hind him-Eugene and Alix, who had been ti
delayed, bringing up the rear, while Miss 'o
Fane who came next to the sumpter-mule, s
looked back over her shoulder with a bright v
smile, as they started.                g
"Valerie, what do we~most remind you h
of?" she asked, gayly. "Do you remember e:
the old woman who had rings on her fin- 54
gers and bells on her toes? One would xx
really think that all her family connection e
were here to-day."                     p

rilED LAST?                        195
"We move to a concord of sweet sounds,
certainly," Valerie answered; "but I rather
like it."
"Yes, it is not disagreeable-especially
if one has not much to say."
And, as this was peculiarly the case with
Miss Aylmer and her attendant, the pretty
music of their bells served in place of con-
versation, as they wound up the steep moun-
tain-path after their guide-generally tinder
large trees which overshadowed their way
with dense foliage and cool, dark shade, but,
now and then, catching glimpses of the val-
ley beneath, and the wide plains beyond, all
bathed in the glad golden sunlight of the
south. The air was deliciously fresh and
pure at that high altitude, fragrant too with
the wild, sweet odors of the forest; and so
ciear that distant objects seemed incredibly
near and distinct. The village and the
chAteau lay as it were at their very feet,
while here and there they could distinguish
all the residences which they knew, some
standing out boldly, like old baronial cas-
tles, others half hid among empowering
trees. Against the far horizon shone a sil-
ver line, which Lucien told them was the
Loire on its way to the sea; while, towering
tbove the lower range they were treading,
~he higher mountain-tops sharply cut against
~he deep sapphire sky.
So, as they jogged forward, Valerie and
he man who had once been her lover con-
rersed gravely of landscape effects, of tints
aid views; while Alix and Eugene became
rery oblivious of Nature, and talked of mat-
ers decidedly more interesting-at least to
~ne of them. All the clouds of the last
ew weeks had temporarily dispersed, for
4ugene was determined to make good use of
iS opportunity, and Alix, who was very
auch relieved to find him in a good-humor
nce more, enjoyed the change without con-
idering how long or how short a time it
rould last. Her laugh rang as clear, her
lance was as bright, as if the face at her side
ad never been more overcast than at pres-
at, or as if she was pleased to hold in pos-
~ssion once more the moody, wayward ad-
iirer, of whom, in truth, she stood consid-
rably in awe. There is no better philoso-
hy in the world than that of "gathering


196                           VALERIE
the roses while you may," and it was one
which both of these unconscious philosophers
practised very thoroughly that morning.
Yet, in thinking it over afterward, Eugene
began to regret that he- had spent that
precious time in gay trifling-in a sort of
veiled sword-play, where each understood
the other perfectly-instead of putting his
fate boldly to the touch. But Alix was so
charming, that he forgot every thing save
the mere pleasure of being with her, of let-
ting his arm rest over the neck of her mule,
and looking up into the brown eyes that
were all aglow with the bright enjoyment
of eighteen. Afterward he appreciated
this folly as it deserved to beappreciated,
and rated the consequences perhaps higher
than they deserved to be rated, but just then
he did nothing save bask in the sunshine
and gather the roses, forgetting that dead
roses sometimes possess very sharp thorns.
Only they began to drift a little toward
earnestness, when, in reply to some declara-
tion of devotion, Alix shook her head in
saucy coquetry, and bade 'him remeinber a
a certain Mademoiselle de Morny for whom
he had owned an undoubted Cendresse not
long before. .
"And what then?" asked he, who had
no idea of attempting evasion. " You won't
deny that the heart can change its alle-
giance, I hope?"  -
" The heart change its allegiance! .2ak
foi, what an assertion!" cried she. "Mr.
Hautaine did well to -say you were a heretic
by nature. What will you question next,
I wonder? Why-
* The leaves bloom every year,
,But the heart but once; and when
The blossoms fan off sear,
No new leaves come again.'"
"Bah !" said he,.irreverently. " That's
all very fine ; and true, perhaps-in poetry !
But there's not a living man who could not
refute it from experience. -Indeed, the most
of us woQuld be sorry enough if we had to
abide through life by our first'love."
" You don't believe in first loves, then? "
"No," said the young heretic, boldly;
"for not once in. a thousand cases is a first
lov6 any thing but a first folly. A man's last
love is his best," he went on-" because into

AYLMER.

that goes all his strength and passion, if he
has any."
"But," said she, aghast, "his last love
may be his hundredth."
"What matter-if it be love, and the
rest mere fanciest For I agree with your
poet tilus far-we may think we love many
times, we really do love but once."
" But if we think so every time, how are
we to know the right time-the real Simon
Pure-when it comes?9" .
He looked rather puzzled for a moment
-then he glanced up with a meaning smile,.
"Shall I tell you ?"
" No," she said, with a deep blush;
"never mind, just now. Only I think you
are wrong about any capacity of love being
left for a hundredth fancy. Surely Cupid's
quiver is not inexhaustible ; and, after hav-
ing squandered affe6tion in small coin, how
can you possess it in large bills"
"Don't make your questions so person-
al," he said, laughingly. " I-individually
-cannot lay claim to the distinction of a
hundredth or even a fiftieth love." '
" Oh, you content yourself with a forty.-
ninth." -
"Take care!" he rejoined. "I am a
patient man, but, after a while, you will
provoke something which you may not
fancy."
"I'm not afraid,"' she said, tossing her
head very prettily.
"Give me a defiance, then."
But this she declined to do. On the
contrary, she suddenly stopped talking, and
became very much interested in ,the caval-
cade ahead,.
" They are halting," she said; " I won-
der what it means ? Surely we have not
reached our destination !-if so, you must
have been very entertaining, Colonel Ayl-
iper, for the way has seemed very short."
"I am inexpressibly charmed to hear
it," said Colonel Aylmer; ."for, if I am not
mistaken, this is where we strike our tent.
.-Eh, Lucien, is it not ?"       ..
" This is the place," said Hautaine, com-
ing forward. "Miss Alix, are you tired?
Let me take you down."
Alix held out her hand with a smile, but
Eugene peremptorily interfered. "That is

*2

U

WHO LAU

my right," he said ; and, the next moment,
his strong arms swung her lightly to the
ground.
It was a very beautiful place that Lucien
had selected for them-a secluded ravine
high up among the mountains, where a
bubbling stream gushed out of the heart of
a rock, and fell into a basin that was placed
below it. The light' streamed deliciously
soft and dim through the green shade of the
overhanging trees, and the whole spot was
so lovely that it was no wonder pious hands
had dedicated it to the patron saint of the
district, and placed a rude cross and image
over the stream.
"'Drink, weary pilgrim, drink and pray
For the kind soul of Sibyl Grey,
Who built this cross and well,'"
said Valerie, as she stood looking down on
the water with which they had all crossed
themselves. "I would like to do something
of this sort," she added. " I wonder who
it was that first dedicated this spring"
"It ought to have a statue of St. Hubert
instead of St. Clothilde," said Eugene. " I
mean to tell M. le Cure so the next time I
Ssee him."
"It is a great resort with the wood-cut-
ters and chestnut-gatherers, and all the
other peasants who live in these mountains,
Lucien says," answered Miss Pane. "Per-
haps you had better make your complaints
to them-only I don't expect they would
care much about placing their spring under
St. Hubert's protection."
"I vote that we come here every day to
dine," said Hautaine,,seating himself on a
large stone, and looking round with an air of
great complacency. "It is really exquisite!
-Valerie, I hope your sketch-book was not
left at home"
" Unfortunately, yes," Valerie replied.
"I am sorry, for the whole scene is worth
sketching, especially Lucien's mules."
"I think she admires the mules more
than she does us," said Ajix, turning to Eu-
gene with a laugh.
s"They are more in her line, perhaps,"
answered that young gentleman.--"Lucien,
suppose you unpack that hamper, and put
the wine in the stream to cool-it must
have grown warm by this time."

OGHED LAST ?                    ,    Ige
"Suppose you do it yourself, Mr. Indo-
lence?" said Netta. "Lucien cannot leave
his mules. I should think you would have
learned, by this time, to dispense with so
much attendance."
"I am afraid that is a lesson he will
never learn," said the general, who was
also seated on a stone, and looking by no
means so comfortable as the rest of the
party. "By Jove! It is very hot! Char-
ley, my lad, if you propose coming here
every day to dine, I hope you will leave me
behind at the chAteau. I may be very un-
romantic; but it only strikes me in the light
of a very hair-brained excursion to drink flat
champagne and eat melted butter."
"Pray don't slander the contents of our
hamper in that way, at least until you try
them," said Miss Pan.-" Eugene, do as
you are bid about opening it !-' Queen rose
of the rose-bud garden of girls,' will you be
so obliging as to spread the cloth Oh,
dear ! Valerie, just look here-the pickles
have run into the preserves! "
" Throw them away,"~ said Valerie.
" Two items from our bill of fare."
"Save the pickles!" cried Eugene.
"How can preserves possibly hurt pick-
lesi"
" On the principle of sweets to the sour,
I suppose," said Miss Fane. " Here they
are, then. I only hope you will eat them!
The butter is in a liquid state.-General
Aylmer, that is for your benefit-you will
enjoy it, I know. And here is French pas-
try and chicken indiscriminately mixed up
together-Valerie, who did pack this 'ham-
per ?"
"Baptiste, I suppose," said Valerie, care-
lessly, for she was more occupied in trailing
a vine-leaf through the clear waters of the
spring, than in the prospects for dinner.
"At least, I gave the order to him."
"I declare, there is scarcely a thing'
here fit to eat," said Miss Pane, petulantly,
" The marmalade is peppei-ed, and the ham
is full of honey. Yes, do look, General
Aylmer, is it not a deplorable sight?"
For the general, much concerned at the
dreadful bulletins from the hamper, had
risen, and come forward to inspect matters
himself.


198                      VALERIE AYLMER.                                                         WHO LAUGHED LAST?                      199

"The scamp!" said he, working himself
into quite a state of indignation against tli
absent Baptiste. "I am surprised at yoi
Valerie-very much surprised that yo
should have left such an important matte
to a careless' servant.-What is that, Mu
Netta?"
"What, indeed?" asked she solemnly, a
she regarded a crushed mass that had jus
been extracted from the depths of the ham
per. "I think-I rather think-it wa
once a pate' do fois gras!"
"The ohef-d'wuvre that Jules promise
me, I suppose," said Valerie, laughing.
But the general did not see what thor
was to laugh at in such a serious matter
He looked at the injured pate' very wist
fully. "It must have been excellent," h
said, in a tone of regret.
"Hang it all, who cares for pate'8.t'
cried Eugene. "Fairies don't eat them,
am sure, and we are fairies for the nonce~
We shall have to content ourselves with tin
fare of the hermit of the dale-
'A scrip with herbs and fruit supplied,
And water from the spring.'"
"I told you all, it would be infinitely
more sensible to stay at home and invite the
cure' and Dr. Fontaine to dinner," said the
general, addressing the company, with the
ruined pate' still in his thoughts.
"Perhaps so," said Valerie; "but we are
here now, papa, and we must make the best
of it. Let us gather up the remnants of
the hamper, and see what we can do with
them in the way of a dinner."
They did so much with them, that it
was a very pleasant feast to which they all
sat down at last, under the shade of the
overhanging mountain-side. True, a grass-
hopper occasionally sprung into a glass of
wine, and various insects of the creeping
order made themselves entirely too familiar
with the plates (not to speak of a large
frog which perched himself on top of a loaf
of bread, and had it pitched after him when
he departed). But, then, people expect
such little agreeables as these, when they
go picnicking; and don't mind them very
much, as a rule.
"This is simply delightful," said Eugene,~

f ~rhO had entirely recovered all his usual
0 spirits. "Really, as Charley says, I would
i, not mind coming up here every day to dine
u -that is, if we had a balloon at command."
r "I would ask nothing better than the
is mode of locomotion we employed this
morning," said Hautaine, indolently.
,s "Charley," screamed Miss Fane, "what
t is this on my neck? Oh !-ah!-take it off
-take it off!"
s "It is Eugene's caterpillar," said Char-
by, laughing; "one that was on his sleeve
I a minute ago. He sent it over to you as a
proof of affection."
~ she said, shuddering, C~ this is
- dreadful! Caterpillars ad libitum, are many
- degrees worse than ruined pate's. Let us go
home!"
"Accept my humble apologies, and an
apricot," said Eugene.-" Charley, fill up her
glass, and now, pet, be comfortable and quiet.
Nobody is going home for hours yet."
"No; for this mid-day heat must be
very intense," said General Aylimer, "al-
though we are so sheltered that we scarcely
feel it at all."
"There is almost shelter enough here to
* protect one against a storm," said Hautaine,
looking up at the dense canopy of green
over their heads, with the golden sunshine
glinting on the leaves, and flickering down
through them in patches of amber light.
"Moonlight in this spot must be lovely.
There is a moon to-night, is there not?
Suppose we stay here until it rises 5"
"And break our necks going down,"
said Eugene. "That would be- What is
it, Lucien?"
For the guide had come forward and
was addressing him.
"I said, m~sieur, that perhaps it would
be better if we returned," the man replied.
"There is a cloud coming up from the
southwest that I don't like; and a storm in
these mountains is to be feared."
Eugene hastily drailled off his glass, and,
rising, followed him to an open eminence
that commanded a view of the sky. When
he returned, it was with quite a grave face.
"Looks badly," he said, in answer to
their inquiries.-" Charley, you're a sailor,
go and see what you think of it."

Chancy went-examined the cloud-
held a brief conversation with Lucien, and
returned, looking more grave than his
friend.
"The very mischief is brewing there,"
he said. "But it may give us time to get
down to the plains, if we start at once."
"I thought you just said there was shel-
ter enough here from a storm," said Vale-
rie, who felt very comfortable and very
indolent.
"Not for such a one as is coming up
now," he replied. "Ladies all, how soon
can you be in the saddle?"
"Help us gather together the de'li'ris of
all this, and' we will be ready in ten min-
utes," said Netta. "Is there really so much
need for haste?"
"There really is."
They were soon ready; but when they
came forth from the leafy retreat, and
looked at the formidable cloud, a cry of dis-
gust and indignation burst from the whole
feminine trio.
"You call that a cloud!"
"It is only an excuse to take us home in
this broiling sun!"
"Let us go back and stay where we
were."
"To horse! to horse!" cried Eugene,
who saw formidable signs of a mutiny.
"Don't you know there may be danger of
the worst sort in a cloud no larger than your
hand, even when the sun is shining as
brightly as now i You might trust us, I
think."
"We do trust you," said Alix.
"Do you?" ho retorted, with a smile;
"then your foot in my hand thus-one bold 4
spring-there! Now you are seated as se-
curely as Di Vernon herself !-Now, Lucien,
lead tm-and, in case we reach the plains. I
before the storm catches us, I hereby vow a
silver cup to St Cbothilde's well."
The sun in which they set out was
broiling, but they did n~t suffer from it I
very long. Soon the dark cloud swept up
from the verge of the southern horizon, and
began to overcast the sky; then a distt,~nt,
menacing growl was heard.
"'There is a sound of thunder afar,
Storm In the south that darkens the day,"'

quoted Valerie,'laughingly. "I wonder if
our excursion will end with the adventure
of a drenching after all?"
Her companion did not answer at once;
he was gazing anxiously at the heavy mass
moving forward so steadily over head, with
the now obscured sunlight gilding its dark
edg~s in a manner beautiful to behold.
"I only hope a drenching may be the
worst thing that befalls us," he said at
length. "If the way were only not so rough,
that we might move a little faster."
For, by this time, fishes of lightning be-
gan to play round their path, and terrible
bursts of thunder to echo from the clouds
above.
"Listen!" said Valerie. "Is it not
grand? There is nothing I like so much as
the prelude to a storm. What a profound
hush seems to have seized on all Nature, as
if every leaf were listening to the warfare of
the sky; and how the sounds above resem-
ble the voice of many batteries-only more
terrible! When I was a child, I used to
think that there was war in heaven, and
what we heard was the great archangel
hurting his heavenly hosts upon the rebel-
lious legions. Listen!"
It was grand indeed-but of an awful
grandeur! From side to side the sky was
curtained, and blackness 'had seized upon
the noonday. The play of lightning grew
more vivid-and the rumbling crash of the
thunder so near, that the very animals
~hrnnk and shivered from head to Coot, when
it burst upon them. As Valerie said, the
2alm of Nature was so intense as to be sob-
nun, for every woodland sound was hushed,
avery twig hung motionless to its stem.
"Oharley," she said, gravely, "I am
very much afraid that we shall not reach
;he lowlands before the storm bursts."
"I am afraid not," said he, still more
~ravely.
"What shall we do, then ?-this path will
)O horribly unsafe."
"And the woods no.better. I am sure I
lon't..-steady!"
A flash that blinded !-a roar that deaf-
,ned !-and a perfect hurricane of wind
hat tore down the mountain-side, crashihg
he forest-trees in its path.


200                      VALERIE AYLMER.

The next thing Valerie knew, her muh
was crouching to the . ground, quivering in
every limb, and her own hands were clasped
over her eyes, striving to shut out that aw-
Liii glare which had seemed to blind and
jazzle at once.
"This will never do," she heard Charley
say; and, in the roar of sound, it ~eemcd as
if he was talking a long way ofi instead of
at her side. "If we attempt to keep this
path, we shall be dashed over the precipices.
We must try the woods, though there we
may be crushed to death by the falling tim-
ber.
"There is not much safety from that
danger here," gasped Valerie. "Look!"
For, at that moment, a large chestnut fell
with a crash across the path just in front of
them, thus effectually barring further prog-
ress.
"At all events, we need not wait to be
krned," said Hautaine; and, seizing her rein,
he turned into the forest.
They came full upon the others, who had
done likewise, hurrying and rushing for ref-
uge, and finding none. The three genlile-
men forsook their charges for a moment to
hold a hurried consultation; but it did not
result in much. "The very first ravine, the
first overhanging rock-any thing!" cried
Eugene, and then he sprung back to the
head of his mule, leading it forward, "over
bueh, bank, and scaur," with a reckless dis-
regard of every thing save some chance of
~safety from the terrible storm. The rain
n~w began to fall in torrents; but the wind
had not abated in the least, and threatened
every moment to sweep them down the
mountain~ making it indescribably difficult to
retain any foothold whatever. In all its
majesty and terror, the storm was abroad
in the mountains, and the scene was one
which beggared all description. The light-
ning seemed to leap from point to point, like
darts from the hands of angered angels; the
thunder echoed and reechoed among the
rocks, until its reverberations, instead of dy-
ing away, seemed rather to increase in vol-
ume; water-courses unnumbered sprung
into existence, and torrents roared and tum-
bled where the morning had seen only a
quiet brook or a dry bed, while the pouring

rain and the howling wind seemed a mere
accompaniment to the grander elements of
strife that clashed and roared together in
one deafening din.
At last, however, Eugene described a
shelter-a narrow, high ravine-and turned
quickly into it. The wind swept through it
with terrible force, and water-falls leaped
from all its sides; but at least there was
comparative safety to be found there. They
drew up breathless, under the shelter of the
overhanging hill, and then Eugene turned
to his companion, with an eager cry of re-
lief.
"Thank God!" L cried, and then he
stopped short-for it was not Alix, but Va-
lerie, who threw back the hood of her cloak
and looked at him!
It would be hard to say which of the two
was most thoroughly astonished; for, until
that moment, Valerie had thought that her
attendant was Hautaine; but she saw at
once how the mistake had been made in the
darkness and tempest which had suddenly
enveloped them.
"You!" cried Eugene, finishing his sen-
tence very differently from the manner he
had intended. "You !-and-you let me do
this!"
"I did not knew until this moment that
you were net Charley," Valerie answered,
as eagerly and apologetically as if the fault
had indeed been hers. "I am very sorry,
but-but he will take good care of Alix."
"Good care-" It was fortunate that the
blast came upon them quite strongly at that
moment, and swept away. the rest of the
sentence to regions unknown. "It is enough
to drive one mad!" cried the thoroughly
exasperated young man. "I must have been
crazy, I think !-and what am I to do now?
I can't leave yon here, or I would go after
her. Confound him! No doubt he knew
perfectly well what he was about!"
Valerie could not comfort him, for, al-
though she was brave enough, she dared not
bid him leave her, even if he would have
done so; an~ to set forth in search of hi~
missing love was the only thing that could
have relievedhis impatient jealousy and dis-
appointment. So they , stood together si-
lently; she praying softly to herself-he

1
t
f
a
V
5
a
5
V
RI

WHO LAUGHED LAST?                            201
chafing bitterly in the thought that Han- of arrangement which the momentary halt
tame, not he, was Alix's defender in the by the fallen chestnut had made. Indeed,
first emergency of danger that had ever they had not proceeded very far before there
risen for them. But rescue for him was at came another glare of vivid light, another
hand, though he did not know it. They had thundering crash, another sweeping blast on
not long been halting, when Valerie sud- which a hundred erl-kings seemed to ride,
denly caught sight of a head adorned with and Charley, turning round to reassure his
large ears looming through the rain, and, companion, saw Alix reeling helplessly from
with a cry which the wind seized at her lips the saddle. He had no time for conjecture
and bjre away, she caught Eugene's arm, so as to how she came there, and indeed little
that he too might perceh~e that their retreat eared. lie caught iher only just in time, and
was shared. when she came to her senses, of which the
"Alix! "he cried, springing eagerly for- shock had momentarily deprived her, she
ward; but it was only to meet another dis- found herself sheltered in a crevice of rock,
appointment, for a drenched shadow of Netta with Hautaine's arms around her, and Han-
Fane welcomed him with an hysterical gurgle tame's voice sounding in her ear, even above
of laughter. "Where is she I" he cried, im- the din of the tempest.
petuously. "What have you done with "My love! my love!" was what she
her?" heard, in accents infinitely tender and infi~
"We know nothing about any body but nicely yearning. "My God! you surely are
ourselves," said the general; "and we con- not hurt?"
sider ourselves fortunate to know that. "No, no," she answered, quickly-" only
What we have gone through, it is impossible -only stunned! But oh, it was so horrible!
~o tell! I make no rash resolutions, but, if And-and there is another!"
ever I am found on another mountain ox- She clung to him, shrinking and quiver-
mrsion-" ing like a child, and hid her face on his
"Alix is safe, Eugene, I have no doubt," shoulder from the dazzling flashes that
mid Miss Fane, kindly. "You know she is seemed to scorch her very eyeballs. She.
n good hands. Charley would throw him- had never been strong-minded enough to
~elf over a precipice before she should be control or overcome the terrible fear of
~urt and then, there is Lucien." lightning which possesses almost every-
"Yes, there is Lucien. I have some body in greater or lesser degree-and it is
iope in kim," sald the ungrateful Eugene. safe to say that, on the present occasion,
'I am glad you have come. I can leave Hautaine did not wish her one iota less
Valerie with you, and go after her myself." cowardly or less weak. There was an inex-
"Go after her yourself;" Netta repeated, pressible pleasure in feeling her clinging to
dl aghast. "Oh, Eugene, don't be so rash! him, almost unconscious that she did, while
~on will be killed as surely as you do-just he strove to whisper reassurances.. "Trem-
ook at the storm I" ble not, love, thy Gheber's here," was about
"I am going," repeated Eugene, as if the sum and substance of them; but they
hat was all there was to be said. He went seemed to be of a consoling nature, never-
or Valerie, and brought her close to theni, theless; for at last she ventured to inquire
sid, then he buttoned up his coat, pulled what they were going to do.
[own his hat, and set forth. "I hope you "Lucien, what are we going to do?"
ron't get knocked over by a falling tree," shouted Charley, turning to the guide who
aid the general, philosophically; and they stood near, striving to keep a foothold for
ii shrugged their shoulders as the head- himself and his mules against the sweeping
trong fellow vanished from sight, leaping wind that was howling a triumphant march
~ith his quick, agile stride over the torrents along its course.
hat were rushing and roaring around.     "M'sieur, I do not know," the latter
Meanwhile Charley and Allx had been answered, moving nearer, so as to make
inch less slow in discovering that change himself audible, "unless we tr.y to find my


202                          VALERIE
brother's hut, which is near here some-
where."
"Your brother's hut?~"
"Yes, m'sieur; he is a wood-cutter."
"And do you think you can find it?
Heavens I what a blast!"
"I can try. Neither mademoiselle nor
i~supetite.s "-he pointed to the mules-" can
stand this much longer."
"Lead on, then," said Charley, "and
may St. Clothilde only be kind enough to
keep us on our feet 1"
"Will not mademoiselle mount again?"
"lie; I shall carry her."
~ And mademoiselle, thus peremptorily
made a thing of naught, rejoiced threat in
her heart, and hid her face closer than ever
from the wild storm into which they boldly
ventured forth. Hautaine felt the convul-
sive trembling that shook her from head to
foot, whenever the deafening bursts fol-
lowed a flash that had shown them all their
way, only to leave it in obscurity the next
moment. It was a fierce battle with the
elements which he and Lucien fought, as
they struggled along through the wind and
rain-more fierce than that which Eugene
was fighting at the same time, because their
path lay along a much more exposed decliv-
ity of the mountain. More than once, they
each thought that the end had come for~
themselves, as well as for the helpless being
under their care. But they were both men
of nerve and pluck-they struggled on,
with the storm in their teeth, and were at
last rewarded by seeing the outline of a
woodman's hut dimly showing through the
rain. Almost at the same moment that
Valerie and Eugene gained their retreat,
this other refuge was won. Lucien took up
a large stone, and, with onequick blow,
broke the lock which fastened the door.
Then they sprang within and hurled it shut
against the raging storm that followed and
beat upon them.
There came the breathless pause of I
spent exhaustion, followed by congratula-
tions, laughter, and the production of a
flask that never before had done better ser-
vice. Giving no heed to Alix's remon-
strances, Hautaine administered a dose to
her, then shared the remaining contents be-

AYLMER.

tween himself and the guide, who was now
busy with his mules. By an unusual
chance, the hut boasted two compartments,
and, anxious to escape from the society of
their four-footed companions, at Lucien's
recommendation, Hautaine took Alix in0to
the inner room. It held, by way of furni-
ture, a rough table and one chair. Alix ~
sank into the latter, and Charley took a
seat on the former. They both felt rather
exhausted, and, after a pause, the gentle-
man was the first to speak.
"I am sure you will be ill."
"2No-I hope not."
"I am confident of it. But what can I
do? The brandy-"
"Oh," cried she, "please don't say any
thing about more brandy. I could not-in-
deed I could not-take another drop."
"You took about enough for Queen
Mab before. However, it is gone, and that
is an end of the matter. I only wish__"
"Don't say you wish we had not come,~~
she interrupted, eagerly. "I would not
have missed to-day for the world. I have
enjoyed it so much."
"Have you? That will be pleasant for
Eugene to hear."
"What do you mean?"
"Whatdolmean? Only that it is Eu-
gene who has had the happiness of contrib-
uting to your birthday enjoyment-not I."
He spoke quickly, almost passionately, as
a jealous lover is apt to speak; but he felt
sorry the next moment when he saw such
grieved astonishment creep into Mix's eyes.
"You are unkind!" was all she could
say; for, in truth, she was wondering
whether her ears had played her false, out
Lhere on the mountain-side under the rock,
or whether the wind could have uttered the
tender words that yet rung in her heart
Like music.
The young man leaned down so as to
bring his face o~ir~ level with her own. He
bad handsome e s, and knew it well-
Mix knew~ too, en she looked up and
net them ~ast~on her face with a re-
lard which the dullest woman alive could
iot have misunderstood.
"Was I unkind?" he said. "I never
neant to be that, Alix."

'U

I

WJILJ LAI
The lingering tone in which he spok
her name was as unmistakable as the lool
had been; and a nervous tremor seized th
childlike girl who was on the brink of he
fate, and knew it perfectly well. She ha
been brave enough, and fenced gallantly~
enough, up to this last moment; but nou
she broke dowu utterly. There is alway~
something very softening, very contagious
so to speak, in a declaration, especially
when it is made to a very gentle and yield
ing heart. Therefore, the odds all alone
had been that, of the two rivals, he whc
spoke first would win the day. If Eugene
had made his proposal in the morning, the
result might have been as favorable as he
could have desired; but, with characteris-
tie carelessness, he let the opportunity slip,
while, with equally characteristic impetuos-
ity, Hatitaine now seized in both his hands
the chance afforded him, and marched for-
ward to make the best-or worst-of it.
"I made a vow this morning," he went
on, "Alix; do you care to hear what it
was?"
Alix did not look at him now. She re-
garded the floor very steadily, and, after a
while, said "Yes," rather inaudibly.
"I made a vow," pursued thq young
free lance, bending down so close that he
could see the beating of the slender temple-
vein, and mark the quiver of the sweet
rose-lip, "a vow that your eighteenth
birthday should not pass without being
made memorable in your life, by the option
of accepting or rejecting a heart that loves
you better than I can say. You have not
known me very long, Alix, and-and you
will have to know some things about me
which may shake your faith in me. But
still I love you so dearly, that I think I can
venture to ask whether the coming year ja
to be a very happy or a very miserable one
to me. Alix, which is it?"
A pause.
"Alix, will you not~tell me?"
"I-I don't know~" said Alix. Then
breaking down, and beginning to cry:
"How can you expect me to tell you?"
Hautaine paled slightly. "Is your de-
cision, then, so hard a one former to hear?"
he asked, gravely.

uwuSv LA?5L'?                        203
a "I-I don't know? Oh! "with a cry,
as a peal of thunder shook the slight build-
a lug until it quivered. ~ flow can you talk
r about such things, when we may be killed
I any minute?"
"Who cares?" said Charley, impatient-
r ly. "I mean at any rate to know my fate
before I die. Alix, this is no time for tri-
fling. It must be y~s or no, before we
part again. Poor child, how you are trem-
bling! Is it I who am frightening you
so?"
":No," she murmured. "It is the-the
thunder!"
He said, "Poor child!" again, and then,
as if she had been a very child, he took her
into the protecting clasp of his arms.
"Alix, if you don't tell me differently,"
he said, in a voice which quivered slightly,
"I shall think you like me well enough to
take your place here forever. My love, may
Think so?"
There was a veryboisterous accompani-
ment to this idyl going on. Outside, the
lightning blazed, the thunder crashed, and
the clouds poured; within, the mules kept
up a restless stamping, and Lucien sang to
himself a wild cAan*em which he had caught
once in a military camp. Hautaine heeded
none of it-nor did Alix much; for at last
she raised her face all wet with tears:
"I like you well enough to do any
thing," she said, desperately; "but it seems
like-like tempting Providence to talk about
it."
"I am not afraid of it," returned IJau-
tame, irreverently. "And now I mean to
tell you how long I have been in love with
you."
Just thien, as it chanced, the outer door
was burst open, and Eugene, dripping from -
his shower-bath, sprung into the hut.
"Good Heavens! "he cried, when he saw
only Lucien and the mules. "Alix !-Hau-
tame !-Where are they?"
"Within, m'sieur," said Lucien, pausing
in his chant, and waving his hand toward
the iuner door, as if he had been chamberlain
of a royal palace. "Entrezt They will be
charmed to see m'sieur," he added, h ospita-
bly.
But it may have been a foreboding which


I

204                  .        VALERIE
rendered m'sieur himself not quite so certain
of that. At least he hesitated a moment be-
fore opening the door, and only did so very
cautiously then. He might have shivered
it, however, for all that the absorbed pair
within would have known. They did not
even turn their heads, and, after one glance,
he closed it again, and came back to Lucien.
" They aret so well entertained, it would
be a pity to disturb them," he said. " Is
there any brandy left in that flasks These
mountain-rains of yours are terribly chill-
ing! "
The last rays of the setting sun were
tracking bright lines over the chAteau ter-
race, and gilding Mr. Darcy's figure, as he
leaned on his crutches and watched with
laughing eyes the forlorn return of the par-
ty that in the morning had set out so "gayly
~bedight."
" Go away, and stop insulting us," said
Miss Fane, who was the first to alight. " I
can tell you, that, if you had gone through
all that we have, you might be thankful to
look; half a well as we -do."
"Allowv me to suggest, Miss Netta, that
you have not had the pleasure of seeing

AYLMER.

yourself in a mirror," said he, laughing.
"Your hat-"
"Hush! " cried she, lifting up her hands.
"I don't want an inventory of my misfor-
tunes., As for the hat,.it only serves me
right for wearing it on an absurd mountain
excursion! General Aylmer and I are of
one mind-we abjure picnics from this day
forth for evermore! "
" Has not N~etta's indignation exhausted
itself yeti" Valerie asked, as she mamited
the steps with her own remnant of a hat in
one hand, and her torn, draggled dress up-
held in the other. Mr. IDarcy, you are the
last person in the world who ought to make
a jest of our calamity, for it is to you we are
indebted for it. One member of the party
especially," she added, lowering her voice
as she reached his side, "has chanced upon
a deeper misfortune than a drenched coat
to-day." -,
He glanced at her interrogatively. She
pointed to Hautaine, who was lifting Ahix
from her saddle.
" Does that face tell you nothing"
" Yes," be answered, looking at it with
a smile, half amused, half sad. "It says,
'Poor Eugene! '

I.

-" TiiE put his sickle in among the
days," and, with the summer of 1867, came
the Great Exhibition of Paris, where, in the
train of crowned 'heads, flocked all the
world's large class of sight-seers and pleas-
ure-seekers. The month of June found Va-
lerie and Netta alone at the chateau, for
General Aylmer had gone with Eugene to
Paris, and Gaston Darcy had been there for
some. months under medical care. The
health of the latter was breaking so fast, and
his debility and suffering increasing so rap-
idly, that before he left them Valerie often
felt inclined to urge that lhe should write to
Maurice bidding him return if he wished to
see his brother again in life. But her cour-
-age never bore her out in doing this. She
would begin often, but break down always.
"You have never told Maurice how weak
you are," she said one day, when she had
been assisting Gaston to his chair, and
watching one of his fierce, frequent parox-
ysms of pain. -
He looked up with a smile-faint, sad,
yet beautiful. .
"No-on the contrary, I always write
to him cheerfully. I have been a clog on
Maurice's life too long already. I must
spare him now as much as I can."
" But- is this right,?-is it even kind ?"
she urged. "Put the case to yourself.
Would you thank Maurice for a concealment
that kept you from his Bide when-"

V I,

Sencpaused, and he quietly finished her
"When he may not have much longer to
be here ? I don't know. But I think-I
hope I am acting rightly. God only knows
what I would give to see him again."
The voice sunk, the blue eyes gazed
wistfully and mournfully out of the window
that opened to the south-that far south
where Maurice was fighting and struggling
to save a nation from anarchy and a people
from ruin-and there was a choking in Va-
lerie's throat which forbade speech, even if
she could have further combated this reso-
lution, the root of which lay in that grand
element of unselfishness which, of all men,
-this man most fully possessed.
SHe had gone away from them in April;
and as the two ladies sat on the terrace one
day in the drowsy afternoon heat, and sewed,
for lack of something better to do, Valerie
said, half-absently-
" This is the last of June."
"Is it ?" said Netta. "Time flies so
quickly when one is monotonously occu-
pied-! I don't envy the people in Paris
their enjoyment of this weather."
"It is time, however, that papa came
back for you," said Valerie. "I must write
to him, for I will not hear of your missing
the best part of the exposition through your
kindness in staying with me."
"Don't trouble yourself, dear," returned
her friend. "I really care so little -about
the matter that, save from a feeling -that it
would be a shame to live so near Paris and
not see the famous exposition, I should not

BO O K

CHAPTER I-.
THE SHADOW OF BLOOD.


THE SHADOW OF BLOOD.                   20'1

206                      VALERIE AYLMER.

stir a foot. I am growing as indolent as you
are."
"It is not indolence with me, it is indif-
ference."
"And are you really determined to see
nothing whatever of this epitome of the
world's industry and beauty?."
"Why should I, when I feel fatigued only
at the, thought of it? I care nothing for
inventions-I care still less for kings, queens,
and satraps! I never read the grand ac-
counts with which the papers teem, that I
don't think how tired every body-especially
the poor empress-must be."
"Valerie, you ought to struggle against
this frame of mind. You are growing en-
nuye'e and weary of every thing."
"I believe I am," said Valerie, dreamily.
Then the conversation dropped, and they
sewed on, with no sound about them, save
the notes of birds, and the low summer hum
of insect-life. This profound stillness had
reigned some time when Miss Fane looked
up at last, and found that the work had
fallen from Valerie's hands, that her head
was thrown against the high back of her
chair, so that the sunlight played lovingly
over the arch of the white throat, and her
eyes were closed while the brows above
were knit into a painful contraction ccrn-
~      mon to them of late. 1~Tetta's own needle
paused in its swift stitches, and she gazed
so long and so anxiously on the face before
hei', that, if its possessor had not been
wrapped in deep thought, the scrutiny must
have made itself felt.
"Valerie!" she said at last, so abruptly
that Miss Aylmer started and opened her
eyes.
"I'~etta, how you startled me!"
"Where were you? You seemed in so
much pain, I thought you might like to be
recalled."
"Did I?" A deep shadow of the same
expression fell again. "I was only where I
often am-"
"In Mexico?"
"Yes-in Mexico."
"I wish you would keep away from
there," said Miss Fane, impatiently. "It
does you no good to be picturing all sorts
of dreadful things to yourself; and your be-

ing miserable cannot affect the course of
events one way or another."
"I know that as well as you do; but
when we suffer, we are not philosophers)'
"What are you afraid of?"
"Every thing-the very worst. You see
how darkly the papers this morning speak."
"I see that they seem to think the fall
of Queretaro certain."
"The betrayal, you mean."
"And then-?"
"And then-God only knows!"
They sat silent for a while longer. Then
Valerie took up a hat which lay on the grass
by her chair, and began to'tie it on.
"Where are you going?" asked Miss
Fane. "You have become so restless of late."
"I know I have-but I cannot help it.
Sometimes - to-day especially - this fear
seems weighing me down, and I cannot be
still. Would you mind if I left you alone
for a short time?"
"Where are you going?"
"To the village."
"May I not go with you?"
"I don't mean to be ungracious, but I
had rather be alone."
Miss Fane sighed, as she sat still and
watched the white-robed figure walk slowly
away under the green shade. Vigils of pain
and anxiety were written on the form almost
as plainly as on the face, for the old voluptuous
contour was gone, and in its stead there was
only a wasted attenuation. Ko wonder. As
Valerie herself had once said, it was sterner
trouble than the mere aching of disappointed
love that weighedd upon her. It was the
awful burden of remorse; and lately it was
the horrible, sickening fear-daily looming
closer-that this remorse might soon be
doubled.
She had not wished 11'Tetta with her, be-
cause she was going to the church, and she
wanted to feel herself alone there. For once,
it was all empty and deserted, for once no
other footstep besides her own echoed on the
paved aisles, no other form knelt in the
abandonment of human misery before that
altar where dwells our hidden Lord, and
where the marble angels who guarded the
tabernacle seemed bending forward to hear
her prayer. Never was one more fervent

breathed; never did a poor struggling soul
cry with more yearning pathos, "Jesus, Son
of Mary, have mercy on me!" She asked
nothing for herself-not one healing drop
for her own sore heart-she only prayed, as
we prayfor life, that protection might begiven
the man whom her fault had placed in peril,
that he might be delivered from the dan~,s~
that encompassed him, and that over his
head might sleep the safety, on his life might
rest the happiness, which, for a time, she had
driven from both. l'Teither did she forget to
utter one fervent petition for the gallant
heart which even then rested so still, for the
royal head which even then lay so low, amid
the "plumy palms" of the South.
She only knew how long she had been in
the church by the level rays of the setting
sun when she came out. She paused a me-
xaent in the door to glance at her watch,
startled to see how late it was; and as she
did so a dark figure moved from the shadow
of the archway toward her, The sound
which accompanied this movement made
her start, and turning quickly-for the sec-
ond time on that spot-she faced Gaston
Darcy.
They met almost as brother and sister
might have done, and then-while with a
sharp pang she traced the fearful strides
that, since she saw him last, suffering had
made-he said:
"I have been waiting for you some
time. The fruit-vendor yonder told me
you were in the church."
"When did you reach the village?"
"About an hour ago. You see I meant
to take you by surprise)'
"And did not papa or Eugene come
with you?"
":No. I left word for them that I was
gone, but I did not see thembefore I started."
"Then you should have written to leL
us know that you we~'e coming, so that we
could have met you here. Of course, how-
ever, Watkins is with you."
"Yes, but I sent him ~n to the chateau. I
mean to walk home with you."
"Do you feel strong enough to walk?"
she asked, anxiously.
"I think so. Why do you ask?"
"You look much worse, dear Gaston."

It was not the first time she had
called him by his name, but he had not
heard it from her lips in a long while, and
his wan cheek flushed with pleasure at the
sound. lie held out his hand, and clasped
hers warmly, as Maurice's brother surely
had a right to do.
"Thank you," he said, softly. "Yes, I
am worse, but strong enough yet, I hope,
for what lies before me. Valerie-" his
voice sank-" have you heard the news?"
All things seemed to grow black before
her-the golden sunshine, the green lindens,
the gay booths, were all blotted out in a
moment. She leaned back against the
carved door-post, sick and sbudderi~g-
longing, yet fearful, to hear more.
Gaston Darcy pointed solemnly into 'The
dim church.
"You were praying when I came. Say
another prayer for the soul of the Emperor
Maximilian."
There was one moment's selfish relief!-
then the awful shook that thrilled a world
came home to her 1-She looked at him
with horror-stricken eyes.
"For his soul!"
"For his murderers, if you can. lie is
dead."
She gazed for one moment longer in
awe-struck astonishment, then she turned
away, and he saw her traverse the aisle, and
sink again before the altar. She had prayed
for him minute before, as living-she prayed
for him now, as dead. And, God forgive her,
that she could not pray for those upon whose
heads rested his blood-for the mongrel
bloodhounds, and the crowned adventurer
who shared that guilt between them. The
kingly soul that had suffered, and struggled,
and gone, neededlittle intercession, little save
thankfulness of release; but for her whose
name had been last on his dying lips-for the
woman who loved him as even women rarely
love-for the gentlest nature and truest
heart among all the victims that crime and
wrong have slain through others-what had
not a woman's heart to ask, for her, of faith
and strength-strength to await that meet~
ing from which parting shall be no more!


(       (
20S                          VALERIE
When th~y were walking slowly home
together, Valerie asked Mr. Darcy what he
thought of the chances for his brother.
"Don't be afraid to tell me," she said,
sadly, as he seemed to hesitate. "The worst
has been with me for many a day."
"I scarcely know what to fear, or what
to think," he replied. "I have not heard
from Maurice for so long that I know
nothing of his whereabouts - only this
thing I do know, that there will be a whole-
sale slaughter of all the imperialists whom
those-those men can touch."
"Yes."
"And Maurice has been too much noted
by the emperor's favor to escape their ven-
geance, if he does not leave the country at
once."
She answered nothing. The gray shades
of evening were beginning, to close around
them, and, as they crossed the bridge, they
caught the gleam of a light from the saloon
window, which looked so bright and home-
liie that at any other time it would have
cheered them. But now their hearts were
too heavy for cheer-too heavy for any
thought but that which was weighing them
down. At last, when they were in the mid-
dle of the bridge, Valerie stopped, with a
sort of gasp.
"I cannot stand this any longer," she
said, hastily. "I have borne it until the
burden has grown too much for my strength.
Gaston, you know what Maurice is to me-
tell me what you mean to do."
~Ee told her in a few words.
"I mean to wait long enough to hear
from him, and, if I do not hear, I mean to
go and look for him."
"You!"
"Yes, I. Cripple as I am, if he be alive
I will find him."
lie lifted his wasted form as he said
this-light came to his eyes, color to his
pallid cheek, and for one moment he looked
the man that Nature made him. And, as
she gazed, a flash of resolve came into
Valerie's heart.
"You are right," she said, holding out
her bands. "It will be strange, indeed, if
you and I together cannot do this."
He looked at her in surprised incredulity.

AYLMER.

"You and I!"
"Yes, if you will take me with you."
"Valerie, my child, you do not under-
stand-"
"I understand every thing," she said,
impetuously. "I understand that I, of all
people, should seek for him, since I sent him
there to suffer-it may be to die. I under~
stand that I will never allow yo o go alone
on such an expedition."
"I will have Watkins."
"Watkins is a very faithful servant; but
he is only a servant. Hush! I will go! It
is all my fault-every thing-and I must
bear my share of the consequences. It is
my fault that Maurice is away from you,
and that you need to attempt any thing for
which you are so unfit as for this voyage-
therefore, I shall take Maurice's place by
your side."
The glow of sunset-what was left of it
-fell on the resolute young face, with its
firm mouth and glowing eyes; and Gaston
Darcy saw at once that, unlike the most of
her sex, she meant every word that she
uttered. After a long pause, he said:
"But who will go with you?"
"Papa, of course."
Mr. Darcy retreated a step, in his aston-
ishment-astonishment as much at the tone
as at the announcement.
"You surely dQ not think that General
Aylmer will ever consent to such a plan?"
"Leave papa to me. I will answer for
him. Gaston-" she came a step nearer, and
laid her hand on his arm, while her eyes
looked in his face, full of a pathos which it
was hard for him to resist-" dear Gaston,
don't try to dissuade me! I am sure I shall
die, if I am obliged to stay here in this horri-
ble inaction, and eat out my very heart with
fear. Gaston, there can be no harm in it!-
I am his cousin, remeinber!-and, although
I am not worthy to say so, I loved him very
much!"
Ah, the proud head bent itself at last!
What would Valerie have thought if this
confession, and its attending circumstances,
had been foretold to her twelve months be-
fore? She the forsaken! This man, his
brother! But at last, after weary struggle,
there had come to her the best knowledge

I

THE BIGHT OF REPARATION.              209

that can come to woman-the knowledge
that
"her dignity
Is this-to cast her virgin pride away1
And find her strength in weakness."
Maurice's brother bent his head, and laid
his lips on that soft hand-then he said,
gently:
~ As far as it rests for me to say so-do
as you will. But I cannot help thinking
that your father will never consent."
"I think he will."
She let the words fall very slowly; and
then stood with her hands loosely clasped
before her, gazing down at the water which
flowed so swiftly and darkly beneath their
feet.
"It looks quiet," she said, wistfully;
"and of late I have so envied all things
quiet."
"Perhaps you are right, after all," said
her companion~ looking at the thin, pale
outlines of her face. "Perhaps your reso-
lution may be for the best. Change of scene
may do you good, and-"
lie did not finish his sentence. He only
stood quietly; gazing Jike herself down on
the flowing stream which was hastening
along to the boundless ocean, as we all hast-
en forward to the joy or sorrow of the un-
known future, until at last Valerie turned.
"I should not have kept you here so
long," she said, wearily. "I forget every
thing, it seems. Let us go home."
CHAPTER II.
THE BIGHT OF ISEPABATIoN.
A MONTH passed by, a month of waiting
which sickened the very soul. At last, in
the full rich loveliaess of summer's prime,~
the last day of July came-and no news of
Maurice had yet been heard. Two of his
comrades had written to Gaston-one from
New Orleans, the other l'rom Havana-but
only to say that they could give no tidings
of him. He had left Queretaro, a few days
before its fall, on a secret mission to the
mountains; and they could only hope that
14

he was still there, with those of the native
chiefs who proposed to inaugurate a guer-
rilla warfare against the Liberals; but they
did not attempt to conceal their fear that*
he too had been included in the massacre
of all that was good and true in the un-
happy country which lay prostrate under
the sword.
The last of these letters came on the
30th of July. The next morning, Valerie
electrified her father by an announcement
of her desire to accompany Gaston to Amer-
ica.
"God bless my soul I" the general ex-
claimed in sheer astonishment, and that
was all he uttered for some time.
"Well, papa?" said Valerie at last, hav-
ing waited vainly for further comment.
"Well, my dear,". replied her father,
only to say that, if you wished to
confound me with surprise, you could not
have done so more completely."
"I did not wish to do that, sir, I assure
you."
"I expected more from your common-
sense," said the general, impatiently. "Mr.
Darcy is no doubt a pleasant gentleman, arid
a good friend, and all that sort of thing-l
am sure I like him very much-but to wish
to take an ocean-voyage solely on his ac-
count is foolish, my dear, very foolish!"
* "Papa, you don't understand: I want tc~
try and aid him in looking for his brother."
"Worse yet," said her father, gravely.
"Surely, my dear, you have grown singular~
ly forgetful of all the world would say of
you, if you set out on such a Quixotic under-
taking!"
"The world need know nothing about it."
The general shook his head.
"The world would know all about it,
and I wonder where your own self-respect
has gone?"
"Papa "-the girl's voice had fairly a
wail in it-" don't you see-can't you un-
derstand-I must go! You tell me I look
badly, and you are right-I shall die if I stay
here! Regard the matter only as other
people will regard it-as a voyage for change~
of air and scene. We need not say to any-
body why we go; and you may trust me
not to do any thing to forfeit my own self-


~21O                          VALERIE
4
respect, or lower your dignity. If I meet
Maurice Darcy, it will be as a mere stranger.
But, indeed, I cannot let Gaston go alone,
and remember that we, too, are his near
relatives. Surely it is right for us to make
those efforts which he, being a cripple, can-
not make. Papa, be kind-bc generous-
let us go!"
General Aylmer looked irresolute. Be-
ing, in some sort, a cosmopolitan, one place
was very much the same as another to him;
and, intrinsically, Cuba would have been
quite as agreeable-perhaps a little more so
-than France. But, still, he felt strangely
averse to this idea. He disliked Maurice
Darcy extremely, and none the less because
the prejudicewas an entirely irrational one.
He disliked him because he stood as the rep-
resentative of much annoyance and anxiety,
and because he had been placed in an antag-
onistic position to Valerie's claim on her
grandfather's fortune; nevertheless, he had
this dislike sufficiently under control to be
willing to accept him as a son-in-law if he
came crowned with the halo of M. Vac-
quant's half-million. But to go in search of
him-really, that was too much! He had
no desire to be instrumental in reclaiming
him from the hands of Juarez and Co.!
Never, in the most secret recess of his
heart, had the general done such a thing as
to wish, or even to hope, that Darcy might
share the fate of so many gallant murdered
men; but he could not help thinking that
the Liberal leaders would commit a great
lAunder if they allowed h~m to slip through
their fingers, and go scot-free!
"1 don't see how I can possibly consent
to such a thing," he said at last, irritably.
"And here is your friend Miss Fane; pray
what do you mean to do with her?"
"Netta's aunt, Mrs Vaughn, is in Paris,
you know. She has been meaning to go to
see her for some time, and she would stay
with her until we returned."
"Humph! You have settled it all, I
sde. But it is too unreasonable, Valerie I
I cannot-positively I cannot consent to
such a thing!"
"Papa, would you not have taken me to
Cuba if I had told you that my health made
it necessary for me to go?"

AYLMER.

"Yes-of course."
She raised her hand and drew back the
curtain of the window beside which she was
sitting.
"Look at me, then, and see if you do
not think I stand in need of change."
The general looked, and felt rather un-
comfortable as he looked. The pallid skin,
the hollow cheek, the eyes with dark circles
under them, told a story which it was im-
possible for him to disregard. He moved a
little uneasily.
"You do look wretchedly. I have huen
telling you so for some time. I will take
you to Madeira."
She shook her head with a faint smile.
"The physicians say, you know, that a
patient must sometimes prescribe his own
remedy. You must suffer me to prescribe
mine. Nothing but the West Indies will do
me good."
"By Jove, Valerie, this is very provok-
ing, and very irrational!" said the general,
getting up and walking im~ipatiently to and
fro. "I am surprised at you-a woman of
your sense-to persist in this manner. I
don't know what you mean. I am. sure I
am willing to do any thing in reason-but
this is quite beyond reason!"
"Papa," said his daughter, wearily, "I
thought you would be more considerate of'
what I have represented to you as so ear-
nest and urgent a desire. It was my fault
that sent Maurice Darcy to Mexico; and I
should feel as if I was his brother's murder-
er if I let him set out alone on a journey
which he cannot stand without great care.
I have suffered-I do suffer-unutterable
things. Oh, surely it is enough to tell you
this, to induce yen to listen to me-to heed
me-to go!"
Her voice broke down in a burst of tears
-tears of agitation which the physical
strength was now unable to restrain-and
after one astonished look the general struck
his flag.
"There, there!" he said, hastily, "don't
cry about it! I suppose we shall have to go,
since you have set your heart on it; hut it
is all a confounded piece of nonsense! Dry
your eyes-do! I hate tears! When does
Darcy want to get off?"

THE RIGHT
~' As soon as possible."
"Humph I-there might possibly b4
more definite information. Where is he
I had better see him about the matter."
"He is in the saloon. Shall I ask him t
come to you?"
"Yes," said the general, still rathe]
shortly.
She left the room-a degree more light.
hearted and light-footed than when she en~
tered it-and went to the saloon.
When she reached the door, she wa~
not a little astonished, for she had not expect.
ed to see anybody but Gaston and Netta;
and there before Mr. Darcy's chair stood a
tall figure that looked like Eugene, and yet
was not Eugene; and which, turning when
she entered, proved to be Charley Hautaine.
There followed all the rush of unexpected
greeting and welcome, for she had thought
him far away in Hungarian barracks, with
little or no hope of meeting soon again.
When this subsided, it was Netta who said:
"You have come just in time. He only
arrived a few minutes ago, and oh, Valerie,
he says that he is going to Mexico! "
To Mexico! Were they all crazy, or had
she gone distraught herself? She looked
from one to another, from Hautaine's reso-
lute face to Netta's swimming eyes, and then
to Gaston's pale cheek.
"What does it mean?" she asked.
"It means that I am going for Maurice,"
answered Charley, quietly. "There is no
use in anybody's saying a word. I deter-
mined to go as soon as I heard of the em-
peror's death; and my furlough is made
out. I know all about the country. I have
been there time and again; and I think I
~know one or two people on whom it is pos-
sible to count. I am all ready to start, and
I only came out of my way thus far to tell
Gaston that he might set his mind at rest,,
for that I will find his brother."
"It is like you, Charley, to mean it,"
Gaston said; "but for all that, it must not
be. Stop! I have a rig~it to speak, and I
will do so. For you, an ~Austrian officer, to
go to Mexico now, would be to rush into
danger of the worst kind, and-"
"Do you suppose I mean to wear my
uniform, or carry my commission in my

OF REPARATION.                       211
pocket?" Hautaine interrupted, half-vexed-
s ly, half-amusedly. "You may trust me for
that. If the devils find out who and what I
am, I shall deserve to be shot, and there's an
end of the matter. But I mean to come
back safe and sound to you and to Mix."
"I wonder what Alix will say when she
hears of this?" Netta cried.
"She said, 'God-speed,"' Charley an-
swered, with his eyes brightening. "Did
you think I came through Germany with-
out seeing her ?-and did you think that
* she, of all women, would put an obstacle in
my way? No; she said, 'God-speed,', and
she meant it!
"It must not bet" Gaston repeated~ "I
* should never forgive myself-Maurice would
never forgive me-if you came to harm.
Charley, it must not be!"
"My dear, good fellow, what is the use
of this?" said Charley, good-humoredly.
"I am going. Really, if you are so. un-
reasonable, I shall be sorry I did n~t sail
from Trieste; but I wanted to see you-
and-"
"And Alix," said Netta.
"Yes, and Alix-God bless her? So
there's no earthly good in talking about it.
The thing is settled."
"It must not be," Gaston said, repeating
those fQur words, as if they were his strong-
hold of defence. Nobody knew, what a
temptation this was fo him, or how hard it
was not to yield, not to echo Alix's "God-
speed," and put his hopes in the strong
loyal hands outstretched for them. But he
thought in his heart that it wouliLbe cruelly
selfish to do so-cruelly selfish to send this
brave young life into danger and death, enly
that he might learn Maurice's fate; so he
sat in his chair, pale, but rigid as steel, with
Maurice's own look about his mouth, repeat-
ing the same set form, "It must not be."
"It must be," Ilautaine said, beginning
at lastp grow impatient. "I have told you
before that I did not come to argue about it.
I don't mean to argue, either-for it is set-
tled. You have a right to say a great deal,
Gaston; but you have no right to say that."
"I have the best right in the world,"
Gaston said-" the right of near relation-
ship."

4


212                           VALEIUE
"And I have a,. better one yet," Han-
tame answered-" the right of reparation."
After that, each paused and looked, at
the other-both resolute to have their own
way; and neither meaning to yield an inch.
It was all perfectly unintelligible to Netta
Pane, who thought that Charley had lost
his senses. What was Maurice Darcy to
0
him, that be should cross an ocean, and go
into the very jaws of danger for his sake?
-aud what could he possibly mean by "the
right of reparation?" She saw that her
own intervention would have no effect; so
she turned imploringly to Valerie. "For
Heaven's sake, speak to him. Make him
hear reason," she said. And at the mo-
ment Valerie stepped forward between the
two disputants.
"Gaston, Charley is right," she said.
"He can do more good than you can; and
he should be the one. He can find Mau-
rice," she went on, looking at him with her
sad, earnest eyes; "and he will  lnd him, I
am sure.-You are right, Charley you must
go."
"Of course I am right," said Charley,
"and of course I mean to go. Gaston may
have as many rights as he pleases; but I
have mine, too-the right of reparation."
"Yes," said Valerie, gravely. "You
have that. When do you start?"
"I leave here this afternoon, and I sail
from Marseilles to-morrow."
So they settled it, while Gaston saw the
responsibility of decision quite taken from
him, and Netta sat byin speechless indigna-
tion. Before either of them had time to
frame his protest in words, Valerie turned
to Mr. Darcy.
"Papa has consented," she said; "and
he bade me ask you to come to him. He
wants to consult you about our route."
"Your best route," said Charley, "is
from Marseilles to~ Cadiz, and thence to
Havana. Itake it for granted you are only
going to Cuba."
"We are only going to Cuba, if you
meet us there with Maurice," she said. "If
not, I think you may probably see us in
Mexico."
"And then-"
"And then I expect papa will go back

AYLMER.
to Louisiana," she said, with a sigh. "You
can go with Gaston, if you wa~it to, Charley.
Papa will be glad to see you, and you can
offer your advice to him."
Charley was very willing to obey; so,
after Mr. Darcy had gathered up his
crutches, they took their departure, while
Netta and Valerie, left alone, looked at each
other silently for some time. Then-
"Oh, Valerie, how could you do it?"
the former cried, with a hurst of reproach.
"What has Charley ever done that he
should be sacrificed to-to this Maurice
Darcy? He will be killed-I know he will!
And then how can you answer for sending
him on such an errand?"
"You don't know what you are talking
about, Netta," Valerie answered, a little
wearily. "I did not send Charley. He
was going of his own accord. If I had told
him to stay, he would not have paid any at-
tention to me. And he ought to go. You
don't understand any thing about it-but he
ought to go."
"No; I don't understand any thing
about it," Miss Fane retorted. "But I un-
derstand this-if he is killed, you will be
sorry for having thrown the weight of your
influence in favor of such a mad resolution."
"I hope he will not be killed; but you
are mistaken-even if he were, I should not
be sorry for having exerted my influence;
because I believe it is his duty to go."
"Why is it his duty? What is Maurice
Darcy to him?"
"He is a great deal to him. He is a man
whom he loved, and a man whom he in-
jured, and-and you don't know what it
would be to Oharley, if he could do this. It
would be paying off a greater debt, and
lightening his life of a heavier burden, than
you can even imaginO.~~
Miss Pane was silenced. She did not
understand in the least, not any more than
she had done before; but Valerie's tone
awed and hushed her impatient reproaches.
When she spoke again, it was very differ-
ently.
"I don't pretend to judge of things that
I know only by halves. It seems to me
very strange; but you may be right. I
only know that it would be hard on them

E

OUT OF THE
all at home, and hard on that poor child in
Germany, if any rn befalls Charley. And
so it is settled that you go, too?"
"Yes, settled."
"Hum! I hope enough people are go-
ing in search of Maurice Darcy."
"I am going to take care of Gaston,"
said Valerie, flushing. "Then, if-if Mau-
rice meets us, papa and I will return to
Louisiana."
Miss Pane sat down in a chair, and
looked, sadly enough, out of the window.
"Well," she said, after, a time. "I sup-
pose one must take for granted that some
good will come of it, but it is very vexa-
tious. Valerie I have only one word of ad-
vice to offer. May I do so?"
"Say what you please, sister of my
soul," Valerie answered.
"Then, if you meet Maurice Darcy, be
wise, and don't-don't be too hard."
"Netta!" cried Valerie, turning first
crimson, and then pale, "what do you take
me for, that-that you should say such a
thing? Do you think I would go in search
of him, if such an event as that at which
you hint was, in the least, possible? It is
a good thing that duty bids me do this, or
such grievous injustice would make me stay
where I am."
"Now you look like yourself," said Miss
Pane, approvingly. "It is really a pleas-
ure to see you angry once more."
"I am not angry. I am only indignant
and grieved."
"Because I wish you to be kind and
forgiving toward a man who may be dead."
"Netta 1-how can you?"
"None of us are immortal, Valerie,"
said her friend, gravely. "I. havft.noticed I
lately that these letters have made you
buoy yourself with hope that may prove
false, and render the final truth harder to I
bear." t
"Netta, you are cruel."
"No, Valerie. But, I do not think ~
there s any probabilityJL-only a faint possi- ,~
bility-that he may be alive. And I want s
to ask you, how you can cherish resent- a
ment against a mere memory?"
"I-resentment? Oh, God forbid!"
"You forgive him, then?"            n

3AWS OF DEATH.                      213
"I havo nothing to forgive. Forgive-
ness would need to come from him."
"And why could you not say as much
to him if he were living?"
"Because it would be worse than use-
less. It would humiliate me as a woman
should never be humiliated; and it would
not move him. I can see how he would
look-as he looked at Oharley. You don't
know him-he is as hard to himself as he is
to others."
"I am not sure that I care about know-
ing him, under those circumstances," said
Miss Pane, rising. "When do you start?"
"Next week, I expect. At least as soon
as we can get ready."
~ This proved to be very soon. Five days
later, they sailed from Marseilles-westward
bound for the Queen of the Antilles.
-4--
CHAPTER III.
OUT OF THE JAWS OF DEATH.
"MAURIcE! Maurice I',
Such was the sick man's yeai~ning cry from
morning till night-ever tossing in restless
delirium-ever calling on that name, which
was now, in all pl'obabiity, only a name.
Many times had Valerie cause to think
God that she had persevered in her resolu-
tion to accompany Gaston Darcy to Amen-
Da; for, scarcely did his foot press the soil
~f the New World, when he was stricken
lown by a sudden illness-arising, the phy-
~icians said, from mingled physical exhaust-
on and mental anxiety-which, but for her
presence , would have cast him helpless on
he hands of menials and strangers. As it
ras, the care he received coul4 not possibly
iave been more tender, or more unremit-
ing, if his own sister had rendered it.
)ay and night, she scarcely left his side;
nd day and night she was tortured by that
noan which seemed an echo of her own
ad heart-that voice, plaintive and pitiful
.5 Rachel mourning for her childi~en:
"Maurice! Mauricel"
Only that-through long hours of Lever,
ever changing in word or cadence.


214

VALERIE AYLMER.

It was a fierce fight with the death-an-
gel over that prostrate form, for many days.
Through the scorching heat of the tropic
noon, and the glorious beauty of the tropic
nights, Valerie never stirred from beside
the pillow on which that lined and wasted
face lay, or suffered any other hand than
hers to press to the burning lips their cool-
ing draught. "It is only what I came to
do," she said, when her father remonstrated,
saying that such close attendance in a
sick-room was impairing her own health.
"After he is gone, it will not matter."
And often, as she kept lonely vigil in the
dim chamber-telling over her beads, like a
Sister of Mercy, during the long hours-
while that constant cry came from the
parched lips of the man whom she thought,
even then, in Azrael's arms, she would bow
her head yet lower in awesome prayer; for
it seemed as if the brother's spirit beckoned
from the silent land to the yearning love
which made this ceaseless moan, and spoke
a summons from the shores where hands,
oflce clasped, unclasp no more at the bid-
ding of grief and pain.
No one dreamed that he would recover,
that ~ constitution so shattered could en-
dure so great a shook; but at last the crisis
came, and resulted favorably. Then he
once more opened his eyes to the daylight,
and knew the faces around him. lie did
not ask the length or severity of his own
illness; he only held out his hand to Valerie
with one question:
"Any news of Maurice?"
And she could only utter in gesture that
negative so hard to speak, so harder yet to
feel.
"Who is this 'Maurice' for whom he
inquires so constantly?" asked the physi-
cian, somewhat impatiently, of General Ayl-
inert when the latter followed him from the
sick-room. "He has done nothing but call
him evcr since his first hour of fever."
'.' He is his brother," the general replied,
with brevity more commendable than grati~:
fying.
"His brother? Then why does he not
come to him, and relieve hi~ mind?"
" Unfortunately, nobody knows where he
is.

"He was one of Maximilian's officers,"
said the general, feeling obliged to answer
that little interrogative interjection, "and
has never been heard of since the fall of
Queretaro."
"Indeed! Shot, no doubt."
"No doubt."
"A good many officers were," said the
doctor, philosophically. "And does his
brother still hope to hear from him?"
"'He came to Cuba for this purpose."
"Poor fellow! Well~ well, let himhope,
for the time being. A strain on the mind is
bad; but despair might be worse. You
must take him, as soon as possible, to a less
enervating climate. Good-morning."
A few days later, one of the gallant For-
eign Legion, who stood so nobly by their
royal chief to the very last-the same Valdor
concerning whom Maurice had once written
to Gaston-joined General Aylmer, as he
was slowly sauntering along the Plaza
d'Armas, in the brilliant glow of the tropic
sunset.
"No news of poor Darcy yet!" he said.
"I am really afraid we must surrender all
.hope. How is his brother to-day?"
"Better," answered the general. "The
feveg has left him, and he has his head back
again-but he is very weak."
"Yes, of course-people always are. Is
he well enough to see visitors? I was re-
fused admittance very summarily the other
day."
"Oh, I suppose so. That is-" as a timely
recollection of Valerie occurred to him-" I
will inquire. But perhaps it would be as
well if you did not come. He might think
you brought news of his brother."
"Ma foi, I wish I did!" said the other,
heartily. "A better soldier-well, well, it
is only the chances of war, and may be mine
to-morrow. I hear that Yafies has been
made prisofter and shot," he went on.
"That looks badly for him-IDarcy, I mean."
"Who is Yafies?"
"Yafies! Vraiment! I wonder you
never heard. He was the boldest, bloodiest
guerrilla-chief in all Mexico-the one to
whom Darcy was sent."
"And he has been shot?"

U

215

"Yes-together with most of his com
mand. Poor fellow! He was a perfect
devil for fighting, and was said to have pul
an end to more than a hundred Liberal dog~
with his own cuehillo."
The general shrugged his shoulders, wiff
a laugh. "He is a great loss, then," he said
"Such a man as that is a loss at any time-
especially in Mexico. And you think this
looks badly for Captain Darcy?"
"Of course. If he was taken with Yafles,
there was an end of the matter."
The general was silent, and looked so
disturbed, that, from respectful sympathy,
his companion was silent also. Yet, in truth,
he was thinking less of Darcy than of Hau-
tame, concerning whom, or from whom,
they had heard nothing. "I hope he will
not be fool enough to risk his head," the
general thought, feeling more irritated than
ever against Maurice Darcy-if, indeed, any
increase of irritation were possible. As much
as he liked anybody not immediately con-
nected with himself he liked Hautaine; and
it provoked him beyond the bounds of pa-
tience to think that the young free lance had
rushed headlong into such danger as that
which certainly threatened him-and for
what?
When he came back from his walk, he
told Valerie that he had met young Valdor,
and that the latter wished to see Mr. Darcy.
"It is impossible," she said. "He would
only come and talk of Maurice, and of all the
chances for and against his safety, until Gas-
ton's fever would be brought back. He is
too weak to see anybody. Pray tell Captain
Valdor so, the next time you see him."
"But the doctor said he might see a few
visitors."
"I cannot help that. I think I know his
state better even than the doctor does. At
all events, I cannot consent that any risk
should be run."
"The doctor says he must be taken away
from this climate as soon as possible."
"He will never c5nsent to leave the
island until there is some certain informa-
tion about Maurice."
The general was on the point of saying,
"Confound Maurice! "but he-stopped him-
self in time. "He need not leave the

OUT OF THE JAWS OF DEATH.

- island," he answered. "He can go to the
hill-country."
"You can speak to him about it yourself,
papa. But I doul~t if he will consent even
to that."
"He had better, or he will not have an
option long of consenting to any thing."
"Does the doctor think that removal is
absolutely. necessary?"
"lie said so."
Yale~ie sat twisting and nutwisting, with
absent fingers, the watch-chain that hung at
her girdle, while her eyes gazed past her
father, full of painful thought-gazed out
of the window, through which came the soft
murmur of a fountain playing in the court
below.
"I know how Gaston will feel," she said
at length; "because I share the feeling my-
self-a sort of instinct that we ought not to
leave here."
"Why not?"
The general spoke sharply, because he
was irritated.
"I don't know that there is a 'why,'
papa. It is, as I said, only an instinct which
I feel. But I know that he feels it, too-an
instinct that we shall receive news of Man-
rice, or at least of Charley, if we only wait
long enough."
"I hope that you will notput such ideas
into his bead."
"You may trust me not to do that. But
I think you wrn find them there, all the
same. Besides, you forget that we promised
Charley he should find us here."
The general was so vexed and uncom-
fortable, that this last remark quite upset
him, and he could not forbear endeavoring to
make Valerie share, if not his vexation, at
least his discomfort.
"I don't know that you need consider
Hantaine," he said, significantly. "From
what I hear to-day, it seems very probable
that he has found the fate he might have
expected."
"Papa! "-it was a long gasp, and the
pale face looked at him full of quivering
apprehension-" papa! - what have you;
heard?"
"Not much - nothing directly about
him," answered the general, sorry now that~


216

VALERIE AYLMER.

he had spoken.. "Only you remember he
said he knew some of those guerrilla-chiefs,
and that he was going to them-well, one
of the most noted has been captured and
shot."
"Do you remember the name
"Yafles, I ~
Valerie shook her head. "I don't think
that was one of the names Charley men-
tioned," she said. "But it may have been
-I do not know. 0, papa, papa, why did
you tell me any thing so horrible?"
*            "I don't know, I am sure," said the
general, hastily. "But don't alarm your-
*         self foolishly, Valerie. I certainly did not
mean you to do that. This -uan's death
may have no connection with Hautaine."
"But Maurice !-has it any connection
with him?"
"Hem 1-well I do not know," said the
general, who thought he had done mischief
enough for once. "We will hope not.
Now, can I see Mr. Darcy?"
'~ 0, papa, for Heaven's Sake, don't men-
tion this to him."
"Do you think I am crazy?" asked the
general, sharply. "Of course I have not an
idea of doing so. I would like to speak to
him about going to the hill-country, though.
Can I see him?"
"I will go and find out."
She glided away, with, the noiseless
tread of a born sce~r de bons seeo~ts's, and
entered the sick man's room. The shaded
lamp burned so low that she could only see
the outline of his figure, and tbis was so
motionless that she thought he was asleep.
Pausing a moment, however, to bend over
the table and discover if Watkins' had ad-
ministered the usual night-draught, his
voice called her name.
"I thought you were asleep," she said,
approaching the bed. "Indeed, I think it
would be better if you were."'
"Papa wants to see you, and, if I tell
~iim to come in, he will talk so much that
there will be rio sleep for you to-night."
"Has he any thing to tell me?"
"No: he only wants to inquire how
you are."
"' Oh!" he gave a little weary sigh-the

weariness of hope IQug deferred. "Let
him come in."
"Will you promise not to talk much?"
"Yes-indeed, I am not likely to be
tempted. After the general has asked me
how I feel, hoped I will soon be better, and
said that the weather is very warm, our
topics of conversation are nearly exhausted."
"He has another one to-night," Valerie
thought, but she did not say so. She con-
tented herself with another caution, and
then went to summon her father. "Don't
talk to him much, papa," she said; and the
general promised he would not. Not that
this#romise stood for much-he made it
every time he paid a visit, and generally for-
got it two minutes after-but Valerie al-
ways exacted it, as a sort of precautionary
measure that would keep her own conscience.
clear, if it did no other good.
Left alone in the sitting-room, she went
to the window, and, resting her arms on the
sill, looked mournfully forth at the glorious
tropic night, at the heavens, brilliant with a
radiance unknown to colder latitudes, and
at the Southern Cross-that constellation of
her unhappy country-which was burning
just above her head. They were near the
harbor; and now that there was a breeze
from the northward, she could hear the
waves breaking with sullen, regular sound
against the parapet. Ah, ft was weary work
-this waiting-this hoping-this expecta-
tion-this continual disappointment! some-
times-to-night, for instance-she felt how
vain it was; she felt certain that he would
never come back again; that there would
never be another meeting until it was given
to the disembodied spirits. And it was
hard-very hard, she thought-that his last
recollection of her should have been angry,
passionate, and defiant !-her last picture of
him cold, stern, and forbidding! Oh, had
they but been a little wiser-on either side,
a little more patient-how different it all
would have been! Alas! alas! There
would be no bitterness in retrospection, if
there were not always such thoughts as
these; if from the past there did not rise up
those mournful shades of harsh words and
wronging thoughts, of unkind looks and
more unkind deeds, which, large or small,

U

i
t
C
12
'I
a
c
L
I
'5
g
b

THE SUNLIGHT FROM THE SEA.                        2l~
come back to us-.when it is too late for He gave a quick bound, and clasped
atonement-and when we can only cry, eagerly, almost painfully, the hand lying up-
from the depths of our remorse, "Oh for one on his own.
hour in which to win forgiveness!" And "You-havQ you heard any thing?"
then, Charley I-she must needs be wretched "No, no," she said, hastily, frightened
on his account, too-wretched in the thought at the effect of her words. "Nothing-be-~
that his bright young life was possibly sac- lieve me, nothing. Only, like yourself, I
rificed in the vain effort to atone; the vain have watched and waited until the last spark
effort to save the man whom he had in- of hope has died out."
jiWed. She tried to pray for him, but the "I think it is all gone until something
horrible thought that, even then, it might be like this occurs," he said, faintly, as he sank
all over with him, came to her, and the words back exhausted on his pillows. "Then I
died on her lips. She could only lay her know that I am hoping yet-longing yet-
head down on her arms, and feel as if her
heart was breaking from unutterable misery.  'the touch of a vanished hand,
And the sound of a voice that Is still.'
You asked me, a moment ago, what you
should do-repeat those lines for me."
She obeyed-much as she doubted the
CHAPTER IV.                wisdom  of the request. Nature had be-
THE SUNLIGHT FROM THE SEA,        stowed on her a rarely melodious voice,
with a richer, deeper timbre than is usual in
"You look so tired," said Valerie, the woman, and her quick perception of the
aext day, anxiously watching Gaston's face, shades of poetic meaning, together with her
as he lay back against his white pillows, highly-trained musical ear, combined to pro..
Can I do nothing to entertain you?- duce an elocution better than all the rhet-
iothing to divert your mind for a little oric of the schools. It was pleasure at any
while?"                                time to hear her read aloud, and still greater
"Thank you," he answered, with a faint pleasure to listen while she repeated some
mile. "But you have done so much already, verse that had lingered in her memory, even
hat you must be very tired yourself." if that verse was not so perfect in pathos
"No-never tired, if I can only succeed and beauty as the English poet's immortal
n amusing you. But that has been par- lines. Ah, how many a mourning heart has
icularly hard to-day." echoed that lament-welinigh the' most
"Yes, I am afraid that I am becoming touching ever spoken by love-and how
ingratefol as well as troublesome." many a sorrow thrilled as it were into new
"Hush! You must not say-.~rou must life by the yearning music of that cry!
iot think-such a thing for a minute. The There was silence when her voice ceased;
Question is, what can I do? I hni sure you silence unbroken even by a sound, although
re tired of hearing reading-especially as Gaston's wasted fingers covered his face, and
ur supply of English books is so limited. Valerie's heart felt as if it must faint away
hall I sing to you, by way of variety?" under the burden laid upon it.
"I-believe not. Music pains me when    It was some little time after this that
am suffering."                        they were startled by the general's step on
"Suffering?" she repeated, quickly. the stairs, and the. sound of his voice, together
How?   Does your head ache?"          with another, which they both recognized at
"No. My heart aches-and that is the once as Valdor's.
rorst of the two. Valerie, I have almost  "I told your father he might bring him
iven up hope."                        to-day," Gaston said, in a tone of depreca-
She laid her hand gently down upon his. tion, as he saw Valerie's look of surprised
"Gaston, dear Gaston, perhaps it would annoyance. "Don't blame anybody but
e wisest to do so."                   me."


218                      VALERIE AYLMER.

"But I do blame papa. He ought not
to have mentioned the matter to you. I
told him you could not see visitors."
"He did nQt mention ~ said Mr. Darcy,
eagerly. "I asked him if he had met Val-
dor lately, and said I was very anxious to see
him."
"Why are you anxious to see him?
What good will it do?"
"I want to hear once more all that he
thinks about Maurice," he answered, sadly.
"I want to know his opinion now-be is
better able to judge than we are. And, if I
am to be taken away, I want him to prom-
ise that he will let me know-any thing he
may hear."
Valerie sighed. But it was too late for
expostulation. Her father was already re-
questing admittance at the door, and, a few
moments later, Gaston was warmly clasping
the hand of the young officer who had been
Maurice's sworn comrade and friend.
"Come, my dear," said General Aylmer
to his daughter, "I insist upon your taking a
little exercise while Captain Valdor is here.
He will entertain Mr. Darcy."
"Pray, mademoiselle, go," said the
young man. "You are looking pale-and I
assure you Mr. Darcy shall not be dull while
you         ~
Gaston seconded the request; and, al-
though she did so with much reluctance,
Valerie was forced to submit. Yet, as she
tied on her bonnet, and looked in the mirror
at her pale face and sunken eyes, she began
to think herself that a little fresh air might
not be amiss. So she negative her father's
proposal of a 'eoZante, and, saying that she
preferred to' walk, took his ~rm as they
turned away from the ports coch~re.
"Let us go down to the Cortina," she~
said. "I have heard the waves all day, amid
I want to see them."
Down to the Cortina they went accord-
ingly. Something of a gale had been blow-
ing all day, and the sea was dashing in high,
angry waves against the stone battlements
of the Punta and the Moro-a sight well
worth witnessing. It had been cloudy ever
since daylight-was still cloudy on land-
but afar out on the sea, beyond the barboA
lay a glory of sunlight gilding the foam-

crested waves, as they rolled in with a so5d
like distant thunder, and shining on the
white sails and tall masts of a ship just sh~p-
lug her course between the two frown~g
forts.
"Look!" said Valerie, watching it with
half-sad eyes of interest. "It seems bring-
ing the sunlight to the shore."
And truly it did. For even as the ship ad-
vanced, the broad line of light advanced with
it, and that much of gloomy shadow retreated
sullenly back to settle yet more grayly over
the dominion left it. Forward came the ship-
forward the golden flood 'that was giving a
thousand glittering sparkles to the dashing
surf and spray. With sails outspread, like
an angel's great white wings, the vessel bore
down between the lofty' battlements that
guard the entrance of the harbor-and the
flashing glory fell over the stern fortresses,
and gleamed upon the royal banner of Spain.
Nearer yet the ship-and sunlight crowned
all the rolling amphitheatre of hills, and all
the coronals of waving palms. Nearer, yet
nearer-and sunlight flung its broad mantle
of gold over city, plains, and sea.
"It has brought it to us a little too
brightly," said the general. "You had bet-
ter lower your veil, Valerie.~,
But this Valerie did not care to ~do.
She was interested in watching the animated
scene that ensued upon the ship's coming
to her anchorage, the bustle upon her
deck, the boats darting over the blue water
to her side.
"She is from Vera Cruz," she heard a
voice near her say. "Let us go aboard,
and hear the last news of whom Juarez has
been shooting.~~
From Vera Cruz! Ah, foolish heart, be
still! Every week comes some white-
winged messenger from the land where
anarchy and murder reign; but it has never
yet borne the freight that would make its
coming aught to you.
But, to do Valerie justice7 her rushing
eagerness did not anticipate his own com-
ing. She only thought, she only hoped, for
letters or for tidings. An~ tidings would
be better than the suspense they had been
enduring. We all say such things as this.
We all say, "Any certainty is better than

suspense." But when certainty awful and
undoubted, comes, we shrink back, crying
vainly for the mercy of that suspense
whicl~i, at least, knew hope.
General Aylnier was standing by his
daughter, meditatively watching a boat
which had just received two passengers of
the ship, and thinking to himself how
very uncomfortable they must have found
the shipboard accommodations (supposing
them to know any thing about any better),
and how very much he would have disliked
a voyage under such circumstances, when
his arm was grasped with a force which
pained even its firm muscles.
"The devil! " he cried, turning abrupt-
ly. "Why, Valerie, is it you? By Jove,
your fingers have some strength in them!
What is the matter?"
"Papa," said Valerie, with a strange
gasp in her voice-not heeding him at all,
but keeping her eyes fastened in a strained
gaze on the very boat her father huinself
had been watching. "Papa-look! I am
afraid to trust my own eyes? Who--who
is that yonder?"
~ asked the general, staring in
the faces of all the people about him. "I
don't see anybody I know. Where do you
mean?"
"Yonder--in the boat! The boat that
has left the ship. Papa, papa, who is it?"
The general looked, but he could make
out nothing. He was rather near-sighted,
however, so he mounted his eye-glass; then 1
he saw two military-looking men, one of 1
whom was sitting down, and the other
standing up watching the shore. His glance
happened to fall first on the latter, and he ~
exclaimed joyfully:
"Itis Charley!"                    t
But Valerie's voice, all shaken with
emotion, made him start, as she said:
"It is Maurice! "'
Then looking at the other, and the boat h
coming nearer with every moment, he saw
that she was right. lie, too, recognized d
the man from whom he had parted in Bal- 5]
timore, two years before-the soldier of
fortune whom they had almost given over C
as dead. He, too, knew at a~glance Mau-
rice Darcy.                           h4

JI1~OM TIlE SEA.                   219
"Papa," said Valerie, in a quick, eager
tone (her veil was down now), "this must
not come upon Gaston suddenly-not, at
any rate, without some preparation. You
stay here and meet them as swoon as they
land, while I go and tell the news to him2'
Before the general could utter a word,
acquiescent or otherwise, she ha4 left his
side and was speeding away. I
She found Valdor gone, when she en.
tered his room, and only Watkins mounting
guard over his master.
"I made him go," said Gaston, in a
tone of apology. "He wanted to stay; but
some one called for him, and I made him
go."
~ "I am glad he is gone," said Valerie,
sinking into a chair, quite breathless; and
something i~the tone and manner attract-
ed the invalid's attention.
"You seem to 'have been in haste,"
he said, looking at her curiously.
"Yes-I was.!'
"Did you come back al~ne?"
"Quite alone."
"Why,. where is the general I"'
"He stayed behind, to see-a friend."
"A friend?"
Gaston was, growing suspicious. He
raised himself on his elbow, and the color
came and went on his pale cheek at a rate
that alarmed Valerie. She remembered
suddenly the physician's warning against
my shock or excitement, and she reared
~hat she had not kept herself under suf-
icient control. She rose and went to
he bedside-outwardly calm once more,
hough every pulse was throbbing tumult-
iously-and stood looking down on him
vith eyes that glowed with something of
heir old, lustrous light.
"Gaston," she said, and she strove in
am, to quite steady her voice-" let us
hank God for His great mercy-I have
eard news of Maurice!"
For the first time since he laid his head
own, three long weeks before, the sick man
wung to an upright, sitting position.
"Of Maurice! Oh, thank God-thank
'od! You are quite sure, Valerie?"
"Quite sure "-she had flung herself on
~r knees beside th&amp;bed. "He is living-


220                          VALERIE
he is safe! Oh, what have we ever done to
deserve such a great blessing?"
"What have I ever done?" said Gaston,
faintly. Then he closed his eyes and sunk
back upon the pillow.
With a frightened cry, Valerie sprung to
the table, and seized a bottle of ammonia
which stood there. But the swoon-if
swoon it really was-only lasted a minute.
He gave a gasp as he inhaled the strong aro-
matic spirits which~ she held to his nostrils,
and then the long lashes lifted again.
"Don't be afraid," he whispered. "It
was only a sudden spasm of the heart-
from joy, you know. But joy never kills.
I am better now. Ah, I shall soon be well,
if Maurice is coming! Did you say he is
coming?"
"I hope so-I believe so. But you must
not talk just now. I will tell you all about
it after a while."
"And Oharley?"
"Charley is safe, too."
He lay silent for a moment-then looked
up again with an imploring glance.
"Did he tell you he had seen Maurice?"
" Did who tell me?"
The man you Saw. Surely you said
you had seen somebody who knew."
"I-yes, I saw somebody."
"Who was it?"
Valerie hesitated. She did not know
whether to tell him or not. While she hes-
itated-wishing, and yet fearing to do so-
part of the truth at least flashed upon Gas-
ton. He threw his arms up, with a cry:
"Charley! It is Charley who has come!
oIl, where is he I-where is he?"
~ she cried, authoritatively,
"this~w~ll never do! I did not say it was
Charley! You must compose yourself; or
you will be ill again. Oh, if only the doc-
tor was here!"
"No," he answered," you did not say it
was he, but I know it must have been. And
he would never have come without Maurice,
if Maurice was living. Valerie-" he raised
himself up again, and caught the hand near-
est him-" Valerie, has Maurice come?"
"Gaston!"
"Ab, I knew it-I knew it! Thank God!
And-stop! There isHautaine now!"

AYLMER.
It was, indeed. As he spoke, a step
came bounding up the stairs, the door was
burst open without ceremony, and Hau-
tame's handsome, bronzed face appeared, as
Hautaine's self rushed in upon them. Of
what ensued Valerie had only a dim con-
ception. All of a sudden, she grew weak
and faint, and a black mist came over her
sight. Unconsciously, she sank into a chair
behind the sweeping curtains of the bed, and
she heard Hautaine's voice as in a dream,
when he poured forth his eager story, tell-
ing Gaston how he had found Maurice con-
demned to death with Yafies, the guerrilla-
chief, and on the very verge of execution;
how it was only through those friends in
power of whom he had once spoken, by
their influence, and especially by their brib-
ery, that he obtained his release in the offi-
cial form of banishment; and how- But
here it was that Gaston cut him short with
a joyful cry, that rang through the room
like music:
"He is coming! Maurice is coming! I
hear his step!"
The next moment, a tall form darkened
the door-way-a quick step crossed the
floor- Gaston sprang forward- and the
brothers were in each other's arms.
For a full minute there was silence.
Hautaine drew back, and went toward Gen-
eral Aylmer, who bad paused in the door.
They passed away together, but Valerie was
fast prisoner in her retreat; and, even if she
had not been so prisoner, she was powerless
to move-powerless even to speak.
Maurice's voice was the first to break
upon the stillness-the quiver of something
that was almost a sob in every tone.
"Gaston, Gaston, can I ever forgive my-
self? Brother the best !-friend the dearest!
-to think that I should, in my selfishness,
have gone away and left you to suffer like
this, alone!"
"Brother, no-not alone," Gaston~ an-
swered. "There has been one who has
taken even your place !-one who has
soothed my pain, and nursed my sickness,
like an angel sent from Heaven !-one, but
for whom I should never have lived to look
upon your face again!"
"Gaston! My God !-you cut me to the

221

4

THE END.

THE SUNLIGHT FROM THE SEA.

heart! A stranger to do this; and I-I, he knew that she was there, he had not cx-
who ought never to have left you-far pected to see her so soon. Then they stood
away !"                                and looked into each other's eyes. Both
"A stranger, Maurice! Ne-there is were sadly changed-upon the faces of each
but one person alive who would have tended sorrow and care had laid stern signet-but
me thus, or been to me what she has-more what of that? They looked into each
than friend and siste~.. Brother, she is other's eyes, and they read there the love
there! Have you no word of thanks for and faith that had never faltQred with
her?" either, and were forever beyond the things
He turned; and almost, as it were, of Earth and Time. Maurice opened his
against her will, Valerie rose from her seat, arms with one cry:
and stood before him-her face shining up- "Valerie I"
on him fair and pale as a star. Maurice After that, there was never any need of
recoiled a step in astonishment; for, though explanation.


I -
BOOKS RECENTLY PUBLISHED BY D~
~ Any woric published by .D. Appleton d~ Co. u~ill be mailed, po
~o ant, part ~f the United States, upon receipt of the advertised pr'
upon application.            __________________________
0 THA TB. A NoveL By the Right Hon.
advance-sheets. l2mo. Cloth. Price, $2.00. Chea
-        price $1.00.
THE CA GED LION A Novel. By CHAIILo~
"The Heir of Redelyffe," "The Chaplet of Pearls," etc. 1 vol.
P1? 0 VERBS, ECCLESIASTEAS~ AND THE ~
with Notes, Critical, Explanatory, and Practical. Designed fe
the Rev. HENRY COWLES, D. D. 1 vol., l2mo, 364 pages. C1
"Isaiah ," "Ezekiel and Daniel," "Jeremiah and his Lamentati
by the same author.
THE FIRST BOOK OF BOTANY, designed I
Power of Children. By ELIZA A. YousiANs. With numerous I
A PRA CTIC~AL GRAMMAR OF THE GL
By HERMANN D. WEAGE, A. M., Professor of German in the P
York. l2mo. Cloth. Price, $1.50.
This Grammar has been preptned upon the principles laid down by
Laniuages." It contains, in sixty lessons, the fundamental principle
arc not embodied in act rules, but indicated at the head of, and devele
SKELETON TO U.RS Till? 0 UGh ENGLA.A
land, Wales, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Russia, Poland, and S1
from place to place, the time occupied, and the cost of each j
some of the principal things to see, especially country-houset
iSmo, 109 pages. Price, $1.00.
A BA CE P01? A WIFi~ A NoveL By the
ton." I vol., 8vo. Paper. 50 cents.
IfEREDITA R Y GENIUS: an Inquiry into iti
By FRANcIs G.ayoR, F. R. S., etc. 1 vol., Svo. 390 pages. 4
author of" Buckeye Abroad," "Eight Years in 'Congress," etc.
-~ ~'                          A SEA1i~ CII FOB WINTER S UNBEA 1115. B~
ous Illustrations. Tinted paper. Cloth, extra gilt. Price, $3
A NEW EDITION OP THE MODERN B
In red cloth, octavo, at ~2.00 per vol., published in the followi
I. C.tai.ms's MiSCELLANIES,, 1 vol. II. MACACLAY'S MISCELLANY,
SON, I vol. IV. JEFFREY'S MISCELLANIES, I vol. V. Micnn~
SYDNEY SMITH, TALFOURD, and STEPHEN, 1 vOl.
.MI4MMALIA: their various Orders and Habits
Typical Species. By Louis Fiounia, author of "The World
Reptiles," etc. With 26'T Engravings on Wood. 1 vol., 8vo,
call; $7.~0.
Uniform with "The World Before the Deluge," "The Vecetable~
and Reptiles," and "The Insect World," forming an attractively illust
works on Natural History.
2                                                                            RED AS A ROSE IS SHE. A NoveL By the
a Fl~'wer," "Not Wisely, but Too Well," etc. One vol., 8vo.
A' NEW UNIFORM LIBRARY EDITIO1V
lar's Works. Price $1.00 per volume. Each volume illustrate
I. "Home Influence." A Tale for Mothers and Daughters. 1i
Mother's Recompense." A Sequel to "Home Influence."
Friendship." A Tale of Doaientie Life. 1 vol., 1 2mo. IV. "
Spain in the Fifteenth Century. 1 vol., l2mo. V. "Home Sc
12mo. VI. "The Days of Bruce." A Story of Scottish list
Women of Israel." 2 vols., l2mo.
a
S                                                             I

APPLETON &amp; Co.
st.frce, or sent by exp~ ess, pi'epaid,
tee. Catalogues will be furni.Jiea
B. DISRAELI, M. P. From
p edition, octavo, paper covers,
LTE N. YONGE, author of
., l2mo, pp. 347. Price, $1.25.
~ONG OF SOLOMON,
r both Pastors and People. By
)th. Price, $2.00. Uniform with
ons," and "The Minor Prophets,"
:0 cultivate the Obscrvipg
Illustrations. I vol., l2mo, 167 p~.
7?MAN LANG UAGL~
ublic Schools in the City of New
Marcel In his work on "The Study of
s of the Ge man language and these
ped in, cacti le.ssou.
U~, SCOTLAND, IRJIL
pain, with various ways of getting
journey to a party of four. With
i. By HENRY WiNTHROP SARGENT.
author of "Breezie Lang.
s Laws and Consequences.
Jioth. Price, $3.60.
~ the Hon. SAMUEL S. Cox,
In one vol., l2mo, with numer-
.00.
RITISH ESSA YISTS.
ing order (one volume per week):
tan, 1 vol. III. WILSON and ALI.~
roan's MISCELLANiES, I vol. VL
Popularly Illustrated by
Before the Deluge," "Birds and
606 pp. Price, cloth, $6.00; half
Torld," "The Ocean World," "Birds
rated and highly fascinating series of
author of "Coaneth Up as
Paper. Price, 60 cents,
OF GRAGE AGUI.
d and handsomely bound in cloth.
rol., I2mo. Illustrated. II. "The
I vol., 12me. III. "Woman's
The Vale of'Cedars." A Story of
enes and Heart Studies." 1 vol.,
ory. 2 vols., l2mo. VII. "The

.11
/


1'"
Boo/cs reccnl&amp; ~publi&amp;Iwd b~1 1). Appleton ~f' Cc.
APPLETONS' ANNLTAL CYCLOPEDIA FOR 1869. This book, as
a record of the important events of the past year, is the best, and in fact the only, authority on
all matters relating to the material and intellectual development of the year, embracing Political,
Civil, Military, and Social Affairs of all Countries; Important Public Documents, Biography, Sta.
tistics, Commerce, Finance, Literature, Science, Agriculture, Mechanical Industry, etc., covering,
in a word, the same field as the "New American Cyclopodia," but confined to the results of the
ycar. Uniform with tbe volumes for 1861, 1862, 1863, 1864, 1865, 1866, 186'l, and 1868. With
Portraits of Napoleon IlL, Pius IX., and Secretary Fish. 1 vol., large Svo. In cloth, $5.00;
sheep, $6.00. Sold by subscription.
Q tIBEN JIOB TENSE; a Life-Picture of the Napoleonic Era. By LouIsA
MtlmsAcrr. Translated by CHAPMAN COLEMAN 1 vol
cloth, ~                                 .      ., 8vo. illustrated. Paper covers, $1.00:
RENDER GASPS MASTERY SE~RIES-Spanish. Uniform with
"Freuch" and "German." One vol., l2mo, flexible cloth. Price, 50 cents
THE NATURAL SPEAKER; being Selections to aid the Student in ac~
quiring a Simple, Natural. Business-like Style of Speaking. By JOSEPH ALDEN, D.D.,LL.D.,
President of New York State Normal School. With a Prefatory Note by JAMEs Mc0osn, D. Th,
LL. il., President of the College of New Jersey. l2mo, half bound.
MAR Y'S GRAM.ZIIAR, interspersed with Stories, and intended for the Use
of Children. By Mrs. MARCET, author of "Conversations on Chemistry," etc., etc. New edition,
revised and enlarged. l2mo, 240 pages. Price, $1.25.
THE LIFE OF DANIEL WEBSTER. By GEORGE TICKNOR Cuirris.
Illustrated with elegant Steel Portraits of Mr. Webster, snd fine Woodeuts bf different Views '
Franklin and at Marshfield. In two vols., 8vo. Cloth. Price, $5.00 each. Sold only by
subscription.
.2IfBS. GERALD'S NIEUL~ A Novel. By Lady GEORGIANA FULLERTON,
author of" Too Strange Not to be True," "A Stormy Life," etc. One vol., Svo. Paper covers.
Price, 60 cents.
THA OKERA PS MTIWELLANIES. A new, neat, and uniform edition
of Thackeray's Miscellanies, in ornamented paper covers, l2mo. Price, 50 cents each. Now
ready: "The Book of Snobs," "Yellowplush Papers," "A Shabby Genteel Family," "Men's
Wives," "Fitaboodle's Confessions," "Mr. Brown's Letters to a Young Man about Town."
THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF RELIGION liTS BELTEI
By S. BARING-GOULD, M. A., author of "Curious Myths of the Middle Ages," "The Silver Store,"
etc. Part I. Heathenism and Mosaism. One vol., l2mo. Cloth. $2.00
ELECTRICITY IN ITS BELA TIONS TO PRA CTICAL MEDI-
cine. By Dr. MonITs MEYER. Translated from the third German edition, with numerous Notes
and Additions, by WILLIAM A. HAMMOND, M. D., Professor of Diseases of the Mind and Nervous
System, in the Bellevue Hospital Medical College, etc. In one volume, of over 400 pages, 8vo;
with numerous Illustrations. Price, $4.50.
HISTORY OF EUB OPEAN MORALS, FROM AUGUSTUS TO CHARLE..
NAGNE. By W. E. H. LECKY, M. A., author of "History of Rationalism in Europe." In two
vols., Svo. Cloth. Price, $6.00.
A TEXT-B 00K OF PRA CTICAL MEDICINE, with Particular Refer.
ence to Physiology and Pathological Anatomy. By Dr. Fnix VON NIESntvER. Translated from
the seventh German edition, by GEORGE H. HUMPHREYS, M. D., and CHARLES E. HACKLEY, M. D.
2 vols., Svo. 1500 pp. In cloth, price $9.00; sheep, $10.50.
WINTER AND SPRING ON THE SHORES OF THE .WEDITER-
ranean; or, The Riviera, Mentone, Italy, Corsica, Sicily, Algeria, Spain, and Biarrit; as Wintu'
Climates. By J. HENRY BENNET, M.D., Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London.
With numerous Illustrations. One vol., l2mo, 618 pp. Cloth. Price, $3.50.
UNDER GB 0 UND LIFE; or, MINEs AND MINERS. By L. Smroi~rn~.
Translated by H. W. BRisTow, F. R. S. Illustrated with 160 Engravings on Wood, 20 Maps,
geologically colored, and 10 Plates of Metals and Minerals in chromo-lithography. One vol., 8vo.
Price, $18.00.
THE SUBJECTION OF WOMEJA~ By JOHN STUART MILL. One vol.,
lOmo, 192 pages. Cloth. Price, $1.

I

'I


  
             
         
       
   
