
    ----CITATION----
        Van Rensselaer, Leslie. (Van Rensselaer, Leslie). Search After a Lost Heart; and, The Marriage Contract: a Mystery .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8144
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Search after a lost heart 
            
                  SEARCH AFTER  LOST HEART. LESLIE  VAN  RENSSELAER,  NEW YORK: PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY CUSHNG, BARDUA & CO.  644 and 646 Broadway. 1873.    PREFACE. "SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART."  What a strange title! and yet, strange as the title may seem, yet 'tis so-a heart fairly stolen by the virtue charity, through compassion and commiseration, and faithfully sought after to the end. This tale also tells of some of the most important incidents in the career of two collegians, written by one of the party, who was a friend of mine-most highly prized and esteemed by me-a much-valued friend, who, after repeated pleadings, placed in my hand this manuscript, penned by himself, and which has proved so pleasing to me that I am unwilling it should be lost to the world; thus through the publishment I sincerely hope you may find the same gratification while reading it as was imparted to me when I so eagerly pored over every line to learn the fate of the different characters, whichll in description are fairly life-like, and actually it would lead any one to fancy they were gazing on them in face and form, his vivid pen gives each so fresh and true to nature; indeed to me it seemed somewhat doubtful whether I was reading of or witnessing the scenes described. When   Oscar Lynn Somerset gave this scroll to me he remarked: "My friend, I was induced, under very peculiar circum- stances, to impress on my memory, through pen and ink, the many occurrences in life of myself and fellow-collegian, which has been of such lasting importance to both." Here I will give the moral of my tale by quoting Shakspeare  "The quality of mercy is not strained; It droppeth as the gentle rain, from heaven Upon the place beneath; it is twice bless'd; It blesseth him that gives and tiim that takes." It is now eleven years since this manuscript was penned, and the world has performed its usual revolutions without deviation from order or system, under the never-failing supervision of an Allwise, Overruling Providence, and yet its inhabitants have undergone many changes in its course; so too, among others, our country at one time has passed through a fiery ordeal; still, favored with the blessings of a gracious God, peace, harmony and union of hearts now reign throughout our land, proving  that this United States can never have a lasting, death, but. like the phoenix, will ever rise fresh from its ashes thoroughly renovated. What a glorious republic ours, verifying surely the motto, Vox populi, vox Dei,   INTRODUCTION. "Do you admire these paintings 2"I inquired of a gen- tleman whose eyes were wandering from one to the other of two considered very' choice, and which had been pro- nounced truly exquisite by many connoisseurs- who were famed artists from foreign countries, as well as others who had honored my gallery of extremely rare and finely- selected paintings. "They are, indeed, most beautiful," was the reply, "as well in the execution as the subject; indeed, more lovely groups on canvas were never delineated by any limner. Are you acquainted with those who form the groups, or are they merely fancy's sketches?" he asked. "They are, one and all, positive, true characters," was my response., - "Those in No. 1, though children no longer, still live; the pretty pet -of the feline species is dead. The rest are all playing their part on life's stage. The ladies and children in No. 2 are not very materially changed, being of later date, and I can say, Altogether, pow as when taken, most lovely, Neither htyv   the colored persons grown one whit older with% two years more of life spent by them in their happy homes. And I have a most interesting tale to relate of each one of the group. If you would be pleased to hear it, I will make you conversant with the incidents which led to their being depicted on canvas, which would have required more than the master efforts from the pen of one far hap- pier than myself 'in giving tableaux through writing' could have ever accomplished. And being sure the pen would fail, the brush and canvas were put in requisition, and the artist has played his part well." And this visitor feeling anxious to learn all the par- ticulars of the different ones of these two domestic por- traits, ] gave them to him in detail; and after most at tentively listening, he begged me first to loan him the manuscript, then advised me to publish it, while he prom- ised, should I do so at some future period, and it should fall into the hands of some severe critic, to pray him to be most merciful, and remind him that I was not vain enough of myself to bring it before the public. Still, I hope the reader may find merit enough in the book to afford him sufficient pleasure in perusing it, instead of plodding through it as only quelque chose pour passer le temps. And, readers, I must say to you all, as I did to him who wished full, concise, and correct particulars of these two paintings-warn you that, although it may prove insipid, it was necessary to commence from my schoolhours spent with a chum, since it will be the many peculiar occurrences   Vi  in my friend's life alone (with few exceptions) that will render these descriptions in the least interesting, my own career after I left him having been passed more in weary- ing days of business, rather than in various pleasures (up to this date), and of course spiced with much less incident than his history: to give iest to that I would relate the lives of two old chums, one toiling for competency in de- clining years, the other provided through inheritance with every luxury of a nobleman's entailed estate.    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. CHAPTER I.  FERDINAND D'ENVIL JE and myself were school compan- ions, closely associated from earliest childhood to full term of collegiate studies. He hailed from far down South, while my birthplace was in the extreme Northeast. And although differing in some points on the various occurrences which are transpiring in boyhood's hours as well as man- hood's years, and in some of our arguments, the question of Slavery being often discussed (his parents being exter. sive planters, milie very warm Abolitionists), still, then as now, we ever expressed ourselves in mild terms, not one harsh, offensive, or uncharitable word ever having passed between us, to my knowledge, which had a tendency to render us otherwise than good friends. So, too, there was one sentiment which he always coupled with his Southern principles of State rights (otherwise we could never have continued friends), and that was extreme attachment to the Union, he many times declaring that the tongue proposing dissolution ought to be paralyzed, let it be from North or South, and the hand withered of that one who willfully charged it with deadly weapons and raised his arm against a sister State, as it would be fratricide, and, should the guilty action of secession ever succeed, it would be sure destruction to the South, and cause disarrangement of commercial affairs to an immense extent at the North, as. well as the United States in general. And he who in.   - -  '  SSEARCH AITIER A LOST HAIit. suited the flag of the Union by unfurling to the breeze another banner to fight under than the Stars and Stripes would surely dishonor and destroy himself, for his suicidal knell would be tolled with echoing peals from pole to pole in future years, to stigmatize his descendants as sons of a traitor to that country whose forefathers bled to gain its glorious freedom. Ferdinand and myself bade each other farewell soon after the completion of our collegiate career, and although we did not meet again for many years we continued a month- ly correspondence which kept alive the strong attachment formed by us when children, continuing to riper years, and strengthening as we attained the full age of sober discre- tion through that experience which is allotted to all man- kind. I had made many visits to Europe, and been placed in various situations requiring toil of mind and body, and tending to excite the brain. Thus my years were occupied with duties to perform very widely differing from the course of life my friend had to pursue, yet when my daily routine was completed, and in the evening I was seated- alone to collect my thoughts, they, after becoming calmed and diverted from business affairs, would ever revert to the many very pleasant hours we spent when we were boys together-my friend Ferdinand and myself--not in revelry and carousing, but in rational enjoyments and intellectual feasts while poring over our lessons with ambition to excel in the different branches we were studying; and when my spirit was borne back to those happy days, how anxiously have I anticipated a joyous meeting at some future period, and this hour did finally arrive, when since that date we have been bound - by ties of love so sacred that they can never be broken by rabid political bickerings, which fre- quently cause dissensions and lasting hatred, not only   iJ        SEXRCEH AFER A LOST HEABT.       3 among friends, bht often extending to near relatives. My next chapter will give a true description of painting, No. 1, which is a copy from the wedding present to my friend Ferdinand d'Enville from his wife's father, and most highly prized by my friend and the whole family. CHAPTER II. VALE FLEUR DE Lis was one of the most beautiful home ^ steads for the residence of a gentleman I ever visited, and it was my friend Ferdinand d'Enville's father who owned this plantation. Where at almost every season of the year bloomed the orange, lemon, and lime trees, in groves of many -acres; and there, too, were every variety of roses as well as japonicas, and other flowers of greater size and more gorgeous; color, in bloom nearly all the year round, intermingled with humble, modest plants cherished for their fragrance; the grounds in many squares absolutely hedged in by myrtles and jasmines; the low   mead- -ows nearly running wild with the fleur de lis, for which ithe place was named. In the midst of this domain, with rippling streams coursing their way through the luxuriant growth of vegetation, stood a princelike mansion, where the most beautiful birds, both of color and note, chirped gayly about all day; lulling you to sleep at night with their dreamy-warbling, and awakening you by dawn of dazy with their cheerful trilling carols. In the gallery of paintings-a hall of large dimensions, and in the most retired part of this magnificent dwelling, " which a monarch might have envied "-I was seated with my friend, while on the wall directly opposite where we sat hung the paint- ing, No. 1. We were talking over college days, and he   4     9SEARCH AFTEt A LOST .HART. related to me the cause of the charm which is attached to this lovely painting, No. 1; also how, and the peculiar manner in which he first found, then wooed, and at last won his lovely wife-one of the most beautiful and fascinating persons of female form I ever met-one such as any man might say of, "I wish that heaven might make me such an angel helpmate." She was a perfect sunbeam, casting rays of light wherever her radiant smiles found place to enter; :cheering the sad and weary, or making merry with those ripe for a bit of innocent fun; modest and artless as a child, totally unconscious of the admira- , tion which her rare sweetness of manner and disposition ever won from those with whom she became acquainted. The subject No. 2 came some time after. It was one day when speaking in ecstasies of this paragon of a wife, while we were, unseen by the inmates, looking upon (to me) a novel, but exceedingly interesting, domestic scene-especially to a Northerner--such as I am confident eye never witnessed beyond the Southern boundaries. It was then I thought, Oh, that I possessed the inspiration and ability of a gifted artist! so that I might give that charm to this tableau vivant of No. 2 which it merits, it is so deeply graven on my heart. As it was, being something of a sketcher, I made a feeble effort to draw the outlines, and then submitted the picture to a skillful artist, so that the moral of the subject might not be lost, but be an example to the educated and refined, teaching them that the female character surely will never lose caste by administering to its domestics (or poor in generaD both bodily and mental comforts, but secure to itself warm and' substantial friends on earth from all con- ditions of men, and at last an exalted position in its Heavenly Father's kingdom. And surely every one in   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.        5 this world must reverence the humble Christians who, with a merciful, lenient spirit to the needy, perform their duties according to the example of their Lord and Saviour while on earth. The heavy gong had sounded for dinner when we joined the family in the salle a manger, with a promise from my friend to continue his story the following morning. It was in this interim that I once more thought over the group of 2, of which you will hear more hereafter, as it is an ever-pleasing theme to me. According to promise, early the next day we again met in the hall, when Ferdinand thus commenced: It is not, Oscar, I assure you, the poor alone who need our vigilant, kind acts to administer to their comfort, for very many among the wealthy require the solace of sympathizing friendship, and feel the want of another's support to nerve and strengthen them  for the battle of life X and although my hair is now frosted, it is so prema- turely, since such a number of years have not yet elapsed that my spirit has ceased, or ever can cease, to feel, with all my luxuries, how near my brain was to being wholly shattered with trouble of mind. And fresh in my memory is the day when, passing the door of a large granite house, I stopped to listen to an infant voice, sweet and musical, which said: "Dear Lillie, sweet Lillie,pretty Lillie, stop purring, and tell Jennie if you remember her own  dear mamma, and how she used to stroke your soft silken coat and then take Jennie's hand and lay it on your back and tell her to have no fear,' for you were too kind and gentle to scratch even one of her little fingers; and then mamma  would smooth down Jennie's hair and say,' What beautiful curls!' And? oh, Lillie, do you remember how very, very gently    S     SEARCH AFTER A LOST THEART. dear mamma placed Jennie on her knee, while you sat purring at her feet, and how she told her always to love dear papa, and then taught little Jennie to say, ' Our Father which art in Heaven,' and ' Now I lay me down to sleep,' and made me ask God to bless everybody, and then how she would cry a very little; and once she said,' Dear Jennie, if I should go away '-and oh! Lillie, can you ever forget how she stopped as if something had choked her, and then again how she sighed and said, ' If I should go away, be a good child, my darling Jennie, and love every- body . ' Ah, Lillie, Jennie did not know then that her own dear mamma was going to die, or she would never have been naughty-'never, oh, never, Lillie, my own pretty puss.' And here she looked heavenward, and then for the first time I saw this little one's face, for it was only then that she raised her head, which had been bent over a maltese cat, with white feet and breast, and a pink ribbon around its neck, that lay as if hearkening to all the questions that in silvery tones came from Jennie's birdlike voice. And oh, that sweet face; how it charmed me to the spot where I stood: it was for all the world like a rosebud half con- cealed by its mossy vail, for it looked out through such a shower of silken flaxen ringlets as one very seldom sees, they were so soft and beautiful; her eyes were of a deep cerulean blue, and her lips like twin cherries fully ripe; but in those eyes was an expression of intense thought, seemingly too mature for one of her age, for she could not have seen more than seven summers. I at once divined that some mystery, some secret sadness, had caused this peculiar expression; and an occasional tremor of the voice, with a quiver of those fresh lips, confirmed my opinion that all was not right within the heart. Indeed, her whole   SE8RCHE AFTES A LOST HEART.      -7 JY   manner seemed to express a wish for some friend to whom AI   she could tell the story of her sorrow, for after talking to the kitten in her lap about her dear mamma, and securing no answer but its monotonous purrings, she gave a despondent look and then peered with all her power of vision into the soft blue sky to search, as I gathered from her remarks, for that dear mother to give her soothing corn- solation in her sorrow. Much I wished then that I could bring one smile to that sad, sweet face, so young, too young, I thought, to know affliction. Again her head was bent over her Lillie, for hearing no response from Heaven, and feeling an unrestrainable impulse to pour forth her thoughts in words, she thus once more addressed her feline confidant: "Did you ever have a dear mamma, Lillie, and was she kind like mine; and oh, dear Lillie, did you ever have those we love taken away from us! Don't you have a sister? Jennie did once, and she was so fair and pretty, Lillie, and she died. Oh, it is very, very hard to remember pretty Isabel, Lillie, and how she used to laugh and crow when papa jumped her in his arms, and then she was taken sick, and, as dear mamma used to say, 'she faded, drooped, and died.' And this I believe really broke mamma's heart, for papa said so, and after that I know she never smiled again; that is, not as she used- to smile. And oh, how very glad I am that I did not die then, too, thus causing dear mamma more sorrow; but when mamma died, then, Lillie, I often wished that I was asleep by her side, she looked so sweet in her coffin, and smiled then just as she did before Isabel went away, and papa said it was because she had gone to see her dear baby. And, Lillie, don't you remember what mamma said when she was dying? Why! no answer; how stupid you are, Lillie. Well, listen." Here she raised the cat on its hind legs and F      ;                ,'* *  At   8  3   SEARCH AFTER A LOST BEART. luoking directly in its face said: "Lillie, she put Jennie's -hand in her papa's and told him first- to take good care of IJennie, and then told Jennie to love and obey her dear 'papa, and after that pressed both our hands together (just as I do your paws now, Lillie), kindly telling us not to forget that Godswas our friend, and that if we ever had trouble we must pray to Jesus and he would give us com- fort; and now don't you remember, Lillie i for you look as if you do. And I pray, just as dear mamma wished, every night and morging, and more times too if this mamma will let me.'- But she now said with a smile: "Jennie has got a little brother, a dear little brother, Lillie, and his eyes are so black and they shine so bright-- yes, Lillie, just as yours do sometimes-that they seem like two sparks of fire, and they flash so when dear papa speaks to him; but he is not like our little, gentle Isabel, he looks so proud and fierce when he catches my curls and pulls them. Jennie tries very hard, Lillie, to love this mamma as she did her other dear mamma, but she cannot" (here she sighed), " for this mamma does not love Jennie as her own did, and she is so cross sometimes ; and I heard this -mamma say one day to nurse that she was tired of looking at Jennie's milk-and-water face, and wished that she was in Heaven with her dear mamma-and you, too, Lillie-only think! for she said that Captain Clarendon would love herself and little Frank better, and he would not be every day telling you how he loved you, for you laid by dear mamma when her spirit went to Heaven, nor sniveling- over Jennie and saying that she grew more and more like her sweet mother, and that dear papa would spoil Jennie, for he gave this milksop-looking thing everything she asked for. And, Lillie, I know dear papa is very good to me when this mamma will let him be so, but I don't think it spoils me,"   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       9 Just as these last words were uttered by Jennie, a coarse, dark-eyed, but handsome and magnificently dressed, woman came hurriedly to where poor- little Jennie sat with her kitten, and, jerking her arm, said, "You saucy little hussy," and pulled her inside the door; after which I heard a slap and a suppressed scream, then the door was closed. My face now flushed with anger, and then tears dimmed my eyes, as I came forward, ascertained the name and number of the house, and, making a memorandum, resolved to be- come more fully acquainted with this interesting child and her history. Ah! never shall I forget how that poor little thing clung closely to her Lillie, for even when she was thus rudely handled she hugged her tightly in her arms, as if the cat was her only trusty confidant and protector during the absence of her father. She seemed to feel, too, that her kitten-friend could sympathize with her in her sorrows and bereavement; indeed, from her remarks, it was only to Lillie that she ever fully unbosomed herself, revealing to her more of her real troubles than she would dared to have done even to her loving and doting father, for she evidently feared that " this mamma," as she called her, might become acquainted with her feelings, and in conse- quence disputes ensue, for well she knew, I presume, that her dear papa would see her righted even if by so doing he should give offense to her stepmother. But little gentle Jennie, I should judge, was innately one of those who dreaded anything like contention; rather choosing to suffer herself than cause any- breach of peace, she seemed so like a little child of Jesus, one of those whom the Saviour blessed, saying, "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid thenm not, for of such is the kingdom of Heaven." '  , \   10     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. --    -  CHAPTER H. IT 'would appear incredible to most persons were I to tell them how many times during the next fortnight I wan- dered from my usual walks solely to look upon that young child's face, which I had only once seen, and indeed H scarcely believe that I could enumerate them myself; but I know that it was often', very often, and sometimes uncon- sciously, that I found myself standing in front of the man- sion upon whose steps I had seen little Jennie sitting with her cat, and so rudely, too, I feared after reflection, peering into its windows, until at length I fancied that the black- eyed stepmother--Jennie's "this mamma "-thought my impertinent gaze was a tribute to her beauty, for she was ever seated at the window as I passep. But if she thought so, she was greatly mistaken, and finally I desisted, dread- ing lest my boldness might lead to trouble and misunder- standing. I did wish, however, sometimes, that I might call in and tell her that her beauty was not the attraction, but charity toward one of the inmates was the motive which had impelled me thither, who, although surrounded by wealth, seemed friendless and unhappy, and explain to her that charity did not always consist in giving alms, but in doing good to all, endeavoring to render happy both the old and the young, the rich and the poor, giving com- fort to the strong in their distress of heart, protecting the feeble and weak from the maltreatment of the cruel who are superior in strength, soothing those sorely grieved in mind as well as giving bodily relief to the ailing, and that this was true Christian charity. And charity also dictates to our consciences that we should use all our endeavors to have justice meted out to those who are oppressed, and. at i times it became our bounden duty, in pursuance of this   A-        SEARCH tAFTER A LOST HEdRT.       1 object, to interfere even in the family affairs of others that our own, so far as it affords protection to the abused, as it this instance where a delicate child is unfortunate enougt to be the object of undue severity. At length my eyes were again blessed with the sight o little Jennie and her kitten, for one morning I left my study earlier than usual-it was the hour at which nurses are accustomed to go abroad with their youthful charges to give the little nursery prisoners an opportunity tc breathe the fresh air, and stretch their little limbs-and my daily walks from my residence to the dwelling of my little friend being past one of the city parks, it was there on that morning that I caught sight of my favorite-for such this child through -her extraordinary beauty and ill treatment had become-hugging in her arms the same pet Lillie, its neck still encircled by the pink ribbon. My little flaxen. haired rosebud this time seemed as gay as gay could be. Soon puss leaped from her arms, and then commenced a chase indeed. Swiftly and gracefully moved Jennie's elas. tic limbs, which her short dress failed to conceal 'from view, while the neat and well-fitted stocking and gaiter served to display her symmetrical and well-formed limbs-- too pretty to be concealed-and it was with difficulty that I managed to keep pace with her swift, springing movements. At length, however, Lillie with one bound came close to my side, when I quietly picked her up and held her gently in my arms, and this action furnished me with the requisite means for an introduction to Jennie, and likewise to secure me the attention of my little pet, as I began now to feel that this darling child was destined to be. Presently I heard a sweet little voice say: "Please, sir, that is my kitten Lillie, so mamma used to call her, and so I do too."    r1u 2    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. "Do you, my little one?"I inquired. "Yes, sir," she answered with a trusting smile; "and I love it, for dear mamma's sake. Did you ever know Jennie's mamma, sir?" she asked; but suddenly said, "Hush!" raising her tiny finger, " for there is Betsey ;" and then whispering, "Please don't tell nurse that I spoke of dear mamma-please don't, sir: but Betsey is very kind to me." Then Jennie again said aloud, "That is my kitten, sir, if you please." "Well, my little one," I answered, "you shall have it, it you will give me one kiss," "I will," she replied, putting up her pretty lips Its! stooped to take the asked-for favor so innocently granted, and then as I had prbmised I gave little Jennie her Lillie, when she again whispered, "Don't tell rurse that I kissed you, sir, for this mamma scolds if Betsey don't repeat to her all that she hears and sees, and Betsey will not tell an untruth." , The words had scarcely passed her lips when some one called out, but not hastily, "Naughty, naughty child; what will mamma say!" "Oh, please don't, Betsey-don't say anything to her about it," the little one exclaimed, as if alarmed, then quickly said, confident in her nurse's kindness, "Ah, but I know you won't, for it was no harm to kiss the gentleman for catching my Lillie." I turned and before me stood a very pretty woman, neatly dressed, holding in her arms a noble-looking black- eyed boy about one year old. "Please don't, nurse," I begged respectfully, since Jennie does not wish it, slipping at the same time some gold into her hand. She at first seemed hurt and gave it back to 'me, when I assured her that it was not intended as a bribe, but that the act had   i        SEARCH AFTEiR XA LOST HEART.      13' been prompted by my interest in the child. She then re- ceived it and gave the required promise. Now this may be called deception, and doing wrong that good may come; but I did not consider it so, for I felt that the evil had come, and that I was now performing a kind deed by "doing unto others as I would that others should do unto me," wishing that good might come to that innocent child. Yet it seemed to me that the father could not know what treatment his beautiful half orphan received at the hands of this coarse stepmother, who should have been to his gentle little one an indulgent parent, and so I resolved to protect Jennie as far as I could from the harsh treatment to which she was subjected. At all events, I now considered my secret secure, for the nurse had a good, sensible, trusty and, pure expression of face. I felt, too, that I was young (scarcely nineteen years of age), and, although I say it, rather good-looking withal; I likewise knew from -the nurse's honest face that favors are often won by kind words and acts of politeness--a kind of treatment which, I am sorry to say, these poor girls seldom receive, since the fast young lads of the present day consider it quite a feather in their caps if they can win a smile through professed kind. ness to one of these unsophisticated, unprotected females-- who, although poor, are purely innocent--so that they may insult them by taking impertinent liberties, or injure their fair fame by boasting of imaginary conquests. And now if I tried to gain favor in the eyes of this nurse, it was from far other purposes than those I have described of " fast" boys, and she so understood it, for Betsey saw that all I wished was that she should be kind to the child, and felt that I had treated her with due decorum and respect. From this time, day after day, I met the group in the park, Jennie with her Lillie and Betsey with the little   "     SEARCH .4AF TEIR A LOST HEART. Frank, untilwe became quite intimate an8 seemed to each other like old acquaintances. During a fortnight's inter- course I learned from the nurse the position of their house- hold affairs; that the father of Jennie and her stepmother were an ill-assorted pair, he being a perfect gentleman,a captain in the British army, who had resided in Canada until the death of Jennie's mother, when he had obtained a furlough and moved for the time to the United States, tak- ing a furnished house and placing his daughter under the charge of a lady housekeeper who had been highly recom- mended to him. She was a childless widow of about thirty, possessed of great tact, and was all kindness to Jen- nie. The captain, Who had taken a deep interest in the welfare of the African race, was also pleased to find in his housekeeper one who professed to be greatly interested in the same cause. The captain was a zealous member of the Church of England; the widow had been an attendant at the Presbyterian meeting, but, knowing the captain's views upon this subject when she took charge of his estab- lishment, she resolved to be cautious, say as little as possi- ble concerning her faith, and take each Sabbath her seat at the head of his pew. Policy leads us to do many things contrary to conscience, which afterward bring remorse; but there are some who have no conscience, and this proved to be the case in this instance. Her well-laid plans and skillful maneuvering were at last successful, for she managed to change her position from that of housekeeper 'o wife, and mistress of Captain Claren- don's establishment. Her professed love for, and constant attention to, the wants of Captain Clarendon's beloved child first attracted him, her bright black eyes and hand- someperson fascinated him, and her pretended sympathy with his abolition principles, and concurrence in all his   SEAtRCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       15 opinions and prejudices, finally subjugated him. But he had never read old Weller's advice to his son, "to beware of vidders," or if he had he was too much infatuated to profit by it. They were married, however, sooner than at first he in'tended, which was just one year from the death of his first wife; since already, from some unknown source, evil reports, the housekeeper said, were abroad concerning them, and that her character, was suffering from it, and that she should be forced to leave his house unless he made her his wife. It was not very long, however, before the cap: tain discovered that he had been most grossly deceived, for she soon threw off the mask, and then to him she ceased any longer to be beautiful. He now saw that her love for his child had been feigned, her present manners to his dar- ling, tender Jennie being rude and coarse, while her own mother, all grace and refinement, had gently and kindly governed her. The contrast was insupportable; he became disgusted with his housekeeper-wife in less than twelve months after their marriage, and was about forming plans to provide for her in America while he returned to Canada with Jennie, choosing to do so rather than trust his darling child in her hands. Before he could accomplish the arrangement of placing his child in the care of some of his relatives, which took more time than at first he had supposed it would, unforeseen circumstances prevented, for Mr.- Frank, with his bright black eyes, made his appearance, and the captain's proceed- ings were all of course quashed by the advent of his noble- looking boy, who came but to increase 'dissension and widen the breach already too wide. Now although the father ad- mired his boy, his love for Jennie was of a purer and stronger nature, and she was growing to be more and more like her mother, his own dear Gertrude, who had been his   16     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. beau ideal of all that was lovely in a wife, an idol at whose shrine he had w orshiped from boyhood, and his was a love that lasts through eternity. Shortly after the captain was married to his second wife she gave him to understand that she was not an Episcopalian, but a Presbyterian, making great pretensions to piety by attending numerous societies, and frequenting all places where religious excitement was considered a necessary means of salvation, and doing this to the neglect of her family duties. She now gave evidence that she was exceed- ingly fond of admiration; but this excited no jealousy in the captain's breast, at which she was much provoked, and as far as she-dared the stepmother showed the cloven foot in numerous ways, but principally by giving vent to her de. moniacal temper upon little Jennie. This of course roused the captain to such an extent that he could no longer con- ceal that his affection for her had ceased, but that his whole love rested unalterably with his first wife's memory. He was constantly extolling his Gertrude's amiable qualities, praising her peaceful and gentle disposition, and as contin- ually speaking of little Jennie's resemblance to her that was purity itself; ever saying to his child," You are so like my sainted wife, your dear mother, now in Heaven, so gentle, so kind and so lovely in all things as she was." The cap- tain expressed great fondness also for Jennie's playmate, the kitten Lillie, which when, not petted by Jennie was sure to be on his lap, sometimes saying to her what I had overheard his child already explain to her Lillie, why the stepmother wished her dead: "My poor, poor puss, I must love you for the sake of the dead Gertrude, my dear, dear wife, for you were her pet, and you lay on the bed when her spirit took! its flight," and then he would draw a long sigh as he thought of his present wife in contrast with his   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       17 first. I grant that the captain's doing this was very pro. voking, but doubtless the housekeeper-wife was at fault, for she was aggravating beyond bearing in illy treating the one whom she knew was most dear to-him, his darling child, who had so young been left motherless. The nurse Betsey, who had reported these family affairs to me, had become cognizant of these facts from having lived with Captain Clarendon's first wife as lady's maid, and after her death came with the captain from Canada, although young, on account of the old family nurse having been married previous to their leaving; for the father, fear- ing to place his child under the entire control of strangers, and likewise knowing Betsey to be a kind, affectionate, and honest girl, felt that he could with impunity trust her to take charge of Jennieq notwithstanding her youth; and she had witnessed all the wiles the housekeeper had used to entrap the captain, and accordingly had a fair opportunity of knowing how matters stood between them, and of watch- ing the commencement and progress of the present unpleas- ant discord in the family. On the last one of our daily meetings I fastened around the puss Lillie's neck a beautifully wrought, though not heavy, collar of gold, the clasp a ruby, attached to which was a tiny bell studded with emeralds, but without a tongue, so that it should not frighten pet Lillie. And oh) now indeed it did my heart good to see little Jennie: her delight was so unbounded, as she kissed me over and over again, held up her puss and made her purr forth her thanks, and then looking innocently in my face said: "But, sir, Lillie must wear the pink ribbon too,'for dear mamma always put a fresh one on of just this color once a week, and dear papa and Jennie love to see it thus." Ah! then how I wished that I could take that dar:   18     S3EARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. ling, precious child to my heart and hold her there to pro- tect her from the rancor of her heartless stepmother. There was something far above wordly love in little Jen- nie's sacred adoration of her sainted mother, which made me actually worship her as a being of superior mould. I again presented a douceur to the nurse, which I insisted upon her receiving as a token of my gratitude for her kind- ness to Jennie. I little knew all the trouble the collar would give to both nurse and child, or I would not have given it, neither did I dream that by this act of mine I was depriving myself of the great pleasure these daily meetings afforded me, otherwise I should have feasted may eyes in silence; yet it was not Betsey who divulged the secret of our meeting, for she was faithful to her promise, but the little artless Jennie, enraptured .with the collar I had given Lillie, was obliged in the fullness of her heart to tell her father frbm whence it came. He at first did not object to the continuance of Jennie's daily healthful gambols with her kitten in the park, thinking it was natural that his little one should be admired, and likewise fully trusted to nurse fBetsey's judgment; but the housekeeper-stepmother swelled with rage, and represented the affair, as I was afterward told, as an t4tempt to inveigle and abduct the child; she even endeavored to traduce the nurse's character by making her an accomplice in this imaginary scheme emanating from her own evil ideas. Thus this last attention to the child, I soon discovered, had terminated, much to my-sorrow, the pleasant little innocent frolics I used to enjoy with her in the park, since the nurse and Jennie from that date had not made their appearance on the grounds. ,/     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       19 CHAPTER IV. ONE fortnight had elapsed, and search where I would I could not find either little Jennie and her kitten Lillie, or nurse Betsey and master Frank with his searching black eyes. But soon the time arrived when I did see them, and also witnessed a most brutal scene. I had one morning directed my steps as usual to the street which I thought must as yet contain my jewel, for I saw her father's name still upon the plate as I daily passed the house, and was watching for my bird in the distance, when at length a carriage stopped at the door, and then first I saw my Jennie, lovingly huggirig her kitten, as usual, lifted and placed inside by the footman, and felt like flying to meet her and catching her in my arms; but kept aloof for fear of discovery, yet remaining near enough to see all that transpired. The next that came was the nurse with Master Frank, and then issued forth in all her vulgar pride the housekeeper:stepmother, arrayed in her gorgeous finery. Scarcely had she entered the carriage before I saw the poor little kitten Lillie savagely thrown out by her hand through the open window, and violently dashed on the pavement, and heard Jennie's well-known, sweet voice in accents of despair, saying: "Oh!'nmy Lillie; my poor, darling Lillie; my dear mamma's pet;" for which ejacula- tions she received a brutal blow, and then all was still save Jennie's stifled sobs. I now lost all caution, and, springing forward, picked up poor Lillie, exclaiming, "Shame, oh, shame!" then quickly leaping up the steps of the house, r opened the outer door and put her inside, turned and came down, while the horses were prancing in their haste to start, and as I gazed into the dark, vulgar eyes of the housekeeper-stepmother I was thankful that no one bqt lefr   20     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. self in the carriage had seen me to tell her that I was the friend who had daily met Jennie and Lillie in the park, and thus have her suspect that I was the person also who sent the anonymous letter, which I wrote immediately on my return to my study, giving the captain a description of the whole scene, and warning him of the evil that might some. time befall his darling child if not more carefully watched. I considered that it was my duty to do so, for I believed that this woman was capable of committing almost any outrage to gratify her hatred. Soon afterward I was taken ill, and for nearly one month confined to my room. When I recovered, my first airing was taken in the direction of Jennie's place of residence; but, alas! the premises were deserted, the name off the door; and in its stead a notice of "This house to let," and it was many a long and weary day before I saw or heard from them again. And now, Oscar, perhaps you would like to have me say something about myself, my ancestors, and what we did down South, as well as my search after my lost friends Jennie and Lillie. And so I will first give you a- full sketch of that part of my life I have never before made known to you, and then will endeavor to satisfy your curiosity by relating what transpired after you and I parted at college; and although you are acquainted, my friend, with many incidents of my early career, yet, nevertheless, for my own sake, I will refresh your memory so as to keep alive the interest you professed for me when we were boys together. -My father was a planter, residing in one of our Southern States, and, much as it may shock some of my Northern friends to know it, I, too, glory in calling the South my birthplace, but the Union is my country. I once was a holder of slaves, but no servant of mine was under b ondage   SEA CH AFTEK A LOST HEABRT.       21 to a cruel taskmaster, and no brutal overseer ever stood by with a scourge to lash them to their tasks; and, so far as my experience goes, the stories of such brutality which were circulated in the North by the self-styled friends of the colored race were sheer- fabrications. I assert with truth that the slaves of our family, and those in the sur- rounding neighborhood, were better cared for and more humanely treated than the so-called " help " of the North; and they who freed the slaves, making no provision for their future support and comfort, were no friends to them, as most of the sensible colored people of the South knew, and many of the slaves are intelligent, and as well educated as the working class of any community or color. My father, then, was a Southern planter, and I am one of seven children : four daughters and three sons. My father's kind- ness to his servants had endeared them to us, and they felt as if they belonged to our family and were a part of our- selves. I can assure you that the feelings of honest Southerners are as pure, as tender, and as Christian-like as those of any body of men, although, as with others in the world, we had among us an equal share of the profligate and reckless; but I can assert, judging from my own heart, that the Southern master loved all the good members of his colored family, and gave them many privileges, and many a tear of affection was shed by the kind planters over their trustworthy dying slaves, although they may have been old and unable to work; yet those of the slaves who were un- ruly were punished, it is true, but ever with mercy and leniency, and no flogging on our premises. In our own family my sisters, while they were at home, appropriated two hours of each day to giving instruction to the young of both sexes of their servants, teaching them to read and write, and from my sisters also the colored people received -   22   SEIARCL AFTEl R A LOST HEArT. much information which benefited them both temporally and eternally. My father, conjointly with some of his neighbors, had erected' a good-sized church or Sunday- school room, in a central location, for the benefit of the slaves. This pulpit was filled by a pastor who faithfully attended to their spiritual wants, teaching them their duty to God and, man, and, according to Scripture, their relative duties of servant to master, and master to servant--one who was not a fanatic, but felt in his conscience that it was imperative upon the master to supply all the needful wants, spiritual and bodily; of the servants, feeding and clothing them, and attending them in sickness with kind- ness, and that for all these attentions it was the duly of the servants to repay his care with gratitude, and to -show this gratitude by their devotion to his interests. Thus this pastor taught them, showing them the sin of ingratitude and the wickedness of negligence of duty and idolence. He was a man of correct religious principles, who never sanctioned the breaking of a single commandment by any one of those of whom God had given him charge, whether master or servant, rich or poor. So you see that in calling a pastor for our people my father chose one who followed the example of his own, ours and the colored race's Saviour, one who preached the Bible in all its purity, and not one who lost the intent of Scripture, perverting it to suit his own preconceived ideas. Of course, Oscar, Slavery is past, and I am glad of it, and I tell this to vindicate us from the stigma of cruelty. Any person who brought you a correct report from the majority of our Southern plantations would have told you that the white man neither considered it a loss of dignity nor thought he demeaned himself by attending to the wants of his negroes, or in speaking kindly to them while   SEABCH ATER A LOST HEBEAT..      23 listening to their complaints and troubles. He did not consider his child injured by drawing nourishment from a , colored woman, but our Northern friends would look with disgust upon a white ehild's obtaining sustenance after this manner, and I have frequently been shocked when I have heard Northern and Eastern people express their horror of this custom, even in the presence of a decent and respect- able sable nurse, as if she were not human. For myself I loved my slave-lurse, and to this day would do anything to make old Mammy Silvie happy, and I never left home without bringing on my return some remembrance for her. As to separating husband and wife, we and all; others with whom I was acquainted never separated them unless they were notoriously bad or were unwilling to live together, and then they were parted, and the unruly one sold and sent from the plantation; the white man or woman also gets a divorce, when just cause requires it. We were sometimes obliged to diminish the number of slaves, and to dispose of the children, and we invariably found for them kind masters, and then, many times, the choice was given to the parents as to who should be sent away: the white man binds his children out, and gentlemen's sons are sent from their homes to work with their employers for a living, and so the colored race expected to be separated from their off- spring as well for their own as for their master's benefit. A Northern mistress will be quite as unwilling to retain a white domestic who does not please her, and will reduce her number of "help," if unable to keep them all in her service, quite as readily sending them adrift in the world to find another mistress. The slaves, with us, had nice little houses to dwell in--cabins they were called-placed at certain distances around the plantation, with comfortable. bedding, and indeed all the plain, simple furniture necessary   24-    SEARC H AITES R A LOST HEART.     for them. I wish with all my heart that an unprejudiced * man could have taken a peep into one of these cabins and noticed the neatness of its arrangement, and then looking ijF into the apartments of the free negroes in one of our Northern cities contrast them with each other-aye, or corn-  pared the slave's cabin with the poor white man's abode, who toils each day harder than any Southern slave for bread to sustain himself and family. Had he been forced to choose for himselfeither of these places, he would have selected for comfort and cleanliness the cabin of the negro slave. Each one of the famnilies of our slaves had a certain portion of ground allotted to them which they cultivated for themselves, and time was allowed them to attend to its culture. Its yield belonged to them exclusively, and was either purchased by their master or a day given them to dispose of it at the neighboring town. With the money  i thus gained, they purchased any little luxury they might * fancy for themselves, or saved it to purchase their freedom, t as they were always well fed and clothed by their masters. i It was very rarely that a slave who left his master did not  "Iook back with longing eye upon his home on the planta- tion, and wish himself there again with "ole massa and  X missus, and young massa and missus, too," who used to condescend, without feeling themselves degraded, to play  with the little slaves of their own age. They were some times punished, but not unless it was deserved. And so are all punished who do wickedly. Parents punish their children, the schoolmaster the scholar, the master the child who is bound to him, and I have seen either one of these flogged more severely than any slave by an overseer. So, too, the law punishes the criminal, and God punishes all mankind who do evil. His whole system is so arranged that we may be taught through certain means to do what is t   SEARCH ABm& X LOSt HESRt.       a  right, that we may hereafter be happy, and ITe says "Spare the rod, and spoil the child;" but it is not true  that the rod is literally taken, as a general thing, and slaves flogged unmercifully, as reported. And, now, rest assured that all who cried out about the cruel treatment of slaves, the "horrid system," and launched forth a thousand invee. tives against the South, knew nothing at all about the matter; or if they did, they grossly misrepresented it. Many of these were fanatical, many were led away by designing politicians, and some were actuated by sinister motives in we know not what, for that is withheld from the public. I have told you all this because, Oscar, I have heard these slanderous things said, and I considered it my duty to vindicate my native place from these calumnies,  with the names of Southern planters will reflect (if they think at all for themselves)   that in doing  so  they are scandalizing the memory of the "Father of his Country," a protector of human isberty, a lover of the human family, fnd one of the best men that ever existed, for  W ashing- ton was   both a   Southern man and a  slaveholder, yet      i knowing the time must eentually come  when  peaceably  slavery would be abolished, he, nevertheless, with all his  .: Christian principles, would in heart and with tongue have     , cursed those   of either party who used such measures as  : tended in any way to dissolve  the Union he  so nobly w on     i for us. A   nd my father's family felt bound in honor, a: heart   and hand , to support the Union in all  its purity, with  the most uncompromising tenacity.     26     SEJRCH AFnTE a LOST HEA4T. I will now, my friend, make you acquainted first with the nearest ancestors to my parents, second a short sketch of the early part of the life of my father and mother, and then continue to tell what befell me in the unwearying search after dear little Jennie, with her kitten Lillie, and how affairs terminated with us. CHAPTER V. MY father's name was Henri d'Enville, the same as that of my great-grandfather, who shortly after the birth of my own grandfather removed from France to the South, and there purchased a large plantation, together with the slaves who at that time belonged to and worked upon the land. The situation was all that was desirable, my great-grand- father found the neighbors in every way suited to his refined taste, and at his death this property descended to his son. My father was educated in Europe. Two years after the completion of his studies he returned home, hav- ing made good use of his time, being well versed in litera- ture, a good linguist, and a most finished gentleman. With him he brought his wife, a youthful lady, gentle and refined, tender and graceful, one who clung to my father as -a protector, yet was possessed of a mind' full of vigor  and energy, to whom he could confide all his most secret i thoughts, and often be benefited by the good advice her  ideas suggested; and he seldom acted in any important  I matter without first consulting her calm judgment, taking i counsel from her prudent and reflective mind. She was fully capable, too, of acting conjointly with her husband in the education of their children, and as they consulted to-' gether so they decided together what was for the best   r[ SSiEARCff SES A LOST ZHERT.  interest of their children, and thus my parents' arrangements were always adopted witha view to gaining for their young family that which eventually would be for their greatest good. My mother was truly an English rady in all points exceedingly neat in her person and her household arrange- ments, a well-read and accomplished scholar, her moral and religious principles pure and fastidious, her manners dignified, yet affable and mild, her appearance elegant and graceful. To her household she was endeared by her kind- ness, and she possessed such a winning way that none, either husband or children, guest or dependant, ever hesitated to confide to her their wants or their errors. She had great patience with her slaves and-seemed almost a mother to them, teaching them their duty, feeling for and relieving them in their sickness, and comforting them in their distresses and sorrows. My father, I  said, was married to my mother before he left England, but it was not without his indulgent parents giving their consent, although they had never seen the lady.  As to my mothers parents, they well understood the character of the man to whom they entrusted their child, he having been a schoolmate of her brother from the age of seven- teen, and, although it gave them pain to part with their only daughter, yet they could not say n ay to what was for her benefit; and my m  other parted from her own indulgent parents and sailed from her native land, which she fondly loved, leaving a home that contained every luxury, and which was blessed with all things desirable, only to meet with other friends and another home equally to her taste, for my grandfather and grandmother proved toher a second father and mother, loving her almost as much as her own parents., My mother's name was Louise Berresford. Her father   *28     SEAS CH   sA TER LOst aRT.         * was of noble blood, but a younger son, holding some post of honor under the government. He died suddenly a few months after my parents were married, and my mother's onlvy brother being extravagantly fond of her, and there being but' two children of them, he felt restless and unhappy while the ocean separated them, therefore readily complied with his mother's wishes that:he should dispose of his prop- erty and her own, and then follow his sister to America. So they came South and purchased a plantation, which was called Rose Glen, contiguous to my grandfather's, all stocked, just as it was left by its former occupants. My grandmother Berresford did not live long to enjoy her new home, and my uncle soon followed her, leaving my mother in full possession of the Rose Glen plantation. My father being an only child, at my grandfather's death was his sole heir. Thus the-two estates of my parents were united into one, the name of Rose Glen was dropped, and the two plantations continued ever after to be called Vale Fleur de Lis, the name my great-graindfather d'Enville had given it in honor of his native country, France, he having, as you see from the profusion of that pretty flower on the premises in such perfection, taken great pains in cultivating the emblem.- At the age of fourteen I was sent from home to be educated, and at eighteen finished my collegiate career, when you and I parted to meet again now for the first time. My vacation spent at home this term was a very lona and happy holiday to me, being one whole year, after which I was again sent North, and placed in a lawyer's office, for although my father had ample fortune for all his children, he, together with my prudent mother, was un- willing that their sons should be dependent upon inherited wealth, thinking, and correctly, too, that every one should ,   EAECS AFSTER A LOST  HEA ET,    29 have an occupation, both for the sake of their' own happi- ness and to make them useful members of society, for my parents said, " Idleness, like the love of money, is the . root of all evil, and with our consent the children shall not verify the proverb." The first time I left home I was placed under the care of a friend of my father's, who was to see me safely to the house of the clergyman by whom I was, with ten others, to be prepared for college, and a multiplicity of charges were sent to the tutor, b'egging him to watch over me with a father's care, adding many wishes that he would not be too severe, fearful, as I had never been away from home before, that possibly I might either be disinclined to remain with him, or that he would lose his influence over me through fear. It was here, Oscar, you and I met for the first time, and the' kind tutor proved, as you must remember, my friend, to be all that any parent could wish. For myself I never got into trouble-which I many times did, thresh- ing a Northern boy for traducing the character of the Southern planter-that I did not go to him to help me through with the difficulty resulting from my rashness in giving way to my temper; and when he did so, he never winked at my sins by treating them lightly, and thus con- niving at a repetition of them, but his leniency was always accompanied with judicious punishment for quarreling with my schoolmates, after which, granting me forgiveness, he bade me "Go, and sin no more." I loved him as a second father, and although the flesh may sometimes have been weak, I ever felt anxious in spirit to obey him, from the time I entered his school until my study of law was com- pleted. Thus this good old gentleman, each time I left home, having an eye on me, -kept my principles straight, morally and religiously. But why repeat that which you,   30     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. my friend Oscar, having been my classmate, was an eye- witness to, and can testify to the truth of. My greatest trouble about leaving home for the first two years was that I was not allowed to bring with me my old friend and foster brother, my slave Lorraine, " called Lorry for shortness"; and sometimes I should have wept, if 1 had not been ashamed to do so, when, seated alone by my- self, I thought over the nice frolics we had enjoyed together in front of Mammy Silvie's cabin. Here Lorry would play the banjo while I danced, and then in turn I would play and he dance, and surely he was the most supple fellow I ever saw in my life; he would cut all manner of capers, and dance all sorts of fandangos, always keeping time to the tune, and never wearying, until I have often dropped the instrument and fairly screamed with laughter. Then mammy would treat-us with some of her gooseberry wine, and johnnycake, and afterward Lorry and I, followed by the other little ones of the cabin. would play hide-and- seek, jump the rails, run and race, pitch flatstone, together with other athletic exercises, tests of strength and agility, winding up the day with feeding the rabbits and pigeons. When I attempted to be witty and said anything funny, they would all roar out, " yah, yah, yah," until the yard rang with their joyous voices; Lorry winding up by say- ing, "Wall, Massa Ferdinand, dat beat all you eber say yet," and when he returned to the cabin every word was repeated to Claude and Silvie, and then a second peal of laughter would come, his-parents joining in so heartily that it almost shook the cabin roof. And I think that Lorry never said a witty thing in his way-and he was a quizzical fellow.--that I did not repeat it to my father, and Lorry's homely jests always elicited from my -parents parks of gratification, and much pains was taken with   E SEBRCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      31 Lorry's education; so when he had reached the age of sixteen he was quite a respectable scholar, but yet he would still retain the African way of expressing himself, and also their peculiarities of thinking. The last year that I was at college, Lorry came with me, but so fond was he of his old home, that he would daily count the days as they passed, and anxiously reckon the time that must elapse ere he could return to the cabin where his parents lived, and where, poor fellow, his heart was. Very often after I had li  sent Lorry on an errand to the washerwoman or the seam- stress, he would upon his return graphically describe the misery he had witnessed, until at last he came home one morning with his heart full of sorrow, saying: "Oh, Massa Ferdinand, I have drefful news; such a sight I been and seen this day!"  Here he drew a long breath and then continued: "You know  Cato and Mimy, Massa Ferdinand, that lib wid Massa Johnson once, and that de Abolisheners talked to so much, and dat would gib Massa Johnson no rest, and dat did behave so bad, till dar massa sign a paper making dem  free. Wall, Massa Ferdinand, dis very day I see such a sight! Oh, dey all two boff lib in a dirty hole wid two or three sick-looking children, not- ing to eat, no clothes, and almost no bed, and Cato get no work.   And oh, Massa Ferdinand, Mimy when she seed me bust right out a-crying and say: ' Oh Lorry, Lorry, I wish Cato and me did neber leave our massa and missus, dey war so good to us all.    Oh, Lorry, Lorry, dem wicked people; dey first coax us away from  our massa and  den bring us to de city, and when we tell dem dat we be starving, and can get no work, what you tink dey tell us? Why, dat we be wagabonds, and ax why we no  stay in our own State; and say dat dey will send us to de penitentiary as wagrants if we  begs.' And   : v the2     SEa C ss AFTri B A LOST HimART. ; then Gato say, Massa Ferdinand, affer Mimy done talking, 'If Massa Johnson will only take us all' two and de chilren back again, we will gib ourselves and chilren to him, and neber, neber, go away again.' And Mimy cried out, 'Please ask Massa Ferdinand to coax Massa , Johnson to take we all two boff home, and ax him to let Cato come and see hisself." "Well, Lorry," I asked, " and what did you do?" "Oh me, Massa Ferdinand, why, I gib Cato de dollar dat you gib me for de show, and I told Mimy I would ax you to let -dem come and see you." And here Lorry wiped his eyes, and was about doing so a second time, when he looked up, showing the whole of his white teeth with thanks, and widely distended his large coal-black eyes to their full size, as I said, "Now don't look so distressed, Lorry, for I will tell you what I will do: I will go with you to-morrow and see them myself, find out what they want, and send it to them, and then write home-to inform Mr. Johnson about their condition." 1 really thought now that Lorry would --go frantic with joy when he heard me. The morrow came, I did as I had promised, and found the poor creatures, as Lorry had reported, almost in a state of starvation. In due time their master sent for them, having complied with their wishes, and a happier couple than Cato 'and Mimy never were seen, and from that time forth they proved to be all they had promised, performing promptly their duties with- out murmuring; and never were the meddling men spoken of before them, but their shivering with a nervous tremor was like the ague, while they said: ("Oh, dear, don't talk bout dem bad men afore me, for dey be bery wicked people; dey mos kill poor Cato and Mimy." And for whole evenings they would entertain a circle of slaves with   SEARCH AFTER  A LOST HEART.     33 accounts of " de drefful times dey as well as many oder ob de slaves who had been given dar freedom" experienced in consequence of listening to "dose wicked people when dey told de black people of de Souf what nice times dey would hab if dey only make dar massa set dem free." And such treatment as Mimy and Cato received many others have found at the hands of meddling men who a  trouble themselves with institutions they knew nothing of. CHAPTER VI.  WHEN I first saw little Jennie and her kitten Lillie I was in my nineteenth year, and it was the first of my studying the profession' of law. My apartments were a suit of rooms in a private house, situated in a pleasant and retired part of the city, yet conveniently located. Lorry was with me and took charge of my rooms; my table was supplied from a restaurant in the neighborhood. I did not say anything to Lorry about my adventures until two months after I was-restored to health and my efforts to ascertain the whereabouts of Captain Clarendon's family had proved ineffectual; then I disclosed it to him, describ- ing the peculiar appearance of little Jennie and her favorite kitten, directing him to keep his eyes about him, and if pos- sible to discover where they had moved, telling him that if he saw any one residing with those who now occupied their former residence with whom it would be proper for him to speak to do so, and to inquire, in such a manner as to avoid suspicion, what had become of them.  But this, too, was of no avail, as no one knew anything about them, for their   34     SEARCH APTER A LOST HEART. coming and going had been a mystery to the neighbors, and all that the landlord knew was that Captain Clarendon hired a furnished house from him, had resided there nearly two, years, and then had suddenly called upon him, paid up the full amount of rent, vacated the house, and sent the key to him in a note, thus preventing him from asking any questions. I became finally quite childlike, for the more I was thwarted in my endeavors the more anxious I became for success, until at length the fate of little Jennie and her kitten Lilhe was constantly in my thoughts, and, I was fairly haunted with visions of them, and of the bright eyes of little Frank dancing in his nurse's arms. The fact is, I neglected my studies, while my pale, dejected appearance quite troubled poor Lorry, without whom I should have felt much worse, for he was the only person to whom I was disposed to disclose the feelings of disappointment that had thus unnerved me. One day as I was passing a photographer's my atten- tion was attracted by what I first conceived to be an exquisite miniature painting of a most beautiful child (evi- dently placed so conspicuously in the window as to call forth general notice), and on approaching nearer I saw that there was something in her arms; and when I ascended the steps and asked the privilege of taking it in my hands, to my perfect delight I discovered that the child was my own dear little Jennie, and the object so closely hugged was the kitten Lillie, the pink ribbon and collar I gave still encir- cling its neck, and the picture was perfect. I asked the artist when it was taken, by whom she was accompanied, if he was acquainted with the child, whether he knew her father, if they had been there lately, and if he could tell where they were gone.  He laughed at the eagerness with which I asked so many questions, all in the same   I        SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       , 35 breath, and then quietly answered: .  I know nothing at all about them except this: I had- seen the child pass fre-. Ib   quently, thought her beautiful, and as her whole appear- ance, and her manifest affection for the kitten which always accompanied her, bore about it such a spirit of romance, 1 became anxious to enrich my gallery with a gem so very rare, and I watched my opportunity, induced the woman to gratify the curiosity of the child in looking at the pictures, and while the nurse was amusing herself with those in different parts of the room, I, without her know- ledge, obtained this photograph of the little one and her kitten, then afterward, with the nurse's consent, took one of herself and the boy-baby, and here it is," removing it from the wall and placing it in my hand. On examining it, I found this also a capital likeness, and wished to purchase them both, but he refused to part with e- ither. I then requested him to favor me with a copy of each of the same size, and afterward had a very small one taken of Jennie and her kitten, to be placed in a locket, that I might conveniently bear it with me wheresoever I went; and as all were exquisitely executed, I remunerated him handsomely for them, yet gave him no clue whatever who I was, or why I so anxiously desired that for which I had so liberally paid him, although he made a great many attempts to ascertain the name of one who took such -a deep interest in these children. On my arrival at, my lodgings, I called Lorry to me, and, showing him the photographs, told him to look well at them  and remember all of them, that- they might assist him in his search. Lorry opened his eyes widely and said: "Dey am  beauful, Massa Ferdinand, and I sartain knows dem when I see dem agin, dey am so lubly boff."   i:*-/' :36  $SEdRCH AFTER A LOST HEART. Now you, Oscar, can form no idea what a perfect com- fort these treasures were to me. Doubtless many will laugh, too, and call this fondness for a little stranger an infatuation; but in this life we are frequently and irre- sistibly drawn toward some very simple object, which proves to be one of the most important events of our lives, and which may lead to a settlement of our destiny in this sphere, and will perhaps affect our interests in another world, which to us is of far more consequence than all else besides. I thought after I had gained possession of these mirrors "-as I rightly called' them, since every feature of my pet and her cat Lillie, little Frank and the nurse was so exactly reflected that surely they must sometime give a clue to the whereabouts of darling Jennie, even if years should elapse before I found her--that I should be more contented, but they only served to keep alive in me the desire to dis- cover as soon as possible whither her family had taken her. Lorry generally took a tour round the city every morning, closely watching the different parks frequented by nurses with the children, in the hope of accomplishing some dis- covery of the lost one, while I would go to the 'office and endeavor to place my attention upon my studies until the afternoon, and then make thorough search for them myself. It appears to me that I must have passed many thousand children walking over the same ground, until I was weary of peering into their' faces, and became despondent at my want of success. Once or twice I was very near getting into trouble on account of my apparent rudeness, one father asking me if I intended to insult his nurse, and I only saved myself from being stigmatized as a blackguard by an appropriate apology, stating that I was seeking for a lost child, which to a father was of course a sufficient excuse,   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       37 although on account of my youth my apology was doubt- fully received. One day Lorry came hurriedly to my room and cried, "Massa Ferdinand, Massa Ferdinand, I really do believe dat I see de photemgraph."  I could not at first resist laughing at his manner and his speech, and then asked him, myself all excitement, where he had seen it, saying, "Do be quick and tell me, Lorry." "Oh, Massa Ferdinand," he replied, at de great big hotel in   street. Like a flash I snatched up my hat, and, bidding Lorry lead the way, rushed into the street and proceeded in the direction of the hotel. When we reached it, Lorry stopped and said, pointing with his finger, "Dat where I see de photemgraph, Massa Ferdinand." I immediately ascended the steps, and going up to the clerk showed him the locket, asking him if any one was stopping there who resembled the miniature. He at first looked as if he thought I must be insane (as my manners doubtless indi- cated), then replied that some child had been there who resembled the miniature; when I quickly interrupted any further remarks by asking impatiently, "Where are they "He looked suspiciously at me and again hesitated. I now became more cool, for I felt that my impetuosity, if continued, would lead me into trouble. So I said more mildly, "Excuse my impatience, but I am in search of a little one who resembles this photograph, and am anxious to know where she can be found.'" "I am sorry, sir," he replied, 1" but you are too late, as they all left her about an hour ago." The words had scarcely passed his lips when I fell back on the lounge near me, placed my handkerchief over my eyes, and burst into tears; Several gentlemen soon gathered   - ' . 38    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEA RT. - around me, and one wished to know if he could do anything for me; if the child was a relative of mine. My own he felt confident it could not be, as I was so young. One inquired if he should call the police, which of course I declined, and another seeing Lorry's anxious look sup- posed he was my valet, and asked him what was the matter with the\ young gentleman, and if the child had been stolen. : "I don know, massa," he said, "'but Massa Fer--" Here I opened my eyes with an expression which Lorry understood, and he checked himself before he pronounced my name, then continued: "I don't know for sartin, sar, but I tink massa hab loss him photemgraph, and tought he would fine him here." At Lorry's answer the gentlemen all fell back, while some smiled, and others looked in pity, as if they thought me some escaped lunatic. I did not, how- ever, wait to learn their opinions, but hurriedly put on my hat, and, followed by Lorry, hastened home, then when seated in my study exclaimed: "Well, once more foiled, and so I suppose H must abandon all hopes of ever seeing her again." Poor Lorry, how  he did feel for me, and try to console me, although my manner often greatly puzzled him; but his efforts were futile, and, poor fellow, he would sometimes say, "C I wish, Massa Ferdinand, we were home, for I 'fraid you gwine to be sick." That day and the next, and so on for a week, I diligently searched every paper for the name of Captain Clarendon, in order to acquaint myself with his movements, but I learned nothing, and for the next three months allowed my brain to be troubled with all sorts of ridiculous plans to ferret out what had become of Jennie and her kitten. At last I thought how ridiculous was the course I was pursuing, in thus keeping up a wildgoose chase after a child I had but so UP   ,SEABRCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      3S lately become acquainted with, and was forced to acknow- ledge my conduct boyish in the extreme, and that my interest in this little Jennie had arisen solely from having witnessed the ill-treatment she had received, just the same as it would in any human being thus illy used (of every-day occurrence); and yet many times I wished that I could have seen her father and recounted to him the story of her wrongs, and then my mind would have been at rest, believ- ing I had performed my duty; but as fate decreed other- wise, and I was forced to submit, probably it saved me much trouble, since interference between husbanld and wife is many times attended with unpleasant consequences. CHAPTER VII. THE time came when I felt that it was advisable that I should return South to visit my friends, and I was truly glad to have a change of scene, hoping it might cure me of this foolish interest in the child, which I began to believe was becoming a monomania, for I found that it had destroy- ed, or at least impaired, my faculty for study; and yet I often vowed that I would never rest until I had found little Jennie, and endeavored to release her from the oft-repeated coarse treatment by the cruel stepmother, which I knew, the first time I heard the poor child talk to her kitten,'she received, confirmed by nurse's report, and by my own observation afterward. My object in visiting the South was to re-establish my health, hoping that when my body became invigorated I should be better fitted-to resume my studies, but it was at least a month before I could fully decide with composed mind to leave the city, and thus   40.    SE/ARCH AFTBER A LOST HEBABRT, : virtually abandon my search after Jennie. The week pre- vious to epgaging my passage on the steamer, I told Lorry of my intention, and I actually thought-the poor fellow would lose his senses with joy: "Oh, Massa Ferdinand- yah, yah, yah-you make me so happy, and don not please go talk to me rbout libing in dis y'hear place agin, and don not please go talk 'bout free niggers neider, for dey haint not free, and I know dey haint free, for most ob dem got nothing to-do, no home, no money at all; but when dey  get sick [and poor, dey send dem to de workhouse. Yah, yah, yah, I be so happy to see de old cabin whar Mammy Silvie and Daddy Claude hab de nice johnnycake; and, oh, dear, Massa Ferdinand, I will play upon de banjo all day long, and all night too, for you, till you just forget all 'bout dem photemgraph." Here I made Lorry promise not to utter one syllable about the photographs when we arrived South, as I should not like it. He promised, and I knew that my secret was safe, so far as truthfulness went, and hoped that impulse might not overpower him, for I began to fear if they heard anything at home of my romantic spirit I should become a subject of ridicule during my stay. So far as I was con- cerned, it was no romance, I can assure you, that bound me to the child, but a pure feeling of regard and compassion for what I considered suffering innocence. When I arrived home, the first person I met was my dear mother, who seemed quite troubled to see me look so ill, and said that she feared I had studied too hard. This was the remark made by all, and I received quite a reprimand from my father for having been so foolish as to injure my health by applying myself too closely to study. While I was receiving the welcome of my friends, and after Lorry had a kind greeting from them also, he quickly made   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       41 his way to the cabin, there reporting first my arrival, then commenced relating to the auditors who had collected round him his experience of the " dreffull times some ob de free men hab, and ob de dirty places in which dey lib." Poor old Mammy Silvie could not wait to listen, but hastened to see her dear child Massa Ferdinand. Before, how- ever, she could prepare herself to leave the cabin, I entered it, when the first thing she did was to weep, because she said I looked so sick and, pale-like, and after receiving from me a gay green-and-red dress, she thanked me, and said : "Oh, massa, my child, how you come to know dat I jist been a wishin dat somebody gib me jist such a dress." Then courtesied, and as I left the cabin hurried off to show her present, and tell how " good dat dear child, Massa Fer- dinand, was to his ole mammy," which I heard her relating to some one just without the door. I had passed six delightful months at home with my parents, brothers, and sisters, and began to dread the idea of leaving them again. Yet I had now something more, I felt, to attract me to the city than when I left home before, and I knew that duty called me there. The day previous to my departure I spent most of the time in the boudoir of my mother, and sweetly did she advise'me as to the care I should take both of my soul and body, begging me when anything troubled me to write to her. Toward evening, as we were all seated on the piazza, my father read an account of the partial wreck of a European. vessel, and the narrow escape of the passengers and crew, which had occurred nine months before. "And, mother," he said, "just listen: There is, among other particulars of this wreck, a very touching description of a child and her i perilous situation, and I think myself if I had been there I should, like the sailor who- rescued her,-have wept, as did maany others besides who witnessed the scene,"   I supposed there was nothing in the description very interesting to me, I seated myself by my mother's side, and rested my head upon her shoulder without listening, until she said, "Read that again, husband, please;" and when my father complied, I no longer remained listless, for my feelings were deeply touched by the narrative, which ran thus: It being thought necessary to land the passengers, the boats were lowered, nearly filled, and only waiting for two more, one a noble-looking man, who was with rapid strides following the other, a most beautiful flaxen-haired little girl who had been the pet of both passengers and  crew during the voyage; but she proved swifter and lighter of foot than he, who was her father, as with great agility she sprang into the rigging, steadily holding herself there with one hand, balancing her airy form on one foot, per- fectly deaf to the call of those in the boat, who impatiently declared there was great danger in staying near the ship any longer, and that she was imperiling her own life by remaining on board.  Still, they could not leave the vessel without their little favorite, who had completely charmed them, and there was something this moment so perfectly ethereal in her appearance that they were awed to silence for it seemed as if she must vanish like a child of mirage if approached; and again, by a slight change of position, she seemed a spirit waiting only a gentle breeze to waft her heavenward, while with rare grace the little fairy hand was raised above her beautiful head, now thrown  back, with eyes directed upward, and in an irresistibly sweet, soft tone of voice piteously pleading, "Papa, will no one help me to get poor Lillie, my own dear, darling mother's pet," and thena with a tender note of music in every word she   !       SEA ERCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      43 uttered, "Oh, come down, Lillie, naughty Lillie, dear Lillie, for I cannot leave you here to die!"These words were addressed to a pretty maltese cat that had seldom left her arms while on board the vessel; around its neck was a pink ribbon, by which it had been caught in the rig- ging, and now from thence, high up beyond the child or, father's reach, was this maltese mewing to be released. The gentleman seemed as anxious as his daughter to save her pet, since there he stood at the foot of the mast, his eyes filled with tears at the distress of both child and cat, neither of whorm was it in his power to relieve. Presently the little one turned to listen, and there met. the sorrowful expression of a benevolent friend, an old sailor, whose steps had told her of his approach, he having but this moment espied her difficulty, and immediately hastened to her assistance; and now most thoroughly was the child's countenance brightened with hope when imploring him, "Do, please, save my dear, darling Lillie, for I would rather stay and die with her than leave her, as I should not live very long without her, good sailor, -and you cannot tell how very, very much I love my dear Lillie. Then when she is gone, what will I do for some one to talk to about my dear, darling mother, who was so very gentle to me, and taught me all things good; and Lillie, too, laid on my dear mother's bed when she was dying." "God bless you, my little cherub," exclaimed the rough sailor, with streaming eyes, "I will get your cat in a twinkle, for it were better we all should sink than that your little heart should ache; and to one, I know," he said. "there would never any peace come again if I did not get your pet, and that's myself, my cherub angel, and so here goes." He first lifted the little one from the dangerous position  X \   s 44   SEARCH AFTEB A LOST HEART. and gave her to her father, then sprang into the rigging as lightly as the kitten, which he soon released from its entanglement and placed in the child's hands, who first folded her pet closely in her arms, then said, "Naughty Lillie, to leave your own dear Jennie;" and afterward, with all the warmth of a young, pure heart, repaid the sailor's kindness with a kiss of gratitude, asking him "What makes every one so good to me!" The old man answered, wiping the tears, which were flowing down his time furrowed cheek, from his eyes with the back of his hand, "Oh, how can they help it, my cherub, for there's One sits aloft in the skies who bids them love you." The father offered to reward the old sailor with gold, but he drew back his hand indignantly and said: "Avast there, Capting Clarendon ; if I took that money it would cross all the luck that I have just now won, and the next time I pass over the Atlantic ole Mother Cary's chickens would be after me. But," he said,  "1 would like one of the cherub's little golden curls when we get on shore, for they remind me of my little dead Mary's." ' You shall have one," the child answered with delight at finding it in her power to reward her sailor-friend, who said in return, "God bless the baby," and then took her from her father's care into his own stalwart arms, saying ' I can walk the deck more steadily than vou, sir," and, followed by the parent, they were soon all safe on board the longhoat." Presently was heard a growling female voice exclaiming, "I wish that cat was at the bottom of the ocean; it has been a torment to me ever since we left." To this the child answered not, for, seated on her father's knee, she hugged her pet and gave silent thanks that it was   SEABCH AFTER  A LOST HEART.      4  safe, and as the others in the boat frowned the woman down, she desisted from further scolding. But the old sailor in- dependently remarked, turning to his shipmate, "Neptune, I wish I had my way, and that she-devil would soon see Davy Jones' locker." "Hush!" said the mate, who was near him, in an under tone, "that is Captain Clarendon's lady." "I don't care a handspike for that, and I'd show her the bottom of the Atlantic all the more, as it would be doing the captain a good turn. But I don't see where the devil Captain Clarendon picked up such a rough piece of timber, or how the snapping turtle came by that handsome craft of a boy." As my father ceased reading, Lorry exclaimed, "Oh, Massa Ferdinand, dems you'm photemgraph, I knows." Then put his hand to his mouth and ran off to give way to his delight, but he quickly returned quite quiet; yet his manner had been so ludicrous, that they all were heartily laughing, until they heard my mother say, "Why, Fer- dinand, my son, are you faint?" The words had scarcely passed her lips when every one was in commotion. But poor Lorry, who was afraid that he had done wrong in mentioning the photograph, after having been charged to keep it a secret, hastened away for water, and soon again stood trembling by his master's side, the picture of penitential despair. It did not take me long to revive, and in answer to the question of my mother with regard to Lorry's remark I satisfied her by saying that I supposed he was thinking aloud of something he saw in the city. ' "But, husband," my mother asked, " what of the fate of the passengers?" "They were all saved, mother," he replied; "by the way,   "    SEABORCH FEr  A LOST HBEARS my dear, I wonder if that is the Captain Clarendon that used to visit you?" "If it be," she replied, "he has changed his bachelorship of thirty, and, according to his child's remarks, been a widower, and, if the sailor spoke the truth, he is not very well married again; but finish, husband, and let us know how they managed." "Well," he continued: the passengers were all' landed, and after towing the vessel close in harbor, it was thought safe for the crew to remain by her all night. In the morn- ing she was hauled to the dock, where she leaked so rapidly that all- hands felt thankful to Providence for their narrow escape from a watery grave. On the wharf there was seen the little girl again, hugging her kitten, while on one side of Oher stood the father and on the other a nurse holding a black- eyed, splendid-looking boy in her arms. The little girl watched until the sailor sprang .on shore, then ran up to him, placed a locket in his hand containing one of her golden curls, and again thanked him for saving her kitten Lillie. The kind sailor, when he took the locket, first smiled, then wiped away a tear that was lurking in the corner of his eye, and said: "Oh, this must bring me good luck- indeed, for the golden locket is, sure enough, just like my dear little dead Mary's," and, a second time wiping away the tears, he placed the locket in his bosom, thanked the child, then, on his countenance an expression of deep regret at parting with her, hastily said, "Good-by (as he returned to his work) ; God bless the pretty cherub, and when He picks out his jewels to send them aloft, I pray he may give you a place by little Mary's side." "Oh, Massa Ferdinand, dat sartain be de photem- graph," said Lorry once more, and, like the old woman who spoke in meeting, spoke again; "It just like em   SEARCH AF7ER    LA LOST HEART.-   47 photemgraph, for all de world. Oh, golly! how I like to see dem;" then frightened, he ran from the piazza, follow- ed by a-peal of laughter. "Well," said my fathejr, "I fear the city sights have really set poor Lorry crazy." I said nothing, so Lorry's words passed off as some thoughts which had escaped from his busy brain over- wrought with fancies. Yet I felt positive now that this was Captain Clarendon and the child, my pet, little Jennie, and of course my chief attraction to the city was gone. When Lorry came in the evening to my room, I asked him why he had been so foolish. He replied, "I don not know, Massa Ferdinand, but me no could help it, for you see when Massa d'Enville read all 'bout dat little Missy Jennie and her cat, and little Massa Frank, I see de photem- graph stare right out afore me; but 1 try to do better anoder time." I told him that I hoped he would, or I never should dare to trust him again with any secret. Then he said, "Please, Massa Ferdinand, scuse me dis time for my mis- take-but, oh, guy! what a debil dat little child's moder must be." I made no further remarks except to caution him not to speak on the subject in Daddy and Mammy Silvie's cabin, and then told him, much to his sorrow, that I should leave the next morning for the city, and that he must have all things in readiness. That night 1 did not sleep much, I assure you, but lay awake thinking over and over of the strange things which had taken -place, and how singular it was that after my having in vain searched the city I should return home to learn where Captain Clarendon had gone on leaving the hotel with his family, provoked to think how very ridiculous had been my conduct at that public place, I   -48    SEARCHAFTER A LOST HEART. where, doubtless, I gave every one present the idea that I was either a maniac or an inebriate, supplying food for gossip both within and without the establishment, hoping no one there would recognize me again, and deciding to avoid the neighborhood of the hotel for a long time after my return to the city. CHAPTER VIII.       , I LEFT home, according to arrangement, at the exact time appointed, much to the sorrow of Lorry and myself, determined to run no more after shadows, but diligently pursue my studies; yet I never laid my head upon my pillow at night without looking at my little photograph of Jennie, hoping that I might hear at some future period how matters progressed with the captain, Jennie, her kitten Lillie, and the housekeeper-stepmother. When I arrived in the city, I found there would be a delay of- about four months before I could take possession of my rooms, as the house was undergoing repairs, so for a time I made my abode at a hotel, but not the, one, believe me, where my conduct as a simpleton had rendered me so conspicuous; yet even here I became quite excited on learning that a gentleman of position, who had lately arrived from Europe, was in hot pursuit of a lady who had absconded with his child, and that he had employed the police to make diligent search for her, promising them a large reward if successful. "But as I did not see the gentle- man, I soon lost all-interest in the affair. Had I known then, however, that this person was the one on earth whom I most wished to see, I would have made great efforts to   SEAR CH AFTER A LOSF HEART.       49 have obtained an interview with him. The four months appointed for the repairing of the house being passed, I was greatly rejoiced when I was once more able to take posses- sion of my retired apartments, and pleased to be again domiciled with my landlady, who conducted all her house. hold management systematically and with neatness. Some few weeks from the day that I moved to my rooms, I was surveying them with satisfaction at finding everything arranged in good taste, and with a view to my comfort, and had complimented Lorry upon his promptness in trying to please me, saying to myself I am now settled quietly for the remainder of my stay as a student North; but ere the day had terminated, circumstances occurred which nearly changed my plans, for there seemed to be a greater com- motion than usual in the house, a constant running hither and thither, up and down stairs, orders were given, consult. ations were held, and questions were put by the landlady to a newly arrived servant as to whether further arrange. ments were necessary for the convenience of the gentleman who it seems was to occupy the suit of apartments adjacent to mine. Presently a polite answer of "Nothing, Madam, thank you," in broken English, revealed to me that my neighbor had a foreign valet, and then I concluded. that the gentleman was himself from France, since he conversed with his servant in the French language fluently, and this I learned from having myself overheard him caution the man to address him at all times as Monsieur Mellee." l These movements interrupted my studies for a time, and I improved the interruption by making use of my limbs until the bustle was over, which served the better to fit my brain for receiving the food in store for it. From the prep- arations made for the reception of my neighbor, I  con-- eluded my landlady considered him of some  note in the 3 I r     v  *   50     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. world, believing none other would have required so many - things as this valet did for his master before the apartments were fitted to his taste; therefore I decided to hold my- self aloof, that no intimacies should draw my attention away from my studies again, and then, although I should have considered it dishonorable to have disclosed-what I had unintentionally overheard, I did not care to be - acquainted with a man who went by an assumed name, as evidently was the case with my neighbor. But I need not-have troubled myself, for the gentleman made no advances, and seemed to feel quite as exclusive as myself. Lorry was the first to see him, and thus described  him: "Wall, Massa Ferdinand, I see dat gempleman in de next room, and oh, guy! he so handsome, but he don not say much; but dat French servant, he got all de gab; den he bow and say' Mounsur,' very polite, and den he wave his hand for me to stand by." "And what did you do, Lorry?"I asked. "Why, Massa Ferdinand, I do just like gemplemen allays do: I first look daggers at him, and den stand one side, but he mussent not do, so to dis boy agin." I now plainly saw that I must take some stand to prevent trouble between these ill-assorted valets, and so said, "Lorry, understand me, I do not wish you to interfere with this Frenchman, and when he says stand by, in French or English, or with a motion of his hand, then be sure to stand by; and, remember,- no quarreling, or you will displease me, and when the holidays come and we go home I must leave you there." Now although the poor fellow loved his home, he loved me more. I knew this was all that was necessary to insure obedience from Lorry, and so it proved, ' Wall, Massa Ferdinand," he most quickly replied,   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      51 fearing I might put my threat in force, "I do jist zackly what you say, but I hope massa didn't tink I was gwine to kick up a bobery." "Oh no, Lorry, for you have got too much good sense for that," I replied, and too well understand what good breeding is, and as this truly faithful servant appeared so much pleased to think that I approved of his conduct, so I felt sure there would be no trouble on his part. But as I always feel a little suspicious about these foreign valets, I ordered Lorry when I was out ever to keep the doors of my rooms locked, and never invite the Frenchman to enter them. My neighbor proved to be a yery quiet man; for days, nay, weeks, had passed, and I had not yet heard from him. I now began, however, to have a great curiosity to catch one glimpse of this important personage, since from Lorry's report on his first arrival I thought there must be something peculiar about his appearance, and the landlady's remarks also in speaking of him as being a very superior and dignified man increased that anxiety to see him; still, as my own impression, notwithstanding the lady's and Lorry's opinions au contraire, had been that he was some gay European of great pretensions who had come to this country to create a sensation, particularly as he traveled with such an enormous quantity of baggage. This was until now another reason which had deterred me from being brought in contact with this stranger, but after the high encomiums lately reiterated by my landlady of him, my resolutions were materially changed, and I had a strong desire to learn more of the gentleman, so I inquired of Lorry if he was young, and his answer was this: "Lot bless you, no, Massa Ferdinand, de gempleman mos ole nuff to be you fader-he is." This last report of Lorry's finished the affair, since his age was now a decisive barrier   4 52    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. to -intruding myself upon one who was my senior, and whose directions given his valet as to name positively evinced a wish to make no choice of associates while in this foreign land; accordingly I concluded to wait until some good opportunity should offer, as if by accident, to meet him. My close application to study was proving too much for me, and J visited very little, thus I found it expedient to re- fresh both mind and body, so I allowed myself one recrea- tion, which was to occasionally play a game of billiards for exercise, and this indulgence was partaken of in a place where there was neither drinking nor gambling allowed. One morning when the room was quite filled, I accidentally overheard a conversation which took place between a group of gentlemen in one corner, the purport of which was this; "Strange, devilish strange, that the captain should be served so," one of them observed; " and were she my wife, I do actually believe that, woman or no woman, I could not keep my hands off her, and all because she wants her son to be brought up where he can daily inhale the pure American air, unpolluted by English atmosphere. And the poor captain has been obliged to bring his two little girls, one only two months old, to Canada, in this extreme cold weather, and leave them in charge of his sister, on account of fiis wife's caprice, and search after the termagant, who has run off with her boy, as noble a looking child as ever I beheld. Poor man, he is here incog, so whisper not one word about it. Now as for myself," he continued, "I should have known nothing of the affair if I had not come out in the same vessel." "Neither should I have known him," another of the gentlemen remarked, " he is so entirely metamorphosed by the arrangements about his head and his face."   I4 -    SEARCH AFTER A-IjOST HEART.  "Well, bear in mind, all," said the first speaker, "that I have requested you to keep silence, for should this story become known, the captain might ble defeated in -his under- taking." The party mutually promised secrecy. They were all Englishmen, and three of them officers of the British army, and from this I concluded that the captain of whom they spoke was likewise an officer in the same service. But I did not learn the name of him whom they so much com miserated, and as it was a secret between them, and I a stranger to them, I had not sufficient impudence to ask it. Still, their conversation was overheard by more than my- self, and it was not long before this mystery and singular elopement of a British officer's wife was bruited abroad, far  and near.  Some attributed the act to one thing, and some to another, yet I must confess that the cause of the elope- ment spoken of by these gentlemen seemed so ridiculous    I to me that I doubted its being a correct explanation of the affair; so, not believing the reason given a true one-the wife's fleeing with her son from her husband being attrib- uted to her partiality to her native air, and dislike to that of England--once more my  curiosity was excited, and my head wool-gathering upon the troubles and trials of this stranger.. Once more, too, all my leisure time was given in searching the daily papers to ascertain if aught concern- ing this matter was made public. A   few days after, I received a  letter from my mother directing me to call upon Madame Rosineau, a  lady who had advertised that she would take a  limited and select number of scholars, to know if there was a  vacancy for two; and if such were the case, my mother was anxious to place my two eldest sisters-Maude and Florence, one fourteen and the other fifteen, and so   - much alike as often to be mistaken for each other-under   54    sBA IR aCB A FTER A L OS HEA'I T. her-care as boarding scholars, instructing me to deliver to Madame Rosineau an enclosed letter. But she wished me first to learn all the particulars about the school from those who knew the lady, and also to obtain a circular from Madame Rosineau herself. I of course was delighted with the idea, butI really thought that Lorry would go -crazy. He rolled his eyes at times, showing nothing but their whites, and grinned until every tooth in his head was visible, and his African hair almost stood on end, until at length the " yah, yah, yah," came to his relief. When he re- covered himself, he said: "Scuse me, Massa Ferdinand, but I can't not help it-yah, yah, yah-only just tink ob de young missusses coming to de city." "Hush, Lorry," I said, a little ashamed of the noise; a what will the French valet say . " "Massa Ferdinand, I donnot care 'bout dat valeteses dar, but on 'count ob you and his massa I try to keep still;" but then he went off again, yet more softly, with "Yah, yah, yah; dare now, Massa Ferdinand, me had me nuff ob 'joicing, so me try to be more politess, as de valet say." "Come, Lorry," I said, "get my rigging, and I will go and do your Mistress d'Enville's bidding." I was obeyed quickly, with a- "Please be sure, Massa Ferdinand, to get de school- place for de young Missus Maude and Florence, for me mos dead to see dem boff all two." I have no doubt that persons North think it horrible (with all their equality and free system) that a servant should speak thus to his master, but people South always allowed their slaves a certain liberty of speech, thinking it no sin that they should show and express affection for their masters and masters' families in an audible manner,   s      IBEARC3 AFTBE A LOST HEAi T.   i unreproved; still, these servants knew well their place, never presuming to overleap the bounds of respect for their masters and mistresses. CHAPTER IX. I IMMEDIATELY attended to my mother's request, and was successful, and then wrote her that I would see all things properly arranged for the reception of Maude and Florence, and by the return mail received for answer that they would sail in the next steamer; when, ere three weeks had expired, my sisters were placed under the care of Madame Rosineau. But before they arrived, Lorry tor- mented me each day by asking me to look into the -papers for the speaking of the steamer; and if the wind shook one single branch of the trees, or whistled ever so little through : the doors and windows, he was in a perfect panic about the "young Missus Maude and Florence."  The morning the steamer was due, and I called upon Lorry to order a carriage, his first question was, "May I get up behind, Massa Ferdinand?" ( Why, of course," I replied, " what could we do with- out you, Lorry." At this he commenced chuckling his "yah, yah," in great glee, and,quite boisterously, when pres- ently the valet knocked, and, with a very low bow, said very humbly: "Monsieur, je vous demande pardon;    mais n'est-ce !' pas une personne qui a quelque chose de mal en train dans  vos appartemens?"  My reply was: "Non, Jean," for such I had learned     hi was his name, "ce n'est rien du tout, excepts que mon domes- . : tique a trouve une occasion pour la rejouissance et a beau- - coup ri."  ts^i  SEA fAc A Fis X LAOS iisEAR. Jean apologized for his intrusion, and bowed himself out of the room., Lorry stood with his eyes opened wide, look- ing first at me, and then at the valet; and after Jean left, he with astonishment asked, "Why, Massa Ferdinand, does you parleewoo. Why, I told de valeteses dat 1 did not, nor Massa Ferdinand neider. Now I knowed ole Massa d'Enville do, but neber heerd Massa Ferdinand afore." When I translated the object of Jean's call to Lorry, he first said, "Massa Ferdinand, dat valeteses berys assy," and then promised not to be so noisy again; but this was a promise which he could not keep. I was now waiting for the carriage, and in a few moments it drove to the door, when Lorry mounted to the post he so much wished to occupy, and ere long we were at the pier. The steamer not arriving as soon as anticipated, Lorry, as well as myself, began to get impatient, when we heard the exclamation of, "There she comes! there she comes!" I immediately looked in the direction indicated by the eyes of many. individuals among the crowd, and, sure enough, in the distance I saw the vessel approaching. Lorry saw it also, and, already forgetting his promise to be quiet, was breaking out into one of his " yah, yahs " at the sight of the steamer, which I stopped at once by point- ing out to him the police who were stationed at the landing, telling him if he was not quiet they would surely arrest him; and as Lorry always confounded (why I cannot telD the police with the Abolitionists, he remained silent. It was not long before the steamer reached the wharf, when the first objects which greeted my eyes were my sisters. And although I am their brother, I will not hesitate to say that two prettier girls were seldom to be met with than Maude and Florence, and they had excited already, I observed, much admiration, but more particularly from   o/       SEARCH AFtS1R A LOST HEARf.       e5 a party of British officers, the same I had seen in the billiard-room, who likewise gave evidence that they were looking for expected friends by saying, "I hope we may find that they have arrived." It was not the fairness of Maude and Florence, just transported from a climate where all things are ripened to perfection, which called forth the ejaculations of astonishment at their peculiar love- liness and beauty, for they were rather dark, though not sallow, there being a softness as well as richness of the complexion, with a peachy tinge of Nature's carmine, vary- ing in accordance with each rising sentiment, and pronounced by all most fascinating. The lips coral red, displaying when half-opened (with one of the most bewitching smiles) teeth as polished and white as the very purest pearl; face, class- ically oval, graced with features perfectly symmetrical and exceedingly expressive. Then such eyes--their every glance (with so much souD stealing its way directly to the heart--large, lustrous, dark, almond-shaped,pensive, shaded by drooping lids, with long curling lashes concealing those soft dreamy orbs until awakened by some exciting cause to animation, then flashing with fire of brilliant yet modest intelligence; the brows most delicately arched, penciled by Nature's skillful hand; the hair glossy -and soft as silk, nearly of the raven hue, but- not fully black, for when the sun's golden rays were beaming playfully around the head, so bien places, they bring to light a shining auburn tint upon the glittering smooth bandeau ,dazzling with the warmth of life. In stature, rather tall in form, every line of beauty fully developed; feet small, and aristocratically moulded; hands soft and white as an infant's; fingers tapering as a fairy's. In movement dignified, yet gracefully yielding; at every step seeming rather to glide the earth's surface than walk. To add to the charm, they so much resembled *   6M     SEARTif AF iE9 A LO-st XEART.         - each other that the sole difference between them was a  ! [ thought more of archness in the expression of Florence, - the younger, as well as a livelier brightness of color.  ' Their voices were as musical as the gentle zephyrs, and  every word they uttered was with an intonation so thrilling ! that it was fitted to charm the spirit and awaken into action  the pen of a poet. As they approached me, I heard a full,  deep, manly voice say at my elbow, "Beautiful, beautiful!  by Jove! I never saw such gazelle eyes before. Why, Captain, it is enough to set one's brain on fire."    ! "Indeed, Major," replied the captain, "I am glad you   j spoke, for I have been standing like one enchanted in lieu - of looking for our friends, and, besides, if we gaze much longer, it will be accounted rudeness." But the major moved not, leaving, the captain to go alone A in'search of the persons expected, who presently returned, having been unsuccessful, then touched the major on his shoulder, walked with him to where the captain of the   , steamer stood, and from thence they continued more     i covertly to watch my sisters. Lorry now came forward  with his peculiar, simple expression of delight, evincing his X great respect by removing his hat and quietly waiting, head uncovered, for the young ladies to greet him first,  which they did immediately, commenting on his improved appearance, and then each one in turn kindly shook hands with him, at which the happy fellow seemed frantic with  joy, and said: "Oh, my young missuses, how glad I be to  see you! Oh, me do feel so happy-like dat young missuses  comed, for it 'pears just like home to see dem, and we   i haven't seen nothing so handsome since we comed from de  South, and me reckon me shan't neider, if we hab to lib in  dis y'hear place for eber and eber; and oh, 'scuse me, Misses Maude, if I ax how is ole maasa and missus and de   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      59 young massas and missuses." When answered that they were quite well, he humbly questioned Florence, the one whom he knew saw them most frequently, about Mammy Silvie and Daddy Claude, and if " de old cabin, Lord bress' it, looked de same, natural-like, as when he leff it." As Lorry stepped one side, the same full, manly voice, just in our rear, that had said, "Beautiful, beautiful!" a moment before, exclaimed now in a tone of disgust, "Horrible, horrible! to clasp that black fellow's hand in those so exceedingly delicate. I wish I had a cowhide; how I would lay it on to that woolyhead's back for his presumption in touching those hands; it is sacrilege, I vow. At which I gave no evidence that these words had reached my ears, but thought, Oh, English Abolitionists, we cannot believe in your inconsistent doctrines, for we truly hold that the colored man has feeling and a kind heart, and as good a chance for Heaven, too, as any other person, and we deal with him ever accordingly; not calling out first "Give them freedom, give them freemen's rights," then treat them as if it they were wild beasts we were uncaging. How farcical to shun those with disgust whom they call their equals. Mr. and Mrs. Monteith, who had taken charge of my sisters on their passage, now joined us, and we all pro- ceeded to the hotel, arrangements having been made that Maude and Florence should remain with them for the week they intended passing in the city previous to their contem plated trip to Europe. My sisters, during that time, chaperoned by Mrs. Monteith, would have an opportunity of visiting the opera and other places of refined amusement. Wherever Maude and Florence went, they attracted uni- versal attention, and whispers were heard by me, on every occasion of their appearance in public, of "Who are they,   so0    SEAkCR AFTB R A tLoS, AdR1a . and where are they from . " with ejaculations of "Lovely, beautiful, enchanting!" until my head was bewildered with pride that I could boast of being their brother. Men oftentimes seem linked mysteriously with persons whom they accidentally meet, and with whom they have had no previous acquaintance, yet immediately they become joined to their fate, are constantly crossing their path, and by various occurrences are thrown in their way. And thus it was with ourselves and these British officers; for although to us entire strangers, yet we rarely visited any place of amusement but they were close at hand. Still, from appearances, they being decidedly gentlemen, and their deportment indicating perfect good-breeding, it was placed out of my power to take any exception to their movements. It soon became evident to me, however, that they were admirers of my sisters, and I thought it quite natural that they should admire such beautiful little girls-as I rated them, knowing their years-and would have pronounced it a ridiculous fancy for any one to have considered them old enough to marry, until a lady remarked to me that they, appeared at least two years in advance of the age which I mentioned. This set my brain to thinking, and then as I compared them with girls of their associates I felt this lady's judgment to be correct. Now my sisters were not vain, yet being unacquainted with the ways of the world Flor- ence would sometimes say, "Brother Ferdinand, did you observe those gentlemen; how frequently their eyes were upon our box 2." While Maude inquired if I knew them. And then Florence remarked, "How much they appeared to enjoy the music," showing evidently in which direction her speaking eyes occasionally wandered. And Mrs. Monteitn expressed her thoughts of how very pleasant that they should occupy seats so near us, instead of some   SARtir ArFftR a LOSt HJTART.      6i vulgar persons, who might annoy us with their ill-bred and ill-timed applause; while I myself pronounced satisfaction that they had taken seats so near ours at the opera, since I was sure that they would not disturb us with affected maneuvers of simulated rapture, but, contrariwise, give us an opportunity of enjoying the music without impertinent interruption, unlike some others who possibly might have monopolized the seats. Occasionally they were accom- panied by an elderly gentleman, exceedingly dignified, and very handsome, whose appearance reminded me forcibly of some one I had seen before; and particularly when he smiled there was, a familiar expression about his mouth and eyes, which set me to wondering where I could have: met him, or who he so resembled, for it seemed that I had a long time been acquainted with him. The day had now arrived when the Monteiths were to sail, so my sisters and I, of course, went to see them off; and after all the adieux were over, and the steamer under way, and just as I returned to the carriage, placed my sisters inside, and was about entering it myself, f caught a glimpse of an object which I at once recognized as the housekeeper-stepmother of my little Jennie, and directly behind her a gawky-looking Yankee nurse, holding in her arms the veritable little Frank, with his bright black eyes, who although now one year older I had not forgotten. It was much to the consternation of Maude and Florence, as well as Lorry, when they saw me draw back my foot from the step, heard me call to the driver to wait a moment, and watched me as I made chase, somewhat, I fear, again in the style of a madman, after the snake-eyed evil one, my pet Jennie's stepmother, only to find myself just provokingly in time to see her in the distance walk on board of an Eastern steamer, closely followed by the nurse and little   6     SEARCH AFTER A NE W HEART. Frank. Then ere I could reach the boat, it quickly left the wharf, and thus once more I was foiled. Returning slowly to the carriage, I seated myself by my sisters' side, feeling my heart filled with disappointment, yet could not satisfy them with regard to my singular conduct, except to tell them that I had seen some one to whom I was anxious to speak; and then whispered to myself, How strange, and is it possible that Captain Clarendon is now in this country? but wondering at the same time, if not, then where the father of little Jennie, with her kitten, could be, while his wife and little Frank were in the city, feeling I would give much to know if my little pet was happy. I now resigned my charge of Maude and Florence to Madame Rosineau, receiving from her the privilege of -spending one evening in the week with them, and after A kissing them and bidding them be good and studious girls I returned to my rooms, there in solitude to meditate over the apparition, as I called it, of little Frank and his mother, which had vanished as soon as seen. As Lorry had not- noticed the group I chased so unceremoniously, I concluded to say nothing to him about- the matter, fearing lest, in some unguarded moment, he might expose my folly to' those whom I most wished should remain ignorant of it; for although trustworthy, Lorry I found lately sadly lacked discretion, and this, with a few exceptions, is characteristic of the African race. When I recovered from the first excitement after seeing the stepmother and her son, I became ashamed of the folly which had induced me to follow her, for since my calm reason had returned I saw how impossible it would have been for me to have asked any questions of her with -regard to little Jennie, and only regretted that I had not endeavored to control the impulse which impelled me to pursue her,   SAiRCE APETR A LOST HEaAR1.      63 CHAPTER X. I ALMOST daily after this met the British officers in the billiard-room, but as they appeared to be clannish made no advances, although I observed they eyed me closely. A fortnight after my sisters had been at school, and on the day I made my second call, Florence said laughingly that the same gentlemen we had seen so often at the opera fre- quently passed Madame's house, and she really thought one of them, the tallest, did very much admire Maude, and looked as if he wished an introduction. I checked Florence, telling her that young girls of her age should not think of beaux; and I hoped Madame Rosineau was particular about such matters, for although I thought but little of what Florence had said, yet the telltale blush of Maude gave me an inkling that there might be some truth in my younger sis- ter's remarks. Accordingly, I determined to watch, and by thus doing discovered that of late it had become the daily custom of these officers to pass three or four times in front of Madame Rosineau's; but of course I could take no ex- ception to their doing so, unless I ascertained that they had some wrong motive for their conduct, or that they conduct- ed themselves in such a manner as to become an annoyance to my sisters. At length one morning I saw them ascend. the steps, and, after ringing, enter the house. This I con- sidered very mysterious, still, before hastily attributing it to any improper proceedings on their part, I waited to learn their object in calling. The following noon, as usual, I went to the billiard-room, and there found these gentlemen, and having previously felt suspicious about their visit to Madame Rosineau's, it gave me a strong disposition to listen to what   "    SEJRC  AFfI APT'? LOST #EART. was evidently a very excited conversation, then briskly go- ing on between them, and which became so earnest that at length they spoke much louder than was their intent, the Major saying, "By Jove! you may quiz me as much as you please, but I tell you that I never saw any beings so perfectly beautiful, and I am Sure that for grace in every movement, loveliness of expression, and modesty of deport- ment, these two young ladies can rival the world." The doctor (for of such profession I discovered one of these gentlemen to be, who was also of their exclusive party on the day when I first saw them) laughed and remarked sneeringly, "You mean, I presume, Major, in this section of the world, and just now, when the beauties of our soil are hidden from your sight." The major becoming much provoked at this, quickly re- plied, "I mean, sir, just what I said, and I do not limit my assertion to time or country, and here, Doctor, I refer you to my friend, the Captain," turning as he spoke to the same elderly gentlemen whom I had noticed with them at the opera, and who with dignity made answer: "I have seen none more lovely than these, Major, except one, and for this you must pardon a fond father's partiality, as she is my own dear, darling little girl, who, although much younger than they, still bids fair in time to be as per- fectly beautiful." "Ah, that may well be," said the doctor, " for therein lies English aristocratic descent; but, Captain," he contin- ued, "I should think that you have had quite enough of Yankee blood; here, however, I beg pardon, Captain, as these young ladies, I believe, hail from the Southern States, and would feel indignant at the appellation of Yankee, rather claiming birth where human beings are held in cruel bondage."   SEARCH AFTEP A LOST HEARi'.   ,. My blood now boiled within me at these remarks, and I very much wished to make him recall his disrespectful comrn. ments upon the fair ones of our country, but as the captain looked very much hurt, and the others frowned the doctor down, I kept silent, remaining in the same position as when I entered, a slight projection of the pier concealing me from their observation while they were so closely dis- cussing the beauty of ladies who I knew were my sisters. Presently the major again spoke, saying, with some warmth of manner, "I heard the eldest of these two young ladies con- versing with some animation in a lengthy debate, yes- terday, for the first time; and I was more enchanted than ever, as she expressed herself most beautifully, and her ac- cent is bewitching." "Ah!" asked the doctor, " and how is it that you were so favored, and when, I pray, was the fair one so conde- scending and so gracious?" The gentlemen were to all appearance by this time very much displeased at the doctor's manner, and my curiosity was roused more than ever when the elder gentleman re- marked, "I believe that Madame Rosineau's is considered by very many the best select school for the education of young misses in the world; and should I remain here any length of time, I will send for my little girl, and place her under Madame's charge. With the English lady associated with her as the matron I am well acquainted. My daughter, however, is yet too young: I had forgotten that there are none received under twelve years. But, Major, what are the names of these young ladies whom you extol so highly ." the elder captain inquired. "1 am told," replied the major, "it is d'Enville." This was past bearing, and immediately I started to my feet, on hearing the announcement of Maude and  Flor-   "   ISEARCH ,AFT'   A LOST HEAR Y ence's name, boldly spoken in such a public manner, and by strangers, then confronted the gentlemen, just as a sneer and a curl of the lip had begun to show themselves upon the doctor's face, accompanied by the remark that, from the name, they must be of French origin; and if so, he pre- sumed they were at all times on the qui vive for a chance to coquette, and of course ever ready to practice upon any subject who might offer himself. My Southern blood at this fairly hissed, as I proudly in my anger said:- 1"Gentle- men, the ladies, or rather young girls, for they are mere children, of whose names you are making such free use, are my sisters, and I as their brother will hold any man accountable for every remark lightly uttered of them, and I warn you to desist from speaking, of them otherwise than with respect the most perfect, and I say to you also that I consider a public room like this an unfit place to discuss the merits or the beauties of any lady-at least I pronounce it such-wherein the name of my sisters shall not be the theme for discussion on female points of beauty." These gentlemen all instantly drew back, except the doc- tor, who tauntingly replied, "Quite a noble champion for such a stripling, in behalf of sisters so charming." I at once rushed forward with the intention of felling him to the ground, when the elder gentlemen stepped between us, took me by the arm, and led me aside; while the others thrust the doctor from the room. I turned and endeavored to release the captain's hold, that I might follow after him, but not until-the fellow had been taken fairly out of the, way was the stalwart hand of the elder officer removed from my arm, and then he whispered: "Young man, would you wildly place yourself in the hands of an inebri- ate, who has just been passing through many days of de- bauchery, and now scarcely knows what he is saying. It   SEAsCH AFTER  A L6ST HE.4AR1     67 would not only be madness for you to do so, but extremely undignified, and I will answer both for myself, as well as the other gentlemen, that your sisters' name, and they themselves, are held in as much respect by us as by you, and our remarks were as honorable and as respectful as if we had been speaking of our own dear relatives. And cer- tainly these young ladies are so beautiful, lovely, and dis- tingue, that it was impossible for us to withold our admir- ation of them; but our observations were made from pure hearts, and with undefiled lips, therefore you must yourself acknowledge that I speak the truth." I was now forced to thank the captain for his explanation and very kind interference in my behalf, feeling also that his paternal advice, for such I considered it, entitled him to my gratitude; resolving, however, to avoid the billiard- room for the future, being careful also to keep this affair a secret from my sisters and Lorry. I regretted that this gentlemen left the room so suddenly that I was unable to ask his name. All the hours that I could spare from study I devoted from this time forth to pedestrian exercise, spending one evening every two weeks at Madame Rosi- neau's. A few days after the affair in the billiard-room came the the evening for my usual visit to my sisters. The first word uttered on my entrance was by Florence, she saying, "Brother, you don't know what a nice addition we have to our circle, and who do you think it is 2 Why, Carrie Les- lie, the sister of Major Leslie, one of the gentlemen we were speaking of when you were last here. Her parents live in Canada, indeed those gentlemen are all Canadians; I mean the ones we used to meet so often at the opera." Here I glanced at Maude, who had remained quite silent while Florence had been speaking, and as I did so saw that   68    JSEAR Z'CII A FTER A L OST nHEARt: her face flushed and her eyes drooped. "Well, Maude," I asked, as if her confusion had been unnoticed by me, "how are you pleased with the new-comer?" "Oh, very much," she replied, her embarrassment hav- ing passed off. "She is exceedingly ladylike, intelligent, and about my age, but more embonpoint." All my comment in reply was a caution to avoid being too intimate with any companion until they had first studied her character,' also to be careful of making confidants of strangers. "Ah," said Florence, laughing, "Carrie is very fond of her brother, and that will go a great way with Maude, who already loves her new friend as if she was an old acquaint- ance. So, brother, dear, it is too late for advice." "Why, Florence," said Maude, " you are a perfect goose to' talk such nonsense." "I consider her so, too, Maude," was my remark," and verily do I coincide in opinion with you, that it is 'per- fect nonsense' for such children to think about beaux." "Nots verrons," Florence replied, running out of the room, but shortly after returned, holding Carrie Leslie by the hand, followed by Mrs. Davis, who informed me that this evening they were to have a little private " hop" at Madame's, and also told me the only gentlemen allowed to be present on such occasions were the children's relatives. To-night, however, by particular request of Carrie Leslie's brother, Madame had broken through her rules, for the favor had been sought under particular circumstances; and the reason why Captain McBride had been a privileged guest was, that his sister, was to be a pupil of Madame's, and had been expected some days since, but was prevented from being there at the same time with -Carrie Leslie, as had been at first arranged, on account of illness. Carrie   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       69 was not at all handsome in features, yet very like her brother, who was of a remarkably fine appearance, and as she had his very pleasing expression and agreeable man- ners she was quite interesting, independent of personal attractions. The house occupied by Madame was large, commodious, and well arranged for a boarding-school; the number of scholars was limited to twenty-five, and none were admitted unless of good families. So of course it was unusually * select, as Madame had intended and announced it should be, and she now had her full complement engaged. The furniture was in the French style, tasty and recherche with- out being extravagant, rendering the whole appearance of things about the school very pleasing to visitors. The dancing commenced early, and the guests retired early, and it was well attended by the near relatives of the pupils, who were between the ages of twelve and eighteen, no scholars either younger or older being admitted int the school. Perhaps there never were two more beautiful and graceful girls than my sisters (which, I believe, I have reported of them before). How could I doubt- it when I saw that they attracted the attention of all the guests. As for the major and captain, I observed that respect for Maude and Florence alone prevented them from expressing audible admiration. At the close of the evening, by their request, I was introduced to these gentlemen, and was much pleased with, them, so thus commenced an acquaint- ance which -soon ripened into friendship, and they became almost my only companions while North, for I had avoided heretofore contracting intimacies with any one from the time, Oscar, I parted with you. The matron of Madame's school was au English lady, a Mrs. Davis. The principal, Madame Rosineau, although   70     SE,4RCH AFTER A LOST BEARST  highly accomplished and perfectly competent as a teacher, considered Iherself too young to superintend all her house- hold affairs, instruction, and the absolute duty of keeping a scrutinizing eye over each scholar; in consequence of which she employed this elderly person to act as a mother to all, and to oversee them with a watchful care.  Madame Rosineau was a Romanist, but the Protestant pupils attend- ed their own church with Mrs. Davis; these arrangements gave great satisfaction to parents, and tended to ensure entire confidence in Madarne's establishment; while the  Roman Catholics, of course, went regularly to their own place of worship with Madame herself. CHAPTER XI. A WEEK passed, Major Leslie, Captain McBride, and my- self had exchanged visits, and I observed that they had also called upon my neighbor, after leaving my rooms, and from the length of their stay with him I decided that they must be on intimate terms. -One morning these gentlemen had joined me, according to appointment, in my daily walk, and I had remained out longer than I was accustomed to. When I returned, Lorry met me at the door, and I saw by his manner that something had happened out of the ordi- nary course of affairs, for his eyes were distended and roll- ing, and he also made an unusual display of teeth, which was always a prelude to his announcement of some extra- ordinary occurrence. "Oh, Massa Ferdinand, 'souse me," he began, " but me couldn't help it nohow, for de door was only just a leetle open, and de valeteses him so polite he just peep in so " (suiting the action to the word), "and den   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       71 him say, 'Jo Lee;' and me say, 'Not here;' and den he laughs, and say, 'Who dat,' and point wid his finger at de photemgraph of de leetle boy, and den he say, ' Lessee mor, mor; ' and I say, 'Me no understand you, valeteses and den him walk jest in like, and den" "Well, now, Lorry, stop," said I, looking rather dis- pleased, and remember to tell always the-exact truth. This is the whole affair: you had my door open, the valet walked in, and saw the child's photograph? "Yes, Massa, dat 'zactly it." Then as I was just commencing to lecture Lorry for dis- obedience, there was a gentle tap at my door, which Lorry opened, and the valet himself stood before me, when with a polite bow he asked, in French, for the loan of little garcon's portrait si charmant, at the same time handing me a little note from his master to the same effect, asking also by what means I had obtained so good a photograph of this child. I now looked at Lorry and inquired of him if the gentleman had seen this before. "Yes, Massa Ferdinand, you see de valeteses took it out, but he bring it right back agin, and I was gwine to tell you dis afore, but you no let me finish, you know." What Lorry said was true, so without reprimanding him I handed little Frank's photograph to the valet, as requested, and was again about lecturing Lorry upon his nonfulfilment of orders in leaving open my door, when another tap was heard, and the borrowed little Frank returned, with a second note, asking me if I had seen the little one in the city within a short time. I answered both notes in one, describing how, but not where, I had obtained the photograph, and the glimpse likewise that I accidentally had of the child with a strange nurse as they were leaving the city in an Eastern steamer, and this ended our correspondence; for scarcely two  hours had elapsed    72     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEABT. before a great commotion in the house attracted my atten- tion, and on looking from the window there was a carriage loaded with-trunks standing at the door. A few moments after, I saw a gentleman so closely wrapped that his features were entirely concealed get inside, and, to my astonish- ment, Jean the valet mounted the box beside the driver; then as the carriage moved away, I said to myself, "Well, my neighbor has departed without my ever having seen him," and I wondered what could be the actual name of Monsieur Melel6e, since from the charge given to his valet to address him by that name, and no other, I was convinced the present one had been assumed for some cause, doubtless best known to himself; but the greatest mystery to me was why he had so much interest in little Frank, and how he recognized his features in a photograph taken one year since; for generally twelve months so completely changes the 'entire face of an infant that even friends may be deceived, if the child be not daily seen by them. The fact is, the whole affair appeared to me so very singular that it excited my curiosity, and although I considered it foolish to make any endeavors to ascertain facts, still, waking or sleeping, it frequently troubled my mind, until at length I found it taking precedence of all things in my brain; yet I did not know that I was Win the habit of solil- oquizing upon the subject until Lorry, one day, quite alarmed, asked if I was crazy, for I was all the while talk- ing to myself, and then I found it necessary to check my folly, and give relief to Lorry, whose doleful countenance lighted up when I replied that all who read and think are apt to talk to themselves. The suit of rooms, four in number, were once more vacant, but they did not remain so long, for, to my regret at first, believing it might interfere with my studies, they were rented to the two British officers.   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       73 J But my anticipations were unwarranted, for their pursuits ! being so different from  mine we rarely saw each other except when they were inclined for a long walk, and then ! they generally expressed a wish by note that I should join them. These gentlemen were both on a furlough of one year, and had visited the United States with the view of re-establishing their health, which had suffered in conse. quence of their having been stationed in a sickly climate, but to all appearances they were now perfectly well. They had brought with them an Irish waiter, an appendage'whioh somewhat annoyed me; but as he and Lorry did not agree very well, I was less troubled with him than I had supposed I should be. Captain McBride's sister finally arrived at Madame Rosineau's, and she did not prove to be a pleasant com. panion to the young ladies, but rather a marplot to many of their little innocent diversions. Marie, this being her name, had a form diminutive in the extreme, her com- plexion florid, eyes small and grey, hair rather of a reddish shade, and mouth large, with a not very pleasing expres. sion, still she could not be considered a very ordinary. looking girl. Her feet and hands were remarkably small, and she was a very graceful dancer, being exceedingly light of foot, of which accomplishment she was very vain. Her manner was amusing and engaging at times, yet more fre- quently disagreeable, varying with her humor; but she had an extraordinary mind, was possessed of unusual know. ledge for one of her years, her age being only thirteen, and her witticisms excited much admiration; so that if she was in a pleasing mood, all she said would bring forth peals of laughter; but if in a bad temper, the unruly member inv. riably cut right and left, and then her companions fled from her as from a  thunder-storm. Her changeable moods like 4   74     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HE,MRT. the wind, rendered her an unsafe and dangerous friend, and one never to be depended upon; n6t that she was evil- minded or slanderous, for what she said was boldly asserted, but she had'no control over her feelings, consequently said and did many things as impulse led her, making mischief and trouble to-day for which she was sorry on the morrow. And then she would when calm and in good humor ofttimes wheedle you out of your inmost thoughts and private ideas, which disclosure to her of such secret sentiments in a moment of frenzied excitement and heated passion she never hesi- - tated to use to your detriment and injury, and this at any time or place, particularly if you did aught to thwart her. Yet for many nights after, she would cry herself to sleep in mourning over her conduct; but that of course did not do away with the injurious effects which her words and actions had produced, for in many instances the injustice done could not be explained. And this dangerous girl who had now come into the midst of them was dangerous indeed, because, when not excited was so affectionate as to put you entirely off your guard, and when her ungoverned temper was aroused you dared not repulse her, dreading revenge. This was partic. ularly unfortunate, for she was to be their companion at all times, whether friend or foe. Marie being an orphan, both Mrs. Davis and Madame Rosineau's kind hearts felt for her and overlooked many of her faults, since, except her  brother, this peculiar girl had been alone in the world I from the age of four years, thus her lot was cast among strangers, without sufficient interest to curb her temper through kind treatment, and so cultivate her better feelings, : or with patience, perseverance, and disinterested advice, ? endeavor to remove the tares from the wheat of her character. And so as the teachers of the school were lenient to her, the scholars considered themselves obliged  it   ISEABCH AFTER XA LOST HEARS.      75- to bear with her whims, without complaint, and be careful to do nothing whatever to call forth her anger; but, above all, to guard-well against committing themselves in word or action so as to be placed in her power. Yet there were times and circumstances when they could not avoid doing or saying something that might kindle a flame of turmoil in Marie's bosom; for instance, by thoughtlessly betraying their views and feelings in speech or action occasionally, while in full glee, believing her to be far off, when, without the sound of a footstep, as light as a spirit, she would appear before them. But if she overheard their conversa- tion, it was not her fault, since it was never her intention to come stealthily upon them, being no eavesdropper; but her form was so airy-and light, and her steps naturally so noiseless, that her movements were unheard. Marie McBride was a strange compound doubtless, and so they one and all considered her, pitying her defects, rather than despising her, and, instead of shunning her, they laid all the restraint possible upon their own movements in her pres- ence, and thus for the most part of the time kept at peace with her, and themselves out of harm's way, but to this there was of course some exceptions. CHAPTER   XII. I was now very anxious to advance as far as possible in my  studies, so that in as short a time as my brain and close application would allow. I might gain my profession, and then, according to a promise from  my father, travel in Europe, which I very much desired. I therefore began to be very systematic in my mode of life. I rose early, and, while my  mind was fresh, read for two hours, then,   76     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEABT. taking a light breakfast, walked about eight miles, return- ed home, refreshed myself with a bath, studied two hours more, then lunched, and after that gave my brain recrea- tion. Whenever I had an excuse to do so, ] called first on my sisters, afterward visited some greenhouse, picture gallery, or anything in the way of refined, improving amusement which would blend a softness of taste in my literary pursuits with my more solid and dry studies; and this I think is always necessary to cause one to excel in any profession, and ever' renders a man pleasing in oon- versation and manner, since the search after innocent and refined pleasures has a tendency to make one gentle, and to soften-the heart; therefore the study of Nature un- doubtedly is second only to that of the Bible, combining love for our fellow-creatures with adoration for our Maker; and I believe that the more man delights in the beauties so bountifully bestowed the more his heart is filled with gratitude that these blessings should flow daily in upon him unsought; thus as he dwells with admiration on- the masterpiece of an artist, from " brush or chisel," he feels the ability to produce paintings so sublime, and statuary of such rare grace, alone derived from the power Divine who guides the eye and hand; 'but, above all, when he looks upon the wonderful productions of Nature as yet uncultivated by man-for example, a modest little wild flower, not planted, but the word spoken and it was there- what a train of thoughts he is led into, and how often is he brought to Christian principles by some trivial incident attached to them. There, for instance, is the passion- vine, supposed by those at Jerusalem who bewailed the death of our Saviour to have sprung up where drops of His blood had fallen, and to be symbolical of His passion and death. And there, too, is the humble little daisy, and the   A SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       17 anecdote of an innocent little girl, who loved everything God gave her with a pure and grateful heart, and when asked why this diminutive, lowly flower was her pet plant, replied it was the only one that bloomed at the foot of her Saviour's cross. And I have examined well this plant as 'it lay close and humbled to the earth, to all appearance despised and trodden under foot, and have pondered over the fresh-opened flower, composed of such numerous tiny j petals with crimson spots, as if sprinkled with the blood fresh from some wound., and which the little one sacredly ' believed was the blood of the Saviour, until I fancied it did seem  emblematic of His humble position, in birth and J death while sojourning here, and then thought of man's in. gratitude and God's goodness, when after He had created all things in Heaven above, and on the earth beneath, and blessed them all, he found that His sinful creatures could only be saved by a humiliating birth of the child Jesus, a and then sent the spirit of his only Son, clothed upon with human form, to first draw his breath in a most unassuming location, so that he should not appear at his first coming, crowned with pomp as the King of Glory, and, by demon. strations of great power, force, through fear and dread, we mortals to kneel to him and worship, but that we might-be made supremely happy.   Our Saviour came as man, in lowliness, with meekness, patience, love, to guide man to God, ere he went hence, by His gentle spirit and tender words, not with high-sounding language, to confound and awe, but such as flows pure and adapted to the most simple child's comprehension, that all might find their way to Heaven-the uneducated person, whose walks are in a humble sphere, as well as the deep-learned of noble bearing. But all this was not found sufficient, and a greater trial must needs be made 'to atone for and redeem erring and   -? 8   SEAdRCE FTER A LOST HEART. sinful man. The Son of God must suffer a most cruel, degrading, malefactor's death, and through agonies and ignominy become the Mediator of men. And oh! it often makes me sad to think how many still wantonly throw away all these efforts of a merciful God in our behalf, so unlike the innocent one who loved to cherish the remem- brance of the Christ, our Lord's sufferings, in nursing her pet emblem the daisy; thus differing from those who crush in their hearts the memory of our bleeding Redeemer upon the cross-heedless, unthinking men that we are, regardless of God's goodness, ever trampling under our feet equally the most unpretending of his beauties, as our hearts are reckless of gratitude for works of a stupendous and sublime nature. And truly do I often dwell with pleasure on this touching idea of the young Christian, that the humble little plant had blossomed at the Crucifixion, expanding just so opportunely as to be stained with the outpouring of the Saviour's precious blood, to bear testimony to his patient humiliation -for our redemption; and thus it is I love to learn in my daily walks from even the smallest of the Almighty's blessings, and find some field for reflection which leads me to worship and adore Him with a grateful heart; and how congenial to my feelings is this little song, written, I believe, by John S. Adams: Man cannot live and love not; Around, beneath, above, There is thatcs bright and beautiful, And worthy of his love; There is in every object, That works out Nature's plan, Howe'er so low and humble, That's worth the love of man.   SARCH AFTEs   A LOST HEd3AT.  Each blade of grass that springeth From earth 'to beauty fair; Each tiny bird that wingeth Its coarse through trackless air; . Each worm that crawls beneath thee, Each creature, great and small, Is worthy of thy loving, For God bath made them all. Should earthly friends forsake thee, And earth to thee look drear; Should morning's dark forebodings But fill thy soul with fear, Look up and cheer thy spirit- Up to thy God above; He'll be thy friend forever- Forever! God is love. And with  energy do Hsearch   after and study those things which will guide me to feel and say, when I look "from Nature up to Nature's God," with my whole soul, the Lord be praised for all the blessings and mercies received at his hand by me, which I have so little deserved. And now after these comments and disclosures of my sentiments as to recreation of the mind in looking after things pure, lovely, beautiful and holy, then enjoying them as the gifts of God, I will sketch my doings for the remain- der of the twenty-four hours. I dined a' six, using-tea or coffee, but no wine or spirituous liquor, and this was my last meal, and then studied until aen, at which hour I in- variably retired, unless upon some extraordinary occasion. a Winter had passed, and the last spring month, the beauti- ful month of May, was nearly at hand, when I called at AMadame Rosineau's to deliver a message from  the South to my sisters, having received a letter from  my mother stating that the family would come North and be with us   $'0    SEARCH dFTER A LOST IEART;Z by the next steamer, and would remain for a fortnight, their plans after that being to visit Niagara and other places of interest, then cross the country, and by Eastern route again return to the city, so bringing Maude and Florence with them to spend their vacation at the usual summer resort of the family. My report of course de- lighted my sisters, and they were in high glee, relating some little frolic they and their schoolmates had lately, been irdulged in by Madame Rosineau, when we 'all three turned from the window by which we had been standing, startled by the sound of a voice, without the least previ- ous noise, announcing itself as belonging to Miss Marie McBride. "Oh " she said, looking at me with assumed alarm, " excuse my intrusion, I thought that it was Major "Leslie making his promised call."  I made no reply, but on closely examining my sisters, faces saw a quizzical expression about Florence's mouth and eyes, and as to Maude I never saw a brighter blush in any of the most brilliant pink roses, while her eyes seemed searching for something beneath her feet. I wondered what it all- m cant, but would not gratify Marie by showing my surprise, so 1 quietly greeted her with the usual cour- tesies, then turning to Florence said, "By the by, speaking of the major, I had nearly forgotten to inquire after Miss Carrie Leslie; she was not well when I was here last, on the evening of the hop." "Oh," said Marie, quite pettishy, answering for Flor- erce, " she was quite sufficiently recovered the next morn- ing to join Mdaude and the major in a trio they are learning to sing togeth er. I believe consent was given, however, by Madame RoBineau to allow the major's admission, since there was no voice but his (Signor Romani said) would -answer, and a very pleasing conclusion it was of the signor's, and so the major par excellence is highly favored, and visits   SEASC  AFTERA X LOST kEARBi..     8i here occasionally to practice. Again, I understand my brother Leo is to charm us soon in a duet with another dark-eyed, lovely young lady, but oh! -oh! oh!" she theatrically exclaimed, "there tolls the bell which leads me either to Heaven, -or to a name unmentionable to ears, polite," then raised her hand, answered the school-call with a courtesy and vanished--for you could not well say she walked away-leaving us thus unceremoniously without any explanation of her insinuations concerning my sisters, which I found I must solve in my own way. Marie very evidently was in one of her unruly moods this morning, and anxious to discover to me only parts of some events, both past and in prospective, so called to ease her over-excited feelings without committing herself, and my sisters had too much honor to betray any proceed- ings when requested to keep them unrevealed (unless to prevent evil results), and so I concluded there was as yet something concealed from me, and that Marie was taking advantage of their secret to make herself disagreeable to Maude and Florence by giving vent to herill-humor in mys- tifying me about the major's and captain's visits, and thus lead me to suppose they had called exclusively as lovers on my sisters, and that they did so with Madame's full permis. sion. Of course, my mind was not a little exercised to nn- derstand my sisters' appointment with these gentlemen that Marie had mentioned, and which neither Maude nor Flor- ence denied, and when I looked-at them  they gave me a return glance as if they wished to reveal all, but could not. At length Florence said: "Brother, I am sure you would like to understand the meaning of Marie's remarks, never- theless we cannot explain just at present, but you will know ere long, so trust to your sisters, for I am quite sure you would not suspect either Maude or myself of doing anything to compromise our dignity by an act of impropriety." 4   AS6iXJR AFtEk A LOST AEARi'. These pleadings were accompanied with a kiss, and as all Floience ever said or did was in a manner so peculiarly fascinating to-resist her was impossible, I of course could not say nay, or suspect that aught was wrong, but only replied with a smile, "You both are too truthful to be doubted, yet you are young." - "Sill you cannot deny, brother, that we are prudent," Maude said, "and that we have had good advice and example from our dear father and mother." "Well," I replied, " the secret is your own, my dear sisters, which I presume you will confide to me when you see fit. Then we parted, and although 1 feared no lack of correctness on their part y et there was a feeling of restless- ness on my mind about the whole affair; and as the girls were somewhat under my supervision 1 very much wished they had confided the state of things to me ere I left them, particularly as oh my return home Lorry said to me, with a grin of delight, "Oh, Massa Ferdinand, I spect dat de Massa Major, what ye call him name, love Missus Maude most to deff." "Why, Lorry "I asked. "'Cause, Massa Ferdinand," Lorry replied, "rolling his eyes and showing his teeth as he stood grinning without saying anything more. "Yes, Lorry," I said, " but, 'cause' is no reason." "Me know dat, Massa Ferdinand. Welr, den de reasonl is, Massa Ferdinand,'dat de door was half open like, and I heerd de major say to hisself, "Oh beau'ful! oh lubly Maude!" and den you see I listened like. "Ah, Lorry," I said, " you must not eavesdrop." "I know dat, Massa Ferdinand," Lorry replied, looking i guilty, " but de major speak so loud, and say,'Oh! if I could only tell Mr. d'Enville how I lub her, how I 'dore her,' and    SEAR-CH ATEr   A LOST -EABRI.     83 den again he say, ' Oh! Maude, I cannot nohow lib widout you,' and den I knowd 'twas young Missus Maude, and den you see dat Irishman (Jim) he comed up stairs right straight after de captain, and Jim he had a basket of flowers, and den I heerd de Major read de names ob de ladies-dey wor to be sent to, wid a card on each ob dem, and so I heerd dem read de young Missuses Maude and Florence d'Eanville and Miss Carrie Leslie, and Miss .Marie McBride, and Madam. Rosyno and Mrs. Davis, and den dey tell Jim war to take dem." I made no answer to Lorry, as I was in deep thought, for adding what he now told me to what I had heard from Marie in the morning, and Florence's arch expressions, as well as the bright blushes of Maude, and the admittance of the officers to practice with my sisters, by Madame's per- mission, I -knew that there was something afloat which I could not altogether approve of. I could got surmise why this infringement upon the rules of the school had been permitted. Of one thing I was certain, that the major was irrecoverably in love with Maude, and I judged from her telltale blushes that his love was reciprocated, and when I thought of her youth, she being only sixteen her next birthday, I felt the extent of my responsibility, and wished my parents were here, and had I not so soon expected them I should have written to hasten them on. I now formed a resolution to cultivate the acquaintance of the officers, and study their characters without allowing them to suspect the cause, for I had discovered also that there was a feeling in Captain McBride's heart toward Flor-- ence, who was not yet fifteen; but as I looked upon her as a mere child, I did not think so much of this, yet the more I pondered upon the whole affair, and the charge I had resting upon me, the more I was excited, and, indeed,- I [    Ad     SEARCH AFTBR XA tOSt AEABy. must have had a troubled expression, for after my train of thought about my sisters had passed off in a measure, and I looked up, behold Lorry stood before me with his mouth wide open gazing in my face, and holding a glass of water, which, coming forward, he handed to me, and said, "Oh! Massa Ferdinand, I so frightened, I is." "What for, Lorry?"I asked. "Oh!" he breathed out, "you speak; I so glad, I is, for me tought you were gwine right off." "Right off where, Lorry?" "Oh, to Hebben, Massa, to Hebben," and then he burst out crying. "Well, Lorry," I said, "Heaven is a good place, and I could not do any better than to go there." "Oh, me know dat, Massa Ferdinand, me know dat, but den you leave me, Lorry, all alone wid dese wicked Abolisheners." , He looked so grotesquely and so aghast, with eyes dis- tended, and spoke with such fear, that a volley of irresist. able laughter burst from my lips. Poor Lorry, he first "yah-yahed," and then said in a mournful tone, "Don not go laugh at me, please, for me very serious, Massa Fer- i dinand."                        j "Well, I won't laugh any more, Lorry, if it troubles X you," I replied; "but although Heaven is where we should I all be happy to find our home at last, I really do not think that I am going there just now, so come let me have my clean boots, and brush my clothes. Now all this Lorry did very promptly, showing his happiness with the usual  display of ivory, until I said, "Lorry, I am going to call  on my next-room neighbors."      - This announcement caused Lorry's countenance to change B again, and he looked in a perfect panic, saying, "Oh, don-    EARBCH AYTER A LOS   HEABS.     8' not, Massa Ferdinand, go to tell de gemplemen what me heerd." I faithfully promised not to do so, and left him with his mind once more at ease. I was cordially received, and requested frequently to repeat my social call on the major and captain, which I did, determined to leave no point unturned, either in Canada, from whence they last came, and where they had been garrisoned for a long time, or in the neighborhood of London, their native place, and where their parents still resided, until I should learn, if it were possible, from their youth to the present time, the full history and character of their lives. From this time, therefore, I considered myself on intimate terms with Major Julian Leslie and Captain Leo MoBride, both of the British army. CHAPTER XIII. A FORTNIGIT within two days had elapsed, and although I daily saw my neighbors they as yet neither of them had mentioned one word to me of their visits to Madame Rosineau's, neither had they spoken of my sisters, and it seemed to me as if they avoided all topics which had any connection with the school. Moreover, they had a piano and other musical instruments, and were, when I was not present, constantly practicing different songs, with an ac- companiment ; and, knowing of my fondness for music, still they never had, even when 1 asked them to favor me with their performance, been obliging enough to do so. Very strange, I thought at last, they are nearly every day at Madame's singing with my sisters, without my consent, yet are unwilling to gratify me with a single song. And I be- gan to wonder what Marie McBride meant by her insinua-   86     SESAR CH ASFTER A LOS  H EAR . -tion, and then thought I would ask an explanation of these gentlemen; but on reflection, my 'better judgment bade me desist, as they each had a sister at the same school, and it therefore, most decidedly, would be very foolish in me to call in question their right to visit at Madame's any more than my own, whose claim was based alone upon the same grounds as these gentlemen. At length the great mystery was solved, by a note from Madame inviting me to a private concert, and also requesting me to call the next day, as she was anxious to see me. I obeyed, and then she disclosed the whole secret; but it came rather late, I thought, since now, for the first time, she asked me, if I had any objections to the brothers of Carrie and Marie singing with my sisters, saying that it had been urged upon them by their teacher (who was also these gentlemen's musical instructor), and as the signor had asked it as a particular favor of her she had consented. Madame, at   I the same time, gave a'sketch of both the major and cap.  tain's parentage, saying they were of noble birth, but sons  of younger sons, and that several letters received by her s when application had been made for their sisters' admit- tanoe came from persons of the highest respectability in Canada, and they had given them most unexceptionable characters as men of honorable and gentlemanly deport. meat, with true religious principles. All this, however, I had recently learned myself from a friend of my own in Canada; but although Madame's statements were not en- tirely new to me, still they served in a measure as an ex- cuse for her acceding to the request of the signor, and I of course would not make any objection to that which had been previously allowed by her, and only communicated to me at this advanced hour. Yet I very much doubted in my mind whether the arrangement was not the result of some.   SEA3RCif APTES A LOST HEAR. . preconcerted plan between the gentlemen and their music teacher, with the view of giving them more frequent op- portunities to see my sisters. Still I must acknowledge that since my receipt of the letter from Canada, together with the explanation of Madame, I felt better satisfied, and returned home determined to inform the major and captain of my knowledge of the concert, and converse freely with them on the subject of the Soiree Musicale. I immediately waited upon them, hoping by so doing to obtain greater fa- cilities for ascertaining their real sentiments with regard to my sisters, as Lorry's tale of overhearing the major's remarks of Maude had quite worried me ever since, but Marie's insinuation now explained in full, together with Madame's revelation, put a new phase on the school move- ments, giving my sisters an opportunity to relieve their minds, and their account ran thus: The music teacher, Signor Romani, had proposed a surprise concert, which greatly pleased all the young ladies, and Madame had sanc- tioned it as a reward of industry. The signor himself now entered, to whom I was introduced by Maude. According to this signor's report, he had some pupils at Madame Rosineau's of whom he was very proud, and among the whom had fined taste and execution, singing also with un- usual pathos; Marie likewise had a round, mellow voice, with more .compass than most of the girls of her age, be- ing only fourteen, and she was assigned as leader of a gay chorus of the younger girls. Maude and Carrie, with Ma- jor Leslie, were to sing a trio; Florence and Captain Me. Bride a duet. Why he had conceived first the plan of these gentlemen taking part in the concert was (the signor continued to report of himself) that while giving them les- sons he had discovered they had voices which would exactly     oos-hc       ol  xl   SE     SE-RCE IFTER A LOST HEJR-T. suit his purpose, being full, deep, soft, and under com- plete control, singing with much feeling; also knowing them to be correct uin principle, and of gentlemanly bear- ing, and likewise their sisters under Madame's tuition, he had presumed to ask the privilege of allowing them to join in the concert, to which she had consented, and now hoped I did not disapprove of what had been done, and begged I would not object to the arrangements he had made. As a general thing,I suppose these arrangements would have been wrong, but as Madame Rosineau made it imperative that Mrs. Davis should be present at all music and dfncing lessons, and as she was a lady to be trusted, and kept a vigilant eye upon the conduct and actions of her pupils, Madame for once waived the regulations of the school, and allowed the attendance of these gentlemen during the music rehearsals, and so it rested. Marie's violence of temper, which she exhibited on the morning of my call, had arisen in consequence of her not being admitted in the room when her brother practiced with Florence, but more than all was she enraged that she was not permitted to be I present and privileged to hear the rehearsal of the trio, and although she neither dared nor wished to divulge the secret of the concert she was determined to trouble Maude and Florence, whom she well knew'would not either of them disclose any thing relative to the affair; and so my being there just when the temper was at its height, it seemed to be an occasion well suited to her wishes, and so she vented her spleen upon all, let it do what mischief it might. But, poor child, my sisters told me two days before the concert that the night after I left, her violence of temper softened down, and she had cried herself sick with penitence, prom- ising to co a thousand kind things to make reparation for all the evil she had attempted to accomplish. After the   SESAPCH AFTEr A LOST BEART.       8s denouement 1 entered into the spirit of it, engaged to send Maude and Florence flowers, or anything else wherein I could assist them to decorate the room, then took a list of their wants, and by evening fulfilled my promises to even more than their expectations. I thought that Lorry would go crazy when I sent him with the budget, and when he re- turned he went into ecstasies about the beauty of the young missuses, and as he untied two bundles he had brought with him from my sisters, and held each article up to show me, he said, "See here, Massa Ferdinand; all dese nice tings spressly for me from each of my young missuses;, then jerked and twitched like a person afflicted with St. Vitus' dance, stretching his lips with grimaces of delight, and as he named each gift showed a full set of polished ivory that any one might envy. "Thar, now," he said, " is a splendud purse with shiny beads, netted just a purpose for me, Lorry, by beau'ful Missus Maude's snow-white hands; and, oh! see Massa Ferdinand, wid two one-dollar gold pieces in it; and den dar be two bookmarks for the Bible to tell whar I reads, and I 'clar if dar aint a neck-hankerchief worked at all two ends by Missus Florence's lily-white hands, and dar is a pair of glubs and two dollar gold pieces in dem, too. Oh! God bress dem, God bress dem   boff all two my young missuses! how can anybody help lub dem all two, dey boff so beau'ful, boff so good. I just wish dose wicked Abolisheners could see how kind all de massas and missuses be to dar sarvants, Massa Ferdinand, for dey dar not call dem slaves to dar faces to home, sassy-like; but dey always speak perlite to dar sarvants dat be good, and ax dem tank you for dis and tank you for dat when dey want anyting. And dey neber ugly to dis chile nor de oder darkies, neider, if dey speak only just one word to dar massas and missuses like dose wicked Abolisheners, who look so proud-like   96    SEAiRCH 4FTER A L6ST ZEidT. just as if dey didn't tink dat dy war gwine to de same Heben wid de brack people, and dat, too, arter de Abolish- eners just been a-tellin' dat de stave be as good as his massa is. Me sure me don not tink de Abolisheners eber go to Heben-me don't." "Well, Lorry," I said, in order to call back his wander- ing thoughts, "and so you delivered the things all right, and the young ladies were pleased?" "To be sure, Massa Ferdinand, me deliver all right, and de young missuses send you one tousand tanks, and say gib Massa Ferdinand a great deal ob lub, and dey tanked Lorry, too; for dey haint not like 'de Abolisheners, who, 'cause a man's brack, tink he must walk de oder side ob de street." I now took the paper to read, knowing that this move- ment would stop any further remarks from Lorry, for this with him was always the signal for silence. And so he gladly stepped into his own room to admire his presents, but he very soon returned, for he could not be at ease un- til he had informed me of the immense number of bouquets Jim, the Irish valet, was sent with to Madame Rosineau's, who arrived there as soon as himself Lorry then quick- ly retired, for fear of disturbing me, and I was happy to be rid of him when his head began running upon the doings -of the Abolitionists, for then he was like some maniac. CHAPTER XIV. THE first thing my eyes rested on the next morning, as I took up the journal for perusal, was the arrival of the Southern steam packet, and among the list of passengers the names of- my family; so I quickly threw down the paper, clapped my hands and exclaimed, "Just in time!"                       .   SEABSC AFfiER A  ZOS  t.  - HURT. which action and remark caused Lorry to start and look at me with an inquiring eye to know the cause; but when I called out, "My coat, hat and boots, and everything, Lorry, for, man alive! your master and all have come," the poor fellow could not restrain himself, but " yah, yah, yahed" at the top of his voice, until presently a tap was heard at the door, and then another, in quick succession, and then the Irish valet, Jim, poked in his bushy red head and said, "Sure, the masters beyont wants to know if it's crazy the nagare is, entirely." And here, indeed, Lorry's movements were such as would have brought forth irresist- ible laughter from the most sober-minded man, for "Nagare, indeed," he said; " what dat you say, you green paddy " showing the whites of his eyes, and following him up at the same time menacingly. Yet when I called him back sternly, as he was going after Jim, telling him to keep quiet, he obeyed me immediately and was silent, after a remark he could not restrain, that "Dar is difference 'tween de green paddy and de Frenchman "; and from that moment, they not having been very good friends before, Lorry be- came Jim's sworn enemy, saying, "I didn't not mind de French valet axing 'bout it-yah, yah-he was so perlite." My speaking so decidedly to Lorry, with the thoughts of seeing his own people, as he called them, right from home, restored him to his senses, and as soon as Jim had left the room my clothes were speedily brought out, placed before me in good order, myself off, and in less than twenty minutes I was in my mother's arms, at their own apartments in the hotel. When, over and over again, my father said, "My dear boy" (squeezing my hands), " how glad, how very glad I am to see you looking so well;" and then I was affectionately kissed, first by my brothers Rodolph and Theodore, the one thirteen and the other eleven, who were  .   92-    SEARCH AFTERR A LOST HEART. in ecstasies at seeing me. I felt proud of them both, for they were noble-looking fellows; but as soon as I was seated, I felt almost too happy, with the two little girls, one on each knee, warmly pressing, in turn, their lips to mine. Eugenic, fair, with soft blue eyes dike my mother's), pretty, red smiling lips, glossy flaxen ringlets, perfectly lamblike in manner, and ten years of age. While Justine, who was not quite nine, had large hazel eyes with long curling lashes, so expressive, speaking volumes at every glance; and although her nut-brown hair, as it lay in glossy waves on her well-formed head, was in keeping with her dark eyes, yet her complexion was blonde, with rich fresh color upon her cheeks; her mouth rather large, but beautifully formed, with full, ripe, pouting lips; and not- withstanding her manner was unusually dignified for a child of her age, still she had much warmth of feeling, and - although resembling both Maude and Florence in some things, yet was not decidedly like either. Each of these little ones asked me more questions in two minutes than I could have answered in an hour. After these came the servants to be greeted with kindness, eagerly waiting for me to speak first. There was Lucille, Grace, John, Dick and Frank, each one expecting a firm shake of the hand and a heart's welcome, which they all cordially received from me, as I was very glad to see them. Then Lorry in his turn went the rounds, first with the white members of the family, and then had a merry time of it with his own fellow-servants after leaving the room. The joyous meeting being over, Lorry was sent for a carriage, and when it came I took my young brothers with me to bring Maude and Florence to  i the hotel. And well worthy were they of the pride and affection which my parents exhibited for them when they  arrived, and truly delighted were the servants to see their   SEARCH AFTER A L6ST HEART.       93 young mistresses. Lorry was soon hurried off to show old John the coachman the way, so that there might be no, delay in getting the family coach and horses properly stabled before nightfall, they having just arrived also on board the steamer--my father always preferring to use his own establishment for traveling, during their stay North, rather than other conveyances. The next day after the arrival of my family they were all comfortably domiciled, and daily during their stay at the hotel it was the headquarters and happy trysting-place for we brothers and sisters, with many other friends. The concert coming off the evening following my parents' arrival, I deemed it my duty to report to them how I thought matters stood with regard to Maude and Florence, the major and captain, so as to prepare them for their per- formances together. My father was at first much pro- voked, and my mother startled; yet being of that class who do not hastily condemn any one's acts, they, -on reflection, waited to hear more minutely the details. As to the officers, my mother felt fully persuaded, from the names, that she had known their parents previous to her leaving i England, and my father trusted that a person like Madame Rosineau must surely have been well-informed of these gentlemen's position in society ere she allowed this arrange- :ment. My good mother considered that their daughters were too young at present even to think of marrying. My [parents wereianxious to become acquainted with the major cand captain before the evening for the Scholars' Exhibition, so I brought them to the hotel in the morning, when it [proved highly gratifying to my parents to find these gentle- men possessed of such easy, dignified manners, with fine personal appearance, giving evidence of gentle blood and od breeding, and they were cordially invited to repeat   "    8$  RCiH AFTER A LOST BEART. their visit. On their next call it was ascertained positively that they were of the families which my mother had sup- posed, particularly as they also submitted to my father's perusal letters which substantiated the fact ere they left. At the appointed hour the concert took place, and it was a beautiful affair indeed, the singing exquisite, and the whole proceedings conducted with so much good judg- ment, taste and propriety, that it met not only with the ap- probation and highest commendation from my own, but all the other parents who had placed their daughters under Madame Rosineau's care. My father and mother were not only highly delighted with Maude and Florence's improve- ment, but their growth and appearance astonished them; and there was no disputing after this evening that they no longer looked like little girls, but were beautiful young women in face, form and manners, and the admiration of all, while the hearts of Major Julian Leslie, and Captain Leo McBride were fully and exclusively given to them, if any dependence could be placed upon expression and actions. My father pronounced these gentlemen highly talented and intelligent, also correct in deportment, and from this time not a day passed without their calling at the hotel, and at each visit gained more and more upon my father and mothers affections, until so winning their esteem at last that they expressed much gratification in having formed their acquaintance, much to Maude and Florence's delight, as I myself discovered. This memorable fortnight of my family's sojourn in the city was a source of pleasing recollection, but when their  tour to Niagara and elsewhere was ended, and they returned to take my sisters away with them for the summer, it left  a long, dreary three months for me during the hot weather; still, as my studios were to be completed in the winter, and d                 * d '   SEARCEH AFTBR A LOST HEART.       95 I to sail in the spring for Europe, I determined to apply myself as closely as possible, and as the major and captain had followed my family to the country it favored my plans. Before the fall came, I received a letter from my mother, and another from Maude announcing her engage. ment to Major Julian Leslie, saying also that he had produced his credentials, which were altogether satisfac. tory, and likewise that he possessed a fortune sufficiently ample to support a family in affluence, his income, inde- pendent of his profession, being sufficiently large to warrant his resigning his commission in the army at any time he pleased. Maude, however, was not to be married until late in the spring, but was to return to Madame Rosineau's and complete her studies; while Major Leslie and Captain McBride, having business in Europe, found it necessary to leave for England in the fall. By the 1st of November they sailed in the steamer, and about the middle of that month my sisters were once more at school, and my parents with their younger children on their plantation South. As to myself I was for some time undisturbed by neighbors, the rooms next me being again vacant, which was doubtless all the better for me. CHAPTER   XV. THUS for nearly eight weeks I had nothing to interrupt my systematic routine, and the progress in my studies was quite astonishing to myself; but at the expiration of the Isecond month, Lorry, who had been standing one morning in front of the house, came to me almost out of breath with excitement and haste, to tell me that he had just seen " de i little boy photemgraph,alone wid him nurse, but not de same   M96    SEARCH AFTEBR A LOST HEART. one dat was wid him in de picture, and she had lost de little photemgraph's cap, and den me been and just picked it up afore de nurse speak one word to me about it; but, Massa Ferdinand," he said, grinning, "me did not gib it to de nurse, when she axed me whether'me seed it, but only told her me believed dat some one alonging to the house had been and picked it up; and now scuse me, Massa Ferdinand, but I just did dis, you see, so dat you might hab a chance to see de photemgraph youself, and dar it is down stairs a-standing at de door on de stoop wid de nurse; and if Massa Ferdinand pleases to and will just step down-like fust to see dem, den arter a little while I will take dis little cap-down stairs and say dat me tought right, and dat one ob de sarvants did find it." "I hope you did not mean to tell a story, Lorry," I said. "Why, Massa Ferdinand," he replied, " no, not zactly, for sartain, for I is your sarvant, you know, Massa Fer- dinand, so please 'scuse me, and den I so want you to see de photemgraph." "Well, no matter, Lorry, this time, if you did not in- tend to do wrong, yet I never knew before that you had such a managing brain." "Oh, Massa Ferdinand, let dis chile alone, sar, he allus do just right." Being anxious to see the child, I said no more to call forth words from Lorry, but gladly embraced the oppor- tunity, I must confess, of questioning little Frank's nurse, in order to gain, if possible, some information of my-little Jennie and her cat Lillie, and so I put on my coat and 'hat, as if ready for a walk, using stratagem also, like my man Friday, and quickly descended the stairs to the hall door, where, sure enough, was little Frank by the side of   JEAtSCH AdFTER d LOST HEART.     97 the same strange nurse that I saw stepping on board of the Eastern steamboat; and as she seemed to be a good- natured girl, I feigned not to know that she was waiting for Lorry, and asked her first if anything was wanting, and then, without giving her time to answer,the question, made bold to inquire, in a civil manner, what was the child's name. She said that it was Frank Smith. At this reply I was taken by surprise, and as the little fellow had grown larger and somewhat changed in looks I thought that I might be mistaken as to the child, from the surname given by the nurse, but to be positive I said, "Oh, that is his middle name, I presume, nurse." , "No, sir," she replied, " that is his whole name." The girl now looked at me as if she wished to be com- municative, and so I thought that I would play Yankee, and asked in this way: "He has another name than Smith sometimes, I guess, has he not, nurse? for I have seen that little boy before." "Dew tell; I want to know! and I just guess you are about right, tew; but you see now, sir, I would just like to know the other name myself, tew, for I can tell from what I see and hear that there is something wrong about the doings, for now and then there is a bad-looking gentle. man who comes to talk to Mrs. Smith, and sometimes he makes a  mnistake, and calls her by another name than Smith, and the name ends with an n ; but I guess as how the gentleman is some relation, for he calls her Elizabeth generally." "  Whereabouts do you live, nurse?"I inquired. "Well," she answered, "I dare not exactly tell, for Mrs. Smith forbade me to say a single word about it; but," she continued, pointing to a street one block beyond where we stood, you  will go right straight down through that   -:   98    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. ar street, and I guess you will know, for I do most always be standing by the window up stairs with little Frank, and then you will find out, you see, sir, where we stay without my telling you. And now, sir, will you please tell me if any one in this house has found a child's cap, for there was a black man help' told me to wait and he would see, for he thought that one of the men-servants that belongs to the house had found it." "Directly, nurse," I replied, "I will see--only answer me one question more. Has this little boy a sister?" "I believe so, sir, and her name is Bessie, I think," she answered, "for I heard Mrs. Smith ask little Frank if he would like to see his sister Bessie in 'nasty old England.' She does always talk such nonsense to the child, just as if he understood it." "But," I said, " he has an elder sister, has he not?" "I don't know that, sir," she replied, " for I was hired in the country the day after Mrs. Smith landed; but," she continued, "I will tell you all I know, sir. I heard her say once to the gentleman who comes to see her that her hus- band does not care for any one of them but that 'little thing, with her nasty cat,' and then she said to the gentle- man that one of these days she'd let her husband know that her boy wasn't going to live in England, to hear him whining over that ' nasty little milk-and-water sop of a child, because she looked like her mamma, and hear him talk to the cat about his first wife, and say to it, -"Come, kitty, and sit upon my knee and purr to me about your angel mistress "; and then take the little girl on the other knee, and- tell her she looked like her dear, dead, sainted mamma who was so beautiful, so lovely; and all this trash, and all such stuff, Joseph, was talked behind my back. - But Mrs. Smith would say also to this gentleman, ' I have   EAB'RCH AFTER   L OST HEART.    99 listened, and that is enough for me to know how things stand with Frank's father, and now he may go whistle for me and his boy. And if I could only see little Bessie, that is all I would care for.' And then the gentleman asked * her, sir, how she would support herself; and she said she brought enough with her to live on a good while. And now, sir," the nurse asked, rather impatiently, after giving me all the information I required, " may I ring the bell for the black-man help, who told me something about the cap? for if I stay too long, Frank's mother will be running mad." "One thing more, nurse," I asked, "and then you shall go. Did you ever hear her talk about Canada?" "Yes, sir. She said the other day that if Mrs. Robert Richmond, little Frank's aunt, should find out where she was, she would be here in a jiffy, for Montreal would not be big enough to hold her; and then she said to the gentleman, ' If she should come, Doctor, you must find me some place to take my boy to, as she will notify the cap. tain where to find me, for Mrs. Richmond is thorough- going.'           " I was now convinced that this Frank Smith, little Frank Clarendon, and the little boy that was run away with by his mother (a British officer's wife from England) to breathe the Yankee air, were all one and the same with Lorry's "photemgraph," and that my   gentleman neighbor, Mr. Mellee, was searching for little Frank when he borrowed the photograph; and having heard all that I was desirous to learn from the nurse, I first rang the bell for Lorry, then with the quickness of a flash decided upon the course I  should pursue in this affair, determined to act at once upon the resolutions I had formed. Lorry understood my ring, and came forward with the cap in his hand. The nurse   to be sure that I had correctly understood her, and she pro- to be ised t fulfil h er part of t he arrangement. To Lorry I did not disclose anything, as I wanted "to be very cautious in my movements; so I answered to his question if it was not the photograph thus: "Why, Lorry, it cer- tainly looks very much like it; but this little fellow is more than one and a half year older than our little Frank when I first saw him, and children change so very much, and then so many children resemble each other, it is diffi- cult to be certain. "Dat true 'nuff, Massa Ferdinand, and your head always better dan mine," Lorry replied, and this, of course, ended all questions from him.  The next afternoon, according to nurse's directions, I walked the length of the street, -down the one side and up the other, and had nearly given over the search in de- spair, when I came to the house that I was positive had been described by her, and, sure enough, faithful to her word, there she stood with little Frank. One glance at the door was all I needed to learn the name and the number, and after taking them down I returned home, and immedi. ately addressed an anonymous letter to "Mrs. Robert Richmond, Montreal, Canada," relating all that the nurse had repeated to me, describing the number and position of the house, also telling -her the proper course to be pursued in the city for the recovery of the child, my legal know. ledge enabling me to do so. This done, all the information I could expect to receive was whether the few lines I had written came safely into Mrs. Richmond's hands, when a sufficient time had elapsed for the letter to be acted upon,    and after that I might judge by closely watching this Mrs Q Smith's (as she now called herself) movements, and so know if my advice had been taken and proved successful. Thus I passed the house every day to ascertain whether this little boy would be restored to the father, or if the mother escaped justice once more by again taking flight with the child. The next feature which presented itself in this business * was that a couple of mornings from the time my letter had been mailed to Montreal, this veritable housekeeper-step. mother passed my window, and, much to my surprise, by her side was the selfsame doctor who had spoken so lightly of the ladies of our country in the billiard-oom. At this bold movement I felt as if I could spring upon him and throttle him, being convinced now that he was a scoundrel, playing some  double-dyed game of art and deception, verifying the epithet of villain with which his name had been coupled a  few days after the first time I met him with the British officers; and I had never seen him since with, or heard his name  mentioned by, either Major Leslie or Captain McBride but once, and that was to hear them brand him as a man totally devoid of honor. In my mind this doctor was only aiding and abetting the wife to evade that search which it was evident my late next-door neighbor, Mr. M6116e, was making after this child by the father's direction; for I had by this time come to the conclusion that Mr. M6lee was in the employ of Captain Clarendon as agent for this purpose, his anxiety to see the photograph, and discover the whereabouts of the little boy, being the grounds of my  suspicion, and now wished I had seen him ere he so suddenly left the apartments next mine or from him could only have learned in what part of Europe Captain Clarendon waa to be found. And in that ease   ^t;';' IBMOt .  SEARSC  AFTER A t.8f SAaRf. my letter of indignation with regard to this doctor and the captain's wife would soon have reached there, for although I, to my knowledge, had never seen Captain Clarendon, yet the story of the past three years of his life, which came to me through the nurse whom I first saw with little Frank and my Jennie, together with my own know- ledge of his present troubles, touched my heart; and then, too, I must confess the principal cause of interest in Cap- tain Clarendon lay in his being the father of the darling little ill-used tender one, Jennie, whom I had so accidentally met with, and as mysteriously lost sight of, and much, very much, would have sacrificed to render the father of that dear little Jennie happy; but I still remained all in the dark as to his place of residence. Had I written, however, it would have been of no avail, as the hawk had again taken flight with its prey; for after my having several times passed the house, according to 'the nurse's directions, to watch her, and saw little Frank there, I thought all was going on as I wished, until at length I was once more doomed to dis- appointment, with all my vigilance; for in passing one day, I observed the blinds all closed, and other appearances in- dicating that the occupants of the rooms had left. So I made bold to ring at the door and inquire for Mrs. Smith, when I was informed she had left the evening previous; that-the gentleman who was in the habit of visiting her had called for her in a carriage; that the movement was a very sudden one to herself, the landlady; so much so that she had no time to inquire or even form .an idea -of the reason of their strange proceedings, neither had they inti- mated to her to what part of the globe they were going. "But," she said, "I am sure of one thing, and that is, I am glad to get rid of them, for they are suspicious characters, and I hope, young man, they are no friends of yours." I  z    UZIE 8EAB      AFIGEB A LOS  BT   .    10lo gladly answered they were not, and hastily left, feeling mortified and provoked, knowing now it would be impos, sible to ferret them out, unless I had the power invested in me through Captain Clarendon to employ detectives, and so for the present abandoned all further search- after the Clarendon family. This occurrence had brought before my mind all former knowledge of little Jennie, her artlessness and innocent 'prattle, her affectionate memory of her deceased mother, and the meekness and gentleness with which she submitted to the harshness and cruelty of her wicked stepmother. But I found that these visions and memories of the past, to- get her with troubling about otherpeople's affairs, were seriously interfering with my studies; so I determined to banish them from my mind, and apply myself more closely, according to old resolutions, that I so often had broken. I visited my  sisters now  more frequently than I did the previous season, since on the arrival of each steamer there was some message from Major Leslie to Maude; and as it was a rule of the school that all letters must be inspected either by Madame or Mrs. Davis, so Maude had interdicted the major's writing, unless inclosed to me. Consequently 'all the letters to her came under cover to my care, un- sealed, and as I considered it dishonorable' to even glance at the contents I  delivered them to Maude. She read them in my  presence, then returned themr for me to take charge of. But, poor Florence; I  came in upon her one morning rather inopportunely, for although the bell .had  rang, as usual, and I entered with quite as much noise as I ever did, and had been seated some time, still no one knew that I was there, and thus I witnessed quite a scene between Marie McBride and herself. Marie was in one of her sweet humors, and affectionately talking to Florenoe of   Yne - I 'A   SEACff AlrtET  A tsbAt BEARf. her brother Leo, while holding up to her view a small-sized cabinet portrait of him, and saying, "Now aren't it splendid, Florry dear? and Leo would give worlds if he could get one taken of you, for he does so love you, and asked me if I would like you for a sister. "And, Marie, what did you say M "Florence asked. - "Say!" "Marie repeated. "Let me see now, Florry. Don't be mad, dear, but I felt disagreeable toward you that day, and told him that I hated you. Do you know that I am afraid that Leo has not loved me so well since then. Why, 'now, Florry," she continued, looking in her face, "you are not surely crying? How silly, I declare." Then throwing her arms around her neck, she kissed her, and said, "You must listen now, Florry, sweet, for a mes- sage came in the case with this likeness, so nicely concealed that at first I did not discover it, and the words ran thus: 'Dear Marie, my sister, you must show this to Miss' Florence, and ask her if she will look on it and decide my fate, for at no other shrine can I ever lay open my heart; and -tell her it is hers unalterably throughllife, and none other can I, or will I, love.' And then, Florry, Leo con- :tinues, ' Tell her also that her parents have sanctioned my thus addressing her upon my return, they thinking that when I left she was too young; but I could not wait, Marie, for I felt afraid that I should lose the prize.' And he finishes by saying, 'Oh, plead for me, my sister, for although you are so young, I have no one else whom I can trust! Then, my sister, plead warmly for me, and do not plead in vain. " I arose when I thought the conversation was nearly con- eluded, and softly glided out of the room, but ere I did so saw that my sister was very much excited, and knew that he would rather not commit herself to Marie. So I soon re-   SEAdRCB  APITEB A LOST BEART.     106 entered with some flourishes and noise, which prevented what I had rightly judged Florence wished to escape from, the giving of Marie any answer whatever. Thus Florence felt my entrance a- relief, while Marie thought it an intru- sion, for she turned, looked daggers at me, and hurriedly left the room, concealing the portrait as she went. As for Florence, her face was of a crimson dye, and her eyes dimmed with tears. I made no comment, however, upon her blushes, but having first kissed her, read to her from my mother's letter, which I had just received, some funny doings of the children and domestics at home. This in a short time brought smiles to her face, until finally she was nearly convulsed with laughter, and thus after delivering a letter to Maude from the major (which had arrived in the same packet with Marie's note and miniature), I left Madame's, pondering over the love epistle from Captain McBride which I had just heard. But I felt not the least worried, for I knew that Florence, with all the innocence of her heart, would at some future period confide to me her secret, and I now found it was as I expected, that Captain Leo McBride had been deeply in love with Florence before he left the country,' and although I felt that my sister was too young to marry I did not regret their mutual attach. ,ment, since I was convinced that Florence reciprocated his love; and I was fully prepared for her reception of a formal proposal from him through me by the next packet, for I knew that he was too honorable to do anything clandestinely, and, so far as I could judge, he was all I might wish in a husband for my   young sister. And I could not help thinking how blessed my parents would be in having their daughters intrusted to such good men as these British officers, there being but one objection-their strong infatuation in favor of Abolitionism; yet they were very cautious, saying but little on the subject to us. ,   5   Do    16    -&EAtXf AFTER A LOST BE A.9. My calculations as to Captain McBride and Florence were correct, for both, ere three weeks had expired, con- fided to me their love affairs, and constituted me the medium of communication between them and my parents, begging they would give consent to their engagement before his return. I soon settled the matter for them, my father and mother assenting, with the proviso that Florence was to continue at school until the expiration of the next fall term, and not -until a year from the coming spring were they to be married. CHAPTER XVI. SURELY, I thought, as I sat alone one evening, how strange it is--very strange-that these buds of children should be on the eve of marriage; then I considered how very system- atically all things had advanced in love's progress with them, and this led me to reflect upon the words of the immortal bard, "There is a divinity which shapes our ends rough hew them how we will," and wondered what would be my destiny, and then looked at little Jennie's photograph, and thus soliloquized: "Shall I ever again look on this sweet, innocent child." And then contem- plated upon what a privilege it would be if I might have it in my power to exclusively watch over the path of my pure little Jennie, not yet contaminated by the wiles of artful companions, and so guard her against all the evils of- this life as to keep her unspotted from the world. When again I said, reproving myself: "Presumptuous man, would you-take this sweet one from the hands of her Maker, who can mould men's souls and   SEASCH AFTES, A LOST HEART.       107 bodies as he will for their own good and His glory;" but then I said to myself, "This I may wish: that I could spend my life in witnessing little Jennie's innocent ways and movements, and in hearing all the sweet, soft prattle that issues from such fresh lips, expressing ideas from a heart as wholly free from all guile as hers still must be." Lorry now once more looked as if a little doubtful about my sanity, for he came noiselessly up to me, and, touching my shoulder, said, "Massa Ferdinand, a gempleman been waiting some time." I quickly turned. And sure enough   there stood a stranger. I rose, bowed, and received from the hands of a man who I at once knew to be a detective a note, with. out superscription, which I opened and read, and this was the purport of it: "Young man, as you love justice, truth, mercy, and perhaps possess the virtue of love for your fellowmen in distress, please let the one who presents this note have a loan, for a few days (to bring to me), the photograph of the little boy you have in your possession, trusting to his and my honor that it shall be safely returned. Your fulfilment of my request will render me your debtor for life." Curious, I thought, but delicacy and honor prevented my asking any questions. I then answered his note, saying, "that I trusted to his honor, hoping the photograph would not be injured, as I valued it very highly;" after which I handed it to the messenger, requesting him to be careful, and not let it leave his hands, or those of the gentleman who had asked for it, as I prized it far above its worth to iothers. He took it, thanked me, promised to return it un. blemished and unharmed, bowed politely, and retired. "Truly,"  I ejaculated, "this world is a mystery; for even the photograph of this little boy, that 1 had taken at   o 1i06o$ SEARCff   AFTER A LOST HBEAST. the same time I did that of his sister's, solely for my own gratification, to give me pleasant thoughts during my lonely hours, as well as to recall my little frolics with himself and Jennie in the park, turns out to be a' matter of great moment to a perfect stranger, and called for by an officer of police. And, Oscar, it is such simple little things which take place in our 'lifetime that verify the Scripture, which R;   tells us that " every hair of our head is numbered," and that "not a sparrow falls to the ground without God's knowledge," and that God brings all things hidden to light, sooner or later. Presently I ceased soliloquizing, for I heard a tiptoe movement, and as I looked up there stood Lorry peeplng around to catch a glimpse of my face, with expression so comical that I went off in a roar of laughter, when the poor fellow glided away as if ashamed. "Here, Lorry," I called, "don't go, for I am not displeased, or I should not be merry, so come and tell me what was the matter, that you were watching me so closely again. "Me don not know, Massa Ferdinand, but scuse me, for me sometimes tink you be gwine crazy, you talk so to yourself, and say such mighty queer tings." "Well, Lorry," I asked, and what would you do then " "Me," Massa Ferdinand, " me go crazy, too, for if you hab no senses here, why den you see what would dose Abolisheners do wid me? Why, just zactly what dey pleased." -"Never fear' for me, Lorry," I said, "but people who study are very apt to talk to themselves. And now, Lorry, if you think that I have lost my senses, take. my daily account of expenses, which you have not had for a month, as I wish to have it cast up, and if you know of any thing that has not been put down place it among the rest; and here is a new book for yourself to read, which will make you forget the Abolitionists,   !jI     SESASC3c  APTER A LOS1T HEART.    -1 At this he gave his peculiar " yah, yah," with delight, and thanked me, and was hastening away to read the little volume, when he paused and said: "Massa Ferdinand, do you tink I will speak to myself if me study too hard? For den for sartin folks sure to send me to de madhouse." "Never fear, Lorry," I said, "I will take care of that," so go arrange my accounts, and read your book. He left the room satisfied, and I was really glad to havenhim, with his present feelings, out of sight, as he watched my move- ments so closely of late it was quite annoying. But I bore a great deal from the trusty fellow, since all he did was out of true love for me, and I was fond of Lorry, and of his mother, Silvie. Now don't start in horror, Oscar, you who pretend to compassionate the slave, for you should be pleased when I say that I loved Silvie, his mother, and am indebted to her for all the nourishment I took the first year of my life, and I received from her the most tender, judi. cious care while she nursed me; and as Lorry was my foster-brother, he was my first playmate, and many a time when we were little children have we scrabbled for each other's playthings, while my parents stood by enjoying the frolics of their first-born with the little slave; yet they never liked to see-me ill-uste or domineer over him, but always saw Lorrv righted when I attempted to do him iniustice. And when my mother taught me the letters, Lorry was always brought in to say them with me, and he was always commended by mother when he learned them more readily than myself, and  rewarded  with some little bonbons. And when I was taught the Lord's prayer, Lorry ever repeated it with me, by my mother's knee. A week expired before I heard one word about little Frank's photograph, and I began to fear that I had been deceived, and never should get it again, when one morning   yn- * * -e 'x  lid    SEARCH AFTER A LOSt HEART. just after breakfasting I received a note, expressing very ': '-, many thanks for the kind service I had rendered him, as the loan had enabled him to accomplish the purpose for which it had been borrowed, and he only regretted not being able to express his gratitude, in propria personae, or to give me his name; but that was impossible, as it was very important that all things concerning this affair, in which he was in. terested, should be conducted in the most secret manner, in order to prevent the escape of those he was in pursuit of; ending his epistle with, "By what name I can address you, sir, I do not know, neither at present would it be expedient to ask it, preferring rather, when called upon, to bring forth proof by such witnesses as I already have, so that no one shall be troubled with my affairs except those who are already connected with me in the business, they being fully cognizant of all the facts. Excuse the trouble I have given. With gratitude and respect, etc."  Most astonishing, I thought, as Ilooked on the photograph of the infants face of a year old; how is it possible that any one, save a parent, could discern a sufficient resemblance from this photograph, taken eighteen months since-which makes the child at the present date nearly two years and a half old-to now identify it. It might serve my memory, because I had seen the little one under such peculiar oir- cumstances, with all the animation and varying expression of life, which would, of course, naturally Heave a lasting im- pression on my mind, and such would be the case with others in like situation as myself. Butwith a detective of police, and a mere agent, who had never seen the child, the thing to me appeared impossible. But presently, as I again scrutinizingly looked upon the picture, I, for the first time, discovered two marks upon the arm: one a deep soar of a very peculiar shape, as if it was the result of a surgical   S ziARCe  AFTER A LOST   EAZRT.   lil operation; the other the letters F. D. C., pricked in India ink, so small that until this moment I had not seen it; and possibly never should have observed it unless the photograph had been sought of me, under such mysterious circumstances, for as to little Frank's arm, I had never particularly noticed it. But all now was clearly accounted for, and these marks on the child had, I believed, been the guide, and an indisputable detection. I also decided, from various circumstances, that my former suspicions had been right, and that my incog next-door neighbor must be  - little Frank's father's agent; first, by his anxiety while he occupied the rooms next mine to see the photograph, then his intense desire to ascertain the whereabouts of the boy, and now again the portrait being sought for by the police, in the exact handwriting as the note I had received from Mr. M1l16e, as he called himself. Well, I wondered, and how do I know but this little fancy of mine to be pos- sessed of the child's likeness may one day turn out to be of consequence to me in discovering where to find my pet Jennie at last. About a week after this I took up a journal, which gave a very graphic sketch of a scene which had lately been en. acted at one of the hotels, and which I could not mistake, there being so great a similarity in that and the affair in which I took so much interest. The statement ran thus: A nurse, with a beautiful boy, had been taken by the i police, on a warrant issued by the proper authorities, the child having been spirited away from his father, a British officer, by his own mother, and brought to this country some months since, the father having Searched in vain until now for both mother and child. After securing the little boy beyond the mother's reach, she was sent for, and certain propositions made to her, with a warning that she   ^ 118   $SEARCH AFTER A LOST HBEAt e must decide quickly, since he (the father) would sail in ? two days for Europe, taking his son home with him, and also his nurse, to secure her as witness in case she should be required in any legal course he (the husband) might pursue against her (his wife), and if she (the mother) felt inclined to go he would take a passage for her; but if not, she must be reconciled to part with the child, and abide the decision of justice with regard to her conduct. The lady was so taken by surprise in seeing her husband that at first she nearly fainted, but, recovering herself, soon gave vent to her feelings by using the most rude invectives against the English, declaring that her son should never live to be educated in a country where every one not of noble blood was "looked upon as canaille and that her son or self should never be subjects to the powers of England. This couple, the journal also remarked, seem to be an ill-assorted pair, the gentle- man-who is truly-one-being dignified in deportment, mild and gentle of speech,- yet decided; the wife, on the contrary, although remarkably handsome, is exceedingly coarse, a perfect virago in manner and conversation. Thus when the husband told her affectionately that if she loved- the boy, and the little one also she had left in England, to say now that she would return with him; but if not, he should go without her, warning her to remember that her baggage must be at the hotel in time, or he would sail alone with the child and nurse. Yet the wife still insisted (using op- probrious epithets, with manner so vehement and totally unrefined as to shock the ears of all present) that her husband might have his little English brats who were at home, but that she would not go with him to England, neither should he take Frank.   SEA Cff AIFtEt A. LOST HBtRt.     li3 11 ' - : Her husband made no reply to this, other than "Mark - i: well, Madam, for this I repeat to you: Remember, the baggage must be here by six this evening, if you intend' sailing with myself and little Frank. She then made some remarks about revenge, and obtain- ing possession of the child, called a carriage, and without another word drove off.                  , The morning after this, my curiosity, or rather my feel- ings, directed my footsteps to the hotel, and I inquired there as to the result of the affair, when I ascertained that the wife had adhered to her resolution not to sail with her husband, still declaring that she would have her child. Accordingly her husband, Mr. Mell6e, had left in the steamer alone, with his little boy and nurse, while his wife had taken passage in the one which would immediately follow, and that a gentleman who seemed to be her adviser in the matter had likewise a stateroom in the same vessel, promising to see her righted. You may well conceive, my friend Oscar, the excess of my disappoint- ment, and how much I was provoked when I discovered that I had been so near a neighbor to my little Jennie's father without knowing that it was he, or even catching one glimpse of him, except as he entered his carriage,  cloaked to the chin, the day he vacated his lodgings so abruptly, after receiving my note stating that I had seen the child in the nurse's arms, following the mother as she stepped on board- the Eastern steamer. Indeed, I could not, avoid exclaiming aloud, "Only think: Mr. M611ee and little Jennie's -father are one and the same person, and I so long an inmate of the same house with him without having the least suspicion that such was the fact; and surely I believe now the Fates had decreed that something must always interfere between those closely connected   -- '. *i*,   l114    SEABCH AFTER A LOdS HEART. 'with my darling little pet Jennie and myself to prevent my becoming acquainted with them, or learning of her welfare. "Then, again, I reflected that still there was some- thing mysterious about the whole affair, the last note being signed M. A. A.; but this likewise might have been a ruse to prevent his true name coming before the public." CHAPTER' XVII. THE remainder of the winter passed off quietly enough, and when spring came my sisters and self returned South, and by the month of April were all enjoying the pleasures of an enchanting home where all that was lovely, within and without, seemed showered upon it in superabundance;  where peace and plenty abounded, and was looked upon with a Christian spirit flowing from grateful hearts that sincerely returned thanks for God's blessings. And no one felt happier than Lorry when sure that he was once more on the, old plantation. I was the first, with the exception of Lorry, who peeped into old Claude's cabin, and, unseen, was admiring its neatness, the result of Sil- vie's industry, and at the same time was highly amused with Lorry's description of " de hansome gempiemen de young missuses was gwine to marry; " and when he saw the delight he was giving the old folks with his descriptions, he went to still greater lengths, sometimes swelling with importance when speaking of himself, and the immense benefit he had been to me, which caused Mammy, with her delight, to drop a stitch in her knitting, and Claude let fall the flower seeds he was hulling. But Lorry did not have time to finish all his history, for he was interrupted by a   SEA RCH AfTES A LOST HEART.       Its ivariety of noises, such as barking of dogs and hallooing of young people, and directly [ heard some one say, "Off Lion; keep down, old Cesar; bang-there, you are shot; now, play dead dog; up again; seize him, Tiger; fetch, Fido, there's a good dog, and don't let the basket drop." Then came talking and laughing, and loving words from sisters to brothers, echoing the endeared names with ex. pressed delight at the strangers' return, with a sudden stop here, and another there, to look at some favorite flower which had been nursed with'care for the absent one's sake, and then a brotherly love showing itself by the presenta. tion of a choicely culled bouquet to the returned wanderers, who was thanked with the sisterly reward of a kiss. On and onward the musical merry voices were wafted in ad- vance of their steps as they came bounding like the chased fawn, until at length there was a pause, when the merry party drew stealthily toward the cabin, and then the two soft voices of Maude and Florence touchingly sang that little thrilling song that tells of the heart's ppre domestic feeling, "Old Folks at Home."   Old Claude and Silvie now jumped up and quickly came forward, when Lorry suddenly raised his finger with a hush of caution, while each one in the cabin stood breathlessly still, with mouth half open and ears turned toward the spot from whence the sweet notes flowed, eager to catch every word. After the song was ended, and ere they had time within the cabin ;o discover me, my name was announced by Eugenie and lustine, who exclaimed simultaneously with their merry, ;weet voices as they ran toward me: "Oh, if here isn't dear brother Ferdinand before us.! ih, he could not wait, he was in such a hurry to see his lear, good old Mammy  Silvie"; then I received a soft, weet kiss from each of them. And here I cannot describe  i   li lSi SeARCY APtER A LOST kHAkt. correctly the feelings of Claude and Mammy Silvie when they first saw me; but this I know, when my old nurse in her calico dress, white apron and bandana turban, re. spectfully advanced at first, put her arms around me, and then took both my hands in hers, that as she bent over and kissed them I felt warm drops falling on these hands, and I do assure you my heart felt very queer, and my eyes grew so dim that I could scarcely see. Old Claude, when he came by my side to welcome me, exclaimed: "Oh, dear! oh, dear! Massa Ferdinand, don not mind old Silvie dar, if she do now 'pear like from de eyes to let so many big tears fall, cause old Silvie cry a little ebery day after her dear chile, Massa Ferdinand, for we fear dat you neber again come home, and Massa Ferdinand we don not wonner, for you grown so handsome. It 'pears strange like you no find some young missus to keep you away, and me tink now ole Sil-vie must be proud ob her handsome young massa chile, Massa Ferdinand." I then heartily shook the good old man by the hand, filling both his and Mammy's heart with delight at my compliments about their looking so well and so young, and then I took out the different presents for them: a pair of spectacles for each, a nice dress for Mammy, a vest for Claude, and a handsome Bible with large print for the use of both. They courtesied and bowed, and although advanced in years their coal-black eyes glistened, arid their teeth, "polished as ivory," were displayed as from their soul they thanked me, while Lorry, behind the house, " yah, yah, yahed " to his heart's content at my kindness to his parents. Still, I could plainly see when he came in that his eyes were red with weeping, too, for he had gone out of sight to conceal his tears, and all he could say when he walked into the cabin was, "Tank you, Massa Ferdinand, and God bress   SEAARCH AFTER A LOST! HERT      li you for 'membering de 'ole folks at home,' catching his poetical idea from the song he had just heard from his young Misses Maude and Florence who now came forward, skip- ping like young kids, followed by the boys, with Fido carrying the basket and looking quite as happy as they did. The old folks in7 the cabin stood amazed, and the first words- spoken were by Silvie, who exclaimed: "Well, I 'clare den if I eber seed anyting so lubly afore; oh, dear! oh, dear!" Claude then complimented thus: "Oh, my young missuses! you outshine all de hansomest flowers in de garden. Oh, guy! and dar neber was, me tink, ob all de wall-flowers, anyting 'pear so beau'ful. Oh, guy! me so glad to see de young missuses to home." Here my sisters would not give them any more chance to talk in this strain, but interrupted Claude by saying: "The wall-flower is your favorite, Claude, I believe, but that is the one which always belongs to stupid young ladies -almost old maids." "Wal, den, young Missus, 'tis bery sweet for all dat; but if dat ain't han'some nuff itself, den I will say dat you like de han'somest young roses." "Oh, thank you, Claude," said Maude, which was re- peated by Florence. That is indeed a compliment, and I am sure we are delighted to see you and Silvie looking so well and so young." These kind words filled the old domestics' hearts with Joy. My sisters then called Fido to them, and taking the basket from him drew forth from it for old Claude arid Silvie some pretty and substantial presents, much to the gratification of the old couple. After this they looked for the younger members, when directly they heard a scuffling, and Lorry saying, "Git out ob dar, you foolish young nigh  @       *y -i   "8     SEARTCH AFTER A LOST HEART. gers." Presently one after the other was thrust forward and kindly were they treated by us all, when to each of the domestics was given a remembrance from us, for which, if you could judge from the exhibitions of teeth and the sparkle of their bright eyes they were all, exceedingly grateful, one saying, "Tank you, young .Missy, I keep dis y'hear frock for Sunday," and from another, "I keep dis y'hear prayer-book for church." But Lorry, who seemed quite ashamed of his relatives' lack of style and manners, now brought forth much laughter from all by saying, "Well, I 'dare, I sartain neber see such awkard-looking niggers afore, and Massa will surely hab to send you to de city to larn how to hab polite manners."' After all was still, old Silvie made a courtesy and said, "Oh, young- Missus, I bery glad, and bery sorry, boff, to hear de news; fust I glad you gwine to hab such handsome ossifers, and den I sorry you gwine to leave us." Old Claude was just going to make a speech, and had bowed his best in preparation, when blushing to their eyes Maude and Florence waved their hands and ran off to join my father and mother, who had come down to meet us, and soon we were all eagerly reconnoitering the grounds to see the improvements, running around our parents rather than stiffly walking by their side. Before we returned to the house we had visited every cabin upon the homestead, and made to their inmates some little present to show that none had been forgotten, and then returning we took our carriage and visited those of the field domestics who lived at a distance, treating all the colored people belonging to the plantation alike. To old John the coachman I presented a silver watch, Maude gave him a chain, and Florence. a seal and key, and after the 1coach was put up .and the bhores pa rd for I do not believe   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEARD1       119 that there was a cabin on the plantation but had heard the time of day before nightfall. Now all this social feeling on the plantation was conducted with the utmost humble kindness on the part of the master and mistress and received with perfect grateful respect by every slave, each one per- forming his duty after Scriptural laws. When day gave place to night, we all slept soundly and sweetly under our tender parents' roof once more, undis- turbed by a single dream of care or sorrow, and as secure and safe as a brood of chickens gathered under the mother- fowl's wing. The nineteenth of April was Maude's birthday, when she would be seventeen, and on that day her wedding was to take place, consequently from the second week after our being settled at home until that date the engrossing topic of conversation, from the stately mansion to the humble cabin, was about " young Missus Maude's birthday and wedding, and the most splendiness times all de people war gwine to hab." As to Lorry he almost thought himself master of ceremonies, recommending " dis ting here and dat ting dar," considering that he had seen the elephant in " de big city and heard a French valeteses talk parlee woo, and sich tings like," and Claude and Silvie considered their son Lorry a wonderful gentleman of the valet species. The only invited ,uests other than the surrounding neighbors were Major Julien Leslie's parents and sister Carrie, Capt. Leo McBride mnd his sister Marie.  The wedding, with naught to mar its pleasures, came off tt the time appointed. Everything was prepared in a mag- ificent style, lacking nothing that' the most fastidious aste could desire; everything too was gracefully arranged, othing was overstrained; there were no heartless formali- ies, but every one felt comfortable and at their ease, and   ISO     SABRCH PFTER A LOST HEART, everything was conducted in good old-fashioned style, so much at variance with modern etiquette, yet so much more  social and comfortable. The music was excellent, two.  bands being placed at sufficient distance to render it soft i and pleasing to the ear. The marriage took place on the  velvet lawn just in front of the mansion-house, on a raised ? platform strewed with flowers, and under a canopy redolent  with green vines intertwined --with orange flowers, white  roses and jasmines. The bridal dress was a richlplain H white silk underskirt, with tulle looped high at one I side with a string and tassels of superb 'Eastern pearls.  The veil, of the finest texture, point-lace, flowing in grace-  ful folds to her feet, yet not concealing her unsurpassed  symmetrical form, was fastened with a jewel of rare splen.  dor.  Three crescents, composed of pearls of unusual  size and joined by links of pearl-shaped pendants, resting A on her placid brow, as ecce signum of the purity of her  mind; and these Oriental ornaments were in keeping with those presented by the groom's father, and worn by thiss  loveliest of brides, consisting of an entire casket of the same precious gem, unblemished, large, and of great price, with clasps of diamonds; and there never could have been  an offering more appropriately chaste to a bride, or more  becoming to her style of beauty, contrasting so well with X her dark-eyes and hair, soft-blush, and bright red coral lips. X The bridesmaids, three in number, Florence, Carrie  Leslie, and Marie McBride, created quite a sensation in , their novel costume, for such an occasion, of canary colored ; silk, and tarletan of the same shade over, gracefully festoon-  ed with yellow tea roses and sprays of fine green leaves;  the coiffure a coronet of half-blown buds of the same choice flower, confined at the back of the head with sprays, also i of fine green leaves, in such graceful lengths, sweeping lightly    SEARCH AFTER A LOST REART.       121 over necks soft and smooth as a babe's. The only bijouterie worn being earrings and brooches of emerald, magnificently set in brilliants, and they were'choice souvenirs from the bride. Thus attired, Florence appeared perfectly charming, the color selected was so peculiarly adapted to the richness of her complexion. If you ask why the ceremony took place out of doors, the answer is, so that every domestic on the plantation might witness the marriage of their young mistress, all of whom were dressed with perfect neatness, and conducted them- selves with the utmost propriety; and on the lawn a table was spread with such eatables as their taste, most highly prized, cooked to suit their own palates, being for their exclu- sive benefit, at such a distance from the mansion-house that they should be under no restraint. Then, after the collation of the master and mistress, which was partaken of inside, from a table covered with every delicacy that an epicure could desire, the bonbons, or " nice tings," as the servants called them, were removed to that of the domestics, in ad- dition to the nice things already there. Then the gong sounded to collect all on the plantation, and quickly they came flocking in with bright, merry faces to enjoy their feast. The bridal party seated themselves in such' a posi- tion as to have a distinct view of-the gay scene, being care- ful to avoid approaching so near as to prevent their family of dependants from enjoying themselves in their wholesouled frolicking way. And truly it was a gay scene as they partook of the repast with grotesque expressions, every one of them, young and old, of both sexes, being provided with a bow of white ribbon, which had quite an imposing effect in contrast with their color, and which they took great plea- sure in displaying. The most amusing of the whole affair was the, dancing. Lorry played the banjo, and John the 6 i   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.                 S coachman the fiddle, the name violin not understood with them. It was a jolly dance, with a breakdown of fun, while my young brothers, up to everything, ran in and took a turn with them, yet the doings all went off smoothly and beauti- fully. To the Canadians the whole was a strange scene, but, above all, the witnessing such heartfelt congratulations ex- pressed in each of the ebony-faced race, as they paid their devoirs to their young mistress, in rotation, with a smile and a bow, or courtesy, according to the sex.. And it was a lovely sight to see the young bride receive in re- turn their truthful expression and manner with a sweet, graceful, grateful, kind acknowledgment, smiling at their well-wishing meaning; and doubtless many of those who now hold us almost as inhuman, should they visit us and report truthfully, would express themselves after their stay on the plantation as did our Canadian friends, of having an entirely new idea of arrangements down South, and also that if they had visited a plantation before this they most probably would have looked upon these respective positions of master and bondsman in altogether a different light; still they did not like the name of ,slave, it was so grating to the ear, but in all other respects they thought no class of servants better provided for. The following morning such prancing of horses and roll- ing of carriages had not been heard in a long while, and when the gift of Mr. d'Enville, the wife's father, to his son-in-l]w, came prancing to the door, in the form of a pair of noble black horses, magnificently caparisoned, drawing after them a splendid coach, with Frank, a fine-looking ne- gro in livery, as coachman, and Stephen as footman, it was the admiration of all who saw it. As in Canada all are free who touch its soil, their master gave these male servants, together with Maude's maid, Phoebe, their freedom, exact-   ing from them a solemn promise that they would remain in Major Leslie's service, or if they ever left him or their young mistress that they would return to him and report themselves; and they kept their promises, remaining with the major and his wife, receiving such kind treatment at their hands as caused them to be anxious to continue in their service. Soon the bridal party were underway, followed by a number of the slaves to the gate, who showed much grief at parting with their young mistress, when she with kind words bade them good-by, then waved her hand, gave a smile, and was lost to their view. My father and family made their usual tour at the cus-- tomary time, previous to taking possession of the rooms at their favorite watering place for the summer, wherethey al- ways remained until fall. In addition to our own family this year, we had the groom's father and mother, also his sister Carrie, together with Captain McBride and his sister Marie, who, without vanity on my part, proved a complete trouble to me inasmuch as she had taken a great fancy to my humble self, and I did not in the least reciprocate it, thus it cost me very much trouble, for with her peculiar impetuous temper and her age (she being only just fifteen) it was a difficult task to draw a line of distinction between the atten- tions due from friendship and those which might indicate the lover. I felt neither inclined to encourage or repulse her marked advances, if for no other reason than for the sake of her brother and my sister Florence. But the captain was a man of correct judgment, and he well understood his sis- ter's movements and my caution. These proceedings of Marie's, however, hastened my departure for home, on the plea of preparing for my travels in Europe, for which coun- try I was to leave in the spring, immediately after my par.   124     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. ents had once more settled in winter quarters on their plan.  tation.. The summer soon passed away, and my father's  family were once more gathered under -the roof of thier "home, sweet home," except Maude, who had gone to Mon.  treal to take possession of the house given to the major by  his father, which had been most elegantly furnished by my i father, who had given a carte blanche for that purpose to  his appointed agent, requiring the endorsement of Major : Leslie and his wife that all had been done to their satisfaction.  CHAPTER XVlll.  IMMEDIATELY after my mother's arrival home, she began  preparations for my voyage, forgetting nothing that could  render me comfortable, profusely supplying me with innu- merable delicacies; to her stores were added little articles snugly stowed away with directions where they might be i found, furnished by my sweet sisters and noble brothers. After all was prepared, my kind father gave me the best of advice, with many charges to procure both here and abroad all that was necessary for my comfort and convenience, sup plying me likewise with ample means that I might be fully i benefited in every way by my European tour. In March,  when I left home, my parents gave me their blessing, and I received a farewell kiss from my brothers and sisters, with  a hearty "God bless you, Massa Ferdimand, my chile," ac- companied with many tears and deep feeling from old Sil- X vie, and the earnest wishes of old Claude that I would re- turn soon, and " be sure and make Lorry behave he'self," at which remark Lorry looked at his father quite indignant:  ly. The other domestics, at an appointed hour, came for. ward to bid me farewell, with many good wishes for my    -SARCH IATER A LOST hEARTj       126 health and happiness, in their peculiar way, and then Lorry and I were off. My father feared that Lorry might give me trouble, but I thought that I could not do without him, and I also felt that it would break his heart to be left be- hind, and so we started the 4th for New York, and on the 20th on board a first-class steamer for France. After the vessel was fairly under way, I took the morning paper to read the news, when almost the first thing I placed my eyes on was a paragraph reading thus: "The captain in the British army who a few months since recovered his little boy, which had been run away with by his mother, has lately obtained a divorce from his wife. She had fol- lowed her husband to England with a certain surgeon of the British army, and made an ineffectual attempt to again escape to America with the child, and was about consol- ing herself by eloping with the aforesaid surgeon, when the captain notified her in time of his intentions, and of course had not the least trouble in proving his claim to the child, or in procuring a bill of divorce from his wife in conse- quence of her proceedings with this surgeon. We sup- press the names of all the parties, from our sympathy and respect for the captain." And here I must confess, guilty as I had considered the stepmother of many acts, I was en- tirely unprepared for such total depravity as this paragraph had brought to light. In due time, with a quick passage,we were safely landed at Havre, I having determined to first make the tour of the Continent, and wind up by going to England to know and be known by some of my mother's relatives, who still re- sided there. Probably no one ever traveled with greater facilities than I did, for in addition to Lorry, who was my body servant and valet, I hired as occasion required a guide and interpreter, changing him as we changed countries for   SEARC AFT A   AR LOST HEART.  one of the country we had entered. I was three years on the Continent and one in England, and I believe there was nothing of either great or small import which I had not seen before I returned home. I had likewise formed many pleas- ant acquaintances with my mother's cousins, from whom I received marked kindness and attention. All the trouble I had in my travels was with Lorry, and this on two ac- counts. In the first place, he was a matter of curiosity to some, and again a dread to others; another difficulty arose from his fear of the Abolitionists, which worried him con- tinually after his arrival in England. This class of people bothered him, even there, as he never could forgive them from the time he saw Cato'and Mimy so ill-treated by Abo- litionists. One day he came to me in his customary way when alarmed, and excitedly described a terrible scene he had just passed through, saying, " Oh! Massa Ferdinand, me had a wonderful'scape from de Abolisheners - me had- for me was just a-walking very quiet-like, you see, when somebody j ut tush me on de sholder, and den I was afeared and say, 'Who dar ?' den turning round, dar sure 'nuff 'twas on de steps ob de tailor shop dat dis man was a-standin'. 'What you want ob me ?' I asked, bold-like. 'Noting,' he say, only I just want to ax you one question, my boy,' and so soft like he say it, Massa Ferdinand, dat. me hab no 'spicions, den me just step in to de shop, you see, and den de man fast speak and say,' My man, hab you eber seed a slave?' 'Well I reckon me did,' I answered, cross-like. 'Are dey happy ?' he axes. ' Some ob dem,' me say,' when dey be good.' (Do de people ob de South be very cruel to dem ?' he axed once more. Me answer back agin, crosser- like dan afore, 'Dey only punish dem when dey be bad.' Den he ax me ' Would you like to see de slave all free ? to get dar own wages and buy dar own clothes ?' And den me   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEAPT.   iSt   say as if me be mad-like, 'No sar,' and den dey look awful at me, just, Massa Ferdinand, as if me was like de beast ob de field, and den, Massa Ferdinand, me knowed dey war Abolishener, so I jist tought me would ax some questions too, just like dey did. " Well," I said, "Lorry, and what did you ask ?"  Wal, Massa Ferdinand, me fust ax what dey pay de sarvants in dis country, and dey tell me de biggest wages dey gib a man war seven dollars, 'Merikay monney, a month, when dey find darselves, and four when dey lib wid de massa.' 'Wal,' me say, 'you tink dat buy de sarvant good close, gib him plenty to eat, a nice little house to lib in, and take care ob all de chilren of de family, leetle ones and big ones boff, all two ? no, no,' me say, 'de massa gib de slave plentj to eat, and plenty close; he gib de slave too a little ground for he own use, and gib him time too to work in it.'  Oh, yes,' den he say, 'dat all very well, but den dey take away and seperate de chilren from de parent ' 'Wal,' I axed,' hab you any chilren?' 'Yes,' he say. 'Wal,' I axed, war am dey ' and he say, 'Some in one place and some in anoder.' 'Wal,' den I say, 'dey ain't not to home, be dey ?' sassy like-me no could help it, Massa Ferdinand. 'No,' he says again.  Wal,' den I axed, what for you want to keep de poor colored man always to home for ? some ob de white folks go' to sea, and some go to Californy, and some neber does come back, and some does go to state prison, and den I reckon dey does be punished cause dey desarves it; wal, den de white man-sarvant not so good off as de slave, cause de massa down South treat him jist like he was one ob de fam- ily: he feed de slave, close dem, gib him house and ebery- thing else that dey 'quire,widout the slave's trouble ob tink- ing 'bout it, and teach him to read de Bible, and when dar be more slaves dan he want den he let anoder massa hab  SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.        ?       SE derp, jist de same as de sarvant ob de white man and his chilren.' Den he ax me 'How you know all dis?' and me say ' cause me jist am slave myself, and dat de way me know dat a slave neber is punished but when he desarve- it.' 'But dey neber go to churhh,' he say. Den I mad, and me ax if dey believe my masst a headen. Den dey all walk round me and ax me to be free, and what you tink me say, Massa Ferdinand ?"  "Well, Lorry," I said, "do you wish to be free?" " Me! me! Massa Ferdinand, neber," he said, "but me free now; you jist like a brudder to me, Massa Ferdinand, and so me tell dem Abolisheners if dey gib me ten tousand dollars me would not be free, and nohow de way dey calls darsels free, 'cause, Massa Ferdinand, de poor people here ain't free. Den me left all the Abol. isheners and run as hard as me can, and me bery glad me safe once more, me is, from dem Abolisheners. And now me do hope Massa Ferdinand, dat you be gwine home pretty quick."   Well, Lorry," I said, " you will soon be grati. fied, for I have just taken passage in the steamer for the first of the next month," and then Lorry vented his joy in his laughter of "yah-yah," and antics, and so I left him with this caution: Not to make too much noise and bring in the Abolitionists to see if he was being killed, and so they take him away from his cruel master. This had the desired effect, and he suppressed his "yahs."   4   CHAPTER XIX. THE day for the steamer to sail arrived, and I was on board in good time, feeling as happy as Lorry that the bow of the vessel was pointing homeward, and we homeward bound. Lorry, on his voyage out, was sick two days, and, poor fellow, he was now on his back again. I took this oppor- tunity of thinking over the changes I was to find at home: As it was late in the fall the children, of course, would be at school, Maude in Canada, and Florence alone, who three years since became Mrs. McBride, was at home with her little girl, for as Captain McBride six months after his marriage had been ordered to India, and would not leave there at the last account until the middle of winter, Flor- ence was staying with my parents until he should be re- called to Montreal. I decided that I must, at all events, stop in the city on my way home to see Eugenie and Jus- tine, who were now at Madame Rosineau's, my parents having been so well pleased with my elder sisters' im- provement; and then, as it was only thirty miles to Mount Cedar, where Rodolph and Theodore were studying under the supervision of Monsieur Goulard, my brotherly feelings would prompt me to pay them a visit also, and then I would hasten to my own loved home to see my dear parents deferring my visit to Maude until some other time, it being too cold a climate for me to venture there in winter. Thus I planned out the course I should pursue when I landed. Our passage was just twelve days from shore to shore, when I was, glad to stretch my legs once more on terra firma. After being well provided for at the hotel, 1 re- freshed myself with a bath, dressed, took a lunch, and then 6*  (, 130    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEABT.        I walked to Madame Rosineau's, then sent up my card, and : when Madame entered she scarcely recognized me, and , certainly would not if my name had not been announced previously. The bell was then rung and my sisters sent for, and when they came I was nearly as much at fault to remember them as they were to recognize me, for these v children had grown astonishingly, but they still retained all the beauty of their more youthful days, and I soon be- came accustomed to the change which time had effected in  them. When Madame had left us, and they were positive that it was their dear brother Ferdinand, these affectionate sisters fairly smothered me with kisses, and had a thousand things to tell me of home which I had not heard. I staid at Madame's for an hour listening to the gay, happy tales of home, and of school interests and incidents, and after promising to send Lorry with some little articles I had j brought them from Europe, told them that I should go to bl see our brothers the next morning, and on the evening of - that day would return, then the following morning take the steamer for home, and they must have all their messages to their parents and Florence ready before I called. So, after leaving my respects for Madame R., I hastened to  the hotel, sent Lorry to my sisters as bearer of despatches,  and he returned as usual in raptures about the beauty of his " young missuses." On the morrow, taking Lorry with me, I paid my    I intended visit to Mount Cedar. When I saw the boys I  actually felt as if I was an old man, the .eldest being quite  i as tall, and the youngest nearly so, as myself, and when I  recalled to mind my age WI said is it possible that I am s twenty-six, but it was even so. After a ramble with the boys, and a little conversation with .the teacher, I left them,  highly gratified to be able to give to my parents so good a    i   .   SEARCH AFTER A LOSTr HEART.      13i report of both my brothers and sisters. The boys sent a hasty message by me to their father requesting permission to accompany me in my travels when the summer vacation came. According to promise, by seven in the evening I was at Madame Rosineau's, and after receiving many thanks from her for my remembrance of herself and Mrs. Davis in the way of souvenirs which I had sent by my polite negro, and many sweet words of gratitude from my sisters for the little gifts I brought them from -Europe, with their direc- tions for lots of things to bet sent them from home by my mother, and enough letters put into my hand to fill a mail bag, they still delayed me, notwithstanding my very great pressure for time, to tell of one of the loveliest little girls in the world now with them at school, and that she was so perfect I never could behold her like again, insisting that I must not go without seeing her. "And, oh! brother," Jus- tine said, "I know you would love her if you could but see her, for she is just to your taste; so gentle, so inno- cent, so dependent, so fair, and so very, very fascinating." "Well," I inquired, " and what is the name of this par- agon of loveliness, and shall I have the felicity of looking on her?" "Oh," Eugenie replied, "I wish you could see her, for I know you would want to run off with her, but her father indulges her so much that Madame often laughs and calls her the spoiled pet fawn; who, although she may take many little freaks and whims -in playful gambols, is so confiding, so fond, so winning, you cannot reprove her; but she is not spoiled, for Madame says she is so like a nest- ling dove that she cannot resist cherishing her in her heart, forgiving all the little artless liberties so affectionately, im- pulsively taken."    SEARCH AFcTER A LOST   'At R " Why, brother," Justine chimed in, " everybody loves her, she is so beautiful and good; and Signor Romaine says that she has an angel's voice, and to his ear her notes seem like a gentle zephyr's breath communing on its way with spirits in mid-air until they penetrate the heavens; and he thinks it came from there originally, for oh ! it is so soft, so clear, so round, so full of heart !" " Well," I again said, " and what is her name; and please gratify my curiosity by just letting me have one glance at her you extol so highly." "I wish 1 could, but you cannot see her to-night, brother dear, since I am sorry to say she has gone to bed ill with a headache, so do stay one day more, for I promise you that to look upon that sweet face only once will surely re- pay you for all your loss of time. Her name is Jeanette Arlington, and I do really wish that Jeanette was well enough for you to be introduced to her. I have half a mind to go and ask her to come down, if for only one mo- ment," Justine said, turning to the door, to put her words i' force. / "Never mind, sister dear, I cannot wait now; it is too late," I said, "but another time, perhaps, I shall be more fortunate. Has she a brother ." "Oh, yes," Justine answered; "and his name is Doug- las. But Jeanette lives now with her aunt Kennedy, at Quebec, and she has a little sister also whom she calls Lillie, but that is not her real name, I believe; it is only a pet name.", I started at this, and then laughed at my foolish thoughts, saying to myself, why that was the name of Jennie's cat, but doubtless they are speaking of-a child. It was growing late, and so between kisses and tears I concluded it was time to hasten away; and when I got to the hotel I was *    quite astonished to find that it was nearly ten o'clock, and Lorry, after having bothered and worried that' I did not  come, African-like, had fallen asleep, and laid down by my trunk, which he was packing. I roused him up and sent him to bed, warning him to rise early, as the vessel would leave by nine o'clock without fail. For myself, I put my head on my pillow, but not to sleep, my brain feeling in something of a whirl, and I was happy when day dawned and I had all the preliminaries arranged at the exact hour, and at last found myself in my berth on board the steamer, and she under full way. In five days from the time I em- barked I was welcomed by a mother's embrace, but how very strange it did seem to hear little Louise call Florence mamma. She whom I had left a mere school girl was now a matron, having been married during my absence; indeed it was difficult for me to divest myself of the idea that this pretty child was not a little sister which had arrived while I was abroad, and the resemblance of little Lquise to them all when of her age was so great that I frequently forgot myself and called her my dear little sister, for which I of course was obliged to apologize to Florence.  My return, which was always pleasant to my parents, was just now quite a matter of rejoicing; much more so than it would have been at any other time, since my father, mother and Florence had been so entirely alone this year past that if it had not been for the dear pretty little plaything Louise, to cheer them and keep the house alive, I am sure it would have been dreary almost beyond bearing. The most nat- ural and homelike thing to me was to see Florence's child so kindly watched by a neat, respectable colored' woman and ah! I thought, how much better off Louise is than those poor little ones dragged along by a great coarse Irish or English nurse. Even Lorry thought so when he pointed at   134    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HART.' the nurse and said, "Massa Ferdinand, ain't dat a great deal *more 'spectable dan dose nurses all stuck up wid dar finery, and pulling de little baby missusses along like as if dey war paid for hurting de little tender chiles' arms and legs?" My arrival home occasioned rejoicings elsewhere than at the mansion-house, for all the domestics upon the plantation came forward with one accord to greet me upon my return, and every expression of their countenances gave evidence that their welcome home was a heartfelt one. Among the first to greet me were Mammy Silvie and her husband, Claude, and as I saw them approaching I hastened quickly to meet them, returned their heartfelt welcome with as much warmth and affection as if they had been to me blood relations, and the little nicknacks I brought them from abroad were highly prized. Lorry's attempt at imitating  foreign airs and speaking condescendingly to his fellow- servants occasioned us much amusement, and called forth bursts of laughter from the field-servants at his expense, as they said, "Great gempleman, be sure, been across de big waters-ahem--wid young massa." The winter passed very pleasantly with all, and in the latter part of the spring Captain McBride arrived, and shortly after took Florence and their child away, domesti- eating themselves in their house at Montreal. In the be- ginning of June my parents left for their favorite watering- place, to take possession of the same rooms which they had occupied for ten years each successive summer, and on their way, as usual, stopped to take my younger sisters Eugenie and Justine with them, but their party this year was very small. The middle of the same month I left the South for the city, where I met my brothers Rodolph and Theodore, who stood on the dock watching for the arrival of the steamer, and I can scarcely tell which was the most delighted, !   SEAICH AFTER A LOST HEART.      135 Lorry at seeing them, or they when they saw me leaning over the side of the vessel, and my body-guard looking over my shoulder, Theodore making all sorts of grimaces. I could not help laughing aloud at Theodore's frolicsome antics, after I had discovered that it was Lorry's capers which had brought forth his mirth, for at first I feared he had St. Vitus' dance by the twitching of his face, and cer- tainly his proceedings were gracefully ridiculous and quite after the sambo fashion. The first question Theodore asked after we landed was, "Lorry, have you brought your-banjo?" and when he received an affirmative reply, ' Oh," then he exclaimed, "I will have a first-rate break down to-night, and Rodolph can go and serenade his sweet one, singing, "Lilla, LilllaLilla's a lady." Why, I asked excitedly, this name again bringing to my mind Jennie's kitten, has Rodolph a lady-fair called Lillie? Oh, no, brother, neither Lillie nor Lilla, for Rodolph's fair one's name is Constance, but you know it would be too bold to so publicly court her by her own name. A pleasant, cheerful evening we three brothers and Lorry spent together, and I myself, to my own astonishment, handled the banjo as well as I did when Lorry and I were boys together. CHAPTER XX. THE third day from this we were en route for the sub- lime and the beautiful; now we would visit-some noted resort, and then branch off into an unexplored region, and at each resting-place found objects worthy of our digression from the beaten track, many times coming upon the wild and the wonderful, the grand and the majestic, occasionally viewing some pretty miniature waterfall, gracefully flowing   i6    4EARCH  rFTER A LOSI HEARi. . over rooks and pebbles, making sweet music to the ear as it  warbled itself into a dense forest of trees, causing the wild birds to join in a chorus with their mellifluous notes ; and at other times -quietly seating ourselves under the shadowing  branches of some father of the forest, enjoying a quiet which  can only be found in these rural retreats, far distant from the haunts of men, and here, with Lorry for our maitre d'hote, we would partake of such collation as he had pro- vided for his "young massa's" refreshment. We visited mammoth caves, as the boys called them, being considera- bly larger than the smaller ones into which we could scarcely crawl except at the peril of placing our hands upon some deadly reptile; and then we performed wonderful and  daring feats by scrambling up almost perpendicular banks, catching at an overhanging rock here and there, or a scrag of oak or cedar; but the most daring feat of all was our pass-  ing on our hands and knees over a natural bridge only two feet wide, suspended more than two hundred feet above a  ravine. Then we came to the smooth, clear lakes, so mir- ror like when calm, but if disturbed by the rude winds, ter-  rible and appalling, along whose borders, and in keeping  with the scenery, were the wigwam homes of various  Indian tribes, and never leaving each place of Indian  notoriety that we plodded through without being regaled  by some terrible or pleasing legend connected with either the settlement or the tribe to which they belonged. We traveled in steamboats, canoes, bateaux. Some of our craft were paddled by Indians, and others pulled by voyageurs, and after seeing all that could be seen, both great and small, that time would permit us to look attin the Northern and Western-region, we returned by the Eastern route, and coming along the Atlantic coast regaled ourselves at some of the bathing resorts with a cool immersion in the salt sea.   SEACH: AFTER A LOST HEART.       13 But while so doing I feasted my eyes on the various nonde- scripts there exhibited, some harlequins, some bloomers, and other grecian fair ones, playing gracefully in the briny waves, like a school of mermaids, and I ofttimes felt angry to see some of the lovely, delicate ones handled so roughly, loosely and sans ceremonie by the coarser sex; and while I looked on with disgust, I said to myself, God forbid that a wife, sister or daughter of mine should be thus exposed to public view, and be an object of remark or jest to any stranger who might be present at their disgusting exhibi- tions, and thus I hurried my young brothers from such a scene, tending to corrupt their morals. By the last of September we were once more landed on the spot from whence we started, and my brothers on the following day took the train to join our parents at the wa- tering-place, being anxious to see all they could of our father and mother before they left for the South. After my trav- els I at once took the steamer for home and arrived on the plantation a fortnight before my parents, having deter- mined to remain with them for the winter, as without me their house would be entirely deserted by their children. This was intensely gratifying to Lorry, who said, "Oh, Massa Ferdinand, home is home, arter all, and no mistake, for be sure I neber seed nothing in all my travels so beau- 'ful as de flowers that be home, and neber nothing so nice as the cotton field, and I seed'nuff now ob de world, and de Abolish'ners ain't gwine to tell me dat de slaves worse off dan de help, as dey call them, for 'taint no such ting, at no rate; howebber, massa, I always glad to git back to de nice ole cabin, and to see such 'spectable ladies and gemman as ole massa and missus, God bless 'em. And I tell you what it is, Massa Ferdinand, de ladies at de Sout' knows how to treat sarvants, dey does, for dey do not half starve dem IEP    138    SEARCH AFTER A L6t   HEART. fust, and den if de sarvent say anyting dat ain't just so de  ladies and gemmans turn dem away. You see, Massa Fer. dinand, de massa and missus Nort', don not 'zacktly do like  on de plantation, for the Northern gempleman wont bear  noting wid dar sarvants, and de fust ting dey do when de help don't please any ob de family is to tell them to go, no matter wedder de poor help hab got a home or not." The only reply I made to Lorry was that every one had their own way of doing things. "Well, I s'pose so, Massa Ferdi- nand," he replied, and then was silent. My principal regret at leaving the city so soon was that I thereby lost the opportunity of making the acquaintance of Justine's friend, Jeanette, as she was to leave the school at the next spring term, being then fifteen, and return to  Quebec, and on the following fall visit Europe with her j father. This I learned through a letter from Eugenie after  1 arrived home, and I was almost tempted to take a short  trip North, to have a peep at her friend, for it seemed as if my spirit was restless to communicate with this pure, gentle one as represented by my sisters to me, their description tallying so exactly with what 1 fancied my Jennie might be when grown up; but my parents dissuaded me from going, and as I had no good, cogent reason for any sudden inclina- tion and did not feel disposed to be ridiculed for my foolish,  hasty movement by acknowledging that my only motive for going was to see a little girl, a schoolmate of Justine's and Eugenie's,I gave up the plan I had formed. Old Time, who will have his course in spite of all our scoldings and pleadings, moves on stealthily, and notwithstanding he brings turmoil and trouble to some, still he comes so im- perceptibly to all that as we look back we very much won- der so much of our life is spent. How necessary it is, then, to hold fast and make good use of each moment as it flies,   SEARCH AFER XA tS Et HART.       13 for the past has gone, the future is not, and the present alone is ours; so while the present dictates, Time on the wing writes the history of our lives, and eternity is its se- quel, so with the closing scene comes our final rest, when Time shall be no longer, and thus " we bring our years to an end as a tale that is told." Eight years had stolen their march on me quietly and peacefully since I first saw little Jennie and her cat Lillie, but'she was often before my eyes in visions and reveries. I could see her again seated upon the door-step closely hug- ging her pet, and questioning her mournfully of the happy days and hours spent with her dear mother that were now passed and gone for these two, Jennie and her cat. And two years of trouble had dwelt in close companionship with this little child at that time. Ah! I said to myself, this at her tender years was hard to bear, yet it doubtless will redound to her benefit at last by the merciful interposition of a beneficent Providence; yet how very much I wished that I could have watched each progressive step, to know if with the flitting hours there had been a change in so great love- liness, or if Time had dealt kindly by adding to the charms of her mind and the graces of her form, so endowed by Na. ture, and whether in heart and mind my little Jennie re- mained as artless and angel-like as when she thanked me with a pure kiss from her baby lips, as I clasped the little gold collar around her Lillie's neck, and if she was as guile- less as on that same-day when she thanked me, saying, with a sacred feeling of love and respect while -speaking of the memory of her mother, earnestly regarding me with a sweet simplicity. "But Lillie must wear the pink ribbon too, for my dear mother used to fasten a fresh one on her neck of just this color once a week, and dear papa and Jen- nie love to see it there, so we do just as dear mamma did before she went away to come back no more." ;. '     140   SRARCti AFTER A LOST HEARt.          But here I whispered- to myself, I must stop. meditating, or days will be gliding away from me, and hours escape in frivolous reveries upon a matter over which I have no con-  trol, so here I cast from my thoughts the bygone years, which I can never recall, and which each moment as- it  passes assists the more to obscure that which I have been H so anxious to bring to light, teaching me to feel that X it is but just to ourselves, in view of a coming account, to pass through life making each moment tell something to X our own ansi others' advantage, so that I as well as the world in general shall reap the benefit of the knowledge we i may receive and impart while we have it in our power thus to do.                        i CHAPTER XXI. WINTER was passed, spring even was over and my par. ents were again, with my brothers and sisters, domiciled in their rooms, at the same hotel, in the very same place, i where they had gone from the time I was a boy, but I did not leave home with my father and mother. As to myself, I love the sunny South, and if it were not to shake off a de- pression of spirits, which had lately come over me, produc- ing a lassitude of my entire frame, arising in part from the debilitating influence of the warm climate, I never would have strayed beyond the Southern limits. Yet I was notnat- urally feeble in life or limb, for God framed me athletic in body, and blessed me with a vigorous mind; but it was my close, ambitious application to study, when a boy, that gave my brain occasionally a wearied feeling, and being constitutionally sensitive in heart when disappointed. I now was oftentimes despondent, and thus required the   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       141 bracing air of the North, with a change of scene, to rouse my slumbering energies. This summer I felt a peculiar in- disposition to wander from my blessed home-where I felt that there was a charm in every tree, flower and blade of grass, and just at this season the balmy air is perfumed with every sweet, from the jasmine to the orange blossom and upward to the more towering spicy magnolia. And when I passed through the noble arch that led me from my native place, I looked back with a sigh being loth to leave the feathered songsters that were so sweetly singing their early matins, when Lorry, noticing that 1 felt sad, said "Oh, Massa Ferdinand, 'tis mos' too beau'ful to go 'way from and den not see not'ing like it when we go North, but den I 'spose it will do your health good, and dat a great thing, for, Massa Ferdinand, it just 'pears to me dat you not in berry good spirits." "' Well, Lorry," I said laughing, "I must say once more that you are a very close observer; but, although I cannot say that J am depressed in spirits, yet I do not feel my usual life and animation, and if it were not that my sisters, Mrs. Leslie and Mrs. McBride, intended passing the summer within a mile of your master and mis- tress I would not leave home at all, but they have rented two of those pretty cottages, and a friend of theirs from Montreal has taken the third, therefore it will render it very cheering to me, I hope, for I have not yet seen your young Mistress Maude since my return from Europe." And now Lorry was highly pleased and exclamed : "Oh! I is so glad, Massa Ferdinand, for I shall see dat lubly chile, little Missus Louise, and Missus Maude's little Massa Henry, and de baby'Missus Therese, dat my eyes neber beheld afore--oh dear how berry happy dis chile is"; and then he " yah, yah, yahed " 'again until I cautioned him saying, '"Hush, Lorry, or some stranger might think that   "2     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. you have gone mad, and then-he was silent, I assure you this being among some of his fears, that the Abolitionists might take advantage of it. It was near midsummer before I arrived at the hotel of the watering-place, where my father and family were anxiously waiting for me, and I must confess the surrounding country looked enchantingly (although North), and I will throw aside all my partiality  for my native State, and acknowledge that there are some  things in the Northern region which will counterbalance the beauties of the South, for already when scarce three hours  here I felt the cheering influence of the climate, the load of depressing weariness having already passed from my  spirits. In the neighborhood of this rural resort there is a favorite spot where those who are weary of city gayeties go - in preference to the fashionable hotels, from which it is about one mile distant, and this retired place was adapted to the  feelings of such as flee to the country to find time for re- flection and have quiet moments so as to recruit and re- fresh their brains with something more substantial than the frivolities of a fashionable, unmeaning life ; while those who are of a literary turn find in the beauties of Nature ample food upon which to feast their minds. The rural way of refreshing one's self in the country gives renewed vigor to the system, since nothing adds more to the strength of the body and brain than exercise in the open, green fields, for while inhaling its purity respiration seems less sluggish, and the keeping of good,wholesome country hours conduces immensely to the health. Then surely the taking snug little country quarters is far preferable to living in constant turmoil of excitement at a hotel, which is but a city life of dissipation over again. The name of going to these resorts by the beau monde for the sake of health is but a farcical tale, since iA every fasbixasble place of gather. l  -   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEARL       143 ings night is turned into day, and so, vice verea, midday finds them still in bed, with the fragrant, balmy pureness of the morning air unbreathed; and thus instead of return- ing home with a renovated constitution from tranquility early hours and fresh air, they look more pale and wearied than if they had remained quiet in the city. About half a mile from the main road, the approach to them being amid picturesque knolls and plains, and almost buried in a forest of noble trees, cleared of underbrush, had been built a number of modern cottages, to let for the summer months, with lawns in front gradually sloping to a pretty grove which alone obstructs the view of a lake that is most generally calm and smooth, but occasionally,when disturbed by a strong wind, it infuriates old Neptune until the maniac waves, foaming angrily, dash themselves on the shore, roar- ing wildly. The morning after my arrival I wandered toward this retired, romantic settlement to search for the cottages taken by my sisters, and stopped before one, supposing it the house I was in search of, then placed myself behind a thick cluster of bushes in such a position that while reconnoiter- ing the premises I might myself be unseen by those within, wishing to ascertain if its occupants were my sister's family. And here everything was so perfectly visible to me about the grounds that I believed I could not be taken by sur- prise, and thus I had a full view also of all within the apart- ment, where the ladies had congregated to fulfil their morning duties and amusements; some were sewing others drawing, while one was reading aloud for the edifi- cation of all, but as yet I saw none that I could recognize. The room was furnished plainly, but with refined taste, and from the female gathering and their occupations I believed it to be the sanctum sanctorum of more than one cottage for   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.         S. matinee of a social, innocent, nature, both amusing and improving. This party apparently consisted of a mother who, although not old, still had a matronly, dignified air, and while she seemed gently cheerful, yet had the manner and bearing of one capable of guiding her children. There were two pretty, gay girls by her side, of about seventeen and fifteen years, who, from their resemblance to the elderly lady, I supposed to be her daughters, and there were also several other young girls present of about the same age as the sisters; but they, I decided in my mind, were not rel- atives, differing so widely from them in form and features, yet they all evidently were intimate friends, and very prob- ably occupants of some Of the neighboring cottages; one of the sisters, who was reading, occasionally laid down her book, then all rattled away, each one anxious to be heard while commenting upon the subject which had been pre- sented to their minds during the perusal of the work. I now drew myself quietly back, fearful that I might be con- sidered an intruder upon their privacy if detected in my present position, there -being indications that the party was about to break up, so I thought it most prudent to be cautious. Thus I retreated behind some larger shrubbery, but soon found that the young ladies had been persuaded to remain, in the expectation of the arrival of other friends, to them of importance; yet, although they had reseated themselves and my fear of being discovered by them sub- sided, still I had other troubles to contend with, for I heard quickly approaching some lively-talking young persons, apparently females, that seemed to be strolling hitherward through the wild, romantic, winding ground of this grove; thus I kept quiet, watching them as they descended, first one little knoll, and then were lost to sight, and again   ascending another almost like it, when they came directly in full view, and, lightly tripping down the sloping side which led close to the rear of the cottage, the group, which numbered four, unceremoniously entered the back door and in a moment more were greeted affectionately by first the mother and afterward the younger people; when after the flitting about had ceased, I discovered the visitors to be Marie McBride and my sister Justine, and attendant upon them was my father's old coachman, John, who carefully held a healthy, yet delicate little girl in his arms, and after setting her down on her feet in the middle of the room he retired by the same way that he came in. This pretty little one, apparently about three years old, held in her tiny hand a miniature bouquet which she seemed to enjoy very much, refusing to let any one have even a single flower. This, then, I said, without doubt is the cottage occupied by my sisters' friends from Canada, and I was just coming forward to ask Justine for guidance to Maude's, when the sound of a light step, followed by the slow, even tread of older and firmer feet arrested my movements; so I waited to ascertain what was coming, for my curiosity was again ex- cited and Paul Pry's first discovery (for I began to think my- self entitled to that sobriquet)-was two middle-aged per. sons, evidently old family servants, and also, doubtless, from the appearance of a lady's shawl on the woman's arm, a work-basket, sun-shade, and overshoes in the man's hands, with the very- gentle, kind words spoken to the elder ones, coming from a youthful, merry, sweet, bird-like voice, they were carefully guarding some young girl through the very lonely road; for when there were no gentlemen at hand, the domestics were constituted the ladies' faithful protec- tors, and this owner of the light step and' voice which had  fallen so sweetly on my ears must have taken some private 7 -146    SEARCH AFTEIl A LOST ffEAT. path not visible to me, for magically there appeared in the middle of the gathering a beautiful, delicate fairy be- ing, who turned, gave a rapid pirouette on the tips of her toes, threw gracefully her arms in the air, then resting them on her head bowed in mimickry of Mustapha, and after this'pretty, playful performance, dropped as light as a feather up6n the floor in the center of the room, burying her face in her hands in a perfect glee of musical laughter; but suddenly stopping her mirth, she raised her head, shook back her curls and gravel y said: "What do you think of that foolish girl Julia Tracy? why she has per- fectly thrown herself away, and this announces it (holding up a letter), for she writes that she is engaged to George Edwards. Only think of it, Justine, and he is a perfect drone, obliged, too, to trudge down to his office every day; how vulgar! and she will never, no never now be able to see anything of the world, and as for traveling in Europe-- upon which she had set her heart as being the most desir- able thing on earth--that is utterly impossible. For my- self I would rather be an old maid than marry any one so very uninteresting and so passe." "Well, now, Jeanette," said Marie McBride, " this is too ridiculous-a girl of only fifteen or sixteen to think of such a thing as getting married-and then to consider a man of twenty-eight or nine as advanced in years; why, Jeanette, it is of all ages the most interesting." "But, Marie," this pretty one replied, smiling archly, "I have not the most distant idea of wedding any one just at present; yet you know the time may one day come that comes to all, and then perhaps I shall learn that old gentlemen are more in- teresting than young ones, and more intelligent, too, which may be the truth; but I am young and foolish, and so have not, as yet, discovered it, I have, however, always heard   S SJ3ARCH .AFTER A LOST HEART.     147 Julia say that she would never wed any one more than two years older than herself, or tie herself to a man who was inot decidedly rich; and, my dear Marie, it -is principally that her lot in life is to be so widely different from her avowal of what she intended it should be, and that George Edwards is in such a strong contrast with her beau ideal of a romantic guardian and protector, that called forth my mirth; yet 1 doubt not that Mr. Edwards is a worthy, good, sensible person; but," she said, shrugging her shoulders, "I shall require something more than good and worthy; 1 - Tmust, when I wed, have a companion-not a father, as I have that already.' Jeanette now rose from the floor like a spirit, for it could not be called getting up; and seeing for the first time little Therese, as they called the child, she took the little one in her arms, and almost smothered her with caresses, calling her all sorts of endearing, pet names. Little Therese seemed accustomed to this attention, and to love it, for she clung to. Jeanette after she had been placed upon   her feet, Land then, while stretching up the little hand which held some of the  bonbons the elder lady had just given her, said, "Here Jennie, take this--you so dood." Jeanette again kissed her, saying, "Thank you, darling little Therese, for you are the only one that calls me by that same pet name, so pleasant to my ear, except my dear father, and I love the name of Jennie." And oh! my friend Oscar, that name of Jennie rang sweetly on my ears also ; but what folly, I thought, as if none other but my little pet,with her cat Lillie, had been called by that name, and none other could speak it with the same tone as my  little pet. Jeanette now ran to the mirror, after picking up a rosebud little Therese had let fall, and, placing the the flowrer in her hair, said, "How beautiful." Beautiful indeed, I thought; but I meant the wearer, and not, as the   "8     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. pretty one, the flower, for she seemed totally unconscious of her own loveliness. She did not remain long at the glass, but said, "Oh, dear, I am so very tired; do, please Mammy take my trappings; fordI am just going to throw myself upon the lounge one moment." Nurse came and took her bonnet, mantle, gloves, etc., and after cautioning her to be careful of the draft, left the room. "My dear girl," said the elder lady smiling, " you are sans doute a spoiled child, yet a sweet one." "Oh, no, not spoiled, my dear Aunty Bella' Singleton, I hope, only indulged beyond what is good for me; and that I will certainly acknowledge. So, dear aunty, if I do what is wrong, please put me in the right way; but," she continued, "here is my gentle, hazel-eyed Justine, a very little tawny, to be sure, still only just enough to show Southern blood, yet with a beautiful blush, penciled soft by the hand of Him who never fails in his coloring or shading, and from whose hand every thing comes perfect, and dear Justine is one of our Heavenly Father's purest specimens of all that is lovely both in body and mind, so good and obedient, and so thoughtful withal, she never requires chiding. Ah! I wish I was just like her, dear, dear Aunty Bella; but," she sighed, "although I am sometimes trifling and wayward, still I have much, very much, to sober me down, and 1 ofttimes won- der at my flow of spirits, but it is natural to me, I suppose, yet I frequently weep when alone, for I once had a mother, you know, aunty, and she was so good, so sweet, and so beau- tiful. I was very young when she left me for a better home, yet I remember her well, and every word she uttered, too, is as fresh in mind as if -she were just yesterday laid in her grave; but every one is good to this heedless child, and, aunty, you are ever very kind to me." Then After kissing the lady whom she addressed so sorrowfully   -SARCt 4FTER A tOST HEAR,       iq  &rossed the room, laid herself on the lounge, covered her eyes with her hands, and wept; and as she leaned over, her whole face was veiled with her light brown ringlets, soft as velvet, fairly dazzling the eyes with the bloom of gold on them as the sun's sportive rays brightly glittered through each waving lock. Her grief was of short duration, and when she shook back the curls from off her face, it was as the purest lily, transparently fair except her cheeks; and if the color that was there had not varied with almost every word that was spoken, I should have thought that it was a delicate rouge, most artistically laid on; her eyes were of the deepest violet, so blue, shaded with long brown silken lashes, and the finely penciled arched eyebrows were sur- mounted with a forehead unwrinkled by one single line of discontent and white as the ice-polished snow; and every word she uttered came with a softness of pronunciation peculiar to herself, yet it was full, musical, clear and dis. tinctly heard, without one shrill, overstrained, high-keyed note; at times the words issued from her cherry-polished lips, merrily, singingly, and cheery in sound as the pretty musical Swiss, bells, then anon so tender, and accompanied with such appealing glances from her soft liquid eyes that it called forth the wish to take her as a daughter to my heart, and there shelter her from all evils, for what I had already seen of her gave evidence that she was lovely and winning in manner; ever-changing, but whether at one time all tears, or at another radiant with smiles, she was equally lovely and gentle, every feeling appearing as if emanating from a guileless, warm heart, as simple and as innocent as a mere child's, and as true to nature, and seemingly, too, she was perfectly dependent for comfort and protection upon others, and grateful withal for every attention bestowed on her. Her neck and arms were like parian marble, so   -160    SEAoRC1 AFTER r A LOST BER i r'. white and transparent, with wrists round and small, while the hand, tapering to the very end of her delicate fingers, had nails of that soft shade of pink such as is seen on shells from the shores of the Pacific alone. In all her movements never was aught so flexibly graceful. I now started in perfect tremor, thinking I should be discovered sure, since Jeanette suddenly sprang from the lounge, placed one arm around Justine's waist, and the other around that of Lizzie Singleton's, her youngest cousin, saying, "Come, see, the sun is under a cloud, and we will have a fine time at playing tick." -Presently; all three gave one bound through the window, followed by the other young girls, when such a pretty game of graces (if I may so call it without their using the implements generally employed), most surely, I never, never witnessed before. Directly, Jeanette's old nurse brought little Therese to join them in their frolicsome gambols, and as Jeanette danced and played with the little one it displayed her perfect form to advantage, and I never saw such symmetry; it was light and airy, yet round and full. Her ankles well turned and proportioned; and although her feet were exceedingly small, her step was firm, for she sprang like a fawn, running with such ease naught seemed to fatigue. Her style of dress perfectly simple, without finery -or jewelry, in color modest as a quakeress, yet as flowingly arranged as that of a noble Grecian maid. And thus it was I could have lingered forever dwelling on a being so pure, so faultless, -so un- affected; but soon the roll of a heavy coach was heard, when the trio (Jeanette on the lead) sprang through the side window in the room again as light as kittens; then; Jeanette, taking little Therese from the nurse once more, ran off with her, seated herself on the sofa, waiting for the entrance of the visitors. I shall be discovered now, I thought, *ty-   SEA RCH A4FTER A LOST EAPTP.     15i to a certainty, as my father's horses and carriage jarred the very ground I stood on, and quickly I found myself so closely imprisoned that I could not shake a single branch- without the coachman. seeing it; still I was glad of the excuse to be thus caged, as I never should have weari- ed watching Jeanette's movements.  My parents soon alighted, and walked in, when by this time there was quite a party assembled, and shortly after such a confusion of tongues that although I knew they were pleading for some favor from Jeanette, yet I iould not understand -exactly what it was, until-at length all was so still that you could have heard the fall almost of a feather, then came sounds - that went directly to the heart, and as the song progressed I wished I could have drawn nearer unseen. But again as every nerve thrilled with pleasure while she sang, I was delighted to think that I could enjoy the privilege of listening to a voice such as I never heard before, unobserved-and undis. turbed by prying glances to search my thoughts, as well as unannoyed by any sound that could drown one single note, and so I feasted alone on the exquisite, soft, tender words and sounds as they flowed from her beautiful lips in cadence clear, full and smooth, with a depth of feeling un- surpassed by human voice; and yet this was only a simple, plaintive ballad that Jeanette had chosen, but it was my favorite style, and not one in the room could conceal their tears, for all wept except little Therese, and she had thrown herself back in Jeanette's arms, never removing her large dark eyes from (as the little one called her) her own Jenny's face, with an expression as if enchanted, and I con- fess I was myself feeling an emotion of the heart which I would have found very, difficult to suppress if once more they had not requested her to gratify them, when this time she chose one of her little comic airs, and sang it so   l.5   SECfH .AFTER  A LOST HEABRT. merrily, with such grace of glee, and emphasis so true to -nature, that it called forth irresistible peals of laughter, and was enjoyed by the little one as much as her elders; while Jeanette, to hide her blushes caused by the compli- ments received, drooped her head and stopped little   ij Therese's laughter with kisses.             i! And here I stood alone gazing with amazement on this paragon of loveliness in face, form, expression, movement  and manners; but as I listened with peculiar feelings to the intonation of her voice, I wondered what besides all these charms had so fascinated me, then said to myself, "This is something more than ordinary admiration that has thus spelled me," for when she first repeated after little Therese the name Jennie it went so natural to my heart that it came-over me like a dream ; indeed Jeanette's every tone, every look, reminded me of my Jennie; so, quietly taking the photograph from my pocket, I thought doubtless there is a resemblance, then whispered to myself, "Pshaw! what nonsense ;" for I reasoned it cannot be, since name and all deny the fact of its being my Jennie, but it must doubtless be Eugenie's and Justine's friend Jeanette they loved so well at school, as it answers Justine's description; so 1 replaced the photograph in my pocket as I said: "There, I will think no more of it, for my brain is becoming con- fused, and ere long I shall be only half-witted." A general movement soon took place in the room; and I watched my opportunity while all was commotion to hurry away, for I saw my mother making preparations to leave; and it was well I made good my escape as I did, noiselessly and stealthily, since just after I left my secret little nook and lookout 'a few rods, the carriage overtook me, and 1 was really gratified jt did so; for, having overheard my father say they had to leave Therese at home, it was a good chance ay   SEARCH PAFTER A LOST HEART.       i53 for me to call at Maude's and Florence's, then return with my parents to the hotel, feeling fatigued after having been so long on my feet in one position, and therefore not ex- actly in trim to walk my way back. Marie McBride was with my parents, and as they filled the inside I took my seat by the old coachman, and when we stopped at the door of Florence's cottage, and I took Marie's hand to assist her, she deeply blushed, saying: "We have not for a long time met, Mr. d'Enville."  Then inquired: "Is your bosom- friend, Lorry, still with you?"I could not avoid laughing at the appellation of bosom-friend; but as I remembered the many speeches she used to make about slaveholders, I thought to myself: "Ah! you Marie, at least in principle, are unchanged by time." "Oh! yes, Miss Marie," I replied, off-hand, " my bosom-friend is still with me, and there are but few hearts more faithful." "Indeed," Marie satirically said, " why, I did not think, that you held the colored race were human enough for friends, or slaves Christian enough to possess souls." lIere I answered not, but bowed, smiled, and let the sub- ject drop, taking it for granted she had not considered my greeting sufficiently cordial, which had caused her tart re. marks of injustice to the human heart of Southern blood. CHAPTER   XXII. THE meeting With Florence and her husband to me was perfectly delightful, and little Louise was in perfect ec- stasies at again seeing Uncle Ferdinee, as she used to call me. Shortly after our greeting was over, my father re- minded us we were quite limited as to time, and said if we delay much longer we shall be late for hotel hours,-and 7*   1i4     SPA RcEff darEn  A L OST EA T. little Therese, I perceive, too, is restless to get home; so we will adjourn to Maude's, and enjoy there the remainder of our family call together, and that will expedite matters. The cottages so nearly joining we walked thither, and hav- ing made acquaintance with little Therese, I took her in one arm, and Louise by one hand, then swiftly on I footed it, frolicking with the children as I went, and thus found myself considerably in advance of the others, when, sans ceremonie, stepping in the door, my sister Maude was quite taken by surprise to see her little daughter and niece so familiarly situated with a stranger; for as she had not heard of my arrival at the hotel, and we had not met in nearly six years, and myself so completely disguised with large whiskers and mustache that she did not recognize -me, yet I was not in the least at fault with her, only as- tonished at her increase of beauty. Little Louise was the first to make me known, for on seeing Maude's surprise exclaimed: "Why, Aunty, don't you remember uncle Ferdinee 1 "The words were scarcely spoken by the child ere Maude was in the unoccupied arm opposite her little Therese; the next moment called out, "Julien, my dear, a gentleman; " but when the husband approached from the adjoining room, he drew back shocked and horrified at see- ing his wife and child in the arms of a stranger. Julien, however, was quicker of discernment than my sister had been, since one smile from me told the tale; and I never received a more affectionate welcome home from one of my nearest, dearest relatives by the ties of consanguinity. By this time the remainder of the family had arrived at the house, and after talking over bygone matters in domes- tic affairs, and hearing that Carrie Leshe was married, Justine came to me, leaned her arm on my shoulder, and said: "Brother, I shall now be able to gratify your   SEBICE  AFTBER A LOST1 BEART.   i5 curiosity, for Jeanette Arlington is staying this summer close by us; she has come on with her aunt, Mrs. Single- ton, purposely to be with Eugenie and myself; and Jea- nette, I assure you, is more lovely by far than when at Madame Rosineau's. Jeanette's home now is in Quebec, where her father, Major Arlington, resides; his sister, Mrs. Kennedy, keeps house for him; she is a widow, has been twice married, but never had any family; thus she is very fond of the children, and treats them all-Jeanette, her brother Douglas, and sister Elizabeth, or Lillie, as they now call her-as if they were her own. And, indeed, she is a kind and good mother to these half-orphans; and they love the aunt as- devotedly as if she held that position to them, for they have been motherless some time. I shall not, dear brother, introduce you to my sweet friend until after some tableaux and little private theatricals on the tapis at the hotel, for I intend that you shall there first feast your eyes on ole of the loveliest beings you ever beheld in any country. The exhibition will take place on Tuesday, and is for the benefit of the village church. It is to be strictly private, and none present except those the managers allow admitted; you, of course, will be one of, the audience; there will be a choice in seats, and, since it is for charity, we expect you to be very liberal, paying the highest price, ten dollars, for your ticket." Here Marie now-quickly and tartly said, ere I could answer my sister: "I doubt not, Mr. d'Enville, but Justine's friend's stage performances will be very good, as all her move. ments are quite theatrical, and done for effect." But these words had scarcely passed Marie's lips when, according to her old way of doing things, her petulance was over, and she truly penitent, so immediately, to make the amende honorable, pronounced Jeanette lovely in all things, and universally kind.   - i65,   XSEAikCH AFTER A LOST?  EBT. t, ' ' "It is well, Marie,jmy sister, you recanted your words," said Captain McBride, "and it quite puzzles me to under- stand what has caused you to speak so illy of Miss Arling- ton, who possesses such a remarkably sweet disposition that she both treats and speaks well of everybody." It was very evident to all that Captain McBride felt more than usually provoked at his sister's unjust remarks and ill-temper, for his reproofs cut very keenly, as he mildly continued: "You cannot feel well this morning, Marie, or you would not be so severe on Jeanette, who is thought- ful for every one; or else some private pique or evil report has made you overleap the bounds of charity and kind feeling, since generally you think highly of our mutual favorite. Why," he proceeded, "Jeanette's sunny face ever brings joy with it-to all, and the aged as well as the infant are happy alike when she is nigh, she is so cheeringly respectful to one and tenderly merry with the other, and the poor invariably leave her with a blessing. As to Jea- nette's young companions, they court her society, for she was never known to be guilty of one disagreeable act toward them; but, on the contrary, ever amiable, entirely free from using cutting remarks, and when she discovers an attempt in any one to display wit at the expense of others has always some little gentle word to destroy the rting; she feels so indignant at injustice done to any person -quite immaterial to her of which class-by speech or act. Always disposed-to be mirthful with innocent intent, but never to expose others' defects, either of mind or body, let them be ever so glaring; and as to the disagree- able in disposition " (here the brother laid stress on his words)," she rather pities than upbraids them ; indeed there is no harshness in her composition, for she is yielding and forgiving at all times. To servants Jeanette is never   SEARCH ATER A LOST HEART.       157 exacting, but asks as a favor for what she might claim as a right; indeed, she is lenient to all classes, and she has a heart so overflowing with affection that she must always have something to pet, and the animal she so favors meets with her most gentle care. I do really believe her entire family worship her, from father to the youngest cousin. To me she seems like an angel of light, lent us to shed abroad her rays of pure, cheering influence that must surely kindle in our hearts a warmth of love for all things holy, in time and eternity. The fact is," he said with a smile, "if Florence won't be jealous, I will confess that I love Jeanette Arlington myself, but then it is as the pure love of father, and daughter." Marie now came to her brother and kissed him, and acknowledged she had spoken when something had crossed her mind just then to excite her anger, and thus the matter rested, remaining as before. "All I can say, my husband," Florence remarked, is, that to me Jeanette seems certainly the most beautiful, fairy-like person I ever saw, differing from all other young girls in style, it is so unique; and in character Jeanette is so perfect that I sincerely hope our little Louise may resemble her in every point, and a better wish I could not express for my darling daughter." "Well, my dear brother," Justine said, turning to me, (' you see, according to our brother-in-law's 'description, I did not overdraw the picture, and on Tuesday evening you will acknowledge that which -has been reported of Jeanette to be true, and that she is perfect, as brother Leo McBride and Florence say. I am sure you will not refuse to give a good price for your ticket, thus killing two birds with one stone - losing your heart, and, better still, being charitable."   158   A. S EARCH AFTER A L OST HEART. "Indeed, my dear Justine," I replied, "you have now doubly renewed my anxiety for an introduction, and I will give twice the amount asked for a ticket, endeavoring to be patient until Tuesday, if possible." "Halloo!" called out a voice, truly a boy's, "Ihave run all the way from the other side of Mrs. Singleton's to see my uncle Ferdinand, for Miss Jeanette's old waiter said he had arrived, and told me tha t you had all been looking for me; so where is my uncle? for I want to see him very much." But when the little fellow saw me he started and exclaimed: "Why, you are the very man--yes," he said, looking again, "you are the very man I ran away from a little -while ago, for you were hid in the bushes, and I was so afraid, as really I thought you were a robber; for your long mustache and big whiskers are exactly like those in the pictures that mammy Sarah, my white nurse, tells me about every day; and she says such ones always steals niggers, and they say I am almost -as black as one, but I aren't a nigger, and then Phoebe says it's no such thing, and they don't steal niggers and sell 'em down South; and she ought to know, for she belonged to grandpa once, way down Slave States." "Shame! Henry, my son," his father said, " to believe such bughear stories as your mammy Sarah tells you about the South; and your nurse must not teach you such nonsense, or talk to you about things she don't understand herself, for she was never there. So you must not listen to her, and I shall forbid her bothering your mind with it." Now I cared naught about Henry's stories of slave trade, but I can assure you that for myself I fairly trembled at every word the little urchin uttered, with dread and fear lest he should make an expose of me as a Paul Pry, and you may readily imagine also, my friend, that I was most decidedly relieved when his father spoke to him, saying :   SA1ARCH HFTEKR A LOS* AE-ART.    i59 "And, my boy, you must have mistaken your uncle for the young gentleman who passed a short time since, as he exactly answers your description." This explanation, at all events, of Major Leslie, answered all purposes to satisfy Henry that I was not the robber, and quieted my apprehensions as to his insisting on my where- abouts, and you may be sure that I made no comments on little Henry's declaration of having seen me before, or his alarm because he believed me to be a kidnapper, but lifted my little nephew on my knee, and after caressing him and inquiring of him how I was known by Miss Jeanette's waiter, he became quite reconciled to his position, and earnestly replied: "Why, uncle, you were not known by him, as I know of, only the waiter came to aunt Florence's a few moments ago to borrow some music, and so John, grandpa's coach- man, told him if he saw me to send me home, for you were here; and I have run almost out of breath to see you, and I like you very much." "Well, Henry," said I, laughing at his frankness, " and so do I admire you, my boy ; but you are a complete John Bull." "Then, my uncle," he replied," you must be a John Bull, too, for mother always says I look just as you used to." Henry being a beautiful boy, of course I felt very much flattered; but I thought to myself, although children are very pleasant, they are dangerous, too, and are very apt to discover secrets, which in this instance almost proved true, as I felt that my escape from this boy's report of where he had seen me was a very narrow one. "Come, dear children," my father said, " it is time we were off, as I intend returning by the new road, which is the longest way home, in order to show Ferdinand the imr   :  160     SEARCH AFT ER A LOST HEART. provements since he went to Europe;" and after we were all in the carriage gave John orders to take the river route; /  so he first drove us in the rear of the cottages, and then, after many circuitous turns, we found ourselves' upon- the  water side, to where the front lawns of the cottages slope with only the grove hiding from our view our friends'  l places of residence. And surely, to-day, a most beautiful and lovely scene did it present, this silver lake- reflecting every object, which now was actually dotted with yachts of various sizes, together with barges and other small craft of pleasure. But while admiring the scenery, I felt how much I must have been absorbed in other objects not to have discovered the many changes that had taken place since the cottages had been built, and the vast improve- ment the cutting through of these roads had caused, as well as-increasing the beauties of the surrounding face of coun- try, and the renovating freshness of the air the inmates of the cottages received from the water by the many openings which had been made. Indeed, the grounds by this route were so completely metamorphosed during my stay abroad that as I looked upon the spot which had been my Paul Pry position this morning, as we approached the rear of the selfsame little group of bushes, and discovered how much I had been deceived in the density of the shade, I considered myself an exceedingly fortunate fellow not to have been caught, or seen by any of the passers-by save little Henry, with so few trees to conceal me from their view.   $SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      16i CHAPTER XXIII. THE roads were smooth and in capital order for travel- ing, thus we soon arrived at the hotel door, finding sweet Eugenie and my brothers on the piazza anxiously wating for our return and wondering at our delay. Justine was the first to spring from the carriage, and im- mediately drew the young people one side, whispering something of importance to them, evidently intended to be a profound secret, when away they all. went, and I did not see any thing of them again until we met at the din- ner table. On returning to my room for the evening, Lorry had lots of things to tell me, and among others that there had been a woman around the house acting "zactly most as if she wor crazy, looking in everybody's face, and some ob de gemplemen said dat she ought to be taken up, and," con- tinued Lorry, " den, Massa Ferdinand, what you tink? why, she walk right straight up to me and ax if dar be some forriners in dis hotel, and den she ax me if I be slave; and me says yes; -den she ax me if me like to be free; den me say no; den she say me great fool, and dat me better take care, for all the colored folks would be arter me, and dat de Abolisheners war gwine to choak all de white people, and de color people too, dat didn't jine 'em: and, Massa, Fer- dinand, me wish me home, for me feard, me is." I really felt sorry for poor Lorry, he looked so alarmed, and told him not to fear, for neither his old massa nor myself would allow any one to harm him, and the next time we rode out his old master would let him sit by the side of old John, and so he was soon pacified, believing with old John he would be safe. After Lorry left me I said to myself, "Ah, my sister   . 16   SAIRCCH AFTER A LOST HPBABR T. Justine, I think I am before you and have already seen your friend Jeanette Arlington from my hiding place this morning." The Tuesday evening at length came, and at eight o'clock precisely the performances which were to take place in the ball-room commenced. The first, a tableau, was Rudolph a priest, and Eugenie a nun at confession, capitally sustained and very much applauded. No. 2, little Louise as Red Riding Hood. Then Louise and Henry as Babes in the Wood. Then Justine and a gentleman I did not know at that time as the Bandit and his Bride; they both looked and performed well; but when the curtain was again drawn I fairly sprang from my seat, for Jeanette was now before me as the most perfectly fascinating, lovely, artless, modest of young peasant girls, with her pretty pet lamb, standing by her father's cabin door. Her whole appearance was picturesquely beautiful, a blue skirt, red jacket, and white apron, a round swiss hat of broad braid- ed straw, trimmed with blue and yellow ribbons; thus she seemed prepared for a walk, while holding the one end of a bright crimson string in her small, white, delicate fingers, the other end of which was attached to a collar around the 'cosset's neck; thus Jeannette was the very personification of the pride of some Swiss canton, and the representation of the little pet so well got up one might have thought it had life. Jeanette's dress was just so short as to display the prettiest pair of ankles and feet, such as would have compared with no lady-fair but Cinderella's, they appear. ing even smaller in contrast with the snugly fitting red and white striped stockings,and trimly made coarse peasant shoes of sealskin leather. - And I was not the only one that rose from the seat with a whisper of "Beautiful, too beau- tiful for any thing. earthly," while the only words I   SEARCH4 AFtER A LOST' HAdRT.       163 uttered were, "How like my Jennie; but it cannot be, and I am very foolish." The scene again shifted, and Eugenic with Justine appeared as Rebecca and Rowena. And now a studio-the artist a magnificent-looking young man whom I decided was Spanish, being so very dark, and I fancied too that he evinced, in expression, more of tender feeling for Jeanette, the subject, than was required in the profession; but I was not surprised, as none, I was sure, could avoid a warmness of feeling about the heart while their eyes were gazing on- her lovely face and form. Finally, the dying scene of Sylphide. But you can well imagine Jeanette's grace in this tableau after the pre- vious description I have given of her movements and the sensation it excited with the audience. A  pause now  came and the interim was filled with some fine instrumental mnsic, the performers, although un- seen, not unknown. The curtain then rose for the last time and the theafri. cal performances commenced. The scenes representing a rural pic-nic; the repast spread on a knoll covered with grass, shaded with cedars, and here, indeed, was gathered, in various graceful positions, the very prettiest group of fair ones, mirthful and gay; their innocent hearts unsus. picious of evil. In the distance, a forest, where a number of Indians were half concealed, two of them crouching be- hind a rock, watching with their steady, piercing black eyes, a fair aim to draw the bow, and, as the arrow flew, surely to all it appeared as taking effect on a favorite Newfound- land of Eugenie's called Caesar, fully trained to all these tricks, and he performed his part well, dropping as if shot. Now, the war whoop was given with its piercing yell, yet all escaped except two, Justine, whose arm was firmly grasped by one of the savages, and Eugenie, quietly stolen   : ;- 164   SARCH AFTiER A LOST HEAP T. upon by aniother with all the cunning treachery of his nation, while weeping over her wounded dog; but Cwesar, as taught, quickly was on his feet again, not forgetting to feign a limp, as he furiously seized the Indian by his wam- pum belt, and held him at bay until his mistress might flee unharmed. Suddenly Jeanette reappeared in a white robe such (in make) as might be worn by the most chaste Athenian maid, high to the neck, the skirt full, flowing and gracefully con- fined at the waist with a blue girdle, the sleeves looped high enough (with ornaments of turquois and gold) to dis- -play an arm that would rival the Graces in form and purity of color. The braclets and brooch of turquois and gold also; and then such dazzling curls,half shaded by a small white chip gipsy, on the inside flowers of choice English forget-me- nots and snowdrops, the crown encircled with an azure- blue ribbon, jauntingly fastened with a knot and long streamers, and this hat, placed slightly on one side, was, for her, the very most bewitching headdress I ever saw, while her pretty fairy feet, encased with well fitting bronze-kid gaiters, just peeped from beneath the modest length of her skirts. Thus attired, she was the most airy, graceful and beautiful young person ever looked on. And this part of Jeanette's performance was as perfect as if she had been a star actress, for having at first fled with fright as her com- panions had done, again, on missing her two friends, came bravely, fearlessly, and swiftly to search for them; her movements graceful as a fawn,her step as light,scarcely touch- ing the ground, while bounding over all that impeded her progress; then when she found them, nearly fainted, but as she confronted the Indian (who had fastened Justine's wrists together, and truly, as would the relentless savage have done, was with one hand detaining her, and menacingly -l   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEBART.        165 in the other holding high above her head a scalping knife unI sheathed), Jeanette threw herself on bended knee at his feet, turned her expressive soul-winning, darl-blue eyes in earn. est, soft pleading for mercy on his; while her model hand, unrivaled by a Venus, fell gently like a snowflake on the Indian's muscular red arm; and thus her graceful position displayed to advantage a most perfect figure. When, after this movement, the next effort for her friend was to charm the savage with a song--the fondness for music being charac- teristic of the Indians-and succeeded in subduing the man of the forest, in more ways than by her intended, since it was evident to all that Jeanette had fairly stolen his heart as she retained her humble posture, singing that song, written for the occasion, with the deepest of pathos: "Oh! I pray thee, raise not thy red hand, Brave Chief of the Silverpine grove; Sheathe that knife of thy merciless band, Spare, oh! spare this poor trembling dove: Spare, in mercy, brave chief, This poor trembling dove. "Hast thou a dear wife or daughter? Strike not, Chief of the Silverpine grove, Or in vengeance the White Man may slaughter Wife and child whom you so fondly love: Then strike not, oh! strike not, This poor trembling dove. "Think no murderous deed can you hide From the Great Spirit's eye that's above, And day will dawn on the last of your tribe-- Mark me, Chief of the Silverpine grove- If no mercy you show To this trembling dove,"   / " 166  SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. And oh! this song appealing to his feelings, as sung by  her, so searching, so touchingly stirring to all others in the room, caused the Indian, unintentionally, to betray the true feeling of his heart to me, for in recognizing him -as the same who had personated the handsome young artist in tableau number six, I soon discovered, also, most decidedly, that this sweet pleader, while giving all present most perfect delight (with her superior acting in seeking deliverance for her friend), had so softened the Red Man's heart as innocently to take full possession of his every tender thought, and thus he must have yielded had he been in reality ten thousand times more one of the positive tribes of America. And who could have resisted Jeanette's earnest appeal, with her captivating, fascinating expression, when the voice alone beggared all description, and so affect- ed the audience that it thrilled through every nerve, and, indeed, verily, I may assert that it would have moved a heart of stone and subdued the most ferocious, unfeigned savage to the gentleness of a lamb, since at -first it bewil- dered, then fascinated me, until I was actually almost star- tled into the belief it had come from the mansions of angels ,bright and fair, to arrest all evil thoughts from the sinful hearts of men, and lead them to long for realms of purest bliss. And oh! that voice: never on this earth is it possible for any other to vie with it, it was so true, so deep, so full, so clear; now unquiveringly swelling without exertion upon the ear, until I wondered from whence the compass, and as her warbling octaves rose higher and higher, they stealthily glided upward, farther and farther; then sounded in the distance like a dying, whispering breeze on one single, smooth silver chord; still not an accent missing, but lingering distinctly n .the senses; when gradually, sub- 1   SEAzRCH AFTER A LOST HEAR1:       167 liKmely, once more it burst forth in power, filling the air with its last round note, holding it thus unshaken and steady, until again it faded, and faded, and faded, fainter and fainter, like a baby's breath that has passed the gates of death, and entered Paradise to sleepits last sleep of ever- lasting peace, leaving us inquiringly whispering, "Whence has it gone?" or, as the echo which is lost to the ear as it recedes, without our knowing the moment it ceased, or whither it went, so we earnestly listened to catch, as . we3 hoped, the last sweet accent again, but like the mys. terious spirit of the shades it had fairly stolen from us, and, specter-like, gently wrapped itself in silence, Thus it was' that every word in the warbling, tender note of Jeanette softly died upon the ear, and then naught but "Hush, hush," was heard on every side, and no applause, for that voice seemed to drown all wordly feelings and kindle into sacred awe. the soul, as if it came from some sainted spirit too perfect for earthly sound; and it appeared with those who listened as if respiration itself was suspended in waiting, to be blessed with another of those liquid, melt. ing tones which had sweetly sighed and sighed itself away, while tears were unconsciously coursing one after another down the cheeks of all ages, even actually streaming from Jea. nette's own modest eyes; for, as she sang, it came with such unaffected warmth of feeling, as if every word was the true sentiment of her own tender heart, and they flowing from her lips in strains such as evinced emotions which were as touchingly sincere as those of her auditors; herself never seeking or, even conscious of th'e admiration and rapture her talents and performances had called forth from others, now applauding in ecstasies after arousing from that sense of silent delight which at first had fastened itself on the heart alone.   ; v C . 168     SEARCH' AFTER A LOST HE ART.. As to the Indian, he seemed transfixed; his eyes rested ,if . i so immovably on the transcendently beautiful girl, humbly :    ..prostrate before him, and when Jeanette's song was fairly terminated, and the last word uttered, and she withdrew her hand from his arm, his own arm dropped almost nerve. less by his side--he actually forgetting all this feeling of Jeanette's was only assumed, the personating of ex- treme anxiety for her friend's release being so natural; and so, like a positive statue, the Indian stood while gaz- ing on his fair supplicant's face, until he bore the semblance of a person charmed to the concession (of any petition; and surely but for the audience, he would have dropped on his knee and prayed her in mercy to grant him the one boon he most desired on earth in return-her heart, unsullied by such arts and wiles as fill those of many young ladies in fashionable life. Thus he performed what the spectators called acting to the life, but which, with him, I knew to be the very soul of true adoration, for I was a correct discerner of his feelings. Suddenly he felt his awkward position, observing all eyes on him, but it passed off very well, for he soon collected his thoughts and composedly continued his part; then having spent some time among the Indians, gave their usual token of acquiescence to a request, and while in the act of unbinding the hands of Justine the curtain dropped;. and now there was an applause indeed, which fairly deafened me, yet I could not join them, for my ideas were too much wandering, or else concentrated into one all-absorbing sen- sation-I could not tell which. Directly, a voice in the rear aroused me by exclaiming: "Oh! I 'clare, most 'zactly like de little missus' photem- graph; and oh! dear, me be sure she cumbed right straight from - ebenr most-yah, yah. But oh  dear, me believe   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       169 Missy Jeanette be too ole for de photemgraph, dat all. And this explained to me what I was bothering my brain about, and that the same thought was on my mind as with Lorry's; but I threw it off as perfect nonsense, for once more I felt that name as well as many other circumstances were against it, so I banished all such ideas and laughed with the others at Lorry's grotesque manner. And here, again, I whispered to my soul, that I must not love this girl, with all her charms, save as a child that I could take to my heart with the pure sentiment of a father to a daughter-the very same as my feelings had been to little Jennie-and vow for Jeanette, as I did for that child of my first love, to protect her with all my strength of spirit, through weal and woe, resolving to keep a strict vigilance over all her movements. But this, I presume, my friend Os- car, you will call love,in spite of my decided resolve to guard myself against it; well, mayhap I did not know myself; yet one thing I was sure of without a doubt, that after hav- ing heard so freely given Jeanette's sentiments expressed to the group in the cottage (myself unseen, when at my lookout position), with regard to age, in speaking of her friend Julia's engagement to a man so much older than herself, and knowing that I was now twenty-seven, and eleven years Jeanette's senior, therefore with her heart I could stand no chance, except as a disinterested friend, old enough for a father. Poor Lorry, when I reprimanded him for his exclama. tion, still insisted that he could not help it. "' Massa Ferdinand, for sartain it 'peared for all de world so jist like dat photemgraph dat me see in de hotel win- der, 'cept the young missus 'pears older-like; and dat ber- ry natural, you knowd, Massa Ferdinand, for it good long while time ago dat it goed away in de steamer, and I 8-   170    SEARCH AFTEB1 A LOST HEARdT. was so berry'lighted for your sake, Massa Ferdinand, I war, so you seed me speak right out--for sartain me couldn't help it." And, with the old story, promised to do better next time. A call now was made to bring some one out, and I re- turned to the room, when, to my surprise, on the stage stood the old music teacher, Signor Romani, bowing to the peals of applause from the audience. The signor, it seems, was staying at the hotel, and got up this affair for the boarders' amusement, which had contributed so much to their pleasure and ended so cleverly to their gratification and charitable purpose. CHAPTER XXIV. THE entertainment for the evening was now over, our family all had retired to my mother's private parlor, and Jeanette with them, when, shortly after, I made my ap- pearance, and then Justine gave me the long-looked-for pleasure by introducing me to her lovely friend Miss Jeanette Arlington, who artlessly said, "Why, Mr. d'Enville, do you know that your sisters have spoken so much of their brother that actually I feel as if I was your sister also." "Indeed, Miss Arlington," I warmly replied, " and surely I should feel most happy to number you among them." Jeanette hesitated a moment after I had spoken, then said thoughtfully, "Well, really, Mr. d'Enville, I do al- ready feel quite at home with you; for although never having seen you before, your voice sounds as familiar to rmy ear as if I must have heard it some time previous to   SEARCH AFTER A LOST BHEART.      171 this; but I presume," she said, " this is only one of my ideas from friend Fancy, and her Ist J-ship, you know, takes very many strange freaks occasionally, unaccount- able to us all; yet," she said, "I wish you would call me Jeanette, I shall feel so much more at home with you, for Eugenie and Justine are so near to my heart that I would fain love all those who are related to them." This remark of Jeanette's was quite decisive, for I now felt my ideas were correct, and that this artless child con. sidered me (in comparison with herself) advanced in years, her manner of addressing me being precisely with the same freedom as she would speak to a man very much her senior.* Jeanette now turned to my sister and said with an air of extreme pleasure (as if on intimate terms with the young gentleman, and holding high respect for him), "Only think, Justine, Mr. Arnoux reports to me that he has for us in the- treasury four hundred dollars more, it being the proceeds from Signor Romani's successful opera- tions this evening," and then appealed to me thus:. "Aint that a nice little sum for the village church, Mr. d'Enville, and I do really believe, as you have more experience than we who are younger, it would be far better (that is, if you will take the trouble) for us to submit to your superior judgment as to the most advantageous manner of disposing of the fund raised by us for the benefit of the parish." I could not answer for a moment, the sweet intonation of her gentle voice fell so familiarly on my senses, as if a wand had been touched, and immediately my ears were favored with sounds such as I had long wished to hear, for oh! although less childlike, still it was the very same sweet tones and accent of dear darling Jennie; but I soon canme to my senses, and pronounced myself the most egre. gious jack to indulge in such nonsense. The door was now   1SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. opened and Mr. Singleton announced, who reported that Jeanette's aunt Ally waiting for her. Old nurse was called, and, wrapping her up well, she, with my married sisters, took their departure for their respective homes. Surely that I retired this night :tis true, but not to sleep, for my brain was overwrought with past and present visionIs. From this time I daily visited my sisters, and there fre- quently at first met Jeanette, at either one cottage or the other, and through Maude I learned that if there was one peculiar point more strongly marked in Jeanette's char- "acter than another, it was a fondness for seeking out a cer- tain class of poor, and accordingly, shortly after her arrival, she had gone on what she called one of her missions, and soon found that which she sought for, in a humble dwelling where resided an aged grandmother, partially blind, with her orphan grandchildren, entirely destitute, and daily now Jeanette administered to their wants. "Oh," said Major Leslie, "I believe I must join Maude in sounding Jeanette's (or, as our little Therese calls her, Jennie's) praises." (Here I started, for this dear name again caused in me the usual electrical thrill of delight.) "And," the major continued," I could talk all day of this lovely child of nature, whom I may, without being wicked, call in heart the child of a Higher Power, she is so confiding in her Saviour at all times, ever trusting in Him for a shepherd's care, never murmuring when troubles assail, ever grateful for blessings received. In fact, she loves every one and every one loves her--she -is so pure, so good, so beautiful -and Jeanette is totally unconscious of all these charms. She is her father's idol, and I greatly fear, such being the case, she will be taken from him. I have heard him say it was wicked to refuse Jennie anything she asked for-she   !     ; . SEARCH RiTER A LOST HEAiRT,    13 was never unreasonable in her request, and always sought - favors so -sweetly, so humbly." Here the name Jennie electrified me again, and I thought how much more foolish I was each day growing in allowing my old feelings to lay hold on me as of yore, fearing I might again do something ridiculous; so then I said, "Oh, major, do not make an old bachelor like me crave impos- sibilities, or- tempt me any farther, for I fear already this eulogy will take all the self-denial I possess to resist the power of fascination in so perfect a being as Miss Jea- nette, and it would be unwise to love where it would break my heart to relinquish all hopes of winning." My brother in-law now quite laughed at my excited manner, saying he believed already I had lost my heart, and I felt absolutely provoked with myself for having so discovered my feelings to any one as to expose myself to being quizzed-a thing I always dreaded. That morning I sauntered home more -lazily than usual, for as certain cir- cumstances call forth certain subjects for reflection, so such reflections lead on to certain feelings, which create wishes to put certain measures into operation, and thus the cause and effect on me through all I had undergone from my introduction to Jeanette, although so short a time had elapsed since I had been thus favored. - I had not long left the cottage before I began to think over the past eight years of my life, dating from my first seeing little Jennie; for that dear pet name mentioned by the major in speak, ing of Jeanette recalled the pleasure I used to take in the meetings with that dear, darling, innocent child in the park, nursing and frolicking with her pet cat Lillie, and now won- dered what had become of her, and if she had followed her own mother and sister Isabella to Heaven. And then, should she not be dead, it brought a wish to see the child   174    SEARCH AFTERX  A L ;OST' HEART once more alive; and then I formed a thousand plans to seek after her,which quickly vanished, as dew with the morn- ing light, when I pondered over the inexpediency of putting into operation my plans upon so flimsy a foundation as I had to accomplish my undertaking. Thus deciding the case as hopeless, by the time I arrived at -the house I had abandoned all my ideas of searching to bring back substan- tially the enjoyment of days I felt were fled never to re- turn, and held fast alone with grateful memory to the many pleasant hours with which I had been blessed in the past; for, alas! my better judgment told me I could never see Jennie again as a darling little innocent with her pet cat Lillie, since the one if now alive must be a girl grown, and the other, according to the longevity of that part of the feline species, certainly some time dead. By the time I arrived home and met Justine the past had gone also from me, and my thoughts were absorbed in the loveliness of my sister's young companion who had just been so highly extolled by Major Leslie. Justine's inquiries as to Jeanette could only be answered by me in this wise: that I had not seen her, but that she had been reported of by our brother-in-law as well, and then abroad on one of her errands of mercy, so I did not call on her friend's aunt, Mrs. Singleton, to deliver the message. "That is more than I can say of Mr. d'Enville, who has been so unmerciful to one of his old friends as to -permit her to run one mile out of her way because he was deaf to her call," said a voice I well knew; " but he is doubly excu- sable:' first, disappointment at not seeing the fair one; secondly, it is his nature, being one of those lazy Southern, listless planters, who depend upon their slaves to both see and hear for them, and sometimes I believe even think   SEARCH  AFTtBR A LOST HEAT.     i75 for them, except when their master's all-engrossing theme is of his charmer, her he loved at first sight, and then the gentleman's brain is so alive with pleasing visions that he would not forego the felicity of thinking for himself. Oh!" she sighed out, "Cupid, dear Cupid." I turned, faced Marie McBride with a profound bow, as I always did when I saw her vexed; then politely inquired wherein I had erred, and what her commands, leaving her remarks unnoticed. "Thank you," she pettishy answered, "I can now de- liver the message myself without calling a slave Lorry to deliver it second-hand." By this time her ill-temper had spent itself and was over, so she smiled pleasantly, inquired for Eugenie, who an- swered in person, and then both left me, entering the house without my discovering what had called forth this great commotion with Marie McBride. CHAPTER XXV. AFTER retiring to my room to equip for the remainder of the day, I took my book, seated myself on the piazza, and ere long was deeply interested in the work I was read- ing; but I was soon aroused by a lively conversation close at my elbow; yet I did not raise my head, choosing rather to listen (as it seemed no secret) unknown to them-an old trick of mine, by the -way-and I really enjoyed their gay and very playful repartee, full of innocent mirth. The ladies' voices I soon recognized as Marie McBride's and one of my younger sisters. The gentlemen were Mr. Arnoux, he who had been the Indian in the theatricals, and   1?e  ttS  SEARCH Al,'t E A' LOSt' HBERt. apparently so much in love with Jeanette, and Rodolph, the elder of my two young brothers, now a boy gentleman, just nineteen, and manly for his years. "Well, Rodo, dear," Eugenie said, "and so you won't resign your flame, Miss Arlington, in favor of Mr. Ar- noux?" Here, indeed, I was both amazed and pleased at my brother's answer, which ran thus: "As to resigning such as I have no claim to could not be, my sweet, verdant sis- ter,- and claiming what I have yet to sue for would not be according to laws either human or divine; but rest assured, should I dare plead for so much loveliness, and be success- ful, to the envy of all, I never would deliver into the hands of any the jewel fairly won. From the powers divine I could not withhold it, of course; and there even, it would take all the energy of my Christian spirit to resign submis- sively to my Maker the idol one I so highly prize on earth."  "Very well spoken, Master Rodolph, and quite in juve- nile heroic style," Marie very tauntingly replied. "And Ihow  on earth, Master Rodolph," she continued, "Mr. Arnoux can resist following your example and eloquently pronounce also his value of this wondrous treasure I scarce can tell." "Oh, Miss Marie," Mr. Arnoux said, with a polite bow, "the pleasure I take in conversing with the fair ones pres- ent surely gives me neither time to think of, or inclination to express, my opinion and feelings with regard to absent -ladies, were they the most perfect in all requisites of the fair sex." Here I gave a side glance at the gentleman and discerned there a feeling lurking within which he did not intend   dSEARC ATE R A LOST HBEART.     17t throwing open to the public, and thus through compliment- ing present company saved himself from commital. Ah, I said to myself, this indeed would be a stronger cause to contend with than age, since independent of youth Mr. Arnoux would be a formidable rival to any gentleman, for he is noble in face, form and mind, added to which he has wealth; and during the evening of the performance his expression had spoken volumes of love for Jeanette, unin- tentional no doubt. Yet it was evident to me, however, that Jeanette, the innocent one,- did not then understand it. As the party left for some gayer portion of the hotel, I laid my book down and continued meditating a few mo. ments, but my straying ideas were soon collected, and, after resuming my reading, each thought was again as fully absorbed in the interesting work I was perusing as it had been ere I was interrupted by the few remarks just over- heard which at first made me so sad, and gave me a vain wish that I was younger. CHAPTER XXVI. DAILY I continued the visits to my married sisters, usually taking Lorry with me, giving him without fail some little articles for the children, much to his gratifica- tion, and the perfect delight of the little ones. And then Lorry would always bring-with him his banjo, which con- tributed more than any other indulgence to their happiness. Now Master Henry, who invariably at such times consti- tuted himself the master of ceremonies, would first set a chair for Lorry in the shade, then give him some lemonade, leaving little Louise and Therese to offer the cake; this done, and Lorry having partaken of the repast, he uncased 8*   I78     SEA RC  A FTEk A LOSt BREA T. his banjo, when scarcely did he draw his fingers over the strings ere there was not a single nurse or child within hearing distance that was missing; and thus honored, my colored valet was in his glory. One day, on our way home, Lorry stepped cautiously close to my side, and in an undertone (as if fearful of being overheard) said: "Massa Ferdinand, Massa Ferdinand, me jist want to tell you somethin'."  And as I told him to say on, he con- tinued: "Wal, Massa Ferdinand, me no want to frighten de little massas and missuses, so me no say nothing afore dem, but me telled you, Massa Ferdinand, dat me just do believe dat dis yhear chile seed dis day de berry same mad, crazy woman dat me seed at de hotel; she was jist so tall wid de berry same great big brack eyes, just for all de worr like' Satin, and stood jist ahind de tree, and m- 'spose she look for see somebody, and me 'clar dis chile was frighten mos' adeff, Massa Ferdinand, for he heart 'pear jist right in he troat like; and me sure, Massa Ferdinand, me see dose great big brack eyes afore me came to de hotel; but me don not know war." "Why, Lorry," I said, "how easily you are frightened, which is needless, for I have not the least doubt but this woman is either one of the servants, trying to trick you, or a village beggar, that, perhaps, may be a little shattered in the brain, but harmless, or possibly a frolicking woman, who, for mischief, is wishing to make game of the servants and children that have bothered her some time." "Wal, Massa Ferdinand," Lorry replied, " me  knows dat you got more sense dan me hab; but dis be berry strange-looking woman anyhow; dat all me can say." ' From this date, the tall sprite with big black eyes, like the Evil One, as Lorry reported, became a person of fear- ful notoriety among nearly the whole of the several .cottage   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEARt.      i79 inmates, who, many of them, had also seen her; as for myself, however, I did not give it a second thought; but poor Lorry breathed more freely when we arrived at the house, Justine now   hurriedly approached and inquired:- "Brother, the fair Jeanette, was she at home this morn- ing " "I was not so fortunate to-day either," I replied, " my sister," and this answer being given in rather of a sad tone, Justine continued apologetically, "Then I presume that by this time you begin to think it strange that of late you have seen so little of the younger part of our circle." "And I rather reckon, my dear Justine," was my reply, "you think rightly." "Well, such being the case, brother, I will explain all to your satisfaction, so that you may not feel it intentional. Now you must know that in the grove, not very far from the cottages, a band of missionaries has-been organized, and every- morning, at ten o'clock, meet in a small building, which was originally used for a schoolhouse; the upper part at present being occupied by a poor old half-blind grand- mother and her orphan grandchildren; and these apart- ments were fitted up for the benefit of this family. The lower- room remaining as it was when " the young ideas were there taught to shoot." 1The ladies by permission took possession, and there prepare apparel for the poor of the parish, teaching the little ones to sew, giving them as many garments as they can themselves complete, together with those the ladies make for them, the material being sup- plied by the Mission, and we intend before long to call, on the gentlemen for contributions to increase our funds. And there, too, a number of the poor village children are taught to read, and there likewise they are instructed in   180    Sa8ci APFTER A LOST iBEARt. singing, by Jeanette and Marie. And oh! my dear brother, you, who are so fond of music, would be de- lighted with some of the children's voices; but when Jeanette sings one of those pretty village hymns (so fre- quently chanted over graves of friends, whose faces we shall never until the resurrection behold again), by the special request of the blind grandmother, the tears roll down the good old woman's aged cheeks in memory of her children now in heaven; and as for the little ones, they gaze so intently on Jeanette's face that their' own pure expression is but a reflection of that of the fair songstress', speaking tell-tale hopes of participating in those joys un- alloyed with sin, while the stillness which so reigns as she brings out the swelling notes in soft cadence,uttering each sentiment of the spiritual song with such sincere soul- breathing seraph's whispers-(giving evidence of the deepest sensation of a Christian spirit within)-that it bears the listeners' doubting thoughts beyond this earth, and tran- quilizes every turmoil that many have been anxiously troubling their brains ere she commenced. Marie, too, who as you know sings sweetly, frequently joins Jeanette, and their voices harmonize beautifully; Maude and Flor- ence likewise often take part with them in a quartette, and then the woods fairly ring with their full notes of harmony. But to my taste there is naught so sweet as the warbling of Jeanette, accompanied by her juvenile pupils, who already have fallen into her liquid, undulating style of flowing forth their words in tones touching to the heart. This Mission House, as it is now  called, you will pronounce when you visit it as being very romantically situated, standing in bold relief on the summit of a high rock, amid many other smaller, and deeply moss-covered (soft as a bed of down), and'from whence wild flowers are finding   SEAk  4 ABFER A LOST' EAR1.     11  their way through every crevice to the light of heaven, kissing the sunbeams with gratitude for their blessed warmth which gave them birth. This building,likewise, faces the junction of three broad lanes leading to the lake, which reflects at each clear eventide the soft tints of a mellow sky, and this refreshing expanse of water can be most distinctly seen in the distance at the termination of these lanes, notwithstanding they are shaded and arched with tall silver pines, and when old Boreas, in his mild humors, wafts indulgently the gentler breezes only, their whistlings through the branches of these singing trees, accompanied by the magic band of rolling, rippling waves, finding sport ively their way around the smallest grains of sand, it creates such wild, moaning strains of music as never fail to lull, the most wakeful, disconsolate mourner to a calm, refreshing slumber: and this is why the old blind woman loves to live here, for these sounds at midnight, when the children are all1 quiet in bed, softens the poignancy of grief for the lost ones who rest in the silent tomb where strife and sorrow enters not. In the rear of this ancient building is that part of the grove where the foliage partakes of every shade of green, and the thicket is most dense; but on the one side through which the sun's rays are peep-  ing you can feast your eyes upon the sweet, humble, modest plants trailing the ground in full bloom, and you will there, too, find the high, flowering shrub, unaided by the hand of florist, abounding in richness of color, with vary- ing hues of beauty, of luxuriant native growth. And thus likewise in the grove the birds of late have been so un- molested by sportsmen that you can hear them all day long billing and cooing; and while the mother-bird sits on her nest, caring for her young brood, the father-parent is perched on some neighboring branch, to watch that no one   f 182   S  kARC/iCH AFTER A ZOSTr HEAR: should disturb her, encouraging- her faithfulness to her family by whistling notes, sometimes low, plaintive and, lulling; at others, hops from twig to twig, wildly caroling to make the heart of his pretty mate gay, and then the throat of this little feathered songster swells fairly almost to bursting, as he quickly varies his notes, so clearly,' sprightly, cheerily, that it causes the soul of the human species to dance with joy at this domestic felicity. Then from  these rocks there is a triple echo, and, brother, I very. much wish you could hear Jeanette sing on that spot, The Sad Sea Waves," listening, as she dwells upon the words, to the thieving artful siren stealthily bearing them thither from us to his undiscovered home, even in softer accents, if possible, than sweet Jeanette's own touching tones; and when you are blessed with this ecstatic pleasure, I know you will be so charmed as to become almost a living statue, unwilling to breathe until the thief will return from his secret portals each thrilling sentiment as it flowed from my sweet friend's pure lips, and not until so favored, brother, with Jeanette's voice, can you under- stand fully these sweet lines: "' Farther yet, now farther stealing, Now it dies upon the ear.' "And who do you think, brother, was the founder of this Mission of Charity? Now I will tell you: none other than this sweet child Jeanette; for really one scarce as yet can call her girl, since, only think, she is six months younger than myself, and she has systematically organized the society, although so very young; and with the respect due her elders, constituted sisters Maude and Florence, with her aunt, Mrs. Singleton, the officers, modestly herself taking the situation of assistant teacher. Major Leslie calls it the Jennie Arlington Institute." (And here, friend   SANCEH ArFER A LOST iHEART.     i83 Oscar, the name of Jennie, dear Jennie, once more palpi- tated my heart.) "Indeed, brother," Justine continued, "she is a strange compound, possessed with so much knowledge of doing good, and still such a perfect, simple child of nature. The poor old blind woman has given her to-day a maltese kitten, and promises to have it cared for properly until old enough to be taken from the mother. And Jeanette says it so resembles one that she once so loved, now dead, that she wept over it with mingled sorrow and delight." (Strange, I thought, so like, so like, and yet not her.) "But we have lately a marplot," Justine went on to say, "and I believe everybody must have occasionally obstacles to universal perfect bliss in this present life (as the wise ones have prophesied tlius); and this barrier to our pleasure has presented itself in the form of a mad woman; for really her wild looks are sufficient to alarm the bravest hearts, and indeed frighten them out -of their wits. "Somre of you gentlemen, I fear, brother, will be obliged to put yourselves on the look-out to protect us, but we all of late fancy that she either has a partiality or dislike to Jeanette, which it is, however, as yet we cannot decide; still, one thing is certain, whenever her piercing black eyes are seen peering just from without the borders of the thickest part of the grove (which is now almost a daily occurrence), they are steadily fixed on Jeanette, with a sharp, glaring expression, which, at times, reminds us of a tigress watching for her prey; so the principal care of you gentlemen must be for Jeanette, as there is no account- ing for the freaks of any insane person, you know."- "I thank you, my sweet sister," I said, " for this pre- cautionary measure which you have suggested, so over. flowing with interest for your friend, and will endeavor to   i84     SEBRCH AFTEs A LOST REAoTS have an eye over this innocent young subduer of' all hearts, , and thus rest assured I will do my best to shield her from every harm with my whole heart."' "Ah! but listen, I forewarn you of one thing, brothpr," Justine playfully said, " and that is you must beware of trusting to stoicism, or you will have your heart stolen most certainly; for, although so young, Jeanette has many admirers who have endeavored to fortify that susceptible flutterer against all invasions; yet it has proved totally useless, and they have yielded to the universal confession, ' None know her but to love her; ' and I can testify to this, ' Or name her but to praise.' And there is one, in particular, who would be a most powerful rival, for he adores her almost to desperation; still she seems to look on him the same as all others, who are ready, nay, anxious, to ask her hand, giving none the preference, although every- body loves her, for she is perfectly irresistible, and, in return, she loves everybody; but her love is that of a simple child, wholly unalloyed with selfishness,- rather leaning on the side of those in trouble, and her heart to- ward all God's creatures abounds in feelings of kindness, tenderness and charity. As to her bestowing exclusive thoughts on any favored one, she gives no evidence of such ideas, and if I can rightly judge she scarcely looks upon herself as a young lady grown; or, mayhap, the right one as yet has not appeared to make a deep impression; but she is neither cold or stoical herself, for I assure you a warmer friend never existed in one so youthful; why, she is ready at any moment to sacrifice all -her own com- forts for the poor, as well as the rich, and where she gives her heart it will be with sincerity, thus the person may be confident if once on her an impresion is made it can never be effaced."   SEAkCH AFTER .A LOS&T REA R.     1i5 "And, what," I inquired, "sister mine, is the name of this youth so smitten? Is he worthy of Jeanette " "Oh, undoubtedly, brother," she replied; "it is a gentleman whose praises I have often heard you sound; the name is Heyward Arnoux, from extreme South, and he is dark enough for a Spaniard." "A most formidable rival for any one," I replied, " but you know, Justine, I am an old bachleor, and past the age for desperation." "Ah!" she quizzingly retorted, " many an unsuspecting swain, on the wane, has been sadly overpowered, and with a humble heart sued for youth and beauty in vain. Then again, many an advanced bachelor has met with success, and his love fervently reciprocated by a young, tender, fair one, when he least suspected that lhe should have been preferred to some handsome, talented youth; and there is to accounting for taste, you know." "Pray," my pretty young sister, 4" may I inquire where you have obtained so much knowledge on such subjects? and you a young lady not yet out of her teens?" Now, I only intended to jokingly quiz Justine, but from her answer she took it quite seriously. "Why, brother," she blushingly replied, "' I have learned to read, you know, and have you forgotten that I have ears to hear older persons give in their experience; so you see I am not precocious on such points; but my faculty of understanding is not below mediocrity, and my sense of hearing clear and quick; but personally I am ignorant in such matters." I said no more, only smiled, and was convinced, although Justine might not be aware of it, that every word she had spoken did give evidence of precocity of mind, and an indisputable" correctness to rightly judge of w           i    i86    SEARCH AFTER 4 -LOST  EXARt'. human nature in many ways, for Justine was very English- clever. She now started for a walk, aad I soon retired to my room, there to think over all the strange things I had heard. And I must admit my brain seemed wandering and my ideas confused, as I contrasted my darling little Jennie with this lamblike, fascinating Jeanette, for I could not but think that such as this sweet girl now is my darling little Jennie might have been at this time, they being nearly the same age.  And actually so absent. minded had I become, that I was not aware Lorry had entered the room until I heard him say: -"]Wal, Massa Ferdinandj me has seen dat mad, crazy woman agin, and she 'peared worser-like dan me eber seed her afore; and she say to herself, holden up her arm, 'To-morrow, and to-morrow.'   Oh! Massa Ferdinand, dis chile, den, did feel so kind a-drefful-like, for de Satan one look so mos' awful." aAt all events, Lorry," I said, " we must look after her now, for if she is crazy, she may possibly injure herself." "Oh! Massa Ferdinand, me don not tink dat, but me tink she hab spite agin somebody; and leetle while ago 1 seed, pretty Missus Jeanette riding home on de horse- back wid de ole waiter by her side, and den dis mad, crazy woman look so wicked-like, and pintin her finger at Missus Jeanette, she say, 'To-morrow, and to-morrow' again; and den she take someting out her pocket, so shiny like dat de sun on it dazzle dese eyes." Seeing Lorry so much excited, I laughed the thing off, and set him to work at various little arrangements in my room; but I was glad to learn from him what he had - related, inasmuch as it gave a clue to the course my duty called me to pursue on the morrow. 7            w1   OE4RC/ AFTER A LOST HrEART.       1 CHAPTER XXVII. SOARCILY were my eyes open on the following morning, when my mind was intent upon the day's work I had be- fore me, feeling confident that Lorry's report of this lunatic was correct; yet to my sisters said nothing upon the subject, while I hurriedly breakfasted ;'for knowing the hour the ladies met at the Mission House, and that they were punctual at the cottage to a minute, I hastened my steps with gigantic strides, still they had all assembled long ere I arrived; so rather than disturb them, I seated myself behind the rock nearest the building, and thus once more became an unintentional Paul Pry, but it was for a good object; and there I sat one whole hour ruminating, without hearing a single sound save the rustling of the leaves, singing of the birds, and rippling of the water on the shore. The morning was calm;, the surrounding scenery such as the eye might dwell on forever and never weary, it was so commingled with the sublime and beauti- ful. Presently the sweetest band of juvenile voices, like a choir of sanctified spirits, came gently rolling in upon my ear, chanting in tones so mellow one of the sacred Psalms, and then I closed my eyes to strengthen the other sense, unwilling aught should intrude upon the-sight to destroy the deep impression of blissful feelings which were stealing upon my soul: that I was to be blessed in some pleasing interview with friends long since departed this life in peace and happiness, who for the love they bore me were now returning to tell of pleasures (spiritual and divine, free from all human cares and frailties) awaiting those in heaven who with all their heart had loved the things righteous and holy in this life for Christ's sake. The   188   SSEARCHt AF TER A  OST H4LS ARH E        last, of this chant had scarce ceased vibrating on my dreamy mind when a single voice, in a low, plaintive warble, bound me with a spell, for it seemed gradually issuing from the confines of some ocean cave, until, swell- ing into sublime richness, it blissfully let in upon the penitent sinner's soul the blessed sunshine to disperse the cloud that had o'ershadowed its hope of a home at the foot ofi God's immortal throne; and this was Jeanette who sang this solo, and the hymn was, "'When gathering clouds around I view;" and then again all was silent, and how long I remained perfectly motionless, as if in a trance, I cannot tell, but the very first that aroused me were two little voices prattling just above my head, on the rock at the foot of which I was lying, and soon I learned they were gathering a  bouquet for "sweet, pretty Miss Jeanette, so kind to dear grandmother." And from them I ascertained the ladies were preparing to leave, which was- verified by their coming forth; then I could hear, besides female voices, those that issued from firmer material, and I distinguished them to be Captain McBride and Mr. Arnoux, and was just preparing to join them when one of the little ones (who was intent upon the object which was giving her so much pleasure, of selecting the most choice flowers for their young benefactress) said: " Don't hurry so, Maggie, we have plenty of time, for you know Miss Jeanette has promised to stop awhile and read the Bible to granny, so we will be able to nlake a choice, and gather the prettiest plants." "But, Lizzie," the sister replied, "the more speed we should make if dear Miss Jeanette is going to read, for she explains so beautifully the Scriptures, and tells all about Jesus, and that although now He is our Saviour-King, yet He was once a meek and lowly child, and loves little boys and girls when they obey and trust in Him, and calls   ,SEARCH .AFTIE A LOST HEART.     189 little children to come unto Him, and will make them good and happy; and so do I love to liear her, too." "Maggie," little Lizzie replied, " then we will just pick a few more violets, gather one more handful of fresh grey moss (which the sweet young lady admires so much), and be off." "There now, sister," the elder replied, " see, the basket is full to the very brim, so come let us return to the house." And now these little prattlers hurried away, as fast as their little feet would carry them, as I discovered only by their rapidly receding voices, for their steps were too noiseless to give -evidence of their departure as they fell on the soft bed of moss. The meeting being adjourned, and Jeanette remaining with the old waiter alone to protect her, I determined to stop also, and thus guard the little missionary from the Evil One whom Lorry heard quoting the day previous, "To-morrow and to-morrow" so significantly, with glaring eyes resting on, and finger pointing at, Jeanette. Again, after having read and explained a few passages of the Tes- tament, Jeanette, accompanied by the little orphans, sang in soft, simple notes, with plain, even style, adapted to children's capacity: "' Jesus, Saviour of my soul, Let me hide myself in Thee.'  After this hymn was finished, the sound of the old waiter's voice warned me the young missionary was making preparations to return home, so I was hastily on my feet and sauntered to the rear of the house as if I had been on a pedestrian excursion; then placed myself so near the little porch at the front door that nothing could pass me un- noticed, just in time to hear Jeanette say, in a cheerful, comforting tone of voice: "Good-by, Grandmother Seely,   190     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. and to-morrow I will come, when Ben will bring with him his utensils to hoe and weed your garden." These words had scarcely passed Jeanette's lips when from the thickest of the woods, in accents wild, was fairly screamed: "Milk. sop, vengeance is justly mine; there shall be no morrow for you;" still, I saw no one, but there came a rush so fierce that I felt the wind as it swiftly passed by, and sus- pecting who it was, hastened my steps, arriving just in time to catch the hand which held the upraised dagger in- tended for unsuspecting Jeanette's heart; and it was 'at the very top of my voice (surpassing maniac strength) that I exclaimed: "Fiend, I know you;" wrenching the- instru- ment of death from her hand, while the waiter grasped the woman's arms firmly from behind, and I caught the faint- ing form of the young missionary ere she fell; but the mad one forced herself from the old man's hold, and fled to the grove. I then quietly placed Jeanette on the lounge within the house, charging the waiter not to leave her side until I returned, and gave chase; but without success, after searching thoroughly to the extreme point of the thicket. Still, onward I went, my brain keeping pace with my feet, as I repeated over and over again: "It must be her- it must be my Jennie." I soon arrived at Maude's, it being the nearest cottage, and without heeding my sister's comments on my very excited expressions, only-giving myself time to beseech her to hurry her coach after me, saying she would find me at the Mission House, then, with all my speed, hastened back to Jeanette, nearly out of breath, and found her entirely revived, her cheeks blooming with a brighter color than I ever saw them before, caused, I presumed, at first, by reaction after fright; but I soon dis- covered what had increased the blush to such an extent, as she was searching for something most anxiously, and   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       191 which she excitedly told me was a highly-prized jewel just- now lost. Quickly I volunteered my services, when she accepted- them, pleading, with her soft voice: "Oh! do, please, Mr. d'Enville, and I shall be so grateful if you find my little sacred treasure which I have so fondly cherished for nearly eight years, wearing it during the daytime on the wrist nearest my heart, and under my pillow at night, ofttimes dreaming of the many little pleasant incidents connected with it, yet the happy moments were not unal- loyed with some of the keenest griefs; still, I had hoped, presumptuously, perhaps, that my days of affliction were passed; but if more trouble come upon me, it is right and I must not complain." Immediately I used all exertion in searching after this lost treasure, and soon descried, a short distance from where I stood, a glistening object, which, except for the reflection of the bright sun favoring me, I should have passed unnoticed, it was so completely buried in a crevice of the rock, and rejoiced that it was in my power to make happy the heart of gentle Jeanette, as I gave one bound, and drew from beneath the bed of green moss- the what, my friend Oscar? for scarcely could I believe my own eyes, as trembling I held in my hand this sacred orna- ment so cherished by Jeanette, and learned, with inex- pressible joy, as I gazed upon it, that it was the selfsame simple little collar I had placed around the neck of the pet cat Lillie. This memorable collar had been converted into, a bracelet, with the addition of a larger clasp, containing a miniature painting of the pet cat, having around its neck the selfsame pink ribbon, so carefully renewed each week because her fond mother, although dead, had done so when living. Jeanette, observing my excited manner, ran toward me, calling out, as she approached: i"Oh! Mr. d'Enville, has anything happenedl Have you   injured yourself in   192    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. - any way, or has some insect stung you?" "'Oh! no, neither, Miss Jeanette, but it is hope which has so elated me; hope that I have found a dear jewel that was the idol of my soul, and much I feared 1 had lost it forever, since in vain I have searched after it for eight long years, and this," holding up the bracelet, " proves, what has puzzled me of late, that you are, you must be," I warmly said, taking her hand, "the very sweet little Jennie Clarendon who gave me so much pleasure to chat with and look on in the park a little more than eight years gone by, although now called by another name, and no longer a child." After clasping -the bracelet on Jennie's arm, I drew from my pocket the little photograph, when. she instantly exclaimed: "That surely was once myself, for my father has a por- trait exactly like it of cat Lillie and I. And this," she said, pointing to the clasp, " truly is the pet I almost wor- shiped for my dead, blessed mother's sake. And, Mr. d'Enville, I feel confident that you are the dear friend who so kindly cheered me in my chilhood's grief; -and my very happiest hours at that time were spent with you in the park. Well," she continued, "now I can to myself explain why, when Justine first introduced you to me, I felt you were no stranger." As I placed Jennie in the carriage, and we drove from the Mission, my feelings were beyond measure elated that I was thus seated by her who had been my little Jennie; and, with spirits buoyant as air, I parted with her at her aunt's door. But then, when alone, I wished I had asked her a thousand questions to learn what had been her trials since I had last seen her, and if in her mo- ments of sorrow she ever thought of me. On arriving home, and having seated myself in my own apartments, I felt that, although Jennie, as a young lady, was perfect in face, form, mind, heart, and in movement all grace, yet she   [ SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.     193 was no longer my dear, darling little Jenny, and that:now, in lieu of playing with her as a child, I must treat her with all the formality due to a Miss Jeanette Arlington, as also -she herself must sufficiently respect the female character to resist all the little endearments that, even with the pure. ness of my own heart, I might have claimed from a little innocent one in childhood's years. Then wept to think that my little Jennie Clarendon was dead to me individually, although as Miss Jeanette Arlington she lived, to myself and others, in all her loveliness, to share equally her smiles, renewing at each hand tokens of fond regard. But where, I thought, did her father procure a duplicate photograph of mine? That was a mystery to me. When Lorry entered, and I told him that Miss Jeanette Arlington was my little Jennie, he " yah, yah, yahed" to such a degree I thought he would alarm the house, every now and then gasping out: "Oh! I knowed it, I knowed it. 1 knowed it was de pho- temgraph all de while, she so lubly-like, almost zactly like it 'peared long time, good while ago." CHAPTER XXVIII. THE following morning the whole village was in com- motion as to the crazy woman and her attempt on Jennie's life. Thus the gentlemen together with the proper author- ities turned out, searching diligently in every direction for the deranged woman, yet to no effect, for still at nightfall she was seen dodging about the premises of Mr. Single- ton. Finally the occupants of the cottages, with many others of the townspeople, formed in a body, and secreted themselves on various parts of Mr. Singleton's premises, I,,     194    SEARCH .AFTEB A  OST HEART.   : myself among the number: At length, one hazy night, with just suffioient light emitted from the partially clouded moon to delineate peculiarly marked objects, this tall, even-paced woman, was seen to approach the cottage with scarcely any noise; but hardly had she shown herself, ere her arm was raised, and with unerring aim the ball from a pistol passed through the window of the object of her hatred. And now the fear for Jeanette's safety made mad men of us all, causing such confusion that the woman could, unmolested, have escaped, had not the officers employed immediately (four in number) seized -the maniac, when she sent forth the most demoniacal yell, screeching, "'Tis finished, H am revenged, my work accomplished, my oath fulfilled, and now let the father mourn over the milksop daughter he so fondled, because she was the child of his dead milksop wife, his gentle Gertrude, his angel," and then she laughed in that peculiar way which alone belongs to the lunatic. But when the maniac saw Jeanette lean through the casement of her window, and heard her as she faintly, with alarm, called out," Tell me, pray, tell me what does all this mean 2" the ravings of the mad one knew no bounds, while to all others it gave relief'to hear gentle Jeanette speak, in a manner as if not materially injured; but it did not take long for me to learn that the ball had merely grazed the fair one's hand, since,half frantic, I hastened to ascertain what injury she had sustained, then quickly returned- to aid in I securing the maniac, whose demoniacal and awful curses were now as if from the infernal region, and to the ear most fearful. But after she discovered that she had failed in her attempt on Jeanette's life, her loud wailings be- came terrific, and so rent the air 'twas heard a distance round, then suddenly, as for a moment, she stopped to   SEARCH'AFTER A LOST HEART.      19S take breath. The dead stillness was appalling, each -one waiting with dread the result, when she again broke forth in an unearthly, sepulchral voice, to pour down impreca- tions on the head of that " bird of hell" (as she called her stepchild), denouncing her as born with the spirit of Satan, the one who had alone withdrawn from herself the love of him who should now have been her husband, "For," she screeched, " hear, oh, Heaven and earth, am I not the living mother of his noble boy, and little girl Bessie. Yet think not," she said, looking toward Jeanette's window, who fortunately had, directly after speaking, closed the sash in order that she might shut out from her ears the voice of the maniac, " milksop, to evade me, for your doom is sealed, sooner or later. The poor creature after this became perfectly powerless and passive in our hands, as we received her from the officers (whose services over, left us, at which I was gratified), for we had scarce time to bear her, with support on either side, .toward Major Leslie's cottage, and seat: her in a small washroom near the house, when she gave one gasp and all was over. And so she passed from time to eternity with curses on her lips. From whence she came no one knew, where she lodged no one knew, how fed no one knew, what her name or who she was neither did any one know. The superstitious believed her from the world of evil spirits, and it was well thus. * I knew, however, who she was, and imparted my knowledge alone to Mr. Singleton and my brothers-in-law, who had their suspicions, without being positive, ere I divulged the facts. Jeanette happily, however, had no idea who it was, every feature of the maniac was so distorted; but those eyes to me were so like the Evil One, and the curl of her scornful lips were so deeply impressed on my mind the day when she   . 196    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. cruelly treated the delicate little child Jennie and her pet cat, that it could never have been effaced from my mem- ory. The body was properly laid out, and on my search-. ing her pockets the papers there told a tale of six years' iniquity, suffering, and at last the abandonment of her wicked partner, which left her destitute to a desperation that would have harrowed up the soul of the most prof- ligate. The day after her death she was decently interred in the village cemetery, in a manner most private, and at the house, before the lid of the coffin was screwed down, I quietly in it, with my own hands, threw all the garments and papers found on her person, that they might moulder in the grave with the remains, dust to dust, cautious there should not be one single vestige left that could be re- corded to tell the story of the past to her husband, or innocent children, of the life of degradation led for six years by the wife and mother, and- thus now her body rests quietly in the cold ground, even although the soul may -be a restless outcast from heaven; and all we can say is that her spirit is in the hand of a just yet merciful God, who gave it, and He alone knows best our trials and temptations, therefore man must not condemn. The friend whom this wretched woman had made her com- panion after leaving her husband, and who had leagued himself with her in her murderous plots on Jennie's life, was the veritable surgeon of the British army, and billiard-room affair with me, and from the papers in the mad one's possession I had' learned his name was Dr. Smith, and that he had just been sent to the State prison for forgery. Andlyou must here recognize the maniac as the divorced wife of Capt. Clarendon, stepmother of Jennie, and own mother to little Frank, now called Douglas, and little girl-pet named Lillie by her sister Jennie, after she   SERCH AFTER A LOST HE9RBT,       191 lost her cat, in lieu of Bessie, by which the babe was ! always called by her parents before having been abandoned by the mother, for Bessie was the name also of the pretty infant's mother, and after her shameful conduct the name was grating to the father's ears. Then what a fortunate circumstance for these children that their surnames, through the inheritance of property, long since had been changed to Arlington, so that when the name of Clarendon, the same the ill-fated woman had received from her husband at marriage, and had not been changed before the divorce, a name now forgotten by the children, is mentioned in their presence they may hear it without a blush, not remembering a single tie of consanguinity ever existed between them. CHAPTER   XXIX. ONCE  having discovered that Jeanette, possessed of these rare qualities of loveliness in person, with purity of Christian spirit, and Jennie, the pet of my youth, were one and the same, I daily visited her aunt's to catch a glimpse ofthat innocent child whom I felt from the time I first knew her to have been my guardian angel; for while my thoughts were dwelling upon one so artless, so chaste, my mind was kept unspotted from the world, and nothing gross or unholy can enter the soul while the heart and brain are occupied with objects pure and undefiled, since a house stored with heavenly, inbred virtues has ever closed doors against all human vices that are stalking abroad searching some tenantless mansion for a home. That I loved Jeanette with all my heart, all my soul, I cannot deny, but then I deemed it such as a father's or brother's love;    198 .   $SEA4RCH AFTER A LOST HEART. yet it is strange how little we know ourselves, for surely if I had not felt how many years I was her senior, and that certainly disparagement of age very often in suitors made, rejected lovers, and that May is very apt to believe De- cember will make a cross old husband, together with the kind manner in which she received the handsome youth, the friend of my young brother, Mr. Arnoux, I should have decided my feelings were those of a lover, and ventured to have won her affections, pleading ardently for her hand. But thus I was deceived, and in lieu of keeping far away from temptation I trusted in self-government, supposing I was proof against her irresistible fascination, until my heart was all her own, and I miserably unhappy when not in her presence. Then since the incident with the maniac, Jeanette now, as when little Jennie, seemed once more to lean upon me for advice and comfort, evinc- ing also the very fondest, confiding affection whenever we met; yet as soon as the wish crossed my mind that God would bless me with such a wife, I crushed the thought, and smothered the feelings, for in my ears were ringing that merry laugh which I heard her give at the idea of her young and fastidious friend being linked with an old drone of twenty-nine, and happy, thrice happy, would 1 have been had I never heard her views upon that subject. Yet still there was another barrier, that of her father's English views upon the subject of slavery, and which had been reported to me as being of a very strong character. Hours and days flew on, finding me constantly-linked with Jeanette in some form or other, either of pleasure or grievance, and finally having been constituted book-keeper to the Mission, my mornings were occupied with the So- ciety in attending to the calls made upon me in various ways for this institute of charity, and in the evenings   I  SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.:      i9 9 forming plans that were to be put in operation the ensuing day. And then, I being the oldest of this unmarried social party, my sisters, with Jeanette, always appealed to me, submitting to my judgment and prudence, whenever any little picnic party of fun and frolic, or other source of amusement, was on the tapis, until I began to look upon myself as the old bachelor, anI believed they one and all considered me as such also. - Marie, unfortunately for me, being nearest my age, always called me her consulting friend, and as usual occasionally gave way to impulsive petulance when anything was done without first advising with her, and then she would say, "Oh! Mr. d'Enville, what a father you are to these young fry, so much your junior, and how kind in you, and how fortunate for them that they found a single gentleman passe to guide them," and many other cutting remarks to all, until she became a terror to the younger ones, and a perfect annoyance to me; yet neither of us were willing to :repulse her, rather pitying that imperfection of character which seemed utterly beyond all control in Marie McBride, of being one moment most severe, and the next evincing a heart over- flowing with kindness. And her foolish penchant for me still existing, I bore with all her ill-natured remarks as patiently as in me lay, without giving her any encourage- ment which she might construe into a preference for her in love matters, and ofttimes she rendered me very restless, when in her jealous mood, by reciting Mr. Arnoux's unbounded attention to Jeanette, and the affectionate manner in which her dear sweet friend received those endearing attentions, for Marie had strong suspicions where the feelings of my heart were concentrated, and thus frequently hinted, when any little extra attention by me was given to Jeanette, that I was treading on sacred \   -200    SEaRCH AFtE9 Ai' tLOSt BEIARt^. ground, until, in duty bound to Mr. Arnoux, I began to keep myself aloof from my sweet young friend; for al- though Jeanette's manner had never evinced aught but the love of a young sister, or mine, that I was aware of, other than feelings of an elder brother, still my experience in the world had taught no that every lover looks with a suspicious eye on each glance given with even marks of ordinary affection in a gentleman friend, particularly if in the least reciprocated by his lady-love. And so I felt my- self absolutely obligated to act in full accordance with the laws of chivalric etiquette, much to the grievance of my warmth of heart for Jeanette, and only wished she was again the little Jennie in whom all my love and interest were centered when a student, and myself back again to those days, as I began to perceive a falling off of undis- guised innocent mirth with this child of nature, who used to be so universally cheerful, and, as I fancied, a restraint in my presence, through fear of offending her favored handsome young suitor, Mr. Arnoux, as I now, set him down to be through Marie's reports. And then there was less artless affection toward me, with a timid, con- fused manner when we met; also a withdrawal from me of all her little tales of sorrow and troubles. At last she seemed to droop like a lily that had felt some chilling blast, and oh! how I fain would have known the cause, that by some warming ray I could have revived the fading flower, but dared not ask; yet this child, so pure and undefiled by the world's proneness to deception, could not long conceal the smothering, pent-up harassment of her mind, without inquiring artlessly of her esteemed friend the reasons of his apparently distant manner; thus one moonlight evening Eugenie, Justine, Jeanette, and myself, took a stroll first to the shore, and thence through the lane   --        SrARCH APTER A LOST HEABT.       20] to the echoing rocks, and, there Jeanette melted us all to tears-by singing the lament of the Highland lassie (from Auld Robin Gray), emphasizing with so much feeling those wailing notes of Jennie in the song of- "I munna think,of Jemmie, For that would be a sin," while she was endeavoring to drive from her memory the " laddie she loo'd sae weel," thus wholly sacrificing her- self to filial affection for her poor infirm, old parents. Here Jennie faltered, and scarce were the last words spirited away ere a flood of tears were flowing from her eyes. This sudden gust of feeling over, Jennie remained a few moments silent, and then when she looked in my face6 with an expression so truthful, so modest, first asked, with the simplicity of a child, what she had done to offend me that made me so chilling cold of late to her, whom I once so warmly loved as- little Jennie, and if I felt less interest in her now because I called her Miss Jeanette, and pleaded," Oh, then, Mr. d'Enille, bring back to your lips that simple, familiar name Jennie, that I may not feel under restraint in my desire to show my gratitude for your saving my life, to once more see and be blessed by my dear father."  May I here, my friend Oscar, ask you how could I answer, under existing circumstances, to the satisfaction of Jennie, although I had no thought, no heart, but for her alone. Not surely that I loved her less than when I first heard her baby lips talking to her pet of her mother, while fondly cherishing the cat for her dead parents' sake, since that would not be -true; for now that all the fascinating qualities of the femnale character were so fully developed : modesty, decision of character, blended with gentleness and charity, firm in principle, truthful and 9*    202     SEARCH AFTER  A LOST HEAkT. artless, never through fear driven to prevaricate one iota-- all that was lovely in manner and appearance-I more than loved--it was adoration. To tell haer of the merrymaking I had overheard, that her young friend should marry with such disparagement of age, I dared not, for that would convict myself of having been Paul Pry. Then fear of being repulsed as being presumptuous alone prevented the confession that I felt the danger of trusting myself too frequently in her presence, lest my heart would be irrevocably given where the love would not be mutual. And certainly delicacy of feeling forbade my speaking of the report that she, of late, had evinced such strong pref- erence for Mr. Arnoux, in receiving so graciously the marked attentions paid by him to her, for then it would be a tacit acknowledgment that I considered myself as hold- ing some exclusive claim on her affections. Thus I hesitated answering her question, and she looked sorrowful, but collecting herself she inquired, "Why, Mr. d'Enville, is it a question so difficult to answer . Then I fear offense has been given where it would be my unbounded delight to show to the world the sensation of an overflowing, grateful heart to him I would feel happy to call upon as a brother when I need advice." And what a welcome sound to me, my friend, that one word brother, and what a relief to a man in my predicament. Why, the very wish to call me brother gave me new ideas for explanation, and so I said, "Miss Jeanette, I have naught to say in extenuation (if, to you it has so appeared) of my lack of cordial manner, or my reserve, except that when gentlemen are placed on the discretionary list, and past the days of fun and frolic, they become a nuisance to those inclined to be gay, and rather fear to intrude themselves upon the younger clique lest they should feel that if before them they yielded to mirth- I    IX         SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      203 ful gambols, be they ever so innocent, it would be considered disrespectful in the presence of their elders. And surely, Miss Jeanette, you who have charity for all, are kind to all the poor, as well as the rich, ever fearful of wounding the feelings of any, from the least to the greatest, could not have given offense to one who has ever felt so sincere an interest in your welfare since ha first called you his pet Jennie." "Oh! Mr. d'Enville," this artless one earnestly ex- claimed, springing to her feet, and clasping her hands, c' call me then once more Jennie, since it was by that dear, simple pet name my own sweet mother used to call me; and 'tis by that pet name my dear father ever brings me close to his side, and wins me to do his will in all things. Then let me love you as a brother, and as such call upon you for advice when my wayward spirit needs a truthful friend to say, 'Jennie, you are doing wrong,' and so check my erring judgment."  And now what could I say but "Love me, Jennie, as your own brother, and as such command me at all times, and should the time come when you dread to trust yourself alone on points wherein it requires more than a single person to decide, then my humble jadvice shall be given you as disinterestedly, with feelings as pure and honest from my soul, as if imparted to a sister I dearly, fondly love." "Oh! Mr. d'Enville, a thousand, thousand thanks," she quickly said in modest tones of gratitude, giving me her soft white, fairy hand upon which I sealed my promise with a kiss of what I hoped and intended should be that alone of a brother's love, saying, "And thus, then, my young friend, as you constitute me your guide and con- fidant duting youar father's absence, so I will promise to   264     SEARCtH AFTER A LOST BEAPT. truthfully give you all the brotherly advice in my power." Now, indeed, did Jennie's soft eyes and winning smile (without audible demonstration) thank me as of yore when I called her my pet. After this eclairecissment, I pleaded as a favor ere we left this enchanted spot for that sweet song of spirit land by J. S. Adams : "' In the silence of the midnight, When the cares of day are o'er, In my soul I hear the voices Of the loved ones gone before; And thev words of comfort whispering, Say they'll watch on every hand, And my soul is cheered in hearing Voices from the spirit land.' She stopped, drew one long sigh, and then continued: "' Loved ones who have gone before me Whisper words of peace and joy; Those who long since have- departed Tell me their divine employ Is to watch and guard my footsteps- Oh! it is an angel band, And I love, I love to list to Voices from the spiritland.'1 The song finished, Jeanette said, "I could only sing two. verses, Mr. d'Enville, for I feel exceedingly sad this even- ing, and, really, I have not been in my usual spirits since the two attacks upon my life-the piercing eyes of that woman so fairly haunting my brain, as if I had seen them previous to this; but where, I cannot tell. And then I was not aware that I had a single enemy, for surely I hate no one, and try to love everybody." "Neither, Miss Jennie," I replied, "do I believe that you have any enemies, and this woman, without doubt, was a maniac."  As soon as I saw she was pacified, I could not avoid thinking, poor child, this miserable outcast was not your friend from the time she inveigled your father into a marriage with herself   I      SEARC diCAFT1ER A LOSTH EABR.     So0 believing if once rid of you she could have had more power over her husband. We now sauntered leisurely toward Major Leslie's cottage, where we found my father's coach waiting, so, taking Jeanette with us, left her at her uncle's, Mr. Singleton's, with an affectionate fare- well, promising to see her on the morrow. CHAPTER XXX. ON arriving at the hotel 1 soon found the way to my room, and there became quite bewildered with the multi-  plicity of ideas floating in my brain. That Jennie loved me I did not doubt; but was the affection such as a hus- band would exact, or was it a brotherly love, such, as a fond sister in the absence of a father would gladly constitute her confidant, adviser and guide? And thus the-more I dwelt upon the various views I took upon the sentiments expressed by my artless young friend, the less inclined I felt for a hasty decision on taking any positive step in the matter; so laid myself down to court the quieting influence of slumber, yet it was long ere it came, for the night had nearly passed when I found my mind still tracing in mem- ory the soft lines, of Jennie's sweet face as they appeared to me while dwelling on that innocent expression by moon- light, when she so artlessly revealed her sad feelings, until I wandered back to our first meeting, and thought of her childlike, lisping accents mourning over the loss of her own dear dead mother, and cherishing the while the charges that fond parent had left as a line of duty for her to pursue through life. And then as my head pressed heavier the pillow I fell asleep; the last impression being, how sweeter,   20o6    SE4ARCi AIFTEt A L OST HEART: purer, dearer, far more disinterested, a mother's love is for a child than aught else on earth besides. With the morning's dawn I was up and wandering through the grounds of the hotel, where in a few moments after I was joined by my youngest sister and brother, and many a hearty laugh'I chimed in with Justine at Theodore's ex- pense as he (a lad not yet quite eighteen) gave in his ideas of matrimony, expatiating largely on Miss Jeanette Arling. ton's beauty; and boy-like, boasted of her smiles upon him, displaying also a pair of slippers embroidered by her fair hand; then drew from  his-pocket an alum heart he had carved, with a hole pierced in the top and a blue ribbon drawn through it tied with a love-knot. "Well," I said, "Theo, could you not find anything of greater value to present your lady fair than this humble heart?" "Oh!" he replied, "my dear brother, the more simple the gift, the more pure, and greater evidence of sincerity and truth; at all events I am heartily sick of the glittering gewgaws that tell of nothing but- the heartless fashions of the world, which glisten but to deceive." More truth than fiction in that, my dear brother, I thought in a whisper to my soul; and verily there are no more boys in this era, for they are men as soon as born. "Take good care, my little brother," Justine said with a serio-comical voice, "how you build your hopes on ladies' smiles, as the movement of the lips does not always indi-' cate the feelings of the heart's affection; for of necessity the fair ones are obligated to avoid committal to the oppo- site sex that it is absorbed in one alone. And then it would not do for we ladies to smile on all alike, since these smiles would be appreciated by no one. Neither could we, frown on all, as that would be counted unamiable in either   SBARC. AF'ER A LOST HEART.      20 sex. Thus we often smile, not because we love, but through kind feeling for the human race in general. "And now, if brother Ferdinand will not be vain, I will tell to him a compliment this sweet girl pronounced in his favor a few days since, and with sincerity, which is that one hour's converse with Mr. d'Enville was more pleasing to her than all the frivolous nonsense of beaux a la mode. And once again I heard Jeanette say her ideas of late were- changed with regard to husbands, and notwithstanding it was only the other day that she had ridiculed the choice of one of her friends for having engaged herself to a man a few years her senior, yet now she really believes her friend had acted the most prudent part. And Jeanette says she thinks too that men who have lived long enough to know their own mind are far more agreeable than boys, who are like the vane, shifting about just as they are led by their companions, and if they should be evilly disposed then comes the chilling frost, when it would- be sure death to her if married to a dissipated husband. But the one whom she could look up to with respect, advise with as a friend, and depend upon as her guide, would render her the most happy, and him she could love with all her heart. And now, brother, hide your blushes, for Jeanette says you are the handsomest man she ever saw. And again she asserts, -yet cannot tell why, but so it is in fact, that although some years have intervened since you called her your little pet Jennie, still now, as when she first saw you, she always has a feeling of warm  respect^for you when present, and takes pleasure ii thinking over your kindness to her when a motherless child, and how your gentle ways then won her affection." Here I cut Justine's compliments short by exclaiming, "Oh, in mercy, my dear sister, do not encourage me any further to presume on venturing in ,   8 .SEA RCH E     A'FTER A LOST HEBRRT. the sunshine ot so much loveliness, with such flattering tales to tempt a tender old bachelor like me, unless you can assure success, since it has been a very difficult mat . ter for a long while to subdue this fluttering heart of mine, so restless for flight, to seek shelter within the keeping of some gentle one, to be tenderly nursed. Thus it is surely a severe task to be brought in contact with such irresistible fuel, to have a flame kindled in this heart of mine, and then feel obligated to closely watch and shield it wholly un- scathed from Cupid's shaft." "Brother, have you finished reporting of an old bache- lor's grievances, which you could have prevented?"Theo. asked. "If so, then it is my turn to say a word." As I answered yes, he then began to bewail and moan over his troubles to Justine: "Know, my sister, I consider it cruel in the extreme to dampen my hopes with such treacherous assertions, that the smile of a lady is no indication of pre- ference, which is an acknowledgment they are not to be trusted; and then report in my hearing that the fair one I admire chooses rather to give hand and heart to him who in all points differs so widely from my humble self, leaving me no room to hope to win the loveliest of fair ones." "N'importe, my brother," was Justine's reply, "since one so young and susceptible as thyself can and will have found before of age many to love and be loved by in return, as fondly in your eyes as the first flame. But come," she said, " let us hasten home, for already we have extended our walk beyond its usual limits, and the good folks will be searching for. us."- Well," I said, as we turned our heads homeward, ' go on, you my sweet sister and brother Theo., and report I am coming, as I do not care for increasing the speed of my gait just at this moment."   SPGCH  iIsTER A LOST BHARB.     209 So on they went, and soon I was alone again, with my, brain striving between hope and fear for success where I had given my heart. How long it would have taken me to have reached home (if I had not seen my Ethiopian valet approaching with a broad grim) I cannot tell; yet Lorry, with his usual consideration when he saw me en- gaged in thought, silently passed, fell to the rear, and quietly followed on, satisfied if my footsteps were taking the direction toward the point whither he came to fetch me. But Lorry's proneness to loquacity soon discovered the working of his brain by bursting forth in soliloquy with admiration in a high keynote thus: "Wal, I clar, I neber did see Missus Jeanette look so lubly as she do dis berry mornen. Oh, guy! how dat man-hat make young Missy Jeanette look more like de femenine genner dan eber, and dem beau'ful little feet jist look and'pear like no foot at all in dem gempleman's boots, and dem gauntlets on dat picaninee hand,. why, me only wonner how Missus Jeanette hold dat horse in wid her baby fingers; and oh, guy! Missy Jeanette hold dat long dress so graceful-like on one arm, and de pretty little riden whip in de hand, I clar for sartin Missy Jeanette de berry han'somest lady me eber seed 'cept my young missusses. Oh! who would hab tought to see de little missy photem- graph look like dis y'hear, but I do be so berry sorry dat Missus Jeanette be Abolishener, but me don not tink Missy Jeanette be berry cruel one." I had walked on silently until I overheard these remarks, when suddenly I started (for slavery had been one of the points which I dreaded), confident should Jeanette give her consent her father would never allow his daughter to marry aplanter. And now Lorry made his errand known, "Souse me, Massa, but Missy Jeanette hab jist comed on horse-   g2 -O     SEARG'C .9'APER A LOST HEARB'. back to see de young missuses, and 'peared so gladdike bout someting, and Missus Eugenie feared somet'ing happen, : Massa Ferdinand stay so long-like away." I now looked at my watch, found I was behind time with hotel hours, and hastened my steps, whether to accommo- date the landlord, or see the- pretty equestrian, it will not be difficult for a Yankee' to guess. One thing is certain, Lorry was nearly out of breath endeavoring to keep pace with my immense strides, and, poor fellow, he ventured once to say, Oh, Massa Ferdinand, for de lub ob mercy, Missus Jeanette I reckon p'raps be gwine to stay all de mornin' so please don not put yousel widout breat', Massa Ferdinand, dar no 'casion ob hurry to make yousel sick." "Why, Lorry," I said, "I will not walk so fast since it troubles you, as you alone are the one who will suffer; but what makes you think I am in haste to see Miss Jeanette?" "Wal, Massa Ferdinand, me don not know for sartin, butden pears like "Here he paused, leaving me to draw my conclusion; and I could not avoid, smiling at his shrewd answer, thinking what a good Yankee he was be- coming. I moved more slowly as I approached the house, and it was much to Lorry's relief that I once again resumed my usual pedestrian pace. Thus, ere I reached the hotel steps, to all outward appearance I was quite cool, still I cannot say truthfully that my spirit was altogether calm or my heart undisturbed, for the rapid pulsation with which it beat kept my whole soul glowing with the purest dream of love as I neared the place which Lorry reported held the one fairy charmer of my sleeping and waking fancy that had followed me in all climes, through every joy and sor- row, for more than eight years, and verily- during that space of time she had been to me like some favorite'planet,   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.        2" whose light in the revolutions of its course was fully hidden from my view, while I kept yearly still anxiously watching for its return; and at length, in the same way as all the systematic movements of God's works are performed, she did come back to me to brighten my path once more for time (and I hope for eternity also). But frequently have I reflected, ere that happy hour for me arrived, upon the wishes which issued from her infantine baby lips, in the peculiarly sweet tones of her voice, with heartfelt sincerity, when speaking of her sainted mother, that she might meet her in heaven, and felt sure her wish had been registered there by her Saviour, and many times, when my search after her had proved ineffectual, have I believed that possi- bly she already had been borne upward, and taken in her tender years to His bosom, yet never doubting, but fully confident, should I ever see her again in this world, I would find her as pure and guileless as I first found her, in childlike innocence. And my silent predictions have been to all in. tent verified; for she, this day, I will venture to affirm, is all in body and soul she promised to be when but eight years of age, and every whit as free from guile as aught earthly car, be. I now arrived at the house where, just as Lorry had de- scribed her, there Jeanette was standing by the side of her horse equipped as an equestrian; and never appeared any- thing to me in life so lovely; all grace, all ease, and not- withstanding attired partially in the clothing of our sex, retained all the soft delicate appearance of her own; as light as a fairy, gentle as a lamb, pure as an angel, con- fiding as a child, yet possessing, as I knew, from having be- fore seen her exercising thus, a very superior horseman- ship, still not a masculine, fearless rider, for in hours of danger she felt her dependence on man's power for aid, but ',   12   SEARCh't  AFTER A t OSTA HART. she was never unnecessarily timid. And, Oscar, if you ever have loved deeply, ardently, fondly, such an one as Jennie, bring her fairly inca vision to your mind, and then let your heart's fancy feel the glow that warmed my cheek and brightened my eye when in real life such loveliness was before me, with the bristle in one hand resting on the saddle of her beautiful steed, waiting my arrival ere she mounted; and think at :such a moment what would have been the dearest wish of your heart as she laid the unoc- cupied, ungloved wee white fingers, with all the artlessness of an innocent girl of sixteen, in mine, her soft blue eyes beaming so modestly, so tenderly returning my gaze of admiration as if alone expressing a warmth of feeling that issued from the heart of a friend pure and holy, while she greeted me from her chaste lips with a smile totally unaf. fected, wholly sincere and trusting; just in- the same man- ner as a sister would have done when addressing a dear brother she fondly loved, without the existence of such affinity, and tell me what would be the first impulse. Surely it could have been none other than the dearest wish to clasp her as your affianced to your heart. But, my friend, not too fast, for there was another feeling which might make you desist--that of being unworthy to call one so pure, who seemed born to dwell with angels alone, and not be earthly bride to any man, being too perfect, I then thought, for man to presume that any one but her Maker could have the exclusive claim upon such a heart as- Jeanette's. But presently she withdrew her hand from mine and displayed a buoyancy of spirit which spoke more of life, for with one spring, and ere I had time to offer her assistance, shewas, unaided, firmly seated in the saddle; then before regloving her hand, drew from her pocket a letter saying with ecstasies, with trembling, warm tears   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART..      213 which could not conceal the bright hope in, those sparkling eyes, while the quivering of joy was on her lips : - "Oh, Mr. d'Envilla, this is a precious epistle from my own dear father, and many, many grateful words occupy the pages for yourself for saving his dear, dear daughter from that poor maniac. And, oh! joy, inexpressible joy, he tells me that ere long he shall be with us, and with him comes my dear aunty Kennedy, Douglas and Lillie, and how happy, very happy [ shall be." But Oscar, all I could answer this lovely one after such unwelcome news was, "To see your father, Miss Jennie, will doubtless give me pleasure, still there will be a pang attendant upon his coming." "And how so, Mr. d'Eaville?" she innocently asked. "Ah, Miss Jennie," I replied, " and do you not know when his visit is completed that your father will bear with him hence the only treasure I envy man on earth, the only spirit I thirst to call my own, the only form in this world for which each pulse of my heart beats, and the only earthly treasure I would crave of kind Providence; to be- stow on me as mine and mine only, and the blessing above all others I daily pray for, is the gift of that heart, as vet uncontaminated by the world, with its affection fond and undivided, from her who is to me the loveliest flower that ever bloomed this side of Heaven to smooth the rugged path of man, the only angel heart that is fitted to guide my weary soul to realms where sorrows never enter, tears never flow."  Now Jennie had a winning way of her own; and oh! in- deed, it was a way of her own and hers only; a sweet way, a way that at once freed you from all embarrassment, an innocent, childlike way, that you felt confident was truth- ful. And she looked on me as if listening to a fondness   214     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. poured into her ears from the lips of a relative who dearly loved her, yet blushing, it is true, at the ardent feelings I expressed of regret at the thoughts of parting with her, while her eyes moistened with tears again as she artlessly said: "Why, Mr. d'Enville, surely, oh, surely, I shall feel sadly very, very sadly to leave you, but then you know it is not so far, so very far away, that you cannot visit us, and dear papa and aunty will always give him a hearty welcome who saved the life of the one they hold so precious, for they say my poor self is the only relic jewel left of the casket that was so highly prized by my dear father, the, other gems having long since returned to God, who so kindly lent them; and my dear father says I am as the reflection of my dear mother from a mirror, so like in all things." Then sweet Jennie, artless Jennie, extended her hand, which I ventured to press to my lips with a brother-like, warm, sincere feeling, and as she regloved those delicate, tapering fingers and gathered up the lines, she gave no evidence of prudery, but calmly said, "We are to have an- other moonlight stroll to-night Mr. d'Enville, and will you not join jus " I promised, when she bowed her head gracefully, with one of her sweet smiles, to all on the piazza, as well as my- self, then quietly, with the refinement of an equestrian lady at home in her saddle, moved slowly on, and while so do- ing not thinking it detrimental to her birthright of superior- ity to cheerfully and kindly' chat with the old gray-haired waiter so long in their service, allowing him to ride by her side unreproved, in lieu of following her at such over-strict, respectful distance. "What perfect loveliness and grace," my father said, "and so good withal, so artless and child- like too." *   bSEA4RCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      215 Presently was heard a voice from one unseen, of"Yah, yah, vah;" then came a sob and an exclamation of," Wal, I clar, if dat haint de berry hansomest lady all ober de worl' and so good too, and she dis day more like dan ebber Massa Ferdinand's photemgraph when massa first got him, 'cept oler like; but oh, guy! me so sorry, I is, dat Missus Jeanette be Abolishener, but den Missy Jeanette so good, so 'fectionate like to eberybody." This last remark of Lorry's about Abolitionists once more dampened the hopes which 1 began to entertain of claiming one day this paragon of perfection as my bride, Jeanette's whole manner this morning being irresistibly lovely, and I looked on her as something I could not define, belonging to earth and still not of it or with it, and when she had passed from my sight I turned and walked away from her admirers, who were loudly enumerating her in- comparable good qualities in contradistinction to all other female characters. As I passed to a remote part of the piazza there stood one fixedly leaning against a pillar absorbed in thought, with countenance that gave evidence of deep feeling, and I actually bowed, spoke and passed on without Mr. Arnoux's being aware that I had been near him, so intent was he on peering into the. distance, searching for what had been within range of the eye, for surely nothing at present visi- ble in human form could be discovered by me, and well could I imagine the poor fellow's feelings, if without hope, and sympathized truly with him; since, as for myself, I knew and felt my case to be hopeless so long as a slaveholder, and as to sacrificing all by resigning any future claim I might have to my patrimony as a portion of the plantation I could not and support a family. To sell the entire body of slaves to other masters could not be done   216    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. without being cruel; for master and colored family were too closely attached to each other for that, and I am confi- nent it would be a difficult matter to even force the slave to accept freedom. And yet I hoped my father at some future time might provide for them and make them free. And then Jeanette had often told me with what horror her father had looked upon those who retained in thralldom such as belonged to the human species, of what- ever color they might be. And many a tear of pity has Jeanette herself shed when relating some tale of woe gathered from newspaper publicity, totally false and mali- cious; and many times has her face been bathed in showers of commiserating tears for the oppressed, while reading one of the bughear trash romances, intermingled with fairly, libellous reports drawn from extreme cases of ill treatment to slaves, or concocted by intriguing men and women of low party spirit, perverting many passages of Scripture to accomplish plans by them promulgated. Now what course to pursue to ease my perplexed brain (nearly maddened) I, scarce could imagine, since each plan as yet formed was as soon abandoned; for in her father's absence to use any means with intent of erasing from Jeanette's mind principles conscientiously instilled in a child by the parent I would not; and to endeavor arguing any Englishman out of an opinion once decidedly formed upon any subject is useless; so I determined not to speak with Major Arlington on this point, dreading lest I might give offense; and shoiAd such be the case, then would come an interdiction of all intercourse between the two families, and thus a breach never to be healed--one being a slaveholder, the other a strong Abolitionist. I could now decide upon one way only to change the views of both father and daughter as to their erroneous ideas of cruelty on   SEARCH AFTER  A LOST HEART.     217 the part of Southern masters to slaves: that was, if possible, to have the daughter first visit us, that she might judge for herself, positive her feeling must then be much softened for the planter, and thus with a mind enlightened upon the subject she would inform her father of our kind treatment of the slaves, and through Jeanette's influence the preju- dice against us of Major Arlington be overcome. My de- cision made, I resolved to put the plans in operation; they being such as the most fastidious would deem correct and honorable. My determination once fully impressed on my brain, all that remained was firmly to seal it there, until some opportune moment would render it expedient to put into effect my wishes, notwithstanding my impatience to learn if I should succeed. I now reflected whether I myself had any misgivings as to slavery, but very soon unwaveringly came to the con. elusion that, although I did not altogether like the idea of holding any of the human race in bondage, still. the Afri- cans are a peculiar people, and it was intended the white man should have a special, kind care over them, or why this thing permitted for so many thousand years So I feel we should rightly guide, yet never treat them harshy, feeling they are like ourselves, with a body that requires proper sustenance for the support of life, and capable of en- joying the blessings bestowed on man by his Maker. Still I believe his ideas of comfort differ widely from the white man, yet I conscientiously consider they, withthe white man, have an equal claim for a home in Heaven according to deeds done in this life, and rewarded or punished in pro. portion to light given. Thus, the responsibiffty of the master is very great, and he is culpable in the eyes of God if he does not have his people instructed to read, that they in soul may reap the benefit of the Holy Scriptures. 10   . 218  SEA-RCH A FTE  A LOST HBEART. * a(  aThe gong now roused me from my deep, reflecting, mood, :. ..and when I entered the salle a manger the topic was still of Jeanette and her peculiar charms, and much quizzing did my young brothers receive as being rivals for the fair child's hand, no one suspecting I would even dream of being a candidate, particularly as I apparently was indiffer- ent, making no comments; but Theo. somewhat betrayed me, since I could not altogether conceal my feelings, when he rose, made a low bow, and said, "I resign all pretensions in favor of the bachelor, after learning a man near thirty is more highly esteemed than boys whose mind and morals require a guardian, for when I marry it must be to a wife that will be guided by me, as I have a prudent mother already," and they were all amused at Theo.'s manner. It was Justine and I of course for whom this shoe was in. tended, and so we alone knew how to wear it in silence, and not commit ourselves as to how closely it fit. CHAPTER XXXI. EVENING came, and Luna. the lovers' friend, once more was kind, and again her soft light directed our steps to the lake, which from her silver rays was like one vast mirror, not one breath of air -rippling its smooth surface. The party was larger this evening than usual, and all as gay as larks, except Jeanette, and still you could not call her sad, but less cheerful than was natural to her, with an occa. sional absence of mind and half-suppressed sigh. When I quizzed her as to the cause of her being so serious, she with a smile calmly inquired : "Do I look so very, very grave to-night?" then drew a long sighO and said: "Oh,   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      219 dear! I hope not; for, indeed, if so, I must surely -be growing old and full of care." Jeanette's manner was so simple, so earnest and sincere, that it seemed quite ridic- ulous coming from her who was so very young, so very beautiful, with apparently every wish fully gratified, caus- ing much merrymaking with some, and rallying remarks with others. Justine asked if she had lost her heart, and with whom; and if so, who could have been thus senseless as not to have seized a treasure that so many would have been proud to call their own. "Oh! I can hardly say that I have lost my worthless heart," Jeanette playfully replied, " since it still lies as warm, I ween, Justine, in its own snug harbor as it ever did. And yet it is not impossible that a time may come when a foolish girl like myself might possibly wish (after her days of nonsense have passed, and years of discretion arrived) to give her heart in safekeeping 'to some person who, I hope, will be faithful to his trust; but then it flut- ters for such a vast number, and I do love so very many, that it will, I fear, be a difficult task to secure it from tak- ing flight." All this flowed so unaffectedly from Jeanette's lips that there was not one iota of coquettishness about it. And there were some present who, notwithstanding a smile was an their lips, still deeply felt within the secret cells of their own hearts a tale of how warmly thriilled every nerve in silent love for her, and yet they .with their tongues dared not divulge it, vowing to themselves, in words unuttered, that if she would confide to them the precious casket, it would be guarded well; and surely I will not deny that I might have been the one among the number who most sincerely craved that such a blessing would be entrusted to me. For a short time after these little jestings of Jus-   rti: 2240'   ' SEARCH AFTER A LOST HBEART. tine and Jeanette, there came a hush alike upon all, both heavenly and earthly bodies, when presently the silence was broken by the voice of the lovely songstress who, first facing the party and slightly bracing herself against a tree, with the moon's silver beams mildly playing upon her placid countenance (rendering every feature, every line of grace more fascinating, if possible, even than in the noonday glare, her usual gentle bearing being softened now to a mellowness irresistible to the heart of all sexes, all ages), then playfully sang that spicy little song, "Com- ing thro' the Rye," with modest archness peculiar to herself; but scarcely had the last notes ceased ringing on the ear, so gayly, when the rolling thunder suddenly advised us to look from whence it came, which we did, and soon discovered a menacing, heavy cloud, with sepul- -chral warning, which rising just above the horizon, bade us hasten home. Now, although my sweet friend had often expressed her admiration of dark, massive, noble scrolls of condensed vapors, in dignity emerging from behind towering mountains, as if to overwhelm the world, rising higher and higher with sublime, majestic movement, illuminated by rapid, successive, brilliant, electric fluid, so gracefully coursing its way through them, directing the mortals at each flash to listen with reverence to the reports of cannonading with force totally beyond large numbers of men, of the pealing thunder, of the voice of God announcing on earth His supreme power. Yet still, when the swift flashes, so quickly followed by crashing sounds, like volleys of scattering musketry, came, herself unsheltered,-she timidly felt the awful grandeur of the scene, and, notwithstanding, conscious of the Almighty's protective power, which she never doubted at any time, I could feel her tremble as she clung closely to my arm,   eStSARCH AFTER A LOSt HEART.      2 saying: "Indeed, Mr. d'Enville, I cannot tell why, but I always feel so safe by your side, as if naught could harm me there; and sometimes think that Providence has constituted you the one to whom I should in time of i danger flee for assistance." Ah, my friend Oscar, useless indeed would it be-for me to attempt to describe my feel.  ings after the acknowledgment sweet Jennie made of the safety she felt when clinging to my arm. Then, nestling tremblingly to my side, while the vivid sheets of fire were emitted from the dark curtain hanging terrifically over our heads, she sweetly whispered in her alarm: "Oh! dear, Mr. diEnville, is there really no danger?" as each booming report echoed through the Heavens from cloud to cloud, quaking' the very ground at our feet as it descended to earth, bearing the responses from hill to hill, onward and onward, but to be followed by another and another bolt equally appalling. I drew toward me this artless child, almost fainting, still closer, who did- more dependently cling for shelter. Ah! thus situated, I can but say, go inquire of some learned statesman, after the- effects of draining the goblet has passed, what his sensation was while maddened with the wine potion he grasped to gain possession of the moon, and all he can tell you is that, when reason returned, and he remembered that Luna was beyond his reach, he quickly relinquished the desire for what in his frenzy he foolishy hoped to obtain. So, pre- cisely, while the thrilling excitement fired my heart, I at first lost all control over myself, with anxiety to call dear, sweet, confiding Jennie -all my own, for deep, deep love had overpowered my spirit; but returning judgment bade : me resist, withstand the temptation, and wisely cast off the folly of pleading for that which, under existing circum- stances, I would seek for in vain: that ecstatic pleasure of   v" / -      I  - 235    SEARCH AFTEK A LOSTH R    T RT shielding from all cares and troubles, and have cling to me - for defense through life, one so pure, so lovely, as Jennie who was confidingly seeking protection from me even now  and feeling her dependence on me while shivering with fear at the convulsions of the heavens; for it recurred to me again that her father's prejudice must be removed with regard to slaveholding planters before I could offer myself to the daughter and be accepted. Thus heartily I rejoiced when, we arrived at her uncle's with my good resolutions un. -  shaken. Yet I was not exactly like the besotted, learned man aiming for heavenly bodies with useless efforts since I had one hope: that ere long her father would visit down South, which possibly might accomplish a change in feel- ing toward us, believing the eyewitnessing of the con- sideration we have for our colored population would con. vince him that the report of cruelty to, our slaves was false and that there is decidedly a vast line of distinction to be drawn between the harsh, wicked master, who should be condemned by all, and the humane planter so commenda- ble; for leniency should be the order of things all the world round, man to-his fellowman, North and South, with all classes, all ages, all colors, all nations. After this, I daily sought most fervently in earnest prayer, that Major Arlington (this, by promotion, being now  his title), might have his bitter feeling softened toward our section of country; for, by discarding his er. roneous ideas, wherein he had been deceived, he would sanction my paying addresses to his daughter; and oh! -thten this very petition I offered in prayer but increased my love for dear, sweet Jennie, and rendered me the more anxious to plead in exchange for mine (she had so stealth- ily made void) for herown gentle, pure, innocent heart to fill the vacant space. And I parted this night with my sweet   ISEARCH A F&r  A I8tOST sBRA .    2t - Jennie, flattering myself that both our spirits were now Inore firmly linked together than ever before, since she, during the hour of danger, had innocently betrayed her feelings of love for and trust in my humble self. With this assurance of Jennie's feeling toward me, and after Lorry's very precautionary measures, lest "Massa Ferdi- nand," having been exposed to the storm, should take cold, I calmly fell into a sweet, refreshing sleep, except one short dream, when Jennie said: "Oh! Mr. d'Enville,- be but an Abolitionist, and I am thine forever"; and I answered my sweet one: "Though I die for you, that can never be," and then she vanished from my sight, giving one last sorrowful look; and when I awoke, great drops of perspiration, like beads, cold as icicles, lay thick on- my forehead, at my destiny. The time was drawing nigh when our pleasant party was to be separated; Maude, Florence, the Singletons (and, oh! I feared Jennie with her father also), -were about returning to Canada, and then my doom was sealed forever, forever; the remainder of us, with our parents, preparing for down South, But the event most important, which was paramount to all others besides, was the coming of my Jenmie's father, each one anticipating joy or sorrow, according to plans and wishes formed, and the success my sisters would meet with in their intended request that Jennie might spend the winter with us on our plantation. At last the day dawned when this arrival of importance, Major Arlington, was anxiously looked for; and there was no disappointment, at the usual hour, as the daily stage met with no delay, for it was true to the exact time due, and with it came my sweet Jennie's father, who, without alighting at the hotel; was conveyed immediately to the-   'W. Si   SE/RCE aIEKR  A jLOST BIARt. house of his sister, Mrs. Singleton, when Jennie's joy knew no bounds; she threw herself in her father's arms, wept and laughed almost at the same moment; and scarcely was the sunshine of her face restored in greeting her brother Frank, now   called Douglas, before she was in  her father's arms again, all tears of joy. These minutes of the meeting I learned from my sisters myself, not having been present. CHAPTER XXXII. THE morning after Major Arlington's being domiciled at his brother-in-law's, I took my saddle-beast, and, with Lorry on his horse, rode toward the cottages, my first visit being to my sisters; afterward I directed my steed's head towardthe one that held my Jennie.   Scarcely had we : gone a few paces, before we met a gentleman of noble bearing, accompanied by a splendid, manly-looking boy. Lorry now rode close to my side, and in an undertone, with a peculiarly mysterious manner, said: "Why, Massa Ferdinand, if dar been't de berry French gempleman dat de valetses called Mounseer;" here he hesitated to think, then asked: "What dat name, Massa Ferdinand, dey call dat gempleman?" "Monsieur Melle, Lorry," I said. Yes, Massa Ferdinand," he vehemently replied; "yes, dat it: Mounseer Melly." "Are you sure, Lorry?" "Yes, Massa Ferdinand, I is sure, sarten," he answered. "Singular, yery," I thought, "for without doubt this is the very British officer who saved me from a serious affair with the surgeon in the British service that I met in the billiard-room."   /AcRH-CH AFTER A LOST vEitRI.     i Presently, the gentleman on whom myself and Lorry commehted turned, and arrived even before ourselves at the cottage of Mr. Singleton, and in a few moments after I was introduced to him as Major Arlington; and here, to my astonishment, stood before me four in one: First, Monsieur M6llee; second, the gentleman friend who was my mediator in my troubles with the scoundrel surgeon in the billiard saloon; third, Captain Clarendon, the fond father of my little pet Jennie; fourth, he who is now the retired British officer, Major Arlington, and my beloved, adored, Jeanette's father; and, indeed, a strange'affair did it seem to me, that the very one I had been so anxious'to meet with, and report to him of the unjust, cruel treatment his tender little one was receiving at the hands of the step- mother, should at various times have been so near me, and I unconscious of the fact. And this, I must really confess, was the first time I had ever felt positively awkward at anr introduction to-- a stranger, and my confusion increased in proportion to his cordial greeting, blended with protestations of gratitude for my preservation of his darling Jennie from the assault upon her life by the insane woman; and his manner in speaking of the maniac gave evidence he was unconscious. she was his wife. And, oh! how anxiously I hoped his impressions of me had been favorable; but, alas! I thought, still I am a slaveholder, and never can be looked upon with feelings of pleasure by an Abolitionist who is so warm upon the subject as he was reputed to be; yet, I soon was at ease with- him, for he proved to be a most finished gentleman; and thus I felt confident he would never broach aught of an unpleasant subject to persons with whom he was conversing, to irritate them; and but little time elapsed before I was perfectly fascinated with 10*  .... ' 2? 6   - SEAR CH A FTEr A LOST BEA t. his manners. And his colloquial powers, too, were of a peculiar, pleasing style, being forcible, energetic, yet mild; but what added to the pleasure I took in hearing him con- verse was my watching the varying expression of Jennie's beautiful face, for with every word her father uttered her countenance the while was a complete index of the pride she felt and love she bore that parent. As for Douglas, whom I first knew as little Frank, we were very good friends during their sojourn among us, which was not of long continuance. I now bade good-morning, Major Arlington promising to call with Jennie next day, which he did, when it did not take much persuasion for Jennie's father to give consent to her going South with my mother, since he soon recognized in her an old friend, having been one of her admirers in England, but who, immediately on discovering Miss Berresford to be a flame of my father's, ceased visiting at the house of my grandfather, not caring to entirely lose his heart with any lady to whom another was about offering himself with some hope of success. Major Arlington's meeting with my father was attended with a great deal of pleasure, and they enjoyed very much a chit-chat over some of their boyhood days in Europe. When Jennie's father placed her under my mother's care, it was, very affecting, the tears flowing down his cheeks as he said: "This is a precious child to me, my dear Mrs. d'Enville, she is so like her sainted mother now in- Heaven; and then I dearly love her for her angel self, and naught would tempt me to part with her this winter save that she looks so frail, and I fear in our harsh climate she would soon be taken from me; and then, too, I have a feeling of full confidence in her friends of the South, sure that my darling Jennie in the hands of gentle, prudent Mrs.    &SEARCc aZETC a LosT HEART.       2 d'Enville will be as carefully watched over and cherished as if she was nursed in her own dear mother's arms, were she alive, or in that of her fond father and Aunt Kennedy's in Canada." Now, my friend Oscar, you may be certain, if my sisters gave audible demonstrations of delight at the con- sent of Jennie's father, my heart was throbbing with an overwhelming flow of joy; yet there were a few words spoken by Major Arlington which gave multum in parvo evidence of his views and fears attendant upon his daugh- ter's visit South, which cast a shadow over my pleasing anticipations, for he drew Jennie near him and impressed upon her brow a father's purest, fondest kiss, then said, in a low tone, yet heard by my quick, listening ear, to my discomfort: "There is one thing I hope that my darling will never forget-her love for all mankind alike, or cease to desire one day to see all men free." And now he suddenly checked himself, as if dreading he might have given offense, then turned and quickly apolo- gized, saying: "Excuse me, my friends, for the words which just now accidentally slipped from my lips; but itrwas the certainty I felt that under the care of Mrs. d'Enville all grades of society have the kindest ,care, yet more particularly those of humble station, which gave me some fear lest my child's general tender feelings upon such principles might be changed into believing that the like humanity was the course pursued generally by slaveholders; but, my friends, if I am an Abolitionist," Major Arlington said, showing the true Christian spirit, "still I do not approve of unjust, harsh measures toward the planters in releasing the slaves, only hoping and praying that a way, may be provided in    g..- 2 28-   SEARCt AFTER X LOST HEART. God's good time to free the poor colored man, and relieve the slaveholder of his burden, to the advantage of both, and detriment of neither, and I doubt not many times there has been much injustice done the slaveholder." My father smiled an acknowledgment of no offense having been given where none was intended, merely saying to the major: "Well, in some measure, my dear friend, you are not far from being right, since doubtless we planters feel the creares and responsibilities with which we are burdened, and kind Providence will one day point out the way for our relief; still I verily think the impressions of those without 'our boundaries maintain an erroneous opinion of us down South; but I hope," my father peremptorily said,. "that the Abolitionists and planters of these United States, though differing on some subjects, may be firm to one principle, and that is, in mind and soul, to feel we are a  band of united brethren, North and South, and-our bounden duty is at all hazards to live and die as such, for should either party listen to the fanatics, it is a conclusive fact that inevitable ruin to all would be the result. Foreigners, however, may discuss warmly th6 subject of slavery (with which the planter in any time feels he would fain do with- out, it being to them an institution of necessary eviD, for it does not interfere with European interest. Yet, pos- sibly, they may remember their own troubles with St. Domingo years gone by, and also the frightful consequences to their brothers of the white race. Here the subject ceased, and the major and my father parted good friends. A few days after, Major Arlington was suddenly called away on business, and the parting of Jennie and her father was truly touching; for a short time each one relented at the winter arrangements, but this soon passed off, both   SEAtRCH 'AFTER A -LOS' lARTr .    29 feeling their separation for the present to the interest of both, and became reconciled, remembering the time would rapidly glide away. But I must say, I loved Jennie all the more for the fondness of her father, and sorrow at parting with him, since'a good and fond daughter invariably makes a good wife. CHAPTER XXXIII. IN the course of two weeks the boarders of the hotel and strangers elsewhere had taken flight for winter quarters, and we were not long in following their example, as many days did not elapse before my father and family (accom panied by my sweet Jennie, her old nurse, and waiter) werf en route for our home south, Jennie taking good care the old blind grandmother and orphans were well provided witi all articles necessary for the winter ere she left. Lorry was in perfect ecstasies. He capered about, grinned,-and at length said: "Oh, guy! yah, yah! I reckon Massa Ferdinand am glad dat him young missy photemgrapl gwine wid ole massa and missus way idown Sout', and I reckon Mammy Silvie be glad too, for Massa FerdinanC will be so happy he won't go off ob de plantation dis win ter; so it 'pears to dis yhear chile, anyhow. Massa Fe dinand allays lub he home best; and, oh, guy! I reckor dat ole daddy and mammy will be so glad to see dis mos beau'fullest missy photemgraph God ebber made; oh yah, yah, yah! I guess dike de Yankees) dat prett; Missus Jeanette won not be Abolishener bery long affej she seed how happy de colored people be dat lib wid oh Massag and Missus d'Enville, God bress 'em, who nebbel did a wicked t'ing to one ob dar people. Oh! dear old missus, God bless her, and de young missuses, God bre9!   -   230    SEARCH AFTER A L OST HBE9Ri dem, and de young massas, and Massa Ferdinand, God bless dem all, for dey allays do make de people so happy dat work for dem on de plantation, and so comf'able-like dat I pity de day when dey gwine to leab dem. But dar one t'ing 'bout Massa d'Enville--ef massa be gwine to part wid dem, he allays sure to find anoder good massa for his people." And thus he continued soliloquizing (while packing his Massa Ferdinand's trunk) : "Oh! I reckon dis yhear chile be drefful grad and happy to stay down Sout' dis winter war 'tis warm, and hab nice time playin' de banjo." We remained but a short time in the city to make pur. chases, and then took the Southern steamer. The weather was calm, and the ladies buit little sick; passengers cheer- ful, and, indeed, so agreeable was everything on board during the voyage that it appeared very much shorter than it had been in reality. On our arrival at the plan- tation gate, the younger part  of us stepped from the carriage to stretch our limbs; and it was quite a study to watch Jennie's face as each one of the slaves ran to wel- come their master, mistress, and family home again; and when Eugenie raised one of the little darkies in her arms and complimented the mother on little Pierre's improve- ment in appearance, Jennie looked on with asto nishment, then said, after we were out of the mother's hearing: "Why, Eugenie, how is it possible that you can lift these little ebony fellows in your arms as if they were white as lily " "And why not, pray V"Justine asked, answering for her sister, "since this little fellow is clean, and although so jet like, still his soul is as pure and unalloyed by sin as those whose complexion is as fair and beautiful as yours, my own sweet Jennie; and do you Abolitionists feel thus toward a race whose fate vou so stronglv deplore ."   7ix s9Ei4ARCH AfPER I LOST tEART.          23i "Oh!"Jennie replied, in her usual soft tone, "I myself know it is not the color which makes the soul good or bad, dearest Justine, and feel it is only the difference in clime which renders their external appearance as it is; but my wonder was at Eugenie's kind manner toward them, for you must understand I have been taught that those down South look upon the colored race as nearly allied to monkey species." Here Justine first laughed heartily at Jennieds remark, then quizzingly asked: "And how much sugar- cane, Jennie dearest, do yourself and learned instructors think these precious animals would leave their masters " As her English friend appeared to feel troubled at being thus made a subject of merriment, although done with perfect good nature by Justine on account of what Jennie had inno- cently reported had been her impression from the tale of others, Justine apologized, saying: "My sweet one, do not look so sorrowful, for I was not making merry at your ignorance, but only that your informers should have been so little acquainted with the Southern man's feelings relative to master and slave; or that he should so ignore the planter's heart as to consider it lacking Christian spirit, for know, my sweet one, we slaveholders (as you will find ere you leave us) do treat our people of color as positively human beings, and possessing hearts as capable of qualifi- cations to enter Heaven as we of the white race; and you will find that we act, too, in accordance with God's Holy Word, which sanctioned slaveholding, but not treating the colored race as part beast (as you have been informed), for we consider the slaves in the same light as did our fore- fathers (whom we read of in the Holy Writ), as mem- bers of our household, although not our equals; and it is thus we care for them as to their worldly career, and thus we also guide their souls to Heaven, so that they   F .   232    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEARTt may, in God's eternal kingdom, hold a place mayhap equal with their masters, Each one who has fulfilled his duties on earth is entitled to the highest honors in Heaven, where' there is no respect of persons; but-on this globe it is necessary there should be a head-; thus, consequently, there are different grates among all communities throughout the world, and so there will be a distinction of classes until we meet in the next world, and then, Jennie, we planters down South believe, as you do, that in Heaven there will be allotted to each his position according to the account of deeds done in the body; and, among other things, such as the acts of treatment of master to servant, and servant to master. But there is one thing we think must be-admitted by all mankind-that as every nation has its peculiarity, so the African is not exempt from his. Thus, as a general rule, they have less of forethought than those of other countries, and not as capable of calculating for themselves, since they usually act from impulse, scarcely understand- ing the meaning of the words reflection or restraint, which has been proved repeatedly through the course pursued by the free colored population, although there may be a very few exceptions. We, therefore, hold it positively neces- sary that the white man should be at their head to look after their temporal comforts, and teach them the way to a blissful eternity." Jennie smiled as she said: "I wish, my dear Justine, I could reason as welI as you; yet 1 fear you misunderstand me, since I do not believe Africans are animals myself, but considered such by the planters here." Jennie stopped, being unable to say more, since at each turn of the road to the house there was something of interest to attract the attention of all, the stranger as well as those daily familiar- ized with such scenes, and thus all further discussion   ASEAPCE AFTER A LOST fCART.      232 ceased. And, now, friend Oscar, do not suppose this young sister of mine so very precocious in argument, for her knowledge was derived from constant listening to dispu. tations upon the subject df slavery among men of high ar- gumentative powers, which had rendered her au fait in discussing and advocating the pros and cons on points -wherein she considers injustice done to either side and all classes. In proportion as we advanced toward -the home mansion was Jennie more and snore astonished at the air of cleanli- ness in dress, comfort, and neatness about the cabins, as - well as the smiling faces of the colored people she met in all directions on the plantation, and at last expressed sincere feelings of happiness that she had come South, since it had destroyed the prejudice which the Abolitionists in Canada had fastened on her mind against the South- ern planter; and she had now' firmly determined never again to decide against any body of'people from mere hearsay, but wait until through her own observation she could form correct views of others' motives, ac- tions, and principles, independent of reporters actuated possibly from selfish motives, for, in this instance, she had been so entirely deceived; declaring she never saw a happier set of faces, or a humble class of people more comfortably situated than the slaves of Mr. d'Enville, and that there was no- comparison as to the advantages they possessed over the poorer class (both white and free colored), as to mental and bodily benefits, in the cities of her home-that is, as far as she had thus seen. We now arrived at the mansion house, and the delight Jennie evinced at our household arrangements was very gratifying to me. The novelty at first I thought was one cause of her flattering ecstasies, -everything being con-   ^-i A  234    SEARCEH  PTBR A tOST HEAR Al ducted so entirely different from what 'she had been accus- tomed to, and yet Jennie's tell-tale, truthful face and ex. pressions gave evidence there, was homelike feeling about it to her, when she remarked: "The sans souci air of ease and liberality, together with the extremely cordial style of receiving, down South, was a vast deal more inviting than the stiff, formal receptions of .other climates, which pro- duced such a sensation of awkwardness in the visitors, through greeting so precisely according to certain exact rules of etiquette, that it seemed overstrained. Now, for example," she said, " with' my own country people, they, notwithstanding, ever using every effort to entertain their guests, still, to all appearances, are so exceedingly heart- less that it renders your stay with them rather a visit of duty than pleasure; but with you South there is a much warmer way of giving vent to the feelings, which goes straight to the soul as you welcome even we strangers to your sweet home." This sincere, enthusiastic manner of complimenting our Southern hearts excited a hope within me which I dreaded to encourage, fearing disappointment. The ladies now retired to their rooms, as I supposed, for a siesta before tea, while Lorry succeeded in persuading me, previous to changing my dress, just to come, if only for one moment, and take a look at old mammy. There fore, as he evinced so much anxiety to visit his old parents' cabin, I indulged him; but, to tell the 'truth, it did not require much urging to induce me to go first and call on my old nurse Silvie before I relieved myself of my travel- ing clothes, so after a few moments' rest I started with Lorry to see his parents, and when I arrived at the door of the cabin, Mammy Silvie hobbled, as fast as her rheum- atism would permit, to meet me with expressions of sincere, respectful love; and when I hung a fancy basket on her   '       / SEARCH AFTER A tOST, SART.       3F. arm she exclaimed: "Oh! my massa chile, dis de berry ting I been tinken about dis whole year;" but when she sat down and removed the lid and there found a needle. book, thimble, and other implements for sewing, with knitting needles, and then, above all, a gay bandana hand- kerchieffor her turban, the old woman's-eyes filled with tears, and as she again rose from her chair old mammy courtesied, took both my hands in hers, kissed them over and over again, saying: "T'ank you, t'ank you, my dear young massa chile, and God bress you, and oh! me so happy you comed home once more, de days'peared so long- like when you'm gone away, and de only comfort me take den, when massa been gone, is de times daddy read dat Bible to me dat you gib him, dat tell how God lub Oem dat lub de poor, case den me t'ink dat de Almighty mus' lub my dear young massa chile dat took de nurse from de ole color woman; but I was'nt ole den like I now is, young massa, was I "Here I really could not avoid smiling at old Silvie's simple remarks, although my eyes were dimmed with tears at old mammy's gratitude, and after I had given old daddy a Sunday cane, silver mounted, with his initials engraved in large letters on it, and received his thanks, was deterred from saying anything to him by perceiving a little darky who stood behind old Silvie's chair, with several others of her grandchildren, first pulling old mammy by her sleeve, then sniggering with a broad grin, showing her white teeth, and her eyes shining like glass beads, while pointing with her ebony finger to the door; but when I saw old mammy slowly rise, then court- esy, while gazing on some object with wonder and respect, I turned my attention in the same direction, and there saw Jennie with my two young sisters peering in upon us, all of whom  I had presumed were napping with fatigue. /A                d^ 26 SEAR CH Al T 71;' A L OST 1.AA .      \ 1 soon perceived, however, that Jennie was wide-awake, her eyes fairly sparkling with such an inquiring expression i while wandering from one face to another, as if she wished to be convinced if such evidence as before her (of love from master to slave) was of usual occurrence. By this time the cabin was quite in commotion, for old daddy had put back his glasses; and old Mammy Silvie againi hobbled toward this party of young ladies, first regarding Jennie as something wonderful, and then delighted at seeing her young mistresses; and soon the object of this visit was made known, for after the little darkies had placed all the seats they could find for them, my sisters drew from a package an offering for each one of the inmates, which brought forth showers of thanks and "God bress young missuses " upon the donors of these little presents, bought in the " big city" for them (which always enhanced their value, coming from the great emporium).  Presently I heard a tiptoe movement, and then a loud whisper uttered with earnestness, in words to this effect: "Oh! Mammy, dat am de photemgraph." Old nurse Silvie now opened her large eyes still wider and said: "Am dat possible, Lorry; 'tis beau'ful," looking an approving glance at me; but an expression of mine, signifying a desire that she would make no further comments, was quite sufficient to insure a suppression of any remarks that were on her lips ready to come forth. Lorry's report had created, I soon perceived, quite a sensation, not only with mammy Silvie and old. daddy, but all the others of this' colored family; and as they gazed upon this child of perfect loveliness with earnest admiration, Jennie blushed deeply, then moved a few steps back, which reminded me that my eyes also were directed that way with extreme admiration. Eugenie complained of being tired, so they bid the old inmates of the cabin   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      237 a kind good-by, then left to take a little rest, that they might be refreshed previous to partaking of one of our tempting Southern repasts of game and fruit, but not so me, since I remained to warn Lorry of his imprudence. The only excuse he made was: "Lor' bress you, Massa Ferdinand, me t'ink dat no harm, case you seed dat dis y'hear chile did want mammy to know   who Missus Jeanette was, she look so beau'ful, and den me knowed de young missusses war gwine to come, and dat's de reason just why dis darky geman beg you, Massa Ferdinand, walk down to de cabin, for me tought you like to be dar de same time when, de young missuses 'rive dar, and see how Missy Jeanette look when she see de cabin." I could not now scold Lorry, as he had done all with good intent, to please me. Lorry being the crack darky on the plantation, his friends gathered around the cabin to hear from him the news, so, after saying a kind word to all of them myself, I told Lorry I should ndt want him imme-  diately, but wished him to come in an hour, and be sure not to be behind time. Then I left him entertaining his fellow- servants, as I could hear by their merry "yah, yah, yahs," at his great sight seeings. CHAPTER XXXIV. LORRY, always punctual to the minute, was at my door knocking for -admission sooner even than he was wanted, for I had not yet entirely awakened from -my nap, it being time, however, that I was up. I bade him come in; and he was not long in the room before I perceived some- thing pleased him, by his broad grin, and the shining of his    -238 -   SPARCHZ AFTERl A LOST HEART. eyes, and of which he was in great haste to unburthen his mind; nevertheless he remained silent a few moments, being unwilling to speak on account of my half-dozing quiet manner, yet he could not hold in very long, for, after whis. pering, "Massa Ferdinand, Massa Ferdinand," hesitated a moment, until he saw my eyes open, then said, "Massa Ferdinand, what you t'ink Mammy Silvie say? Why,-she say dat she 'do wish dat God would gib her chile, her dear Massa Ferdinand, jist such an angel-wife like dat beau'ful Missus Jeanette.' And oh, guy! yah, yah, yah, yah-me do wishes jist dat same ting myself, Massa Ferdinand, for dat am dis day do mos' beaufullers photemgraph dat me ebber did see, and scuse me, Massa Ferdinand, but me knowed dat de beau'ful Missus Jeanette lub Massa Ferdinand, for she look at him so lubly-like. Oh! yah, yah, yah, me can no help it, Massa Ferdinand, for when me t'ink ob de beau- 'ful young photemgraph, as if she war Massa Ferbinand's wife, and my young missus, me no can help it, me so happy- like. Oh, guy! yah, yah, yah." I now called him to order, by saying, "But, Lorry, you must help it, for I cannot have any more noise. If you are happy in thinking of my happiness, I am pleased, you tak, my interest so much at heart; but no more noise, Lorry, and get everything in readiness that I may be speedily dressed." Lorry never required harsh words, for a little firm decision of manner invariably brought him to order, so he now quietly and promptly performed his office of valet, at which he was a perfect adept. And, poor fellow, he was so fond of me, always looking after that which gave me pleasure, thus to him the idea of my marrying one so per- fectly lovely as Jennie was boundless joy for him. The slaves' comfort, I have heard him say, and I did not   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       239 doubt his word, so much depends upon their masters? wives; and Lorry's "yah, yah, yahs" being the only way of his expressing his feelings, I overlooked his giving vent to them many times, knowing we all have our peculiarities, master as well servant, and less should be expected of the ability to overcome them in the ignorant than those who have it, from education, more in their power to restrain defects of character. After my toilet was fully arranged, Lorry said, "Massa, may I ax you one question?" I could not refuse him, so he, with a face full of portent. ous, grave thought inquired, "Masss Ferdinand, do you tink dat beau'ful Missus Jeanette be Abolishener, 'cause me would be berry sorry, and it would 'stress Mammy Silvie berry much?"     S My answer was, "Lorry, I cannot elxactly say now, but I know that Missi Jeanette was once an Abolitionist,. I believe now, however, her opinions have changed, from' having been so much with "young missus," and, indeed, she feels very differently at present, so I do not really think that Miss Jeanette will be an Abolitionist very long." Lorry at this could not hold in with delight, and after giving one "yah," then begged my pardon, and, soon check. ing his mirth, said, "But ah! Massa Ferdinand, me feard 'bout Missus Jeanette's fader, Massa Major Arlington." "Never fear, Lorry," I said, " for when he comes South, perhaps he will change his mind a little also." Lorry was now about giving away again to his excess of joy, when I pointed my finger at the window, where I saw Jennie, and so suppressed all audible expression of happi- ness; but as I turned my head, ere leaving the room, to speak with him, I saw him step lightly to the window to look through the blinds, his mouth stretched on a broad    ,210      SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. grin with delight, and heard a low, half-smothered chuckle so- I did not say anything to him, but descended the steps, walked to the front door, and there paused to gaze and worship. Now, my friend Oscar, do not call me demented, or wicked, for never, never, did mortal man look on aught so resembling some pure ministering angel spirit, bright and fair. And surely her face was a most perfect ray of sunshine, for although so modestly beaming from behind a bewitching white gauze, knitted cloud, it was dazzling. The fact is, I was so awed by her loveliness at first, I dared not for a moment advance; her fairy form was clad in a flowing gossamer robe--the shade soft and pure as the pale blue vault of Heaven itself-the numberless folds lightly and gracefully waving in the breeze; the hand and arm, with naught to conceal its incomparable symmetry or its marble -whiteness save two plain bands of gold, which circled the delicate wrist, and gave life to the snowlike, ice-polished limb. Her Cinderella feet (cased in exquisite snugly fitting slippers, of the finest kid) fairly defied the grass, which scarcely felt their pressure, so light the tread. Jennie was alone, except her old English nurse, who was still cautioning her charge (although now grown) to be careful as to the dewfall, when I joined her-(my sisters having gone to visit one of the sick slaves)-and, rest assured, I seconded old nurse's motion, when Jennie, for my advice, thanked me with a sweet smile, saying: "I was thinking, Mr. d'Enville, what a lovely spot this sunny South of yours is, and was telling old nursey how much better I felt than when in Canada; and I breathe so much easier, too, while inhaling the balmy air, and only wish dear mamma had come South when first ill, for it might have saved her life."    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       241 - Jennie's manner alarmed me, and I inquired if she. felt ill? When she laughed at the idea, and said, "No, indeed; neither do I remember to have been seriously indisposed; but still I feel my lungs have more power to act than where we have such cold blasts, for my voice seems more clear, and I can raise my notes with greater ease than ever before." We now walked slowly on toward one of the cabins, and arrived just in time to hear Eugenie read a chapter in the Bible for old Ben, who had been very ill, and listen to Justine read the prayers for the sick, and hear the old man, with my sisters, repeat the Lord's Prayer, in which Jennie and myself joined. And here, also, was something to awaken in the mind of the young Abolitionist a new feature for conviction. And then all within this old Ben's cabin was arranged with such perfect neatness, while his old wife and daughter gave evidence of having been taught to keep an eye toward comfort, thus the little furniture allowed them was placed with a degree of order seldom seen in any humble dwelling; and could these rabid Aboli- tionists have witnessed the scene I have just described, it would have spoken to them volumes of reproof for their oversight in attending to the wants of the free colored population, and many of the poor whites, who live amid filth, intemperance, and idleness, in some parts, both city and country. And I could see my sweet Jennie closely eyeing a little table by old Ben's bedside covered with a white cloth, and on it white saucers containing some deli- cacies, and also small jars of jelly. Then, with an approving glance, she asked permission to fetch old nurse and waiter the next day to let them have ocular demonstration that the colored man can pray, for this class of English,   i- : 242    SEARCH AFTEIT A LOST HEdRT. although they talk Abolitionism, yet believe the slave half ape; "and I should also like them to see how well old Ben is oared for, that they might report home what them- selves saw, when next they write to Canada." And she continued, "I intend, in my next letter to dear papa, draw- ing, myself, a very precise sketch of all I with wonder be- held to-day in poor old Ben's cabin, to show him how very kind is their master and mistress on the plantation in look- ing after their people, both as to religious duties, and every thing else which tends to their comfort; and that the slave is not obliged to have sleepless nights, like the poor popula- tion of many places, in calculating how they can obtain means, when the morning dawns, to supply their families with food, toiling hard, from sunrise until night, to give their children bread, while their unfortunate little ones are left alone during the whole day exposed to temptation for the satisfying of hunger, since, when half-starved, it is difficult to resist. And all this, Mr. d'Enville, have I learned in my daily walks with aunty Kennedy, among this class of poor, for aunty and papa are ever thoughtful for those who require charity. But if they were here they would very soon discover how much they have been led into error from false reports, as well as convinced, although the word freedom may sound sweet, it is not because the slave has been as illy treated as represented." From this time Jennie insisted on aiding my sisters in. all their duties on the plantation, administering to the  - i. comfort of the sick, teaching school, and herself constantly , doing little kind things so quietly, and without our know- ledge, that they were not discovered until reported of 'by the slaves themselves, through their expression of extreme delight whenever she visited them; and she never entered their cabins without receiving a"God bresw you, missus; "   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      243 and all over the plantation was always announced as "Dar comes de beau'ful spirit lady, from de land of de bressed angels." And when her gentle voice breathed soft and tender sympathies, with words of advice, all was silence, every ear greedily listening to the instructions given, and the very greatest treat was when she would sing for them one of the sweet, simple hymns, from the village' selection, and now and then making them merry with one of her little comic songs; and no one's heart is more easily made gay than that of the African race. Our evenings were passed either in playing little games, my reading aloud while the ladies plied the needle, or in listening to Jennie sing, so they glided on smoothly with pleasure and profit to all. As for my parents, they loved Jennie quite as fondly as I did myself, my father calling her his white dove, who had come all the way from the chilling North, then fairly nestled itself in his Southern heart, there to find protection from the blasts of Boreas; and blessed the roaring fellow for wafting such a treasure to him for safe-keeping, declaring he would never part with it, since possession was nine points of the law, and he should firmly hold fast to so sensible a decision of the court. And then there was Eugenie- and Justine, who always called her " dear si ter," while my own love for her was- so firmly, deeply fastened on my heart, that, although I felt it would be death to part with her, yet I was obliged to keep the flame under, as I dared not make it known, notwithstanding I was confident my love was fully recip- rocated by Jennie-the same idea haunting me- still of never being able to reconcile Major Arlington with slavery, and consequently he would never consent that his darling child should marry a planter, he being so strongly opposed- to our Southern views of affairs in various ways, as he   244     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. at V had thus expressed himself uncompromisingly within my hearing to some gentlemen at the hotel, in conversing upon the subject of the Africans. Therefore, as far as in me lay, I subdued all outward evidence of love, and so kept my spirit of discretion within its proper compass that Jennie looked upon my attentions as those of a brother only, rather than such as my feelings told me I fain would be-a suitor for her heart and hand. And thus passed the time so swiftly and pleasantly that Christmas had nearly stolen upon us with rapid strides, imperceptibly, and we were hourly looking for the arrival of dear Jennie's father before we dreamed the holidays so near at hand. CHAPTER XXXV. AT length the happy hour for Jennie came, and the steam- er's arrival was scarcely announced ere the lovely, dutiful child was fondly clasped to the father's heart, and with a warm embrace, his expression of face at first all smiles, ended with tears of happiness glistening in his eyes, which told the tale of excess of feeling. Major Arlington's- first words were: "Bless you, my child, my darling, how well you look; and surely, that rosy hue of your cheek speaks well for the climate, and the good care of our kind friends, and really, my sweet child, " he said, once more embracing her,- ,you now resemble so strongly your sainted mother when we first met that I might almost fancy she stood be- fore me; " then, turning to my father and mother and taking a hand of 'each in his said, ",How very, very much I have to thank you for in giving my darling child such a hospitable winter's home,which I now believe will have pro-   SiFARCt #fTER X LOST HEIRT,      246 longed to me the life of my precious child, since the shelter- ing her from the keen blast of our harsh climate, at her tender age, may have effectually warded off the foundation of that disease which for Jennie I ever dreaded would prove fatal. And how can I ever show sufficiently my true, heartfelt gratitude to you all, for to me it seems impossible." Major Arlington said this with so much sincerity that one and all, from my father down, of the family, simulta. neously declared the favor had all been conferred on them by the privilege he had bestowed in entrusting to- their care his dear, lovely daughter, who had so endeared herself to every one on the premises, even to the smallest child, that, for all, now my father said : "The only boon we could crave from you is to leave her always with us, as it would now be cruel in the extreme to take her away." This request of my father, to leave Jennie ever with us, quite startled me, for it seemed as if he understood the' greatest desire of my heart. But Major Arlington after evincing the pride he felt in his child, then returned thanks for the very many compliments paid his daughter so flat- tering to a parent, then, smiling, asked: "And how, my dear friends, can you who love the dear child thus think that I, the sweet one's father, could part with such a treasure. Oh! no, I will lend her occasionally to those who have been so very kind to her-to give her entirely would be more than the heart of a father of such a child could bear. What! sever myself forever from such a rarejewel as this precious one, my sweet Jennie" (pressing her once more fondly to his heart); " it could not be." Jennie had shown her delight on her father's arrival, not in noisy ejaculations of love, but just in the same quiet,   - 464   SBAIRCf A FER A LOST HE4IRT. gentle manner as she did all things; and yet not coldly, for she possessed an intensity of feeling, which now, as ever, evinced itself through the increased brilliancy of the gener- ally tender expression of her soft, dark-blue eyes, the warmer glow of her naturally delicate, rose-tinted cheeks; -and her sweet, ruby lips (on which usually hung a placid smile), were now quivering as if at strife with the tears of joy that were rapidly-gathering in her overflowing eyes, while the rise and fall of her chest kept time with the pul- sations which revealed the depth of filial love that was swelling in her heart for her father-her all that she had to cling to since the death of her mother-and, as she trust- ingly nestled in his arms, felt that he alone of all human power was the one she could look to as a shield to guard her against the evils we are exposed to while passing through life's pilgrimage. CHAPTER XXXVI. IT was the day before Christmas when Mr. and Mrs.. d'Enville went to the nearest town to purchase gifts for their people, and came home loaded, and thus the whole plantation was now preparing to celebrate that eventful, blessed day with joy, the commemoration of which the whole world has cause to hold sacredd, and evince with-cheer- ful hearts gratitude that a Saviour was born, for all, with- out distinction. Now, this holiday, ever kept on the prem- ises of Mr. d'Enville as a joyful occasion, brought the entire family of the colored members in close proximity to the mansion house, so that to any one it was a stirring sight, but particularly such to strangers who had never   a-SEAiCH AFTER A LOST HE kt.     247 witnessed a similar scene down South, where each sable face was a blaze of sunshine; and as to curious novelty, it was overpowering to one so completely imbued with Abolition feelings as Major Arlington; but already he had expressed himself agreeably disappointed with what he had lately become acquainted--that of the indulgence to slaves being so much more extensive that he had any idea of. Jennie now took it upon herself to pilot her father through the grounds, with which arrangement Eugenie and Justine were delighted, believing it would enable Major Arlington to judge more unbiasedly of the true state of things down South. With Mammy Silvie's cabin and its whole arrangements the father of Jennie was delighted, for it was so perfectly clean, while old Claude and Mammy Silvie were his admiration, so neatly clad, and then in man- ner so exceedingly respectful, as if they felt their own re- spectability, while at each cabin Major Arlington called he was more and more surprised to see ,so many happy faces both of girls and boys, as well as astonished at their- cheerful, free manner of playing, and looking, too, so sleek and fat, as if well fed, their bodies, not, as reported to him, 'half naked, like the heathen, but as all working classes, neat and comfortably clothed. In each cabin, too, was to be seen at least one Bible and Prayer Book; and then the well-cared-for appearance of those in advanced years, with the kind manner of treating them, as well as the way they were spoken to by the planter's family, gave evidence he had been much deceived with regard to relative position of master and slave, as synonymous with the words barbar- ous and cruel, for he was sure they were neither. One movement among the slaves was quite an enigma to Major Arlington, and made him think that there must be some- thing peculiar about himself (which their inquisitive eyeing   - E   48    SEARCH AFTE  A LOST BiBRAt. him certainly warranted), for each one scanned him so sus- \  piciously, either as he entered their cabins or passed them :while at their work in the field; as to the children, they looked at him askance, with a shrinking smnile. And so, after being seated on the piazza by my father's side, he inquired of him if the slaves were usually so shy of strang- ers, and my father's answer was that he never had observed such to be the case, then smilingly made some casual remark, but without any satisfactory explanation to Major Arlington; neither did he understand it until the day following, when hae overheard the conversation between Lorry and myself which solved the mystery, for desiring to ascertain the cause to my own satisfaction, I inquired of Lorry why the people on the plantation (as his " young missus" informed me) looked so very much alarmed when Miss Jeanette's father visited the grounds, "Me don not know, Mssssa Ferdinand," he replied, "ept two or trie words dis yhear chile say to Mammy Silvie and daddy, dat dar war Abolisheners comen to see old Massa d'Enville, and when dey hear dat dey war 'most frightened to deff, dey war, Massa Ferdinand, and some ob de little darkies dey jist run to hide darsels as fast dey can; but de littlest darkies ob dern all, why, dey tink de Abolisheners be one great bar, and it war 'stonishing-like to see how dey beg dar parents not let de big animal eat dem; but Lor' bress you, Massa Ferdinand, dey war so tickled-like dat de Abolisheners war only man, and gempleman too ; but den, you see, dat de way, Massa Ferdi. nand, de debil allays come for all ob us: de ole and de big darkies knuwd all about it, and t'ink like m) does, dat de Abolisheners be berry bad men, and so dey is, Massa Ferdinand, for dey 'pears mos' like Satan, me t'ink: sure to put in de heart ob de slave-to do all sort ob bad t'ings to ,    I  xSARCH AFiER A LOS-T BEART.    249 dar massa, and den tell dem to run away and cheat dem out of dar work'; and de Bible say dat wicked, Massa Fer- dinand, and me sure, berry, dat am wicked. But affer dey teach dem to go way from dar home de Abolisheners nebber do nothing for dem or gib dem work; and me t'ink dat all dose wicked men want jist be to kick up a bobbery and gib de world great deal trouble, me does say. And how dem Abolisheners know, 1Massa Ferdinand, dat dese darkies want to be sent to some place all by darselves, for dey don not want no such t'ing, Massa Ferdinand, and when all by darselves how dat make difference for de slave, with no white man to tell dem what dey want; I should be berry sorry, me knows. Wal, Massa Ferdinand, any. how, me t'ink if dey want to gib de slave free why do not dey come and pay de money for de slave, den say, 'Dar now  you free, go,' and den show  de slave how to support heself. Oh, no, dey don not do dat; and one t'ing me sure ob, de Abolisheners; be mighty big coward, and if dey ebber kick up a fuss wid de plantations and make a rebbellum, dey haint not gwine to fight, dar- sels, but let somebody else do dat, and den dey go run away and hide and after it all ober-de war-do like ole nig, ger in de log, crawl out and say, 'Massa, how we lick dem. And dey all bad men, dem Abolisheners, Massa Ferdinand, but me know dar is 'ceptions to all rules, Massa Ferdinand, and do you really t'ink dat Massa Major be Abo----?" Here I pointed to the door as If I thought Jennie's father might probably be listening, when Lorry looked ter- ribly alarmed, and thus stopped all further remarks from him; but finding that Lorry was getting rather too much freedom of speech, I checked him more sharply than was my custom so to do. He first looked with aston- ishment, then gave a start, as I said sternly, "Not one "*   25 O   SEBARCH AFTER A LOST HEAB  T. word more, Lorry"; then observing that my abrupt man. ner troubled him, I spoke more mildly, asking him if he had forgotten how many times there was given by his old master to all the most express order for no one to " speak disrespectfully of any person visiting at the mansion ; neither, Lorry, should you feel that all opposed to slavery are bad men, for I myself do not approve of many acts done- on some of the plantations, and consider the African slave trade very wicked and cruel in the extreme." "Ah! dat t'ing'pears 'tirely different, for dat 'bout the slave ships,-Massa Ferdinand, be ob course berry bad in- deed."  But I found there was no use in attempting to cheek Lorry's freedom of speech, for still he insisted, no matter how I endeavored to palliate the affair, " dat de Abolishen- ers were berry bad men," since he never could forgive in- ducing Mimy and her husband away from "dar home in de - Sout', and den leab dem to starve and freeze in de Nort'." And indeed the poor creatures were, I acknowledge, des- titute of everything, and in the most terrible condition where I found them in the city, and Lorry always insisted the colored people were happier " wid dar massas, and dat dar massas war nebber cross to dem, nor punished dem 'ept when dey desarve it,and dat dar no use ob de Abolishen. er talking to him dat sham talk, 'case he been libben war dey was all over de world, and dar was no Abolishener would like to hab de slaves arter dey free come and lib among dem, but dey allays say dat dey mus' send de free darkies somewhar to lib by darselves."   SEPARCt rAFES A LOS1' LEAfR  .    25i CHAPTER XXXVII. CHRISTMAS on a plantation was indeed a novelty for Major Arlington, when he was amused to hear young and old of the slaves endeavor to catch their master passing, from behind doors or some other hiding-place, with "Merry Christmas, massa," or "Missy, I hope you merry Christmas," noticing that there were a quantity of books, fancy articles of clothing, toys, etc., presented. Such gifts as these were received from their "young massas and missuses,"' who enjoy- ed the fun of drawing them separately out of the sack, and giving the boys and girls, according to number. This sack was large, well filled, and marked "Christmas Holidays," while from two small boxes were taken by " ole massa and missus" a piece of silver money for each one, And the Christian duties of that holy day Major Arlington found were not neglected on the plantation either, for at sunrise the chapel for both the home and field domestics was punctually opened, and when Major Arlington, according to English custom, took his early walk, he was surely most surprised to meet all the colored persons attired in their Sunday suit, with prayer-book in hand, having happy faces, walking in procession. Old Claude and Silvie, and others too aged to go on foot, were comfortably conveyed thither in the large plantation car. - At eleven o'clock the labor, for that day was completed, and then the colored people briskly went to work to spread the table for the domestics of the whole plantation. And how their eyes shone, and their white teeth were made visible from the extension of- their lips, at the sight of each nice dish of meat and pastry, as they were placed there. Major Arlington almost dis.' credited his vision as he saw this attention paid to the I.   a;;'; , ;s SERACH#FtPR A  OST HEAKT. mherrymaking of the slaves, everything being provided ne- cessary for their frolic, their smiling faces giving evidence there was nothing lacking, while the whole affair was con- ducted with perfect order, and even although the banjo and violin, with singing and dancing, were permitted, the bounds of propriety were -not overleaped. But there was one feature of a character very marked and peculiar, with all this indulgence of amusement, which- was different from the generality of feasts--there was nothing like intemperance, for there was no liquor to be seen, except gooseberry or currant wine, of domestic manufacture. Major Arlington now contrasted the very miserable con- dition of many of the laboring men in his own city with the comfortable provision made for the slaves, and so began to waver in his mind whether he had not been wrongly in- formed, and through prejudice influenced to be bitter, and thus use severe invectives against planters, from reports of fanatics (residing in certain parts of the U. S.) who had never been on a plantation. Not one word, of course, was said to Major Arlington by rmy father's family, as he was their guest, in order to elicit from him his views upon the subject of Abolitionism, but himself, after commenting upon the fondness of the African for hilarity, and remembering what a pity they ever should be deprived of their innocent amusement, said how much gratified he was at having been present at this festival, acknowledging his impressions would now be altogether different from what they were when he came on the plan- tation. Shortly after Christmas old Ben died, all the care be- stowed on him having failed to restore him to health. Major Arlington had taken much interest in the dying slave, visiting his cabin daily with Eugenic, Justine and his   SdARCuh AFTER A LOST pARTh.      253 daughter, who went to pray with the old man, bestowing on him all the attention necessary for his bodily and spiritual comforts, and Major Arlington was surprised to find Ben's views of a future state so clear. Ben's funeral was extremely touching, and conducted with perfect solem- nity. The old wife and his daughter took precedence of all others, directly behind the bier, then old master and mis- tress and their family, not with pomp and mockery, but as if another soul, faithful to his Lord and Saviour, had gone home to Heaven (where the humble, equally with the l   exalted, are sure of a just reward), afterward followed all his fellow slaves, who with audible demonstration gave full scope to their feeling in a high, keytone (unchecked by the master), this being their usual way of giving vent to grief. The colored race having a great taste for flowers, their graveyard presented a very pleasing indication of respect for the departed. The service for the dead being read bv the clergyman with as much impressive solemnity as if for the white man, showing that Southerners believe the colored race are also God's creatures, endowed likewise with a soul that is entitled to a heavenly inheritance. This little cemetery, appropriated as a burial place for the slaves, had many simple mementos, some of stone, others of wood, having inscriptions humble, 'tis true, still, with sentiments to tell the tale that a loved one rests there. The festival, which disclosed to Major Arlington the pleasure it gave the planters to see their slaves enjoy themselves, and the facilities given them on all occasions to attend to religious duties, and the keeping with reverence all holidays, to- gether with the perfect decorum and feeling shown for those departed this life at the burial of old Ben, had brought to light the good points in the Southern man's heart, and   2S4   SE)ARiCH AF'ER A LOST fjriART. tended much toward modifying his severity of speech, and dislike to the slaveholders; still, freedom was his watch- word. Surely it is difficult to acknowledge ourselves in error, but certainly I doubt not, if expedient, many a planter would have liked the same countersign, yet patiently waited God's own time. It was not very long after old Ben's death that my sweet Jennie ran to meet me as I was approaching the house, then taking both my hands in hers, with all her art. lessness, earnestly said dooking in my face with the loveliest of sincere, truthful smiles), " 1 have good news for you, Mr. Ferdinand d'Enville, and what do you think it is? Why, it is this, my dear father has changed his mind, and does not, after all, believe the planter -is so cruel to the slave, or that the slave is so very unhappy, finding them in a much better condition than even many of the laboring white population or free colored persons in cities of his own country, and that they are probably more free than he who toils all day with his hands, and all night with his brain, to keep his family from starving; but he is unwilling to admit the name slave as exactly right; indeed if it was not for that harsh-sounding word he finds naught to condemn on this plantation." And now, my friend Oscar, you may readily believe that my heart leaped for joy at this piece of information from the sweet lips of my darling Jennie, who, as I really was vain enough to now believe, loved me. And that I was delighted also to know Major Arlington's prejudice against the slaveholder (which had been the only barrier to my being blessed with his dearest of all daugh- ters) was removed, otherwise I would never have dared ask of him the child he so much loved, to be trusted to my - care as her guardian and guide. And oh! my friend Oscar, Jennie never looked to me one half so fascinating or ir- e    - EARCt AFTER A LOST HEART.     25 resistible as at that moment; and how could I refrain from saying just these -few words: "Sweet Jennie, dear Jennie, do you think you could be happy as a cruel, barbarous planter's wife V' "Happy!" she repeated (her hand trem- bling in mine), with eyes cast down and cheeks suffused with blushes, "happy," she again repeated, " happy with a cruel, barbarous planter, as his wifea Never, oh, never, Mr. Ferdinand d'Enville." "Well," I asked, re-taking the hand she had withdrawn from mine, " but do you believe that being a planter alone (one that was neither cruel, harsh or unkind), would be sufficient cause to reject him who loves you with all his heart, all his soul, all his mind, and you loved in return, although, perhaps, your senior, without being a drone, if passe." At this she blushed deeply (not knowing where I heard this remark of hers). "Oh! no, Mr. Ferdinand d'Enville," she replied, with a quivering voice (realizing now positively for the first time the nature of my love for her, and feeling that love .reciprocated by her- self for me) "since the sin principally lies in lack of humanity, and if the slaves are happy, contented, well treated, and taught the way to do good in this life, that they may be l prepared for eternal bliss, ' what's in a name." "Oh, then," I said (gathering courage from her earnest manner), f" my sweet Jennie, if your father consents, may I one day hope to call you mine-my own sweet wife-- you that was .once my little pet Jennie, and though for a time lost to me, now restored. Say, will you be mine, that I may, with the best of all my endeavors, ever protect you through all this life's sorrows and trials." Jennie's only answer,'with faltering voice and whisper- ing lips, was, "Yes," raising at the same time her soft eyes filled with truth, and archly saying, " if am not too young." }   i^6    SEAiRCHi AFTE1 A LOST HEA BT- And now I could not help- it-no, indeed, friend Oscar, -1 could not help it, for 1 was overjoyed-so, scarcely had the monysyllable of conseLt, sounded in my ears so cheer- ing, so sweet, than I gently, tenderly drew her to my side, then with a kiss fervent, but pure, pressed her warm lips, offering the while a prayer that when called to part with her on earth, wre might meet with all the bliss of the purity of angels' love in Heaven, never, never more to be separated; and afterward explaining what I heard, and then my fears (when thinking of the comments on her friend), lest I should fail, on account of my age, to render her happy. When Jennie left me, I paused to think, and wondered if such happiness was actually in store for me, or if the whole affair had been but a vanishing dream. Soon, however, I collected my thoughts, for Jennie had but a few moments gone from me ere I met Major Arlington, joined him, and forthwith (my brain filled with excitement) I in a modest way opened to him the subject nearest my heart. At first he was taken by surprise, yet although the struggle with him was very hard, nevertheless he gave his consent, ex- acting one thing-that part of the year his dear, darling Jennie should give to him. Neither did Major Arlington say nay when I named the next summer as the time to render me, of all men, the most blessed. This day I will venture to say there never in this world existed a happier man, and the day did not pass without a general rejoicing in the mansion. As for Lorry, he ran around the plantation as one mad, with a broad grin, and constant" yah, yah," exclaiming, as he put his head in each cabin, beginning at Mammy Silvie's, "What you t'ink: dat* Massa Ferdinand be gwine to marry dat dear, sweet, lubly beau'ful Miss Jeanette, Massa Ferdinand's photemgraph   ,RAfRCH AFTER A LOST HBJARt.     2i dat all de world lubs and respec's, and dat de bressedest oh all be dat Massa Major Arlington, Misses Jeanette's fader, and Misses Jeanette's lubly self, 'pears like war no more Abolisheners." The news was no sooner heard at old Claude and Mammy Silvie's cabin than the best pants and shirt of Claude, and Mammy Silvie's calico gown, white apron and bandana turban were put on, and away they hobbled, each one with their silver-headed canes in hand, until they reached the mansion piazza, where the family all stood; when I, "Massa Ferdinand," took my sweet Jennie's hand and led her to them, it was really very affecting to see the devoted affection expressed in Mammy Silvie's face as she "God bressed her dear chile Massa Ferdinand," and pronounced a blessing upon" sweet Missus Jennie, de berry lubliest young lady she eber see, as lubly and jist like her own young missusses, and dat she war so happy that her good chile Massa Ferdinand war gwine to hab such a sweet wife, dat eberybody lub," and then she kissed the hanld, first of Jennie, and then her "chile Massa Ferdinand's." And now Major Arlington, although he had been so long an Abolitionist, approached, and, for the first time, clasped in his hand the honest sable hand of a negro slave, and thanked Claude and Mammy Silvie for their kind blessings on his child, for old Claude had also given"Masst Ferdinand and Missus Jennie," his blessing. The two old slaves, now much pleased, were about ]eav- ing, but not until after some little mark of kind respect to humble age, from the old and young members of their master and mistress' family, did they bow and courtesy, then make their way slowly back to their cabin. When it was time to receive an answer to the letter an- nouncing Ferdinand's engagement, Theo. wrote that he had   2-B    & ; SEARCH iPTER A LOST HBEARk .  been shabbily treated, for Ferdi. knew heloved Jennie long ago, and he had told him so, and that Ferdi. was too old to marry. The innocent comment of Jennie upon Theo.'s communica- tion was very amusing. '"Why,"she said, "how odd Theo. never told me that hejloved me. Well," she said, " that don't make any difference, for I can love him now." "My child," her father said, laughing, "have you changed your mind already?" * "Oh, no," Jennie quickly replied, "but then, my dear father," she blushingly 'said," I can love him as a sister would a brother, and surely I love him as such already, and there is no harm in that"; and then she continued, 'Theo. would be too young as a husband for me, and Ferdinand is not' one day- too old."  And oh! how de. lightful this compliment of Jennie's fell on my ear, friend Oscar-it was just what I wished to know. Nothing of any importance occurred after our engage- ment. Jennie's father did not leave until some few weeks after Christmas, continuing his much-loved child under my mother's care, to daily endear herself to all on the plan- tation, until May, when he would be in the city, to receive her from the hands of my parents. CHAPTER XXXVIII. SUUMER at length arrived, when our family, as usual in May, emigrated North. In the Empire City Jennie joined her father, and immediately returned home to make prep- arations for our wedding. In the month of July there was a general family gathering on both sides in Canada, and on-the 6th of July I was   SEX RCH AFTER A4 tOST HREART.      5) made, of all men livink, the very happiest; but not so Major Arlington, Jennie's fond father, since he did not bestow sweet Jennie, his darling child, to me without a pang to himself; for when the time arrived wherein he was to give his daughter away in charge of another for safekeeping, the father's heart was full, and his manly chest heaved with emotion, while he turned his head to conceal the tears rolling down his cheeks in quick succession. And when the ceremony was finished that bound the prize to me for- ever, I must confess I felt a little jealous, since ere I could take the first kiss as husband of my pet Jennie, she had thrown herself in her father's arms, and as he fondly pressed her to his heart they wept in unison at the idea of parting, and there was not one eye undimmed in the room with the affecting scene. For myself, it so moved me that I followed suit, until I thought, All these tears on a wedding day, this will never do, then I gently drew Jenny from her father's side, and whispered: "My dear wife, are we to seal our vows (just freshy given) with sorrow alone; and have you no smile to assure me that you are happy to entrust your- self to me, confident that I will be true to my promise, and faithfully love, honor, and cherish the one I hold dearer than life itself?"Jennie raised her head, smiled, proffered me her sweet lips, and softly replied: "It was the thoughts of parting with my father, Ferdinand, that brought forth these feelings;" so after once more pressing her sweet lips, I said '( Jennie, dearest, truly I would not take you from such a father as Major Arlington, whose best of all fond daughters is his very idol, without a faithful promise, Pro- vidence permitting, that my sweet Jennie shall be forth- coming to visit him whenever called upon by him to do so ; for to withhold. her from him altogether would be cruel in the extreme, and then you must feel that your father e'   :266   sA JficiEk A  AiOST  EAkt;         will always be a most welcome guest to my parents as well as ourselves, and cordially received by warm hearts when- ever he is inclined to visit the Vale of Fleur de Lis." "Thank you, my son, and I ofttimes shall avail myself of your kind father's hospitality," Major Arlington replied, then clasping the hand of sweet Jennie and mine together, he gently pressed them, saying: "Bless you, my children, and may the Almighty, who prospers all those who strictly obey His divine will, and put their trust in Him, direct you in the path of duty toward Himself and to each other." The congratulations of our friends over, I passed into the hall, when a voice close by the door said: "I wish you much happiness with Miss Jennie, Mr. d'Enville, for you deserve it, having been so kind to us when everything seemed to us dark and sad, and we needed a friend, for the poor child was indeed most unhappy;" and as I drew nearer to her who thus addressed me with so sincere a well wish, there in the plain and neatly attired domestic I recog- nized my pet Jennie and little Frank's nurse Betsey, who had the care of them when they visited the park; and she appeared much delighted when I complimented her on the retention of her good looks, with thanks for her kind wishes for our happiness, saying : "Oh, Mr. d'Enville! who would have thought that little Jennie would have been your wife; but God is good, and Miss Jennie surely deserved a good gentleman for her husband." Theo., my young brother, quite cheered Jennie and her father with his fun, in declaring it was provoking, after his whole attention had been- taken from his books, to be disappointed, and that I had cheated him, for I knew full well he had given his whole brains to win the fair one's love, but that I had managed like an old fox to steal Miss Jeanette's affection from him. "Ah!" he sighed and said, "I fear the consequences, for it may break    SEARCH-AFTER A LOST HEART.       261 my heart if I do not find some dear girl to flirt with, so here is one almost as sweet as Jennie, who may probably now think me quite old enough for her; yet the fair child when in her teens will deem me too young, and she is pet- named Lillie." Then he actually made the little girl blush as he kissed her and seated himself by her side. Then he rattled on, changing the gloom that was likely to prevail, on account of the separation of the bride and her father, into merrymaking, until he rendered it a gay Wedding at last. But verily, the very happiest face there was that of Lorry. One great source of regret to Jennie and myself was that neither old Claude nor Mammy Silvie could be present at our nuptial gathering, but they were too old. After our bridal tour we spent the remainder of the sum- mer with my parents and family at their same favorite resort for the warm season'; and the very spot we visited first was the dwelling of the old blind grandmother, who was in raptures at once again hearing the voice of my Jennie. The first request from the old woman was that Miss Jeanette would sing for her, '"Jesus, Saviour of my soul ;" and it was with delight the young orphans gathered around their young friend to listen. My movement was to search for the very tuft of moss from whence I drew the lost trinket, which fully disclosed to me that the long-lost treasure for 'which I had so deeply mourned was restored to me, and now made my pet Jennie my own dear wife. There were many wedding presents, but the one I prized above all others-massive silver, or rare costly jewels-wast my friend Oscar (Ferdinand said), that one precious chef d'oeuvre (pointing to the portraits from the brush of a fine Italian artist), delineating so truly my pet Jennie, her pet cat Lillie, little Frank and his nurse, they being a per- fect copy of the daguerreotypes I had taken of them when   26S a    SEnARCHi IFTER A LOST HEiART. I was a student, they children, and I frantic at their loss; and this gift was from my father-in-law, Major Arlington. Jennie is now my wife, and pet Lillie is no more; nurse Betsey is well married; little Frank has grown to be a noble boy, bearing the name of Douglas, his features in every line and also complexion all his mother's, but fortunately for him his entire expression is the father's, which will be suf- ficient to ensure the lad through life honor and respect from all those who ever knew Major Ailington; yet still much more fortunate for the son is it that his mother's body has gone to rest. This, readers, is my friend Ferdinand's his- tory of each one who is portrayed in the original painting, of which the No. 1, that so beautifully garnishes my gallery, is a correct copy. And now for No.- 2, which tells the true tale of how I procured this copy, as well as how and where I found my wife, and why I first wooed and then won her, written by myself. i CHAPTER XXXIX. "GHT--MY OWN STORY-OSCAR LYN-SOMERSET. l MR. D'ENVILLn being unwilling to part with his son and the treasure himself and entire family had found in Ferdi. nand's lovely wife Jennie, who had so closely endeared herself to them all that she had become absolutely neces- sary to their happiness, and the slaves, too, from the oldest to the youngest, were so fond of their new " young missus " that one word from her alone had more influence over thern than either request or reprimand from any other member of the family, that the old gentleman, immediately after, their marriage, had an addition built to his already large commodious mansion, making such ample provision as to I   SEABRCH iFTIER A LOST HEART.     263 number of apartments and every other convenience neces sary, being particular that-naught should be lacking to rend- er the whole family comfortable, until it had the appearance of a vast hotel. And a happier family never lived than that of Mr. d'Enville, neither did there ever exist (as I can affirm) one more hospitable to their guests, and as such they certainly were to me. Indeed there was so much grace and ease about the whole establishment, and you were so immediately received with a warm reception, that you felt yourself part and parcel of the family, and the first word spoken settled you down as if at home and under your own roof. Thus I found myself situated a few years after my old chum had been married, for my health be- coming so delicate that I was recommended to go South, and having been yearly entreated to make my friend Fer- dinand a visit, I now availed myself of his oft-repeated in- vitation, and in the fall, ere the cold, blasting winds comr menced (so injurious to those of delicate constitution), I started, when in due time I arrived safely .at old Mr. d'Enville's most noble arched gate, which was opened for me by a smart-looking colored boy. Once fairly on the plantation I stopped to gaze around, and I cannot describe my surprise in finding, in lieu of cowed, unhappy-looking slaves, such a number of countenances so airy, bright and full of mirth; indeed I may say wherever I turned-no matter what the occupation-I saw naught on every side but a smile of contentment and satisfaction on each sable face, fully developed, several of them joyously cracking their jokes with each other, while many were merrily sing- ing comic songs, and I heard one or two clear, musical voices bringing forth melodiously some really very pathetic ballad of their- lady-loves, for although they could not sing of sweethearts lily-fair, they might tell of rare' red pouting   264 '   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. lips; and if of sable hue, still their eyes were sparkling and teeth pearly white. And a plaintive ditty, expressed in their peculiar language, yet very sweet, was one of these songs. I stood enjoying, perfectly motionless, with my Sambo guide patiently waiting by my side, until I was so completely absorbed in listening that a hand had familiarly fallen-on my shoulder, and a heartfelt, sincere tone of voice, with warmth of speech, had addressed me in words of de- light, exclaiming "Oscar! why, Oscar, my boy, where did you fall from? how did you come? how- glad, how very glad I am to see you at the Vale Fleur de Lis!" ere I was sufficiently aroused to feel a friend was nigh; then turned and met the face of my old chum Ferdinand, perfectly lighted up with an expression of unfeigned joy. And never from an own dear brother could I have been more truly and cordially greeted than by my Southern friend, and as he clasped me in his arms, saying "Thrice welcome to my home, Oscar, where father, mother, wife and all will be glad to receive you, and build you up in health, for you are not looking very strong, my boy." And old chum Fer- dinand and myself now seated ourselves for a few moments on a rustic bench, each commenting on the change in our appearance, but, as proved from the quick recognition one of the other, it could not have been very material. As to myself, I was unable to tell what time had done with- me, but I can speak for my friend-he was far handsomer than when in college.   SEABRCH  FTE B A LOST HEART.     265 CHAPTER XL. WE were now rested, when Ferdinand said: "Come, Oscar, I will make no stranger of you, so if you are not weary after your travels, I am on my way to a cabin where my wife with the children have gone to look into the wants of some of the old people, and I promised to join them. It is but a short distance, my friend, still if too much for you, say so, and we will go to the house." Not feeling fatigued, I expressed much pleasure in doing as he proposed, assuring him that I was a great pedestrian, my health requiring daily exercise on foot. We now leisurely strolled on through the grounds, still fragrant with flowers and blossoms, although it was the month of November, and I was so perfectly charmed with the surrounding varying beauties that we had .arrived -at the point whither the footsteps of Ferdinand were directed before being aware of the distance I had walked. When within one yard of the cabin door, Ferdinand cautioned me to tread lightly, and I quickly obeyed, and soon to learn that it was the husband's sensitive ear which led to his pre- cautionary measures of quiet movement, for presently I heard a soft, yet full, mellow female voice (which proved to be that of my friend's wife), chanting one of the Psalms from the Common Prayer-book, and he did not wish to disturb her devotions As to myself, I was perfectly enchanted, not only with the exquisite voice, but fascinated with what 'I saw, for our noiseless footsteps not being heard, although we were now at the very threshold of the door listening, 12   9266    SEARCH AFTE1 A LOST HEART.  where we could see and hear with perfect distinctness, and be able to take observation of the most minute proceedings about this neat cabin (ourselves being undiscovered), all within seeming to be so completely impressed with their evening duties that they were  deaf and blind to every thing earthly besides; possibly, had our movements been less stealthily made, we should have occupied our position unnoticed. And the scene be- fore me was such that it would have been an impossibility for either poet or painter to have traced with perfect jus- tice the different expressions, since the spirit would be lacking. And what words ever so enthusiastic can describe the hallowed expression of a group with pure hearts at spiritual devotion; or glowing hand most true ever place the animated, sublime, varying warm features of a benign soul overflowing with love for God and man on canvas? None, I affirm, for as I have previously said, although the painting, No. 2, is perfect as anything of the kind can be, still no man living (or that has lived), could cont vey to the senses, correctly, that charm as in life it appear- ed to me, at least. And now after beholding such marks of tender feelings and care for soul and body of domestics, with other scenes similar that I afterward witnessed South, together with in- numerable acts of kindness, as proofs of the masters' ideas that those who labor for them belong to the human species, and, as such, to be treated and provided for, talk to me no more of cruel treatment of the slaves on plantations, by any master, unless he has the heart and brain of a brute, and those in slave states who cruelly serve their people are by brother planters looked upon with contempt. Thus I am fully persuaded that we who have been so ready   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.      267 to condemn the slaveholder's system of labor for tilling the land, and have had so much commiseration for the slave of the cotton and sugar states, had better pluck first the beam out of our own eye and then go forth in our towns and cities North, and there thoroughly inspect, void of prejudice or sordid interest, the suffering condition and demoralizing state of affairs among the white population as well as the free negroes who occupy the tenement houses in filthy streets, where are some hundreds together, both good and bad, young and old, living, without distinction as to sex or color, en masse, and where" like brutes they live, like brutes they die;" mais n'imnporte to the landlord, his appetite for luxu- ries must be satisfied, and the poor must have places to pro. tect their families from wintry blasts and scorching sun. So if his agent can exact rent from the destitute (payable in advance) for a couple of small rooms without decent appear- ance, ofttimes in some old rookery, totally void of all that could encourage the tenant with ambition to respectably fur- nish it' a disgrace to the law that permits such proceedings, so destructive to soul and body, such imposition upon our poor men, by allowing the erection of such miserable build. ings for rent-roll exaction--ah! then I fear that it is the ap- pellation of slave that alone claims the brier. And " what's in a name," if the plant is properly nourished and kept free from tares, for every sweet has its bitter. And verily, although no advocate for slavery (for- I am a man hailing from the North), yet I have eyes to see and ears to hear, and thus I stand ready to affirm, from a disinterested observa- tion in both cases, and am warranted in my assertion, that two thirds of the poor (according to what I have seen) are not one-sixth part, in any of our large cities, as well pro- vided for, or in as good condition, as the slaves. And had   268     SEARCH APTER A LOST HEA-RT. you been down South as I have, and day after day had not only looked into domestic affairs, but all among the cotton fields, and scanned as I have, with an impartial eye, the state of things, you would understand that, on well-regu-  lated plantations, the comforts of their people are'carefully , looked after; and it must be so, since the master feels it to i his interest to rigidly insist on cleanliness, temperance, with regular hours for work, rest and meals, as well as good religious morals--all of these being necessary to the promotion of health and strength, which leads to active longevity, and an antidote to premature old age; for in. proportion to a systematic life, we find the frames of all mankind preserved against the constitutional evils of the human family to which each and every class is heir to. But enough of argument, and I will finish by repeating I am no friend to slavery, but like to do justice to all; yet God forbid I should be a rabid Abolitionist again, to sacrifice my people, my country, my religious principles of charity, my all, to substantiate, for sinister motives, as facts that which in reality I did not know anything about, and am now dis- posed to bide God's time to deal with the subject of master and slave; feeling that what He has sanctioned for so many thousand years, He has the power to do away with in the same lenient manner as He doeth all things, without the presumptuous sinner's interference, by wickedly dyeing his hands -in his brother's blood, and " doing evil that good may come." And now I will return to relating that which I saw and heard within the cabin, endeavoring to lay before you the tableau vivant so beautiful, and which was so firmly fastened on my mind that I would not, if I could, have it erased, for it has had the tendency to teach me all things   SEARCK AFTER A LOST HEART.       26a lovely, all things pure, all things holy, as I hope to see them in Heaven, having touched and strengthened the Christian chords (that had long lain dormant in my heart), in a way which I never before experienced, and which I hope will lead my spirit, for the future, to take an interest in all religious duties. In one corner of this cabin was a neat bedstead (the bedding as fresh and clean as if just from under the iron), whereon, braced up by pillows, was an old colored woman, her sable hue in strong contrast with a snow-white short- gown and a neatly bound white flannel shawl, while the favorite bandana turban was arranged with all the pre- cision of the Southern colored race (an indispensable article of dress with them), from beneath which peeped out at the sides a mixture of white and black African hair, ar d which I could not but respect, although belonging to an aged slave. Old Silvie's (for it was her) ebony-polished hand affectionate- ly and gently lay on the soft yellow curly locks that par- tially covered the prettiest, fairest, most lamb-like, little- face (born to win as' soon as looked upon); and there this child lay on the bed of the old female slave, dressed in all the pride and simplicity of her mother's perfect good taste, the every position her pretty limbs had taken bearing a perfect line of grace. And it was on old Mammy Silvie's knee, who had wet nursed the father, my friend Ferdinand, that theehead of little Christine, the darling pet, reclined, as calmly as if she slumbered in the arms of a pretty white attendant; and as the old colored nurse Silvie had always looked upon her " chile Massa Ferdinand" as something more than human, her old eyes were now gazing upon the little Christine, as if this rare lovely little one was some perfect, precious object she held sacred, and worshiped with all her heart.   /.                            f 270    S:xEARCf AFTER A LOST HEART. When the last words of the chant (that was sung as I never heard it before) died on the lips of Ferdinand's beautiful wife, old mammy said, "dat sound jist as if it comed from TIebben." Then brushing back the curls from off the child's face, in the fullness of her heart sighed out "Ise growing old, I is, and may nebber lib to see dis missy chile growed up big ;" and, while tears gathered in her eyes, continued, "de Lord bress my massa chile, Massa Ferdinand, and de Lord bress his beau'ful chile dat is so like her bressed mamma, and de Lord bress my kind Missy Jennie, de wife of my dear massa chile, and de Lord bress old massa and missy, and de Lord bress all de young massas and missuses, and de Lord bress old daddy, and de Lord bress dis old Silvie, and de Lord bress all dar colored children, and de Lord bress eberybody; and when de white man and de brack man meet in Hebben, I pray dat de Almighty let me hab a leetle spot close by my ole massa's family, specially my chile Massa Ferdinand, and den dat dar blessed little massa boy jist like he fader (my chile Massa Ferdinand), dat lub old Claude jist like he war white man, and call him grandad, so civil-like, de Lord bress him." These remarks drew my attention to the foot of the bed, where, sitting in an arm-chair nicely cushioned was an old black man, for one could not say colored, the aged husband of old Silvie, cleanly dressed in a check shirt and blue and white pants. Now, this old man with'* his frosted African hair (that every one should feel bound to respect), was looking solwise, having a pair of silver spec- tacles on his nose, while being highly delighted with some engravings, which a splendid-looking boy with dark curly hair brushed from off his intellectual forehead, displayingto advantage a pair of sparkling black eyes, was explaining to   SERARCt AFTER A LOS   EESH2T. *T old daddy while fondly seated on his knee. Presently I saw the old man hug the boy up, as he said, "Lord bress dis young massa chile dat for all de worl' jist like ole massa he grandpa, and jist like young Massa Ferdinand too-him berry pictur', him ebery feature 'pear jist like-and oh, dear me, de Lord bress de chile, he so good I sure he drop from Hebben, and de Lord bress all ole massa's family, and de Lord bress dis chile's father, Massa Ferdinand, and de Lord bress he modder, Missy Jennie." And no wonder old daddy spoke with such adoration of this boy, for cer- tainly he was such an one as any person might admire, and a father glory in with pride and ambition; and this little one, too, seemed far more happy caressed in the arms -of the pure-hearted old slave, and certainly far better off as to morals in listening to nursery rhymes as sung by his simple. minded old colored friend, than waited on and amused by some spruce, flippant, foreign valet, who would be sure to make the child conversant with all sorts of tricks with which he himself was perfectly au fait, considering he had done the boy some service. But how can I portray the beautiful mother of these treasures of children, seated in this humble dwelling, administering to the comfort of this old colored couple with a meek, Christian spirit, so unassumingly attired in a graceful, simple white morning robe, a pretty, fancy yet plain cap, from beneath which the soft silk-like curls were flowing in profusion; indeed I could not do her justice, for her husband even had fallen far short, with all his partiality, in his attempt by letter to describe to me the differ- ent points of attractive loveliness in his wife; but the paint- ing, No. 2, may possibly give you a faint idea of her charms as I looked on them there, while she was in this cabin of the old slaves, whose path of declining years she   m72    SEARCH AFtiE  A tOSt fHPBRT. was endeavoring to smooth gently onward, as they daily drew nearer to their final rest, gratified that her little ones  contributed to their pleasure, and cheered the old age of Mammy Silvie and her husband Claude. Being now rather fatigued I leaned against a tree, while with Ferdinand I was  quietly waiting for Mrs. Jennie d'Enville and children to leave the cabin, that we might join them. Directly a grace ful, beautiful girl of bright brunette complexion, with fine form, came lightly and quickly stepping toward us, having a basket on her arm well covered with a white cloth. As she approached, thinking Ferdinand alone (myself hid by the tree), called in silver tones, "Brother, dear brother, what have you done with our sweet Jennie?" "Nothing, my sister, but she, as usual, is taking care of others, and is not far off." "Well," the sister replied, "I will-find her out for Ipresume she, is at her morning duties inside," then passed on and, guarding against noise, gently entered the cabin, when her first movement was to kiss the little boy, who ran to meet her, calling him her dear, darling little man Harry, then addressed some kind words in converse with old daddy and Mammy Silvie, and after pressing her lips on little Christine's cheeks, very gently, for fear of awaking her, stood gazing with admiration on her little niece, so lovely in her slumbers, then placed the dainties on- the table by the bedside for the old people, saying jokingly to them, as she carefully removed each dish from the willow basket, "I-know you are under Mrs. Jennie's special care, but I am sure it will taste just as good from my tawny fingers as if her own snowy white soft hand brought it for you, "Oh, yes, be sure it will, Missy Justine, and t'ank you ten t'ousand times," old daddy said. "And old Silvie hopes too dat de   8EABCt AP TBR A LOS   t HEART.    28 Lord may bress you, Missy Justine, and gib you good husband," was old mammy's expression of thanks, with a quizzing smile. Oh! fie, fie, for shame, Mammy Silvie," the , young missus " replied, " for you know I was born to be an old maid, and then you forget I must stay here. and see all the naughty ones on the plantation cruelly flogged, as the Abolitionists say we do." She had scarcely finished be- fore I heard a sippressed" yah, ya h," and words to this effect, "Oh, dear, if de niggers haint not good till Missy Justine seed dem all whipped, with her tender heart, I reckon dat de darkies will be bad nuffsure; but den if Missy Justine only speak like to dis-- begood and mind what de precious book tell dem'-dar haint not one ob ipassa d'Enville people do bad ting ebber arter dat; and nobody mind what dem Abolisheners say, for massa don not hab anybody flogged on dis yhear plantation nohow, and de Abolisheners, Missy Justine, tell great many t'ings dat haint not so, for me heerd dem meself." 1"Hush, Lorry," the young lady said, with feigned alarm, "for how do you know but one of them may be close by, and just behind your back now listening," little knowing herself, in cautioning Lorry, how true were her words. "Oh, Lor' bress you Missy Justine," the one called Lorry exclaimed, with frightened expression, looking behind him, "please donnot 'spect so, for me knows sure dem Abolish- eners would kick up a bobbery, and be gwine to gib de darkies trouble, and make dem do such wicked t'ings, and me know for sartin dat none ob de people on de planta- tion want to see dem." Here Lorry, observing the smile on his " young missuses"' face, drew a long sigh, and said, "Dar, now, Missy Justine, me know you only funnin Lorry, 'cause Missy don not 'pear ser'us-like." I         12*   - L   s74     SEASCH AFTER A LOST jARAT. Justine then told him with a quizzical archness of ex- pression that really she had no fear, but when Mrs. Jennie d'Enville, giving one of her angel smiles, said,'* You need not be alarmed, Lorry, as you are surely safe with yotdr master," the poor fellow seemed to feel secure, sayiting, T'ank you Missus Jennie, and de Lor' bress you, for it 'pears like dat eberybody safe war is 3lassa Ferdinandis good missus photemgrah.)' This way of a slave's complimenting his mistress at that time, I mu3t confess, sounded very odd to me. Pres- ently young Mrs. d'Enville raised her finger as a signal for silence, and immediately ail was perfectly quiet, then each one took their books and knelt in prayer, except Mammy Silvie, who, having her volume with large print by her side, put on her silver-mounted spectacles, and responded as loud as any of them. Lorry now came forward and knelt as directed by his " young massa's wife, Missy Jennie," at the foot of Mammy Silvie's bed. Then another made her appearance, and, treading very lightly, walked to where old daddy and the little boy were already on bended knees and there knelt as if the place assigned her, that she might teach little Harry at the proper time to recite the Lord's Prayer, she being his special attendant, and as tidily a dressed and trim-looking Sambo colored woman as I ever saw. In another corner at her devotions was Mrs. Jennie d'Enville's old white nurse, who came from Canada with her dear, dear child, as she called Mrs. d'Enville still, although now married; for this old woman- was the same who nursed her young mistress when a baby and married before the major took his second wife, and then, on becoming a widow, returning after the birth of little Christine to live with Mrs. d'Enville, so far over-   SEA1CH AFTE- A LOST HEART.       215 coming her horror of the negro as to be willing now to remain South in their midst, yet still she insisted on naming herself an Abolitionist. Laughable indeed, but then it is just like ignorant inconsistency, which looks with disgust on those at one time whom at another moment they so much commiserate, and thus old nurse declared that she must have sole charge of little Christine, actually speaking, with all her Abolition principles, of colored persons, as if some animal, saying she could not surely allow black paws to nurse her pretty little fair child Christine, even washing the face and hands of her pet after she had been caressed by any of the colored servants ; but be sure the child's mother never allowed old nurse to speak disrespectfully of the colored race before little Christine without reproof. And there, too, at different points of this cabin, were other members of old Claude and Mammy Silvie's family. When listening to the church service at all times, there ever is a feeling so comforting to the soul that I love to participate fully in it, and truly now more than ever was my desire so to do, there was something so spiritual and touching in it as it was read so clear, the one part by Ferdinand's- lovely wife, and the other by his charming, pretty sister Justine; for while the intonation of their gentle, soft voices fell sweetly impressive on the ear, their manner was so humble, so devout, so reverential in their offerings to heaven of each prayer, with true faith; that it soothed my spirit into a quiet, calm, peaceful dream of eternity and its joys; and then how I wished that Providence had ordained for. me such a lovely wife as Ferdinand's sister. And there was another very grati- fying feature in the case--that of hearing this family of the. colored race respond so correctly, - since I had always be.-   976    SEBA2C   APTBSR -A OST HEAB T. lieved that the slaves had never been taught to feel there was a- Heaven in view for them, or that they had any other duty to-perform than implicit obedience to their master on earth. With reverence to God, my friend Ferdinand and myself now removed our hats, and, with heads uncovered, in silent prayer joined them devoutly where we stood outside the cabin door. After those within had risen from their kneeling posture, Ferdinand and myself very quietly walked a short distance off, and there, in silence and deep thought, enjoyed with happier hearts the beauties from the hands of Providence than we did before our prayerful offerings to Him of gratitude for all blessings, patiently waiting for those who, evidently, from their movements, were about leaving the cabin, which they soon did, and ere long joined us, when my friend Ferdinand first introduced to me these lovely, interesting ladies, then left us, bidding us wait a few moments for him, until he returned to the cabin, for as he was not there at prayer-time he must go speak a few words of comfort to Mammy Silvie and old Claude.  And Ferdinand's lovely sister is now my much- loved wife, whom I wooed and won during my stay at Vale Fleur de Lis, through the medium of rendering her assist- ance in the daily charge she had over a certain number of the slaves given to her care, and her kind treatment of them melted my heart to love, and we are now residing North, and several of her favorite slaves, to whom 'her father gave their freedom, so that they might leave their home to live North with us, my wife preferring such servants as have -been well-trained to trusting hired help that she knew nothing about. And these faithful, affectionate colored people declared " dat dey haint not free, and dat dey neber want to be more freeder dan when dey were   S3*ARCB AFTER A LOSI HEART.     S" on de plantation, and dat dey belong to Missy Justine, and gwine to lib and die wid her; arnd if de Lord willen, dey hope dat dey shall lib wid her when missy go to Hebben." And these honest, home-loving colored ,peoplej if it is on a plantation, counted " de days when dey gwine to dar own country to make dar yarly visit to ole massa and missus, and young massa and missus, whar dey get plenty hoe- cake, hominy and rice, and whar de cotton fields look so lubly beau'ful, and whar all de folks so kind to dem, and don not step one side ob dem cause dey is brack." Their first visit after they arrived at Vale Fleur de Lis was to the cabin of old Claude and Mammy Silvie, whose African hair is now like a bed of snow, so white, who although now unable to do much are well provided for. This cabin had been enlarged to make room for our friend Lorry, who had taken a wife of Sambo color, and of whom he was very proud, she being a trim, smart, tidy-looking young woman, and our colored people never left Vale Fleur de Lis without Lorry's giving them a lecture thus: "You mind, you free folkses now you gwine away to de free states, and 'member what dis yhear chile tells you: neber listen to dem Abolisheners when dey talk sassy-like ob your massa and missus out on de plantation, for it haint not 'spec'ful to youself, 'pears to me; and den if dey can, dey be sure make you do somet'ing wiched to dar bruder buckra-man, and 'member God tell you to lub eberybody, no matter, what be dar color, and be sure read you Bible and pray ebery mornin' and ebery night, and pray for de plantation, and pray for eberybody, Nort' and Sout', like de Bible tell you," [   ,     2.8    SA4CH AFtER A t OSPT REA4t CHAPTER XLI. MR. xIENVILLE'S third daughter, Eugenie, is married to Mr. Arnoux, and lives on a plantation not far from Vale Fleur de Lis. His son Rodolph has found a most interest- ing wife of wealth in one of the Eastern States, and there resides. Theo. also has married an heiress in one of the Southwestern States, and his home is on a large rice and cotton growing plantation, where he is the owner of very many slaves, but kind to them, as he had been taught to be by his parents. Major Julien Leslie and Captain Leo McBride have resigned their commissions in the British army, purchased each a fine country seat in one of the Middle States, and are living in the Union. Thus you will find this to be of an every-day occurrence, which renders the whole United States so like-one family, that what would benefit the one must necessarily serve the other; therefore its interest can never be separated, and the welfare of every State in the Union can never be otherwise than dear to all. As for the different branches of Mr. d'Enville's family, some are residing in one climate some in another, some in one State some in another, and thus Mr. d'Enville, of Vale Fleur de Lis, down Sputh, surely has good cause with grati- tude to bless Washington for having tied the Union in such close bonds that each one residing in it should feel like brothers, so warmly, tenaciously joined together as to se- cure peace, feeling that "United we stand, divided we fall," bearing in mind at the same time that each State has its own government, with a statute of its own, which must be respected so long as there is no infringement of the Consti- tufion of the United States; and thus one sister State has   -SEARCG IFTEK A LOST BERfT.   -  270 no right to interfere with the laws of the other, any more than a neighbor to meddle with any one regulation of a man's household concerns or family arrangements. And if there is a prayer which ought to be most devoutly offered up dailyi it is-this-that no man, either North or SouthM should so far turn traitor as villainously to set afloat wicked sentiments tending to break in fragments so noble a struc- ture as this United States has progressively proved itself to be; and so humble " his own, his native land," or his adopted country, whose full bounties he enjoys unmolested; which has so long been the pride of every truly loyal man, the wonder of all monarchies-that a free country, whose high- est Executive is alone eligible to so responsible an office through the instrumentality of a majority of the people, should for such a term of years have continued altogether undisturbed in harmony. And surely it would be presump- tuous madness to provoke Providence by laying plans to sink into oblivion this Union, as an attempt ostentatiously made that we could "not support, and thus render the idea of a free country governed by the vox populi ridiculous to other nations-this land of peace, plenty and Christian privileges, so lavishy bestowed on us by the Almighty's hand; And let him be forewarned whose mind is waver- ing on secession principles ere he perjure his soul after having pledged himself to protect the Constitution of the United States, lest he find himself like the wrecked' mariner without a compass, or impatient, reckless Esau, who in selling his birthright withdrew himself from the blessings he was entitled to within the household of his sire, dispossessing his posterity of their right of inheritance in the land of their forefathers. And let the faithless ones to their country not forget that he who " soweth the wind   280    SEARCH AFTEkt A LOST ESAdRt. must reap the whirlwind," and that a lasting civil war would bring forth the mighty voice of thunder, pealing the doom of destruction npon the heads of the willful instigators of either party to a rebellion. What! on this glorious soil of ours a rebellion? never; no, it cannot be, for the United States is but a household of one band of brothers, whose interests can never be-severed; indeed, the Union has but one mammoth heart, whose pulsation must beat in unison for all; and should one vibration fail to respond in harmony; the whole structure must cease to be--it dies. So mothers train your children to be sensible of the things they enjoy under the "Star-spangled Banner," teach them to cherish the meimory, with gratitude; of the glorious and good father of their country, and hold sacred the Constitution framed and signed by George Washington, the valiant Christian general, their country's liberator. And surely those on our borders, even if subject to other powers, should cherish and do all to promote peace within our Union, as by the .ties of consanguinity they must feel -in us an interest, there has been so much intermarrying on both sides. And thus it is with the family of my friend Ferdinand's wife and others: Major Arlington resides in Quebec; his son Douglas is married and remains with him; the youngest daughter is married to a Union down-Easter; Marie McBride has married a Southern planter; and Carrie Leslie a gentleman from the Northern States, but resides in Montreal. Thus constantly these things take place which bind the Christian hearts of the border brothers to the United States. - And here I must apologize for having spun my tale thus long, but I will tax you no further except by asking one question: Whether if in my description of the cabin-   SEXaXC AFrTER A LOST HEART.      28i scene you recognize the painting, No. 2, that graces my wall, as delineating Mrs. Jennie d'Enville and her children, and Daddy Claude and Mammy Silvie, and Lorry? And there, too, you may trace the lovely features of my jewel- wife, and readily judge that her amiable attentions to the poor old slaves fully won my respect and affection. And now, my dear friend, scan well this painting, No. 2, and there mark the condition of these members of the colored family of Vale Fleur de Lis who had proved faith- fiul to their master and mistress, and then observe how carefully the master and mistress watched over the welfare of both their souls and bodies, and I will vouch for it that the subject of the painting is not one whit overdrawn as to its correctness, since my own experience,-through close investigation, has fully convinced me that such is the state of affairs down South. Yet there was a time, my dear friends, when I not only had no -sympathy with, but denounced the planters in every way as inhuman; for then-I was totally ignorant of the master's trials as well as his leniency, or the difference of treatment between the faithless slave and the one who is honest, trusty, and affectionately grateful to his master and family. And it was my visit down South which wrought this change in my prejudiced spirit, teaching me to feel I had been most grossly deceived in my brethren of slave-country notoriety, since I previously had- looked upon my chum of Vale Fleur de Lis as an exceptions to planters in general. And now, my friends, you who admire this sketch of Southern life, and have read my tale, founded on facts, may I ask, Have you ever been down South, and there spent any time in vigilantly taking observation of all the manners and customs of master and slave? If so, you certainly   282    SERC'H AfTER A LOST B/RAT. must have been convinced of the difficulty and inexpediency of having set adrift (void of means to sustain themselves) three millions of people (who have been provided from in- fancy with all the necessaries of life), without one particle of forethought for themselves, spending freely to-day all of the little bestowed them the day previous on some gew- gaw of finery " dat was de mos' 'coming -to dar 'plexion." And surely the Africans are a most peculiar race of people, for even the free colored person feels his inability to act for himself without a guide; then certainly the slave was incapable of discerning what was for his own best interest since he ever called upon his master and mistress in matters the most trivial, of his wants, nothing doubting their judg- ment, being confident master and mistress always advised him correctly. Thus, invariably, did he implicitly follow the directions given. Why, my erring friend, under the existing state of things to have taken these families of slaves from their homes unprovided for was foolish and might truly be styled cruelty in the extreme; indeed it was similar to turning helpless upon the selfish world a household of chil. dren to feed and clothe themselves without the knowledge of using measures so to do. And if you have never visited any plantation down South and there learned the forbearance necessary for the master to exercise with his servant-chil- dren, you could not rightly judge; for there, as with all la- boring people, you would find many who are wayward, and thus, too, the patience required to guide such a vast body of the working class in their daily labor, so that all on the plantation should not go pell-mell, but be judiciously governed, and with such system as to render matters the more easy for both master and slave. And likewise the responsibility of the master, who feels that proper prin.   SEBACS AFTER A LOST HEART.       283 ciples must be instilled for the suppression of vine, and all his efforts used necessary to the having each one righted, that dissatisfaction, to the destruction of property, shall be avoided; and then most candidly would you acknowledge the leniency of the master, who, in his moments of deep reflection, felt his immense and constant burthen, and would have been happy could he have been relieved, for the benefit of all ; and doubtless, without man's rash act, the day would have come when Providence, who hath His time for all things, would have abolished slavery throughout the world, at a period when the interest of all would have been con- sulted, the welfare of each the most advantageously pro- moted, the good of the world uncompromised and preserved firm and unshaken beyond the control of rabid politicians. I was once a misguided Abolitionist, and I am still op- posed to slavery, but the Union, to the letter of the law, is "my present sentiment, hoping- that our -Southern brethren may be appeased and be friendly to the North, and the Ab- olitionists see their errors and cease all bickerings with the South., Since, then, verily you would have felt your folly, and certainly it would have moved you to tears of contri- tion for your sin could you have looked upon the happy countenances of the penitent wanderers from their homes by their relenting master again receiving them as one of his family on the old plantation-" their own, their native land"--in their comfortable home cabins, for the distress of the wanderer was far greater than any punishment ever inflicted upon them (so infainously exaggerated ,by the slanderous reporters). And let those who advocated the unconditional release of the slave, and worked hard to take him from under his master and mistress' kind charge, look well- to their resources individually, and know if their cof-   f2;84  SEARC, AE  ' ER -A LOSrT EAR t. fers are full-if they- are sufficient to provide for the poor dependent, to clothe and feed him; if their hearts, after delivering the slave 'from his thralldom, are over- flowing with human kindness to such an extent as to feel substantially for him if found in a helpless con- dition; unable to work, through mental or bodily suf- fering; it they have the patience to bear with the in- firmities of these poor fellows, and the ability to so instruct them in the way of labor as they shall not become a nuisance to the community, and a burden to themselves; and if, morally and religiously, they have Acted from truly conscientious motives, and also positive philanthropy -willing, indeed, as they profess in principle, to take their colored brethren to their bosoms as their equals in all points, and answerable to the Almighty for all their acts, as dealing righteously, honestly, and uprightly to their God, their brother, their country, and the slave for whom they have so ravingly been willing to sacrifice, without mercy, the kindred blood of their own color. And, my friends, if you are not provided with these means, actuated by these prin- ciples, and endowed in Christian spirit with these qualifica- tions, or brain enough to understand bow, combined with stamina physically fully sufficient to pursue the course tended to substantially and permanently benefit these men in bondage y;ou would liberate, holding undisputed power from Heaven above and man on earth to accomplish your purpose, then abandon all ill-directed efforts, throw off the shackles with which politicians (reckless if their own ends be served who suffers) may trammel you; for, if failing in any of the requisites just mentioned, you will but bind more firmly the chains of all those in bondage for whom you assert you have toiled with bleeding hearts and out-    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.       285 stretched arms to give their freedom, and for which, prob- ably, they will never thank you. And now, my friends, since I know that no man living possesses all these requi- sites which I have named, be penitent, honest, just, upright, and patiently submit yourselves to God in all things, for although apparently the movements of the. Almighty to us are slow, He doeth nothing rashy, and his purposes are ever sure, distributing justice and mercy with an uri- erring hand to all mankind alike, impartially, considerate for all classes and conditions of men; dealing tenderly and mercifully with the oppressed, whatsoever their station in life, graciously listening to the offered petition of all, an- swering their call when in His wisdom He knows it will be for their present and future welfare. Yet He can never be dictated to acts by His creatures, as He is supreme overall things, all things being by Him alone created; still no one ever has pleaded in vain, since He never fails to crown with success the call of those who from pure motives plead for His aid in a righteous cause. But ter- rible is He in retribution to those who recklessly act from objects other than strictly in accordance with their con- science and the directions laid down by their Saviour in 'in His last will and Testament. For God, who doeth all things well, never bids His children undertake aught too difficult for them to perform; or desist from selfish, un- principled deeds without giving them power through His grace to resist temptation. And thus I bring this tale and moral and all to a close. And, my friend, please bear in mind this tale was written before the anticipated tempest had actually commenced ; but now that the storm has raged fiercely, and I hope all advice given kindly may be taken kindly, my sincere prayer being that by the termination I   286     SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEARiT. of'62 the Star-spangled Banner, which year after year is adding to its number a new satellite, may gloriously again wave over every State of the United States, as it did from the days of Washington to the first gun fired at Fort Sum. ter; and never again, I pray God, shall the echoing guns be heard booming in hostility from any implement of war to the bloodshed of a brother within the limits of our boun- daries ; for, my beloved countrymen, what is the United States but one vast household of relatives? And the whole sad state of affairs was-but a wicked family brawl. Thus, peace and harmony will at last be the watchword of our noble band of brothers, for the welfare of our country, blessed so bountifully by the hand of Providence. And again, I repeat the motto: "United we stand," but "Divided we fall," never to rise again. Yet, surely, such an infamous act as dissolution will at any time be frowned down by the Almighty, who has done so much to make us blessed above all nations. And call not humanity the cause, or use the word Abolition to cover that which alone was but jealousy ofone family State toward another. If'tis alone love for the Ethiopian, then strike at the fountain-head, Africa itself, overflow her with Missions, and there spend your last mite to ameliorate their condition; go there and Christianize a people who hold- each other in bondage, and traffic away their own families; and you will find there, too, the highways and byways overrun with barbarous cruelties, revolting to the senses of any enlightened part of the globe. 'Go, go to Africa with your money and men, and there preach the gospel, and that will be true humanity. But as for the colored race in a Christian land, -they were already cared for as to soul and body; and when ripe to provide for them sel ves, Gol will give them that position for   SEARCOH dFTER A LOST HEART.      287 which they are fitted. Heaven forbid the sun should ever set in anger on so foul a deed as division of our Union home; for can you believe his rays will ever shine again to bless with an over-abundant harvest a country which persists in abusing its yield with willful ingratitude, wastefully and - wantonly destroying the food grown for man's sustenance? Ah! I fear to think, but the one sincere wish of my heart is that this interference with the planters will not, to save their white families from being massacred, oblige them to deal more rigorously with the colored members. And I do hope that those who exercise great zeal for the much-loved sable brother may pause to reflect that the Ethiopians are not the only class of God's creatures who have a claim upon their kind sympathy, since the white brother is worthy an equal share at least of consider- ation; and the lives of those who fall in battle some day will be required from the instigators; of this war by the Almighty asking, "Where is thy brother?' who will not be satisfied with the answer, "Am I my brother's keeper?" for that will not acquit him of the charge against a blood-stained hand. JUSTICE. AND now, mayhap, it will be well for me to conclude with relating what I witnessed, to prove that all who are subject to masters are not illy treated, as a tribute -of jus- tice to George Washington and his wife Martha. It is now some thirty-seven years gone by when I visited Virginia, and while there my eyes were blessed with a sight of Mount Vernon, and I assure you the whole scenery brought a thrill of veneration to my heart which awed me to   288    SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. silence; feeling that beautiful spot once was the home of the loved Father of his Country, and there, too, had he r knelt devoutly, at morning, at noonday, and at eventide; each prayer ascending to Heaven which he offered to his Father Almighty, so to guide him aright for the welfare of the nation, in all his acts, until he rendered the United States a happy band of brothers, bound by a Constitution sworn to the Triune God by its signers to protect, and sanctioned by the people, to stand for all ages; and for many years did we faithfully preserve inviolate these oaths taken in our behalf by our forefathers, holding the Consti- tution a fasthold for peace, revering the founder of that most blessed instrument formed through aid from Heaven. And then the Father of the Union, when he closed his eyes in death, on angel wings arose, and in the presence of his God fearlessly opened his eyes to behold the glories of the Heavenly Kingdom, and from the King of Kings on His boundless throne receive this benediction, with the words all-powerful, a welcome sound of, "Well done, good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy Lord*" Presently we drew nigh the dwelling, and in that noble mansion light and cautious was my footfall, lest I might disturb and waken again to this world of toil his noble spirit, overflowing with love and interest for that which would benefit-every living being created by the Almighty's hand, whispering as I' stood in the chamber from whence his soul took flight, "T'was there he died." From thence my steps were led to the conservatory, and from one of the very trees grafted by his own hand they plucked of the fruit for me; and highly, most-highly was that fruit prized by me,   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.        89 And now while pondering over all Washington had done for not only his own country, but the universe, my brain was deep in thought, and my heart glowing with love and gratitude, and thus I was guided to the tomb of the Father of our Land, and there bowed my head, feeling pity such a Ian (so great a loss to the best good of the world broad- cast) should have been doomed with the common herd of men to pay the debt of disobedience -brought upon all mankind through the wickedness of one   But anon I raised my eyes to Heaven and said with sincerity, "Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord," and sweetly do they rest whose labor is ended, and in their Saviour's bosom have found a home, a reward for a pure heart that has made His holy precepts their walk through life: with him "to live is Christ, but to die is gain." Finally, the last object of interest to which my attention was directed proved pleasing in the extreme; .for to speak with those (no matter how humble their station) who have been in close proximity to, and can give information from personal knowledge of, the very greatest man that ever lived, is a privilege that not many at this era can boast of; and I am among the number who have been thus honored: The sun's last rays had just ceased dazzling our eyes, and left his rosy blush upon the clouds reflected with a softer tint upon the mirror-river, and the moon in her full, just above the-horizon, had risen, in all her Qu&een of Heaven's glbry, showing her round, broad -face with a vast deal of impudence, as if she were not dependent upon the very prince of light, most powerful Sol, for the entire brightness of her shining beauty. The barge all manned, with oars just ready to dip into the glassy sea, when the question was asked, "Master, wouldn't you like to see some of Master George's people 13   290   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART. dat lib when he did?" touching his hat as the name of the glorious, the good, -the ever-to-be-held-sacred, passed his lips; and I, too, could feel my heart's blood warm until it rushed through every artery, flushing my cheeks with ex- citement, hastening my steps to behold those whe had looked upon his face, and heard that voice so manly and noble in command, so winning, when with tender words he used all efforts to soothe the distressed. At length here we stood before the cabins, which looked so comfortable, so neat; and then the man entered, and in a few moments led forth the-one, a tall, fine-looking colored woman, but she was blind; she was followed by another nearly of the same form, with eyes as clear and bright as any one some years her junior; and never were there better specimens of the poorer class, well cared-for, the very pinks of cleanli- ness; their gowns of homespun blue gingham, their aprons check, a three-corner bandana handkerchief folded across theirlchests, and one of the same material tastefully arranged as a turban. They as women well-bred received us with a courtesy of respect, and when asked if they still remem- bered General Washington, quickly did the blind one, of "7 years, reply with a "Lor' bress you, massa" (warming up at the question), "I does right well; God bress old Massa George, he so good to all de people, and I hope de Lord, when H go to Hebben, will open dese eyes dat I may see Massa George and Missy, for den I will be rightk happy, but dis y'hear chile mussent complaint, icause dis y'hear massa and missyI we got now berry good to us, and come and see us ebery day and speak good word to us, and gib us ebery ting we want, but me haint much use now to nobody." The younger- one, of 110 years, although quite as respectful was more loquacious and told a good many little incidents in our good President's life, and how "Massa   SEARCH AFTER A LOST HEART.        291 George" had himself taught her to read the Bible, and then went in and brought the very book he had given her, and told of many little acts of kindness "Massa George and ole missy" had performed for- their welfare, until I really be- lieve we would have staid and listened with pleasure to I  these old women's favorite theme until midnight; but the call was, the barge is waiting to convey us to Fort Washington. So we left a little remembrance with these slaves of our late Christian general; receiving many "t'anks" and wishes we would come again, and then they would tell us good many more " tings 'bout Massa George and ole missy." But well for these poor creatures they are be- yond aching hearts from this turmoil of sorrows, grief for the destruction now being enacted in this land to those who love their country, for which "Massa George" toiled to give generations to come from every soil a home for every man, exempt from the tyrant's power. But, alas! his labor was not given to call down from domestics vengeance on their masters' heads, to rebel, cheat, and murder them; and long since have these old faithful slaves gone to join their "Massa George and Missy Martha" in Heaven. Then who can doubt but the prayers of the old blind slave are answered, and her eyes been opened to see "Massa George" and her " ole missy" as glorious stars in their Heavenly Father's kingdom, and that too of the greatest magnitude, shining with briliancy, while singing praises to the Triune God. And now, then, tell me where will you find the free col- ored, nay, or the old white, domestic so provided for after they are useless for service?- and the echo will answer Where? But the probability is, they have been sent off, no one knows or cares where, to find a home in the way they best can: their toil of service and endeavors to please long   292    SEARCH A TFER A LOST HEAR T.  since passed the memory of their employer, and if they are in old age clothed and fed, well and good; but, alas! and if naked and starving, well and -good also. But with the Southern master, if for honor's sake, and naught else, did they care for their faithful old slaves; since they would have been looked upon by their neighbor planter with contempt should they have-turned them out like old horses to die. And besides all this, our brothers down South have tender hearts and Christian principles quite equal to us of a Northern clime, and not given to filthy lucre--with their only every thought, every feeling, engrossed with how they can enrich them- selves-for honor as well as humanity has a large share in their soul: liberal in the extreme to all who call upon them in need. And thus I say, God-speed the whole United States in good acts, but restrain them when prone to evil, and God preserve whole and unshorn the Constitution as given in the days of George Washington, and may our  voices reach his ears in Heaven while we sing in concert all over the Union-North and South, East and West. "The Star-spangled Banner, Oh, long may it wave, O'er the land of the free,  And the horme of the brave."   THE Marriage Contract: gi ijiOT. ; BY "ESLIE VAN RENSSELAER. "HOMME PROPOSE, MAIS DIEU DISPOSE. NEW YORK  PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY CUSHNG, BARDUA & CO, "4 & 646 Broadway. -1873   THIS HUMBLE     TALE TO MY MUCH-REVERED AND ESTEEMED FRIEND, A  STANDARD    FOR HUSBAND, FATHER, FRIEND, STATESMAN, MAN; ("THE NOBLEST WORK OF GOD,") THE HON. LEWIS      CASS. L. V. R. Since the dedication of this work'to my friend (the Hon. LEWIS CASS), he de- parted this life; still I will let it remain, as I intended when it should oe published, at this present time, as a testimony to the memory of a good man gone from us.         '  PREFACE. BUT few are aware of the injury done to the world at large by inducing their children to make what the beau monde styles a splendid match, which signifies wealth, regardless of other qualifications, for husband and wife, as if really filthy lucre alone comprised all that is necessary to insure happi- ness on earth and joy eternal in heaven. Foolish, misguided parents! Money, doubtless, is well enough if other requirements for a. partner through life are combined; but surely it is a, curse in the hands of one who  uses it for evil purposes, and not to the dispensing of good to his family and fellow creatures in general, according to the Divine laws. Rather than to wed without that love absolutely required by the Almighty to render a married life hannonious, spend- ing days and years in discord, -void of confidence, which leads to distrust, jealousy and hatred, it is far better-to re, nin single. As to les nmariages de convenance, they tell -  ^    -   the tale why so many children go astray through neglect and bad example, since domiciles under such auspices, and so headed, are more like madhouses than homes, where purity, gentleness and kindness should reign, and where the Word of God is the standard of their path through life-a home where the tiny haind is first raised in prayer at the mother's knee, while the father listens with sacred pleasure as that sweet mother teaches the innocent baby-lips to lisp an infant's petition for blessings on its father, mother, bro- ther, sister, and little self. There is, perhaps, another error in life. Parents allowing their children an intimacy with those not of their own caste in early days, whom in mature years they would reprove should they make them their associates. This has a ten- dency to harden the hearts of such as move in a higher sphere, and extremely mortifying to those in a humble position, creating in their breast harsh feelings, fraught with all sorts of evil invocations on their early friends; and in proportion to the high, prominent stand as members of this communitv they hold, the more the spirit of envy, jealousy and hatred prevails. Such things most surely ought not to be, as they have the effect to destroy the usefulness of both classes of society, since God has allotted to each one their several duties to perform after a manner wherein there should be no clashing, with a charge " to love one another," which leads to charity for all mankind, and prepares us for that peace and harmony   * 6;J VII with " good-will towards men" that reigns in heaven. But different grades there must needs be on earth, a as one star differeth from another in glorv y above in the heavens. But when the end comes there will be no distinction; the only claim to superiority such as is awarded to those who have followed the directions of our Holy Father. ; 1 .  I \     THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. CHAPTER I. "YE maunna do that, Sandy, ye maunna do that," said Elsie Lee, in bird-like, gentle tones, clothed with loving words, "for mind ye weel noo o' that mither tould ye, ' that thar was nae luck in Sabbaday wark, sine the gude book o' a' commands every one to aye keep--it holy."' And who could resist the sweet warnings of bewitching, bonnie Elsie, born to fascinate all mankind. None, I trow, save a provoked brother like Sandy Lee, who pettishy retorted, "Hoot, awa' wi' ye noo, and dinnaforget mither's warning the ither morn, when ye were minding anything but yere ain wark, for did she nae bid ye to gang awa' an' look to yere ain affairs, and no' be meddling wi' that does na consarn ye, sine ilka ane ha eneught to do to tak' care o' that belongs to him. Read the gude book yersel', Elise Lee, and see gin it does nae command ye to dinna be jidging ithers; an aboon a', Elsie lassie,'I advise ye to mend yere ain afore ye spak to freens o' thar fauts, an to look to yere ain uncanny ways an' see gin a' be right wi'in, an' dinna be sae aft knocking at the hearts o' ithers, afore tapping at yere ain,"   TI -t -  IGHE M IA GB CONTBACT. .. "Weel, noo, brither Sandy, ye need nae be sae crass," replied Elsie, gently, yet sorrowfully, sine I did nae in- tend to jidge ye, but ainly to mind ye o' the day, an' what might befa' ye gin ye brak the Sabbaday; an inoo's the hour for kirk, ye ken, sae forgie yere sister, Sandy brither, sine did she nae love ye, she wad nae warn ye to gang to yere duty, and noo fare ye weel, sine I hae nae mair time : to spak wi' ye, Sandy."  Elsie then kissed him and ran off without sayinrg another word, fearful of being herself late for church, "Ah! Elsie," her brother said with a heavy sigh, after his, sister was out of sight, " yere a gude an' winsome lassie, as innocent as a chield, an' it is that mak's yere brither dread least the wily ill-doings o' ithers may lead ye astray, for in yere ain pure heart thar is nae guile, an' o' yersel' ye ken or think nae evil." Now Elsie loved her brother, and did not believe him to be a wicked man, yet she knew Sandy to be headstrong, and one of those who, although fully conscious-of what is right and what is wrong, and could correctly discern evil from good, still he never would take the trouble to restrain impulsive movements, and consequently never resisted the power of temptation, and so he was enticed into many petty scrapes, although nothing as yet positively sinful. This defect in her brother's character kept Elsie's warm- hearted sisterly affection constantly on the alert, she dread- ing that by it he might be inadvertently led into trouble; and when she reproved him, it was not so much in the way of censure, as to prevent, by loving, cautionary words, his doing those things which might eventually lead him to the verge of ruin ; and so whenever she observed him pursuing such a course as she felt confident he knew himself to be wrong, if he did but stop to reflect, she could not re s   I THE MARRIAGE CONT RACT.       3 until she had given Sandy an affectionate warning, pleading with him to desist and follow the path of' duty. And he loved his sister with a feeling bordering on idolatry, ever keeping over her a vigilant eye, for he was conscious of those artless charms, so irresistible to every man of either high or low degree, and fastidiously par- ticular, to the annoyance of Elsie, ever reproving and checking her when she allowed any innocent, playful famil- iarity from either of her most honorable friends of the op- posite sex to go unrepulsed, even though the liberty was taken without the slightest evil intent, for he dreaded what such things might lead to, if unrestrained at the commence- ment. This brother and sister-Sandy and Elsie Lee--were the children of James and Effie Lee, a Scotchman and his wife, living in the farm cottage, on an estate belonging to a gentleman who resided in a magnificent mansion in the center of eighteen hundred acres of land, and James Lee was the overseer of the grounds. These grounds were by nature of the most sublime and romantic description-a lovely spot such as the eye seldom looks on; one con- tinuous succession of hill and dale, except about an-acre of land on the highest part, which was perfectly level, with a velvet lawn sloping from it on all sides. These domains were laid out with rare taste; the-designer had not de- stroyed the beauties which had been so bountifully lavished upon them by Providence, but merely removed the super- abundance of trees and shrubbery, retaining such a sufficiency of choice indigenous beauties as would give to the whole an air wild, rural, natural, and had so avoided strict uniformity that visitors felt as free as if treading a parterre thrown open to use as public commons, yet all was kept in perfect, elegant, rustic order, and every curve of walk most grace- ful.   4      THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. At one end was the farm cottage, and a few rods from it what might be styled a pretty miniature lake, made such by the enlargement of what was originally a small pond, supplied from rivulets flowing down many neighboring hills. The margin of this lake was decorated with a variety of pines, and on its surface floatetd two small gondolas, and from these pretty, fancy boats might ofttimes be heard the merry voices of a youthful party, who guided them -over the placid waters. One of these boats was usually rowed by Sandy, and in it were seated two maidens, as lovely as houris, not long in their teens, whereas the other was beautifully managed by sweet Elsie Lee, and had but one passenger, a silent youth (if one could rightly judge), since the gay young lassie's joyful voice alone was heard keeping time to the oars she gracefully plied, while racing with Sandy, by the singing of a simple Scotch ballad; and the handsome young laird, if he did remain silent, seemed highly amused in listening to Elsie's playful words with her brother, as she glided past him, using such speed that it left sparkling in the pretty gondola's wake Luna's soft, silvery light, sweetly calling to Sandy in bright accents of triumph, "Brither, ye canna beat my fairy barge," then warbling in liquid, blitheful notes, "Oh, swiftly glides my bonnie boat." Now, if pretty, pure-hearted Elsie's face was all radiant with smiles, such was not the expression of Sandy's, which, au contraire was very sorrowful, very painful; his brow being furrowed with wrinkles, caused, doubtless, from bit- ter feelings of the heart, and his downcast countenance be- traying distress and anxiety which he could not explain, since in secret the canker was gnawing at the core, because he had no one to share with him his grieved spirit. The young ladies in the one gondola, named Blanche and   TQE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.     *   5 Nona, and Laird Stuart in the other, were the children of him who was both Laird of Heather Plains, in Scot- land, his native place, and simply gentleman Douglas Glen- carven of Hazeldean Highwood--thus called from   the hazel trees and witch hazels which were so numerous as nearly to hedge in the parks, as well as from the great number of large trees that had attained an unusual growth and height. Yet Douglas Glencarven was still, with all due respect, addressed as Laird , if he had changed his place of residence to where titles had --not only lost all charms, but were ridiculed and sneered at by the advocates of equality of rights. To Douglas Glencarven, however, who knew his position through inheritance, there could be no fear of losing caste if in lieu of My Laird he had been styled Mr. ,but his domestics, who had accompanied him from Scotland, always used the titles they had been accustomed to in their native land, while others followed the example of the old Schtch servants, and so the family were spoken of by all as the old laird, the young laird, and the young ladies Blanche and Nona. Under existing circumstances the Laird of Heather Plains was peculiarly indifferent to all titles and honors attached to the vast domains he had left in Scotland, and void of a desire ever to see them again. He was a man acquainted with sorrow, grief completely overwhelming his heart for the loss of her whose face he would no more behold on earth, yet although he was sad of countenance, he was not the least morose in disposition, but ever mild, gentle and indulgent to all. ' The spot on the manor of Hazeldean Highwood which this old laird enjoyed above all others was that part of the utmost boundary line in an opposite direction from the   far TmSE XaoRaiU       m o IA Ge CONTRACT. farm cottage-a most secluded place, where he had erected a small, rustic, gothic building, of two rooms only, with a porch in front, the sweet-brier winding gracefully around its pillars. He named this quiet nook "The Eglantine A- Hermitage ;" it being a perfect fac-simile of one the Lady AElnona Glencarven had used at Heather Plains for her private devotions, and he had caused every article to be transferred from thence to this new home. This had be- t    come now to him a most sacred spot, and he arranged its interior in undeviating conformity with its model, which he had left in his Highland home; even the very books, writing-desk and work-box, were placed in each familiar corner. The approach, to this favorite resort of the old laird's was still densely covered with trees, while the spicy underbrush, which, from necessity in some parts, was nearly all cleared away, still, in others, this pretty shrub had 'been only sufficiently thinned out to enable the remainder to grow in greater perfection. So, too, with the transverse paths; the gardener instead of felling the dwarf trees en- tirely, wound around and through them as they impeded the approach to Eglantine Hermitage, while here and there, in the shade, rustic chairs and benches had their places. The roads first macadamized, were then kept smooth and hard by the daily use of the weighty stone roller, so that no matter what the state of the weather, they were always available to the old laird when he sought exercise after be- ing wearied with reading. The books which for the most part occupied his time were a Bible (bearing the marks of a family relic), and one other, which ever after using he carefully returned to its case; was still, although it had been used for many years, both morning and evening of each day, quite fresh and neat in its appearance. He never opened this little volume without first pressing it to his   -   -STHE MXA RH BIAUGE CON'TRACT.  lips, and after kneeling would devoutly repeat a few short prayers therefrom, with eyes directed toward, and mind intent upon, the land of spirits, as if he hoped to behold the beautiful features of his departed wife, and hear from her own lips a response-to his fervent prayers. The old laird was a widower, the little book a wife's gift, whom, it is needless to say, he loved; since while she lived he breathed for her alone, and -his sad expression gave evidence that he had known but little happiness since death had separated them in this world of cares, and his sole com- fort was the anticipation of meeting her in Heaven, never to part from her again. CHAPTER II. MY tale commences to date from those days when the younger members of Laird Glencarven's family-had attained that period of life when youth begins to think and act for itself. His eldest child, the Lady Blanche, at nineteen, was of noble appearance, with a glowing color and bright black eyes. The young laird, Stuart, came next, and resembled his sister, as much as possible for one of the opposite sex; he was aristocratic in bearing, with handsome features, and of graceful manners, and ever had a kind word and placid smile for all. Endowed by nature with superior talents, he, by close application to his studies, had cultivated them to perfection. The young laird was now eighteen. But Lady Nona, the youngest and the pet of all, was un- like either her sister or brother, and only fifteen. Nona was the fairest of the fair, with just sufficient color of the rose to tell life was there, and her snow-like, transparent complexion formed a pleasing contrast with her almond-   - t -  8      THE MARSIA GE COXTRA CT. shaped, hazel eyes, so melting, tender and bewitching, fairly playing at bo-peep from behind the drooping, dreamy lids, fringed with long, curling, brown lashes, ever varying, at times pensive, but when roused by aught which warmed the heart they fired with an intelligence that spoke volumes of deep, ardent feeling. Her features were delicate and Grecian; her prettily formed head literally covered with a shower of glossy golden ringlets, the eyebrows perfectly arched, and of the same brown shade as the lashes. Her form, although round and full was most delicately and symmetrically moulded. In manner and movement she was sylphke and graceful, while few had hands so small, and her steps, so light that verily the Indian (possessed of all the quickness of sight for which he is famed) would have found it utterly impos- sible to track the imprint of pressure on the grass made by her tiny feet. With the old laird, Nona alone, having her mother's name, possessed a charm, and although you could not pronounce it in the least partiality (as he dearly loved and was truly proud of Blanche and Stuart), still his face bore an expression difficult to define when Nona came to him and he pressed his lips to hers (from the time the orphan babe -was bequeathed to him by his dying wife, with charge to ever take. the sole care of"her him- self)-an expression of joy suppressed by grief, a sensation mingling the smile with a tear, as if her presence brought back to him a treasure, yet scarcely filled the void taken from his heart by his wife's death ; and "My wee pet darling, your mother's babe," generally with him accompanied her name from infancy to riper years, and these fond words seemed ever to flow direct from his soul to the lips with adora- tion.   STEE MAR IA GE CbVNTRA& T.  So, too, Nona, this lovely child of nature, was the winner of all hearts, and by all who knew her was called the loveliest maiden that ever drew breath in Scotland, the very brightest flower that ever bloomed amid the most choice plants of any clime, and as sweet as the bonnie heather-bell which sips the dew as it gently falls in all its purity from Heaven to refresh the earth. And thus it was sweet Nona gladdened the spirit of all with her innocent ways and smiles, for she was as free from guile as a new- born babe; all impressions made on her heart were of that cast which were chaste and holy. In mind so pure there was no vacant space within her brain for sins that so often overcome many Christians, and her thirst for knowledge was ever after objects which tend to lead the so ul heaven- ward; every beauty of nature was crowned with a charm for her, and her heart ever overflowed with love for every fellow-creature, and gratitude for all God's blessings. As for the humbler portion of the old laird's family, Sandy and Elsie Lee were foster brother and sister to Laird Stuart and Lady Elnona Glencarven, for when the young laird was born the Lady Glencarven was too feeble to nurse him, and so it devolved upon Effie Lee to give sustenance to her lady's child, her own son Sandy being about nine months old; and when the young Lady Nona first drew breath in this world of woe, her mother's spirit was borne on angel's wings to Heaven, and Effie Lee, then about to wean her babe Elsie, was called upon to be fostfr- mother to the lady's orphan. The Lees had been Fold family servants of Laird Glen- carven in Scotland, and Jamie Lee, a long while keeper of the porter's lodge upon his estate, and as Effie Lee had been a faithful foster-mother to both Laird Stuart and Lady Nona, thus the old nobleman's son and daughters had I*                i   ti 10 X     BE MARRIAGE CONXTRACT. grown up with Effie's children from infancy, like one family in affection, scarcely feeling that there was a line of ' listinction to be drawn between them in accordance with the rules of society. One year had scarcely elapsed after the demise of Lady Glencarven, when the old laird found his bodily health sinking from depression of spirits, so, for this reason, as also for the sake of his family, he left the entailed estate in Scotland to his old and faithful steward's care (who had from his youth taken a deep interest in everything connected with Heather Plains), securely con- fident that everything would be kept by him in perfect order until the young Laird Glencarven should take pos- session, then after employing an honest, upright attorney to collect his rents, he sailed for America, to seek, in a foreign land, that peace of mind of which he had been de- prived of by his wife's death, hoping that for the sake of his little ones perfect happiness might be restored to his family circle, which, with rapid strides, was fleeing from the halls of his ancestors, so famed in former years for their cheerfulness and innocent mirth.     . The old laird brought with him many of his old domes- tics, the Lees among the number, who were of great value to him, and Effie was indispensable, not alone on account of his infant Nona, but for the unwearying care which she likewise bestowed on his other two little ones since their birth. Shortly after his arrival the tract of land he now oc- cupied was advertised for sale, so he purchased it, and im mediately erected on the most elevated point a large, palatial mansion of stone, such as are built in Scotland for durability, and which remain undefaced by time for many generations.     .     THE M ARrIA&E CONTRACT.       " The style of the structure was most grand and noble; known by all both far and near as the "Laird's Castle." The Glencarvens brought over with them a number of splendid dogs of the St. Bernard breed, who although at the time of dating of my tale were all deadj yet two of their descendants guarded the domain, the most docile- called Otto; always accompanying the sisters in their rambles, while the other, named Brutus, was the old laird's companion each morning, to Eglantine. Her- mitage, and after that monopolized by the young laird, CHAPTER III. THE day's toil was over, and all the workmen having ceased from labor, to take the rest required to refresh and fit them for the coming morrow's duties, the elder -Lees also made themselves tidy, and after supper were seated, Effie with her knitting and Jamie with his book, to enjoy a quiet evening; but the book was soon laid aside for a social chat about family concerns and events. "Aweel, Effie," Jamie -began, "I hae been thinking mony times the day how verra fond the auld laird's young- leddies an' the young laird are o' oor bairns, sine they can- na be content wi'out seeing them ilka day, an' indeed it wai but yestere'en that Elsie showed to me the brawest new gow'd ring I iver saw, an' sae weighty too. " "Oh, dinna speak o' it, dinna speak o' it, Jamie Lee," the good wife ex- claimed "an aboon a', afore our laddie Sandy, sine the twa bright e'en o' him lookit like twa balls o' fir'e when the young laird took his reward for the jewel wi' a kiss as he placed the gift on Elsie's wee finger. But then, ye ken, the   'ff 12     TEE MARTrIAGE CONTBR CT.  young laird did na intend ony harm, sine it war doon before my ain twa een, still I war verra muckle fashed that Sandy came into the door just as the twa lips o' the young lairds and Elsie's war the ane to the ither." Cc Hoot awa noo, hoot awa noo, wife, sine what possible harm could thar be to sic an' a innocent thing as that, for are they nae a'maist like brither and sister, an did na they tak the same milk frae yere ain breast." "An' sae I toud him mon; but it made na differ," said the wife, "sine Sandy shooket his head an' answered,' Ah ye ken, mither- the twa ,be nae mair childer thegither noo,' an' then the laddie sat doon on the creepy wi' ane hand clenched, an the ither pressed tight to his twa een a wee while before he spake, ah thin said,' Ah I wad surely dee gin the young laird did hae ony desire to deceive our ain dear bonnie lassiej an' mrind, mithei, gin sicken a thing did iver happen, the Laird Stuart maun dee first, an--an thin 1 could nae live to see the distress o' puir Elsie, -and sae--and sae, mither, I dinna ken what I might be tempted to do after.'" Here Jamie Lee hung his head and seemed very sorrow- ful, but after awhile looked up and said: "But, wifee, ye maunna mind, sine ye ken Sandy be but a lad yet, an' speaks o'mony things he does na intend for harm; he has a heart, too, verra warm, ye ken, an' feelings verra quick ; sae, wifee, as aft as the words come frae his twa lips wi' sic' nonsense, mak a jist o' it an' o' this remind him, that thar is nane o' the lairds o' Scotland o' the name o' Glencarven that would iver do ony act than ane a'thegither honorable to ony mon, and they wad be the first to spurn ilka ane wha wad in- deavor to wrang ony innocent lassie, an' sure the young laird it is wha wad protect our sweet bonnie Elsie wi' his ain life's bluid frae dishonor of soul an' bodies "An sae I tauld Sandy, Jamie, my guid mon, but it made nae differ   - -i7E MARRIAGBECONtBACT.      1i an' yet I hae seen oor young lad sp'ak wi'l an look verra pleasant on, oor young Laird Stuart yestermorn, sae that tells he doesna haud malice, ye see, my mon.?" Aweel, then, Effie, wife, ye had better say nae mair aboot it at a', an' thin mayhap Sandy wull, wi' God's guid help, soon throw awa' the foolish idea frae his brains a'thegither, an' I wull tak' my aith that the young laird wull gie Sandy Lee nae great cause to doot ony wrong movement towards oor bonnie Elsie, bless the chield." "Ye're right, my guiid mon," the wife said, " sine I think mesel' sicken'a suspicions are e'en amaist thoughts as if frae the deil himself, that there should be ony evil intent o' the young maister, or bad desire in his heart for oor ain blithesome, innocent Elsie. An sae, my guid mon, we maun pray for Sandy that the guid God wull put awa' a' sicken'a strange wark- ings frae his troubled speerit." And the parents did kneel, and beautiful indeed was their prayer - that no wicked doubts or fears should con- tinue in Sandy's mind or heart against their very good young master, the Laird Stuart, and then Jamie and Effie Lee arose from their knees, hoping and believing their petitions were accepted by their heavenly Father. "An whar be oor bairns nooe" the father inquired. "I dinna ken," the wife answered, but whist awhile, I hear the twa spaking thegither at the door." "'Aweel," Jamie said,- " ca' them baith in." The mother did so, and very soon after evening service the parents retired for the night, but Sandy detained his sister when the father and mother left the room, drew her to his side and whispered with the most supplicating tone of voice in her ear, "Lassie, as ye love yere brither, niver let the young laird kiss ye again, and why for did he gie ye the braw gau'd ring?" Elsie colored deeply, -pouted her blood-red lips and re-   X 14  ETVE MARRIAGE COXTRAlCT. plied, with a sly smile, "Dinna pluck ony mair flowers for - .  the young ladies Blanche and Nons, to listen to thar ' graceful thanks." "Ah! noo that be folly, bonnie sister, 7' -sine ye verra weel ken that maun be, for that is my warki but thin it is uncanny for the young laird to be coorting the likes o' ye, a puir lassie." Elsie now looked indig- nant as she said, "Shanie o' ye, Sandy, an' do ye ca' this coorting? it is nae sicken'a thing, but ainly to repay me, ye ken fu' weel, for a, the sewing I hae doon for him. An' thin, it be nae mair na fair for me to thank the young maister wi' a kiss for sae braw a reward as the gau'd ring, an' thin it is nae the first, time he did tak' a kiss frae my lips for the wark doon by me, an' what's the harm, Sandy? sine the young laird's a right guid mon, an' his soul all honor." "Ah! Elsie, its yere ain innocent heart gi'es me fear, an' yet I did na say the young laird had ony wicked design in this simple license, mind ye, Elsie Lee, but [ did na ken whar it might end, whin sich favors war granted." "Brither," Elsie replied, looking at Sandy with a clear, bright and honest countenance, " dinna fear, sine yere sister wull nae disgrace ye, or our guid young laird dishonor 3 e, sae ye may guard yere heart frae a' ill forebodings." And 'then she continued in a more serious tone, "I hae ainly a few mair wards to say: ane is, thar may in my life be mony peculiar deeds I canna explain to ye iver, an' the ither is to mind that ye aince tould me to nae be fau'ting onybody, an' nae be jidging ithers, till ye tap at yere ain heart; sae gang awa' to bed, an' dream guid dreams o' yere sister, sine she wull do naething her conscience warns her is sinfu'." As Elsie turned to go, Sandy came to her side and taking her hand, said, "Forgie me, sister, gin I ha'e wrangly   I is    IfBAE   ARBIAGE CO XRTACbT. suspicioned ye, sine after a' I ken ye are a right honest lassie, an' I canna resist ye, sae ane mair buss for a kiss of peace;" and thus the brother and sister again came to amicable terms, as usual, ere parting, Elsie, as eever, happy in heart, for she had -no evil thoughts, all was pure within. CHAPTER IV. FROM the occupation of Hazeldean Highwood until the Laird Glencarven's children were nearly grown, it was without a matron, thus the family had lived quite isolated, and as yet there had been but few visitors at this noble mansion; and as the nearest to wn of any size was at some distance, but little was known of its inhabitants by the laird and his children. And then the children were close students, educated at home by a tutor for the young man, and a governess for the girls. These instructo rs were both finished scholars and good linguists, and competent to in- struct their pupils in all the accomplish ments of the day, so that their services sufficed to fit the young laird and his sisters for any position in life to which they might be called.. Laird Glencarven was educated in England, and after graduating at Oxford completed his career as a student on the Continent, and so he retained non e- of his forefather's idioms or accents. The old housekeeper, who had super- intended the old laird's household-affairs from the time he was married, was- brought up likewise in England; this also was a stay upon the children's dialect and broad Scotch manner of expressing themselves, which they otherwise might have imbibed from such constant association with their foster-mother's. children, since Jamie Lee's family   16     T BTE BMARIJOE CONtRAC.1. continued to retain the entire Scotch peculiarities of A language; and Sandy and Elsie having received all their education from their well-instructed father, had, with theirf education, inherited his broad Scotch method of speech. Lady Blanche having attained her seventeenth year, her father wrote to Scotland requesting his maiden sister, the Lady Agnes, to come and be mistress at Hazeldean High- wood, as lady of the manor, that she might guide his son and daughters in the right path, and be to them as a mother . For the old laird knew full well that there was no one to whom he could so well entrust his motherless children, for both moral and religious instruction, as his noble sister, highly educated and pure-minded, a lady in every sense of the word, gentle, winning, accomplished and refined, both prudent and systematic, while the whole tenor of her ways was mild and considerate. In personal appearance she was handsome and attractive, with great dignity and suavity of manners. She had been affianced to a Scotch lord, but death had broken the bands, yet Lady Agnes bore it like a Christian, and in due time recovered her cheerfulness. The day aunt Agnes arrived was a day of rejoicing, and it had a most happy effect upon the old laird, as he felt relieved of a world of care after placing his children in the charge of his sister, for she once having promised to guard them with a mother's care' the father felt that all would go well with his family. So his countenance did again assume a cheerful expression while listening to aunt Agnes, as she related the changes at Heather Plains since he left, and his face seemed as bright as in former years when she dwelt upon their joyous days on the old domain, where their parents used all their endeavors to render, with kind   THE MARAIARGE COXTRA CT.       i7 indulgence, the halls of their ancestors a cheerful happy home to them. But his greatest pleasure was that of hold- ing converse with his sister upon the amicable, patient qualities of his wife Elnona (or Nona, as he affection- ately ever used to call her), and also comment upon the change she wrought in his religious views, teaching him to bear with resignation the crosses our Heavenly Father saw fit to correct us with, and feel that they were only to fit us for the joys of that home where sorrows all cease. After such conversations he would shed a shower of tears, and then for two or three weeks every shadow be cleared from his brow as he spoke of his wife with the feeling that she had only gone on a journey, and that he expected her return at some future period. CHAPTER V. AFTER leaving the manor gate there is a winding drive in one direction through a level piece of woods of four miles, and then a gradual descent, when you suddenly find yourself upon a river of narrow dimensions; yet for nearly ten minutes before the water is seen, a sound is heard like the rushing of rapids, accompanied with a clicking-zuarra noise which reports that a mill is near; and all around this grain grinder the scenery is beautifully picturesque, while the access to it is extremely gloomy, as there are not only large trees, but many evergreens-with somber-hued foliage so thick as to scarcely admit the sun's rays, so that if there was not passage-way of beaten track sufficient for two car- riages abreast one might deem himself in some unex- plored region. The miller's cottage was the only dwelling to be seen at this point, save the mansion of Hazeldean Highwood,   -- 1    ' tE HMR/IA,04 COtRAC.   -. which stood like a towering castle in the distance, above it, on the highest peak of the most elevated ground.        ' There was another route, however, from the mill, nearer by two miles, to Laird Glencarven's domains, in the deepest part of the valley, leading to the rear of the manor, so thick as to render it difficult even on horseback to pass unscathed by brambles,-almost every foot of ground being covered with brier bushes and various kinds of brush, while the tall oaks and cedars, closely entwined with lux- uriant vines, rendered it, through the multiplicity of leaves, so dark, that it really looked like'a very formidable affair to attempt venturing there at all. Thus, although these woods were only separated by a stone wall from the old laird's sacred spot, no one had as yet intruded upon the widower's sanctum (Eglantine Hermitage) to annoy him. About three miles from this mill was a village called Dantonville. This same village was fully eight miles from the manor, and-it was settled by Scotch. There also was the kirk, but as Laird Glencarven differed from that sect, being a member of the English Church, he seldom visited this village, for he had a small chapel attached to the man- sion, where services were performed by the tutor, he being a clergyman of that persuasion, and a staunch High Church- man. At this time the gristmill had been in operation about three years, and was owned by a Scotchman named Jock McNeal, and although from two different neighboring shires, where strife for precedence ran high, still the mil- ler and Jamie Lee were on intimate terms. Jock, how- ever, visited most frequently at the farm cottage, as Jamie Lee was " the auldest mon o' the twa," and " a wee bit lame in ane o' his legs." Within a few weeks a young   Ti:E MABRIAOE CONTIACT.       19 Highlander had arrived, been taken in the employ of Jock McNeal, and tended mill for him. This youth was of exceedingly fine proportions, had a very handsome coun- tenance, and was named Robin McCrea; so, many a young lassie of Dantonville was pleased of late to drive to the mill with the grain, willingly biding any delay in order to have a " wee innocent frolic" with the good-looking young Highlander. And I will " nae say but it wad ha'e just suited Elsie Lee to hae had a sma' bit o' a chat wi' the laddie hersel', sine Robin McCrea had smiled on bonnie Elsie mair na ony ither lassie, and her ain twin black een aft sparkled an' danced like twa diamonds in the sun's rays" when the young miller's met them with an admiring glance. But Jamie Lee did not deem it quite prudent for his ' bonnie Elsie to be ganging far frae hame, wi'out himsel' or her mither,' so the lassie seldom saw Robin, not even at kirk, since the laird's domestics always were most regular in their attendance at the mansion chapel. An;d yet that did not stay the tide of love which swelled in the young man's heart for Elsie. It was just now a pleasant season for wandering abroad without being weary, and as the laird's family were grown, or nearly so, Lady Blanche being nineteen, with much discretion for her years, and Lady Nona fifteen, more freedom was allowed them to walk around the domains unaccompanied by other than Otto (the faithful St. Bernard). And thus the ladies Blanche and Nona started for a ramble, straying over hill, then down dale, gathering wild flowers on their way, and had almost reached their father's rustic resort, to feast on the raspberries which grew near them in profusion, and intent upon plucking some close to the high wall, which were larger and more ripe than elsewhere, with eagerness for a   / 20 VEElHP mAB  iAGaE CONTRACT bonne bouchewhen suddenly they ceased, much alarmed at a warning-from Otto, who drew close to the side of his I young mistresses, lowly growled and-.thus attracted their attention to a most extraordinary, strange object, for mounted on the topmost stone was, the weest little body one could dream of in visions of fairyland. Now this : wonder was certainly very like a fairy, being only about two feet four inches high, and was surely most beautifully formed, for unlike dwarfs generally her head was not in the least disproportioned to her body, while her coun- tenance was both pretty and pleasing. She was clad in a black dress, yellow leggings, red cloak and green hood. Then although this wee one's voice was low and thin, still it was very musical, and when she called most anxiously "Bonnie, bonnie Blossom and Berry, cam ye hame ),i' a' speed," it'was in such a winning way, with tones so soft, gentle and cheerful as to insure immediate obedience, and verily these fairy animals of only six inches in length, were as great a curiosity as their wee mistress herself. So Blanche looked at her sister Nona, and Nona looked at Blanche, then both they and Otto gazed on the little woman and her wee pets, with strange feelings, thus standing at their feet, for this sprite had landed with such a light spring at their side, scarce a clover-leaf gave evidence of pressure from her weight, and after most quietly returning with placid smile the gaze of all three for a few moments, she humbly courtesied and said, "Me ladies, ye will nae ca' me bauld-faced gin I hae ta'en the liberty o' looking after my bonnie pets on yere domains, whar they hae gane astray." Both the sisters' expressions were now decidedly divided between surprise and fear;,yet Lady Blanche with a forced smile gave this fairy welcome, and bade Otto be quiet, when again, like a thing of air, (afterfirst lifting   THE MARRIAGE CON'TRACT.        91 her canine friends to her arms), her weeship sprang to the  wall on one side, and off the other, without disturbing the smallest branch of the witch-hazel; but after she had vanished from their sight, her clear, sweet voice was distinctly heard saying, "God bless my ladies, and God be wi' ye a'ways, till we meet again, and I dinna ken how soon that may be, bonnie young ladies, but ye maunna seek me nor fear me, mind ye noo, sine maist sure I be yere friend." Lady Blanche and Nona hurried home, I as- sure you, with all speed, to tell the tale of the pretty wee fairy, not one word passing their lips until they found themselves in the presence of their father, who, when they related their adventure, and with" so much agitation de- scribed the size of this weest of all wee women, her canine friends, and the noiseless manner in which they came to them, he surely thought his daughters were upon a little frolic to quiz some of the domestics occupied about their customary duties in the room, for they had now already ceased work, to listen open-mouthed to the narration, eyes and ears wholly absorbed by the wonderful rencontre of their two young mistresses with "the good people," as they superstitiously believed, while Lady Blanche and Nona were both quite indignant that their father and aunt should question their report of the fairies, so hastened to the farm cottage, where they doubted not perfect credence would be given as to what they had seen. But even here both Effie and Jamie Lee considered the young ladies were "ganging stark mad," although the slow wagging of Otto's tail, to them, seemed a most decided corroboration of this morning's very mysterous meeting. As for bonnie Elsie, she declared that before to-morrow night "thar wad nae be ony sweet flowers but she wad closely examine, or ane leaf wi'out being by her inspected)   - 22    ISTHE XMABRIAGE CONTRACT.          ' that sae wi' her ain twa een she might mak' guid the young ladies' vision, sine she believe fou' weel hersel' in the fairy lands o' the wee spirits o' the guid people; for why nae? sine mony books had been written a' about them an' these books spak nae untruth." "Ah, noo, bonnie lassie," said Sandy, " tak yere brither's advice, to no be searching after speerits of wee fairies, sine ye may meet wi' ane o' fu' size, a freend o' flesh and bluid to lead ye into mischief-ane o' the deil's imps." "Keep yere warning, Sandy," Elsie replied, "for ane who needs it, an' gie owre yere evil forebodings, sine yere sister, brither, bet nae sae easily led astray that ye maun always suspicion her, an' be sure I never hae ony dealings wi' this deil ye se em to ken sae weel, an' wha maun be- freend ye." "Aweel," Sandy replied, " a willfu' mon maun ha'e his way."  "Ah, noo, brither, ye see the proverb says a willfu' mon, bae womon, mind ye, sae look to yersel', Sandy mon, gin -ye wull tak my a dvice." And this time Elsie did not wait for an answer, but ran off with one of her glee. some laughs, while her brother looked after her sorrow- fully, saying, "I hope nae ill may befa' ye Elsie, sine ye hae the purest, maist guileless heart that iver beat wi'in the breast o' ony lassie living." After Lady Blanche and Nona left the farm cottage, the domestics came flocking in to learn of Jamie Lee if he or Sandy had seen any of the ' fairy good people, wha had appeared to the twa young ladies." And that night, at the manor mansion, many eyes were open till after the witching time, each one most timidly watching for the fairy, while the remaining hours were spent in dreaming of the wee woman and her dogs; even Otto growled low in ^is sleep, as if suspecting that these diminutive specimens   THE MABRIAGE CONTRACT.        23 of living animals were about pouncing upon him to nibble him to death. CHAPTER VI. THE following morning, true to her word, Elsie was off while the night breath of heaven was still lingering on each flower and blade of grass, stopping as she skipped along to. search the heart of every rose, and so, too, peeping under each leaf which she fancied might serve' their fairyships as a shelter fromr the dew. And, then, on the borders of all the rivulets she cautiously treads, peering intently therein, as they reflected her bewitching face, believing she would find these wee ones seated in the pretty floating lotus, watching the rising sunbeams as they sparkled on the ripples; but all to no effect, until at length she found herself beside the very spot where this extraordinary object and her canine pets were reported to have been seen by her two young mistresses. Here Elsie paused, and said to herself in a half whisper, ",-No, indeed, I dinna ken whad be best for ane puir lassie like me'se, a.' alane, to do, sine'Sandy warned me yestere'en that ithers might lurk in placeso whar bonnie wee speerits do mak' thar hame, yet ' for a'-that, and a'that,' I will just' venture." So, light as a fawn, with one bound, she found herself standing without the limits of the domain ; but here, first, having stopped to think that the woods were very thick, and no pathway to be seen, she was suddenly startled and turned to releap the wall, for she espied, with- in a few yards of her, rising gracefully, a slow curling smoke, which gave her forebodings of evil. Verily this lassie had' read romances, which told of banditti, still Elsie was brave at heart, Elsie was persever-   - 24     THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. ing, and Elsie, too, could offer a prayer, and then with faith trust all to Providence, so after thus doing she ventured a few steps further, but, on reflection, soliliquized, "It is nae right to tempt the Almighty, sae I maun be prudent, sine here I stand alane; and truly, noo, I believe the smoke cams frae a cave." But on closer examination, it proved to be a tiny house, built of unbarked logs, covered with grey moss, which gave it the appearance of a solid rock-roofing, a secreted inhabitable spot beneath the surface of the earth. As Elsie cautiously approached nearer, there was something so exciting to the curiosity in -this most unique-looking baby-house that she could not de- sist, so, at length, in lieu of appalling the lassie, it fascinated her to take one peep; yet, after two or three steps, she once more started back with -fear, for there just within the door of her " ain wee" house stood the fairy woman, smiling sweetly, and with an irresistible charm beckoning Elsie toward her. And how could the lassie resist this silent call? feeling that there was no fleeing when the good people willed, and thus she obeyed the gentle movements of a tiny flag the wee one had waved, and by her was thus received : "An' a pleasant welcome to ye, bonnie Elsie Lee, sine I hae aft hearn tell o' ye as being ane o' the few in this life -wha be's kind to a', baith rich and puir, an' yet 1 did na' expect to see ye sae verra soon; but mind ye, noo, ye maunna tell to ony body that ye hae iver seen the Rosy Red Bird wi' yere twa een, 'till she says to ye thar is nae harm in jist sp'aking o' her. Sae noo, me bonnie sweet lassie, wull ye promise?" And could Elsie refuse So she bowed assent. "Noo dinna look sae affrighted," the Rosy Red Bird said, " sine ye hae naething to fear my chield. And, noo, tak' this branch o' witch hazel in yere hand, an' mind weel   THE MABRIAGE CONTRACT.        25 that this bush niver did sp'ak ane word o' untruth; sae noo hould up yere bonnie head, an' just mind ye it be verra wicked to br'ak yere ward, sae, lassie, first put the branch to yere lips, an' thin to yere ain pure heart, and promise. Thar, noo, I'll ax nae mair aith." After this she put into Elsie's hand a fairy cornelian heart, bade her '{gang hame and keep the blessed bauble frae the sight o' man, an' 'aboon a', not to speak o' her to the young laird or Sandy." "The young ladies," she said, "I ken fu' weel, hae seen me, an' yet they do nae ken frae whence I cam', what's me name, or whither me footfa' bore me." Rest assured, bonnie Elsie went on the wings of the- wind, not looking behind-; feeling unsafe until she had arrived on theI other side of the wall, and within the domains of Hazeldean Highwood; then she sat down, almost faint with fright and fatigue combined. But Elsie once more became stout of heart as ever, for -she was good, innocent, and thought no evil; so all Elsie's fears passed quickly from her, as they always do when intent of pur- pose is consistent with the Christian spirit; and after examining the wee charm of a- heart, and finding engraved on it in very fine letters, "Ca' on R. R. B. in a' trouble, sine she's a freend," the lassie carefully hid the charmed gewgaw in her bosom, then sprang up and hastened home, entering the farm cottage, feeling not as she had left it. Still she wore a smiling face, yet it did not escape her brother's observation that her cheeks were blanched, and her eyes wandering, nevertheless he was not the first to speak; but her father, in his usual affectionate way, as soon as her face looked in at the door, greeted her with, "Aweel, me bonnie bird, and hae ye m6t wi' the wee fairie, an' her fairy pets, the airly, morn?" 2   - 6 Ah! ndeTHE MRBliGE   CONTie CT. "Ah! indeed, noo," Elsie replied, after giving her parents their morning kiss, " but I seekit weeI in a' the brawest flowers, yet they were nae thar, thin I peepet un- ner the saftest leaves, but they war nae thar, an' ou' a' the bonnie lotus floating flowers o' the rivulets an' little lakes too, still I did nae find them thar, to take ane pleasure sail the sweet balmy morning." "Aweel thin," her father said, "an sae ye had a wild goose chase, an could nae find the wee spirit frae fairy land, to'reward ye for yere trouble." "Or ony spirit o' flesh and bluid either," Sandy said, eyeing his sister with scrutiny; forghe saw there was some- thing that Elsie would fain keep safely locked in her own heart. The lassie, never at a loss, quickly answered, "An'. gin I said nae, ye wad nae believe me, sae gie owre yere suspicioning me, an mak' nae mair game o' yere sister, ainly tak' care when a bouquet o' luve tokens be culled for ony o' the lassies that the fairy cupid does nae pierce yere ain heart wi' ane o' his wee arrows that be bathed in poisoned perfume, sine that may gie ye mony an-ache o' baith mind an' body, for luve be afttimes verra dangerous, ye ken, wi' willfu' mon." "Ah!"Sandy solemnly said, "I do fear for warser foulkes na fairies to br'ak yere peace o' mind, my darling sister, 'tis true." , These words came with a frown so unusual on her brother's brow, that it provoked Elsie beyond measure, so she tartly replied, 1' I'll sp'ak nae mair wi' ye, brither, gin ye weel be sae severe on yere ain sister, an' the young maister, for I ken a' yere evil thoughts o' the baith o' us ;" then with tears streaming from her eyes she left the room, much to Sandy's grief. But the parents prudently made no comments, resolving for the future to let their jarring *%     ^                 !     i   THE- MARRIAGE CONZTRACT.       27 pass unnoticed, avoiding all jests or reproofs that would keep such suspicions alive as those the son entertained of his sister. Soon after this the young laird entered the cottage, and on learning that Elsie gave no satisfactory report of her success in her early morning efforts, suggested that Sandy and himself should search for these fairies of human and animal form, in order to quiet the fears of the superstitious on the domains.           l His plan was that himself would take one direction, and the young gardener another; and so he accordingly left, accompanied Fby Brutus, determined to make a thorough investigation of the premises. Sandy, too, now satisfied that Elsie had not met his foster-brother this morning, re. gained his spirits, and cheerfully gave all his energies to tracing the whereabouts of this fairy, who was making such turmoil in the brains of the Scotch domestics. CHAPTER VII. THE opposite side of the river, which worked the mill, was accessible by a bridge alone, and distant from it about four miles. There had, within a few years, been erected many handsome, capacious mansions, which were occupied by families of exceeding refinement and culture, who, ac- cording to their respective tastes, had beautified and em- bellished the grounds belonging to their establishments. The entire face of this part of the country is covered with objects attractive and pleasing to. the eye of travelers, and these had induced those fond of the beauties of nature to locate themselves here; and although the inhabitants par- took only of rural enjoyments, unalloyed with the encroach.   28     'THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. '    .                          . .8 - ents of city formalities, still there was nothing gloomy in the aspect of either houses or residents; on the contrary, one uniform spirit pervaded all things animate and in- animate, each family being on intimate terms with the other, happy to receive their friends and courteous to strangers. Yet society was not positively necessary to their pleasures, as each had resources within their own circle for passing the time, caring naught for the frivolous gossip and tattle which occupies so large a portion of the time of the beau monde. The scenery here was beautifully diversified, some of the heights being almost mountains, with deep cuts dividing themn. The village was situated low in the valley, and was not visible until you came close upon it. In its vicinity were numerous lakes in miniature, formed from the many streams which coursed their way through the vales and around the hillocks. There was one mansion mu6h smaller than the others, but, the most distinguished of all, it stood on a more elevated locality, being midway of the rise of one of the highest peaks, and overlooked all the other habi- tations. From thence the roaring of-a cataract, two miles off, is ever distinctly heard, the fall in its descent measuring more than two hundred feet; and from it arises a continuous, never-ceasing spray, which, as the sun's rays fall upon it, forms many perfect arched rainbows, with tints warm, then --soft and mellow, rising and fading in quick succession beneath where you stand. ' And most fascinating is the surrounding scenery, as new objects are constantly pre- sented to the eye, causing wonder- by their sublimity, and engendering feelings of adoration to the Almighty for His glorious and wonderful works. And sublime indeed is every object which meets the   tHE MARRtIAGE CONTR ACT.       29 spectator's eye in the vicinity of these falls. During the summer months it is pleasant to behold the verdant hills and dales in such variety of shades, each vine-plant and tree vying with the other in beauty of array; but supremely sublime, when they doff their robe of green and apparel themselves in the gorgeous shades of autumn, changing afrom burning, exquisite, glowing colors, to those more subdued, in far greater number than the most vivid imagi- nation of the painter can conceive. Yet far beyond de- scription in magnificence are the numerous classes of vegeta- tion, veiled with their winter's chaste vestal mantle of snow, while here and there, from the cedar, spruce, and pine, peeps a fresh branch through an icicle to proclaim that the vigor of life is not yet exhausted. Then how beautiful are the different shades of green on the bo-peep rivulets, being of hues bright or deeper in accordance with the source of each little stream. In some spots exceeding somber, from the shadow of towering hills, altogether excluding the sun's light, while in others an opening lets in Sol's bright beams, and impresses the fancy with gems of emerald, bril- liantly sparkling upon the limpid waters as they are gliding smoothly, imperceptibly, on their way to swell the torrent at its furious outlet. The pathways to this fall are so numerous, intricate, wild, and densely covered with trees of various sizes, that groups of parties may revel in gay enjoyment concealed from each other, while their merry voices would be drowned from the deep, deep pealing music of the rapids beyond, and so, too, lovers' vows in secret kept. This smallest - mansion was built in true gothic style, and although not' a cottage, yet so similar to one in its construction that it was always designated as the Hawthorn Cottage. It was indeed a most perfect specimen of architecture, while the \.   , 30    MTtE M" aRIA GE CONTRA CT.  park, garden, and all out-door arrangements gave full evi- dence of poetic fancy, the whole being truly a little Eden. Still there was no attempt at display to excite the envy of proud arrogance in the cultivation of nature's beauties; they were so simple that only the good, virtuous and true lovers of God's beauties could appreciate the little, grace- ful home, in hopes one day of owning another just like it, to there quietly enjsy life as a stepping-stone to Heaven, away from reckless-and extravagant men, whose only de- sire is to live in such magnificence as to excite the envy of their neighbors. The well-trimmed hedge and vine-bound veranda gave it an air as if gentle spirits dwelt within; but on entering this pretty dwelling your ideas were borne on to some fancy sketch of bewitching refinement, every article in keeping with the cottage, all things light, airy, recherche, and of exquisite workmanship. Still there was no super- abundance of anything, while there was every variety of refined resources for amusement, the harp, the piano, the guitar, paintings from famed artists, a library well filled with choice works, one table arranged for the sole use of erudite religious readings, and on it were two cushions on which was laid the family Bible and Prayer-book, About the room were distributed many articles of virtu, and statuettes most chaste; and .then games of science, such as chess, etc., were there; and the eye could feast on : a conservatory of exquisite plants, with an aviary of song- sters to charm the ear, which communicated with the library. And yet amid all these objects to please the senses were mingled the writing-desk, work-baskets and boxes filled with implements for ladies' use, evincing industry was not neglected if amusements were partaken of.   THE MARRIA GE CONTRACT.        31 The domestics gave evidence of the systematic direction of affairs by their mistress, there being a simplicity and tidiness of dress about their person, and a respectful, retir- ing way in manner, as if totally unoccupied about them. selves, performing household arrangements quietly and with most perfect neatness. Yet thley were not so numerous as to interfere with each! other and burden the lady of the house with undue care to oversee them, still there was sufficient to give an allotment of work to the several people em- ployed, that all things might be kept in perfect, decent order, and this class of persons not be taxed beyond what they were able to perform. But of all the household jewels to be envied was the mother and her sweet daughter Isa- bel, who both far excelled the perfect beauties we read of, because not pleasing to the eye alone was this widow Islan and her only child; for there was that in the loving couple which, first, by their winsome, modest ways fasci- nated, and afterward, through their independent, unassum- ing, chaste, intelligent conversation charmed, until there every word and expression so impressed you with the pure, gentle indwellings of truly humble Christians in mind and heart, totally unsullied by guile, that it bound you soul and body to them, with a firm, hallowed, irresistible spell. CHAPTER VIII. HAWTHORN Cottage was built by a gentleman most highly esteemed by all who knew him, but it was scarcely completed, furnished, and the grounds arranged, ere it became desolate, since all he held dear were suddenly taken from him in one day by his Heavenly Father to to their eternal home; so, after the loved ones, a wife   , 32     T He MSBRIa GE CONTRACT. and two children, were borne quietly and unostentatiously to their graves, in a remote corner of the cemetry, where he might, unmolested, weep tears of overwhelming grief when-he came to the place wherein rested all that he had loved on earth, and there freely give relief to his sorrowing heart, close by their side he also reserved a spot for him- self to take his final rest, enclosing the entire plot of ground with arbor vitce; then, after covering the sacred mounds with the most choice plants, left his pretty home to find an asylum elsewhere, with brain half shattered at his bereave- ment. Yet every six months, on a certain day, he returned to visit alone the place of his cherished dead, and add fresh beauties to their graves. This gentleman's name was sup posed to be assumed on account of matrimonial affairs. For many years this cottage remained unoccupied, not even the furniture being removed, when one morning, much to the amazement of the neighborhood, it became known that the premises had been rented just as they stood, and the widow Islan and her pretty daughter Isabel became the occupants. It was most gratifying to the residents of Laurel Valley (the name of the village) that another family was added to their number, and that this pretty domicile was no longer vacant, so every one called at the widow Islan's, and courted the society of herself and lovely, perfect, artless child, although as yet no one knew their position or stand- ing 6in life, for neither had they inquired, nor had the strangers volunteered any information concerning their late place of residence. The domestics, all of whom the lady brought with her, had not intimated by a whisper aught concerning their former history, still the entire family, old mistress and young, maids and men-servants, were so decorous in de-   TETE MABRIAGE& CONTRACT.        33 portment that the most fastidious did not hesitate to greet with a cordial reception the widow Islan and beautiful little Isabel as those of their own clique, without credentials, they were so fascinatingly circumspect. The widow, 'tis true, received all who called upon her with the utmost politeness, and was surely grateful for every kindness, yet she was never herself, ntor did she per; mit Isabel to be, on intimate footing with any one ; and this extended likewise to the domestics, according to the direc- tion of the mistress.- Three years after the Islans had located themselves at Hawthorn cottage, Isabel had attained her fifteenth year, and possessed loveliness rarely equaled. Her beauty not being of an ordinary cast, for while her almond-shaped eyes were soft as the gazelle's in expression, speaking to the very soul, thrilling every nerve, in color like the sloe, shaded by drooping lids, fringed with long curling lashes, black as her silky arched penciled brows; even her hair outvying the raven's plumage, so dazzling with its brilliant black varying shades, as it lay smooth and soft on a Grecian, nmarble-polished forehead, in bandeaus glossy as the richest satin's surface; yet her complexion was as purely white as the lily, save the merest blush on the cheek, as if having stolen its tint from the bloom upon the rose; the lips were rather full, and of the brightest vermilion, with a graceful curve, never failing to bewitchingly charm when in motion, half apart, they displayed teeth perfect in size, of unrivaled form, the enamel like polished pearls of the ocean; and irresistible was that smile as it winningly kept tally with her tender, lustrous eyes to each look she gave, while every word, spoken in most mild, touching accents, warmly issued from her innocent heart; the nose was small, straight, and delicate in its line of beauty; face 2*      4     T'E MARRIAi6E CONTR CT.  classically oval, head in contour and size faultless, set i swith dignity and ease upon a neck like unblemished snow, supported by gracefully falling shoulders; her entire formi of model beauty in height, and Venuslike in proportion  every limb flexible and yielding, whether the movements were quick or slow; her arms and hands transparent and white, tapering with grace to the tips of her fairy, rose. tinted nails; her ankles and feet small, and of most aristo- cratic symmetry. Then there was a playfulness in manner, combined with a pathos of sentiment, peculiar to Isabel alone, her voice being birdlike, ever varying with her feel- ings as it flowed from her sweet, tempting, cherry-ripe lips, each intonation so rivaling the other in soft, musical notes one never wearied while listening to her as she conversed in aeolian silver tones. Isabel must have resembled her father, being the very opposite of her mother in appearance, who was a blonde in all points, and of much larger proportions; yet herselt and daughter were alike in disposition-cheerful, mild, dig- nified and beloved by every one of all ages, sex and station- for whether meeting persons abroad, or receiving them enfamille, their greetings were so cordial that they ren- dered themselves and their cottage home attractive to both friends and strangers; and notwithstanding Mrs. .Islan was mother to a grown daughter, she well retained her beauty and elasticity of form, and was still extremely handsome. In spirit she was as buoyant as any one of extreme youth, and likewise as fond of youthful pastim(es and exercise. From the time herself and daughter took possession of the cottage they had been in the habit, both winter and summer, of daily strolling several miles from home; thus it was that Isabel became a great pedestrian, 'and had her natural taste for romance of scenery much   EHE MARRIAGE CONTRACT,         35 strengthened through that admiration for the beauties of Nature which her mother possessed, and. the facilities for enjoying those pleasures to their full extent in this region where they now resided, since, for at least ten miles of the neighboring country around their dwelling had been famed for the wild, wonderful and sublime, as well as the soft and the beautiful.                 / These scenes they often explored, sure each time to dis- cover some new feature to gratify their search after such things as are thriving in perfection, fresh from the hand of their Creator, " born to blush unseen, and waste their fra- grance on the desert air,'" unless sought after by the lovers of Nature, and Nature's God. Isabel ofttimes wandered away without her mother, taking with her as a protector, the faithful Fido, an im- riense Newfoundland, and after searching for wild flowers and minerals until wearied she would seat herself on the moss-covered rocks, in the shade of large pines, to meditate, and soon be lulled almost to sleep by the music of their singing branches; then arousing herself energetically, ac- company her voice with' the guitar, which she frequently brought there, as if purposely to hear the mocking spirits send back her words in accents most perfect. After so doing, she would vary her amusements by slipping from its moorings some fisherman's boat, then paddle across a little lake she had named "The Loch of Killarney," from  the echo on all sides, so oft-repeating, swelling and dying Upon the ear, always placing Fido at the bateau's bows to warn off danger. The row over, Isabella's solitaire terminated for that day. And yet it was not always on foot she enjoyed these all- alone strolls, preferring often an equestrian exploration, on her noble black steed, which she managed with p rfect horsemanship ease.   36     THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.  CHAPTER IX. THE Islans had resided about four years in their peace- ful home at Hawthorn Cottage, of Laurel Valley, when the owner's body was brought to be interred by the side of his wife and children, he having actually grieved him- self to death. The only mourner was a distant relative and his sole heir. A young man exceedingly handsome notwithstanding his swarthy complexion through exposure to the wind and sun (he being a great sportsman), which rather added to the apparent proud bearing of an arrogant spirit, so marked in the curled lip of his splendid mouth, intelligent, piercing black eye, and magnificent, command- ing, dignified form, as he, after a very cold, formal bow, spoke in a manly, deep-toned voice, and most laconically notified the widow that she might remain his tenant, and for two years longer occupy unmolested Hawthorn Cottage. He did not give his name, nor say to whom the rent should be paid, or when he should again visit that part of the country, or state where they might communicate with him, by writing or otherwise. Even Isabel's exceeding beauty was unnoticed by him, as his haughty air, the index of his mind, told of no admiration to waste on a simply- attired cottage maid, be she ever so lovely, his ideas tower- ing higher in search of a matrimonial connection. This young mourner did not tarry long, yet still he observed strictly the most decorous solemnity in the burial of his relative, not omitting one single form. The clergyman who officiated came with him, and they, with the sexton and gravedigger, were the only persons present, the sexton  having been notified not to toll the bell, so that the ceme- tery should be quite free from lookers-on; and he was   HE MARRIAGE COYtRACt.        37 also warned not to mention to any one the directions which he had received, as the deceased had requested in his will that his obsequies should be strictly private, which request was most strictly complied with. Then, also, before the mourner left the grave, he gave stringent orders that the hedge around the lot should be kept well trimmed, the plants within the enclosure properly cared for, and a vigilant watch be observed over all, so that no marauder should pluck a single flower from the mounds. These affairs attended to so privately and with such secrecy, when discovered, created quite an excitement, strange reports also were bruited about the village after the young rela- tive took his departure, for with all the orders given there had been but this elicited from him, and that through the sexton, who, when he inquired to whom he should look for remuneration after his labors were completed, was answered: "I am the heir and responsible. The estate is ample for all expenditures; attend to directions, and in a short time you will receive full payment." Then the youth's lips were sealed, and his deportment such that it kept all aloof, and as none dared ask his name so they continued in ignorance, for that same evening the clergyman and himself left the neighborhood; and thus some mystery seemed to hang over the former, as well as the present oc- cupants of Hawthorn Cottage, even also extending to the present heir-at-law, this young stranger. One thing, with regard to the widow Islan, was conclusive to all, that to appearances her income was small, since the very unos- tentatious, if refined, manner in which she lived, her economy in both her household matters and style of dress- ing warranted such a belief. Still, it was not doubted but that at some previous period they had lived in great splendor, the whole deportment of elegance both in the   48      SEi MA RRIdYA]GE dO NfnLJC T. mother and child fully indicating such to be the fat; / aind then a few questions from the daughter unintentionally -escaped her lips in the presence of one of the strange work- men on the grounds, shortly after the widow arrived, which fan thus * "Why, dearest mamma, have we come from our beautiful home to live so differently to what we have been accustomed to, and where everything was so hand-. some?' And this was the mother's reply: "My darling, but few in life are always able to maintain the same routine from youth to advanced age, sometimes from one cause, sometimes from. another; but at present I cannot explain to youi neither if I did could you understand," Then when, as the widow supposed, she was beyond the reach of the manes ears, she charged Isabel to ask no more questions, or say to any one that they had been less hum- bly situated or possessed of other than limited means. The child strictly obeyed her, for,she never failed most tenaciously to truly regard all her mother's wishes as sacred. This special charge to pursue the same course as to the non-revealment of their former way of living, so different from the present, or ever making her family affairs a sub- ject of conversation even among themselves, had been given to her domestics when she first arrived; and as they were all most faithful and trusty, she felt perfectly secure that they would not disobey her orders, and they did not. Now, Isabel was old enough, doubtless, to understand all about reverses of fortune, and also reasons why many times a change in domestic affairs was necessary; but since she was eight years old she had been at home but very little, and always at such times her mother had avoided the discussion of domestic affairs of a [private nature in her presence, and then she did not make her usual visit home   tiE MARRIAGE COR ACTP.        39 at the last vacation, previous to her leaving school, but remained until called for by her mother to take their abode in their present location, every preparation for a change of residence having been made without Isabel's knowledge.- Still she never murmured at aught her mother did, having been ever a gentle, submissive child. It was enough for her to feel that whatever course her dear parent tooki in her eyes it was surely faultless. Thus, as Isabel was ignorant as to the objects of her mother's proceedings, and the widow, with- her domestics, observing profound silence on the subject of the necessity of present move- ments, at last every question ceased as -to why they had come to Hawthorn Cottage, where they had previously resided, and what their position in their former place of residence. Then, both within and without doors, the widow's doings, past and present, ended in a nine days' wonder, the general result in all such cases. CHAPTER X. SOME three years after Lady Agnes arrived at Hazel- dean Highwood, the old laird and herself were sitting quite alone in the library, when the principal topic of conversa- tion was upon the young laird and his fature prospects, the father.' commencing thus: "My dear sister, it is time that I should make you conversant with the arrangement of family monetary affairs as well as some provisions impor- tant in other ways (for one of my children at least), all of which has been legally conducted, to save trouble when I 'throw off this mortal coil,' and prevent confusion, thus hoping that the means used will render them happy. "First, then, I will speak of Stuart, he, you-'know, is most    40      ITE  ARRIA GE COYTRA CT. amply favored by entailment of estate, as my demise leaves him sole'proprietor of Glencarven domains; and as the rent roll of Heather Plains is very large, it will enable him to sustain nobly his position in this world. And then, through the lawful exchange of bonds, Stuart is affianced to Lord Melbourne's daughter, the Lady Miriam, who will be heiress to her father's estate at her mother's death, if she marries Stuart, the income of which is immense. Thus the two estates combined render my son the wealthiest laird in all Scotland. "Well, Agnes, as I felt secure that all was well with Stuart, my next care naturally would be to provide for my motherless daughters, so previous to leaving Scotland I made a large investment in such institutions as were most secure and will yield them a handsome living, and then Hazeldean Highwood has been legally set apart for their benefit, it having been so arranged that my non-natural- ization cannot become a source of litigation. As tc selling it, that is optional with them, except two hundred acres that I have reserved as a legacy to Jamie Lee and family, at either the death of both my daughters or the sale of --azeldean Highwood. "While settling worldly concerns the poignancy of grief for the death of my wife was in a measure assuaged, but business over, from that time I, until your arrival, unre- mittingly mourned the loss of my dear Nona, and felt that I was growing old beyond my years; then happily for me your gentle, loving spirit came to be a mother, a guide to my children, and to lead them in such a Christian path as will when death comes give them a home in heaven with their blessed, angel mother. So, too, I hope the burden and heavy weight of family affairs, through you, being re- moved, my cheerfulness may be restored and days length- ened."   THEA MARRIAGE CONTRACT.        41 Lady Agnes perceiving a gloomy vein fastening itself upon her brother, at first thanked him for his high estima- tion of her character, and then endeavored to cheer him ; but his mind being fixed upon family disclosures and endeavors to give his sister a thorough idea as to the course he was anx. ious to pursue for the welfare of all his children, the sub- ject could not be changed, he in the same sad mood inquir- ing, "My sister, have you ever seen the Lady Miriam?" "Never," was the Lady Agnes' reply, " for you, must remember, brother, that Laird Melbourne married Lady Nannie McFarden, in France, where their child was born; the family only returning a few weeks previously to the- laird's death. And then the old McFardens, being ever a most managing people and ambitious, went to the Conti- nent, and there had Lady Nannie educated in a French convent; her school-days being over, you know the sequel. Thus Lady Melbourne having been educated and married in France, and on her return to Scotland so soon a widow, after which excluding herself entirely from the world and remaining a recluse at Langsdale, she was but little known by those of her native land. For myself, I have not seen her or her family since Nannie and I parted as children of seven years. "And again I presume that you are aware, brother, that Lady Melbourne with her daughter left Langsdale several years since without disclosing the place of her destination. Her monetary affairs, even so transacted that no one can trace the place to where the remittances are sent. This surely much bothered the neighbors at home at first, but it is now as among the things -that were, and all inquiries about her have ceased. "Lady Miriam has been nearly all her childhood from home, and of late I have heard rumors of suspicion that   42      THE MARRtIAGE CONTRACT. Lady Melbourne has taken her daughter to a secluded spot -  on account of defect in her mind and body." "Ah! my sister, it is of that I am anxious to learn, as in one of my letters direct from Scotland the same thing was hinted to me; yet 1 doubt it, as I firmly believe if such were the case the Lady Melbourne would have made me cognizant of the fact, since honor, according to principle, human or divine, would:in her be too strong to wish my son to marry her daughter if she be stricken by defects of either mind or body, for really I hold such things a most heinous offense in the sight of God." "But why leave Langsdale so secretly?" "Indeed, I regret it very, very much, as I was on the point of sending Stuart to judge for himself of the Lady Miriam, and she was a most beautiful child when I saw her in France. She is just one year older than my dear, darling pet Nona. But why brood over these misfortunes with anxiety, when I cannot remedy them, being bound by oath to the Laird Melbourne, now dead; and then if these children marry not, the entire estate of the Melbournes, as well as the large landed property owned by myself and the Laird Melbourne conjointly (that was deeded to our child- ren by the marriage contract) will go by default to other heirs. "But, Agnes," the old laird, suddenly turning to his sister, solemnly said, " 1 must exact one promise from you: never mention Miriam's name to Stuart; it makes him furious, and for worlds I would not have him  hear reports of her deformities of either mind or body." All this seemed to be a very strange state of affairs to the aunt, who inquired how and where all these preliminaries were arranged and completed. "Well, Agnes, the story is just this, Melbourne and   iTHE MRRIAGE CONTRACT.        43 myself had been like brothers from childhood, and a large tract of land we owned together, which, if left unsold, would vastly increase in value, and in time be worth millions; so I visited France to ascertain his views. Miriam, then a lovely infant, and her father's pride, who he knew must be his only one, as he was in a rapid decline, and had evidently but a short time to sojourn on this sphere, suggested the idea of binding ourselves in behalf .of our children, Stuart and Miriam, by covenant, myself to bestow, the day they married, all in my power to give before my death, and himself to convey to -1Miriam his entire estate, which, as soon as Lady Melbourne died or married again, should be delivered into their hands, pledg- ing ourselves, by an oath most sacred, never either of us i to give consent to any other matrimonial connection (for Stuart or Miriam) ; and if they refused tofulfil the contract by us made, then the whole of Laird Melbourne's estate should pass into the possession of his next male neir-at-law, and thus the writings are recorded; and so Stuart and, Miriam are affianced. Laird Melbourne and myself im.- mediately parted, he for Scotland, and I to travel through Italy. The laird died shortly after arriving home, and two months from that time I landed at Heather Plains, just in time to take leave of my wife, when our babe Elnona was born; and the day of her death has been a most lasting grievous day to me. Thus my word of honor is pledged to a man whose spirit is in Heaven, and. so my signature of faith must continue unalterable, death being the barrier to any release on his part. And now as I am powerless to give consent to any other bride for Stuart, and as the Lady Miriam must forfeit all she would have inherited should she wed another, I see no other alternative for either than that they should try to love one another, and adhere strictly   "     TEE MARRIAGE -CONTRACT. to the bonds entered into by their parents for their mutual welfare. "And still I fear Stuart will rebel. Of Lady Miriam as yet I have heard but this one report. Of Lady Melbourne, however (although she did not disapprove of the family connection for her daughter), Laird Melbourne warned me, the day the papers were drawn, that Miriam's mother said her child should choose for herself, and that she never would urge her to marry against her will, therefore inter. dieted the subject being mentioned to Miriam until she became of legal age." "Lady Melbourne is a' most sensible woman, brother, and notwithstanding all this, provided the Lady Miriam has no deformity of mind or body, I do hope it may all terminate as you wish; yet had they been my bairns, I would rather they chose for themselves," replied his sister. "It is ever best so, to insure happiness in married life." The young people coming in, interrupted the conversa- tion, which was turned upon other topics. CHAPTER XI. IT was on a'most lovely day when again the young laird and his sisters walked merrily to the, farm cottage, and called upon their oarsmen, Sandy and Elsie, to give them a row, and once more the young gardener's suspicions were aroused against his young master and his bonnie- sister. This time Sandy's tart reproofs to Elsie were overheard by the young laird, which was the first intimation he ever had i of the brother's ridiculous views of any evil intent on his part toward pretty Elsie Lee; yet Laird Stuart wisely let it pass unnoticed, closely keeping what had tingled his ears '          1A   THE MARiA4 &E CONTRA CT.       45 (unintentionally on Sandy's part)-every word-from all others, his ho6nest conscience being his own counsel, be- 'lieving there it would be safe. Still, it sobered down his gay spirit for the present (his foster-brother's doubting his honor). Boating over, Lady Nona took Otto, saying she would be off to the gate, feed the young squirrels she had been taming (caught by Sandy as they were nicely housed and stowed away in the hole of a large tree, with pretty coats so soft and silky), and then she would quickly return. And true enough, it was not long before she entered the cottage door, her dress all torn, and her face covered with deep,--bright, burning blushes, as she most artlessly related an adventure with a splendid, handsome young sportsman; when her brother Laird Stuart, and sister Lady Blanche, had not time to finish quizzing her, ere Elsie sprang up and exclaimed, "It maun be the verra same, sae gin ye please yese a' sit ye doon an' rest awhile till I tell ye the sma' bit o' a fright this braw young mon met wi' the ither morn." When, all were quiet, the bonnie lassie soon finished re- lating the incident; upon which Lady Nona could make no comment, she was in such haste to relate this wondrous affair to aunt Agnes, neither could she have patience with her brother and sister's slow pace, so she whistled to Otto, was at the mansion and in the library long before Lady Blanche; and there finding the old laird and aunt Agnes, she kissed them each, drew a long breath, and then on a creepy (made by Sandy for her when a child) seated herself at her father's feet, laid her head on his knee very gently, and, with her soft eyes looking earnestly in her mlch-loved aunty's face, was just commencing to tell her story when her sister arrived. "Dear, dear aunty," she said, "I know that you do not believe in fairies, but I am   "    THE MAIRRIAGE CONTRACT. X  sure, aunty, that you will believe now, so please listen very attentively, for the same identical wee woman in her black dress, red cloak, yellow leggings and green hood, has again been seen, and this time in a tree withher tiny dogs snugly lying in her lap, and actually was near being shot by a magnificent young man, splendidly clad in a superb brown hunting suit, fitting most elegantly his manly form, who in his excitement cocked his gun, laid- his finger on the trigger, and was just ready to fire (supposing this fairy to be a peculiar, strange bird), when a small, soft voice, in sweet tones, called to him, "For mercy, stop, young hunter, an' tak' guid care o' that ye be aboot, an' dinna murther ane puir honest woman, wha niver harmed ye," and then the tiny dogs barked, and then the wee one waved a baby flag, and these were all that saved her. And this flag had black, red, green and yellow stripes." "Withered leaves, no doubt, my Nona," the old laird said, with a quizzical smile. "Ah, now, father, you may be incredulous, but I assure you they say that notwithstanding the sportsman is most daring and proud in all exploits, he was fairly startled and suddenly dropped the gun by his side with alarm ; and although he tries to explain away his fright as being hor- rified at the idea of killing a fellow-being, yet, without doubt, it was pure, genuine fear of this odd little some. thing, he believing it -to be, as we do, a sprite, spirit, fairy, or a moving creature of material inexplicable. " And, my darling Nona, her mother's babe, just raise your pretty head and look at your own father's face," the old laird said, gently helping her, and tell him where and from  whom  all this was learned."  Slowly the petted daughter rose to her feet, then with truthful, tender eyes, and slightly coloring cheeks, she looked fearlessly in her ..y   THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.        47 parent's face, and replied, "And indeed, sir, it was Elsie that told us all." ' And where, in the name of wonder," again the old laird asked, "did the lassie find all this out, for, indeed it is a fanciful story?" "Oh! indeed, dear sir, you must not quiz, as Elsie had it from good authority, and it was Robin McCrea, the young miller himself, reported it to her,'and Elsie's ver- acity is never to be doubted: she is the soul of truth." "Certainly, my Nona,' Elsie's word I ever believe, but from whence Robiu's knowledge of this youth?'; "Well, father, the sportsman whispered it himself in the young miller's ears, with this charge, to make no men- tion of his adventure, in writing to Scotland, lest they might brand the people of this country as both simple and superstitious and, aiter all, mayhap it was only'a dream he had." "Most likely, my artless Nona, he was in the clouds and some visionary lad, so it were far better for Jamie Lee to keep the lassie Elsie from going too far abroad, and she is much too handsome to be often from her home- side; still, like Effie Lee, her mother, I believe bonnie Elsie to be most modest, prudent and free from vanity. But what of this braw youig sportsman : who is he . Where is he from . His name and all this I should like to under- stand, and have you seen him, my darling?" "Only once, for a moment, dear father," the daughter replied, her face covered with blushes as she added, "and he is very handsome, but apparently very proud." "s And has he been within the outer wall?' was the old" laird's next question, not a little annoyed. "Not when I saw him, my dear father; more than that I do not know. But now I will relieve your mind, and   48      THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. ease my own, by relating my dear, indulgent parent, all I know about this matter. I wanted some hawthorn berries and could not get them without going outside the gate; the berries were high, and in order to reach them I step- ped upon a stone at the foot of the bush, and in reaching for them my dress became tightly entangled among the thorns. The gentleman was passing, saw' my difficulty, politely released me from the dilemma I was in, bowed with dignity, and walked away, uttering not a single word in acknowledgment of the sweet thanks I gave him.' "Indeed, then," the old laird remarked slyly, "I wonder not at his taciturnity, dear Nona, so it were better for you to remain within the premises, unless some one be with you, that gentlemen may not be troubled to do politesse for distressed maidens against their wills, and it must have been a very disagreeable task to assist one of such an ordinary appearance from a situation so perilous." By -this time Lady Nona's blushes made her face all aglow with beauty, when her father continued, with pride, ' Go, my darling, to the mirror and see reflected there that ugly phiz, then you may be convinced of the obligation so most intensely repulsive, which charity alone induced a proud, handsome sportsman to even look-upon." And now, verily, with her sparkling, melting eye, the soft, peachy color on her cheeks, and the bewitching smiles that played about her handsome mouth, as she understood her father's homely compliment, Lady Nona looked most fascinating; then, with all the artlessness of a pure-hearted girl,! she kissed her fond parent, turned away, gave a half-coquettish pout and said, "Oh, dear, aunty, it is impossible for me to re- main here any longer, to be so abused," touched her fingers to her lips as a farewell, and ran off, laughing merrily."   THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.         49 CHAPTER XII. AFTER Lady Nona left the room, her steps were directed toward the conservatory, and on her way thither she met the young gardener, who handed her a bouquet of freshy culled fragrant flowers, which were her pets, and as she received them and kindly thanked him for them, in her usual gracious manner, she observed a downcast expression of countenance, heavy eye, and pallid cheek in Sandy, and inquired if he was ill, and why he looked so sad and pale. Sandy answered thus: "Indeed, my Lady Nona, I am nae weel, an' yet I canna say that I am sick; still I maun say I be nae a'thegither bright in speerits, and yet to me- sel' it be nae easy task to explain what's the trouble, an' still I ken fu' weel thar be mony foolish matters that bother -me brain." "Not in love, I hope, Sandy?" the young mistress asked playfully, thus trying to cheer him. "I hope not, too, me lady; but there be mony troubles foreby luve, that does nae always gang smooth, ye ken, in life, and yet it maun be verra painfu' to luve, an' nae be able to sp'ak o' it to ony body, nae to the ane aboon a' ithers for wha the heart be bleeding, Lady Nona.  But 1 canna tell whether I  be in luve or nae, my  feelings be sae strange."                   . "At all events, Sandy, if it be love only that distresses you, I would cheer up, since I have not the least doubt but the lassie will some day smile on you, and you have my sincere wishes for success, still the only security, no matteri what the trouble, for relief, when distressed in mind or body, comes from above, so put your trust in a higher power than earthly friends, and this little Bible, though very small, will teach you the pathway; then receive it as 3   50-     aTHE MABRIAGE CONTRACT. a gift from me, and as it requires but a trifling space, you can have it with you at all times; and when things look dark and dreary, and you want a friend, read a few verses suited to your feelings, from this volume, and there learn how overflowing with love for you is a Saviour's heart; confide all to Him, never doubting His will or power, and I promise you, my man Sandy, a speedy ease of mind, and a less sad expression of countenance." The gardener's eye brightened as he thanked Lady Nona for this little testimony of her kindness for him; but when his young mistress left him, and he deemed himself away from the eyes and ears of all men, Sandy first kissed the very precious gift, then said with an eye flashing fire, "Ah! surely, if this angel o' mercy, the Lady Nona, had but the giftie to ken the cause o' my broken heart, she wad wither me wi' ane reproving glance o' indignation." The troubled youth then wandered off in one of the most private walks, and so intent was he in gazing upon this little gem of a volume, bound in blue velvet, with a gold clasp,.and the donor's name engraved upon it, pressing it over and over again to his heart, and repeating words similar to these, two or three times, "Oh, why, Sandy, war ye nae born o' noble bluid, to luve an' nae be frowned doon wi' scorn," that, unknown to him, these sadoutpour- ings of the spirit were heard by his sister, with sorrow for her brother, and although he had come directly upon the young laird and Elsie, in earnest converse about himself, he fairly passed them without seeing either. "Puir Sandy, my Laird Stuart," said Elsie, "I fear o' late he is surely ganging mad, sine he be nae the same laddie, as twa years gane by, at a'; for sometimes he sp'aks to himsel' sae-strange like, an' he looks sae pale, for certes X ken he canna be weel." Here, as the sister found the   THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.        5i - tears gushing from her eyes, she quickly turned from the young laird to conceal them, and yet she gave him not one moment's time to use any endeavors to mitigate her distress, so soon did she suppress her grief and look again on her young master with a smile, cheerfully saying, as she re- turned with a light step close to his side, "I hae seen the lady, my Laird Stuart, I hae seen Miss Isabel Islan, and she is the sweetest young lady my twa een did iver behold ; indeed, like ony lily sae fair, wi' sicken'a soft black een, an' winning smile, an' for a' that her skin be like the virgin snow, her hair be like the raven's, an' sae dazzling in the sun, au' her pretty lashes sae modestly, luvingly, kissing her twa cheeks wi' delicate blushes on them, rivaling luve's young twin roses; an' sicken'a form, sae graceful, that her fairy feet do merely skim the airth, an' as I lookit on her wee white hand, wi' baby" fingers, I verra greatly did wonder. An' when I compared them wi' my ain, I thought why it war that the farmer's chield did sae differ frae that o' a gentlemon's, sine I hae doon nae hard wark, ye ken; but I ween it be in the gentle bluid, my Laird Stuart, an' ah! Miss Isabel's manners be sae winning, sae verra kind. She maun be a lady. An' yet it be verra odd, my laird, that naebody kens frae wither hersel' and mither cames, - but the twain be ladies for a' that. An' noo I hear my faither ca'ing, sae I maun gang to mind his bidding, an, when I see ye on the morrow I will hae a few wards for yere ear alone." Then off Elsie hurried, while the Laird Stuart sauntered back to the mansion. The Lady Blanche met him at the door, and inquired, with a serious expression, "From whence come you now, Stuart? Did you return again to Jamie Lee's?" And as his answer was in the affirmative, she significantly asked:   6  -2   - THE MAZRRBIAGE CONTRACT. "And you saw Elsie ." c;  *"Yes,' was the young laird's unequivocal reply ; " but why, my sister, question me so closely? Do I not see the bonnie lassie every day?" "Well, Stuart, I only made these inquiries to broach the subject, and warn you, brother, that Sandy is feeling very  sorely about your extreme intimacy and private meetings with Elsie." "What!" the young laird fiercely exclaimed, at first, "can it be that Sandy could harbor such wicked thoughts of me?" then cooling down, continued, "This is nonsense, Blanche." But again, with indignation, said, he would shoot the first man, except her brother, who should intimate that he dreamed of one impure feeling toward so simple a child of nature as Elsie Lee, as artless, innocent a bonnie lassie as ever lived. And he continued, "I verily believe I would e'en use the pistol to myself, did my heart whisper that I entertained one unholy desire for her who is virtue itself, in every thought and deed; for in all my intercourse with her I have never seen one unhallowed glance from her modest eye, or tell-tale evil blush on her cheek, and will take my oath every word and expression was ever as pure and chaste as the vestal Diana herself.  "And I would grieve indeed should ever the lad Sandy intimate to me, even most casually, that he deemed aught incorrect between Elsie and myself; but as I cannot believe that my foster-brother would harbor so contemptible an opinion of one who was his playmate in childhood, and who, I hope, he has always found to be honorable in prin- ciple, I will at once cast this gossip from my mind without inquiring whence it came." And then was walking away, when Lady Blanche laid her hand on Laird Stuart's arm, saying.         I   THE MAdRBRIAGE CONTRACT,       5S "I am happy, brother, you have expressed yourself so warmly, and now feeling with you that all is correct, I will not trouble myself about the matter; but wait one moment as I want you to listen about that [ was so intent in asking before we commenced speaking of Elsie." "Have you, Stuart, seren oh your way that transcend- ently beautiful young girl who this moment passed by the lodge, mounted on the most perfect coal-black steed I ever saw, with such a splendid gait for a lady? and the maiden sat the horse with exceeding grace, managing him with horsemanlike ease. There was a footman with her on a splendid roan. The fact is, I followed the girl with eyes of admiration until I was nearly blind, and I think that she could not have been more than sixteen, this beauty." As the young laird did not answer, Lady Blanche turned to look on him, and discovering his face in a perfect blaze exclaimed, "Why, brother, are you ill?" He answered rather pettishy, "Certainly not, Blanche,' then afterward smilingly inquired, "Have I the appearance of a sick man t?" "In no other way," the sister replied, " than as if ill with rush of blood to the head, you became so suddenly flushed." "Is that all," said Laird Stuart, answering; " it is the long walk and warm air which has heated me perhaps." "But you did not say, brother, that you saw the lady on the steed?" "Well, Blanche, I now answer that I saw neither lady or steed." "Indeed, Stuart, you are positively reddening again to the very brow ; or is it a blush, my brother?" "And why blush, Blanche, do you know any cause for it?" he inquired, somewhat vexed, -   54     TEE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. "None, whatever," she replied, "unless it was occasioned by my eulogium on the fair equestrian, and you had been acquainted with her." Aunt Agnes now called, and Lady Blanche left to join her with Lady Nona and Otto on some pre-arralged pedes- trian excursion, much to the satisfaction of the young laird, who pronounced the fair sex, as soon as he found himself alone, a most prying set, ever having their heads filled with suspicions; and as for Blanche, she was surely the veriest closest observer of them all. "So I am right glad aunty called her away, since this no doubt was Isabel Islan she saw, and it is absolutely necessary for me to conceal my feelings. Confound me for a most egregious fool to blush as I did, after all my efforts to. withhold from Blanche any idea on my part who it might be, for I am quite certain if my father thought my affections were placed on any fair lady in particular, lie would soon be lecturing me about the Lady Miriam Melbourne again, and reminding me of the great matrimonial contract between himself and his de- peased friend, and the immense inheritance I will possess," "But, ah!"Stuart said with a sigh, "although I should dislike to displease my father, yet hang the estate and the money, for I will never marry where I do not love." Thus soliloquizing, the young laird sauntered on until he found himself close to the stone-wall, and leaned over it with eyes toward the thorny, short distance to the mill, still audibly muttering his thoughts of love versus money. But scarcely did the last declaration issue from his lips when he was startled by a thin musical voice saying, "Aye, siller wull tak' wings and flee awa', but a gude honest heart wull niver forsake ye, gin an ce it luves with its whale soul." Laird Stuart looked well all around, yet nothing could   THB MARRIAGE CONTRACT.  he see, while the small silvery voice - continued, "An' for certes, young Laird o' Heather Plains, wha kens but the Lady Miriam may be baith ugly in person and uncanny in her ways; sae dinna promise to marry afore yere ain twa een hae seen the lady hersel'." It was now with great excite- ment the young laird looked first above him, then at his feet, and again right and left, when once more directing his eyes upward, he sprang back, as with one leap, from off the limb of a tree, the wee woman, red cloak and the rest of her paraphernalia, with also the basket holding her wee dogs, lighted noiselessly as a feather on the wall close by his side; but observing his expression of wonder and alarm, drew away a short distance, then said gently, "Noo dinna ha'e ony fear o' me, Laird Stuart, sine sicken'a sma' bodie as me, nae mair than twa feet four inches high, hae nae the power to harm ye, an' hae I nae a human form like ony. ither o' God's creatures; sae cam back to me, an' I wull be yere freend and gin I mak' ye acquaint' wi' my moss-cov- ered cot ye maun tak' yere aith wi' this bit o' witch hazel in yere hand to niver sp'ak o' me at hame to ony bodie, and thin for certes gin yese, me young Laird o' Heather Plans, sh'u'd at ony time be in trouble aboot the youpg leddy o' your ain selecting, ye maun ca' upon me to sp'ak ane gude ward for ye; and gin ye canna find me, put on a  sma' slip o' paper a' ye wish, an' place it under this stane, and, by the bark o' Blossom and Berry, I will ken it to be thar, and wull sae git it verra sune." The young laird having acceded to the requirements of the fairy, she led hipm to her miniature moss cot, but he re. mained not long there, hastening home to collect his ideas, and ascertain if his wits were sane, endeavoring to account for her knowledge of his affairs and interest in him; at all- ey ents he decided this to be the fairy his sisters had "reported    of. The secret of this "weest of all wees" would be safe with Laird Stuart Glencarven for several reasons: first, he was bound by oath, again she had promised to be his fiend and so honor and interest both obligated him to adhere closely to the fairy's directions; then above all, hedreaded the quizzing of his sisters, therefore whenever she was spoken of in his presence he gave no evidence in manner or word of his ever having seen this strange sprite. DAY after day did the young Laird of Heather Plains on his noble iron-grey Arabian, cross the river by the mill riding first through the vale; then taking a winding route to the falls, he would ever' on his return find his way to the hillside, on the road which passed directly in front of the Widow Islan'sHawthorn Cottage, and he never failed either coming or going, to stop a     while and have a  chat with the-young miller, Robin McCrea, and it ever seemed of a   secret nature, so very privately was it conducted. -Now, we may readily conclude from Laird Stuart's man. her, when Lady Blanche spoke to him of this rare beauty on her coal-black steed, that he well imagined who the maiden might be, and also that he coincided with his sister in heart as to the loveliness of the lady. Laird Stuart would gladly have been made acquainted privately with Isabel Islan, but objected to a formal introduction, fearing that'should his relatives become cognizant of the fact they might be in- duced to callat the widow's; and as they had never visited as yet on the opposite side of the river, he, of course, from selfish motives, preferred their not commencing to do so just yet,    Arab, as the iron-grey was called, was well trained to maneuvering. He would rear, spring, plunge, performing all these feats with spirit, pricking his ears and whinnying, still was always perfectly tractable and docile. Now Robin McCrea was a shrewd young Scotchman, and as close- mouthed, when so inclined, as if dumb. Thus, matters were so arranged with him and the young laird that he was to be present, as if by accident, to take part in a little caper- ing frolic in front of Hawthorn Cottage. Accordingly, the young laird, dressed in a handsome riding suit of invisible green, looking nobly as he sat upon his splendidly capar- isoned Arab, whom he bestrode firmly and with dignity, was upon this appointed morning trotting leisurely along. Presently Arab, hearing a swift tramp behind, of some one in hot pursuit, his fiery blood became aroused, he dashed forward at most rapid speed, and that which was intended for only a display of horsemanship provedeto be a serious affair; for, as Laird Stuart endeavored to check the excited animal, the mettled steed, with ears thrown back, reared and plunged so furiously that the girth of the saddle broke, and the rider was unhorsed; but, although quite faint, he wasabut slightly injured. Robin, whose horse had caused the trouble, seeing the young laird really in danger, quickly came to his assist- ance, dismounted, and with unfeigned alarm called to Mrs. Islan's waiter to attend on the gentleman, as he must hasten after the steed, for should the animal reach Hazel. dean Highwood, with no one to explain his master's situa- tion, the consequences to the old laird and his family might prove serious indeed. The Widow Islan soon made her appearance, invited the gentleman in, then called for water.  And think you that this refreshing beverage was required to restore the flush 3*  - ' , 58    THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.           :of health when the call was answered by a maiden, the most lovely in face and form eyes had ever looked on, so simply attired, with manners artless, modest, and refined, and so young-just sixteen. Ah, no! for ere the pure, cold water had reached his lips, tendered by the hand of the fair Isabel, the slight contusion occasioned by his fall had been forgotten; and when she expressed feelings of sorrow for his injury, he felt how ignorant she was of that greater, deeper wound so innocently inflicted by heron his heart, and which she alone could heal; firmly resolving that not all the w ealth of the mines of Golconda would induce him to again listen to his father's pleadings or insistings for him to con- l fine his ideas of the taking a wife to fulfil a contract en- tered into for him to marry Lady Miriam Melbourne. And he made to himself a vow that, with the lovely Isabel's consent, she alone would he wed, and none other should be the bride of him who, at his father's death, would be the Laird of Heather Plains, of Scotland ; and rather would he resign his title to the whole estate than have any other bear his name as mistress of his ancestral halls, preferring by choice to claim the name of untitled Stuart Glencarven, and to take the simple, s weet maiden of unpretending -Haw- thorn Cottage, to live in harmony and peace with her he really loved, than in prince-like splendor to exist with one on whom he had but a cold heart to bestow by a ceremony imposed as a duty he was bound to fulfil toward parents, who, for the aggrandizement of wealth to their children, would sacrifice both their happiness through time and eter- nity, so that an entailed estate might be supported in splendor, to the renown of past and future generations. Robin at length returned, leading Arab, and after having  ascertained that the young laird was uninjured, told him that his friends were anxiously awaiting his arrival at   THE MASRRIAGE COTRAsCT.       59. home, since, before he could overtake the steed,' he had leaped the bars by the stable gate, and affrighted the " auld laird," who had ordered the carriage at once to go in search- of a' ye, me laird; but," said Robin, " the report I gi'edhim being favorable, the order was countermanded; yet still they be a' muckle troubled to see yese, me Laird Stuart." The young laird feeling right glad that his father had relinquished the idea of looking after him, most hastily sprang up, and thanking the widow and her daughter for their kindness, bade them good-morning, when Mrs. Islan very politely said that she should be glad to see him again; and although Isabel spoke not, the tell-tale blush, and soft expression from her eyes, was sufficient to assure him' that he would be cordially welcomed should he call soon. After Laird Stuart declaring that he would be most happy to avail himself of Mrs. Istan's kind invitation, he mounted Arab, dwelt a-moment on the sweet smile of Isabel, then gracefully bowing (his whole heart overflowing with love and hope), he rode home upon a gallop the whole distance, to relieve his father and the family of their alarm; but as he came to the gate of the farm cottage, and saw Elsie there awaiting him, he reined in his steed to speak to her, when quickly she was by his side, the tears streaming from her eyes as she said, "Ah!ah'! sicken'a fright, me young laird, we hae a' had," sobbing out every word, then draw- ing a long sigh, continued, "An' indeed I thought I should dee when I saw Arab cam wi' sicken'a speed, snorting sae loud, a' alane, hame, and did nae ken but ye war killed; sine what in the wide world would we a' do wi'out ye, gin ye should gang awa' to heaven an' leave us a' to mourn ye, Laird Stuart." The young laird drew near to the lassie, took her hand in his, and after tenderly pressing it, while looking at her   t-      TH E MiBI aGE CONTRACT.           affectionately, and thanking her for the fond feelings she - had expressed, rode away, Elsie standing and gazing after  her young, master with affection and pride, pure as ever was a sister's love.                  J Now Sandy, from his window, overheard all the two had said -together, with ocular evidence of his sister's acts while expressing fear for the young laird's safety, and his warm manner toward Elsie, showing how much he ap- preciated her anxiety on his account, in none of which was  there a single iota of impropriety. But suspicion once aroused the most innocent remark or movement is con- strued into evil, when any attempt as to explanation of purity of motive is useless, and words spent in vain, for such persons are never convinced of the truth; and it was thus with Elsie's brother, as slowly descending the stairs he confronted her, and commenced reproachfully, "-An' -sae, Elsie, ye canna leave the young laird pass the gate but ye maun run to spak' wi' him, and gi'e ane wulling hand to press, an' ye dinna seem to mind that the young laird be the young maister, an' Elsie Lee nane ither nor a humble servant-maid, an' that nae gude iver cams o' being sae verra fameellar wi' young gentlemen, an' sae ready to let them squeeze yere hand on a' occasions. An' surely ye maun ken fu' weel that nae laird o' bluid wad iver tak' a farmer's daughter to be his wedded wife; ah! nae, sine the humble o' birth sure niver may marry wi' ,the noble-born. Ah, niver!"Sandy said with wildness in his eyes, such as Elsie never saw before, and which at first affrighted her, but afterward the sister's eyes flashed with indignation, as she said -in her turn with spirit, "An' noo, Sandy, ye sp'ak sae verra sinfu', I canna think o' ye as ane in his right senses, an' surely maun think ye are ganging tork mad, gin ye can believe ony evil be in the heart o'   1tHE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.       61 oor young laird, yere foster-brither, an' yere ain sister Elsie." But her manner was afterward more subdued and sorowful as she continued, "Tak' care, brither, that ye do nae fill yere ain Elsie's head wi' wicked ideas against oor young maister, wha be sae verra gude to baith the high an' humble o' birth, sae gang awa' frae me noo, sine I wull sp'ak nae mair wi' ye at a' till ye ha'e had time to repent o' yere evil wards an' wrang suspicions, 'for sicken'a ideas be like as gin they cam' frae the deil himsel'.': For a few moments both were silent, but Elsie's heart being tender, she felt troubled when her brother's ex- pression was so sorrowful; and as he turned to leave her, she relented, then, with tears in her-eyes, threw her arms around his neck, and kissed him. Sandy fully appreciated Elsie's softened feelings for him. but this movement did not deter him from performing what he thought was his duty, so he went on to say, "An' noo, bonnie Elsie Lee, beware, beware, an' mind weel o' a9 I ha'e tould ye, iassie, sine it be a' true, an' foi- yere ain gude yere brither sp'aks wi' ye thus, an' it wull, mayhap, save ye frae ruin, these wards o' caution I ha'e gi'en ye." Elsie was now completely overcome at Sandy's solemn manner, very sad countenance and pale face, so she once more put her arms around his neck, laid her head on his shoulder, and said, "Brither, forgi'e me, gin I had spaken sae crass; but believe me, I hae doon nae evil deed, nor is the Laird Stuart's heart intent on ony sin sae deadly as to betray yere sister, for, certes, he be gude and puir in heart, I ken." "I pray so, I hope so, my innocent sister, as yet, Sandy replied, " an' I ken fu' weel ye are ane artless lassie, yet verra foolish for a' that, gin ye be sae bonnie an' sag free frae guile."    o     THE MARRIAdGE CONTRACT. CHAPTER XIV. THn brother, after his lecture, returned to his work, ' leaving Elsie most sorely exercised in mind about Sandy's  wrong suspicion of the young laird's principles of honor, so she wandered off through bypaths, to conceal her weep. ing from her parents; and ere she had fixed her attention on the spot where she had stopped, or her feelings had be-  come calmed, her name was sweetly pronounced in accents ! soft and low; then she raised her eyes and found herself in the presence of Rosy Red Bird, who was sitting on the  stone-wall in the shadow of a witch-hazel bush. And it was here Elsie had been drawn quite ominously and imper- ceptibly of late, whenever in trouble and unable to control her feelings. "An' noo, what's the sorrow, bonnie Elsie, that has ca'd  forth sae mony tears, sine sicken'a kind, gude lassie shu'd nae hae muckle grief at yese time o' life, afore the bud hae fairly blawn into the fu' flower," was wee Rosy's question of Elsie, who replied, "It be nae a gr'at deal, Mistress Rosy Red Bird, sine it war but ane or twa wards wi' Sandy, an'  a'maist aboot naething, an' yet it did fash me sair." "An' it be naething, indeed," the wee fairy replied, soothingly, "for I ken a' yere troubles, Elsie Lee, an' for certes it be that Sandy maunna suspeecion ony principle (that wad disgrace the name) to ha'e place wi'in the heart o' the young laird ony mair than lies wi'in his ain breast; an' gin mesel did consider it weel to sae so I might tell the tale o' Sandy's heart for ane wha be far aboon his ain station o' life. Sae mak' yere een dree, mebonnie bird, an' dinna ye be troubled ony mair aboot Sandy's wards, sae verra foolish, sine the heart that be nae a'thegither right be verra free to fau't ithers wi'out cause, I ha'e a'ways   THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.        63 observed. An' noo, Elsie, ye maun hark to that I ha'e to sp'ak wi' you, o' which be carefu' to nae report to ony- bodiewi'out me consent, an' it be jist this :the Laird Stuart wull seek ane true freend verra soon, that wull nae betray him, sine ye maun ken he hae gi'en his verra soul a'maist to ane o' the handsomest maidens the light o' Heaven iver shone upon, an' the maiden loves the Laird Stuart aboon a' ithers on this airth; but the auld laird hae dune ane verra foolish deed, sine he hae pledged himsel' wi' ane ither Scotch laird, that the young Laird o' Heather Plains sh'u'd wi' his consent wed wi' nae ither, ' gin she do nae dee', than his lady-daughter, an' the maiden o' Laird Stuart's choosing kens fu' weel a' aboot it, sine her mither did sae warn her, but did nae inform her o' the betrothed lady's name, an' gin the mither kens wha be the lady her- sel' the maiden did nae tell me, an' sae it may be the mither's only knowledge o' the affair cams wi' some report o' gossip. Yet she be verra deceeded that she canna iver gi'e her consent for the Laird Stuart to wed--wi' her daughter, sh'u'd the father forbid the bans, and sae I verra mtckle fear that the mither wull nae let the maiden spa'k wi' the Laird Stuart, sine she fears that the heart o' her chield may love and be broken if she aft meets wi' him. An' I hae been tauld that the auld laird be like ane wild wi' frenzie gin the young 'laird hae been sp'aking wi' ony winsome lassie. Noo the lady's name be Isabel Islan, an', me bonnie bird, Robin McCrea kens fu' weel a' the Laird Stuart's wishes, sae the young miller an' yersel' can mak' pleasant arrange- ments to bear messages frae Laird Stuart to his lady- luve." Elsie made promises so to do, blushing at the mention of Robin's name; and although the fairy Rosy was quite conversant with the feelings of love between the young *          :,.   "     T:HE MRRIAGE CONTRACT. miller and Elsie, she spoke not of it to the lassie. Blossom and Berry barked, and as their fairy mistress knew it to I be from pleasure, she felt confident that some friendly visitor was there, so hastened back to her moss cot, fol. lowed by Elsie, who was startled on seeing the same beautiful young lady she had once before met on her coal- black steed, now sitting just-without the door, caressing in her lap the two wee canine pets, which there seemed quite at home. And again Elsie was awed at the great -- deference with which Rosy honored the pretty, young, gentle maiden, whom  she respectfully addressed thus: "Miss Isabel, an' it gi'es me muckle a deal o' joy that yese  honor me, an' this be the bonnie Elsie Lee, wha ye may trust, gin yese need ane to confide in." Then fairy Rosy, after a few moments of silence, most abruptly said to Elsie, "Lassie, I wull detain ye nae langer;" but as Elsie left, this strange wee woman walked a few paces by her side, when, suddenly stopping, she quietly said, "Stop, noo, bonnie bird," then softly whis- pered in her ear (after Elsie's head was bent over painfully low to hear the fairy's thin undertone),' Igie ye these words o' caution,mind ye, lassie, o' the converse wi' ye to- day to sp'ak to naebodie. An' aboon a' things beside, ye maun be sure aboot Laird Stuart an' the Lady Isabel's luve to gie nae hint, gin ye wad nae mak' the auld laird a crazy mon; sae be carefu'." Elsie gave a most faithful vow to obey, then hastened away, wondering where was the home of this loveliest of lovely maidens, while her brain was so overwrought with the singular doings she had seen and heard, that, to her  brother's amazement, she fairly stumbled over him as he was sitting on the farm cottage steps, without knowing he was there; and when Sandy asked, "An' what else is the   THE MAKBRIAGE CONTTRACT        65 matter, Elsie, noo?" she did not answer, only turned, looked on him, smiled, wafted him a kiss, and, springing up the stairs, went to her room, there to reflect on the events of the day. When Rosy Red Bird returned to Isabel, the maiden said, "At last, my good fairy mother, have I seen and spoken with the handsome young laird, and at my own house, too, and have now rode as fast as my steed would bring me to learn if the young laird passed this way on his gallant Arab, who has been so fractious as to unhorse his master I feared for his safety." "Ha'e nae fear, Miss Isabel,' was the answer she re- ceived, " sine the lassie Elsie did see him nae lang sine, a'- thegither wi'out harm, safe at hame." - "God be praised for all his mercies," Isabel replied, "( and now, good fairy mother, I must be away as fleetly as I came, so Fido, you, Bruce and I will be off for home, as I fear my dear mother will be troubled about me," then hurried as well ash she could through the brier-bushes to where her steed was fastened, gathered the s6ft lines in one hand, rested the other on the pommel of the saddle, and, with a light single bound, was firmly seated, when, after rising in the stirrup, adjusting her dress, stroking Bruce's -neck, and touching him gently with her whip, she was borne, as if on the wings of the wind, homeward, her heart buoyant as air with happiness and love. "Aweel, aweel" the fairy said, wrapping the red mantle around her tiny form, I did nae dream the plot wad wark sae weel to me satisfaction, an' noo sine it is a ganging the right way I wull nae bother me mind aboot it for a wee, while, an' yet I ken the auld 'laird wull mak' a gr'at noise at first, but fu' glad wull he be when he minds that' a's weel that ends weel', an' the grat God maun ha'e his ain way o' doing a' things, an' it be iver the verra best way,   "     THE Mz2RSIAGE CONTRACT.  sae ane maunna complain o' the works o' Providence; an' for certes the auld laird be a Christian a'ways."   : CHAPTER XV. How mysterious our course through life: for example, a few days after the young laird's accident, there came a flooding rain, and he went forth on Arab, ostensibly to wit. ness the grandeur of the falls, but, mayhap, sweet Isabel might have crossed his mind; for she, too, being an admirer of the stupendous works of Nature, possibly would also at such' times be attracted thither. Yet little did he dream so soon to find the coal-black Bruce, caparisoned for a lady, fastened to a tree, awaiting the movements of his mistress; but much less did Laird Stuart anticipate having his mind and heart so sorely tried with such an appalling, terrific scene as met his eye, warning him at first glance that there was no time to be lost in giving vent to agony of feeling if he wished to save Isabel-more dear to him than aught else in life-from danger most imminent, sinte all that could be done must be accomplished through promptness and great presence of mind; for in a bateau, resisting all her most strenuous efforts to row amidst the -boiling stream, she sat, her faithful Fido in the water, at the bow, holding firmly the chain between his teeth, endeavoring in vain to swim against the current, which was fast hurrying them toward the cataract.  The' faithful animal looked piteously in his mistress' face, to tell his fears of failure. Quickly Isabel again  plied the oars with more nerve; yet it proved of no avail, at the current baffled both all her skill in rowing and all   THE .MtRBIAGE CONTRAGT.        67 the strength of muscle a lady's delicate arm possesses; still, in this perilous situation she remained collected in mind, by times speaking soothingly, and with feelihg, to her dog, and again cheeringly urging him to hold strong and swim briskly; and then in clear, ringing notes, called, "Help, oh! help," while every echo, from the surrounding hills, sent back herwords in mocking derision, for, as yet, no evidence had been given help was nigh. But distinctly now Laird Stuart heard her prayer, and without a moment's hesitation fully determined, at the risk of his own life, to rescue, if possible, Isabelr from a most frightful death. Thus, with one pat on the Arab's neck, one pressure of the spurs to his sides, the young laird urged on his spirited animal, who plunged'bravely into the turbu- lent waters, and swam- forward to the rescue. Fairly launched, no further use of spurs was required to give im- petus to the speed of the noble Arabian, for so rapidly had the flood increased that both horse and rider were furiously hulled beyond their object, which brought'fearful doubts to the mind of the young laird of his ability to save Isabel; since, at first, all -the might of his strong arm seemed powerless to turn Arab's head, so that he might stem the torrent; but after a great struggle, the- master's superior horsemanship overcame all difficulties, and at length he found himself side by side with the, bateau, when throwing off wholly that politesse ever exacted by the fair sex, and for which he was so famed, most peremptorily bade Isabel call in her Newfoundland. She obeyed, and Fido, quickly resigning his post, leaped feebly into the boat, then fell exhausted at the feet of his mistress. Scarcely. did the chain leave the teeth of this faithful animal ere it was grasped by Laird Stuart, and while Arab exerted his whole strength, and swam like a hero, his master towed the   68      THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. little vessel to the counter current, and, once there, he felt  that - all was safe. When in less time than I have taken to? relate this thrilling incident, lady, rider, and horse were landed within a few feet of where Isabel's perfectly trained steed quietly waited to bear his mistress home. Both Isabel and Laird Stuart were completely prostrated with extreme lassitude from fatigue of body and mind, which rendered it necessary for them to seat themselves on a rock close by, and there for some time they remained in perfect silence, reflecting upon the awful death they had escaped in their late perilous situation, offering in spirit thanks for their preservation through the great mercy of Providence., At length, both being rested, the Laird Stuart, at Isabel's request, unfastened Bruce, and assisted her to the saddle. When seated, she entreated Laird Stuart that the dangers they had encountered should not be mentioned to any one, as she feared the effect it might have upon her mother; and he, of course, promised; after which they rode along slowly in deep thought. How can I describe the effect of those gazelle eyes at the farewell scene? But if I could judge rightly, I should say that they had indelibly imprinted on the brave young nobleman's heart a sacred; ardent, firm love, such as could never through time or eternity be effaced. And when Isabel's fairy, soft hand was laid in Stuart's with a gentle pressure, to tell of that gratitude her lips failed to utter, it would be in vain to attempt giving a v correct idea of the warm, thrilling, searching glance; from the proud, piercing, yet benevolent eyes of the young Laird of Heather Plains; but this I know, they firmly sealed within the fair lady's soul, a pure, fond affection for him : which forever prevented any other reception therein of a   THE MAERIAGE CONTRACTZ        69 second impression of love, the heart being hermetically closed against it. Here we must not forget poor Fido, for as Laird Stuart stood dismounted by fair Isabel's side the faithful animal licked the hand of him who had saved his young mistress, in gratitude, and thus the young laird and Fido were now friends for life. Isabel, dreading, from the young man's dripping plight, and her own habit being likewise dampened through by spray, that her mother's suspicion of the accident might be aroused, they parted when within an eighth of a mile of Hawthorn cottage, and the only words spoken, except fare- well, were Isabel's remarks upon the saving of her life at the imminent risk of losing his own ; and the Laird Stuart's reply,with unfeigned sincerity, in tender accents, of, "Lady fair, 'where there is a will, there is a way,' God being our guide and help. But, ah! what were my life worth when compared with that of the ever-amiable widow Islan's only child?-the loveliest, best, and fairest of her sex, sweet Isabel; and so they were bound, not yet by words, it is true, but in heart, forever. The young laird continued standing on the same spot until Isabel was out of sight, then pressing his hand close to his forehead in despair, bewailed his fate thus, saying: "Ah, and how can it be? for has not my father bound me to Lady Miriam Melbourne, by a bond which cannot be revoked? But my soul is not in his control,- yet my father's honor is pledged, and how dare I compromise it. Still to none other, at the altar, than Isabel can I pledge my troth and faith, to love and cherish, and not perjure myself, for she alone it is who holds full possession of my heart, and surely to God I will not lie. And what, then, may be the result of all this? How strange that my only hope   : 70      THE MABRIAGE CONTRACT. and dependence rests in fairy Rosy Red Bird's intercession,  at some future day, with the widow Islan and my father. Yet how can I trust this fairy? Oh! how wrong and short- . sighted in parents to shackle their children with heart.  less contracts-and pledges in marriage, to gratify their own pride, at the sacrifice of those children's happiness; and certainly marriages of this kind can never be smiled on by the Almighty, or from him the wedded pair receive a blessing." After these protestations of constancy to Isabel, there came a sacred feeling of resolution to do naught wherein the honor of his father might be called in question, and he remounted Arab with a heart grieved at the very little prospect of being fully happy in his matrimonial affairs, his soul divided between love for Isabel and duty to his father, and the young laird, at a slow pace, wholly unnerved, with .I contracted brow, and in deep thought, rode toward home. -When he arrived, he first gave directions to the groom to take good care of Arab, as he had been worked hard, and then, with an unusual, careworn countenance and sorrowful feeling, went to his room, to conceal from the family the distresses of a sad inward spirit. To one sincere friend his troubles were not unknown, for the fairy Rosy, with her sprite-like weeship, seemed possessed of superhuman ability to become acquainted with every incident that took place in the movements of the laird's family, as well as of the widow's, and she resolved more than ever to render the two families happy, by aiding the lovers in all their wishes and anticipations of bliss in a pure married life.   THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.        71^ CHAPTER XVI. "ADY NONA, ever very fond of rambling around the grounds of Hazeldean Highwood, many times persuaded Aunty Agnes to accompany her, and frequently Lady Blanche would be her companion; but when neither felt in- clined she took her friend Otto, and then with no one to check her childlike gambols had a famous time, as she called it, scrambling over rocks to gather moss for fancy work, climbing hillocks after the variety of grasses, then with gleeful, swift bounds down in the low grounds search- ing for wild flowers among the bushes, always on her re- turn paying a visit to her father in his rustic paradise sanc- tum, charming him with her merry laugh, ere he could see her, as she called out, "Here I come ;" then when fairly by his side threw her arms about his neck, gave him a kiss, and after a blessing from her parent of, "God keep your heart in innocence, my darling Nona," she was off again, gayly tripping back to the mansion. But when Laay Nona was on any of these solitary frolics there was one constantly watching that no evil might iefall his young mistress, and that was Sandy Lee; who was invariably prepared with a choice bouquet from rare plants, so as to receive her thanks, with a sweet smile, on her return, which he prized more highly than if the wealth of India had been laid as a gift before him, and that smile of hers verily was a universal winner. It was in one of these strolls that Lady Nona did meet with a narrow escape of falling over a high cliff through fright at the report of a sportsman's gun, so near that it brought a wounded bird to her feet, at which she gave a scream  of alarm, then fell fainting and almost lifeless on  .   -has we     ZTE M  BRRIJaOE CONTRACT.         the very verge of the precipice. Both this cry of terror and Otto's growling came instanter, and when her eyes re- opened they rested on the proudest black eye that ever : flashed with intelligence from a nobleman who felt the homage due his lineal descent, but under existing circum. stances completely subdued, while anxiously inquiring if she had sustained any injury, saying: - "Speak, I pray, fair lady, if but to say that my hand is unstained-by your blood." And when from her sweet lips the answer so soft, so gentle and unreproving, came of, "Be not alarmed, noble hunter, as I am not injured; it is fear alone which has-prostrated me." Then the youth threw himself on his knees, and in fern vent prayer thanked God that the lovely young maiden was neither dead nor wounded from his careless firing; after which he took the gasping bird" in his hand, saying: "My innocent pheasant, well shall you be preserved, both to warn me against reckless firing, and the alarm I caused the fairest of the fair; but above all, for the inexpressible pleasure it has afforded me to look once more on that sweet face by which, a short time since, f was so fascinated that it drew my steps hitherward, if possible to behold it again; yet I did not anticipate the unfavorable auspices under which we have now just met.  But tell me, I beseech you, most fair of all maidens, can I do anything to restore tran- quilityuto yonr nerves?" the gentleman asked, as he extended his hand to assist her in rising from  the dangerous spot where she still sat. But as Otto growled the sportsman drew    back one moment, soon, however, throwing aside all fear he ap- proached nearer the dog and spoke to him kindly; then as his mistress bade him be careful, and Otto was quiet, ven- tured to pat him, when ere Lady Nona could again be   tffE Mt4RIA &E CONUTRACT.     7t  proffered assistance she was on her feet receiving at the hand of Sandy a cup of cold water; for this faithful young gardener had witnessed the whole scene, and soon ascertain, ing that his young mistress was unhurt and merely faint,  hastened to the spring for the restorative, and as quickly after handing it to her (with countenance so pale that he looked as if he required help for himself) retired to his work. The young sportsman now bowed, and with dignified bearing introduced himself as Wallace McDerville, when imme- diately afterward, through easy flow of words, evincing by speech his noble birth, asked," Dare I without offense plead to know the name of the sweet maiden who was so near being deprived of life by my heedless hand, that I may seek pardon for the accidental discharge from my gun, and crave forgiveness for my intrusion upon these grounds as well as for the alarm I have occasioned your sweet self?" Lady Nona replied, with a slight blushing tinge on her cheek, a soft glance from her tender -eye, and a bewitching smile about her ruby lips, in accents gentle, musical and soft: "All, everything - is forgiven, where no offense -was intended. As to my na'me, it is Elnona, but I am pet-called by my family Nons, and I am the daughter of Laird Doug. las Glencarven." Wallace McDerville at first started, his proud eyes flashing fierce disdain as he repeated Glencarven, and then remarked, suppressing the bitter feeling that rankled within, "Surely that sound is familiar to my ears, for the name -and family of Glencarvens were of the ancient regime in Scotland, and I mind having heard tell of them there." But he said no more, walking silently and thought- fully by Lady Nona's side until within sight of the man- sion, when gracefully bowing, with a "God grant we may 4    t 74 8-  TBRE rBJKGS CONTRACT.  meet again," he bade her quickly farewell, and was off'  without waiting for an invitation to call on her, or claim. ing for himself the priveIege to inquire after her health at : the manor mansion. How odd are this man's ways, ran in Lady Nonas  thoughts until she spoke outright: "How abrupt his part. ing, and so proud and fiery his expression after I made known my name, and in such strong contrast with his hum.  ble, modest, most affable manner previous to our introduc. tion one with the other; still he was not disrespectful, after all, in his way of addressing me; it seemed more like sur- prise." Then Lady Nona hastened home, resolved to say nothing of the romantic affair. It must truly be confessed that' the heart of proud Wal- lace or gentle Nona did not escape unscathed by the god of love after so severe and ,trying an. ordeal. But her secret she hoped would remain without being altogether divulged, Lady Nona having charged Sandy to say naught of the affair. And still one, as usual, without their knowledge, witnessed the whole affair, whose small but argus-eye noth- ing escaped; and that was the wee Rosy Red Bird. The fairy, however, never revealed what came under her obser- vation unless she had good and cogent reasons for the disclosure, which would benefit the parties concerned. Gayly Lady Nona entered the room where her father was sitting, when, after giving him her usual welcome greeting kiss, the old laird asked, "Well, my darling Nona, and where have you been all this while?" "Not off the premises, dear father, just wandering hither and thither, listening to the singing of the birds, enjoying the fragrance of the plants and thinking how kind and thoughtful the Almighty is- for all our comforts and neces- sities, never forgetting to give us something beautiful to - ,-   THE MBARRIJGBE CONTRACT,       75 gratify our senses and teach us thereby His great might, majesty, power and love. And see! the beautiful, wild flowers I have culled for you, my dear, earthly .father, There, look well, sir, at- these glowing, warm, bright buds of eglantine, and sweet clusters of pure, snow-white clematis: did you ever, dear father, behold anything more lovely 1" The old laird first gazed on his sweet, innocent child, and said, "Bless vou, my darling Nona, you motherless babe," with tears in his eyes. "How like, to-day, is that sweet smile to your blessed parent; is it not, Agnes'?" he asked of his sister who was sitting by his side. "And," he continued, looking on Nona, " how happy, my darling, you make me, that you so truly appreciate the gifts of Providence," extending, as he said these last words, his hand to receive from Nona the bouquet she had so highly extolled, then starting back exclaimed, "But, my darling, these clematis are fairly sprinkled with blood; you are not hurt, I hope!"  "Why, no, my father,': she laughingly replied, the color mounting to her very brow-" why no, sir, look, not a single scratch." "But," he continued, "here is one laurel blossom, and there is blood on it too; you must have been far and clambering over rocks to get this, so I will inquire about the matter. I hope there has been no foul play upon the premises." "How alarmed you look, my dear father; but I pray allay all fears, as I do believe I can explain it if you will listen: just as I had gathered the flowers, a wounded bird fell at my feet, and in my fright from the report of a fowl. ing-piece I dropped them out of my hand, and so these spots of blood you see came from the dying bird."   76      THE MAJRRAIGE CON'TRACT. '  "And, my child, my darling," the old laird asked in : anger, " who had the audacity to hunt on Hazledean IIigh. wood without a permit from me? It is most dangerous. I know that it could not have been your brother, as he was off riding, and I am confident that none of my men would presume so it must surely have been some bold intruder, and I shall look to-it at once. Jamie Lee must be more vigilant." Now Lady Nona would gladly have told her father all, as she was neither artful nor a prevaricator; but the sportsman being the same who had disentangled her dress from the thorns, and about which her parent had so largely commented, that she felt shy as to repeating the occurrence exactly as it was, thus merely half explained, this wise: "A glance shot, possibly, sir, or mayhap only accidental, and then you know a bird may fly some distance after being wounded ere it falls." "Sometimes, my darling, yet not very often," the laird replied, "but, my sweet pet Nona, your mother's babe, come kiss me, this is so like my dear, dear angel wife, mak- ing excuses for every one, right or wrong; and that makes you the more precious, my child; but I must go see Jamie Lee and charge him to keep a good lookout for marauders," then left the room. CHAPTER   XVII. Peon Nona! It was the first time she had ever with- held the whole truth from her father under any circum- stances, and now felt sad, sad indeed at having deceived him; but love makes both youth and maiden do foolish,  :  i   THE    BRRIAGE CONTA3CT .    " unwise acts. Once in her own room, Lady Nona gave vent to a flood of tears ; but she did not know that Lady Blanche was so near, as she approached, with alarm at her sister's grief, whose face was usually all smiles, saying: 'My sweet sister- Nona, tell me what has happened and why you are weeping." Lady Nona at first gave no answer, then, wiping the tears from her eyes, replied: "Please, Blanche, not a single word of my grief to any one, not even Aunty Agnes, or my dear father, or Stuart, and some day I will tell you all; at present I am not Equal to the task." Blanche promised her sister to be silent on the subject, and quickly shifted the conversation by speaking of the wee woman and the rumors abroad about her mysterious ways. "Do you know, Nona," Lady Blanche said, "I begin to fear going into the neighborhood of those thiuk woods where we saw the fairy, for it is generally believed that she is a spirit; yet they do not think she belorgs to the Evil One, since she does no harm, and her acts are always kinds but she is everywhere to be seen, and vanishes as soon; and then her positions are so singular': sometimes in trees, sometimes by stone walls, again in the heart of a bush, then before you as if rising from the sod, and often speaking at your back in low, silvery accents of warning; yet no one knows whither she came from, how she subsists, or if she be flesh and blood; and her tiny dogs are as mys- terious as herself, and so sagacious, they say. The only time, however, that I ever saw her was when with you." "The same with me, Blanche," Nona replied; "I have never seen her since that day either." "But I fear," the elder sister went on to say, " that she holds much influence over our brother, this wee one, since if she does not, some other spirit has fastened itself on Stuart, as I never knew any one so changed. All his an   p78     ;iB  MKE- IAfGE MCONTRACT,. swers now are in monosyllables, and he is so absent-minded that he sits for hours without noticing any one, whereas he : used to- have such buoyant spirits. And Sandy he grows so thin as if he were going into a decline, neither does he work with any ambition. I begin to think that he also is bewitched." Here Blanche paused a moment, looking on Nona, then walking up to her, and putting her arms round her youing sister's waist, said: "And lady fair, what ails my Nona. I begin to doubt whether her little weeship has not been working charms upon you, since I have been talking to you this half hour and you have not heard a word I have uttered, and so I really believe the fairy has a fast hold on you all, except Elsie, who generally retains her usual flow of fun; but even with her it flags at times, and her countenance becomes quite serious. Still, I can account for that, she is so much troubled about Sandy's health and depression of spirits." Lady Blanche here dropped the subject of the wee woman, as it did not seem to interest Nona, and inquired of her if she had lately seen the sportsman of the thorn bush who had once released her from her perils, " for they say that he makes his home at present with the miller at the cottage by the bridge; and Elsie says that' he passes by the farm cottage manor gate nearly every morning; and some days three or four times." The mentioning of the young sportsman aroused Lady Nona, who, while coloring deeply,-evasively replied: "It is very likely Elsie sees him, Blanche dear, if he passes the gate by the cottage as it is so very near the road." It was well the sister's back was turned, or Lady Nona's i tell-tale blushes and excited manner otherwise might have created suspicion that she was much better conversant      .-         ., -i   THE MARRI'AGE CONTRA CT.       '79 with the sportsman's whereabouts than she wished to say.  Lady Blanche soon left the room to join her aunty, who she saw alone in the park, and thus the young sister's change of countenance escaped notice. CHAPTER XVIII. SWEET, artless, candid Lady Nona, who never before had used any artifice to Lady Blanche or any other person, friend or foe, suffered agony after her sister left her alone, at the very first sin of deception, and soon became so con- science-stricken she could stand it no longer. When, true to herself, she suddenly sprang up, put on her bonnet, ran through the path to her father's, sanctum, threw herself in his arms, burst into a flood of tears, and sobbed aloud: "Oh, father! dear, dear father! I have sinned, forgive me." The old laird, alarmed in the extreme, while pressing his darling child to his heart, said: "Speak, my Nona, her. mother's babe, and tell me what has called forth this overwhel ming grief, and what sins have I to forgive Yet since they cannot be of such heinous nature, they are pardoned for the penitence ere confessed." "Now as ever, dear, dear father, too indulgent; but when you hear that your own truthful Nona, as -you have ever called her, has been guilty of prevarication, you will feel hurt and most sorrowful of heart." "( True, darling Nona, I should feel sad, still as I should believe it to be the first offense, I could not do otherwise than be lenient, trusting it would not be repeated by my child, of whom I have boasted as one free from all guile, and free also from those petty deceptions which, I regret   to say, so many of this world use, believing them to be crimes of no account." L' "Indeed, my dear father, it was the fear of being quizzed  that caused my withholding from you the whole truth, but  my conscience gave me no rest, and so I came to disclose  all. Then, after a deep tell-tale blush and drooping lids, she related the whole incident just as it happened with herself and the young sportsman., "This, my darling child, might have been a serious affair, but I am truly grateful it terminated without any fatal effect, and that your sin was not of a more grevious nature."                    Lady Nona was quite overcome with her father's leniency, and her tears of gratitude for his kindness were only arrested by the old laird's questioning her as to the name of the young sportsman; but very much alarmed was she at her father's excess of excitement, which discovered itself in the burning flash of the eye, deepened furrows on his frowning brow, and curl of contempt on the lips, as she pronounced the name of Wallace McDerville.   Again the nervous start, and clenching the fist, as one who was deranged, perfectly terrified Lady Nona, since never previous to this had she witnessed his feelings so fearfully aroused, when he emphatically burst forth with this question: "And what may be the age of this young man whose name so sorely tries my spirits whenever mentioned in my presence?" The father here for the first time, noticing his daughter's pallid cheek. and look of terror, felt alarmed at the effect his violence had produced; then, quickly curbing his wrath, softened his expression and spoke soothingly, as he gently repeated his question as to the young sportsman's   THE M-ARIRIA OE CONTRACT.      81   '  years, while drawing her to his side, and imprinting on her lips the kiss of a tender, fond parent, who fain would relieve a child's distress. Nona, thus encouraged, turned her soft eyes to the old laird's face and said: <( Oh, my dear, dear father, I am so glad you smile again; you did look so terrific when I mentioned the sports- man's name; and as to his years, I do not know, but he is quite young; about as old, I should think, as Stuart, and a most perfect, dignified gentleman; yet, like yourself, dear sir, he sent forth a most proud, disdainful expression as I gave my name Glencarven." "And so, darling, it was not an old man?" the laird asked, with a mind apparently relieved, who bore that name?" Then said to himself: ' What nonsense; I might have been sure that it was not him." '" Well, Nona, that is better if he was young; but still I would not like one living with the blood of a McDerville coursing through his veins to frequenit these premises.. " And why so, my dear father ?" Lady Nona inquired. His only reply was:  Not now, my darling, can I explain to you the reasons." Lady Nona said no more, knowing that urging a mat. ter upon her father would make no impression, and only be words in vain, should he once see fit to refuse revealing his reasons for any directions given, so she changed the subject to some little amusing matters that might tend to calm and cheer him, then kissed him and left Eglantine Hermitage and her father in a sorrowful mood, which was unobserved by him, hastening her footsteps that she might meet no one; and Lady Nona was unobserved except by one single person, a domestic, and that was Sandy, who marked the downcast, saddened expression of her whose 4*  face before this had ever been all sunshine and radiant with : smiles; and much he regretted that their different stations  in life prevented his asking the cause of her grief, so that he might find means to restore peace to her troubled spirit. Nona's countenance, however, did not long continue shorn  of all its bright beams, since whatever might be her feelings,  ere she again entered the -room where the family were gathered, her expression was as free from anxiety, and her manner as gay as if degage of all care in soul or mind. But, : poor Lady Nona! love had stealthily crept in upon her young, tender heart, and it was her first love; yet, like a fond daughter and dutiful child, she found it necessary to strive against the impression made upon her heart by the young sportsman, after her father's turbulent manner at the bare mention of his name, so she resolved to avoid him as faras was in her power, which she could strictly adhere to, of course, by not inviting Wallace McDerville to visit the domains; but beyond that she had no control, since lovers invariably find a way, when so inclined, to accom- plish measures, through honest, pure, ardent efforts; and thus by various means of unobtrusive watchfulness over Lady Nona's movements, the young sportsman managed almost daily to see and perform,. in a modest, quiet way, many little acts of tenderness to keep alive and strengthen i her love for him, which his quick per'eption hoped had i dawned in her heart as reciprocal of that intense warmth of feeling so deeply seated in his own. And Lady Nona, of course, could not avoid in return inadvertently evincing some little acknowledgment of his kindness, which gave evi- ]ence to Wallace that he had not failed in his anxiety to )lease her. Now Sandy was -the one alone who was cog- izant of what took place between the lovers, but he always :ept at such a  -respectful distance that the parties con- q is l   THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.         S    83 cerned were entirely unconscious of any person except the Powers above having witnessed their exchange of glances, or heard their tender words. Yet Sandy never did observe in Lady Nona aught saving as modest manners as should belong always to the deportment of the most pure, chaste, fastidiously correct maiden; or discern in Wallace McDer- ville one most remote look or act other than of the deepest respect that could emanate from a knight who claimed an exacting, chivalrous honor toward the lady of his choice, as he would ever feel bound sacredly to shield her with his heart's blood from every glance that bordered on the least swerving from the most hallowed desires in thought, or lacking in one point of purity. This concealment of Lady Nona from her father, sister, and- aunt of her feelings toward Wallace McDerville, which she could not overcome, was a hard struggle indeed; and many times she would have given worlds to have confided to that father, so fondly, so de- votedly loved, this all-absorbing, ardent feeling which had fastened itself on her young heart, never to be erased; yet she firmly smothered every sigh, and suppressed the words as they unwittingly arose from her artless heart to her lips, with anxious longing to freely lay open all her hopes, her utmost wishes, for which she now lived and breathed. But all this she would relinquish rather than again mention in the old laird's presence the name of Wal- lace McDerville, since it had excited in her father an ex- pression of countenance so terrible, such as his pet Nona had never drearped she should behold upon his usually placid face, and hence the poor girl gradually faded and became less cheerful without her friends being able to solve the cause. Thus, anxious fears arose that her health was becoming impaired, and days passed amid unavailing efforts to re. lieve her either in body or mind.    84      TH:i AZSBIAGE CONtBACT h. CHAPTER XIX.  ONE morning, just at twilight, aunty Agnes and her  brother were sitting quite alone, when he drew a long sigh and said:  "My sister, this is a terribly uncharitable, unforgiving world of people, and most surely I am one of them; yet still feeling this to be so, I cannot subdue this willful heart of mine." "Why, brother,"- was Lady Agnes' reply, " you quite astonish me, that one who evinces universally a kind, thoughtful care for every one should have to confess aught sinful, uncharitable."  "And yet it is so, my sister, and I will explain to you the cause.  First, I will ask you if you ever heard of Wallace McDerville, a relative of the Laird Melbourne?" I have," she replied, " and he was spoken of in high terms, and he returned to Scotland after you left, having  -been absent for twenty years, living no one knows where, The cause of his leaving was some unpleasant affair which had taken place between him and one of our lairds; but I being quite domestic, and not of those ever very inquisi- tive, or possessing much of mother Eve's curiosity, do not know what was the difficulty, or with whom." "Well, my   dear sister, I am that very laird, and the tale of the unpleasant affair ran thus: You remember, doubt- less, our brother, although he died when you were young, but how or of what he died you are ignorant, that having in the family never been made a subject of conversation,  since it nearly broke the heart of our mother. Willie Glencarven was one year my junior, and a most exemplary  Christian from childhood up to lyouth, thus it was pro.?    lHE MARRI AGE CONTRACT.        8  verbial with all who knew him that Willie Glencarven was every one's friend. He studied for the university, and at the time of his demise was about to take deacon's orders. Wallace McDerville was his classmate, they both loved Mary Hamilton, and, in truth-, she was a lassie well worthy the love of any man; yet she did a very foolish thing,  - smiling on each of her lovers with the same winning smile, - though to even the most disinterested eye our brother had the largest share of pure affection. "Wallace McDerville by nature of the most jealous dis- position, here developing itself in the very worst form, and that was by falsifying his friend, for whom he professed the most sincere attachment; so as to appropriate to himself exclusively the heart of Mary, whose father's choice for his daughter was our brother. "Now Wallace reported Willie to be addicted to both gambling and intemperance, and charged that his room at college was the resort of blacklegs; yet Wallace knew positively that no game, except cltess, was allowed in Wlllie's rooms; but still it proved sufficient' for his pur- pose that an attempt at card-playing had, once been made there, and upon this foundation he built his villainous report. The affair terminated in his being engaged'to be married to Mary Hamilton. "Well, I challenged him for his slander against Willie, our brother's profession not enabling him to do so. Wallace refused to fight, I branded him as a coward he hastily, and without her parent's consent, married Mary, and they sud- denly left their native place for parts unknown.  "Wallace's position, however, soon reconciled Mary's .. father, but our brother died just one year after his friend's ;;I treachery. "The very cold manner in which Mary Hamilton, for an    Oi 86     THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.  other, forsook Willie, treating him with disdain, crushed to : the quick his noble heart, and the poor girl, I fear, very I : soon discovered that her hand had been given to Wallace, ? while her love was all for our gentle, kind, good brother; i but it was then too late. The name of Wallace McDerville ai has been grating to my ears ever since. The fact is, I ?' hated him until God in his mercy softened my spirit, and then I only wished to forget him and that he had ever existed : my forgiveness I hoped he had, ever since I became a Christian; but I fear now I was deceived in myself. After having disclosed the past, I have somewhat to reveal of the present, and have great dread for the future; it is this  "A few days since I learned from Nona that the name of the young sportsman whom she met lately, under peculiar circumstances, is Wallace McDerville, and I fear he may be the son of that man whom I once so despised, and if such be thee case, and my darling Nona: should fancy him, how trying to the feelings it will be for me to refuse his visiting here. Yet how can I ever entertain one who bears the name of Wallace McDerville, even should there be no affinity between him and the one who so slandered our own Willie as to cause his death. "When Nona informed me of the name of the sportsman, I fairly frightened the child with my excited and wild demeanor, still I could not avoid it, I was so agitated at : the mere mention of the name." The old laird's sister reproved hi;n gently, saying: "Such, surely, is not a Christian spirit, to make the innocent suffer for the guilty, my brother; moreover, it is unlike ;: your precepts and general course of acting."      :? "I know it, Agnes. Well, we will speak no more of this for the present, and wait for events, hoping they may    TH  MARRIA4GE CONTRBACT.       87  not too much try my wayward sou], but only test the extent of my readiness to follow the example of our Saviour in forgiving my enemies. And yet it is strange, for Nona says this young sportsman gave a proud, disdainful glance at the name of Glencarven; thus it must be the same family, and he been prejudiced by his ancestors; but now we will drop the subject, and so saying he left the room for Eglantine Hermitage, and for reflection. CHAPTER XX. LET us here take a quiet peep at the farm cottage, to learn how Jamie Lee and his family are progressing in domestic matters, and listen to Effie's sensible remarks. Eventide had come, and the day's work of the cottage inmates finished in good and systematic order, everything within and without looking neat and trim. Jamie Lee and his wife being made clean and tidy after their toil, now seated-themselves on the steps of the little piazza for their usual social chat about affairs in general, and. naturally enough the thoughts uppermost in their minds were about family matters. Effiie first spoke, and to this effect: "Aweel, Jamie, mon, d'ye ken I ha'e been thinking a'maist the whale day how verra foolish it be to rear the puir mon's bairns wi' odny laird's childers, and gi'e the humble privilege o' associating wi' them as gin they cam o' equal bluid wi' the nobility. It does verra weel d'ye mind gin they a'ways remain wee bairns thegither, but as they maun the ane an' the ither be some day men and women, it mak's a verra great differ'. As for the laird's childer, it is weel eneugh, sine they ken fu' weel that they ha'e posi-   w       a88 HTe .SKRIArEt CONRIACT.  . tive right to a' that is grand, illigant, and gi'n they play  around the puir mon's cabin their ane hame be ready for them; but wi' the puir bairns it mak's them a'thegither ! awfu' discontent to be playmates at the manor house wi'. the laird's childer, sine it gie's them an unco' desire to hae's I sicken a things as may nae be becoming for thar station in  life, a' sae too it gi'es the puir bairns a taste for what the laird's childer ca' refinement : sicken a things, ye mild, as reading the poetry an' fancy novels, a luve for painting  an' music, an' a' these arts, an' tak's awa' the desire for wark.   Noo, thar's Sandy, he does na' care for ony coorse kind o' farming, an' laething gi'es him delight but to look after birds, an' cull nosegays, an' makl' romantic walks fur the ladies, an' he canna sp'ak .wi' ane that be nae reared like. the Ladies Blanche and Nona.  An', indeed, Jamie mon, I am nae sure but Sandy is just pining because he is  nae a  gentlemon, sine he looks sae sad o' late." "Yere right, yere right, Effie, wifee an' I believe mesel'  it wad ha'e been far bettergi'n oor bairns had been taught to feel nae sae muckle like companions an' freends, an mair like servants, sine Elsie mony times sp'aks wi' the - young laird wi' too leetle respect. But,Effie, wifee, thar's nae use o' sp'aking o' it noo, sin'e it is too late to be ' troubled aboot sicken'a family affairs, after the mischief be a' doon, an' we canna help it, an' sure oor twa bairns be verra gude an' verra obedient." "Right, Jamie, mon, an' a' ye say be verra true, an, thar cams- Sandy noo, an' 1 fear he be nae a'thegither weel, he looks sae pale. Baut see, mon, Elsie is leaping like a  young fawn to catch him, an' she looks as fresh as ony . rose, an' friskie as ony lambie, an' thar, noo, that sister's kiss ha' brought color to his cheeks, an' he seems a'maist : as weel as iver."'   TEE   S BRIAGrE COINTRACT.     89 By this time Jamie Lee's children had reached the cottage, and this night, at least, all went on very smoothly, each one wearing a cheerful look. Thus whatever secret un. happiness might be hidden within their breasts, this even" ing was the first for a long while that had passed without a jarring between the brother and sister ; one reason prob- ably was that Sandy had nothing to complain of, or bother him lately, with regard to Elsie's and the young laird's private meetings and confidential conversations, the Laird Stuart being occupied elsewhere. And then it had not been necessary to watch the young sportsman, lest a glance shot might again alarm Lady Nona, since Wallace Mc. Derville must have left for other parts, as he had been seen by no one for several days. Thus Sandy was in a peculiarly good humor. As to the young sportsman's absence, Lady Nona doubtless under- stood all his movements, she appeared so very happy, but, that was her own secret, and she kept it safely and well, like all lovers.         .  CHAPTER XXI.. SINCE the rescue of Isabel 'by the young laird, daily- now was he to be seen, with dignified bearing, on his noble steed Arab, by the side of the widow Islan's lovely daugh- ter, who with graceful, easy mien was seated upon her favorite black, Bruce, whose mane and tail, so very bushy and flowing, was the envy of every groom, while all good judges pronounced the well-formed head, proudly curved neck, and trimly moulded limbs to be unsurpassed. The usual route of the two lovers was through an unfre- quented winding path, where, by a sudden, quick turn, they   -90     THE  4RIART4(E CONTRACT. could evade the keenest eye; yet, while on their way, could : any one have seen them, they might tell of the curbed, slow,  lingering gait of the generally spirited Arab and Bruce, and how they seemed most willingly yielding to the wishes of their master and mistress, fairly halting of their own accord when they arrived at this spot, so quiet and romantic for the young laird and Isabel to dismount, and on foot wend their way through the thicket to the usual trysting place, the fairy Rosy Red-Bird's cot; also, well-trained to  await the lover's return from their secret meetings. This frequent absenting himself from home. by Stuart  Glencarven for whole days quite troubled the old laird whose jealous fears of causes for the non-fulfillment of the marriage contract led him to feel that there was an attrac. tion of some fair one on foot, and yet the prudent old laird said naught to his son of his ideas for the present, waiting for circumstances to discover the whereabouts of the young  laird's fascination.                 - : Now the father used equestrian exercise sometimes also, and was-equally with the son fond of rambling through soli. tary paths to find a calm retreat and solitary shade, and so went forth occasionally out of his hermitage to vary the scene, from where so much of his time was spent in solitude and deep thought. It was one warm but lovely summer eve after a  ride, longer than usual, the old laird quietly dropped on his feet, by the side of his favorite trotter Malcolm, close  to a  rivulet, in the midst of a dense shade; thus, his hat in one hand, while holding the reins with the other, he rested his arm on the saddle, enjoying the harmonious music of the birds and the cooling influence of the water as it gently glided by to empty itself into a large basin, quietly wait-  ing to be replenished, after having been nearly exhausted for lack of what came at last, the usual summer showers, : j    THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.        1 Here both master and horse remained for some time nearly motionless, until Malcolm's hearing proved the quickest, he giving evidence from constant movements of the ears that he was on the alert for something approaching, which caused the old laird to listen also, when presently he heard a gentle voice, in plaintive accents, say: -"No, no, I cannot consent, for ah! Stuart, with all the love I bear you, so deeply graven on my heart, I never, no, never, could be your bride in disobedience to my dear, dear mother; and self-respect would not permit it, if it did not meet with the approbation of your highly, much honored father and friend." By this time, with the old laird, every nerve quivered as he hearkened to his son's whole-souled, loving, impassion- ed protestations-pleading confidently in warm words, thus: "Oh! fear not my Isabel, my dearest one, my kind and best of fathers could not look on aught so perfect, so lovely, and then refuse his son the dearest boon he could crave from him on earth. Ah! no my Isabel, he could .not say me nay and look on you, if he might see you but only otfce." "It may not be, Laird Stuart. I would not meanly win from Laird Glencarven an unwilling consent; for ah! his honor," the plaintive voice in sorrow said, " his honor, my Laird Stuart, is pledged for you to another, and that he could never forfeit. Indeed, I could not respect him if he did, and my mother tells me that if you wed another than the one you are contracted to, you lose a large estate, and that, surely, not any father would ever relinquish, so detri- mental would it be to your pecuniary welfare." "And what if this all be so," the young laird first boldly, - decidedly said, his black eyes flashing fire; " is there any charm in wealth for me, if for it I must sacrifice all domes- tic happiness and hope of heaven " Then in milder tones   '92   --' THEP RIISGE CON:A4CY. he continued: ' My own Isabel, think you my father would : have relinquished the fond, true, sacred love he bore  sweet mother for filthy lucre? I spurn the idea, and thus I will trust to his kind consideration for an only son, and - then, certainly, the hardest heart could not resist the fascin.  tions of my lovely, lovely, fair Isabel."    ".i These several last sentences of his son had lingered on  the old Laird Glencarven's ears for some time after the lovers had left the spot where, as they supposed, these out.  pourings of love had been made unheard, when he was oply aroused from what he supposed was a dream by the reigh.  ing of Malcolm, to remind his master that he was anxious to return to his crib for the supper there awaiting him l. The Laird Glencarven, fairly mounted, thus soliloquize:  "Noble, irresistible, fascinating, indeed, my boy, is your Isabel, and beautiful to my eyes, with only the poeticglance I caught of her through the bushes," then he drew one long, long sigh, such alone as comes from the heart of a man who  has known deep, deep sorrow, as he said : "Ah Stuart, my son, my only son, when you spoke of your gentle, angel mother, you touched a tender chord of my heart; for if there is onesoft spot in my frame sure to melt me to your wishes, it would be through that blessed name  of mother-that sainted mother, gone from my  sight and yet not far away, as I feel her spirit hovering o'er me to guide my steps aright. Oh! then, Stuart, may you never plead with that sacred name of mother on- your lips, for how could I refuse; but ah!  it would be a trying case to let Melbourne estate pass into the hands of-the accursed Wallace McDerville's heirs, since through the non-fulfillment of the marriage con. ,. tract it must be so, there being no other writing than that to secure it to his daughter, and dead men have no voice to change a  programme. And again the instrument drawn   tHE M RRIA4 E CO0TRACT,        93 truhs thus. 'On the forfeiture of marriage contract between Stuart Glencarven, son of the Laird of Heather Plains, and Miriam Melbourne, all my landed estate becomes the prop-  erty of the McDervilles./" Here the proud parent was suddenly checked in the expression of his thoughts by the impatient neighing of Malcolm, so the old laird patted the neck of his noble horse, drew another sigh, straightened him, self in the saddle, saying, "My gallant steed, I will not be selfish in detaining you any longer ;" then trotted off in good speed towards home. When arriving at his own door he dropped the reins on Malcolm's neck, and as the groom led him awayj walked silently-unmet by anyone to break his train of thought save his faithful dog Brutus--and went directly to his chamber to weigh in his mind and heart a fair balance between Stuart's feelings and his own sordid interests (from the words overheard between his much-loved son and that son's beautiful, much-adored, irresistible, Isabel), and by the down scale learn whether a Christian love, pure heart, and interest in heaven, or a miser's soul absorbed in worldly honor alone, warned him of Justice. CHAPTER XXII. THE first idea that occurred to the old laird after being seated in his easy chair was: "And this, which I have withheld from my sister Agnes must be made known, that is, the major part of land thus deeded by con. tract of marriage to Stuart and Miriam   Melbourne, if unfulfilled, reverts to the heirs of Wallace McDerville. The very thought would drive me mad, that such as ought to have been my son's should fall into the hands of my   brother's murderer, a, despicable McDerville, my direst I enemy. But the Laird Melbourne and myself did for our t - Children what we deemed was to their advantage, and so I , "the deed was given; and the child Miriam at that time bade I fair, we felt, to grow up to please the most fastidious taste I of man for a wife, while my boy-Stuart was and still is a noble fellow in looks and character. Yet now I feel that beyond all control Stuart's heart and soul is fully given to  Isabel; thus, Laird Melbourne's plans and mine are frus. trated. And still, should my by boy do aught to wound the spirit of sweet Isabel, so just, firm, gentle, dutiful and correct of speech, the most -beautiful girl my eyes ever looked upon, I should despise him (only son of mine as he is); but that he will never do, since though proud in spirit he is honorable, tender of heart, and a Christian withal. "And there is my own affectionate, beautiful, dovelike Nona, my pet, her mother's babe, I fear, I dread lest she has given her heart to one who -bears that hated name; and how could I say her nay, if in all things but in that he is worthy of her, or deny her because my wicked spirit is prejudiced so obstinately against this cursed name, borne by one who never injured me and is innocent of the crime which offends me. And yet, surely I could not for a name refuse aught asked me by my darling Nona. And then, mayhap, in default of Stuart's yielding to my wishes in marrying Miriam, so, through this young sportsman, Nona may be the one to reap the benefit of part of the Melbourne estate. "Still, the giving her to a McDerville, ' ay, there's the rub."'" Thus saying, he fairly pressed his nails so deeply into his hands as to leave their prints upon them; then in dispair, he continued: "Oh! woe is me, to whom shall I go for comfort, or how quell this bitter spirit? I scarcely :!!   THE MARRIAGE CONTRACTi        95 dare say more to Agnes on the subject. Oh, my blessed angel wife, would you were in the flesh to speak me com-  fort, but in the name of God in spirit guide me, for in heart I am so sinful I fear to call upon the Saviour to intercede for me, And here again my indomitable pride stands between me and my children's substantial happiness, for my selfish ambition creeps in to thwart my eldest born, also my proud, noble, splendid, dear Blanche, as I know and feel she is pining for her cousin Donald Dunmaire, and in truth he is a splendid lad, and she has loved him and corresponded with him since childhood, when he called her his "wee, wee wifee," and true he has noble blood, but then he has not wealth 3 and for Blanche I had arranged an alliance with one noble and wealthy, so that she might be the Lady of his large manor. How terribly am I sacrific- ing my family to mould them to my wayward, ambitious, wicked spirit." Here he buried his face in his hands and wept like a child; then checked his tears, and once at Christian, surely ever in the midst of troubles a still, small voice will whisper to our souls, "Thou art a Christianr still';" thus look to Him who is the All-powerful, and call on Him, through the Medi- ator and Holy Spirit.    -      , So calmly the penitent old laird, on bended knees with humbled soul, gave himself us to a merciful Saviour, pray- ing to know himself and the error of his ways, to soften his heart and teach him the pure, conscientious course to pur- sue; pleading for help to ever do that which was right in his Master's sight; feeling with a spirit of conviction, truly a man can do nothing of himself, and surely, either as to worldly or spiritual plans, his only trust must be in God, for as sure as the Almighty reigneth everywhere, "L'homme propose, mais Dieu dispose." And yet, in time, like a   ^  98      mcTf  MaRrt4aE CONTRAJT.  merciful Father in Htis power and wisdom, He will answer those petitions which will lead to our temporal and spirit. ual welfare, yet frustrate every plan of the human family that will tend tO destroy both soul and body. ; Oh!" then the old laird fervently prayed, " make me I beseech thee, through Christ the Lord, submissive to Thy divine will in all thingsj trusting all things, hoping all things; guide me to do naught in future wherein my warn. ing soul- whispers it would be presumptuous in me to plead for Thy aid, but grant that in all purity of heart I may ask that at Thy hand worthy to be blessed, and then amid all my joys and sorrows I may with grateful heart for Thy unremitting goodness feel that in a righteous cause we never plead in vain to Him who doeth all' things well." The old laird now arose from his knees, as he hoped, with a softened, better heart, and as he hoped also a better Christian; still, how oft are we obliged to pray again and again for an humble spirit, and I presume the old laird was like the rest of us, yet for the present he felt composed, quietly and placidly descending to the drawing-room where his sister Agnes and daughters -were sitting, and spoke as mildly as if naught had troubled him. CHAPTER XXIII. STUART and Isabel soon arrived at the fairy moss cot, when the wee mistress informed the young laird that Elsie knew one part of their troubles, and had promised to aid them faithfully. Rosy then encouraged the lovers that they need fear nothing, for she would see and speak herself , .   THE MPlnI:AGE COlTRACT.       97 with the old laird, and make peace with him in their behalf. After this very welcome news, the young laird and Isabel hastened' their return to Hawthorn cottage, where the widow Islan was anxiously awaiting them. On arriving home, quickly, and with grace, Stuart alighted, assisted his lady-love to gently dismount; softly, by one slight pressure of the hand, brought a blush to fair Isabel's cheek ;a gain sprang into the saddle, then with pro found politeness, bowed, bade farewell, and was off, hoping for the best. Isabel changed her riding-habit for evening attire, and was refreshed by her tea, still there was a shadow on her brow. This troubled the mother deeply, for she had seen the tell- tale blush at the loversd parting, and thus addressed her child: MAy own Isabel, you have not, 1 trust, forgotten that which I made known to you of Laird Stuart having been, from childhood, through parents, affianced to some one they say his father insists on his marrying; then do not lead him from his duty, or cause him to frustrate his father's plans, against the son's prospects in life." Isabel here threw her arms around her mother's neck and revealed to her Laird Stuart's declaration of love, his confession 9f how he was situated, ard her own partial refusal." "Did he reveal to you the lady's name?" "No, my dear mother, he did not, he seemed to prefer not doing so, saying that the name grated sorely on his ears, and he therefore never wished it mentioned in his presence, so, of course, I did not urge it." "You did& right, imy child," Mrs. Islan said, " and after his remarks, it would not be delicate to speak to him on the subject again, or ever broach it before him." 5   19         THA MSE 4R/f AAGz COYT./CT.       , "Rosy Red Bird promised to intercede in our behalf, i mother, Isabel artlessly said, " as the mediator with Laird  Glencarven." Mrs. Islan, seeing her daughter was distressed in mind pacified her by saying: ', Well, my child, it is for you to do what is right, and then wait patiently the result of your fairy Rosy friend's mission, and, perhaps, all will be well with her undertalings." Isabel soon became calm, and said: "Fear not, my dear mother, for your daughter, as 1 will never do aught against  your wishes, except vow  to love where I cannot give my heart, and yet I will never marry without your consent. The mother and child soon seated themselves in their little library, the one to sew, while the other read, as was their usual custom when alone, each coming evening. After Rosy Red Bird's having intimated to the young laird how matters stood between Isabel, himself and Elsie Lee, and that he might speak plainly of his attachment to Isabel with the trusty bonnie lassie, consequently, the private meetings between Elsie and himself were with double earnestness renewed, much to Sandy's annoyance, and so once more the brother mistrusted the young laird and his sister, keeping a strict vigilance over their move- ments, and although Sandy again upbraided Elsie, he could not elicit one word from the innocent, prudent lassie as to the cause of her oft-repeated clandestine meetings with the young laird. All she ever would say in answer to her brother's reproofs was:   - '"Sandy, dinna be frighted now, sine thar be naething wrang wi' the young laird."  When she would receive in reply: "I dinna ken, lassie, what a' your sweet converse may be aboot, but -it is nae prudent, Elsiej to gi'e the warld cause for sp'aking ill o'   THk iMARRi  a E CO VTPA CT.     G0 ye, sae beware, lassie, sine I wad rather see ye dead than disgrace yere ain fame, the name o' yere faither, or oor sweet mither wha bore ye; sae I warn ye, lassie, beware- baith ye an' the young laird, sine I dinna ken how I might be tempted, gin ye suld do that which is wicked in the sight o' God an' men, an' surely I will nae live to be ca'ed the brither o' ane wha has ance disgraced oor name; sae mind, I say again, what ye an' oor young maister be aboot." Elsie kissed her brother, as usual, when he scolded, and then replied : "I hae nae time to be sp'aking nonsense, and then ran off." Her brother sighed as he looked after her, and mourned, "My bonnie Elsie, nae doobt ye're still innocent, an' a gude lassie -yet, but mony's the likes o' ye's led astray to do foolish deeds, an' I sometimes dread what may tak' place unintentional wiV oor gude young laird an' yersel', sine I do nae like these verra familiar, sweet, aft an' alane meet. ings, sae I dinna ken what may talk' place between ye Elsie." CHAPTER XXIV. WALLACE MC)E D VILLE. again made is appearance at Hazeldean Highwood, but now came titled as' Earl of Thistle Glen, believing that to all, save Robin McCrea, it was a secret, and so too the young miller was bound by oath to keep it. The Earl's abode was the same humble Jock McNeil's cottage, and he wore the same hunting suit, amusing him- self still as sportsman Wallace McDerville; but this time as a companion and friend, he brought with him a white carrier pigeon, who was sometimes perched upon his finger,   too100    tE MARIA GE CO:SrA Ct.         Bi sometimes on his shoulder, and not unfrequently soaring 9 higher, was seated quite at home on the sportsman's hunt. ing cap, to the amusement of those who met him and wit. nessed the bird's easy, fearless position. Wallace being very partial to discovering inlets of dense woods, and searching for caves, would frequently spend: : whole days in climbing mountains to take a view of distant objects, again down in some ravine to search after the sources of hidden streams, and when wearied would lay himself down, fearless of reptile, beast, or evil-disposed 9 men, to rest; his pigeon ever, by her flapping wing, warn. ing him of danger, and his dog a faithful surety for his safety. So Wallace, one warm evening, after being wearied with the heat and excess of exercise, espied a little shady, cool wood, spotted with shrub, when not having energy enough to explore farther, and finding a nice flat moss-covered rock, beneath a sturdy oak, seated himself, braced his back against the tree, and thus with the pigeon on his cap, his pointer at his feet, gradually sank into a profound slumber. But soon he was aroused with an unusual, low growl from Leo, and the fluttering of the carrier pigeon's wings. Then came a little feeble bark like the squeaking of some child's puppet, only with more life. Wallace opened his eyes and started, quite bewildered il expression, as the wee object with red cloak, green hood, black dress, and yellow leggings, whom he had seen once before, stood courtesying before him quickly he laid one hand on Leo, that he might do no harm, then rubbed his eyes with the other, as he asked himself, "Am   I in a trance?" when fairy Rosy answered, "An' iedeed, sir Earl o' Thistle Glen, dinna fear, for yese nae asleep.'" Wallace's title thus proclaimed, he sprang to his feet -   THE MAdRIAGE COANTRAdCT.       101   ,?! and exclaimed," What! or who are you, that knows my name and title-? and did your fairyship drop from the clouds, a spirit? for it is the second time you have ap- peared to me." It is nae frae ony clouds, Wallace McDerville, that I ha'e fa'en, sine I camnl o' flesh an' bluid, but thar be nae sae muckle o' me as tomak' ye look sae affrighted, an' gin ye wad tak' a wee bit o' advice frae sae insignificant a being as mesel', ye can hear mony a time and aft frae yere ain gentle Lady Nona. Verily, indeed, did Wallace now seem as if in a mist, for the fairy knew everything, even the very love secrets of his heart, so thus he addressed her, "Fairy lady, that I am no stranger to your weeship is plain, and pray do you know the sweet, gentle Lady Nona?  Rosy replied, "She ha'e seen me but ance, an' like your- sel', was frighted as ony hare, but gin ye wull trust me Earl o' Thistle Glen, an' wull send hither the carrier pigeon to this verra spot wi' a message for the Lady Nona, I ken ane lassie wha may guide him sae swift, that in twenty minutes the gentle Lady Nona will ha'e it, but ye maun'a send the carrier till just aboot eventide. Wallace McDerville promised to put faith in this fairy, when again, with the branch of witch-hazel, she exacted from him, as she had done a few of the others, never to mention her name to ."ane single bodie." Blossom and Berry barked as if for a warning, some one was nigh then like down wafted by the wind, the fairy was lost to, him. Quickly Wallace, in thoughtful mood, and with strange sensations, strolled back to the mill, feeling as if he had been in communication with' something not of earth? and well he kept his secret,   102      TEE b ARRIAGE CONTRA CT. CHAPTER XXV. AND is it an astonishing affair that lovers so frequ - have accidental meetings? I answer no, since the mind  is never free from devising some plans to win a fresh young :  heart, from that one dearer to him than all others, by deeds most tender.  With Wallace McDerville, although the first act was small (the mere disentangling a simple dress  from thorns), still the effect of that kindness so delicately performed by him, and sweetly received with a fascinating smile of thanks from gentle Lady Nona, had touched the hearts of both; and thus from that time various means were  used to receive some evidence of affection, one from the other, of these two now most devotedly attached lovers. But it lately somehow happened that Wallace and gentle Lady Nona met quite fiequently-taccidentally, of course; yet to Lady Nona it was exceedingly mysterious how on each evening of late, when, just preparing to retire, she opened the casket to deposit her jewels, a little card had there found a  conspicuous place. The writing on this small messenger in the first place told only of unalterable friend- ship, with complimentary remarks upon her appearance, ' mind, and manners, and was without signature; therefore, she did not take offense at what was so respectful; and although she might say to herself it is an enigma, and from i whence comes this anonymous tribute of esteem, and still, gentle Lady Nona's bright, glowing, expression .of delight at these protestations of friendship could readily tell where her suspicions rested. But when gradually this little mes- sage of friendship changed in form, and warm avowals of love became its-whole subject, this sweet child of nature began to droop, for although duty told her to reveal all to   THE IMBRIA GE CONTRA CT.       103 her father, who so fondly indulged her at all times, yet, alas! she dared not, even in a modified way, whisper it to' him, dreading his displeasure, and a positive interdiction of ever seeing Wallace again, since she had never forgotten the terrible expression and excited manner he had exhibited the first and only time she had ever in his presence men- tioned the name of Wallace McDerville. All this weighed heavily on the heart and mind of Lady Nona. Thus, duty to her parent on one side, and love for Wallace on the other, gave her sleepless, restless nights; and yet she ever tried to look happy and cheerful in the morning at the usual family meetings. But Lady Nona's friends were not to be deceived ; they feared for her declining health, since while her lips pronounced she was well, her sweet but anxious expression, pallid cheek and restless eye, told another tale. The mystery of from whom the card came was now sup- planted  by the inquiry how her nightly movements were so well known by any one as to arrange this token of love so as to insure its being the first object to meet her eye on disrobing. As to Lady Nona's sleeping apart- ment, it was on the second floor adjoining that of the Lady Blanche on the one side, while on the other was a boudoir, very small, and this Lady Nona called her sanctum. The windows, reaching to the floor gave access to a balcony, around which a monthly honeysuckle wound its way to the topmost railing in superabundance diffusin g its fragrance throughout the whole season, and, much to the gentle lady's delight, even to her sleeping apartments, But this her father began to fancy was deleterious to her health, and threatened to have it removed. Lady Nona plead for the flower, little dreaming that soon there would be a stronger reason for being more strenuous in her wishes that she might not plead in vain.   'One calm evening, "at the moon's full," Lady Nona was seated on this balcony enjoying the witching time's mellow light. Suddenly she was startled by the cooing of a bird then her attention was directed to the fluttering wings of snow white pigeon, which she could discern, by rising Luna's silvery rays, was searching a safe spot amid the honeysuckle on which to rest its rosy feet, and w hen she approached the bird, discovered a blue ribbon, the one end fastened to the little innocent's eg, whie the other was held by some hand below. Presently a musical voice said, in whispering accents, which Lady Nona's ear quickly de. teeted ai coming from bonnie Elsie.: "Listen now, an' dinlna, dinna fear, Lady Nona, it is uaebodie but me, an' I be a'ways yeere freend, ye ken. ' Then, after springing from one bar of the iron trellis to another, like a squirrel, until safely landed by the side of her young mistress, she carefully yet quickly unfastened from beneath the pigeon's wing a little card similar to those which had been nightly deposited in her casket. "And so, Elsie, dear, it is you who have been the skilfuil depositor of this winged messenger's despatches?" "It is e'en sae, Lady Nona, an' sure there is nae harm, in it, sine the gentleman, M r. W allace McDerville, would do naething wrong."  ' "Bonnie Elsie," gentle Lady Nona replied, that Wal  - lace McDerville does not lack honor I believe; but think you that my kind, indulgent father old proveof clandestine mes  sages, even if they came from the best and most beloved man of his own choice for his daughter? So mayhap it were better to desist from being the bearer of -- any more of these tokens of love, which m y heart delights in receiving, yet still dreads, fearing to offend my kind, on d parent by receiving them ,"     THE MArRIA GE CONTRA CI'       105 I "An' indeed, Lady Nona, I wull do sae nae mair; but. I canna stop this winged medium and tender messenger o' luve, sin' noo he kens the way, wi'out my assistance, where is the eend o' his journey, and when he rests his pretty rose-colored feet amid these sweet blossoms he wull nae leave till ye tak' the wee bit card frae under his snaw- white wing. But," Elsie said, starting : "I ear Otto barking, air' sae I maun gang and tell it is nae ane but me speaking wi' his gentle lady mistress." Then no sooner had the words passed the lassie's lips than by the same means which she came, she was, with the pigeon on her finger, again safely landed upen the ground. And by this time the carrier pigeon is known as that of Wallace McDerville's; and through fairy Rosy's directions, Elsie had taught the pigeon the way to Lady Nona's balcony; but the conscientious, gentle lady is not to be envied, as her struggle was great between filial duty, the wounding a lover's feelings, and the breakitg of her own heart. Yet such a one, who is guided through the performance of duly to both God and man, is always to be trusted, since they eventually pursue that course which is faithful, truthful, and in accordance with honorable Christian principles. And here we wilt leave the gentle Lady Nona to ponder over, and pray for, directions from Heaven to deal rightly and kindly with all; so that she may not be led to do aught contraryto the religious precepts instilled by her good father from infancy, and to whom she was all devotion and obedience.    106     TEE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.           e CHAPTER XXVI. ELSIE, deeming she had done no sad evil, was truly happy in her successful performance of kind acts for the lovers, but the bonnie lassie dreamed not of her reception at the foot of the baIcony, which she had scarcely reached before her brother Sandy, solemnly in voice, yet tauntingly in words, said, "An' sae Elsie Lee, can ye think it be weel tq be finding yere way to the auld Laird Glencarven's, like ane who does nae ken the honest door o' oor gude maister's house, an' where naebodie -says ye nay? An' can ye nae sp'ak wi' the young laird like ony ither lassie who wad be gude an' honest wi' oor young maister? Al'! is it cam' to a' this lassie, that ye mnlln in the dusky eve  clamber over the iron trellis to sp'ak wi' the young laird? Shame, shame! Elsie Lee, in sorrow  to oor mrither that, bare ye, an' oor father's honest name; an' it maun be wi' the young laird I shall sp'ak first, an' ken whar be a' the honor o' the Glencarven noble line to talk' advantage o' a foolish, wicked lassie's ignorance o' the warld; shame o' ye baith! And now was it Elsie's turn to be roused, as she firmly, with high spirit, from sense of her own pure motives, and virtue, said, " Sandy Lee sp'ak nae mair to me in sicken'a impudent manner, sine I   wull nae ha'e it, an' shame, mon, on ye, an' ye my   brither, too, to suspicion yere ain sister o' onything sae low, sae wicked," her voice faltering and lips quivering as the words issued from them, with offendried dignity at his severe, unjust accusations.  An' Sandy Lee, mon, beware, she continued, beware how you sp'ak o' sicken'a thing to your sister's dishonor, to oor young laird, sae gude an' sae true to a' on airth, an' his an' oor good God; sae I    bid ye beware, Sandy."   THE MARRIA GE COYZTRIACT.      107  Here the bark of Otto stopped the finishing of the sen- tence, as she felt that some one was near, and dreaded lest it was the young laird. But Elsie was relieved since it was not Stuart Glen'carven's voice from whence came the reprimand, so proud in her vindication, of "Sandy Lee, man, I had surely expected better things of you than to suspect the honor and virtue of your best and purest in heart of sisters, or the unjustness to your young lord in distrusting him, and so ranking a man all nobleness and honor with the low profligate as to believe he would lead your sister, the bonny Elsie, astray, to the ruin of both body and soul. And here I stand ready to answer to you, Sandy Lee, Elsie's brother, for both her and the young laird, and thus on oath will I vouch, man that they have neither seen each other or anticipated a single meeting, and this evening I know Stuart Glencarven to be from home. Bat Elsie, the bonnie lassie's secret is her own, and yet I am sure it is pure,'for Elsie has no wicked heart." "And whiabe ye?" exclaimed Sandy, excited and full of .fire, wha dare be on the auld laird's domains at this hour o' the evening wi'out a pass frae Jamie Lee, caming like ane wha be a thief, I will set the dogs on ye, mon."  By this time the dignified, mild-spoken,'unkaown gentleman, be- came provoked with the young Scotchman, who had whistled for Otto and Brutus'so quickly, with a firm grasp on Sandy's arm, and calm, decided voice, said to the man (he felt was like an infuriated madman), "Ba careful Sandy Lea of what you are doing, lest ye might fore worse for it, and yet you shall not know who I am." fie then walked quietly, still disguised with dignity away. In th3 meanwhile, however, as the stranger was dealing with Sandy, Elsie had laid a hand on each of the dogs, and softly staid their attack upon her 9o4ampion until he was   108     SeTHE MARRIAGE CONT;ACT. gone, when sweetly, but warningly, whispering to Sandy Lee, her hand upon his shoulder, "Brither Sandy be carefu', verra carefu', what ye do,gin ye wad nae displease the gentle Lady Nona, for whom ye ha'e sae gr'at respect." These words acted like a charm, yet fell like a knell on the young gardener's ear, for he now was as, subdued as a lamb before his shearers, and cautiously, with much discre- tion, gave vent to no more feeling, uttering not a word as  he walked by Elsie's side on their way to the farm cottage: and once home, was in sullen silence, hastening to his room I when Elsie ran after him, threw her arms around his neck and sobbed aloud. This was too much for Sandy, who so devotedly loved his sister, his bonnie Elsie, so he sorrow- fully, yet tenderly, kissed her, and then folded her to his heart. Thus encouraged, the lassie pleaded: "Dinna, dear brither, ony mair suspicion yere sister o' doing evil, sine in my verra soul I am innocent, and dinna condemn the young laird, sine I wull gi'e my life he is honor to the verra heart in principle and feeling." Sandy now said, speaking mildly, "I forgi'e ye a' gin ye wull forgi'e me, Elsie; but, my bonnie lassie, ye're awfu' foolish in mony deeds, an' yet I do forgi'e ye a', hoping ye wull do nae evil for yere ain an' oor parents' sake, sae ye may nae bring thar gray hairs in sorrow to the grave." "Thank ye, Sandy," Elsie said, "for noo sp'aking sae kindly, an' it wull nae be lang before I shall tell ye a'." The brother went up stairs, and it was well for the sister , when she entered the room where her parents sat that it was not very light, or they would- have discovered, from X Elsie's red eyes, that their child had been weeping in sorrow.  Sandy was soon called down, and when prayers were   :1   ffE MA RRIA GE CONTRTACT.       109 over they all parted for the night, each one slumbering sweetly save himself, who had many things praying on his mind, very difficult at present for any one to solve. One thing surely was evident to all, that something extra bothered Sandy; still no one had an idea that his new trouble was this mysterious stranger. Yet so it was, for although his face, had not been seen by Sandy, the young gardener felt the gentleman was of noble blood, through speech and dignified bearing; then also he seemed to recol- lect having heard his voice before, and Elsie's cautionary words as a warning to be careful of Lady Nona's great dis- pleasure gave Sandy an inkling that it might be the young sportsman whom Sandy had seen once before, when he affrighted the young mistress by the discharge of his fowl- ing piece, and who he began to believe had made a deep impression on Lady N-na's heart. But Sandy revealed his thoughts to no one, and perhaps he could not even define exactly the nature of those thoughts to himself. CHAPTER XXVII. THS frequent absenting himself from home, of Stuart Glencarven, sometimes for whole days continuing, the old laird was troubled in spirit, as he felt that Isabel was the magnet, and yet he had neither sufficient resolution nor determination of purpose to broach the subject to his son, knowing full well what would be the result; an obstinate refusal from Stuart to comply with his wishes, as to resign- - ing Isabel, and his own great dissatisfaction at Stuart's perseverance in persisting not to marry Miriam, which would fill his spirit with severe mortification that the Mel-   bourne estate should pass into the hands of any person who was connected with the inan that had broughe so much sorrow to his heart in his early days. The time had now arrived when it was necessary tha othere should be some change in the present state of affairs with the lovers, since the widow Islan was unwilling that the young laird should visit so fiequently at Hawthorn cottage, or her only child ever again ride with him, until the old laird had sanctioned his son's paying addresses to her daughter, sincerely expressing himself thato a marriage with Isabel would meet his entire approbation. The case of the youngf laird was very hard either way: first, know. ing that the frustration of his father's plans for him would be nigh breaking his parent's heart ; and then for himself to forego the bliss of mnakinr Isabel his wife would blast for. ever all the hopes for which he lived, the very object for which his heart panted, scarcely trusting himself should his father refuse to grant this boon he craved, fearing what in the depth of his despair he might be tempted to do; since i-sabella had already almost phrenzied him by declar. ing that she would fgde away with grief, and find an early grave, rather than do aught wherein her dignity might be compromised by permitting him to visit her much longer, - if contrarytotheperfectwillofhisfather. Andnowc ame a trying moment, as it was the very last meeting at their trysting place, fairy Rosy Red  Birdls, until matters were fully decided. Isabel wept, while the young laird, sitting by her side holding her hand in his, sighed until it seemed as if he would almost sigh his heart away. Then suddenly rising, paced the ground, wringing his hands like one demented, Blossom and Berry barking and whining with fright. At length fairy Rosy could stand it no longer, so she    THE MAtRl IAI  CON TRACT. Ii 111       - thus comforted Stuart, with full resolution to act as she promised, confident of success, saying: , An' noo me young laird, ye ken fu' weel that I luve this fair lassie e'en a gin she war me amn chield, an' sae, too, war it nae for her, I wad nae hae left me ain hame, me native land; but I could nae bide awa firae the widow Islan, and her bonnie sweet daughter Isabel. and sae I be here to make the chield happy; an' then would ye nae be happy too, me young laird? Ah! I ken fu' weel ye wull wioat ane answer. ', And can you ask me the question good fairy queen? Stuart quickly replied, " when you know I Would die for Isabel." "Aye, my laird," was Rosy's reproof, " ye maun'na sp'ak sae, sine the life o' a' his people be in the hand o' God himsel', and ye ken Isabel wad nae require sicken' a sacrifice frae ane she luves wi' a' her soul. But I will insure ye baith, gin ye gie me four weeks, that a' shall be settled to the best wishes o' yere twain hearts, but ye maun trust me, mon.             - The young laird here threw himself on his knees before Rosy Red Bird, and said all sorts of extravagant things, as he believed she could accomplish whatever she undertook. The fair Isabel wept until the young laird, gently taking her hand in his, asked "Sweet Isabel, are these tears of grief for me?" Then as she turned to him those soul. beaming eyes, and on him sweetly smiled assent, he gently squeezed that hand, which brought a glow of warmth upon her cheeks, rising in blushes to her very brow. 4"An' noo," fairy Rosy said, " gie' baith yere ears to me an' make me ane promise, me laird, that ye wull nae gang but ance a week to Hawthorn Cottage; an' sae for ye, me chield Isabel, ye maun gang nae mair wf the young laird or the black Bruce to ride, or meet him at the wee moss    "cot, till I send for ye to came thegither; sae gude night, an' whan Isee yese again, I will mak' baith o' ye happy. After many promises to fairy Rosy to maintain strict and implicit obedience to her commands, and with oft. repeated thanks for her assurance of their ultimate happi. ness, they lingered on their way to the steeds, making for home with brighter countenances than when they CHAPTER   XXVIII. POOR Sandy; great apprehensions daily increased for him with his friends, fearing he was either in a decline or had some deeply seated trouble on his brain; but although fears Were entertained for his mind, still no one could fathom the difficulty. Ofttimes his mother would find him shedding tears over some little trifles, holding them in such position that she could not tell what they were. But the terrible words  once overheard by the father alarmed him very much, since they ran thus : "Death is bet- ter than dishonor, and my hand is unerring in aim "; then in despair expressing himself: "Ah! life noo has nae maire charm for me; but oh! gin the gude God had gi'en - me noble bluid, striking his chest with his hand, I should ha'e been a   mon." Many times his father found him placing a   small object in some split sticks high, and low, at various distances to practise archery, and it  astonished him to see how true, almost to a   hair's breadth, Sandy's arrow found the mark. But the most   mysterious of all was to see him place fre- quently on the point, very neatly, a  very small scrap of    THE MzBRJA GE CONTRA CT.       113 paper, and when he found his hand and eye had served him so well that the arrow reached without fail its place of : destination, Sandy laughed aloud. Jamie Lee made Robin McCrea his confidant, begging him to give all of his spare time to watching his son, as be feared for his sanity, yet the father mentioned naught of this to the mother or sister to render them unhappy, while he kept a vigilant eye over his son himself. The old laird's stay at his favorite resort became of late longer than was his custom, and Lady Nona's keen percep- tion discovered a shade of sorrow and gloom on his brow, so she determined to give him as much of her time as possible, and if she met Sandy tried also to soothe him, and for the time succeeded. After Wallace's pigeon had been taught the way to Lady Nona, he became very bold, making twilight visits without Elsie, always perching himself on the trellis' top bar and there remained cooing and fluttering until the card was removed, and it had a caress from the gentle lady. Occasionally on its return, a wee answer would, by the lover, be found under the snowy wing; and once, much to the distress of the lovers, Wallace's card did not reach Lady Nona, and by whom it had been found was undiscov- ered. The anxious search for this token of love detained Lady Nona later that morning from Eglantine Hermitage, and when she arrived and there saw her father removing : something from the point of an arrow that to her appeared like a card or a piece of paper, which she could not tell, kept in the background awaiting the result. After reading its contents, her father's expression seemed very peculiarly mystified, hurrying whatever he had into ; his pocket, his face quite rigid with thought. Lady Nona, first actually motionless with fear lest it had   1*4 THEE MKXRaSIzA. CONTRACT. , something to do with'her lost love-token, stayed her steps a few moments, and when she did advance the old laird was absent-minded that the gentle daughter's arms were around his neck before he had heard her steps, but the loving kiss the father gave in return for hers, with a welcome smile, drove all anxiety from her mind, and when she left it was in her usual happy way. CHAPTER XXIX.    ' As the young laird's visits to Hawthorn Cottage were limited to once a week, as a matter of course Isabel re. ceived  muDny messages, which were first conveyed to the mill by Elsie, and then Robin McCrea became the medium; the bonnie lassie's duties as bearer of despatches ceasing at the bridge, and sometimes the young laird walked part way with Elsie, hoping to catch a glimpse of his lady fair on her coal-black Bruce.  Now of course these messages brought the young laird and Elsie into closer communion than ever, their- meetings being in more secluded byways. Thus Sandy, who could not be reconciled to these secret proceedings, surely looked on them with a more jealous eye than ever; and yet with all his vigilance he had never discovered the least positive impropriety on the part of either; siill; suspicious as usual, Sandy closely wathed Elsie with the Laird Stuart, and ever kept also a strict eye to Wallace McDerville's occasional intrusions on the bor- ders of the domains, for he approached no  nearer, Lady -Nona fearing to invite Wallace to the house on account of her father. Thus Sandy's feebleness of body with wildness of expression increased, giving stronger evidence of infirm. ty and causing the bonnie Elsie often to weep over her    THE MBRRI. AGE CONTRA CT,      115  brother's declining health, never thwarting him in anything if she could avoid it; and on his expressing himself one day in stronger doubts than ever of the young laird and her intimacy with him, she partially reconciled him by saying, it An think ye, Sandy, gin onything war verra wrang that Robin McCrea wad nae sp'ak o' it to yere sister, sine dinna ye ken Sandy, lovers ha'e a'ways a mair jealous een than a brither owre ane that wull ane day be his wife." Sandy's eyes now brightened as he said, "I did nae ken, Elsie, it had cam to, this, an' I noo believe sicken a sweet face maun a'way be innocent o' heart, and Robin McCrea is a braw, gude mon." This quiet, kind manner lightened the bonnie lassie's heart of a great load; so thanking Sandy for his good opinion of her sweetheart, and giving him one sisterly kiss of love, cheerfu]lly saying she hoped for the future he would not disapprove of her conduct. They, this time at least, really parted happily ; Elsie feeling- mnuch relieved at the idea that all proceedings of herself and the young laird were fully explained. But other affairs troubled Sandy besides Elsie, his young mistress Lady Nona was looking very del. icate, and whether it was love for Wallace kMcDerville, or a gradual fading by some malady, in his humble position Sandy was debarred the extreme satisfaction of knowing; yet his diligence increased to please her. Thus not a sin- gle day passed without the freshest, most rare flowers and delicate fruit being gathered and placed in the gentle Lady Nona's own hand by Sandy himself; one smile of thanks from his young mistress a full compensation for all the toil used in procuring such things as he hoped gave her plea- sure to receive. Poor Elsie, all the endeavors and kind means she used to elicit from her brother the cause of his failing health was of no avail; his -only answer being,   itm1    TZBE 'MARXRIAGE CONT ACT.   -    . j - Elsie, bonnie lassie, dinna be bothered aboot me, sin'e I i  am not in the least ill."               : Yet Elsie doubted Tim much since there was- naught in the line of love to make him pine away that she was aware  of. Indeed, Sandy certainly never was known to have a fancy for any lassie, holding himself above all who had not the refined-education of the bien nee.  And so Elsie had many a sleepless, weeping night on - account of Sandy's health, for she was fearful he was wast. ing away with consumption. CHAPTER XXX.           ?: THE old laird, one misty morning, sitting alone in E!ganT tine Hermitage, full of reflection over the little strip (of paper which came to him  on the point of the messenger arrow, sent by an unknown  hand, the only words upon it being ' Beware, keep a vigilant eye: intruders on the do- main," was much startled, nay, almost affrighted, as the wee fairy dwarf form of Rosy Red Bird appeared before himl then recovering, he questioned her, ": From whence come you?   Are you of this world?" When the answer was given in a soft, small, but clear voice, "I  dinna wonder, Laird Glencarven, that ye ask . where I am frae, sine I ken fu' weel that 1 am nae propor- tioned like ither bodies, but thin I. ken fu' weel me faither and mither were nae strangers to ye." Here the wee one paused a  moment as she observed the old lair d give evidence that his ideas were vet a little clouded, but when he apparently became collected Rosy continued' "Me  laird, first, I surely am born o' flesh an?   THE M4ARBitAGE COzTRACT.      117'I bluid, an' true I ha'e ane speerit wi'in'; yet I am nae sprite, for ye did ken baith me faither an' mither. An' noo, me laird, do ye iver mind seeing Willie -McCormick, the auld Laird Melbourne's butler ?  An' gin sae ye hae surely heard tell o' his bonnie wife Maggie; sin'e they say that a' the warld in Scotland did sp'ak o' her beauty, and that hersel' was the only ane wha kenned naething aboot it." "Aye, little fairy," the old laird said," you do -verily speak of her-whom, when but a boy, I each day stopped on returning from school to peep at, thinking her far"too beautiful to stay long in this world, and Maggie was the only child of my father's gamekeeper, Jockey Duncan.', "An' thin, me laird, Rosy continued, "ye can nae forget that Maggie died o' a broken heart, caused by the ainly bairn she iver had being stolen frae her when a verra wee thing." "Aye, fairy, and that do I well remember, for Laird Melbourne and myself searched the whole country around without success, and many sleepless nights did I have while thinking of poor Maggie's trouble at the loss of her little J~  ~     n  oy   hn,!m     ar,    oyakd        htIht   "An' do ye think, me laird," Rosy asked, "that I ha'e ony resemblance to Maggie ?" "No, indeed," was the old laird's answer; " except that you have somewhat of the same winning smile, for which Maggie was so famed that no one could deny anything she asked." "An' mayhap, me laird, ye wull nae noo believe for certes I be that verra chield yersel' an' the Laird Melbourne traveled to find, but could nae recover for Maggie?" " Noo, me laird," Rosy said, for she observed his aston- ishment, " I see fu' weel, ye think a' this verra strange, but ye maun believe, sin'e I am the verra babe Maggie lost, an'  ('   118 ;TiE MAE Si IAGE COrTPjCL.           '1 me true name is Rosalie McCormick, an' it war the Gipsies wha stole me, an' whether frae fright, or sicken a fact as being charmed by witches, naebody could tell, but I niver grew sin'e the Gipsies lifted me awa'. They ca'ed the : Gipsy's name Judith, an' she taught me to live in the woods! an' tak' care o' mesel', an' ca'ed me Rosy Red Bird. An' Judith tould me mony times to be kind to the twa families 1 Melbourne an' Glencarven, sin'e mony times the twa young lairds saved her frae ganging to prison. An', indeed,  Judith repented o' her sins before she died, an' when she war deeing confessed I war the verra chield she stole frae r Willie McCormick, in revenge for taking her before ane : crass baillie for naething but gathering a few apples. An' twa days before Judith deed she tould me baith faither and mither laid in the kirkyard, an' thin she brought me to the sma' house on Laird Melbourne's estate whar me wee sell cam' into the world, an' said mak' yersel' thar a hame. But whin I learned Laird Melbourne was nae living, I jist, a' to mesel' determined niver to bide in ony house but ane o' me ain fixin' an' I ha'e kept me ward. An' Judith put in me  hands ane pair o' gold armlets, an' said gin iver 1 found the Laird Glencarven, an' he laid his twa een on these trinkets wi' me name marked on them, he wad kell it to be the verra anes he did for me gi'e to Maggie the verra day I made her twa een happy, an' noo, me laird, -, here I ha'e brought to ye these chield's gewgaws. Ah! t see f' w-eel ye mind they war yere ain gifts to Maggie's wee babe. An' noo, ne  Laird Glencarven, I ha'e seeket ye oot, an' ha'e found ye, an' I bide noo in ane wee moss cot nae far awa' frae ye. An' sin'e, me laird, I ha'e tould ye at me history, I wull mak' ye acquaint' wi' me errand. I l cam', me laird, to sp'ak ane ward o' favor wi' ye for the young laird, wha I  ha'e seen o' late, an' Stuart Glencarven    DTHE  PRIAt  E COl'NTRACT z     \l9 did tell me a' aboot the contract o' marriage to wed the Lady Miriam. But I haWe been informed the Lady Mel- bourne did say she wad niver consent to her chield's marry; irg ony mon to whom she could nae gi'e her whole heart,-. an' that the mon wha wull be the Lady hriam's husband maun marry her for her ain sel' alane, an' nae for fortune or noble bluid. An' how de ye ken me laird, that Stuart Glencarven wull luve-the Lady Miriam?" "But," the old laird asked, ' tell me, fairy lady, where can my son see the Lady Melbourne's daughter? for both mother and child have left Langsdale." "That be verra true, me laird, sine I hear she ha'e parted frae Scotland a'thegither. An' sae thin the Lady Miriam a lang while gane bye mayhap ha' gi'en her heart to some ither braw young laird, an' gin sae her mither wad nae deny the wishes o' her chield. An' ye maun ken, me laird, that Lady Melbourne did ha'e enough o' this world's gudes frae her ain father, wi'out ony o' that the laird did gie her an' the daughter after her, provided the Lady Miriam did nae marry yer son. Sae it wull mak' nae verra gr'at differ' to Lady Melbourne, gin a' the laird deeded to Lady Miriam, the day she wad be wed to the Laird Stuart, should f2l into the hands o' the McDervilles, as weel as a part o' the rest o' the Melbourne estate; sin'e it be better by far to br'ak sicken a contract, the mither thinks than to be a'way unhappy.  Sae Lady Melbourne wad rather for- feit Lady Miriam's claim, gin it secure happiness.  "Bu-t, me laird, I fu' weel ken that ye ha'e gr'at dislike to the McDerville's, an' that be nae a Christian speerit to hate onybodie; but to forgive yere enemies mak's the heart feel far better. An' noo thin Laird Glencarven, the Laird Stuart, yere son, ha' baith been an' luves as fair an' sweet a maiden as ye can find in the wide warld; aye! e'en   -  O0'     THS HAftrIAG   cOiXTRACT. in Scotland loor native land. An' I ha' e promised the young  laird to br'ak the subject to ye; an' noo, ainly ane ward mairjist this: How do ye ken that the Lady Miriam be sicken a lady as ye wad iver choose to be mistress o' Heather Plains, an' the wife o' yere son? sin'e it be lan', an' mony a day sin'e ye ha'e seen the daughter o' Laird  Melbourne. An' think ye, me laird, gin the lady be de. formed, the Laird Stuart wull wed her?" Here now the old laird's wits seemed to give way, he i scarcely believing that anything so diminutive, of flesh and blood, could know so much, and in his bewilderment he  began to fancy- that, after- all, she might be a spirit, and that the tale of her being the child of pretty Maggie Duncan must be a dream; but the infant's gold armlets gave proof - that she was no impostor.  To test whether or not he was sleeping, he arose to his feet, rubbed his eyes, and after proving to himself that he was wide awake, mildly, yet with firm  decision, said, "Rosy, fairy queen, you mayqbe of flesh and blood, or all i this to me a vision, and yourself the reporting spirit, and I1 grant what you have said to be good, sound sense, and your  arguments, I must say, are just in some points, but my ' honor is dear to me, and both my word and signature were pledged to one who is dead, and I hope in the regions of the just--for David Melbourne was a righteous man-so I cannot retract, even if such were Lady Melbourne's  wishes. "And if the lassie, my son's love, is the very queen of  beauty, and Lady Miriam deformed, I have no power to  consent ever to the Laird Stuart Glencarven of Heather Plains marrying any other than the one to whom he is. bound, in accordance with'the contract made for him, up. j on my oath, in his infancy, although I should be grieved; to see him unhappy."  : '-I   ' TffE MAlRIAGE CONTRACT.       i:2i  The fairy Rosy now became very much excited, as she    ^ said, "Me. laird, ye need nae fear that Stuart Glencarven  wull mak' himsel' unhappy, sin'e I ken fu' well he wull " niver marry ony ither than the lassie he noo luves aboon a' the warld, an' that is a' true." Rosy then called Blossom and Berry, her tiny pets and on seeing these, the old laird doubted more than ever Rosy's being of flesh and blood, or an inhabitant of this world. It then occurring to him that she might/ be some  medium, he called her back and inquired if the old Wallace MeDerville still lived, and whether the sportsman who bore the same name, and had lately been on his domains, was the'son of his old enemy. Rosy's reply was: "Me laird, ah! this is nae after the gude God's law to dislike onybody, an 'specially a braw young mon wha's ainly sin is to hae the name o'.ilka one wha hae doon ye ane evil act; an the young sportsman o' that name is ane noble lad. But, me laird, ye ken that the auld Wallace McDerville be dead, an' his; heir noo bears the title o' Earl o' Thistle Glen, an' what think ye sh'u'd bring ane sae tittled, wi' his vast land in Scotland, awa, here to sport, ane wha ha' sae muckle game in his ain do- mains o' Thistle Glen. But the puir lad Wallace, who be here noo, inherited a leetle land frae somebodie an sae cam to tak care o' it, an it wad be verra wrang to question ane aboot that does nae consarn me, or for ye to suspicion ane wha hae doon ye nae injury." So saying, Rosy and her fancy dogs were quickly out of sight; but the old laird's stentorian voice soon called her bgack, when he asked : Rosy,  for the sake of bonnie, sweet Maggie, whom you say was your mother, tell how I can find you when I wish to learn what may be transpiring on my domains?"  "Nae, me laird," Rosy answered, " it maunna be sae "   . 6    - '122   SEE MAHRIRAGE CONTRACT. when ere Rosy had time to say any more, Brutus, who lilke his master had recovered from his confused ideas, gave one spring toward the wee family, and but for the old laird's  promptness would have accomplished vicious work. The fairy family now vanished, leaving the old laird wavering: whether this visit of Rosy Red Bird's was of earth or from the spiritland; orj if she conld be pretty Maggie's child;  questioning, in silence, if Rosy's story really Would be true, of havihg fallen into the hands of the Gipsies and the fright causing her dwarfishness; deciding that all'might be possi- ble, but was not very probable, and finally concluded, for  fear of being quizzed, never to utter one word of the sight of her weeship, Rosy Red Bird, to any one. Still he dreamed of her, thought of what she had reported  to him, and in pondering over the information he had re. ceived became more taciturn than ever, and less approach. able to his children., CHAPTER XXXI. BONNIE Elsie continued now the bearer of despatches "i without fear, for she hoped her brother would be no more i troubled as to her meetings with the young laird, after she had acquainted Sandy with her engagement to Robin McCrea. Yet daily poor Sandy's countenance remained the picture of despair, many times listlessly sitting on the greensward with Otto by his side. The only time a smooth brow and placid smile was to be seen upon his countenance was when the gentle Nona, calling him to a rustic seat, near the grove by the farm cottage, would read to him aloud some passages from a sweet little book--which were sooth.- :;:   THE MA RRA GE CONTRACT,       12:  ,ing to an anxious, wearied mind-called "Words with Jesus." Still after Lady Nona ceased reading and left Sandy, the fiown returned, and all smiles were banished from his face. Thus all the efforts of the young mistress, or the endeav- ors of his sister Elsie, to soothe the young gardener, and all the sister's attempts to remove his suspicions as tpo her innocence of purpose in meeting privately her young mas- ter, proved altogether fruitless, which was soon evinced through his movements, which were like one becoming im- becile. Late one evening, the stun down and the moon rising, Sandy sat watching the motions of- the carrier-bird. Otto came with a bound to the young gardener's side, and then dropped in his hand a card similar to that which Satdy had previously found, it having fallen from the pigeon through  insecure fastening. Its purport ran thus: "God bles  ycu, darling Nona, and the Almighty guard you this night from all harm. By the will of Divine P/rovidence, I hope to see you to-morrow." Notwithstanding there was no  signa ure, Sandy knew full well from whence it came; so his determination was made, and that night there was no sleep for him, and the morning's dawn found him like one phrenzied as he went forth fasting.            - Scarcely had the old laird seated himself in his sanctum, when an arrow, sent with good aim, fell at his feet; but this time the strange messenger distressed him, to think that his daughter, the darling of, his heart, should, undis- closed to him, be receiving messages of such a nature. He, however, parentlike, disposed to look with leniency on all the acts of his children, accounted for it as some little hoax of her brother's, never having heard aught of any one's in- trusion on the domains since Lady Nona's ominous second   124     THE MAIKRIAGB CONTBAM. imeeting with Wallace McDerville, the day of the accidentaft i shot, until the warning of intruders and this card from the ! arrow. And now he began to feel himself on enchanted ground, so often receiving these mysterious informations of his family's proceedings, at one time by arrow messenger, at another through fairy mediums, and verily became in- clined to believe in witchcraft;           ! But poor Sandy, scarcely had he performed his part ere he buried his face in his hands, weeping as if his heart would break; and thus the Lady Nona found him sitting, while herself in great distress at the loss of her card, and all the satisfaction her inquiries after the lost treasure received from him was, "Oh, Lady Nona, Lady Nona, forgi'e me,) ' and then while dropping his head to conceal his anguish he ! fainted. The young mistress thought him dying at first and so forgot all--herself, Wallace and the card-in at- : tempting to revive Sandy; but finding her own efforts only partially successful, ran, as she ever did in distress, to her elder sister. Lady Blanche hastened, taking with her a re-  storative from aunty Agnes, and then they went quickly to Sandy. After administering the medicine and speaking gentle words to encourage him, he rallied so as to walk slowly home, where finding Effie, his mother, alone, the la. dies remained with her until the anodyne, together with ex- haustion, produced composure in Sandy; and ere long he quietly fell asleep, previously, as he afterward told Lady Nona, having made a firm resolution to reveal to her the ;! next day the reckless and presumptuous act of his, which might prove injurious to her, almost fearing to hope for her forgiveness.  "   THE MA RRIA GE CO TRA CT.      125 CHAPTER XXXII. THE cares of the old laird's family now fell fast and heavy upon him, and aunty Agnes also felt their weight. First, Donald Dunmaire, Blanche's lover-cousin, had written for permission to visit Hazeldean Highwood, his letter being sent to Lady Agnes. Then Stuart was beseeching her for intercession with the father to release him, from- the marriage contract with Lady Miriam, and yield to his pro- posal that Isabel should become his wife. And so, also, artless, gentle Lady Nona, the pet of the family, had made aunty the confidant of her love for Wallace, and her com- munications with him by means of the carrier-pigeon, at the same time exacting non-disclosure to the father, dread- ing his reproof; and thus the pure-in-heart, high-minded Nona was droopping, paling, and fading at her deception with her indulgent parent, whom she so fondly loved, and whose idol she was., Trying, indeed, was the position of aunty Agnes, having the confidence of all, which she could not betray, while conscientious scruples of duty told her there were-certain points she ought to reveal to the father, which she was bound by promise to all the children to withhold. Thus honor, duty, and tender feeling were at strife-to do what was kind, and yet act for the good of each. As to the young laird, Isabel was taken ill, and since the inderdiction for him not to visit Hawthorn Cottage, without his father's consent, he was perfectly frantic, and more exacting than ever of Elsie to carry messages to and from Isabel. Conse- quently the meetings of the bonnie lassie with the young laird were more frequent; but, to save Elsie some fatigue, Robin McCrea ever met her more then half way to the mill bridge, so Elsie had more time to assist her mother   126     THE MARIA GE CONTRA CT. in working, more leisure hours for cheering her brother and some spare moments to spend with the Lady Nona, aiding her occasionally when love matters did not go smoothly. The ever judicious, fond aunty Agnes was all vigilance i to guard against and check every movement of a tendency to create evil, as far as was in her power. CHAPTER XXXIII. THE day after Lady Nonr left Sandy in such a sad state of mind, she walked to the farm cottage, and found him much improved in health, yet exceedingly nervous, and as he was comfortably resting in an easy chair, placed for him on the piazza by his anxious, careworn mother, the Lady  Nona took a very lowly seat on the steps close by him. Thus the young mistress felt not above consoling the  humble in life, first with kind, cheering words, and then reading certain passages from the Bible, selecting such as  tend ever to restore peace to the troubled spirits, and by the time she had finished the chosen verses Sandy was sufficiently composed to confess in what manner he had be- trayed the lithe card by him found, evidently intended for her eyes alone, to her father, the old laird, when, much to  his astonishment, she received with perfect composure all he disclosed, assuring him of her forgiveness, and, in fact,  her great satisfaction at the course he had pursued, as it would prepare her father for the disclosure she was anxious to make of all she had been doing of late, yet scarce knew  how to broach the subject to him. Here any one without  particularizing the manner may imagine the relief of mind  U   THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.        127 evinced by Sandy that he had not given an unpardonable offense to his young mistress, whom he held in such high esteem and respect. Lady Nona soon returned home, and after satisfying Lady Blanche as to the improved state of Sandy's health, she quickly retired to her room, there to reflect upon her past conduct, and to consider how she could unflinchingly confess to her father wherein she had erred, in aifree, can- did, truthful, yet, palliativemanner, and thus from him be sure to receive a full pardon for her deception, and also a consent that she might marry Wallace McDerville. In the meantime, however, the old laird received another visit from Rosy Red Bird, who now made him acquainted with what was unknown to Lady Nona, that Wallace McDerville really was the Earl of Thistle Glen, of whom she had spoken to him before, and a distant relative of Wallace McDerviile, the old laird's enemy, who had left no other heirs. After which the fairy left so suddenly, it might be almost said she vanished. This report was a great relief to the old laird, and doubtless wofld pave the way, when asked for his consent that Wallace McDerville, now Earl of Thistle Glen, may marry his pet daughter Nona, to insure a favorable reply. Lady Nona, who knew nothing of the wee one's reveal- ment, after having satisfied herself of the most satisfactory way of fully laying open her whole heart to her father, was anxious to once more see Wallace and ask his advice, so the following evening she sent, by the carrier-pigeon, a return card, naming time and place, when the arrangement was made for the next day at eventide in a most retired place. Now gentle Lady Nona was just preparing to fulfil her    engagement with Wallace, when Elsie, as she felt most opportunely, made her appearance, then, swift as a flash the young lady unhooded and uncloaked the bonnie lassie and laughingly equipped herself in the garments, saying, "Elsie, I shall soon return; go to Lady Agnes, she wants "you, but mention not one word of what I have done. Fleet as the wind, Lady Nona was Iff, and Wallace, true to the moment, awaiting his lady love at the appointed place, listened to and approved of all his gentle fiancees views and intentions of confession to her father, then gently pressing his arm around her waist, and drawing her to his side, was about imprinting on her lips a sweet kiss, when swiftly an arrow whistled through the branches and lodged in the back part of Lady Nona's arm,- the cloak having fortunately warded off its full force, merely causing a slight flesh wound.   But the deed was scarcely done ere Sandy approached, faintly uttered Elsie's name, then fell powerless, like one dead, at the feet of his gentle young mistress. The terrible howling of Otto brought Jamie Lee to this most distressing scene, when again, with great sagacity, Otto ran off in very great speed to the house, and first barking and whining, then took Lady Blanche's dress between his teeth, fairly drawing her on, until he placed her (in a  most alarmed condition) close by the side of the entire distressed group, whose state of consternation was such as not to leave them  nerve sufficient to know what course to pursue, all actually believing that life in Sandy was extinct, while the blood was rapidly   flowing from Lady Nona's arm.  But quickly Wallace recovered from his alarm, staunched the lady's wound with his ~handkerchief, then quietly seating her, left her in Lady Blanche's care to get water from  the brook; and after she was fully restored by the draught, he    TEE M AIXI GrE CONTRA72'C  :    129    v.  . assisted Jamie Lee in recovering to consciousness his son, who soon gave evidence of returning breath; but by this time aid for Sandy arriving, Wallace returned to Lady Nona, bore her fairly in his stalwart arms to the mansion- house, and after, by Lady Blanche's directions, laying her gently on the lounge, in the little boudoir, hastened to the village for the surgeon, who shortly arrived and dressed the wound. Poor Sandy having been borne in a stupid state home to the farm cottage, his father quickly disrobed and tenderly placed him on the bed, before the poor mother knew that aught had happened to her son. Elsie soon ascertaining that Lady Nona was not so dangerous as at first supposed, came running like one frantic to look after her brother, while her mother followed :  the daughter's steps (with fear and trembling), from Elsie's words and movements alone learning what had transpired, since the lassie, on reaching her brother's room, first seated herself on the bed beside him, and then exclaimed : " Oh, Sandy, Sandy ! foolish mnonl and could ye nae trust yere sister's honor in her ain keeping. Puir lad, an' in- deed ye ha'e noo surely gane stark mad." But poor Elsie relented speaking so reprovingly when she saw his condition (as he opened his eyes with a vacant, bewildered stare), then brushed back his hair, bathed his face with her tears, and gently kissed his forehead, saying: "Nae matter, brither, it is naething, ainly look.on me wi' ane smile." Now Elsie knew full well that it was her cloak which had deceived Sandy, and so resolved that for the present he should know naught of the deed his arrow had done to Lady Nona, while -the mother stood wondering what all this meant, as Sandy said feebly:   130     THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.  "An' are you nae dead, Elsie? Then went off in a: maniacal laugh,when the only thing which restored Sandy's  reason was the young laird's words, who now stood at ; the foot of the young gardener's bed. this being the first  time Stuart Glencarven ever spoke to Sandy on this sub. ject, and his reproof even here was gentle, as he said, in accents soothing and mild: "Why, Sandie, my lad, the son of Effie Lee, whom I love as a mother, and could you ever doubt my honor; and would you put a Glencarven on the same footing with a profligate? Ah! indeed, poor Sandy, I thought better things of you. I believed you knew yourold friend and playmate too, too well for such distrust, if our degrees in life did differ. Then listen while I tell you what you ought to have known and felt: that your sister, bonnie Elsie Lee, is as pure and virtuous as the most chaste virgin that ever drew breath, and her character and honor are as dear to me as that of my own sweet sisters; and with an unerring aim would the ball find that man's heart who had even an evil thought or intent against the honor of the sweet, pure, bonnie Elsie, who is wholly innocent, and without guile; the best of daughters and sisters. Yet, I forgive you, Sandy , all your unjust constructions with which you have judged Elsie and myself; so take my hand, man, and let us be friends, and for the future trust your stster, the bonnie lassie, and myself.         ! "There are things which at present I cannot explain; by-and-by you shall know all, so rest quiet since no great harm is done, and return thanks to God that your arrow did not do the work of death." Poor Sandy, eagerly he grasped the young master's hand and said: "Laird Stuart, I feel noo I hae naething to censure ye    THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.       131 for, but, oh! forgive me, Elsie, and yersel' baith." Then covered his face with his hand and sobbed aloud. The young laird once more soothed him, saying: "Sandy, man, I have nothing either to forgive, for to tell you plainly, had I suspected any man of evil intent to a sister of mine, I should have done worse. The world could never have held us both." Then taking Sandy's hand in his, and giving it an affec- tionate squeeze, said: "Rest now, Sandy, for you are a good lad, after all, and God, I feel sure, has forgiven you your mistake. I must leave you now, but will see you bright and early in the morning, my lad." The mother and sister were so completely overwhelmed with tears that the young laird quickly left the room lest he should be overcome too. At the foot of the stairs meeting one of the farmer boys he sent up by him a bottle of old Madeira he had brought for Sandy, with orders to give it to him freely; then hurried home to learn more of the gentle Lady Nona and her injury. Sandy took the wine, made a short prayer, then, perfectly exhausted, fell into a deep slumber, when it did not take long for Elsie to explain, without her brother hearing, the whole matter; how the Lady Nona had donned her hood and cloak, which caused Sandy's suspicion, and the result of it, Lady Nona's being wounded for her (Elsie's imagin- ary sins), after which they all resolved. that Sandy should know naught of his mistake until he was entirely recovered. Elsie again seated herself by her brothers's side, watched his awakening, administered some soothing draught in his wine, after which, resuming her place, held his hand until he was sound asleep once more; then leaving Sandy to her parent's care, hurriedly made her way to the young mis.   tress, when learning from iher own lips that the wound was neither deep nor dangerous, gave the Lady Non aa full ex. planation of Sandy's having believed that it was his sister and the young laird, instead of Mr. Wallace McDerville and herself. The gentle lady received the denouement very sweetly and kindly, with a caution to Elsie, "to mind not a word to Sandy about her being wounded," finishing with expressions of fear that the young gardener's health of mind and body were sinking. By this time Effie Lee.had also found her way to her foster-daughter's, and freely shed tears over her until Lady Nona assured her that it was a mere scratch.  The mother and daughter both fearing Sandy might awaken, left with a promise to be with her at early dawn; and, if wished, nurse her with great care; then gave all speed and hastened back to Sandy, who, to their gratification, they found still sweetly and soundly sleeping. CHAPTER XXXIV. ,  THE following morning, through Aunty Agnes, the old laird was made acquainted with the troubles all around, both those with regard to the unfortunate affair which might have proved fatal, and also the bearer to Nona's father of her resolute intention'of confessing in full to him, so of course none other confession was now needed.  But the message soon brought the old laird to his dearest of pet's boudoir; where,aftergently reprovinghisdarlingNona, hermother's babe," for her deeption, and not feeling obligated to call the Earl of Thistle Glen, Wallace McDerville sent for him to come up, which summons was quickly -obeyed, when the father placed Nona's hand in that of Wallace's, and in    I HE MARRIAGE CO0TTRA CT.      133  broken accents prayed God to bless them; himself so com- pletely overcome that he left the happy lovers alone, while he retired, with many family- cares to ponder over, seeking comfort through prayerful devotion in his sanctum, Eglan- tine Hermitage; for once there, he took his little prayer- book, and kneeling, did not rise from that posture until he felt confident that his wife, were she still living, -would have sanctioned the course he had pursued with her babe Nona; and after invoking a second blessing on his child and her betrothed, arose from bended knee, and reseating himself in' the rustic chair, reflected how true the motto, "l'homme propose, mais Dieu dispose" the destiny of all His creatures. After being alone with her lover, Lady Nona expressed her surprise at his title. Wallace explained by saying, that the first time he saw her he loved her, but determined that she should love him for himself alone, and thus his plans had worked well, then sealed his words with a fer- vent kiss. When Lady Nona saw her father again, having been made happy herself, begged for Lady Blanche that Donald Dun- maire's letter might be favorably answered, and he permit- ted to visit Hazeldean Highwood. The old laird being in good humor, and ever with difficulty at any time refusing Nona's petitions, consented ; so, with a father's fond kiss on Lady Blanche's lips, of whom he was ever proud, requested Aunty Agnes to write to cousin Donald Dunmaire, and say that he would be happy to see him. It was now the young laird alone of the whole family at the manor man- sion who remained in a state of despondency, which was very much increased on account of the illness of Isabel becoming quite alarming; and truly Laird Stuart -would have given his whole estate for one word from herself o r      her mother to hear from their lips direct the cause of that illness. Through Elsie he learned there was now daily commu- nication between the widow Islan and Rosy Red Bird, and something she knew was in contemplation, yet was unable to understand the nature of it. The young laird being con. fident that his father would never yield to any proposition he might offer him of change in the marriage contract and dreading that unpleasant words might transpire between them, had pleaded Aunty Agnes to intercede for him and also give his father, in her mild way, to understand that he never could accede to any contract made for him whena a child, deeming it extremely sinful ever to take the oath at the altar to love one while his heart was another's for either money or inheritance, to the blasting of domestic happiness, as well as running a great risk of eternal sorrow. And, likewise, the doing of such injustice to her he w bound to call his wife, through compulsion, with the evil tendency it would be-sure to produce on his posterity, was too revolting to one like himself, educated by a parent to respect religious principles, ever encouraginga Christian spirit in all things. Aunty Agnes said that she respected his views, believing them to be correct, and promised to do what she could for him, but it was all in vain; the old laird adhering to his idea of honor, and that spirits could not return from another world to release him from bonds entered into while living. Thus finding no remedy for himself, the young laird became nearly frantic. One day amid all these troubles, a coach and four stopped at the lodge gate, and a card was sent to the manor-house to announce the name and title of the Marquis of Hefferman Castle. And now, indeed, was there commotion on the domain    TH9 MLiRRIAGE CONTRACT.        135  among the domestics; Lady Blanche alone being at home to receive the noble .stranger, who was scarcely one half way in the drawitng-room ere she found herself in -the arms of cousin Donald Dunmaire; and as one hour elapsed ere the absentees returned, who had gone to take Lady Nona a drive, cousin Donald Dunmaire, now Marquis of Heffer- man Castle, explained why he came before receiving an answer to his letter, which was that he believed his changed position in life would render him acceptable; so thus, im- mediately after his uncle's death, and he became the sole heir, he took passage in the first packet. "And here, dearest Blanche," he said, with a kiss, " I am for you to say me yea or nay, hoping for the old laird's, your father's, consent." Of course Lady Blanche said yea, knowing that the only barrier, a lack of means to support her, was overcome, and her father now surely would not refuse, as he was a great admirer of Donald's character, it was so noble, so just, so patient. " But Donald," Lady Blanche asked, do- you find me changed; it is- four years since you were here ? " More womanly and more beautiful," he replied, im- printing on her lips another kiss. " But, Blanche dearest, my stay in this country may not be long ; I left in such a hurry that as yet all business is un- attended to, my desire was so great to report good of my- self to you and your father; and dear, dearest Blanche, how tefn thousand more do I love you, and appreciate your love, for having remained so constant to me in all my dif- ficulties; and little did I deem that the son of my uncle would, in his youth, die to leave his father inconsolable, and thus hasten his end to make me the inheritor of an immense estate, or that I should ever be able to place my   Blanche in that position which, in all her queen-like beauty she will fill with dignity and grace." The barking of dogs gave evidence of a welcome home to some members of the family; and now the marqui humbly waited to be received as Donald Dunmaire by Laird Glencarven, and a hearty welcome did he have. Lady Blanche left them, and hastened to report to Aunty Agnes, who did not here, as usual, wait to give the finishing touch to her cap, but was off to congratulate the orphan son of her sister, and was the first to introduce him to her brother. the old laird, as Marquis of Hefferman Castle, much to the laird's delight, who soon called for Lady Blanche, placed her hand in that of the titled cousin, and blessed them both, ending with once more saying: " Surely ' L'homme propose, mais Dieu dispose.'" Donald Dunmaire, never forgetting any one. soon in- quired after Jamie Lee and family, when it did not tale ff a- long for Lady Blanche to equip for this stroll to the farm - cottage; and right glad were the old people to see him  but the state of Sandy affected Donald sadly; the man whom he had left most robust he now found so feeble, with spirits all gone; for although he seemed to be pleased to see '" Maiser Donald," as he called him, not one smile could be drasn forth by cheering words; a decided gloom strongly marked in every line of his face, when at last he said  "Indeed, an' marquis, as they noo tell me ye are, ye find me sadly changed."   But the sears gathering in his eyes, he gave one squeezeof the marquis' hand, and quickly turned his head away to conceal his weeping. Lady Blanche thought it most prudent to leave him now alone, which she did, kindly promising to give him a  long call on the morrow. Hardly had they left the door ere,   137        ;   THE MARRIA GE CONTRA CT.   out of breath, came Elsie, saying to herself " I fear I shall be ower late to see this braw nobleman that ha'e cam' doon frae Scotland to visit oor Lady Blanche ;" when suddenly she tripped and fell full against the very one she was in such haste to see, then, blushing, quickly she stepped close to Lady Blanche's side and whispered: ' I am verra glad to see Maister Donald, but whar be the braw marquis that cam' wi' him ?" The nobleman, first looking with admiration on the bon- nie lassie's beauty, then gave a hearty laugh at her arch expression of doubt as the Lady Blanche said : " Elsie, this is he, the Marquis of HIefferman Castle, who came with Donald Dunmaire." Being doubtful, the bonnie lassie uttered not one word for a moment, afterward exclaiming: "Verily, noo, ye quiz me, sine this be Maister Donald himsei';" but when assured they weine one and the same person, she capered about saying: "i  I ken fu' weel the Laird Glencarven is a gude mon, and a sensible moln; but I ken fu' weel he canna always ha'e his ain way, sin'e there be a hand o' Providence in a' things; an' it's Maister Donald Dunmaire wha wull be Lady Blanche's husband ' for a' that and a' that,' gin he be noo the braw Marquis of Heffernan Castle."  She then said: "  "I wull nae delay ye, sin'e I maun awa' to see me puir brither; an' ah, Maister Donald, he be wofu' altered." And as she turned to enter the house she raised her apron to her eyes, and they could see.her weeping for poor Sandy. On returning to the manor there was a general gathering in the ~drawing-room  to greet the Marquis of HIefferman Castle as the future husband of Lady Blanche.   138     THE MAR1RIAGE CONTRACT. CHAPTER XXXV.           h GENTLE Lady Nona had n arly recovered from her! wound, and for the first time this morning walked to the  farm cottage, leaning on the Earl of Thistle Glen's arm for support, and who she left with her foster-mother, Eflie ! Lee, standing on the porch when they arrived at the house A  while- she went to visit Sandy. If any one could have 't  watched the poor follow's expression wholly unmoved  when he. fixed his eyes on Lady Nona's hand, lightly rest.. ing in a sling, and then so very beseechingly gazing in her d face, they must truly have possessed a heart of adamant;  there was such intense anguish depicted in his countenance  as the truth flashed on his brain that the arrow might have found a sheath in the Lady Nona's arm, and thus someone 9 had been injured, and that, too, the young mistress, for whom he would have laid down his life, and she was the 5 victim of his evil temper, caused by unjust suspicions of Elsie and the young laird; so after one shriek, which ran through every ear in his neighborhood, he exclaimed: "For oor gude an' mercifu' Saviour's sake, forgi'e me, Elsie and me Laird Stuart; an' oh! forgi'e me, forgi'e me, gentle mistress for a' the evil I ha'e doon ye; an' oh! for- gi'e me the gude God." These last words came  with a feeble utterance as he stretched forth his trembling hand, which Lady  Nona  understood, and took in hers. Sandy bowed respectfully : over, and pressed his lips gently on it, when directly the head became  so heavy and immovable that, his young mistress felt Sandy's spirit had fled to find its home with God who gave it, and while withdrawing her own from his relaxed fingers fell fainting on the floor byThis side. ,           I'   T-H MARRIAGE CONTRACT.       139  The jarring caused by Lady Nona's fall, together with the young gardener's terrific shriek, brought his poor mother and Earl Wallace to Sandy's room in haste, who soon ascertained that he was dead. Immediately aunty Agnes was sent for, and on the arrival of the coach Wallace took Lady Nona home, when swift as the wind the horses returned with Laird Stuart, anxious to assist the much grieved family of Jamie Lee. The news traveled fast, when poor Elsie, who was out, came running in, screeching like a maniac, and throwing herself upon Sandy's body, and it was with difficulty they removed her ere the corpse became too rigid to prepare it for burial; and this the young laird alone could accomplish through kind words of relief, that Sandy was happy now, but had he ^lived he would most probably have been a lunatic. And yet Stuart Glencarven was himself full of grief at his foster-brother's death, his playmate from childhood, although of humble station and birth. But when the body was being arrayed for the coffin, it was most touching to learn how poor Sandy had so secretly suffered, and from the various little articles found carefully enclosed in white silk, and laid next his heart; such as one paper with two pressed pansies marked " Gift of Lady Nona when a chield ;" wrapped in another a lock of hair, and explained, " Cut frae me Lady Nona's head. when eight years auld, an' wi' her ain hand gi'en to me." Yet startling, indeed, to all when reading the deep-feeling- remarks in a small note (carefully sealed) and in his own handwriting, of " Why did nae the gude God mak' me o' noble bluid; an' forgi'e the thought, gentle Lady Nona, as I confess to mysel' the presumption that I luve ye wi' ne whale heart which be noo br'aking for yet"   "O     THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. And then there was the little Bible Lady Nona had given him, and on the margin Sandy had marked the date of each paragraph, his young mistress had read to him  when she found him looking wearied and in distress of  mind.  And here was fully developed the cause of his death, the breaking of heart for hopeless love: a sad example of the bad effects of rearing the children of the noble with those of humble birth, in early life, as if on an equality, for the lowly ones to learn, too late, that in man's life there is a wide distinction, which needs must be on this sphere, - although in the world to come each is ranked accordillng to the deeds done in the body, by our Heavenly Father, aicid the only exaltation with tIim is to those who obey His will  on earth.                       . Poor Elsie; many a long and gloomy day did she pass    without Sandy, and yet, ah! a great relief for her to learn that she had not been the exciting cause of his early death, as she feared was the case, at first, by the many reproofs he had given from  suspicion of her imprudence with the young laird.  And it was well for herself and parents that Elsie was soonfto be married to Robin McCrea, so to fill the void made by her brother's demise. Sandy was buried with every respect due to a good and i correct man, if he was of humble birth; and as this was the first death on the domains since their arrival from Scotland, so he was the first who found his final rest in -the inclosure ! where the family vault was built immediately on the old laird's taking possession of the premises. Fortunately for the young  laird, Eisie, as bearer of : dispatches, was not so much required, since Isabel was rapidly recovering, and he was much elated of late by the -?   THE MARRIA4GE C02TRACT.        141 CON "- encouraging reports of fairy Rosy that very soon he would again be received as a visitor most welcome at Hawthorn Cottage. CHAPTER XXXVI. SOME few weeks after Sandy's death, as the old laird was sitttng alone in his solitary place for meditation, Rosy Red Bird made her appearance with an apology for intrusion. Then first informing him that Lady Melbourne did ere long contemplate visiting this region of country, and so, too, most probably would call upon him, she after- ward asked : a Do ye noo think, me laird, gin the lady be deformed, ye wull still obleege Stuart to keep the con- tract o' marriage?" "Ah! my bonnie Rosy, that Lady Melbourne is coming renders me most happy," the laird replied. 'But are you sure?" he asked, " and from whence the report?" "Weel, me laird," the fairy ,Rosy answered, "I ha'e freens to assist me wha ken a' aboot Scotland, yet I nmaunna tell, or the charm likely wad nae wark, sae be content wi' that ye learn frae me; 'but gin the Lady Melbourne visit ye, it maun be in secret, sin'e should she find yere son, laments the contract o' marriage ye made, an'-yersel' ha'e a desire to withdraw, she wad return wi' out the seeing yere son, the Laird Stuart, and mayhap theLady Melbourne be delicate in feeling, an' fears yersel' an' the young laird may look on her chield wi' gr'at disgoost. An' then the Laird Stuart's heart may be gPen to ane who is aboon ay ithers maist lovely, sae prepare, me laird, for the warst, sine he may stoutly refuse the Lady Miriam."     One week after the old laird had this interview with Rosy, he was once more composedly sitting in Eglantine Hermitage, living over in mind the perfect days of happi. ness, though few, he spent with his sweet wife, when again a small, soft voice aroused him from his reverie. An' may ye be sleeping or waking, me laird? At first it caused him to start, doubt, and inquire, "Is it the spirit of Maggie Duncan that speaks?.i "It is nae a speeret, but flesh an' bluid that stands afore Rye; and sae, me laird, ye think I hale a voice like .me mither's?" Rosy's time was precious) so she waited not for at answer, continuing, " 1 hae na'e muckle time,. me laird, and ainly cam' to ken gi'n ve war here, sin'e thar be ane verra anxious to see ye alane, sae noo ye maun wak' up." Then Rosy vanished a minute, but immediately returned with a lady, when the fairy first questioned: "'Do ye imagine, me laird, ye wad ken the Lady Melbourne gi'n ye did see her?" and after this quietly and spirit-like she retired. The old laird slowly replied, c; I cannot say, it is a long while since we have met, yet to have once looked upon the face of Lady Melbourne it were not easy to forget it." The old laird now   raised his eyes (which previous to this answer, intended for Rosy's ears alone, was cast down in deep thought), and as he did so the lady before him quietly drew   the veil rom her face. " Ah! is it so?" he ex- claimed.  "It is verily Lady Melbourne herself, for never could those eyes or winning smile be   effaced from the memory of that man living who has ever felt their influence." "Thank you, Laird Glencarven," Lady Melbourne said, "for your kind remembrance of me, as she placed her hand in his; and it is a long while that- I have craved this interview, since the welfare of our children is Very dear to   THE MARTIA4GE COXTRACT.   us both, thus I beg, if you please, sir forgive me should I speak plainly, now we are alone, as I would say a few words to explain this. mysterious call. You know, my laird, we are, for our interest, occasionally led to do many strange thingsj therefore this meeting must be in confi- dencej and with haste." My promise of secrecy, Lady Melbourne, you shall have, and who could 'feel more for either of my motherless children than myself; Well, then, Laird Glencarven, you doubtless hold the contract between Laird Melbourne and yourself, for Stuart Glencarven and Miriam, my only child in memory; but my daughter you have never seen, and when you look on her, may not approve of such a person for Lady of Heather Plains, and then I love her too well to hold her bound. to any man who's heart is given to another, which report says is the case with Stuart Glencarven; and it is that which brings me here. Again, I hear that yonr son is opposed to fulfilling the contract, and 1 would rather the estate should go by default to the next heir, than force my Miriam upon him, who objects to marry her. They inform me also that the young lady he loves, is very amiable, and his -whole soul-is hers, and she reciprocates that love, and the maiden's name is Isabel Islan. "All, Lady Melbourne, I can say, as facts," was the laird's reply, "Lady Miriam is your daughter, and under your sole control, and my son is of age, thus I have no power to compel him  to do aught against his will. Yet how can I cancel a contract with one gone to the regions above; but if my son will not marry Lady Miriam, the balance must still be in my favor, since my daughter Nona is to marry the Earl of Thistle Glen, who, in case of the non-fulfilment of this contract, will inherit the landed    i-,  144     THE MARRL46E CONTRACT. estate of the Melbourne's, as he has already that of the McDerville's.". "Of this I congratulate you my lord,"' Lady Melbourne replied, " and surely there is no earl more noble, or proud in spirit of birth." Rosy Red Bird now, whose foot fell ever noiseless as down, reappeared, and soon with her small voice sought  permission to speak ; it was granted, when she commenced; "Sin'e, me lady an' laird, I ha'e been bound by aith to do a' the favors I can for baith families, an' I belang to the twa, sae I claim mony priveleges. Noo I propose humbly that Lady Melbourne cam' atne day wi' the Lady Miriam to Hazeldean Highwood, that the young laird may say her yea or nae, and sae the suspense will be ower." This was approved by both parents, and the following Monday was appointed, with a promise to Lady Mel! bourne that naught should be spoken of this meeting until then. The day subsequent to this the young laird visited fair Rosy, when she informed him that Lady Melbourne was at present in this country, also of a proposed visit of herself and daughter to Hazeldean Highwood; but Rosys's knew that now he would be permitted to renew his visits at! Hawthorn Cottage was more joyful to him than the reported arrival of any Scotch laird or lady, so- waiting for not another word he was off, and, once home, then with speed unparalleled his Arab steed was caparisoned and he away to the widow Islan's. After his arrival there, and many protestations of love unalterable, he disclosed that some trap was being laid for him, which, he declared would be of no avail, since he would. never be a miserable, unprincipled slave to titles or worldly gear.    THE .M'ARRIACGE CONTRACT.      145 The widow hastily called the young laird from the room, and cautioned him to say no more to Isabel of the affair, or reveal to her- the names of the ladies, as she had cogent reasons why naught of the party should be mentioned in her daughter's hearing.  The widow continued for some time speaking to Lord Stuart in private, saying: "I have just devised a plan to call at the manor some day, so that your father may see Isabel, but it will be ostensibly a call of charity for the old woman by the mill. To the young laird this arrangement was delightful, he believing the beauty of Isabel to be irresistible; but when it was mentioned to Isabel, she shrank from it. The mother, however, overcame all difficulty by plead- ing her child with sweet affection, promising in no way to compromise her dignity, and sealing all with a maternal kiss, so that Isabel could not resist her, and finally con- sented. The young laird, promising to mention nothing of the affair, very soon left for home in a terribly hervous state, from which he did not recover until the two visits had been made, day and night, thinking of the great contrast between the Lady Melbourne and her daughter Miriam in state, and the humble widow with sweet Isabel on a charity mission. These two matters for anticipation set him into an almost perfect phrenzy, his only consoler being Elsie, whom he let into the secret, and who comforted -him with: "But, me laird, ye are nae obleeged to wed the Lady Miriam, wi'out yere ain consent, ye ken, sin'e ye be nae lad wi'out a wull o' yere ain. 7           .  *    CHAPTER XXXVII. HAZELDEAN HGHWOOD was all in commotion for several days, and thus Elsie was put in requisition for flowers, and Robin McCrea, having left the mill and been appointed gar. dener since Sandy's death,' was the bonnie lassie's assistant. At length the Monday for Lady Melbourne's visit arrived, but the Widow Islan, strange to say, came first, herself and daughter simply attired and thickly veiled, and they were ushered into the room usually appropriated for the old laird's reception of all visitors on business. As soon as they had received of the father his charity, the widow asked if the young laird had anything to bestow when the son was accordingly sent for, and made no delay in answering the call, yet gave no audible evidence that he knew the parties, and still a close discerner would have observed his excited manner and violent beating of the heart. The charity being given, after which came a pause, when the veiled lady was the first to speak: "Pardon me, my Laird Glencarven, to-day I am here for two purposes, the one charity, the other (do not deem me bold) that I may witness the meeting of the young laird and his affi- anced by contract from childhood." "If so, madam, it is time for adjournment," the old laird said, wondering at the stranger's curiosity, yet inviting her to the apartments for reception, as the hour for Lady Mel. bourne's call had arrived. This was the first'that Isabel: knew of the second cause for being there, and that now she was to see her rival by contract face to face. Poor girl; had the veil been re- moved her death-like paleness to all would have been ex- tremely alarming.  *           -,d-   iHE MzRRIAGE CONTRACT.       147 With great excitement, after all had been ushered into the hall of state and were seated, Stuart Glencarven walked to the window, fairly hiding himself in the folds of the cur- tains, there to have a half glimpse of Lady Miriam on her arrival, ere introduced. For a few minutes all was quiet. At length the hour for the Lady Melbourne to arrive having psssed, the elder of the ladies present, Mrs. Islan, arose and removed her veil. "By Heavens'" the old laird exclaimed, "'Lady- Mel- bourne herself." "And, my laird," the lady continued, drawing her daugh- ter's veil, whose face was now blushing almost crimson, and this, my laird, is the Lady Miriam." "By Heavens!" he again ejaculated, "the beautiful, noble, lovely Isabel; the maiden to whom I overheard my son make such protestations of adoration, and her most prudent, dignified, modest answer, with no denial of love for him, and yet, like an angel of light, using all Christian efforts to guide Stuart to his duty. The Lady Miriam and the maiden Isabel one and the same! impossible. Stuart, my son," the father called (to him who stood in amazement and nearly paralized, scarce knowing what to do), and will the maiden consent? and must I now compel you to fulfill the marriage contract?" But this surely was not needed, for Stuart quickly came and on bended knee warmly took Lady Miriam's hand in his, when one glance from Isabel's soft eyes, and the sweet smile on her lips, told the tale; then without utterance she kneeled by the young man's side at his father's feet, who, with a hand on each of their heads, audibly pronounced for them a blessing, calling upon the spirit of his wife, and mnother of his and her boy, toJoin him in the invocation. To Isabel, who had never heard the name of the young    "8     TH E MARRIAGE CONTRACT. , laird's affianced, it certainly was a surprise, and to the old laird, the most deep-laid plan; one which he could scarcely comprehend. As to Laird Stuart, the whole thing put him in such  ecstasies that he could not express an opinion, his only thought being that he had so many times sinned against himself and the Lady Miriam as to vow that he would not marry her. The family were directly warned for a gathering in the hall of state, where Laird Stuart and Lady Miriam stood ' to receive them, the old laird and Lady Melbourne by B their side. Elsie was the first to run in and give vent to her delight at Laird Stuart's happiness ; then after making  an obeisance, brought forth an exclamation of, "Oh! gin  Sandy could but ainly ha'e seen this happy, happy day,"  with a smile on her lips, tears fast falling from her eyes, and a loud sob, acd quickly rushed out of the room to give full scope to her joy, mingled with grief for her brother. This extraordinary news soon  brought the family together, and the old laird pronounced it the only blissful hour he had known since his wife's death. When after one or two tears had trickled down the father's furrowed cheeks, he wiped them from his eyes and said: "A few words only to you, my children, then away and enjoy yourselves. T would have you bear in mind that although you may foml numerous plans in this life, and if not contrary to your Nt lke b iaws it is your bounden duty to do so, yet you m.:-t surely (-Ilculate to have some of those plans frust at. d at first, and sometimes altogether; still ever be submissive to His divine will, for "He doeth all things well," and truly you will find at last "L'homme propose, mais Dieu dispose." The old laird then left the room for Eglantine Hermi-  4 :   THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.         149 tage, resigning the mother of Stuart's bride elect to Aunty Agnes' care, when Lady Melbourne soon revealed the en- tire secret of the manner in which she had arranged mat- ters, rejoicing how completely the measures used had been blessed. A kiss next came from all to Lady Melbourne and Lady Miriam, with courtesies of promised visitings on both sides, and then adieus were given, after which the young laird, the happiest of the happy, took his seat in the carriage with his affianced, and her mother leaving directions for his Arab to follow him, and when he arrived at Hawthorn Cottage gave full vent to all heretofore pent up feelings with full expression of all his joys. CHAPTER XXXVIII. THE remainder of the tale is soon told. The old laird's wish was that his children should be married in Scotland, his grief for his wife being, in a measure, assuaged; but ere he left America, the will was changed, and a deed of Hazeldean Highwood drawn in favor of Lady Aunty Agnes, now about to be married to a Scotch barrister, settled a few years since in the neighborhood. Two hun. dred acres, however, with the farm cottage, were deeded to Jamie Lee and wife, to be given, after their death, to Elsie, who, ere the old laird's family left, was married to Robin McCrea, and living at the farm cottage, Jamie and his wife still in charge of the manor. The Earl of Thistle Glen, a little ashamed of his ire tment of the simple maiden of Hawthorn Cottage, now most readily acceded to the sale of that place to the young laird, and it was to be kept in good order by Robin, as Laird Stuart and Lady Miriam 'i   150     THE MARRIAGE CONTRBACT.         - intended to visit occasionally there for the sake of" auld i lang sin'e." Strange to tell, this cottage had been the residence of the object of the old laird's direst- hatred from j youth to age-Wallace McDerville; and that this Laird of -i Thistle Glen was his heir.  By this time it is understood, I presume, that the gipsy. fairy, Rosy Red Bird, was ever cognizant of, and an assis- :i tant in all Lady Melbourne's plans; and Robin McCrea ; also had most judiciously assisted the lady, they having! both came from Scotland for the express purpose of giving all the aid they could to Lady Melbourne, who had deter- mined that Lady Miriam should not marry- Laird Stuart :I without mutual love. Rosy Red Bird's former manner of living with gipsies gave her great facilities to assist the lady, and she was faithful and successful. Robin, after : Rosy left, kept the fairy wee cot in repair, for never did the young laird aad Lady Miriam, her chield, as she called i her, visit America but Rosy Red Bird came with them to have a-peep at the moss-covered cot; and when in Scot- land her home was ever with Lady Melbourne, and every child that in the family was born did, in the nursery, sit  and hear wee fairy Rosy tell her gipsy, fairy tales, so wonderful.     e      "  Jamie Lee's family were never forgotten, and each Christmas brought loads of gifts from all. As for Elsie, the young laird yearly showered upon herself, husband, and children, bounties sufficient for a lady's living; and to little Sandy, one hundred pounds were sent the day the i news arrived in Scotland of his name. The old laird lived to an advanced age, continuing to the end a sincere   i Christian, and danced his children's children's children on his knee, when his silver locks lay in veneration over his shoulders; and then was gathered to his fathers like l   THE MARRIA GE CONTRA CT.       151 a "shock of corn fully ripe" in his centennial year. Aunty Agnes was never forgotten, receiving her full share of testimonials of love annually from every member of the family. And here I bid adieu to the Laird of Heather Plain's descendants. And these were the lines inscribed on his mural tablet, within the chapel which covers his family tomb, where his remains have been deposited to rest in peace by the side of his wife and ancestors uniil the resur- rection : THE LAIRD DOUGLAS GLENCARVgN, OF - HEATHER PLAINS, SCOTLAND. 9E ONE CENTURY. 1790, APRIL 12TH. Friends, the Triune God is all- powerful, then act wisely, for "L'homme propose, mais Dieu dispose," Trust Him, as He is merciful, and "Doeth all things well." And the good old laird did not leave this world with uncharitable bitterness of heart, but fully forgave the evil deeds of the departed Wallace McDerville, committed' against his brother Willie, as he hoped for forgiveness of x sins from his Father in Heaven.   * 152    CITHE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. Laird Stuart still continued to call his wife Isabel, as it was this untitled name which had insured him her un.  biased, disinterested love, free from all mercenary obliga.  tions to fulfil any contract; and to his wife the simple  name of Isabel was more natural than Lady Miriam, since  it was by the name of Isabel she had been called from infancy, this being in accordance with the design the mother had cherished in her heart, that her child should not become conversant with the cold, formal contract until she had learned to-love her affianced of mutual bonds by the two fathers. The only mystery to Isabel was the change of their names from Melbourne to Islan; but it had been her mother's secret, and so she felt it a daughter's duty to sacredly keep it, and thus it did remain unrevealed. As to the Laird Stuart, he had experienced sufficient suffering to vow that no contract or parent's marriage de -  convenance should ever prove a sting to try the hearts of i his children; and also resolved that his children should be  taught to always respect and be kind to the poor; yet, for the sake of the humble, was unwilling his children should  associate with-them on such terms of entire equality, which, in maturer years, might be the cause of wounded feelings, that birth and education was the barrier between them and their friends of childhood,       
         
       
   
