
    ----CITATION----
        Reid, Christian, (1846-1920). A Daughter of Bohemia .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8066
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            A daughter of Bohemia 
            
               A

.~ '~
Ii ~

1-"
~1'

I

I

it~\

DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

A NOV EL.

BY

SH RI pSTrI i y           E I 1pse4.4
AUTHOR OP "VALERIE AYLMER, "MORTON HOUSEE,~ "NINA'S ATONEMENT," ETC.

-WITH ILL USTRA TIONS.

NEW YORK:
D. APPLETON{ AND COMPANY,
549 &amp; 551 BROADWAy.
18'74.


A

DAUGHTER

OF BOHEMIAN.

ENmEED, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873,
By 0. APPLETON &amp; CO.,
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Wasblngtofl.

CHAPTER I.
"Ah, wsstelbl woman, she who may
On her sweet self set her own price,
Knowing he cannot choose but pay,
How has she cheapened paradise;
How given for naught her priceless gift;
How spoiled the bread and spilled the wine,
Which, spent with due respective thrift,
Had made brutes men, and men divine I,'
ON one of the most quiet and deeply-
shaded of the.shaded streets which are the
boast of the pleasant Southern city of Alton,
stands a handsome double house with a por'
tico in front, and wide piazzas on' the side,
running the whole length of the building,
and overlooking a flower-garden of consider-
able extent and great beauty.
Opening by French windows upon the
lower of these piazzas is the breakfast-room,
into which, on a certain bright morning of
May-the 5Th of the month, if any one likes
to be particular-roses of 'almost countless
number and variety were sending their fra-
grance, together with the buoyant air and
golden sunshine. The breakfast-table, spread
with delicate china and bright silver, occupied
the centre of the floor; but, as 'yet no mem-
jer of the household had made an appear-
ance on the scene. Despite 'the fao~ that the
sun had been abouL the business of lighting
and warming the earth lQn~ euou~h, it seeme~l,
to rouse all ~luggards from repose; despite
the impatience of 'the cook, whose mtz~n~
were hopelessly falling, or the gF~omy face of
the footman, who held pminctualUy to be a
cardinal virtue in masters and mistresses,

the clock chimed half-past nine beforee the
first step.±~.a leisurely, creaking, somewhat
important step--was heard descending the
broad, shallow staircase.
"I'm blest Ii' there isn't master at last I"
said Robert; sardonically. "A nice tisn~ for
a man what' calls 'himself a busbies -~~sn
to be comm' down to breakfast? N~ t~as
the cook expressed her an4ety an~w~vit~i re-
gard to the ira~ifflns-J~ I ain't a-~oiz' to take
up the' things till they riuig1, for 'em~ He
won't want h~s breakfast till som~.liody tomes
down to keep him company; 'ba's on~ of
the sociable kind whal don'tliko ~o eat by
hisself."'
The gentleman thus characterized mean-
while entered the breakfast-~oQm, newspaper
in hand and eye-glass on nose.' "Afii~e4ook-
ing, portly gentleman?" was tl~e us~ial' popn.
lar verdict on Mr. Middletou; and, for once,
the popular verdict was an eintz~uItl~ 4list
one., He stood six feet in the' ela~xi~tely-
worked slippers which lie were, and, which
were innocent of hee1s~ while I~ig size ws~ iii
proportion to 'his height. He b~d a fresE,
ruddy complexion, ivell-cut features of the
nondescript kind, which we se~ on n~nety-
nine American faces ~ut of a hunxWedand
keen, brown eyes, with a fia~h ~f huniov liz
them. Add to this his br9wn'hs~trt~nlng
gray, and 1his brown whiskers, worn ~
~daiee, and you have a pf&amp;ur~ of the man as
he sat down' by one of the open wis~do4~, and
began to glance over the wsjaperwhlle he
w~t~d for the appearance ef"iorne:fea~1ixlne
b~4y who could pous~ out his edfee'an~ijgWo
a friendly countenance to the' em~t~ table,

T4+44


4                        A UAU~.tL1±J~An 'I
Robert having been right in saying that he
was a sociable man, who did not like to take r
his breakfast alone.
lie had not long to wait. Before the a
clock over the mantel had chimed another h
quarter, a lighter, step was heard descending e
the staircase, and the sweep of a feminine
dress sounded across the hall. A minute c
later a Blender, graceful woman of middle
age entered the room-a woman who had ~
probably never been pretty, but who had a
plainly always been distinguished-looking, and
under whose manner of well.brcd repose a
great deal of nervous force was latent. She I
wore a becoming trifle of a morning-cap on
her glossy, dark hair, and was dressed in that
sheer, crisp lawn which inspires such refresh- I
ing thoughts of coolness on a warm summer
morning, so that, despite the fact of his hay-
ing been kept waiting for at least ten min-
utes, Mr. Middleton smiled as he looked at her.
"We are all rather late this morning,"
said he. "I am afraid an engagement in the
house does not agree with us."
"Do you think the engagement has any
thing to do with our being late?" asked Mrs.
Middleton, as she moved across the room and
touched a bell, which announced that break-
fast might b~ brought up. "I am late be-
cause I scarcely slept at all last night; and,
after unusual wakefulness, one is apt to fall
asleep rather heavily in the morning."
"And what was the reason of the unusual
wakefulness?" asked her husband. "Rave
you never heard of such a thing as cause and
effect? I think it probable that you would
have slept quite as well as usual if I.~eslie had
not come back from her ride yesterday even-
ing and informed us that she was engaged to
Mr. Tyndale."
"Of course, I thought of Leslie," said the
lady, deprecatingly. "Row could I help think-
ing of her when we are obliged to face-so
unexpectedly, too-the necessity of giving her
up?"
"It ought not to have been unexpected to
you. Women generally see such things even
before they exist."
"They must be very clever women, then,"
said Mrs. Middleton, with a~ laugh. "I am
not a very clever woman, you know, and I am
usually content with seeing them when they
do exist. I cannot understand my blindness
in this instance," she went on, shAking her
head as if in rebuke of her own stupidity,

MISS GRARAME'S ENGAGEMENT. .

unless my state of false security was the
action from the nervous suspicion with
rhich. I viewed all of Leslie's admirers when
he first entered society. I thought every
imb a wolf then; and, when the wolf really*
ame, I thought him a lamb."
"You might have known that this would
ome to pass some time, however."
"or course I knew it; but I hoped-well,
~ou know wbat I hoped. That is all over
iow," said she, sitting down, with a sigh;
'and I suppose there is nothing for it but to
LIlOW her to marry the man with whom she
ma fallen in love."
"If1you are laying that down as a general
n4nciplc," said Mr. Middleton, "I must say
~hat I disagree with you. Because Leslie falls
in love with a man is no reason whatever for
allowing her to marry him - if he should
chance to be an undesirable person."
"But Arthur Tyndale is not an undesir-
able person," said Mrs. Middleton, in a dis-
tinctly aggrieved tone.
"I did not say that he was," replied her
husband. "It was only the general principle
to which I objected. Girls are not exactly
famous for wisdom of matrimonial choice."
"Foolish girls make foolish choices," said
the lady, sententiously. "But not girls like
our Leslie."
"Do you think our Leslie has made a
very wise one?" asked Mr. Middleton, sig-
nificantly.
"I am as sorry as possible that she has
made any at all," was the quick reply; "but,
as far as the choice itself is concerned, I do
not think that it is possible to call it an un.
wise one. At least it would be difficult to
find an objection to Arthur Tyndale. I know
nothing whatever to be said against him."
(This in a tone which left a decided impres-
sion that the speaker would have been glad
if there kad been something to say against
him.)
"Nor for him!" added her husband, dry.
ly. "It is a very great mistake to suppose
that a character is admirable when it is mere-
ly made up of negatives," he went on, after a
short pause. "There are positive virtues, as
well as positive vices. Because young Tyn-
dale has none of the last, is no earthly reason
for taking for granted that of necessity he
has all of the first. I don't like him!" he
ended, shortly.. "There's not the stuff in him
I hoped to find in Leslie's husband."

"I think you underrate him," said Mrs.
Middleton, in that tone of painful candor
with which we bear unwilling testimony to
the good name of a person whom privately
we have strong reasons for disapproving.
"lie is young, well-born, and wealthy-peo-
pIe might well think us very unreasonable
not to be satisfied; and yet I had so set my
heart on Carl-"
"Confound Carl I" interrupted Mr. Mid-
dieton, irritably. It was not often that he
was betrayed into so much heat of expres-
sion; but, as he flung his paper aside impa-
tiently, it was impossible not to think that he
would have liked to fling it at the head of the
absent Carl. "What the fellow is doing I
can't tell I" he went on, walking to the table
and sitting down. "Re certainly pays very
little attention to my wishes or requests for
his return."
"The loss is his!" said Mrs. Middleton-
and, as she drew herself up, her color rose.
"But the annoyance is ours!" returned
her husband, shortly. "I shall have all the
vexation of making a will, of dividing and de-
ciding about my property-pahaw! Give me
a cup of coffee, and let me get down to the
bank and drive all this worry out of my
head!"
The coffee, which had made its appearance
by this time, was poured out, and, while Mr.
Middleton received his cup, a door opened
and closed in the upper regions of the house,
a fresh young voice was heard singing several
bars of a song, a pair of high French heels
came with a quick patter down the staircase,
the rustle of soft drapery swept across the
hall, and into the breakfast-room entered a
slender, graceful girl, with one of those fair,
high -bred faces, which instinctively remind
one of a white rose.
"Good - morning, uncle," she said, drop-
ping a light kiss on the top of Mr. Middleton's
head-where there was a considerable bald
spot-as she passed on her way to her own
seat. "Row nice and cool you look!" she
went on, scanning him with critical approval
as she sat down. "I certainly do like to
see men wear linen in summer.-Thanks, yes,
auntie-coffee, if you please. I have seen
yeas before this morning, have I not?"
"I was in your room an hour ago," said
Mrs. Middleton; "but I scarcely fancied that
you saw me. You seemed fast asleep just
then."

K

"There you were mistaken," said Leslie.
"I heard you ask Maria how I had slept-as
if Maria knew 1"
"I was afraid you might have been fever.
ish from having been naught in the rain yes.
terday afternoon."
"There was scarcely rain enough to wet a
pocket-handkerchief," said the young lady,
"and Mr. Tyndale insisted on our riding so fast
that wedid not have time to get wet. It was
delightful, but rather breathless !-I began to
feel as if I might emulate the accomplished
Dazzle, who could ride any thing, from a
broomstick to a flash of lightning, you
know."
"I suppose it ~did not occur to Mr. Tyn-
dale that your horse might have taken fright
and broken your neck," said Mr. Middleton,
dryly.
"Perhaps he looked upon it in the light
of a neck which he had a right to break,"
answered Leslie, composedly. "At least I
had told him a short time before that he
might have it if he chose."
"I don't think he need have been in quite
such a haste for all that," retorted 'her uncle.
"Time enough for murder after matrimony."
Leslie laughed - it is easy to laugh at
even the poorest jest when one is young and
happy, and the world seems absolutely over.
flowing with snnshine-and when she laughed,
she looked, if possible, prettier than before.
Animation was especially becoming to her
face, for it waked all manner of entrancing
dimples around her mouth, deepened the deli-
cate flush on her cheeks, and kindled a bright
gleam in her soft gray eyes. She was a charm-
ingly harmonious creature, with an aroma
of unconscious refinement about her. Not a
line-and-measure beauty, by any means. Not
a woman who could defy criticism, or serve
under any circumstance as a model for a
sculptor. Many a painter, however, might
have been glad of such a study as she made,
sitting there in the fresh glory of her youth,
with a ray of sunlight brightening the silken
meshes of her brown hair, and touching with
a pencil of light her pure white brow, over
which a few light soft tresses wandered free.
"A born child of prosperity," almost any
one would have said, looking at her, and yet
-although life had from her early childhood
been a very fair and picasant thing to Leslie
Grahame-ahe had not, strictly speaking, been
born to the gifts of fortune which she had


6                        A 'VAUIJfl1~d~
enjoyed. Her eyes had first opened upon a
very different - prospect indeed - the more
common prospect of those thorny by-ways
and toilsome paths of poverty which are in-
tensified in bitterness by memories of gentle
rearing and the consciousness of gentle birth.
Her father-Mrs. Middleton's only brother-
had been a cavalry-officer, who lost his life in
a fight with the Comanehes in Texas, Her
mother was a weak and foolish woman, who,
being little more than a girl at the time of
thisevent, cried herself sick in the first two
weeks of her "bereavement," then wiped
away her tears with the facility of a child,
and very soon married again in a manner cal-
culatedto draw down upon herself the condem-
nation of society and the indignant reprehen.
sion of all her friends. These friends, who
had objected to her first husband on the score
of that impecuniosity which seems to attend
the profession of arms in all countries and at
all times, felt themselves deeply outraged by
this second choice, which quite dwarfed the
foolish romance that had made a silly school-
girl elope with a penniless soldier. Their re.
monstrances, however, were heeded as re-
monstrances usually are when those who
utter them have only power to-remonstrate.
The young widow persisted in bestowing her
heart and band upon a plausible, handsome
adventurer, of whose antecedents no one
knew any thing, and whose habits of life
were notoriously disreputable. That he was
an Irishman, a slight accent-it could scarce-
ly have been called a brogue-betrayed to
Anglo - Saxon ears. But, further than that,
even gossip was unable to penetrate, for he
was only temporarily living in America when
he met Mrs. Grahame. Why he married her
is one of the mysteries which are beyond the
ken of men or angels to fathom; but it is
likely that, with an interesting widow in deep
crape, he associated some substantial expec-
tations-destined, if so, to vanish into the
thinnest of thin air. Why she married kim,
requires no explanation, for she was one of
those women who seem born t~o do fodlish
things from their cradles to their graves, and
was, besides, of the large class to whom a
husband is a sin~ple necessity of life. Im-
mediately after their marriage, Mr. Desmond
(such was the gentleman's well sounding
name) took his wife abroad-the continent of
Europ~being then, as now; the grand resort
of all Bohemians of his. class-insisting, how~

A TROUBLESOME REQUEST.                    7

A Tr~rfm1~1. f~i~ ntATT1~~fY A
DVflJ~ilLL~

ever, that she should leave behind the child
of her first marriage. She made little demur
to this peremptory demand. Mrs. Middle.
ton, who had been married several years, was
very glad to adopt the little waif~ and, with a
tempest of weak tears, the mother parted from
her child-as it chanced, forever.
For, of course, she never returned. Two
children were born abroad, and then, worn
out by the vicissitudes of a wandering, shift.
ing life, all prettiness gone from her face,
all health from her body, all strength (if such
a thing had ever existed) from her mind, the
poor, faded wreck bowed her head and died.
She had kept up a sort of straggling corre-
spondence with little Leslie-to whom, in her
bright, luxurious home, "mamma" was the
dimmest of dim memories-but her other re.
nations had long since dropped all communi-
cation with her, and there was no one to care
particularly when a foreign letter sealed with
black came to Mr. Middleton, in which Mr.
Desmond informed him that Mrs. Desmond
had died on a certain day of a certain month
at Coblentz.on-the.Rhine. Mr. Middleton ac-
knowledged the receipt of this information by
a business-like letter, remarkable only for its
brevity; and the result on Leslie's life con-
sisted in the fact that, for several months,
she was reluctantly compelled to wear black
sashes with her white frocks.
By the time this young lady grew up,
everybody had quite forgotten the poor, fool-
ish woman safely laid to rest in her foreign
grave. Miss Grahame was a beauty-accord~
ing to the not very high popular standard of
beauty-an heiress, and a very bright~ pleas-
ant girl besides, so it was ~ot wonderful that
she made quite a success at her first appear-
ance in society. It was not a success which
diminished, either-as successes often do-
when season after season rolled away, and the
pretty belle remained certainly not unsought,
yet assuredly unwon. Perhaps there was
safety of heart and fancy in the multitude of
her admirers; or perhaps she felt an obliga-
tion to brighten, for a few years of her youth,
the kind home that had sheltered her child'
hood. It is to her credit that Leslie laid
much stress on the latter consideration; yet
it is likely enough that, if she had ever been
seriously "interested," as old-fashioned peo-
ple saythis obligation would have shared the
fate that such obligations mostly do when
opposed to the master-passion of mankind.

However this might be, the fact remained the
same. Suitors came and suitors went, but
Leslie shook her head and said them nay,
until one came to whom the girl's. heart sur-
rendered with all the more abandon that it
had held out stoutly for so long.
Why this desirable person, against whom
nothing could be said, was not so fortunate
as to secure the approval of the guardians as
well as the heart of the lady, may be ex-
plained in the fact that his wooing and suc-
cess had knocked over, like a house of cards,
a very pretty little plan which the Middletons
had erected for their own present and future
satisfaction. Seeing Leslie remain fancy free
so long, these good people had been tempted
to think what a pleasant thing for them it
would be if they could only keep her with
them altogether, and, as the best means of
attailiing this desired end, they thought of
one Carl Middleton-a nephew of the banker
-who had been educated abroad, but was
shortly expected home-who should, indeed,
have been at home considerably before this
time. Of course, he could not but fall in love
with Leslie-so Mrs. Middleton argued, in the
partial fondness of her heart-and, being a
frank, pleasant young fellow, with his due
share of the Middleton good looks, it was
likely enough that Leslie might fall in love
with him, in which ease it was a long and
happy vista that opened before the astute
match-maker's eyes. It ~vill be seen what a
bomb-shell to the foundations of this castle
in Spain Arthur Tyadale had proved; and
also why Mr. and Mrs. Middleton. were not
properly grateful to Providence for the many
worldly advantages that surrounded Miss
Grahame's fortunate suitor.
After Mr. Middleton's last remark, there
was silence round the breakfast - table for
some time. They tried to look and seem as
usual, but there was an uncomfortable sense
of constraint about them. They each felt, in
a different way, that the golden charm of
home had been broken-how much or how
little no one could tell-that a jarring ele-
ment had entered their life, and that, what-
ever the future might hold for them, the fair,
serene past had ended yesterday. There
never were people who, in their domestic
life, were more at ease with each other, and
it was strange to see how they hesitated just
now-each seeming in doubt what to say.
Finally, Mr. Middleton spoke again:

"I suppose, Leslie, that I shall see Tyn.
dale some time this morning?"
"He said he would certainly see you,"
Leslie answered, coloring a little, but other.
wise preserving that composure which she
had been taught to observe as one of the
chief duties of life.
"And what am I to tell him?" asked her
uncle half jestingly, yet with a certain amount
of tenderness in his keen, brown eyes.
"Just what you please, I am' sure," an-
swered Miss Grahame, quietly. "I told him
yesterday all that mattered very much."
"So he merely comes to me as a matter
of complimentary form?"
"Not exactly tlmt. Of course, he knows
that. my consent is worth nothing without
yours; but then he must also know that ob-
jection is out of the question as far as ho is
concerned. There is not a flaw to be found
in Arthur," added the young lady, proudly.
"Well, that is going rather far," said her
uncle. "Objection may be out of the ques-
tion," he added, reluctantly, "but I would
not advise you to make a demi-god of him on
that account, my dear. Be content that he
is a very clever young fellow, as men go-but
with plenty of flaws, you may he sure, when
you come to know him. And so" (his voice
changing a little), "you are really going to
leave us ?-we are really to lose our little
girl!"
"0 uncle, don't-don't make me cry I"
pleaded Leslie, with something like a gasp
in her throat, and a tremulous, beseeching
glance in her eyes. "I made up my mind
this morning that I would not be sentimental
or foolish, and that I would look at things
from a practical, common-sense point of view.
There is nothing whatever to be melancholy
about. People are married every day."
"That is very true," said Mr. Middleton,
"and, according to the same argument, a
good many of them die, too; but somehow
we don't get used to It."
"0 George!" cried his wife, "what a com-
parison!"
"I am trying to teach Leslie logic, my
dear," said George. "You know I never
succeeded in teaching it to you. it seems
that it is a settled thing, then, that we are to
kill the fatted calf," he went on rather hastily
-perhaps to do away with the impression of
his last remark. "Ihope; however, Tyndale
doesn't mean to take possession ofyon at once,

VE DVIIGELLA.


8                 A DAUGHTER OF ~OHEMIA.                                               ARTHUR TYNDALE.                   9

Leslie. He'll spare you to us for some time
tocomeeh?"
*   "I have not asked him any thing about
it," answered Leslie; "but I shall not think
of being married before the autumn. I "-
here she hesitated a minute-.." I have been
thinking of something that I should like to
ask you, uncle-and you, aunt."
"We are all attention," said Mr. Middle-
ton, elevating his eyebrows as he glanced up,
for such a grave preface was very unlike
Leslie.
"You may think it very foolish, and you
may even think it very unreasonable," said
Leslie, looking first at one and then at the
other, "but, indeed, I have considered it
seriously, and I should like it very mueji, if
you have no objection."
"My dear," said Mrs. Middleton, "you
know that you could scarcely ask any thing
which we would not be glad to grant. But,
of course, we cannot know what you want
unless you tell us."
"No-of course not~" said Leslie, laugh.
ing nervously. "The fact is," she continued,
"I am afraid you will disapprove of my re.
quest; but, indeed, I have set my beart on it.
How stupid I am I" she went on with a burst
of impatience. "I have made you think all
sorts of things, when all that I want is to ask
you if I may invite one of my sisters to come
and see me."
It certainly sounded like a~ moderate re.
quest, yet one more astonishing, and, in fact,
more dismaying, could scarcely have been
made. Mr. and Mrs. Middleton looked at
each other silently, while. Leslie- after a
pause-continued:
"You see I have thought so often of poor
mamma and of the girls-my sisters---whom
I have never known. Only the other day I
was reading over mamma's letters, and my
heart smote me to think what my life is and
what theirs has doubtless been. Of course,
I could do nothing for them while I had no
home of my own; but-but I shall soon have
that, and I should like to know something
of them, so as to see how best to benefit
them."
"No home of your own, Leslie!', repeated
Mrs. Middleton. "It seems to me that is a
hard thing to say to us."
"Dearest aunt, don't you understand I"'
said the girl, earnestly. "What I mean is,
that I could not ask you to take them as you

'took me. You would have thought it only
kindness to me to refuse. But, you see, my
engagement seems such a good reason to offer
for asking one of them to come, that I thought
you would not mind it for a little while. We
could see what she is like, you know, and-
and if she is nice, I am sure it would be very
pleasant for her to live with me until she
married, or something of that kind."
Again Mr. and Mrs. Middleton looked at
each other-this time despairingly. They
both saw plainly the nature of the plan which
this foolish girl had been building, and they
both saw, also, the hopelessness of opposing
it. Still, in their different ways, each of them
tried a little argument.
"The idea is very natural, and does you
~redit, my deat," said Mr. Middleton, "but I
think you ought to consider that you may be
preparing a great deal of trouble for yourself,
by opening any closer communication with
such-such people as those."
"What kind of trouble?" asked Leslie.
Mr. Middleton looked annoyed, and pushed
his cup rather sharply away.
"I thought you knew that your mother's
second husband was an adventurer," he said.
"Neither he nor his daughters are fit asso-
ciate~ for you."
"But I don't want to associate with him,"
answered Leslie, simply; "and, as for his
daughters, they are my sisters. I can't alter
that fact, however much I neglect them.,
And their father's character makes me all
the more anxious to do something for' them."
"But you may do yourself great injury,"
urged Mrs. Middleton. "People who remem.
ber your mother's second marriage will talk
very disagreeably; and Mr. Tyndale may very
naturally object to such a connection."
Leslie drew herself up like a queen-her
fair skin flushing with a tide of blood, which
well deserved the poetic epithet of "gener.
ous."
"You are very kind to think of me as you
always have done, auntie," she said; "but I
care nothing for what other people may say;
and, as for Arthur-he will not be likely to
marry me unless he is willing to receive -my
sisters into his house."
Mrs. Middleton moved uneasily. Nothing
could have been more trying to her than to
see such an idea as this take possession of
Leslie's mind.
"My dear," she said, gravely, "can you

nottrust your uncle and myself when we as-
sure you that these are not people with whom
you should burden your life? You have no
idea what manner of man your mother's sec.
ond husband was; and these girls are not
only his daughters, but they have been his
associates, and the associat~sof Ins associates,
* for years. Leslie! promise me to give up
such a foolish scheme."
"J3ut," repeated Leslie, "they are my
sisters. If I can save them from such a life,
oughtlnotto do it?"
"Not to the injury of your own life," an-
swered her aunt, quickly.
"My life is made," the girl returned, with
the rash confidence of youth. "They might
a noy, but they could not injure me; and an.
~4 oyance I am ready to risk."
I "But, my dear child-"
"There! there!" broke in Mr. Middle.
ton, impatiently, "don't you see that she has
set her heart on it, and that no words are go.
ing to do any good ?-You've spoiled her, Mil-
dred~ now take the consequences, and write
and ask the girl to come.-I suppose you
don't want both of them?" (looking inter-
rogatively at Leslie).
"No," she answered; "I have thought it
over, and decided that I should prefer the
elder-the one who writes to me occasion.
ally, and is nearest my age. Her name iS
Norah-the other is Kate."
"And it is Norah you want?" asked Mr.
Middleton, in exactly the tone he might have
employed if he had said, "And it is the bay
horse you want?"
"Yes, Norab, if she will come."
"There is very little doubt of that," he
said, grimly. "I only hope you may not wish
the thing undone after it is irrevocably done,"
he went on, as he rose to leave the room.
"But you can write for her, and your aunt
will write, too, no doubt. Meanwhile, I will
go and read my paper till Tyndale comes. I
hope he won't prove a laggard in his woo. I
ing, for I have an appointment at the bank in
an hour."
-4-..
CHAPTER II.
"This is her picture as she was:
It seems a thing to wonder on,
As though mine image in the glass
Should tarry when.my~eif am gone."
Mn, TY1~DALE did not prove a laggard in ~
his wooing. Before Mr. Middleton had fin-

ished his paper-in fact, before he had sue.
needed in dismissing Leslie's troublesome re-
quest from his mind, so as to satisfactorily
master the rates of exchange and the politi-
cal intelligencc-..the library-door opened, and
a gentleman was ushered in by Robert, who
knew the gentleman's business quite as well
as he knew it himself. He was a handsome
young man of six. or seven-and.twenty, fair-
haired, and silken.mustached, with' a com-
plexion like a girl's, violet eyes, and a slen-
der, elegant figure, which he carried with re-
markable grace~
Mr. Middleton met him cordially. Be.
cause Arthur Tyn4ale was not the husband
whom he would have chosen for his pretty
Leslie was no reason why the fortunate suitor
should not receive at his hands all the consider.
ation which was his due-and a good deal of
consideration was esteemed in society Mr. Tyn-
dale's due. He not only represented one of
the oldest names in the State, but he had
come into a large property at his majority,
which, as yet, had been very moderately con-
verted into ducks and drakes. Tempted, as
few men are tempted, by the union of perfect
liberty, wealth, and good looks, he had pre.
served a very clear record-the record of a
thorough-bred gentleman and an unexception-
ably "good fellow"-in the face of the world;
and, altogether, as Mr. Middleton had already
admitted, with some degree of reluctance,
there was nothing with which the most carp-
ing guardian could possibly have found fault.
No one was better aware of these facts than
the gentleman himself, in consequence of
which his manner was perhaps a little too
well assured in preferring his suit. Not that
he exhibited any offensive self-confidence-he
had too much high-breeding for that-but he
was not entirely successful in wholly banish.
ing a certain consciousness of safety~ which
was a trifle irritating to his companion. All
objection being out of the question, however,
bhe matter was soon settled, due congratula-
~ions were uttered, hands were shaken, and
.hen Mr. Tyndale was at liberty to betake
*dmself to the drawing room, where Leslie.
vas awaiting him.
She was standing when he entered by
~n open window, looking absently out over a
~rcen square, in the tall trees of which a mul-
itude of birds were singing, while children
)layed and nurses gossiped along the shaded
vaiks, and a stream of pedestrians passed


THE PHOTOGRAPH.                   11

10                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

continually through the wide iron gates.-
Hearing his step, she turned, with something
even brighter than the May sunshine on her
face.
"Is it all settled?" she asked, smiling,
as he approached; for she knew perfectly
well what his answer would be.
"It is all settled," he answered, taking
her into his arms and kissing her. "You are
mine, Leslie!"
"AmI?" asked Leslie, drawing back, as
if half inclined to dispute the assertion. But
then she laughed and yielded to his eager em-
brace. "I believe I am," she said, answer-
ing her own question with a slight sigh.
"Are you sorry for it?" he asked, quickly.
"Ah, Leslie, surely not! ~Surely you believe
that nobody has ever loved you half so well
as I! Wait until I have proved it to you;
wait until I have put it tothe test and made
you believe it by other signs than mere words;
and then tell me, if you dare, that you are
sorry for having come to me l"
"Did I say I was sorry?" demanded Les-
lie. "You should not take things so much
for 'granted. If I sighed a little it was only
because my freedom is the best thing I have
ever possessed; and I don't like the thought
of giving it up."
"Do you think you will be giving it up
to me?" he asked, smiling. "I think time
will prove that you have only gained another
slave."
But, like a true daughter of Eve, Leslie
shook her head.
"Suppose I don't want another?" she
said. "I have had slaves enough. By way
of variety, I think I should like to be domi.
needed over a little. Just a little, Arthur;
not enough to be disagreeable."
"I can safely promise that it will be ex~
ceedinglylittle," said Tyndalelaughing. "You
were born qucen-regnant, my Leslie, and so I
think you will die. At least "-shrugging hii
shoulders-" I am sure I have not the where
withal to make a tyrant even of the mildesi
type. My constitutional indolence rather in
dines me to prefer being henpecked. Ii
would be a pleasure to be put in leading
strings by such fingers as these."
He lifted her small, white, lissome hand~
as he spoke, but before he could carry then
to'his lips Leslie took them into her own pos
session, and, placing one on each of his shoul
ders, repeated, with a very gracious sweetness

the charming words in which Portia makes
her self-surrender:
the full sum of me
Is sum of something; which, to term in gross,
Is an uniessoned girl, unschooled, unpractised:
Happy In this, she Is not yet so old
lint she may learn; and happier than this,
She Is not bred so duilbut she can learn;
Happiest of allis, that her gentle spirit
Commits itself to yours to be directed,
As from her lord, her governor, her king."
What Tyndale's answer was, it is not diffi-
cult to imagine. The lips which had uttered
these words were very near his own, and he
was' very much in love. In truth, it was a
new side of her character which 'Leslie was
showing him just now - a more charming
side, he thought, than he had seen yet. She
had not been won without difficulty-this
fair, proud maiden-she was not a woman to
drop like a ripe cherry into any man's hand;
but he felt more than repaid for all that she
had cost him as the fair, graceful head went
down on his shoulder.
But it is scarcely worth while to dwell on
this part of the interview. Everybody agrees
*in considering "engaged" people very tire-
some. To the general mind there seems some-
thing especially stupid in felicity which is ac-
complished and secure. It is likely that we
might even weary of Romeo and Juliet, of
.3fax and Thekia, if the course of true love
had, in either case, run smooth. The reader
can afford to be patient, however, with the
bit of tame happiness-undisturbed by doubt,
untortured by agony-which has just been
sketched. As far as one, at least, was con-
cerned, it was very nearly the last of cloud-
less sunshine.
For, before long, Leslie began to bestow
confidence and claim sympathy from her lover,
on the score of her late discussion with her
uncle and aunt. The matter was laid in all
its bearings before him, and then she asked
I pathetically if he thought she had been un-
reasonable or unkind in pressing her point.
Mr. Tyndale's reply was prompt and antis-
- factory. He agreed with her in everything-
though his sympathy partook largely of the
- nature of a blind faith, since he evidently had
~nceived only the vaguest possible idea of
whole question. Step-sisters, were they?
1 -no, half-sisters. Well, at all events, she
- was perfectly right to do all she could for
- them. As for their father being an adven-
turer-what did that have to do with the

matter!' A great many very good people had
disreputable fathers; and, indeed, adventurers
were sometimes amazingly pleasant fellows-
Mr. Tyndale could certify to that from per-
sonal knowledge. Besides, were not their
friends the Middletons just a trifle narrow-
minded and old - fashioned in their ideas?
Perhaps the gentleman in question only lived
rather a fast life, as gentlemen often did
abroad - and at home, too, for that mat.
ter.
Leslie was much comforted by these lib-
eral opinions; but over the latter theory she
shook her head.
"I am afraid the father is certainly a very
dreadful person," she said; "but still, his
daughters are my sisters, and I am so glad-
so very glad-.-that you agree with me about
them."
"Of course I agree with you," said Mr.
Tyndale, secretly a good deal bored, for he
had not come to talk over disagreeable family
questions with his pretty lady-love. "It is
never good style to cut one's relations unless
they are absolutely disgraceful. Now, these
may be very charming girls, despite the fact
of their father being a chevalier d'industrie-.-..
for, I take it, from what you say, that is just
about what he is. Fortunately, he is not re-
lated to you, so it will be easy enough to drop
him."
"Oh, 'certainly," answered Leslie, hastily
-having 'never had the least intention of tak-
ing him up in the first instance. "It is such
'a relief to find that you are not prejudiced, as
some men would have been, Arthur," she
went on. "Aunt Mildred really made me
quite uneasy. She said you would be sure to
object to such a connection."
"My ilarling, a man who has seen as much
of the world as I have has no prejudices,"
said Mr. Tyndale, superbly. "And as to ob-
jecting to the connection-I am afraid I
should not be sufficiently orthodox to object
to Old Nick, if I had to take him along with
you.~~
"I am very much obliged to you for the
association of ideas."
"I only wanted to put it as forcibly as
possible. It would be hard lines if any of us
were accountable for our relations-much less
for anybody whom our relations may take it
into their heads to marry! There never was
.a man more cursed with disagreeable rela-
tions than I have been," he pursued, frank-

ly. "Except Max, I really don't'think there's
a decent one among the whole rank and
file."
"But none of them are chevatier.s d'iadus-
trie?"
"No-they rather go in for the heavy,
respectable line. But I have seen a good
many ehevaliers d'industrie whom I would
take, ten to one, so far as agreeable quali-
ties go."
"What a pity your friends could not hear
you I" said Leslie, laughing. "Disagreeable
relations must be exceedingly unpleasant,
however. Fortunately, I have never been
tried by them. I often wonder what my sis-
ters are like," she we1nt on, musingly. "They
may be nice-mamma came of very nice peo-
pIe, you know. Then Norah's photograph is
certainly very pretty. Don't you feel prepos-
sessed toward pretty people? I always do.
A pr~pos, I must showyou her photograph,
and see what you think of it."
"Never mind just now," said Tyndale,
who, being comfortable, felt indolent. "I
don't mean to be ungrateful-but you can
show it to me any time, you know; and I care
little for the photograph of any woman under
the sun, while I have you beside me."
"That is very complimentary," said Les-
lie; "but still I want you to see Norah's
likeness. You are one of the few people
whose judgment I can trust with regard to
beauty; and I think she is beautiful."
"Is she?" asked he, carelessly. "Well,
if it must bc-where is the picture?"
"It is hanging in my room. Ring the
bell, and I will send for it."
Tyndale rang the bell; but, after a mes-
sage had been dispatched by Robert to Miss
Grahame's maid, he entered a feeling protest
against the proceeding.
"Cannot this wait?" he asked. "It is
not often that Fate gives us such a happy hour
as this-why should we bring the every-day
things of life to jar upon it? Why can't we
fancy ourselves in paradise or Arcadia, where
sisters and step-fathers never come?"
Some women would have been offended by
the frankness of this speech; but Leslie only
laughed-laughed and extended her'hand to
Maria, who entered at that moment with a
photograph mounted and framed in velvet and
gilt.
"I think the truth is, that you are terribly
bored," she said, after the maid was gone.


LESLIE'S SISTER.                    13

12                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

"Still, if you desire it, we will not talk of the
matter any more. But you must look at
Norah's picture for all that."
She held up the picture as she spoke, and
bending slightly -for he was rather near-
sighted-Arthur Tyndale saw the face stamped
thereon with what Mr. Collins calls "the
stern justice of photography."
It was not a very stern justice in this in.
stance; nor was it a face which, having seen
once, any man would be likely to forget-and
Tyndale, as it chanced, had cause to know it
well. He was a man of. the world, and, ac-
cording to the fashion of his class, had him-
self pretty well in hand against awkward sur-
prises; but the awkwardness-the terrible
uneipectedness-of this, threw 'him complete-
ly off his guard.
"Good Heaven!" he said, before he knew
what he was about. "Why, it is Norah Des-
mond!"
"What !-do you know her?" cried Les-
lie, in uncontrollable amazement. "Of course,
it is Norah-who else should it be? But do
you know her, Arthur?"
"Is siw your ~ asked Tyndale, hur-
riedly-his fair skin several shades fairer
than it had been the minute before. "She-
this girl?"
"Of course, she is my sister," repeated
Leslie, more and more astonished. "Do you
know her ?-have you seen her? You must
have seen her to recognize her picture. But
where was it? How strange it seems that you
should know her!"
"Yes-very strange!" said he, with lips'
that slightly quivered. "But coincidences
happen very often, you know, and-and you
are sure there is no mistake, Leslie?" he
cried, again. "You are sure this is the like-
ness of your sister?"
"What possible mistake could there be?"
asked Leslie. "Norah sent mc the picture
as her likeness. I have never seen her,
however. 'If you have, you ought to know
whether or not it is she."
"Yes, it is she," he answered-looking at
the pictured face before him, and, hating its
brilliant fairness with all his heart, he still
could not deny that it was she.
"But you have not told me yet how you
met her--or when-or where!" said Leslie,
eagerly. "Of course, it must have been
abroad; but tell me all about it. How strange
it seems that you should have seen her and

not know that she was my sister! Tell me all
about it, Arthur!"
"Don't be impatient," said 'he. "I-I
will tell you." Then he stopped a second, as
if to clear his throat, and reviewed the situa-
tion in his mind. It was rather a desperate
one; and, seeing only'a single avenue of es-
cape, he determined to lie, with a readiness
of resource which would have done credit to
the hero of a French play. "It does not fol-
low that I know Miss Desmond because I
recognize her likeness," he went on. "Any
man who has been to Baden-Baden, or to
Homburg, might do that. She is somewhat
of a celebrity at all those places."
The significance of his tone was more
marked than his words. The bright blood
sprang into Leslie's face, and her eyes opened
on him with a look for which he was not
prepared-a look that almost made him sorry
for having implied so much.
"What do you mean?" asked she, some-
what haughtily. "I confess I do not under-
stand."
"Don't look that way, my darling," he
answered, hurriedly. "I only mean that-
that Miss Desmond is a very fast woman.
And that I was-that I am-exceedingly sur-
prised to find that she is your sister."
"Norah 1- are you sure it is Norah?"
cried Leslie. And then-as she, too, felt that
the face before her was not one to be mis-
taken -" 0 Arthur, how sorry, how very
sorry I am! But think what a training the
poor girl has had!" the eager, loyal voice
went on. "No mother, and such a fa-
ther! Is it any wonder that she should
be fast?"
"I do not think that I have expressed any'
wonder at the fact," said Mr. Tyndale, quite
dryly.
"I am so sorry!" Leslie repeated. For a
minute she could say nothing more. Then
she went on quickly-too much preoccupied
to notice his face very closely - "I am so
sorry, too, that you did not know her! You
could have told me so much about her; and
I feel as it' I should like to know something
before she comes."
"Before she comes!" Tyndale could do
no more than utter just that. "Before she
comes, Leslie Do you mean that you are
still thinking of bringing that girl here-after
what I have told you?"
His tone took Leslie by surprise, and did

not please her. She had a spirit of her own,
and Arthur Tyndale saw a flash of it then.
"Why do you suppose that I should not
be thinking of it?" she asked. "I have told
you that Norah is my sister, and that I mean
to ask her to come and visit me. You have
told me nothing concerning her which need
alter that intention."
"I have told you that she has a very fast
reputation," he said, quickly-almost sharp-
ly.
"And when dd a fast reputation become
such a crime in your eyes?" she inquired.
He colored a little. Only a few weeks
before, he had been flirting desperately - in
the vain hope of making Leslie jealous-with
a pretty widow, whose escapades were so
many and so flagrant that she required all
the bolstering of wealth and family position
to maintain a foothold in society. A ready
reply rose to his lips, however-.a true enough
reply, too, since of the many men who like to
flirt with fast women, only a small proportion
like to marry them.
"It was always a crime when it came in
contact with you," he said. "If there is one
thing I desire on earth, it is to keep such
women at arm's length from you, Leslie. But
it will be impossible to do that if you persist
in asking this sister of yours here. Leslie,
my darling, trust me in the matter, and
promise not to do it!"
If Leslie had been a shade less stanch in
her resolve, he would probably have suc-
ceeded then, for his handsome eyes pleaded
even more powerfully tlsn his words. But
the girl was true as steel to her generous pur-
pose, and she did not yield.
"Arthur, dear, don't tempt me," she said.
"Somehow I feel as if I must do this-as if
I must give Norah at least one chance in life.
You can't tell how much I want to do it-if
only for poor mamma's sake."
"You owe a vast deal to the mother who
left you behind her without a regret," he said,
bitterly.
"I do not think she left me without a re.
gret," answered Leslie, flushing. "But, even
if it were so, it would not alter my duty."
"That is to say, your inclination."
"I am sorry you think so," she replied,
half proudly; "but you are mistaken. If I
consulted my inclination, I should do exactly
what. you wish. Even now" then she
stopped and hesitated a minute -"tell me

frankly, Arthur," she went on, "you are a
man and should know best. The charge you
have brought against my sister is a very in-
definite one. Is there any reason why she
should not be invited to my uncle's house?"
She faced him with her clear, candid eyes,
and seemed to demand an answer as straight-
forward as her question. It is humiliating to
confess, but, with every inclination to con-
tinue the course which he had so gallantly
opened, Mr. Tyndale found himself compelled
to speak the truth.
"There is no reason," he said, "unless
you consider what I have already mentioned
as a reason."
But Leslie, as if~reIieved, shook her head
and laughed.
"How terribly strait-laced you have be-
come all at once!" she said. "It is such a
sudden thing that I think it must be an acute
attack, and I can trust Norah to cure you.
Poor Norah! Why is that so terrible in her,
which is so charming in Mrs. Sandford?"
Tyndale muttered something not very
complimentary to Mrs. Sanford under his
breath. Then he made one final effort.
"Leslie," he said, gravely, "do you mean
to say that you are going to disregard the
first-the very first-request which I have
ever made to you?"
Leslie looked at him with a sudden keen-
ness in her soft gray eyes which he did not
quite fancy. She was not by, any means a
fond, foolish girl to be hoodwinked at a man's
pleasure, but a clever woman, who had not
lived twenty-two years in the world for noth-
ing. It struck her just now that there was
an undue amount of eagerness and interest In
Tyndale's manner.
"You force me to believe that there is
something more in this than you have told
me, Arthur," she said. "You have not here-
tofore counted fastness so terrible' a crime
'that it alone should influence you so strongly
against my sister. Again I ask-in fact, I
demand - why you object so much to her
coming?"
"I have told you why," he answered.
"You need not fear that I am concealing
any thing from you. If you do not trust
me-"
"It is not that I do not trust you-trust
you fully and entirely," she interrupted, with
a sincerity which made him wince. But ybu
think of me, Arthur, while I think of Norah


CAPTAIN TYNDALE AND 1115 COUSIN.         15

14                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

-poor Norah, who has never had a chance
out of that wild Bohemia where she was born.
I cannot give up the hope of doing her some
good, even "-she paused just here-" even
if the iss'e involved giving up you."
"You could face that alternative with due
philosophy, perhaps," said he, bitterly. Then
he added suddenly and passionately: "But
it ~vill never involve that, Leslie-never, so
help me God, so far as I am concerned!"
It was a strange, vehement oath to take
in such a connection, and sounded almost as
if be wished to bind himself by something
which even himself could not break.
-.4--
CHAPTER III.
"Ay, there are some good things in life that fall
not away with the rest,
And, of all best things upon earth, I hold that a
faithftil friend is the best.
For woman, Will, is a thorny flower: It breaks,
* and we bleed and smart;
The blossom falls at the fairest, atid the thorn
* 6runs into the Iheart.
And woman's love is a bitter fruit; and, however
he bite it, or sip,
There's many a man has lived to curse the taste
of that fruit on his lip.
But never was any man yet, as I ween, he he
whosoever he may,
That has known what a true friend is, Will, and
wished that knowledge away."
ON the evening of the same day, Mr. Tyn-
dale dined at his club. This was not a suffi.
ciently remarkable occurrence to be worthy
of note, if it had not chanced that he had
been invited to dine with the Middletons, and
had declined, on the score of a previous en-
gagement. Yet, at seven o'clock he was sit-
ting down to dinner quite alone-facing rather
moodily a deserted dining-room and a solitary
servant; for most diners at the club had van-
ished before this time. Although he was
alone-and had finished his dinner, too-the
table where he sat bore another cover, at
which he new and then glanced with an ex-
pression half vexed, half ezpectant. Plainly
he had anticipated a eompan~bn, and quite as
plainly this companion had not arrived.
"Is there no sign of Captain Tyndale
yet?" he asked impatiently of the servant,
who, hearing a carriage stop at the door,
made a short excursion of curiosity to the
window.
"Captain Tyndale has just arrived, and is

Coming in, sir," was the somewhat unexpected
reply; and, as Arthur glanced up quickly,
the person thus indicated entered the room.
A tall, handsome man, with clear, bold feat-
ures, mustache so long that they looked as
if they ought to be very much in his way,
dark eyes more keen than brilliant, a close
crop of dark hair, and the weatherbeaten
look of one on whom many suns had shone
and many rains fallen. He came forward,
and, sitting down in the vacant chair opposite
Tyndale, laughed good-humoredly.
"I am amazingly punctual, am I not?"
he said. "Is that what you are looking so
glum about ?-or is it the heat? By Jove 1
it is infernally warm! I never felt any thing
like it out of Algiers."
"When one asks a man to dine at seven
o'clock," said Tyndale, "one does not usually
expect him at half-past that hour."
"I am very sorry," said the other, apolo-
getically. "I really meant to be on time-
but what can one do against Fate? I met
Mrs. Sandford in her pony-phacton an hour
ago, and she insisted on taking me round the
park. I whipped up famously, I can tell you,
when I found what the hour was; but it
hasn't been two minutes since she dropped
me at the door."
"Oh, if it was a ease of is tells inure, I
can readily excuse you," said Tyndale, with a
laugh. "She is one in a thousand for mak-
ing a man forget time.-Have claret, Max ?-
Handsome, isn't she?"
"Thanks-yes," said Max, alluding to the
claret. "Well, no-I don't think I should
call her particularly handsome," he said, al-
luding to Mrs. Sanaford. "Her complexion
is good, and she ha~ a great deal of style-
not much else, that I can perceive. V -
"That is half the battle."
"Of course-with a certain class of men.
Not with you and me, Hal."
Max Tyndale had called his cousin "Hal"
ever since they were boys, for no earthly rca-
son that any one could discover, except that
it was not his name. He looked up now and
laughed, raising his glass of iced claret to his
lips.
"Not with me, certainly," said Tyndale.
"Still, she is a pretty woman, and very good
company, as the phrase goes."
I' Charmingly free and easy company, at
any rate," said Max, dryly. "We advanced
toward intimacy with seven-league boots this

evening. It is convenient, at least, to meet a
woman who takes all the trouble of making
acquaintance off one's hands. She told me
all about herself with engaging frankness;
and asked so much about my affairs, that I
really anticipated her inquiring how much a
year I spend on cigars."
"Probably she did not take sufficient in-
terest in that subject."
"So I supposed, from the fact that she
did not ask. She made up for the emission,
however, by inquiries sufficiently minute con-
cerning you.~~
"That was kind of her," said Tyndale, in
a tone of only half-veiled contempt.
"So I thought-considering all things!
She was particularly anxious to know if you
are engaged to Miss Grahame."
"And you told her-?"
"That I knew absolutely nothing of your
affairs."
"She didn't believe you, Max."
"No, I don't suppose she did," said Max,
philosophically. "Women rarely do believe
the truth. That was good advice Satan gave
Festus-you remember it, don't you?"
"I can't say that I do," answered the
other, carelessly. "If I had been able to
catch a glimpse of you any time last night or
to-day," he went on, "you might have grati-
fied Mrs. Sandford's curiosity by letting her
know that I am engaged to Miss Grahame."
Max Tyndale started, changed color - a
fact which was apparent even through his
bronzed skin - and looked keenly at his
cousin.
"Is that a fact, Hal?" he said.
"Yes, it is a fact," Arthur answered.
"Do you remember that I had an engagement
to ride with her yesterday afternoon? Well,
we went, and before we got back the matter
was settled."
"I knew, of course, that it was coming,"
said Max, looking at his claret. "But some-
howl did not expect it quite so soon. Things
always come unexpectedly, though, don't
they? By Jove! "(with a slight laugh), "how
Mrs. Sandford would have been astonished if
I had been able to give her the news!"
"You take it coolly," said Arthur, a little
piqued.
"Parbleu I my dear fellow, how else
should I take it-especially when you set me
such a good example?" said the other, open-
ing~his dark eyes quickly. "Rhapsodize a

little, and then I shall know how to he a lit-
tie more effusive."
" Nonsense!" said Arthur, shortly~
"Whatever a man feels, you know that, if he
has again of sense, he never rhapsodizes. I
don't care a fig for your effusion; but you
might acknowledge that the man whom Les-
lie Grahame accepts is somewhat luckier
than the most of his fellows."
"That is easily acknowledged," said the
other, heartily. "I congratulate you hon-
estly on your luck! In all my wanderings
about the world, I have never seen a more
charming woman than Leslie Grahame."
"I think she is charming," said Arthur.
"My opinion just no* is not worth very much
-being that of a man in love-but I remem-
ber how mut~h her grace and refinement
struck me when I met her first. I could
sooner cut my throat than marry a fast wom-
an or a flirt 1" he added, suddenly, and, as it
seemed, savagely.
Max shrugged his shoulders. He sup.
posed his cousin was thinking of Mrs. Sand.
ford.
"They serve very well to pass the time,"
he said. "One would not think of comparing
them with such a woman as Miss Grahame,
though."
"Leslie suits me exactly," said Tyndale.
"I really never expected to find a woman
who would suit me half so well. Without
being beautiful, she is exceedingly pretty.
Without being intellectual, she is clever.
Without being an angel, she is amiable; and
without being a vixen, she is high-spirited.-
What are you laughing at, Max?"
"Excuse me," said Max. *"It only struck
me, my good fellow that if you had said at
once, 'She is perfection,' it would have
shortened the matter."
"But she is not perfection, nor, thank
God, likely to he!" said Arthur, irritably.
"Why do you misunderstand me? I am not
rhapsodizing like a fool-I am telling you
sanely and sensibly why Leslie Grahame suits
me better than any other woman could. Even
you-who are not in love with her-can't say
that I exaggerate."
"I don't say it," answered the other,
slightly blushing. "I think you are perfect-
ly right. I think Leslie Grahame is all that
you have said-and more besides!"
"Thank you!" said Tyndale, gratefully.
"Well, acknowledging all this, ask yourself
N


16                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

ii
''I

if it Is not the devil's own luck which puts
my possession of it in such jeopardy that a
day - an hour may part me from Leslie
Grahame forever!"
Captain Tyndale was in the act of filling
his glass, but he put it down to look at his
cousin. Had the wine mounted to his head?
The suspicion crossed Max's mind, but the
eyes which met his own, though rather
gloomy, were perfectly sober.
"You think I am jesting," Arthur said,
as he met his glance. "You are mistaken. I
am in earnest-so earnest that I mean to
make a clean breast of every thing, and ask
your advice concerning the cursed predica-
mentin which I find myself."
"All right," said Captain Tyndale, falling
into the familiar phrase half mechanically-
for he was strangely puzzled by Arthur's tone
and manner. "Will you fill your glass?
No? Tlet~ let us go out on the balcony and
smoke a cigar. We can talk at our leisure
there; and I confess I am stifling here."
"It is hot," said the other, loosening his
cravat with a jerk. "I never felt such weath-
er in May before. At least, there's darkness
and fresh air here," he went on, stepping out
on the balcony of which his cousin had
spoken. "Bring a chair out, Max, and let
us be comfortable. Have you any engage-
meat?"
"None of any importance," answered
~tax, coming out laden wit~ a chair. "I
think my lionhood-.is that ~xpresRion cor-
rect ? - we say bellehood, y~l know must
be over. I have only recefred about half a
dozen invitations this week.'
"It is the season which is over," said
Tyndale, striking a match and lighting his
cigar. "People are getting languid with the
warm weather-even too languid to lionize a
captain of chasseurs who won the cross of
the Legion in Algeria and a broken head at
Gravelotte."
"Stuff!" said the captain of ehasseurs,
lighting his cigar in turn.
It ifiny have been stuff; but it was true,
nevertheless. Max Tyndale-who had served
for several years in the French army-~de.
served a great deal of credit that his head
had not been wholly turned by the amount
of lionizing which society had showered on
him during the season now closing. Of course
it was not qnly because he had received the
Cross of the Legion in Algiers, or that he had

distinguished himself by so much personal
gallantry during the Franco- Prussian War,
that he had won his grade where a soldier
likes best to win it-on the field of battle.
These things make a man respected among
men, and, in a degree, admired among wom-
en, but they do not of themselves win for
him that capricious homage of society which
may be despised by the wise, but the subtle
flattery of which even the wisest are not al-
ways able to withstand. There must be other
gifts-personal gifts-to make the hero of
battle-fields also a hero in drawing-rooms.
These gifts Max Tyndale possessed-at least,
in a measure. He was handsome, sufficiently
accomplished, and unmistakably thorough-
bred, besides which he had that graceful ease
of manner-especially with women - which
some men bear like a seal of distinction ; and
yet there was nothing of the carpet-knight
about him. In truth, the principal reason why
he had been little spoiled by the flattery and
attention so freely paid him, rested in the
fact that he cared absolutely nothing for any
triumph which society could give. His heart
was in sterner conflicts, and bent on more
tangible rewards. Ambition was his mistress
at present, and she left him little leisure or
thought for any other.
With regard to worldly circumstances,
there was a great difference between the two
cousins. Arthur Tyndale had inherited, as
sole heir, the accumulated wealth of several
generations. Max had his pay, and perhaps
a few hundreds besides-certainly nothing
more. It is doubtful, however, if this dif.
ference weighed for a moment in the thoughts
of either. Thoy were not men to think or
care for such a barrier. The same blood
beat in their veins, and, apart from kindred
ties, they liked each other sincerely, so it
mattered very little that one was a million-
aire and the other a mere soldier of fortune.
Whatever their other faults, wealth in their
eyes had none of the glamour with which
more vulgar natures regard it. "Every thing
is as it should be," Max told his cousin once.
"You are the head of the house-I am only a
cadet.' Don't think that I envy you an
acre of your land, or a centime of your for-
tune. On the contrary, I am heartily glad
that there is somebody to keep up the old
name in due state. We're both Tyndales-
that is enough for us."
It had been enough to draw them togeth.

16


A SERIOUS DIFFICULTY.                    17

er very warmly when they had met a few
years before-it had been enough, also, to
bring Max on a furlough to America, when he
was sick in body, mind, and heart, after the
failure of the French cause. Arthur's almost
aflhctionate kindness, the petting of women,
and the liking of men, had, however, gone
very far toward enabling him to recover his
old tone. As he sat opposite Tyndale at the
dinner-table, which they had just quitted, he
had not looked as if his hopes or thoughts
had in any sense gone into exile at Chisel.
hurst; or kept anxious watch with M. Thiers
over the ofttimes-born republic.
Considering that they were in the heart
of a busy city, the street which the two
youug men overlooked from their balcony
was rather a quiet one. Few pedestrians
passed, only now and then a carriage; gas.
lamps shone through the heavy foliage of
green trees, and the serene starlight was able
to assert itself quite well. The club-house
was blazing with gas, but somewhat empty.
Now and then came the clink of billiard-balls,
or the sound of voices; but there was little
to remind them of the neighborhood of others.
"1 am all attention," Max at last sug-
gested, when he found that his cousin kept
silence after some time had passed.
Even then, Tyndale did not speak imme-
diately. lie took his cigar from his lips,
and knocked oil' the ashes before he said:
"Of course it is a woman U'
"So I supposed," said the other, coolly.
Then, after a pause, "Has it any thing to (10
with the pretty avidow?"
"If you mean Mrs. Sandford," said Tyn.
dale, contemptuously, "I should think you
could tell for yourself that she is not the kind
of woman a man ever gets into serious trouble
about."
"There is still another, then!" said Max.
"Upon my word, you would make a good
Turk, Hal! Suppose you emigrate to Con.
stantinople - or perhaps Salt Lake might
serve your purpose, since it is nearer home I"
~'This is no jesting matter," said Tyn.
dale, half vexed. "If you can keep serious,
Max, for ten minutes, I wish you would. Do
you remember when I was in Paris two
years ago-hearing me speak of a girl I had
met at Baden? An Irish girl. Norah Des.
mond was her name."
"Really, my dear fellow, you spoke of so
many girls,"' said Max, in a puzzled tone,
2

am not sure that I remember this special
one. What about her?"
"You must remember her," said the
er, pettishly. ~' You never heard me speak
of any other as I spoke of her, for I was a
confounded fool about her just then. She
was certainly the prettiest woman 1 saw
abroad, as well as the most fascinating."
"I think I do remember something about
an Irish girl," said Captain Tyndale, after a
pause. "Her father Was a sort of Robert
Macaire, wasn't he?"
"Exactly! A more disreputable person
you can't conceive; but you might have
thought him a crown prince, from the way
his daughter carried herself. She had the
pride of an archduchess, and the temper of
the devil!"
"An interesting combination !" said the
captain of chasseurs, dryly.
"By Jove, you might have said so if you
had seen her I" answered the other, with
sudden enthusiasm. "I would match her
against any woman on the Continent for turn-
ing a man's head in the shortest possible
time-if she had a mind to do it."
"She seems to have had a mind to turn
'yours.~,
"I think she-had," said he, coolly, "and
she succeeded-after a fashion. We had a
fine flirtation for a month or two, and, when
at last I was obliged to come home, I should
be afraid to say to how much or how little I
bound myself."
"That's unlucky!" said Max, still speak-
ing very dryly.
"It's the devil's own luck!" repeated his
cousin, fiercely - for, it is astonishing how
people anathematize luck, or the devil, or
any other comrt'enient abstraction, when the
consequences of their own deeds begin to be
unpleasantly felt.
"She is not likely to trouble you, though
-is she?" said Max. "A woman like that
would be very a~t to keep her distance-even
if the Atlantic was not between you."
"But the trouble exactly is, that the At-
lantic will not be between us very long," said
Authur, gloomily. "Max, imagine if you can,
what I felt to-day when I heard that Norak
Desmond is Leslie Graham's sister!"
"What!"
"There is no possible doubt about it; and
she L~shie - has written for her to come
here!"

17


PROPOSED VISIT TO ROSLAND.               19

1$                A DAUGhTER OF BOHEMIA.

"The devil!" said Captain Tyndale.
- "I think it must be the devil - and all
his fiends to boot!" responded the other,
grimly.
There was a minute's silence before Max
recoveredd himself enough to apeak.
"You are sure this is not a jest, Arthur?"
he said, then. "I confess I scarcely under-
stand it. How could Miss Grahame have a
sister of whom you never heard?"
"That i~ easily explained," Tyndale an-
swered-and he explained it in a few words
-after which he added: "On my soul, Max, I
have not an idea what to do. The whole af-
fair looks to me desperate. Turning it over
in my mind, as I have been doing all day, I
see not the least clew out of the difficulty."
"Stop a minute," said Max, "and let mc
make It clear in my own mind. I had not a
thought it was so serious as this, or I should
have paid more attention. In the first place,
are yon engaged to the girl ?"
"To Norah? I suppose I was engaged to
her when I left Europe."
"And you have never broken it off?"
"Well-no." Then, after a pause, "You
see it was this way: I came home in the au-
tumn of '69, with an understanding that I
was to go back for her the next spring. I
was very much in love, of course, and kept
up a correspondence for some months-con-
found it, Max, no doubt she has every one of
~hose letters yet!"
"She must be a fool if she has not. Never
~nind the letters-go on."
"That winter I met Leslie Gmahame-I
had not been here for years before, you know
-and, from the very first, I saw she suited
me as no woman ever had suited me before.
I had been a mad fool about Norah Desmond,
but I knew all the time she was no wife for
me-setting aside the unpleasant fact of her
disgraceful father."
"A very unpleasant fact, I should think!"
conimented Max, in whose conception family
pride was second only to professional honor.
"In a short time I recognized the folly of
the whole thing, and made up my mind to end
it. But that was not very easily done. I
stopped writing, but I could not resolve to
take any more decisive step. People talk of
boarding lions, but, by Jove! I would rather
beard a dozen lions than Norab Desmond,
when her Celtic pride and temper are fairly
in arms. Sothe spring of "70 came on. She

wrote once or twice to ask if I was ill, or
why I had not written. I did not answer the
letters1 and they stopped."
"Well?" said Max, as the voice stopped
also.
"Well, the war came on in the summer,
and cut off communication, you know. I
can't say that I was sorry for* it; and, from
that time, I heard nothing of Norah-until
to-day. Then Leslie fired the whole thing
upon me like a mine of gunpowde~."
"It is certainly an awkward state of af.
fairs," said Captain Tyndale, after a pause of
some duration, during which be had smoked
like a furnace, and, it is to be supposed, re-
flected like a sage. His cousin had not a
very sensitive ear, or he might have detected
an accent of contempt in the tones of his
voice, despite its studied modulation. In
truth, it had been a sorry story, and this
cool, clear - headed soldier was the Inst man
in the world to sympathize with its mingled
weakness and cowardice.
"It is worse than awkward," said Tyndale.
"There is no telling what will be the upshot
of it, for a prouder woman than Leslie Gra.
hame does not live; and I could see plainly
enough this morning that her uncle was not
by any means anxious for my alliance. If I
had only known this yesterday-"
"You would not have asked Miss Gm-
hame to marry you?"
"I should have deferred doing so, at all
events, until I could have had some under.
standing with that "-a gulp-" that girl in
Europe."
"She will certainly come, I suppose?"
"You may count on that" (savagely).
"She will come, if only for the pleasure of
discomfiting me."
Captain Tyndale took his cigar from his
lips, and rolled a whole cloud of smoke from
under his mustache before lie spoke. Then
lie said
"It is an* ugly business, and you are in
for it emphatically. Frankly, I see hut one
course for you-though I am not at all sure
you will adopt it."
"Aid that-"
"Is to go to Miss Grahame and make a
candid statement of the whole affair. If I
know any thing of women, you may save your-
self by that move, and by that only."
"YoU may know something of women,"
said his cousin, coldly, "but you don't know

any thing of Leslie Grahame~ She would
never forgive such a wound to her pride."
"Is the wound likely to be less severe
when she finds that you have been playing
the r4le of accepted suitor to her, while you
were engaged to her sister?"
"Suppose she never knows it?"
"I have only judged by what you told me,
but I should not think such a woman as you
lave described could readily be induced to
forego so good an opportunity of revenge."
"We shall see," answered Tyndale. "I-I
think that I may induce her to see that her
best policy is silence."
"Cynics tell us that every woman has
her price," said Max, carelessly. "Of course,
you know best whether or not Miss Desmond
has hers. Only, I warn you, it is a perilous
game you are going to play."
"At all events, it is better than throwing
up my hand, as you advise."
" I didn't advise that, exactly; but I do
advise you to avoi(l a course of temporizing
which can only end by placing you in a more
hopelessly false position than you occupy at
present."
"XVe shall see," said Tyndale, sullenly.
"When the whole thing comes out, as it
sooner or later must, it will lay you open ~o a
very serious charge of dishonor," said his
cousin, a little sternly, as it seemed.
"It is not likely to come to that, I trust,"
said Tyndale. "Anyhow, there is nothing to
do but to let things drift. When tle tug of
war comes, I can rely on you for aid-eh, old
fellow?"
"You know that," said the other.
But in his heart he wished the aid had
been demanded in a better cause.
ChAPTER IV.
"So, woukist thou 'seape the coming ill,
Implore the dread Invisible
Thy sweets themselves to sour!
~Ve1l ends his life, believe me, never
On whom with hands thus full forever,
The gods their bounty shower."
IT is doubtful whether the self-constituted
jury of society was ever more unanimous in
rendering a verdict of approval than when
Leslie Grahame's engagement to Arthur Tyn-
dale became publicly known.. "What an ex-
cellent match!" people said with one accord.

How very suitable in every particular!"
Even the young ladies who had cast~ their
nets unsuccessfully for the fish who had
landed himself at Leslie's feet, acknowledged
that, if matches arc ever made in heaven, this
special match bore every mark of celestial
appointment. Both the parties concerned
were so young, so handsome, so charming,
and so wealthy, that it was like the ending
of a novel or a fairy.talc, where everybody is
paired off with such a delightful balance of
personal and worldly gifts.
A few days after the engagement became
an accomplished fact, and while people were
still talking of it in the few informal gather-
ings which they pei'mitted themselves during
the languid heat which had come upon them,
the Middletons held a family council to de-
cide where their summer should be spent.
Somewhat to the surprise of her uncle and
aunt, Leslie cast her vote for the neglected
shades of Rosland-a pleasant country-scat,
conveniently near the city, which they had not
seen for several years.
"I am tired of watering-places, and sum-
mer traveling, and summer sight-seeing," the
young lady said. "No, uncle, I ddn't think
that the mountains, or the sea, or Canada, or
the lakes, will tempt me. I have a fancy to
go back to dear old Rosland and spend the
summer in the luxurious dokefar niente which,
after all, one can only enjoy under one's own
vine and fig-tree. Besides, I know that you
and Aunt Mildred are tired of dissipation, and
would like a little quiet once in a way.
"We are anxious to consult your wishes,
my dear," said Mrs. Middleton. "Of course
it would be pleasant to go to Rosland; but I
am afraid you will find it very dull, Leslie.
You know you have not been there since you
were grown."
"It is for that very reason I want to go,"
said Leslie. "I used to be so happy there;
and, as for being dull, I want to be dull. I
am tired of dissipation. And, if Norah comes,
we must have some settled habitation in which
to receive her."
"That does not follow. She will proba-
bly not arrive until July; and she could join
us if we were at a watering-place, or accom-
pany us if we were traveling."
"She might not like to do either."
"No-she might not like it," said Mrs.
Middleton, slowly. She had not thought of
Miss Desmond in connection with their sum-


MRS. SANDFORD.                        21

20                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

mer plans before; but, thinking of her now,
she began to agree with Leslie that Rosland
would, after all, be the best place for them.
Them wa~ no telling what sort of a creature
this Bohemian girl might prove to be, and, in
view of possible contingencies, a quiet coun-
try-house was the safest and most desirable
retreat. "If she is what she may be, it would
do incalculable harm to Leslie to introduce
her into society !" thought the most refined
and fastidious of ek~ie1eines, with an uncon-
scious shudder at her own share in such an
affliction.
"But what will Mr. Tyndale think of your
burying yourself at Rosland?" she asked, at
length. "Of course we shall be very glad to
see him there; but no doubt he expected to
join o~ir party at some gayer place."
Sh~spoke this very innocently, when,
glancing up, she saw a gleam in Leslie's eyes,
and a smile on her lip which threw a sudden
ray of light on the young lady's unexpected
pastoral fancy.
"Have you forgotten who is our next
neighbor there?" she asked, with a laugh.
"No, I don't mean the Covingtons "-as Mrs.
Middletonts lips unclosed-" I mean on tiw
otiser side. Have you forgotten that our
grounds adjoin those of the Tyndale place?
Arthur and I have talked it' all over. We
are both tired of the gossip and flirtation that
make ~tip watering-place life, and he has not
been down, to look at his old home since he
was a boy. So we are going to enjoy our
summer in a sane1 sensible, Arcadian fashion
for once."
"I don't see why you could not have said
as much without all this discussion, then!"
remarked Mr. Middleton. "It seems, Mil-
dred, that you and I may resign ourselves to
the mie of puppets, Mr. Tyndale being gra-
ciously pleased to pull our strings through
this young lady, who, like all the rest of bKer
sex, must needs double fifty times about her
point when she might save trouble by making
straight for it."
"I was no~ doubling," answered Leslie,
indignantly. "I said from the first I wanted
to go to Rosland-didn't I, Aunt Mildred ?-I
was not obliged to remind you that the Tyn-
dale place was next ours. You might have
rememberodAhat without my aid. If you are
anxious for* a watering-place, uncle, you may
go by yourself, I am sure. Neither Aunt Mil-
dred nor I will interfere."

"I have no doubt that the new lover has
quite banished any need of the old uncle," he
replied, with a Timon-like accent, which was
not a striking success.
But Timon himself could scarcely have
resisted the glance with which Leslie returned
this thrust. The soft, gray eyes looked so
pretty and reproachful that it was no wonder
the matter ended by a kiss on the spot, and a
letter written an hour later to the house-keeper
at Rosland, announcing the intended arrival
of the family.
"flow delightful it will be!" said Leslie,
on the same afternoon, to her lover. "I don't
think you appreciate half how delightful, Ar-
thur; but then you have not b~en down in
that lovely country for so long~ You have
no idea what a beautiful old place Stratford
is. And, taking a short path through the
woods, it is not more than a mile from Ros-
land!"
"It really seems providential altogether,"
Tyndale said, reflecting the brightness of her
face, as, indeed, few men could have helped
doing. "Strafford has passed so entirely out
of ray life these latter years, that if it had not
been an old family place 1 should have put it
in the market long ago. It has served to sink
money on as far back as I can remember," he
added, with a laugh; "and if you like it, Les-
lie, the odds are that still more will be sunk
on it before long."
"I do like it," said Leslie, "more than I
can tell you. I have never been in the house
since I was a very small child; but the
grounds, with their deep glades and old mossy
oaks, are beautiful. Whenever I read of fauns,
and dryads, and ~ylvan fairies, I always think
of Strafford. They all find, a home there, I
am sure."
"Do they?" said he, smiling. "Did you
use to know them? To think of your pretty,
childish feet wandering alone about the woods
of Strafford! Ab, my Leslie, what a lucky
fellow I am to have met you-in tiniii!"
"In time!" she repeated. "Why do you
say that?"
"Why should I not say it, when some-
body who deserved you better might have
won you if I had been a little later in coming
back to America?" he answered, quickly.
"That is not very likely," said she. "Fate
was saving me up for you. I know that now!
Whenever I used to feel the least inclination
to fall in love with anybody, something in my

heart would draw back and say, 'Not yet.'
You see, it was waiting for you, and did not,~
mean that my life should contain any thing
which you or I need regret."
"My Leslie!" he said, with a sort of pas-
sionate fondness; but none the less a flush
came over his face, which Leslie, if she had
seen it, would not have understood. It was
a flush of reproachful shame to compare the
heart given him with the heart he had to give.
Men of the world do not often feel such twinges
as this; but, despite his worldly training, Tyn-
dale felt it now-felt it because lie was con-
scious that he possessed this heart only on
sufferance, and because he knew that a pos-
sible conviction awaited him, which would
make every fond word Leslie now uttered
turn to gall in her memory. "Tell me about
Stratford," he went on, after a moment, anx-
ious, perhaps, to change the subject. "I
have only the vaguest recollection of it.
Isn't there a pond somewhere about the
grounds? It seems to me I remember catch-
ing trout out of a pond."
"Yes," said Leslie, "but you should not
call it a pond-it is a lake, and such a lovely
one! Don't you remember how still, an~l
clear, and deep the water is? how the grounds
slope down to it on one side, and what dark,
solemn pines are on the other? Then, the
water-lihies-O Arthur, how could you forget
the water-lilies?"
"I had not much of a soul for water-lilies
in those days," said he. "I have a much
more vivid remembrance of the trout. The
river is near at hand, too; isn't it?"
"Nearer to Rosland than to Strafford, but
near enough to both. We always keep a boat
on it."
"And we will put one on the pond-I beg
pardon, the lake. Then we can row, and fish,
and talk, and read 'The Earthly Paradise,'
and, in short, make an earthly paradise of
our own."
"I don't like the comparison," said Les-
lie. "Paradise had a serpent, you know;
and every paradise, since that time, has been
furnished, with the same drawback. Now,
ours will not have any; so we will not call it
*by the fairbut fatal name."
"No, we will not," said Tyndale; but
again a wave of color swept into his face, for
he was thinking what a serpent in this earthly
paradise Norah Desmond 'might prove, if she
chose. "Max has promised to go down with

me," he went on, after a pause. "I don't
think lie will find it dull, for there will be
plenty of shooting and fishing for him."
"What a nice pertie carr~e we shall make
when Norah comes!" said Leslie, gayly.
"Perhaps Captain Tyndahe will even be
obliging enough to fall in love with her."
"I don't think that at all likely," said
Arthur, grimly. "Max has no fancy for that
kind of, woman, and Miss Desmond flies at
higher game than a soldier of fortune."
"How do you know that?" asked Leslie,
a little curiously.
"Oh, anybody could tell so much by look-
ing at her? I never saw her that she was
not surrounded by'what the English call 'tip.
top swells.' She is amazingly beautiful, you
see, and has a way with her that is positively
fascinatiwr"
"It must have been striking to impress
yow so much merely at sight," said Leslie.
She said it with the utmost innocence 01'
intention and manner, but Tyndale shot a
keen and slightly uneasy glance at her. We
all know the 'proverb about a guilty con-
science; and it was never better exemplified
than by this young fellow, who had already
woven about himself' the tangled web of a
very embarrassing deception. He was spared
reply, however; for just then a carriage drew
up at the door, and Leslie, bending forward
to glance through the open window at its oc-
cupant, uttered an exclamation.
"Here is Mrs. Sandford!" she said.
"What is it the Italians say when they mean
'well sent?'
"I would rather inquire what they say
when they mean 'ill sent,"' Tyndale answered,
frowning and flushing impatiently-for his
fair skin flushed at the least provocation.
"That woman, Leslie, if you will excuse
me-"
"But I won't excuse you," interrupted
Leslie, laughing. "You must stay and bear
your share of the infliction, if you look at
her visit in that light. I' am sure that a
month ago you would have considered it in
any other. how does a man dare to talk of
a woman~s inconstancy, I wonder?~'
"I never did," said Tyndale, shrugging
his shoulders. The gesture was significant,
and implied that he had rather been obliged
to find the contrary fault with women-that,
as a rule, they had been inconveniently con-
stant to him. "By Jove!" he went on,

9


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

A PRETTY PICTURE.

walking to the window, "Max has been nice-
ly caught. He was passing along the street,
when Mrs. Sandford stopped him; and now
she is bringing him in, whether he will or no."
"I am glad of that," said Leslie, in her
fresh, cordial voice. "I like your cousin so
much, and he comes so seldom of late! Aunt
Mildred and I were regretting it only yester-
day."
"Max has very little fancy for society,"
said Tyndale, feeling an obligation to apolo-
gize. "He has still less fancy for Mrs.
Sandford," he added, "but she seems to be
making a dead set at him."
"That must be very awkward."
"Amazingly so to a man like Max, who'
likes to place women on a pedestal, and keep
them there. I think he dislikes fast women
even more than I do," the speaker pursued,
reflectively. *
"Do you dislike fast women?" said Les-
lie, arching her brows. "How necessary it
always is to state our opinions if we wish
them known!"
To this shaft of gentle satire Tyndale had
no opportunity to reply, for at that moment
Mrs. Sandford' entered the room, followed by
the tall, soldierly figure of Captain Tyndale.
The first impression which she made on the
mind was style-the second, complexion. She
was dressed in black, not that which is sacred
to mourning, but a light and becoming mix-,
ture of grenadine and lace, brightened by
delicate mauve ribbons, which set off a com-
plexion that might have moved the envy of a
girl of sixteen. Color was her strong point,
together with a pair of large blue eyes, which
she had an artless and infantile way of open-
ing to their fullest extent. She opened them
now, as she came forward.
"What a lucky creature I am to find you
at home!" she said, meeting Leslie with an
effusion which sometimes tried Miss Gra-
hame's courtesy severely. "I came to beg*
you to go to drive with me-the afternoon is
so charming !-bnt, since you are engaged, I
shall not press the point; and, indeed, this
cool drawing - room is pleasanter than the
dusty avenue. You see I have brought Cap-
tain Tyndale in with me. I told him that, if
we were very good, perhaps you would give us
some iced tea and bread-and-butter."
"You shall have as much as you please
of both," said Leslie, turning with a smile to
greet Max; and then Mrs. Sandford, weakening

to a consciousness of Arthur'a existence, put
out a delicate, gloved hand to him.
"I thought that I was not to have any
recognition at all," he said, taking it with a
very effective air of reproach.
"I am not sure that you deserve any,"
auswerei she, opening the blue eyes, if pos-
sible, still wider. "When one neglects his
old friends, as you have done, he deserves
nothing better than to be neglected in turn.
Even an engagement is not an excuse for
every thing I'~
"It ought to be, then," said he. "Come,
you must let me make my peace! I really
cannot affortl to quarrel with you-we have
been friends too long."
"Perhaps some day I may like you as
well as ever again," said she, nonchalantly,
but at present you are hopelessly out of my
good graces. It is not only on account of
your atrocious neglect; but I forswear en-
gaged men on principle. They are always
stupid."
"I am sure nobody could be stupid with
you4" said Tyndale, falling into his old habit
of flattery. Men always flattered Mrs. Sand-
ford. It was not only the easiest way of en-
tertaining her, but it was an incense with
which~she soon made it patent that she could'
not dispense.
"Oh, what a mistake!" cried she, laugh-
ing - Tyndale, who had of late grown very
fastidious, thought what an empty laugh it
was, and how wide she opened her mouth-
"any amount of people are stupid with me.
I wish I did know how to keep them from
being so-I should not be boredto death 'half
of my time, then! It would be better than
an invisible cap, or a wishing-carpet, or any
thing of that kind. Oh, dear, what a charm-
ing place this is!" she went on, sinking down
on a sofa, and looking about her. "No won-
der you find it dililcult to tear yourself away.
-Leslie, dear, will it inconvenience you to
order some tea? This warm, dusty weather
makes one feel horribly in need of refresh-
ment."
Mrs. Sanford's manners were certainly
very free and easy, but Leslie was accus-
tomed to them; so, she rang the bell and
ordered the tea - of which it may be said
that a large amount was always made in the
morning, and set away in ice to cool in the
most thorough manner by evening. It was
soon served, together with the bread-and-

butter which Mrs. Sandford had promised
Captain Tyndale.
"If you don't like this, you shall have
some iced claret," said Leslie, turning, with a
smile, to Max.
"Why should you think I don't like it?"
said he. "I am a Frenchman, it is true, but
I can drink son~iething besides cafi noir and
absinthe. Those are what Americans take to
be a Frenchman's favorite beverages - are
they not?"
"I don't think we do you so much injus.
tice," said Mrs. Sandford. "I, for one, always
associate the idea of a Frenchman with cham-
pagne. Something light and sparkling, and
altogether charming, you know."
" There, Max!" cried Arthur, laughing.
"Never say again that nobody compliments
you, my good fellow."
"I should not think of appropriating
such a compliment," said Max. "In the
first place, I am only half a Frenchman,
and, in the second place, even that fund
of vanity, which always stands a man in
such g~od stead, fails to countenance the
idea that I am either light, sparkling, or al-
together charming."
"Perhaps you are not the best judge of
that," said Leslie, smiling.
*  In this way they laughed and talked,
while they drank the liquid amber, which
was called tea, and ate the light wafers that
passed under the name of bread. Mrs. Mid-
dieton, who entered the room soon after this,
thought what a pretty picture they made,
gathered, in the neighborhood of a large bay-
window, through which a flood of golden sun-
light was streaming into the room, gleaming
about the tea-equipage, touching the mirrors
and pictures with a glow of crimson bright-
ness, and outli~iing~Leslie's graceful head like
a figure in a pre-Raphaclite picture. Outside
the window, the roses were climbing and
clustering, and loading the air with summer
sweetness. In the street, above the roll
of carriages, and the fast-trotting tramp of
horses' feet, sounded the sweet strains of a
German band, playing a Strauss waltz; Mrs.
~andford looked up, and gave one of her effu-
sive exClamations:
"0 my dear, dear Mrs. Middleton, think
how charming!" she cried. "You are all
going into the country to spend the summer,
Leslie tells me, and I am obliged to go down
to that very county, to visit some relations

who think that I have neglected them shame-
fully. I thought that I was going to be terri-
bly bored; and it is an intense relief to know
that I shall have such delightful neighbors.
But you must not be surprised if you see me
at Rosland perpetually."
"We shall be very glad to see you as
often as you can come," said Mrs. Middleton,
hQspitably. She had no particular fancy for
Mrs. Sanford, but everybody received
and she was, as Tyndale had once said,
"good company" - that is, she was always
in a good - humor, and always to be relied
upon in any social emergency.
"Ohhow delightful!" repeated that en-
thusiastic lady. Then she turned to Tyndale.
"I shall be so glad to see your place," she
said. "My cousins, who live in the neigh-
borhood, tell me that it is beautiful. Don't
you mean to give a ball or something of the
sort when you go down-as a house-warming,
you know?"
"I really had not thought of it," said he.
"Oh, but you ought-if only to show peo-
ple how charmingly you mean to live l I must
speak to Leslie, and make her persuade you
to do it. Mrs. Middleton, don't you think he
ought? People who have pretty, old places,
and don't use them, should be obliged to give
them to people who would. I agree with the
socialists that far!"
"Suppose you take Strafford off my hands,
then?" said he, laughing, but scarcely conceal-
ing the fact that he was exceedingly bored.
He looked round for Leslie, but, when Mrs.
Middleton's appearance had relieved Miss
Gri~hame from the duties of hostess, she had
taken Captain Tyndale out into the gar-
den.
"I think I have heard you say that you
like roses," she said to him. "Come and
look at ours. They are in their glory."
He assented willingly-as, indeed, he would
have been apt to assent to any thing which
she proposed. Leslie was not at all aware of
the, peculiar regard which this somewhat im-
passive soldier entertained for her. She might
have been flattered if she had known that
she embodied to him more of tho gentleness
and refinement, the sweetness ,and grace of
womanhood, than he had ever met b~f'ore in
the whole courSe of his life. Like most tn~n
of his elass-.-men of active pursuits and re-
fined tastes -~ he had little fancy for the
order of women technically called "loud."

22

S

23


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

ARRIVAL OF NORAH DESMOND.

He had flirted with them, talked of them,
toasted them, perhaps-but, all the ,pame, he
had his ideal, with which not one of these
modern heroines had a single attribute in
common. This ideal was one that in the
masculine mind has no doubt existed since
the days of Adam-a gentle, graceful, femi-
nine abstraction, hedged about with a divine
atmosphere of high - breeding and heavenly
virtues. To this ideal Miss Grahame ap-
proached very closely, and she had conse-
quently proved very attractive to him - so
attractive, indeed, that if Arthur Tyndale's
suit had not been very far advanced before
his cousin came on the scene, there is no
telling how soon Max might have laid his lau-
rels of Algiers and Gravelotte at Leslie's feet.
Neither is it possible to tell what success
he might havewon. The mind grows dizzy
in considering what toys of circumstance we
are -how absolutely and entirely the whole
course and meaning of our lives seem to hinge
on the idlest turns of chance. Thinking of
these things, we feel like children in the dark,
fearing to take a step in any direction lest we
should encounter some unforeseen disaster, or
avoid some great good. If Max Tyndale had
come into Leslie's life before his cousin, and
had gained, perhaps - for many unlikelier
things have happened-his cousin's place in
her heart, one thing at least might have been
predicted, that, although society would have
been more chary of its compliments, and
Mr. and Mrs. Middleton probably less suave
in their consent, Leslie herself would never
have had to fear the dissimulation which Ar-
thur Tyndale had already displayed, nor the
treachery which he might yet display.
Such thoughts as these were very far from
her mind, however, as she walked down the
garden-paths, pointing out her favorite roses
to Ma~x, and laughing over his lamentable ig-
norance of rose-nomenclature.
"I confess that I don't know much about
the names of flowers," he said, at last, with
unnecessary candor. "It always seemed to
me a matter of very small importance. They
are meant to be sources of enjoyment-not
occasions of study, or weary exercise of the
,memory."
"But it is not weary to people who love
roses to remember that this is a Malmaison,
and that a Noisette," said Leslie, smiling.
"When will those who don't like certain
things comprehend that others may like them?

Now, I should think there was nothing in the
world half so tiresome as military tactics!"
"But that has use in it," said he.
"And do you think there is no use in
flowers because one does not often 'brain a
tyrant with a rose?'"
"There is use in them, as there is use in
music and poetry," said Max, who, it must be
confessed, was rather utilitarian than aesthetic
in his bias. "The world would be a much
darker and narrower place without them."
"While with them~ what a bright and
happy place it is!" said Leslie, lifting her fair
face to the sunset glow. "Do you know)"
she went on, suddenly, speaking almost wist-
fully, "that I sometimes think I have too
many of the gooi things of life for one per-
son? Sometimes it strikes me that I must
surely hitve some one else's share of prosperi-
ty besides my own. I have never had a trou-
ble-nor the least shade of a trouble-in my
life; and now I am so very happy! "-she
spoke with the simplicity of a child-" surely
it is not right-I mean, surely it is more than
I deserve."
"1 think it is quite right," said Max.
'"Nobody ever deserved the good gifts of For-
tune more than you do, and hereafter I shall
think better of the jade for having shown so
much discrimination for once."
"You are jesting, while I am in earnest,"
said she, looking at him with her soft gray
eyes. "You cannot tell how often I have
thought of this, lately. Every thing about
my life is so bright-surely too bright to last!
1~ cannot dismiss the idea that some trouble
ijiust be in store to counterbalance it all."
"You are wrong to indulge such thoughts,"
said Max, seriously. "You are darkening
the present sunshine by forebodings of clouds
that come sooa enough in every life."
"I never had such forebodings before,"
said she.
He was on the point of answering, "Be-
cause you never before put your happiness
into the keeping of another," but he re-
strained the words in time. It was true
enough; but why should he say it? Why
should he put the fact-which might yet be
a grim one-plainly before Leslie? He could
not, however, help wondering if any subtle
distrust of Arthur caused the foreboding to
which she alluded; and, strangely enough,
Leslie - with a woman s quick instinct -
turned to answer the suspicion.

"I don't think any woman ever had better
assurances of happiness than I have,'Z she
said. "And it is because I am so particular-
ly-so d~xceptionally-fortunate, that I feel in
this way."
"I understand," said Captain Tyndale.
"It is natural enough. And yet, if I might
venture to advise, I would beg you, to enjoy
the present and let the future take care of it-
self; since you cannot-like the Greek king
in one of Schiller's ballads-throw a ring into
the sea as a propitiation to the gods."
"Perhaps my propitiation might be re-
jected, as that of poor Polycrates was," said
Leslie, smiling. Then she added more grave-
ly: "We are both talking~ like heathens. Of
course, I know who give~ both good and ill
fortune; and, while I am grateful for the
first, I trust I should neither dcspaii nor
rebel under the last."
"I am sure you would not," said Max.
"If I put my heel on that lily," he said,
pointing to one in a bed near by, "it would
be none the less sweet after it was crushed.
Such is the nature of lilies."
Leslie laughed a little. "You are very
kind," she said. Then, feeling thu t the con-
versation was becoming too personal, she
changed it with her graceful tact. "I am
old-fashioned enough to love these pure white
lilies"' she said, stooping to pull one. "Our
neighbor, Mrs. Moncure, who has a great
many varieties of new - fashioned Japanese
lilies, quite scorns them."
"As I should probably scorn the Japanese
lilies, if I saw them," said Max. "Who
cares for those gaudy, striped things? One
might as well have a tulip or a peony. But
the lily of tradition and of poetry-the flower
of the Annunciation-thefleur de us of France
-the emblem of purity and fragrance-the
symbol of the saints-one cazmnot love that
too well."
"So I think," said Leslie. "And I am
glad that there is one flower about which you
know how to be enthusiastic," she added,
"though I famicy it is not so much the flower
as its associations that please you. Now,
shall we go back to the drawing-room? Per-
haps Arthur has finished his flirtation with
Mrs. Sandford by this time. It is a good
thing that I am not jealous, is it not?"
"A very good thing," he answered. But,
as they turned their steps toward the draW-
inn-room, he could not help wondering wheth-

er a real cause for jealousy would not shatter
this sweet, placid calm. us heart misgave
him-or, to speak more correctly, his judg-
ment warned him-concerning the probable
result of Arthur's meeting with Norah Des-
mond. "Unstable as water," seemed in Max's
mind a text specially suited to his cousin;
and, like most men of cool, determined char-
acter, he felt something closely akin to con-
tempt for the other's shifting vacillation. "If
I have any influence over him, he'll keep
straight with regard to 1/mis!" he thought.
Much as she liked him, Leslie had little idea
whpt a champion had buckled on armor in
her behalf.
CHAPTER V.
"A woman in whom majesty and wetnesss
Blend to such issues of serene completeness,
That to gaze on her were a prince's boon!
The calm ot evening, the large pomp of noon,
Are hers; soft May moms, melting June
Hold not such tender languishments as those
Which steep her in that dew-light of repose,
That floats a dreamy balm around the full-blown
rose."
MAY and June passed - burdening the
earth with their wealth of fragrant bloom-
'and it was on one of the earlier days of July
that Miss Grahame's pony-carriage drove up
to the station of Wexford, distant seventeen
miles from Alton, just before the down ex-
press was due at 5.40 in'. ii. The Middleton
household, with all its belongings, had been
domesticated, for a month or more, at Ros-
land; but the day before this, Mr. Middleton
had gone up to* the city to meet Miss Dc~-
mond, who telegraphed an announcement of
her safe arrival on American shores.
"Jump down and go round to their heads,
Guy," Leslie said to the groom, as she checked
her horses. "I hear the train coming, and
Romulus is always foolish. S-oh-steady,
sir!"
She pulled in the reins sharply-it was
surprising how much vigor was in those slen-
der wrists-as one of the ponies threw up his
head nervously; but Guy-a lithe, half-grown
boy-was on the ground and at their bits
when the engine, with its long train of vibrat-
ing cars, came shrieking and whistling, like a
lunatic fiend, around a curve.
As it drew up with one short, defiant snort
before the station-, not a few dusty women

e

24

25


26                 A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                               ON THE WAY TO ROSLAND.                 27

and linen-coated men looked out, with that
interest which any passing event always
arouses in the traveling mind, at the pretty,
low-swung phaeton, the white ponies hand-
somely set off by blue reins, and the graceful
girl, whose fresh, summer costume was not
concealed by the carriage-wrap drawn partly
over it.
"Oh, how charming I Shouldn't you like
to have it?" said one or 'two enthusiastic
young ladies, referring, in a lucid way, to the
phaeton and ponies.
"Very neat turnout!" said one or two
men, approvingly.
"Amazingly pretty girl, by George!"
added several others, staring at the delicate
face, which was half turned away from
them.
- For, unconscious of the admiration which
her equipage and herself were exciting, Leslie
was gazing eagerly along the platform for the
appearance of her uncle and his companion.
She could with difficulty realize that she was
about to meet the sister whom she had never
seen, and her heart was beating nervously.
What would she be like? Had she (Leslie)
done well or ill? Another minute would de-
cide something at least.
"Do you see any signs of them, Guy?"
she asked of the groom, who was in a better'
position for observation than hcr~elf.
"Yes'm-yonder comes master," lie an-
swered.
Leslie's heart gave a leap-into her throat,
it seemed-as Mr. Middleton, with a lady on
his arm, emerged from the fluctuating crowd
around the cars, and advanced towiird her.
She stepped from the phaeton, and, even at
that moment-so quick is the feminine eye-
she saw that her sister was tall, and walked
with remarkable grace.
"Well, Leslie, here she is!" said Mr. Mid-
dkton, as they met.' "I suppose there's no
need to introduce' you to each other."
"I should think not, indeed!" said Leslie,
with her sweut smile. "0 Noruh, how glad
I am to see 'you, dear!"
She put' out both hands as she spoke: her
whole heart seemed quivering on the lips that
touched the fair ~'ace slightly bent toward
her. Absorbed in herown 'enlotion, she did
not feel-what Mr. Middleton obsnrved-.-that
the eager warmth of her greethig was 'rather
received than resumed~'
"Thanks-you are very kind," said the

stranger, in a voice which, though musical, was
slightly cold. "I hope we shall like each other'
"I am sure of it," said Leslie, quickly.
"You must not 'hope' such a thing, because
to hope implies a little doubt.-Come, put her
in the phaeton, uncle. I brought it because
I wanted her all to myself. The barouche is
here for you."
"That is a good thing," said Mr. Middle-
ten, as he assisted Miss Uesmcind into the
luxurious little carriage. "Things always
happen, and people turn up, just when they
are not expected," he went on, philosophical-
ly. "To my surprise, I met Carl in the city.
He came down with us, and is looking after
the trunks just now."
"Carl!" repeated Leslie, astonished at
this off-hand announcement. "But I thought
Carl was iii Germany?"
"So did I, until I met him in Alton," an-
swered Mr. Middleton. Then, as the train
moved ofl he glanced round. "Here he
comes," he said, carelessly. This indifference
was his way of showing the vexation he felt
at the neglect which had so long delayed that
coming.
Leslie turned also. A young man in a
gray traveling-suit aud cap was advancing
down the platform, with the light and pecul-
iarly springy step that few men retain after
twenty-three or four-a good-looking young
fellow, with a rich dash of auburn in his
brown hair and eyes and brows that might
have been painted to match. lie wore no
beard, and his flexible tips curled upward at
the corners, as those of a laughter-loving na-
ture always do, while there was a gleam of
fun in his eyes' Which often tried the patience
of soberly - disposed people very severely.
This was the lighter side of Carl Middleton's
character, however. That there was another,
those who knew him well were thoroughly
aware. The dash of red in his haii-~ together
with one Or two straight lines betwecit the
brows, were sufficient indicationH of the pas-
sionate though somewhat volatilee vehemence
that always accumnpal1ie~ the mercurial tem-
* perament, in feeling' arid action;
"You are surprised to ~ee me, are 'you
not ?"' he said, after the fir~t' gveetin~ be-
tween Leslie and himself was over. ''~ You
didn't imagine' that' J~ 'had been 'Miss l~cs.
mond's traveling companion? Uncle ~4e'drge's
face' was a study when' he met us in Alton
this moruaing!"

"Did you come over with Norab?" said
Leslie, with surprise. "You are certainly the
most incomprehensible person! Why did you
not write to say that you were. coming, or
why did you not telegraph when you ar-
rived ?"
"Why should I have done either?" asked
he. "Here I am all right, and I did not ex-
pect anybody to meet me. I made up my mind
to sail at an hour's notice. By Jove, Leslie!
-may I say how much you are improved? I
should have come home a year ago if I had
known you were as pretty as this!"
"Should you? "said Leslie. "It is a good
thing you did not know it, then; I am sure
you must have enjoyed the year much more
in Europe than you would have done here.
You have improved, too, since you were a
red-haired boy, and the 'torment of my life,"
she added, smiling. "I am very glad to see
it, and very glad to see you, too; but I must
really go now, for I cannot keep Norah wait-
ing while we exchange complimeiils. That
can be done at our leisure when we reach
Rosland."
"And how am I to reach Rosland?" he
asked, as lie assisted her into the phaeton,
where Miss Desmond was seated, leaning back
on the low seat, and looking meditatively at
the ponies.
"You are to go in the barouche with
uncle," answered Leslie, gathering up her
reins.-" Come, Guy!"
"~iIay not I play tiger fqr once? "asked
Carl,' holding Guy back at arili's-length, much
to that bebuttoned individual's surprise.
"No, you may not," answered Miss Gra-
hame, decidedly. "You are to go with uncle;
and I have no doubt that the freedom to smoke
a cigar will amply console you for the loss of
our society."
"You think so because you don't know
how much I should enjoy your society," said
he. But he released Guy, who was in his seat
in a moment.
"We'll be along, Leslie, as soon as the
servants have managed to dispose of Miss
Desmond's trunks," said Mr. Middleton, who
was standing by the barouche.
Leslie nodded, and, flicking Romulus and
Remus lightly with the whip, the phaeton
bowled easily down a green country lane, leav-
ing Carl standing with his cap off watching
them as they drove away.
Then it was that Miss Grahame began to

be conscious that her companion had not
spoken since their first greeting; and, anx-
ious to avoid any thing like awkwardness,
she plunged at once into conversation-fall-
ing, of course, upon an undeniable common-
place:
"I am afraid you have had such a warm,
dusty day' for traveling."
"It has not been agreeable," answered
her companion, in the same musical voice
which had struck her in its first utterance-.-
a voice that spoke English with a slightly
foreign accent-" but summer traveling never
is agreeable, I fancy One must always ex-
pect heat and dust."
"But at least I hope your ocean-voyage
was pleasant ?"
"Yes-very. I always enjoy the ocean.
There is nothing like it in tIme world, I
think."
"So do I-though I have never seen very
much of it. And it was pleasant that Carl
should have crossed with you! I hope he
found you out soon-I mean, found out who
you were?"
"He did not need to find me out," was
the quiet but very unexpected reply. "We
knew each other before. It came in his way
to do papa some slight favor in Paris last
spring; and so I had already met him."
" Met him!" exclaimed Leslie - "met
Carl !" She was so taken aback by this
third surprise, that for a minute she could
say nothing more. Then she added, on the
first impulse of astonishment: "How very
extraordinary I - I mean how very singular
that he should never have mentioned it~"
"I am not sure that it was singular," said
Miss Desmond, indifferently- though an in-
crease of color rose into her face - "the fact
may have escaped his mind as one of alight
importance, or he may not have considered
us in the light of very desirable acquaint-
ances.- Certainly we are not people of whose
social countenance any one is likely tob~ast."
"Norah !" said Leslie, almost indignantly.
A tide of blood came into ker face, a thrill
of reproach into her voice. "How can you
speak so!" she went on quickly. "It would
be unjust to Carl if you meant it in earnest.
Even in jest, it i~ unjust to yourself."
h ~ beg your pardon," said the other. "I
forgot that you did n~t understand how We
Bohemians feel. I forgot,~ also, that Kate's
!ast injunction was to beg me not to shook

27

26


28                   A DAUGll ~ER OF BOHEMIA.                                                  MRS. MIDDLETON'S SUSPICIONS.                 29

you. 'Remember that you arc going among
respectable people,' she said, and 'try to be
respectable too.'"
"Try to be respectable!" repeated Les-
lie, smiling-it was impossible not to smile at
the humor in Norah's eyes, as she uttered
the last words-" but are you not respectable
already? If you are not, pray tell me what
coastitutes respectability."
"A gig, does it not ?" asked Miss Des-
mond, qui~e innocently. "You know Carlyle
says so. I suppose your ph~ieton-how pretty
it is, by-the-by ! - might come under that
head."
"Let us hope so, at least," was the reply.
"Then we shall be able to esteem ourselves
safely respectable for the time being. Not
but that respectability is a very good thing in
its way," Miss Grahanie pursued, reflectively-
thinking, perhaps, that it would be as well to
give a slight admonition to her companion-
"and women ia especial are apt to fare very
badly if they venture to disregard its codes.
You look as if you' t ought that a very stale
commonplace. So it is; but many stale things
are true things none the less. Now, I am not
easily shocked, dear, but I hope you will for-
give me when I say that many other people
are."
There was so much of gentle wistfulness
in this last sentence that it would have been
impossible for the most irascible person to be
provoked by it; and Norah Desmond only
'smiled.
"I suppose you are thinking of your own
people," she said. "Well, I shall try not to
shock them. Bohemian though I am, I can
play qrande dame then I like."
"I think Nature intended that you should
play it all the time," said Leslie, with a glance
of involuntary admiration at the beautiful
face, which was also a proud face.
"No," was the careless reply. "Noth-
ing cramps and wearies me more. I am like
my father, who seems to have something of
the gypsy in him-something which always
has made him unable to endure the pressure
of conventional respectability very long."
"I hope she will not say any thing like
that to Aunt Mildred," thought Leslie, half
amused and half dismayed to imagine the
manner in which Mrs. Midclleton would re-
gard such a declaration, as realizing her
worst fears of what Mr. Desinond's daughter
might be. A slight sensation of foreboding

beganto come over Mtss Grahame as she ap-
preciated more clearly than she had done be-
fore the nature of the jarring elements sh~
was about to bring together. What would
be the end of it? Would Norah gracefully
conciliate the prejudices which were already
in arms against her, or would she openly
brave and defy them?. With all her anxiety
that the former course should be adopted,
Leslie could not bring herself to. ofrer a
stronger hint than she had already utte,~cd.
And so it was that, for a little time, silence
fell. The ponies trotted along a level strete~i
of well-shaded road, with the slanting gold
of the sunlight streaming in serene glory
through the brown trunks of the trees, and
on the green depths of the foliage, while Guy,
sitting bolt upright in his tiny seat, absorbed
in the contemplation of his buttons, took a
short nap, and nearly fell ofT before Miss
Desmond spoke again:
"I ~ no idea you lived in the country.
I thought your uncle had a house in the city
-4lton, isn't it ?-wherc he met me to-day."
''We do not live in the country,'' Leslie
answered. "We have only come down to
Roslaud for the summer. Our home is in
Alton."
"Ah, I see !-you are at your country-
honac 4 la grand seigneur. But have you
much of a neighborhood? Pastoral seclusion
may be exceedingly elegant, but it is also
~-ery apt to be dull, I think."
"There is something of a neighborhood-
enough, I hope, to keep you from being disH."
"I was not thinking of myself~" was the
quiet reply. "All modes of life come alike
to me. I fancy I have run the gamut of
them, from highest to lowest. Consequently,
I have learned a very useful philosophy,
which enables mc to be resigned to any thing
and surprised at nothing." Then, as they
drove by the palings of a green park, full of
massive old trees, through which the chim-
neys and gables of a house were visible, she
added, "That looks as if it might be a pretty
place." ~
"It is a pretty place," said Leslie, with
the guelder - rose color deepening on her
cheek, "the prettiest in the country, I
think, though there are several ~iore hand-
some, hind many better kept up."
"Who is the owner?" asked Miss Des-
mond, lifting her veil for the first time and
leaning forward.

"A person of whom you have heard," an-
swered Leslie. "This is the Tyndale place,
and belongs to Arthur-the Arthur of whom
I have written you."
It was a quick interjection, uttered more
to herself than to her companion, but Leslie
thought that it denoted interest, and went
on:
"The house is picturesque, as you see,
and quite old-that is, for any thing Ameri-
can. No doubt you would think it very mod-
ern, It has been in the family for several
generations, and came to Arthur when he
was a mere boy. He had not seen it for
years until this summer; but lie has been so
much surprised and delighted by its beauty
that I think it will be' his principal home
hereafter."
Miss Desinond made no reply. It would
have been only courteous, it seemed, if she
had evinced a little interest in the subject
thus introduced; but she gave no response
by word or look to Leslie's speech. All her
admiration of the Tyndale place suddenly ap-
ped~rcd to vanish. She leaned back without
another glance toward it, but she did not
draw down her veil, and so it was that, for
the first time, Leslie saw what she looked
like.
Now, as a general rule, it would be doping
a woman gross injustice to judge of her looks
when she has just ended a long and fatiguing
journey; but there are particular cases, as
'well as general rules, and it will be readily
admitted that, if a woman is found to bear
such a severe test with even moderate suc-
cess, it may be safely predicated of her, as
of Olivia, that her beauty "is in the grain,
and will endure wind and weather." This
test Norah Desmond stood triumphantly.
Even Leslie, with that greatest medium for
flattery of our day-a painted photograph-
in her mind, could not think that she had
ever seen a more beautiful face than the one
beside her. Ij~ was not only the regular,
clearly-cut features, the skin white as milk
and smooth as marble, the scarlet lips so
proudly curved and firmly closed, the rich
masses of hair, chestnut in the shade, spun
gold in the sun, nor the large, full eyes, also
chestnut in tint -as the old chronicles tell
us that Mary Stuart's were-which fascinated
her so much. It was something deeper and
more subtle than the mere loveliness of flesh

and blood. Listless as the face looked, it
was not cold; quiet as it seemed, it was not
tame. On the contrary, it was easy to tell
that it possessed, in superlative degree, that
mobility of feature which distinguishes the
Irish physiognomy; that a magnetism not
to be put into words might dwell in the smile
of the lips, a something almost akin to majes-
ty shine out of ,the magnificent depths of
the eyes. "I think I shall certainly like
her!" Leslie thought, and at that moment
the eyes in question turned and met her
own.
"Well," said their possessor, quietly,
"what do you think of me? Am I as pretty
as my likeness?" /
"I beg your pardon," said Leslie, quick-
ly. "I did not mean to be rude. But you
must be accustomed to staring by this time, I
should think."
"You were not rude," said the other.
"It was very natural you should look at me.
I only wanted to know if you are disappoint-
ed in my appearance. Kate said that the
photograph I sent you was flattered."
"Tell Kate that she was never more mis-
taken," said Miss Grahame, warmly. "I
thought the photograph lovely, hut you-you
arc far more beautiful than it is."
"Thanks!" said Norah. But she must
have been well used to compliments, for her
color did not deepen in the least even at those
enthusiastic words.
A few minutes later they 'entered the
gates of Rosland, and were bowling rapidly
around the carriage-drive to the front of the
house.
"It is not much of a place," Leslie said,
half apologetically.
"At least it looks very pretty," Norah
truthfully answered.
It did look pretty, undoubtedly. There
were no pretensions to architectural effect,
but home-like grace and lightness everywhere.
A green lawn sloped away into 'a flowex~-gar-
den on one side, and into shrubbery on the
other; a veranda, with arches overrun by
creepers, had chairs, books, and work, set
out on it, and lace-draped windows behind.
The wide hall, with its open doors, looked
spacious and aii'y, there was a fragrance of-
flowers in the atmosphere, and the sinking
sun sent a flood of golden light across the
close-shaven lawn ~o the thick-set hedge be-
yond.


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMiA.                                             A FAMILY GATHERING.                31

Leslie reined up Romulus and Remus be.
fore the, door, and, giving the reins to Guy,
turned to her sister:
"Welcome to Rosland, Norali 1" she
said, eagerly. "I hope we may make you
happy, dear! I am sure it makes me very
happy to know that you are with us. And
here is Aunt Mildred to bid you welcome,
too."
This Mrs. Middleton did with a very
charmii~g grace and cordiality. Certainly
the young stranger who had come so entirely
unknowing and unknown among them could
not complain that any thing was lacking in
her welcome which the most carping spirit
of exaction might have required. After many
kind greetings had been uttered, and every
possible want of tired Nature anticipated, she
was left alone in the chamber to which she
had been conducted; and theh Leslie came
back and stood in a triumphant glow before
her aunt.
"Well, Aunt Mildred; what do you think
of her?" she cried. "Is she not superbly
beautiful?"
"She is very handsome," said Mrs. Mid-
dleton. She spoke readily and not at all as
if the admission irked her, which it certainly
did. "But she is not in the least like your
mother, Leslie. I cannot trace the faintest
resemblance between the two faces."
"I wish she were like mamma," said Lea.
lie; "and yet she is so lovely that it would
be wrong to desire any change in her. Did
you ever see such a complexion, or such eyes,
QS such hair?"
"It certainly is a very striking kind of
beauty," said Mrs. Middleton. "As a mat-
ter of individual taste, I like something
quieter and more refined; but, of course, no..
body can deny that she is very fine.looking."
"Fine-looking! She is much more than
that," said Leslie, aggrieved at hearing the
beauty to which she had done generous hom-
age, damned by such faint praise. "She is
perfectly lovely! Wait until you 4e her
better dressed and less dusty."
"I never knew you so enthusiastic be-
fore," said Mrs. Middleton, with a smile that
was rather deprecating.
"You never knew me before when I had
just met a sister whom I am sure I'can ad-
mire, and whom I hope I can love," answered
Leslie, warmly.
"My dear!" said Mrs.' Middleton, in an

expostulatory tone. She looked at the eager
face before her, while a shade of the intense
prejudice she felt against the new-coiner fell
over her own. But ~he was too wise as well
as too high-bred to say any thing which would
be "sharp," or likely to wound Leslie. So
she smiled again, but, more faintly. "Don't
be in too much haste to give more than ad-
miration," she said. "Wait until you know
something of what lies under that handsome
face before you bestow the love of which you
speak."
"I think I know something of it already,"
answered Leslie-in whose excuse it may be
said that she was not prone often to the folly
of such rash judgment-" I am sure she has
a noble character, though it has been warped
by circumstalwes. Please remember that,
Aunt Mildred," the eager voice went on.
"Please, in judging her, remember how dif-
ferent her life has been from ours."
"But that is the worst thing against her,"
said Mrs. Middleton, who felt her heart hard-
ening momently. "Do you not see that,
though it may be an excuse, it is also a
ground for distrust? 0 Leslie, I am so sorry
that you have taken a fancy to the girl! Such
impulses are always unwise, but in this in-
stance you may be preparing more of annoy-
ance and suffering for yourself than you can
imagine."
"I trust not," said Leslie, in her frank,
loyal voice. "But, even if it were so, it was
of Norah, and not of myself, I thought, in
sending for her. That for which I was and
am most amixious is to help her life, to do her
good; and if this can be compassed, even at
the cost of a little annoyance and suffering to
myself, I shall not regret it. I confess, how-
ever, that I can eec no cause to fear any thing
of the kind."
"I hope with nil my heart that you may
be right," said Mrs. Middleton, with a sigh
which was imbued with the strongest possi-
ble skepticism. "It is certainly too late now
.to undo what has been done. But where is
your uncle? Surely the barouche ought to
have been here before this."
"I left him at Wexford with Carl" re-
plied Leslie. "By-the-by, I have been so en-
grossed with Norah tfaat I have forgotten to
tell you Carl has arrived."
"Carl !" echoed Mrs. Mi'ldleron, in a tone
of incredulous amazement. "Why, Carl is
in Europe!"

"Just what I said to uncle," answered
Leslie, composedly. "But, of course, that
argument fell to the ground when Carl ap-
peared in person. You will be glad to hear
that he has grown amazingly, and is really
very good-looking."
"Carl!" repeated Mrs. Middleton again,
as if she could not credit her own ears.
"But what is the meaning of it? Why did
he not let us know when he left Europe?
how long has he been in America?"
"He caine over in tIme same steamer with
Norah, he says. I asked him why he had
not written, but he only laughed, and said
that he made up his mind at an hour's notice,
or something of that kind. Men can do sue!'
things, you know. Yonder comes the ba-
rouche now, so you can question him at your
leisure. As for me, I nmust go and dress for
dinner."
She left the room-Mrs. Middleton offer-
ing no opposition-and went up-stairs just as
the barouche drove to the door. Pausing a
moment to glance over the balustrade, there
was a sparkle of amusement on her face which
might have puzzled the lady below. It arose
from the reflection that she would leave Carl
himself to announce the singular and (from
a Middleton point of view) unpalatable fact
of his acquaintance with the Desmond fam-
ily, and his incomprehensible concealment
thereof.
ChAPTER VI.
"Go, lovely rose I
Tell her that wastes her time and me,
That now she knows,
When I resemble her to thee
How sweet and fair she seems to be."
Ax hour later, it was a very pleasant and
sociable party that gathered around the Ros-
land dinner-table. There were no guests in
the h~use-for Mrs. Middleton had been care-
ful that none should be invited at the time
when Miss Desmond was expected-but there
was nothing of the heavy atmosphere which
usually pervades a strictly family gathering.
Both host and hostess were too well-bred to
suffer any of the annoyance which they felt
to betray itself in their manner, and Leslie
brought all her reserve of graceful tact and
social knowledge into action. She had felt
a little uneasiness as she dressed for dinner;
but a sense of pleasant reassurance came to

her as she entered the drawing - room just
after the bell rang, and found her aunt and
uncle laughing over one of Carl's anecdotes.
The frank atmosphere of unclouded good-
humor showed her at once how foolish she
had been to fear any uncomfortable con-
straint in people who held the slightest de-
viation from the strict rule of courtesy equal
to a breach of the Decalogue. "Under-bred
people always show at once whatever they
are thinking and feeling," Mrs. Middleton
often said. ". Really well-bred people never~
do, unless for some good reason. Believe
me, my dear, that is, after all, the great dis-
tinction between the two classes."
"Well, Leslie, h~w did you get on with
your new sister?" asked Mr. Middleton, turn-
ing round as she entered. "I thought as I
saw you driving off that the first advances
toward acquaintanceship might be a little
awkward-eh?"
"I did not find them so," replied Leslie.
"I think we got on very well indeed--better
than you would fancy, perhaps. But, what
did you think of her, uncle?"
"I think she is one of the handsomest
women I have ever ~ answered he, frank-
ly. "Beyond this fact I can scarcely say that
I have formed an opinion, except that her
manner is decidedly cold, and rather calcu-
lated to repulse one."
"I am inclined to think that is a form
of the antagonism which people who arc not
quite sure of their social position often dis-
play," remarked Carl. "You' must blame
the circumstances of her life for it. Her
manner loses all that haufeur, and is exqui-
sitely charming when she is once thoroughly
at ease."
"You seem to know a great deal about
her," said Mrs. Middleton, with a slight accent
of suspicion in her tone.
"I have seen a good deal of her," said
the young man, quietly; "and I have noticed
the peculiarity to which I allude. She is too
refined to be defiant or se~1i'-asserting, so she
meets patronage and slights with this proud
coldness."
"But we have no intention of either pa-
tronizing or slighting her," said Mr. Middleton.
"Granted, my dear sir; but remember,
in the first place, that she had no assurance
of that fact; and, in the second, that the
habit of years cannot be laid aside in a mo-
ment. I will wager any thing you please,


32                       A DAUGHTER
however, that her manner will be changed
entirely whcn she comes down to dinner.
There never was a woman quicker to take a
tone from others."
"But is she coming down to dinner?"
said Mrs. Middleton, who just then felt more
interest in the soup than in Miss Desmond's
manner. "Perhaps she may be too much fa-
tigued to appear this evening.-Leslie, do you
not think it would be well to send and ask if
she would not like to dine in her own room?"
"I scarcely think-" Leslie began, but
before she could finish her sentence the door
opened, and Miss Desmond entered.
Entered and walked dpwn the long room
toward the waiting group with an case and
grace that would not have misbecome a prin-
cess-if princesses were always as princess-
like as they are generally supposed to be.
The repose of her manner was so perfect, and
her beauty was so brilliant, that she absolutely
dazzled them as she advanced. Even Mr. Mid-
dleton put up his eye -glass in amazement.
If he had thought her "the handsomest wom-
an he had ever seen," in a dusty traveling-
dress, he could almost (save that his age for
hyperbole was past) have likened her to a
goddess in the filmy draperies and becom-
ing adornment which she wore now. Tired,
as she mightnaturally have bpen supposed to
be, Miss Desmond had evidently been mindful
of the fact that first impressions last long,
and are very important; hence she had ex-
erted herself to make a toilet in which con-
summate knowledge of effect was veiled to all,
save the most critical eye, by a simplicity that
was in itself full of distinction.
"Am I late?" she asked, as she reached
the group. "I am really very sorry. I hope
I have not kept you waiting long."
"You have not kept us waiting at all,"
said Mrs. Middleton, courteously. "I am
only afraid that we have been selfish in ex-
pecting you to appear this evening. You
must feel exceedingly fatigued."
"On the contrary, I am not conscious of
any weariness at all," answered she simply.
"Fatigue-absolute and real fatigue-is some-
thing which I have never felt half a 'dozen
times in my life. I hope I do not look broken
down?" she added, with a smile.
"Don't ask us to tell you how you look,"
said Leslie. "We might fall into extrava-
gance, and say that you look like Juno dressed
by Worth."

OF BOHEMIA.

"In a manner you would he near the
truth, then," said Norah, with her rare laugh.
"I cannot flatter myself that I look at all like
Juno, but my dress is modeled on one of
Worth's designs, though I have been dar-
ing enough to make several alterations. Do
you know I have an idea of setting up as his
rival? They tell me-everybody who knows
-flint in audacity and fertility of conception
I almost equal him.-One should not praise
one's self, should one, Mrs. Middleton? But
then, you know, such assurances as those
might intoxicate the soberest brain."
"Who is Worth-a painter?" asked Mr.
Middleton, regarding the young lady through
his glass as if she had been a lay-figure or a
picture.
There was a general laugh at this, which
the appearance of Robert and the announce-
ment of dinner somewhat shortened.
"Take Norah in at ~nce, uncle, before you
disgrace yourself by any further display of ig-
norance," said Leslie.-" No, thanks, Carl-I
dislike to sandwich a man, even from the
drawing-room to the dining-room. Aunt Mil-
dred is enough of a charge for you."
"Yourftanc~ ought to be on duty," said
Carl. "Where is he? I give you warning
that, if he is not a wonderfully good fellow, I
mean to refuse my consent to this little mat-
rimonial arrangement which you have all got
up without consulting me."
"Arthur said he would not come over
this evening, since it is Norah's first among
us," Leslie answered, when they were seated
at table. "I thought it very, considerate of
him; but if I had known how well she could
look even after such an exhausting journey,
I think I should have told him that his con-
sideration was unnecessary."
Norab, who was seated in tIme full light
of the dying summer day, looked up at this,
her already brilliant color deepening, perhaps,
by a shade.
"I wonder if I have not met Mr. Tyn.
dale," she said, quietly. "has he ever been
abroad?"
"lie was abroad two or three years ago,"
Leslie answered. "But, although it is likely
enough that you may have seen, it is not like-
ly that you knew him, for he told me some
time ago that, although he had seen you once
or twice, ha had never had the pleasure of
knowing you."
"Indeed!" Something like a glow came

NORAH'S FORME

into the eyes, and the scarlet lips curved as
if in faint scorn. "Did he chance to men-
tion where he had seen me?" she asked
after a moment.
"I think he said it was at Baden or Hom-
burg," Leslie answered, vexed with herself
that she could not avoid coloring, as she re-
membered in what manner Arthur had spoken
of the regal-looking creature before her.
"Strangely enough, my idea was that I
had met him at one of those places," Norah
said, coolly, noting with keen eyes the flush
that dyed the face of the other. "Or per-
haps it is not strange, after all. Perhaps my
memory is better than his want of memory,
and I am right in thinking that I knew him,
or some other Mr. Tyndale, at one of those
spas.
"It could not have been Arthur!" said
Leslie, with a positive air. "He certainly
could not have known you and forgotten it-
especially since he remembered your appear-
ance perfectly, and recognized your likeness
at a glance.~~
"Mr. Tyndale has a cousin~" said Mrs.
Middleton. "Perhaps it is Ac whom Miss
Desmond knew."
"I am not absolutely positive that I knew
any one of the name," said Miss Desmond,
abruptly. "One meets so many people-at
least, I do-that I often confound names, and
sometimes mistake identities. Perhaps the
Tyndale whom I remember was an English-
man, or perhaps "-she lifted her glass of
wine to her lips just here-" he may be dead
long ago."
"I am inclined to think that it was Cap-
tain Tyndale," said Leslie, meditatively. "He
is Arthur's cousin, but he is half a French-
man, and has lived in France almost all his
life. Nothing is more likely than that you
should have known him."
"He is well worth knowing," said Mr.
Middleton, chiming in just here. "I like
that young fellow-he is sensible, straight-
forward, and a thorough gentleman, without
a particle of nonsense about him."
"He is an officer of the French army,"
added Mrs. Middlet~n, "and is said to have
acted very gallantly at-what was the name
of the battle, Leslie? Of course, that is a
thing which we must take on trust; but he is
certainly very pleasant."
"Wbat is that?" said Carl, who had
ricked up his ears at the last announcement.

R ACQUAINTANCE.                       33
"Have you a fragment of the great wreck
over here? I hope you have not been lion-
izing him, Leslie? I'll send for a Uhlan or
two, if you want subjects for that kind of
amusement."
"You are very kind," said Leslie, "but
we generally md them to suit ourselves.
Following the example of the people who, in
advertising for servants, add, 'No Irish need
apply!' we generally make it understood that,
in securing subjects for lionizing, no Germans
need apply - nor German sympathizers, ei-
ther!"
"I see that I shall find very little appre-
ciation for my devotion to the Fatherland,"
mid he, shrugging ihis shoulders; "that is,
unless I can persuade Miss Desmond to sing
'Die Wavht am Rhein' with me."
"I have not learned any thing since the
'Marseillaise,"' said Norah, dryly.
"That is better than 'Partant pour in
Sync,' at all events," muttered he. "Ii has
a history."
"Of the sans-culottes and the Place do Ia
Grave," said Leslie.
'lAdd Belleville, Montmartre, and La Ho-
quette. We must not be personal, however.
Miss Desmond was in Paris during the reign
of the Commune, and she may have been a
p~troleuse."
"0 Norah, were you, indeed? Tell us
about it!" cried Leslie, eagerly.
"About being a pilroleuse? "asked Norah,
smiling.
"How absurd! About being in Paris, of
course, I mean."
"There is not much to tell. Since we
were unfortunate enough to be women, papa
thought that the best place for Kate and my.
self was in a convent-your chivalrous Pins-
sians had battered down one of the walls, Mr.
Mid4leton-and I shall never forget the days
I we spent there. Wa thought them horrible
-especially as we lived in hourly expectation
of being driven out-but, after all, many peo-
pie fared much worse."
"But yonmust see that it was not reason-
able to blame the Prussians about the wall
of your convent "-Middleton was beginning,
* when his uncle interposed.
"We won't discuss the question, Carl. I
fancy most of us have made up our minds in
a general way, on one side or the other, and
unprofitable excitement is bad for digestion.
-..My sympathies are all with the walls of your


34                  A DAUGPLTEII OF BOHEMIA.

convent, Miss Desmond, and, if Carl becomes
unpleasantly Teutonic, I'll shut him up with
a cask of lager in a Dutch summer-house we
have, to evolve any thing he pleases from
his inner consciousness, so that be keeps
quiet."
"Oh, I have really no great objection to
the Germans," said Miss Desxnond, in a tone
of magnanimity. "They do very 'Well for
some things. I have lived among them so
mlcb. that; of course, I know them very
welL"
"She told me that she liked Vienna bet-
ter than any capital itt Thirope," said Carl,
addressii~g the Company
"And do you call Vienna Ucrmaz?" she
asked, indignantly. "Where do you find
any leaven of Teutonic heaviness in that brill-
iant capital? Is there any suggestion 9f Un-
ter den Linden on the Prater? I do not call
any thing German which is enriched by the
warm blood of the Slavic races."
"There is no telling what she will say
next," said Carl, with an air of resignation.
"But, for all that, she sings German ballads
like a thrush."
"We will hear her after dinner," said
Mrs Middleton; smiling. Before very long,
however, that lady's eyes began to open to
the alarming degree of interest which Carl
manifested in the young stranger. The. femi-
nine mind is proverbially quick in perceiving
or foreseeing the faintest suspicion of a love-
affair, and, although Mrs. Middleton had not
yet heard of that previous acquaintance which
had so astonished Leslie, she saw many sig-
nificant signs that disturbed the serene at-
mosphere of comfort in which ~hc usually
existed. A new vista of possible annoyance,
of horribly possible misfortune, appeared to
open before her. Carl! In summing up all
that might occur from the visit of this Bo-
hemian girl, ahe' had not. once thought of
CarL Yet, what if he should marry her!
It seemed a wide~ leap to take even in im-
agination, but Mrs. Middleton had lived too
long in the world uiot~ to be thoroughly aware
how often suck leap~ ave taken in reality, and
a bitter sense nf auger rose up in her heart
as she thought that~ this mi~lit be the end of
all her hopes. Leslie's engagement to ~Ar-
thur Tyndale had been unpalatable enough
but ('or Carl to fall in love with Norah Des-
mond would fill the cup of disappointment to
its brim. "Good Heavens, how things turn

out in this world!" she thought, with a terri-
ble sense of her own inability to stem their cur-
rent, "and who can tell what dreadful results
may follow from one false step! If Leslie
had only listened to me-" But then it was
an unalterable fact that Leslie had not lis-
tened, as 'unalterable asMiss Desmond's pres-
ence at Roslanci, concerning which Mrs. Mid-
dieton called her own weakness sternly to
account, and wasted much time in vain regret
that she had not opposed such a step more
strenuously and with greater authority.
It was after dinner when she made these
cheerful reflections. Mr. Middleton was smok-
ing a cigar and reading a newspaper in the
the dining - room, the decanters still on the
table, and a glass of wine near his hand.
Carl, having smoked out two or three cigar-
ettes, at last sauuitered into the drawing-
room, where he found his aunt alone. She
was in her favorite nook - a recess large
enough to contain her writing-table, her couch,
her easy-chair, and all her luxurious parapher-
nalia of special comforts-and he saw at once
that he had no alternative but to join her.
At another time, this necessity would not
have presented itself in an unpleasant light;
but just now he was particularly anxious to
see Norah Desmnond, and he could not re-
press a slight feeling of impatience at the
prospect of one of those unlimited gossips
which women love. He faced it, however,
with a sufficiently good grace, though his pre-
occupation of manner was so great that Mrs.
Middleton soon detected the utter want of
interest with which he received the various
items of social and domestic news that she
exerted herself to bestow upon him. She
saw his eyes wander across the room, in
which shaded lamp-light and summer twilight
were mingled, to the veranda and lawn be-
yond. Watching him closely, she caught a
sudden quickening expressionn which flashed
across his face, atid was very significant, as a
pair' of white - clad figures caine slowly into
sight, visible through the lace-draped window
and green arch beyond.
"Leslie took Miss Desmond out to enjoy
the twilight," said she, changing her topic of
'conversation quite abruptly-a fact which it
is probable Carl did not discover. "By-the-
by, you have not told me yet what you think
of her. Is she not lovely?"
"Lovely!" repeated he, starting~ suddenly
out of abstraction. "Yes, of course-only

N

~'J
r
0
0
A
a

$
/

4
~ ~A~'
-----7
/
~7 ~

p

34


CARL MIDDLETON.                  3

that is too weak a word! She is the most
beautiful creature I ever saw!"
Then-brought up short, as it were, by
Mrs. Middleton's look of surprise-he blushed
and laughed.
"By Jove!" he said, "I thought you were
talking of Miss Desmond. Is it Leslie you
mean? Certainly she is very lovely - so
graceful and refined-but she does not show
to the best advantage by such a woman as
her sister."
"There is no comparison between them!"
said Mrs. Middletori, sharply-for the cool-
ness of this depreciation was more than even
her patience could endure-" they belong to
entirely different social types. Leslie bears
every mark of exquisite refinement and high-
breeding, while Miss esmond is a mere man's
~ieaut~~ / ~'
"Is she?" said Carl, good . humoredly.
"Then it is no wonder men rave over her as
they do. You should have heard them on board
the Russia ! Why, there were one or two
fellows who were absolutely crazy about her!
Now, y~u know, a woman must be remark.
able to make a sensation like that on ship-
board, for men are thinking of other things
just then-their stomachs principally."
"It is never in good taste to make a sensa-
tion anywhere!" said Mrs. Middleton, in an
ex-catkedi-a tone, which, to do her justice, she
did not often employ. "No thorough-bred
lady ever desires to do so!"
" But a woman can't help being beautiful,
you know," said Carl. "Of course it has its
drawbacks sometimes; I have heard Miss
iPesmond talk about them quite feelimgly.
But I can assure you she did nothing to draw
attention on herself. She is enough of a thor-
ough-bred woman to avoid that, at any rate."
"Is, she?" said Mrs. Middleton. With.
out being a philosopher, she knew human
nature well enough to avoid any argument
on the score of Miss Desmond's breeding, or
Miss Desmond's charms; she was perfectly
aware that depreciation would only fan Carl's
admiration to fever-heat; so, with a wisdom
that many women lack, she allowed the sub-
ject to drop, and soon after this sent him
away. "Go and make your bird-of-paradise
sing," slme~ said.
"But ~he is not my bird-of- paradise,"
answered he. "And she sings only when
she has a mind to--I give you warning of
that!"

He went willingly enough, however, and
found the bird-of-paradise still on the lawn
with Leslie.
"Do you think this is quite prudent?"
asked he, coming up to them as they sat
under a large catalpa-tree, making a pretty
picture in the soft twilight. "There is a very
heavy dew on the grass. Look !" - and he
pointed to his evening boots, all covered with
clinging moisture.
"It msy not be prudent, but it is very
pleasant," said Leslie. "Every thing is so
fragrant and exquisite! I have been making
Norah listezi to the mocking-birds. She nev-
er heard them before, you know."
"And what a delicious note they have!"
said Norah. "I cannot imagine any thing
more sweet. Listen! is not that one, now?"
"They sing in this grove all night tong,"
said Carl, "or at least they used to do so. I
have often lain awake for hours listening to
them. That fellow who is singing now is a
perfect Mario!"
"He is in the rose-hedge yonder," said
Miss Desmond. "I think 1 shall go nearer,
for the sake of listening to him."
"Take cara, Norah, the grass is very wet,"
said Leslie. "I was just about to propose a
return to the house, where we can hear yo~e
sing, instead of the mocking-bird."
"What an exchange!" said Norab; and~
as she spoke, she walked toward the hedge.
"Go with her, Carl," said Miss Grahame,
appealingly. "My shoes are too thin for me
to venture into that high grass; and pray
bring her back as soon as possible!"
"All right," said Carl, hastening away.
His heart gave a triumphant throb. Here
was his opportunity sooner than he could
have dared to hope. It is to be feared that
he did not think much just then of the dew.
laden grass clinging round Norah's delicate
ankles The power of speaking to her alone
was a boon worth purchasing at any cost.
"Why did you come?" asked she, turn-
ing round abruptly as he gained her side.
"You should have stayed with Leslie. I am
very well able to take care of myself, and I
do not want to talk to you, but to listen to
the mocking-bird."
"I never doubted that," said he; "but it
was Leslie who sent me. Not that I needed
to be sent-you know that; but it was she
who bade sac come. Pray excuse me if I
ought to have stayed."

35


MISS DESMOND'S MUSICAL TALENT.              37

86                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

"It is not a matter of the least impor-
tance," answered she; "but of course Leslie
will think that I came away to flirt."
"I think you anticipate many harsh judg-
ments which are never passed," said he, col-
oring. "I will answer for Leslie that such a
thought has not entered her mind. When
you know her better, you will find that she is
one of the most amiable and most unsuspect-
ing people in the world."
"I think I perceive that already," said
Miss Desmond, thoughtfully. "And, in con-
sequence, I feel like one who is at sea with-
out a compass. I have been so much sur-
prised to find Leslie what she is, that I scarce-
ly realize my position, or-or what I am to
do. I fsncied -1 confidently expected-
something so different."
"~ And so much more disagreeable, I am
sure."
"Yes, I confess that."
"And why is it that you persist in always
expecting the worst and thinking the worst
of people?"
"Because, in the course of my nineteen
years, I have found that people always think
the worst and expect the worst of me."
"Stop a minute," said he, smiling. "I
bind you on your honor to answer if you have
found that eve~-~ibod~q, even in the course of
your mature nineteen years, has thought or
expected the worst of you?"
"Men in lc~ve don't count," answered she.
"A few of them have thought much better of
me than 1 deserved."
"I should count them worth all the rest,"
said he, coloring again.
"Should you?" asked she, a little mock-
ingly. "I cannot agree with you. If a man
tells me that I am a goddess, for instance, I
can only laugh at him, you know. Certainly,
I could not be expected to respect an opinion
so palpably absurd. But, when a woman says
that I am a fast flirt, the words sting a little,
because they have a modicum of truth in
them. I have not been reared to regard con-
ventionality overmuch, and I generally ac-
Lept admiration when it is offered me."
"I have never yet seen a woman who did
not," said he. "But, without any high-flown
folly, a man might hold you far above all oth-
er women, and be worthy of credit if he told
you so."
"That is a kind of homage which has
never been offered to me," said she, with a

look of quick pain-which the twilight hid-'
crossing her face. "Men, as a general rule,
have fallen in love and made fools of them.
selves about me, against their better judg-
ment. I am afraid I should not believe in
any thing else if it were given to me now.
But this is a tiresome subject, ond we came
-at least Icame-to listen to the mocking-
bird. I think our voices must have startled
him, for he has ceased to sing."
"Ceased, in a paroxysm of envy, to listen
to you, I am sure."
"Don't credit him with the meanest of
our poor passions," said she. "That was a
very neat compliment, however. Such things
are like an inspiration, are they not? Now,
I am sure you could not do as well again."
"Do you mean that as a challenge for me
to try?"
"Not by any means, since a prepared
compliment is about as excellent as twice-
cooked meat. In fact, I do not like compli-
ments, under any circumstances," added she,
frankly.
"Then I shall employ more fragrant lips
to utter mine for me," said he, pausing to
break a rose-for they were now among the
shrubbery-which even in the gloaming he
could perceive to be one of the most royal
and beautiful of its kind. Having done this,
he turned to his companion. "I know noth-
ing about the language of flowers," he said;
"but this rose seems to me ~o typify you bet-
ter than any other flower possibly could, and
-it raiJcs far above aU others, yo~e know I"
Then, after a pause, in a lower tone: "Will
you take it?"
She hesitated a moment-during which
Middleton would have given any thing he
possessed for a light in which to see her face
-but, as he began to gather courage from
her hesitation, she extended her hand with a
laugh that made his courage sink to zero
again.
"Thanks; you are very kind," she said.
"I think my challenge must have put you on
your mettle, for your second effort is better
than your first. What a lovely rose! Ilow
good of you to say that it typifies me! I
only wish I were half so glowing and per-
fect!"
"If you were any other woman, I should
~ay that wish was an egregious affectation,~~
said Carl, provoked by her nonchalance.
"But, as it is, you are kind enough to

give me credit for sincerity," she said-and
he heard her laugh again. "How very com-
plimentary you are to-night! Is it your un-
cle's excellent champagne which has inspired
you? It would be pleasant to remain and
hear you go from better to best; but I am
becoming aware that the grass is damp, and,
since Mario will not give us another rouade,
it might be as well to return to the house.
A piOJJQS of your pretty speeches, I have a
shrewd suspicion that, if Leslie does not
think that I am flirting, your aunt will not
be so charitable!"
"We don't think quite so much of leather
and prunella here as in the countries to which
you arc accustomed," said he, as he tui~ne'1
and walked by her side.
"Where do you draw the line between
what is de riqucur, and what is not?" she
asked. "I should really like to know. Per-
haps on this side of the water I may find my-
self a very conventional and respectable per.
~son, indeed."
"You must ask some one better up in
the proprieties than I am," he answered.
"When they present themselves to mc, it is
generally in the light of such particularly un-.
pleasant bores that I have never given them
the attention which they doubtless deserve."
To cross a lawn cannot possibly take a
very long time under any circumstances, so
they soon found themselves in the drawing.
room, where Miss Desmond went at once to
the piano, without any troublesome solicita-
tion. Notes she had none, but her command
of the instrument was perfect, and her knowl-
edge of harmony very good. After a well-
modulated prelude, she began to sing. De-
scriptions of singing are mostly unsatisfac-
tory, and very unmeaning to all save the
technical, musical mind; so it is sufficient to
say that a voice like this, which rose now and
floated out on the midsummer night, had nev-
er sounded before within the walls of lbs.
land. A contralto so rich, so sweet, so pow-
erful, would have been likely to command
attention and admiration anywhere; hut here
it was greeted with an enthusiasm that might
have gratified the most exacting prima-donna
on the lyric stage.
It was a voice strangely familiar, and
strangely fraught with association to one who
did not form part of the group in the draw-
ing-room. A solitary man, standing on a
bridge that crossed a small stream not far

from the house, heard the clear, full notes
rising as he moodily smoked his cigar, and
their cadence seemed suddenly to stir into
life the wild thrill of an old passion which be
had thought dead forever.
-4---
CHAPTER VII.
'~The branches cross above our eyes,
The skies are in a net;
And what's the thing beneath the skies
We two would most forget?
Not birth, my love, no, no-
Not death, my love, no, no-
The love once ours, but ours long hours ago."
"I SUPPOSE there is nothing for it but to
face the music, Max!"
It was Arthur Tyndale who spoke thus,
not interrogatively, but with a sort of gloomy
decision, as he leaned back in his chair,
stroked the silken ears of his favorite setter,
and regarded his cousin, who, having come
down late, was eating his breakfast with the
appetite of a man who is neither dyspeptic,
bankrupt, nor yet in love.
"I confess I am not able to perceive any
very clear alternative," Captain Tyndale an-
swered, frankly. "It is an awkward position;
but you have had a month or two in which to
prepare yourself for it, so I really don't see
why you should take it an tragique at the Inst
minute."
"Oh, you don't!" said Arthur, sardon-
ically. "No-I suppose riot, I believe we
rarely ever do see any reason for the troubles
and annoyances of other people! All the
same-if you were in my place-"
"Which I am not, thank Heaven!"
"-You might be conscious of a strong
temptation to order your horse and take the
earliest train from Wexford in any direction,
sooner than walk over to Rosland and face
Norah Desmond."
"Face her! '~ repeated the other, impatient-
ly. "But what do you think she will do?
If she is half the woman you have described
her to be, she is not likely to assert her claim
to you in the face of the assembled family."
"The assembled family would be matter
of the least possible importance compared to
leer 1',
"Or to upbraid you with your desertion,
after the fashion of a melodramatic heroine?"
"Don't be a fool, Max!"


38                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                                AN AWKWA

"Then, in the name of common-sense,
what are you afraid of?"
"I am afraid of nothing," said Tyndale,
coloring. "But you might understand that
it is confoundedly awkward-to use the mild-
est possible phrase-to meet a woman who
has good reason for thinking you are engaged
to her, in the presence of another woman to
whom you are engaged."
"fim!" said Max, carving a chicken. "I
can imagine that it might be slightly un-
pleasant. But you should have thought of
that in time."
"Thought of it! But how the deuce
could I think of' it when, up to the first of
May, I had no more reason for imagining that
Norah Desmond was connected with Leslie
Grahame, than I have for imagining that she
is connected with you!"
He spoke so much in the tone of one who
has been aggrieved by some supreme injury
of Fate, that Max Tyndale absolutely opened
his dark eyes andstared at him. "By Jove!"
he said, half' aloud. Then he stroked his
mustache and went on, devoting his attention
to the chicken. Arthur had been something
of a study to him during the last two months,
and this phase of his character was no new
revelation.
"Are you going to walk over to Rosland
this morning?" lie asked, after a while.
"I suppose I ought to do so," Arthur an-
swer~d, hesitatingly. "You'll come too,
woii' iou?"
"I think not. Most likely I'll spend the
day lo~.inging in the ~housc. It is too hot for
any thing else."
"They are always glad to see you at los-
land,"
"II know that; but, all the same, I won't
trouble them this snorning2'
Tyndale made a slightly-impatient move-
ment and turned away. It would have been
a satisfaction to him to have had Max at his
o as a sort of moral support, and lie felt
vexed that his cousin should not have been
aware of this fact. He was ashamed to make
his request more particular or pressing, how-
ever, and so it came to pass that, in the
course of the next hour, he set off alone-
taking a footpath through the woods to Ros-
land.
The morning was indeed very warm, but
he was scarcely conscious of' the heat. With
every step his nervousunsa increased. Clearer

and clearer came the remembrance of how he
had parted with Norah Desmond last, and
the realization of how he was about to meet
her now! More and more perfectly lie ap.
preciated how entirely he was in her power.
He began to ask himself if he had been mad
to let things go on thus far in the vague hope
or chance of influencing her to silence. "Why
did I not tell Leslie any thing?" he muttered,
thinking of the day when she had asked him
whether there was any reason why her sister
should not be invited to her uncle's house,
and he had felt constrained to answer that
there was none. Now lie looked back upon
this answer as a piece of pusillanimous folly,
seeing clearly that he had "owed it to him-
self" to put the girl's character in such a
light that Leslie would never have been in-
clined to take any step toward nearer ac-
quaintanceship. It must not b~ supposed
that this opinion was a reckless impulse born
of an hour or a day; it was rather the slow
result of two months spent in halting between
honor and dishonor, in counting the chances
for and against detection, in persuading him-
self' that they were very strongly in his favor,
and in cultivating an habitually injured frame
of mind, which he found to he a very solid
and permanent comfort.
Just now it was less of a comfort thaii it
had ever been before. Things which he had
striven to ignore-memories from which he
shrank-came back and stared him grimly in
the face. He could not rid himself of the
consciousness that already-if Miss Desmond
had chosen to speak-he might find the doors
of Rosland closed to him; already he might
be east out indignantly from Leslie's heart.
Standing on the bridge where Norali's voice
had floated down to him the night before, he
forgot himself far enough to curse her in his
heart-her and "his luck." No man was
ever in such a position before, he thought;
and, so thinking, turned on his heel. Even
liere-~--in sight of the very walls of' Roslaud-'
he could not resolve to face her.
But, as he turned - filled with the one
vague idea of escaping from the embarrass-
ment which awaited him --voices suddenly
smote on his esr-gay tones and light laugh
ter floated to him. The next moment, around
a turn of the path, two ladies and a gentleman
came slowly sauntering toivard the bridge.
It was too late for retreat-even if lie had
still desired to make it. Fate had come to*

his assistance, and cut with sharp decision
the Gordian knot of his vacillation. "There
is Arthur!" he heard Leslie say; and after
that he could only advance to meet them.
The meeting was, of course, less terrible
than he had pictured it. Conventionalities
are good things to keep troublesome emotions
in check~; and there are few of us who could
dispense with the beneficent aid of common-
places at those critical moments when the
heart seems beating in the throat, and the
lip quivers over every thing save the baldest
platitudes. Afterward Tyndalo could recall
little besides a sudden great wave of recollec-
tion, which came over him with the force of
an absolute shock, as Leslie said, "Norah,
let me introduce Mr. Tyndale: this is my
sister, Arthur;" and, looking up, he met No-
rah's brilliant eyes fastened on him. It was
almost unconsciously that he bowed and said
something-he did not know what-about
her journey. The past rushed hack upon
him with a power which he could hardly
ivithstand. Her face, her figure, the very or-
naments she wore, the very fragrance that
hung like a faint incense about her, seemed
to conjure before him the green lindens of
Baden-seemed to bring back, with a sense
of overwhelming reality, scenes and words
which-being more weak than willful in dis-
honor-he would have given any thing to ef-
face by some spell of oblivion. But such a
spell was difficult to find with the "haunting
fairness" of her face before him, and the
splendor of her eyes thrilling his very soul.
lIe was forced to give himself a sort of men-
tal shake in order to remember where he
really was when she spoke to him-spoke as
she might have spoken to the most indiffer-
ent stranger who crossed her path.
"Thanks; yes-I had a very pleasant
voyage," she said-but he seemed to catch
the echo of other words in every tone; he
seemed to hear again tfle sweet thrill of ten-
derness which had filled that voice when they
parted two 'years before!
Leslie did not observe his agitation; but
there was some one else who did. When he
greeted Carl Middleton, the latter noticed
that the hand offered him was cold, and shook
nervously. Instinctively he glanced at Leslie,
but her bright smile forbade the idea that she
was, in any way, connected with such an agi-
tation. Then he looked at Norah. She was
holding her dress lightly aside from the grass

AN AWKWA

~RD POSITION.                         39
-as supremely calm and coolly nonchalant
as it was possible for a woman to appear.
Carl felt a little puzzled, and glanced back at
Tyndale. The latter had turned to speak to
Miss Graharne, but the first tone of his voice
betrayed to a finely-strung ear the nervous
tension in which he was holding himself'.
"I was on my way to the house," he said.
"I had no idea of finding you out. Is it not
rather warm to be walking ~ 9"
a.
"I brought Norah out to show her the
grounds," Leslie answered, "but perhaps it
is too warm for exercise.-If you think so"
(turning to her sister), "we will go back,"
"Not on my account," said Norab, quick.
ly. "Our path ba~ been so shaded that the
sun has not been able to do more than glance
at us, and there is a breeze which we do not
feel in the house. Besides, I like to be in the
open air. I think it is where we should live
in summer,,~
"It is an ascertained fact that the people
of America spend less time in the open air
than any other people in the world," said
Carl, meditatively.
"Do you mean that as a thing to be ad-
mired or decried?" asked Miss Desmond.
"For my part, I think it very extraordinary.
How can they resist the invitation which
every gleam of sunshine seems to give ?-Now,
what a charming place this is just before us!
How clear the stream looks under the over-
hanging shade! How prettily the shadows
flicker-how softly the water murmurs I Such
a scene is enough in itself to tempt one to
idleness! - Have you ever outgrown your
childish fancy for wading, Mr. Middleton? I
confess that I never have."
She moved forward-passing Tyndale so
closely that her dress touched him-followed
by Carl. On the bridge they paused.
"Do you feel inclined to try a little wad-
ing?" he asked, leaning over the railing, but
looking up in her face. "You did not give
me time to answer your question; but I never
have outgrown my fa~icy for it."
She laughed, and glanced down at her
daintily-clad feet.
"I am afraid the golden age for that pas-
toral pleasure is over for me," she said.
"My recollee~ion of it is somewhat like a
mali's sentimental yearning over the memory
of his first love. How much aghast he would
be if sentenced to pass his lif'e with the wom-
an lie loved at twenty I-and I am afraid I


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

FIRST IMPRESSIONS.

could scarcely go back into Arcadia suffi-
ciently to enjoy the ripple of even that cool,
clear water around my feet. This is a de-
lightful place, however, even to those who
have left Arcadia behind. It would be pleas-
ant, would it not, to come down here some
day and fish?"
"It would be pleasant to fish anywhere
with you," her companion answered, quite
truthfully. "But it would be foolish to cast
our nets or our lines here, with the river near
at hand full of capital fish."
"Is the river near at hand? How near?"
"Something like half a mile, I think.-I
say, Leslie" - as Miss Grahame advanced
toward them-" how far are we from the
river?"
"A quarter of a mile, perhaps," said Les-
lie, "but why do you ask? It is too warm
to go on the water at this time of day."
"Do you go on the water?" asked Norah.
"Have you a boat? We were talking of fish-
ing, but boating is my idea of beatitude."
"I think you are more than half mer-
maid," said Carl.
"I wish I were," said she, sighing. "it
would be pleasant to live three hundred years,
and then be dissolved into sea-foam-even so
much better than the prospect of being hag-
gard and toothless at threescore 1-Don't you
think so, Leslie?"
"It is only the exceptional people who
live to threescore," said Leslie. "We need
not flatter ourselves with the idea of such
good luck."
"Such bad luck, you mean," answered
the other. Then she turned to Carl. "Did
you not promise to show me the Dutch sum.
mer-liouse where you mean to retire when
you feel particularly Teutonic?" she asked.
"Is it near here?"
"It is not very far of!'. I shall be de-
lighted to cicerone you, if you feel inclined
to come with me."
"Of course I feel inclined," said she.
"Should I have spoken of it if I had not?
-Leslie, you will excuse us, will you not?
-Thanks, Mr. Tyndale" (as Arthur disentan-
gled her parasol from the low branch of a
tree), "fringe and lace are trQublesome things.
-Is it this way, Mr. Middleton?"
Graceful and self-possessed as ever, she
walked away with Carl, and Leslie would have
turned to follow if Tyndale had not inter-
fered.

"Need we go and look at the summer-
house?" he asked. "We know all about it,
and the sun is horrihly warm. Let us go
back to the house.~~
"But I want you to see Norah," said Les-
lie. "You have scarcely spoken to her as
yet. I w~nt you to know her. You were so
right in telling me that she is fascinating!
There never was any thing more true. She
has fascinated all of us already."
"I see that she has fascinated your cous-
in," said he, bitterly. "But that is not re-
markable I She is the most thorough-paced
and unscrupulous coquette I have ever seen 1"
"I think you do her injustice!" said Miss
Grahame. "She is so beautiful - would it
not be strange if she did not like the admi-
ration which is offered her? And then, how
much of it must have been offered I Enough
to spoil the characters and turn the heads of
half a dozen ordinary women, you may be
sure."
"Of course she has been admired," said
Tyndale, gloomily. "Nobody could look at
her and doubt that. I think she is handsomer
than ever 1" he added, in a disgusted tone,
for, unconsciously to himself, he had rather
cherished the expectation that Norak's brill-
iant beauty would have "gone off" in watch-
ing for him.
"I do not think anybody could be more
beautiful!" said Leslie; "and this reminds
me to ask if you are quite sure you never
knew her when you were abroad?"
"Am I quite sure I" repeated Tyndale.
His heart seemed to stand still for a minute,
his blond complexion changed its color vio-
lently two or three times. "Good Heavens,
Leslie, what do you mean? Why should I
not be sure?"
"I thought it was scarcely likely you
could be mistaken," said Leslie, with a com-
posure that proved how far any thing like
suspicion was from 'hee mind, "but Norah
seemed to think that she had met you-at
least, she spoke of having known some one
who was named Tyndale, abroad."
"Did she?" said he, with a short gasp.
"And you-what did you tell her?"
"I told her that it could not have been
yourself, for you had distinctly told me that,
although you had seen her, you had not known
her."
"And then?"
"Well, then, of course, she said that it

must have been another person; but I thought
afterward that perhaps you might have been
introduced to her-at a ball or some place of
that kind-and forgotten it."
"Am I likely to have forgotten it?"
asked he, breaking into bitterness again.
"Is any man likely to forget such a woman?
For good or for evil, one would have no al-
ternative but to remember her."
"I see that you are very much prejudiced
against her," said Leslie, looking at him in
surprise. "Why do you speak so harshly?
Has she ever done any harm to any one whom
you know? Aunt Mildred thinks that it must
have been your cousin who was the Tyndale
she knew abroad. Is it so? and did she
break his heart, or otherwise injure him?"
"No," said Tyndale, almost savagely.
"Max is a lucky fellow-he has too much
cool, h~d common-sense to fall into the toils
of such a woman as that. Forgive me, Les-
lie "-as he caught her pained and half-in-
dignant look-" but you know I gave you
warning beforehand what manner of person
she was."
"But I have seen nothing to justify your
warning," said Leslie. "I think you must
have been listening to the accounts given of
her by the enemies whom every beautiful
woman is unfortunate enough to possess.
Come!" she added, smiling, "come and give
her an opportunity to fascinate you. I insist
upon it."
Despite the smile, he saw that she was in
earnest, and, too guiltily conscious of lila mo-
tives to make further demur, he went with
her along the path where the others had dis-
appeared. "After all, perhaps it is best!"
he thought. "I must, if possible, see Norah
alone for ten minutes. I must know what
she intends to do. What did ,she mean by
that allusion to me last night? This suspense
is more than any man could bear."
Meanwhile, Norah and Carl had reached
the summer-house, which looked as if it had
been imported from Am~terdam, as it crowned
a softly-rising knoll in the midst of the shrub-
bery. The door stood qpen, and, mounting a
flight of steps, they went in. The tiled floor,
the quaint roof, the windows latticed with
green vines, all seemed like a bit, of still-life
from one of Teniers's pictures.
"Surely a Hollander or a Fleming must
have designed this," said Norah. "It is
in the purest style of Dutch architecture.

41

I have seen a hundred like it in the Low
Countries. One almost expects to look out
of the window at canals and 'dikes."
"The last owner of Rosland was a Dutch-
man," said Carl. "I don't think my uncle
has owned the place more than twenty years."
Then he walked to one of the casements.
"The view does not command any canals or
dikes," he said, "but it is really beautiful,
Miss Desmond. Come and look!"
Thus bidden, Norah went and looked. It
was certainly a fair, pastoral scene. All
around were the green nooks and dells of the
shrubbery, while beyond were shadowy woods,
rich with midsummer foliage, and ringing
with a soft echo of; midsummer mirth, level
fields stretching to where a dense growth of
willows marked the winding course of the
river, and blue hills softly melting into dis-
tance far away. From another window they
could see the path which led to Strafford, and
catch a glimpse of the gabled house rising
above its noble oaks.
"That is a charming old place, as well as
I remember," said Carl. "I should not won-
der if it had been instrumental in tempting
Leslie. When she was a child, she had the
greatest possible fancy for it. By-the-by,
what do you think of herjfand? He is good.
looking, certainly; but somehow he struck
me just a little unpleasantly."
"There are few things more unwise than
to judge people at first sight," said Miss Des-
mond, with the air of one who delivers a
grave moral truth. "I have laid it down as
a rule of life to distrust first impressions al-
ways and most emphatically."
"Still, I should like to hear what your
first impression of Mr. Tyndale has been,"
said he, looking at her. "I have an idea
that it is not very different from mine. Am
I impertinent?" he added, half laughing, as
he saw her change color slightly.
"No, you are not impertinent," she an-
swered, coolly. "If you were, I should not
hesitate to tell you so. But you are inquisi-
tive, and that is not usually esteemed the
height of civility."
"Is it not? Well, I was never much at
civility-Leslie will tell you that. But, seri-
ously, now, what do you think of the fel-
low?"
"Seriously, I have not taken the trouble
to think of him at all."
"Then it must follow that you don't eon-

4

41)


42

A DAUGHTER OF BOIIIIMIA.

sider him worth the trouble of thinking
about."
"Whatever ~follows is fortunately not a
matter of any importance to him or to you."
"He is decidedly a beauty-man-don't
you think so?"
"Very likely; but I have juever noticed
that fortunate class sufficiently to recognize
their peculiar traits at sight."
"Don't you like them?"
"I scarcely know. I am such an amiable
person that I like everybody, except trouble-
some people who ask foolish questions."
"I should never think of describing you
as an amiable person," said he, coloring un-
der this rebuke.
"Ah! What then-n termagant?"
"God only knows-a witch, more likely."
"Thanks for the compliment. Witches
are always so particularly handsome that I
appreciate the full force of it."
"A siren, then. A-anything that turns
men's heads."
"Really, it iS hard to make one answer-
able for the vagaries of men's heads. The
most of them have so little ballast that they
are easily turned."
"Your tongue is like a two-edged sword,"
said he. "N.o matter whut I say, I am sure
to get the worst of it."
"And yet you are one of my particular
favorites," said she. "There are few people
whom I treat with the consideration that I
have always shown you."
"Heaven help those whom you treat with
less, then I"
"You say that with great unction; do you
fancy them in danger of a scratched face?"
"It does not matter what I fancy; but I
am sure that any man in his sane senses would
rather have his face scratched by you than
caressed by any other woman."
"Speak for yourself," said she, coldly.
And he saw that he had offended her. "It is
'not necessary to make your accusation of bad
taste so general."
"I did not mean-" he began, contritely,
but ~uis excuses were out short, for at that
moment Leslie and Tyndale appeared at the
open door.
A~ What a pretty tableau you make!" the
former said. "They look like a picture-do
they not, Arthur? I should say a Dutch
picture, only Norah's Paris dress does not
agree very well with our ideas of Dutch art."

"She is more like a figure out of a Wat-
teau," said Tyndale, with a desperate attempt
to appear at ease.
"And little enough like that," said Carl.
"Her dress, perhaps, may be-but Watteau
never painted such a face! The colors have
never been mixed, save on the palettes of
Titian or Rubens, to do Miss Desmond jus-
tice."
"Norab, how do you like to be Qiseussed
in such cool fashion, as if you were really a
picture?" asked Leslie, smiling. "I sup.
pose you grow used to it, however; and, to a
beautiful woman, all flattery must be tame
after that of her mirror. What have you
two been talking about?" she went on, ad-
vancing into the summer - house. "As we
came up you looked not only comfortable,
but confidential."
"Every thing relating to the nature of
man comes under the head of philosophy,~~
said Carl, gravely; "therefore, we have been
talking philosophy."
"After the fashion of Punch," said Norab.
"What is mind? No ma12ter. What is mat-
ter? Never mind. What is the nature of
the soul? It is immaterial."
"That is capital 1" said Carl. "I shall
send it to a friend of mine in Germany. It
will do him good."
"Are you sure you don't need it your.
self?" suggested ~he. "It is never well to
be too generous. Yen remind me of the pee.
pie who, whenever a particularly telling point
is made in a sermon, think how well that
suits their, brother, or their sister, or their
neighbor over the way."
"But Punch's sarcasm does not affect me
at all," said he, sincerely, "for no man ever
troubled himself less than I do about such
questions. I would not give one day of gold-
en idleness like this for the whole of Kant
and Jean Paul."
"It is pleasant!" said Leslie. "Norah
is right: even at the expense of becoming a
little tanned, one ought to live in the open air
in summer. It is a pity that I must go to
the house and write some tiresome letters for
the wail, is it not ?-No, I won't be selfish
enough to take you" (as Tyndale started
forward with alacrity). "I believe I would
rather have Carl. I can make him write one
or two of them for me."
"Heavens and earth, Leslie!" said Carl.
* "You can't be in earnest 1 - you don't se-

riously think that I wil
ters on such a day as tI
"I seriously think
Leslie, with an air of
your cousins, the Brani
six weeks ago, asking f~
have never answered
do it to-day."
"I am very sorry to
he, "but the proposal
never could bear those
ing to them-"
"Whether you can 1
you cannot, you must C
ter!" interrupted Lesli~
a reason for being so pt
made up her mind tha
should know each other
is generally esteemed t
dancing personal know
mined that they should
and also determined nc
Carl's idleness and obst
"Pray do not com
said, turning to Norab.
here for an hour or tw
bring you to the house
come."
"I am quite ready n
rising.
But Leslie had alre
luctant and protesting-
as Miss Desmond mov
Tyndale took his eoura~
stepped before her.
"One moment!" he
I must speak to you."
lie thought he had 12
emergency-that he co
by any thing she might
she lifted her eyes, full
to his face, he was cons
lution ebbed from hin
hopelessly as if she had
to whom Middleton had
"Excuse me," she
suited the glance. *" Au
can desire to say which
to hear, I prefer to folio
"But I must speak I
the hoarseness still ap
the color coming and
his face. "You canno
few minutes-you eann
me! I shall not detain

ARTHUR'S INTERVIEW ~ITH NORAH.
1 go in and write let. "I decline absolutely to give you one nun-
ute," he answered, haughtily. "I refuse ab-
you will," answered solutel to listen to one word that you have
determination; "for to say."
ley girls, wrote to me "I this generous-is this just, Norab?"
~r news of you, and I " ow do you dare to address me in that
he letter. You shall unanne ?" she asked - a sudden flash of
lightni g-like anger breaking up the coldness
disappoint you," said of her face.
is really absurd.  I   " ardon me," he answered. "But it is
girls, and as for writ- hard o see you, and not to remember the
days hen you were Norab to me."
Lear them, or whether   "  ill you stand aside and let me pass 2
nine and write the let- was h r only reply.
~, decidedly  She had   " o!" he rejoined, sharply. "how can
remptory, for she had you as it? How cap you think that I should
t Norah and Tyndale meet ou like this and let you go? You must
and since a tt~te-d-t6te see for yourself that it is absolutely necessary
he best means of ad- for us o understand each other!"
ledge, she was deter- "I is never well to take things too much
have this advantage, for gr nted, Mr. Tyndale," she said. "So
t to be thwarted by far fro seeing it, I am unable to recognize
inacy.               the least necessity why we should understand
e because I do," she each o her."
"It will be pleasant  " on can say that to 9ne-Norah !"
yet, and Arthur will Sh drew herself up superbly. Always of
rhen you are ready to quceni stature and more than queenly bear-
ing, she looked just then as if her form had
ow," answered Norah, come own to her from the heroic days.
on forget yourself strangely!" she
ady drawn Carl - re- said. ~' Once more, will you move aside and
-down the steps, and, let me pass, or must I understand that you
ed forward to follow, intend to keep me here that you may insult
ge in both hands and me at our leisure?"
"I the truth an insult? " asked he, flush-
said, hoarsely. "I- ing de ply. "If so, it. is no fault of mine.
Norah, we have no time to waste in idle fen-
~raced himself for any cing. Say what you please-and I remember-
uld not be unnerved of old how bitter your tongue can be 1-all
do or say-but, when the sa e, I am determined not to stir from
of astonished ltauteur, this s ot until definitely and finally we under-
~ious that all his reso-. -stand ach other."
as completely and "I is impossible to rate your chivalry too
been indeed the witch high, r. Tyndale," she said, with a glance
likened her, of sco n. "Since I am a prisoner at your
said, in a tene that please e, however, and since it seems to you
there is nothing you a mat er of so much importance that~ we
I can possibly desire should understand each other, it may be worth
w my sister." while o say that I understand you perfectly."
~o you!" he repeated, He might have answered truly enough
parent in his voice, ~hat this was ~ot what he desired-that the
going in patches on vitally important point with him was the ne-
*t refuse to give me a cessity of understanding her - but, instead
at refuse to listen to of this, her open contempt roused him to a
you long." different rejoinder.

I


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

"I doubt if you understand me at all," he
said. "For the matter of that~ I doubt if
you ever did understand me."
"Did I not?" said she, with indifference.
"It mutt have been owing to my own want
of attention, then -certainly not to any thing
particularly abstruse in the nature of the sub-
ject. I cannot say that I have acquired any
new degree of interest since I had the pleas-
nrc of seeing you last," she went on, calmly.
"I can imagine," he said, quickly, "that
you may have learned to feel very bitterly
toward me. But, if you will only suffer me
to explain-"
She interrupted him by a~ gesture, which
be never forgot.
"You mistake my meaning entirely," she
said. "Feel bitterly toward you I Why
should I? Explain? What is there to ex-
plain?"
Her eyes faced him with such steady lus.
tre that his own lids fell. He realized then
how unequal he was to ~the encounter he had
provoked. What could he say to such a
woman as this? He had never been a match
for her-he knew that well-she had always
been a perverse and tantalizing enigma to
him; but he had never felt so hopelessly be-
wildered as now. The cool disdain with
which it pleased her to treat the past was so
different from the passionate resentment he
had expected, that he felt wholly unable to
cope with it. Catching' desperately at the
first idea which presented itself, he uttered
the very last thing which should have found
expression on his lips.
"Norah," he said, passionately, "it is im-
possible for you to have forgotten that you
loved me once I"
Instantly he read his mistake in the glow
which came into' her eyes, in the haughty
curve of her clear-cut, resolute mouth.
"How entirely you are pleased to justify
my opinion of your character, Mr. Tyndale!"
she said, in a tone so full of contemptuous
meaning that it cut like a whip. "But you
must pardon me if I say that you flatter your-
self too much. If all the men with whom I
have chanced to amuse myself were kind
enough to say that I 'loved them once,' I
should be credited with a most facile and im~
pressionable heart, indeed."
Looking at the beautiful, proud face, at
the brilliant, scornful eyes, a sudden, 'horri-
ble fear that she might be speaking truth

came over him. I havc written the word hor-
rible advisedly; for, to a man of Arthur Tyn.
dale's stamp, there was something inexpres-
sibly humiliating in the mere suspicion that
1w-so magnificent in worldly gifts, so full
of worldly knowledge-should have blindly
served as the plaything of a coquette. The
thought of his own broken faith lie could face
with due philosophy, but the idea of having
been entwined in such a net as that which an-
noyed and cramped him at present, for the
mere amusement of a "Bohemian adventu-
ress," was more than he could endure.
"You know that you are insinuating what
is not true!" he said, forgetting courtesy,
chivalry, every thing, in the sharp stab under
which his pride was writhing. "You know
that, whatever else I may or may not have
been, I was something more than material
for amusement to you!"
"Were you? " she said, quietly; but
there was that in her eyes which might have
warned him that this calm boded no good.
"You must excuse my forgetfulness of the
fact. I rarely trouble myself to remember
any thing of the past-except my debts."
The significance of the last words were
not lost on him; but, feeling that the con-
versation had taken a wrong turn-conscious
that he was doing himself infinitely more
harm than good-he caught eagerly at this
the first opportunity she had given him to
learn what she really meant to do.
"You have-or you may think that your
have-a debt against me," he said, quickly.
"How do you mean to pay that, Norah?"
"Have I a debt against you, Mr. Tyn.
dale?" said she, with a kind of mocking sur-
prise. "I am afraid I must ask you to re-
fresh my memory with regard to it. Past
follies are the things of all others which I
most readily forget." -
"You are trying my patience!" he said,
setting his teeth savagely. "But you would
do well to remember that you may try it a
little too far."
"And what of mine?" she asked, with
the well-remembered Celtic passion suddenly
blazing out upon him from every eloquent
feature. "Do you think that, because I
have chosen to ignore your insults, I have
not felt and shall not remember them?
Your knowledge of me might have helped
you to judge better than that. We have met
to-day as strangers," she ~vent on, after a

I
:1

-     ~- -~                  _______________

44

4
a
a
S
U
C
0
S
~0
0
a
a

S.
0
&amp;
.2'
a
0
0
'I
a.'
e
0


I

moment ; " as strangers ever hereafter we
shall meet. Remember this ; and remember,
also, that, if you ever presume to address
me again as you have addressed me here, the
means of remedy are in my hands, and I shall
not hesitate to use them unsparingly."
" If you are attempting to threaten me-"
he began, with the air of a Bayard.
But she interrupted him with cool de-
cision.-
" Pardon me, I am merely placing a plain
alternative before you. Having done so, there
is nothing more to add. The past of my life
in which you have played a short and most
unworthy part, is dead forever, and God is
my witness "-extending her white arm with
sudden, passionate energy-" that, if I could
drain my blood to wash out its last lingering
memory, I would gladly do so ! With my fu.-
ture you have no connection. It is not neces-
sary to remind me that you wish none "-as
his lips unclosed. "L I will take that for grant-
ed all the more readily, because any associa-
tion with you would be the last, worst evil
which Fate could send to me. Now, will you
be kind enough to go ? I can readily find
my way to the house alone." ,
Couched in the form of a request, these
words were, in truth, little more than an im-
perious command; but, conscious in what
bungling fashion he had gone to work-con-
scious that he had learned literally nothing
of that which he most desired to know-
Tyndale made one last effort.
-" For God's sake, Norah, don't send me
away like this !" he said, eagerly. " How
can I tell when I may be able to speak to you
again; and I-I must know what you mean
to do ! Any certainty is better than-"
He stopped short. Though he was stand-
ing with his back to the door, something in
Norah's eyes suddenly warned him of anoth-
er presence in the summer-house besides their
own. Turning sharply, he faced Carl Mid-
dieton. -
CHAPTER VIII.-
" To-morrow we meet the same, then, dearest ?
May I take your hand in mine ?
Mere friends are we-well, friends the merest
Keep much that I'll resign."
THERE was a second's awkward pause.
Then Middleton had sufficient presence of
mind to come forward, as if he saw no thing

45

unusual in the faces or the attitudes before
him.
" Am I not lucky to get off duty so soon ?"
he said. " When we reached the house, Les-
lie found some visitors, and I at once slipped
away -grateful enough to them for having
come, you may be sure."
" You are lucky," said Norah, smiling-
she had well - trained muscles, for no one
could have told from that smile how her
pulses were beating, with a rush which made
itself felt in one vibrating thrill through her
whole body -" I congratulate you on your
escape, and I am glad to see you back-very
glad !" she added, with an unmistakable ac-
.cent of sincerity. /    -
The young man flushed a little-evidently
with pleasure. "You are very kind to say
so," he answered. " I am glad to find you
still here. I thought you might have wan-
dered away somewhere-only it is scorching
out in the sun."
" Too scorching for wandering, I should
think," said she, and she sat down almost wea-
rily as she spoke-having, in truth, good cause
to be weary after the battle she had fought.
" Do you feel tired ?" asked Carl, quick-
ly. "Absolutely, for once in a way, you look
pale."
"Do I? That is strange-heat ought to
flush, ought it not ? Suppose you come and
play the part of Zephyr," she added, holding
out her fan. " You don't object, do you ?"
Object ! No one could have. suspected
him of such a sentiment who saw the eager-
ness with which he advanced, and, taking the
pretty toy, began to -play the part rather'of
Bloreas than of Zephyr. *
" There !-that will do !" said she. " I
don't want to be blown away entirely. Are
you going, Mr. Tyndale ? Pray tell Leslie
that I will follow as soon as I can summon
sufficient resolution for the effort. If you
could only order up a cloud or two for; our
benefit, it would be a great relief."
" I am sorry that I cannot-do even that
much in your service," said Tyndale, with
more bitterness than it was wise to have dis-
played; but he could not entirely repress the
exasperation which he felt in seeing another
man enjoy before hbis very eyes tlie place he
had lost or resigned-it did not, at that mo-
ment, matter which.
" Tell Leslie to send an umbrella, won't
you?" said Carl, in his offhand fashion. "It

AN INOPPORTUNE APPEARANCE.

I


46                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                           CARL MIDDLETON'S PROPOSAL.             47

was awfully thoughtless of me not to have
brought one."
Thus, burdened with a double message,
Mr. Tyndale took his departure-descending
the steps of the pavilion, and walking away
down an arcade which led to the house. As
Norah looked after him, the scene made a
picture which she never forgot-the vivid
sunlight quivering on the deep-green foliage,
the flickering net - work of. shadows falling
softly over the ~mooth turf, the blue sky
flecked here and there with fleecy clouds, and
the slender, graceful figure, thrown into re-
lief by the summer landscape and the golden
light.
When she glanced back at Carl Middleton,
however, and saw by the look in his eyes that
lie had been watching her, a suddeii blush
rose to her face.
"It is very ill-bred to stare at people!"
she said, sharply. "I have told you so be-
fore, and you know that I dislike it particu-
larly."
"Is it ill-bred?" asked lie. "This is the
second time to-day that you have convicted
inc of a solecism of good manners. But, if it
is ill-hi-ed, why were you stai-ing at Mr. Tyn.
dale?"
"I was not staring at him," she answered,
with a flash in her eye which showed the ig-
nited spark of a quick temper. "You are
very impertinent to venture to say so! There
is a very great difference between staring and
-and looking at a person."
I was only looking at you," lie said,
quietly. "One stares, does one *not, when
one means to be impertinent? Now, I cer-
tainly did not mean that, for I was engaged
in wondering why you looked at Tyndale in
just that way!"
" In just what way?" asked she, carelessly.
"lie has a good figure and carries it well. I
like both things in a man-and, liking them,
I like also to watch them."
"Yet the expression of your face did not
look much as if you were thinking of his fig-
ure, or of his walk," said Middleton. "It
- looked rather as if you were thinking of
him."
"Your impertinence appears to be ascend-
ing in the scale of comparison," said she, "but,
* for the novelty of' the thing, I am rather in-
ehin~id to humor it. So, granting that I was
thinking of him-what then?"
"I have already been impertinent in the

positive and comparative degrees, have I
not?" he asked, in return. "Then I might
as well be impertinent in the superlative, and
ask u/wi you were thinking of him."
She laughed. She was recovering herself,
and any thing like a tilt of Words and wit
always pleased her.
"Do you chance to remember what hot-
spur answered when Owen Glendower boasted
that he could call spirits from the vasty deep ?"
she inquired. "'So can I; but will they come?'
Now it strikes me that is rather apphicihble to
your question. It is asked, but will it be an-
swered?"
"I am more resigned than you imagine,
perhaps," he said; "for I have a suspicion
that the answer would not be likely to please
me if it were given."
"Are you, then, so deeply interested in
Mr. Tyndale that an unfavorable opinion of
him might distress you?
"I am not interested in 1/i-. 2)~udale at
all," he answered, dryly.
"Oh, in Leslie's Jianci? Iliad really for-
gotten for a moment that he filled that posi-
tion."
"Nor in Leslie'sfiaaci," said he. "I had
forgotten, too, for a minute, that he filled that
position. It would be a little strange, would
it not, if he should prove to have been afflicted
with the same lapse of memory regarding the
same fact?"
She glanced at him keenly. The signifi-
cance of his tone made her sure that he had
overheard more than she supposed of her con-
versation with Tyndale.
"It is not likely that lie could have for-
gotten such a fact," she answered, coldly.
"But it does not concern either you or me
if he had."
"It concerns mc I" said he, quickly. "You
may rest assured of that, Miss Desmond."
"As Leslie's cousin, I suppose," said she,
composedly. "But do cousins usually take
quite so -much upon themselves in Amer-
ica?"
"I am not Leslie's cousin, save by eour-
tesy," lie replied; "and I should never dream
of taking any thing upon myself in her behalf.
She has defenders enough, if defenders were
needed. But, on your behalf, I might he
tempted to take a good deal."
"On my behalf!" said Norah-and she
started in spite of her consummate self-con-
trol. "What need have I of a dcfend~r, or-

if I needed a hundred-what right have you
to assume the duties of the position?"
"T have two rights," answered he. "One
is your need of me; the other is my love for
you
"Indeed!" said Norah. She felt at her
ease now. When a man began to make love,
she knew exactly what to do and what to say.
It was as much her native heath as Rob Roy's
famous -heather was to him. "Oh, this was
all !" she thought, with a curious mixture of
relief and disappointment. It was a relief to
find that his innuendoes with regard to Tyii-
dale had only this meaning; yet there was
disappointment in the quick fall from the ex-
citement of combat to the blank sameness of
love-making. "But that is all nonsenm, you
know," she added, after a short pause. "I
deny both your rights in tote! I have not
the slightest need of you; in fact, I should
not have an idea what to do with you if Iliad
you; while that which you arc pleased to
term your love for me is only a penchant for
pretty faces and flirtation in general applied
to a particular person."
"Mock at me, if you please," said he, pal-
ing, but speaking steadily. "I expected nothing
else. You never give any thing else to me.
All the same, the day may come when you
will need me, and then I shall not ask your
leave to be your defender. I have said more
than I should have done, perhaps, about the
man who left us a few minutes ago," he went
on. "I have probably made you believe
that I overheard more than I really did of
your conversation. In truth, I overheard
only his last speech. But this speech was
not necessary to prove to me that he had
spoken falsely when he said lie never met
you abroad. Your face told me that last
night. His face told m~ so this morning."
She was looking at him intently while he
spoke. When he finished she made no at-
tempt at evasion. -
I was feeling my way last night," she
said. "I wanted to learn how much he had de-
nied. It is strange that my face should have
betrayed me," she added, with a dispassionate
air of surprise. "It never did such a thing
before."
"I am sure that it did not betray you to
any one besides myself," he answered. "Leslie
suspects nothing. You must see that"
"Yes, I see that," she assented.
"But, in saying that she suspects nothing,

I do not mean to imply that it might not be
well for her to know something," he added,
quickly.
"Do you mean that you intend to inform
her of what you know?" she asked, looking
at him again with the peculiarly keen glance
which her eyes sometimes possessed.
"You cannQt seriously suspect me of such
an intention," said he, almost angrily; "even
if I knew any thing-which I do not."
"You know enough to make mischief,"
said she. "There are many people who do
not need to know more than that."
"If you think me one of' them, it proves
that you have honored me with very little
attention during the pime that we have been
acquaintances."
"Now you are angry with me," said she,
smiling; "else you would not speak of our
being 'acquaintances' in such a frigid tone
-that, too, after offering yourself to me as a
defender in the most lavish and generous
manner! Will it put you in a good-humor
to say that I never fancied for a moment that
you would interfere in a matter which has
only accidentally come to your knowledge,
and which does not concern you in the
least? "
"You are quite right," said he. "I shall
not think of interfering, as far as Leslie is
concerned; but I bind myself with no pledge
that will keep me from interfering as far as
you are concerned."
"I think you must be mad," said she,
candidly. "In the name of common-sense
and common reason (if you know any thing
about those things !), what have you to do
with mc?"
"I have already told you what I have to
do ~vith you," answered lie.
She leaned back, and looked at him with
a laugh in her eye, which for once his glance
did not return.
"It is really a comfort to have one ludi-
crous element in an affair which promises to
be rather tiresome and troublesome on the
whole," she said; "but, despite your absurd-
ity, you must be aware that no claim of the
kin~l holds good unless sanctioned by the per-
son in whose behalf you make it."
"Permit me to say that you totally misin-
terpret the nature of the claim I make," an-
swered he, with a face more pale and firm than
any one had ever seen Carl Middleton wear be-
fore. The straight lines between his brows

46


48                A DAUGhTER OF BOHEMIA.                                              A DISCOURAGED SUITOR.

had deepened; the volatile, laughter-loving
expression had left his mouth. Just then he
looked like a iuan with whom not even a beau-
tiful woman might care to trifle. "It is you
who mistake," he said. "I have made no
claim that needs your sanction. I love you-
I have told you that before, have I not?-
and, loving you, I hold my.life subject to
your service. I shall defend you frokn in-
sult, and guard you from contempt, as much
as if you had extended your hand and chosen
me before the world."
"I believe I said, a moment ago, that I
thought you were crazy," returned Norab,
coldly. "Now I think that you are melo-
dramatic. Of the two, I prefer the latter
phase of character least."
"You do not think that I am in earnest?"
cried he, passionately. "You do not believe
that I mean every word I utter. Ilow little
your boasted knowledge of human nature has
taught you, then, after all 1"
"It has taught me more than you thin1~,
perhaps," said she, rising to her feet. "It
has taught me when to end such folly as this.
Good-morning, Mr. Middleton, and allow me
to hope that you will be a little more sane
and reasonable when I sec you again.~~
"I shall not detain you after the manner
of that cur whom I found standing between
you ~nd the door," said he; "but if you will
listen to me for a moment, I should like to
ask if love is such a common thing with you
that you can afford to throw it away like this?"
"The fitful admiration and school - boy
passion which you choose to dignify with the
name of love, has certainly been sufficiently
common in my experience," answered she,
haughtily. "You are not the first man who
has thought that love - making might be a
pleasant variation to flirtation with a Bohe-
mian like myself-nor the first who has dis-
covered his mistake, let me add."
"How little you know what I feel for you
when you can do me such injustice!" said
he, quickly. "Flirtation!" - he uttered a
short laugh-" Good Heavens! As if I were
mad enough to dream of flirting with you!
As if I should not be the happiest man on all
God'searth if you would only put your hand
in mine and promise to marry me!"
"And how long would you be happy?"
asked she. "Not to speak of your friends,
who would be scarcely likely to be happy at
all."

"My friends have nothing to do with me,"
he answered. "My life and my fortune are
my own. Being my own, I ask nothing bet-
ter than to dedicate them to your service."
"You are very kind," said she, with the
same provoking and impassive composure;
"but t really have not the least use for
them."
"Not even the use of convenience?"
asked he, a little bitterly. "Stop, Miss Des-
mond, and think! It is not often that a man
puts himself so unreservedly in your hands
as I hav~e dQne. Say but one word, and the
man who insulted you here a little while ago
shall answer for it as he never dreamed of
answering when lie was coward enough to de-
tain you!"
~' And do you think that I need your hot
blood, or your clumsy, masculine hand to
espouse my cause?" asked she, with a smile
of scorn rippling over her face. "Do you
think I am not able to pay with interest-
much more than interest, indeed-every frac-
tion of debt I owe Arthur Tyndale? Do you
fancy that I have come here for any other
purpose than that I may pay it, in the time
and in the manner that seem best to
me?"
"I know that you are much too clever to
need any assistance from me," he said, in
rather a crestfallen tone; "but there are
some things that only a mt~n's hand can do-
clumsy as you think it."
"It requires a man's hand to take anotli-
er man by the throat, I'll admit," said she.
"But I have studied in the school of Machi-
avelli, and that is not my mode of dealing
with those who wish or intend to do me
wrong."
"After all, it is the best and shortest
mode," said he, doggedly. "Fine words and
fine actions are lost on curs."
"I have not the faintest idea of bestow.
ing any fine words or fine actions on any-
body," said she, coolly.
"You seem to have no intention of be-
sto~ving any words at all on me," said he,
looking at her with a certain passionate re-
proach in his eyes. "Is it because you do
not think me worth them? Yet, certainly,
no man ever loved you better than I do, and,
having offered you all that is mine to give, I
ask for an answer-even though it is only
likely to be a rejection."
"You are right-it is only likely to be

that," said she, holding out her hand to him
with a sudden softening expression of her
face. "But still I must thank you for hav-
ing spoken as you have done - for having
treated me as if I were as much your equal
in all things as in blood. When a woman
has lived the life I have, she learns how to
appreciate courtesy and chivalry better than
those who have known them from their cra-
dles. Of all the many men who have loved
or fancied that they loved me, you are one of
the few who have had the courage to pro-
nounce the word marriage. Now, although
I do not intend to take advantage of your
generosity, I cannot fail to like you the better
for it."
"And is there no hope that this liking
may grow into love?" asked he, clasping
eagerly in both his own the hand she had
given. "If you can only say so, I-I shall
be so patient to wait!"
"But I am not sure that it would be right
for me to say so," answered she, her eyes
fastened as calmly on his face as if he had
been a sexagenarian, the clear, rose-brilliance
of her cheek undeepened by a shade-" I do
not think it is in the least probable that I
shall ever like you better than I do at pres-
ent. Not but that you are more agreeable to
me than the majority of men," she added,
candidly.
"Then promise to marry me!" said he,
impetuously. "Take me as a convenience,
as a means of 'establishment,' as any thing
under heaven, so that you do take me, and
that you like no other man better than you
like me. At least, if you marry me,, you will
be done with Bohemia," said he, wistfully.
"You will be moderately rich, perfectly free,
and passionately loved. Norah, are not these
things worth a sacrifice?"
"No!" answered Norah-and the clear,
sharp monosyllable seemed to cut the air as
Saladin's sword cleaved its way through the
silken cushion-" no!" she repeated, "good
as these things are, and naturally attractive
to a waif and stray like myself, they are dis-
tinctly not worth the sacrifice of self-respect
and independence. You look surprised?
I believe a woman in your world is not sup-
posed to suffer any loss of self-respect when
she barters herself away for a good establish-
ment-but we think differently in Bohemia.
I should hold that I had done you a great
wrong if I married you for any one of the
4

reasons you have mentioned; and I should
certainly feel that I had justified the opinion~
of all those who are good enough to consider
me an adventuress!"
"But if you loved me, Norah?"
"If I loved you I should marry you, let;
the whole world say what it would," answered
she, with a smile so bright and so defiant
that it thrilled him to the heart. "I do not
love you, however, and I have not the least;
desire to marry anybody; so you see we h e
wasted a great deal of time in talking a ut;
something which is not likely to eo e to~
pass. By-the-by, don't you think it is time
for you to let my hand go? You are really
hurting it."
She took it from him before he could car-
ry it to his lips, as he plainly intended to d~,
adding, with a nonchalance which was not par-
ticularly encouraging to a crestfallen suitor
"I won't say let us try and forget what
has passed, because that is all nonsense -
few are able to forget disagreeable things
just when they please-but I do say let us
try to avoid any constraint or awkwardness.
It is so inconvenient and so absurd! We
like each other as well as we did before, and,
after all, it is a good thing to have had a.
clear explanation, and settled matters."
"It may be a good thing," said he, a little
doubtfully, "but it has not settled as much
as you think. If I do not exactly make the
boast of Philip of Spain, and say, 'Time and
I against any two!' I know that time some-
times works wonders for any one who loves
as well as I do-and then I am your defender
and champion if you had rejected me a hun-
dred times!"
"When will you understand that I am my
own defender, and that I need no champion?"
asked she, impatiently. "What folly you
talk! But then you are young-something
must be allowed for that, I suppose. Now,
let usgo back to the house, for I see that we
are likely to continue talking in a circle as
long as we stay here, and really the weather
is too warm for such excessive loquacity."
Back to the house they went accordingly
- in more amicable companionship than
might perhaps be imagined, for Norah Des-
mond was not ~ woman to allow a man to be
ill at ease in her society. It was a point of
pride with her, indeed, that she had a very
effective way of dissipating any thing like
constraint when she chose to do so. With


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

Middleton she did choose, and, before they
reached the house, she had so tantalized,
amused, and charmed him, that he was more
hopelessly and desperately in love than ever.
If she had been asked why she did this, she
woidd probably have answered that she liked
the pleasant young fellow in his way, and
that, since it was certain that they would in-
habit the same house for some time to come,
it would be exceedingly disagreeable to be on
stiff or formal terms with him. In truth,
being a wo~nan accustomed to exercise pow-
er, and fond of receiving admiration, she did
not fancy the idea of surrendering the only
homage which was available just then, and,
consequently, she exerted herself to make
Carl understand that there need be no change
in their relation to each other. "You really
ought to be obliged to inc for not leaving ac-
cepted you," she said to him.
"If Iliad, whom would youfiirt with? You
would be in as bad a condition as the French-
man, who asked where he should spend his
evenings when advised to marry the Jady
with whom he had spent them for twenty
years.~~
"I have nothing of the Frenchman~in my
composition," said he, "but, if it were abso-
lutely necessary for mc to flirt with some-
body, I might find Mrs. Sandford useful in an
emergency. Leslie tails me that she will be
here in a day or two,"
"And who is Mrs. Sandford?"
"A person of note in a small way. She
was a fast young lady when I left home;
afterward I heard that she was a fast married
woman; now she is a fast widow."
"She has run the gamut, then, of fastness
in all conditions of life. What a study she
will be for me! I have not an idea what
constitutes a fast woman on this side of the
Atlantic, though I know very well what con-
stitutes it on the other."
The house looked cool and airy when they
entered it. In the wide halt there was a
pleasant green light from the closed blinds
at each door, which kept out the fierce noon-
day glare. Chairs and lounges were placed
there; books, newspapers, and work, were
scattered about-every thing showed that it
was a favorite and informal gathering-place
of the family. Mrs. Middleton, who was
seated alone, looked up as they entered.
"Did you not find it very warm?" she
asked. "Leslie reported the heat to be in-

tense, and Mr. Tyndale seemed almost over-
powered by it. I was opposed to his walking
back to Strafford; but he insisted upor~ going
-young people are always so obstinate Z"
"So Tyndale went back, did he?" said
Cail. "If the heat was so overpowering, I
wonder he walked over simply for the sake
of spending hall an hour or so with Leslie."
"He came as an act of courtesy to Miss
Desmond, I think," answered Mrs Middleton,
in her stately way. "Otherwise, he would
have been kept at home by a business en-
gagement all the morning, he said. Tie has
promised to dine with us this evening, how-
ever-and his cousin," she added, turning to
Norah; "so you will be able to see more of
him."
Miss Desmond bowed with the air of one
profoundly grateful for such a privilege.
"Is the cousin at all like Mr. Tyndale?"
she asked, by way of a diversion that would
not be too far away from the subject to excite
attention.
"Not in the least," answered Leslie's gay
voice behind her. "Fancy Arthur's opposite
in every thing-that is Captain Tyndale!"
"You don't like him, then, I suppose?"
said tjarh
"And pray, why should that follow?"
asked she.
"If he is the exact opposite of your Prince
Charming, I don't see how you could con-
veniently manage to like both of them."
"There are things which 'differ, in order
to correspond,' Mr. Philosopher," said she,
smiling. "Want of similarity is not always
want of harmony. I should be very ungrate-
ful if I did not like Captain Tyndale, for he
certainly is very fond of Arthur."
"Did you not say that he is half a French-
man?" asked Miss Desmond. "How does
that happen?"
"His father was attached to the American
legation in Paris," said Mrs. Middleton, who
had one of those memories of the old school,
that never forget a genealogical point. "He
married a Frenchwoman, and, after that, lived
principally in France. So it came to pass
that Captain Tyndale is half French in blood,
and almost wholly French in training."
"I suppose he cannot be reasonably blamed
for either %hct," said Carl; "but really it is
very hard on the poor fellow! Why couldn't
his father have stayed at home, or else gone
to Germany?"


ARTIItTR'S ELAN OF DECEPTION.

"I am afraid we shall have another France-
Prussian War when Captain Tyndale and your-
self meet," sai~d Leslie. "Come, Norab,
luncheon is ready-after that we will take
our siesta; and, after that, you shall make
yourself as lovely as possible for dinner."
-4---
CUAI'TER IX.
"Said I not so?
0 my prophetic heart!
He has not betrayed me-he could not betray me.
I never doubted it."
WuEN that obstinate young man, Arthur
Tyndale, reached Strafl'ord, after a ve~y warm
and exceedingly disagreeable walk, he found
his cousin established in the shady library,
with a novel and a cigar. "Confound the
fellow, how comfortable he looks 1', was the
first thought of the over-heated pedestrian,
as he enteredd this cool retreat-green shade
rustling without the open windows, mellow
depths of oak wainscot and book-lined walls
within-and observed, with a sense of ex-
asperation, the air of repose which pervaded
every line of the figure extended at full length
on a couch at the farther end of the room.
"You are back rather soon," said Max,
looking up lazily. "Didn't you find it very
warm?"
"Warm!" repeated Arthur, in a tone of
impatience. He flung himself into a chair,
and pushed back the rings of' damp hair that
clung moistly to his brow. "Go out int6 the
sun and try it a little, won't you? I think
you'll be snore likely to call it infernally
hot!"
"I thought you would be apt to find it
so," said Max, philosophically. "Order some
iced sherbet, my dear fellow. It is the most
refreshing thing you can--"
"Deuce take refreshment!" interrupted
the other, irritably. "I haven't time to think
about iced sherbet just now. Max, you can't
imagine what cursed ill-luck I have had this
morning!"
"Indeed!,' said Max. He raised himself
on his elbow, with a quick look of interest in
his dark eyes. "How was it?" he asked.
"Does Miss Grahame khow or suspect any
thing?"
"Not the least thing, as yet; but there is
no tellixig how soon she may know every
thing. Norah opened the ball, last night,

with a vengeance, by informing the assembled
family that she had met me abroad."
"The devil!"
"Or, if not me-it seems she did not stand
to that point-sonse one bearing the name of
Tyndale."
"Well, that's rather more vsgue.~~
"So they have decided-Mrs. Middleton
and Leslie-that it must have been you."
"Mel "Mid Captain Tyndale. He opened
his eyes still wider for a moment, ~sen burst
into a laugh. "Pas-bteu, but that is a good
joke! What did you tell them?"
"I told Leslie, at first, that it was absurd;
hut, when Mrs. Middleton spoke of it, I
thought I would le&amp;ve the matter for you to
contradict. After all, I am not supposed to
be aware of all the women Whom you may
have met in your life."
"That is very true; but still you know
that I have never met Miss Desmond"
"Yes, I know it; but there is no earthly
reason why you should not have met her; and
-and, if you had, it would make matters a
good deal easier for me."
"Granted, with all my heart; but the fact
remains the same, that I have not had that
pleasure."
"But, hang It, Max! it would do no harm
to let them think so-for a little time, you
know."
"Let them think so!" repeated Max.
He shot a keen glance at lAis companion.
"Do you mean that I should tell a downright
lie?" he asked. "I don't know how else I
could 'let them think so.' And it would not
only be a lie, as far as I am concerned, but a
most unwas-rantable liberty, as far as Miss
Desmond is concerned."
"I am not asking you to tell any thing
at all," answered Arthur, impatiently. "Con-
found it, you are amazingly straitlaced all at
once! Can't you see that all I ask you to do
is to let the thing pass, and not to deny that
you were the man whom Miss Desmond met
abroad?"
"Bitt don't you see that, if I were inclined
to oblige you a hundred times, it would do no
good? Miss Desmond herself can certainly
tell sokom she met abroad, and she is not like-
ly to mistake my mahogany face for your red
and white one?'
"Of course, the whole thing hangs on her;
but, if she allows it to be tacitly accepted
that you were the man-and, somehow, I

51


TIlE CAPTAIN'S OPINION.                   53

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

have an idea that she may-all I ask of you
is, that you will take the advantage thus af-
forded you to do me another and still greater
favor."
"So there's another, is there?" said Max.
Tie rose as he spoke, and walked across the
floor~ "See here, Hal," he said, stopping
after a while, "this will not do! You know
pei'.fectly well that, in any thing which is
open and fair, I would serve you heartily;
but I cannot consent to take either a passive
or an active part in such a gross deception as
that which you are practisiag on a woman
w1io deserves better things at your hands I"
"Am I asking you to take any part in it?"
demanded Arthur, angrily, but conscious that
he could not afford, just then to quarrel with
Max. "This deception, as you call it, is a
thing which I detest as much as you do; but
it is also a thing in which I became entangled
without my 'knowledge, and from which I
must free myself as best I can. All that I
ask from you is your assistance in doing this.
If you refuse it, well and good: I can get
along without you, no doubt. But don't make
a pretext of refusing it on Leslie's account,
for the best way to serve her would be to end
all question of deception at once."
"What is it you want me to do?" ask~d
the other, reluctantly. "I don't promise that
I will do it, mind you! but still there's no
harm in hearing what it is!"
"It is simply this: to find out from Norah
what she menus to do-whether she intends
to hold her tongue or to make mischief-and,
if possible, to obtain my letters from her."
"Great Heaven 1" said Max, aghast.
"Are you mad? How on earth could I ap-
proach a woman, of whom I know nothing,
with such demands as those?"
"Simply by understanding, in the first
place, that any thing like chivalrous delicacy
would be quite out of place with such a wom-
an as Nor~h Desmond," said Arthur, with a
bitter sneci'. "And, in the second place, by
going about the business like a diplomatist,
and not with point-blank 'demands."'
"I have been bred in camps, and not in
drawing-rooms," returned Max, dryly. "If
you want diplomacy, I am afraid you must go
elsewhere for it."
"I only propose such a plan," -said the
other, with fresh irritation, "because you
are not fettered as I am-nobody will think
it remarkable if you walk or talk with Norah

-while I could ~nly see her by stealth if I
saw her at all; for, besides the Middletons,
who look on me with any thing but eyes of
love, there's a young sprig of a nephew there
who is head over ears in love with her, and
already suspicious of me."
"How have you managed to find that
out?"
"Easily enough-as you shall hear."
Then he told the story of the scene in the
summer-house-of his own discomfiture when
he attempted to sound Miss Desmond, and of
Carl's inopportune appearance just when he
could not have failed to overhear that last
significant appeaL It need not be imagined,
however, that, in relating these occurrences,
Mr. Tyndale was of necessity obliged to give
them exactly the coloring of reality. He was
too much a man of the world to represent
himself in a contemptible or badly-worsted
light; and, although he gave Max a sub-
stantially correct outline of what had taken
place, he was careful to say nothing of his
own blunders or of Norah's scorn. On her
passionate defiance, however, he dwelt em-
phatically.
"She absolutely went so far as to threaten
rue with immediate exposure if I spoke to
her again," he said. "So, you see, my only
hope is in you."
"And she gave you no hint as to what
she meant ro do?"
"Not the least. Now, you know this un-
certainty-this soi~t of sword - of- Damocles
business-is more than a man can be ex-
pected to endure. As far as I personally am
concerned, I should not mind it in the least.
I should simply let Miss Desmond do or say
her worst. I am not the first man who has
flirted with a fast coquette. But there is
Leslie. It would be hard on ker."
"Yes," said Max. He turned on his heel
and walked to the window as he spoke.
Standing there, looking out over the green
landscape and the bosky depths of summer
shade, his mind went back to the May even-
ing when he had loitered by Leslie's side
among the roses, and when she had spoken
with almost wistful sadness of her great hap-
piness. He had seen then that this happi-
ness, whether for good or ill, was irrevocably
bound up in Arthur Tyndale, and, with this
knowledge, had come the resolution that Ar-
thur should "keep straight," if he had any
power to make him do so. ' It was too late to

think of his worthiness or unworthiness for
the great gift that had fallen into his life.-
too late to ask whether that loyal and tender
heart might not have been better bestowed-
what was done was done with such distinct
completeness that Max plainly perceived that
any event which proved his cousin unworthy
would stab Leslie's life all the more deeply
for Leslie's pride. Feeling this by an in-
stinct which is not often given to men, and
feeling, also, with the sort of despair common
to us all, that she must take things (and peo-
pie) as they are, witho~it hoping or expect-
ing to make them what they should be, he
recognized that his best way of serving Leslie
was to help Arthur as far as possible out of
Miss Desmond's net. 'Of Miss Desmond her-
self, it may be said, in passing, that he had
the lowest possible opinion. A woman who
was a celebrity at Baden and Homburg, who
had an adventurer for a father, and who was
plainly determined to make Arthur pay a
heavy price for freedom from entanglement,
offended every one of his most cherished
ideas and opinions. If he had consulted his
own taste, he would have preferred to have
nothing to do with her; but, since that was
impossible, he made up his mind to further
his cousin's cause with as much earnest ef-
fort as he could exert.
So it came to pass that Arthur-still lean-
ing back in the depths of his chair, and con-
templating a bust of Dante with a frown of
petulant discontent and ill-humor-was rath-
er surprised when the tall figure at the win-
dow turned with its quick, military swing,
and Max's voice said:
"Don't think me churlish for having taken
some time to consider matters, Hal. I doubt
if I shall be a very valuable auxiliary, but,
nevertheless, I'll do my best for you as far as
I can!"
"I was sure you'd never leave me to get
out of the scrape by myself, old fellow," an-
swered Arthur, gratefully. And in those few
words the compact was made and the matter
ended.
Six or seven hours later-the heat of the
day being over, and the long, cool shadows
of late evening lying over green turf and
dusty, sun-baked road-the two cousins drove
up to the door of Rosland in Mr. Tyndale's
dog-cart. The disk of the sun was just touch-
ing the horizon when they entered the' draw-
ing room, and his level rays were pouring

through the western windows in a stream of
light which made so dazzling an illumination
that, for a few seconds, the young men were
absolutely unable to tell who was before
them. The transcendent glory was short.
lived, however. Even while they hesitated,
the great orb sank, and they saw that three
ladies and two gentlemen made up the group
gathered in the centre of the large apartment.
Greetings having been exchanged, and Cap-
tain Tyndale having been presented to Miss
Desmond, such commonplaces as people in
the country usually talk, ensued.
"Found it very dusty, didn't you?" said
Mr. Middleton to Arthur., "I never knew
rain needed Worse than it is just now."
~ Every thing is so dreadfully parched ~
said Mrs. Middleton, in a confiding aside to
Max. "It really makes one sad to go into
the garden. Don't you feel as sorry for flow-
ers, when they droop, as for people, when
they are sick? I always do."
"The Andersons, who were here this
morning, report the drought still worse with
them," said Leslie. "They say their garden
is literally burned up. By-the-by, Arthur,
Lizzie Anderson is to marry Frank Tabor,
after all. Are you not surprised to hear it?
She rejected him half a dozen' times, people
said. Fancy accepting a man; at last, whom
you had rejected half a dozen times!"
"There is always luck in odd numbers,
you know," said Tyndale, with a smile of
'tolerably well simulated interest, "and seven
is an odd number, if my arithmetic serves
me."
"There is encouragement for me I" said
Carl, in a discreet aside to Norah. "If Frank
Tabor-whom I remember as a black-eyed
young rascal at school-persevered after six
rejections, I certainly should not despair,
after one! But imagine, if you can, the
moral pluck, or the mental despair, of a man
who could screw his courage to the sticking-
point of a seventh proposal!"
* "It proves that he was exceedingly fool-
ish, as well as rather obstinate," said Norab
-and, as a lull had just then fallen in the
general conversation, her words were audible
to all the group. "No woman in the world is
worth half so much trouble! I never see a
man desperately bent upon such a chase that
I.do not feel inclined to remind him of the
fact that there is any number of other wom-
en in the world, multitudes of whom are pret-


54               A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                      NORAR'S SURPRISE AND INDIGNATION.      56

tier, and cleverer, and more desirable in every
way, than the one of whom he is so madly
"But what are other women to a man who
loves one?" asked I~esJie. "And, then, con-
etanoy, Norab-suvely you admire constancy
even when it is misplaced?"
"I au~ not at all sure that I do," answered
Nomh. "~ inn inclined to think that con-
stancy, in such caseesnnply means weal~ncsa
and want of self-respect. A spaniel is eon-
stant to the hand that repulses bun, but we
don't exactly admire. the trait: and I have
ltixown many women, and some men, who
were spaniels. After all," pursued she, "why
should we emit constancy intQ such a virtue?
It certainly is not according to the law of Na-
ture. In Nature, all things change. Nonnan's
body is the same at twenty-live and forty-.-
neither is any man's character. Therefore,
why should we expect his heart alone to he
unchanged?"
"I had no idea that y~n were such a here-
tic I" said Leslie, laughing but she felt, in
the silence SrQW1d, that the careless, ~lellant
words had shocked most of the audience~
"You. forget one thing," she, added, after a
moment; "if constancy is not according to
the law of Na.turc~-wbkh I freely grant-At
is because it is o~ovc Nature,. as many other
virtues are. I ant sure you will not deny
that."
"It would require a person more fond of
theory and argument than I am to deny you
sny thing," said Norab. "Per peace' sake,
and to be obliging, I would surrender the
utoat cherished ~pinioatbat I have. Apropos,
I saw, not long ago, a definition of an agree!.
Jile person, which rather struck me. 'He
was very am.laliln in temper,' it said, ~and
had no strong opinlens."'
"I would not give a fig f~r a zuan who
had no strong opinionn,~' saId Mr. Mlddleton.
"Re might as well. be without a
"Oh, a man, of course~ should have them l'~
said Norab, "But a woman, you see, is dif-
ferent,. Opiniena only make us disagreeable,
We should he, as nearly as possible, graceful,
receptive nonentIties, blindly adoring the nia~.
eulino intellect,. sn&amp; ready' t~ believe, on an
emergency,, that the meon. in made of green
"I assure yea that yen quite mistake my
meaning," said Mr. MiddJQtQn, gravely.
But, since dinner was anneuneed just then,

his apology was brought to an end, together
.with the young philosopher's somewhat cyni-
cal satire. As they left the drawing-room,,
Captain Tyndale thought that Miss Desmond
was quite as disagreeable as he had expected
to find her. In fact, during these few mimi-
utes, she had shown her character in even a
worse light than he had anticipated. Her
tone of mingled levity and skeptivism.-with
a certain bright, bard cleverness showing
through-jarred on and disgusted hIm more
than the most free and easy "fastness" c~uld
have done. "Arthur is right; she is a Belie.
mian adventuress," be thought, "more out-
spoken than the most of her class, but with
nothing of a true woman in her." Like a
great many other people, Captain Tyndalc for-
got to ask himself by what authentic standard
he had measured his ideal "true woman;" or
whether, after all, his abstract idea of what
the sex should be~ in general, was quite a fair
rule for judging Miss Desmond in particular.
He could not but acknowledge, however,
that her beauty was something extraordinary,
as, he sat opposite her at dinner, and studied
the perfect face, line by line, and feature by
feature. Even with her beauty, however, he
found fault. It was too brilliant for his taste.
He agreed with Mrs. Middleton that a thor-
ough-bred woman should never make a "sen-
sation;" and it was undeniable that Norah
Desniond could riot have walked through the
quietest village in. Christendom without draw-
ing eager glances of admiration to herself.
Looking from her to Leslie, be thought how
much more of attraction there was in the
delicate face of the latter, with its silken soft
brown hair, and
loveliness which rather lay
In light than color;"
and it chanced that, while he was so thinking,
Leslie turned and spoke to him.
"I have been telling Norab, Captain Tytr~
dale, that I am sure she must have known
you abroad. She thinks that she remembers
having met some one named Tyndale at Ba-
den or Homburg; and, since it, was not Ar-
tkur~ I think it must have been yourself.
Tell me, am I not right? Have you not seen
her before?"
"What a horribly direct question I" Ar-
thur tho~e~ht, consoleus that. his complexion
was changing color just, then in its meet try-
ing wanner. "1 will never venture to

answer it in the affirmative. Why on earth
should Leslie bring up the subject just now I
Confound all women and their toagnes, I
say I"
But Max, meanwhile-with no change of
color on his weather-beaten visage-had cool.
ly lifted his eyes and met Miss Desmond's
glance. There was a defiance in it which he
was sufficiently quick to read artght. "Take
your cousin's identity upon yourself, i1 you
dare !"it said to him; and he smiled a little
as he answered:
"It is probable enough that Miss Des.'
mend does not remember me; but I have
certainly had the pleasure of seeing her be-
fore."
It amused him a little, as he uttered these
words, to observe that, instead of any thing
like surprise, an expression of scarcely-veiled
contempt came over Norab's face. "You
have spoken falsely!" her eyes said to him,
but her lips onhy parted in the smile of scorn
peculiar to them.
"Captain Tyndale's memory is so much
better than my own that I do not like to run
the risk of telling him that he is mistaken,"
she said, very coldly; and Arthur gave a sigh
of relief as he saw that she did not mean to
make a "scene." "But I suppose that I may
at least iie per~nitted to say that I have not
the faintest recollection of himself or his
face."
"My face is not an uncommon one," said
Max, carelessly. "It has its disadvantages,
especially in the fact of looking like a mill-
ion or two other faces; but, then, it has its
advantages, also, some of which are very sol-
id ones. If I wanted to escape from a detec-
tive or a woman,, for instance, how much bet-
ter my chance would be than Arthur's here!"
"Yes, if Norali had seen Arthur, she cer-
tainly could not have forgotten him," said
Leslie, innocently.
"You are mistaken about one thing, how-
ever," said Norab, looking at Max. "A wom-
an's eyes, when sharpened by love or hate,
pierce through alL disguises; and, although
your face is in general like a good many other
ihees, especially fains in France, it has a
great deal of individuality besides."
"Thanks," said he, quietly. "I am glad
to hear that it has individuality, even though
it lessens somewhat my problematical chance
of escape if I should ever kill a man or be-
tray a woman."

"If you intend to do one or the other,"
said ~he~"take my advice, and kill a man. It
is the safer experiment of the two."
The dilating glow of her ey~s, as she ut-
tered the last words, was eert~rinly superb;
but it was also full of unpleasant significance
to one person at least. Arthur Tyndale in.
voluntarily lifted his glass of wine to his lips
and drained it. He felt that he stood in need
of support, and this was the most convenient
form in which it presented itself to him.
"What does she mean to do?" he thought.
The devil seems to possess her! I hare
half a mind to make a clean breast of it all to
Leslie, and so block her game." But that
such a resolution nas utterly impracticable,
Mr. Tyndale wus thoroughly conscious, even
while he gave mental utterance to it He
was at Miss Desmond~s mercy. He felt that
fact to the bottom of his boots-felt it with a
responding sense that even the mellow glow
of the wine he had so liberally quaffed could
not dispel.
Just then, to his great relief, Carl Middle.
ton changed the dangerous course of conver-
sation. Instinct warned him to do this im.
mediately after Norali's last speech, and he
plunged at once into the first convenient~ sub-
I jeet, which chanced to be the existing state
of government in Franca
"By-the-way, what do you think of M.
Thiers?" he asked Max, with a degree of
relevance that was rather startling. "How
long do you think he will be able to hold his
own over there in Paris?"
"Probably till the Prussians are safely
oil' the soil 6f France," answered the other,
who rarely betrayed surprise, however much
he might feel it.
"And who do you think will be most
likely to succeed him-to profit by the pres-
sent state of affairs, you know?" proceeded
Carl, in a aispassionate tone of inquiry.
Max shrugged his shoulders with a rath-
er amused expretsionof face. "How can I
tell?" he said. "I am no prophet. Per-
haps there are no better words in which to
answer you than those which have lately fall-
en from royal lips 'La parole est7el in France
"I remember that sentence," said Carl.
"I was struck by its epigrammatic force when
I saw it first. Poetically it does very well
indeed."
"Young Germany, you see, quite excludes


56                       A DAUGHTER
the idea of God (save in poetry) from the af-
fairs of nations," said Leslie.
"Mr. Middleton is one of the people who
only believe in the existence of their own
senses," said Norah; "and1 since metaphys-
ics have proved conclusively to him that he
has no senses, he is in rather a bad condition
-that is, theoretically. Practically, he sup.
jorts the inconvenience of being a blank ne-
gation verjv well indeed."
"He certainly does not look at all like
one," said'Mr. Middleton, senior, dryly.
In this manner, although Carl's zeal drew
the conversation upon himself, it accom-
plished what he desired in the way of effect-
ing a diversion. Ranging here and there-
through fields political; literary, and social-
the stream of talk did not again approach the
dangerous question of what Tyndale Miss Des-
mond had known abroad.
Only when the ladies were alone in the
drawing-room did Leslie recur to the sub-
ject.
"You see I was right, Norah I" she said,
triumphantly. "It was Captain Tyndale, af-
t~r all, whom you knew abroad."
"You are so often right that I should not
think it would be a very novel sensation to
you," said Miss Desmond, smiling. "Now, as
for me, I am so often wrong, that I really feel
scarcely inclined to trust my own judgment
on any point whatever. Perhaps I ought to
add my memory also, for Icertainly have not
the faintest recollection of Captain Tyndale's
face. Yet I don't think it is as much like
every other man's as he fancies. If you had
not told me that he belonged t~o the French
army, I should have known it. There is some-
thing strikingly suggestive of the Chasseur
d'Afrique in his appearance."
"I hope you mean to like him. He is
worth liking, we think."
"Do you!' But why not say 'Ithink?'
Surely you do not think, as the army of Flan-
ders reasoned, in platoons?"
"Not by any means. But the opinion of
many is worth more than the opinion of one,
is it not P
"That depends so much upon who are the
many and who is the one, that I don't feel
equal to giving a general opinion."
"You are a perfect Talleyrand in petti-
coats," said Leslie, laughing. "One would
certainly imagine that you believed words to
have been invented for tl~ purpose ~f con-

OF BOHEMIA.

ceiling thoughts. But you must learn to like
Captain Tyndale. He is a special favorite of
mine.~~
"And an old acquaintaicc of mine-pray
don't forget that."
There was such a gleam of mockery in her
eyes as she uttered the last words, that Les-
lie said, quickly:
"I believe that you half suspect Captain
Tyndale of having claimed your acquaintance
without any right to do so. Now, if you
knew him at all, you would know that he is
incapable of taking such a liberty-a liberty
which would be a gross presumption 1" she
added, indignantly.
"You are right," said Norah, quietly.
"It would certainly be 'a gross presump-
tion.' "
"Not by men like Max Tyndale, I am
sure."
"Hm-I am not sure. Are you acquainted
with any man irho carries his character on
his face for women to read? Not that I se-
riously impugn the veracity of your mirror
of truth and honesty. It is a law of logic
that a crime presupposes a motive for the
crime, is it not? Well, I am not an impor-
tant person, nor a particularly agreeable per-
son; therefore, it stands to reason that Cap.
tam Tyndale could have had no interested
motive in claiming my acquaintance."
"Yet I thought you allowed the claim
very coldly."
"Did I? Set the fact down, then, to sur-
prise. I had not an idea that the man wQuld
venture to say 'Yes' to your question."
"Was there any reason why he should not
have ventured to say it if he had really known
you?" asked Leslie, looking keenly into the
beautiful, unruffled face.
"None at all," answered Miss Desmond,
indifferently.
They had been standing by an open win-
dow while they talked-one, of those which
overlooked the veranda-and, as she uttered
those last words, Norah stepped through and
stood for a minute outside.
"I think I shall go in search of our Mario
of last night," she said, half turning to Les-
lie. "Don't come !-Mr. Tyndale will be in
before long, and you look so lovely where
you are I You may send the cousin - the
old acquaintance of mine-after me, if you
choose. Of course, we shall naturally have
a great deal to say to each other."

CHAPTER X.
"The weakest woman is pitiless to weakness in
a man, and the gentlest of a gentle sex has no miti-
gation of scorn for the man that has betrayed the
gentlest quality of her nature-implicit trust.
"There is no pardon for desecrated ideals."
THE soft summer twilight was exquisitely
mingled with the faint lustre of a new moon
-a pretty, baby crescent hanging in the still,
tinted sky-when Norah strolled across the
lawn toward the rose-hedge, where the mock-
ing-bird had piped so sweet a lay the evening
before. But mocking-birds can be fickle as
well as men. From the leafy depths came no
delicious trill or full-throated note to-night.
Save for a few irrepressible katydids, all was
stillness and silence in this part of the
ground's. The fresh fragrance of grass and
flowers, the great oaks, with their brown
trunks and mighty depths of shade, the state-
ly magnolias, and tropical shrubs, all seemed
full of that supreme magic of repose which
dwells in midsummer gloaming. Athwart the
grass, and against the hedges, fire-flies were
beginning to gleam in* their fitful way; but
other sign of life there was none. Perhaps
the dewy freshness, the perfect quiet, the
shadowy loveliness of the scene, served Miss
Desmond's purpose as well as the mocking-
bird could have done. At all events, she did
not retrace her steps toward the house; but,
finding a convenient garden-chair, she sat
down, looking like a fair dream-lady, outlined
by the dark shrubbery behind.
In this place and attitude Max Tyndale
found her when he crossed the lawn and en-
tered the shrubbery ten minutes later, having
been sent by Miss Grahame in search of the
wanderer, somewhat to his own discomfiture,
and greatly to Carl's disgust. "flow well
s~ie has arranged herself for effect I" was his
first thought. "What an actress she is!"
T~ien, pausing, he lifted his hat.
"I have the honor to obey your summons,
Miss Desmond," he said, coldly.
"You arc very kind," answered Miss Des.
mond, more coldly still. She did not rise,
but only looked at him, with a certain proud
steadfastness, as he stood before her, erect
and tall, in the soft dusk. "You are ver;
kind," she repeated, after a second's pausd~;
"but I am sure you are aware that I should
not have troubled you with any 'summons'
if I had not desired to learn what end your

MAX TYNDALE'$

EXPLANATION.                       57
cousin or yourself hope to serve by the ac-
quaintance which you did me the honor to
claim at dinner?"
The challenge came more quickly and
more peremptorily than he had expected.
Despite his large fund of imperturbable cool-
ness, Max felt the blood rushing warmly to
his face. After all, it wa.s an awkward posi-
tion; and, Bohemian though she might be,
the girl looked just then like an archduchess.
Somewhat to his own surprise, he found him-
self a little confused in his reply.
"If you will allow me to explain," he said,
"I do not think that you will find that Ar-
that any one beside m-yself is accountable for
the act of presumption of which I acknowl-
edge that I was guilty at dinner."
"I have found that men are rarely guilty,
even of an act of presumption, without some
motive for it," said she, haughtily. "Yours
is not difficult to find. Your cousin was in an
awkward position, and you were kind enough
to rescue him at the slight expense of truth.
I am not so dull but that I can read clearly
enough that far. What puzzles me is to im-
agine what good end he proposes to serve by
such a stratagem. Does he think that, if I
choose to open my lips, he will be likely to
gain any thing by the desperate policy of de.
nying that he ever knew me? If so, he must
be prepared to deny also the evidence of his
own letters. Or perhaps you, sir, will affirm
that you were also the Tyndale who wrote
those?"
"I shall certainly not affirm any thing
which is untrue, mademoiselle," answered
Max. "And you must pardon me if I repeat
that you are entirely wrong in supposing that
I claimed your acquaintance falsely, in order
to serve any interest that 'my cousin may
have."
"With or without an interest, the fact re-
mains that you spoke falsely!" said she, im-
periously. "You cannot deny it."
"Pardon me again; but I must have ex-
pressed myself very badly, or you must have
understood me very ill, if you have not yet
comprehended that I do deny it most omphat-
ically."
"You deny it--to mc!" Great as was
her natural fluency and command of language,
her power of expression seemed for a moment
to go no further than that. "You are play-
ing a bolder game than I thought, monsieur,"
she said, then, contemptuously. "You will


A HOPELESS EMISSION

68                 A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN~

tell me, next, that we arc indeed old acquaint-
ances - that I have danced with you at
Baden, and flirted at Homburg.. Grdce d
.Dieu I I should have remembered that de-
nial is, after all, only a matter of words; and
how little words count with any of your sex,
I learned long ago."
"Mademoiselle," said Max, who began to
feel as if it were within the range of possible
events that he might lose his temper, "I re-
peat, again, that you are charging me with
falseliood iu the most causeless and unpro.
yoked manner. I have no connection what.
ever with my cousin's affairs; and, in saying
at dinner that I had seen you abroad, I said
nothing more than was strictly true."
"In that case," said she, throwing back
her head with an air of defiance, "you can
certainly tell when and where you met me,
and how it is that such a fact should have es.
eaped my memory altogethei-."
"It is not remarkable that your memory
should not bear testimony to a fact which
never had a place in it," he said, coolly. "If
you will dome the justice to remember, I did
not. venture to say at dinner that I had Arnown
you abroad, but simply that I had ~reerz you.
This was perfectly true. I saw you, two years
ago, at the opera, in Paris."
Even through the twilight - momently
growing deeper-he caught the scornful and
incredulous curl of her lip..
"I congratulate you on your inventive
powers, monsieur," she said. "Such a very
definite place and date certainly put your as-
sertion beyond all dispute."
"You may believe me or not, as you
choose," answered he, beginning to grew a
little haughty in turn; "but I speak on my
honor as a gentleman when I say that £ re-
membered your face the moment I saw it in
the drawing-room before dinner. Up te that
time, I had not entertained the faintest idea
that I had er-cr seen you; but the instant the
sun sank-you remember how it dar.ziedour
eyes ?-.-I said to myself 'Here is the face I
~aw at the opera, in Ptris, two years ago 1"'
"What lucky coincidences there are in
this world!" said she, dryly. "How foittu.'
nate that, you should, have made this discov-
ery just when it would benefit your cousin s~
much I"
"I see that you doubt me still," lie said.
4~As far as I am. concerned, that Is net a.
matter Qf any importance; lint,, for .&amp;rthu~"s

sake, I should like you to believe that I am
speaking the truth. It is not likely that you
remember one special night in June two
years ago; hut I do-partly because of other
events, partly because one does not often see
such a face as yours. I remember the pee-
plc who were with you, and, if necessary, I
could tell even' the color of the dresa you
wore."
She looked at him quickly and keenly;
baffled, however~ by the growing obscurity
which veiled his face as it veiled the trees
and shrubs aud distant uplands.
"If this is true," she said, at last, "Ibeg
your pardon. instead of accusing you of
falsehood, it seems that £ should only have
accused you of equivocation, which is as
bad l"
"To that charge I must plead guilty,"
answered he. "But two things teml)ted me:
one was to assist Arthur; the other (if yan
will pardon me), to mystify you."
"Mystify me, you did not," said she, cold-
ly. "-You only made me believe that you
were assisting your cousin at the expense of
your own honor~-ifindeeda man ever counts
his honor forfeited by a lie.?'
"I am afraid your experience among men
bus been very unfortunate."
"It has been very extensive, at least."
"There are many classes of men, how.
ever."
"I have known many of all classes-your
cousin among the rest."'
"Will you glyc me leave to inquire," said
he, abruptly, "how it is that you take it so
entirely for granted that I am aware of Ar-
thur's connection with yourself?"
She laughed slightly-the faint cadence,
though with little of mirth in it, ringing out
sweetly etiougir on the still, evening air.
"I learned to read faces early," she an.
twered. "It cost me no effort to road in
your face, the m~men11 your eyes fell on me:
'So this is theBohemian girl over whom Ar-
thur once made &amp;fool of himself l'"
"I must endeavor to keep ray face in bet-
ter order," said he, smiling a little.' "You
are right, however.. I have heard Arthur's
story, and,, without seeking to excuse his
fault, I should like to ask whether the woin~
an whom he once loved can find no leniency
for him in her heart?"
"Has ho requcated you~ to ask such a
question?" demanded she. "If se, you may

tell him that, in a woman's eyes-I speak of
women who are not spaniels-nothing can ex-
cuse falsity and cowardice."
"You speak strongly, mademoiselle."
"I might speak more strongly if I added
s1~rnder to falsity and cowardice."
"In doing so I am sure that you would
wng him deeply."
"Are you? Be good enough to tell me,
en, in what manner and what character he
Ii a spoken of me to you."
"As a woman to whom he was once deep.
ly attached," answered Max, thankful for this
lo p-hole of evasion, and full of devout hope
t at she might not press her ~wkws.rd ques.
ti n any further. But, in indulging 'such a
h pe, he certainly di~l not know any thing of
N rah Desmond..
"Y6u spoke a moment ago of your honor
as a gentleman," said she. "If you realty
possess any thing so foreign to my experi~
e~cc of the Tyndale name, I beg that you will
te~l me whether or not your cousin has spoken
of' me as a woman worthy of faith and re-
spect, or as a fast flirt, with whom men only
Desmond, is it fair-..."
make you testify against the man
yqu call your friend?" interrupted she. "Per.
h4pa not. I will spare you an answer, there..
fore, especially since your hesitation auth-
ciently answers me. And yet, you wonder
that I have no inclination to spare such a
man!" she added, with a ring of vibrating
contempt in her voice. "You wonder that I
-the woman he once professed to love, the
woman to whom he was solemnly engaged,
the woman whom he not only deserted and
betrayed, but whom he has slandered and
d~famed-should think him a coward and a
dt~stard!"
"Still, if you could apprecinte his anxiety
-4f you could know how much he desires
some assurance of what you mean to do-.-."
"That assurance he will not obtain, either
in his own person or through his agents,"
said she, decidedly. "Let him understand
this once for all."
"lie has empowered me to say for him
that he is willing to make any concession,
any arrangement-"
"Spare your diplomacy, Captain Tyadale,"
sh~ interrupted, more coldly and haughtily
than ever. "What. possible concession does
Arthur Tyndale imagine' that I require at his I

hands? In my own time, I will name my
own terms, and, whatever they are, you may
be sure that be will accede to them."
The tone of confident power which filled
the last words, and the glance which accom-
panied them, told Max, more plainly than
many assurances could have done, the hope.
lessness of his mission.
"I see, indeed, that I waste time and ef-
fort," said he. ~A But I had hoped that, for
your sister's sake, at least-"
"For my sister's sake I should certainly
he inclined to sacrifice a great deal," said
she, quietly, as he paused. "We have known
each other' so long and so well, have been
so closely associated together and grown
in sisterly affection as we grew in years,
that you are right to calculate upon such a
bond.. Your cousin, too, may safely shelter
himself behind it.."
Now, it must not be supposed that there
was any vulgar banter in this speech. Save
for the faintest possible accent of mockery-
an accent so natural to her that her voice
was scarcely ever free from it-Max might
have supposed that she was speaking in per-
fect seriousness and good faith. As it wa~,
he felt a little puzzled how to answer her,
and his thoughts left Arthur and Leslie for a
moment to consider how thoroughly disa-
greeable this woman was. lie made a men-
tat comparison of her changing moods, her
passion, her mockery, her cynicism, with
Miss Grahame's graceful and gracious sweet-
ness.
"0ood Heavens, to think that such wom-
en should he even l~alf-sisters 1" he thought.
Just then he felt more inclined to excuse
Arthur than he had even felt before.
Miss Desmond, with a quickness of per-
ception which often startled people into a
belief that she had some dealing with the
black art, answered these thoughts as if ho
had spoken them aloud.
"You feel more inclined to pity than to
blame your cousin just now, do you not?"
she said. "You think that such a woman as
I am is hardly worth keeping faithwith, after
a112"
"Have I hinted such a thing for a mo.
ment, Miss Desmond?" askedhequiteiadig.
nantly~
"You have not hinted it, but you have
thought it."
"Pardon me, I have done nothing of the


60                 A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                          NORAH ON HER BEST BEHAVIOR              61

kind. On the contrary, I think there is no
justification whatever for Arthur's conduct."
"And yet you make yourself his agent
and advocate!"
"Not exactly the first, nor at all the last,"
answered he "It is simply as his friend
that I have endeavored - though very un-
availingly-to serve his cause."
"It is a poor cause, and scarcely worth
being served," said she. "As for your fail-
ure, it would be strange if you had not failed.
Your cousin has every thing to fear from me,
while I have absolutely nothing to fear from
him."
"I begin to appreciate that," said Max,
a little grimly.
"I have nothing to gain from him, and
nothing to lose by him," she repeated, after
a minute. "Therefore he-who professes to
know the world so well-can judge whether
or not he is wise in appealing tome."
"But it is impossible that you can refuse
absolutely to give him a clew to your inten-
tions in a matter that concerns him so vital.
ly I "said Max, beginning to perceive that this
woman was indeed a very cool and subtle
adversary.
"I refuse absolutely," she answered.
"It seems that I must repeat this very often.
Are you so accustomed to finding women like
wax in your hands, that you cannot under-
stand a woman's resolution when you meet
it?"
"I beg your pardon," replied he, hastily.
"I should not have forced you to repeat what
you have already said."
"And now I believe that we have finished
all that we have to say," she went on, rising
and gathering up her light dress from the
dewy grass. "In going back to the drawing-
room, you must not forget that you have the
part of an 'old acquaintance' to play. It is
one of the disadvantages of equivocation that
it generally places you in a false position even
when you have adhered to the rigid letter of
the truth."
But the3f found, when they emerged from
the shrubbery, that it was not necessary to
return to the drawing-room. Even across
the lawn, it was evident that the rest of
the party were assembled on the veranda,
whence their light tones and laughter floated
out on the still night-air. As the two ab-
sentees approached, they heard Carl hum-
ming one of Miss Desmond's songs, from

which he managed to extract all the melody,
while Leslie's voice said:
* "Norah and Captain Tyndale must have
discovered that they possess a great many
reminiscences in common to tempt them to
extend their walk so far and their talk so
long. I am selfish enough to wish they
would come back; I want Arthur to hear No.
rah sing."
"Here I am, Leslie!" said Norab, ad.
dancing out of the shadowy darkness, "but
I am afraid you must excuse me from singing
to.night. I am like our friend the mocking-
bird-out of sorts and out of voice, though not,
like him, absent in body as well as in mind."
"Was he absent? Did you not find him,
after all? I am sorry."
"So was I-really disgusted! But, like
most great singers, he is capricious, and Mr.
Middleton offended him by talking, all through
jhis most beautiful song last night."
"I object to being held accountable for
the caprices of the mocking-bird," said Carl's
voice from out the demi-obseure in which it
was scarcely possible to tell who was who.
"But there are half a hundred singing in the
copse at the back of the house, Miss Des.
mond, if you care to hear them."
"One in the rose-hedge would have been
better," said Norah' "It is a very disagree-
able trait in human nature that we do not
care for any thing which we can have in
abundance and with little trouble."
"I never knew a woman who contradicted
herself as often as you do," said Carl. "Be-
fore dinner you told me you cared for noth-
ing which cost trouble!"
"Ab, but that was my trouble!" said
she, laughing.
"And the trouble which is necessary as a
zest is somebody else's, I suppose?"
"He that runs might read that much, I
should think," said his uncle. "Miss Des-
mond's taste is like that of the rest of her
sex, but her frankness is her own."
"You are quite right, sir, my frankness
is my own," said she. "It is Quo thing to
which I can lay fair claim."
"You must allow the rest of us to think
that there are other things to which you can
lay quite as fair claim," said Mr. Middleton,
who occasionally made puns of such a brill-
iant nature, that nobody but himself was
aware of them until they were elaborately cx-
plained~

"If you really want to flatter me," said
she, "say that tl~pre is something Irish in my
tongue. There is no hing of which I am half
so proud of as belonging to the most ready-
witted people on the face of the earth."
"We'll say any thing you please, if you'll
only go and sing for us," said Leslie.
"I suppose I must be more obliging than
the mocking - bird," said she, with a sigh.
"But I shall sing execrably, I give you warn-
ing of that. I always do, when I don't feel
like it."
"Your worst must be better than many
other people's best, I am sure."
"After such flattery as that, how can I
refuse?" said she, turning to Max. "Stay
where you all are, then, and I will go an4'
sing fqr you."
She moved across the veranda as she
spoke, and entered the drawing-room; but
one member of the group did not obey her
last injunction. When she reached the piano,
she found Carl Middleton at her side.
"Did you not hear me tell you to stay
outside ?" she asked, impatiently. "What
do you mean by following me like this? Don't
you know that it is the thing of all others
whieh I most detest?"
"I can never enjoy music unless I see the
singer," said he, coolly. "Besides, can't you
give me credit for a little curiosity? I am
anxious to hear bow that fellow out~ yonder
managed to defend his audacious assertion at
dinner."
"Is it so incredible that a man who has
lived in France all his life should have seen
me, who have lived there the greater part of
mine ?"' she asked, indifferently.
"Not incredible, nor even remarkable as
an abstract fact. As a particular fact, how-
ever, I would be willing to wager my next
good horse that it is a pure invention of his
own impudence and his cousin s necessity."
"Perhaps so," said she, lightly running
her hand over the keys, "but there are some
things which it is less trouble and better pol-
icy to believe than to disbelieve: This is one
of them."

CHAPTER XI.
"For, boy, however we do praise ourselves,
Our fancies are more giddy and infirm,
More longing, wavering, sooner lost and won,
Than women's are."
Axoxo all the pleasant rooms at Rosland,
the dining-room in the morning was perhaps
the pleasantest. On one side the windows
opened down to the green turf, on the other
upon a vine-latticed alcove-half piazza, half
room-which, being delightfully cool, served
as an after-dinner smoking-room to Mr; Mid-
dieton and his masculine guests.
"What a pleasant place!" Norah said,
strolling into it on the morning after th9 Tyn-
dales had dined at Rosland. She had come
down rather early, and, entering the break-
fast - room, found only Carl in occupation.
"How charmingly airy, and what a fragrant
odor of good tobacco seems to pervade every
thing! Do you know," she added, laughing,
that, although I would 'not for any considera-
tion betray the fact to our friends here, I am
very fond of a cigarette, and I should like
nothing better than to take one after dinner
in this pretty nook."
"Why not do it, then ?" asked he. "You
cannot really think that my aunt or Leslie
would' be so narrow-minded or so ill-bred as
to object?"
"Object! Oh no, they would not dream
of doing that; but they would give me over
to utter reprbbation as fast, as Bohemian,
and every thing else that good society con-
demns. Now, you may not think so, perhaps,
but I am on my best behavior at present, and
I' don't want to shock them more than I can
help. This is my first introduction into re-
spectable life, and I must try and learn to be
as much like respectable people as I can."
"You'll never succeed. There's the stamp
of another life and another rearing on you."
"That is encouraging, at any rate. But
you have yet to learn that I generally succeed
in whatever I undertake."
"I wish you would undertake to like me,
then," said he, with a tone of only half jest
in his voice.
"That would be quite unnecessary, since I
like you already," answered she. "I informed
you of that fact yesterday, and you may be
sure that I should not have done so if it had
not been true. Polite fiction is a branchof


A DAUGBTBR OF BOHEMIA.

AT BREAKFAST.

social accomplishment which I have never
cultivated. Have you looked at the morning
papers. What is the news from France?"
She turned carelessly back into the break-
fast - room as she spoke, and, walking to a
side-table, began turning over the mail that
lay there. Provoked by her nonchalance,
Carl remained where he was, and in this so-
ciable attitude Leslie found them when she
entered a few minutes later. It was one of
the little things which sometimes occur, as if
with strange perversity, to justify an erro-
neous opinion. "I think you are wrong about
Carl," Miss Grahame had said the evening
before to her aunt. "I do not believe he is
in love with Norah. He admires her, of
course; but I am sure he has not an idea of
any thing more." It must be said that con-
ecience pricked Leslie a little as she made
these comforting remarks; but, as she came
in now, she thought how right she had been.
No man in love could have resisted such an
opportunity for a fi~te-d4~te, she felt sure;
therefore it followed, 'with a logic irresistible
to the feminine mind, that Carl was not in love.
*   "how early you are!" she said to Norah.
"Are you looking to see if you have any let-
ters? It is too soon yet, is it not?"
"To hear from Kate, do you mean? Yes;
she would scarcely have written immediately
after I left, especially since she started at the
same time for Ireland with papa. But there
is an attraction in turning over letters, even
when they are not for ourselves; and here
are a great many."
"Let us see whom they arc for," said Les-
lie. She took and began sorting them. "Half
a dozen for uncle, three for Aunt Mildred, and
more than it will be pleasant to answer for
znyself.-Carl, there are none for you."
"I have mine already - thanks," said
Carl, emerging from the alcove.
"But here is one which may interest you.
It is from Mrs. Sandford, I think."
She opened a pale-gray envelope, stamped
with monogram~ and crest, and inclosing a
sheet of paper filled with writing-
---- - as when a field of corn
BoWs all its ears before the roaring cast "-
as fashionable, illegible, and full of long tails,
as such calligraphy usually is.
"Yes, it is from Mrs. Sandford," she add-
ed, after a minute. "She says she will be
here to-day. Think of that, Carl 1"

"I am thinking of it as hard as possible,"
said he; "but I don't know whether I am
expected to be overpowered with ecstasy or
with disgust."
"You will not ask when you are in full
tide of flirtation to-morrow."
"I have sworn off from flirtation," he an-
swered, walking to the window. "Champagne
* is a very good thing for holidays, but it is not
wholesome when taken as the staple of a
man's life."
"What is not wholesome when taken as
the staple of a man's life?" asked Mr. Mid-
dieton, coming in just then, with his feet ar-
rayed in the gorgeously-worked slippers which
were always such a conspicuous feature of
his morning toilet.
"Champagne," answered Leslie. "Did
you know that it was not goo~l when taken
in any way? But Carl, having become philo-
sophical, has begun to talk in metaphors and
illustrations, like a sage."
"I am afraid you are cultivating satire,
Leslie," said Carl, strolling back to the table.
"Take my advice, and don't-even in its
mildest form it makes a woman~so exceeding-
ly disagreeable!"
"And how does it make a man?"
"It is not pleasant in any case, but pleasant
things, as a rule, are not expected from a man."
"Are they not? This is the first time I
ever heard that freedom to be unpleasant is
1 one of the many monopolies which your sex
are kind enough to claim."
"There's nothing like living and learn-
I ing," said he, sitting down. "Now, pray,
leave your correspondence for the present1
and give me a cup of coffee, like a good girl.
I have eaten a dozen apricots and three pears
already; but one needs something a little
more substantial, even in July."
Since Mrs. Middleton seldom appeared at
breakfast, Leslie took the seat of honor (and
trouble) at the head of the - table; and her
pretty, deft hands were soon busy among the
cups and saucers. It was an anomalous but
attractive-looking breakfast over which she
presided. Besides the standard dishes-the
crisply-broiled "spring-chickens," the flaky
rolls and waffles which are the pride of every
Southern cook-therewere fruit-stands heaped
with peaches, apricots, pears, and plums, beau-
tiful enough in color and variety to have
tempted any artist alive to make a study of
them.

am not sure that in midsummer one
needs any thing 'more sabstantial than this,"
said i~iorah, holding up a peach -with cheeks
as gkraring as her own. "You remember the
old proverb which says that fruit is golden
in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at
night?'"
"Whatever it may be," said Mr. Middle-
ton, "1 cannot say that I like it at breakfast.
Of course, there is no accounting for partien-
Jar tastes; but give me a beefsteak and a cup
of coffee, all the year round."
"Give it to me also, if a positive choice
must be made," said Norab. "I have nothing
whatever ethereal about me-appetite least
of all."
In this way they were taking their break-
fast lei~urely, and talking lightly, as people
do who have nothing in particular before
them aU day, when a man's figure suddenly
appeared on the turf outside the window, and
a familiar voice said:
"May I come in?"
It was Arthur Tyndile, who, being bidden
cordially to enter, came in and took the empty
seat by Leslie's tray.
"I thought I would walk over before it
became so very warm," lie said, by way of
explanation "Will you take me on your
hands for the day? It is really insufferably
dull over there at Stratford. I thought yes.
terday that I would not attempt to pull
through another long warm day with no bet.
ter amusement than a novel and Max."
"I was under the impression that men
were never bored by each other's society,"
said Leslie, with that light, rippling laugh
which is so significant of happiness on a
woman's lips. "Norah and I, now, might be
supposed to find each other dull; but Captain
Tyndale and yourself-the idea never occurred
to sue for a moment! "-
"It occurred to us, however, very strong-
ly-at least, it occurred to me."
"Why did you not bring Captain Fyndale'
over with you?" asked Mr. Middleton, hos-
pitably.
"Simply because the unsociable rascal
would not come. lie intends to spend the
day tying in the shade on the verge of the
lake, and fancying that he is fishing."
"There are worse occupations for such a
day as this," said Carl-" that is, unless the
fish are too much demoralized by the heat to
bite. I have half a mind to go out for the

same amusement myself.-What do you say,
Miss Desmond" (turning quickly), "will you
come, also?"
"If you will guarantee that it shall be
cool and pleasant all the time, that we shall
catch as many fish as we desire, and that I
shall be neither sunburnt nor freckled."
"Let us all goP' said Tyndale, eagerly.
"If we drive over to the lake, where Max is,
we shall find it very cool and pleasant; Straf-
ford is near at hand for luncheon, and we can
come back in thecool of the evening to dinner"
"There is only one objection," said Les-
lie. "Mrs. Sandford is coming to-day."
"Mrs. Sandford! Is siw coming to-day?"
said Tyndale. An expression of deep disgust
fell over his face. It was evident at a glance
that this was any thing but a pleasant item
of news to him.
"Mr. Tyndale seems inclined to furnish
you with the ecstasies which I was unable to
niford, Leslie," said Carl.
"Mrs. Sandford is no favorite of mine,"
answered Tyndale; "I confess I am not ~lad
to hear that she is coming.
"It cannot be helped now, however," said
Leslie, "and so-don't you think the fishing
might be a good plan for to-morrow? I
should like Norah to see Strafford and its
grounds."
"Yes, let us go to-morrow, by all means,"
said Carl.
And, since Norah did not say any thing,
the matter seemed to be settled that they
were to go.
After breakfast that general aimlessness
and want of purpose which always charac-
terize a set of idle people in the country,
took full possession of this group. Somebody
threw out a suggestion about walking, which
somebody else negative by saying it was too
warm; Leslie talked of ordering the carriage
to pay a visit in the neighborhood, but was
readily dissuaded on the score of dust; Carl,
being questioned as to why he did not carry
out his intention of going fishing, replied that
the house could not furnish any good tackle
-and so they all sat on the lawn, under a
large tulip-tree, and did nothing, until the
sun invaded their retreat, and, Mr. Middle-
ton coming up just then, carried the two
young men off to the stable to look at a horse
he had bought, Or was thinking of ouying-
nobody besideshimself understood veryclearly
which.

I

/

62

63


04                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                                A. TROPICAL STORM.                 65

Then, as the two girls returned to the
house, Norah said:
"You must excuse me, dear, if I leave you
for the rest of the morning. I have all my
letters yet to write, and you know that epis.
tolary effort is not the easiest thing in the
world such weather as this."
"I am very sorry that you have to go,"
said Leslie, in her cordial, sincere voice;
"but, of course, letters cannot be put off, and
I hope you feel that you are at home-that
you can do exactly as you please. Give my
dearest love to Kate, anti tell her that if she
were here it would be the only thing which
could add to my happiness just now."
"You are certainly very kind!" said No.
rah, with a quick thrill in her voice. "I'll
tell Kate with pleasure; and I'll tell her,
also, that you deserve all, and more than all,
of the happiness of which you speak."
So it came to pass that when the two gen-
tlemen returned from inspecting Mr. Middle-
ton's equine purchase, they found Leslie alone
in the hall. "Norah has gone to write let-
ters," she said; and Carl felt immediately
that human endurance of heat, eiznui, and
gossip, had reached its utmost limit. The
withdrawal of the sun behind a cloud typifies
but poorly the blank cheerlessness which No-
rah's withdrawal brought over his world.
"I've. got a letter or two to write myself,"
he said, and so went off-not to the library,
or to his own chamber; but to the little
smoking-den by the dining-room, where his
letter-writing consisted in lying on a lounge
and consuming many more cigars than were
good for him. He entertained no doubt, how-
ever, but that his epistolary labors were quite
as genuine as Miss Desmond's. The idea that
she had really gone to her room to write let-
ters never for a moment occurred to him.
She had gone to avoid Tyndale, he felt sure-
so sure that if, indeed, "curses, like young
chickens, always come home to roost," Carl
certainly provided himself with a liberal brood
that morning. "D-n the fellow!" he found
himself saying again and again, even while
trying to read two orthree alternate newspa-
pers and a magazine. "How does he dare to
thrust himself into her presence like this? I
wish to Heaven she would let me teach him
better?" That Mr. Tyndale had a right to
be at Rosland irrespective of Norah's pres-
ence there, or that Leslie might possess some
slight claim upon his consideration, never for

an instant occurred to this zealous champion.
Neither did it occur to him that he knew ex-
ceedingly little of Miss Desmond's "cause,"
and that little only by inference. With re-
gard to this cause, there was justification
enough for all possible ardor in the one
grand, simple, and wholly satisfactory reason
that it was her own.
Meanwhile Arthur Tyndale began to dis-
cover that time might hang heavily at Ros-
land as well as at Strafford. Fond as he was
of Leslie, and charming and bright as she al-
ways made herself to him, he felt this morn-
ing a certain lack of zest in her society, a
certain vague want of the pungent flavor of
au excitement which he had specially come to
seek. It was so vague-this sense of flatness
and tameness - that he was scarcely more
than conscious of it, and yet he could not
banish it. "I believe you are bored, after
all," Leslie said to him, smiling, and, although
he quickly denied the assertion, he could not
so readily shake off the fact. Yet, in truth,
he was something more than merely "bored"
-which is a passive state of suffering at least.
He was actively conscious of a subtle excite-
ment which made the shaded room, with its
perfect quiet and whiff of roses on the air, al-
most intolerable to him. Leslie herself, for
the first time in her life, jarred on his mood
through her very unconsciousness of it,
through her utter ignorance of the restless
craving which possessed him, and to which
he would have found it difficult to give a
name, being a man little addicted to self-
analysis. In fact, he was not a man who
ever troubled himself very much about his
motives, or who could have been said to own
a particularly high standard for any thing,
though it can fairly be added for him that he
was not in any sense a bad man. He was
only one of a large class whose impulses are
stronger than their principle; whose courage
is not great in the moral order, and who are
in all respects born epicureans and seekers of
pleasure. Just now he was in a state of
transition, which puzzled and annoyed him
not a little. He felt that he was outraged-
that he had good cause for being outraged
-with Norah Desmond: she had defied, in-
sulted, scorned, and mocked him, until he
could almost have lifted %his hand and struck
her down in the proud insolence of her beauty
-yet she had so stung and roused him, that
he could not banish her from his thoughts

let him do what he would. All other things
seemed tame after the supreme excitement
of her presence, the varying spell of her face,
the haunting music of her voice. Leslie, sit-
ting in the green shade of the Venetian blinds,
with the dainty needle-work of which she was
foad in her slender white hands, had little
idea of the feverish restlessness which filled
her companion. Yet, even to Leslie, it was
a relief when their t~te-d-t~te was interrupted
by the entrance of Mr. Middleton with a ba-
rometer in his hand.
"Just as I thought!" he said, with an air
of gratification. "We are going to have a
storm at last. I was sure this sultry heat
meant something of the kind."
"Are we going to have a storm?" asked
Leslie.~ "If so, I. hope it will clear both the
physical and moral atmosphere. Somehow I
think we are all more or less affected by the
weather this morning-at least, I know we
arc all more or less out of sorts."
"That might be caused by something be-
sides the weather," said her uncle; "but I
am pretty sure we shall have a storm, and
the usual result of a storm is to clear the
physical atmosphere, at least."
"I think the day is growing more sul-
try," she went on, after a minute, letting her
work drop and beginning to apply her fan.
-.-" Arthur, will you open the blinds? After
all, one must have air, even if one is obliged to
take heat with it."
* The blinds being opened, it was found
that the vertical heat was untempered even
by the faintest breeze. The blazing noon
seemed beating with fie1~ce power upon the
parched earth which lay helpless ~mder its
scorching glare. Sound there was none.
Through all the wide domain of Nature a
stillness reigned, compared to which mid-
night is vocal with noise. Not a leaf rustled,
not a single bird found courage to chirp; only
a locust now and then lifted up its solitary
voice in the burning land. The sky above
was cloudless and intensely blue; but along
the verge of the horizon, especially in the
southwest, white, fleecy clouds were lying
piled in great masses, which dazzled the eye
as it fell on them.
"If the rain is coming at all, the sooner
it comes the better," said Mr. Middleton,
walking to and fro, with the barometer in
one hand and a palm-leaf fan in the oth-
er. "This is unendurable-or would be un-

endurable-if there was any way to remedy
it!"
Way thero was none, however, save to
wait for the storm, which really seemed at
last as if i~ meant to come; for, while they
panted and gasped for air in the stillness of
the burning~ noon, the first distant rumble of
thunder smote suddenly like welcome music
on their ears. Then, by slow degrees, the
dazzling white cloud moved higher up the
sky, the rolling sounds grew more frequent,
though stilt very distant; the leaves began
to rustle a little, as if in thirsty expectation,
though the sun still shone with the same
pitiless glare on the dusty ground and dried.
up herbage. "It really seems impossible that
we shall have any rain!" said Leslie, skepti-
cally; and, considering how long it had been
since they had last seen a cloud, her skepti-
cism was excusable. This cloud, however,
plainly meant business. It gradually changed
from fleecy whiteness to a dark, blue-gray,
lurid mass, in the depths of which vivid
flashes of lightning leaped and played among
Alpine peaks and crags. As it marched
steadily up the sky, overspreading and taking
possession of the whole heavens, like an army
with banners, it was a sight well worth wit-
nessing. When it finally reached and en-
shrouded the sun, the darkness which fell
over the land was like an eclipse. In the
house it was scarcely possible to see any
thing. The party, who were just then sitting
down to luncheon, looked at each other in
dismay. It is too much to expect of human
nature that it will eat by faith and not by
sight in summer weather. There was a mo-
ment's pause; then, while Mr. Middleton,
with his eye-glass, was closely examining the
dish before him, preparatory to announcing
its name and nature to the company, Mrs.
Middleton ordered Robert to light the gas.
"The storm must be near at hand," she said.
When the gas was lighted, Leslie uttered
a slight exclamation. "WhyNorah is not
here!" she said. "It was so dark that I
really did not notice her absence before."
"I suppose she did not hear the bell,"
said Mrs. Middleton.-" Robert, send up and
let Miss Desmond know that luncheon is
ready."
"Perhaps she is asic-"
It was Miss Grahame who began this sen-
tence, but it was never finished. At that in-
stant a flash of lightning, like a solid sheet

p


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

of flame, seemed to fill the room, paling into
insignificance the glow of the gas, and light-
ing up every thing with a lurid and terrible
glare itapossible to describe. Following so
closely that it seemed almost simultaneous, a
volleying crash ofthunder shook the house to
its very foundation. With this magnificent
though rather~ startling prelude, the storm
burst. Before the last mighty reverberation
had died away, the rush of pouring rain
sounded on the roof and down the dry water.
spouts.
"Are our heads still on our shoulders?"
asked Leslie, as soon as it was possible to
speak at all. "Did anybody ever see the
like of such a flash? What a mercy that
none of us were killed?"
"As soon as Robert comes back he must
close the shutters," said Mrs. Middletos, who
had laid down her knife and fork ana turned
very pale. "It will not do to run such a
risk."
"What nil uproar!" said Carl, laying
down his knife and fork to listen. "By Jove!
wouldn't you think there was a tremendous
artillery -duel going on in the celestial re-
gions?"
"It is more like a pitched battle," said
Tyndale. "Listen You cannot only hear
the boom of heavy guns, but the rattling vol.
leys of musketry."
"I thought we should have a deluge when
it came," said Mr. Middleton, helping himself
complacently to cold mutton, and thinking
what a good thing it was for the corn, which
needed rain terribly~
In the xnidet of the din, which was truly
deafening, Robert came back, and said a few
words to his miStress, the effect of which was
to make that lady look very much astonished.
~'Not in the house!" she repeated. "Are
you sure? Why, where on earth cam shebe?"
"Where can who be?" asked Leslie,
quickly. "sot Norah-you can't mean that
Norah is not in the house?"
"So Robert says," answered Mrs. Middle.
ton, "though I scarcely think it can be po~-
sible."
"Me and Maria's looked everywhere fur
her, ma'am, but she can't he found," said
Robert, speaking to Miss Grahame; "and
Ellen says she saw her going toward the
woods 'bout an hour ago, with a book under
her arm."
"Toward the woods!" two or three

simultaneous voices made this exclamation.
"Good Heavens!" "You must be mista-
ken!" "It can't be pos'dblc!"
"Miss Desmond is not crazy, is she?"
said Mr. Middleton, when these disjointed ex-
clamations were for the moment exhausted.
"If not, it stands to reason that she could
not have done any thing so foolish as to go
to the woods in the burning heat of an hour
ago, with a storm plainly coming up."
"But where is she, then?" asked Leslie.
"She must be somewhere, you know.-Carl,
what are you going to do?"
"I am going after her," said Carl, rising,
and pushing back his chair with a quick jerk
-"if you are sure she is not in the house,
Robert."
"I am perfectly sure, sir," answered Rob-
ert. "Me and Maria looked everywhere."
"You need not trouble yourself, Mr. Mid-
dieton," said Tyndale, also rating abruptly;
"Jam going in search of Miss Desmond."
"Arc you?" said Carl, haughtily. Their
glances met and crossed like two swords.
"But, if you will pardon me, I think I had
better take that liberty, since I am an old
acquaintance of Miss Desmond's, and you are
not.'1
He turned and was leaving the room, when
Mr. Middleton interfered.
"Don't be a fool, Carl !" he said, irrita-
I bly. "What is the sense of talking about
I going out in such a hurricane as this, espe~
cially since you have not the faintest idea
where Miss Desmond is?"
"You don't expect me to sit still with the
consciousileSs that ~Ae is out in the hurricane,
do you, sir?" answered Carl.-" Leslie, will
you send somebody to get mc a water-proof
and a shawl or two ?-~-Robert, tell Ellen I
want to speak to her in the hall."
CIIAVrEU XII.
"Some ladles love the jewels in Love's zone,
And geld-tipped darts he bath for painless play
In idle, scorafal hours he flings away;
And some that listen to his lute's soft tone
Do love to deem th~ silver praise their own;
Some prize his blindfold sight; and there be
they
Who hissed his wings which brought him yes-
terday,
And thank his wings to-day that he is flown."
WisaN Miss Desmond went to her own
room, and began writing her letters-of which,

66

0
'a
0
C
~0
C
C;
0.
'a
0
a'
U.
V
C
0~
'V
-o
0
C
'a
S
'a


NORAH'S LETTER TO KATE.

07

notwithstanding Carl's incredulity, she had a
goodly number on hand-she naturally found
that it was very warm work. There are warmer
things, perhaps-making hay may be one of
them-but certainly it is a -sufficiently warm
thing to sit down in the exhausting heat of a
July day to write two or three letters to that
class of people who expect to hear " every
thing about every thing " in detail. Now,
ready as Norah was with her tongue, she was
not particularly ready with hey pen, and she
found that her ideas and energy were forsak-
ing her in the most disheartening manner.
"It is the' intolerable heat," she said, at
last, throwing down her pen after an hour~'s
fruitless labor. " Horace Walpole himself
could not have written any thing more than a
string of commonplaces under such circum-
stances. 'If I could only get out into the open
air! It never is as warm in the open air as
it is in-doors, let people say what they will."
Fired with this desire, she rose, drew back
her blind, and, finding the coast apparently
clear on the side of the house next the shrub-
bery, proceeded to tie on a garden-hat ,to take
a portfolio under her arm, and to cautiously
sally forth down the back staircase.
Fortunately, or unfortunately, as the case
might have been esteemed, Carl was taking a
short nap over his novel just then, and so he
missed the light footstep which crossed the
dining-room, and the light finter of a dress
which passed through one of the open win-
dows to the lawn. Rejoicing in her escape,
Miss Desmond unfurled her parasol, and took
a short cut across the sunlit turf to the green
depths of the shrubbery beyond.
" There are at least a dozen pleasant places
there where I can sit and scribble without
being suffocated," she thought. "Have I
really any gypsy blood, I wonder ? No Zin-
gali ever hated the confinement of four walls
worse thanlIdo!"
But even in the shrubbery she discovered
that, at high noon, pleasant places, which
should be also shady places, were hard to find.
The shadows of the largest trees seemed in-
finitesimally small, and proved wholly unsat-.
isfactory. Strolling on from point to point,
she scarcely knew where dhe was going until
she found herself in the neighborhood of the.
summer.house where her interview with Ar-
thur Tyndale had taken place the day before,.
It seemed so full of the recollection of
this scene that she turned away impatiently

E

I

I".

for- a moment. But then-as.if remembering
herself-she turned back again and took her
way toward it with atn air of resolution.
" This will not do! !' she said, half aloud ;
"I cannot afford to indulge myself in matters
of sentiment, even in little things ; It is a bad
precedent. One must do whatever is the best
thing to do  and just now it is the best thing
to find shelter from the sun."
The door of the summer-house was stand.
ing open, as it had been the day before; the
chairs were sitting exactly as they ha'd been
left; and on the small table in the centre of
the floor was a faded rose which Norah re-
membered to have laid there when she at-
tempted tofolow Leslie.
"Wazs it only yesterday ?" she thought,
taking up the flower and looking at it. "Some-
how it seems to me a much longer time !"
-Then she laid her portfolio on the table,
opened both easements to secure as much of
a thorough draught as possible, and, taking a
fresh sheet of paper, resumed the letter on
which she had last been engaged.
"You would scarcely credit, Kate," she
wrote, "for I scarcely credit it myself until I
had fairly tested it, how entirely my old love
--was it love, or- only fancy, as you warned
me once ?-for this man is dead!i Looking
at him as ho stood before mieyesterday--here,
ini this very summer-house where I am writing
now-I scorned myself, with a scorn that tin.
gled to the very ends of my fingers, that I had
ever loved him for an hour, and, above all and
over all, that I had ever been mad enough to
tell him so. For, Kate, he taunted me with
it! Think of that-imagine that-if you
can! Whether you can or cannot, the fact
remains the same-he taunted me with it 1
Re asked me-me, whom he was insulting
and defying-if I dared to deiiy that I had
loved him once! Are you acquainted with
any epithet strong enough to express your
opinion of such a man ? If so, oblige me by
bestowing it upon him, for lam not.
"Ah, Kate, he is so pitiful in his cowrard-
ice and fear of me! Re has not even the
courage necessary for being wholly false. lie
alternately blusters and cringes, in order to
learn what I 'mean to do.' Baffled in this
endeavor, he has set his cousin on the trek
of discovery. This cousin is al very trans-
parent diplomatist, however, and I do not
think will be likely to discover very much.
In a small way, he is something of a puzzle


68                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                                IN THE SUMMER-HOUSE.                 09

to me. Yesterday evening I changed my
opinion of him several times-which is rather
unusual for me, wh~ have had such good
cause to know men well, and to read them
easily. He possesses the unusual combine.
tion of a certain direct frankness (either real
or assumed), together with a great deal of im-
perturbable self-possession; but what chiefly
puzzles me is his motive for espousing his
cousins cause, since you are probably as well
aware as I am that men do not readily under-
take delicate and difficult negotiations (es-
pecially with a woman) out of pure friendship
for another man. What Captain Tyndale cx-'
pects to gain by obtaining from me certain
concessions for~ his cousin, which he never
soW obtain, I cannot as yet imagine. You will
say, with that peculiarly deep knowledge of
lwman nature which distinguishes you, that
probably the cousin has promised to pay his
debts, or to afford hin~ substantial aid in some
other form, if he succeeds. I do not know.
perhaps it is because the martial diplomate
bears the name of my old hero in 'Wallen-
stein,' that I do not think he looks like a man
to whom it would be exactly safe to make
such a proposal. A gentleman, I should say,
a man of better moral fibre than his cousin,
as well as of higher 'tone '-he proved that
last night when he approached with courtesy
and respect a woman whom he had evidently
been taught to think worthy of neither.
"For he-the coward whose name just
now I cannot force myself to write - has
added, to the passive insult of treating mc as
if I were an adventuress, the active insult of
saying that I am one. What he, has said,
and what left unsaid, what insinuated, and
what openly avowed, I can scarcely tell you,
foz~ it has been merely hinted to mc. Carl
Middleton-hi~lf in honest warning, half with
the jealous instinct of a man in love-told
me yesterday that Mr. Tyndale had been kind
enough to warn Leslie against sending for
me, assuring her that I was a woman "with a
notoriously fast reputation,' and one with
whom 'it would not be well for her to associ-
ate.' You kpow these men of the world, as
they love to call themselves; you know how,
with an accent, an arch of the eyebrow, a
shrug of the shoulders, they can put more
force and meaning into one simple sentence,
than all the eloquence of all the advocates
who have ever lived since the beginning of
the world could disprove. I can see, I can

hear, Arthur Tyndale, as he delivered that
warning against me.
"And perhaps you womIer how I felt
when I heard it repeated by other lips. In
truth, my Kate, not much more scorn than I
had felt before-scorn so great, so overpow-
ering, that, for a time, it literally swallowed
up all other feeling. Then, after a while, in.
dignatron came over me. I thought, my poor
Kate, of our friendless, unprotected girlhood;
of our careless, wandering, vagrant life; of
how hard we have striven-against odds that
none but ourselves can even guess-to keep
our names above reproach. I thought-for,
in the still hours of the night, I added up my
debt against Arthur Tyndale item on item--
how well he knew these things, how thor.-
oughly he had appreciated our position, how
entirely he was aware that the hand which
Leslie held out might have been to both of us
scarcely less than a hand from heaven. Then
I thought of his passionate and persistent de-
votion when we knew him first; of his reso-
lute determination that I-who had already
learned to put scant faith in men's admiration
or men's love-should learn to love him; of
his success, at last; of his departure; of his
silence; of the manner in which he flung this
love, which he had won at such great cost
and from so proud a heart, into the dust, like
a worthless thing. I recalled the manner in
which he had denied to my face that he ever
knew me; the insult which he had added to
treachery, the slander to scorn; I burned it
into my comprehension and memory that, not
content with having broken his faith, and
thrown his honor to the winds, he had opened
his false lips-than which falser never spake
since the birth of time-to take away that
good name which, of great value to all wom-
en, is simply priceless to us.
"And, when the debt was all added up, it
w~is so great that I thought to myself, 'What
reprisal can ever equal it?"'
The passionate excitement of the writer
had waxed so great over the last paragraph
that, as her pen dashed, rapidly across the
paper, covering it with a heavy, black chirog-
raphy, very unlike a woman's usual hand, she
had failed to notice the steadily advancing
cloud, or the muttering thunder overhead.
At the last words, however, that sudden dark.
ness fell which amazed the party assembled
round the luncheon-table at Rosland; andy

wondering what strange eclipse had overtaken
the noonday, she looked up with a start.
Then she saw the cloud, of whose approach she
had before been merely vaguely conscious, and
saw, also, how near at hand it was. Through
the open door she commanded an excellent
view of the lurid blackness which had over-
spread the whole western heavens, against
which the green depths of summer foliage
stood out in vivid relief. As yet every thing
was very still-but, as she gazed, a low, sigh-
ing wind swept by, and two or three birds
flew up out of a neighboring copse, uttering
shrill, discordant cries. "There is going to
be a storm!" she thought-a conclusion in
which a child of two yearS old might have ac-
quiesced-" shall I have tinfe to reach the
hous~ before it bursts?"
Since there was no weather-seer at hand
to answer this question, she paused irreso-
lutely and looked at the cloud. As she
looked, it gave its terrible and majestic an-
swer back. Her very eyeballs seemed
scorched by the blinding glare that suddenly
lit up the whole face of Nature, and she felt
as if the house in which she stood was tum-
bling over her head in the pealing crash which
followed. Immediately after this, her breath
was literally swept away by a storm of wind
which rushed into the summer-house like an
incarnate fiend; and, when she recovered it,
she found herself seated again in the chair
from which she had risen, clutching the table
by a blind instinct, while her portfolio and
papers were already gone from sight, dancing
a demoniac dance on the wings of the wind,
thanks to the convenient and delightful
thorough draught which she had arranged.
Her first idea was that she had been
struck by that awful and vivid flash of light-
ning; but, finding this to be an erroneous im-
pression, she then decided that it would be
well to close the windows against the storm
which was rushing in. It cost her a struggle
to accomplish this feat, especially on the
southern side, for the hurricane beat her
back again and again with fierce violence.
Succeeding at last, however, she then' turned
her attention to the door. It proved, how-
ever, even more unmanageable thanthe win-
dows had done. The bolt being defective,
as fast as it was closed the wind burst it
open again with a 'triumphant blast~ Dis-
mayed at the third repetition of such a per-
formance, Norah tried the effect of placing a

chair against it. The effect was simply that
of seeing a chair knocked over in the floor,
and the door burst wide open for the fourth
time. Then she tried the table, which, being
a little more substantial, held its own for
several minutes. During these minutes, Miss
Desmond had time to consider how very warm
it was, now that she was safely shut up in a
box, to think that she had much better have
stayed in the house after all, to wish that she
had noticed the approach of the storm a lit-
tle earlier, to wonder how long it would last,
and to discover that the roof of the sum-
mer-house was leaking-when the door was
burst open for the fifth time, and the drenched
figure of a man appeared on the thresh-
old.
"Carl !" she said, involuntarily, but a
pair of long, dark mustache had not apper-
tamed to Carl's personal appearance when
she saw him last, and, a very battered hat
being pushed back at that moment, she rec-
ognized Max Tyndale.
The astonishment on both sides was very
great, and without any real or simulated ad-
mixture of pleasure.
"Miss Desmond!" said Max. Then he
took off his hat and laughed-shaking him-
self like a Newfoundland dog. "I suppose
you were caught in the rain as well as my-
self," he said. "I had no alternative but to
seek the nearest shelter. It is a regular
tropical storm!"
"I have not been in the rain, but I was
caught here," answered Norah. "Pray shut
the door if you are coming in," she added,
anxiously. "I was sure the wind had burst
it open again."
"I suppose I ought to have asked if I
might come in," said he, proceeding to obey
her directions. "But I had no idea of find-
ing any one, and then-"
"And then you know that you have quite
as much , right to be here as I have. Don't
make foolish apologies, Captain Tyndale;
but push the table as hard as you can against
the door, else it will not stay shut."
"Is that the way?" asked he, pushing
very hard indeed.
"Yes, that is the way, but I am afraid it
will be open agaha in a few minutes-the
storm seems really increasing in violence.
Oh! I have an idea! You intend 'to sit
down, I imagine. Well, suppose you sit on
tkal? It will help to.keep it firm."


~70

A DATJOHTER OF BOHEMIA.

"On the table, do you mean?"
"Yes, on the table, of course."
"Very well," said he, and immediately
sat down, without exhibiting any sign of cur.
prise, or making any objection.
"You must be invaluable as a 'soldier,"
said Miss Desmond, after a short pause, dur.
ing which she had regarded him as he sat
with his arms crossed and his back against
the door~
"You are very kind," he answered, "but
it would not become me to say that you are
right."
"Prompt, unquestioning obedience is the
greatest virtue of a soldier, is it not?"
"It is one of the most necessary, at
least."
"You certainly seem to possess it in
more than ordinary degree."
"I have generally found it less trouble to
obey than to question; therefore, you see
that my obedience would scarcely come under
the head of a virtue."
"It might come under the head of a rec.
ommeudation though."
"It has done that once or twice in my life."
"As when-?"
"Oh," said he, smiling, "I hope you don't
think me so fodlish or so egotistical as to
entertain a woman with accounts of military
events."
"And pray why not?" asked she, a lit.
tle piqued. "Do you think a woman inca-
pable of understanding them?"
"Not necessarily; but' the chances are,
in the 'first place, that 'she would be very~
much bored; and, in the second place, that
the relator would be tempted to embroider,
or at least to dwell upon his own achieve.
raents-.-two things which no man of sense
ever does."
"You should not snake such sweeping as.
sectionss about men of sense; you condemn
the majority of mankind altogether."
"Being in the majority, tl~ey can afford
to support the fact with philosophy, since
majorities govern most things in this fine
world of ours,"
"Yes-unfortunately. Would it not be
a singular, and, from some points of view,
rather a pleasant thing, if we were able to
reverse matters and give the power to ml.
~noritles for a time? I belong to so many
minorities myself that I should like it cx.
tremely."

"And I should not object. Matters could
not be much worse than they are' at present."
"I am surprised that fishing has not in-
duced you to look at the affairs of the world
more cheerfully~ People who like that amuse.
went say that one views every thing so phil.
osophically from an angling point of view."
"Not when the fish refuse to bite, when
one breaks a good line, and when a storm
comes up and wets one to the skin."
"I am afraid you must be very wet," said
she, as if the idea had occurred to her for
the first time. "Don't you think you will
take cold?"
"It is not impossible, but scarcely prob-
able."
"How did 'you chance to come here?"
she went on, after a minute. "' I thought your
cousin said that you were fishing in some
lake which cannot be very near at hand?"
"I was fishing there, but I grew tired of
an amusement which came to nothing, and I
was on my way to Rosland for luncheon when
the storm came up."
"It must have come i~p very quickly, for
I was writing, and did not notice it until
there was not time to reach the house."
"Writing !-'were you writing I~er.e 9 That
accounts for various waifs and strays of paper
that I saw tossing about. One of them came
as straight to me as if it had been directed
und sent by post. I was hurrying along,
when it blew intG my hand so oCten and so
persistently that I caught arA crammed it
into lay pocket.-By.the-by, I suppose it is
there yet."
He put his hand into one of his pockets
as he spoke, and drew forth a crumpled mass
of blotted paper, which he proceeded to
smooth out on the table.
"The rain has made the ink run to such
an extent that I fear it is almost illegible,"
he said. "But, still, I think it must be yours,
Miss Desmond."
"Why do you think so?" asked she.
He looked up with a quick glance in his
dark eyes.
"Becanse, if you will excuse me, I see a
sentence here which no one else could have
written," he answered.
"What is it?" she asked, as coolly as he.
fore.
"Shall I bring the letter and show it to
von?"
"No; read it aloud."

I

1-


MAX TYNDALE'S MOTIVES.

.1

,
'I

71

a'.
a
-I
.5
a'
'4

"Miss Desmond I"
"Well, did you not hear me? The thun-
der does make a great noise. I said, 'Ilead it
~
"Are you in earnest?"
"Am I likely to be in jest?" demanded
she, haughtily.
"It is your own affair, of course," said he,
with the momentary. surprise vanishing from
his face. "I only beg you to believe that my
eye fell on the passage accidentally, and that
I have seen nothing else. This is it"-he
bent over the letter and read aloud 'the fol-
lowing, with the utmost san~rfroid:
"'Looking at him as he stood before me
yesterday-here, in this very summer-house
where I am writing now--I scorned myself,
with a scorn that tingled to the very ends, of
my lingers, that I had ever loved him for an
hour, and, above all and over all,~that I had
ever been mad enough to tell him so 1"'
"And you think lam the only person who
could have written that?" asked she, in a
quick voice, as he stopped.
He looked up again, and, as he did so,
womler seized him that she should have
forced him to read aloud any thing which had
power to bring such a blush to her face-
such a look of pain to her eyes.
"Forgive me," he said, almost humbly.
"I was guilty of gross presumption in tliink~
lug or saying any thing about it."
"You were guilty of nothing of the kind,"
answered she, imperiously. "How could a
man possibly be guilty of gross presumption
toward a woman. whom he holds as you hold
me?"
"Miss Desmond, I must protest-"
"I~rotest nothing," interrupted she, quick-
ly, "or you will force me to hold your word
as lightly as that of any other man. 'No
doubt you are like all the rest of your sex;
but, as yet, I have not found it out. For
novelty's, sake, therefore, let me believe that
you sometimes' tp~ak truth-even to a wotn-
an!"
"Believe me, I was not going to speak
any thing else when you interrupted me2'
"Were you going to protest that you do
not take me to be the woman whom' Arthur
Tyndale has descrIbed?"
"No; I was ~nly going to protest against
your interpretation of my thoughts, and your
idea of my opinions."
"Well, you are candid so far, at any rate,"

said she, smiling a little. "Do you know,"
she added, after a minute, "that I am half
inclined to ask you to read that blotted letter
which has come so singularly into your
hands? You cannot Mieve that I bad any
intention of the kind when I wrote it. There.
fore, you may take it as a truthful statement
of certain facts which you have no doubt
heard differently rendered-froan your cous-
in's point of view."
lie looked at her keenly.
"Will you pardon me if I ask again wheth-
er you are in earnest?" he said, gravely.
"I am perfectly in earnest," she answered,
" unless you consider the matter of too little
importance to be worth the trouble of deci-
phering such a scrawl!"
* lie replied by taking up the letter and be-
ginning to read. For some minutes after
this, silence reigned-that is to say, n~ words
were spoken; but the pouring rahi and the
rolling thunder made any thing but silence in
the literal sense oF tb~ tertn~ Norah watched
Max oiosely,~ as his eye traveled down 'the
pages of the letter, but she was&amp;ble to make
very little of his face0 in truth, he knew that
he was being watched, and so put on his niost
thoroughly impassive and non-committal look.
This look he carried through to the ~rcry
end of the letter; but, when he lifted his eyes
at last, the keen glance of the woman before
him read in tl&amp;em that she had won his belief
and respect. When he spoke, his words were
very, simple and characteristic:
"' I am glad you did me the honor to show
me this, Miss De~niopd. Without holding
any such opinion of you as you have imagined
that I did, I certainly was not aware of the
truth asit is here told."
"I did not suppose it possible that you
were," she answered, "sad: I.~s.~well, I do not
usually care what peop'1~ think of me, but
this opportunity seemed to come without my
seeking, and I took advantage of it on an im.
pulse which I may possibly regret."
"I hope you wilI~ not do so!" he said,
quickly. "I hope you do not think so poorly
of sue as to imagine that I misunderstand in the
least, or could make any use w1~ieh you would
disapprove of the contents of this letter,."
"No," said she, slowly. "I think you
may be honest-and honorable. The two
things are not the same, you knew, and many
men who arethe ~rst are not the last."
"Thanks," said he, sailing "I consider


72                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                       MRS. SANDEORD'S ADMiRATION OF NORAH.       73

that as an aniende honorable for being called
'a transparent diplomatist."'
"I am not sure that you are such a very
transparent diplomatist," said she, looking at
him, and smiling also. "As you may have
noticed, I confessed to Kate that your motive
for espousing your cousin's cause-a cause
which you could not have failed to suspect to
be a poor one-puzzled me."
"I noticed that you spoke of me in much
better terms than I deserved," said he, flush.
ing suddenly, "for I-I did not think very
highly of ~you when I approached you last
night, Miss Desmond."
"I was aware of that at the time," said
she, ." and therefore I appreciated your cour-
tesy Rnd respect all the more."
"You did not resent what lay behind
those things?"
"No. Why should I have resented that
which was perfectly natural I"'
"Most women would not stop to reason
on a question of that kind."
"So mntich the worse for most women,
then. But 'let us return to our sheeps,' as
t~e Frenchman said. Were we not talking
of your motive for advocating your cousin's
cause?"
" You were talking of it."
"Which means that you do not wish to
do so?"
"No," said he, "it does not mean that,
for really I have no objection to telling you
what my motive is and has been."
"Well," said she, with frank curiosity,
"wkat is it, then? You must' forgive me if
I am inquisitive, but I cannot bear to be puz.~
zled."
"There is no reason why you should be
puzzled "-he ~eg~n, when, just at that mo.
ment, they beeitme conscious that somebody
outside was knocking violently on the door,
and shouting in an unintelligible manner be.
sides.
"Another unfortunate has been caught in
the storm and wants shelter, I suppose," said
Norah. "We have no alternative but to let
him in, have we? Really, this begins to put
one in mind of an inn in a play."
"Don't break down the door-.I'll open it
in a minute!" shouted Max to the outsider,
who certainly seemed in violent haste.
He descended from the table as he spoke,
and, drawing it aside, the door swung quickly
back - revealing the water. proof- enveloped

figure of Carl Middleton, with a broken um-
brella in one hand and a bundle of wraps
under the other arm.
"How glad I am to find you! ~ he said,
stalking breathlessly forward to Norab. "I
was terribly afraid you would not be here,
although the gardener swore he saw you as
he passed the door an hour ago. You've no
idea how anxious they all are about you at
the house!'
"Did you come out in all this storm to
look for me?" she said. "How could you
be so foolish! It is so kind of you, and so
provoking of you, both at once! You will
take your death in the way of a cold, and
then what shall I do for a champion?"
"I will never die while you need me, you
may be sure. But are you confident you are
not wet? Have you not been caught in the
rain ~t all?"
"Not at all. Not any more than if I had
been sitting in my own room, where it would
have been wiser to have stayed. But there is
Captain Tyndale, who was even more wet than
yourself when he first sought refuge here."
Thus recalled to a sense of propriety, Carl
turned and shook hands with Max.
"I beg pardon for not speaking before,"
he said, "but I was so anxious about Miss
Desmond-I left Leslie, firmly persuaded that
she had been struck by a bolt of lightning, or
knocked over by a falling tree."
"I am sorry to have caused so much un.
easiness," said Norah, "but it is a very good
rule in life to expect the best until the worst
happens. It spares one so much unnecessary
annoyance."
"I suggested something of that kind to
Leslie," said Carl, "but she paid no,~tention
to it."
"We are none of us likely to be philos-
ophers in an emergency," said Max. Then
he walked to the door, which still remained
open, and stood there, drinking in the fresh,
rain-laden air. "I think your imprisonment
will be at an end very ~oon, Miss Desmond,"
he went on. "The storm will be likely to
pass as quickly as it came. Already the clouds
are breaking in the west, and the worst is
plainly over."
His prediction was amply verified. Fifteen
minutes later, Norah decidedthat it was quite
possible for her to attempt to return ~o the
house. Trues the ground was a literal lake,
and the clouds were yet sending quick show-

ers upbn it, but Carl had brought a pair
of overshoes, besides a water-proof and two
shawls, so she felt able to defy moisture ei-
ther above or below. When she was equipped
for departure, when the overshoes had been
fitted on, and she had drawn the dark hood
of the water-proof over her graceful head,
she turned and looked at Max.
"Of course you are coming too, are you
not?" she said.
"I believe not," he answered. "My ward-
robe is at Strafford, and therefore I must
turn my steps in that direction. After all, it
is not very much farther to go. Good-day,
Miss Desmond, and let me hope sincerely that
you will not suffer any ill effects from your
exposure."
"That is a very stiff, disagreeable fellow,"
said flarl, as, having parted, they went their
different ways. "L cannot understand how all
those people at Rosland like him so much."
"And perhaps he cannot understand why
they like you so much," said Norah. "Lik.
ing and disliking are arbitrary and inscrutable
things at best. By~the way," said she, start-
ing suddenly and speaking half to herself,
"he carried my letter with him!"
"Your letter!" repeated Carl, surprise
and jealousy instantly appearing in mixed
quantities on his face. "What the deuce, is
he doing with a letter of yours? You must
have takem amazing strides toward intimacy~
while you were shut up there together!"
"You forget that we are old friends,"
said she, maliciously. "And, after all, the
letter does not matter, being of little or no
importance.~~
CHAPTER XIII.
"Let the world roll blindly on!
Give me shadow, give me sun,
And a perfumed day as this is:
Let me lie,
Dreamfully,
When the last quick sunbeams shiver
Spears of light across the river,
And a breeze which seems the sigh
Of a fairy floating by,
Voyly kisses
Tender leaf and feathered grasses;
Yet so soft its breathing passes,
These tall fernejust glimmering o'er me,
Blending goldenly before me,
Hardly quIver!"
"How beautiful your sister is, my dear I "'
said Mrs. Sandford, enthusiastically. "You I

can't imagine how much I am charmed with
her!"
"Yes, Norah is certainly very beautiful !"
said Leslie. "I am glad you like her. She
is very attractive, too, I think, although her
manner may strike you at first as a little
cold-"
"Oh, no, no-only dignified, and reserved,
and delightful."
"-But, after a while, you will see that it
is only manner. I do not think that she is
cold herself."
"Well, now, do you know I rather like
cold people," said Mrs. Sandt'ord, opening
her blue eyes very wide indeed. "I am so
warm - hearted, so outspoken, so impulsive
myself, that I admire and really envy people
like Miss Desmond, who are always self-con-
tuined, always say and do the right thing,
and never possibly commit themselves to any
thing wrong."
I hope Norah does not deserve quite
such high praise as that," said Leslie. "So
great an amount of perfection would be unin-
teresting."
"She is charming," repeated Mrs. Sand-
ford-" really charming! I assure you that
I have fallen quite in love with her!"
This assurance wars given on the morning
after the volatile lady's arrival at Rosland.
Breakfast being over, she found herself for a
few minutes alone with Miss Orahame in the
drawing-room, and it was impossible to allow
these few minutes to pass without going into
raptures over such a convenient and tempting
subject for raptures as Miss Desmond. Les-
lie, who understood her guest very well, was
not at all surprised.
"Norah would be flattered if she knew
how well she had impressed you," she said,
moving back a few paces, to see if some flow-
ers she had been arranging stood well in the
vase. "She is not exactly the kind of woman
whom other women usually like."
"Because she is so beautiful, I suppose,"
said Mrs. Sandford. "But, then, I never was
jealous in my Iife.-never! My greatest
friends have always been among beautiful
women."
"You have never had any need for jeal-
ousy," said Leslie: it was impossible in com.
mon courtesy to say less. But then she
changed the subject-paying and receiving
compliments being very little to her taste.
"Come and tell me if you do not think this


74                 A DAUC~HTER OF~ BOHEMIA.                                              THE TYNDALES' HOME.

vase iS well arranged," she said, "and look
what lovely sofrano-buds these are 1"
While Mrs, Sandford was going into rap-
tures over the vane and over the sofrano-buds,
Uarl entered the room, looking rather out of
humor.
"Have you given up the fishing expedi-
tion, Leslie?" he inquired. "I heard you
promise Tyndale last night that we would be
over there early this morning, but I don't see
any movement that way, and the sun is get.
ting higher and hotter every minute."
"I ordered the carriage when we left the
bk'eakfast-table," Leslie answered, "and I was
only waiting until it came round, to propose
that we should put on our hats."
"The carriage!" repeated he, in a tone
of disgust. "Why did you not order thq
phaeton for Mrs. Sandford and yourself, and
let Miss Desmond go with me on horse-
back?"
"Because Norah declined such an arrange-
mont, saying that her habit would be too
much in the way at Stratford."
"Mrs. Middleton is not going with us,
then?" said Mrs. Saudford, turning round
from the roses.
"No; she is not fond of damp grass, and
she thinks that you will be chaperone enough
for the party," answered Leslie, smiling.
"How absurd it seems to talk of m~i being
a chaperone at all," said the pretty widow,
with a silvery laugh-so even that ill-natured
people averred it had been practiced at the
key-board. "I never can repress ray amuse-
inent at the idea !-..One feti.s so young, Mr.
Middleton, even after one has ceased to be ex-
actly young."
"If feeling follows appearance, I can well'
imagine that you might fancy yourself six-
teen," Said Carl, paying with only tolerable
grace the tribute which was plainly expected
from him.
"The French say that, in the matter ~f
age, a woman is what she looks," said Leslie,
coming to his reliaf.-" Carl, what do you
think of going to inquire if the carriage is
not coming to the door to-day?"
Ten minutes later, the carriage drove to
the door, and the ladies in linen dresses-
dresses not likely to be injured by mud or
water-and becoming sailor-hats were assem-
bled on the veranda. Mrs. Middleton, pro-
vided with a fan and a novel, and established
in a comfortable wicker-chair, looked at them

with compassionate surprise. It was a dis-
pensation of Providence, she thought, that
young people required amusement-but what
amusement was to be found in driving two or
three miles for the purpose of spending the
day on damp grass and in wet boats, with a
scorching sun overhead, when they might
have staid in a cool house or on a shaded lawn,
and taken life ,easily, she was unable to im-
agine.
"You think you will not be back to
luncheon?" she asked, in a tone which plain.
ly said, "If you are wise, you will be."
"Oh, no," Leslie answered, turning on the
steps, while Carl assisted Mrs. Sandford and
Miss Desmond into the carriage. "I prom.
ised Arthur that we would certainly take
luncheon at Stratford. We shall be back in
time for dinner, but not before."
"Very well," said Mrs~Middleton. "I am
sure I hope you will have a pleasant day, but
I do not think the rain has tempered the heat
at all, and in shady places you will be likely
to find it very damp, indeed."
"Aunt Mildred is evidently of the opinion
that our prospects of enjoyment are not very
brilliant," said Leslie, after they had driven
off. "'As a general rule, I agree with her in
thinking that al-fresco parties are mostly fail-
ures-but occasionally they are pleasant."
"Chiefly when they are impromptu," said
Carl. "Rarely ever when they have been
talked over and arranged."
"This one is impromptu, is it not?" asked
Mrs. Sandford.
"Partly so; enough, perhaps, 'to i'~sure its
being moderately pleasant,"' answered he.
"Plans of the kind, however, ought to be car-
ried out when they are perfectly fresh. To
defer their execution is like waiting five min-
utes to drink a glass of soda-water."
"You ought.to be very glad that it was not
carried out yesterday," said Norah. "Fancy
having been caught without shelter in that
storm of wind and rain l"
"I am glad you waited till to-day on my
account," said Mrs. Sandford. "I shall be so
glad to see Strafford! I have heard so much
of it from my cousins! And then there is
Captain Tyndale. I shall really be very glad
to see Aim, though Ithink 'he might have been
civil enough to come over to Rosland and see
me last night."
~'IIe did not know that you 'were expee't-
ed" said Leslie.

"Oh, that accounts for it, then "said she,
with the air of one who accepts a satisfactory
explanation. "He was at my house so eon-
stsntl~~ before he left the city, and we made so
many plans for seeing a great deal of each
other down here, that I thought his absence
very strange last night. It is certainly very
pleasant," she added, with a laugh. "Do
you know, Leslie, that it is town.tnlk in Alton
that I am engaged to him?"
"Is it, indeed?" said Leslie. "No, I
should never have suspected such a thing."
"I tell my friends that they are really
quite absurd," said Mrs. Sandford, shrugging
her shoulders. "They engage me 'to a new
man every m6nth, though I have said again
and again that I have not the faintest idea of
marrying cmy~ody for at least five years to
come! One can do as one pleases when one
is a widow, which is considerably more than
one can do as a wife; and, therefore, I find it
a great deal pleasanter than having a jealous
husband to worry one."
"But husbands are not necessarily jeal-
ous," suggested Carl.
"Indeed, I don't trust any of them not to
be," said she, and it was evident that she
meant it; "I don't trust any of them not to
be jealous of me! '~'
"Of course I bow to your superior kuowi.
edge," said he. "It is certainly based on a
much more extended experience than I can
boast."
In such instructive and entertaining con-
versation the drive passed. It was a greater
distance to Strafford by the high~road than by
the short cut across the fields whioh Arthur
and Max chiefly affected, but before long they
saw the tall chimneys and brown gables of the
house showing through the green foliage of
the park. The nooks and dells of the latter
were full of more than usual beauty as the
early sunlight slanted across the wet grass
and through the mighty branches of the great
oaks, throwing entrancing shadows on the
turf. It was not oaks alone, however, which
filled the park. There was scarcely one of
the magnificent variety of Southern shade-
trees which was not represented, with bosky
depths of copse-like shrubbery intermixed.
Every thing was as green und still as an
enchanted forest, every thing was glitter-
ing yet with the rain of the day be.foro,
and every thing, even to the moss - grown
palings, bore eloquent witness that this home

of the Tyndales was not a place of yester-
day~
That it wasa beautiful place no one could
deny. They all said so with one accord as
they entered the wide gates mid drove to the
front of the house, where Arthur and Max
were standing in the shade of the stone por-
tico waiting for them. When the carriage
stopped, the former stepped forward, looking
iwen more hands~ine and 'high-bred than usual.
Perhaps it was the consciousness of standing
on his own threshold which helped him to a
new dignity and courtesy of manner. Cer-
tainly it is a consciousness which cannot fail
to have its effect upon any man who is not
hopelessly parvenu in blood and sentiment.
Next the door, which he opened, sat Mrs..
Sandford and Leslie, who naturally descended
first, and, while they were being assisted to
the ground,  Torah said, in her quick, izape~
rious way, to Carl:
"Open the other door, and let me out. It
is not necessary to wait on them, is it?"
"Not in the least," he answered; and, im.
mediately wrenching the door open, he sprang
out and extended his hand to her.
As she was about to take it, Tyndale spoke'
quickly, having deposited Leslie on the ground,
and turning his back on Mrs. Sandford, who
was greeting Max with an enthusiastic ripple
of words and laughter.
"Take care, Miss Desmoud, there is a
great deal of mud on that side. Let me as-
sist you out here."
But Norah had already given her hand to
Carl, and, before he finished speaking, she
was on the ground, with the slight .m~sadven-
ture of brushing her dress against a muddy
wheel, and stepping deep with one kid boot in
the soft loam.
"Look I" she said, holding out her foot t~
Carl. "Is it not a pity?"
"Let me 'take it off," said he, and, stoop-
ing, he drew out an immaculate white.eambrie
handkerchief for the purpose.
"Don't be absurd, Sir Walter Raleigh,"
said she, drawing back the foot with a laugh.
"Mud is more appropriate to shoes than to
handkerchiefs, if it must be on one ~r the
other. It is a small penalty to ;pa~ for es-
caping the necessity of having my baud
touched by Aim I" she added, in a lower
tone.
After this they passed into the house,
where Mrs. Sandford went into a rapture of

b


A FISHING EXCURSION .

76                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

admiration over the fine Qid hall, with it~
carved oaken staircase, its paneled walls, its
family portraits, and antlered stag - heads
which had gazed serenely down for many a
long day since that by-gone time when they
had looked their last on the fair greenwood,
with its dewy coverts, its tangled depths, and
gleams of summer shade and sheen.
They lingered for a little while in the
pleasant, old - fashioned drawing - room - so
lofty, spacious, and softly toned, that it did
not look as if heat could ever invade it. On
the green terrace without, deep, cool shadows
were lying. It seemed impossible to imaging
a scene more suggestive of repose.
"One might almost forget that there was
such a thing as time in a place like this 1"
said Carl, following Norah, who, after a while,
walked to the end of the room~to look at a
statue. "There seems -a sort of dreamy
stillness in the very atmosphere. I should
call it- stagnation, but some people - Mr.
Tennyson's lotos.eaters, for example-might
like it extremely, I dare say."
"It is more a melancholy than a dreamy
stillness," answered she. "One feels that
life has lohg been absent from these rooms.
Do you know that I am enough of a barba-
rian to prefer a new house to an old one?"
sdded she, suddenly. "An old house al.
ways seems to me peopled with ghosts. I
am sure that lady, for example "-turning
her back on the marble Psyche, and pointing
to a faded beauty in the costume of fifty or
sixty years before-" comes1down and walks
the floor at night in her satifi and pearls."
"You, don't mean that you believe~ in
ghosts?"
"One believes in what one has seen gen.
orally. I saw a ghost once."
"Indeed!" - laughing and arching his
brows. "Pray when and where was it?"
"Ask in a tone of faith, and perhaps I
may tell you."
"But I thought faith was to come after.
ward "-he began, when at that moment Ar-
*        thur Tyndale advanced down the room tow.
ard them.
"Leslie says that she thinks we had bet-
ter go to the lake now," he said, address.
ing Norah, with rather a deprecating look
in his violet eyes. "That is - if you are
ready." -
"I am quite ready," she answered, with
careless coldness. Then she turned to Carl.

"If you will promise to be quite credulous, I
will tell you all about it," she said.
What the "it" was, Tyndale, of course,
did not know; but he did know that she
wished to show him in this way, as in every
other, that his intercourse with her was to
be restricted to the narrowest possible limits.
Turning, she walked down the room with
Middleton, and he had no alternative but to
follow at some distance behind them.
They found Leslie, Mrs. Sandford, and
Max, waiting on the terrace outside-a ser-
vant in attendance laden with fishing-gear.
"If we are to go at all, I think we had better
go at once," the former said; and so they set
forth.
Their way lay across the park, under its
green shade, across its fresh, fragrant grass.
The earth and air seemed asked clean by the
late rain; the former exhaling a sweet, moist
odor, the latter clear and bright as crystal,
with a buoyancy in it different indeed from
the sultry heat of the days that had gone be-
fore. The air was full of soft, woodland
sounds-a ringing echo of the rejoicing mirth
of every bird and insect. The sky was the
tenderest sapphire, crossed by a few fleecy
clouds, and the distant, violet hills gtood out
clearly, unrelieved by the faintest drapery of
haze.
Before long they came to the lake a
transparent, winding sheet of water, on the
farther side of which rose the slender stems
of pines, with delicate, spear-like crests, out-
lined like pencil tracery against the clear,
blue heavens. On -the side where they stood
were many nooks and inlets, shadowed over
by drooping trees, and made more beautiful
by the broad green leaves and pure white
blossoms of the water-lily.
"Is it not pretty?" said Leslie, turning
to Norah. "Of course, it is only an artificial
sheet of water, but it has been seventy years
since it was made-has it not, Arthur ?-nnd
so we may fairly suppose that- it has forgot.
ten by this time that it is not quite uatn-
ral."                      -
"Nobody would ever suspect that it was
artificial," said Norah, "It is very pretty
indeed."' But in this as in every thing else,
she seemed to avoid saying very much about
the beauties of Strafford, thinking, perhaps,
that from her lips such praise might sound
like regret.
Then each lady's line was arranged by

her attendant cavalier, and, having estab-
lished themselves-two-and-two-at different
points along th~ shore, they proceeded to
fish.
As might reasonably and safely have been
predicted, however, the fishing came to very
little. Patience and silence are, as a general
rule, two absolute requisites for success in this
sport, and neither of these virtues is likely
to be displayed in eminent degree by a pair
of young people, i~ho, being more or less in
love, or more or less inclined to flirt with
each other, aresitting side by side in a green
nook, with limpid water at their feet, a blue
sky overhead, and the whole glory of a mid-
summer day around. Max, ~ho was the best
angler of the party, contrived to catch a fish
or two, despite his companion's unceasing
chatter but Norah was the only one of the
feminine trio who had any success. Instead
of displaying exultation, however, it must be
recorded of her that she was sufficiently
weak-minded to insist that Carl should throw
the gasping trout back into its native ele-
ment.
"It is mine! I will do as I please with
it I" she said, authoritatively, when he de-
murred. "If you will not- throw it back, I
can call Albert" (this was the servant) "to
do it. I shall never again impale a poor
creature upon a hook and draw it out of the
water to die."
So the trout was thrown back, to Albert's
great disgust, and Miss Desmond pronounced
her fishing over for the day. "It is too beau-
tiful to do any thing more than be merely
idle 1" she' said, 'leaning back against the
great brown trunk of a water-oak, and tilting
her hat over her brow, low enough to keep
the sun out of her eyes, but not low enough
to shut out a view of the level expanse of
water, the curving shore, and the dark, sol-
emn pines,' whence now and then the breeze
brought whiffs of that spicy, aromatic odor
familiar' to the nostrils of all those who have
ever lived in a pine-region.
After a while, however, she grew weary
of quiescence, and, rising, sauntered away, re-
fusing absolutely to allow Carl to accompany
her, "Stay where you are, and catch my
fish again~If you can," she-said, a little mock-
ingly. "As for me, I am tired of society just
now, and I want a little solitude."
"Tired of your society," would have been
the true rendition of that sentence, if poor

Carl had only known it; but the 8tars will
fall indeed when it begins - to enter the re--
motest conception of a man in love that his so~
ciety can possibly ever bore the woman with
whom he is in love.
So Miss Desmond wandered away into
solitude, farther and farther from the group
she had left behind, front the sound of Mrs.
Sandford's theatrical little scream every time
Captain Tyndale drew forth a fish, from Les-
lie's pleasant, ringing laugh, from Arthur-
talking to Oarl and Carl talking back to Ar-
thur, each out of his own leafy covert-wan-
dered aimlessly on and on, plucking absently
at a water-lily which Carl had procured for
her at the imminent risk of a plunge-bath..--
thinking, meanwhile, thoughts neither very
sweet nor very bitter, but simply grave, if it
were possible to judge by the expression of
her face. -
After a while she came to a nook so pret-
ty that it involuntarily tempted her to pause.
The shore rounded just here into a mimic
bay, the green turf sloped softly down to the
water's edge, and, under the silvery branches
of a willow that bent until it touched the lake,
a little skiff was lying, with the oars across it.
At this Norah looked, with desire in her eyes;
but it had been many a long day since she
l~iad handled an oar, and she had a great dis-
like to trouble, added to a still greater dis~
like of making herself ridiculous. "Better
never do a thing at all than not do it well,"'
was her motto-a motto which she faithfully
observed, for she never did attempt to do any
thing at all unless 'she was sure of being able-
to do it well. Hence, in the present instance,
she contented herself with sitting down on
the grass and throwing a longing glance at
the boat lying ~so restfully under the willow.
She was almost sorry now that she had not
allowed Carl to come with her-" except that
I am so horribly tired of him," she said,
aloud, throwing' a tiny pebble into the water
with a plash.
" So' horribly tired of whom?" asked a
voice over her head; and then, as she start-
ed and looked up, Max Tyndale added "I
beg' pardon, Miss Desmond. should not
have answered your remark, only the tempta-
tion wtt~ great." -
"The temptation to play eavesdropper?" -
asked she, haughtily. "But, then, people-
who soliloquize in the open air must expect
eavesdroppers, I suppose. It seems to me,


A DAUGHTIIIR O1~' BOHEMIA.                                              ON THE LAKE.                     79

Captaitt Tyndale," she added, in a different
tone, "thai you are always begging my par-
don about something or other."
"Yott mean, perhaps, that I am always
doing something for which I need to beg your
pardon.? "'
"Perhaps that is it. For example, what
are you doing here now? I came away to en-
joy ssydelce far nisnte; and I did not imagine
that th~ whole party would soon be following
'I
Sue.
"Am I the whole party? It has really
struck me that I am only one, and an insig-
niflca~stmemhe!of it"
"It ~.s easier to fancy that the whole party
are cowing' than that you have come alone,
unless, like myself~ you are in search of the
twin reads, silence and solitude."
"I am afraid that you are the only 9read
whom I can honestly plead guilty of being in
search of,"
"And, may I ask, why are you in search
of me?"
"I answer in the words of Katharine to
Petruehio,,' I am scat to bid you come in to
dinner '----or rather to luncheon."
"It is a pity to leave out any thing so ap-
propriate as the first part of that sentence.
Why arc you not honest enough to quote in
full~ and say, 'Against my will, I am sent to
bW yen come in to dinner?"'
'~ ~imply because it was not against my
wl~"ftuswered he. "I not only Insisted upon
C9IISing, ~but I bore off the palm from Middle-
teti, who was anxious to be sent on the same
errand."'
"Hose very tired you must have grown of
Mi's. Sa.udford 12' said she; then, as he flushed,
she laughed. "Confess that being bored was
the secret of your anxiety to corae-if, in-
deed, you were anxious."
"Well, yes, I confess that was it," said
hs, laughing in turn, but emulating her frank.
ness with remarkable ease. "Mrs. Sandford
is a very pleasant person, and one who dces
rae the honor of professing to be a friend of
mine; 'but still, a whole morning spent in
her society is--.is-.---" Here he paused.
"...-Is rather exhausting, I should think,"
said Mis.s Desniond. "I found an hour of it
a great deal too much for me last night."
"Yet she speaks west enthusiastically of
you."
"Does she? Tlrst in very good of her,
especially since I em unable to return

any of the compliments she way have paid
me.~
." I confess that I like, to hear a woman
speak pleasantly of other women," said Cap-
tain Tyndale He was leaning back against
a tree, and looking meditatively at the charm-
ing picture which the beautiful woman, be.
fore him wade. "It shows amiability, at
least."
"Do you think so? Knowledge of wom-
en is your special Ar~e, is it not, Captain
Tyndale?"
* "Very far fr-em it," answered he. "I sm
old-fashioned enough to credit women with a
great many wore virtues than they-than
many of them, that is-seem to care to be
credited with at present."
"I don't \think any woman of sense likes'
to be set up on a pedestal, with a label
of conventional virtues attached," said she.
"We are what God has wade us-a subtle
mixture of good and bad, of sense and folly.
But we are nothing if we are not sincere.
Now, a woman like Mrs. Sand.ford, with only
honey on her lips, is not sincere.~~
"You mean, I suppose, that 'who dare
not censure, scarce can praise?"'
"I mean that praise which is given indis~
criminately is worth nothing.-~--execpt to show
the weakness or falsity of the speaker. You
look shocked! See how you men are shocked
if you hear a woman speak truth once in a
way2'
"I cannot think that it is truth, Miss Des-
wend- I cannot believe that amiability al-
ways means weakness or falsity."
"And I never said or implied any thing
of the kind. But you are one of the urea
who will live and die worshiping an ideal, un-
less, indeed, you have the misfortune to mar-
ry it2'
"And then?"
"Oh, well, thenyon will find that gall is
occasionally mixed with the honey."
"Shall I?" said he, a little dreamily. It
is likely that he was not thinking of Mrs.
Sandferd, as he passed his hand half absently
acroSs the red mark wbieh the straw hat in
his hand had' left on his forehead. "But
there are some women who have no gall in
their nature," said he,
"When you find such a woman, you may
reasonably hope that a century hence her
name will take its place in the calendar of the
Church."          -

"How can you be so incredulous of good
in your own sex I" said he, almost sharply.
"I am not ia~rcdulous of good, hut of
perfection. Besides, you sh~uId remember
that my experience of life has not been fa-
vorable to seeing much of the qualities which
you laud in my own sex~ Few women have
honey on their lips for a beautiful Bohemian
like myself. Such fr-lends as I have made in
my life-and they are few enough, God knows!
-have all been men."
"All, Miss Desmond?"
"All except the nuns of a convent in
which I once spent a few months, and ac-
quired all the education and all the religion
that I possess."
She spoke half defiantly, as if to say,
"See and know the worst of me!" but Max'
made no reply. He was not at all shocked-
for few things are able to shock a. man who
has seen much of the world-but he thought
how. different this woman was from any wom-
an whom he could possibly admire or love.
Beautiful though she was-beautiful with a
glory of flesh aud blood rarely equaled-her
Bohemian defiance and recklessness con.
damned her utterly in his eyes. Again he
compared her with Leslie-thereby ignoring
the different circumstances that had made the
different women what they were - and tried
to fancy that graceful embodiment of all wom-
anly gentleness denying the good in her own
sex, and openly proclaiming the fact that all
her friends were men! While he was trying
to do this, and failing utterly, Norab's voice
roused him-a 'toice, with that tone of mock-
ery in it, which, of all her tones, was most
distasteful to his ear.
"Now that I have thoroughly shocked
you, Captain Tyndale, and showed you how
entirely I belong t~ the life in which Iwas
born and reared, I will let you go to luncheon.
Don't trouble about we. I will come after
a while when I feel like it. Just now, I don't
feel like it in the least. 'I am comfortable
and lazy.~~
"So am I," said he, "and therefore, if
you will be good enough to let use stay-"
"Let you stay! But are you not hungry?
Men always are hungry."
"I don't think they always are-at least,
tam sure 'that I am not, just at present."
"I see that you are afraid of Mrs. Sand-
ford," said sire. "Honey clogs after a time,
even on the palates of' those who like it. But

you may stay on one condition-.-.-that you will
take rue out on the water in that charming
little boat under the willow there."
"I will take you with pleasure, if you
care to go, but are you not afraid of the sun?
Arthur decided not to propose boating until
this afternoon."
"The sun can do nothing but tan me a
littIe~ and that I am not afraid of'. But, if
you object to the exertion-.--"
"I object to the exertion? I'll have the
boat out in a minute, and take you round the
lake, if you care to go."
-4---
CHAPTER XIV.
"The day so mild
Is Heaven's own child,
With Eartlrpnd Ocean reconciled;
The airs I feel
Around me steal
Are murmuring to the murmuring keel.
"Over the rail
My hand I trail
Within the shadow of the sail,
Ajoy Intense,
The cooling sense
Glides down my drowsy Indolence."
"An, how delightful! "said Norab. "Could
any thing possibly be more pleasant?"
It was the first genuine expression of
pleasure which she had uttered at Strafford,
and seemed drawn from her involuntarily, as
she found herself floating on the still bosom
of the lake, with the golden noonday lying
all around her, and a breeze, which had just
then sprung up, bringing spicy wafts of pine.
land fragrance over them.
"It is pleasant," said Max-." pleasanter
then I thought it would be! If we coast along
in the shade, we shall not suffer from heat at
all, and we can go to the bead of the lake if
you like."
"If I like!" repeated she. "If you leave
the question of how far we shall go to we, I
warn you that I shall be likely to have no
mercy on your arms. I can imagine nothing
more delightful than the lulling charm of this
gliding motion."
"You ~poke of doles far rriente a little
while ago," said he, pullin~ along with the
easy skill ofa practiced. oarsman. "This is'
the perfection of ib-.---to float dreamily along
us a boat is even more suggestive of repose
on such a day and under such a sky as this,


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                            A MANY-SIDED CHARACTER.              81

than to lie on the grass under the shadow
of a tree."
"So I think; and yet you did not want to
come!',
"Pardon me-I only wanted to warn* you
that you would be likely to find the sun very
warm."
"I am not afraid of the sun. I have
lived mostof my life in the south of Europe,
where people love and enjoy it."
"But where they also understand how
and when to keep out of it. For stillness
and repose, commend me to a high-noon in
Italy or Spain."
"And yet how you see the fishermen and
lazzaroni basking ia that very high-noon! I
have seen it often, and wished that I were
one of them."
"What a lucky thing that our wishes are
not always gratified, isn't it?"
"I am not sure of that. With regard to
my wish, for instance, I envied the lazzaroni,
because they are so entirely contented with
life, and all that life has given them. I know
no other class of people who are half so well
satisfied. I have never, to my knowledge,
envied a duke or duchess, but I have often
envied the beggar curled up in a palace door-
way. We Bohemians are next to them in
devil-may-care recklessness, and indifference
to all save the passing hour; but we lack the
sublime philosophy and trust of our poor re-
lation on a Neapolitan door-step."
"Your poor relation may have a sublime
trust, but he has also a keen eye to the chance
of a penny.~~
"So have we - a keen eye to whatever
may advantage us, a keen sense of all the lib-
e~ty, pleasure, and respect, that flows from
money. I know, for instance, exactly how
much it would take to live like a gs-and~e dame
in Paris; and I confess I should like as well
to try the experiment as our poor relation
likes macaroni on a fete day."
"I should think your life in Paris would
not be difficult to compass," said he, looking
at the beautiful face before him. "Women,
with fewer advantages than yours, have often
made brilliant marriages."
"Women, with less beauty and less clev-
erness, perhaps ±ou mean," answered he,
coolly. "Those are trump cards, and sure to
win when one's position in life s~port~them
-otherwise they only secure for tlt~ir pos-
sessor attention and admiration little removed

from insult. The beauty and wit of a vagrant
are of small account in the respectable world,
Captain Tyndale. I learned that by the time
I was fifteen."
"You seem to have learned a great many
hard lessons for one so young."
"A street Arab generally learns a little
more of life than a mother's darling in his
nursery at home."
"And you-?"
"I have been one of the Arabs of civiliza-
tion ever since I was born. You would laugh
if you knew how strange the life in which I
find myself here seems to me. Its ease, its
luxury, its comfort, are literally incredible.
I find myself expecting all the time some jar
of the wheels, some proof of sordid care, of
debt and trouble and want of money, behind
the scenes."
"What a life you must have lived!"
"And yet it has been a freer and happier
one than many you would hold enviable by
the side of it. We know how to enjoy our.
selves iii Bohemia; in the worst weather we
know how to keep. 'on the windy side of
care;' and, when we do have any money, we
know how to spend it royally!" -
"I am aware of that," said lie, laughing.
"And, although I have sometimes felt as
if I would give any thing to hold some definite
position in lire," said she, trailing Carl's lily
slowly through the water," as if I would like
to stand no longer in an attitude of defiance
to society, yet I know that I could not endure
the bondage and stagnation of ordinary re-
spectable existence-of your ideal woman's
existence, for example - for an hour! I
should pine as the lion which Girard brought
from the desert, pined in his cage, in the Jar.
din des Plantes."
"Then you mean to live and die a Bohe-
mian?"
"I mean to do nothing save take life as it
comes-as I am taking it to-day. Look up
at that sky, Captain Tyndale-it is beautiful
enough for Italy! And see how the green
boughs go across it! Ah, i~s something to
be alive on such a day as this-just to be
alive! One need not wish or ask for any
thing more!',
She threw her head back and looked up-
ward, the flickering shadows falling lovingly
across the white arch of her throat and the
rounded outlines of her form. The attitude
was as free from affectation or self-conscious.

ness as that of a child, and yet graceful as
that of the most thoroughly-trained actress.
She seemed reveling, as she had said, in the
simple ~ensuousness of existence-a nature
full of vitality and keenly alive to beauty,
thrilling with the full pulse of life, ~
steeped to the lips in the golden charm
the summer day. Max looked at her criti-
cally. After all, he could not wonder that
Arthur had loved this woman with a passion
greater than any which he had given to Les-
lie Grahame. She was eminently the kind of
woman to fascinate a man of Arthur's stamp,
Captain Tyndale decided - a woman with
moods like a chameleon, a woman who could
be simple as a child one moment, and impe-
rious as a queen the next-yet who might,
perhaps, fascinate even while she puzzled,
annoyed, and repulsed. "But it would fare ill
with any man who tied his heart-strings to he~-
rudder!" he thought, going back in imagi-
nation to that "serpent of old Nile" whose
infinite variety age could not wither nor cus-
tom stale. In truth, even Captain Tyndale's
cool judgment began to find itself a little at
fault with this "beautiful Bohemian," us she
called herself. She had already shown him
so many different sides of her character, that
he began to wonder which was the real one-
or if, indeed, there were a real one! As fast
as he felt an inclination to like or admire her,
she shocked and disconcerted him; as soon
as he detected a trace of womanly gentleness,
it turned into haut~ar or mockery. "What
the deuce am I to do?" thought be, medi-
tatively.
It may be imagined, perhaps, that there
was no very incumbent necessity upon him
to do any thing, as far as Miss Pesmond and
her peculiarities of manner and character
were concerned; but the "martial diplo-
mate," as she called him, thought otherwise.
He could not forget that he had solemnly
promised to obtain, if possible, some assur-
ance of what she meant to do, and he could
not forget, either, that this assurance was as
yet entirely unobtained. In the morning
Arthur had reminded him of this fact. "You
will have an opportunity to see Norah alone
to-day, Max," he said. "For Heaven's sake,
try and draw something definite from her!"
iThw, with Mrs. Sandford and Carl Middleton
in the background, Max knew perfectly well
that the present was the only opportunity
for seeing Norah alone, and therefore he was
6

naturally anxious to make the most of it, and
open his important negotiation at once. But
how to do it? That was the question.
It was a question which dwelt on his
mind not a little, as he rowed along in the
perfect stillness of the noonday, under the
drooping shadow of the trees that lined the
shore, past the tiny, curving bays and inlets,
and finally around a point which opened to
them a different part of the lake altogether-
a part more beautiful than any they had seen
before, Norah thought, as she looked at the
crystal water stretching away, until it seemed
to vanish in the depths of a green, shadowy
forest which fringed it at the upper end, such
a forest as those who have never seen South-
ern forest-growth, especially in the vicinity
of water, cannot even imagine. -
"The tropics must be like this, I ima-
gine l" said she, pointing to the broad-leaved
water-plants around, and the indescribable
blending of color in the foliage and under-
growth beyond. "How much more beauti-
ful than the park, for we are past the park
now, are we not?"
"Entirely past it"
"And does tizis"-iadicating with a mo-
tion of her hand the magnificent verdure be-
fore them-" does tide belong to Arthur Tyn-
dale, also?"
"Every rod of ground around us belongs
to him."
"I am sorry!" said she. "Oh, not ~orry
that he is rich!" she added, quickly, as she
met Max's glance. "That is not a matter of
the least importance. I only meant that I
am sorry there is no breathing-place for me
even in those beautiful woods, for I cannot
breathe freely on Arthur Tyndale's ground."
"Do you hate him so much, Miss Des-
mond?"
"Hate him!" She turned her full, brill-
iant glance on him. "No, Captain Tyndale,
I do not 'hate him' in the icast."
"Why, then-" he began, but seemed to
think better of the question, and paused.
She finished it for him with the impetu-
osity to which he had by this time become a
little accustomed.
"Why, then, do I feel that I cannot breathe
in his house or on his lafids? Simply because
I scorn the man, with a scorn which I cannot
express to you, and because I scorn myself
not a little for being here to-day, for playing,
or seeming to play, a part which degrades me!"

p.


4

82                       A DAUGHTER
Max saw his oppoTtunity and seized it at
once-despite the quick passion that lit up
her mobile features at the last words.
"Will you allow me to ask why you do
play it, then?" he said.
"Because I choose to do so," she an-
swered, curtly.
After this there was naturally nothing
more to be said. Captain Tyndale devoted
himself in silence to his oars; Miss Desmond
still trailed Carl's lily through the ~ater, and
was silent also. They had proceeded some
distance, and were floating rather than row-
ing past a shore along which tangled vines,
with starry leaves and brilliant crimson flow-
ers, were running i~i many trailing loops and
graceful festoons, when Norah spoke again
-abruptly:
"That was ver.j rude-that last speech
of mine! I might have told you civilly, at
least, that I choose to keep my affairs to my-
self~ might I not?"
"I have no right to quarrel with the in-
civility of your reply, Miss Desmond; my
question drew it on myself."
"You always contrive to blame yourself,
Captain Tyndale. Are you very amiable or
very hypocritical?"
"Neither, I think-I never take blame to
myself when I do not honestly believe that I
deserve it."
She laughed; and, throwing the lily care-
IessI~' away, plunged her white, gleaming
hand into the water instead.
"How pleasant. I" she said. "Who would
not be a naiad, if she could!" Then,
abruptly: "But you have taken blame to
yourself once or twice when it wss 1 who de-
served it."
"Was it? I think you must be mistaken.
I am not enough of a preux chevalier to be
ever gallant for the mere sake of gallantry."
"You puzzle me a little," said she, look-
ing at him with inquisitive eyes. "I never
met a man exactly like you before-and that
is something unusual in my experience. Most
men are alike on all general points."
"In what particular have I struck you as
unlike other men?" asked he, looking in-
tently at the beautiful face, on which the.
broad light of noonday fell, showing every
delicate tint and perfect curve.
"Well, for one thing," said she, candidly,
"most men lose their heads in talking to me.
You have not done so."

OF BOHEMIA.

"I prefer to keep my head under all cir-
cumstances," said he, coolly. "It is more
convenient. Men who lose their heads lose
every advantage that skill or chance can give
them. I prefer to take all of mine."
"Soshouldl; ifiwereaman!"
"And, although you ar~ a very beautiful
woman, Miss Desmond, you are' not a wom-
an-"
"Finish your sentence," said she, quietly,
as he paused. "Say that I am not a woman
whom you admire.~~
"You credit me with more impertinence
and less taste than I deserve," answered he.
"Should I have been likely to have remem-
bered your face, as I saw it in Paris two years
ago, if I had not admired it? No; if I had
finished my sentence, I should have said that
you are not a woman whom a wise man would
allow to deprive him of his head or of his
heart."
"Wise men sometimes do very foolish
~things," said she, looking at her hand as it
lay idly under the water. "They sometimes
put their heads and their hearts into the
hands of a fool, and that is worse than put-
ting them into the hands of-you may char-
acterize me, if you choose, Captain Tyn-
dale."
"Shall I say, then-of a beautiful woman
who is trying to believe that she has no
heart?" A
"You a~i~perti~ent!" said she, sud-
denly turning h~r face round, and flashing an
eloquent glance of anger upon him.
"I beg your pardon. I see that one is
never safe, under any circumstances, in tnk-
ing a woman at her word."
"You might have called me a Bohemian
adventuress, or a fast flirt, and I should not
have cared."
"As far as I can venture to judge, how-
ever, you are neither of those things."
"But to say that I-lam 'trying to be-
lieve' that I have no heart!"
"It would have been wiser not to say it,
perhaps."
"What should I do with a heart, if I had
it?" asked she, with a low, scornful laugh.
"Let another man amuse himself with it as
long as he likes, and then throw it away to
harden or break as it pleases ? ~'
"Before you could ask such a question,
Miss Desmond, you must have forgotten that
there are men of honor in the World."

EXPLANATORY CONVERSATION~

"Men of honor to women of assured
position in life, very likely," said she, dryly.
"Men who would hold themselves bound
by their plighted word if it were given to one
of the lazzaroni of whom you spoke a little
while ago," said he, almost sternly.
She shrugged her shoulders.
"We need not discuss the subject. You
believe in the general honeyed nature of
women - Bohemian women excepted - from
your experience. I believe in the general lax
ideas of honor in men from my experience.
We all look at the world from a one-sided
point of view. It is a thing which cannot be
helped, I suppose."
"In our cynical moments most of us are
apt to look very gloomily on human nature,?'
said he; "but sometimes human nature
pro~1es itself better than we expected-more
generous, more faithful, more worthy of trust.
Miss Desmond, that is a riddle. Will you
read it?"
"I never read a riddle in my life, Captain
Tyndale."
"Then, in plain words," said he, quickly,
"I should like to think that you will prove
more generous than any one-than Arthur
Tyndale, least of all-has a right to expect
that you will be!"
"Ah~ said she, looking at him with a
sudden keen glance, "you have taken u~
your r6le of devil's advocate again, have you?
By-the-by, this reminds me thatr when we
were interrupted yesterday afternoon, you
were about to tell me what was your motive
for espousing your cousins cause and giving
him the invaluable aid of your diplomatic
talent. We are not likely to be interrupted
here, so you can tell me now."
"I have no objection to doing so," said
he. "My motive for desiring to serve Ar-
thur is partly on account of my friendship ?or
him, but more particularly and principally on
account of your sister."
"On account ~f my sister!"
"Yes," said he, steadily, although he felt
with vexation that the keen eyes bent upon
him were noting a sudden flush which showed
itself through his bronzed skin. "I saw long
age-I mean months ago-that her happiness
is wholly bound up in Arthur, and that, if her
trust in him is once broken, it-~it will be a
terrible blow to her."
Captain Tyndale felt that he had fallen
into the depths of abject commonplace in

this speech; but he would have been a brave
man and a fluent man who could have held
his thoughts and his tongue under propercon-
trol with the lustrous challenge of Norali Des-
mond's glance bent upon him. Max felt his
ideas and his words alike forsaking him when
he suddenly remembered that the "terrible
blow" which he deprecated for Leslie had al-
ready fallen on her.
"So you think that Leslie's happiness is
'bound up' in Mr. Tyndale 1" she said, as he
paused-an incisive coolness in her voice
striking unpleasantly on his ear. "I should
have given her credit for being more of a
woman of the world, and looking at things
from a more worldly and philosophical point
of view."
"Then you must pardon me if I say that
you understand her very little," said he, bend-
ing with sudden energy to his oars.
"I have imagined that her engagement to
Mr. Tyndale is much such'an engagement as
is often made in society-convenience amply
consulted on both sides," she added, 'after a
short pause.
"It is impossible, Miss Desmond!" he
said, indignantly. "You could not have
known your sister for an hour, and done her
*so much injustice."
"Injustice! Is that injustice? I know
so little of your world that you must for-
give* me. I really thought it was high
praise."
"You arc m6cking both her and me," he
said, after a minute. "Since I have brought
it on myself, I suppose~ I have no right to com-
plain; but, if you will allow me to apologize
for having opened the subject, I can safely
promise never to do so again. My r6le of ad-
vocate is over."
"Is it?" said she, quietly-..-the mocking
light vanishing from her eyes, the mocking
tone from her voice. "I am glad to hear it,
Captain Tyndale, for it is not a r6le that be-
fits an honest man. As far as Leslie is con-
cerned, however, you are right. She is as
diftbrent from me as day is from night-so
different that, if we lived together for fifty
years, we should be no nearer any real sym-
pathy for each other than we are to-day-but
I see and recognize all the sweetness ftnd
strength that make up her character. I see
that she is engaged to Arthur Tyndale simply
because she loves him; and I, who came here
,with a heart as hard against her as the nether


84               A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                           MRS. SANDFORD'S INDIGNATION.          85

millstone, have learned already to hesitate
in my reprisal on iwr account."
- ~' Why should your heart have been hard
against her?" asked he, with point-blank di-
rectness.
"Why is a socialist's heart hard against
the rich? Is it not because they have that
which he lacks-'-.that for which he is starv-
ing? So it was with me.. I had never envied
Leslie the love and wealth which surrounded
her-in fact, I had scarcely ever thought of
her-but, when she wrote and told me that
to her had fallen, also, that which had been
the one bitter-sweet gift of my life-when she
said that the man who had treated me in so
cruel and cowardly a manner was her ac-
cepted lover-well, then it would have taken
some one more reasonable and more Christian
than I, not to desire to make her feel a little
of the bitterness which fihlcd my heart."
"And so it was~that you came?"
"Yes, so it was that I came-came pre-
pared for any amount of patronage and con-
descension, but not for one iota of the affec-
tion and kindness which met me in her honest
eyes."
"And for her sake-for her sake alone,
Miss Desmond-can you not spare Arthur
Tyndale the exposure which I freely own he
deserves?"
"Even for her sake~ Captain Tyndale,
would you advise mc to do so?"
"Why should I not advise you to do
so?"
"Simply because you might put yourself
in Leslie's place, and see whether you would
thank the mistaken kindness which sent you
through life holding a lie for truth, dishonor
for honor, a coward for a brave man I"
"But you do not look at the matter as I
do," said he, earnestly. . "A4hur Tyndale is
no worse than many other men who go
through life safe in the loving esteem of faith-
ful hearts.' He has fallen into dishonor more
through weakness than intent. But this dis-
honor does not touch his loyalty to your sis-
ter. I~e loves her unquestionably. You
think, perhaps "-as her lip curled-" that
this is a consideration of little importance.
lInt it is of great importance if we look at the
matter as it regards her, and we are looking
at it simply as it regards her, are we not?
Hence we cannot afford to ignore the fact that
Arthur's dishonoxi, as I said before, has not
affected his loyalty to her. For the rest, I I

am sure that you do not need for me to tell
you that she loves him. Neither can you
need for me to tell you what it would be to
her to discover the position which lie holds
to you. You see in all this," said he, break-
ing off abruptly, "I am taking for granted
that you have no feeling of-of the sort that
some women would have, left for him."
"I have no idea what sort of feeling some
women would have left for him," said she,
carelessly, "but I have none save contempt.
If it were possible to cut away with a sharp
knife and at any expense qf pain all that part
of my life into which he entered, I would do
it-simply that I might not include myself ia
this contempt. Beyond that, I have no feel-
ing of any kind for your cousin, Captain Tya-
dale."
"You can realize, however, that, to your
sister, such contemptuous renunciation of
what was once love, might not be so easy.
11cr pride would hold her aloof from him, but
I scarcely think that her scorn would enable
her to fling all need of him out of her life as
you have done."
"Would it not?" said Norah.
Again she turned a quick, intent glance
on the speaker.
"I am inclined to disagree with you," she
added, after a minute. "I think that if an-
other man-more worthy, and loving her as
well, perhaps better than Arthur Tyndale-
came into her life, she would soon learn to
love 1dm."
"I am presumptuous enough to say that
I think you are mistaken. I am sure that
Miss Grahame is one of those women who are
faithful by a divine instinct of Nature-faith-
ful often to unworthy objects and in their
own despite. Therefore it might be better
fo,~ her to go through life 'holding a lie for
truth' than to be overtaken by utter ship-
wreck at its very beginning."
"Certainly in the former case she would
not fare worse than other women have before
her," said Norah, cynically. "Was Satan
right, after all, I wonder? Ia it 'folly to tell
women truth?' Would they 'rather live on
lies, so they be sweet?' One might think so
from the universal practice of men. But, for
mc "-she turned on him with a sudden, pas-
sionate energy for which he was unprepared
-" I would rather a thousand-fold be miser-
able than deceived! Let any fool's paradise
into which I have entered be shattered forev-

er, so that the clear light of truth comes
in!"
"Still, can you not see that there may be
eases-"
"Yes, I can see that there may be cases
in which your conventional ideal woman
would rather be left to worship her clay idol
in ignorance. But, despite your opinion' of
Leslie, I think there may be better stuff in
her than that, She may be brave enough to
face the truth, and, if so, Captain Tyndale,
on myhonor as a Christian woman, she shall
have it! The choice shall rest with her-
self, however, I promise you that; and here
is my hand upon it!"
With a sudden, graceful motion, she drew
her hand, nil wet and gleaming, from the wa-
ter, and held it out to him. Dripping though
it was, the man would have been made of
strange material who hesitated to take it;
and, as Max bent forward to do so, he thought
that the first sweet smile he had ever seen on
the lovely lips before him was faintly curving
them just then.
"Thu are more generous than I ventured
to hope," he said. "But promise me that in
any case you will incline more to mercy than
to justice."
"I think you ought to be content with
what you have gained, Mr. Devil's Advocate,".
answered she, with the smile deepening a lit-
tle. "I cannot make any rash promises, even
though the hand on which ~t would be rati-
fied is rather slippery!"
CHAPTER XV.
"How many years since she and I
Walked that old terrace, hand-in-hand!
Just one star in the rosy sky,
And silence on the summer land.
And she?...
I think I hear her sing
That song-the last of all our songs.
How all comes back! thing after thing,
The old life o'er me throngs 1"
"I noN'T know what anybody else may
think," said Mrs. Sandford, "but I call such
conduct very fast, indeed!"
The irately virtuous tone of this remark
would have suited the chiefest of social Phari-
sees, instead of a lady famous for willful dis-
regard of all the laws and canons of proprie-
ty; but, when we are angry, very few of us are
strikingly consistent or logical, and Mrs. Sand.
ford was as angry just then as a pretty wom-

an who is fond of admiration ever becomes
in the presence of a man to whom' she is not
related.
"I don't know exactly what constitutes
fast conduct in a Chasseur d'Afrique," said
Carl, who was lying at full length o~i the
grass by her side, "but I think 'it is amazing-
ly inconsiderate conduct in your friend Cap-
tain Max,"
"You may be sure it is not Captain Tyz-
dale's fault !-" said she, with marked emphasis
on that gentleman~ s name. "He is not so
great an admirer of Miss Desmond's that he
would be likely to go off of ida own accord
and spend the whole day in her company."
"Whose accord 'could he have gone of,
then, I wonder?" said Carl. "Certainly not
on mine, for, as you may remember, I was
quite as anxious to go in search of her as he
was."
"I did not observe that he was anxious at
all."
"Didn't you? 'You must have been very
busy just then counting all the fish you had
caught."
"He does not admire Miss Desmond in
the least" (returning to that point with a
positive and somewhat triumphant air). "He
would scarcely acknowledge that she was
beautiful when I asked him if he thought so,
and, therefore, it is impossible that he' is in
fault for all this long absence."
"No man with any worldly knowledge, or
with tact above a grasshopp9r, ever tells one
woman that another woman is beautiful,"
said Middleton, placidly; "but, if Tyndale is
not in fault for all this long absence, it natu-
rally follows that Miss Desmond must be.
Yet I don't think she has any particular fancy
for Aim."
"Miss Desmond is the sort of woman who"
has a fancy for the society of any man. Is is
only that of women which she dislikes."
"I am not sure that you are wrong there,"
said he, laughing. "She may not fancy the
society of any man-to alter your emphasis a
little-but I think that, as a general rule, she
prefers men to women.~~
"Those Bohemian adventuresses always
do," said the pretty widow, provoked, until she
scarcely knew what she was saying. "They
know that women can see through them I"
"And they probably know,' also, how much
amiability and kind judgment they can expect
from women!" said Carl, with a flash, net of


86                 A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                               CARL IN A JEALOUS HUMOR.               87

laughter, in his eyes) while his brow knitted
into its quick frown.
"No woman was ever more disposed fo~
kind judgment than I am," said Mrs. Sand-
ford, quickly-conscious, perhaps, that she
ha4 gone a little too far. "I am foolishly, ab-
snrdly lenient in my opinions, but, when every-
body who knows any thing about the family,
knows what Miss Desmond's rearing has been,
she ought really, out of consideration for
herself; to be more careful in her conduct."
"I think I shall go in search of her," said
Carl, rising lazily to his feet, and leaving a
crushed outline of himself on the grass.
"This becomes interesting and mysterious.
One, two, three hours since Tyndale disap-
peared, and no sign of either of them yet.
If there were panthers in this wood, one
would know what to think; but, as it is, I'll
give Miss Desmond your hint, Mrs. Sandford,
for which, no doubt, she will be properly
grateful, and send Tyndale as soon as I find
him."
With this cavalier adieu, he sauntered
away, leaving Mrs. Sandford-a desperate
being in ~cris linen~ and blue ribbons-alone
on the margin of the lake. She did not throw
herself in, however, but was found, in a pictu-
resque, musing attitude, by Miss Grahame and
Mr. Tyndale when they came up a little while
after.
"What, all alone?" said Leslie. "Has
Carl vanished too?"
"Oh, Mr. Middleton is so bewitched by
Miss Desmond, and so inconsolable at her
absence, that I really could not keep him
any longer on my hands!" answered this in-
genuous lady. "I i~gsted upon his going in
search of her, and he left. only a minute ago."
"I cannot imagine what has become of
Norak and Captain Tyndale," said Miss Gra-
hame, "unless Arthur is right in thinking
that they ha~e probably taken the boat and
gone to~the head of the lake."
"I am sure they have done that," said
Arthur. "I noticed a short while ago that
the boat has vanished from the place where
Max usually leaves it."
"But it was very selfish of them to go off
alone," said Mrs. Sandford, in a tone of th~
most genuine vexation. "I should have
liked to see the head of the lake, too I"
"Some accident must have occurred to
detain them," said Leslie, "else I am sure
Morah would have been back before this."

"I think I hear the sound of oars now,"
said Tyndale, walking nearer to the shore.
This proved to be the case. The sound
of oars and of voices was heard, together with
a light laugh, which the listener had cause
to know well. The next moment, around a
curve of the shore, the two delinquents came
into sightMax pulling so lazily on his oars
that it was scarcely wonderful they had not
arrived before; Norah, with her lap full of
wild-flowers, trailing one long, leafy spray in
the water, as she had trailed Carl's liardly-
won and lightly-thrown-away lily before it.
"Have you wondered what had become
of us? ~ she asked, as Max ran the boat up
to the bank and she stepped ashore, being
forced to accept, in doing so, a slight assist-
ance from the hand which to avoid she had
soiled her boot in the morning. "fr~is all
my fault. I carried Captain Tyndale off
whether he would or no, and we f~und a
fairy-land in those beautiful woods at the
head of the lake. See! are not these beauti-
ful ?" She held up her flowery spoils. "Does
anybody know enough of botany to tell me
what they are?"
While Leslie was admiring the flowers,
and naming the most familiar varieties, Mrs.
Sandford turned to -Captain Tyndale, who,
having, also stepped ashore, was making his
craft fast to a convenient tree.
"Unless I should have been entirely de
Irop, I think y~u might have been kind
enough to come back and invite me to accom1
pany you on your expedition," she said, open-
ing a perfect battery of reproachful glances
on him. "I should have liked nothing bet-
ter than to have gone. I adore boating!"
"Do you?" said he, lifting his head after
having fastened the boat. ~'But you adore
croquettes and Heidsick, also, don't you? If
you remember, you were all going to luncheon
when Miss Desmond and I started on our 'ex-
pedition.'."
"And, pray, are you and Miss Desmond
so ethereal that you are able to dispense with
food altogether? or did you find luncheon a~
well as flowers at the head of the lake?"
"We found a few well-baked blackberries,
the very last of the season."
"You must have\left the boat to find
those I"
"Of course we left the boat. I suppose
we spent an hour wandering about in search
of the flowers Miss Desmond has."

"Indeed!" said Mrs. Sandford. She gave
a glance at Norah, as she stood with flushed,
lovely face and torn dress-for her encoun-
ters with bushes and briers had not been few
-farther in the shadc~ Then she laughed
her rippling laugh, which sounded like a
piano-forte scale. "It is really refreshing to
see a-woman who knows so well how to make
men of use as Miss Desmond does!" she
said. "As for me, I am so afraid of being
troublesome that I scarcely ever venture to
make such downright demands on their time
and patience."
"You should not be so modest," said
Max, with a tone of irony in his voice. "Men
are nothing if not useful."
"I don't think one gains any thing but
boredom by modesty, after all," said she;
"so, 4f you are sure you are not tired, you
may take me out on the lake for a little while,
please."
"Delighted to do so, I nsa sure," said he,
with one of thos~ ready falsehoods which we
all tell so glibly, and solace our consciences
by thinking it merely "conventional,"
So, complying weakly with a feminine in-
vitation, for the second time that day, Cap-
tain Tyndale found himself again afloat, row-
ing across the lake with tired arms, and lis-
tening to his companion's emphasized conver-
sation with a somewhat tired mind.
Carl, meanwhile, made his appearance,
having caught a glimpse of the homeward-
bound boat as he sauntered along the shore,
more bent on escaping Mrs. Sandford than on
finding Norah. Although he had carried off
matters so lightly with the former, he had
in truth been sorely offended by Miss Des-
mend's desertion and long absence. Hope-
less as he was, or might have been, for him-
self, he was ready to be jealous of anybody in
the world on whom the light of her eyes should
chance to fall, and he anathematized Max
Tyndale almost as warmly as he had before
anathematized Arthur, while the long hours
which the former was spending at her side
wore away. "She can no more help flirting
than she can help breathing," he thought.
"Of course she is making a fool of him!"
Now, although the after-effects of being made
a fool of are not pleasant, it is nevertheless
(with a woman who thoroughly understands
her business) a very delightful amusement at
the time, aJ3d of this Carl was fully nware.
Hence, he indulged in savage thoughts of

[ Captain Tyndale, who was just then, no
doubt, enjoying this delight. Hence, also, he
looked remarkably grave and a trifle de-
pressed when he came up to where Norab,
Leslie, and Arthur, were standing on the
bank, watching Max as he pulled the little
boat vigorously along in the full blaze of the
afternoon sun.
"Captain Tyndale must surely be in
training," said Carl. "Does he do this sort
of thing often? He has been rowing steadily
on a stretch-for how znany hours?"
"He did very little rowing when I was in
the boat," said Norah. "We floated most
of the time. You have no idea how pleasant
it is if one keeps in the shade."
"Very pleasant, I dare say" (a little
grimly). "But is he trying to disgust Mrs.
Sandford, that he is keeping so broadly in the
sun just now?"
"The shadow is on the other side of the
lake at present," said Miss Desmond. "In
the morning it was on this side. That makes
the difference." Then she turned to Leslie.
"Have you had much sport since I left?"
she asked. "Have you caught many fish?
You know Mr. Middleton promised to eat all
of your catching."
"He will not be troubled or gratified, as
the case may be," answered Leslie. "I have
ca~ight literally nothing. In fact, a more harm-
less set of people never amused themselves
by dropping baits in water, I am sure."
"It has been so profitless,'.' said Tyndale,
"that I am afraid you must be tired. Sup-
pose we go to the house? Max and Mrs.
Sandford can follow at their leisure."
To the house, therefore, they took their
way-along the path which they had followed
in the morning-rather subdued in appear-
anke and manner-as people are apt to be
af~er a day of "pleasure." Certainly it is
or4y when we have set ourselves deliberately
to ~work to capture enjoyment, that we begin
to realize what a very elusive thing it is-al-
most as elusive as the love which-
"....will fly away from an emperor's match-
To dance at a penny wedding."
A very elusive thing it certainly seemed
to have proved to Carl, who at last broke si-
lence, with a frank expression of his senti-
ments:
"I knew the whole thing would be a fail-
ure," he said, "but really I was not prepared

87


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

for such an unmitigated bore as it has "Now, that life always had the greatest pea.
been!"                                    I sible attraction for me. I am anre I should

"What a pity, Mr. Tyndale could not hear
you!" said Norali. "It would serve as a warn-
ing to him not to invite such an exi1qcant gen.
ileman on another fishing-party."
"Do you mean to say, that you have not
been bored ? " demanded he, turning suddenly
upon her.
"Not particularly," answered she, indif-
ferently. "I did not expect any thing very
exhilarating in the way of amusement, and,
when one's expectations are moderate, one's
disappointment cannot be very severe."
"Yet you certainly must have been amused
after a fashion," said he, quickly and suspi.
ciously, "else you would not have remained
away with Tyndale so long."
"I cannot say that I was specially amused,
but it was better than sitting on a rug; hold-
ing a line in the water, and waiting for a fish
to impale itself on a hook."
"I should think it would have been worse
than any or all of those things to have that
heavy fellow on your hands for such a length
of time."
"My experience among 'heavy fellows'
h~s been so great that I have grown thor.
roughly accustomed to them. I am afraid I
should scarcely know what to do with a brill-
iant one if I were to meet such a s-era avis."
"Indeed!" said Carl, flushing, and real-
izing afresh that in any word - encounter he
was always sure to get the worst of Norah's
keen tongue.
After this, very little more was said. Miss
Desmond evidently meant to keep her own
counsel on the score of her long t~te-d-t~te with
Max-as, indeed, those who knew her were
soon forced to learn that she kept it on all
subjects. , It may have been that she owed to
the peculiar circumstances of her hap-hazard,
vagrant lif~,~ knowledge of the great worldly
wisdom wjaich lies in habitual reticence. At
all events, she possessed it in remarkable de-
gree for one so young.
When they reached the house, its cool
rooms looked doubly inviting after their green-
wood experience of five or six hours, as they
all agreed, sitting at ease in the pleasant
*  ,        drawing-room.
"I am sure I should not have liked to be
Maid Marian," said Leslie. "I scarcely think
Robin Hood himself could have tempted me."
"sow different people are!" said Norah.

have 'fled to the forest' with Allen-a-Dale
without compunction - and probably been
an unrepentant victim of chronic rheumatism
six months afterward."
"What an inducement you give one for
becoming an outlaw!" said Carl, with a tone
of only half jest in his voice.
But she turned from him impatiently-
addressing Arthur for the first time volunta-
rily:
"I have noticed but one thing lacking in
your beautiful grounds," she said. "Have
you no flower-garden  "'
"There is one," he answered, as if taken
by surprise, "but it is old- fashioned and
greatly neglected. Flowers soon run into
weeds, you know. Such as it is, however,
will you "-he paused, hesitated a moment,
then went on deprecatingly-" will you come
and look at it?"
"No, thanks," she was beginning, when
Leslie interposed:
"Yes, Norab, pray go! I want you to
see every thing at Strafford, and I think the
garden will be beautiful when it is put in or-
der again.-Take her, Arth\ur-and don't for-
get to show her what a lovely view there is
from the terrace just above."
"Will you come?" said Arthur again,
more deprecatingly than before.
He looked at her eagerly, so did Carl.
Both were uncertain what she would do. To
the surprise of both, she smiled suddenly-a
queer, puzzling smile-and, rising, bent her
head in assent. "Yes, I will go," she said.
Five minutes later, Tyndale and herself
w~re walking round the terrace-alone. The
long shadows of afternoon were stretching
across the greensward of the park; the gold-
en sunshine, slanting through the brown
trunks of the trees, had a mellow glory in it
- that serene, pathetic glory which ever
dwells in the close of a summer day. Some-
thing of this look seemed to rest on Norah's
face and in Norah's eyes when she turned at
last to her companion.
"Why did you ask me to come with you?"
she said, coldly, but more gently than she had
spoken to him yet. "Did I not tell you that
we were to be as strangers to each other?"
"And has not even a stranger the right to
ask you to walk around a terrace, to look at -
a flower-garden?" said he, with a thrill of

88


A PRIVATE INTERVIEW.

K

~Li4
I           -

N
N

z2~Cjj. N7~X NNNNN(

\ K

/
N
L

/
N

V' N

89

passion in his voice. "Stranger though I
may be to you, Norah..-exiled forever from
your heart, infinitely less to yo~i than these
men whom I have hated for. being at your side
all day-can I not even venture to do that?"
"No," answered she, with quick kauleur.
"You cannot even venture to do that, and so
I would have showed you, without an instant's
hesitation, if I had not desired to speak to you
-to say a few words which mu~t be uttered
in private."
"I am ready to hear them," said he, quict-
ly, "more than ready to hear any thing-the
worst thing-you can have to say to me!
Even the worst is better than not to hear your
voice or meet your eyes at tNll I"
"You will not be likely to intoxicate my
N       brain, or to disarm wy judgment, by such com~
monpl~ce flattery as that, Mi Tyndale," said
she, contemptuously. "Instead, you may in-
jure your cause more than you know by words
£       which are gratuitous insults to me."
"They are truth, Nora , if the truth is an
insult," said he, ely.' Then he stopped
suddenly and looked fnto her face. "My God,
what a mad fool I have been!" he said. "Do
you think I do not rdtl~e that now? Do you
think I can look at you-that I can catch a
glimpse of your face, that I can hear a tone of
your yoke-without remembering the old,
happy days at Baden? As you stand there
now-the terrace, the trees, your attitude-all
recall that evening when, coming down from
the castle, we paused on one of the terraces
of the mountain, and I told you how I had
learned to love you. Norah, have you for.
gotten?"
"I remembermany things which you might
be pardoned for wishing that Ishould forget,"
answered she. "But you must have forgotten
very much before you could dare to talk like
this to me-Norah Desmond I"
The tone in which she uttered her own
name, the manner in which she drew herself
up, in all the stateliness of her superb stat-
ure, would have befitted a princess rather than
a young person of very questionable Bohemian
descent; but Arthur Tyndale remembered this
haughty pride of old; and he'remembered,
also, that it would have fared ill with any
man who ventured to disregard it. In those
days of which he had spoken be had known
more than enough of the bitter school in which
Norah had gained her armor; and he knew,
likewise, how well it had served her in the

scenes and associations among which her life
had been spent.
"Forgive me!" he said, humbly. "I
meant to do any thing sooner than insult or
ofi'end you. I am too gkd to have oven a miii-
ute, in which to speak to you alone, to be will.
ing to shortefi it by a second. But I cannot
-Norab, it is impossible-I cannot forget the
past."
"Is it necessary for you to forget the past,
Mr. Tyndale?" asked she, with the mockery,
which had so greatly exasperated him in
their first interview, in her eyes, and on her
tongue. "When one is able to ignore a thing
as completely as you have done-when one is
emancipated from all trammels of honor or
faith-when one is free from all embarrass.
ment attending a plighted word-why should
it be necessary to forget the past?"
"Norab," he said, turning pale, and speak.
ing with lips which fairly quivered, "for God's
sake, spare me! I am not fit to cope with
you-I never was, for that.matter~-but now I
can only feel that I have ruined all the happi.
ness of my life, and that I-I have no one to
blame for it but myself!"
"No one to blame but yourself!" repeated
Norab, the merciless. "Do you blame your.
self~ Mr. Tyndale? I should never have fan.
e.ed such a thing for a moment. I was Sure,
on the contrary, that you praised and glorified
yourself for having displayed a great deal of
worldly acumen. Will you telime," said she,
changing her tone suddenly, "what you mean
by all these innuendoes? Why do you blame
yourself, and for what? It is too late to think
of your honor, I should imagine, and I scarce*
ly suppose that even your vanity could make
you fancy that my happiness is in jeopardy."
"Your happiness 1 "repeated he. "No. I
see plainly that your happiness has passed be.
yond my reach forever. I am selfish, as I
have been from the first, Norah-I think only
of myself. It is of tn~y happiness that I have
made utter shipwreck."
There was a minute's silence-a minute in
which he felt that Norah's unflinching eyes
were reading him through and through. It
chanced that they had paused immediately in
front of the library; and, if either of them
had noticed, just then, a slight rustle would
have been heard in one of the windows be-
hind them-if they had glanced around, they
might have seen a shadow which advanced,
hesitated, then quickly retreated


90                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                         ARTHUR'S UNHAPPY POSITION.             91

"Again I say that you must tell me ex-
plicitly what you mean, Mr. Tyndale," said
Norab, imperiously. "More may depend on
it than you imagine. Do you wish me to un-
derstand that you do not love Leslie, and that
you are pleased to imagine again that you do
love me?"
"I mean," said he, recklessly, "that I
have made a desperate and a terrible mistake
-that I do not love Leslie; and that, with all
the power of' my soul, I do love you!"
After this declaration, there was another
minute's silence-a minute in* which Norah
looked at him with a scorn, impossible to de-
scribe, kindling on her face."
"And these are the creatures to whom we
give our hearth" she said, at length-the
passionate cadence of her voice thrilling like
music on the still air. "We let such men as
this take our love and make a plaything of it!
Have you as honor?" cl4ed she, turning upon
him with sudden, scorching passion. "Are
you true to nothing-to nobody? Arc you
more unstable than water, more shifting than
sand? Or do you think that you will find in
me the weak and contemptible material of the
woman who allows herself to serve for amuse-
ment twice?"
"I only think-" he began, as passionate-
ly as herself.
But, at this moment, there came a sudden
crash in the window behind, which.made them
both start and turn-the blood rushing guilt-
ily to their faces, their pulses throbbing with
a quick alarm. If Leslie-
But, instead of Leslie, it was Mrs. Sandford,
who appeared in the window, holding up her
white hands, in playful deprecation, to Arthur.
"0 Mr. Tyndale," she cried, "are you
t~sere ?-ean you ever forgive me? I-oh, I
are so sorry-so very sorry I In looking over
your book-shelves, I have been so miserably
unfortunate as to throw down this beautiful
pedestal, and break the bust of Dante."
CHAPTER XVI.
"Oh, hadet thou always better thought of men,
Thou hadst then acted better. Carat suspicion!
Unholy, miserable-doubt t To him
Nothing on earth remains unwrenched and firm
Who has no faith."
AT eleven o'clock at night-the night of'
the day which had witnessed, among a million

or so other social transactions, the excursion
of Miss Grahame and her guests to Strafford
-Arthur Tyndale was walking from Rosland
across the starlit fields in the direction of his
own domain. Strongly against his inclina-
tion, he had been obliged to return with the
party to dinner. Max had unequivocally de-
dined this pleasure; but Max was a free man
and could do as he liked, despite Mrs. Sand-
ford's appealing glances. Arthur, on the oth-
er hand, was bound in the chains of one of
the most oppressive forms of bondage on this
earth of curs-that of an "engaged" man.
ilowevor unexacting hisfianc~ie may be-and
singularly unexacting Leslie was-society de-
mands certain observances and attentions
from the man who has entered into an en.
gagement of marriage, which not seldom weigh
with a most irksome weight on his spirit.
"You are coming with us, Arthur, are you
not?" Miss Grahame had said when they
took their departure; and Arthur-who would
have given any thing to answer "No "-stood
literally devoid of a decent excuse for doing
so. He could not say that the day had been
so oppressively wearisome that it had ren-
dered him uiifit for any other social duty;
still less could he say that, to be in Nornh's
society without any opportunity of obtaining
a word or even a glance from her, had grown
intolerable to him. The memory of other
days was with him all the time-of days when
no one in the world had a right to come be-
tween them, when she was his, his only, his
forever, as he had thought, according to the
poor jargon in which we dress up our brief
fever-fits of fancy.
Now all this was changed. She was Carl's,
Max's, anybody's, rather than his - and he
was engaged to Leslie Grahame. These were
two facts which stared him relentlessly in the
face, as he walked through the quiet, dewy
fields, watching the sinking, crescent moon,
while he smoked his cigar and pondered va-
rious things, profitable and otherwise. Chief
among the latter class were many thoughts
of Norah Desmond. He could nut forget that
this woman, who stood as far from him now
as one of the planets journeying tranquilly
over his head, might, a year before, been his
wife at a word. It was in vain that he told
himself that things were much better as they
were; that Leslie suited him incomparably
better than her brilliant Bohemian sister ever
could have done - his heart, his fancy, his

passion, whatever was most concerned, said
"Nay" to it all. He felt in every fibre that
he was Norah's slave again-that he had been
her slave ever since the mouaent she first
looked at him with her imperious eyes.
Yet this folly-this sudden, reckless revi-
val of a passion which, for eighteen months,
had lain dormant and made no sign-did not
blind his eyes to the position in which he
stood. Norah'5 cynicism was founded on
truth in one respect at least-men arc not
likely to play fast-and-loose with their plighted
word when it is passed to one of their own
order, to a woman supported by all that wealth
and position can give, however lightly they
may hold it where the daughter of a Macaire
is concerned. To disregard an engagement
with Norah Desmond was one thing, to break
an engagement with Leslie Grahame quite
another. Mr. Tyndale fully recognized the
distinction .which made this difference.
So it was that his reflections went much
in a circle, like a vicious syllogism. Norah
and Leslie, Leslie and Norah; the terrace at
Baden and the terrace at Strafford made a
strange medley in his mind, as he walked
slowly through wood and field; and when,
after having smoked half a dozen cigars, he
found himself at last at the door of Strafford,
he was still unable to perceive any ray of
light illuminating the predicament in which
he found himself. "I'll see Max, anyhow l"
he thought. Max had come to fill very much
the position of a moral bolster to Mr. Tyn-
dale's wavering desires and resolutions.
But when he paounted to Max's room-
from which a light was streaming out on the
summer night-he found it deserted. A fresh
breeze was blowing through the open win-
dows, and tossing over a number of loose
papers on a table in the centre of the floor,
but the deep leather chair beside the table,
in which Max had evidently been lounging,
was empty. Into this chair Arthur flung him-
self-resting his head against the back, and
closing his eyes wearily. lie would wait for
his cousin, he thought, feeling literally inca-
pable of any further exertion in the way of
sear~l, just then. To employ his own phrase,
he was "dead beat" by the listless wander-
ings and various emotions of the day. It had
been, from first to last, not only a bore, but
something much worse than a bore to him.
lie had been full of intense weariness' and
passionate jealousy both at once, combined

with the absolute necessity of showing nei-
ther; and the overwrought strain consequent
upon this state of affairs, had caused his in-
sane outbreak of the afternoon. What harm
he had done himself by this outbreak he could
not as yet determine. Though he could not
drive the memory of Norah's last words or
Norah's last looks from his memory, he felt
that it was impossible to pause and weigh
them in their practical bearing. His head
was not cool enough for such work. Max,
now, might very readily be capable of it, but
the very last thing in the world which Arthur
thought of doing, was of telling the story of
his folly to Max. He knew his cousin's par-
tisanship for Leslie Grahame, and his cousin's
stern ideas of honor, too well to v~ture upoii
such a recital.
It may be imagined, perhaps, that the
thought of having been overheard by Mrs.
Sandford -~-- who had so unexpectedly an-
nounced her presence in the library-window
-was a trifle the reverse of pleasant, and
added another complication to those already
thickening around him. But there- are some
fortunate people in the world who, with re-
gard to all matters not absolutely certain, are
able to believe just what they wish to belieite.
Probability is for them tinged entirely with
the color of their own needs and desires.
Conscience itself readily becomes their ad-
vocate. To this class, Arthur Tyndale be.
longed. It was not convenient to him to in-
troduce another element of annoyance into
the troublesome imbroglio in which he found
himself - therefore he chose to ignore the
probability that Mrs. Sandford had overheard
any thing of what passed on the terrace.
Her presence in the library was, as she had
explained, a mere accident. She had just
come in-she could have heard nothing-she
had evidently been entirely unaware -of the
near neighborhood of any one else. All this
he believed, because it suited him to believe
it. There arc many people in the world whe
are unable to give any better reason for much
more important creeds.
So, going over the same tread-mlfl of ex-
asperating thought, he yawned and waited,
and waited &amp;nd yawned, half' an hour for Max.
But, even at the end of' half au hour, Max
ba4 not appeared.
"What the deuce keeps the fellow?"
Arthur thought, impatiently.
Just then a fresher breeze than 4ny which,


92                 A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                              THE CAPTAIN'S REPORT.               93

had gone before swept into the room, waving
back the curtains, making the flame of 'the
lamp flicker, and scattering broadcast over
the floor the already fluttering papers on the
table.
"He'll find his things in fine confusion
when he does come!" thought the visitor,
lazily.
But it did not occur to him to remedy
this confusion by recapturing any of the odds
and ends which were wafted past him. On
the contrary, he watched them with indolent
interest as they were blown to and fro into
the. nooks and corners-some into the fire-
place, some under the bed-until, glancing
back to the table, his eye suddenly lighted
upon a letter which lay there idly fluttering
as if uncertain whether or not to follow its
companions.
As his glance fell on it, he started vio-
lently. His complexion flushed, and then
paled again; he caught his breath audibly.
Blotted and blurred though it was, he recog-
nized in an instant Norah Desmond's writing.
For a minute amazement held him literally
motionless. As he satgazing stupidly at the
familiar characters-for to mistake that bold,
black chirography for the writing of any
other woman would have been as impossible
as to mistake Norah herself for a fashionable
* nonentity from a boarding-school-a dozen
wild thoughts and conjectures rushed into
his mind. What was the meaning of it?
How did such a letter come to he here? Had
it been addressed to Max? Were they either,
or both of them, playing idm(Tyndale) false?
Was it a flirtation? Was it a negotiation?
his brain felt in a whirl. One thing only
was certain: whatever it was, it concerned
him vitally, and he must know what it meant.
There was no time for scruples or wiredrawn
notions of honor when he was being ~deceived
and tricked like this! Had not Max, that
very morning, assured him that his inter-
course with Norah had been entirely unsatis-
factory, as well as very slight; and now, here
on Max's table, lay a letter which in itself
went far to prtve such a statement utterly un-
true!
"I could not have believed it of him!"
Arthur thought, aghast at the gulf of perfidy
which yawned before him. His indignation
amounted, indeed, to a sense of absolute out-
rage-a curious fact, which those will readily
credit who have observed what a different.

standard in love, friendship, faith, or general
morality, we have for our friends and for our-
selves. We gracefully stretch the truth to
meet the pressure of any necessity which
may arise; we govern our conduct by the
strictest rule of expediency; we allow our-
selves the widest latitude in every possible
respect, and demand that no evil' shall be
thought-but, if we have the slightest reason
to suspect that others are doing unto us as
we have done unto them; disgust and misan-
thropy are very sure to follow. "This is hu-
man nature!" we cry, when we detect in one
falsehood the agreeable friend to whom we
have probably told a dozen. "This is affec-
tion, this is friendship! Oh, who would put
faith in either?" So it was with Tyndalc.
He had felt toward Max as toward a brother;
he had trusted Max with every thing; and
now for Max to deceive him on such a vital
point as this!
But he must read the letter. He must
know how far he had been deceived, how far
betrayed. No doubt it contained some definite
assurance of what Norah meant to do. It
was imperative that he should gain this as-
surance at any cost. He repeated again that
it was no time for scruples or hesitation. He
was being deceived, and in self-defense he
must know in what manner and in what de-
gree.
So, serving himself to an act from which
every instinct even of conventional honor
shrank, he at last extended his hand and
took up the letter-a letter which seemed
destined to be the plaything alike of chance
and of the winds of heaven-and opened it.
The first line told him that it was not ad-
dressed to Max. Before he had time to read
a second, he heard Max's quick, ringing step
in the hall below.
It was the work of an instant to fold the
sheet of paper and slip it into the breast-
pocket of his coat. There was no time for
thought or deliberation. Impulse said, "It
is as much yours as his-take it!" and he
followed the dictate of impulse. Before Cap.
tam Tyndale had mounted the stairs and
reached the door, he had thrown himself
back, and was shading his eyes from the light,
as if half asleep.
"What! you here?" said the former, in
a tone of surprise, as he entered "When
did you get back from Rosland?"
"At least half an hour ago," answered

Arthur, starting as if abruptly roused. "I
have been waiting for you until I had almost
given you up. Where the deuce have you
been all this time?"
"Taking a turn in the park to cool my
head," answered Max. "I suppose it is our
unusual gayety which has upset it; but I
found myself amazingly warm and restless in
the house."
"It is warm again; but I should think
you would have rowed off all inclination to
restlessness to.day."
"I did very little rowing, except when I
took Mrs. Sandford out; then I was anxious
to bring her back as soon as possible."
"You did bring her ba~ck very quickly,"
said Arthur, in rather an injured tone. "It
could not have been an hour after I left her
on the1lake when, to my surprise, she was
smashing Dante in the library."
"Yes, I made short work of it," said the
other, complacently. "Rather shorter work
than she took to be civil, I fancy; for, while
I was fastening the boat, she started off to
the house by herself and, since I was not
particularly anxious to overtake her, we did
not meet again till after tbe Dante calamity.
I suppose when she came in she thought she
would do a little exploring on her own ac-
count."
"Confound her!" sai4 Arthur, wit!) the
most sincere emphasis. Then - conscious
that he was verging on dangerous ground-
be went on hurriedly, lest this subject might
lead to some inquiry with regard to~ Norah
and himself: "You see I have been taking
life easily while ~ waited for you," he said,
"though you needn't think it is I who have
been playing the mischief with your papers.
The wind served you that trick, and I was
too lazy to set things to rights."
"It is not a matter of any importance,"
said Max, casting a careless glance at his
scattered effects. "Yo.u have returned soon,"
he added, leaning back in his chair, and cov-
ering a yawn by pulling his long mustache.
"Soon, do you call it? It can't be less
than twelve o'clock."
"And isn't that soon for a summer night,
with stars, and bright eyes, and all that sort
of thing to keep you awake?"
"The bright eyes were looking rather
sleepy when I left Rosland. I don't think
we can flatter ourselves that our fishing-party
was very much of a success, Max."

"I never flattered myself for a moment
that it would be, my dear fellow," answered
Max, cheerfully.
"And yet," said Arthur, quickly, "it
ought to have been a success in one respect
at least. You certainly had a sufficient op-
portunity to-day for finding out something
about Norah's intentions."
"To possess an opportunity and to use it
are two very different things. I am sure you
are aware of that."
"You mean, then, that you did not dis-
cover any thing?"
"I mean that my attempt to do so was
rewarded with very little success. Miss Des-
mond was as reticent as ever, and I was un-
able to extract any thing at all definite from
hei'."
"That was unfortunate!" said Arthur.
The other did not notice, the sudden jarring
tone in his voice, nor the suspicious look in
his eyes. "You know nothing, then, of
what her intentions are?" he added, after a
minute, endeavoring with only tolerable suc-
cess to keep all significance out of the inquiry.
"Nothing," answered Max, slowly, "ex-
cept-" He paused just there and hesitated.
"If your exception does not rest under
the seal of confidence, pray don't hesitate on
my account," said Arthur. "I can credit
~Miss Desmond with any degree of resentful
feeling and resentful determination to avenge
her wrongs."
"You will credit her with something,
then, of which I have seen no sign," answered
Max, glancing with some surprise at him.
"I was about to say-though I beg you to
understand that I have received no pledge to
such an effect-that I think it likely Miss
Desmond may be more generous than you
anticipate."
"Generous I" - a flush came over the
handsome, blond face. "That i&amp; an indefi-
nite expression at best. What does it stand
for? That she will bind herself to say noth-
ing of the past, and that she will deliver up
the letters?"
"No. She binds herself to nothing. You
must be as well aware as I am that you are in
no position to demand that she should do so."
"The upshot of the matter then is that
site is to be bound to nothing, and that lam
to remain entirelrat her mercy?"
"I am afraid it is not ~pfuch more than
that," said Captain Tyndale, gravely.


j~4                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                            SUSPICIONS OF TREACHERY.             95

"By Heaven, I will not endure it 1" said
the other, vehemently. "Max, do you mean
to tell me that this is all that you have been
able to obtain from her?"
"It is all," answered Max, a little coldly.
"But, unless you deliberately go to work to
injure your own cause, I do not think that
you have very much to fear. She is a proud
woman, and a generous woman, this Norah
Desmond."
"Do you imagine that you know her bet-
ter than I do?" asked Arthur, sneeringly.
"It is true you spent three hours alone in
tier society to-day; but the character that
Norah Desmond shows you when she meanf
to make a fool of you, and the character she
shows you after she has made a fool of you,
are twQ very different things."
"Miss Desmond is not likely to waste her
ammunition on me," was the dry response.
"You may set your mind at rest on that
point. As for the three hours which I spent
in her society, they were chiefly spent in your
service. As far as I was concerned, I should
have preferred a cigar under a pine-tree."
"And yet you accomplished nothing?"
"If you call it nothing to have gained a
moral certainty that she will give you no
trouble; that you may marry Miss Grahame
to-morrow without any fear of what she may
do-or say."
Arthur winced a little at this assurance.
Max would have been still more surprised if
he could have seen how very little inclina-
tion he felt just then to marry Leslie Gm-
hame, with all her sweetness and all her
grace, on the next day, or any other day~ for
that matter.
"Moral certainties don't count for much,"
he said, after a minute. "I'd rather have
one proof that she means it."
"I am sorry to say I have no proof to offer.
An ambassador's word should be worth some-
thing, however, shouldn't it? I have no rea-
son for deceiving you."
"For deceiving me-no! But you may
be mistaken."
"True enough. I advance no claim to in-
fallibility-especially with regard. Zo women."
"Still, you think that she means to let
the matter rest?"
"I think so, undoubtedly," answered
Max, impatiently. He ditl not understand
the drift of these reiterated questions. It
was growing late, he was growing tired, and

when he felt like yawning again he did so,
without any pretense of pulling his mustache.
Arthur took the hint, and rose.
"I see you feel as thoroughly used up as I
do," said he; "therefore I'll leave you to turn
in. In fact, I owe you an apology for having
kept you up so long. But this cursed busi-
ness dwells on my mind! I don't believe
there ever was a man in such a position be-
fore! You've done your best for me, how.
ever, Max-I see that plainly-and shall not
forget it. I am more grateful than you can
tell-especially for your assurance-but, if I
fail to give exactly your degree of credit to it,
it is because I have the advantage of knowing
Norah Desmond better than you do."
"I make no pretensions whatever to know.
ing Miss Desmond very well," Max answered.
And so they parted.
When Arthur went to his own room, .his
first act was to lock the door-although the
danger of interruption was infinitesimally
small-his second, to take the letter from his
pocket and read it eagerly through, from be-
ginning to end.' As he did so, his face would
have been a study for any observer of human
nature and human physiognomy-of whom,
however, there was unfortunately none at
hand. The color came and went in vivid al-
ternations of red and white; his lips quivered,
and now and then he gnawed the under one
nervously. +11 these were significant signs
with him. Once he caught his breath with
the quick gasp of a man to whom a startling
surprise has come. This was when he found
that Norah had learned in what manner he
had endeavored to deter Leslie from making
any attempt to know her. "She'll never for-
give that!" he mutZered. ~" It's certain to be
a duel to the death now!"
Then he went on, his eye traveling down
line after line of the paragraph in which she
summed up the various items of her debt
against him. Even the written words seemed
instinct with the passion which had dictated
them. He seemed to hear her voice, to meet
her eyes, in every sentence. And, when he
reached the climax, in which her fiery energy
spent itself-when he read the significant
words, dashed out broad and black upon the
white paper, in which she declared that, after
having added up the debt, she felt constrained
to ask what reprisal could ever equal it, his
eyes remained fastened on the page for a full
minute, a~ if fascinated.

Then suddenly he flung the letter on the
table, by which he had been stan(ling, and,
turning away, walked across the room. He
felt stunned-as if he had been thrown down
suddenly by an unexpected hand. Such vin-
dictive passion, such scornful renunciation,
was worse than he had expected-iv~rse even
than he had feared-but, what surprised him
even more than the spirit here displayed, than
all of Norah'5 anger, or Norah's resentment,
was the apparently causeless duplicity of Max.
With this letter in his possession, he had not
hesitated to say that he had a "moral certain-
ty" of Miss Desmond's intention to ignore the
past! With the assertion before his eyes that
there was no reprisal great enough to repay
her debt, he had talked of her generosity, and
given hopes-nay, positive assurances-that
she had' relinquished all idea of using the pow-
er which rested in her hands!
"What a lesson against trusting any-
body!" Tyndale thought, coming back to the
table, and looking at the letter, which lay be-
fore him. "No doubt she has turned his
head, and won him completely over to her
side. I might have expected that. I might
have known that would be her first move.
And yet Max-I did not think there was the
woman in the world who could have made
Max act like this! But treachery is a thing
which must be expected from everybody who
is not tied fast by interest to one's cause," he
went on, after a minute's pause. "Good
Heavens! how wise I was to take this letter!
-how entirely, hereafter, I must rely on my-
self alone! She had plainly determined to
throw me off my guard by insinuating such
vague assurances as I received to-night, and
then to fire the whole thing upon me when I
am least expecting it. Well "-folding up
tle letter with a defiant air, and placing it in
his pocket-book-" we shall see! The battle
is opened in earnest now~ and it will go hard
with me if I cannot even yet outwit this
shrewd schemer and her new ally!"
CHAPTER XVII.
"A lie which Is all a lie may he met and fought
with outright,
But a lie which is part of a truth is a harder mat-
ter to fight."
Tus morning after the fishing-party at
Strafford, Captain Tynda!e walked over to

Rosland. It was such a rare thing for him to
make his appearance so early in the day-the
morning being usually esteemed sacred to
Arthur-that Mrs. Middleton could not re-
strain an involuntary expression of surprise
when he w~s shown into the drawing-room,
where she chanced to be sitting alone.
"I hope I do not intrude upon you at a
barbarous hour," he said, apologetically, as
he crossed the floor to her favorite alcove,
where, with a desk open, she was inviting a
letter, with a gold pen, on the palest sea-green
paper. "I came over to inquire how the
ladies are after their fatigue of yesterday.
Better, I hope, than Arthur, who really seems
considerably the worse for his dissipation,
this morning."
"Indeed! I am very sorry to hear it,"
said Mrs. Middleton, in the highly-sympathetic
tone in which people usually say such things.
"But I thought the excursion a very impru-
dent one for everybody concerned. The sun
this time of year is exceedingly injurious,
and then the dampness-but I am glad to say
that nobody seems the worse for it here.
They were fatigued last night, but this morn-
ing they are all much as usual. I hope Mr.
Tyndale's indisposition is not serious?"
"Oh, not at all. Lie complains of a head-
ache, and of having been a little feverish last
~night. It is no thing much, I fancy, but I
recommended him to keep out of the sun."
Yes, that is the great point," said Mrs.
Middleton, earnestly-everybody has a hob-
by, and her hobby was, that an ounce of pre-
vention is worth many pounds of cure, with
regard to sickness. "People talk of the
night air being unwholesome on account of
malaria, but I always think that whoever is
careful to keep out of the sun is sure to do
very well. I sleep with my windows open
every night, but I never go out in the sun, and
I have not had an attack of fever in fifteen
years. If you don't take care, Captain Tyn-
dale, you will be ill," she went on, as if
moved by a sudden impulse to utter a word
of seasonable warning. "You are not used
to our climate, and I think the manner in
which Mr. Tyndale and yourself walk over
here in the broiling sun, without even an um-
brella-"
"But you forget, madame," said Max,
laughing-~-.he showed his French breeding in
always saying "madame," instead of our
curt English '~ madam" ~"that a soldier


96                 A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                                  THE LOST BRACELET.                   97

never carries an umbrella. He would rather
a thousand times endure death by a coup do
aoleil than be guilty of any thing so opposed
to the spirit of military discipline. I flatter
myself I know something about your climate.
If it means to kill me, it ought t~ have done
so while I was marching some years ago in
your army. It will not have such another
opportunity soon."
"Things never come when we are expect-
ing them," said Mrs. Middleton, shaking her
head.
And, as if to point this oracular remark,
a vision arrayed in purple and white-the
first below, the latter above, according to the
present fashion of piebald costume-whom
they were neither of them expecting, ap.
peaked just then in the open door.
"0 Captain Tyndale!" cried Mrs. Sand-
ford, with a start, "is it possible this is yea?
I had no idea that you were here I "-Robert
had only informed her of the fact five minutes
before-" I came down-stairs in search of a
book. I found" (appealing with infantine
blue eyes to Mrs. Middleton) "that I really
could not force myself to write my letters.
Why can we not telegraph to our friends?"
(this to Max). "If we say 'I am well-how
are you?' it would be all that is neces-
sary."
"Not quite all, I am afraid," answered he,
advancing and taking the hand she offered
him with bewitching frankness. "If I were
fortunate enough to receive one of your tele-
grams, I could scarcely content myself with
an equally terse reply. I~ should be con-
strained to add that I kissed your hands, at
least."
"But what would be the sease of doing
by telegraph what you never did in fact?"
asked she, with admirable naivete'.
"Then, in view of future telegraphing
contingencies, we had better make it fact at
once," said he, raising the hand-a very pretty
one, which he still held-to his lips.
Mrs. Sandford did what a foolish woman
does on all possible occasions-she laughed;
Mrs. Middleton looked as if she was not ex-
actly certain what she thought of such con-
duct; but Max was so thoroughly at his ease,
and so evidently meant his act of gallantry to
be regarded in the light of something entirely
conventional and free from tender signifi-
cance, that after a moment she laughed, too.
"Captain Tyndale is initiating you into

foreign modes of salutation," she said to Mrs..
Sandford.
"What an original you are!" said that
lady, surveying Captain Tyndale with a glance
of manifest approval. "A thing that most
men do in a corner, and look foolish and
sentimental over, you do in broad daylight and
before anybody, with the utmost 8aflh1-froid."
"lt is because we regard the matter from
different points of view," said he. "One
kisses a lady's hand in France as one shakes
it here."
"I confess that this universal habit of
shaking hands strikes me very unpleasantly,"
said Mrs. Middleton. "It proves more con-~
elusively than' any thing else the free-and-
easy tone which has come over society. The
idea of a young lady and a young gentleman
greeting each other like a pair of school-
boys I Inmy day people knew how to bow-a
thing which they seem to have entirely for-
gotten now-and a lady never shook hands
with any but her most intimate acquaint-
ances."
"I am heartily glad that was not my
day!" said Mrs. Sandford, enthroning her-
self on a sofa, and looking up with blue-china
eyes at Max. "Fancy living like a set of
pokers! I know how to bow, too-in the
lancers-but I would rather shake hands any
day!"
"So should I," said he, sitting down be-
side her-as she invited him to do by draw-
ing her drapery jiside-" provided I might
choose the hands to shake."
"But under any circumstance~ you would
rather kiss them, I suppose."
"Infinitely rather, if they are like yours."
"What a flatterer you are!" cried she,
fluttering her fan with delight.
"A flatterer because I have eyes to see
that your hands are beautiful? You have
eyes yourself, and you can't possibly think
that."
In this key the conversation proceeded
for ten minutes. Mrs. Middleton went back
to her letter philosophically. She had seen
enough of modern society to lie little sur-
prised by any thing which could be said or
done by the most advanced thinkers. As for
Max, let that man who has never yielded to
the demands for admiration and the invitation
to folly held out by a pretty, vain woman,
throw the first stone at him. Partly to please
his companion, partly to amuse himself, he

went on heaping Pelion upon Ossa in the way
of compliments, until at last-having ex-
hausted his invention-it occurred to him to
ask where Miss Grahame and Miss Desmond
were.
"Leslie drove, after breakfast, to Wexford,
to do some shopping," Mrs. Sandford answered,
"and Miss Desmond went with her. I really
could not think of going! It is too horribly
warm!"
"Mr. Carl Middleton went with them, ~
suppose?
"No" (with a quick glance to see why
he had asked the question). "I have no
doubt he would have liked to do so-for it is
really quite absurd to see how he is infatu-
ated with Miss Desmond-but. his uncle in-
sisted on his going with him to pay a visit to
some i/elation in the neighborhood. What a
bore relations are, are they not?"
"Sometimes," answered Max, absently.
He looked down on the hideous figures that
covered a Japanese fan in his hand. He was
thinking that he was glad Norah and Leslie
were for once alone. It would give them an
opportunity to know each other better; it
would give the former, in especial, an oc-
casion to test her sister's feelings with re-
gard to Arthur Tyndale, to judge whether or
not he had been right in the opinion which he
had expressed, and the course he had urged.
Mrs. Sandford caught the preoccupied tone
in his voicr, and immediately set it down to
the fact that he had just heard of Miss Des-
mond's absence. Had he, then, come to see
her? Instinctively the lady's mind went
back to that three hours' absence on the lake
yesterday-the absence which had been no
more satisfactorily explained by Max than by
Norah, Now, it may be said, once for all,
that the pretty widow had no lendresse, likely
to lead to tragedy or despair, for Captain
Tyndale; but she was a woman insatiably
fond of admiration, a woman who grasped at
all opportunities for obtaining it, and relin-
quished none. In Alton society Max had
been something of a lion; in Alton society,
also, he had been credited to her, if not ex-
actly as a serious conquest, still as one of
the admirers whom she always liked to keep
fluttering around her-1men whom she did
not wish or intend to marry, but with whom
it was very good pastime to flirt. She had
found it such very gooil pastime to flirt with
a French chasseur-albeit the advances were

mostly on her own side-that she had come
down to Rosland simply to pursue that amuse-
ment, and, if possible, to "break the poor
man's heart" in the course of a few idle,
summer weeks. It was a disappointment,
therefore, that the poor man evinced very
little desire to have his heart broken, even in
the most scientific manner. This she saw
sufficiently soon, and with sufficient plain.
ness; ~but it is not in feminine nature-even
of the most dove-like kind-to relinquish a
possible, probable, or positive admirer with.
out a struggle. Mrs. Sandford perceived, or
thought she perceived, that Max had serious
intentions of deserting her standard for that
of the beautiful Bohemian, who had already
secured the only other eligible admirer in the
field, so she made up her mind to show him
at once what kind of a game this beautiful
Bohemian was playing.
Max, still absorbed in the contempla-
tion of his fan, and still thinking of what
might be going on at that moment in Miss
Grahame's phaeton, was a little surprised
when a golden head-a head indebted to the
chemist rather than to Nature for its gold-
was bent toward him, and a sweet voice said,
in a mysterious whisper:
"4ake an excuse, please, for our going
out. I have something very important which
I must ask your advice about."' Then aloud,
extending two wrists, slender and white
enough to match the hands already compli-
mented: "See how unlucky I have been! I
lost one of my gold bands last night in the
shrubbery, and no one has been able to find
it yet. I am afraid no one will find it, though
I have offered fabulous rewards to all the
servants of the establishment. You don't
know how I should dislike to lose one of
these bands. They were poor Mr. Sandford's
lastpresenttomeandthereforelwearthem
all the time."
Max thought that if he had any intention
of succeeding poor Mr. Sandford, he should
hope devoutly that the band might remain
lost, and its fellow speedily follow it; but,
since he had not the least aspiration that
way, he cheerfully proposed-what its dis-
consolate owner plainly desired-that they
should go in search of it.
"I always have wonderful luck," he said.
"I don't think I ever looked for any thing
that I did not find it; I am sure that I never
laid a wager0 that I did not win it, nor sat


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

down to a gaming-table without rising suc-
cessful."
" Oh, you are just the person to find my
bracelet then!i" cried she, clapping her hands
in an artless fashion. " Let us go at once 1
I shall not mind .the sun at all, if you will
only wait until I get my hat and parasol." -
As Max acceded to-this moderate request,
she ranufrom the room in a tumult of enthu-
siasma which would have done credit to the
affectation of sixteen. ,
"How very excitable Mrs. Sandford is !"
said Mrs. Middleton, ar hing her brows in a
manner inore significant~ than many words, as
she looked up from the~letter she had finished
aund was folding.
"Very excitable, indeed !" answered Max,
dryly.a Then he laughed, and added: " It is
constitutionalwith some people, I suppose."
The lady with whom excitement was con.-
stitutional met him~ presently in the hall, ar-
rayed in a hat which seemed fashioned for
the especial purpose of affording no shade
whatever to the face, and. armed with a club-.
handled parasol, provided with fringe enough
to leave a little on the branches of every tree
and shrub in the grounds, add still have some
to spare. -
T : eaving athe house, they took their way
directly to the shrubbery, where she proposed
tod'show him dudctly the spot at which the
hidelethad been lost.
*"If you know exactly the spot, we may
expect .to find it 'lying on the ground," he
said.
" Oh, I fear I am not so Exact ,as that,"
answei-ed she,.shaking her head. "I looked
for it, and Mr. Middleton looked for it, and
my maid has spent the morning doing little
eisc, so I fear even ydurn luck will scarcely be
equal toiding it. I should not have brought
you iutinto the sun simply on that account,"
she added, " but you know I told you that I
wanted to ask 'your advice about something
yery important"
"I reieniber, and I am all attention."
"Let ua sit down here, thenn" pointing to
a garden-scat in a sufficiently shaded position
--" I never can :talk about any thing of par-'
ticular interest-when I am walking."
Max resigned himself to the situation
with as much grace as most men manage to
display in similar circumstances. He brushed
off the seat with hia handkerchief', and they
sat down; Mrs. Sandford arranged herself in

a picturesque attitude, unfurled her fan, and
lifted her eyes to his face.
" If you could only know what I feel 1"
she began, with a deprecation calculated to
-disarm any thing like harsh judgment or crit-
icism.
" Is it absolutely necessary that I should
know ?" asked Max. lie felt inclined to
laugh, only he knew that such an offense
would never be forgiven. There are some
natures to whom ridicule is the unpardon-
able sin. Already Mrs. Sandford looked at
him a little suspiciously. The tone of his
question did 'not please her.
" It is not necessary," she answered, with
a serious gravity, calculated to check all lev-
ity-her eyes so wide open that hie began to
amuse himself with a speculation as to wheth-
er they could possibly expand any wider-
'But if you could know you would under-
stand the great reluctance I feel to saying any
thing even to you ;' yet I am so uncertain
about what I ought to do, and I am so anx-
ious to do what is right--"
.:(" What on earth does the woman mean ?"
thought Mar. " Is she going to consult me
about her will or her marriage ?")
" It was so purely accidental," pursued
she, dropping her eyes to her fan. "I had
so little idea-not the least in the world, in
fact--of any thing of the kind when I went
into the library, or no earthly consideration
would have induced me to go l "
" Can it be the Dante she is talking
about ?" thought Max, becoming. more thor-
oughly puzzled every minute. Then aloud:
" Really, Mrs. Sandfoird, I fearyou will think
me very stupid,.bnt I have not as yet grasped
your meaning at allt What was it that you
had not the least idea of when you entered
the library ?"
" That Mr. 'Tyndale and Miss Desmond
were on the terrace outside," answered she,
lifting'-her eyes again, and looking directly at
him,
And, whether it was on account of the
glance, or of the tone, or whethei- it was the
significance of 'the words themselves, it is at
least- certain that Captain. Tyndale started
with a 'quick, nervous motion, foreign to his
usual manner. Arthur and Miss Desmond
on the terrace outside ! What had this fool-
ish, fluttering widow overheard ?
" Well," he said, trying to speak lightly,
and not achieving a very striking success,

4'

98

A

K     \~

I'

,\

)
W'"~..

A

I

0'
54
C-.
0'
0~
0
0
0
"3
I

-


I

99

" there was nothing remarkable in that fact,
was there ? Mr. Tyndale and Miss Desmond
had certainly a right to he on the terrace,
had they not ?"                        ,
." There was something very remarkable,
I think," answered she, with marked empha-
sis. " You would, have thought so, too, if
you had overheard the declaration which I
-in the most accidental manner in the world
-overheard Mr. Tyndale make before I had
been in the library five minutes."
" A declaration !" repeated Max. He put
up his hand to his mustache, which was a
very real and present help to him in times
of embarrassment. " There are a great many
different kinds of declarations," he added,
after a minute-a very lame, and certainly
not a very brilliantly diplomatic conclusion.
" Certainlyy" said Mrs. Sandford, in a tone
of petulant satire, "I am perfectly well aware
of that. There are declarations of war and
declarations of peace, and declarations of
love. Mr. Tyndale's declaration, as it chanced,
belonged to the latter class."
" To declarations of love !" repeated Max,
starting again.. "You-pardon me, but you
must be mistaken ! It is impossible !"
" Unfortunately, it is so !" said she, em-
phatically. " Never, in all my life, have I
heard a declaration made more plainly. He
said, as clearly as possible, that he had made
a great and terrible mistake, that he did not
love Leslie, and that he did love Miss Des-.
mond passionately. That was his expression
-passionately!/"
" Indeed !" said Max. He was so taken
by storm, as it were, that for .a minute he
forgot that he had any part to play, or any
secret to guard. His bronzed skin changed
color quickly, and the expanding flash of his
eye fairly startled her. " Arg you in ear-
nest ? ' he asked, after a minute, and his
voice seemed to lower and quiet strangely.
" Did you hear Arthur say that ?"
" Yes, I heard him say that -- exactly
that !" answered she, gratified, according to
a curious instinct of human nature, at the
sensation she had caused. " But, indeed "--
mindful of the special object she had in view
-" I do not think one ought to blame Mr.
Tyndale very much. You men are so foolish !
--you will saiy any thing when a certain kind
of woman leads you on ! Now, although I
did not overhear very much "-she did not
add that this was not her fault or her merit

I

-"I heard enough to tell me that Miss Des-
mond had led him on."
"Are yout sure of that ? ' asked Max. lie
looked at her keenly. Much as he distrusted
Norah, he just then distrusted this fair, im-
pulsive, silvery - tongued being still more.
" Did Miss Desmond exhibit no indignation
at such a declaration from a man who is .en-
gaged to her sister " he added, after a mo-
ment.
Still wider opened the blue eyes, and the
carefully - darkened eyebrows arched them-
selves.
" Indignation ! I do not think Miss Des-
mond dreamed of such a thing, I am sure she
did not show it. I did not hear much more
than Mr. Tyndale's declaration; however, for
just then I unfortunately threw down the
Dante, and that ended the love-scene."
." The love-scene 1" repeated Max, sternly,
and his brows knit themselves into a quick
frown. "Do you mean that you can apply
such a term as that to any thing which took
place ?"
" I scarcely know what other term it
would be possible to apply. Romeo was not
more passionate than Mr. Tyndale, though
Miss Desmond seemed less demonstrative,
and struck me rather in the light of a person
,who was playing a cool, steady game of some
kind."-
" So she is !" he muttered.
Those last words went further toward re-
moving his doubts of the story thatn any
thing else had done. They at least were
true. Norah was playing a cool, steady game,
of which not even he could flatter himself
that he saw the end. He could fancy just/
how she had listened to Arthur's madness-
the madness which had put every thing which
he most wished to keep secret into the hands
of a "prying eavesdropper," as Captain Tyn-
dale did not hesitate to call his fair coinpan-
ion in the sacred recesses of his thoughts.
." It is very evident that Miss Desmond is
one of 'those women who cannot live without
the admiration and adulation of every man
they meet," said Mrs. i~andford, after a while,
in a virtuous tone. " But it is very strange
and ver'y dreadf'ul-something I cannot under-
stand--that she should desire to obtain the
affections and attentions of the man to whom
her sister is engaged !"
"Such wavering affections are worth very
little !" said Max, bitterly.

3

EAVESDROPPING.


100                 A DAUGhTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                                       A CROQUET-PARTY:                    101

"But, of course, Leslie world not feel
that way," answered she, eagerly. "And do
you know it is about tAct I wanted to consult
you-shall I tell Leslie? Of course, it would
be a ~very painful thing to do; but still, if it
were right-"
"Good Heavens, no!" cried he, fairly
aghast. "It would be a terrible blow to come
upon her without any preparation. Let me
beg you most earnestly not to think of such a
thing!"
"I will not-indeed I will not!" said she,
hastily. "I determined when I was consid-
ering the matter last night-I really could not
sleep on account of it-that I would ask
you what to do, and take your advice. I
promise you that I will not say a word to
Leslie.''
"Thank you," said he, cordially. Then,
after a second's pause, he added: "I agree
with you that it is hard for any one like
Miss Grahame to be deceived in this manner
-a manner which I cannot trust myself to
characterize either as regards her lover or her
sister-but our first duty is to think of her,
and I-if you will allow me, I should like to
examine this matter further before I decide
to let her hear the truth."
"Oh! I shall be so glad if you zeill take
all responsibility off my hands," cried she,
eagerly. "It was what I hoped you would
do! I know how much you admire Leslie;
and then you are such a friend of Mr. Tyn-
dale's that I am sure you will endeavor to
show him what Miss Desmond's true charac-
ter must be. I confess I shudder when I
think of her "-the shudder came in play in
the most striking and artistic manner-" her
conduct shows such an utter want of the
commonest sentiments of honor. But, then,
what else was to be expected from her rear-
ing? Oh, what a pity that Leslie should
ever, ever have brought her here!"
IfCaptain Tyndale did not echo these sen-
timents entirely, he at least agreed with them
in a measure. Norah had most gratuitously
played him false, he thought. With her as-
sumption of frankness, her outspoken scorn
and contempt for Arthur Tyndale, she had
made him believe in her thoroughly; and all
the time she was ready to listen to passionate
protestations of devotion from the man she
affected to despise, the man who was engaged
to her sister! It may be said for Max that
he would not have been likely to give implicit

credence to Mrs. Sandford's narrative, if other
proofs had not confirmed it. But something
in the expression of Arthur's face and Arthur's
tone when he had spoken the night before of
her presence in the library-that presence
which the broken bust of Dante attested-
came back to him like a ray of light. This
was what it meant: There had been a "love-
scene" on the terrace with Norah-with No-
rnh, who an hour before had uttered such bit-
ter words of Arthur and Arthur's love! Well,
there could be no doubt Mrs. Sandford was
right-that she was integrally false. After
all, was it remarkable? Could any thing else
be expected from a girl whose life had been
spent among the adventurers and adven-
turesses of Bohemia? Perhaps she was bent
on a bolder stroke than he had even fancied
-perhaps she meant to lead Arthur back
into the chains og the old infatuation, and
then make him marry her! How easily this
might be accomplished, Max scarcely ven-
tured to acknowledge to himself. lie felt
that there was nothing in Arthui~s character
on which, in any emergency, it was possible
to rely. What could be predicated with safe-
ty of a man who, in open disregard of his
plighted faith, averred that he loved "pas-
sionately" a woman whom he had only men-
tioned in tones of contemptuous repugnance
a month before? Thinking of him, Max felt
that hopelessness which we have many of us
known in similar cases. With a person, how-
ever bad, who possesses any thing like sta-
bility, it may be possible to Isnow, after a
fashion, what to do; but, with one whose
opinions, feelings, and resolves, are like the
yielding sand, he must be a sage, indeed, who
can resolve upon any fixed course of action.
Pondering such thoughts as these, Cap-
tainTyndale walked by Mrs. Sandford's side to
the house-the sun having at last forced them
to abandon their position-and it was like an
echo of, or a commentary upon, his train of
reflection when the first person whom he saw
on entering the drawing.room was Norah Des.
mond. Leslie was there, also, and Mrs. Mid.
dieton, but it was in the nature of things that
the eye should fall first on Miss Desmond.
If two or two hundred other women were in
the room, she attracted the gaze as naturally
and involuntarily as a ray of sunlight or a
brilliant flower.
Yet it must not be supposed that there
was any thing brilliant or flower-like in her

costume, which was singularly simple as a
general rule, avoiding all bizarre effects, even
such as are sanctioned in this heyday of
bizarre modes. She was evidently determined
that nobody should say there was any thing
" Bohemian" in her taste. And it was sur-
prising-it was like a revelation to eyes only
accustomed to overloaded women - to see
how this simplicity of attire enhanced her
really extraordinary beauty. Indeed, Mrs.
Sandford confided to her maid, in the deep
injury of her soul, that it was on this account
Miss Desmond dressed so plainly-that she
wore few flounces, and still fewer ornaments.
"She wants to show that she ecu do it!"
the acute lady said. "Poverty may havc
something to say in the matter, but affecta-
tion has still more!"
Whatever were Norah's reasons, there
certainly was no question of her success in
an aesthetic point of view. Just now Mrs.
Sandford looked like an overdressed doll, in
all her purple and white glories, by the side of
the other's plain morning-dress, unrelieved by
any thing more than a bit of black velvet
tied rouiid her throat. No pendant, no ear-
rin"s, no sash, no "any thing," Mrs. Sand-
ford would have said, except exquisite fresh-
ness and artistic simplicity. Max looked up-
on her, and his eye was so well satisfied with
seeing that, by a masculine result of mascu~-
line logic, he began to ask himself if it were
possible that this beautiful, stately creature
was, indeed, the consummate actress and
scheming adventuress which circumstances
seemed to indicate. He certainly would have
been something more or less than man if he
could have resisted the sunlight of the smile
with which she presently turned to him.
"We have beefs talking of you, Captain
Tyndale-Leslie and I," she said. "Have
your ears been burning at all' this morning?"
"They have been too much engaged in
listening," he answered, walking over to where
she sat. "I have been in the shrubbery with
Mrs. Sandford, and-have your ears given you
warning that you were a topic of conversation,
Miss Desmond?"
"No," she answered, quietly; but she
looked up at him as he stood, tall and straight,
before her, with a sudden flash of intelligence
in her eye, which shoved him that she under-
stood at once what he meant. It was' not
likely that she had forgotten Mrs. Sandford's
presence in the library the evening before,

and she possessed none of Mr. Tyndale's fa-
cility for believing just that which was the
least trouble and the most agreeable to be-
lieve.
"We have been talking of you-Mrs.
Sandford and I," repeated Max, impressed al-
most against his will by the clear frankness
of her glance, the utter want of any shade of
detected guilt on her face. "And, if you do
not object, I should like to ask some expla-
nation of a story which she has been good
enough to tell ~
She looked at him steadily for a minute
before she answered; then another quick,
bright smile came over her face.
"You go to your point very directly," she
said. "I like that. It answers better, with
some people, than the diplomacy of a Talley-
rand. Yes, Captain Tyndale, I will give you
a full explanation of whatever story you may
have heard, because you have thought well
enough of me to come and ask for it like a
man of honor."
Captain Tyndale winced, a little at this.
Half an hour before he certainly had not
"thought well" of her; but there was some-
thing magnetic about this woman. Let him
doubt or distrust her as he might out of her
presence, he could not do so in it; he could
not bear the clear ring of her voice, or meet
the frank glance of her eye, and say, "This is
falsehood!"
"Will you tell me now?" he asked, eager-
ly. "Shall we go~out on the veranda? I do
not think we are likely to be disturbed."
But, even as lie spoke, Mr. Middleton and
Carl entered the room, and the latter at once
came over to Norah. A few minutes later
they went to luncheon, and all hope of an im-
mediate explanation was at an end.
At luncheon Captain Tyndale found that
there was a social engagement on hand for
the afternoon.
"We have to go over to the Covingtons
to play croquet," Leslie told him. "It is
very tiresome, but they made such a point of
it I scarcely like to disappoint them. What
a barbarous idea it is to have afternoon
amusements in summer, is it not? I think
the afternoon should always be sacred to one's
sie2ta."
"A croquet-party will at least have the
merit of novelty to me," said Carl. "1 have
heard of the game very often, but I have never
seen it."


102                A IPAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                                     MISCHIEF-MAKING.                   103

"Never seen it!"
A note of admiration poorly expresses
the tone in which those three words were
echoed round the table.
"Never seen it! We could not have im-
agined such depth of ignorance, even in Ger-
many," said Mrs. Sandford.
Max laughed, and raised a glass of wine
to his lips.
"Happy man I" ho said. "We drink to
your continued ignorance."
"I am not sure that I desire it to con-
tinue," said Carl. "A man might as well
know a little of every thing. Something like
billiards, isn't it?"
This remark was addressed to the company
in general.
"Like billiards!" repeated Leslie. "'As
moonlight is to sunlight, or as water unto
wine,' or as the weakest tea you can imagine
to good champagne."
"A more tiresome thing never was in-
vented," said Mrs. Sandford, with unction.
"Why do you all play it, then?" asked
Norah, also addressing the company. "When
one has to submit to being bored in a case
of necessity or duty, I can stand it as well as
any other woman or man, but, when it is bor-
ing, pure and simple, and you call it amuse-
ment, I cannot see the sense of it."
"Nor I," said Carl. "I never could."
"Unfortunately, we cannot help our-
selves," said Mrs. Middleton "There are
certain social amusements which are social
duties. If one shirks them, one must give
up society altogether."
"But do you really find no pleasure in
your social gatherings?" asked the young Bo-
hemiari, curiously. "How strange that you
should continue to call them 'amusements,'
then! I should be honest, and say 'bores' at
once."
"How very evident it is that Miss Des-
mo~d has never been in society!" said Mrs.
Sandfdrd, with her rippling laugh. "What
would she think if she had gone through the
exhaustion of two or tikree seasons, I won-
"I should probably think that I was much
the worse for wear in every particular," an-
swered Miss Desmond, quietly.
This was such a keen home-thrust-since
evei~ybody who had known Mrs. Sandford in
her first youth was so thoroughly conscious
that eke was the worse for wear-that Leslie

turned the course of conversation at once by
addressing Max.
"Can you not come with us this after-
noon?" she asked. "You know that the
Covingtons would be very glad to see you."
"I hope you have not forgotten that you
have an engagement to drive with me this
afternoon," said Carl, speaking quickly to
Norah. "The croquet-party need not inter.
fere with it, for I can drive you over to the
Covington place."
"No, thanks," said Max to Leslie. "You
are very kind, and so would the Covingtons
be, but I really cannot agree with Mr. Mid.
dieton in thinking that croquet is either
worth knowing, or-if one has the misfortune
to know it after a fashiontworth playing.
I shall go back to Strafford~and see how Ar.
thur is coming on."*
He had not gone back to Strafford, how.
ever, when the carriages-c0nsisting of Les-
lie's phaeton and Carl's new dog-cart-drove
to the door, and the three ladies, in their
pretty croquet costumes, came down-stairs.
"How neatly I settled that fellow!" said
Carl, looking at Captain Tyndale as they
drove off~ "Did you notice how he paused
and glanced at you when Leslie asked him if
he would not come with us? He would have
said 'yes' in a minute if I had not showed
him that I had a prior claim upon your time
and attention."
"How exceedingly foolish you are!" said
Norali, with delightful candor. "It is really
astonishing to see how completely you disre-
gard such trifles as fact at~d reason. If Cap-
tain Tyndale looked at me when Leslie spoke
to him, it was doubtless in much the same
way that you look at your horse when I speak
to you."
"It is impossible but that you must see
that the man is ready to make a complete
fool of himself about you!" said Carl, with
jealous and not particularly lucid energy.
"It is perfectly possible that I see noth-
ing of the kind," she an~wcred. "Neither
would you, if your eyes ha~ not a glamour of
absurdity over them. If ~~ou must know the
truth," she added, impatiently, "you might
have seen it for yourself~-.-by-the-way, Cap-
tain Tyndale is in love with Leslie."
"In love with Lesli~l" repeated he, in a
tone of incredulity, turning to look into her
face. "You-you are not in earnest?"
"I am entirely in earnest," she answered.

"He is certainly in love with Leslie; and I
think" (this very deliberately) "that he
would suit her infinitely better than his ac-
complished cousin will ever do."
"Do you?" said Carl. "But that is for
Leslie to judge, is it not? Unless, indeed-"
Here he broke off abruptly. A sudden
strain of new suspicion darted into his mind.
There is something really inexhaustible in the
versatility of jealousy-something that can
freshly amaze every day and every hour even
those who have had most cause to know and
best opportunity to study that remarkable
passion. It may be said that this was just
now the master-passion of Carl Middleton's
life. Feeding his love for Norah day by day
on the magic of her presence, he had fed his
tormentor also on the words and smiles which
she g~ve so freely to others, until he was
ready to believe any thing, to see any thing,
to fancy any thing, that might tend to add to
his discomfort, however improbable it might
intrinsically be.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Sandford was doing a
little mischief-making on a small scale with
Leslie. She was too mindful of her promise
to Max, to attempt any thing of the kind on
a great scale; but the desire to meddle and
to talk, to advise wisely or to hint what she
was not allowed to confide, was too much for
her-as it has been too much for many an-
other woman since the days of Eve. If she
did not venture to disregard entirely the em-
bargo which had been laid upon her tongue,
it was not because she attached any particu-
lar binding significance to a promise, but
rather because ~he was not prepared to brave
the anger which she knew Max would feel, or
to sacrifice the advantage she had gained by
discreet confidence and appeal. She began,
therefore, on the outskirts of the subject, be-
gan discursively to talk of Miss Desmond,
expressing herself with all the moderation
and good sense which usually characterized
her conversation:
"So charming, so beautiful, with such a
peculiar gift of fascination !" she said. "I
never knew before what a real enchantress
a woman can be - an enchantress such as
one reads of, you know. Miss Desmond
seems to possess such a peculiar attraction
for men! I have never seen any thing like it."
"I am afraid Carl is more in love with
her than is good for him," said Leslie, flick-
ing Romulus and Remus lightly with the

whip. "But I am not aware that she has
displayed her conquering talent with regard
to any one else as yet."
"That is because you have not observed,"
said Mrs. Sandford, with a shako of the head.
"If you had- But I think there is nothing
more beautiful than that perfect and implicit
trust which you scene to feel in every one you
love."
"I certainly could not love any one whom
I was forced to suspect," answered Leslie,
flushing. "If you are speaking of Norab
"My dear, I am not speaking of anybody
-that is, of anybody in particular," inter-
rupted the other, quickly, "Of course, it is
no affair of mine. I am, unfortunately, too
observant-I see and know too much. I of-
ten feel as if I would give any thing to have
your delightful repose and confidence."
"You are right in saying that I trust im-
plicitly those whom I love," said Miss Gra-
hame, with some lzasetczer-for it is slightly
trying to be politely accused of obtuse stu-
pidity-" but, with regard to other people, I
am not conscious of wearing a bandage over
my eyes. I make no very great claim ~to
worldly acumen, but I think I can ~see as
clearly as most of my fellows."
"I never implied or meant to imply for a
moment that you wore a bandage over your
eyes," said Mrs. Sandford, with the sweetest
conciliation. "I only meant that you are
blind-quite blind-where your affections are
concerned. You acknowledge that yourself."
"Not that I am blind, but that I do not
suspect readily. There is a distinction be-
tween the two things."
"Is there? I suppose I am very stupid,
but I really eanuot see it. It seems to me
that one is blind if one does not suspect when
one is deceived, for instance."
"When one is deceived!" Something in
the tone which uttered those words-a scarce-
ly-veiled significance and meaning - ~truek
with a cold chill to Leslie's heart. She felt
suddenly that Mrs. Sandford was not talking
at random, that she had a particular object
in view, and that her words pointed like ar-
rows directly toward that object. If Miss
Grahame had followed her impulse, she would
have turned authoritatively and said, "What
do you mean? For Heaven's sake, speak
plainly!" But she was a woman of sufficient
worldly experience to know that such an im-
pulse was not a wise one. To bid some pee-


104                      A DAI~TGHTER
ple speak plainly is simply to offer them a
premium for further innuendo and mystery.
"Of course if one is deceived, one may
desire and should endeavor to know it," she
said, after a minute. "Self-respect-which
is often, however, merely another name for
selfishness-teaches that much, at least."
"But if one does not suspect - if one
does not open one's eyes and look, how can
one know?" asked Mrs. Sandford, more
meaningly than ever. Just then she felt so
much sincere compassion for Miss Grahame,
that it required her strongest thoughts ~f
Captain Tyndale to refrain from telling the
whole truth, as she conceived it.
Leslie looked at her with a half-pathetic
keenness in her soft gray eyes.
"I would not turn away from any proof
of deception which came to me," she said,
gravely, "but I would never lower myself
sufficiently to go in search of it."
"Oh, my dear, lam sure you never would!"
cried the other, who began to think she had
gone far enough. She had put Leslie on her
guard, and she had not broken faith with
Max. While congratulating herself on the
diplomacy which had secured both these ends,
she felt that this was the golden moment in
which to retreat. Enough (for her purpose)
had been said, and not too much: another
word might involve her in the necessity of
an explanation, and spoil all. "I am sure
you never would I" she i-epeated. "I al-
ways thought you had the keenest sense of
honor I have ever known in any one. How 1
strange it is to consider how unlike the near-
eat relations may be!" (This hint was so
tempting,.that she could not resist throwing
it in.) "By-the~.by, do tell me if there is no
talk of any of these Oovington girls being
married? Do they mean to grow into a whole
houeeful of old maids?"
The conversation was easily turned in this
way-for Leslie was too proud to make any
effort to continue a subject which the other
evidently wished to drop-but Mrs. Sandford
was safe in thinking that she had sowed a
seed which was destined to ripen int9 fruit,
and worked mischief not likely to pass harm-
lessly away.

OF BOHEMIA.

CHAPTER XVIII.
"A woman is a foreign land,
Of which, though there he settle young,
A man will ne'er quite understand
The customs, politics, and tongue.
The foolish hie them poet-haste through,
See fashions odd, and prospects fair,
Learn of the language, 'how d'ye do?'
And go and brag that they've been there."
ON the evening of the same day, dinner
was over at Rosland, the lights were turned
low in the drawing-room, and the party-
somewhat tired and languid after their cro-
quet-were assembled on the veranda, when
Arthur Tyndale came across the lawn in the
shadowy moonlight and joined them.
They were a little surprised to see him,
and he had to run a gantlet of inquiries about
his indispositionn," all of which he answered
with remarkable brevity, and then dropped
into a seat under the shadow of the vines by
Leslie's side.
"I am sorry to hear you have been un-
well," she said, in her tender voice-a voice
which sounded like a C minor chord in mu-
sic-" has it really been serious? Do you
think the fishing yesterday had any thing to
do with it?"
"It has not been in the least serious," he
answered, in a tone of subdued irritation.
"A little headache-nothing of any impor-
tance. I cannot imagine what induced Max
to say that I was ill."
"He did not say that you were ill-only
unwell."
"But I was not even unwell-lazy would
have been much nearer the truth. This weath-
er pulls one down horribly," he added, impa-
tiently. "I have almost made up my mind
not to leave the house again while the sun is
above the horizon.
"Have you?" said Leslie. She did not
say any thing more, for, like a flash, it oc-
curred to her that, if Arthur discontinued the
morning visits which he had paid ever since
her arrival, at Rosland, it would effectually
put an end to all their private interviews.
She was too fastidious in taste and breeding
to withdraw from the circle of the evening in
any marked manner, and there are few of us
who have not learned that the intercourse of
two people, in which half a dozen others
more or less participate, is rarely satisfacto-
ry. She did not suggest this fact to him, for

A LIVELY IMAGINATION.
it also occurred to her that he might be as began to stir within her. Something' was
well aware of it as herself. A new sense of going on! Her newly-sharpened fac~ties of
distrust had come over Leslie since Mrs. observation told her that much at lea t. 0th-
Sandford had uttered her enigmatical warn- ers knew or suspected something, bout Ar-
ing. It was very vague, as yet-for she did thur or about Norah, which must of necessity
not know whom or what she had been advised concern her. She had a strange, puzzled feel.
to suspect-but it existed, and this was more ing, as of a child newly waked-what did it
than could have been said twelve or even six mean? As yet the faintest conception of the
hours earlier. Tyndale's woids - which in truth had not come to her.
truth were little more than the random ut- "Why did not Captain Tyndalc come over
terances of a man impatient with circum- with you 2" said Mrs. Sandford to Arthur, by
stances and with himself-jarred on her as way of breaking the awkward pause which
they would n~t have done had they been of followed Carl's remark. She was good-na-
much stronger~ import a little while before. tureci in the main, and, although she meant
She was not woman to display any thing to know all that was to be known about this
like petulant ction, however, and so she mystery which pique~ and puzzled her, she
made answer very~)~uietly: had no objection to soothingg matters so-
"I think it would be a very prudent res- cially, meanwhile. "lie might have felt a
olution. Aunt Mildred would certainly ap- little interest in learning whether or not we
plaud it, for she blames the sun for every ill survived the croquet."
that flesh is heir to in our climate, and fan- "He might have come if he had been
cies that, if we only stay under shelter from aware that I intended to do so," Arthur an-
sunrise to sunset, we can sleep out in the dew swerved, carelessly. "But I sti-olled off with-
all night if we have a mind to." out letting him know."
"There might be a more unpleasant ne- "And pray why dad,,~you stroll off without
cessity on such a night as this," he said, letting him know?" asked she, petulantly.
throwing back his bead and looking up, so "Because I thought him quite as well ac-
that the soft moonlight fell on his fair, deli- quainted with the path as I am," returned he,
cate face and silken blond hair. Then he coolly.
turned abruptly to Norah. "Miss D~smond, Then there was another pause. Every-
do you remember- I me&amp;n, does not this body felt instinctively that something had
moonlight make you think of moonlight "happened" between these tw~ men, who, in
nights in Germany? Something just now re- an undemonstrative masculine fashion, had
minds me of one night which I cannot forget represented "Damon and Pythias"in mod.
-of a moon in her first quarter hanging over era costume a short time before. Nobody
Coblentz, of the Rhine murmuring below~and fancied for a moment that any thing overt or
of Ehrenbreitst~in, with its towers showing violent, or even tangible, had taken place,
dark and massive against the purple sky but that something had come between them-.-
above!" some coolness, some barrier, some change in
"Your imagination must be very lively, the' old, affectionate intimacy-was evident,
Mr. Tyndale," answered Carl's. voice out of for it is astonishing how much theXlnere sig.
the shadowy half - light - for Norah said not nificanee of accent can convey to ears which
a word-" I confess I cannot possibly see any are on the alert. After Arthur's last speech,
thing to suggest* the Rhine or Ehrenbreit. Norab, Leslie, Mrs. Sandford, and Carl, were
stein in the present scene. The moon is a all as well aware as himself of his altered
very slender link of association-if it is the feeling toward Max. Mrs. Middleton was the
only one." only person onwhom the' subtle inflection of
His slight pause before the last words his tone fell unperceived. As for Mr. Mid.
made them very significant, and other ears dleton, he was taking a comfortable doze in a
besides those of Tyndale and Norah caught shaded corner of the drawing-room, having
the meaning which filled them. To Mrs. outlived his fancy for moonlight, and incline~
Sandford they brought a sudden illumination ing to the opinion that the night-air had ma-
that absolutely startled her, and made her lana in it.
cry "Eureka!" to herself. With Lealie-they "How stupid we are!" said Mrs. Sand.
deepened the vague sense of suspicion which ford after a while, with a candid yawn. "Can't


AN UNFORTUNATE ACCIDENT.             107

106               A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

somebody do something for the general amuse-
ment ?-Miss Desmond, won't yougo and sing
forus?"
"Pray do, Miss Desmond," said Mrs. Mid-
dleton, courteously~ It was the best thing
this lady knew of Norab, that she could sing.
Miss Desmond yielded without demur-
she was unusually quiet this evening, more
than one Qf the party remarked-and, as she
rose to enter the drawing-room, Tyndale rose
also, somewhat to Leslie's surprise, greatly
to Carl's indignation, and followed her.
Being in advance, Norali was not aware
of his presence until she reached the piano.
Then, turning to say, "What shall I sing?"
she found herself facing hi'm instead of Carl,
as she expected.          -
She started a little, a flush which he knew
to be one of anger rose to her face, and her
lips enclosed impetuously. But sometimes it
is possible to pause in the very act of utter-
ance, and so Norah paused now. The reason
of this was not far to seek. She had caught
a glimpse of the bald top of Mr. Middleton's
head, and, although several audible sounds
indicative of slumber were proceeding from
his nose, she was too cautious a woman to
utter aloud the haughty words of impatience
trembling on her tongue.
"I thought you were Mr. Middleton," she
said, with a quietness that amazed Tyndale;
for he did nctsee the bald head or hear the
sounds which it would have been an insult to
call snoring.
"I thought that I might venture to conic
instead of Mr. Middleton," he answered, un-
certain whether to augur good or ill from her
sudden change of manner. "You asked what
you should sing," he went on, quickly. "May
I answer that question? May I say that I
should like of all things to hear once again
that little German song which you sang-do
you remember?-that night at Coblents to
which I alluded a little while ago?"
"I remember," said Norah.
She looked at him intently, almost curi-
ously, as she spoke. Of what was this man
made, that he ventured to brave her like this?
Was he mad that he, who had every reason to
conciliate her (if such a thing could be done),
instead brought&amp; forward memories which
might have hardened the heart and strength-
ened the resolution of a far less proud and
passionate woman? It is impossible to say
whether she felt most contempt or puzzled

indignation as she stood looking at him with
her keen, brilliant glance, but it is at least
certain that she understood him far better
than he understood her when she answered
at last.
"You mean the little German ballad called
'The Pledge?'" she asked. "Yes, I wiU sing
it for you-that is, if I can remember it. I
do not think I have sung it since that night
at Coblentz, when I sat on the balcony with
one who was to leave the next day, and
watched the moon go down behind the vine-
clad hills, with the voice of the Rhine in our
ears."
"My God! how I remember it all!" he
said, passionately; but, as he spoke, a warn-
ing glance in her eye made him stop short.
"Will you go yonder, across the room,
and look for my fan on one of those tables?"
she said, quickly.
While he obeyed, she sat down to the
piano, and, when he came back, a single
glance at his face showed her that lie had
seen Mr. Middleton.
She smiled, and, secure from any further
allusion to the past, it may be that she was
not averse to showing him her indifference
to it.
"This is the song yen mean, is it not?"
she asked, striking a few chords, and then
beginning to sing.
It was a very beautiful ballad, though sufil-
ciently simple in subject and execution-only
a pledge of faith which a maiden gave her
lover when they parted-but the theme was
treated as only the Germans know how to
treat such a theme, lifting, it out of the region
of commonplace into the realm of pure artistic
simplicity.
Norah sang it exquisitely, with a pathos
and sweetness which thrilled even those who
were gathered on the veranda in the moon-
light.
"How charming!" cried Mrs. Sandford,
"and with how much expression Miss Desmond
is singing !-You understand German" (this
to Carl); "tell us what it is about."
"It is the promise of a girl to be faithful
through all things to her lover," he answered
-a coldness and constraint in his voice which
it was impossible for him to disguise.
"Oh I" said Mrs. Sandford~ To do her
justice, she uttered that long-drawn exclama-
tion involuntarily. It was little more than a
thought spoken aloud. "How pretty such

promises always are-in poetry and music,"
she added, after a minute, "and how pretty
Miss flesmond looks while she sings it! '
"When does not Miss Desmond look
pretty?" asked Carl, in a sharp, quick tone,
full of mingled tenderness and jealousy, which
was any thing but soothing to the ears or the
feelings of Mrs. Middleton.
He rose, as he spoke, from his own scat,
and crossed over to where Mrs. Sandford was
sitting, just outside one of the open windows.
It was like looking at a picture to stand there
in the fragrant darkness, and gaze down the
the long room, with its mirrors, and paintings,
and polished floor, to where Norah sat at the
piano in her filmy white des~, with one scar-
let flower glowing on her breast, another in
the rich masses of her hair-only Carl was
not cxaptly in that calm, msthetic frame of
mind necessary for the appreciation of a work
of art. He did not take in the general effect
of the scene; his eyes were fastened on the
face which just then wore its most lustrous
beauty. How could he imagine what bitter
memories of the past, what overpowering
scorn of the present, had made that face
blossom into such vivid loveliness of light
and color?
Even Tyndale thought that he had never
seen it more beautiful; even he thought that
it was the spell of the song-that subtle as-
sociation which dwells in music as in odor-
which had brought such glowing light to No-
rah's eyes, such brilliant carmine to her
cheeks. If the first cadence made him re-
member that September night on the Rhine
until his pulses throbbed, how must it be with
her in whose mind the brief romance which
ended then had dwelt more deeply and more
constantly? It must not be supposed that he
forgot, meanwhile, the letter resting safely in
his pocket-book-that letter in which Norah
said that her love for him had died so utter a
death-but it was easier to believe that she
had deceived herself, or that she meant to de-
ceive her sister, than tbat such an assertion
could possibly rest on fact. Beyond a certain
point, credulity cannot go. This point in the
general masculine mind is reached when it
becomes necessary to believe that a woman
has learned to forget, to ignore, or to despise,
as the case may be, the ~aan whom she once
loved. Let this man have good cause, or
sometimes no cause, to imagine that any thing
like a passion or a tender sentiment has been

~ntertained for him, and, in the face of rea-
son, fact, and probability, he will retain a
firm belief in his power to the last. So it
was with Tyndale. He knew that Norah had
loved him once, and consequently he no more
believed that this love was dead than ho be-
lieved that he was a fool, or any other patent
absurdity.
"I wonder what Leslie thinks of this
pretty scene!" said Mrs. Sandford, in a dis-
erect aside to Carl. "Upon my word, it is
quite lover-like, is it not? What is Mr. Tyn-
dale doing now? Looking over the music?
But I thought it was one of Miss Desmond's
affeeta-peculiarities, never to sing by note~"
"So it is one of her peculiarities," said
CarL "That is Leslie's music he is turning
over. What he means by setting it up before
Miss Desmond, I don't know. She does uot
sing any of those mezzo-soprano songs."
"He has a reason for it, you may be
sure," said Mrs. Sandford, philosophically.
A minute later this reason became appar-
ent-much more apparent than Mr. Tyndale
intended or desired. The piece of sheet-mu-
sic which had been set up as a screen un-
fortunately fell down just as he was in the act
of offering a folded paper-apparently a note
---to Norah, which Norab, on her part, seemed
hesitating whether or not to receive. The
tableau only lasted a second. As the music
fell forward on the key-board, her hesitation
ended-she quietly accepted and slipped it
unread into her girdle. Then she turned
back to the piano and began singing again.
Mrs. Saudford and Carl Middleton in-
stinctively looked at each other. Both had
seen so plainly and palpably what passed,
that there was no room for evasion, no need
for silence.
"What a mysterious and dramatic bit of
by-play 1" said the former, with her light,
empty laugh. "Why cannot people say all
that they want to while they are together, I
wonder?"
"Perhaps they lack opportunity to do so,
and desire to make one," said Carl, bitterly.
But the words were scarcely uttered be-
fore he repented himself, and would have
given much to recall them. This was be-
cause he appreciated the feliX of having spo-
ken so plainly to a woman like Mrs. Sand-
ford. His repentance would have been still
deeper if he had known that Leslie was stand-
ing at his elbow when he uttered them.


108               A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

Let no one condemn Carl for absolute want
of sense when it is recorded of him that he
did not close his eyes in slumber during the
short hours which remained of that moonlit
summer nigh~t. There are two or three facts
which may be pleaded in part extenuation of
this act of folly. First, as Norah had once
said in magnanimous excuse for him, he was
young-and when one is young, one cannot
only be guilty of a great deal of nonsense,
but one can also dispense with a great deal
of sleep with impunity. Secondly, he was in
love-desperately, hopelessly in love, accord-
ing to the impetuo~is though ofttimes short-
lived fervor of the mercurial disposition.
Thirdly, he was jealous-savagely jealous of
the man who, he felt sure, was Norak's lover,
oven while he was Leslie's fiane~. Fourthly,
he was puzzled, more puzzled than can readi-
ly be expressed, by Miss Desmond's inex-
plicable conduct. Fifthly, the night was very
warm - one of those breathless Southern
nights when one's bed, instead of being that
"heaven of rest" which Hood calls it, is
strikingly suggestive of St. Lawrence's grid-
iron; and, sixthly, he had just received a
new box of very excellent cigars.
All of these causes, combined and operat-
ing together, were not conducive to somno-
lence. With a ~nind irritatingly wide awake
and bent onf thoughts of love and jealousy,
he could see no reason for leaving the bal-
cony, where he sat at ease, smoking cigar
aft~r cigar, and obtaining the benefit of any
breeze which chanced to be stirring, for rest-
less tossing on a mattress within. There are
some fortunate people who, in the face of*
any trouble or annoyance, can take their
usual quantum of rest-and of these we may
confidently predicate that they will safely
weather any storm which Fate may send
upon them-but Carl was not one of them.
It was also necessary to look at his face to
read the sign - token of that high - strung,
nervous organization which consumes itself
with its own fire, and tears itself with its
own strength. It would be as wise to bid
such natures stop breathing as to bid them
"take things easily," as we too often do.
Stronger than any thing else in this strange
world of ours-stronger than circumstances,
resolution, love, or hate - is the resistless
and mysterious strength of that which we
have agreed to call temperament.
Concerning the thoughts which occupied

Carl's mind during the hours-first moonlit,
and then starlit-that elapsed between the
last good-nights down-stairs and the first
lightening glow in the east, which told of
breaking day, it is not necessary to enter
into detail. His suspicions were, as yet, un-
formed, his gathering wrath somewhat vague,
not in itself, but as regarded the object
against whom it was directed. At this time,
a trifle might have made it waver again as it
had wavered before. Afterward it was too
late for this. Afterward not all the elo-
quence of men or angels c6uld have turned
him from his fixed belief; or his fixed pur-
pose.
Weary at last from his night's vigil, and
conscious of being a little sleepy, he threw
his last cigar away, as the glow of the east
brightened and deepened into roseate splen-
dor, and, leaning back with a yawn, made up
his mind that he would "turn in." To make
up one's mind to do a thing, however, and to
do it, are occasionally very different things.
Just now they proved very different indeed
with CarL He had scarcely taken his reso-
lution, and he certainly had not as yet moved
an inch toward carrying it into execution,
when the sound of an opening blind near at
hand made him start. This. start was not
because there was any thing remarkable in
the fact of a blind being opened at daylight
on a summer morning-.though people sleep-
ing on the eastern side of the house would
have been more likely to close theirs-as be-
cause sleeplessness and tobacco had together
produced their natural effect of nervousness,
together with the fact that the sound ap-
peared to proceed from Miss Desmond's room,
which chanced to be in the neighborhood of
his own. A minute later it was repeated,
and then he knew that it proceeded from her
room. Immediately Suspicion sprang up,
ready~ armed and on the alert. What was
~orah doing awake at that hour? It was
impossible to fancy it could be a servant, for
the servants at Rosland had far too much re-
gard for their own comfort, and knew the
habits of their master and mistress too well,
to rouse themselves at such a time.
For ten minutes Carl sat listening intently,
with strained attentIon, for any further proof
of matutinal rising on Miss Desmnond's part.
All night he had spent in going over and over
accordingg to the distracting fashion of night
meditation) that little scene at the piano-all

108


EARLY RISING.

night he had taken an active part, as counsel
for the defense, in an exhaustive mental ar-
gument to prove that there could have been
nothing of importance in that folded paper
which looked so suspiciously like a note.
Now, he found, in the most discouraging man-
ner, that his trouble had all been for naught.
At the first sound from Norah'5 room, his
thoughts flew back to the suspicion-point of
the night before. What was in that note?
What was the meaning of this early rising?
Reason said it did not follow of necessity that
there was any connection between the two
facts. Instinct said, "You may be sure that
there is a connection of the closest kind."
Between the two, Carl felt not a little puz-
zled; but he inclined toward instinct, as, in
little or in great, we all more or less do in-
cline. Besides, there was reason on that
sidetoo. He had known Miss Desmond well
enough and long enoughto be aware that she
had nothing of the lark in her composition.
Only the day before he had heard her say
that there was nothing she detested*so much
as early rising; and now-
Well, he thought, the man would be fit
for a lunatic asylum, indeed, who expected
consistency in a woman; and, after all, the
fact of the open blind did not prove that she
had risen. She might have wanted a little
air (of which there was not the least stirring),
or she might have wanted to admire the sun-
rise. This last idea was so improbable that
he caught himself smiling over it; and, as he
did so, the sun, which had been reddening
the tree-tops for some time, rose in full ma-
jesty; the first idvel, golden lines of light
came slanting across the green, dewy earth,
and
in the crystal cnp of day
Lay melted the pe4rl of dawn."
The marvelous stillness, freshness, and
beauty of the scene arrested ev~i Carl's un-
observant gaze. For a tainute he forgot his
passionate, jealous thoughts, in admiration
of the picture outspread before him-the
shadows, long and deep as those of afternoon,
the sunlight full of still glory, the sparkling
freshness of grass and foliage, the purple mist
clinging softly to the. distant hills, the lucid
clearness and brightness of the air. As he
looked and listened-for, from copse ~snd tree
rose the matin song of many feathered char-
isters-another sound made him start, and
diverted his attention in a moment from all

the glory of Nature. This sound was the
soft enclosing of a door immediately beneath
his balcony.
Instantly he leaned forward and looked
over the railing. As he did so, a light-gray
dress fluttered below, a figure wearing a straw
hat stepped into full view, and the next mo-
ment he recognized Norah Desmnond as she
walked with her quick, stately tread across
the dewy grass.
Careless- whether or not she should turn
and see him, Carl sat motionless, staring
after her as she crossed the lawn and disap-
peared along a winding path of the shrub-
bery. What did it mean? This was what
he asked himself-ignoring the fact that Miss
Desmond was at liberty to take as many
walks at sunrise as she felt inclined to, with-
out any one possessing the right (he, least of
all) to inquire why she did so. "She has
gone to meet that scoundrel!" he said, after
a while, striking his clinched hand violently
on the railing against which he leaned, hurt-
ing it severely, by-the-by- only people do
not mind such trifles as this when they are
excited.
Having decided that she had gone to meet~
the scoundrel in question, Carl felt himself
fired with the spirit of one. of Mr Wilkie
Collins's detectives. There was only a single.
objection to following her and settling, the
point at once: this was an inconvenient sen-
~Iment of honor, a~ inconvenient feeling that,
as a gentleman, he had no right and little en-.
cuse for prying into Miss Desmond's affairs,
and sitting in judgment on her conduct. But'
then, if he meant to serve her-as he did
mean to serve her, by showing Arthur~ Tyn-
dale that he could not, with impufmity, play-
such a part between herself and Leslie-was
it not necessary for him to know the truth?
This view of the case struck l~im forcibly, and
seemed unanswerable. Certainly it was neces-
sary that he should know the truth; certain-
ly, also, there was no other means for learn-
ing it than this which seemed to him in a
measure dishonorable, Yet, after all, was he
not regam~ding the matter in rather an exag-
gerated light? Was it dishonorable to sat-
isfy himself-by sight, merely-of a matter
concerning which it was vitally important
that he should possess satisfaction? The
strictest of moral casuiste might have been
excused for answering "No."
At least, this was Carl's view of the ease.

169

V
KU

I'


110                 A DAUCLITER OF BOHEMIA.                                              A BUSINESS APPOINTMENT.                111

Just then, probably, he was a particularly
strict moral casuist. Few of us are when
our own desires and interests are at stake.
Unquestionably the matter ended as might
have been expected. He entered his room,
dressed quickly, and, going down-stairs as
quietly as possible, passed out of the door
which Norah had left ajar, and followed the
path which she had taken into the shrub-
bery.
Ten minutes later, he came in sight of the
Dutch summer-house-toward which the in-
stinet, that occasionally serves as a mariner a
compass on dry land, led his feet. It was
there that Norah had gone, he felt sure; it
was there that he would learn the best or
worst of that which he desired to know.
Full of this conviction-a conviction ap-
proaching to a positive certainty-he paused
in the shrubbery at some distance from the
summer-house, contenting himself with com-
manding a good view of the door. All he
desired was to see; no casuistry could have
convinced him for a moment that it was hon-
orable to hear.
He waited for some time without any
thing occurring which justified the suspicion
that had brought him there. "I am a fool!"
he thought, and was about to turn away and
to resume his search in another direction,
when suddenly his heart gave a great throb
that almost suffocated him. Framed in the
summer - house window at. that moment he
saw Norah's beautiful, grave face gazing out
over the bright landscape which he had
showed her first; and, almost simultaneously
with this picture, his eye caught a glimpse
of Arthur Tyndale's graceful figure advancing
rapidly from the opposite direction.
CHAPTER XIX.
"Woman, and will you east,
For a word, quite off, at last,
Me, your own, your you-
Since, as Truth is true,
I was you all, the hippy past-
Me do you leave aghast
With the memories we amassed?"
NonAn was standing, with her hack to the
door, gazing half abs~ently out of the open
window, when the sound of Tyndale's step, as
he entered the summer-house, made her start
and turn around. By the quick lighting-up

of his eye, the quick flush of pleasure which
rose to his face, it was evident that he had
not been at all certain of finding her; but the
expression of her face did not change in the
least as she walked slowly forward and paused
at the table in the centre of the floor. Evi-
dently she was there for a purpose, and evi-
dently, also, it was one with which pleasure
had little to do.
"You are late," she said, quietly, before
he could utter any salutation. "I have been
waiting for some time."
"Have you? I am sorry, very sorry!" he
answered, with the flush deepening on his
face. It is always awkward to be late in
keeping an appointment which one has made
one's self; but Tyndale was a man who piqued
himself on the observance of the little things
in which high-breeding consists, and he knew
that for a gentleman to be late in keeping an
appointment with a lady is an unpardonable
social offense. "How can I ask you to par-
don me?" he said. "I had no idea you
would be~able to leave the hous&amp;so early-it
is very early, you know."
"Is it?" said she, carelessly. "But, after
all, early is a relative term. If one had been
awake all night, for instance, one might eall
it late."
"Fins have not been awake all night, I
trust?" (rather tenderly).
"No" (very indifferently). "But I slept
brokenly, and the heat was intense. What i~
it Hood says?-
'They must be wretched who cannot sleep
When God himself draws the curtain!'
Well, I was not particularly wretched-n~t
wretched at~ all, in fact-but still I did not
sleep. I had bad dreams and bad dreams al-
ways upset me for the day. I dreamed about
you!" (with startling directness).
~ hopeyou don't mean to imply that
your dreams were bad because they were of
"Yes, I mean to imply just that-they
were bad because they were of you! But I
dreamed of other disagreeable things, also,
and therefore I was glad when day dawned,
and the night was over. I did not come to
talk of my dreams, however," said she, sitting
down. "Suppose we proceed at once to busi-
ness? Early or late, I cannot spend much
time here."
"I have not yet told you how glad, how

110

happy I am to find you!" he began, eagerly;
but she interrupted him.
"There is not the slightest reason why
you should be either glad or happy. I am
here simply because your note seemed to in-
dicate that there was an urgent necessity for
you to see me. The more briefly you tell nie
what this necessity is, the more indebted to
you I shall be."
"You will not even allow me to thank
you-
"Have I not explained that there is noth-
ing for which to thank me?" she interrupted,
again. "I have not come on your account,
or because you desired it. Pray understand
this at once. It will save time and words-
neither of which I like to waste."
"Then, if you did not come on my ac-
count, or because I desired it, may I venture
to inquire to what I am indebted for your
presence?" asked he, irritated, against his
will, by the seW-possession of her manner,
the contemptuous indifference of her tone.
"I have already told you," said she, "that
you are indebted to the assurance of your
note-an assurance given on your honor-if
such a trifling form of asseveration has any
weight with you-that there Was an impera-
tive need for you to see me. I credited this,"
she added, "not so much because you asserted
it as because I was myself able to imagine
what the need in question might be."
"Were you, indeed?" said he. The ever-
changing flush on his face deepened again.
He could not be with her five minutes without
being galled to the quick, and yet he was so
far gone in madness that he would not have
exchan~cd this bitterness for all the honey
that ever dropped from lips of coral. "In
that case, it may save time and words if you
will be kind enough to tell me what you have
imagined this need to be."
"Is that necessary?" asked she. "Is
there more than one thing which I could have
imagined it to be?"
"There is certainly more than one tfiing
which you could have imagined," answered
he, with more coolness than he had displayed
before, "since there is more than one thing
of which I desire urgently to speak to you."
"A desire is one thino-- a need is quite
another. You said nothing of the first, but a
great deal of the last; in your note2'
"I fancied that the latter would have
more weight with you than the former."

"You were quite right," she rejoined.
"The former would have had no weight at
all." Then she added, impatiently: "The
purpose for which I am here has nothing
to do with listening to idle speeches, how-
ever; and any thing more idle than a discus-
sion of your desires it would be impossible
to imagine. Since the interview is of your
seeking, I might insist that all necessary ex-
planation should come from you ; but perhaps
it may shorten matters to say at once that,
when I read your note, I felt little doubt but
that the 'urgent need,' upon which you laid
so much stress, was the need of telling me a
fact of which I am already well aware-that
Leslie is on the eve of knowing, if she does
not already know, the whole story of that
folly in which you were overheard at Straf-
ford the other day."
"Leslie on the eve of knowing the folly
in which I was overheard at Strafford the
other day!" repeated he, too thoroughly as-
tonished to do otherwise than echo her
words. "I do not understand. What do you
mean?"
"What do I mean?" repeated she, losing
patience altogether. "Are you crazy or stu-
pid that you do not know what I mean? Is
it possible you have forgotten that there was
a spy ambushed in the library - window at
Strafford, who overheard all that you were
foolish enough to say on the terrace that
day?"
"I trust that I am neither crazy nor stu-
pid," answered he. "I remember now. You
are speaking of Mrs. Sandfor&amp; But I do
not think there is any thing to fear from her.
In the first place, it is not at all probable
that she overheard any thing. In the second
place, even if she had done so, I have no idea
that she would think of interfering to make
mischief!"
"Have you not?" said Norah.
She looked at him with a glance which he
had often before encountered, and felt to be
of an uncomfortably keen nature. With all
her hardly-earnea worldly wisdom, one thing,
which this daughter of Bohemia had not
learned, or disdained to practise, was the im-
portant art of never appearing to see too
much or read too clearly. Especially in a
woman is this art essential. Last of all
~things which a man can forgive, is the con-
sciousness that the companion of his hours
of relaxation, the smoother of his pillow of

111


112               A DAUGHTJIR OF BOHEMIAN.                                            ARTHUR'S INCONSTANCY.              113

cares, has regarded him with steady, level
gaze, has sounded the depths of that ofttimes
shallow well which he calls his mind, has
ventured to sit in criticism on his errors of
judgment, and learned to know his weak
points as well or better than he knows them
himself. Thoroughly aware of this fact,
many women keep their lids drooped on sys-
tern, only lifting them to look up in that meek
attitude of adoration fit for th~ weaker yes-
sel and humbler creature.
"I have known Mrs. Sandford a long
time," he said, in answer to the incredulity
of her glance, "and I have never seen any
trace of malice in her. She is foolish and
vain, but I do not think she would act in a
dishonorable manner."
"But Mrs. SandCord may not think that
she is acting in a dishonorable manner in
putting Leslie on her guard against two such
grass deceivers as you and I," said Norab,
with a sudden gleam of laughter, which Tyn-
dale felt to be very ma? cl propo~, indeed,
coming into her eyes-that devil-may-care
gleam of Irish humor which there is not
trouble enough. on all this round earth of
trouble to quell. "No doubt she defends
the step-or would defend it if it were as-
sailed-on very high moral grounds. Can
you not imagine what they might be, Mr.
Tyndale?"
"I cannot imagine hi the least," answered
lie, coldly, suspicious of the satire lurking
under her words. "My imagination is nei-
ther so ready nor sa brilliant as your own.
I am only confident that you do her injus-
tice."
"It is bad policy to be 'confident' of any
thing or of anybody," said Norab. "That is
article first of my worldly creed. Let me
recommend you to make it an article of yours.
If you had done so a little earlier, you would
not be astonished when I tell you that Mrs.
Sandford has already made one confidant,
and may soon make another."
"One confidant!" repeated he, aghast.
"Good Heavens! are you in earnest? Who?
-what ?-when?"
"Your cousin, Captain Tyndale, was the
'who;'the 'what,' I have no doubt, was all
that she knew, together with as much as she
could invent; the 'when' was yesterday
morning in the shrubbery."
"Afar! has she told Max? Are you
sure ?-is there no mistake?"

"I scarcely think there can be any mis-
take. He implied as much ve~y plainly
when speaking to me yesterday; but, before
he could enter into any explanation, we were
interrupted."
"Max!" repeated Arthur. lie did not
say so, but he felt that he would almost as
soon it had been teslie. "The meddling,
prying eavesdropper!" he said, alluding to
Mrs. Sandford. "To think that she should
take advantage of a mere accident to inter-
fere in a matter which does not concern her
in the least! In the name of"-a pause-
"Heaven, what can be her motive?~~
"Have you generally found that it is at
all worth while to trouble one's self with re-
gard to people's motives?" asked Norah,
calmly. "When one finds them, they are
generally so very small and so very shabby
that one hardly feels repaid for the search."
"What did Max say?" asked he, eagerly.
"How did he take it?"
"I have~ already mentioned that we were
interrupted before he had time to say any
thing."
"And Leslie; do you think she knows?
Do you think that-that woman has told her
any thing?"
"I cannot tell; but she was alone with
that woman for two or three hours yesterday
afternoon."
"Was there ever a man so deceived and
betrayed as I have been!" said Tyndale, in a
Hamlet-like tone. "You think that I have
acted badly," he added, turning irripetuously
to Norah, "but, if you could only know how
others have treated me! There's Max, for
instance; I would have trusted Max, if all
tl~e women in the world had proved false,
and yet even he has failed me!"
"I should scarcely have fancied that,"
said Norab.
She wondered a little what had come be-
tween these two men, one of whom had so
warmly advocated the other's cause two days
before, but she did not choose to ask. Max
Tyndale was nothing to her save the hopeless
and deserving lover who might probably, at
the end of the (drama, marry Leslie Gra-
hame.
"None of this is of any importance," she
went on, in her decided fashion. "The ques-
tion is not 'Who has deceived or who be-
trayed you?' but 'What is to be done?' Will
you tell Leslie the truth, or shall I?"

"Tell Leslie-the truth!" he stammered
Such a downright and uncompromising d
mand almost took away his breath. Wa
she mad-this beautiful, imperious creature
of whom his fear was even more lively thai
his admiration?
"Yes, the truth!" repeated Miss Des
mond, looking at him steadily. '~Does th
word frighten you? Well, it is sometimes
hard thing-this truth-but, at its worst,
is never so hard as the consequences of tha
other thing called falsehood. You migh'
have learned this fragment of wisdom som
time since."
"You are plainly determined to teach ii
to me," said he, with paling lips. "God
knows it would have been better if I hac
told Leslie the truth at ~lrst, but now-it h
too lat0!"
"Too late for what?" asked Norah'E
trenchant voice. "Is it ever too late to stef
out of the mire on to dry land? Po you
mean too late on account of Mrs. Sandford?
If you speak bravely and openly, even Mrs.
Sandford's story will weigh little with Leslie.
But I warn you frankly that it is only by
speaking openly that you can save yourself.
Sooner or later, Leslie must know the truth.
If you and I are silent, sh&amp;will learn it from
others."
"Apparently you do not m to be si-
lent," said he, catching at her last words.
"You are mistaken," she answered. "I
decided yesterday that Leslie should not
hear the truth from me; I made up my mind
that I would go back to the old vagabond
life at the first excuse, and leave her unmo-
lested in her fools' paradise. But you see
that the matter has been taken out of my
hands. Your own folly has betrayed your
secret to a person who will not hesitate to
use it unscrupulously. Hence I-who have
no interest in the matter save the interest of
honestly desiring to scare Leslie, who has
honestly attcmp~ed to serve me-I tell you
- that your only hope of saving yourself in her
eyes is to go and speak the truth, as a more
honorable man would have spoken it long
ago."
"You are hard on me,'~ he said, changing
color from white to red and red to white
again. "You have been hard on me from
the first! Can you not comprehend that a
man may be ted into things without meaning
to act falsely or dishonorably? If you could
8

only understand how little I meant to act
~- toward you as I have done-!"
a "Your conduct toward me requires no
~, apology," said she. "You have greatly mis-
a understood all that I have said if you think
it necessary to offer one."
"I have not misunderstood a single word
e that you have uttered," answered he, quickly.
i "I am not offering an apology. It is the
t last thing I should think of offering to you.
t I only hope you will grant as much credence
and attention to what I am about to say as I
have given you."
"I am afraid I must ask you to be kind
enough to 'speak briefly," answered she,
I glancing at her watch. "I have already
I spent more time than I intended."
"Can you not even spare me a few min-
utes?" demanded he, half angrily - " you
who give long hours to Max, and that Mid.
dleton puppy, whom I suppose you intend to
I marry!"
"Do you?" said she, indifferently; but
she did not add, "lamor am no~ going to
do so." Plainly Mr. Tyndale must under-
stand his position was that of a mere ac-
quaintance-of one to whom she allowed no
part or interest in her life. "But thia~ is
wandering from the subject of which you in-
tend to speak," she added. "I hope you
~mean to explain that 'urgent need' for my
presence which you have not explained yet-
since it seems that I was wrong in my idea
concerning it."
"How can I explain any thing when you
treat me like this, when you remove me to
such an infinite distance from you?" said he,
with a sudden vibration of passion in his voice
which startled her, for she was not expecting
any thing of the kind just then. "You must
know, you must feel, what it is that I wish to
say! That 'folly' of which you talk, at
Strafford the other day, was nearer wisdom
than folly.. You urge me to tell Leslie the
trnth. Do you know what it would be if I
did tell her? It could only be that I love
you, Norah-you only, you forever, you so
far dbove all other women, that I would rath-
er be miserable with you than find myself
condemned to live without you!"
"That is unfortunate!" said Norah-her
clear, cold voice making an indescribable
contrast to the passionate eagerness of his-
"since you are not likely to possess the
option of being miserable with me! I fear,


A DAUGHTER 01? BOHEMIA.

on the contrary, that yon will find yourself
reduced to the necessity of heing happy with.
out me-only, for your consolation, I can
honestly say that I do not think a gentleman
who changes his mind and his fancy so often,
will be likely to find an exceeding amount of
happiness in any position of life."
"For God's sake, spare me your mock-
ery!" said he, hoarsely. "If you could
know what I have suffered during the last
few days, you would pity me. I never knew
what the hell of jealousy was until I have
endured it in seeing you surrounded by other
men, each of whom has had a better right to
yQUF time and attention than I! At last I
could bear it no longer, and I determined to
make one effort to gai~i an opportunity-this
opportunity-to tell you all that is impera-
tive you should know-"
She interrupted him here.
." Imperative to whom 1'" she-asked.
"To me principally; to you, I hope, in
a measure," he answered, Then he leaned
across the table which divided them, and
would have taken her hands if she had not
drawn back haughtily. "Norah," he said
-and the supreme excitement of his voice
seemed to clash on the still air-," I swear to
you that I love you more passionately, more
intensely, than I did when we were so happy
two years ago, at Baden! You are infinitely
dearer, infinitely mere necessary, to me than
on the night we parted in Coblents. Norab,
have you in love left for me? Is it all dead?
Can I bring none of it to life again by the de-
votion of a lifetime? 0 lqve! love !-they
say that women never forget. Oh, if I could
only hope that you would come to me again
as you caine to me once before!"
He stopped abruptly, partly because he
was out of breath, and partly because there
was something exceedingly discouraging to
any prolonged effort of eloquence in the steady
brilliance of Norab's eyes. Not for a moment
had this gaze wavered from his face; not
once bad the long lashes drooped in becoming
maidenly shyness, or the flush on her cheeks
deepened. Her self-possession was simply
imperturbable, unruffled by any sign of cpu.
fusion or trace of indignation. When he
ceased speaking, she answered him as. quietly
as if he had made the most commonplace
proposal in the world:
"And if I came to you, Mr. Tyndale, pray
what would you do with me? We do not

live in Asia, and I believe you are engaged to
marry Leslie."
"But 1 was en~qaged to you first 1" an-
swered he, with a sudden flash of hope light..
ing up his face. Surely, this girl, with her
passionate Irish blood, her reckless Bohemian
rearing, would never have taken his declara-
tion so coolly as this, unless she meant to
grant all that he desired. "Norab, have you
forgotten that? I can never forget it. I was
engaged to you first, and I love you-hence
my first duty is to you,"
"In other words," said she, leaning on
the table, and looking more intently than ever
into his face, "you are kind enough to offer
to break your engagement with Leslie for me.
Is that it? I always like things put into
plain English."
"I offer to put the engagement aside, and
act as if it 4id not exist, which, in truthit
does not," he answered, with a ring of de-
fiance in his voice. "A man cannot be bound
to two women, and I gave my faith and my
heart to you two years ago. Do you remem-
ber the pledge we exchanged when we parted
in Coblentz? What I desire, above all things,
now is, to redeem that pledge."
"How?" demanded she, laconically.
"Is there more than one way ~" asked
he, thinking that surely no man, in making a
proposal, was ever assailed by such point-
blank questions before. "We promised to
marry each other, Norah; and I-I am more
than willing to fulfill that promise now."
Men seldom talk well when they are mak-
ing love-unnumbered novelists and poets to
the contrary notwithstanding-.--but, if Tyn.
dale talked uii~esually badly, it can at least be
said for him that he talked at a remarkable
disadvantage. Very few men, at such a time,
have the misfortune to address an attention
critically on the alert, much less to feel a
pair of steady eyes gazing through and through
them.
Into those eyes there came a sudden gleam
at h~s last words; but, as it came quickly, so,
also, i~ vanished.
"now kind og you!" said she, but so
quietly that only the words themselves be-
trayed their irony. "Have you made any
arrangement by which this generous inten-
tion can be converted into an accomplished
fact?"
He looked at her doubtfully. Never had
he felt more thoroughly puzzled how to

114


A PROPOSED ELOPEMENT.                   115

~' take" her. Was she in earnest, or was
she only amusing herself with him? She
had been so little in the habit of amusing
herself with.him of late, however, and it was
so exceedingly improbable that she would se-
lect such a subject as this on which to begin,
that he finally' decided she must he in ear-
nest.
"Arrangernento are easily made," he an.
swerved. ~' I have thought of one plan which
seems to me feasible. It is, that to-day-to-
night-to-morrow-any time you choose, but
the sooner the better-you should meet me at
some appointed rendezvous, from which we
can drive to Wexford, and take the train for
Alton. As soon as we reach the latter place,
we will be married; and then, if you desire
it, we can sail at once for Europe."
- "Ak-c you in earnest?" asked she, chan-
ging color for the first time. "Do you really
mean this?"
"Try me I ". said he, passionately. "That
is all I ask. Appoint the hour, and let inc
show you whether or not I am in earnest."
She was silent for a minute, which seemed
an hour to him. Then she said, abruptly,
with the air of one who has definitely made
up her'niind:
"There is a train which passes' Wexford
at ten o'clock at night for Altoi,, is there
not? How would that answer for your pnr-
pose? I should say our purpose, should I
not? You -know there will be some ~eoplc
here for dinner this evening, and Leslie talks
of a moonlight croquet-party. It will afford
aim ~xeellent opportunity for leaving unob-
served2'
"It will be an excellent opportunity,"
said he, eager still, but certainly amazed.
He had not flattered himself with any antici-
ration of such quick success as this, end-
and it rather tslonished him. He attributed
it, however, to. the resistless passion which,
despite all her asseverations to the contrary,
Norah still felt for him; and, being somewhat
beside himself with passion~ for her, he bad
little disposition to find fault with it. "To-
night, then!" he said, quickly. "And now,
0 my darling, how can I-"
Do what, waS never detes-mnined; for at
that moment she rose to her feet, looking at
her watch again as she did so.
"I %lndthat I have considerably exceeded
the time which I allowed for your explana-
tion," she said, coolly. "Its novel and en-

grossing nature must bemy excuse. I have
never before been invited to elope-much less
to be actively instrumental in the jilting of
m.y own sister. Let me thank you for a new
sensation, Mr. Tyndale, as well as for half an
bour'~ excellent entertainment. And now,
gOQd.n3orning I"
She bent her head-the mockery which,
of all her moods, he hated most, quivering
about her lips and shining in her eyes-and
would have swept past him to the door, if he
had not stepped quickly forward and barred
her path, as he had done once- before in that
very spot.
"By-" he said, forgetting himself far
enough to utter a deep, bitter oath under
his breath, "you shall not go like this? Yog
shall tell me the truth at least, before you do
go! flave you deliberately been making ~
fool of me? Have you been lying to me with
your eyes and with your tongue all thin time?
Do you not mean to marry me, after all?"
"Marry you!" repeated she, turning upon
him with a scorn in her face and in her voice
which was fairly majestic-" marry you, Ar.
thur Tyndale-yan! Not if there was never
another man on all God's earth! And when
you talk of my eyes or of my tongue lying
to you," she went on, indignantly,. "it is you
who lie I-you whose lips the truth seems lit.
rally incapable of crossing! I have only
questioned you, and gauged, or tried to gauge,
the depths ~f your deceit. Iu doing this, I
have not only found you false jn thought,
word, au4 deed, ready at a moment's notice
to act toward Leslie as you have already aote*
toward me; but I have also foundyou devei4
of ope sentiment of~ generosity~ or one;idea
of honor. Well as I knew you, I eamne here
to offer you my best services and mybest ad-
vice for Leslie's sake. Now, I am hear~ly
glad that yo~i accepted neither. II~leaire~s me
free to act a~ I think best; Let sue pass~
sir! I dare ~'ou, at your peril) to detain me,
one half.second.loager!"
- A man of thrlceArthur Tyndale's mQral
courage would ~mave fallen back, at that mi-
periou~ comn~aad, and before the look of-dc.
fiance which accompanied her last words.
As he fell back, she passed out, and he-
thus left alone-sat down like one half-
stunned, and, flinging his arms across the
table, buried his face upon them.
When Norah reached the house, she found
that even yet no one was stirring. The ser-

f

I,
5-
I,
C'
S
I-

115


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

vants had arisen in the interval of her ab-
sence and done their work, so that all the
lower apartments stood open, fair, and cool,
and fresh, to the early summer morning; but
an enchanted palace could not have been
more still. She glanced at the large, old-
fashioned clock-Mr. Middleton's special pet,
for it had been brought over from England
by his grandfather-which faced her as she
entered the hall. It pointed to seven o'clock,
and she knew that breakfast was never ready
before nine.
"What am I to do with myself all this
time?" she thought, with a slight feeling of
dismay.
Somehow one feels an odd, incumbent ne-
cessity to do something with one's self-
something useful or virtuous-when, by an
extraordinary chance, one is astir very much
In advance of one's usual time of rising.
Then Norah's pulses were still thrilling with
an excitement which even yet had not quieted
down. The first thing which occurred to her
was that she must change her dress, her dew-
draggled skirts bearing significant witness to
the wet grass which she had crossed, the
damp paths she had followed; but, with two
unoceu~ied hours stretching before her, she
feltthat there need be no hurry about this.
If she went up-stairs at eight o'clock, there
would be quite time enough for a much more
elaborate toilet than any she was likely to
make. Meanwhile the sitting-room looked
temptingly cool and delightful, with its half-
closed Venetian blinds, through which the
long, golden sunbeams of early morning were
stealing. She crossed the hall and went in.
After all, she must take time for reflection;
she must consider at once what she meant to
do; and there could be no better opportunity
for such consideration than the present.
As she entered the room, with her hat
still on her bead, she was thinking of this so
deeply, and expecting so little to see any one,
that she had more than half-crossed the floor
before she became aware of the presence of a
gentleman, who rose from the depths of Mrs.
Middleton's favorite chair with an open news-
paper in his hand.
"Good-morning, Miss Desmond," he said.
And then, looking up with a start, Norah
found that she was advancing directly upon
Max Tyndale.

CHAPTER XX.,
"For a chance to make your little much,
To gain a lover hnd lose a friend,
Venture the tree and a myriad such,
When nothing you mar, but the year can mend
But a last leaf-fear to touch.
"GOOD-MORNING, Miss Desmond."
"Good - morning, Captain Tyndale," an-
swered she. "Excuse my inattention, but I
was not expecting to see any one."
"You could not have been expecting it
less than I was," said he, smiling. "I know
the habits of the household so well that I
had resigned myself to at least two hours of
prospective solitude."
"Your resignation was apparently ac~
companies with philosophy,"' said she, glan-
cing from the newspaper to the arm-chair.
"Don't be alarmed, and imagine that I have
come to disturb you! I am on my way up.
stairs to change my dress before breakfast;
but I felt a little tired, and this room looked
cool and inviting."
"You seem to have been walking," said
he, glancing in turn from her hat to her dew-
stained boots and skirt. "Pray sit down" ~
-he drew a chair forward. "You are not
disturbing me in the least."
" Thanks~" said she, sinking almost in-
voluntarily into the ~oft depths. As she did
so, he saw that she was evidently more than
"a little tired." Indeed, she looked so ex-
hausted that for a second he was absolutely
startled.
"Shouldn't you like a fan?" he asked,
glancing round vaguely in search of onc~
"Or water? I can ring and have some
brought, if you say so."
She shook her head.
"I shall do very well, thank you, without
any thing. I am only tired because I am
not accustomed to .such matutinal exertion."
"If you are not accustomed to it, I
scarcely think you are wise to begin in this
climate, and at this time of year. Do you
not know that it is a maxim of health with
all Southern people to stay in-doors until the
dew is dried?"
"If it is a maxim of health, it is one
which you seem to disregard with impunity,"
said she, looking at kis boots.
"Oh, a soldier should not mind trifles,
you know," said he. (Max always fell back
on his profession when a question of health

116

came up.) "Besides, I was restless last
night, I could not sleep-something in the
atmosphere, I suppose-and there was noth-
ing for it but to turn out early this morning.
Arthur left the house before I did, and, fancy-
ing that he was coming over here to break-
fast, I followed. But it seems I was mista-
ken. If he is coming, he has not yet arrived."
He looked at Norah very steadily as he
uttered the last words, and Norah returned
his glance unflinchingly.
"I do not think Mr. Tyndale is coming,"
she said. "At least, he did not mention
such an intention when I left him ten minutes
ago."
"You have seen him, then l" said. Max.
He could not help starting, though he added
-almost involuntarily, as it seemed-" I sus-
pectesl as much."
"I hav6 had the pleasure of seeing him
by appointment," she proceeded, with a cool-
ness so unruffled that it amused even while it
perplexed him. "You suspected t1~at, also,
perhaps."
"No," answered he, sitting down again
in the chair from which he had risen, and
looking at her very doubtfully-much as he
might have looked at a spot where he had
reason to suspect the existence of masked
batteries-" no, I did not suspect that."
"Yet what could have been more natu-~
ral? Think how ruthlessly your friend Mrs.
Sandford interrupted the most tender point
~of our interview at Strafford the other day,
~nd then wonder, if you can, that we should
'have been anxious to resume it as soon as
possible."
* "I have ceased to wonder at any thing
which a woman may say or do," answered
'he, dryly. "Whether you are in earnest or.
whether you are in jest, Heaven only knows
-but, in either case, your conduct is quite
inexplicable to me."
"Is your cousin's conduct any more ex-
plicable to you?" asked she. "Or have you
ceased, also, to wonder at any thing which a
man may do? Of the two, that would be the
more useful frame of mind."
"My cousin's conduct is sufficiently ex-
plicable;" said he, with his whole face dark.
ening. "He is not the first man whom I
have known to forget where his honor and
faith are due!"
"It would be rather difficult to decide to
urhom your cousin's honor anti faith are due,

NORAR'S ARRANGEMENTS.               117

would it not?" said she, carelessly. "A
little while ago, he thought that they were
due tQ Leslie. Now he decides that they are
due to me."
"Does he?" said Max, his face darkening
still more; "and I suppose you agree with.
him?"
"4Jould I do 'other than agree with him?
Captain Tyndale-you who have
been prejudiced against me from the begin.
ning-whether his honor and faith (as much
as he has of either) do not belong to me by a
better right than they do to Leslie?"
"If you mean that he was bound to you
first, I grant that" (a little reluctantly).
" But still-"
"But still," her lip curling proudly, "a
Bohemian like myself-a bit of vagabond,
flirting material-should know better than to
take an pied de is retire all that a fine gentle-
man may chance to say in the course of a
summer idling!"
"Iwas not going to say that, Miss Des-
mond. You know I was not going to say
that!"
"What does it matter whether you were
going ~o say it or not? ' You meant it. And
you are not far wrong. Of course, it would
be nonsense to talk of Mr. Tyndale's being
bound to me if he was not good enough to
allow the fact himself."
If she had not taken pleasure just them
in mocking herself in the bitterness of her
spirit, she might have laughed outright at
the expression of Max's eyes, as he regarded
her-it was so grave and so thoroughly puz-
zled. What to make of her he certainly did
not know. She had been an enigma to him
from the first. One while he thoroughly dis-
trusted, and again as thoroughly trusted her.
l{ow he did neither; he simply wondered
what she meant.
"Captain Tyndale," she said, suddenly,
with impetuous decision, "why should we not
speak plainly and understand each other?
We have nothing to lose; we may have some-
thing to gain by it. lam a waif and a stray,
who n~ay naturally be supposed to want a
home, who may naturally be excused for
taking one, even under slightly unfavorable
circumstances, if it were offered. You are
in love with Leslie~ Nay "-holding up her
hand imperatively, as he attempted to speak
-" hear me out. We may serve each other's
interests better than you think-at least I


118                      A DAUGIITEIl
may serve your interests. What wilJ you
give i~e, for example, to accept an offer of
marriage which Mr. Tyndale has generously
made to me this morning-the fulfillment,
you know, of our two years' engagement-
dnd in this way leave the coast clear for
you?"
"Miss Desmond I"
It was fairly a gasp. Never had Max
Tyndale beOn sothoroughly astonished.-never
had his breath been so completely taken away
by any creature born of woman as by this
audacious girl. She had pushed her hat back
from her flushed, beautiful face; her defiant
eyes faced hltn fully. If she was not in
earnest, it was at least certain that no one
ever appeared more thoroughly so.
"Well," she said, after a minute, quite
impatiently, "lam waiting for your answer.
You cannot def~y that you are in love with
Leslie. I have been that from the first, and
my eyes never deceive me. Now, if I elope
with Arthur, as he is kind enoug~i to pro-
pose that I shoi4d do, you will be able, with
the least possible exercise of discretion and
judgment, to step Into his vacated place."
"Do you mean to tell me,'~ said Max, de-
liberately, "that you are in carnest.-that
Arthur has seriously asked you to elope with
him?"
"I am so entirely in earnest that the af-
fair is ~ll arranged. We are to take ]'rench
leave of Leslie's croquet.party to-night, to
drive to Wexford, and take the ten-o'clock
train for Alton. Arrived in the latter place,
we can be~married at once) and sail for Eu-
rope immediately thereafter. V~i14 foul?".
"Arthur proposed this!" said Max, his
breath coming short and hard, "anl you--
may I venture~ to ask what you said to such
an arrangement?"
"Can you doubt that I dropped a cour-
tesy, and thanked very humbly the gentleman
who was kind enough to reward my long con-
stanc~ by ~u~h a gratifying offer?"
"I can imagine any thing in the world
sooner than that you accepted it," said he,
bluntly.
"And pray why not?" asked she. "Is
it nOt more than good en~iugh for me? Bah!
Captain Tyndale, a truce to nonsense. Tell
me, instead, whether you are prepared to take
advantage of the golden opportunity which
Arthur and I.-liberally aided and abetted by
Mrs. Sandford'-...'mcan to give you?"

"If you will excuse me," said Max, "it is
you who are talking nonsense. I no more
believe that you have agreed to elope with
Arthur-well, than I believe that you have
agreed to elope with me I" Then, after a
short pause: "If you will only meet me
frankly, as you did once before, and tell me
what he has really said, and what you really
mean to do, I shall be infinitely indebted to
you."
"That is exactly what I don't know. I
have no idea what I mean to do, or what I
ought to do," answered she, suddenly drop-
ping her tone of defiant mockery, and looking
at him wi~h grave, anxious eyes. "What
shdll I do? Shall I pack my trunk, and tell
Leslie the truth, or shall I simply leave her
to learn, suspect, or guess it, as best she
can?"
"God knows ! "answered he. "The mat-
ter has grown so complicated that it is far
beyond my diplomatic abilities, which, as
you are aware, were never of the best. It
seems impossible to leave Miss Grahame in
ignorance of Arthur's conduct, and yet it will
be a terrible thing to tell her the truth."
"But if we leave it untold, there is Mrs.
Sandford ready to enlighten her," said Norah.
lIe glanced at her quickly and keenly.
"You know, then, that Mrs. Sandford was
in the library at Strafford when-"
"When our p'eux ~e1aeva1ier offered inc his
hand and heart-or I believe it was only his
heart on that occasion?" she said, as he
paused. "Yes, I know it. So Leslie may
hear the truth-or at least a garbled version
of it-any day."
"There, I think, you are mistaken," said
he. "Mrs. Sandford promised me yesterday
that she would, on no consideration, mention
the matter to Miss Grahame."
"Mrs. Sandford promised I" repeated No-
rah. She leaned her head against the back
of her chair and laughed. It was impossible
to avoid it she had beard something like
this so very recently. "how you men do
believe in wounen-..&amp;ometimes!" she said.
"In pretty, innocent widows especially! I
have discovered the 'open sesame' to your
afihetions and trust, and, when I am thirty, I
shall act as if Iwere six. Then I may be able
to play eavesdropper in a library~window, and
yet be credited with the most high-minded
and honorable sentiments imaginable."
"It is sca ~cely fair to call Mrs. Sandford

or BoBEMIA.

an eavesdropper," said Max, who liked Miss
Desmond's caustic tone with regard to her
own sex least of any thing about her. "It
was purely accidental her being in the library,
and she regretted it exceedingly."
"Indeed!" (very dryly). "I confess
my credulity is not as great as your own~
perhaps because my appreciation of infantile
blue eyes is less lively. It seems to hue that
if Mrs. Sandford had regretted the accident
which revealed to her a matter in which she
had no possible concern, ~he would-have
held her tongue."
"I think she will hold it as far as Miss
Grahame is concerned."
"That is to say, you have faith in your
influence over her. Well, you can best judge
of the extent of that."
"F see that you have very little faith in
it."
"You are mistaken. I only think that
she does not love Ciesar less, but Rome more
-in other words, her devotion to you is~great,
but her devotion to mischief-waking is even
greater."
"We shall see."
~Yes, we shall see. Meanwhile, have we
decided upon any course of action? I must
determine what to do."
"It is a hard matter to tell,~~ said he,
having recourse to the ends of his long mus-
tache, and beginning to twist them cry hard
indeed. After a short time spent in this way,
he looked up with a deprecation which sat
oddly on his face.
"Don't think me very weak-minded, Miss
Desmond, if I beg you to defer any definite
action for-say twenty-four hours! Give me
this time in which to sound Arthur, and find
what he really desires and means to do. I-
you can't tell how hard it is for inc to make
up my mind to the necessity that Miss Gm-
hame must hear the truth."
"And yet how eagerly many men in your
position would grasp such an opportunity!"
said she, looking at him meditatively.
He flushed-a very unusual thing with
him. "Permit tue to say that your imagina-
tion has led you entirely astray with regard
to the feeling which I entertain for Miss Gra-
hame," he said. "I will not deny thttt she
charms ray taste more than any other woman
I have ever known, and no doubt, if she had
been free, I should very easily have fallen in
love with her; but she was nof free-even in

OF BOHEMIA.                                               THE CAPTAIN ADMONISHED.              119

fancy-.when I met her first. Therefore, that
which might have been love stopped short at
sincere friendship."
"Indeed l" said Norah again. It flutist
be confessed that she arched her eyebrows a
little incredulously. The young Bohemian
had learned to look with very much the eye
of a cynic upon any thing verging on pla~
tonics.
"Well," she said, after a short pause, "I
am quite willing to give you twdhty -four
hours in which to decide what 'sincere
friendship' may dictate with regard to tell-
ing Leslie the truth. But I should not advise
you to be influenced by any thing which your
cousin may promise or affirm. Captain Tyn-
dale," she said, with sudden energy, "there
is no truth in that man! If you do not re-
alize and remember this, you will regret
it."
"I realize it fully," answered he, some-
what sternly, "and I do not think there is the
least danger of my forgetting it."
At this point the conversation ended.
The clock struck eight, and, like another Cin-
derella, Numb rose. "I must go," she said.
"I have my breakfast toilet yet to make,
and if I stay longer, some one may come
down and find us tifte4.I~te, which would be
awkward-for you!"
"Pray don't trouble yourself on my ac-
count," said he. "I am not particularly afraid
of Mrs. Griindy."
But, as he spoke, she left the room.
At breakfast everybody seemed languid-
a very usual result of the exhausting heat of
a Southern summer-night. As they came in
one after another, the gentlemen in cool
linen, the ladies in their lawns, significant
signs of lassitude show~id in their faces and
movements. Mrs. Middleton did not appear
at all, and Leslie looked unusually pale as she
sat at the head of the table pouring out cof-
fee, which was as clear as brandy and "strong
enough to knock a man down," the cook had
said. Mrs. Sandford seemed to have fared
better than any of the party, though she was
most voluble in her complaints of enervation
and heat. When Norah came in, she found
her describing graphically her attempts to
sleep during the r~ight. "What between the
mosquitoes and the heat, one was in a regu-
lar quandary," she said. "One could not put
up one's bars, on account of the mosqultoies,
nor keep them down on account of the heat.


120

A DAU~IHTER OF BOHEMIA.

I confess I spent the night doing first one
thing and then another."
"And I spent it in smoking," said Carl,
dropping a lump of sugar into his coffee-cup
and motioning the cream -jug disdainfully
away. "What a pity you had not thought
,t~ tILaU It would have enabled you to defy
both mosquitoes and heat.".
"I will take a supply of paper and to-
bacco up-stairs with me to-night, and amuse
myself making cigarettes," said she.-" Miss
Desmond, will you join me ?-Or, better still,
can't we all sleep to-day, and spend the night
on the lawn?"
"Some of us might be very well disposed
to sleep to-day, without any ultimate design
of spending the night on the lawn," said Mr.
Middleton. Then to Carl: "Will you tell me
what possessed you to get up and knock the
chairs about over my head at daylight this
morning?"
"I had really forgotten that your head
was below me," answered Carl, "but I cannot
remember that I did any particular knock-
ing about of chairs. I chanced to be up at
daylight simply because I had been up all
night."
"It was you, then, whom I heard going
down-stairs somewhere about five o'clock?"
"It may have been I~ I did go down-
stairs shortly after that hour." -
He looked across the table at Norah as
he uttered the last words-it was a look com-
pounded strangely of misery and triumph-a
look which said as plainly as words could
have done, that he was aware of her inter-
view with Tyndale; and unfortunately others
besides Norah were able to read its jealous
significance. These others were Mre. Sand-
ford and Leslie-Max might be added, only
Max understood the full meaning of the
glance, which they did not. A sharp pang
seized L~slic's heart. At that moment she*
thought only of Norah. What was Norab
doing? - what was going On between Carl
and hereelf?-what did that glance mean?
It was too plainly, too desperately in earnest,
not to mean something. In truth, Caji had
forgotten himself and shot a veritable thun-
der-bolt of war out of those brown, laughter-
loving eyes of his. Norah received the thun-
der-bolt composedly, but Mrs. Sandford gave
a little dramatic start and looked at Max.
She remembered the note of the night before,
and it suddenly occurred to her, as it had oc-

cured to Carl, that it might have meant-an
appointment.
Nothing more was said on the subject,
however, and breakfast passed rather more
silently than this sociable meal usually did at
Rosland. After breakfast Max pleaded "busi-
ness" as an excuse, and ~vent back to Straf-
ford, much to Mrs. Sandford's disgust. She
had flattered herself that her presence was
the magnetic attraction which had drawn him
forth at such an early hour, and she had in-
tended to take him into the shrubbery again
for the benevolent purpose of confiding to him
the whole history of the note at night, and
the appointment of the morning. But Max
was deaf to her hints, and blind to the implor-
ing glances of her eyes. Back to Strafford he
went, and the pretty mischief-maker was left
disconsolate. Carl, meanwhile, had met No-
rah in the hall after breakfast, and spoken in
the most open and decided manner.
"I must see you ~ he said. "Will
you come and take a walk with me?"
"Is there any necessity why you should
see me alone?" she asked. "It is very warm
for walking."
"We can go to the summer-house," he an-
swered. "It will not be much warmer there
now than it was at five o'clock~ this morn-
ing."
In making this remark, he was not aware
that Mrs. Middleton was coming down the
staircase just behind him, else he might not
have spoken either so loudly or so significant-
ly. Norah, who was aware of the fact, saw at
once that she could not provoke any further
allusion to her five-o'clock appointment. She
extended her hand, therefore, and, lifting her
hat from the table near bysaid, coldly:
"We can take a short walk, if you desire
it."
He had no cause to congratulate himself,
however, for no sooner were they safely out
of the house than she turned upon him haugh-
tily.
"What is the meaning of this?" she
asked. "What right have you to demand an
interview with me in such a manner as this?"
"As much right as Mr. Tyndale had to ap-
point one, I suppose," answered he, losing all
control of himself.
But he saw in a moment that he had made
a mistake. There was nothing of tameness
in the lightning that flashed upon him from
Norah's eyes.

"You forget yourself!" she said. "The
distinction which makes a difference between
Mr. Tyndale aud yourself is the distinction of
my choice. I chose to meet him this morn-
ing: I do not choose to walk with you now.
Therefore, I shall return to the house.
She turned majestically; but, as she did
so, he turned also, and, keeping close to her
side, spoke with imploring haste.
- "Pray forgive me!" he said. "I have
offended you. I should not have said that.
But, if you could know how wretched, how
miserable,*1 am!-"
It was almost identically the same thing
which Tyndale had said before him. At this
repetition, Norah's patience-never, as we are
aware, of particularly long tether-altogether
gave way.
"4nd, pray, why should I desire to
know?" she asked. "It cannot be particu-
larly interesting to learn exactly how wretched
and miserable you may chance to fancy your-
self. On the contrary, you must excuse me
if I say that a spy deserves to be miser-
able!"
"And you think I am a spy!" he said, a
deep, burning flush overspreading his face.
"Can I think otherwise?" she asked,
pausing for the better convenience of facing
him. "Can you deny that you watched, that
you even followed, me this morning? What
is that but the conduct of a spy?"
"It is the conduct of a man who loves you
too well to think of any thing but that love!"
he answered.
But the-manner in which her short upper
lip curled was not particularly encouraging to
this plea: "A man of honor loves like a man
of honor," she said. "He may forget every
thing else, but he never forgets his hon.
or."
Carl's brow knitted, and his hands invol-
untarily clinched themselves. It was hard
work to keep down the excitement within
him, hftrd work to allow no expression to the
overmastering force of his jealous and resent-
ful passion:
"I do not think that I have quite forgotten
my honor," he said, with a sort of forced
calmness that sat strangely on him, and did
not promise exceedingly well for fair weather
ahead in the way of temper. "At least I
have never made love to one woman while I
was engaged to another."
"What extraordinary self-control!" said

CARL M

A SPY.                            121
Norab. "But, if a man has never robbed a
henroost, is that any reason why he should
feel particularly virtuous in stealing a hare?"
It was now Carl's turn to draw himself up
haughtily: the homeliness of the comparison
made it doubly odious.
"You misunderstand me entirely if you
think that I acted as a spy-upon your move-
ments this morning," lie said. "I spoke the
honest truth at breakfast when I said that I
had been up all night, and I was just thinking
of turning in when I saw you leave the house
and cross the lawn. I was very much sur-'
prised-you can credit that, I am sure-and,
suspecting that you had gone to meet Tyn-
dale, I-I simply wished to set my suspicions
at rest one way or another. So I followed
you, and, as soon as I saw that you kad gone
to meet him, I came away."
"Naturally-after having gained all that
you wanted," said she.
"And now," said he, ignoring the con-
temptuous indifference of her tone, "I want
to ask if this is to continue? How has this
man so much influence over you, that you-
you whom he has denied and insulted-will
accord him private interviews, and keep ap-
pointments which he has made?" Then,
waxing more passionate: "flow does he dare
to trifle with you like this? Is it because he
knows, or thinks, that you have no defender?
0 Norah-Miss Desmond-only say one word,
and I will show him how far you are from
being defenseless!"
All this, which might have been very ab-
surd and melodramatic, was, in truth, so deep.
ly, tr~igically earnest, that even Norah felt
no inclination to laugh. Young as she was,
she had seen much of the mischief which the
passions of men sometimes work even in this
eminently practical age of ours, and there-
fore she felt a little uneasy as she faced the
desperate, passionate eyes of the man before
her. She certainly did not want another
complication of trouble on her hands. Per-
haps it was on this account that her voice
was softer when she spoke again.
"flow often must I tell you that I need
no defender? I am able to take care of my-
self if a dozen Arthur Tyndales were matched
against me, instead of one!"
"Are you sure of that?" he asked. He
did not say, as he had done once before, that
he knew she was. Besides being desperate
and passionate, his eyes were just then full


122

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

of painful doubt. Like Max, he too was
puzzled what to think of her.
"You know how I love yen," he went on,
wistfully, after a moment. "You know how,
happy I should be if you would only make
this love of some account to you l-if you
would only let me make it a shield to hold
between you and the world! If you would
only give me the right which, if you do not
give me, I may take for myself, to call this
scoundrel to account! I have tried to be pa-
tient, but I can bear it no longcr-Norah, is
there no hope for me? ".
Norah looked at him intently as he stood
before her - eager, impassioned, desperately
in earnest. The protection that he offered
was much, the love that he offered was more,
the wealth and position that 'he could give
were most of all in the scale of temptation to
this girl who had been an outlaw from her
birth. But outlaw and Bohemian though she
was, the instinct of the woman was strong
within her-that divine instinct which, un-
warped by social training, recoils even from
love, when love in turn does not rise to wel-
come it.
"Why should I giv'e you hope?" she
asked at last, very slowly. "'I suppose I
ought to thank you for loving me-though
really I should have much preferred you had
lot-but I do not love you."
"That may be because you still love Ar-
thur Tyndale," said he, bitterly.
It would have been an ill-advised speech
to make to any woman. To Norah Desmond
it was a speech which signed ~nd sealed his
metaphorical death -warrant at once. She
drew herself up to the full height of her
stately figure, the eloquent blood flashing
into her fair cheeks, her eyes expanding with
their superb full-orbed glow.
"A few minutes ago I was foolish enough
to imagine that the sentiment of love included
that of respect," she said. "You are kind
enough to show me my mistake. At least, it'
is impossible to imagine that you can enter-
tain the faintest semblance of such a feeling
for the woman whom you insult by declaring
that she may be in love with the man who is
engaged to her sister! Understand, once for
all, that this subject is ended between us!"
she went on, with a sharp edge' to her voice.
"If you have clung to a single thregd of hope
up to this time, I snap it now! Henceforth
~ou have no concern with me or uiy affairs.

It does not matter to you what I choose to
do, or whom I choose to meet. When you
made yourself a spy upon me, you ended at
once and forever any regard which I felt, or
might have learned to feel, for you!"
Pitiless as youth is prone to be, and too
angry to care what dangerous strife of pas-
sions she might have awakened, she turned
and walked away, leaving those stinging
words behind her. This time Carl made no
effort to follow, lie only felt, as he watched
her cross the sliadow.dappled lawn and enter
the house, that he had, with rude, impatient
hand, shaken down his last leaf of hope.
CHAPTER XXI.
"Not from the heart beneath-
'Twas a bubble born of breath,
Neither sneer nor vaunt
Nor reproach nor taunt-
See a word how it sever~th!
Oh, power of life and ileteth
In the tongue, as the preacher saithU'
"LEsLIS," said Mrs. Middleton, gravely,
"I really do not like the manner in which
things seem to be going on between Carl and
Miss Desmond."
For a wonder, the two ladies of the house
were alone. After Max had taken his de.
parture, and Norah and Carl had disappeared,
Mrs. Sandford had retired to her chamber-
in a fit of misanthropy, probably-and Mrs.
Middleton, entering the sitting-room, found
Leslie quite alone and quite idle, with a
strange, preoccupied look on her face. It was
so unusual to see Leslie idle; and' so entirely
without precedent, to see her wear that intro.
spective expression, that her aunt might have
been startled into uneasiness if her thoughts
at that time had not been full of Carl's infat-
uation and its probable consequences. As it
was, the significant attitude, and more sig.
nificant expression, only made a mon~ntary
impression upon her.
"What has happened, auntie?" asked
Miss Grahame, looking up. "What is going
on between Carl and Norah that you do not
like?"
"You might see what is going on," an-
swered the elder lady, in a vexed tone. "Of
course, you may say that flirtation does not
generally mean any thing; but when it is
flirtation between a man as headstrong as

Carl, and a girl who is naturally auxiobs to
establish herself in life, like Miss Desmond,
it may come to mean a great deal."
"I am afraid Carl is very much in love
with Norah," said Leslie, in the tone of one
who makes a reluctant admission. "But I
really do not think she is in the least in love
with him."
"In love!" repeated Mrs Middleton, im-
patiently. "Who talked of her being in
love? Do you suppose that a woman like
Miss Desihoud is likely to marry foa- love?"
"I don't know," answered Leslie, doubt-
fully. Somehow the question brought a slight
cloud over her face. Was she only just be-
"inning to realize how little she knew of this
strange sister of hers?
"The mere idea is absurd!" said her
aunt, with decision. "Women of Miss Des-
mond's stamp-.-I put the unfortunate circum-
stances of her life entirely out of considera-
tion-are the last women in the world to in-
troduce a matter of sentiment into the im-
portant business of their establishment. If
Carl is mad enough to offer l4mself, you may
be sure that she will accept him without any
hesitation on the score of what she may or
may not feel for him!"
"Carl has been in love very often before,"
said Leslie, by way of consolation.
"That makes it all the wor~e," promptly
rejoined Mrs. Middleton. "He has now passed
the age for boyish fancies, and this is likely
to be a serious matter. You know his tem-
~erament-.-~you know' how impulsive he is
about every thing. 0 Leslie, I am sorry to
reproach you, but if you had only listened to
the advice of your uncle and myself, none of
this trouble would have come to pass."
"Yet I did not think of myself-I meant
to act for the best," said Leslie. She spoke
more to herself'than to her aunt. She seemed
to be answering some inward appeal. She
had not thought of herself, she had meant to
act for the best-for Norah and for Kate-
why, then, should this strange, new suspicion,
this complicating trouble of more than one
kind, have sprung from what she had done?
"~Jy darling, who knows that better thai1
I?" said Mrs. Middleton, coming over an~
kissing her. "Don't think that I am blam-
ing you-I would not do that for the world-
I only mean, if you had listened, Leslie!"
"Yes, I know it is all my fault," said
Leslie. "You may blame inc as much as

MRS. MIDDLET(

)N AND LESLIE.                      12S
you like, and I am very sorry that I have
brought anxiety to Uncle George and your-
self; but still I have a conviction -it is
borne in upon me, as the Quakers say-that
Norah will never marry Carl."
Mrs. Middleton shook her head. Just
then she stood as the personification of
worldly wisdom, and worldly wisdom de-
clined to credit the idea of a girl, without a
shilling, refusing to marry a man who was
young, sufficiently good-looking, of fair for-
tune, and unexceptionable social position.
"There is no question but that she will
marry him if he is foolish enough to offer
himself," said the worldly-wise woman. "If
you could have heard what I did a few min-
utes ago! I was coming down-stairs, and
they were in the hail. Carl asked Miss Des-
mend to go to walk, and she answered that it
was too warm. Then he said, in the most
significant tone-a tone which plainly meant
something which they beth understood-that
they could go to the summer-house, where it
would not be warmer than at five o'clock this
1~1orning. Miss t~esmond was apparently
about to refuse, but, looking up at that mo-
ment and seeing me, she took her hat and
went. Ko~v, Leslie, I would not say any
thing in the world to hurt your feelings, but
you can ask yourself whether any but a very
fast girl would be likely to act in such a man-
ner as that."
"In such a manner as what? It does
not follow that Norah was at the summer-
house at five o'clock, because Carl said that
it is no warmer there now than it was then,"
answered Leslie, though her heart sank. She
remembered the glance at the breakfast.table
-a glance which did not look much as if
Carl had becu the companion of Miss Des-
mend's walk, or the person with ~vhem she
kept an appointment.
"The tone was more significant than the
words," said Mrs. Middleton, whose eyes and
ears were beth more than ordinarily quick.
"My dear, there was something connected
with the summer-house at five o'clock, you
may be sure. When Miss Desmond saw me
she changed color, and you may judge wheth.
er she was likely or net to have done that
without cause."
Leslie, answered nothing. She knew No-
rah's supreme self-possession too well to deny
this telling point.
"Besides," said Mrs. Middleton, "I


124:               A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                                     THE TWO SISTERS.                   125

asked Robert, whom I met a moment later,
if he knew whether any one had left the
house very early this morning. He said that
the glass door at the end of the side-passage
was ajar when he first opened the house, and
that about seven o'clock Miss Desmond came
in from the shrubbery."
"But this only shows that she took a
walk," said Leslie. Her heart was growing
sorer every moment with a soreness of which
Mrs. Middleton did not even faintly guess;
but she fought loyally for Norah all the same.
"Surely, dear Aunt Mildred, there is no harm
in that. I don't think the strtitest.laced per-
son in the world could call it improper to
take a walk in the shrubbery and come back
at seven o'clock. As for an appointment
with Carl-why should she make an appoint.
ment with him when they can see each other
at any and every hour of the day?"
Mrs. Middleton only shook her head again.
rroof she had none; but her conviction was
as a mountain.
"There was something more than a mere
walk in question," she said. "Carl would
never have spoken, Miss Desmond would
never have looked, as they did, if there had
not been! Leslie, what did I tell you the
day that she came? Did I not tell you that
I distrusted her? This distrust has grown
with every hour since that time until now-
now I feel confident that she is playing some
underhand game which will shock us dread-
fully when it comes to light 1"
"How can you say such a thing~" said
Leslie. She grew suddenly pale. That feel-
ing which the French call a ses'rement du ewur
seized her in its terrible constriction. For a
minute she could not utter another word.
The scene of the preceding night rose before
her with startling vividness; she seemed to
be looking again out of the shadowy dark-
ness down the long, lighted room to where
Norah sat in all her brilliant beauty at the
piano, with Arthur Tyndale's fair, handsome
face bending over her. She saw the slip of
folded paper pass from one to the other; she
heard again Carl's bitter, jealous speech, the
memory of which came back to her like a
~fiash of illuminating light~ "Perhaps they
lack an opportunity, and desire to make one."
Was that what five o'clock in thea summer-
house meant?
But she had a brave, proud heart, and she
refused to be overcome by the dark thoughts

and 'darker doubts which rushed upon her.
She set her back, as it were, against a wall,
crying out to her foes as they came, "I will
not yield to you! I will not lower myself,
and, it may be, wrong others, by listening to
these demons of suspicion and jealousy which
I have all my life held in scorn!', And she
controlled all outward expression of that
which wrung her heart as few women of twice
her age could have done. It was strange,
but it is nevertheless true, that at this mo-
ment of all moments-this moment when, in
a lower nature, the iron of suspicion would
have entered the soul to poison every gen.
erous impulse-a dim, struggling sense of
something akin to the grand old noblesse oblige
came to Leslie. "This is the hour of trial,"
an inward voice seemed to. say. "Now prove
whether or not you are able to rise above it!
Prove whether or not it is of necessity that this
pang should debase as well as torture you!"
And she rose above it-for the time, at
least. There was something almost heroic in
the effort which it cost her to turn to her
aunt and say quietly, though with slightly.
quivering lips:
"I think-I hope-that you wrong Norah.
I do not believe that she would play an un-
derhand game of any kind. As for Carl, I
am almost sure that she has no idea of mar.
rying him."
"I can scarcely believe that," said Mrs.
Middleton. "But, if it were possible to find
out what she really means to do, I should he
in a measure relieved. Leslie, I don't want
to ask you to do any thing disagreeable, but
she is your sister, after all, and-and if you
could find out something definite about her
intentions-"
"I fear it is impossi-" Leslie was begin-
ning, when the sound of a step, the rustle of
a dress in the hall, made her start &amp;nd turn.
She expected to see Mrs. Sandford, but in-
stead it wasNorab, who, having advanced to
the door, stood there, framed like a beautiful
picture.
For a moment that slight, embarrassing
pause fell which even the most highly-bred
people are sometimes unable to rostraiji when
a person of whom they have been talking
suddenly appears.
Then Mrs. Middleton broke the silence
with one of her courteous commonplaces.
"I am afraid you found the sun too warm
for walking, after all, Miss Desmond."

"It is very warm," answered Norah; but
she did not say in words, orimply iz~ manner,.
that she had returned to the house on ac-
count of the heat. "Shall I disturb~you if I
come in?" she added, after a moment.
"You seemed so much engaged that I hesi-
tated:"
"There was no need to hesitate; you will
not disturb us in the least," answered both
ladies.
"Indeed, we were just speaking of you,"
said Mrs. Middleton, taking the bull by the
horns with an ease which did her infinite
credit.
"Perhaps for that very reason I had bet-
ter not conic in," said Norah. "You may
not have quite exhausted the subject, and, in
that case, it would be a pity to interrupt
you."j
"We were not discussing, but only speak-
ing of you," said Leslie, with her sweet, frank
smile. "Is there not a difference? But I
think you might trust your character in my
hands."
"I think I might," answered the other,
looking at her with a quick glance-a glance
compounded strangely of various expressions
-as she entered the room nnd crossed the
floor.
"Did not Carl come in with you?" asked
Mrs. Middleton, looking at her in turn with
rather keen scrutiny as she sat down and un-
tied her hat.
"No," was the reply. "I left him in the
shrubbery."
"You did not go to the summer-house,
then
"No" (as indifferently as before), "we
did not walk so far."
"It is too warm fo:- walking," said Leslie,
quickly. This identical remark had been
made, on an average, at least fifty times a day
during the last week; but Miss Grahame was
too anxious. to change the conversation to
make any effort for novelty at that moment.
"It is very warm!" said Mrs. Middleton,
with an equal degree of original brilliance.
Then she opened her fan, and, rising, walked
away. "I had almost forgotten that I must
see Betsy," she said.-Betsy was the house-
keeper, and quite a character in he~ line.
So it was that the two sisters found them-
selves alone. Leslie understood perfectly that
her aunt had gone, because she was anxious
to give her a fair opportunity to sound the

depths of Miss Desmond's intentions with re-
gard to Carl; but Leslie, who would not have
felt a particular aptitude for such a task at
any time, was peculiarly conscious just now
of her utter inability to cope with Norah's
reticence and self- possession. She might
have been a little surprised if she had known
that Norah was at that moment endeavoring
to determine how she could best sound the
depths of her character and intentions.
A minute of silence passed, which Leslie
was the first to break-half timidly:
"We have seen~ so little of each other
since you have been here, Norah! I wonder
if you have-felt it as well as I? It has really
pressed upon me with a constant weight of
regret. I have been sorry that there should
have been so many people to come between
us, so many social engagements to separate
us. We are not half so well acquainted as I
should like for us to be."
"Perhaps we are sufficiently well acquaint-
ed," said Norah, in her careless way. "Per-
haps, if you knew me better, you might not
like me at all. I-think that you do like me a
little now," she added, witl~ a slight, wistful
cadence in her tone.
"I like you very much, indeed," said Les-
lie, frankly; "and I am sure I should soon
grow to love you dearly. How can you think
that, under any circumstances, I could possi-
bly not like you at all?"
"Because we have been reared so differ-
ently," was the response. "Because we must,
of necessity, possess so little in common.
We belong to different worlds; we bear the
stamp of different trainings-bear it not only
outwardly but inwardly-and hence it maybe
better that we should see each other (at least,
that you should see me) in the superficial
manner which you regret."
"I do not believe it," said Leslie. Despite
the suspicious tugging at her heart, it was
impossible for her to believe it, as she looked
at the face before her. "You wrong yourself
when you talk so! You do not know what
some-some people might imply! They might
think that there was a radical defect in your
character or your training."
"They would not be far wrong," said the
other, bitterly. "A radical defect, did you
say? There might be a hundred, for all the
effort to the contrary any one ever made-ex-
cept Kate-Kate, who has been an augel ever
since she was born! That is a queer thing


126                      A DAUGHTER
to say of the daughter of a Bohemian adven-
turer, is it Dot? But, then, she comes of
Irish blood. And every man and woman and
child in Ireland has the blood of saints and
martyrs in their veins. You would never
guess it from some of us-from papa or from
me, for example-.-but it comes out in Kate."
"I should like to know Kate," said Les.
lie, smiling a little. "But, still, I am glad to
know you-very glad! And we are sisters,
Norah," she added. "Don't forget that! I
feel half envious as I see your eyes light up
when you talk of Kate. She has had you,
and you have had her-.but I have had no-
body!"
"You may envy me the possession of
Kate as much as you please, and with good
cause," said Norah, "but you need not envy
Kate the possession of me. I have given her
any amount of trouble all my life, or, rather,
all her life, for I am the oldest."
"If you have gone through the world
turning men's heads and breaking men's
hearts as you have do~ie in the short time
you have been here, I scarcely wonder," said
Leslie. She saw her opportunity, and took
advantage of it after a fashion; but she could
not help feeling mean as she did so. It seemed
like making an attempt to surprise Norah's
confidence. She might have spared her .com.
functions if she had only known how little
Norah's confidence was lj~ely to be sur-
prised.
"Have I turned anybody's head or broken
anybody's heart since I have been here?"
asked that young lady. "I really think you
must be mistaken. One cannot work de-
struction-at least, not tha~ kind of destruc-
tion-without being aware of it."
"Oh! I think one can," said Leslie. "At
least, I mean one may learn that one has
worked it too late." (" She is thinking of
Captain Tyndale!" commented her hearer
mentally.) "But I am sure you will not pre-
tend to deny that Carl is in love with you!"
"Why should I deny it?" asked Norah.
"It is no fault of mine, even if it is a dis-
credit to him. But I thought you were talk-
ing of something which had occurred since I
came here."
"And had 1l~is occurred before you came
here, then?~' cried Leslie, astonished, but
somewhat relieved. -" It has not been my
fault, after all!" she thought.
"Perhaps I ought to refer you to your

cousin for an answer to that question," an-
swered Norah. "He had never done me the
honor to ask me to marry him, before we
came here; but, of course, any woman, with
a grain of common-sense, knows when a man
is in love with her."
"And now that he has asked you-for,
of course, he has-" said Leslie, eagerly, "do
you mean to marry him? 0 Norah, if this is
so-,,
"But it is not so!" interposed Norah,
sharply. "What have you seen-in me-to
make you fancy such a thing?"
"I have seen nothing whatever to make
me fancy that you are in love with Carl," said
Leslie, thinking that she would round boldly,
since she was sounding at all. "But some
women-that is, all women-'do not wait for
love in making up their minds to marry."
"That is very true, indeed; and it would
ill become any one like me to talk high.
minded sentiment on such a subject, would
it not? But still I may be permitted to say
that, if there are other things besides love to
be taken into consideration, there are also
other things besides carriages and horses--
excellent as they are!"
"Nobody can deny that," said Leslie; but
she looked a little puzzled-what was coming
next?
Sympathy is the first of these things,"
said Norah. "I don't mean romantic sym-
pathy-union of heart and soul, and all that
absurdity-..-but the rational sympathy of
tastes, habits, breeding, and inclinations.
This is essential. I would rather share a
garret and a crust of bread with a thorough-
ly sympathetic person, than li~o in a palace
with one whose ideas, tastes, and opinions
jarred upon, wearied, and yet controlled me.
The next great essential is freedom. I have
belonged from my birth to the Bedoulas of
civilization. A tread-mill of commonplace do-
mestic or social life would prove so utterly
unendurable to me that no paraphernalia of
wealth-no carriages, diamonds, millinery, or
furniture-could reconcile me to it. I should
like money very much-as much, I suppose,
as anybody else in the world- but money
would be to me what it was to Robinson Cru-
soe on his~desert island if I could not go into
the world--my world-to spend it. And, in
speaking of my world, you must not think
that I mean Bohemia-I would gladly shake
off that tomorrow, if I could-but I mean the

OF BOHEMIA.

great world, the world in which people live,
instead of merely vegetating! So, you see"
-smiling faintly and a little scornfully-
"that your uncle and aunt may quiet their
anxiety. Though your cousin offers me sev-
eral very good gifts - himself among the
number-they are gifts in a form which would
be worse than useless tp me. When the first
restlessness of youth is over, he will settle
down into the groove in which his fathers
and grandfathers have walked before him.
Do you think that I could share such a life?
Not with the wild blood that is in my veins-
not with the wild love of change and excite-
ment in my heart."
"But do change and excitement make
happiness?" asked Leslie.
"Does any thing make happiness?" was
the cynical rejoinder. "Of happiness as a
positive state, I know nothing. I am only
able to make my comparison by the greater
or lesser degree of' misery and discomfort."
"0 Norali!"
"You see, I told you that perhaps it is as
well that our acquaintance heretofore has
been superficial," said Norah. "If we knew
each other well, I should only shock you.
One who has been tossed about the world as
I have been is not likely to look at things as
you do, and I have always observed that hnp-
py people regard with suspicion and distrust
the unfortunate class for whom life has not
been painted in rose-color. They look upon
it as a striking instance of the depravity of
humau taste that anybody should choose to
be miserable in such an agreeable world."
"Where did you learn such ideas?" asked
Leslie, in a tone of absolute pain. "Would
you believe rue if I were to say that you are
entirely wrong?"
"I am not sure how far I might perjure
myself if you looked at me with such wistful
eyes as those," answered Norah, smiling.
"So perhaps I had better go" (she rose as
she spoke). "I was awake very early this
morning, and I feel like anticipating my siesta
by several hours."
"Awake very early this morning!'~ Those
words brought back the doubts which, for a
moment, Leslie had forgotten. Her change
of countenance was so great and so entirely
beyond her control, that Norah saw it and
stopped short. "She suspects or knows part.
of the truth !" she thought; "shall I tell her
the rest?" The words necessary for doing

OF BOHEMIAN.                                                   A LOST OPPORTUNITY.                   127

127

so rushed to her lips. In another second they
would have found utterance, if the recollec-
tion of her promise to Max Tyndale had not
risen up and checked them. "Give me twen-
ty-four hours!" he had said, and she had
promised to give them to him. To break
that promise was impossible, or seemed im-
possible to her. Still she could test Leslie-
she eould see if she were ready to meet the
truth. That would be something gained.
"We spoke a little while ago of marriage,"
she said, slowly, "and-o~ love. Do you
agree with me in thinking that if one had
put one's whole freight of happi~ess-you
believe in happiness, you know-upon the
truth or falsehood of a single person, and
that person was false instead of true, it
would be better to know it-better to face
any bitterness or desolation---than to live a
life, however sweet, that was built nipon a
lie?"
Tli~ earnestness of her voice, the steady
glow of her eyes, said evcn more than her
words. A great fear suddenly seemed to
come over Leslie. She felt as if she were
standing on the brink of something terrible,
of something that would shatter her whole
fabric of existence, of something which she
could not bear to know. For the first time
in her life, she shrank like a coward.
"I I cannot tell," she said. "Why
should you say such thinrsS No one whom I
know could possibly deceive me. But even
if it were so "-with a pale, quivering ghost
of a smile-" you know that where ignorance
is bliss it is always folly to be wise."
"I know it!" said Noruh. "Pardon me
-it is the last thing in the world which I
know or* desire to learn. Give me the truth
always, at all times, and under all circum-
stances, even if it crushes my heart and ruins
my life! It is entirely a matter of taste,
however. Let those live on lies who like
them. I have no disposition to force my
choice upon any one."
She turned away as she spoke; but Les-
lie, moving forward quickly, laid hcr hand on
her arm.
"Stop!" she said shortly, almost sternly.
"You must tell me what you mean. I scarcely
knew what I said, a minute ago I have no
more desire. to live on lies than you can have.
If-if you kmiow any thing which I ought to
hear, for Heaven's sate tell me what it
is!"


But Norab had already said more than
she intended, and now-bound in the fetters
of her promise to Max-she found herself in-
volved, greatlyto her disgust, in the absolute
necessity for an evasion.
"I merely put a case to you," she said.
"Every one does not think as I do. I was
anxious to know how you felt. I am glad
that you are brave enough to be able to face
the truth if it should ever be necessary for
you to do so. None of us can tell how soon
such a need may arise. But you must forgive
me if I have startled you. I did not mean to
do that.",
"Did you not ~"said Leslie, and the faint,
quivering smile passed over her face again.
"Yet you spoke very much as if you meant
to speak with a purpose. Of course it rests
with yourself; however, to give an explana-
tion or not."
But, as she uttered these words, her eyes
were less proud than her lips. They asked
this explanation so plainly, so imploringly,
that Norah's conscience smote her as she
turned away. She felt that it would have been
bard to tell the truth; yet it was still harder
to leave it untold. She could not force her-
self to say, "I have nothing to explain;" so,
murmuring some half - incoherent words of
regret, she passed from the room, conscious
that she left behind an aching heart and a
lost opportunity.
This consciousness was not particularly
conducive to amiability, as she mounted the
stairs to her own room. She felt that every
thing was going wrong in the most exasper-
ating manner. Arthur, Leslie, Max, Carl-
and Mrs. Sandford in the background-were
so many different sources of annoyance and
anxiety. "After all, had I not better pack
my trunk and take the train to-night alone9"
she thought. "This state of affairs cannot
continue long-there is too much electricity
in the atmosphere. Perhaps it would be well
to escape the explosion.~~
Full of these thoughts she passed quickly,
and, as it chanced, almost noiselessly, across
the matting-covered floor of the upper hall to
her own chamber. As she opened the door,
she paused on the threshold. Had she mis-
taken the room? A quick glance, at the
familiar furniture, and her own familiar be-
longings, assured her that she had not, yet a
graceful figure in a Nansook robe de chambre
was standing at the toilet-table, apparently

engaged in critically overlooking its miscel-
laneous articles.
When Mrs. Sandford retired to her own
room after breakfast, she felt as much out
of sorts as a very pretty widow, with a satis.
factory-account at her banker's and a charm-
ing wardrobe in her trunk, could possibly
feel. Gratifying to .hcr eyes had been the
sight of Captain Tyndale at the breakfast-
table, and still more gratifying to her feelings
the prospect of a demi-flirtation under the
convenient guise of confidential disclosures
touching the unquestionable guilt of Arthur
and Norah. To have a summary end put to~
this prospect, was more than she could bear
with equanimity. Outraged by Max's de-
parture, she found it necessary to blame some
one besides himself. "That creature has been
talking to him!" she thought-for it is as-
tonishing how vexation will sharpen even dull
wits-" she has been making out her case
Oh, if I only could speak to him ~or a moment
-if I could only tell him about the note last
~night!"
Following hard upon this thought came
another. "If I only knew what was in that
note! I am sure that it was an appointment!
I am sure she went out this morning to keep
~lt-~-but if I only knew! He could not refuse
to believe such clear proof as that; and it
really seems an incumbent duty to expose her
duplicity. To think of poor, dear Leslie!
And then, there is Max himself; if I don't
show him beyond doubt what game she is
playing, he may be in her train next. Men
are such fools-and I think two strings to her
bow are quite enough!"
Moved by such high-minded reflections as
these, the next step was to consider~ how to
obtain a knowledge of what was in the note.
Clearly there was but one way of doing this
-from the note itself. "If I could only see
it!" mused she. "If there was only any way
of seeing it!" Then, impatiently, "If I could
only think of any way of seeing it!" When
any one has gone as far as this, it is not dif-
ficult to go farther, it is not difficult to re-
solve, "I will find some way of seeing it!"
To this point Mrs Sandford soon came. She
was not a person who was accustomed to
think much of right or wrong, of honorable
or dishonorable deeds. What she wished to
do was generally her criterion for what she
did do. She had never before wshed to in-
terfere with any one's private correspondence,

128

128                 A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                                MRS. SANDFORD'S INQUISITIVENESS.           129

129

but, now that the emergency had arisen, she
could see no just cause or reason why she
should not find, read, and perhaps appro-
priate, Mr. Tyndale's note, if Miss Desmond
had been obliging enough to leave it within
her reach.
Of course, in order to institute such a
search, it was necessary to enter Miss Des-
mend's chamber, but of that Mrs. Sandford
thought lightly. It was so easily done that
really, as she said to herself, it seemed no
more than crossing her own floor. She had
only to step through one of her windows to
the balcony upon which it opened, and to
walk a few steps to find herself at the cor-
respo.nding window of Norah's room. If they
had been established in their present quarters
with a view to possible contingencies of this
kind, avery thing could not have been better
arranged. To plan a campaign and to exe-
cute it, the greatest generals have sometimes
found to be very different things; but, in the
present instance, there was no more difficulty
in the execution than in the plan. This fair
general knew that Norah had left the house
with Carl; she fancied her safe for at least
an hour's flirtation in the shrubbery; hence,
she felt no hesitation in leaving her own
room, in walking down the balcony, in open-
ing the half- closed Venetian blinds of the
adjoining chamber, and in boldly stepping
within.
Every thing was cool and fresh and in per-
fect order The housemaid had finished her
work and gone. None of the loose odds and
ends, the thrown-off dresses and discarded
ribbons, of a later hour, were lying about.
The wardrobe had engulfed the first, the toi-
let-table, drawers, and boxes, had, no doubt,
received the last. Mrs. Sandford's glance
traveled critically round the room, as she
paused for a moment by the window. "It is
handsomer than mine!" she thought, resent-
fully. "What do they mean by giving it to
her!" It made little difference in her resent-
ment that, as a matter of fact, any one not
accustomed to appraising furniture might
have been puzzled to decide which was the
most luxurious of the two apartments; those
infantine blue eyes knew to a shilling the
probable cost of every article on which they
rested, and they wandered now from the
carved bedstead in an alcove, with its tent-
like canopy and draperies of white netting,
over the deep chairs and couches, the swing.
9

ing mirrors, the china, and marble, and lace,
and upholstery, which made a very pretty
"interior." On none of these things did they
rest, however. That distinction was reserved
for a small table standing. near an end win-
dow, on which a large and more substantial
writing-desk than ladies generally use was
placed.
Now, confident as she was that there was
no danger of being surprised, Mrs. Sandford
had yet no disposition ~to waste time; and,
crossing the floor, she at once began examin-
ing this desk. To her infinite disappoint.
ment and disgust, it was locked. She had
by this time so fully entered into the spirit
of what she was doing that, on making this
vexatious discovery, she at once seized a pen.
knife which lay open on the table, and, re-
gardless of consequences, tried to force the
lock. If it had been the toy which is usually
placed on ladies' desks, she could easily have
succeeded, but, for a wonder, it-was firm and
strongand guarded its trust faithfully. After
a minute she relinquished the attempt as
hopeless, and threw the knife impatiently
down. "Yet this proves that she has some-
thing to conceal !" she said, aloud, almost
triumphantly. "If I could only open it-if I
only could!"
Since the gratification of this moderate
desire was impossible, save by recourse to
more desperate measures than any she felt
inclined to adopt, her next step was to look
about the room and see if she could find any
thing of a criminating nature which Nornh
might have neglected to secure under lock
and key. Here, however, she found herself
baffled at all points. In the course of her
life, Miss Desmond had evidently learned
that the best of all policies is the policy of
caution. With an extended knowledge of
young ladies' habits, and of the nooks and
corners into which they arc most likely to
cram letters or notes, Mrs. Sandford found
herself entirely at fault. A moderate num-
ber of laces, ribbons, and frills, rewarded her
search; but absolutely nothing of more im-
portance. The only scrap of any thing bear-
ing writing which she found was an envelope
that Norah had evidently addressed to her
sister, and then thrown aside because a blot
of ink bad fallen upon it. This she at once
put into her pocket. "It may serve to com-
pare with some of her writing," she thought,
from which it will be perceived that Mrs.


130                  A DAUGHTER OF BOH1~ML~~.

Sandford was in training for a very excellent
detective, indeed.
This envelope she found in a side-drawer
of the toilet-table. There was a correspond-
ing drawer on the other side, which she had
not yet examined. Encouraged by her first
measure of success-success which a less san-
guine nature might have esteemed rery scant
-she turned to explore this receptacle.
Blank disappointment awaited her-blank
disappointment, and a dozen or two long-
legged hair-pins. It was while she was sur-
veying these with irritation that the doot
opened, and Norah stood on the t
For at least a minute Mrs. Sa~dford re-
mained in ignorance of her presence. She
glanced over the whole toilet-table critically,
opened the powder-box, sniffed at a bottle
of Farina cologne, tried the effect of a mosaic
ear-ring against her face, and finally, shrug-
ging her shoulders with an air of disgust,
turned away, to face the owner of the castle
whieh she had so coolly invaded.
~he started violently, blushed crimson,
and for a moment was too much disconcerted
to find any words with which to acCount for
her presence. In truth, Norah's face ~tnd
manner were not particularly reassuring.
She made no attempt to conceal her indig-
nant surprise and anger as, after a second,
she advanced into the room, closing the door
behind her.
- "Ganido any thing for you?" she asked.
"Were you looking for any thing which I
can furnish?"
If Mrs. Sandford had beqn in the palace
of truth she would certainly have replied that
she soas looking for something which Miss
Desmond could furnish; but, as it was, she
recovered the use of her tongue to answer
with ready, though mther lame apology:
"I beg a thousand pardons! I had no
idea-I mean I thought you would not mind
if I eame in to try the effect of your mirror.
Mine is one of the. horrid broadening kind,
and it makes such a fright of me that I never
know how I look, or how my dresses sit. My
maid complains of it all the time, so I thought
I would just step over and try yours. I was
anre you would not object 1"
The last sentence was uttered. with an
pealing look, which would have gone straight
to the heart of any man in the world. Per-
haps it was because Norah was not a man
that her heart rather hardened than softened

under its influence. She hal an instinct of
the business which had brought this beguil-
ing creature into her chamber, and she did
not feel inclined, to deal very gently with her.
"At the risk of seeming rude, I must say
that I do object to my room being entered in
my absence," she answered, even more cold.
ly than she had spoken before. "It strikes
me as a little singular, also, that you should
never have thought of trying the cffe~t of my
mirror until you knew that I was out of the
house."
"I am sorry that I should have thought
of trying it at all!" said Mrs. Sandford, crim-
soning again, partly from mortification, part-
ly from anger. "I certainly did not expect
such a reception as this I But of course one
must make allowances," she added, bitterly.
"Courtesy is not cultivated in Bohemia, I
suppose."
"We certainly think it of less importance
than honesty," answered Norah, in her clear
voice. "You may spare your taunts, Mr~.
Sandford! You could not sting me if you
were to try all day; and how little you could
increase my knowledge of yourself, I may per-
haps let you know in the simple fact that I
am not at all surprised to find you here in
my absence. We are both guests in this
house, and, down-stairs, we must of necessity
meet on neutral ground; but, in my own
room, you are certainly well aware of the rea-
sons why I feel no inclination to receive
you!"
"I am perfectly well aware of a reason
why Imight decline to come here," said Mrs.
Sandford, thinking that the sooner she car-
ried the war into Africa the better. "You
cannot help knowing, Miss Desmond, that, if
I chose to open my lips and betray your-
your conduct to Leslie, your hours as a guest
in this house would be numbered."
"If I might venture to ask you to do me
a favor," said Norab, "it would be to open
your lips and betray my conduct to Leslie as
soon as possible. But, in truth, you dare not
do this; you are not certain enough of the
ground on which you stand; you did not
learn enough in the library window at Straf-
ford. Perhaps it is to a natural desire to in-
crease your knowledge that I owe the pleas-
ure of finding you here to-day?"
11cr piercing eyes seconded this point-
blank interrogation so well that, with a dis-
comfited sense of getting the worst of this

/

-54
0I
~0
C
I-

130


NORIAH AND THE WIDOW-               13

U

9

131

war of words, Mrs. Sandford had no alterna- firming that it had not been more than an
tive but to turn away.        ,hour-at which information Max frowned im-
" I have already told you why I came," patiently. If he had only been a little ear-
she said. "I must repeat, however, tbat I lier, be thought--and yet he was conscious
am exceedingly sorry for having yielded to that he was not in fit condition to see Arthur.
my impulse. I am so foolish-I always do Though of a cool temperament, and accus-
yield to my iinpulses, and then I often regret tomed more than most men to holding him.
it. In spite of your great rudeness, I have self well in hand, he was at that time suffer.
no intention of betraying to Leslie any thing ing such a revulsion of feeling against his
which I learned-by pure accident--in the Ii- cousin, that, if he had found him at once, he
brary of that window at Strafford. I may be might not have been able to restrain its ex-
weak-I have no doubt that ILam-but I really pression within any thing like reasonable
cannot think of inflicting such a blow upon bounds. Not that he was in any sense car.
her. How you can reconcile your duplicity ried away by passion, but a stern sense of
with your conscience, Miss Desmnond--" wrathful indignation, largely seasoned with
" My duplicity is my own affair," inter, contempt, possessed him, and seemed to do-
rupted Norah, " and I fear that my conscience mand immediate and strong utterance.
is too callous for even your eloquence to This utterance it would certainly have
make any impression upon it. Will you ex- found, with doubtful results, ~if Arthur had
musc me if I say that I came up-stairs to rest, been within reach. It has been already said
and that solitude is always my great essential .tha~t perhaps it was a good thing he was not.
for rest'?" The process of relief called " speaking one's
"I can excuse any thing that you choose mind," rarely does much good to any one con-
to say on the score of your deficiencies of cerned, save to the speaker ; and, in this in-
breeding," answered Mrs. Sandford. " The stance, it might have done a great deal of
difficult thing to do will be to excuse myself harm. Without any taint of Phariseeism,
for having incurred such treatment. I shall Max's sentiments were certainly stronger than
not forget it, Miss Desmond-you may be most men of the world would have sanctioned,
sure of that !" -since it is the fashion of the world to deal
" If your memory is equal to your inven- leniently even with what it disapproves.
tion, I can readily credit that," said Norhh, There are men and to spare of conventional
coolly.                                  integrity who would have regarded lightly
Then, walking to the door, she held it enough such an offense as that of Tyndale's,
open, while the other swept angrily out.  but Max was not one of them. Perhaps his
profession might account for a certain rigid.
ity in his manner of viewing things, but un-
CHAPER XI.I.doubtedly there seemed to him no excuse for
CHAPER XII.Arthur's conduct. A record of such mingled
" Look in my face ; my name is Might-have-been ; weakness, perfidy, deception, and cowardice,
I am also called No-more, Too-late, Farewell ; had, in his eyes, nothing to redeem or palli-
Unto thine ear I hold the Dead-Sea shell, -ei  "fhhaonybntreoayod
Cast up thy life's foam-fretted feet between ; ati."Ifhhdonybetreoayoy
Unto thine eyes the glass where that is seen or any thing !" he muttered, more than once,
Which had Life's form and Love's, but by my as he paced the terrace, in sentinel-fashion,
spell                              to and fro. But that was the darkest point
Ts now a shaken shadow intolerable,
Of ultimate things unuttered the frail screen.,, of all ; he had been true to nobody-to noth-
ing ! Regarding the matter, as he had of late
IT was probably a good thing-it was cer- been in the habit of regarding it, from a dou-
tainly not a thing to be regretted-that, when ble point of view, Max felt unable to decide
!Iax reached Strafford, he found Arthur ab- whether Norah or Leslie had been most
lent. The latter had returned to the house, wronged. " The Bohemian girl has been his
reakfasted, ordered his horse, and ridden off, match, however" he thought, with a certain
vithout telling any one where he was going grim triumph-and then lie melted into abso-
r when he would be back, the servants re- lute tenderness over the recollection of Lea-
borted. Questioned respecting the time which lie's wasted love and abused faith.
iad elapsed since he left, they agreed in af- The latter consideration brought his mind


132                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

back to Norah's recommendation of the morn-
ing-her assertion that if Arthur were once
removed from Leslie's life, he (Max) might,
by the exercise of common discretion and
judgment, step into the vacated place. Still
pacing back and forth, watching the shadows
shorten toward noon, and waiting for Arthur's
return, he let his reflections turn from the
more vexatious view of the subject to dwell
on that audacious proposal. "Was she in jest
or in earnest ?" he thought-puzzled gs many
a straightforward man has been puzzled before
him by a woman's chameleon moods. "Did
she take me to be a scoundrel or a lover on the
melodramatic model, ready to profit on anoth-
er man's dishonor? or was she only amusing
herself by an attempt to play upon my credul-
ity?" This question being rather difficult to
answer by one not yersed in the abstruse study
of feminine ethics, our chasseur shook his head
over it. But, like moths around a candle, his
thoughts still fluttered about the memory of
Norah's eyes and smile. Not at all a woman
in his style-not in the least a woman whom
he admired--still, a woman with a charm, he
could not but confess. A creature of infinite
variety, energy, and resource, to whom he
could not deny the grace of fascination, how-
ever much he might prefer something gentler
and more feminine. Then his thoughts re-
ceived a new impetus of indignation in the
recollection of how Arthur had distorted
every feature of her character in his descrip-
tion of it-how he had drawn its noble out-
lines rudely, and dashed its fine tints with
vulgar coloring. What could be said of a
man who thus willfully added slander to de-
ception? This was the text of Max's medi-
tations, when suddenly a graceful figure which
he knew well, but was not at that moment ex-
pecting to see, mounted the terrace-steps and
advanced toward him.
The encounter was a surprise on both
sides. Although Arthur had emerged from
the large gate which shut in the stable do-
main, and followed a path which led to the
foot of the terrace, he had not noticed Max,
while Max, on his part, had seen nothing of
him. Both men, therefore, started, and in-
voluntarily drew back a little.
"By Jove !-~-are you here?" said Arthur,
in no very gracious tone.
" So you are back at last!" said Max,
rather curt in turn.
"Is it remarkable that I should be back?"

asked the former, with a touch of defiance in
his manner-a manner which a great many
people, who ought to know better, assume
when they desire to place themselves on the
defensive.
"Not at all remarkable," was the reply.
"I was only surprised to see you so unex-
pectedly."
"I came up from the stable-I have been
over to Wexforil," explained the other, care-
lessly. Theii he gave a somewhat forced
laugh. "I should rather express surprise at
seeing ~iou I" he said. "I supposed you were
over at Rosland-you must have gone out
very early this morning, for you were not here
at breakfast."
"I was very little behind yourself in go.
ing out," answered Max, thinking, perhaps,
that he might save time by plunging into his
subject at once. "The only difference was,
that you came back to breakfast, and I did
not."
"Behind me!" Arthur ccho~d. Accord.
ing to his usual fashion, he changed color
vividly-this time more from anger than con-
fusion. "I was not aware," he said, haughti-
ly, "that my goings - out or comings - in con-
cerned you in the least."
"You are quite right," returned Max, de-
liberately. "They do not concern me in the
least-except in so far as they concern a mat-
ter in wliieh you have more than once CXCiI-
citly requested my interference."
"If I was fool enough to request your in-
terference at one time," said Arthur, angrily,
"understand that I quite as explicitly request
your non-interference now! Whatever I may
choose to do, or leave undone, is none of
your affair."
"You are mistaken about that," said Max.
lIe did not lose control over himself, though
the manner of the other did not incline him
to adopt any great degree of conciliation.
"What you are proposing to do or to leave
undone may be more my affair than you im-
agine.~~
"Indeed!" said Arthur, with an angry
sneer, which was not a striking success as a
sneer. In truth, angry men should never at-
tempt to employ this potent weapon of of-
fense, for, in order to be effective, a sneer
should always be passionless. perhaps Ar-
thur felt this, or perhaps there was something
in the keen dark eyes regarding him which
made him change his tone. "At all events, he

132

AN ANGRY INTERVIEW.                133

did change it. Don't be a fool, Max!" he
said, impatiently. "You know, as well as I
do, that this is nonsense-more than non-
sense, indeed, if I chose to resent it! I was
absurd enough to give you some excuse for
your interference, and so I shall let it pass.
But I insist upon your dropping the subject
at once and finally!"
"Suppose I decliuc to do so?"
"Then I shall decline to listen to you. I
have had enough - more than enough~- of
this!"
"I scarcely think you will decline to lis-
ten to me when you hear that I come from
Miss Desmond."
"And, pray, why should I not decline to
listen to you even then? What is Norah Des.
mond to me that I should give any more at-
tention to her messenger than to herself?"
'1What was she this morning when you
asked her to elope with you?"
"So!" said Arthur, drawing in his breath
with a sharp, quick sound. "You have heard
that, have you?" Then, with a short, harsh
laugh: "You were fool enough to believe it,
were you? How completely she must have
drawn you into her net! Bat I should have
thought even you knew Norah Desmond bet-
ter than that!"
"Do you deny it?" demanded Max. There
was a tense chord in his voice which the other
scarcely understood. Something like a slight
quiver passed over him. As yet he held his
indignant passion well in leash; but, if the
denial came-
It did not come. Even Arthur Tyndale
shrank from such downright perjury. Not so
much because it was a perjury, as because he
had a wholesome fear of Norah. It was one
thing to insinuate that she had spoken false-
ly, another thing openly to declare it. His
courage, which was quite equal to the first
achievement, failed a little at the last. He
turned in wrathful impatience upon his cousin.
"I shall say nothing about it, one way or
auo'ther!" he cried. "Again, I repeat that
it is no affair of yours. Why the devil do
you insist upon interfering like this?"
"Because I mean to know definitely what
you intend to do !"the other answered, stern-
ly. "It is too late to take this tone with me.
You invited my interference in the first in-
stance; there are others who have as good a
right as yourself to do so, who have invited
it, in the second."

133

"I suppose you mean Norah Desmond?"
said Arthur, with the bitter inI~ction of con-
tempt which invariably accompanied his ut-
terance of her name. "But, by Heaven! there
is no interference which I will not tolerate
sooner than kers!"
"I see that you have lost all sense of
reason for the present," said Max, curtly.
"It will be useless to attempt to talk to you
unless you can listen in a different spirit from
any yen have displayed as yet. I shall walk
to the end of the terrace," he added. "If
you are gone when I come back, or, if you
still refuse to listen to me, then Ishall go,
and your last chance of obtaining any con-
sideration at Miss Desmond's hands will be
over."
As l~e uttered these words, he turned away
without~ giving the other time to speak, and
walked slowly around the terrace. When he
gained the end, he paused and stood still for
a few minutes. rrobably he felt that he, as
well as Arthur, needed this little breathing-
space. It was the thought of Leslie which
had made him exercise so much self-control,
and now he was conscious of a necessity to
gird himself up, as it were, with that thought
afresh - with the memory of her tenderness,
her sweetness, her grace, her devoted love for
the man behind him, her (he thought) entire
unsuspiciousness. If it seemed hard that she
should never know of what poor clay her idol
was made, that, as Norah had said, she should
"go through life holding a lie for truth,'
still Max was enough a man of the world to
know that she was not singular, either among
men or women, in that fate. If it is true in
countless instances, that-
"We loved ourlost loves forth love wegave them,
And not for any thing they gave our love,"
it is still more true that there could be no
sadder revelation on this sad earth of ours
than the revelation of the wandering of those
hearts which we have fancied truest, tender-
est, most our own. This pang Max was de-
termined should be spared Leslie. "It is
not as if she could make another life for her-
self! "he muttered. "It is not as if she had
the facile power of forgetting of an ordinary
woman; or her sister's pride and courage. It
would be a shock which might darken her
whole life. Arthur's impressions are so
evanescent that, when Miss Desmond goes
away, he will most likely return to his alle.


I

134

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

glance, and be all that he was before. Not
worthy of l~er-never, under any circum-
stanOes worthy of her-but one of the neces-
sary compromiseS of which life is full!"
* Braced by this cheerful view of things,
Captain Tyndale turned at last to retrace his
steps. The terrace-walk ctwved so that he
could not see the spot where he had left Ar-
thur, and his mind was naturally full of un-
cei-tainty concerning that unmanageable per-
eon. Would he still be there? Had he defi-
nitely taken leave of his senses, or was it
only a temporary aberration which might be
over, in a measure, at least, by this time? In
aflOth~r second he would turn the corner of
the house, and the question would be an-
swered. As he turned it, a quick, blank feel-
ing of disappointment settled over him in-
etantly. ~" He has gone," he thought. The
next moment showed him that he was mis-
taken. Arthur was pacing up and down the
path which he had himself followed an hour
before.
Seeing his approach, the young man paused
abruptly. His handsome face was paler and
firmer than Max had ever seen it before; his
violet eyes had a steady, angry lustre in
them. Plainly, If cooler thoughts had come
to him, milder ones had not.
"Well," he said, before the other could
speak, "you see I have waited for you. But
it has not been to listen to any thing which
you may have to say either in your own char-
acter or in that of envoy. It has only been
that I may request an explanation of your
extraordinary conduct-that I may learn how
it' is that you think yourself at liberty to
treat me in such a manner as this?"
"I did not come here to discuss my own
conduct," answered Max. "Think what you
like of it! Just now I am occupied with
yours. Just now I must repeat the question
which I have already asked: What do you
mean to do with regard to your engagement?"
"' And I repeat what Ihave already asked:
How does any thing connected with it con-
cern you 1'"
"Granting that it does not concern me at
all, you certainly cannot deny that it con-
cerns Miss Desmoud. You msjr consider me
as her envoy, if you prefer to look on me in
that light."
"Her dupe and tool, more likely!" was
the bitter response. "But 'uhy should .she
make such an inquiry?"

"Simply because it is necessary with ref-
erence to her own conduct," answered Max,
who was beginning to lose patience. "Are
you aware that you may do yourself infinite
harm by this obstinacy?" he asked. "Un-
less you desire to break your engagement,
Miss Desmond, on her part, is willing to leave
the truth untold, if you will pledge yourself
to keep faith with her sister."
"Miss Desmond is infinitely generous!"
"She is certainly more generous than
many women would be!" said Max, with
growing sternness. "If you reject her offer,
however," he added, turning away, "my in-
terference is at an end. I have the honor to
bid you good-morning!"
"Stop!" said Arthur, quickly. "Don't
go like this! Are you in earnest ?-does No-
nih offer to bind herself to-to tell her sister
nothing?"
"I think I may safely say that she offers
even that, in case ymne bind yourself in turn
to keep faith with Miss Grahame, and to suf-
fer her to suspect nothing."
"By Jove!" said Arthur. For a minute
he looked quite astounded. It seemed No.
rah's special province to go through life as-
tonishing people. "I did not expect this,"
he said, slowly. "I thought it was all over
this morning. She left me like a tigress, and
I was sure she had told Leslie every thing
before the present time. I was so confident
of it that I have made my arrangements to
leave!" he added, shrugging his shoulders.
"It would be too hot for me here after things
came out. My ticket is in my pocket. I
meant to go up to Alton to-night, and-and
anywhere else that I felt inclined afterward.
It wouWl have been rather a relief' to-be rid
of the whole infernal business!" he said,
with a tone of genuine regret in his voice.
"But, if it is to go on, of course this arrange-
ment will be best. Only you must under-
stand one thing: I shall not trust Norah
Desmond's pledge or promise, either given or
sent. I must have proof that she does 'not
mean to play me false at last."
"What kind'of proof?"
"My letters-the letters of which I have
spoken before. Let her return those, and I
will know she is in earnest."
"I do not think it likely that she will ac-
cede to such a request," said Max. "But I
will lay it before her. One thing, however, I
know that I am safe in demanding on her part

ARTHUR'S FINAL DECISION.

-the return of her letters, if you still have
them."
"Her letters!" repeated Arthur. "Good
heavens! do you take me for a woman or a
fool, that I should be treasuring up such rel-
ies? I have not, to my knowledge, a shred
of one of them, else she should certainly have
it. God knows I want to keep no recollection
of' her, or the part she has played in my life!"
he added, with sudden, bitter passion.
And, little as Max was inclined to trust
him, he saw that he was speaking truth, and
he kaew, moreover, that it is the rarest thing
in the world when a man does keep such
tokens of the past. It is women, preiimi-
nently, who love to make packets of old let-
ters, over which they weep and sigh, or smile
and laugh. Men's lives are too busy, and, as
a rule, too practical, for such tender, foolish
acts 6f remembrance.
"And if Miss Desmond refuses-as, in my
opinion, she is very likely to refuse-to re-
turn your letters," said Max, "what then?"
The other drew the railroad - ticket of
which he had spoken trom his pocket and
held it up. "This is what then!" he
said.
Max made one quick step forward-then
checked himself and fell back. After all,
violence would serve no good purpose. But
it was almost a minute before he could com-
mand his voice sufficiently to speak.
"Do you mean it?" he asked, hoarsely.
"Do you mean that you will dare to leave
Miss Grahame like that!"
"I mean," answered Arthur, "that I will
not trust Norah Desmond! If she refuses to
return my letters, I shall know that' she has
a trap laid for me, and I am not quite fool
enough to walk into it with my eyes open.
You may tell her that if you like. I will not
live such a life as I have been leading lately!
It is infamous !-it is too much to expect of
any man! If she refuses to return my let-
ters, I shall leave the country, and she may
take the burden of explanation on her own
shoulders! It is all he~- fault from beginning
to end! It was a cursed day for me when I
first saw her face!"
"This is your ultimatum, then," said
Max, feeling that he must get away-that he
would not be able to restrain himself many
minutes longer. "You make the return of
your letters an absolute condition for keep-
ing faith with Miss Grahame?"

185

"Yes, an absolute condition!" said the
other, emphatically..
With this understanding they parted.
As Max went across the park to Rosland, be
could not restrain the indignation which pos-
sessed him; and yet even indignation was
subordinated by uneasiness. "Is it doing
well? is it a thing which can be excused un-
der any circumstances, to put Leslie's hap~
pines into such keeping? " he asked him.
self. "Is one so false likely to be more
constant or more honorable in the future
than in the past?" There was only one an-
swer to such a question as this-leslie had
put her own happiness into his hands. No
outside person had been to blame for that.
The sole point to be considered now was
whether to leave her in happy ignorance, or
to wake her to bitter knowledge; and this
point, as we are aware, Max had long before
decided. He shook his head many times,
however, as he strolled slowly along through
the woods and across the fields. He began
to realize that it was a dangerous business-.
this interfering, even with the best intentions,
to make or mar the happiness of others' lives.
When he reached Rosland they were at
luncheon, and his entrance created a slight
Stir of interest in what was else a very lan-
guid company. "We did not expect you
back so soon !" said Mrs. Sandford, wit!, a
subdued flutter, as he sat down by her. She
felt, no doubt, that it was on her account he
had returned. His heart, or his conscience,
or both together most likely, had smitten
him after his return to Strafford, and he had
come to seek pardon in the depths of her be-
guiling eyes. Those eyes looked at him with
the faintest shade of reproach imaginable
gleaming through their gratification.
"You don't deserve to be spoken to!"
she confided to him. "Why did you go
away this morning and leave me to be so
frightfully dull? It was very, very unkind
of you!"
"I really cannot flatter myself that I
should have had any power to keep the dull-
ness at bay," he answered, impatient of her-
self and her eyes, yet seeing no means of
escape. A glance round the table showed
him that everybody was dull and somewhat
silent, as people are apt to be in the midat
of "one of the warmest days of the season."
Carl was the only exception to this rule.
He looked restless instead of dull, and Max

(


136                 '    A 'DAUGHTER
encountered more than one glance expressive
of any thing but amiability leveled at him-
self Jy the brown eyes out of which all laugh-
ter seemed, to have died. "Something un.-
common is the matter with that fellow!" hie
thought, as he seasoned his chicken plen-
tifully with Worcestershire sauce, and an-
swered Mrs. Sandford's remarks with dis-
couraging brevity. Carl, meanwhile, was
debating gloomily in his mind whether " that
fellow " was in love with Norah himself, or
was merely acting as the envoy of his cousin,.
The' suggestion that any thing but Norah
could have brought him to Rosland, would
have been scouted contemptuolisly by this
infatuated young man. " He who is giddy
thinks the world turns round," and Carl was
very giddy indeed at this time. Indeed, he
was half mad with love and hopelessness and
jealousy, and no more accountable for his
thoughts or actions than a lunatic in a strait-
jacket.
It is a good thing that there is no Asmo-
deus to lift the roofs from off our heads, or
to open the doors of our hearts and, show
what thoughts and feelings possess us. If
there had been such an, inconvenient sprite,
he might have revealed the fact that it was
a very uncomfortable party who talked com-
monplaces about the heat; and the coming
guests of the evening. Of them all, Norah
took things most philosophically. "When
the worst comes, I shall simply pack my
trunk and leave!" she thought. This reso-
hition was possible to her, who had no keen-
ly personal share in the annoyances-she was
not tortured by doubt, or stung with pain, as
some of the others were, Next to Norab,
Mr. Middleton took things moat placidly.
He was emphatically of the opinion that the
whole business (Carl's infatuation, Norah's
visit, and Leslie's engagement understood)
was a confounded nuisance-it 'may even be
that he characterized it still more strongly-
but a man cannot excite himself with impu-
nity when tbe thermometer is at eighty-five
degrees, and Mr. Middleton dismissed his
share of anxiety until cooler weather.
When they were leaving table, Mrs. Sand-
ford said, in a whisper, to Max: "I must
speak to you as soon as possible, and alone.
I have something of the utmost importance to
tell you. Can you make an opportunity, or
shall I? "
"I-oh-I'll do it!" answered he, cast

OF BOHEMIA.

down to the very earth by this bold assault.
Where was any hope of rescue or escape ? If
he allowed himself to he entrapped into a
private spot to receive Mrs. Sandford's over-
flowing confidence, where would it end ?-
when should he be able to see Norah ? Just
then he could have echoed most heartily Mr.
Weller's well-known sentiments with regard
to widows. He felt desperate-and a desper-
ate idea entered his mind. "I'll make an op-
portunity as soon as possible," lie said. Af-
ter this, he hurried away in search of Norah.
Instead of Norah, it was Leslie whom he
found in the sitting-room, where he had spent
so many pleasant hours. It looked as pretty
as ever, though he felt instinctively that the
charm of repose, which had chiefly made it so
delightful, had vanished. The same green still-
ness brooded behind the half-closed blinds ;
the table was covered with work and hooks-
new magazines and novels principally ; the
fragrance of roses was heavy ow the air;
every thing was outwardly the sgme that it
had been ten days before ; but the unseen stir
and strife of passion had changed the place-.
The air, which before was full of peace and
serenity, now seemed full of fears,. doubts,
suspicions-Max wondered if it was only his
imagination which fancied this-.
Leslie was standing by the centre-table,
in the middle of the room, when he came in.
He thought how pretty she looked, her slen-
der figure "gowned in pure white," her grace-.
ful brown head drooping like that of a classic
statue! But there was something pathetic,
as well as classic, in this drooping head, and
she seemed fingering, half absently, the flow-
ers which filled a large vase in the centre of
the table.
"See!" she said, turning with a smile-
faint, and evidently forced-when Max came
in. "Our poor roses !-the heat is too much
for them. These are all that the garden af-
fords, and see how imperfect they are-really
scarce worth gathering!"
"Very different from those you showed
me in May," said he, coming and standing by
her. "Do you remember that evening in Al-
ton ?-How lovely the roses were ! and how
you laughed at me for not knowing more of
their nomenclature !"
"I remember," she said. " You mean the
evening that Mrs. Sandford came in, and-
and Arthur was there ? Yes, they were love-,
ly- every thing was lovely- that evening'.

U

But we cannot have the roses of May in
July." '
" No," said he, looking at her face, out of
which its delicate roses had fled. " You are
not well," he added, abruptly. "I-I am
afraid you may be worrying about something."
" Why should you think that ?" asked she,
looking at him with a quick keenness in her
soft gray eyes. "I am perfectly well, and-
what should I worry about ? "
"Women find a thousand things to worry
about, of which a man knows nothing," an-
swered he. "I thought perhaps you might
have fancied, imagined something-you are
not looking well!" he repeated, positively.
At that moment he felt a strong and very un-
gallant inclination to choke Mrs. Sandford.
" Had her tongue done this mischief ?"
" I was never a person to fancy or imagine
things," said Leslie, lifting her lily-like neck
prog1dly. " I have always had a great con-
tempt for people of that kind. They not only
make their own misery, but the misery of all
around them. They are mean, and suspicious,
and-and jealous at last, perhaps ! I would
die sooner than give way to such .en inclina-
tion !" cried she, with a sudden pang-a rush
of unshed tears-in her voice, 'which told her
listener the whole story of her struggle.
And what could that listener say ? Neither
reassurance nor comfort was his to give.
Besides, what right had he to offer it to
Arthur Tyndale's future wife ? His heart was
touched as it might have been by the bravely-
borne suffering of a child. But Leslie Gra-
hame was no child. She was a woman whom
he might once have loved, who iight have
made his life as different as he would certain-
ly have made hers, if the caprice of Fate had
not decided otherwise. Now there was no
thought of love in his heart-nly pity-akin
to tenderness, as he watched the quick flush
of pain coming and going in her pale cheeks.
" I ,told you once-on that evening of
which we were speaking a minute ago," he
said, " that, even if one crushed a lily, its I
fragrance would remain. If you were crushed
by the worst trquble in the world, I am sure l
you would still be yourself, and therefore in-
capable of an ungenerous thought. But why I
should you think of such things ? There is
no need for you to do so." '
"Is there no need for me to do so ?" asked 1
she, turning suddenly and facing him with a
breathless look in her eyes. "On your hionor,t

Captain Tyndale, do yiou know of no need for
me to do so? "
On his honor ! What could Max say ?
Some men have an idea that they can better
tell a lie on any thing else than on their
"honor." Others, as we are aware, hold that
abstraction very lightly indeed. Max was
one of theformer class. He hesitated, flushed,
looked uncomfortable and awkward, when
called upon to perjure himself. Leslie turned
away with a little dreary laugh-in which
there was a heart-sick sound, if he had been
quick enough to catch it.
"How foolish I am!", shc said. "How
should you know any thing about it ? See
what nonsense you have led me into talking
Where is Norah, I wonder ? Do you know ?
And Mrs. Sandford seems to have vanished,
too."
" You must not misunderstand my si-
lence," he began; but she interrupted him
quickly:
" Have I not told you that I am the last
person in the world to' misunderstand any
thing ? Tell me whom you would like to take
in to dinner, this evening, and I will try to
see that you are gratified. Mrs. Sandford ?"
-"Good Heavcns, no!" he answered, in
genuine dismay; but, before he could say any
thing further to avert such a fate, Mrs. Sand-
ford herself appeared in the open door.
CHAPTER XXIII.
" How often one dead joy appears
And, let us own, the sharpetertpe
Which human patience may endure
Pays light for that which leaves the beart
More generous, dignified, and pure."
SHE was armed and equipped for conquest.
Mfax saw that in a moment, with a sinking of
the heart impossible to describe. He was
rather hlind to the details and intricacies of
feminine costume as a general rule, but a
sense of danger sharpens the eyes wonderful-
y, and he perceived at a glance that the brief
time which Mrs. Sandford had spent up-stairs
had sufficed for several important changes of
toilet. He was not sufficiently learned in the
names of different articles of dress to have
been able to specify that she had donned a
different polonaise, and added a butterfly-how
o the already elaborate arrangement of her

LESLIE. AND CAPTAIN TYNDALE.

137


r

138               A DAUGHTER OF BOHE~IIA.                      I

hair; but he recognized the fact of some
change-and he knew what it meant I
"I thought you had retired for your
siesta," said Lesli~, turning round from the
roses; and then eke saw the change of toilet,
and knew, also, what it meant.
"I think this is the coolest room in the
house," said the pretty widow, with a con-
scious air. "Mine is really intolerable just
now, though it is so pleasant usually. I
think warm weather is apt to make one rest.
less. Don't you think so, Captain Tyndale?
It must have made ziou restless "-with a
little playful arch of the eyebrows-" else
yen would not have undertaken so many
Walks through the sun to-day."
"Might not something besides restless.
~iess account for that?" asked Max. lie
was tired to death of the woman-of her af.
fectations, and mannerisms, and great wide-
open blue eyes; but it is not exactly com-
patible with civility in general, nor with the
chivalry due to the fair sex in particular, to
turn a deaf ear to l~emarks which were spe.
cially addressed to him, backed by the eyes
aroresaid, and a new French muslin polonaise
of the latest and most becoming fashion.
"It is not restlessness which draws the
~ieedle to the magnet," said Leslie, smiling,
For she knew what Mrs. Sandford thought.
"Then, if Captain Tyndale is the needle,
somebody else must be the magnet," said
that lady.-" Who is it, Captain Tyndale?
We insist upon your telling us who it
is-
"Do you?" said Captain Tyndale. "But,
unless you have thumb-scr~ws at hand, I am
afraid there is no chance of your wringing a
confession from me."
In this, species of nonsense several min-
utes passed. Max began to feel more and
more desperate. Where was Norah? He
saw Leslie glance at the clock; he knew that
before long she would apologize, retire for
her 8~eeta, and leave him to his fate-the hor-
rible fate of spending tWo or three hours of a
broiling afternoon shut up in a flower-scented
room with Mrs. Sandford. If he could only
see or hear any thing of Norahl He begali
to grow impatient, as well as desperate. She
knew-she must have known-that he had
come over to Rosland to see her, and yet she
had coolly taken herself out of his way.
"She might have spared me half an hour
from her beauty-sleep; or from her flirtation

with Middleton!" he thought. "It was not
for myself that I wanted to see her!"
Feeling injured and indignant, he began
to meditate how he could best make his es-
cape, when the sudden tramp of a horse's
feet on a carriage-drive beyond the veranda
made them all start. "Is any one coming?"
asked Leslie, in that tone of horror-stricken
deprecation which the approach of a visitor
so often calls forth. She opened the blind
cautiously and looked out. "No; it is only
Carl!" she said, with a sigh of relief "What
a strange time of day to be going any-
where I"
"lie is a strange kind of person," said
Mrs. Sandford, languidly. There was no-
body she felt less interest in than Carl, for
the very good and sufficient reason that he
had not paid her the compliment of evincing
the lcastinterest in her.
"An untimely fancy for exercise seems
to have seized more than one member of your
household," said Max, starting up, and walk-
ing to another window a window which,
being on the shady side of the room, stood
partly open, and commanded a view of the
grounds beyond. "Is not that Miss Des-
moud yonder?"
"Upon my word, I believe it is!" said
Leslie, aghast. "Is she trying to get a sun-
stroke or a fever, do you suppose, that she
has gone to walk at such an hour?"
"Perhaps she has an engagement to meet
Mr. Middleton somewhere," said Mrs. Sand-
ford, putting up her eye-glass, and scrutiniz-
ing the graceful figure which at that moment
was thrown into vivid relief by a deep-green
hedge. "Miss Desinond has a fancy for that
kind of thing, I believe. It gives a spice of
-of what you might call Bohemianism to
her intercourse with gentlemen."
"I think you are mistaken," said Leslie,
quickly. "There are many people who have
never lived in Bohemia, who are much more
fond of that sort of thing, as you call it, thaii
Norah is; and," added the loyal advocate,
proudly, "her society is sufficiently attractive
in itself to dispense with any spice offastness."
"My dear," said Mrs. Sandford, with efl~u~
sion, "you must really excuse me.l I am
sure I' meant no harm, but my tongue is so
heedless, and you certainly are the kindest
and most generous person in the world to
talkac!"
"I really do not see what my appreciation


N

17nrFffl~rllrrn~

~rrrrrrnrmrn
II  {  d  1111!  11  ft  'I  1ff  ft  ~i  1

I'

Ic
-I
C'
*0
I,
'5
I-
'5
()
I
I,

a~.

#1

A KINDLY WARNING.

139

of Norali has to do with kindness and gener-
osity," answered Leslie, still haughtily in
arms.
"Nobody can appreciate her more than I
do!" said Mrs. Sandford-which; in a certain
way, was quite true "~obody can deny
that she is very beautiful and very attract-
Good Heavens I Captain Tyndale, what are
you going to do?" she cried, breaking off
with a sudden exclamation of alarm.
"I don't think Miss Desmond ought to be
allowed to take a sunstroke or a fever with-
out a warning," answered Max, who had
swung himself over the low sill of the open
window to the ground outside. "I am going
to warn her, therefore. If she does not
choose to listen to mc, my conscience will be
clear at least'
lie stepped ruthlessly across a flower-bed
which made a mass of bloom in front of the
window, and walked quickly away in the
direction Norah had taken-so quickly that
a looker-on might have been pardoned for'
thinking that he was afraid of being called
back.
But Mrs. Sandford was speechless. She
gazed after him with crinison cheeks and
angry eyes; but she had sense enough to say
nothi~ig. Leslie, who felt sorry for her, was
the first to speak.
"Captain Tyndale Will be back in a few
minutes, no doubt. He cannot mean to go
far-in this sun!"
"If he comes back instantly, lie will not
find me," answered Mrs. Sandford, in a voice
that quivered-~--with anger, not with tears.
She rose as she spoke. Leslie could not
help thinking how pretty she looked. Ex-
citement had, as it were, torn oft' her habitual
veil of affectation; the real woman was in
arms against the slight which had been
passed upon herself and her elaborate toilet.
Her cheeks were like carnations, her eyes
flashed ire~ It was a tempest in a teapot,
but even tempests in teapots may sometimes
work mischief. At that moment it was a
gratifying thought that she could, at least,
break her promise to Max, and in that way
cause him a little annoyance.
"If Miss Desmond even walks across the
lawn,, other women must, of course, expect
to be forsaken immediately!" she said, with
that faint, scornful laugh which is significant
of any thing in the world but amusement.
"For a young lady who keeps so many

strings to her bow, she manages them all
with a great deal of skill!"
"It was not Norah's fault that Captain
Tyndale went after her," said Leslie. "Par-
don mc, Mrs. Sandford, but you must really
understand that I cannot listen-"
"It is not my affair, of course," said Mrs.
Sandford, interrupting her, but without any
of the honeyed apology of a little while be-
fore in her words or voice. "Miss Des-
mond's admirers, or lovers, or whatever they
may he, do not concern me. It would be
well, perhaps, if everybody could say the
same thing; but when a woman has that
insatiable love of admiration, there is no tell-
ing wAere it will stop!"
"Is it Norah whom you mean has an in-
satiable love of admiration?" asked Leslie,
dully csnscious'that it was even itt this wom-
an's powei~ te add to her pain. "I have not.:
observed it."
"My dear," said the other, soleznsily,~
"what hare you observed? It is beautiful
to see your perfect 1ra~at, your generous blind..
ness; but, 'indeed, 'it is not wise, it is not
doing jilatice to your-"
She stopped short, for' Leslie turned tow-i
ard her with a look on her thee such as. no-
body had ever seen the fair, serene f&amp;atnrea
~vear before.
"What do you mean?" she~asked. "Yen.
said something like this yesterday, but I aifr
not quick to read innuendoes - indeed, I'
should scorn to read almost as much. as I'
should scorn to make them. If you have.
any thing to any-any thing to tell me-~--speak'
plainly, and I will 'listen to you. But if yen
only mean to hint and suggest like this, I
have heard enough."
"It is impossible for inc to speak plainly,"'
said Mrs. Saudford, "atlenat, not now. But,
o Leslie, if you would only open your eyes
and look-"
"I have heard enough I"' repeated Leslie,
haughtily. She turned decidedly and walked
a~y. "I should not be surprised if we had
a thunder.storra this' afternoon," she said.
"The air is sultry."
"I. se~ that I had better go," said Mrs.
Sandford, mounting a high horse of injured
feeling. "I hat~e driven Captain Tyndale
away, and offended you; but it may not be
long before you will be sorry for not having
listened to me, Leslie!"
"I shall never be sorry for not having


140                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                                    MORAL COWARDICE.                  141

listened to anybody who dares not, or will
not, speak outright!" said Leslie, turning
round again ~' I detest insinuation!" she
cried, in her proud, passionate, pained voice.
"It means something, or it does not. In
either case it is the weapon of a-" She
stopped abruptly. "Coward," she would
have added, if courtesy had not come to her
aid in time.
"Oh, pray say what you please!" cried
Mrs. Sandford. "People who attempt to
serve their friends must always expect to be
treated like this. I knew it, of course, but
my heart is so easily touched-I could not
keep silence! As I said before, you will be
sorry-when it is too late, perhaps."
Then she turned hastily and left the room.
It was not only the natural feminine desire
for the last wQrd, which made her do this;*
it was a measure of precaution lest she
should be forced into a (metaphorical) corner,
and made to confess oii how little of actual
knowledge her insinuations were based. A
few broken words on the terrace at Strafford
which she had caught, and which might be
denied outright by either~or both of the par-
ties concerned-it would have been a sore
humiliation to be obliged to confess that this
was all. No, before she could speak, as she
meant to speak, she must have proof, some-
thing which could n0( be gainsaid. "I'll
stay here until~I find that!" she said to her-
s~lf, when she gained the solitude of her own
room. It was a magnanimous resolution to
take, and showed that she was in earnest in
her desire-to serve Leslie! As a rule, she
did not stay at. any place where she was not
amused, and if Max deserted her standard4
amusement (of the kind she liked) would cer-
tainly be hard to find at Rosland.
Max, meanwhile, had overtaken, .without
very much difficult, the young, lady in a pur-
ple muslin dress, which had not been donned
for his benefit, since it was the same in which
she had appeat~ed at both breakfast and lunch-
eon, who was sauntering along under a sun-
umbrella. Hearing his step, she had paused
and turned round-brightening into wonder-
ful beauty, he thought, as she smiled at his
approach.
"Is that your usual rate of walking?"
she asked, as he gained her side. "If so,
you mubi get over great dei~1 ~f ground in a
very short time."
"Is it your usual custom to come out at

three r. M. of a July day 1' If so, you must
be proof against sunstrokes and fevers."
"It is very uncivil to answer a question
by asking one."
"I only wanted to show you that other
things, as well as your present exercise, may
be exceptional.~*
"My present exercise is for a purpose,"
said she. "What was the good of attempt-
ing to talk to you in the house ?-and I saw
you had something to say to me."
"You are quite right," he answered. "I
have something to say to you-something
which brought me over from Strafford-but
I really cannot imagine how you could have
expected me to follow you, without a word to
notify mc of your intention of going out."
"Are you so stupid that words are neces-
sary for you?" asked she. "I have known
some men who might really have dispensed
with language. A tone, a glance, was enough
for them. One did not need to say, point-
blank, 'Monsieur, put on your hat and meet
me in the garden.' They knew-they divined
-without a word."
"What remarkably clcvcr fellows they
must have been!" said Max. "But you
might have discovered, some time ago, that I
do not belong to such a class. I need words
-the plainer the better. The proof of it is
that it was only by chance I saw you-only
by change that I am here now."
"You must have been blind if you had
not seen me!" said she, impatiently. "What!
a woman in a purple dress walk across a green
lawn in full view of an open window, and you
tell me that it was only 'by chance' you saw
her! You ought to have borrowed Mrs. Sand-
ford's eye-glasses! She has so little need for
them that she might readily have spared
them."
"That would have been turning her weap-
ons against herself with a vengeance.'~
"You mean that she was so anxious for
you to remain? You share the proverbial
modesty of your sex, I perceive! But, since
you are here, suppose we proceed to business?
You did not come for pleasure any more than
I did, I any sure."
"Speak for yourself!" said he, smiling.
Her dauntless coolness and self-possession
amused, even while it piqued him a little.
He wondered if it WQuld not be possible to
make her cheeks flush, her eyes droop, her
ready tongue falter. Nothing was more un-

likely, but he had an odd desire to see such a
transformation.
Indeed, I have not the least disposition
to speak for you," said she, in answer to his
last speech. "You have a tongue: you are
able to do that for yourself'~ (this in rather a
disparaging tone, as if there might be several
other things which he was not able to do for
himself). "If it amuses you to walk out
here in the heat, I am glad of it; but it does
not amuse me in the least, and therefore I
wish you would say what you are going to
say at once."
"As a preliminary step, can't we sit down
somewhere? Perpetual motion i~not pa~ticu.
larly agreeable in cool weather, but in warm
weather, it is intolerable."
"There is nowhere to sit, unless we sit on
the ground. The rustic seats are all on the
other side of the lawn. You might have
brought a camp-stool along if you had thouglft.
Then I might have stood over you with an um-
brella and a fan."
"The prospect is so entrancing that I
have half a mind to ~o back for the camp-
stool."
"Don't expect to find me when you return
-that is all."
"Let us try the ground, then," said he,
taking out his handkerchief, and spreading it
at the foot of a large tree. "Unless you are
rheumatic, it is not likely to injure you."
"I am afraid that, if I sit down, you will
talk for an hour," said she, frankly; but she
sat down, nevertheless. "Now, pray be brief t"
she said, as he east himself carelessly on the
warm grass by her side.
"Very well," answered he. "To be as
brief as possible, then, I have seen Arthur,
and I have found him even more intractable
than I expected. His character seems to
have undergone the most sudden and wonder-
ful change. , sullen and defiant and so
He is
impatient of the annoyance, which has been
his own work, that I absolutely found him
ready-prepared-to leave the country."
"Indeed!" said she; but she evinced no
~urprise. "Perhaps his character has not
changed so much as you imagine," she added;
"perhaps it has only developed. Well, he
has made up his mind to leave the country,
has he? But how about Leslie? She is not
exactly a person whom even Mr. Arthur Tyn.
dale can afford to jilt with impunity. Awom-
an who, baa wealth, and position, and friends,

0 ~

to shield her, is not like a Bohemian waif.
He ought to. remember that."
"He is not sufficiently cool at present to
remember any thing. But, when I-thinking
only of Miss Grahame-ventured to offer for-
* getfulness, in your name, and silence with re~
gard to the past, he half agreed to keep faith
with her."
"Half agreed! Is the man mad? He
must fancy himself a second King Louis of
Bavaria-able, if he feels inclined, to jilt prin-
cesses."
"He professes himself unable to trust
your promise. He insists upon some sub-
stantial proof that you mean to allow the past
to drop into oblivion. I am half afraid to tell
you what this proof is."
"Perhaps ~ can guess," said she, calmly.
"He wants his letters, does he not?"
"Yes, he wants his letters."
"Really," said she, with a 1aug11, "his au-
dacity is greater than even I had imagined!
So he thinks himself able to dictate terms to
me / And suppose I decline to return the let-
ters-what then?"
"I asked him that very question, and he
replied by showing me his railroad-ticket.-
That is 'what, then!' he answered."
"Do you think he means it?" she asked,
with a sudden flash in her eye. "Do yoa
think he would dare it?"
"I am sure he means it. I am inclined
to thinI~ he would dare it. Easiest of all
things to a moral coward is the thing called
running away."
"But, suppose I run into the house-this
minute-and lay tile matter before Leslie's
uncle? Cannot he find a remedy? Will he
see her treated like this?"
"He would probably insist at once upon
her breaking the engagement, and h.~m would
certainly forbid Arthur ever to enter his
house or claim his acquaintance again."
"Would he do nothing more than that?"
"What else could he do? Gentlemen do
not assault each other either with horse-
whips or epithets. Dueling is not in Mr.
Middleton's line, I imagine; and in any case
the man is more than a fool who draws
a woman's name into an affair of that
kind."
"Then the matter stands thus: I must
either tell Leslie the truth, in order that she
may be able to take the initiative step in
breaking the engagement, or I must comply


142

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

with this coward's demand and return his
letters."
"That is the light in which it stands, cci-
tainly."
"The coward!" said she, again, between
her clinched teeth. "The false-hearted cow-
ard! But do you not see that it would be
madness to do this?" she cried, turning sud-
denly, almost fiercely, upoti him. "Do you
not see that, if I give up these letters, I place
myself in Arthur Tyndale's power? My good
name lies at his mercy! He could say any
thing of me, and I should have no power to
refute it! You do not think of me-you
think altogether of Leslie, Captain Tyndale;
but, when it comes to snob a point as this, I
must think of myself."
"You are mistaken," said Max. He spoke
coolly enough, but, as he raised himself with
sudden energy from the grass, there was a
look of excitement not common with him on
his face. "I do think of you; I have thought
of you ever since lie made the proposal, but
I wanted to see what you would say. You
are quite right. There are no circumstances
which would justify you in resigning those
letters to a man whom no pledge of honor
seems capable of binding."
"And yet what remains for me?"
"To tell the truth to Miss Grahaine."
"You say that?" A look of surprise
came into her face. Then she laughed-a
faiiit, low laugh, which he did not understand.
"You are very generous, Captain Tyndale. I
fancied you would have been willing to sacri-
fice me, and every thing connected with me,
to spare Leslie one pang."
"Why should you have fancied such a
thing?" said he, almost ir~dignantly. "I
know that women are prone to imagination,
but still you do not realize as I do, Miss Des-
inond, what you would be giving up if you
relinquished those letters."
"I think I realize perfectly," answered
she. "I have seen a great deal of the world,
and, as a rule, it does not show its best side
to vagabonds. But there are one or two
points to be considered," said she, plucking
absently at the grass by her side. "In the
first place, Arthur Tyndale's life and mine
will, after this, lie far apart; it will be out
of his power, therefore, to harm me very
much. In the second place, he will have
no reason to speak ill of me-on the con-
~rary, it will be to his interest to keep all

knowledge of our past acquaintance from
Leslie."
"It is not safe to trust to such contin-
gencies as those," said Max, earnestly. "You
cannot tell how far your life may yet meet,
cross, be affected, by that of Arthur. It is
as impossible to thrust people as to thrust
memories absolutely away; they come back
npon us when we are least expecting them.
As for his having no reason to speak ill of
you, young as you are, you ought to be
enough a woman of the world to know better
than that. You have~stung his vanity, and
wounded his pride. Is not that reason enough
to make you expect any degree of enmity,
any falsity of slander?"
"I must expect those things of neces-
sity," said she. "I have tried them. They
are not pleasant, but I can bear them."
"You can bear them ! "repeated Max. He
stared at her aghast. "You don't know
what you are talking about," lie said, impa-
tiently. "These things which you talk of
'bearing' are poisoned arrows which have
slain many a heart as high and proud as
yours. You were right a few minutes ago
when you said that you would put your good
name absolutely into Arthur Tyndale's power
by returning him these letters. Forgive me
if I speak plainly, but it is necessary that
you ~should understand why such a thing
must not ~e done."
"Not even for Leslie's sake?" asked she,
looking at him intently.
"No I" answered he, sharply. "The sac-
rifice is too great-far greater than the occa-
sion. Not to save your sisters heart from
breaking, have you a right to do it!"
She looked at him for a little while longer
with eyes that softened momently. Some in-
ner feeling seemed at work. Her lips quiv-
ered slightly~a wave of color swept into her
face, and then ebbed away. It was not quite
the transformation for which Max had wished
a short time before, but it was something
like it.
"You are very kind," she said, at last, in
a voice that struck the ear as being full of
more than one emotion. "It is very good of
you-you who are Arthur Tyndale's cousin
and Leslie's friend-to think of me. I had
not expected it. You see I am not used to
consideration - admiration, and attention,
perhaps, but not consideration. I thought
you would think of Leslie and Leslie~s inter-

I

IHE ONLY ALTERNATIVE.

eat alone. Well, since~ you do not think of
it, I must," she added. "Captain Tyndale,
do you know what Leslie is to me?"
"Your sister, is she not?" said he, doubt-
fully, wondering what would come next. Sure-
ly this was an incomprehensible woman-n
woman who made such wild havoc of all his
previous opinions concerning her that he be-
gan to resign himself to having no opinion at
all, but simply accepting whatever view of her
varying character she chose to show him.
"My sister," repeated she, doubtfully.
"Yes, she is that, and I suppose it means
something- but not very much! She is
more than that, Captain Tyndale. She is the
first person who has ever-ever in nil our
lives-made a kind advance to us, or held
out a helping hand. My mother's relations
have ,never taken the slightest notice of us.
Papa's relations long ago discarded him. He
comes of good people," said she, drawing her-
self up with all the pride of her Milesian
blood; "but, of course, that did not help us,
since the good people had long since-before
I was born, I suppose-given him up. But
Leslie came forward-without any need to do
so, in the face of all the prejudices of her
caste-and held out her hand to us. It makes
a tie stronger than that of blood!" cried she,
with eyes that melted and flashed both at
once. "She meant to do u~ good, and shalL
my coming work her harm? Not if I can
help it, you may be sure!"
"But can you help it?" asked lie, look.
ing at her, and thinking that he had never
seen a more beautiful and majestic creature
than she seemed just then.
* "I can help it by giving Arthur Tyndale
what lie demands-his letters."
"You will not!" cried he, quickly-al-
most passionately. "You are not in earnest;
you will not do such a thing!"
"Yes, I am in earnest," answered she.
"After all, he may have some faint instinct
of honor, and the fact that I am in his power
may seal his lips."
"I might have thought that yesterday,
but not to-day. To-day I know him to be
false and treacherous to the very core-to be
literally without a single instinct of the man
of honor!"
"Still," said she, "I must risk it, since
you tell me that this is the only alternative;
that lie will certainly leave as he threatens if
I refuse-

143

"Upon my word, Miss Desmond," inter-
rupted he, "you tempt me to go to your sis-
ter and tell her the whole truth on my own
responsibility."
"You would not dare to do such a thing!"
cried she. "It is not your secret! You have
no right !-it would be infamous!"
"I only said you tempted me; but it would
be better than this which you propose."
"I must make one condition, however,"
said she, imperiously, sweeping his objections
away like cobwebs, as he could not help feel-
ing; "my letters, if Arthur Tyndale still re-
tains them, they must be returned."
"I made that condition in your name, and
lie assures me-I am ineliped to think, truly
-that he has not a line of one of them."
Then, as it to apologize, "Men seldom keep
such things, you know."
"It does not matter very much whether
lie is speaking truly or falsely," said she, care.
lessly.. "I am glad to remember that I was
not foolish enough to put any thing on record
against myself which the whole world might
not read. A propose of letters," said she,
turning suddenly again, "did you destroy, or
have you still, the one I wrote to Kate, and
which the wind carried to you?"
"Destroy it!" repeated he, starting. "I
-I do not think so. Why do you asJ~?"
"Simply because I feel a natural curiosity
to know what has become of it, and a natural
reluctance to its falling into other hands. I
wrote more freely in that letter than I often
do. Ink and paper are unsafe things to trust,
if only for the reason that they often outlast
more solid things. Since you have not de-
stroyed the letter, I shall be glad if you will
return it."
"I am very sori'y," said he, looking at her
with honest, troubled eyes, "but I am serious-
ly in doubt about that letter. * I do not know
what has become of it. I may have destroyed
or I may have mislaid it; but, at least; I can-
not. find it. I know there is no excuse for
me, but I have looked for it several times, and
I will look again."
"How is it possible that you could have~
destroyed it without knowing?" asked No-
rab. If she had glanced at him nuspieiou8ly,
it might have been forgiven her. That expe-
rience of the rougher side of life, on which
she dwelt so much, did not incline her to a
very childlike faith in men or thei~' asser-
tions.

0


144                      A DAUGHTER
"I am often very absent - minded," said
Max, who saw the suspicion, but had sense
enough not to resent it. "I have often de-
stroyed a letter, and then wanted it. I may
have destroyed this one, or I may have mis-
laid it, though .1 can't magicc where!" said
he, with a puzzled look.
This look somewhat convinced her of his
sincerity. She questioned him closely as to
when he had seen the letter last, what he had
done with it, and where he had put it, until
she finally elicited the fact that it had "prob-
ably" been left on his table, with other pa.
pers, on the evening of the day which they
had spent at Strafford. "Is that your last
recollection of it?" asked she, looking at
him keenly.
"That is my last recollection of it. I re-
member I walked out for a few minutes that
night "-one's memory plays one tricks some-
times: Max honestly thought it had only been
a few minutes-" and when I came back I
found the wind had scattered my papers over
the floor."
"But when you gathered them up, did
you not notice whether this letter was among
them?"
"I did not gather them up at once, be-
cause-" He stopped short. A flash of light
seemed to come to him. "By Jove!" he
said, under his mustache; "could its have
done such a thing?"
"Mr. Tyndale, do you mean?" asked No-
rah, whose ears were quick. "I have not
doubted from the first but that he has the let-
ter. If you found him in your room on the
night you missed it, that is very good proof.
Well, I make the return of it a 'condition also
-let him understand that, Captain Tyndale."
*"He may deny that he has it-he may
affirm that he has destroyed it."
"The first you know to be false; the sec-
ond is not likely."
"I cannot imagine how I shall constrain
myself to meet him, to speak to him!" said
the young man, bitterly. "He has proved
himself so false-he is so utterly unworthy of
the name he bears!"
"If we never met or spoke to people who
are false, our list ~f acquaintances would be a
very small one!" said Norah, cynically. "But
it has certainly struck me more than once that
you have taken a great deal of annoyance and
trouble upon yourself from pure friendship-
riatonic and otherwise."

OF BOHEMIA-.

"I am not sure that it has been from
pure friendship of any kind," said he.
-4--
CHAPTER XXIV.
"Caii a man sit mute by a fast-barred door
While the night-showers cut through the shiv-
ering skin,
Yet love in her hardness, love on, love more,
That cold-eyed beauty who smiles within?
Such a man-he is dead long since-I knew:
There was one thatnevercould know him-you!"
Ir the events of this particular day have
seemed long in narrating-and they are not
yet over-they seemed even longer in tran-
spiring to me than one member of the house-
hold at Rosland. As Norab, having com-
pleted her dinner - toilet, stood before her
open window for a moment, looking out on
the dying beauty of the summer evening, she
asked herself if it had really been only one
day since she had looked out of the window
on the sparkling freshness of early morning.
"It has seemed like two or three days melt-
ed into one!" she said, wearily. "And it is
not yet over-indeed, its most trying period
is yet to come!"
The sound of carriage-wheels warned her,
however, that she could not give any more
time to meditation; so, taking her fan and
gloves, and with a last glance in the mirror,
she went down-stairs. The drawing-room was
already full, but the hum of conversation
ceased a little as she entered. Many of the
guests had not seen her before, others were
anxious to see her again-a slight, involun-
tary thrill of admiration passed round the
r6om. Nobody could deny Norah Desmond's
beauty. It was for the comprehension and
appreciation alike of prince and peasant. She
was so well accustomed to the sensation
which her appearance always made, that it
brought no added color to her face, no tinge
of self - consciousness to her manner. She
spoke to one or two people whom she knew,
and then crossed the room to Leslie, before
she perceived that Arthur Tyndale was stand-
ing by her aide. Recognizing him with a
start, she bowed, and then turned to her sis-
ter.
"I fear I am late," she said, more for the
sake of saying something than because she
really did fear it
"Not at all," answered Leslie. "There

I

A DINNER-PARTY.

are several people yet to come-people wh
do not understand the necessity of punctu
ality at a dinner-party. And there is Mrs.
Sandford just entering!" she said, with some
thing like a laugh in her voice. "Fancy
how some of our old-fashioned friends arc
shocked!"
Norah turned. Her first thought was
that the old - fashioned friends in question
might be excused; for certainly a lady so d6.
co1let~e as Mrs. Sandford was, is rarely seen
in a country drawing-room. Magnificent of
train and 6o~~,fante of overskirt was her laven-
der silk, with its thread-lace flounces of fabu-
Ions value; but the fashionable lowne~s of
her corsage, and the fashionable shortness of
her sleeves, were a revelation to the country-
bred eyes looking on. 'k~id you ever see
the like of that?" more than one lady said
in a w~iisper to her neighbor, while one un-
sophisticated young person turned into a cor-
ner to blush. The shoulders and arms thus
lavishly displayed had some flesh on them,
however - which is more than can always
be said-and the diamonds which encircled
them soon brought public virtue down to
a temperate point of tolerance.
Somewhat to Norah's surprise, she found
herself assigned to Max Tyndale when dinner
was announced.
"This is kinder of Mrs. Middleton than I
hoped!" she said, frankly, as they moved
out of the drawing-room. "I fully expected
to be given over to the tender mercies of a
oQuntry Philistine-probably that young Coy-
ington who took my breath away a few min-
utes ago by coolly addressing me as 'Miss
Norah~'"
"Did you not know that that is the cus-
tomary form of address in this country?"
asked Max. "It is scarcely likely that he
intended to be impertinent."
"Do you mean to say that it is the cus-
tom of the country among well - bred peo-
ple?" asked she. "Do you mean to tell me
that it is considered good style? Why, it is
atadge of vulgarians abroad."
"It is not the custom of the country
among the very best-bred people," answered
he; "but a great many people who are well
bred in every thing else do it, and mean no
harm-like our guileless young friend, who
never called any woman ~y her surname for
more than ten minutes, I suppose~"
"He will not be likely to call mc by any
10

145

thing else again," said she, laughing. "I
- gave him a stare which petrified him."
*     "How would you like to be called 'Mi~~
- Nonie?'" asked he, smiling. (They had sat
down to table by this time.) "I heard a
young lady, who was baptized Leonora, ad-
dressed by that euphonious diminutive the
other day."
"I detest all hut a very few abbrevia-
tions," said she, "and with silly ones I have
no patience. If I were a queen, I would rig-
orously abolish them. Anybody found guilty,
for instance, of transforming the queenly
name of Margaret into Maggie, should cer-
tainly be imprisoned; and I should make it a
* capital offense to call a Mary by any of the
numerous nicknames of that most holy and
beautiful of names.~~
"I am afraid your subjects would rebel.
Nothing is so dear to the feminine heart as
abbreviations. There is Mrs. Sandford, for
instance, who looks like the Queen of Sheba,
or Solomon in all his glory, yet who writes
little gushing school-girl notes, and signs them
Nellie.' "
~' Mrs. Sandford will smack of bread-and-
butter as long as she lives," said Norah.
"By-the-by, she is looking handsome, is she
not? But her dress would suh a ball better
than a dinner-with a game of ckquet in
prospect."
"Do you remember a little poem of Owen
Meredith's, called 'Madame Ia Marquise?"'
asked Max. "Of course you do-everybody
does! It might answer for a portrait, don't
you think ?-especially these verses:
'Could we find out her heart through that velvet
and lace!
Can it beat without ruffling her sumptuous
drass?
She will show us her shoulder, her bosom, her
face;
But what the heart's like, we must guess.
'With live women and men to be found in the
world-
(Live with sorrow and sin-live with pain anil
with passion)-
Who could live with a doll, though its locks should
be curled,
And its petticoats trimmed in the fashion?'"
"I am sure Mrs. Sandford would be much
complimented by the comparison," said No-
rah, mischievously. "She told me the other
day that she 'adored' Owen Meredith. I
took it for granted that she meant his po-
etry."


.146                      A DAUGHTER
Qbserving the precept of charity after
this admirable fashion, their conversation
flowed like a stream of easy, rippling water.
Norah's tongue always had the true Milesian
Ilt~ency-flobody aver had to "make talk"
with her.-and Max was not half a Frenchman
for nothing. One topic naturally led to anoth-
er, and it was not until a momentary lull
camethathe said:
" I did~ not see Arthur, after all. He had
left Stratford when I got back, and he did not
return before coming here. So I have not
delivered your message."
"Indeed 1-I am sorry!" she answered.
That was all she trusted herself to say; there
were too many inquisitive ears around
According to the English fashion-which
was a novelty in M-..- County-the gen-
,tlemen were left over their wine, while the
ladies scattered about the drawing-room in
knots and groups, talking bits of country
gossip, mingled with remarks on the state
of the gardens, the st&amp;te of the roads,
and the state of the weather. Everybody
knew everybody else - for it was a "nice"
neighborhood- and general good-fellowship
prevailed. Norah was the only person who
was outside the charmed circle of sympathy
and knowledge. The ladies were shy of her
because' they were afraid of her; she was
stiff with them because she knew very little
of women, and because she had a habit of
instinctively arming herself against possible
or probable patronage. She was tired, too,
and the chatter of many voices wearied her;
*           so, stepping through an open window' to the
veranda beyond, she stood under one of the
leafy arches, resting her mind with the soft,
fragrant quiet of the outer world, and watch-
ing the moon rising in majesty above the tree-
tops into the clear eastern heaven.
*              How beautiful it was! The earth seemed
lying in a trance under the silvery lustre
which made a brightnesS like that or day
without its heat. The sky was a deep hya-
cinth - blue, the shadows where they rested
were dark without being dense,' but where
the moonlight fell in broad, white glory, every
leaf and spray was clearly visible, every peb-
ble shone like a jeweL It is something for
which we should thank ~od afresh every time
it comes - this marvelous, matchless beauty
of moonlight, this tender, dazzling radiance,
which, putting aside all the colors that deck
the day, paints the earth in black and white,

OF BOHEMIA.

and makes it of a something so fair that we
are fain to liken it to our earthly imaginings
of the "city of the saints of Ood2'
Norab was so absorbed in the beauty of
the scene, and so rapt in thought, that she
did not notice the entrance of the gentlemen
into the room behind her; and she was still
standing- a statue-like figure in the lustrous
light, with the graceful tracery of leaves and
starry flowers all around her-.-when some one
came to her side and said, "I thought it
could only be yod I"
She turned abruptly-fancying, for a mo-
ment, that the voice was that of Arthur Tyn.
dale- but it was Carl Middleton who was
looking at her, with something strangely pas-
sionate and wistful on his face. She was so
much relieved that she smiled.
"Is it you?" she said. "I thought it was
some one much more disagreeable!"
"I am glad to know that there is any one
whom you consider more disagreeable," said
he. "I fancied that, in your eyes, I had cer-
tainly attained the superlative degree in that
quality at least."
"You know that is nonsense," answered
she, impatiently. "I do not consider you
disagreeable at all, unless-unless you make
yourself so 1"
"That is to say, if I chose to talk com-
Inonpiaces, like any other man~ to whom you
were introduced an hour ago, you w~uld tol-
erate me as you tolerate him. Well, it does
not matter. Your toleration, or want of tol-
eration, will soon be over for me. I came to
say good-by."
"Good-by !" she echoed. His manner star-
tled her even more than his words; there was
something in it totally new, something which
she did not understand. "But why 'good-
by?' Are you going away-now.?"
"Yes, I am going away now. I need
change of air-I do not think this climate
agrees with me. Besides" (fiercely)," I am
done with making a fool of myself! I see at
last how useless and hopeless it is! I eenze
too tate / What can a man do against the
spell of old association? I am going- at
once!"
"It is a very good resolution!" said No-
rah, coldly. Nobody can blame her if she was
tired of this violent and impracticable suitor
of hers. A man who cannot understand a
rejection, and who refuses to take it quietly,
makes himself worse than a bore in the eyes

'I

CARL MIDDLETON'S RESOLUTION.

of a woman. However sorry she may have
been for him at first, this sorrow inevitably
changes into impatience, disgust, and con-
tempt, if she is annoyed by undesired per-
sistence. Now, Norah had not only been
wearied by Carl, but she had been provoked
and insulted by him-he had indeed repeated
his worst offense in his last words there-
fore her voice sounded like ice when she
said:
"It is a very good resolution."
"I was sure you Would think so!" he
said, defiantly. ~' I was sure I could not
bring you better news. But you do n~t ask
roe where I am going-.I thought you might
take enough interest in me for that! '~
She looked at him doubtfully. What did
he mean 2 More and more it struck her how
unlike himself he wan More and more she
perceived what a pale, passionate face it was
on which the moonlight shone.
"If you would let me, I should be glad
to know-I should be glad to take interest,"
she said, hesitatingly. After all, he 'was not
accountable, perhaps, for hi~ defiant looks,
his significant tones, hi~ reckless words.
Men are such fools-that was the result of
Norah's experience as well as Mvs. Sandford's
-and he was crazy just now, poor 'boy!
"I am going down to L-.--..- County to see
my relations there. Even ha the short time
that I have been here they have given me no
peace," he said, after u minute. "That is in
the opposite direction from Alton, you know
-or perhaps you don't know. I take the
down-train which pasaes.--whieh has lately
passed-Wexford at 9.40, and meets the
Alton train at the station below."
"Yes," said Norah. He puzzled her more
and more. This information about trains
seemed given with a purpose, and yet what
could it be? "If your train passes Wenford
at 9.40, and you mean to leave to-night, you
will have to go very soon, then, will you
not?" she asked, more for want of any thing
else to say than because she had any dispo-
aition to hasten his departure.
"Yes, I shall have to go very soon-at
once, indeed,'? he said, looking at her quick-
ly, with a suspicious, sidelong glance.
But, despite this fact, 'he stood beside her
for a minute longer. Something seemed to
rise to his lips; he hesitated an instant, then
did not utter it. Steps were heard appro~tch.
ing-voices sounded at the open window. He

turned away-.'~then suddenly Itumed bwck and
grasped her wrIst.
"X don't think you will ever know wI~at
yen havethrowu away hi throwing away rite,"
he said.~.this is soaietliing) by-the-by, whThh
a grant many men think, Though most uf
them refrain from uttering it t.-..." I would
have done any thing to serve you, any thing
on God's earths I would have hesitated at
aotkiuy, Norah I lint you have showed me
that you prefer falsehood, and 'treachery, and
deceit, to an honest man's honest love, and I
-'what cani do? But if even yet-.-e'vea yet,
Norab-."
4'Iiet go my arm!" said Nor ,-4fl purl-
ously, and in the moonlight he saw the
haughty lightning that ~aahed from her eyes.
"I have heard enough. I hope that change
of air will restore your senses to 'you; but at
present you have certainly lost them alto-
gether!"
"When it is too Into, remember that it is
your own Dtult-~.that I gave you one last op-
portunity!" he said, dropping her arm.
And even in the midst of her anger, his
tone startled her again. It. was so s'ignifi-
cant-it so plainly meant something more
than met the ear. Had he really gone crazy?
What was he talking about? This was what
Notah asked herself', puzzled, bewildered, in-
dignant, all at once.
While she ttillstood hesitati~g.-uncertain
whether or not to demand an explanation.--.
Mr. Middleton stepped through the open win~
dow behind them, and her opportunity was
lost.
"What t--.are you here yet, Carl?" he
said, in a tone of surprise. "I told your
aunt a minute ago that I thought you 'were
gone. She doesn't like it at all, I can tell
you-leaving a party in the lurch this way~-.'
so perhaps, as you are Still here, you had beta
ter put off your departure till to - morrow
morning."
"No," said Carl, in a quick, obstinate
voice, "I shall go to-night. I am sorry if
Aunt Mildred does not like it-.--but I must
go."
"You know your own affairs best, of
course,' said his uncle, coldly; "but I think
you are likely to miss the trahi If you stay
here ranch langar."
"It Is not quite nine o'clock," said t~arl~
glancing at his watch.. "I can certainly drir.
to Wexford in forty minutes."


148

A DAUGItTER OF BOHEMIA.

The game of croquet was by this time be-
ing organized on the lawn. The hoops were
er~eted, and the opposing parties had mar-
shalled themselves. Some one caine up to No-
rah. Would she play? At first she declined,
but, on second thought, consented. The te-
dious hours had to be got through in some
fashion - perhaps croquet was as good a
means as any other. So she walked away,
and Carl turned into the house. He had his
dinner-dress to change, he muttered, for a
traveling-suit.
At nine punctually he took his departure.
Norah, who was standing, mallet in hand, on
the farther side of the croquet-ground, heard
a rattle of wheels, and, looking across the
lawn, saw the light dog-cart spinning around
the drive and out of the gate.
"Who is that?" asked her companion,
surprised. "Surely, nobody is leaving at
this hour of the evening!"
"I think it is Mr. Middleton-Mr. Carl
Middleton," she answered, stooping to give
her ball a very unscientific blow. "He said
that he had to go away to-night-to see some
friends, I think."
"Carl's a queer fellow? isn't he?" said I
the other-the same free-and-easy young gen-
tleman who had called her "Miss Norab."
"We've seen nothing of him in this part of
the country since he was grown; but every-
body always expected that he would marry
Miss Leslie, and there was great astonish-
ment on all hands when we heard that she
was engaged to Arthur Tyndale. Not but
that it's a capital match, you know, but still
it was always understood that she was te
marry Carl, and so we were astonished."
"Was it understood that she was to mar-
ry Carl?" asked Norab, starting. "Such
things seldom come to pass as parents and
guardians wish them to do," she said.
Meanwhile Leslie was moving among her
guests with a very sore and troubled heart.
She had been almost, if not quite, ready to
forget all her doubts and suspicions when
Tyndide had appeared before dinner- the
first sight of his fair, handsome fa~e, the first
tone of his voice, had made her heart leap up
with a loving, grateful sense that all must be
well, that in him, at least, could be no decep-
tion nor wrong; but afterward she could not
banish the sense that some change had come
over him. He was not himself. There was
something wrong with him. She felt that in-

stinctively. In her society he was constrained
-she felt Ikat with a pang which only those
who have ever seen this subtle but most im-
passable barrier coming between themselves
and those they love can imagine. After din)~
ncr she was dully, sorely conscious that he
was avoiding her. He sat down by Mrs.
Sandford, and began what looked very much
like one of the old-time flirtations. *But Lea-
lie had never been jealous of the old-time
flirtations. Now she was not exactly jealous,
but her heart burned within her; the scene
of the night before came back again. "Any-
body but me!" she thought, "anybody but
me!" Once, when he spoke to her, she fan-
cied-for she was not blind, as many women
are-that there was the glow of champagne
on his cheeks, the light of champagne in
his eyes. Then her heart grew sorer still.
He had never forgotten himself like this be-
fore. What did it mean?
Mrs. Sauzlford was not playing croquet.
That might readily have been predicted from
her toilet. In the drawing-room, and, after a
while, on the moon-lighted veranda, she sat
with a court round her, like the Madame Ia
Marquise to whom Max had likened her. She
had indulged in more than one innuendo to
Arthur T5?ndale, but her courage had not been
equal to touching openly the subject of his
"flirtation" (so she would mildly have phrased
it), with Norah 'Desmond. Opportunity had
not been lacking; but she had found it pleas-
anter to flirt with him herself, to bend her
elaborately coiffed head toward him, to shrug
her white shoulders, to open wide her blue
eyes, to ripple over with exclamations and
adjectives. As for Arthur,~ it was the easiest
thing at hand to do-it certainly required no
effort either of mind or body-and, remem-
bering what Norah had told him, he had an
idea that he might win this pretty widow, his
"old friend," over to his side again.
When others claimed his attention, how-
ever, he rose and strolled away. A spirit of
restlessness possessed him. He looked inte
the drawing-room. Whist and conversation
reigned there. He shrank equally from both,
so he wended his way across the lawn to the
croquet-party. Even that was better: he
might see Leslie, plead a headache, and take
leave at once.
On reaching th~ players, he found that
Leslie was not to be seen. She had been
looking on for a while; but she had walked

I

THE LOST I

away with a stranger who admired the
grounds, and wanted to see more of them.
This was what somebody told Arthur. He felt
vexed and impatient-just then every thing
vexed this unreasonable young man. "Why
was she out of the way?" he thought.
Standing there in the moonlight, a sudden
feeling of isolation came over him; the elink
of the balls, the merry peals of laughter, the
fragments of speech, jarred upon and irritated
him. He felt none of the spell of the dreamy,
lustrous night-a sublimated day, it seemed
-none of the poetry, which youth and happi-
ness always create, in the scene. "Your
play, Miss Desmond!" somebody called out.
Then he started and frowned. Norah's name
was worst of all!
At that moment he made up his mind to
take French leave of the party, and return to
Straffdrd. With regard to Leslie, he felt
reckless. He had already neglected her so
much, that a little more neglect scarcely mat-
tered. He had half turned away, when a
young man, who was standing not far off, with
a girl, called out:
"Tyndale, can you lend me a pencil?"
"I suppose so," answered Tyndale, invol-
untarily. He did not feel in a particularly
obliging mood; but, when we are asked to
I ad a thing which we kndw to be reposing in
pocket, the impulse is with most of us
tl~at we do it. He took out a pocket-book,
and, drawing a pencil fror~i it, handed it to
the other. "What do you want to do with
it?" he asked, carelessly.
"I want to write off a capital acrostic for
Miss Minnie," the young man answered. "If
you'll wait a minute
"Oh, the pencil is of no importance," said
Tyndale, walking away. He felt a momentary
envy for people who could be amused by
"capital acrostics," and yet a certain con-
tempt, also. "Vapid fools!" he called them,
in his own mind, as he closed the pocket-
book, and returned it to his pocket.
Returned it! That is to say, he tkougkt
that he returned it; but the chaippagne must
have been in his fingers, as well as in his
head, for certainly the book slipped, in some
unaccountable way, past the pocket, or out
of the pocket, and thence down to the ground,
where he, unconsciously, walked away and
left it.
* There it still lay, a dark object on the
moonlit sward, when Mrs. Sandford came

'OCKET-BOOK.                          149
across the lawn to look at the game, attended
by a brace of cavaliers, with her silken train
thrown over her white arm. One of the cava-
liers in question struck his foot against this
object, and, stooping down, picked it up.
"By George!" he said. "Some fellow
has lost a pocket-book, and left all his secrets
of love and war at the mercy of the public.
Who was it, I wonder ?-Armistead, have you
lost any thing of the kind?"
"Not I," answered the other cavalier.
"But it will not be difficult to find the owner.
-I say, Cour~enaye" (turning round to ad-
dress the writer of the acrostic), "have you
lost a pocket-book?"
"No," answered Courtenayc; "but Tyn-
dale has, very likely. At least he took out
his, to lend me a pencil, about ten minutes
ago."
"Tyndale!"repeated Mrs. Sandford, quick-
ly She extended her hand, and seized the
pocket-book, before its astonished finder knew
what she meant to do. "We can easily set-
tIe that point!" she said, opening it.
Mr. Courten~ye was right. On the fly-leaf,
Arthur Tyndale's name was written. "It is
his!" said Mre. Sandford, with a thrill, as of
exultation, in her voice. Then, somewhat to
the surprise of the lookers-on, she coolly
slipped the book into 1~er pocket. "I'll give
it back to him, with a lecture on his careless-
ness!" she said, with a laugh.
Almost at the same moment that this
scene was occurring on the lawn, Max met
Leslie as she was emerging from the house.
"Do you know where Arthur is?" he asked,
stopping her. "I want to speak to him a
moment."
"No," she answered-and, as she turned
her face toward him, he saw the look of pain
in her eyes-" I have not seen Arthur since
-scarcely since dinner."
"Indeed!" said Max. He had seen noth-
ing of Arthur himself; had known nothing
of the mannerin which he was avoiding Les-
lie, and he was naturally astonished by this
information. Anger-quick, hot, overmaster-
ing-rushed into his heart and into his eyes.
It coat him a minute's effort before he could
control its expression for the sake of the pa-
thetic face before him. "He must have gone
home," he said, then, with as much careless-
ness as he could aSsume. "I don't think he
has been exactly-very well to-day."
"Has he not?" asked Leslie. Her eyes


\jy$

150~

A DAUGliITER OF BOIJEMIA.

wete wistful, yet proud. "He said noth.
leg. to. me of beis.g' sick. I do ztQt hu.ow
whe~s heI~" she addedi hasti~~ed turned
ay~ss if au~iQu8, tO: ~d ~he qonvqrsatien;
as if f~srfti~ leuAi~ we4 Q~ 81g14 5~4O might
betta~ hersulf~'
Ma~ ~t~o&amp; still fo~ a moment,, coramimug
with himneelfi au.d. his muMaqbe~ Then h~
descended the steps a~ ~isJl~ed across the
lawn to the croqettegslonxsl~ He felt that.
this: tIer cOn~ld:n~ot ha ended too soon,, and,
~$ a. ateptowarti eiirb~t~ it,~ he must see ~{o-
mali Desmond.
He found her,, by aluoky ance,, at some
distance from the croquet-ground,. sitting in
a. garden-chair,, alone~ Some one else had
taken her place in the game;.she told him;,
she, was tired, and had been ,ebli~ed IQ re-
tire. "I fancy Mr. Covington was glad tQ be
mid, of we," she added. "I tins wretched
player."
"I am afraid this has. keen a trying duy
to you,," be said.
"Yes,, it has been. very trying-mnore
trying than you knew,"' she answered. .~
"And I am going to niakeit stilt mere so
....-that, is, I am. going to show you. that' you.
are not done with worry even yet)' Then,.
after a short pause, which she did not break~
"I told you. at dinner that Arthur' bed left
Strafford bcfor~ I. reached it this s.ftcrnQon.,
Therefore I was not. able to deliver ycui' mes-
se.ge-..-or, rather, your answer to his demand.
If you are still determined to surrender th~
letters, however, I will see hire now-he. has
probably returned to Strafford.-aud, try to
end the matter at once."
"I am still determined to surrender
them," she answered, '~ou a eondition-~-do
not forget that. I demand the letteV ef~
which we spoke, not only because t want it,,
but as a proof of his good faitin"'
"If he refuses todelivem it-?"
"I decline ab8ohttely to deliver the more
important ones which I hold)'!
"And if he gives' it up~?"
"Then come back and I will give you. his
letters."
"To-night?" asked he, surprised..
'A Why not tonightt" asked abs, in turn
.~.mther wearilyb "I am so tired.-...you can't
tell how tired-.-ef all this deception a~nd'plot,
ting~ I can see you alone t4~nigbt~ lmanwhat
you have to say, and, if necessary, give you.
the letters, without exciting half so mu4h oh-

servation and remark as I should do if we
waited until tQ.morrow. It will not take yQu
long to go to Straffosd, will it?"
"Not very long."
"Then-if you do not mind coming back
-4et, us get it ever to-night. A strange ha-
patience ban come over me. I feel as if it
couid nQt be. ended tQQ ~ These people
will not 5Q 1'Afl? an hArnr or twq yet-more's
the pity I-and I can easily meet, you in the
"There is but one. objection tQ ths.t~' he
began. Then be. stopped. lie bad been
s.bop.t to invoke the powerful shade of Mrs.
(~Irundy, to hint that, ill-natured people. might
say ill-natured things of su~h a meeting; but
he felt instinctively that such a thought had
never entered Norab's mind,. and. that her Bo-
hemian indifference might be quite equal. to
dealing even Mrs. Gru.ndy. After all, lone-
cenee is it~ own best safeguard.. The preu4,,
beautiful. face. before bias seemed able t.~
make ~ law of conduct untQ itself ~ and then,
as she said,. it would be better to have it
ended.
CIIAI'TER XXVI
'b No t I this conflict longer will not wage,
The conflict Duty claims-the giant task-
Thy spells, 0 VIrtue, never can assuage
The heart's wildfire-this oflTeringdo not ask?"
IlAum an. liQur latet, Max Tyndale mounted'
the terrace-steps at Strafford, and found him.
self facing a stream of light. which issued
from one of the. flower-wreathed windows of
the dining-room. Wondering what, Arthur
was doing in that particular room at that
beur, he' walked wp to the window and looked
in. A glance at the open sideboard, and one
or tw~ decanters on the table, showed him at
once what Arthur was. doii~g, and made him
shrug his shoulders as he entered-stooping
his tall head t little in order to do so. Hear-
ing the step, Arthur turned-bc bad been
sitting in a deep chair, with his back to the
window-and,, seeing Max, be frowned imps-
tiOntly.
"Why the deuce cant you. come in. bythe
door, and not startle one like this?" he said,.
pettishly. "'Yen. are back early!"
"Not so early as yourself," answered Max,.
advancing and taking a scat on the other shie
of the table. He. meant t.o keep his temper,
if possible, let Arthur be as trying as he

would, but already it felt inclined to give
way.
"I-oh, I could not stand it any longer I"
said the latter, in an aggrieved tone. "It is
too much to ask of a man to endure such a
mob of stupid people for three or four hours
on a stretch."
"Some of the people were not stupid, how-
ever," said Max. "There was Miss Grahame,
for instance. I met her just before I left, and
she seemed to feel your neglect. I should
advise you to be a little more careful. She is
not a woman to endure that kind of thing
tamely."
"It makes very little difference to me
whether she is or not," said Arthur, dogged-
ly.' "I am sick of the whole business, and I
don't intend to put any further compulsion on
myself! D-n it, Max, it isn't you who have
had to'play the part of a shuttlecock between
these two women!"
"It is not I, certainly," said Max, gravely.
lie looked at the other with his keen, dark.
eyes, understanding perfectly the crimson
flush on his cheeks, the bright glitter in his
eyes. He saw that he had been drinking
deeply, and he hesitated, asking himself it'
there was any use in broaching the subject of
the letters to him that night. But, like No-
rab, he began to feel an impatience of the
matter, a conviction that the sooner it was
ended the better. Arthur might be sober
enough to recognize his own interests, at
least. On that hypothesis, he spoke:
"I wanted to see you this afternoon," he
said, "but you had left before I returned. If
you had waited for me, you might have been
glad to hear that Miss Desmond agrees to re-
turn your letter's."
"Does she?" said Arthur, starting. Deep-
er color came into his cheeks, brighter light
flashed into his, eyes. He had not expected
such good news. It would be something, cer-
tainly~-it would be a great deal, indeed-to
be safely out of Norali Desmond's power.
The next moment, however, he looked at his
cousin suspiciously.
'~ "Miss Elesmond is too shrewd a woman
to surrender those letters without expecting
something in return," he said. "What is
it?"
"What any woman in her posit&amp;cir has a
right~ to expect and to 'demand," answered
Max, growing stern in spil&amp;or lihiis~.li~.: ~'*Ier
own letters."

MISS DESMOI4D

'A

'S PROPOSITION.                       151
"I told you that I bad not one of them-..
that I never dreamed of keeping them."
"I told her that;. and, if you assert the
fact on your honor, she is willing to accept
it,"~said Max, not without a grim sense of the
satire involved in his words. "But "-and
he leaned forward here to note the effect of
what he had to say-" she is not sure, and
neither am I, that you have not a letter of
hers w1~ic1a was not addressed to you, in your
possession.~~
"What the devil do you mean ~" asked
Arthur, angrily. He knew perfectly well
what the other meant, but this question is
every one's first expedient to gain time.
"I fancy that you. know very well what I
mean," answered Max, quietly. "I'~niean that
I think you. have in your possession a letter
of Miss Desmond's addressed to her sister,
which you found on my table, among various
other papers, the night-Thursday night-
that you were in my room alone."
"In your room alone!" repeated Arthur,
wrathfully. "I never heard such insolence!
Do you mean to insinuate that I have stolen
your letter, or Miss Desmond's letter, or
whoever letter it chanced to be?"
"I have already told you that it was a let-
ter addressed to Miss Desmond's sister, mid
written by Miss Desmond herself~," answered
Max. "I insinuate nothing; I merely ask if
it is not in your possession."
"And I reply emphatically that such a
question is an insult, and that I decline to
answer it."
"Then, in that ease, I am en~poWered by
Miss Desmond to say that she declines to sur-
render your letters."
"Declines to surrender my letters because
I do not choose to acknowledge the posses-
sion of any stray fragment of writing which
you may have lost ?-Is Miss Desmond mad,
or are you mad, that you bring mc such a
message?"
"We are neither of us mad, I hope; but
the matter stands thus: I am confident, from
the circumstances of the case, that this letter
must have fallen into your hands, and Miss
Desmond (whose property it is) demands Its
return as a proof of good faith on your pert.
She demands, also, that you pledge your word
of honor to keep your engagement with her
sister unbroken, and-"
"And what' else? '~ asked Arthur, break-
ing in suddenly with a derisive langh "Pray,


152               A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

what power does Miss Desmond imagine that
she possesses over my actions, that she can
lay down arbitrary conditions after such fash-
ion as this?"
"She does not imagine that she possesses
any power,'but she clainis a right to name
the conditions upon which she will surrender
the letters you are anxious to obtain."
"Not so anxious as you imagine, perhaps,"
said the other, sneeringly. "I fancy I am
safe enough from any use she may be tempted
to make of those letters. No woman, with
the instincts of a lady- and those, at least,
Norah Desmond has-ever likes to proclaim
herself jilted."
"And how does a man, who ought to have
the instincts of a gentleman, like to be branded
with dishonor?" asked Max, shortly. A fire,
not common to his eyes, gathered in them.
The last shreds of his well-worn patience be.
gan ti~ give way. "Let us make an end of
this," he said, rising to his feet. "Once for
all, will you accept ~the offer which Miss Des.
mond makes, or will you force upon her the
alternative of going to Miss Grahame with
these letters in her hand?"
"She may go to Miss Grahame or to the
devil!" answered Arthur, with a defiance
born of champagne and French brandy. "If
I choose to make an efl~ort' to hold my own
with Leslie, I do not anticipate any difficulty
in doing so because a woman like Norab Des.
mond brings forward some relics of an old
folly. Her character, wherever she is known
abroad, is so notorious, that her word will
pass for very little when I once make Leslie
clearly understand that she is, a mere Bohe.
mian adventuress, a mere-"
"Stop " said Max. ~n sudden, fiery in.
tensity, the word was almost equivalent to a
bloW. "I have heard enough of this. You
are not defending yourself by slandering Miss
Desmond-you are only proving how right I
was when~,I told her that it was worse than
folly to surrender the letters which prove the
utter falsehood of every word you have ut.
tered, or are likely to utter, concerning her!"
"They may prove it to you," paid thur.
"No doubt you have had ample 'opportunity
for judging. But'you are right-this has gone
fhr enough!" said he, springing suddenly to
his feet, and speaking in a voice which was
full of passion. "Even now, if you were not
standing as a guest under my own roof-"
"I shall not be a guest under your roof

much longer," interrupted the other. "I ac.
cept no obligation-least of all that of hos-
pitality-from a man' whom I have ceased to
hold in any respect, who has forfeited every
characteristic of a man of honor!"
"You will answer for this!" said Arthur,
through his clinched teeth.
"Answer for it ! - what is there to an.
swer?" returned Max, contcnptuously. "Is
it not true? Have you not been tried in the
balance and found wanting in every instinct
of honor, every regard for truth? God
knows," said lie, with a sudden, passionate
vehemence, "I trusted in yQu, believed in
you, hoped in you, to the last! But after to.
day I should be a fool indeed if I put further
faith in you. ThereforO j go now to tell Miss
Desmond the failure of my mission, and at
daylight I shall leave your house."
He moved toward the door as lie spoke,
but Arthur made one stride and stood before
him - a flame of coloi~ in his fair cheeks, a
gleam of menacing light in his 'dolet eyes.
"You are altogether wrong if you think
you can insult inc like this, even in my own
house,' with impunity!" he said. "You shall
not leave this room until you have passed
your word to give me the satisfaction of a
gentleman."
"I should as soon think of ghing satis.
faction to my own brother - which, thank
God! you are not!" was the response. "I
have only spoken truths which your own con-
science must echo, and I have spoken them
because our intimate friendship and near kin-
ship gave me a right to do so. It is a iight
which I shall not claim again, however. I
repeat that, after to-night, I am done with
I you-done with you and your affairs utterly
and forever! Now stand aside and let .me
pass. This is child's play."
"We'll make it something else, then!"
said Arthur, between his set teeth. He took
a 'step forward as he spoke - his purpose
plainly to be read in his gleaming eyes, his
knitted brows, and tight.set lips-but, though
he was quick and lithe as a panther, the man
who iuet him was like a rock. He extended
his hand, seized the assailant by. the collar,
and swung him out of his path, just as the
door opened, and the face of a servant-first
grave: and decorous as usual, then stricken
with amazement-looked in.
"I beg pardon, sir," he said, falling back
a step or two as Max strode toward the door.

152

A

A
~.1
'I

1f   I

N
-l
U


ARTHUR INSULTED.                    163

It is likely that he feared summary ejection;
at all events, he retreated crab-fashion into the
hail, as ~the young man advanced upon him.
"What brought you here i"' demanded
Captain Tyndale, sharply-pausing at last in
the middle of the ball-" An ignorant servant
might be excused, but you know better-you
know that you have no business to enter a
room unless you have been summoned."
"I-I beg pardon, sir," repeated the man
again-he was a well-trained English servant,
whom Arthur had brought with him from
abroad, and therefore, as Max said, could not
plead ignorance for his shortcomings-" but
I saw a light in the dining-room, and, not
knowing that either of you gentlemen had
come back, I thought I would just come and
-and see what it was about."
"You might have known that your master
or myself must be there," said Max, unmolli-
fled. "You ought to be aware that this kind
of thing will not answer. A servant must
learn to come only when he is bidden, and"
(with emphasis) "to hold his tongue."
"I think I know how to hold mine, sir,"
said the man, respectfully.
"It will be well for you if you do!" said
Captain Tyndale, significantly. Then he turned
away and walked toward the hall-door, which
stood open to the dreamy beauty of the magi-
cal moonlight. Before he reached it, how-
ever, a thought seemed to strike him - he
wheeled round again, and addressed the ser-
vant, who was still lingering where he had
been left.
"Do you know what time the earliest
train passes Wexford to-morrow morning for
Alton "' he asked.
"About half-past six, sir, I think," was
the answer.
"Tell Anderson, then, to have something
at the door for me and my luggage about
half-past five. I find that I am obliged to go
up to the city." -
"Very well, sir."
"Half-past five, mind! I don't want to
be leCt."~
"I'll take care of that, sir."
After Max passed out, the speaker shook
his head solemnly.
"There's been no end of a row 1" he
said, half aloud. "It's no more than I ex-
pected all the time. I never yet seen two
gentlemen thicker than brothers but what L
says to myself-"

"Giles!" cried an irritable voice in the
rear. "Giles, don't you hear? Why the
devil don't you keep your ears about you,
and come when you're called?"
"I didn't know you had called before,
sir," said Giles, turning round and facing
his master, who was standing in the open
dining-room door. Even to the servant it
was plain, at a glance, how deeply he had
been drinking, and it flashed through his
mind fhat the "row" might not be so very
serious after all.
"You were too busy taking Captain Tyn.
dale's orders to listen to me, I suppose," said
Arthur, more angrily than before. "But I
want you to understand that it is I who am
master in this house, and not Captain Tyn.
dale."
"I know that, sir," said Giles.
"What was he telling you to do ?-what
was that order I heard him giving you?"
"He told me to tell Anderson to have
something at the door for him and his lug.
gage at half-past five to-morrow morning; he
wants to leave on the half-past six o'clock
"He does, does he?" said Arthur, chang-
ing color violently. "We'll see about that."
"I'm not to tell Anderson, then, sir?"
"D-n Anderson, and you too! Leave
the house, this instant! and the next time
you come where you are not called and not
wanted, you'll leave it for good I"
"Very well, sir," said Giles, sullenly.
He felt strongly inclined to say, "I'll leave
it now for good," but the thought of Ar.
thur's usual kind, treatment, the light ser-
vice, excellent wages, and more excellent per-
quisites of his place, restrained thuis spirit of
noble independence. He left the hall by the
back-door, and, once out on the moonlit
sward, relieved his mind by the use of vari-
ous expletives of a forcible nature.
Arthur, meanwhile, turned back into the
dining - room, poured out half a glass of
brandy, and drank it off. "We'll see about
th~t!" he repeated, as he set the glass down
with a ringing sound. A wild light scelned
instantly to flame into his eyes. It was evi-
dent that th'e brandy mounted to his brain
like lightning. "If he thinks that he can
treat me like this, insult me to my face, and
then refuse me satisfaction, I will show him
that he is mistaken!" he said, nodding with
a truculent, drunkeil air to. the tall, flaring

153


154

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

~andlcs and the half-empty decanters. "No-
rah must understand that I'll have no more
of this," he continued, after a minute. "I'll
see her myself and, if she insists, she can
have the letter, but I'll have no more carry-
ing of messages back and forth by a coward-
ly bully who takes advantage of his position
to offer insults, and then refuses to stand by
the consequences of them 1-Going off to-
morrow morning) is he ?-We'll see about
that!"
It was probably as a means of seeing
about it that he went into the library, and,
opening a drawer, took out a silver-mounted
pistol-one of the small revolvers in such
common and deadly use at present - and,
having ascertained that it was loaded, slipped
it into the breast-pocket of his coat. Thus
equipped, with a fiery flush on his cheeks,
and a fiery light in his eyes, he seized the
first convenient hat which came to hand,
stepped out into the moonlight, and, leaving
the house all open, the library and dining-
room all ablaze with light, behind him, took
his way across the park, following the path
which Max had followed fifteen or twenty
minutes before:
CHAPTER XXVI.
"We two stood there with never a third,
But each by each, as each knew well,
The sights we saw and thesounds we heard,
The lights and shades made up a spell
Till the trouble grew and stirred.
"Oh, the little more, and how much It Is!
And the little les~. and. what worlds away I
how a sound shall quicken content to bliss,
Or a breath suspend the blood's best play,
And lIfe be a proof of this I"
Wnzx Oaptain Tyndale reached the bridge
spanning the stream which divided the Straf-
ford lands from the Rosland grounds, he hesi-
tated a nioment, doubtful whether to turn
aside to the sumxner.house, which was situ.
ated at some. distance on his right, orto keep
straight on to the villa. He was back sooner
than he had aaticipated.-considerably In ad-
vance, indeed, .of the time he had named to
Norab Tht meeting him--and it was likely,
therefore, that she had not 'yet come to the
place of rendezvous. Therewere somt un-
qaeatienablo advantages to he gained by see-
iug her an the lawn or in the dra~whxg-rooxn
-.~tha advantage, above all, of avoiding an

interview which would excite much o~ ill-
natured comment if it were suspected or din.
covered, and from this comment Max, who
knew his world better than Norah did, was
anxious to shield her; but then there was the
great disadvantage of not being able to speak
freely, of not being secure from interruption
or distraction. Besides this, if he went to
the house and she were not there, it would
excite a great deal of attention-in fact, be
very "marked," if he left again abruptly in
evident search of her. Again, he might not
be able to leave abruptly. Max was an old
'bird, who had been caught too often in so-
ciety nets, not to be wary of them. He could
imagine himself held captive while Mrs. Sand.
ford or some other woman talked nonsense
to him, and Norab waited alone in the sum-
mer.house. Lastly-
"View mortal man, none ever will you find,
if the gods force him, that can shun his fate;"
and Captain Tyndale being emphatically a
mortal man, felt very little inclination to
shun an interview alone with Korah..-his
lust, just then it occurred to him-which the
gods seemed determined to force upon him.
After meditating duly upon all these con-
siderations, he decided to go to the summer-
house and wait for her. He glanced at his
watch. It was a quarter-past eleven. He
had told her that he would probably be there
at half-past that hour. Again he hesitated.
Should he go to the villa? There was still
time enough, and a dozen words would be
sufficient to tell her the result of his mission.
But, then, it must be confessed that he felt
strongly inclined for more than a dozen words.
She was not in his style at all, and, after to-
night, he would probably never see her again
-but that was all the more reason for giving.
his last looks time to linger on such a beauti-
ful face, for letting his ears drink in again
the sound of a voice sweet ~as that of the
sirens. He turned with an air of decision,
put his watch back into bin pocket, and en-
tered the shrubbery to the right.
Is it worth while to say that, if he had
decided differcutly-'4f he had gene to seek
Norah in thepresenceof thelarge and respect-
able social gathering at Rosland-4he after-
events~ which followed would have been very
difThvent? Of what actioxi of our life might
net this old but ever- new con~monplace be
predicated? Yet the consequences whieb
follow most actions arc, as a general rule,

U

A PUNCTUAL MEETiNG.

less immediate and less unpleasant than those
which followed this apparently trivial deci-
sion of Max's-a decision born of the magic
of a woman's fair face, as xnauy a man's de-
cision has been before.
When he reached the summer.housc, he
found, as he had expected, that Norah had
not yet arrived. This fact did not trouble
him very much, however; she had not said,
"I will come if possible," but she had said,
"I will come!,' and instinct told him that
what Norab Desmond premised would as-
suredly be performed. Lighting a cigar,
therefore, he sat down on the steps to wait
for her. The balmy, voluptuous night was all
around Ixim like a spell. In its white lustre
every object stood out clear and distinct.
The distant hills melted away in silvery mist;
the woods, in their dark, shadowy beauty,
stretched as far as the eye could reach. On
the smooth sward around the summer-house,
flecked delicately with leafy shadows, every
dainty fay and sprite of the greenwood might
have danced. A chorus of katydids sounded
from the large oaks behind him. From the
depths of the shrubbery in front rose sudden-
ly the sweet, melodious voice of a tnocking-
bird. Save these sounds, every thing was so
still that the voice of the stream was distinct-
ly audible, as it flowed along it~ hollow, sing-
ing to itself iii the silent night.
After a while he looked at his watch
again. It was thirty minutes past eleven.
"She will be here before long now t" he
said to himself, and, as he said it, a white
figure emerged from the shrubbery in the
direction cC the house and advanced toward
him.
He threw away his cigar, and, rose as she
approached, conscious of a strange sensation
of pleasure which he did not stop to analyze,
lint which was quite apart from the "busi-
ness" end that he had in view.
"1 am so exactly on time," she said; as
she came up, "that I thought it likely I
should have to wait for you."
"Qa the contrary, I have been Waititig ftn~
yOU for a quarter of an hour."
"Is i6 possible? But that was your own
fault, Punctuality does not mean being be-
fore one's time any more than after one's. time,
it means being on it~~4a~ tam."
"I did not mean to claim the vittue of
punetuality~-..thaa certainly belongs to you; I
only meant I was glad anynecessary share

of waiting should have fallen to my lot in-.
stead or to yours. This would be an uncanny
place, as the Scotch say, in which to be eJone
at midnight!"
"Why? because it is lonely? I should
not be afraid of that. Mem are not likely to
oome here, I suppose, unless by appointment;
and, if the ghost of a Dutchman appeared, I
should make the sign of the cross, and ex-
pect to see him vanish in blue smoke."
" There might be more unpleasant visitors
than the ghost of a Dutchman. But will you
come into the summer-house, or shall we
"Here, by all means. One cannot have
too much of such a night as this."
"It is beautiful, certainly," said Max, but
he was not thinking of the night as he spoke.
He was thinking rather of the woman who,
gain as the night, sat. down on the steps frorki
which hehad risen, and looked up at him with
a smile.
"Does it not make you think of Loreuzo
and Jessica? '~ she asked; and, before he
could answer, she began to repeat:
"'The moon shines bright. In such a night as
this,
When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees,
And they did make anolse,-ln such a night
Troilus, nmthinka, mounted th~ Trojan walls,
And sighed his soul toward the Grecian teats,
Where Cressld lay that night.
insnclranlgbt
Did Thisbe fearfully o'ertrlp the dew
And saw the lIon's shadow crc himself,
And ran dismayed away'-..
as I might have done, perhaps," s~e added,
with a laugh, "if I had not been very stout
of heart, when I sa~i' you sitting here-a
dark, motionless figure in the moonlight-
with year cigar glowing likean angry eye."
"1 scarcely fancied you would have seen
it in such a lustrousatmosphere as this. But
i(Ilooked like t Cyclops~ you certainly
looked like the incarnate spirit of the moon-
light as you came across the sward."
"I ant not ethereal enough to look like
an incarnate spirit of any thing'," said she,
glancing up again, the n~eonIight shining on
th(i match1e~s lines of her fkee,. the tran-
scendent faIrness of her skin, the liqtxid ,soft~
ness of her eyes --..-Max had never thought
them soft befoze-.tbe beautiful curve of her
white throat, as the flower-like head was
threwxi baeh. A floecir shawl was dza~ed
around her shouldeni, but its effect only


156                      A DAUGhTER
heightened her loveliness. The young man
caught his breath, Impassive though he was,
he felt his pulses thrilling and his brain
whirling a little. Not a woman in his style,
not a woman whom he admired, but still a
woman whose equal in abstract beauty he
could scarcely hope* ever to see again - a
woman at whose feet a man might almost~
have been pardoned for falling down in abso-
lute worship as she sat there with the silver
night about her like a benediction, and all
Nature wrapped in stillness. "What fools
some men would make of themselves if they
were in my position!" Max thought, with an
agre~abIe sense of superior wisdom, which he
immediately justified by plunging into the
business that had brought them there. After
all, what was Norah Desmond's beauty to
him? A. soldier with little or nothing be-
sides his pay could not ttfford to fall in love
with the penniless daughter of a Bohemian
adventurer, if she were a second Helen.
"I have just come from Arthur," he said,
abruptly. "I am sorry to say-sorry, at least,
on your account, that he refuses absolutely to
accede to your demand about the letters."
"Indeed!" said she, starting-an expres-
skin like a wave of surprise sweeping over
her face. "Does he deny, then, that he has
theletter which I wish returned?"
"No; he professes himself insulted by the
charge, and will neither deny nor acknowledge
any thing concerning ik"
"Do you not think that is equivalent to
owning that he has the letter?"
"I do not 'think' so; I am sure of
it."
"And equivalent, alsQ, to refusing it?"
"Equivalent to that, also."
"I did not expect this in the least," said
she, after a minute's pause. "I thought he
would have been more than willing to buy
his letters back at such a price. What is the
meaning of it, Captain Tyndale? He must
be anxious to obtain them, while that letter
has no value to him It tells him nothing
which he did not know before, or which he
could by any possibility desire to use."
"I must confess," said Max, reluctantly,
"that he was not at all sober, which may
have had something to do with his foolish
obstinacy. But you must forgive me if I
say it is a good thing, Miss Desmond. More
clearly than before-if that be possible-do
I realize how very unwise it would be to sur-

OF BOHEMIAN.                                                         CAPTAIN'S RESOLUTION.

render those letters. For no reason," said
'he, energetically, "have you a right to throw
your good name away. Now, you will throw
it away, if you once put those letters out of
your possession. Believe me, I mean what I
say. Arthur Tyndale is not a man to he
trusted. Even you do not know how far he
has gone in dishonor-how little he would
hesitate over any falsity!"
"Has he been uttering any fresh slander
about me?" demanded she, with eyes that
began to glow, and lips apart. "If so, don't
hesitate-tell me at once what it was."
"He only insinuates slander at present,"
answered Max, dryly. "He will wait to do
more until he has the letters safely in his
hands."
"But he cannot be anxious to obtain
them, since he does not even think them
worth a blurred fragment like my letter to
Kate."
"I have told you that he was not sober;
I may add that he worked himself into a
violent rage, which ended in his demanding
'satisfaction~ of me, and refusing absolutely
to entertain any of your proposals."
"How little I expected this!" she re-
peated. "I was so sure you would have been
successful, that I brought the letters with
me. See I "-she drew a package from her
pocket and held it in the palm of one hand,
looking meditatively at it-" Here they are-
so many ounces of passionate devotion, love,
trust, faith, etcetera! Is it any wonder I am
willing to dispose of them-that is the mer-
cantile phrase, isn't it ?-to the original own-
er, very cheaply indeed?"
"I can imagine that they arc valueless
to you; but, nevertheless, you should keep
them."
"What will you wager, that, when be is
sober, he will be willing to give all that I ask,
and more besides, to obtain them?"
"Very likely; but nothing should induce
you to accept any thing which he offers. He
will respect no pledge an hour longer than he
cares to do so. Remember, that is my last
caution to you."
She looked up with an inquisitive glance.
"What do you mean by that? Why
should it be your 'last?"'
"Because I am going away to-morrow
morning," he answered-not unwilling, per-
haps, to note the effect of such a sudden an-
nouncement on her.

The effect-as much, at least, as he saw
of it-was only astonishment, mingled some-
what with regret.
"You are going away!" she repeated,
after a short pause. "And to-morrow morn-
ing! How sudden! Will you think that I
speak only from interested motives if I say
that I am sorry? I really am."
"You nrc very kind!" he muttered-dis-
appointed byher self-possession, though he
had not the faintest reason for expecting any
thing else.
"I think it is you who have been kind,"
she said, after another pause - "you who
have taken so much trouble and annoyance
upon yourself without any hope of reward;
and now-"
"How do you know that it was without
hope of reward?" he said as she broke off
abruptly-only hcr eyes supplying the words
unsaid-" how do you know that I have not
been rewarded already? To be honored by
your confidence and your presence would re-
pay much more than I have done."
"Do you think so?" asked she, laughing
-but the laugh, instead of being the little
tinkle of gratified vanity which Max knew so
well, had a bitter, jarring sound in it. "You
surely 'do not know how easily such honor
can be obtained-in Bohemia, Captain Tyn-
dale."
"Why are you so un.fusc to yourself?"
said he, angrily. "You know better than
that! You know that neither in Bohemia
nor out of it is such honor easily obtained
from a woman as proud as you are, Miss Des-
mond."
"And pray," demanded she-flushing so
suddenly and deeply that he saw the suffusion
even in the white moonlight-" what right
have you to suppose that I have given you
more than 1 should have given any other man
who crossed my path?"
"Don't be angry," said he, smiling; "and
don't think me presumptuous before I deserve
it. I have never for a moment imagined
that it was any merit of my own which has
won for me the confidence you have given me
-the confidence which you certainly would
not give 'any man who crossed your path '-
but only the singular circumstances which
have thrown us together, aud made us know
each other very well even in the course of one
short week."
"A great deal can be done, thought, felt,

157

and said, in a week," said she, half dreamily,
looking, not at him, but at the melting line
of moonlit hills far away. "But, when you
speak of knowing me," she added, with an-
other low, bitter laugh, "you are talking ab-
solute nonsense. I have a hundred charac-
ters: you have seen only one."
"But in that one lies the key to all the
rest," said he.
She shook her head, half sadly.
"I am not a book, to be read at sight,"
she said. "Sometimes I think that I am writ-
ten in cipher, even to myself."
"You are a book, to make and to repay
the study of a man's life!" said Max. He
knew that he was a fool when he uttered the
words; but, just then, his senses were be-
witched. That fair face, with the moonlight
shining on it, might have made wild havoc
with any man's senses.
But Norah only smiled: she was too well
used to such speeches and such tones to give
them any significance beyond the amusement
of the hour.
"How good of you to think so!" said she.
"But my character is nothing to you," she
added, with a sudden flash of impatient anger.
"Why are we discussing it? I came here to
speak of your cousin and Leslie. Let us talk
of them."
"How do you know that your character is
nothing to me?" demanded Max, in turn-
ignoring her last command-and with a curi-
ous, vibrating thrill in his voice, born of folly,
madness, moonlight, Heaven only knows what.
"How can you tell but that "
It is impossible for any one to tell what
he might have uttered hext, if, at that mo-
ment, a pistol-shot had not rung out clearly
on the still night-air, making them both start
and gaze at each other with amazed, interrog-
ative eyes.
Norah was the first to break the pause
which ensued.                (
"What can it mean?" she sar&amp;-" and so
Sicar at hand, too!"
"I don't understand it at all," s5id Max.
He thought of Arthur. But, even if Arthur
had left Strafford and followed him-which
he did not conceive to be at all likely-at
whom could he be firing? "That shot was
certainly fired within the grounds;" he said,
rising to his feet. "If you will excuse me,
Miss Desmond, I will soon see-"
"Do you mean that you are going away'

OF BOHEMIA.


158

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMiA.

and leave me here?" said Norah, quietly-
and her tone stopped him more effectually
than a dozen screams could have done-"!
should ~not have been afraid to be alone be-
Core, but now-."
"True," said he, quickly. "I forgot.
While I went in one direction, the shooter,
or shooters, might come in this. After all,
perhaps it may be only one of the negroes,
who is amusing himself' with a pistol. It
cannot be a nocturnal duel, for there was only
one shot, and it does not seem that there is
to be another."
"From what direction did it seem to you
that the sound came?" asked she.
He pointed in the direction of the stream
and the bridge. "There?" he answered,
briefly.
"So I thought," she said. Then, after a
short pause, she added, in a quick, nervous
~voice: "Do you think it could have been Mr.
Tyndale?"
"Impossible. At whom, or at what, could
he have been firing?"
There was silence after this for two or
three miau~tes~ They both listened attentive-
ly, but no other r~pox't followed-the' katy~
dids, the gra~shoppers, the crickets, and the
mocking-birds, had all the night to them-
selves. Then Norah laughed a little-a laugh
relieved, but somewhat nervous still.
"It was queer," she said; "b~$ it could
not have been any thing serious, since no
other shot has followed."
"I suppose not," said Max; but he spoke
slowly-somehow, he had an instinct that it
karl been something serious,; and 'that he
would have done well to have followed his.
£1~st impulse, and gone to see about it; but,
'then, how could he leave Norah alone? He
might not have hesitated so much on this,
score if he had only known how little Norah
felt any fear for herself, how entirely her
whole assumption of it had been for him, in
order that he might not be drawn into a trap
and shot down, perhaps-she did not stop to
ask herself by'whom. Night breeds fantastic
fears even in the bravest heart, and braver
breast than that of this Bohemian girl one
seldom meets.
After another minute, she spoke again:
"I believe there is only one thing more to
be said: since your cousin refuses my terms,
I shall keep these letters; and, since you are
going away, I must decide at once whether or

not to show them to Leslie. What do you
advise me to do? Tell me, and-perhaps----I
may do it."
"flow encouraging!" said he, with a
smile "But, in truth, I scarcely know what
to tell you-.-4 have lost all confidence in my
own judgment." 'lie did not add that he had
lost all interest in the subject under discus-
sion. Even his Platonic devotion to Leslie
bud faded away like "snow-wreath in thaw."
He knew that the interruptio~i of the pistol-
shot had only just come in time to save him
from making ~ ~onsisznmate 'foOl of himself-
and yet the temptation to do so rertsained as
great as before the interruption. But it can
at least be said for Max that he was a man of
honor: he knew that he could not afford to
'marry Norah Desmond, even if she were will-
ing to marry him; therefore he knew, also,
that he had no right to utter one word of the
madness which had suddenly come upon him
like a flood.
"You have not even confidence enough in
your own judgment to advise me whether or
n~t to let mattes-s take. theb~ Course, or to tell
the truth to Leslie without delay?" asked
she, looking at him curiously.
"I cannot even tell 'you that," he an-
swered, desperately ~ You must judge for
yourself. I am done 'with the whole affair.
I told Arthur that to-night. My diplomatic
career has been little besides a succession of
blunders. It is a good thing that it is draw-
ing to a close."
"And you are going away to - morrow
morning?"
"Yes, I am going away to-morrow morn-
ing, at half-past siZ o'clock. This 'mCst be
our good-by, therefore, and-and you must
let me thank you, Miss Desmond."
"Thank me !-for what?"
"For having trusted me as you have done,
and for having so kindly overlooked the pre-
judice with which I met you first."
"I knew whom to credit with that," said
she. "~For the rest, you have treated me
with a courtesy and respect for which I owe
~ios thanks-'---I believe I have told you that
before. And now," said she, turning to him
with a smile which dazzled and bewildered
him both at once, "when are we to meet
again?"
"When?" repeated he, catching his
breath shortly. "Heaven only knows. Nev~
er, perhaps!"

U

THE SEPARATION-.

159

"You mean, then, that if you were to see
me again across the opera - house, in Paris,-
you would not even bow to me?"
"I mean that, if I were wise, in such a
case I would go my way without recalling
myself to the memory of one who will prob-
ably by that time have forgotten all about
me."
"'It is very probable, indeed, that I shall
have forgotten all about you," said she, "for
I do forget people very soon; but still, you
know, you could recall yourself to my mem-
ory, and we could shake' hands, say 'How-
d'ye~do?' and think of-to-night."
"Perhaps the best thing for me to do will
be to try and forget to-night," said he, slow-
ly. Now, as ever, she puzzled him. He
could not tell whether she were trifling with,
tempting, or mocking, him. He only felt
that tkis was a scene and a time to hold in'
remembrance while life should last. The
majestic silence of midnight was upon the
earth. The moon had reached mid-heaven,
end was looking serenely down upon them;
the shadows were small as those of noonday,
while over plain and hill and river, over the
lawn where the croquet hoops and mallets
were lying, over the woods full of the sweet
tinkle of distant waters and the soft hum of
insect - life, the marvelous silver radiance
rested. They were all alone-entirely alone
-with only the night and the moon to be
witness to whatever they might utter-the
night and the moon, which have seen and
heard so much of human folly as well as of
human crime.
But Max was resolved that it should wit-
ness no further 'folly of his. He suddenly
turned and held out his hand, speaking a lit-
tie hoarsely. "Good-by!" he said.
"~Good-by 1" she echoed, almost coldly,
but she laid her slender, white hand in his.
It was the first time that their hands had met
since the day when he had clasped hers; all
wet and gleaming, in the boat. That recol-
lection came back to both of them. Their
eyes suddenly met. There was a thrill in
look as well as in touch. "Remember that
I kept my pledge, at least," she said, smiling
faintly. "I may be fast, mercenary, Bohe-
mian-every thing that y6u most dislike-
but don't forget that I kept faith as far as I
could!"
"I shall never forget it!" said he. And
then the mooii saw some of the old, old folly.

All of our impassive ckasseur's resolution
melted like wax exposed to steady flame. He
lifted the hand which he held to his lip~, he
murmured words which wisdom would never
have sanctioned. It was only the abrupt
movement with which Norab drew back that
brought him, in a measure, to himself.
"Stop, Captain Tyndale," she said, "and
listen to me. I am sorry we could not have
parted without this. I am sorry that I can-
not think that one man holds me in sufficient
respect to treat me as he would treat the
women of his own class. Do you think I
have not seen, for an hour past, that, what
with the night, and the moonlight, and my
pretty face, I might have fooled you to the
top of your bent?" asked she, with a certain
scornful indignation. "But I wanted for
once to see if some one could not know me
and like me, and-and not try to amuse his
idle hours by flirting with me! I find, how-
ever, that this is too much to expect. I am
flirting material or I am nothing. I like you
well enough to prefer to be nothing to you-
therefore good-night. Perhaps it is as well
that you are going to-morrow."
"Norah - Miss Desmond- for heaven's
sake, listen to me!" he cried.
But, snatching her hand from him, she
turned with a gesture of almost passionate
pride.
"You would never have spoken to Leslie
like this!" she said. "After all, you are
alike-you and your cousin. You both think
that I am for one use and she is for another!
No doubt you are right enough, too," she
added, with a sudden return to calmness.
"No doubt, also, I shall grow used to my
position in life after a while. I have not
learned to do so as yet; but, then1 I am
young-at least, I ought to be. Good-night
again, Captain Tyndale. I hope you will
have a pleasant journey and a safe arrival
wherever you are going."
"You will not leave me like this!" said
he, imploringly.
But, before the last words left his lips,
she had drawn her shawl closer around her
llgureund passed so lightly and swiftly across
the mootilit award that he saw in a mo~nent
it was hopeless to follow her.


100                      A DAUGHTER
CHAPTER XXVII.
"There are sorrows
Where of necessity the soul must be
I~s own support. A strong heart will rely
On its own strength alone."
Ar~za the last guest was gone, and the
last good-night exchanged, Leslie went to her
chamber with a lagging step. It was much
more than mere weariness which weighed
upon her: it was a terrible soreness of heart,
an unutterable sickness of soul, which it is no
more possible to grasp and embody in words
than it would be possible to paint a death-
agony on canvas. All that she had endured
during the day seemed but a faint prelude to
the anguish which had possessed her, which
shehad bravelyborne and as bravely concealed
during the long hours of the evening. Such
hours it has fallen to the lot of most women
to endure once or twice in life; but time
dulls the memory of all things, and only those
to whom such pangs are fresh can realize
what Leslie endured as she went among her
guests with a smiling face,, talking, laughing,
uttering the light nothings of society, while
pala and doubt, suspicion and jealousy, were
gnawing, like the traditional fox of the Spar.
tan boy, at her heart. But no one-save, in-
deed, Max Tyndale-suspected any thing of
this from her face or manner. Is it the au-
thor of" Guy Livingstone" who says that it is
chiefly in the power to endure that good blood
shows itself in these later days of ours? Who-
ever~ said it, it is true enough-especially of
women like Leslie Grahame. She was thor-
ough-bred, not only in blood, but in instinct
-not so invariably as we fancy, perhaps, do
the two things go together-and there was
in~ her the stuff of which martyrs are made,
as well as the high-bred reserve, the supreme
pride which shrinks from displaying an inner
feeling, in a manner which a lower nature lit-
erally fails to understand. Leslie could have
died sooner than made a sign which would
betray, even to the aunt who had been a
mother to her, all that she was suffering.
After the guests left, she still wore her sniil-
ing mask until she parted with the last mem-
ber of the household. Then she went to her
room where her maid was waiting, restrained
an inclination to dismiss the latter at once-
knowing that such a proceeding would excite
great deal of domestic i'emark-went through

all the duties of the toilet as usual, and it
was only when every thing was finished, and
she was at last alone, that she sank into a
chair and buried her face on the cold marble
of the toilet-table with a low, pathetic moan.
Then the dark waters came surging over
her, wave on wave. Her pain was all the
more bitter for the mystery which seemed to
encompass it. Who was to blame? What
had happened? Why wa~ she alone ignorant
of what every one else seemed to know?
Hard questions, these - questions which it
was impossible to answer, though they rose
again and again in her troubled mind. Of
course the doubt and mystery were dwarfed
by the terrible certainty-a certainty borne
in upon her with a force which even the most
foolish of blindly-foolish women could not
have disregarded - of Arthur's alienation;
but they were too closely connected with this
to be banished altogether. The love which
she had leaned upon as a stuff which was to
last through life, had broken-cruelly broken
-under her hand; but, in the blank bewil-
derment of pain which ensued, she was still
able to remember all the innuendo which had
gone before, still able to ask, "What does it
mean?" Round and round this treadmill of
hopeless thought her brain went, until she al-
most felt as if she should go mad if some
light were not thrown upon the subject, if
some elucidation of the mystery did not come.
But it was characteristic of the woman
that she never for an instant thought of seek-
ing this light or this elucidation. Although
aware that there were two people within a
stone's-throw of her room who probably pos-
sessed the key which she lacked-who, at
least, had spoken as if they did-she never
stirred or dreamed of stirring to demand it of
them. It was not in her nature to do such a
thing. If the explanation came to her, she
would receive it, provided always that it came
openly and honorably; but to solicit it was
something which never occurred to her. So
she sat motionless, her hot brow on the mar-
ble slab, her hot hands clasped in her lep,
while the night wore on toward midnight,
and the last sound or movement died away
in the house.
She was still sitting in this fashion, and
beginning to wonder if the sick pain which
seemed to pervade every faculty of her body,
mind, and spirit, would ever merge into the
* blessed unconsciousness of sleep, when a

knock sounded on her door, a subdued, hesi-
tating, insinuating tap. Instantly she raised
her head, her nerves strung like tense cords,
her heart beating as if it would stifle her. "It
has come!" That was what instinct said to
her; that was what held her for a moment
absolutely speechless; that was what cost
her a sharp struggle before she was able
to command her voice and say, "Come
in,"
Then the door slowly opened, and, instead
of Norah - whom she had hoped and yet
dreaded to see-Mrs. Sandford appeared.
"I am so glad to find you are not in bed l"
that lady said, advancing into the room, and'
closing the door with elaborate caution be-
hind her. "I should have been so sorry to
disturb you-and yet, I could not have made
up my mind to wait until to-morrow. "0 my
dearest! "-suddenly clasping the passive
form of the girl in a gushing embrace-" I
hope you have resolution to bear a tesrible,
terrible blow,* and I hope you will forgive me
for being the bearer of it. I would do any
thing in the world to spare you pain; but, to
deceive you-to stand by and see you de-
ceived-oh, my darling Leslie, ask yourself
if I should be indeed your friend if I could
do that?
"Will you not sit down?" said Leslie,
disengaging herself; and drawing a chair for-
ward. At that moment pride made her nerves
as firm as steel. She even smiled at the self-
important, anxious look with which the other
was regarding her. "You are very kind to
come at such an unseasonable hour," she
said, quietly, "if, as I imagine, you are here
on my account.' But, if you will say what
you have to say at once, it will be better for
both of us."
"It is impossible for me to tell you what
a struggle it has cost me to come l" said Mrs.
Sandford, sitting down and putting her hand-
kerchief to her eyes. "I simply had to force
myself, and nothing but my great friendship
and love for you, Leslie-"
"Yes," said Leslie, with a cadence of
weary impatience in her voice. She felt as
if she could not bear these 'false platitudes.
If the woman would speak out, if she would
only say what she had come to say, that was
all she desired. "What terrible blow is it
that you are the bearer of?" she asked,
standing bythe toilet-table erect and stately,
the shadowy glass imaging her slender figure,
11

OF BOHEMIA.                                               AN UNSEASONABLE VISIT.              161

her pale, lovely~ face, her soft, brown hair,
hanging loose. Save that there was nothing
wan or melancholy in her aspect, she might
have stood for Ophelia.
"Oh, my dear, I scarcely know how to tell
you!" said Mrs. Sandford. This was strictly
true. With her story on her tongue, and the
proofs of her story in her hand, a sudden,
strange embarrassment came over her. For
one thing, she had not counted upon being
met by so much self~posaession and reticence.
She had pictured a passionate, weeping gii-l,
whom she could kiss and soothe and lead as
she liked.
"It does not matter in the least how you
tell me," said Leslie-and through her usual-
ly gentle voice 'a jarring chord rang-" so
that you do tell me. Suspense is worse than
any blow. You ought to know that. Come
to the point at once! Tell me whom your
story-I see that you have a story-concerns
besides myself."
"It concerns Miss Desmond and Mr. Tyn.
dale!" said Mrs. Sandford, sharply. "Leslie,
it is impossible !-you must have seen, you
must have suspected, something between
them!"
"Seen !-suspected!" said Leslie-she
threw her head back haughtily. "What do
you take me for? How could I suspect my
sister and-and the man whom I had prom-
ised to marry? Take care, Mrs. Sandford I"
-no one who had not seen it would have be-
lieved what fire could gather in those soft,
gray eyes-" unless you are very sure of what
you are\saying, this subject had better end
here."
"But I am sure!" cried Mrs. Sandford.
Her blood was up now. She had made the
plunge, and the rest was easy enough. "I
suspected, from the first,, that Miss Desmond
and Mr. Tyndale were not such new acquaint-
ances as they professed to be-as you, poor
darling I took them to be-and now I find
out that I am right," she said, with energy.
"Leslie, they knew each other long ago-they
had a love-affair with' each other long ago in
Europe. You wrote to this girl about your
engagement-she came here at once to break
it off, and to draw Arthur Tyndale back to
herself. This I know. I overheard a love-
scene between them on the terrace at Straf-
ford the day we were all there, and I should
have told 'you then, only I had no proof, and
I knew they might deny every thing. Last

161

OF BOHEMIA.


w
162                      A DAUGHTER
night I SSW Mr. Tyndale give Miss Dearnond a
note; this morning 1 1~mew that she went Out
at daylight to meet him-Leslie, my darling
girl, it goes to my heart to tell you all this;
but how can I know how much further you
might be deceived if I let it go on?"
"YelL are quite right to tell me, if it is
true," said Leslie, calmly. She was deter-
mined the other should not guess what a
sense of deadly faintness came over her, how
things grew black before her eyes, or how she
was fain to lean heavily against the toilet-
table in order to support her trembling limbs.
"But you must pardon me if I say that all
this is merely assertion," she added, after a
moment. ~' In a matter of such grave impor.
tance-a matter touching not only my own
happiness, but the honor of those nearest and
dearest to me-'I should do them grievous in-
justice if I were convinced by any thing short
of proof."
"And I l~ave proof!" said Mrs, Sandford,
exultantly. Sl~e forgot herself, and let that
tone of her voice betray her real feeling-not
sympathy, not indignation for Leslie's wrongs,
but exultation, pure and simple, in the fact
that she held proof, absolute, indisputable
proof, in her hand, at last!
"What kind of proof?" asked ]~ eslie
She had caught the tone, and it hard4~ncd her
heart, and braced her nerves, which for a mo-
ment had been in danger of failing.
lThr answer7 Mrs. Sandford drew from her
pocket a letter1 and laid it on the toilet-table,
s~ that its calligraphy could be plainly oh.
served, and, if necessary, read. "I suppose
you know that writing?" she said, with the
veiled falseness coming back to her voice.
"I am sure the sight of it must go to your
heart,~ my dear; for oh, what a stab it gave me
when I openeli the, pocket-book and saw
it! "'
"The pocket-book-what poeket-book?"
asked Leslie. She knew the writing in a mo-
ment-blurred and defaced though it was,
there was no mistaking those bold, black
oharaeters-.-.but, even in this supreme me-
mont of doubt~ temptation, and the sharp cer-
tainty of betrayal, her exquisite instinct of
honor remained with the girl. Touch the let-
tar' she would Dot, until she knew whether or
not she had a right to do so.
"Mr. Tyhdale's pocket-book!" answered
)irn Saudford, with a tone of triumph, despite
all her efforts', ringing again in the words.

OF BOHEMIA.

"lIe lost it to-night, and Mr. Ransome found
it as we were crossing the lawn. I put it into
my pocket, and forgot all about it until a lit.
tIe while ago, wHen I took off my dress.
Then, examining it-to find out to whom it
belonged, you know-I f&amp;und this letter. It
seemed providential, for I was just debating.
whether or not I should come and tell you all
that I knew without any proof-but, of course,
with thi8, I could not hesitate any longer. I
don't clearly understand how it came into
Arthur's possession," she continued, with a
puzzled look, "for it is not addressed to him,
and it tells Miss Desinond's story from her
point of view; but still-if you take all that
she says with a great deal of allowance-you
will see bow they knew each other in Burope,
and how-"
"Bxcuse me!" said Leslie-she held up
her hand with an indignant, silencing motion
-" I woul4 rather hear no more! Indeed, I
absol~ztely decline to hear any more !-Noth-
ing will induce me to read a line of the con-
tents of this letter!" she added, with sudden
passion. "I should never have listened to
you, as I have done, if I had imagined for a
moment how your information was obtained.
If you have no other proof than this to offer,
our conversation is at an end. I will listen to
no morel"
"That is just as you please, of course'!"
said Mrs. Sandiord. Seldom in her life had
she been more taken by surprise, seldom in
her life had she been more angry. A flush
of color came over her face, her blue eyes
expanded with something besides their usual
infantine artlessness. "If this is your grati-
tude for all that I have done for you," she
cried, in a voice tremulous with indignation,
"of course, it is quite useless to say that I
never thought of myself'. Why should I
have thought of myself? Neither Miss Des-
mond nor Mr. Tyndale is any thing to me!
They might elope to-morrow, and Ishould not
care! I only thought of you-and this is you~
gratitude!"
"Pardon we, if I said more than I should
have done!" answered Leslie. "I scarcely
knew what I was saying I did hot mean to
be ungrateful. No doubt you desire to serve
me; but I would rather remain in ignorance
forever, than gain knowledge by suchk a means
as this,~t she added, firmly.
"I consider that absurd-worse than ab.
surd!" cried Mrs. Snndf'ord, angrily. "When

S

ARTHUR TYNDALE'S L~TTBR.

one is deceived and betrayed, one has a right
to defend one's self."
"By deceiving and betraying in turn ~
asked Leslie. "'I cannot agree with you. If
I am deceived and betrayed, that is the fault
of others; but it is my own fault if I disre~
gard my own sense of honor and integrity."
Mrs. Sandford would have liked to dalI
these commendable sentiments "melodramat-
ic stuff!" but, not having the requisite cour-
age, she shrugged her shoulders in a man-
ner calculated to -express the same thing
without words. "It is just as you please, of
course!" she suid ugain, more stiffly than b&amp;
fore. "'I am ~sorry that I came but thought
you might to know all that Is going on. No~
body else would speak, and circumstances
put the proof into say hands."'
"It is impossible for me to' use it," said'
Leslie. She stood like a rock, with her proud,
pathetic face, her wistful eyes with their look
of bitter pain. "If I read that letter, I
should never respect myself again !" she
cried, with a vibrating thrill in her' voice.
"' I suppose I had better' take it and put it
back into the pocket-book, then," said' M~rs.
Sandford', with a tone of contemptuous vex-
ation in her voice. Itergrand o-wip had: ended
in failure, and at that' moment she was so
angry with Leslie that she could' scarcely
trust herself to speak. She rose, and, ad-
vanc~ng' to' the toilet-table, laid' her hand on
the letter; but, to her' surprise, Leslie inter-
posed.
"If you will excuse' me~"" she said, "I
should prefer to keep this. I have the best
right to do so, and it will enable me to return
it to its owner~"
Oh, certainly;" said Mrs~ ~andford, draw-
ing back her hand. "I have no right to it,
and not the least disposition to' claim one.
As' I said before, Miss Desmond's and Mr.
T~ndnle's conduct is nothing' to me!"
But, as she spoke thus, the pretty widow
thought cynically that, after all, Leslie had
indulged in a most absurd and unnecessary
pretence of pharisaical honor. It was evi-
dent at a glance that she meant to keep the
letter'to read; why, then; 'could she not have
read' it at once, without all this "fuss?"
nut; even aw she asked the question, her in-
dignant contempt changed oddly enough into
something like respect. Leslie', it was evi-
dent, knew "what she was about."' She
to read the letter, but she did 'not

163

- mean to be detected in doing so. Mrs. saud-
ford felt able to appreciate' the shrewdness 01'
this manoeuvre.
"To think that I should have been foot
enough to be deceived for a minute by all her
high-flown nonsense!" she said, to herself, as
she left the room and walked down the cor-
ridor to heroin chamber. "I ought to have
known better. Thit~ she Is shrewder than I
gave her credit' for' being-oh, much shrewd~
or! What a point she will make now of not
having' read it, when she returns It, and all
the time she' wilL know every word in It at
well or better than' I do r might have pre~
tended the same thing if I had ebesen F"
thought the fair widow, ~irtneus'ly. "'But,
after all, it it safer to' tell the' truth-..--there"s
some comfort in that."
Left alone for the second titne, Leslie
stood for several. minutes quite' motionless,
looking at the letter as it lay before her en
the marble where Mrs~ Sandford had' first laid
it. During those minutes' she wrestled' with'
and overcame as' sharp a temptation as' falls
'to the lot of most of us during this mortal
life. In that letter was the truth-the truth
unglossed by deceiving words, or looks, or
tones-the truth as it was~ and not as it might
perhaps be told to her; it had been brought
and laid before her by no a'ct of her own; if
she put it from bet, could she ever be quite
sure that the mystery under whfch sh~
writhed was made plain as this would make
it plain?
After a while she turned abruptly away,
and walked across the room to an open win-
dow which overlooked~ the lawn, on which
moonlight and shadow were blended, the
shrubbery, the woods, the' distant flelde and
hills all~'tbc' serene, beautiful, Silver-flooded
prospect, with' the marvelous sky arching
overhead, and the murmur of the rIver over'
its rapids far away makin'g'a weird; mystical
music on the summer' night. Here she stood,
asking herself, vainly and torturingly, what
she should do. They had known each other,
loved each other, long ego! That was' the
refrain of all her thoughts; the sharpest sting
of' all her paint They had deceived her from
the first! Although she repeated this again
and again, she could not realize it-she coirki
not force her comprehension te grasp it atan
intelligent fact. ~he'fcund hersSlf goingbaek
with vague wonder over Norah's arrival~, No~
rab's meeting with Arthur, Arthur's pretend-

i'~6'~ ,~ I


164

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

ed shrinking from her, Norah's pretended ac-
quaintance with Max. "And they knew each
other then," she would think. "All the time
they were deceiving me, and smiling to them-
selves, perhaps. It was all false ! false
false!"
Yes, all false-every thing false! The
lover's love, the sister's affection~-i~ll false!
She had never really possessed either the
ene or the other. For some inscrutable rea-
son, they h~d chosen to make a tool and dupe
of her, but she had been no more to either of
them than that. She thought of all her trust
iii Arthur, of all her plans respecting the
change she would make in Norah's life.
Somehow, these things came back to her as
she stood there in the moonlight-alone with
~ier great desolation, her inexpressible pain.
And it was while she still stood, gazing
blankly, dumbly out on the jewel-like beauty,
which she did not see, that her attention was
attracted - how, she scarcely knew - by a
white-clad figure which emerged from the
shrubbery, and, crossing the lawn, came slow-
ly, as if careless of observation, toward the
house.
~That it wns Norah she knew in a moment.
There was no mistaking the lines of the fig-
ure, or the stately,, unconscious majesty of
the gait. Her head was bent a little, in an
attitude not ~sua1~with her; but the free,
elastic step was unchanged. Varying the
monotony of its dull pain, a throb of bitter
anguish seemed to seize and rend Leslie's
heart. It was true, then, all that Mrs. Sand-
ford had said! There were assignations,- et-
ings-this, no doubt, had been one of th
Oh, the misery, the bitterness ,of feeling, of
knowing, of seeing, how she was betrayed! A
great passion of outraged love and 'jealousy
swept over the, girl like a flood. She sudden-
ly smote her hands together with an unuttered
prayer. "0 my God, my, God, teach me how
to bear it!" was her inward cry-a cry which
He to whom she spoke scarcely left unan-
swered.'
Meanwhile; she heard Norah enter the
veranda, open one, of the Venetian blinds of
the sitting-room-the, windows were rarely
closed at night-and so ,pass, without diffi.
culty, into the, house. ,It is likely that she
took offer shoes ,before ascending the stair-
case, for, after this, Leslie heard no further
aound. ' , '
But, in truth, she ~id not 'listen for it.

Her mind was full of something else. A reso-
lution came to her like a flash of inspiration.
She would go to Norah! That was the best
thing to do. Unconsciously to herself-or, at
least, unacknowledged by herself-Leslie felt
that there was no hope of hearing truth fro~n
Arthur Tyndale. But Norah-Norah, with
her defiance and recklessness, might tell -it,
perhaps, when confronted with the plain proofs
of all that had'~been revealed by chance or
accident.
Leslie did not give her resolution time to
change. She was in one of those moods when
even the most impassive feel that they must
act or die. She turned from the window,
crossed the floor, took the letter from the
table, where it still lay, and, opening the door
noiselessly, passed, in her bare, unslippered
feet, down the 'corridor to Norah's room, un-
der the door of which a bright stream of light
shone.
In this room Norah had not been more
than five minutes, and she was still lying,
where she had thrown herself in utter exhaus-
tion, across the foot of the bed, when Leslie's
sudden knock startled her. Immediately her
alert vitality asserted itself She sprang to
her feet, unable to conjecture what such a
sound, at such an hour, could possibly mean
-and, instead of saying "Come in," walked
quickly to the door and opened it. Her
amazement when she faced Leslie-Leslie, in
her night-dress, and pale as a statue-could
scarcely have been exceeded.
"Leslie!" she exclaimed. "What is the
matter? What has happened? Come in!"
"Nothing is the matter-at least, I mean
nothing has happened," answered Leslie,
coming in. "I want to see you-that is all.
I am sorry to have startled you.".
"Oh nothing startles me very, much," an-
swered i~orah, who had regained all her self-
possession. "My nerves are good-Kate often
says that she thinks I have none. Pray, sit
down-you look pale. Here is a comfortable
chair."
Leslie sat down-indeed, she was trem-
bling from head to foot, and more than ready
to do so. The reaction from her tense strain
of nervous excitement began to make itself
felt. But, as yet, the strong, power of will'
bore her up. Her voice was as steady and
quiet as usual when she looked at Norab and
spoke again.
"I ought to beg pardon for disturbing you

at such an hour. I should not have done so
if I had not seen. you cross the lawn a few
minutes ago, and therefore I knew you were
still ~
"Yes, I crossed the lawn a few minutes
ago," said Norab, quietly-but there was a
slight strain of defiance in her voice. Had
Leslie come to lecture he~ on propriety?
This was the idea which at once occurred to
her.
But Leslie was thinking of something be-
sides propriety. At another ti'~e she would
certainly have been shocked at the idea; of a
young lady wandering,' either alone or at-
tended, about the grounds, at midnight, when
all the rest of the household were safely and
decorously in bed-but now she had no time
to spare for being shocked. She accepted
the fact that Norah had been to meet Arthur,
and ~passed on at once to the other, the more
importautmatter bearing relation to this fact.
"Since I saw you last," she said, "a letter
has been put into my hands which belongs
to you, or, at least, was written by you, and I
have thought it best to bring it to you my-
self2'
As she spoke, she laid the letter down on
a table which was near at hand-the same
table on which stood the desk that had so
tempted and so baffled Mrs. Sandford. The
moment that her hand was lifted from it,, No-
rah recognized it. A glow of color flashed
into her face., She glanced from the letter to
Leslie, and from Leslie back to the letter. To
imagine where it had come from certainly
puzzled her.
"Yes, this is mine," she said, taking it up
and glancing at the blurred pages. "It is a
letter to Kate, which I wrote several days
ago, and-lost."
"Lost!" repeated Leslie, involuntarily.
Ilope assuredly springs eternal in the human
breast. At that moment her heart gave a
leap; she was almost ready to believe that
the whole thing had been a great and terrible
misconception. But Norah's glance, and No-
rah's tone, the nextmoment, undeceived her.
"I suppose, of course, you have read it?"
she said, glancing from the letter to the pale
face before her with a keenness and coolness
which seemed to faIl like ice on Leslie's heart.
"No," the latter answered, not indig-
nantly, but so quietly that the word sounded
almost indifferent. "It was not mine; I had
no right to read it."

MRS. SANDFORD'

S INTERFERENCE.                      165
"And may I ask how it came into your
possession?"
"You have a right to do so, I suppose.
Mrs. Sandford brought it to me; she f~und it
in a pocket-book of Ar-of Mr. Tyndale's,
which he dropped on the lawn."
"Indeed I" said Norab.
Expressive as this monosyllable can be
made, it has seldom been more expressive
than as it fell from her lips.' It meant many
things which Leslie did not understand: for
one thing, that Max and herself had been
right in believing that Arthur had the letter;
and, for an other, that it was no wonder he
had declined to deliver what had passed out
of his possession. She did not know that he
had firmly believed himself possessed of the
letter at the very time when he refused to
acknowledge any thing about it to Max, and
that his conduct could only be accounted' for
on the, grounds. of general depravity and
drunken obttinacy.
"This ~,s not th6 first time that Mrs. Sand-
ford has interfered in a matter which does
not concern her in the least,~' Miss Desmond
said, after a little while, very coldly-even at
this supreme moment of preoccupation Leslie
could not help being struck by the utter ab-
sence of any thing like "detected guilt" in
her manner or appearance-" I need hardly
ask whether or not she has favored you with
an account of the various items of inforina-
tion with regard to Mr. Tyndale and myself
which she has gleaned by eavesdropping' and
other honorable means?"
"She made some statements which cer-
tainly seemed to me very strange," said Leslie.
She could scarcely articulate; her lips seemed
parched, her tongue was heavy as lead. It
was true, then, all true; and this matchless
assurance was only the careless insolence of
,one to whom detection was of no importance.
"For one thing," she said, gathering courage,
"she told me that Mr. Tyndale and yourself
had known each other long ago abroad."
"She is quite right," said Norah. She
was leaning her elbow on' the table as 'she
spoke, and her smooth chin in the pink palm
of her hand, while her full chestnut eyes met
Leslie's own. "Mr. Tyndale and I knew each
other very well when he was abroad two
years ago."
"And yet you told pie," cried Leslie, with
passionate indigpation-but here her voice
choked and broke down.


166                      A DA~IGflTEIl
After all, some things are too great for
speech. Her agony of ruined love and slat-
t.ered truSt, was ~ of them
"I told you.-.-cr X allowed you to imagine
-what was not true," laid ,Norah, in her
clear voice. "Yes, ~ acknowledge that. ~ut
it was, or I thought it was, a necessity of my
position~ The great mistake which I mude
was in ever having come here, You were
living in a fooVs paradise, it is true~-~a para-
dise. built an lies and decepti~n-~-but, if J
bad only stayed away, you might have con-
tinned to live In it with tolerable comfort to
the end."
"What do you mean?" asked Leslie, with
a gasp
Py this time her mind felt as if it was lit.
ovally reeling under the continually varying
and multiplying impressions which were
thrust upon it, She was only aware now of a
strange consciOnsness&amp; that. Norah was mis-
tress of the situation; that Norah held the
key of all this mystery which so puzzled and
Wrmentcd her, There was something of su-
preme gentleness and pity in those brilliant
eyes, and Norab's tone was very dill'erent from
that of one arraigned for'her own misdeeds.
"Shall I tell you what I mean?" said she,
gravely. "Are you strong enough to bear
the trsi~h...4he whole truth? If you are, you
shall bear it? I said tlzat from the Jirat. If
you wished to live on lies, I was willing to
let you do so. lint, if you want the truth-"~"
"I do want the truth?" interrupted Les-
lie, passionately. "What else should I want?
for what else am I here? The truth, howev-
er bitter and terrible it may be I" she cried,
clasping her hauds~ "I have endured the
sting, the misery, th. agony of deception,
until I am roady..-oh, snore than rea4y~"to
hehrthO truth, whatever it may be!"
"Then you shall hear it," said ~orah, al-
most solemnly, She extended her hands,
and, with one of the quick, impetuous mo-
tions which characterized her, opened and
spread out the letter which lay between them.
"If you will read this," she said, "it will tell
yen something; the rest I can supply, and
these "-~~drawiflg again from her pocket the
letters she had shown to ?dax.-w" these shall
be my proofs of all I utter. Courage, my
poor Leslie! The pang is sharp, but, believe
me, there ~re women who have lived through
worse-.-~ay, and learned to ~coru as deeply as
they ever loved!"

VHM'TBR XXVIII.
"'Tis a stern and startling thing to think
How often mortality stands on the brink
01' its grave without any misgiving;
And yet in this slippery world of strife,
In the stir of human bustle so rife,
There are daily sounds to tell us that Life
Is flying, and Deathis living 1"
Faox midnight, of a midsummer night, t~
the time when the first rosy flush of day be-
gins to break in the east, is not very long, as
most of us have, at one time or another of
our lives, practically diseov~retl. Max Tyn-
dale discovered as much for himself after he
parted with Norab, and, returning to Straf-
ford, began to prepare for his intended jour-
ney. With most men that special terror of
the feminine soul, "packing," is a process
chiefly remarkable for simplicity and brevity;
but Max had been established at Strafford
long enough to ilnd a good deal on his hands
when it became necessary to prepare for a
Ilnal departure in this abrupt fashion. For~
tunately, he had a natural neatness and love
of order added to his military training, so
that the gathering together and disposing of
many odds and ends was not so serious a mat-
ter to him as it would have been to the ma-
jority of men~ In an hour or two his labors
were finished. Thea he sat down and wrote
a few lines to Arthur, thanking him for his
hospitality, and regretting that they had
parted so angrily-dines t,2.uched somewhat
by the memory of old kindness, though Max's
heart was still hard against his cousin, After
this, he threw himself on the bed, and, having
a good conscience, and a not particularly
damaged heart, was soon sleeping soundly,
while the air freshened, the moon sank tow-
ard the west, and the cast began to glows
Qf course, he dreamed of Koral l~esmond
~.-what ~nan could have failed to do so, with
the scene of the snmmcr.house freh in his
recollection ?.-but his dreams werex~t by any
means as agreeable as the reality. lIe saw
her again standing before him in the moon-
light, beautiful and proud, with her hand ex-
tended in farewell; but, when he was in the
act of taking it, the shot which had startled
them sounded again', and she bank dead at his
feet. Qddly enough, he was distinctly con-
scions that it was a nightmare; but he could
not waken himself sufficiently to shake it off,
and the dream went~ on. She was.taken and

T~

borne to the honse-.-he saw the fair face, with
the death-agony stamped upon it, in the coffin
.-nay, he even heard them nailing down the
lid. Did they know ~that they were nailing
down his heart with it? life knew it now,
too late. He tried to move and cry out.-
Suddenly he sprang to his feet, wide awake,
conscious that it was broad daylight, and that
Giles was knocking at his door.
"Come in.-why the deuce don't you come
in?" he cried, snappishly-even the best-
natured people are sometimes snappish when
waked abruptly at five o'clock in the morning.
"Door's locked, sir!" responded. Giles,
struggling with the handle on the other side.
"True enough-I forgot that," said Cap-
tain Tyndale. He glanced at his watch: it
wa~ just five o'clock. Then he crossed the
floor and unlocked the door-which he had
absen~ly fastened behind him the iiight before,
"What is the matter?" he demanded.
"What are you making such a confounded
row about? I told you I wanted to get off at
kelf.pest five, and it is only five now."
"I know that, sir," said Giles. "I didn't
come on that account, sir. I come to ask if
you know where Mr. Tyndale is?"
"Where he is! In bed, I suppose," an-
swered Max, opening his eyes. "Where else
should he be?"
"But he isn't there, sir," said the servant,
looking puzzled. "He went out a little after
you did, last night, sir, and I don't think he
could have come back. At least he isn't in
his room, and I've been all over the house,
and he isn't anywhere.'?
"Isn't anywhere?" repeated Max. He
looked, as he felt, considerably astonished.
A recollection of the shot of the night before
came back to him; and, although he could
see no reason for connecting it with Arthur,
instinct sometimes connects things in spite
of reason. "He may have gone over to los-
land, and accepted an invitation to spend the
night," he said, after a short pause-though
he felt how extremely improbable such a thing
was.-" Did he leave the house on foot, and
how long after I did?"
"Yes, sir, he left it on foot," said Giles,
looking a little suspicious, and a~ if he fancied
that this information was not exactly neces-
sary. "I saw him come out 6f the library-
window, and cut across the park-in your
very tracks, sir-about ten minutes, or maybe
~ quarter of an hour, after youleft the house."

"And you are sure he did noteome back?"
"I'm quite sure of that, sir. His bed hasn't
been slept in, nor hi~ room set' foot in, last
night."
"What can have become of him?" said
Captain Tyndale, amusingly. Having mentally
pooh-poohed his first vague idea about the
shot, be felt more curiosity than alarm con-
cerning this mysterious disappearance. He
knew what Arthur's condition had been the
night before, and that he .was ready for any
thing, however desperate or absurd. The
question was, what desperate or absurd thing
had he done? Max's own impression was
that he had gone away, as he had threatened
to do, the day before; but, of course, he said
nothing of this to the servant standing by si.
lent, watchful, and expectant.
"Your master is able to take care of him-
self," he said. "No doubt he'll turn up nil
right after a while. Dy-the-by, I suppose you
don't know whether any train passes Weiford
about midnight, or a little later, do you?"
"Anderson's just been telling me that the
schedule changed yesterday," answered Giles.
"He was over at Wexford and heard it; but
he don't know exactly about the hours. He
heard the railroad people saying that the ten-
o'clock train wouldn't be along tillafter mid-
night; but he don't know any thing about the
half-past six-"
"Tell him to be at the door by a quarter
to six, at all events, and we'll drive over and
see about it," said Max, curtly-having no
fancy for a longer stay at Strafford under any
circumstances. "See that there's a cup of
coffee in the dining - room for me when I
come down," he added; "and what arc you
waiting for? That is alL"
"Hadn't I better send a messenger over
to ask whether Mr. Tyndale's at Mr. Middle-
ton's, sir?"
"If you want Ma. Tyndale to break your
head, you had certainly better do so. He is
not a baby, and I don't think he would ex-
actly relish being treated as if he were."
With this reply Giles took his departure,
long-faced and serious. It may be said for
him that he was anxious as well as puzzled.
It was impossible for any one to be closely
associated with Arthur Tyndale without be-
coming attached to him. Seen generally and
superficially, be was generous, amiable, frank
of manner, and open of hand-a debonair
young prince'with whom the world went well,

01? BOHEMIA.                                                     AN ALARMING SUSPICION.                 1~7

OF BOHEMIA-

167


168                      A DAUGHTER
and who was willing to throw a little of his
sunshine on the lives of those around him.
This when the world did go well with him.
What he was when it went -ill these pages,
which record an exceptional and not a usual
phase of his character,-may tell.,
Meanwhile, half an hour went on, and no
sign of him appeared. A general impression
that something was wrong had, by this time,
diffused itself throughout the Strafford house-
hold. Under the stress of these circum-
stances Giles's tongue was loosed, and he gave
forth hints respecting what he might say con-
cerning a serious difficulty between the two
cousins the night before. These hints,
coupled with Arthur's disappearance and
Max's proposed departure, were enough to
set the tongues of half a dozen servants at
work. The cook shook her turbaned head
over the cup of coffee rshe was making for
Captain Tyndale ; Anderson shook his head
over the horses he was harnessing in the sta-
ble ; the housemaidl stood with a broom in her
hand talking to Giles on the front portico,
and both of them shook their heads at inter-
vals. "I wouldn't a' asked Cap'n Tyndale
no odds-r'd a'sent to Rosland anyhow,"
Mary Ann was saying, indignantly, when,
greatly to her dismay, Captain Tyndale him-
self stepped out of the open hall-door upon
them.                ---
" I am going for a short turn in the park,"
he said. " Have the coffee ready, and bring
my luggage down-I shall not be gone ten
minutes."
" Very well, sir," said Giles. He turned
into the house at once, like the well-trained
servant he was, but Mary Ann stood her
ground, and, under pretense of sweeping off
the portico-steps, watched Captain Tyndale
as :he descended the terrace, and struck
across the dewy grass, and cool, long shad-
ows, straight in the direction of Rosland.
In truth, Max was conscious of a queer,
uneasy sensation which he could not set at
rest-a persistent recollection and connection
of Arthur's excited face and the pistol-shot of
the night before, which hie found it-impossible
to dismiss. He called himself a nervous fool
to attach any .serio s significance to his cous-
in's absence; but, all the same, he felt that he
could not turn his back on Strafford without
having satisfied himself by personal observa-
tion that nothing tragical had occurred. He
certainly thought Arthur's absence singular,

though he had not admitted as much to Giles,.
It was folly to suppose that he had gone to
Rosland, and the idea that he-a sybarite of
sybarites-had walked to Wexford in order
to take the train, was simply ludicrous.
What, then, had become of him ?-where
had he spent the night ? Max was aware
that the vagaries of a drunken man are often
beyond the astutest range of sober intelli-
gence, but he wanted to be sure that no harm
had come to the young man, and, as a means
of ascertaining this, instinct, rather than rea-
son, turned his steps in the direction of the
bridge, on which or near which the pistol
'must have been fired the night before.
If the night had been beautiful, the day
was peerless; but, as he walked along, he
scarcely heeded its glory or freshness. The
shadows stretched serenely beautiful over the
sparkling grass ; the air was like crystal in its
lucid clearness; the distant violet hills. stood
out with exquisite distinctness against the
horizon-line ; in the leafy depths off the woods
an infinite number of birds were singing,
twittering, chirping, ushering in the summer
day with a chorus of melody. Every thing
was jubilantly joyous-jubilantly full of life-.
Half unconsciously Max felt this ; half uncon-
sciously it jarred on his mood. He was more
nervously, indefinitely uneasy than he eared
to acknowledge even to himself. One of those
presentiments at which we laugh (when they
are not fulfilled), warned him that "some-
thing had happened," and this feeling in-
creased with evewy minute.
It increased as he left the park behind,
passed through a belt of outlying forest, and
came to a bend of the path which led across
a some fields. As he emerged out of the green
region of shadow into the full glow of sun-
light-already warm, even at this early hour
-he caught sight of a dark figure at some
distance advancing at a rapid pace toward
him.
For a second the thought occurred to hima
that it might be Arthur. The next instant he
saw that, instead of being Arthur, or any-
body like Arthur, it ewas a negro, without a
hat, running at full speed-a negro who, when
he saw him, threw up his arms and shouted
something unintelligible.
The young man stopped short, stopped as
if he had been shot, and stood motionless,
rooted to the ground. At that moment an
instinctive certainty of what had happened

rn

came to him as clearly as if it had been ut-
tered in plainest language in his ear. A con-
stricting hand seemed to seize his heart and
hold it still for a minute-a long, horrible
minute in which the bright, beautiful, golden
prospect lay spread out before him unchanged,.
and that dark figure speeding along seemed
to advance at a snail's pace. .
When the boy-a field-hand, whom he
chanced to know by sight and name-reached
him, he was panting so that he could scarcely
articulate. But, if ever terror and horror
were imprinted on a human countenance,
they were imprinted on his. No need to ask
what presence he had seen. There is but one
before which humanity quails in such wild
consternation. His eyes were distended so
that they looked as if they might start from
his head, his lower lip was hanging like that
of an idiot, and quivered convulsively. -He
stammered forth his news so that Max only
caught two words - " Mass Arthur " and
" dead."
Those two words were enough. They told
him all that he had blindly, instinctively felt
assured that lie should hear, and, face to face
with the certainty, his nerves seemed to quiv-
er for a moment, and then grow firm again.
Hie had not afterward the faintest recollec-
tion of what he said or did; but the boy,
who was literally chattering like an idiot,
often related, to wondering audiences, how
coolly Captain Tyndale looked at him and
spoke.
" Take time and tell me plainly what is
the fratter," he said. " Where is Mr.. Tyn-.
dale, and how do you know that he is-"
He stopped -i even his self - possession
could not enable him to utter that final
word.
" He's down at the creek ! " was the unex-
pected answer, given in a horror-stricken
whisper. " I was a-comin' across, sir, an' I
seen a man lyin' there, so I went down, an'
--an'-an' it was Mass Arthur 1 " said the
boy ; and, having been brought up on the
Tyndale estate, he ended by bursting into
tears.
" At the creek ! " repeated Max. He asked
no further questions. .That was all he wanted
to know-wer-e. He started ,at once at a
pace equal to a run, crossed the fields, en-
tered another belt of woods, and soon reached
the stream, the .small creek which bound-
ed the Rosland grounds,. and has been Sev-

OF BOHEMIA.DISCOVERY OF ARTHUR'S BODY.                                           16

eral times mentioned in the course of this
story.
Approaching from the side next Strafford,
he could see nothing until he gained the very
edge of the bank, which, just at the bridge,
was some ten or twelve feet above the pres-
ent level of the water. As he drew near, his
pace involuntarily slackened a little ; he gave
one quick, heaving breath; for an instant he
felt as if it were literally impossible to advance
farther. But he shook off this weakness and
went on, until, standing at the entrance of
the bridge, he laid his hand on the railing
and looked over.
Instinct, rather than any conscious act of
the reasoning faculties, had guided his steps
within the railing of the bridge; and it was
foi-tunate for him that it had been so, since,
prepared though he was for the sight that
awaited him, the first glance upon it almost
unmanned him. A sudden trembling seized
his frame ; his sight grew so dim that, after
that first look, he gazed wn on a thick-
white mist only. The 'on nerves that had
been unshaken when ullets were raining
like hail, and men fall ng like leaves, around
him, quivered now with a sick faintness he
had never known on the bloodiest battle-field.
That was in the high carnival of death and
carnage, however; what else could have been
looked, for then ? But now, amid all this
wealth of sylvan beauty and joy, for Arthur
-of all human beings, Arthur-to be lying
dead, stricken out of life in the glory of his
youth, his beauty, his strength, and health,
seemed something far too terrible and hideous
for belief!
Yet it yas so ! The step of the panting
negro, as he reached Max's side, roused the
latter to something of his usual self-posses-
sion. He pressed his hand over his eyes for
a minute to clear away their dimness, then he
looked down again, and saw a motionless
form, a white, rigid face, on which the golden
sunbeams fell quiveringly through the green
leaves softly rustling overhead..
He stood with his eyes fastened upon the
dead man for what seemed a long time to the
spectator beside him ; but there was some-
thing in the expression of his face which pre-
cluded the possibility of the negro's ventur-
ing to disturb him. At last he turned and
spoke quietly, almost gently:
"Go over to -Rosland, Lewis, as fast as'
you can, and tell Robert that you want to see

. OF BOHEMIA.

169


170               A DAUGHTER OF BOflEMIA.

Mr. Middleton-say that you have a message
on business for him. Take care, however,
and don't mention any thing about-this-or
it may get to the ears of the ladies of the
family, and, you know-"
"Yes, sir," said Lewis-his eyes distend-
ing again with a gleam of intelligence-as
Captain Tyndale stopped suddenly, with a
sort of gasp in his voice, "I'll iiot say a word,
sir.
"Speak to Mr. Middleton alone,, and ask
him to come over to Strafford immediately-
say that I want to see him on very particular
business, or I should not send for him at
such an hour. Come back with him, and, as
soon as you are out of hearing of the house,
tell him what is the matter."
"Yes, sir."
Left alone, Max stood still for seine time
longer, trying to realize the awful truth that
was there before his eyes. Try as he would,
however, it was something which he found it
impossible to d~. Connect that silent figure
with Arthur he could not: and it was only
by aii effort he reused himself at last, and,
slowly leaving the bridge, walked along the
bank of the creek for some twenty or thirty
yards toward a spot where th~ ground sloped
gradually downward until the greensward
was but a few inches above the bed of the
stream, which, shrunken now by the summer
drought to less than half the width and ye!-
time of its winter current, rippled clear and
shallow along the middle or deepest part of
its channel, leaving a dry, sandy margin on
each side. At another time, or under other
circumstances, Captain Tyndule might not
have been so deliberate in his movements,
might not have walked until he could make
an easy step from the grassy bank to the
creek-bottom. But why should he be in haste
now? One glance had told him that all earth-
ly effort would be vain-that Death had set
his inexorable seal on the victim he had
chosen! So he walked lingeringly along
the bank, slowly stepped from the soft
grass to the barren sand, and, turning, went
back toward the bridge, almost immediate-
ly beneath which the body of Arthur was
lying.
For the third time Max paused, when he
stood beside the body-for the tbird time a
sense of suffocating emotion seized him as he
looked on the dead presence that in life had
been so familiar to his eye-as he began at

last to realize the strange, incomprehensible
truth that Arthur was decaL how poor, and
petty, and unworthy of remembrance, seemed
now the clouds that had come between them
of late !-how entirely his thoughts went back
to the better days of that~cordial, almost
brother-like intercourse and affection which
had existed between them for years. A. great
pain was at his heart-a great dimness (not
of tears, for his eyes were hot and dry) was
over his vision, lie bent over and took one
of the cold hands in his own. The touch
acted like an arousing shock to him. lie
shuddered; he let the hand gently fall from
his hold; he felt that he must control him-
self.
"This won't do!" he muttered, as he
pushed the hair back from his forehead,
throwing off his hat unheedingly in the act.
And at that moment an exclamation from a
human voice attracted his attention. lie
looked up, and saw the pale, horror-stricken
face of Mr. Middleton, leaning over the bridge
above.
"Good God! Tyndale, what is the mean-
ing of this?"
"God only knows!" Man answered~ with
more literal meaning than is often put into
those trite words. Truly, and indeed in every
sense, God and God alo~ie knew what was the
meaning of the scene which the midnight had
witnessed here. But that which was merely
an exclamation, suggested to him suddenly
what he had not thought of before-the ques-
tion of lww Arthur had died.
"Come down hbre," he said to Mr. Mid-
dleton; and the latter, looking a little be-
wildered and doubtful as to how he could get
down, Max briefly directed him the way he
had come himself. Partly the appearance of
Mr. Middleton on the scene, and partly the
train of thought which his involuntary cry
had awakened, at once restored him to his
characteristic composure of mind and man-
ner, There was something to be done-and
the soldier was ready to do it.
When Mr. Middleton came to his side,
they steeped down beside the body and pro-
ceeded to examine it as well as it was pos-
sible to do without infringing the law which
forbids the touching the body of one found
dead until it has been inspected by a jury of
inqueSt.
Almost'as graceful in death as he. had
been in life, Arthur lay in what looked an

easy attitude, half on his side, his shoulder
supported against a large, flat stone7 his head
falling back so that the face was fully ex-
posed to view. his right hand the one
Max had grasped a few minutes before-
rested carelessly beside hini on the saud,
palm downward, with loosely.curved fingers,
like that of one sleeping; the left arm was
bent, and half doubled under the reclining
form. The expression of the face-or, more
properly speaking, its want of expression-
was that of deep, dreamless slumber. Not
the slightest shade or contraction marred the
beauty of the white f~ehead and pale-tinted
but clearly - penciled brows; there was no
hollowness under the eyes, where the long
lashes swept the cheek, veiling from sight
that which "thought shrinks from;" the
straight, chiseled nose had no sharpness
about it~ lines, and the well-cut lips were
closed naturally under the silky waves of the
blond mustache.
At first they could see no signs of vie.
lenee, except that the dress was slightly dis-
arranged about the chest and throat, but a
moment's scrutiny showed signs of blood on
the left side of the head. lEan gently put
aside the waves of fair hair, and then they
perceived a deep, gaping wound high up on
the left temple- the death-wound, as they
recognized at a glance. When he saw this,
the young man thor~ht again of the shot he
had heard the night before, but the shape
and general character of the ragged incision
forbade even a momentary suspicion that it
could have been caused by a pistol-ball. It
looked rather as if made by some rough,
three-cornered instrument, and convinced the
two men at once that the death had not been
caused by accident, but was the work of de-
liberate desigzm-in plain words, a murder.
As the wound looked as if it must have bled
profusely, they directed their attention to
the ground to See if they could find further
traces, and were soon startled by a new dis-
covery. A few paces from where the body
lay was a spot which had evidently been a
pool of blood. .tksd been a pool of blood-it
having trickled in a small stream down to
the water, no doubt, filtering gradually
through the dump sand, also, as it went,
leaving only a red stain, which, however,
could not be mistaken. But it was not this
sanguinary sign which struck theni most.
Just beside it was a small, sharp stone, the

shape of which seemed to both of them iden-
tical with that of the wonu&amp; On examina-
tion, they found that it was merely the ex-
posed point ot a larger atone embedded im-
movably in the sand-a point a good deal
like an Indian arrow-bead, and not much
larger. In fact, it did not protrude more than
an inch above the ground; but it was flint-
hard as steel and sharp a~ glass. While
they regarded it with mnomently - increasing
conviction as to its instrumentality in the
death of Arthur, their uncertainty was set at
rest by another discovery. Exactly on a line
with the stone for about the length of a man's
body there was a faint, but perfectly percept
tiblo indentation on the sand. They looked
at it for an instant, and then Mr. Middleton
spoke.
"It is plain enough, so far as the mere cir-
cumstance of his death is concerned," he
said, in that hushed tone to which the voice
involuntarily attuned itself in the presence
of the great destroyer. "He must have been
waylaid and attacked as he went home from
my house last night. Them was a struggle,
evidently "-he pointed to the loosened c1ravat
and other appearances about the upper part
of the dress, which could only have resulted
from a personal conflict-" and he has been
hurled violently down, hishead strikingagainat
that stone. But I don't understand why he
should be here-how he got here-"
He paused, looking vaguely round; and,
as by a common impulse, he and Captain
Tyndale. rose to their feet, and began to be-
stow the same scrutiny on the locale around
which they had just given to the body it--
self.
It would have been hard to find a lovelice
spot than this, which was to be evermore a
picture, in the memory of both of them, as a
scene of, hoi'ror, a background of mocking
beauty to the ghastly central object before
them. The bridge, a rustic, picturesque struct-
nrc of wood, had been thrown over the creek
at the point where the stream was narrowest
and the banks highest; and almost imme-
diately beneath its span they now stood. The
banks rose, perpendicular as the walls of a
chamber, to at least ten feet above them on
each side, for some distance boTh above and
below the bridge; and, as the stream made a
sudden horseshoe bend just here, they were
literally shut in-to the sight-between walls
of most varied and luxuriant verdure-shrubs,

A PROBABLE MURDER.                   171

171


172

A DAUGHTEI~ OF BOHEMIAN.

moss, clinging vines, and even trees that bent
their limbs over from above, or shot up their
stems from the rich, loamy deposit just at
the verge of the water. The blue sky, with
a few fleecy clouds floating like pearly mists
in its liquid depths, was overhead; the sun.
shine flickered down tWrough the spreading
boughs that fringed the bank on its eastern
side, throwing here a gleam, there a broad
sheet, of brightest gold over the clear, shald
low winter' that flowed noisily by, and upon
the dry creek-bed o~i which was stretched the
slender, gracefulfigure of the dead man.
The first thing which at the same moment
attracked the attention of the two gentlemen
was the crushed and broken appearance of
the shrubs on the bank, at one point a few
paces lower down the stream than the spot
where the body lay. Several bushes had been
uptown, and now hung to their native earth by
thefibres of their roots alone, ~while a larger
one-a small tree, in fact, it was-had only suf-
fered in the breaking of some of its branches.
There were signs, too, on nearinvestigation,
of a man's feet having been dug into the soil
at intervals, in a slanting direction, along the
sheer, perpendicular face of the bank-making
it plain that somebody had~clambcred down
by clinging to the thick, tough growth with
which it was clothed.
"Could it have been Arthur himself?"
was the thought which occurred to both, and
which was expressed in the' glance they ex-
changed.
Again, as with one 'thought, they turned
to ascertain this by examining his boots,
which would necessarily retain traces of the
moist earth, if it had been he. A glance
satisfied them that it was not. Both his
boots and trousers were immaculate of earth-
stain or speckof any kind, as when he had
entered 'Mrs. Middleton's drawing-room the
evening before.
"Strange!" said Mr. Middleton. "There
was.a struggle, unquestionably."
"Unquestionably," assented Max; "and
it is equally unquestionable that, somebody
has scrambled down the bank here, and that
it was not-himself."
'!Yes. What is most unaccountable to
rae, though, is how he got here, what he was
doing down he'~e, if the murderer came down
after him. And, then, that mark there is
certainly the print of his body, to say noth-
ing of 'the wound: yet he lies in a position

which shows he has been moved since he
fell." Then, with a fresh burst of horror:
"Great Heavens! to think of it! Arthur
Tyndale murdered! One of the last men in
the world that I shoul~ have expected to see
meet such a fate! And here, right at his
own door, almost in sight of my house!
I Good Heaven~! I can scarcely believe the
evidence of my own sense! What could
have been the object of such a murder? Can
you imagine? 'Oh! "-as ,a sudden' thought
struck him-" it may have been a robbery as
well as a murder. No!" (after ascertaining
that neither watch n~r purse was missing).
"There seems no clew to the mystery.
Well "-raising himself with a short but
deep and audible sigh-" well, we must see
about-"
"Stop!" said Max. "We will examine
the ground above there.-Stay heic, Lewis,"
he added, turning to the boy, who had fol-
lowed Mr. Middleton closely, and now stood
near in open-mouthed wonder, "while we go
up on the bridge."
He turned and lcd the' way rapidly down
the bed of the stream, until he came to a
point where he had no difficulty in mounting
the bank by the aid of the roots and trunk
of a small, gnarled beech-tree; but Mr. Mid-
dleton, who was neither so active in move-
ment nor so long of leg as himself, kept on
to the place they had both passed over in
coming, a 'few minutes before, and conse-
quently he was considerable behind Max
when the latter, after mounting the acclivi-
ty, stopped at the entrance of the bridge to
wait for him. While be came puffing and
blowing up the steep ascent, Max walked upon
the bridge, and looked closely at the floor,
especially at that part just above the spot
where the body lay. As he looked, he shook
his head. There were no signs of a struggle
having taken place, and, if such a thing had
been, the evidences must have appeared, since
a thick coating of dust covered the boards,
and 'any unusual movement upon it would
have left unmistakable traces. The young
man turned, and, passing outside the railing,
began to direct his scrutiny to the green-
sward which stretched along the edge of the
bank. He had scarcely turned the corner, so
to speak, of the railing-it should be re-
marked that this railing, as a matter of pre-
caution o&amp; account of the height of the bank,
was run out for a considerable distance from

'-4
-I
C-
S
C
0
4,
A
4,
4,
A
0
U


t

A BEARER 0]

the edge of the stream upon the land-when
a sudden exclamation from him quickened
the pace of Mr. Middleton, who was by this
time but a few yards oh'. Hastening forward,
that gentleman echoed the exclamation with
emphasis, as he gazed down up'pn the crushed
and trampled turf to which Max's hand point-
ed. Here the struggle had been, it was plain,
a hand-to-hand struggle, for the grass, which
was high and luxuriant, bore the print of
trampling feet that had moved in a very small
space, and obviously irregular manner, along
the very edge of the bank, from which a frag-
ment of turf had been broken in one place.
Except on this spot, there were no majks of
footsteps in any direction. (
"So !-there is no question but that he
was waylaid, as I have said," observed Mr.
Middleton - "and the body must have been
thrown fr9m here, instead of off the bridge,
as we supposed." He went close to the mar-
gin of the bank, looked cautiously over, and
was about to speak, when another exclama-
tion-this time it was almost a cry-from his
companion, startled him so that he nearly
lost his balance, and was for an instant in
danger of going head-foremost the way he
had just expressed his belief that Arthur Tyn-
dale had gone. Recovering his equilibrium,
he looked round to see what had excited Max
so greatly-looked just in time to see the lat-
ter start forward, stoop, and seize some ob-
ject that lay half eonce~led beneath the
sweeping foliage of a small shrub near by.
A gleam of sunshine chanced to fall just upon
the place, and lighted the plate of burnished
metal which had caught Max's eye by its glit-
ter.
"What is it?" said Mr. Middleton, eagerly.
"A pistol, you see," was the reply; and
the young man held it up to view. "His own
pistol, as I perceived in an instant - here is
his name." He pointed to the silver plate on
which the name was engraven, and then went
bn in a tone of deep agitation: "Great God!
if I had but gone when I started to go, last
night-when I heard that shot-I might per-
haps have prevented this! But-"
He stopped short-remembering why he
had not gone, and, even at that moment,
conscious that he must be careful what he
said lest he should compromise Norah.
"Heard a shot!" repeated Mr. Middleton.
"Is it possible you heard a shot last night?
When?"

? BAD NEWS.                         173
"Some time between eleven and twelve
o'clock. I was in your grounds-"
"Good Heavens!" broke in Mr. Middle-
ton, to whose mind, by some association with
the word "grounds," the recollection of Les-
lie at this instant occurred for the first time
since he had come upon the scene of the
tragedy-" Good Heavens, Tyndale! 1 had
forgotten Leslie! Poor child! "-a sudden
moisture came into his eyes, and his voice
sounded husky. "I must return home im-
mediately "- he went on, hurriedly-" God
forbid that sech news should reach her from
the tattle of servants, or without preparation!
Meanwhile, the body cannot be moved until
the jury has ~een it."
"Of course not," said Max. "But I will
send Lewis to Strafi'ord to have every thing
prepared, so that it can be moved as soon as
possible. And about the jury
"I'll dispatch a messenger to f lie coroner
at once-and, as soon as I have told my wife,
I will join you again. You remain here, I
suppose?"
~ said Max.
"Fortunately," said Mr. Middleton, "this
is a very cool, shady place - and I hope we
may get the inquest over in the course of the
morning. Now, I'll go."
He held out his hand; the two exchanged
that nervous grasp which is often more cx-
prdssive of strong feeling than many words
could be; and then he turned and strode with
the vigor of a young man across' the bridge
toward Rosland-while the other once more
descended to where he had left the servant,
as a watcher beside the dead.
CHAPTER XXII
"Love and be loved! yet know love's holiest
deeps
Few sound while living! when the loved one
sleeps,
That last, strange sleep, beneath the mournful'
sod,
Then Memory wakes, like some remorseful god,
And all the golden past we scarce did prize,
Subtly revives, with light of tender eyes."
As Mr. Middleton took his way to Ros-
land, it would be difficult to describe the
tumult in which his mind was plunged. The
first impression of the shock having, in a
measure, subsided, he was able to face it
more clearly, able to understand all that it

/

/


1741:             A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                            A WEARY NIGHT.                  1~5

isrroived~ and all that must. flow from it-es-
pecially with regard to Le~lie. flow was it
possible to tell her that the lover from whom
she had parted a few hours before in the flush
of youth and health, was now' lying dead-
foully murdered? How would she bear such
an overwhelming blow? It was natural, per-
haps, that this consideration should have
weighed with him even more than pity for
the unfortunate young man who had been
hurled so abruptly out of a life which every
gift of Fortune con4ired to render one of
exceptional brightness. The mystery over-
hanging his fate made it doubly tragical; but
then that fate was accomplished, the worst
was over and done, while Leslie-who could
foresee what effect such a shock might have
upon her future life? ~i~is was what Mr. Mid-
dieton thought, as he walked forward, his
steps unconsciously growing slower as he ap.
pvoaehed the house, his heart quaking as the
veriest coward's' who ever aer~ed in military
ranks might have quaked whem~ the order to
charge a battery was given. A l~attery! Mild-
est of civilians though he was, Mr. Mid~dleton
would have faced teli batteries just then, in
preference to bearing the news which he car'-
ned within the walls of Rosland. As he
crossed the lawn, he glanced round at the
scattered mallets and croquet-hoops. "Great
Heavens! he was here latt night!" he said to
himself. Here last night, and now-where?.
When he entered the hall, the first person'
whom he met, much to his aurprfse, was his
wife. Disturbed by the message which' had
come for him, and vaguely uneasy concerning
what it might portend, Mrs. Middleton had
risen, early though it was, and weary as she
might well have bceii from the dissipation o'f
the night before. "Something is the mat-
ter!" she thought ;~ and, since she was not
one of the women who are ready to think
this on nIl occasions, her instinct may have
counted for something. It is at least certain
that she did not disturb any one elsewith her
apprehensions and forebodings. The whole
house was wrapped in itS early morning still.
ness as she sat in the halT, fresh and cool, and
pleasant to look upon as ever, trying to di.
vert her mind with a newspaper which she
had taken np, but in reality seeing not one
of the sentences on which heiv eyes rested,
when ber husband,~ with. a face so pale' that
it scarcely bore any resemblance to his own;
walked in upon her.

This face in itself would have been cnongh
to frighten anynerveus woman into a scream,
but Mrs. MiddIeton, fortunately for the peace
of the household, rarely screamed. As she
glanced up, holding her gold. rimmed eye-
glass still before her eyes, she uttered a faint
cry of surprised alarm, but that was all. The
eye-glass fell with a click-she rose to her
feet:
"George 1" she said-" George t-for
Heaven's sake, what is the matter?"
Then George, seeing that his face had be-
trayed him, and, being a sufficiently sensible
man to know that bad news is only made
worse by any attempt to "break it," took her
trembling hands into his own, and answered
plainly;
"Something so terrible, Mildred, that God
only knows how that poor child up-stairs is
to bbar it. Arthur Tyndale is dead!"
"Arthur Tyndalc-dead l " she repeated,
with a gasp-her eyes opening wide and' star-
tIed, her face turning so white that he passed
hi's arm quickly around her. "Ge6rge, do
you know what you are saying? How-how
can Arthur Tyndale be dead ~"
"He has been murdered, I fear," said!
Mr. Mid~flcton, reluctant'1y "He was fomrl
dead down inthe ercek'-bottom by his cousin,
who sent for me. There are plain signs of
violence, and-courage, Mildred! I thought
it best to tell y~u the truth at once - you,
who are not like other women - hut try to
bear up fon poor Leslie's sake 12'
The adjuration was necessary, for she ha~
buried her face on his shoulder, shuddering
and almost convulsed. Dead ! - murdered!
It would have been awful enough if he had
been the most ordinary of the guests who
had been with her the evening before; but
the man who for months had been as intimate
in her house as if he had been a son of it,
the man whom Leslie was to marry - those
who have never passc5i through such a shoek
can ill conceive the overmastering horror' of
it. At' the sound of Leslie's name, however,
she hurst suddenly into passionate tears.
"0 my poor teslic 1-0 my poordarling!"
she cried. "0 George, George, how will she
bear it 12"
"It is you who must help her to bear' it,"
'said Mr. Middleton, leading' her' into the sit-
ting-room and closing the door. The hail was
too open and public a place for such a scene
as this-for such a story as he had to tell.

As he told all that he knew, and all that
Max and himself had together conjectured, it
was not strange that her sense of the awful
nature of the tragedy deepened many fold.
It seemed something too appalling for grief,
according to the ordinary meaning of that
term; it was something which dwarfed all the
conventional words in which we speak, all
the conventional thoughts we think. Some-
times we are tempted to wonder if our power
of feeling is as limited as our power of ex-
pression. It almost seems so: at least it is
certain that a great shock tends as inevitably
to deaden the sensations and throw the mind
into chaos, as to bewilder the tongue and de-
prive us of words. Into something of chaos
Mrs. Middleton's mind was thrown now, only
dominating all other thoughts was the thought
of Leslie, and the necessity - the inexorable,
cruel necessity - of telling her the terrible
news. From this necessity she shrank, as
the weakest woman alive might have done.
"I cannot tell her l" she cried. "0
George, I cannot! It will kill her I"
"The people whom such things kill are
weaker people, mentally and physically, than
Leslie," answered Mr. Middleton, who had by
this time regained something of his usual
manner. "It will be a blow which may leave
its mark on her till she. dies, but I do not
think it will kill her. God knows I would
do any thing on earth to spare her," he said,'
walking hurriedly to and fro; "but there is
nothing to be done. She must bear it; and
what we are oNige~ to endure, DIihlred, we
can endure. You know that."
"But this is so fearful, so sudden! And,
then, the doubt-the horrible doubt-George,
what am Ito tell her?"
"The truth. Any thing else, in such a
case, is gratuitous cruelty, not kindness."
"I cannot 12' said she, shuddering. "It
is too much to ask of me. Oh, to think that
sh~ is unconscious now! My poor darling!
God help her!"
While the woman who had been a mother
to her was thus weeping and unnerved below,
Leslie, dry-eyed and full of misery-misery
which she was too proud to vent in sigh or
sob-had risen, Long before her usual hourj
from a sleepless couch. It chanced that, in
*   her healthy, happy youth, she had never en-
dured such a thing before as a sleepless night
-a night in which the mind persistently re-
fused to allow the body to rest-and the sen-

stations which accompany such a vigil were
all new to her. She had hitherto entered so
little upon the heritage of grief and pain,
common to all the children of earth, that she
had never before risen with weary lassitude
pervading every limb, with a sick heart and
an aching head, with a mouth parched as if
from fever, with eyes that burned, and lids
that felt tense'and strained as they stretched
across them. "Was ever sorrow like unto
my sorrow? Was ever desolation~ like unto
mine?" had been the cry of her soul during
all the long hours of that wearynight. Weep?
She would have scorned herself if she had
felt one tear rise to her eyes. What had she
to weep for? For having poured out her love
and trust like water on barren ground?~ for
having given every thing, and received noth-
ing? for having been deceived from first to
last? These were not things for which to
weep. "'If he had died," she said to herself
more than once, with a low moan, "it would
have been so different!" Such a thought
comes often hand-in-hand with the keen sting
of betrayal, and it was not singular, there-
fore, that it should have come to Leslie; but
if she could have known on what the moon
was looking down at that very moment!
No instinct came to warn her, however, as
she lay' gazing out on the summer night, or
the fresh glory of the summer dawn, measur-
ing the full height and depth and length and
breadth of her desolation, as the hours went
by. She was not melodramatic or passionate
iii her grief; she d1~I not think that life was,
in any sense, over for her. On the contrary,
she knew better; she knew that she must rise
with the morning to face the necessities of
her position, to bear her burden bravely, to
let no one even suspect how deep the sting
had pierced. A few women-only a few-.
are capable of doing this; and Leslie was one
of them. There was none of the stuff of a
lovesick maiden in her. She could have died
sooner than said to the world, in word, look,
or tone, "I have been disappointed and be-a
traded!" If she had been tried by the or-
deal which she anticipated, there is no ques-
tion but that her courage would have matched
her endurance, no question. but that victory
would have come4to her in. the end, as it nl-
ways comes to the brave of heart and the
strong of purpose.
But over this fiery ordeal she had not to
pass. As she stood before her mirror, lan-

175

174


17~6

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

gurdly combing out her soft, brown hair, and
trying to think when and how she had better
tell Arthur that all was known toher, a low,
hesitating knock sounded on her door-a
knock which seemed to echo the palpitations
of the heart behind it. She started, and
turned round. Perhaps it was her over-
wrought frame of mind which filled her in-
stantly with an instinct of ill. At least, it is
certain that she felt it. Was it Mrs. Sand-
ford again? she wondered.
"Come in," she said, coldly; and, When
the door opened, it was not Mrs. Sandford, but
Mrs. Middleton, who stood on the threshold.
Mrs. Middleton, with the news she had
come to tell a~ clearly printed on her face as
it had been on her husband's when he en-
tered the hall! One glance at that face Les-
lie gave; then she clutched the back of the
nearest chair for a support-the room reeled
around, her limbs trembled under her, her
tongue seemed paralyzed. She could not
speak; she could only wonder what had hap.
pened-what could possibly have occurred-
to make her aunt look like that.
As for Mrs. Middleton, she felt as if all
power of language deserted her-all knowl-
edge or judgment how to act. What to do,
what to say, in presence of that white, im-
ploring yet unconscious face, she did not
know. For an awful minute she stood silent.
Then she did the best as well as the simplest
thing; she came forwar~l, and took the girl in
her arms.
"Leslie! Leslie! 0 my poor darling!"
she cried, and then fell to weeping so sorely
that Leslie felt at once that only one calamity.
out of all the calamities of earth, could have
befallen her.
"What is it, auntie?" she asked, quiver.
ingly, regaining her voice at length~ "Is it
about Arthur? Has any thing happened to
him? Whatever it is, tell me at oiice! I
can bear any thing better than this."
But the story was too terrible to be told
at once-Mrs. Middleton retained that much
judgment, at l6ast-and it was only by de-
grees that the horror-stricken girl heard her
lover's fate. Only by degrees she learned
that there was no need now to think of him
bitterly, no need now to consider how to give
him back his pledge with sufficient scorn!
The passions of earth and the things of time
were all over for him to whom the great sanc-
tification of death had come.

And so it was that the love which life
had taken from Leslie, death gave to her. In
that bitter hour, pride sank down and died
utterly; she did not ask any longer whether
he had ever really loved her; she did not re-
member the sting or the indignity of his de-
ception. The last few troubled days of
doubt, the last terrible night of certainty,
passed from her recollection as entirely as if
they had never been. The majesty of her
own love rose and asserted itself. She might
have crushed and stifled it, while life and all
life's possibilities of happiness were his; but
now-in that great agony of remorseful love,
of tenderness washing out all stain which
death awakens-it came back like a flood
upon her soul. The golden hero of her
youth, the prince nhose kiss had first waked
her heart from its maiden trance, was hers
again. No power of earth could take him
from her now. Worthy or unworthy? Who
could ask such a question? When we enter
Death's mighty treasure-house, * it is with
bared head and reverent breath. The touch,
which is like a sacrament, has been pressed
upon our gold, and we do not stop to cavil or
to ask how much alloy it may contain.
Diverse as the faces and the natures of
men, arc the ways in which grief displays it-
self. Who has not seen the volatile tempera-
ment stunned into strange quietness, or the
quiet temperament rise into the madness of
passionate excitement? Rarely do people
"take things" as we expect them to do.
Leslie did not take this great shock as her
aunt had feared that she might. When she
mastered the truth at last, she slipped out of
the arms which encircled her, and, with one
cry of agony beyond expression, sank upon
her knees. "Dead !" she repeated, again
and again-and then she would break into
low, shivering moans. That was all. Pas-
sion, despair, insensibility - none of these
things came. Perhaps, though her aunt knew
it not, she had already gone through t~o
much for any ~triolcnt excess of emotion. In
a measure, at least, she was stunned. Her
agony of the night had been so intense that
she might well have uttered Thekla's words
when the bearer of evil tidings entered:
"The worst is said already: I can hear
Nothing of deeper tlngnlsh 1"
* "Death is the great treasure-house of love."-
LORD LYTTON.

U

I

NORAR'S ASTONISHMENT.

Meanwhile, the news spread through the
household with the subtle rapidity of an elec-
tric flash. That something of an unusual na-
ture had occurred, all the servants Were very
well able to surmise when Mr. Middleton was
summoned away by an agitated and mysteri-
ous messenger; when Mrs. Middleton rose at.
an hour unprecedented in the experience of
those who had served her for years; when one
servant reported that he had met his master
on the lawn with a face "like death," and
another thnt she had seen her mistress going
up-stairs "crying as if she would break her
heart.~' But, with all this, they were unpre-
pared for the announcement which the ser-
vant whom Mr. Middleton summoned to take
his message to the coroner made when lie
came forth. "Good Lord, Maria, Mr. Tyn.
dale's been murdered I" he said, with a dis-
mayed a~id yet an important face, to Leslie's
maid, whom he met first. "Master says he's
been found a.lyin' dead down in the creek!"
Then it was that, like hightnhig, the news
dilTused itself through the house. Mrs. Sand-
ford's maid flew with the intelligence to her
mistress. Maria, aware that Mrs. Middleton
was with Leslie, b thought herself of Miss
Desmond, and of th immediate necessity of
enlightening that yo a y. us it came
to pass that, five minutes later, orah was
waked from her morning sleep by an excited
figure at her bedside-a figure wringing its
hands wildly, and announcing, without pref'.
ace or preparation, that Arthur Tyndale had
been murdered.
"What!" she cried, springing up in bed
-wide awake, in an instant, startled, incredu-
lous, doubting her own ears. "What is it
you say? Who has been murdered?"
"Mr. Arthur Tyndale, miss!" answered
Maria, with something between a sob and a
groan in her throat. She was as near hys.
teri~cs as it was possible for a young person
of the raving-distracted kind to be; but, for
all that, it cannot be denied that a certain
satisfaction pervaded her breast at this mo-
ment. Who could have been insensible to
the gratification of being the first to announce
such an unexampled item of intelligence?
"Arthur Tyadale!" repeated Norab. For
a minute she could do nothing but stare at
the speaker with distended eyes-amazement,
horror, and incredulity, precluding all power
of further speech. Then she suddenly sprang
to her feet, extended her hands, and, taking
12

177

the maid by the shoulder, gave her a quick
shake.
"Have you lost your senses, that you
come to me with such an absurd story as
this?" she cried, sharply. "You know it
cannot be true!"
The tone and the shake together were re-
markably efficacious in dispelling most of the
alarming symptoms of hysterics.
"It is as true as can be!" said Maria,
retreating a step. "I-I thought you'd like
to know, miss. Master told Jim himself.-'
and Jim tcdd me. Mr. Tyndale's been found
murdered down at tIre creek."
"Murdered ! - do you mean that he is
dead?" cried Norah.
It was a very stupid question; but people
sk stupid questions at such times as these.
he most brilliant of us are not generally
brilliant in the face of an overwhelming shock,
and to Norah, no more than to the rest of
the household, was the immediate realization
of such an appalling fact possible.
"La, yes, to be sure, miss," answered Ma-
na, opening her eyes very wide indeed. "At
least, that's what Jim said-murdered? Of
course, when a gentleman's murdered, he's
dead, miss."
"Murdered! My God! Can it be possi-
ble?" said Norah. She put tier hands to her
head for a moment. Her brain seemed reel-
ing. It would be hard to enumerate all that
flashed upon her at that instant. Arthur,
Max, Leslie, the events of yesterday and of
last night-much which she could not con-
nect-came to her, as the events of his past
life are said to come to a dying man. She
was silent scarcely a minute, but Maria thought
she had never seen a face so changed as hers
was when she looked up. "Does ~1r. MiddleL
ton know or suspect who committed the mur-
der?" she asked - a sharp, hard4 metallic
ring in her usually rich voice.
"Not as I knows of, miss," answered Ma-
ria, reluctantly. It was hard to be forced to
confess ignorance on such an important point
as this.
"And Leslie-do you know whether she
has heard it?"
"Mistis' is in her room with her now,"
said the girl, with bated breath. Even ~he
felt what those words implied.
"What!" cried Norah, "is it so certain
as that? Great Heaven, girl! do you mean to
tell me that Ehere is no doubt?"


178                      A DAUGHTER
"I don't think there's any doubt, miss,"
answered Maria-awed and almost frightened
by the passionate vehemence of the appeal-
"master's sent Jim for the kurroner."
"For the what?"
"The kurroner, miss-the man that always
comes and sits on people when they're found
dead4"
"And, since he has been sent for, you
think it is certain that Mr. Tyndale is dead?"
"I'm sure of that, anyhow," was the an-
swer, delivered with perfect faith, "for master
told Jim."
"My God! what does it mean?" said No-
rah, under her breathe Then she looked up,
imperious and haughty as ever "You can
go!" she said-adding, impatiently, as the
girl stood still, scarcely understanding her,
"don't you hear? Your news is told-you
can go!"
After the indignant Maria had retired, the
first thing Norah did was to walk across the
room. It was a purely involuntary movement,
born of. that impulse to act which was inher-.
ent in her' temperament. Any thing to her
was better, was more possible, than passive
endurance. Any bodily effort'was preferable
to sitting still to be rent by thoughts like
vultures.  ' Who san think of hearing, while
there is' any thing to do?" she often said.
And, even when there was nothing to do-as
in the present case-the instinct and longing
of her nature was so much for action, that
she rushed into movement and speech as
other ' women rush into hysterics and tears.
Thrilled to the core, as she was, by the ter-
rible news she had heard, the energy of her
character asserted itself. "What can I do?"
was her first thought. As yet her mind re;
fused tocredit the fact which had been forced
upon it~' The idea that Arthur could be dead
-.Arthur, con~rnin~ whom she had sat, till
long past midnight, talking to Leslie-seemed
utterly impossible, too wildly improbable to
be true
But, even as she thought this,, a sudden
recollection of the shot which she had heard
the night before came back to her, as it had
come back to Max. That was grim evidence
which could' not be set aside. She stopped
short, her head thrown back; her hands inter-
laced, her whole 'attitude suggestive of one
drawn up short by the curb of 'some unex-
pected thought. 'What did it mean I' That
was what she qaked herself with quickening

OF BOHEMIAN.
breath. If the report which she heard-eke,
the woman who loved him once-had been
Arthur's death-shot, from what hand had it
come? What midnight assassin could possi-
bly have lain in wait for him? And he-had
not Max said that he had left him at Strafford?
What, then, was he doing in, or near, the
Rosland grounds? Questions, these, which
she was unable to answer; but they seemed
to fire her with renewed energy, even while
she felt an unutterable faint sickness in every
fibre. It was 'characteristic of the woman
that she turned suddenly, and began to dress
with impetuous haste. "I must see Mr. Mid.
dleton!" she said to herself. "I must know
all that has happened!',
But, with all her haste, she found, when
she went down, that Mr. Middleton had gone
back, as he* had promised, to join Captain
Tyndale. Mrs. Middleton was still with Les-
lie, and, of course, there was no one else to
whom she could apply. "Where is Mr. Carl
Middleton?" she asked, before she remem-
bered that he had left the night before, and
Robert stared a little as he answered to that
effect.
There was nothing to be done; therefore,
but to pace the hall to and fro, and try to
realize that which must certainly be true,
since a pall seemed to overhang the house,
since the very servants' came' and went aim-
lessly with terror-stricken, curious faces, and
the whole household machinery was plainly in
that interesting liouleversement which a domes.
tic calamity always causes. Not many min-
utes had she been here, however-.-minutes
measured off as methodic$ly by the old-fash-
ioned English clock as if time had not ceased
forever for one soul-when a figure becoming-
iy arrayed in a blue dressing-gown, a figure
which had not allowed its feelings to run away
with it to the extent of forgetting its chignon,
swept down the staircase and rushed to her.
"Good Heavens, Miss Desmond!" cried
Mrs. Sandford, with more alarming signs of
hysterics than even Maria had displayed. "Is
it true, this awful, 'awfut news?"
"I am afraid it is true that Mr. Tyndale is
dead," Norah answei~ed-and, feeling the curi-
osity of the blue eyes bent on her, pride
steadied her voice and hardened her face into
an indifference as great as if she had spoken
of some chance acquaintance of the day be-
fore-" whether or not he has been murdered,
I do not know."

I

MRS. SANDEORD'S CURIOSITY AND MALICE.

"But how can he be dead?" cried Mrs.
Sandford, "and oh, who could have murdered
him? I thought I should faint when Ellen
rushed upon me with the news! I told her
it cozdd not be true! I can't believe it! Why,
he was here last night! Miss Desmond"
(with an assurance of tone and manner which
Norah felt to be absolutely insolent), "I am
confident that ~,'ou know whether or not it is
so!"
"I know nothing about it!" Norah an-
swered. She had. neither time nor inclination
to waste words on this woman. She turned
from her with impatient. disdain, and began
her sentinel walk again. What had happened?
What was going on at Strafford? What had
been the meaning of that shot? These were
the thoughts which filled her mind. Mrs.
Sandford's talk, full of nervousness, malice,
and distracted curiosity, flowed by her un-
heeded, with all its italics and exclamation-
poihts. 7igtc-d-te~te in this fashion, Mrs. Mid-
dieton found them when she came down.
stairs.
On her Mrs. Sandford flung herself with a
wealth of condolence. " Oh, my dear, dear
Mrs. Middleton," she cried, "what a terrible
blow to all of us! Oh, how does our poor
darling Leslie bear it? And oh, is it true
-quite true-that Mr. Tyndaleis dead?"
"It is quite true," answered Mrs. Middle.
ton, whose pale face and tear-stained cheeks
made her look ten years older than she had
done the day before. She sat down with an
air of utter exhaustion in the nearest chair.
"Leslie bears it better than I could have ex-
pected," she said; "but it is a fearful blow,
to her-fearful! 'My heart bleeds for her;
and yet, there is nothing which any one can
do. That is the hard part of it."
"Oh, it is terrible!" cried Mrs. SandFord
again, her eyes expanded, her whole face full
of the liveliest interest and curiosity. "Oh,
dear Mrs. Middleton,'pray do tell me some-
thing about it. I have heard nothing-abso-
lutely nothing-but I cannot b'~lieve that Mr.
Tyndale is really~--dead!"
"Unfortunately, 'it is impossible 'to dis-
believe it, unless we close our ears to the
truth," said Mrs. Middleton. "Mr. Tyndale
is certainly dead-my husband had seen him
when he came back to tell me.'
"And is it true th~tt he was murdered?"
asked Mrs. Sandford, in an awe-struck whis-
per.
p

179

The elder lady bent her head; for a min-
ute she could not speak. Then, in a voice
full of tears, she said: "Yea. That is what
makes it so hard-so horrible! He has been
murdered. Mr. Middleton thinks there is no
doubt of it."
"flow?" asked Norah, speaking for the
first time. She had paused in her walk, and
stood leaning against the foot of the stair-
case, her arm around a small bronze statuette
that made a finish to the end of the balus-
trade. As Mrs. Middleton glanced toward
her, she thought, with a sense of repulsion,
that the girl looked cold and utterly heart.
less; even Mrs. Sandford's effusion had more
"sympathy" in it than this unmoved calm.
"Mr. Middleton could not tell exactly
how he had been killed," she answered. "lie
seemed to feel uncertain, and I did not press
him for any details. The fact itself was
enough for me, and I am sure for Les-
lie."
"Was he shot?" asked Norah. She
fully understood the significance of that last
sentence, bu$she chose to satisfy one of the
many doubts which were harassing her mind.
"No," answered Mrs. Nfiddleton. "My
husband said they found a pistol,' but it was
Mr. Tyndale's own-and he was not shot."
"If he had a pistol, why on earth didn't
he shoot the murderer?" cried Mrs. Sand-
lord, with the air of one who propounds a
perfectly new question, or makes a perfectly
new suggestIon. "I can't conceive how he
could have failed to do that!"
"The fact puzzled George and Captain
Tyndale very much," said Mrs. Middleton.
"Altogether it is a most mysterious as well
as a most terrible thing !-My' poor Leslie I"
Then she turned to Miss Desmond again.
"Leslie told me to ask if you would come to
her for a little while," abe said, with some-
thing even more c6ld and stately than usual
in her niannor; and it must be confessed
that, to Miss Desmond, she always displayed
a considerable amount of both coldness and
statMiness. "Will you go? "-
"Assuredly," said Norah. She was sur-
prised, but she did not' show it in tone or
manner. Mrs. Sandford, 'on her parts could
not restrain a glance of the blanket aston-
ishment. For Leslie to send for' her sister
after all that' she (Mrs. Sandford) had told
her the night before, was inexplicable. "Shall
I go at once?" Norah added, turning and


180                       A DAUGhTER
placing one foot on the lower step of the
staircase.
"At once, if you will be so kind," Mrs.
Middleton answered. "Excuse me that I do
not accompany you, but I think Leslie wishes
to see you alone."
-4-
(JLTAPTER XXX.
"This anguish will be wearied down, I know;
What pang is permanent with man? From the
highest
As from the vilest thing of every day,
lie learns to wean himself: for the strong hours
Conquer him. Yet I feel what I have lost
In him. The bloom is vanished from my life."
LuSLIE was alone when Norah entered her
roam. She was lying quietly on the bed
where Mrs. Middleton had insisted upon pla-
cing her, and the blinds were closed-for
what mocks and jars upon grief like sun-
shine? But, as her sister approached, she
raised herself, and, looking strangely white
and eerie in the green half-light, motioned
her to come close.
This Norah did. She uttered no words-.
what could she say ?-but she came, and,
kneeling down by the slender, erect figure,
pat her arms around it for the first time since
they had known each other. There was some.
thing magnetic-something strangely, if Si-
lently, full of sympathy-in her ~ouch. It
seemed to express more of tenderness and
pity than many words could have done. It
was at once strong and full of infinite gentle.
ness-like her face, Leslie thought, as she
turned toward it. Perhaps it was the wist.
ful look of that face-the wistful compassion
of its eyes - which suddenly unlocked the
great fountain of tears that had hitherto been
sealed in the girl'a heart. It Is certain that
her head sank down on the shoulder which
was at once that of a sister and a rival, and,
with one mighty sob, the great passion of
grief burst forth.
Not that flow of relieving tears over which
sympathizing friends nod their heads and say,
"Poor thing! it will do her good!" but a
storm of the soul like unto, that which, in
the natural world, uproots forests and lashes
seas into fury, leaving desolation and ruin in
its track. It was a storm which frightened
even Norak by the intensity and abando7z of
its passion. Never before had she seen a

human heart laid bare in such keen agony,
such supreme desolation. It may be said,
also, that her amazement was almost asgreat
as her concern. Were these tears which
flowed in torrents, these sobs which seemed
as if they might rend the very breast asun-
der, for the man who had not only deceived,
but who had been willing to forsake, this
woman who trusted him? It was something
which the sterner nature could with difficulty
comprehend-something which touched and
almost awed the girl who, though she could
be true as steel to truth, was also hard as
iron to falsehood or deception. Nature had
given her certain grand traits-this Norah
Desmond-little as she may have seemed to
show them thus far, but among these traits
was nothing half so majestic as the great,
generous, unselfish love which Leslie flung
like a royal mantle over the corpse of her
dead love.
She felt this herself, and said as much,
when Leslie at last regained something of
composure-if composure that could be called
which was little more than utter exhaustion-
and, lifting her heavy lids, said, faintly:
"No doubt, you think this strange; but
I-I have forgotten every thing, except that
I love him, and he is dead."
"Strange!" repeated Norah, and out of
her own proud eyes a quick, hot shower fell.
Then the girl showed what tender impulses
came to her sometimes; she bent her head,
and kissed the tear-drenched hand which had
dropped from Leslie's eyes. "If this is hu-
man love, what must that which is divine
be?" she said.
"Something greater-oh, surely, far great-
er-than we can guess!" said Leslie, throw-
ing back her head in order to catch the white
gleam of an ivory crucifix hanging against
the ti,,ted wall above her bed. "Put you
loved him too, Norab," she said, turning with
sudden passion to her sister. "Do you mean
to tell me that your love is dead-that love
can ever die?"
"Not love like yours, perhaps," said
Norah, gently, "but mine-well, mine may
net have been love. God knows. At all
events, it died long age-so long ago that I
have flO tears, save those of pity, to weep for
Arthur Tyndale now."           -
"I thought mine had died last night," said
Leslie; "I thought nothing butpsin was left;
but, you see, I was mistaken, And now it

does not matter. Whatever he may have
been, I love him-that is enough. And he is
all mine now-mine to remember, mine to
love, mine to weep over! If he had lived, I
should never have seen his face more than
once again; but, since he is dead, he is
mine!"
"And anger, resentment-all that you
felt last night-are they dead, too?" asked
Norah. "Forgive me if I speak of what I
should not; but you set me the example."
"I sent for yon to speak of it," said Les-
lie. "I wanted to tell you howl have changed.
Last night seems like a hideous dream; I
want to put it away like a dream; I want to
think of him only as I knew him before you
came. I think he loved me before you came,"
she said, wistfully.
"lie loved you all the time!" cried Norah,
passio~ately. "Leslie, as God hears me, I
speak the truth in saying that. Re never
loved me-no, not even in Germany-I know
that now. I never suited him. You did. He
felt this, and knew it, even when he let mad-
ness carry him away."
"Do not let us talk of it," said Leslie.
"I did not want to do that. I only wanted
to tell you that anger and pride are dead
within me, and that I love him-I shall al-
ways love him! It is as well, perhaps, that
I heard the truth; but I am glad that I did
not hear it earlier; I am very glad that no
cloud of bitterness ever came between us.
There is something of comfort in that."
"Is there?" said Norab.
She looked at the speaker, wonderingly.
Was it true, after all, that
- love is not love
That alters when its alteration finds,
Or bends with the remover to remove."
"Regret for that which is past is worse
than useless," she said, in a low voice; "but
I am sorry, very sorry, that I told you any
thing last night."
"Sorry!" repeated Leslie. "Why are
you sorry? Would it have been better to
let me eat out my heart with doubt, suspi-
cion, and jealousy-all those passions which
come to us even while we scorn them? Would
it have been better to let me think that you
were-what you were not? There is nothing
to regret. You spoke the truth in your own
defense, and, as regards yourself, I remember
it, but, as regards Aim-ah, it is less than

nothing to me now! He is dead, and I love
him. All is said in that."
All was said, indeed-all of tenderness,
of faithfulness, of love supremely beyond the
bounds of passion or of self. Yet, at that
moment, something like rebellion rose up in
Norah's heart. She thought of the man who
had so little deserved this, the silken egotist
and epicurean, the careless trifler with all
that men of honor hold most sacred; and
then she thought with a curious pang of the
other, the man of whose devotion Leslie
guessed so little, the man who had served her
so faithfully, the man who would have been
so true if Fate had only granted to Aim the
great gift of this loving heart. "Is it always
so?" she said to herself with a quick shiver
of passionate indignation; and, as she asked
the question-which many a sick heart has
asked before-Leslie turned and spoke, with
a sudden tense sound in her voice, a sudden
tense eagerness in her face.
"Norah," said she, quickly, and, as she
uttered the name, she grasped Norah's slender
hands until the latter could have cried out
with pain-" Norah, promise me that you will
not misunderstand, that you will not think I
mean any thing more than I say, when I-I
ask you a question."
"Ask what you please," answered Norah,
"and I promise to answer truly, and to mis-
understand nothing."
"You will forgive me, I am sure," said
Leslie, her eyes seeming to quiver and glow
with great dilated pupils in her white face.
"Norah, you will not misunderstand, you will
not think.-It is this, then: you cannot have
forgotten that, when I went to your room
last night, you had just come in; ten minutes
before, I had stood at my window and seen
you cross the lawn - Norab, had you not
parted from Arthur then?"
"Leslie! "-despite the promise which she
had given the moment before, Norah wrenched
her hands out of those which held them, and
drew back, outraged, indignant, aghast -
"After all that I told you last night," she
cried, her clear voice thrilling on the hushed
atmosphere," can you ask me such a question
as that? Do you think that I would bave
given another interview to Arthur Tyndale,
and an interview at such an hour and such a
time? If you can think that of me, you must
believe me to be utterly false!"
"I do not think that you are false," said

OF BOHEMIA.                                               AN IMPORTANT QUESTION.               181

OF BOHEMIA.

181


182               A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                                     THE VERDICT.                   183

Leslie, simply. "I onlythought that, if you
had seen him, you might know something-
you might be able to throw some light on this
horrible mystery. He was so unlike himself
last night-he avoided me so strangely-that
the awful thought of suicide has not left my
mind for an instant since Aunt Mildred first
came to me. You know "-her voice sank
here, she shuddered in every fibre .4" that
means the death of the soul as well as of the
body-Norah, I shall go mad if I am forced
to think that I"
"There is no reason why you should think
it for a moment," said Norah. "From what
Mr&amp; Middleton~told me a while ago, there is
no question but that he was murdered-there
is not one singTh indication of suicide. But
when you talk of 'my'knowing any thing, of
my being able to throw any light, you do not
know what you say," she went on, with some-
thing like a gasp in her voice. At 'that mo-
ment, a sense of her position came to her
like a flash of light., If Leslie opened 'her
lips to others, if it were known that she had
been in the neighborhood of the bridge at
midnight, what might not be the result 1'
"I did not see Arthur Tyndale last night,"
she said, '~after I left the dinner-table."
"Yet you were in the grounds," said Les-
lie, feverishly. "Norah, if you know any
thing, for God's sake do not 'keep it from
me!"
"Why should you think that I know any
thhlg?" asked Norah, more and more dis.
quieted. "Leslie, for Heaven's sake, be more
reasonable! It is true that I was later in re-
turning to the house last night than I ought
to have been, but I saw nothing, I heard noth-
ing of Arthur Tyndale. 'Do you not believe
me? Shall I take that crncifix'and swear to
my ignorance on it?"
"No," answea~ed Leslie. "I do believe
you. But was there no one ?-.--Did you see
no trace of any one who might-"
Norah's lifted hand stayed the words on
her lip. The girl's face had grown white as
marble. It Was like marble, also, in the 'ri-
gidity which came 'to the beautiful features.
For a moment, her heart seemed to stand
still. Had she seen any one who might-she
could not finish the sentence even to her-
self.
"I saw no one,"she said, after a minute-
her voice was~ hoarse, her lips seemed stiff-
"no ~ne whom it would be possible to con-

neet with such a crime. The only person
whom I saw was one who would have given
his life to save Arthur Tyndale; but no' one
who-O Leslie, do you not comprehend? Do
you not see that, if you speak of this, you
may plant the seed of an evil to end-God
only knows where I On my faith and honor,
I know nothing, I saw nothing, I heard noth-
ing of Mr. Tyndale's death-for it seems that
a shot which I heard had no connection with
it. I went thnre simply and solely to serve
you. Leslie, will you repay me by throwing
you know not what of suspicion on me or
on some one as innocent as I am?"
"Throw suspicion on ~ou!~~ repeated Les-
lie, stricken aghast. "Norab, are' you mad?
How can you misunderstand me so utterly-
so horribly? How can you think I meant to
ask-to imply-"
"I do not think you meant to imply any
thing," said Norah, who was trembling in
every limb; "but, 0 Leslie, promise me that
you will give no hint of this. It would be
too terrible if any, one were-promise rue you
will say nothing! Remember," cried she,
clutching eagerly at a plea which at another
time she would never have made, "that my
good nameis in your hands; and, oh, promise
-promise me!"
Her eagerness might have defeated its
own end, and wakened the suspicior~ of a
suspicious nature; but, farthest in the world
from a suspicious nature was Leslie Grahame.
The charity which "thinketh no evil" was
hers in* superlative degree. Suspect I Sus-
pect the sister whose arms were round her,
whose limpid eyes met her own-there was
nothing which she could not sooner have
done. She answered, 'therefore, ~out of the
fullness of her heart:
"I can promise-I do promise, if you wish
it, but I never thought of speaking to any one
else. I sent for you in order that I mighty ask
you, and you alone. I was tormented by the
thought that you might knw something which
would tell me - a little - how he died. 0
Norah "- she threw here&amp;If on her sister's
shoulder, the agony of tears And sobs broke
forth afresh-" it is this which is so unutter-
ably terrible! It is never to know how he
died, never to have another glance, word, or
tone, even in farewell! If I had only' known
last night-ah, if I had only known! To
have one last good-by to remember, would be
better' than this awful silence and strange

ness. Oh ! "-with a long, shuddering gasp
-" why had I not instinct enough to take
that last good-by I"
And Norah was not able to say, "It is
better so!,' though she knew that for such a
blow to cut sharp and clean, is far better than
a prolonged agony of foreboding suspense.
People talk of "preparation," but in reality
there is no such thing. It a surgeon were
going to amputate your limb, would you like
him to hack at it for an hour, iii order to pre-
pare you for the final operation?
"It will not kill me," Leslie said, after
a while, piteously. "Grief is not merciful
enough to kill. No doubt I shall live through
the agony as others have done before. But
oh, the bitterness, the anguish of thinking
that I did not even say, 'Good-night!"'
-4----
CHAPTER XXXI.
"To-morrow is a day too far
To trust, whatever the day be.
We know, a little, what we are;
But who knows what lie may be?
'Tis God made man, no doubt, not Chance:
He made us great and small;
But, being made, 'tis Circumstance
That finishes us all."
Seen an event as the death of Mr. Tyn-
dale, of Straft'ord, coukl not do other than
make an immediate and very great sensation
in his native county. That it became known
very soon, and very widely, will not surprise
those who have seen how quicklynews passes
from lip to lip, and plantation to plantation,
in country districts. Mr.-M~,,,ddleton's excited
messenger galloping full-speed to Wexford
for the coroner, took care to communicate
his intelligence to every man, woman, and
child, whom he met; and from Wexford it-
self the news soon spread in a hundred 'dif-
ferent channels. In less than an hour after
Mr. Middleton and Max parted on the bridge,
the nearest neighbors of the dead man 'made
their appearance on the scene; and, after
that, friends, acquaintances, relations, and
connections, poured in by the score. The
coroner, coming over at once-for, when a
man of wealth and position has been mur-
dered at his own thre~old, officials are not
likely to delay, as they are sometimes known
to do in eases of inferior humanity-the cor-
oner, I say, coming over at once, had no ~dif-

faculty in obtaining his jury, and the inquest
took place imtnediately.
No new facts were elicited. The marks
of the struggle on the sward at the side of
the bridge, the footprints at the extreme edge
of the bank, the broken sod showing so dis-
tinctly the very spot from which Arthur had
apparently been cast over into the chasm,
the slight print of the body on the damp sand
where he fell, the evident correspondence of
the wound with the shape of the stone around
which were the traces of blood-all was so
obvious at one glance that the most stupid
of the jurors found no difficulty in perceiving
and understanding, and no excuse for differ.
ence of opinion. liven the physician, attend-
ing professioiially-a pompous man, who was
in the habit of indulging, on such occasions,
in long disquisitions~ interlarded with many
high-sounding technical terms, upon the va-
rious probabilities and possibilities as to the
cause of death-was for once reduced to the
necessity of expressing a plain fact in plain
words.
As soon as the inspection of the locale had
been made the body was removed to Strafford,
the jury accompanying, more for the conven-
ience of holding their deliberation in com-
fortable quarters than from any necessity for
further examination of the remains. Before
twelve o'clock they had brought in their ver-
~dict to the effect that "the deceased Arthur
Tyndale came to his death from fracture of
the skull, caused by having been violently
thrown against the sharp point of a stone by
some person or persons unknown."
Beyond this verdict, neither the jury it-
self, nor the large number of attendant friends,
was abJe to advance even a conjecture. Who
the assailant and murderer had been, no one
was able to imagine. There were none of the
usual surmises and opinions afloat. Men
seemed for once silenced by the mystery en-
veloping the whole affair. That they talked
a great deal, no one who has ever seen such
an assemblage on such an ocCasion will be
able to doubt; but out of all their talk no
single suggestion of any importance catne-
no single opinion worth a moment's attention
was-elicited. From his position in the house,
Max had to bear the brunt of much of this
talk, and to endure, as be~t he could, a great
deal of very useless and aimless questioning.
In dealing with these questions, he was more
curt than was either exactly courteous or ex-

182

THE VERDICT.

183


184                      A DAUGHTER
aetly prudent. Iii fact, he was not only
wretched-..full of a grief which can scarcely
be exaggerated-but he was horribly at a loss
what to do or say. If b&amp; acknowledged his
presence in the Rosland grounds the night
before, how could he account for this pres-
ence without bringing Norah's name into a
notoriety which would be fatal to it-a noto-
riety from which every instinct of the gentle-
man shrank ?-and, if he did sot acknowledge
it, his silencewould certainly bear a very sin-
gular and suspicious seeming, in case the fact
was discovered. It was a position which
might have sorely pnzr.led any man. Yet it
did not puzzle Max in the sense of leaving
him in doubt what to do. There was no hesi-
tation about that. He must shield Norah at
any cost. But the burden of concealment
sat uneasily on him, and he chafed under it.
Every time that the pistol was mentioned, he
felt an almost irresistible impulse to say, "I
heard that shot;" and it required an effort to
restrain the words. lie did not forget that
he had uttered them to Mr. Middleton on an
impulse which he afterward regretted; but he
was relieved to observe that Mr. Middleton,
who had paid little attention at the time, had
apparently suffered the fact to escape entirely
from his memory.
One fact had, also, entirely escaped Max's
memory, or, to speak more correctly, had not
yet occurred to it. This was the fact that, in
ease of Arthur's dying intestate-which thei'e
was every reasonable probability to suppose
that he had done-he (Max) succeeded to the
Tyndale estate aS heir-at-law, If he did not
think of it, however, there were plenty of
others who did. Next to* the mysterious
death itself~ the question of heirship was the
great topic on every tongue. This was natu-
ral enough. Such things have been since the
world began, and will doubtless be as long as
the world endures, unless the socialists get
the upper hand, and take care that a man has
no estate to leave, no probable last will and
testament to be canvassed before the breath
has fairly left his lips. Solemn and long.
faced as Arthur's friends and kinsmen were,
their grief was not so absorbing but that they
were able to take a very lively interest in won-
dering whether he had ever thought of making
a will, or whether the young soldier, and half-
foreigner, whom none of them particularly
liked, was to fall heir to the rich inherit-
a~ce.

The day-which chanced to be Sunday-
seemed of the length of many days, both at
Strafford and Rosl,,nd. At the former place,
It was more like a hideous nightmare than
any thing else-at least, to Max-servants dis-
traught, people thronging everywhere-filling
with a strange tide of life the quiet old rooms,
the halls, the piazzas-and Arthur lying in
state apai~t from all, with the majestic calm
of death on his fair, handsome face.
Mr. Middleton did not go home to lunch-
eon, not because he was not hungry, not be-
cause he would not have been heartily glad
of a little quiet and rest, but because he
shrank with all the proverbial and universal
cowardice of his sex from the tears which, he
was well aware, reigned supreme at Rosland.
Instead of luncheon, dinner was served at
Strafford for half a hundred people (more or
less), unlimited eating and drinking being a
recognized consequence of death in the coun-
try districts, where old customs and traditions
still linger. After dinner, Mr. Middleton es-
caped from one or two inveterate talkers who
had clung to him all the morning, and took
his meerschaum and himself out on the ter-
race where Arthur and Norah had stood when
Mrs. Sandford overheard their conversation
from the library-window. All was quiet and
still there. The old - fashioned flower - gar-
den, neglected and overgrown, but still beau-
tiful, lay immediately below; the shadows
were long, the afternoon was. full of golden
serenity and bcauty-it seemed impossible to
realize that death was so near, that the mas-
ter of all these fair acres could now only
claim the allotted six feet of earth to which
every child of man is entitled.
While Mr.. Middleton sighed and smoked,
and smoked and sighed-thinking now of
Leslie and now of Arthur-a quiet footstep
came round the house and advanced toward
him. Being slightly deaf, and not listening
besides, he did not hear it, and it was not
until an unexpected voice at his side said,
"Can I speak to you a moment sir?" that
he started and turned.
Then he saw that it was Arthur's English
servant who had addressed him.
"Well, Giles," he said-" I believe your
name is Giles, isn't it ?-what do you want?"
"I should like to speak to you, if you
please, sir," repeated Giles, respectfully.
"Very well," was the careless reply,
speak away I Though you had better have

gone to Captain Tyndale if you have any
business on hand."
"I couldn't 'ave gone to Captain Tyndale,
sirbecause I want to speak to you about
Captain Tyndale," responded Giles, solemnly.
"About Captain Tyndale-indeed 1" said
Mr. Middleton. He looked up, at this, with
more attention. What did the fellow mean?
The fellow in question looked pale and a tri-
fle agitated, but also determined, and ani-
mated, perhaps, by that "sense of duty"
which plays such an important part in the re-
solves of his betters.
"I 'ave nothing against Captain Tyndale
in any way, sir," he said, meeting Mr. Mid-
dletou's glance. "lie 'as been a gentleman
to me in every way, and I wishes him no ill
in the world; but duty i~ duty, sir, and that
I'm sure you'll agree to."
"Ceitainly," said Mr. Middleton. "I'll
agree to it with pleasure. 'Duty is duty,
unquestionably, and should always be per.
formed, even if it is not particularly agree-
able. But what has your duty to do with
Captain Tyndale?"
"It 'as this, sir: that I'm of the opinion.
that it's my duty to let the gentlemen who
'ave been sitting on Mr. Tyndale's body know
certain things what came to my knowledge
last night, sir-quite accidental, as one may
say."
"Facts about his death?" said Mr. Mid~
dleton, startled into interest at once. "Of
courRe, if you know any thing abo'it that, it
is your duty to tell it immediately. The jury
of inquest are done with the case; but, if you
know any thing about how Mr. Tyndale came
to his death-any thing of real importance-
you can go to a magistrate and give your evi-
dence on oath. Give it to pie first, however,
and let me judge of its value. Now, what
is it?"
Thus energetically brought to the point,
Giles-who, to do him justice, evinced no dis-
position to fall back-made a plain state.
ment of the facts, with which the reader is
already acquainted- of the altercation be-
tween the two cousins, which, according to
his testimony, had reached the point of per.
sonal contest when he surprised them; of
Captain Tyndale's leaving the house; of Ar.
thur's following him; of the return of the
former cdone some time after midnight. Told
simply, and, as the man averred, honestly,
without any ill-feeling toward Max, the story

was even more effective that if it had been
freely colored by suspicion or partisanship.
"It's my duty to my dead master, sir, to tell
what I know, and that's what I know," he
said, in conclusion. As for Mr. Middleton,
he was amazed, startled, aghast, and yet in-
credulous. lie attached very little impor-
tance to the account of the quarrel-setting
most of it down to the exaggeration which
seems inherent in the serving nature-and he
did not believe for a moment that Max had
borne any part in his cousin's death; but he
was certainly confounded by the circumstan-
tial evidence thus abruptly brought forward
against him. "Good Heavens I" he said to
himself. Here was a new element of trouble
-an element which he must, if possible, nip
in the bud. Hence, after a minute's reflec-
tion, he turned to Giles:
"It is an excellent thing, and shows your
discretion, that you came privately to me
with this story," he said, gravely. "I do
full justice to your motives, which I am sure
are good ones; but you are entirely wrong in
your conclusions, and might have done great
mischief if you had expressed them publicly.
It is impossible to connect Captain Tyndale
in any way with his cousin's death, and the
events which seem so important to you strike
me in the light of mere coincidences. They
would have no legal valuelam sure; but
they might cause a great deal of scandal and
gossip. Therefore, if you wish to serve your
master as well as Captain Tyndale, you can
best do so by holding your tongue."
Giles's face fell a little. He looked disap-
pointed and-obstinate. Mr. Middleton saw
the first expression: the latter escaped his
observation.
"I am sure you mean well," he said again,
with emphasis. "But this story must go no
farther. Understand that. It is a family
matter, of which nothing must be said."
"I can't help thinking that it's my duty,
sir, to let the jury know," said Giles, with
some of the obstinacy of his face creeping
into his tone, and asserting itself very distinct.
ly there.
"The jury be hanged, sir, and your duty,
too I" said Mr. Middleton, angrily. "Do you
mea~z to set your judgment up against misc?
The jury have brought in their verdict, and
their business is done. Yours is done, too,
when you have brought your story and told
it to rue. The responsibility of acting or not

OF BOHEMIA.                                                    A SENSE OF DUTY.                   185

185

, OF BOBEMIA.


186                      A DAUGHTER
acting upon it is my affair No one could
have better, reason for desiring to discover
the murderer of your master than I have;
but, as for crediting an absurdity like this-
Again I repeat that your motives are no doubt
good, but I don't wish to hear any more of
the subject."
"Very well, sir," said Giles. ." I am sor-
ry to have troubled you. I'll take care not
to trouble you again."
"The trouble is of no importance,~~ said
Mr. Middleton. "You were right to come to
me. I only wish you to understand that the
matter is to go no further."
Giles made nn reply. He took his div.
missal very quietly and walked away; but, if
Mr. Middleton had seen his face and read its
expression rightly, he would not have enter-
tained any very sanguine expectations of his
letting the matter go no furthers
In truth, Giles was as deteFinined as a
man could be that, since Mr. Middleton de-
clined to act for him, he would act for him.
self. A sense of duty had something, per-
haps, to do with this resolution, and sincere
regard for his master had more; but, most
of all, was the important sense of possessing
a clew to the mysterious murder which no one
else possessed. Holding this clew-this posi-
tive knowledge-should he make no use of
it? "The man what knows of a crime, and
conCeals a crime, as good as commits it," said
Giles, solemnly. Where he had learned this
scrap of legal or other kind of wisdom, it is
impossible to say; but he was fnlly resolved
to act upon it.
Before taking any further steps, however,
he waited until Mr. Middleton left Strafford-
which that gentleman did in the course of the
afternoon. "I'll go home, take a little rest,
and be back to-night," he said, as he 'shook
hands with Max at parting. "Not bnt tl~at
you'll have enough and more than enough
people on your hands."
"I suppose so," said Max, who looked as
thoroughly broken down as a man with strong
fibres and strong nerves ever appears. The
excitement and "worry" of the day, 1'ollow-
ing close upon the terrible shook of the morn-
ing, had tried him almost beyond endurance.'~
Mr. Middleton, who had thought of giving
him a hint concerning Giles's story, had
enough of kindly disereti~n to hold his
tongue when he noticed how pale and woi~n
he looked. He left without having said any

OF BOHEMIA.

thing, and Max, not long afterward, went to
his own room and locked himself in-I-to rest,
he said.
In this way, the coast was left clear for
Giles, who, from his position in the back-
ground, was keeping his eyes and cars very
well open indeed. Having failed so utterly
with Mr. Middleton, he made up his mind
that the next person to whom he applied
should be of an entirely different stamp from
that worthy gentleman He had sense ~nougli
to know that his story would not be likely to
receive much more attention from a magis-
trate than it had already received from Mr.
Middleton, unless he was supported by some
gentleman of influence, and, if possible, a
connection of the murdered man. There
were several connections of the murdered
man in the house, and one, in especial, was
of marked influence and position~. This was
a distant cousin of Arthur's-one of the dis-
agreeable relations concerning whom he had
once spoken to Leslie, and with irhom his in-
tercourse during life had always been as dis-
tant as their relationship. The name of this
gentleman was Colville, and, though he was
an eminently unpleasant man, he was one of
the men who seem to mount in life on the
score of their very unpleasantness&amp; Nothing,
perhaps, in human nature is more marked
than the tendency to allow itself to be brow-
beaten and bullied by almost any man who
possesses sufficient force of character for the
purpose. Force of character Mr. Colville cer-
tainly possessed, united to aggressively vio-
lent opinions on every possible' subject, and an
indomitable obstinacy. He was a man who
"owned" half the county, people said. They
did not mosn its literal acres, but its flesh-
and-blood inhabitants. What of such and
such a man? somebody would say, and the
t~nswcr would be, "Oh, he belongs to Col-
ville!', In other words, Mr. Colville had sue-
; ceded in reducing a certain number of his
ellow - citizens to the condition of puppets,
who moved with exemplary obedience aS he
pulled their strings. With this kind of man
there are only two courses open-you arc his
subject or his opponent. Arthur Tyndalc
had never been a subject, therefore Mr. Col-
yule at least had always reckoned him an op-
ponent. Of Max this gentleman knew little,
but that little was, in his opinion, of a dis-
paraging character. Since his arrival at
Strafford, his harsh voice had been chiefly

heard in loud disapproval of every thing
which had been done, and protest against
every thing which it was proposed to do.
This was the man to whom Giles went with
a request for a private interview.
It is almost unnecessary to say that Mr.
Colville at once acceded to this request.
Nothing gratified him more than such an ap-
peal. He left a group, whom he was instruct-
ing in their social, moral, and political duties,
to enter the library, seat himself in Arthur's
favorite chair, and bid Giles, in his loud, pa.
tronizing voice, "speak out."
This Giles, whQ was by no means troubled
with diffidence, proceeded to do. He told his
story as he had told it to Mr. Middleton, sim-
ply and without pretense. Again he laid
stress upon the fact that he had "nothing
against" Captain Tyndale; It was a pure sense
of duty )vhich urged him to make this state-
ment, he said; and, indeed, to do Giles justice,
he was undoubtedly buoyed up by a conscious-
ness of disinterested virtue, which was, in a
certain sense, its own reward.
After the cold water which Mr Middleton
had thrown on his story, it was unquestion-
ably gratifying to excite such vivid interest
and belief as that which made Mr. Colville's
grizzly hairs stand on end. No thought of
incredulity caine to him. Amazement, cer-
tainly-horror, perhaps-disgust at his own
obtuseness in a measure; but not incredulity
in the least degree.
"Good God!" he said, when he found
voice to speak at last. "Who would have
believed it? Here, under my very eyes, and
nobody to suspect such a thing for a minute!
Even I-I never tothink of it! You should
have spoken to me before," he said, turning
sternly upon Giles. "What on earth do you
mean by letting the whole day pass, and wait-
ing until sunset, before you open your mouth
to give such important information as this?"
"I did speak before, sir," said Giles, who
was deeply offended by such a mode of ad-
dress. "I went to Mr. Middleton, but he
didn't Seem' to think the story worth any at-
tention."
"Mr. Middleton!" repeated Mr. Colville,
in a tone of inexpressible scorn. "What the
devil put it into your head to go to Mr. Mid.
dleton? If you had wanted to find an incom-
petent person, you couldn't have done better;
And pray what did'Mr. Middleton say?"
"He said I had better hold my tongue,

MR. COLVILL

E AND GILES.                         187
sir.-.-that the story would only make scandal
and gossip-but I had a sense of duty, sir;
and I couldn't think but what I ought to state
the facts."
"hold your tongue! Heaven and earth!"
said Mr. Colville, his gray hair bristling more
and move on his scantily-covered head -.--" I
never heard any thing to equal it!" he said,
with indignation rising hotter. "That any
man, with the least sense of duty, should en-
deavor or desire to conceal such' a crime-it
is almostt incredible! To conceal a crime is
to connive at it!', said he, bending his bushy.
gray eyebrows and small gray eyes in a terrify.
ingmanner upon poor Giles. "It isagood thing
that you did not take Mr. Middleton's most
extraordinary-I may even say, most criminal
-advice! It is a good thing that you came
to me. But it would have been a better thing
if you had not wasted time, if you had come
tomcat once!"
"I'm sorry I did not, sir," said Giles, over-
awed, as Mr. Colville mostly did overawe those
with whom he came in contact. "But I knew
Mr. Middleton best, and Mr. Tyndale was en-
gaged to his niece, and so I thought-"
"There is no time to waste in' excuses,'
said Mr. Colville, waving his hand. "You
should have known my position in the family
sufficiently to come to me at once. Now, go
and find Mr. Armistead and tell him that I
wish to see him-here in the library. Hold
yourself in readiness to ride 'to Wexfor~l with
him in th~ course of the next hour, and take
care that you don't open your lips, so that a
word of this comes to Captain Tyndale's ears."
"I shall take care, sir," said Giles, meekly.
He went in search of Mr. Armistead-an-
other connection of the family, and loyal vas-
sal to Mr. Colville-whom he found on the
front portico, listening to a voluble gentleman,
who was proving, to his own entire satisfac-
tion, that Arthur's death' had been purely ac-
cidental. "Yes," Mr. Armistead was saying,
meditatively, "I quite agree with you;" when
Giles summoned him away to the presence of
his dictatorial chief. He was a pleasant, gentle.
manly man, of mild temper and indolent hab-
its, who found that it saved trouble tO be gov~
erned by his wife at home and by Mr. Colville
abroad - a man whose abilities might have'
helped him to a very fair position in the world,
if he had not chanced early in life upon the
misfortune ofmarrying an heiress. That fact
had crushed all active manhood out of, him,


188                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                                 THE CAPTAIN'S ARREST.               189

as it has crushed it out of many another
man. "I suppose I ma~ be allowed a word
about the management of the property, Mr.
Artuistead, since Ibrought it into the fami-
ly!" his sharp - tongued better - half would
say. "As many words as you please, my
dear," Mr. Armistead would answer, taking
up his gun -hunting and shooting were the
only things in which he really felt an interest
-and walking away. This was the man whom
Mr. Colville summoned to hIs privy council,
and who strolled into the library with his
hands in his pockets, and an air of exceeding
listlessness on his face. The listlessness died
away, however, when he saw the bent brows
and bristling hairs which made Mr. Colville's
visage a thing of terror and dismay.
"What is the matter, Colville?" he cried.
"What the deuce has happened?"
Mr. Colville frowned majestically. He
was swelling with a sense of ~gnified im-
portance, on which the other's free-and-easy
question jarred.
"What has happened," he said, "is not a
subject for levity. Even ignorant levity may
sometimes be very ill-advised."
"I was not aware that I had displayed any
particular levity," said Mr. Armistead, care-
lessly. "I only asked what had happened;
a man may do that without giving offense, I
suppose."
"Nothing has happened-at least nothing
new," said Mr Colville, after a minute - he
disliked few things more than to answer a
question, or enter upon an explanation; but
sometimes, as in the present instance, he was
obliged to do it-" I have only received posi-
tive information touching the murder of poor
Tyndale."
"The devil you have !~" cried Mr. Armi-
stead, excited for once. "By George! Why,
Denton has just been trying to prove th~tt he
was killed accidentally."
"Denton's a fool I" said Mr. ColvilIe,
sharply. And people who waste their time
listening to him are not much better! I
knew, of course - any man with eyes must
have known - that Tyndale had been mur-
dered; but I confess that I did not think of
attaching suspicion to the very man whom a
child might have suspected-the man who, in
all probability will profit so largely ~nd ex-
clusively by his death."
Mr. Armistead had sat lazily down in a
Qhair after the rebuke to his levity; he sprang

now to his feet, as completely astonished, as
thoroughly startled, as a man could be ira-
agined.
"Great Heaven 1" he said. Do you mean
Max Tyndale? Is it possible you suspect Max
Tyndale 1"'
"I did not say that I suspected any thing,
but that I kneu' the truth," responded Mr.
Colville, sharply If Giles was not a parti-
san, he eertainl~ was. There are some people
to whom an impartial frame of mind, even for
five minutes, is impossible.
"I suppose you have no objection to let-
ting me hear what your grounds of belief
are?" said Mr. Armistead, sitting down
again.
"Since you are, in a measure, a connection
of the family "-Mrs. Armistead had been a
Miss Colville, and a forty-second cousin of
Arthur-" I sent for you for- that purpose,"
said Mr. Colville, magisterially. He then re-
capitulated what Giles had told him-a rela-
tion which, as it may be imagined, took lib-
eral color from his own- belief, and therefore
impressed his hearer even more strongly than
it would otherwise have done. The train of
circumstances was clear enough, however, to
have impressed any one-especially a man of
indolent mind, who usually liked his thinking
done for him. When the story was ended,
Mr. Armistead agreed that the events were
"suspicious-very suspicious, indeed!" but
he ventured to add a hope that tl~e other did
not mean to "make them public.'~
"Not make them public!" repeatedly Mr.
Colville, the blood rushing into his face, an-
grily, his hairs bristling again. "I shall cer-
tainly see that the evidence is brought before
a magistrate as soon as possible, if that is
what you call making it public! I have a
sense of duty, sir; and to allow a murderer
to go scot - free, because his apprehension
might reflect discredit on the family, is some.
thing that I have no idea of doing."
"Well, what the deuce do you want with
me?" said Mr. Armistead, rather more snap.
pishly than he usually spoke. "You are a
magistrate: you can take the matter in hand,
and hear the evidence, if you've a mind to."
"I ant a magistrate, it is true," said Mr.
Colville; "but, as a member of the family, I
should prefer that the ease was not brought
before me. I want you, therefore, to take this
servant and go over to Wcxford. Let him
give his evidence before Purcell; and see that

the warrant is issued as soon as possible, and
sent out here."
"I'll be d.-d if Idol" saidMr. Armistead,
with a fiat rebellion for which his chief was
wholly unprepared. "I don't call this the
conduct of one gentleman to another gentle-
man. Before taking the evidence of a servant
against Captain Tyndale, it is as little as you
could do to send for him and give him a
chance to speak for himself."
"A chance to saddle a horse and leave the
cotintry, more likely!" said the other, with
angry contempt. "One gentleman to another
gentleman, indeed! I am not intending to
treat Captain Tyndale as a gentleman, but as
a criminal-which he certainly is. If you
don't choose to take the servant to Wexford,
however, you have only to say so, and I'll
take him myself!"
"Oh,,I suppose I can take him," said Mr.
Armistead, apparently thinking better of his
resolution. "It is not I who have to give the
evidence. But you see how late it is !-It
strikes me it is scarcely worth while to go
this evening. Won't to-morrow morning an-
swer as well?"
"It will not answer at all," said Mr. Col-
yule, emphatically. "There has been too
much delay already; I'll not take the respon-
sibility of an hour longer on my shoulders.
If Giles had not been fool enough to go to
Middleton, instead of coming to me, there
would not have been the delay there has
been!"
-4----
CHAPTER XXXII.
"Most learned Judge f-A sentence; come, prepare."
NoTwrrnsrAuDIua Mr. Colville's anxiety
for haste, it was not until the next morning
that a constable arrived at Strafford with a
warrant of arrest for Captain Tyndale. His ap-
pearance fell like a thunder-bolt on the assem-
bled party~ To chronicle all the disjointed
exclamations, and all the Babel of discussion
which ensued, would be to try the patience
of the most long-suffering reader, and would,
moreover, serve no purpose in advancing the
history of events. Max himself, after the
first shock, was perhaps (with the exception
of Mr. Colville, and one or two of his most
intimate subjects), the person least taken by
surprise. Not that he had definitely expected
such a result as this, but he had been so

thoroughly conscious all the day before of the
false position in which h~s reticence was,
placing him, that instinct may he said to have
warned him of its consequences. Public sen-
timent, generally, was one of disapproving
surprise. It was an underhanded piece of
business, men said, who, whatever their other
faults, believed in, and, as a rule, stood up for;
fair play. Only two or three of Mr. Colville'§
immediate friends were found to support the
measure. "Wait until you hear the evidence
against him!" they said, nodding sagely.
As for Mr. Middleton, he was overcome
with indignation when he heard the news.
He blamed himself severely thnt he had not
warned Max of the story which Giles had
brought to him. "I ought to have dorm that
at once I "' he thought, as he went in search
of the young man.
He found him in his own room, dressing,
having lain down to snatch a little sleep in
the latter part of the night, and having been
ruthlessly waked on the appearance of the
constable and the warrant. If he had lost
his composure in the first shock, he had by
this time regained it, for he turned to Mr.
Middleton with a coolness which excited that
gentleman's surprise and admiration-though
an under-current of emotion seemed vibrating
through his voice when he spoke.
"I suppose you have heard what has hap.
pened," he said. "What do you think of
it?"
"I think that I am more sorry than I can
say that I did not warn you yesterday that
your cousin's servant came to me with a story
which I suppose he has since carried to more
credulous or malicious ears, and of which this
is the result," Mr. Middleton answered. "I
take it for granted that you know what I
mean. Something about a difficulty between
Arthur and yourself."
"Giles!" said Max, starting. A flash of
light seemed to come to him. "So it was
Giles, was it? I did not think of that. And
you say he came to you with the story?"
"He came to me yesterday afternoon, and,
when he found that I paid no attention to it,
he went-so I judge from what I hear down-
stairs-to Colville. You know Colville. You
won't be surprised to learn that he is at the
bottom of the whole affair."
"No, I am not surprised," said Max; but
he stood for a minute apparently lost in
thought. "I mean I am not surprised that


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

MAX'S DEFENSE.

Mr. Colvihle, who seems to dislike me, should
be ready to believe any report to my dis-
credit," he added, after a while; "but how lie
or any one else could think lhi8-"'
" CoIville dislikes every one who does not
belong to him body and soul," saidMr. Mid-
dleton, dryly; "but you need not go far to
find a reason why he dislikes you particularly,
or why he is ready enough to credit even this-
you are the heir-at-law of the Tyndale estate."
"Good God!" said Max, with uncontrol-
lable agitttion, "but that. makes it all the
more terrible. How can any man believe
that I-the heir-at-law, as you say-could
have laid violent hands on Arthur; that I
could have left him dead and come back to
sleep under his roof; that I could- Great
Heaven! is it for tlzcd they suspect me of
murdering him?" demanded he, turning upon
Mr. Middleton, with passion and horror min-
gled in his face.
"It is very likely they have not stopped
to think about it at all,"' answered the other.
"A sort of frenzy seizes people at such times,
you know;. a fever of suspicion and doubt.
Colville is a sort of moral bull-dog, moreover,
and there is no more use in appealing to his
sense of reason than there would be in ap-
pealing to a deaf man's ears, or a blind man's
sight. The magistrate who issued this war-
rant-Purcell, of Wexford-is a blockhead
also, a~d very much under his thumb. V~ou can
scarcely appreciate the nature of the charge
better than I do," he went on quickly; "bnt,
surely it will not cost you much trouble to
prove the groundless folly-I may say the in-
famous outrage -of it!"
"I cannot tell," said Max. "' It ought to
be easy; but with such men as you describe,
who knows? One or two points may tell
against me." He drew on his coat as he
spoke, then paused a moment; his bronzed
face grew paler than it had been before, his
eyes were cast down, his hand went as usual
to the long ends of his mustache. "Who
knows 1"' he repeated. "There are one or
two things which it is impossible to explain 1
-the cause of the dispute between Arthur
and myself, for instance." '
"Was it a serious dispute?" asked Mr.
Middleton, anxiously. "You will excuse the
question, but I should like to know."
He was interrupted by a tap at the door.
"Ready,' sir?" asked the constable's voice ~
on the outside.                 '

"Yes, I am ready," answered Max.-" I
hope I shall be able to clear myself," he said,
turning to Mr. Middleton; "but, if not-"
emergency," interrupted that gentleman. "I
"I ani going along to stand by you in any
ordered the dog-cart when I came up, and
we'll drive over, settle that insolent English
rascal, and bring Purcell to his senses, before
breakfast."
"You arc very kind," said Max, grate-
fully; but it is likely that he had his own
reasons for not feeling quite so sure of'ae-
comphishing these desirable results, either
before breakfast or after, as Mr. Middleton
did.
When they went down-stairs, they found a
number of horses and buggies before the
door, and a number of men assembled in the
hall and portico. The whole clan were evi-
dently intending t&amp; follow the prisoner into
Weaford. There did not breathe one man
with soul so dead that he was not eager to
hear the examination. Indeed, the sensation
of to-day almost paled the sensation of yes-
terday, and the living Tyndale suddenly be-
came of infinitely more importance than the
dead one, even in the eyes of the friends and
kinsmen who had gathered to do the latter
such scant honor and reverence as it is in the
power of life to pay unto death. When Max
appeared, there was a movement which was
almost unanimous toward him~ Men pressed
forward to shake hie hsnd warmly, to express
indignation, sympathy, and hearty wishes for
his speedy release.' He thanked them briefly,
and then, accompanied by Mr. Middleton, and
followed by 'the constable-who looked de-
cidedly sheepish, as if he felt rather ashamed
of his part of the business-he walked to the
dog-cart and sprang in. They drove oiY
rapidly, and with various degrees of speed
avery man followed-leaving only Arthur be.
hind, wtih the calm serenity of hi~ face un-
mified by this paltry temult of life.
Mr. Colville had gone on to Wexford con-
dderably in advance of this, and, on entering
he justice-room, neither Max nor Mr. Mid-
hleton wa~ surprised to find him in consulta-
:ion with a tall, gaunt, gray-whiskered gen-
leman who was plainly thernagistrate. They
rere both sitting behind a table on which lay
greasy book and some papers. Giles,' look-
ag rather uncomfortable, was standing by a
window not far off, and had watched Captain
~yndale's arrival. Mr Armistead was not

if

visible; but a dozen or so other men were
lounging about, or gathered into knots talk.
ing. Some of them were from the country
others belonged to the village. These last
stared with undisguised interest and curiosity
at the prisoner, who was also the heir, as he en.
tered. Mr. Middleton and himself were talk.
lag as they easn~ in, but they broke off before
any one could catch the subject of their con-
versation, and the former gentleman, advan-
cing up the room, addressed one of the minis.
ters of justice very unceremoniously.
"Well, Purcell," he said, "here is Captain
Tyndale come to see what the devil you mean
by such a confounded piece of folly as this."
"lam glad to make Captain Tyndale's ac-
quaintance," said Mr. Purcell, bowing gravely,
"though I should have preferred making it
under other circumstances. I shall be happy
if he is able to prove that the charge brought
against ~him is unfounded-but I am sure you
are aware, sir" (turning to Max, who also had
advanced), "that a magistrate is bound to do
his duty, and that it would have been impos-
sible for me to dismiss without examination
such a grave chsyge as this which is brought
against you."
"Since the charge has been brought, it is
of course your duty to examine it," said Max.
"You will excuse me if I say that the sooner
that is done the better. I cannot defend my.
self until I know what is alleged against me.t'
He sat down as be spoke. Every one-
present noticed the perfect coolness of his
manner. Yet he knew well what was coming.
It came at once, for there was no delay in
the proceedings. Mr. Purcell may or may not
have been a blockhead, but he was at least a
good magistrate-a man who did not waste
time, who knew the law passably well, and
who had a mind sufficiently clear to seize the
strong points of evidence. Giles, being sum-
moned, testified on oath to the circumstances
which he had already related-to the "diffi-
culty" between the two cousins, to Arthur's
angry words and excited manner after Captain
Tyndale had left the house, to his having seen
him follow his cousin, and to having heard
Max return after midnight-alone. When he
finished, Mr. Purcell turned to Captain Tyn-
dale and asked what he had to say in reply to
this strong array of cia~cumstantial evidence.
The young man rose to his feet with no
trace of nervousness in his manner, though
his dark eyes were glowing in his pale face.

" With your permission, sir," he said,
quietly, "I will answer by putting a question
or two to this witness, who seems anxious to
afford some material for gossiping wonder
in a case so mysterious as the one under con-
sideration-though I am sorry to be obliged
to bring forward a fact which otherwise need
not have transpired." Then, turning to Giles,
he continued in the same tone:
"What condition was your master in at
the time of the 'difficulty~ you have just de-
scribed?"
Giles's face had fallen during the first part
of the foregoing sentence. Perhaps he had
scarcely been aware how much the motive
attributed to him had influenced his course of
action, until the idea was thus put into words.
It fell still more, however, at the concluding
interrogation. He colored, cleared his throat,
hesitated-but Captain Tyndale's keen eye
was on him; he answered at last, stammer-
ingly:
was a little-he 'ad been drinking 'a
little too much, sir."
"A little too much! Was that all ?"
The man looked down; his face answered
the question plainly enough, but his inquisi-
tor demanded words.
"Well?" he said.
"He--lie wasn't at himself, sir."
Max turned to the magistrate.
"As I said before, I very much regret be-
ing compelled to bring forward a fact which I
shouldY~t have mentioned to any one-much
less publicly-if the necessity had not been
forced upon me in this way. I will now make
a plain statement of what has just been pre-
sented in a very distorted light:
"On Saturday night, at a dinner-party at
Mr. Middleton's, wishing to speak to my cous-
in, I looked through the company, both in the
house and on the lawn, without finding him.
I had observed at dinner that he was drinking
toO much-and afterward I noticed that his
face and manner both showed the effects of
this to one familiar with him-though, to gn
ordinary observer, he was at that time appar-
ently sober. As Icould neither see norhear any
thing of him, when I was searching for him, I
thought it likely he had become conscious
that the wine he had taken was affecting him,
and had therefore gone home, and I followed,
intending to see him for a few minutes, and
then return again to Rosland-~-as I afterward
did-it being still early in the evening.

V

190

191


192 -

A DAUGHTER OF BOH'~MIA.

"I was surprised and concerned to find
Arthur in the dining-room, with wine and
brandy before him. He had been drinking
deeply since his return borne, and it soon be.
came evident to me that he was not in a con-
dition to speak rationally on any subject. I
made one or two efforts to talk to him; that
is, to induce him to listen to what I had to
say; but, as he was perfectly impracticable
-being, in fact, too much under the influence
of wine to know what he was doing or saying
-I rose to go. With the folly of a drunken
man, he began to complain of the manner in
which I was treating him, and placed himself
before me to prevent my leaving the room. I
had just put him aside-quietly, of course-
and turned to the door to go, when it opened,
and this servant entered the room. He ac-
counted for the intrusion by an excuse which
satisfied me at the time as reasonable enough;
though his subsequent conduct proves that he
must have been watching about for some mis-
chief-making purpose."
"No, sir I" here interposed Giles, in a
half-deprecating, half-indignant tone. "If
you will allow me to speak, sir-i"' he added,
and, Ma; not objecting, he went on, with some
excitement of manner: "It was just as I told
you at the time, sir. I 'ad no wish, and I
haven'tt any now to make mischief, but I didn't
know w~iat to make of there being a light in
the dining-room that time o' night-"
"Very well," interrupted Captain Tyndale,
cutting short the man's flow of words, and
again addressing the magistrate. "I left the
room and strolled back to Rosland. Finding
it later than I had thought, I did not go into
the house, but, after smoking in the grounds
for a while, returned to Strafford, and imme-
diately went to bed. The next morning at
five o'clock I was awakened by my cousin's
servatit, with the information that his master
had iiot returned home the night before.
Though rather surprised to hear this, I was
not alarmed wntil I suddenly remembered a
oireurnstance which had occurred while I was
in the Rosland grounds the last time; the rec-
ollection of which made me a little uneasy.
This was the sound of a pistol-shot in the di-
rection of the bridge. I had attached no im-
portance to it at the time; but now the more
I thought of Arthur's non-appearance, the
more strange it seemed, and I grew very un-
comfortable, not to say alarmed, at the idea
that there might be some connection between

the shot I had heard and his absence. Consid-
ering his condition when I parted from him,
there wafi no telling what he might have done
-or where he might have gone. I thought it
not improbable that he had started to go to
Rosland, stopped by the way, been overcome
by sleep, and spent the night in the open air.
At all events, I could not leave Strafford-as I
was intending to do that morning, to take the
train at Wexford-without ascertaining what
had become of him; and sol walked toward the
bridge, purposing, if I did not find him asleep
somewhere by the way, to go on to Rosland
and see if he were there. Before I reached the
bridge I met Lewis, one of the Strafford ser-
vants, who Ilad just discovered his body2'
His voice sank at the last words: some-
thing of the grief and horror he had felt at
the moment to which he alluded, vibrated
through its tones, as every one present could
not but observe; and the short pause which
he made was unbroken. After an instant, he
resumed:
"These are the circumstances, which have
been distorted and exaggerated by my cousin a
servant into what you were pleased to call 'a
grave charge,' sir."
Again there was a short pause: Mr. Pur-
cell hesitated, and even looked slightly em-
barrassed. He had opened his lips to speak,
but to what effect did not appear; since at
this instant Mr, Colville, who sat close beside
him, and who had been moving impatiently in
his chair, leaned over, and said a few words
in his ear. The magistrate's face cleared.
"You say you heard a pistol-shot while in
the Rosland grounds. Did the rest of the
company, who were in the grounds at the
same time, hear this shot also? and did no one
express surprise st such a circumstance, or
think of ascertaining what it meant 1"'
"As I mentioned before, I found it later
than I was aware it was when I looked at
my watch shortly after entering the Rosland
grounds; and, supposing probably that Mrs.
Middleton's guests were dispersing by that
time, I did not go on to the house, but turned
aside and sat down on the steps of a summer-
house, smoking for a while; after which I re-
turned to Strafford."
"You did not see any one at Rosland,
then? You cannot call upon any witnesses
to testify as to your presence there?"
"I cannot produce any witnesses," an-
swered Max, quietly.

U

EVASIVE ANSWERS.

Mr. Purcell shook his head. "That
unfortunate," he said;. adding, in a ton
which was equally compounded of gentle
manly apology and magisterial pomposity
"All men are ejual in the eye of the law, am
in legal affairs the same formality is require
in all cases. However unimpeachable th
character of a man may be, these formalities~
are demanded and must be complied with.
am sorry to say, Captain Tyndale, that th
fact of your not being able to bring testi.
mony to prove your presence at Rosland,
makes a rather strong point against you-in
law. The witness there "-he pointed to
Giles-"testifies on oath that on Saturday
night-the night on which Mr. Tyndale came
to his death-there occurred a difficulty
amounting to a personal collision between the
deceased and yourself; that you left the
house shortly afterward, and were followed
almost immediately by the deceased; that he
-the witness-heard you return after mid-
night alone. You say yourself that you entered
the grounds of Rosland, but did not go to the
house, or see any of the company assembled;
that you turned aside to a summer-house,
and, after some time spent in smoking, re-
turned to Strafford and went to bed. You say,
also, that, while in th~ grounds at Rosland,
you heard a pistol-shot in the direction of the
bridge; that you attached no importance to
the circumstance at the time, but the next
morning, when informed that deceased had'
not returned home the night before, you rec-
ollected this shot with some uneasiness, and
walked toward the bridge, the direction from
which it had sounded. In the investigation,
which took place before the coroner's jury,
did you mention the factof your having heard
this shot?"
"I did not," said Max. "There seemed
no necessity for doing so; it being evident
that the wound which caused my cousin's
death could not have been made by a pistol-
ball."
"I think I have understood that a pistol
was picked up upon the ground ?~"
"You have understood correctly. A pistol,
belonging to my cousin himself, was found
by me ~ipon the spot. Mr. Middleton was
present when I discovered itandlmen.
toned to him that I had heard a shot the
night before.-You remember this, I suppose,
Mr. Middleton?"
'~ Yes, certainly," answered that gentle-
13

193

a man, who was overcome with indignation at
e the manner in which the magistrate was pro.
- exceeding.
"Did it not occur to you, Captain Tyn-
I dale, that the shot might have been fired by
I the deceased, as it was his pistol?"
"I did not, and do not yet, know what to
think about either the pistol or the shot,"
answered Captain Tyndale, who was as thor-
oughly aware as the magistrate, or any one
present, that the evasive answers he was giv.~
ing could not but make another "rather
strong point in law," against him. But what
could he do? Compromise Norah he would
not-that he was determined-let whatmight
happen to himself. And, thanks to his sound
nerves and habitual self-control, he succeeded
in maintaining a composure and case of man-
ner which went far to counterbalance the
effect of his seemingly suspicious reticence-
not only in the opinion of the by-standers,
but in that of Mr. Purcell himself. Mr. Col-
ville, however, was not to be hoodwinked by
this "military effrontery," as, in his own
mind, he pronounced Max's self-possession to
to be. Once more he leaned close to the ear of
the presiding magnate, and uttered a few sen-
tences in a low but sharp and vehement tone.
And once more Mr. Purcell, thus primed and
loaded by his leader, returned to the charge.
"You mentioned, I think, Captain Tyn.
dale, that it had been your intention to leave
Strafford on the morning following the mur-
der. Was this intended departure caused by
the altercation which had occurred between
Mr. Tyndale and yourself?"
At this question there was a sudden flicker
of haughty light in Max's dark eyes-.-- his
brows contracted sternly for an instant. But
he recovered himself almost immediately, and~
replied as readily as ever, though perhaps
there was a shade of curtness now in his
tone:
"I cannot conceive that it rests within the
province of the law to inquire into a matter
entirely personal to myself. My motives for
leaving Strafford are aside from any question
involved in the present investigation. The
fact of my having made my arrangements to
go, may be another thing; and this factican
prove by my cousin s servant there." Turn-
ing to giles-" I presume you have not for-
gotten what I said to you in the hall on Satur-
day night, just before I went out?" he in-
quired.


194                     A DAUGHTER
"No, sir," answered Giles; "I remem-
ber very well what you said. You ordered
me to tell Anderson to have some conveyance
at the door to take you to Wexford in the
morning in time for the train; and to be snre
to wake you early enough for you to get off."
"You decline, then, Captain Tyndale, to
answer my question as to whether there was
any connection between your intended depart.
ure from Strafford, and the difficulty which
you admit existed with Mr. Tyndale I"' said
Mr. rurcell, in a much more magisterial tone
than he had spoken before.
"I decline to answer a question which
seems to ~me irrelevant," was the reply.
"I must suppose, sir," said the magistrate,
with increasing coldness, "that you are not
well acquainted with the laws in force here-.
I understand you are a foreigner - or you
would be aware that any circumstance, bear.
ing the most remote connection with a case
of this kind, and likely to throw light upon it,
is legitimate subject of legal investigation. It
is in virtue of this fact that I, must request
you to explain the nature and subject of your
conversation with Mr. Tyndale on the night
before his death."
"That I absolutely decline to do," an7
swered Max, quietly, but very decidedly. "I
can only say that it related to a matter of
business about which my cousin had con-
sulted me, and which did not in the slightest
* degree concern myself."
There was a pause. Then the magistrate
said:
"I recommend you to reconsider your
reply."
"That is impossible," the young man an-
swered in the same tone as before."
*   "In that case I have no further questions
to ask," said the magistrate, after exchang-
ing a few words with his coadjutor. "It
- only remains for me to perform what, I assure
you, ails, is a ~e~y painful duty."
With this preface, he proceeded to reca-
pitulate the evidence in the case; beginning
with the charge lirought against Captain Tyn-
dale by Giles, pointing out the train of cir-
cumstantial evidence upon which this charge
rested; dwelling on Captain Tyndale's in~
* ability to produce any. proofs, or make any
explanations to exonerate himself from sus-
picion; and ending by committing him to
prison to aWait the action of the grand-jury.
At~this stage of the proceedings the jus.

OF BOHEMIA.

tice-room became a scene of no small com-
motion and excitement. There was a general
murmur of dissatisfaction; a large majority
of those present having already arrayed them.
selves as partisans on the side of Max. It
was true that they knew him very slightly-
many of them not at all. But there was
something in the man himself which excited
confidence and sympathy; while the fact of
his being a stranger added to the latter feel-
ing. As for Mr. Middleton, his wrath ex-
ploded in a burst of passionate invective
against the magistrate and his "wire-puller,"
as he denominated Mr. Colville, the like of
which he had not been guilty of indulging for
years. There is nothing more true than that
it is goed-natured, equable-tempered people
who are always most violent when once roused.
This gentleman, usually so mild and cour-
teous, was, upon the present occasion, so
much the reverse; and gave the two offenders
in question the benefit of hearing a few home
truths in such very plain and emphatic lan-
guage that several of the other gentlemen
present deemed it prudent to interfere as pa-
cificators, seeing that the said offenders (Mr.
Colville in especial) began to swell and red-
den with a passion which threatened to emu-
late that by which it had been excited. Max
himself-who, whatever were his feelings,
still retained an unruffled demeanor out-
wardly-was one of the principal of these
peace-makers. "For Heaven's sake, my dear
sir, don't let me be the cause pf your in-
volving yourself in a difficulty with two such
men as theac I', he said, earnestly, in a low
tone. "Come, ct~me, Middleton, you're rather
too hard on Purcell I Hecan't help being a
fool, you know!" whispered a friend into his
left ear. "You'll do a good deal more harm
than good," said another friend, with a warn-
ing shake of the head, and knitting of the
brows. "At this rate of going on, you'll not
be allowed to give bail, as I suppose you want
to do," cried a third into his right ear.
This last significant suggestion had an
immediate effect in restoring Mr. Middleton
to something like his accustomed manner.
As a matter of policy, he even tried to smooth
matters over a little for the wounded amour
propre of Mr. Purcell, remonstrating still
with that gentleman, but in a different tone.
But remonstrances, representations, persua-
sion, all proved vain; the magistrate was
too deeply offended by some of the stinging

I

MR. MIDDLETON'S FRIENDSHIP.

195

truths he had just been obliged to listen to, and Purcell held up to universal scorn as the
and which had been heard and appreciated, fools which he esteemed them. Still, he could
as he knew very well, by the crowd around, not but confess that Max's obstinate silence
not to be glad of an opportunity for annoy. was calculated to prejudice the public mind
ing his assailant in turn. He was obstinately against him. "He must have seen somebody
deaf to all appeal from his first decision, in my grounds," the puzzled gentleman
"Well," said Mr. Middleton, at last, "I thought. "If he would only say who it was
suppose it is useless to say any thing more-" -if he would only call a witness-the whole
"Quite so," interrupted the magistrate, charge must fall to the ground."
dryly. "Constable__"                    .   Full of these thoughts, he turned his
"But of course you'll take bail," con- horse's head into the gates of Rosland. He
tinted Mr. Middleton, quickly. "What shall knew that he could not remain there long
the amount be?"                          that since Max was under arrest - the fact
"Excuse me," said the magistrate, stiffly came back upon him now and then with the
(so effectually had his spleen been roused actual sensation of a physical shock-the ar-
that he needed no prompting or bolstering rangements with regard to the funeral would
from his wire-puller now), "I cannot take devolve upon him; but it was impossible to
bail in this case."                     resist the temptation for a little rest; besides
And to this resolution he adhered,    which, he knew that no one would be so well
able as himself to break the news of this ad-
ditional misfortune to 'his wife. As he en-
CHAPTER xxx~.                 tered the gates, he noticed the fresh track of
carriage - wheels (there had been a rain the
"The thorns which I have reaped are of the tree night before) curving in from the road. This
I planted; they have torn me, and I bleed, fact seriously disquieted him, for he feared
'I should have known what fruit would sprIng that there might be visitors at the house,
from such a seed."
and, in that case, he unhesitatingly made up
Mu. MIDDLETON, having shaken hands with his mind to go back to Strafford at once.
Max, and cheerfully advised him to keep up Any thing was better than to be forced to
his spirits, took his way home, with his own hear and to answer a stream of gossiping
spirits reduced to as l~w an ebb as could questions. On this point, however, he was
well be the case with a gentleman who, hay- rei~ssured when he reached the door.
ing reached mature years, knew better than to "What is the meaning of this?" he said
allow other people's troubles to annoy him in to the servant who appeared, pointing with
any treat degree. Re was a man who liked his whip to the tracks so clearly apparent on
to be comfortable, however, and he could net the damp gravel. "Is anybody here?"
help thinking that matters were in any thing "Nobody at all, sir," was the answer.
but .a comfortable condition. There was not "That is, I mean no company. Mrs. Sand-
only poor Leslie, for whom the stout fibres of ford and Miss Desmond's here. Mistis and
his heart ached, but there was Arthur cut off Miss Leslie's gone over to Strafford, in the
in the very flower of his youth, and Max in a carriage, sir."
position which was decidedly unpleasant, to "Gone over to Strafford-is it possible!
say the least of it. Then he fell to consider- When did they go?"
ing why Max was so remarkably reticent "'Bout an hour ago, sir, I reckon."
with regard to that interval of time at mid- "Did you hear when they expected to be
night which he had affirmed that he had spent back?"
in the grounds of Rosland. Some men-men "No, sir, I ~
of the Colville stamp-would have regarded "Hum!" Mr. Middleton paused and
this reticence as very suspicious; but Mr. looked meditatively at the sPeaker. He had
Middleton had more knowledge of character, no intention of going to Strafford now-on the
His belief in Max's innocence was unshaken contrary, he was very glad that he chanced
-indeed, it was only natural that it should to be away-and an idea struck him that,
have been deepened by that partisanship into since he was at Rosland, be might inquire
which men are so readi1~ beguiled, and by the whether, by any chance, anybody had seen
natural and excusable desire to see Colville Max the night before, though Max was un-
*


196                      A DAUGHTER
able to say whether or not he ha~I seen any
one else. "You say Miss Desmond is in the
house?"
"Yes, sir."
Alighting, he walked into the silent house, I
over which an unseen pall of grief seemed to
hang. Singularly enough, this aspect struck
himmuch more here tl~an at Strafford. Per-
haps the cause of this rested in the fact that,
at Strafford, there were~ no women, only men,
who, with the exception of Max and himself,
felt little affection, and nothing more than
conventional regret, for the dead. Here there
had been sighs, and sobs, and bitter tears.
Albeit the farthest in the world from a fanci.
ful man, Mr. Wddleton felt them in the very
atmosphere. He shoo~ Jiis head mournfully
as he walked into the fmpty sitting-room and
rang the bell. "Tel~ Miss Desmond that I
would like to speak td her," he said to Maria,
who answered it.
Having sent this message, he sat down
and fanned himself, hoping devoutly that
Mrs. Sandford might not flutter down upon
him from some unforeseen nook or corner.
He might have spared hisfears. Mrs. Sand-
ford was at that moment in her room busily
engaged in writing an account of all that had
occurred to her friends in Alton. Little as
Mr. Middleton thought it, the last sensational
item had reached Rosland, ar~d was at that
moment being chronicled as fast as pen could
go, with many double underscoring and ex-
clamation - points. The fair correspondent
had that morning debate(1 whether she would
not pack her trunk, and bid adieu to a house
which had become any thing save an abode
of gayety; but a keen desire to ~ee "the end
of the matter" had for once prevailed over
ennui. Now she had her reward. Now it
would be her privilege to send this second
item of intelligence like an electric shock
into the circles of Alton society. "You can
imagine the state of painful excitement, the
terrible nervoue distress that I am in," she
wrote, "but, of course, it is impossible for
me to think of leaving dear Mrs. Middleton
and our poor darling Leslie, both of whom
seem to lean upon me."
Mr. Middleton had not long to wait for
Norah. He had scarcely settled himself and
begun to appreciate the coolness and quiet
of the room, when a step sounded in the, hall
and she stood before him in the open door.
As he rose she advanced, and he had time to

OF BOHEMIA.

notice as she crossed the floor how strangely
pale she looked-not nervous, not as if she
had b~en weeping, not overwrought or hys-
terical, but simply devoid of all color, and
consequently wholly unlike herself in appear-
ance.
"Is it true?" she said, as she came near
him~-speaking before he could utter a word
-"is it true that Captain Tyndale has been
arrested on a charge of-of having caused his
cousin's' death?"
"I am sorry to say that it is quite true,"
Mr. Middleton answered, surprised at being
met by the knowledge which he meant to im-
part. "He has not only been(arrested, but
the examination is over, and, thanks to ~i pair
of obstinate, dunderheaded fools, he has been
"Committed?"
"To jail for trial. They absolutely went
so far as to refuse bail."
Norab uttered a cry-it was her first, so
she may be pardoned-and sank into a chair
which chanced to be near by. There was
nothing of affectation in this, her limbs abso-
lutely refused to support her. She put her
hands to her face and shuddered. Strong and
brave as she was, her nerves and her heart
both gave way. Arrested !-committed! It
seemed too terrible to believe!
"It is astonishing with what rapidity bad
~1ewsLtravels!~, said Mr. Middleton, in a vexed
tone. He thought her nervous and theatrical,
and felt more than half sorry that he had sent
for her. "May I ask how this information
reached you ?.-and have my wife and Leslie
heard it?"
"It reached us through a servant who was
~i Strafford," answered Norab, looking up.
"Yes, Mrs. Middleton and Leslie have both
heard it. It was because they heard it-be-
cause the servant told them that every one at
Strafford had gone to Wexford-that they
went over there. Leslie insisted upon going,
and Mrs. Middleton thought it best to take
advantage of he house being empty."
"It was v ry well that she did !" said Mr.
Middleton, w o was heartily glad that ke had
gone to W d. There was scarcely any
place, indeed, t which lie would not have
gone to escape th pain of being under the
same roof that witne sed Leslie's last parting
with her dead love.
"This is a bad case for Tyndale," he said,
after a minute, "though he has his own oh-

I

NORAH'S STORY.

stinacy to thank, as well as the folly of others.
He admits that he was in the grounds here
at midnight-which was about the time that
poor Arthur was killed, as near as we can
tell-but he either can't or won't give the
name of any person whom he saw or talked
with; so that his own admission tells against
him. I confess that I don't understand it!"
said he, in a half-annoyed, half-puzzled tone.
"I can't believe that he was the person who
had that struggle with Arth~ir at the bridge,
and yet his silence is inclining people to sus-
pect him who never thought of doing so at
first."
"You mean, then, that he acknowledges
he was here - in these grounds - at mid-
night?" said Norah, in a voice which scarce-
ly sounded like her own, so tense and sharp-
ened was it.
"Yes,1 he acknowledges it. He had no
option, indeed, about doing so-the servant's
evidence proved that he left Strafford, and
that Arthur followed him. What took him
out at that hour of the night he won't say,
however. It is a queer business altogether,"
said Mr. Middleton, summing it up sharply.
"The more I think of it, the queerer it seems.
If I had chosen to volunteer my evidence,
and say that the guests here had all left be-
fore he gould have got back-according to
Giles's statement of the time he left Strafford
-it would have made the matter still more
suspicious. As it is, I cannot conceive what
he did with himself that he is so loath to
tell."
As he ceased speaking, silence fell-a si-
lence in which he might almost have heard
the quick breathing of the girl near him.
She put her hand to her th~at, where some-
thing seemed choking her. As in a mirror
she saw all the array of merciless conse-
quences that must follow if she opened her
lips, and said, "He came to meet me." Yet,
it must not be supposed that she wits silent
because she hesitated to say it. She was si-
lent literally because she could not speak.
Such a host of emotions assailed her that she
felt like one whose breath is taken away in
the whirl of a great tempest. Foremost
among these was amazement - amazement
that Max should endure arrest, suspicion, im-
prisonment, should face the thought of all
that might ensue, sooner than utter words
which might throw a shadow on her name.
To understand the light in which Norab re-

197

guarded this which Max took to be a very plain:
and simple rule of honor, it must be remem-
hered that she had spoken according to the
stern letter of the truth when she said. that,
though admiration and love had been freely
offered her in the course of her life, consider-
ation and that chivalry of respect which is
the flower of courtesy, had rarely, if ever,
come within the range of her experience.
"What is my good name to him, that he
should guard it?" she thought, with such a
~rush of supreme gratitude that, at that mo-
ment, she even forgave him the words which
he would "never have spoken to Leslie."
"I did not know that you .had heard the
news of the arrest," Mr. Middleton said, while
she still remained silent-still gasped for
breath~ still felt that, if she tried to speak,
she would probably disgust and shock her lis-
tener by bursting into tears-" so I thought I
would come in and tell you, since Mrs. Mid.
dieton is not here. Do you know, by-the-by,
how long she is to remain at Strafford?"
"No," answered Norah. It cost her such
'an effort to articulate the word that it came
out with a force which was almost equivalent
to a moral cannon-ball-startling Mr. Middle-
ton not a little. He looked at her suspicious-
ly. What ailed the girl? He noticed again
that she was deathly pale, and that her lips
quivered. He began to be afraid of hysterics.
He extended his hand, and grasped his hat,
which was on a table near by.
"I have a good deal of business," he said,
hastily. "I think I better__"
"Be going," he would have said, if Norab
had not suddenly risen, and, in so doing,
barred his way. Her great eyes burned steady
and lustrous in her white face. There was no
faltering or hesitation now.
"If you can spare a few minutes longer,"
she said, "I wish you would be kind enough
to tell. me what I must do-how I must give
my evidence. I know what Captain Tyndalo
did in the grounds here that ni~t."
"Thu know!" repeated Middleton,
amazed. "Why, how on earth do you know?"
"Because he came to m~et me," she an-
swered. "Because he did meet me, and we
spent some time-an hour, perhaps-on the
steps of the summer-house. We were sitting
there together, when we beard the report of
the pistol, which was found near Arthur Tyn.
dale's body."
"God bless my soul! "said Mr. Middleton.


198                      A DAUGHTER
Yin was so astounded that he sat down again
in the chair from which he had risen. "Is it
possible?" he said, after a minute. "Are
you really in earnest in telling me this?"
"I am perfectly in earnest,", she answered
-a sudden flush, like the hectic spot of fever,
coming into, her cheeks. "Do you think I
would say such a thing if it were not true?
What reason could I have for doing so?
Surely you must see that Max Tyndale has
been ~ilent in order to spare me. He has
borne this suspicion rather than involve me,
rather than drag my name into such a matter.
-But he thinks more of me than I think of
myself!" she cried, pamionatcly. "No earth-
ly consideration could make me accept such
a sacrifice. Sir-Mr. Middleton - tell me
where to ~o, and what to do, and I will do it
this minute!"
"Sit down, and be quiet," said Mr. Mid.
dleton. "That is the best thing you can do
at present. Neither the magistrates nor Tyn.
dale are likely to run away. Now tell me
what is the meaning of this? Why should he
have come to meet you, at midnight, in the
grounds, when you could see him at any hour
of the day in the house?"
Then it was-face to face with this in-
quiry, and the keen eyes enforcing it-that
Norah felt the consequences of her disclosure.
How could she say what she must say, how
could she explain what must be explained,
without telling, the whole story of Arthur's
deception? It would have been hard to do
this at any time but it seemed doubly hard
now' that he was dead, now that he could
utternever another word in his own defense.
It seemed cowardice to assail the dead; but,
then, might not mercy to the dead mean in-
justice to the living? Max wss already suf-
fering from Arthur's, fault; should he suffer
still 'more?' This thought ended her doubt.
Mr. Middleton saw the lines of her face settle
into determination, the lips brace themselves
for a second, the drooping lids lift. He was
a man, though an elderly one, and 'the mute
though proud appeal of her eyes touched him
before she spoke.
"It is a long story, and not a pleasant
o~h~" she said; "but, if you wish to hear it
-,~j~itis necessary for you to hear it-I am
ready to tell it. But I warn you beforeha~id
that it will make you think bitterly of him
that is dead-of him who can never speak in
his own defense again.

OF BOHEMIAN.                                              THE MIDNIGHT INTERVIEW.             199

"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Middle.
ton. He felt bewildered, and yet something
like a gleam of light shot athwart the cloud
of puzzled doubt which surrounded him. His
brows beat, a spark of angry light came into
his eyes. Had Arthur Tyr~dale forgotten his
honor and ,his faith far enough to let this
fair-faced siren make a fool of him? Had he
been going.to meet her when he met his death?
"What do you mean?" he repeated, sternly.
"Whatever it is, you must explain." At that
moment he had neither respect nor compas-
sion for her in his heart.
But, as she read his thoughts, her color
rose, her eyes began to glow, the majesty of
bearing, which chiefly made her beauty so un-
like that of other women, came back to her.
She looked at him like a queen-one bora to
rule, by right divine, over the great realm of
hearts.
"I mean this,~~ she said, "that, when Max
Tyndale came to meet me on Saturday night,
he did not come on his own behalf, nor with
regard to any thing which concerned himself;
he came in the cause of the man of whose
murder he stands accused, the man who was
engaged to me before he ever knew Leslie-
the man whose letters are in my possession
now to prove that I speak the truth."
"Engaged to you!" repeated Mr. Middle-
ton. Astonishment stupefied him. "Do you
-do you know what you are saying 1','
"It was about those letters, which Arthur
was anxious to recover, that Captain Tyndale
came to me," Norah went on, with resistless
impetuosity. "I had agreed to surrender
them; but I wanted-not unnaturally, you
may think-some guarantee of good faith on
his part, some proof that he would not return
my generosity by slander. Perhaps you are
not aware that men do such things sometimes,
even fine gentlemen such as Arthur Tyndale
-wag." Her voice dropped over the last
word; it seemed as if, in the midst of the old
bitterness, a thrill of remembrance came to
her that he of whom she spake now only
"was." There was a short pause; then she
resumed more quietly: "All of ,this I can
prove, if you care for proof. But it is not of
these things 1 wish to speak. It ws~s of Cap.
tam Tyndale. I Want-you to understand why
he came to meet me; I want you to believe
that he had no personal reason for desiring to
see me. It waa as entirely a matter of busi-
ness with him as if I went to see my banker

U

-supposing that I had one. So it seems
hard that he should suffer, does it not? And
I-how much of this will Ineed to tell? Sure.
ly not the whole, for Leslie's sake, and even
for his sake-who is dead."
"Good' Heavens!" said Mr. Middleton.
"How can I tell? Give me a minuteto think
-to take it in! I never liked him; but to
suspect him of such dishonorable conduct as
this never occurred tome- never for an in-
stant! The false -hearted scoundrel !" said
he, grinding his teeth, and forgetting for a
moment what stupendous gulf-silencing all
speech, ending all wrong-lay between him.
self and the man of whom he spoke.
"He was not so false as weakI think,"
said Norah, gravely. "But it does not matter
now. Leslie has forgiven him-.."
"Does Leslie know?" interrupted he,
quickly, almost fiercely. "Surely you had
humanity enough not to tell ker this story?"
"I told her the truth when I found that
she had heard a garbled falsehood, which was
worse than the truth," Norah answered.-and
the dignity of her manner impressed, even if
it did not convince her listener-" I told it to
her on that night, after I came in from the
shrubbery. I had no alternative. Mrs. Sand-
ford had overheard a conversation, and so
knew enough to make mischief. This mis-
chief she made. Again I repeat, that her
garbled falsehood was even worse than the
truth."
"But," said Mr. Middleton, with gathering
indignation in his eyes and in his voice, "she
could never have overheard any thing, she
could never have found any thing, she would
never have been t~bIe to make mischief, if
you had not put it in her power to do so!
Do you think that it was honorable conduct
to come here with such a secret as this in
your possession, Miss Desmond? If you
knew any thing to Mr. Tyndale's discredit,
and wished to break off your sister's engage-
ment, it would have been honest to write and
warn her. I~ut to come here-to hold inter.
course-to write~ letters-to meet him clan-
destinely-nothing can justify it!"
"I know that now," said Norah. ~" I rec-
ognize it as fully as you can do. But I-
-well, I knew no better. I have lived a
more 'vagrant and hap-hazard life than you
can well imagine," said she, looking at him
with something half pathetic in her eyes.
"Nobody ever taught me any thing. I I

have had only my own instincts and impulses
to guide me, and it is not strange that I-
a girl of nineteen - have been sometimes
guided wrongly. I am sorry, very sorry, that
I came to make trouble in your home as I
have done-but I promise you that I will not
stay any longer than it is necessary for me 'to
do in order to clear the name of an innocent
man. Oh, sir," she clasped her hands and
leaned toward him with great crystal drops-
drops which did not fall - standing in her'
eyes, "don't think of me just now. Re-
strain your indignation for a little while, and
think of Captain Tyndale. Where must I
go, what must I do, to give my evidence for
him?"                         4'
"Good Heavens I" said Mr. ~Iiddleton,
irritated, exasperated, and yet touched. "Try
to be a little reasonable I Women can be
reasonable sometimes, I suppose - if they
try! Did I say any thing about-about want-
ing you to go?" (The words nearly choked
him', for he would have said any thing in the
world sooner.) "I said that it was a pity
you came with this secret in your possession,
unless you came to give an open, honest
warning to your sister. However, that is
over, and we are not likely to gain any thing
by going back upon it. You want to know
what you must do now to give your evidence
for Tyndale. Well, it is a disagreeable ne-
cessity, and one which will make any amount
of scandal and gossip, but you must go with
me to Wexford and testify to the fact that he
was in the grounds *ith I/on, before the magis-
trates who committed him -like a couple
of fools as they are!"
"To Wexford !-must Igo? "said Norah.
She shrank back piteously, and covered her
face with her hands. A terrible, cowardly
instinct said, "Why did you not keep silence,
and this need not have been?" A vision
of all the scandal, and gossip of which he
spoke rose up before her. How could she
meet it-court it, as it were?
"You must certainly go, unless you mean
to let that poor fellow suffer all the conse-
quences of what you say was no fault of his,"
answered Mr. Middleton, dryly. "I am as
loath to advise such a thing as you can be to
do it, for it will let loose a thousand tongues'
like so many hounds upon you, upon Leslie,
upon all of us; but there is no alternative.
Processes of law are not enacted in the cor-
ners of drawing - rooms. *Young ladies have

K

OP BOHEMIA.


200              A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.                                            MRS. MIDDLETON'S INDIGNATION.        201

to pay heavy penalties sometimes for appoint-
ing midnight interviews in the grounds."
His tone roused Norah more quickly than
any thing else could have done. 11cr hands
dropped, and she looked up. The short-lived
color had ebbed from her face; it was pale
again and very firm. In that moment,
"strength came to her ithat equaled her de-
sire." She put the weakness, which had al-
most conquered her, down, and set her foot
upon it.
"You are right," she'said-her voice was
as clear and steady as the notes drawn from
a violin by a master's hand "the conse-
quences of what has happened must fall
where they belong, and they certainly do not
belong to Captain Tyndale, whose only fault
is that he has served his friends too well. I
am ready to go with you at once~ After all,
what is my name worth, that I should guard
it so tenderly 1' Less than nothing if, by
bringing a shadow on it, I can clear one on
which no shadow belongs!"
"In talking that way, I do not think you
realize at all-" Mr. Middleton began, shocked
by the recklessness which was ready to sac.
riflee even that which women in general hold
to be worth nsore~ than life. But, as he spoke,
a figure stood in the open door, the appear-
ance of which hushed the words on his lips.
It was Leslie, with the long veil which she
wore thrown back from her fair face-a face
which the majesty of sorrow lifted into a
nobler beauty than it had ever known before.
It was but an instant that she stood there-
framed like a beautiful and touching picture
to their sight - then, seeing that the room
was not empty as she had imagined, she
turned, without a word, and passed across
the hail and up to the staircase, her head
drooping a little, but her whole bearing other-
wise unchanged.
Though she had come.and gone so swiftly
and so noiselessly, her appearance, which had
broken the thread of their conversation,
seemed to come with a certain strange appeal
to both of them. It seemed to plead for gen-
tle thoughts and merciful silence toward him
whom she mourned, him from whose dead
presence she had come. "We must think
of her!" Mr. Middleton muttered; and, as
he spoke, his wife entered the room.
"Are you here, George?" she said, with
a gleam of pleasure coming over her sad,
weary face. "How glad I am of it! I have

just been making myself doubly miserable by
thinking how worn-out and worried you must
be I Are you not tired to death, dear?" she
asked, laying one hand on his shoulder as
she reached his side. It was a gesture full
of tenderness, and as near a caress as Mrs.
Middleton would have permitted herself in the
presence of a third person.
"I suppose I am," said George, taking the
hand into his own, "but I have not had time
to think about it. One thing has followed
so fast on another. Sit down, Mildred: I
have a great deal to say to you, and you are
just in time.. Miss Desmond tells me that
you have heard of Tyndale's arrest?"
"Is it true, then? Servants have such a
singular capability for distorting facts, that
I never know what to believe, that comes
through them-but they were all very posi-
tive about it at Strafford"
"It is unfortunately quite true. He has
been arrested, examined, and committed to
prison by those pillars of law and wisdom,
Colville and Furcell."
"0 George, is it possible ? - how ter-
rible! What grounds are there for such a
charge?"
"Scant enough grounds, but it is astonish-
ing what a number of blockheads there are
in the world. I knew all the time that the
whole charge was absurd, but because he was
not able-or, rather, because he would not
say exactly what he was doing at midnight in
my grounds, they committed him to jaiL"
"At midnight !-but what ices he doing at
midnight here?" exclaimed Mrs. Middleton.
"Every one had gone home some time before
that, and Captain Tyndale I was sure-I' was
certainly under the impression-left early in
the evening I',
Mr. Middleton looked at Norab, Now
was her time to speak. But what woman has
not felt what Norah felt then, that it is easier
to make almost any cause good to a man
~than to a woman? She flushed and paled as
she felt her hostess's glance follow her hus-
band's and rest on her face. But, if the ex-
planation must be given, it might as well be
given at once. That thought nerved her to
return the look of the cold eyes bent on her,
and say:
"Captain Tyndale did leave the grounds
early in the evening; but he came back-to
meet me."
The audacity of this assertion almost took

Mrs. Mid4~leton's breath away. "To meet
you, Miss D~smond-.at midnight! Is it pos-
sible that I hear you aright?" -
You certainly hear me aright, madam,
though you may not understand me," Norah
answered. "I repeat that Captain Tyndale
came to meet me, that he was sitting with me
on the steps of the summer-house when we
were startled by hearing a pistol-shot, and
that he was with me for some time afterward
-facts which prove conclusively that he
could not have been the assailant of his
cousin."
"They may prove that," said Mrs. Middle-
ton, with icy coldness, "but you must excuse
me if I say that they also prove that you have
very little idea of decorum. You are a young
lady in my house and under my care, Miss
Desmond, therefore I have a right to say--
indeed it is my duty to say-that such con-
duct as t1his is totally opposed to any code of
propriety with which I am acquainted."
"That may very readily be," said Norah.
"But it is enough for me that I hold the
necessary evidence for clearing the name of
an innocent man-a man who came to meet
me, not, as you may imagine, madam, because
he wished to flirt with me, but because he
was anxious to serve the interests of his
cousin and of Leslie."
"And pray may I ask," said Mrs. Middle-
ton, haughtily, "what possible concern there
was between a midnight interview with youi-
self and the interests of Mr. Tyndale and
Leslic?"
"More than you imagine, perhaps," was
the reply. "More than I like to remember,
for it is the bitterest memory of my life that
I was once engaged to Arthur Tyndale."
"You!" said Mrs. Middleton with a gasp. -
She could say no more. If she had not been
the thorough-bred woman that she was, she
would have said, "It is false!" As it was, I
her look said it for her, and Norah caught
that look.
"I see that you do not believe me," she
said. "Fortunately, your' belief is not a mat-
ter of any importance. If It were, proofs, ~
and to spare, are ready to my hand. Mr.
Tyndale's letters are still in my possession,
though it was to return them that I met Cap- a
tam Tyndale on Saturday night. I am dull a
on the subject of decorum, 1 suppose, but I a
could certainly see no glaring impropriety in t
turning from my last good-night to your t

guests, and going to fulfill an appointment
with him at the summer-house in order to
speak without interruption on a matter which
in reality concerned either of us very little.
I was willing to relinquish Mr. Tyndale's
letters-relics as they were of a past which
had lost all association save that of pain for
me-but I should have been mad if I had
given them up without some pledge of good
faith from him. This he refused to give,
and so the letters are still in my possession.
"If this is all true," said Mrs. Middleton,
"and I-I can scarcely realize that it is-do
you appreciate how great yotfr duplicity has
been? If Mr. Tyndale was so utterly false
to Leslie, what were you? What did you ex-
pect to gain by it?" shejcried, with a passion
which was totally foreign to her usual manner.
"You must have had an object--you could
not have come here and made all this mischief
without one!"
"I cannot cntci upon my object now,"
said Norah, putting her hand with a sudden,
involuntary gesture to her head. It was not
strange that the latter began to swim a little,
that she began to ask herself when and where
all this would end. Then she turned abruptly
to Mr. Middleton.-" Are we not wasting
precious time?" she said. "Should I not go
at once and give my evidence? Surely they
will not refuse to hear it without delay. And
every hour counts with Aim- Captain Tyn-
dale!"
Before Mr. Middleton could answer, his
wife interposed.
"Are you mad, Miss Desmond?" she said.
Can it be possible that you think of taking
~kis-this story-into a court of law? If
you have no regard ibr your own good name
-if von have been reared so as not to know
~hat when a woman's reputation is breathed
ipon, it is gone-you might at least think of
[leslie, you might think of us I It is infa-
nous I-it is impossible! I have a right to
;ay that I will not allow it! I have a right
:o say that you shall not leave this house to
~o and drag our names through the mire of
ublic gossip and public scandal I"
"Madam," said Norah, firmly, "you have
io such right at all! Though I have had no
advantage of social training, I know i~s well
.s you can tell me, that when a woman's rep-
Ltation is breathed upon it is gone, and I have
ned hard.-.very hard-to keep mine from -
cing breathed upon; but, even for my repu-

201


202                       A DAUGHTER
station's shke, I have no right~to hold back
and be silent when the truth will clear an in-
nocent man~ Not even for Leslie's sake, not
even for the Bake of the dead, have I any
right to hesitate-though I trust," she added,
almost wistfully, "that I may take the whole
burden on myself. Will it he necessary to
mention wAy1 went to meet Captain Tyn-
dale?" she asked, turning to Mr. Middle-
ton.
'~ I do not think so," he answered, hesi-
tatingly-" at least, I hope not.-I am afraid
there is no help for it, Mildred," he added,
turning to his wife. "I feel it as much as
you can do, but I see no alternative. Cap-
tahi Tyndale, like a man of honor, has re-
fused to say what brought him into the
grounds. For this silence he is now suffer-
ing, and since Miss Desmond knows what
~ brought him-since she saw and spoke with
him-it is only right that she should give her
evidence in his favor."
"Not at such ~. sacrifice as this," said
Mrs. Middleton, with a face set like graniI~e.
"Captain Tyndale is a man-he is able to
endure suspicion. But for a woman to come
forward and give such evidence ag'~iinst'her-
self-it is beyond every thing that he could
ask or expect."
"There is no help for it," repeated Mr.
Middleton, with a sigh. Then he turned to
Norah.-" You are right, Miss Desmond,"
he said, coldly. "We are wasting valuable
time.' If you will put on your bonnet, I will
drive you into Wexford and try to settle the
business at once."
ChAPTER XXXIV
Such a prone and In her youth
There            speechless dialect,
as moves men; besides, she' bath prosper-
ens art
When she will play with reason and discourse,
And well she can persuade."
WHEN Norah went up-stairs to put on her
bonnet as Mr. Middleton had directed, she
paused in the act of doing so, and looked in-
tently at her face as reflected in the mirror.
( t was paler thnu usual, but this paleness, in-
tend of detracting from its loveliness, rather
*    drew' attention from the mere brilliance of
coloring to the perfect outlines of the nobly-
cut features, to the richsculpturesque waves

OF BOHEMIAN.
of her chestnut hair, and the full-orbed splen-
dor of the eyes. Any woman might well have
been content with such a face,' yet Norah
'looked uncertain and dissatisfied. In truth,
she was wondering what effect her beauty
would have upon the magistrates whom she
expected to confront, and whether she had
better enhance it-as a pretty woman knows
so well how to do-or to disguise it as much
as possible-which it would have been im-
possible to do in any perceptible degree. She
had not lived nineteen years in the world
without having learned to appreciate fully
the power which this face exercised over
men of all ages and all degrees. Wherever
she went, the sterner sex (called thus in
irony!) were willing and ready to do her 8cr.
vice, obdurate officials melted at a glance
from her eyes, no one was too high or too
low to refuse her the homage to which beau-
ty is entitled, and which it ever commands.
The question she now asked herself was
whetherthis beauty would tell for or against
Max'Tyndale. Would the magistrates yield
their point to her, as many men, older and
wiser had done before? or would they fall
into the grave error of thinking that it was
love or admiration for lwr which had drawn
Max to Roslaxid on that fatal night 1' In that
case-if they once had a clew to her connec-
tion with Arthur Tyndale-her beauty might
very readily work harm instead of good.
"Is not here a cause," they might say, "a
cause of strifeand bloodshed old as humani-
ty? Need we go farther than that fair face
to find a reason for all that has occurred?"
Having given this probability due weight,
and after mature deliberation-deliberation
so mature, indeed, that Mr. Middleton grew
quite impatient below-~-Norah, who had as
little vanity as any woman, short of a nun,
could possibly possess, decided to make her-
~self as plain as possible. She descended,
therefore, in the course of the next ten min-
utes, wearing her traveling-bonnet, with all
the rich masses of her hair hidden almost en-
tirely from sight, and a heavy veil over her
face. Mrs. Middleton had disappeared. Al-
though she had not yielded to her husband
far enough to admit that this disagreeable
step might' be a necessity, she did not choose
to make any further "scene" by opposing it.
But she had declared, very decidedly, that she'
could not see Norah again before she left.
"I cannot trust myself," she averred. "I

I

NQRAH BEFORE
do not know what I might say. There arc
no words to express the bitterness I feel tow-
ard her. It was a black day for all of us-
but especially for poor Leslie-when she first
set her foot across this threshold. I felt it
then as clearly as I know it now. Oh, why
de we not heed our own instincts more often
than we do? They are so seldom wrong."
So it came to pass that Norah found only
Mr. Middleton awaiting her. The carriage was
at the door. "You will be stared at enough,
unavoidably," he said, grimly. "I do not
~choose for you to be stared at in any way
which can possibly be avoided, so I ordered
this."
The drive from Rosland to Wexford was
short under all circumstances, but it seemed
to Norah now of no length at all. Sliq would
gladly have drawn it out to twenty miles, so
much did she dread the ordeal before her,
but, un4uckily, it was out of her power to
add another yard to the road over which the
horses trotted as gayly as if the sinking heart
behind had not wished them shod with lead.
This was when she thought of herself. When
she thought of Max the way seemed to length-
en interminably, and the horses to creep.
But, although she hated herself for doing so,
it was natural that just at this time she
should think most of herself. That whi~
lay before her might well have daunted the
courage of the bravest woman alive-for
bravery does not mean audacity, fa~jt less
shametessness Norah was not afraid that
her courage would fail her when it was need-
ed, and she kept every cowar~lly doubt and
fear locked fast in her oi~'n breast; but, all
the same, she shrank, as any woman with a
woman's instincts must have done, and wished
unavaiIin~ly that such a necessity might have
been spared her. Very little was said, either
by Mr. Middleton or herself, on the way. He
gave her a few directions with regard to the
manner in which it would be best for her to
give her testimony, aud added, with a sigh
of relief; that he was glad she was not like.
ly to be nervous, or to lose her head. "Wom-
en usually make complete fools of them-
selves," he added, candidly.
As they entered Wexford he grew a little
nervous himself. "Purcell can refuse an.
otherexainination if he chooses," he said to
Norah, "and he may do it out of spite to me.
I told him very plainly what I thought of his
~onduet this morning.

THE MAGISTRATE.                     203
"And if he refuses," said Norah, aghast,
"what then?"
"Then we shall have to apply for a writ
of ka6eas corpus, and take him before the
judge of the district."
"Him! Do you mean the magistrate!"
"The magistrate !"(with a laugh), "not
exactly. Tyndale, I mean." Then, putting
his head out of the window, "Drive to Mr.
Purcell's house," he said, to the coachman-
adding, to Norah, as he drew back-" He is
more likely to be there than anywhere else
this time of day."
When the carriage drew up before Mr.
Purcell's house-a pleasant, rambling, double.
story building, in a large grove-Mr. Middle-
ton alighted, and told Norah to remain where
she was., "I'll see if he is here, nndifhe
will grant the examination," he said. "He
may be more reasonable when he hasn't got
Colville by."
"Please persuade him to do it," said No-
rah. "I know you can if' you will try! Or
take me along and let me try!"
"That is not necessary," said Mr. Middle.
ton, who did not rate as highly as he should
have done the valuable aid of Norah's lovely
face and Norah's eloquent tongue. So ho
went to the house alone-passing up the
shaded walk, across the piazza, on which were
several chairs and a child's rocking-horse, to
~he wide-open doors of the hall. Here, as
Norah's keen eyes perceived, a gray-whis-
ke~ed gentleman met him, and, sitting down
in full view, they proceeded to talk. She
watched them eagerly-trying to gain some
idea of what they were saying from the dumb
show of gesture and the expression of atti-
tude. Passers-by on that quiet village street
were few, but even those few cast curious
glances at the beautiful face, from which the
disguising veil had been carelessly pushed
aside. For once, Norah was unconscious of
either attention or admiration. What were
they saying? When, w quId they have done?
Did the magistrate menb to grant the exami-
nation? These were the impatient questions
which filled her mind.
Suddenly an instinct came to her that the
magistrate did tact mean to grant the exami-
nation. How this impression was conveyed
she did not know, neither did she stop to
doubt its accuracy. Her impatience became
uncontrollable, and the desire to act, which
was always her governing impulse, ~med to

p


take irresistible possession of her. Before
she was scarcely aware of what she meant to
do~ she hadstepped from the carriage, crossed
the sidewalk, and opened the gate. A mlii.
ute later she was moving quickly up theover.
shadowed walk, conscious that the two gen-
tlemen were regarding her with considerable
surprise from the piazza.
As she ascended the steps they both rose.
Mr. Middleton looked annoyed as well as sur.
priced. He had found Mr. Purcell very im-
practicable indeed, and was provoked that
Norah should have come forward in this un-
necessary manner.
"I am afraid I have kept you aidingng
some time, Miss Desmond," he said, stiffly.
Then, turning to the magistrate, he added:
"This is the witness of whom I spoke.-Miss
Desmond, let me introduce Mr. Purcell."
"I came in to see Mr. Purcell," said No-
rah, in her frank, clear voice. She declined
by a gesture the chair which Mr. Purcell
hastened to offer. He, on his part, was as
much struck by her beauty as she could have
desired, and felt an involuntary softening of
his resolution, if not of his heart. He had
not looked for any thing so interesting as this
dazzling young lady. Mr. Middleton had 1
spoken of a witness, but he had entered into
no particulars, and Mr. Purcell ,having his
pride and obstinacy both in arms, had de-
clined to grant another examination. Now
he began to feel a little 'curiosity to hear
what the witness had to say, and Norah did
not leave him long in doubt on this point.
"It is likely that I am very presumptuous
in fancying that I may be able to influence
you more than Mr. Middleton," she said, with
a smile that nearly took the worthy magis-
trate's breath away; "but I could not remain
quiet when so much depends on your dcci.
sion, and I have come to say that I hope you
will grant the examination. Surely" (look.
ing at him with anxious, wistful deprecation)
"you have not refused to do so ~
"I-I have been telling Mr. Mi~dleton
that I-really I cannot see why I should do
so," answered Mr. Purcell, stammering like a
school-boy. "It was in Captain Tyndale's
power to have brought forward any evidence
which he desired to produce, and he not only
refused to do so, but his refusal was given in
a very curt and contemptuous manner. There.
fore, I cannot see-"
"Shall I tell you why he refused ?" inter. I

erupted Norab, with her eyes glowing like two
stars. "It was because he did not wish to
bring me into notoriety, as a witness in his
favor I-it was because he would not shield
himself by throwing the least shadow on a
woman's name. I was with Captain Tyndaic
during the time that he was in the Rosland
grounds, Mr. Purcell, and, although he did
not choose to summon me as a witness, I have
come to testify on his behalf. Do you mean
to tell me that you are going to refuse to hear
my evidence ? '~
"Certainly not," answered Mr. Purcell,
promptly.' "I-of course, this alters the
state of the case entirely. If it was a natural
and commendable reluctance to drag you into
such a matter which made Captain Tyndale
refuse to summon you as a witness, it is pos-
sible for me to stretch a point, and have an-
other examination of the case.-Usually, how-
ever," turning to Mr. Middleton, with an evi-
dent desire to save his credit, "this would be
quite irregular. After the prisoner has been
committed, the only proper way to procure
another examination is by means of a writ of
habeas cos-pu~, issued by-"
"I know all about that," said Mr. Middle-
ton, impatiently. "But it is only a-hem l~
exceptional magistrate who adheres so rigidly
to the letter of the law. There's latitude in
these things, Purcell-great latitude. But,
since you have finally decided in favor of the
examination, suppose that we have it over at
once 1' It is an unpleasant business ~o Miss
Desmond under any circumstances, and the
sooner it is dqne the less attention it will cre-
ate."
Mr. Purcell made no difficulty about this.
He suddenly became as obliging as possible
-so obliging, indeed, that Mr. Middleton felt
that he had made a great mistake and* lost
much time in not bringing Norah forward at
once. If the truth had b~en known, how-
ever, he would have learned that the worthy
magistrate was not only fired with chivalric
gallantry by Norah's exquisite face, but he
was also burning with curiosity to learn-
as it would be his "duty" to do-what part
in the tragedy she had played; for, alas!
Norah's misgivings were true. Mr. Purcell j~
had already settled in his own mind what ~
her r6le had probably been.' This was the
ill turn which that delusion and snare, called
beauty, did for her.
They drove at once to the justice-room,

1

I

and the prisoner was sent for. His first , e-
quest when left alone had been for pen and
paper, and he was writing a letter to Norah
when the sheriff came for him. In this letter
he had forcibly stated the reasons why she
should keep silence with regard to having
met him on that fatal night, and it may be
imagined, therefore, that his surprise and
consternation were great when he entered
the justice-room, where the first person whom
he saw was Norah, sitting by Mr. Middleton.
He uttered an exclamation, and would have
walked up to her immediately, if the magis-
trate had not interfered.
"Excuse me, Captain Tyndale, but I must
ask yoi~ to defer speaking to the witness until
after she has given her testimony. I have
been induced to relax my usual rules and
grant your case another investigation, be-
cause I have been informed that she- has im-
portan~ evidence to offer in your behalf-"
"I think there is some mistake," inter-
rupted Max, impetuously. "Miss Desmond
knows nothing-it is impossible that she can
know any thing-bearing at all upon what you
are good enough to call my 'case;' in other
words, the death of my cousin."
"Miss Desmond is certainly the best
judge of what she knows," answered the
magistrate. He had no liking for this brusque
young soldier, and did not hesitate to show
as much. "Be good enough to sit down and
keep quiet, sir.-Miss Desmond, I am ready
to hear your evidence."
Then Norah, who had not spoken to Max
-who, indeed, had not done more than barely
give one glance at him as he entered-ad-
vanced to the table, behind which the magis-
trate was sitting. Despite Mr. Middleton's
anxiety to get the thing over and keep it
quiet, the' news of another~ examination had
spread, and a considerable number of sight-
seers had followed in the train of the sheriff
and prisoner. Fr~m lip to lip the intelligence
had passed that Mr. ;Middleton had brought
in a lady to give evidence-a young lady, a
pretty lady, those who had seen her in the
carriage at Mr. Purcell's gate averred-there.
fore the justice-room was filled in an almost
incredibly short space, and Norah faced quite
an audience when she rose.
Then it was that the training of her life
stood her in good stead. If her beauty, when
she threw back her veil, sent a thrill through
all present, the supreme dignity and grace of

her bearing-her perfect self-possession and
complete unconsciousness-astonished them
still more. As for Max, he held his breath as
he looked at her. He was enraged-enraged
that she should causelessly (as he thought)
draw down upon herself all the comment, the
certain gossip and possible scandal, which
would ensue: but he was also fascinated so
deeply that for a minute he forgot the pres-
ence of every one but herself. He wondered
that he had never seen before ahe grandeur
that dwelt in those perfect features, the brave,
strong, dauntless soul which looked out of the
lustrous eyes. In a position where almost
any girl would have trembled, and blushed,
and faltered-for notanother's woman's face
was in the crowded room-she stood like a
princess, with no deepening flush of color on
~her faiL- face, no quiver of self-consciousness
in her manner.
Having taken the necessary oath, she
made her statement in a voice which was dis-
tinctly audible to every one present-her
clear, pure enunciation serving instead of any
elevation of tone.
"On Saturday night," she said, "there
was a dinner.party' at ~lr. Middleton's. I
think it must have been about ten o'clock
that Captain Tyndale came up to me as I was
sitting on the lawn, and told me that be had
been looking for his~cousin, but that, not being
~able to find him among the guests, he thought
it likely that he had gone back to Strafford.
He intended to follow him, he said., in order
to speak on a matter of business; and he
asked me-since I, also, had some connection
with this business-if I could not see him
if he came back to Rosland afterward. I
thought that the company would probably
not be dispersed by that time, and I agreed
to do so-telling him that I would meet him
at a summer-house in the grounds at half-
past eleven o'clock. At that hour the last of
the guests were taking leave-most of them
saying that they could not stay later because
it was Saturday night-and it chanced that
nobody observed me when I entered the
shrubbery to keep my appointment with Cap-
tain Tyndale. I found him waiting for me
at the summer-house, and the first, thing
which he told me was that his cousin had
been drinking so deeply that he was quite
impracticable, and had refused absolutely to
listen tb him. We were both sorry for this,
and discussed it at some length. Afterwar?

204                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA..                                                 MISS DESMOND'S TESTIMONY.            205

'I.


THE WHOLE TRUTH.                   207

206               A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

we were talking of other things, when iv,
were startled by the report of a pistol ap
parentlyin the direction of the bridge. Cap
tam Tyndale was anxious to go and see wha'
it meant, but I objected to being left alone
and therefore ha remained with me. ~inee rn
other report followed, we did not attach mud
importance to the shot, and soon returned t
the conversation which it had' interrupted
Not very long after this we separated. That
sir, is all that I know, and I am sure it is all
that Captain Tyndale knows, of the murder of
Arthur Tyndale."
After the clear tones ceased, there was s
moment of dead silence. Mr. Purcell looked
as he felt, embarrassed what to say. Th
spectators held their breath and pricked theii
ears to hear what would come next.
As the minute of suspense ended, peopl
became conscious that a gray-haired man
with bushy, gray eyebrows and a short whiji
in his hand, was pushing his way roughly
through the crowd to the magistrate's table.
This was Mr. Colville, who, by a lucky chance
(as he said to himself), had not left town
when the news of the second examination
reached him. He hurried at once to the jus-
tice-room and entered t~ie door in time to
hear Norah's testimony. As he came forward
now, she, like every one else, turned to look
at him, and, although she was not aware of
his importance in the eyes of his neighbors
or of himself, she recognized at a glance that
he was a ~man of influence, and she also rec-
ognized that he was an obstinate believ-
er in Max's guilt, and' a man who would he
proof against even the fascination of her
beauty
He walked past her as if he had not seen
her, and addressed himself with a frowning
brow to the magistrate.
"I am astonished at this, Purcell-really
astonished! If you meant to do any thing so
wholly unnecessary and foolish as to grant a
second examination, you might at least have
notified me of the fact, and not assumed the
entire responsibility in this manner."
"I should of course have sent and notified
you at once, but I thought you had left town,"
Mr. Purcell hastened to answer, in rather a
deprecating tone. "I - I could not well
refuse the examination under the circum.
stances," he went on, lowering his voice,
"but I "am glad to see you-very glad. I
think you will have to take the case in hand.

Really, I am quite at a loss what to think.
- Here's an alibi proved very~p~inly."
"Nothing of the sort," said Mr. Colville,
in his hard, rasping voice. "The young lady
merely asserts that Captain Tyndale met her
at midnight in Mr. Middleton's grounds-for
what purpose she does not state - but this
fact does not at all exonerate him from the
charge against him. The murder may have
occurred at any time between midnight and
I daylight."
Mr. Middleton and Max both rose on the
same impulse to speak, but, before any words
could escape from the lips of either, Norah's
clear voice sounded.
"There is one point in my evidence which,
in making such an assertion, you certainly
overlook, sir. 'I have distinctly testified on
oath that Captain Tyndale and myself heard
a shot, which effectually proves when Mr.
Tyndale was assailed - since I have under-
stood that a discharged pistol was found near
the scene ofthe struggle."
A lawyer could not have made this point
more neatly, and so Mr. Colville felt. He
first stared and then colored. In his zeal he
1~ad' overlooked that fact, and it would have
been disagreeable enough to be reminded of
it by anybody, but by a girl -it was intoler-
able!
"You attach more importance to that
point than it deserves," he said, sharply.
"The pistol which was found had no ap-
parent connection with Mr. Tyndale's death.
It might very readily have been placed near
the spot where the struggle-evidently a per-
sonat struggle, closely resembling one which
Mr. Tyndale's servant testifies to having wit-
nessed in the house-took place, in order to
draw off suspicion, and with a view to the
fact that you had heard a pistol discharged
in that direction at or about midnight."
Mr. Middleton and Max looked at each
other. "This is intolerable!" said the lat-
ter between his clinched teeth; and, regard.
less of consequences, he was abOut to step
forward, when the elder gentleman's band'
fell on his shoulder.
"Keep quiet!" he said, though his own
voice was trembling with anger. "You'll only
do harm, by making a scene.' Not but that I
should like amazingly to knock the insolent
blookhead down myself !-still, it is best to
keep quiet. I believe Miss Desmond will
prove a match for him anyhow."

U

"But how on earth can you expect me to
stand by and see her browbeaten and insulted
on my account 1" said Max, who was almost
choking.
"He'll not insult~her," said the other, sig-
nitKleantI~. "Let hik~i bluster as he will, Col-
yule know~ ~gJettar than to try that!"
This colloquy, *hich took place in short,
nervous whispers, ~did not occupy a minute.
With a parting "i~ep quiet!" Mr. Middleton
moved forward to the side of Norah. But
Norah needed no defender. She regarded
Mr. Colville with eyes so steady that they al-
most abashed him, and a face filled with elo-
quent, indignant scorn.
"Your private suppositions, sir," she said,
coldly, "cannot possibly affect the evidence.-
That," turning to Mr. Purcell, "I have given
before the magistrate, and it is for him to act
on it."
"Mi~. Colville also forgets or ignores one
thing," said Mr. Z4dleton, speaking here.
"The servant, on wi4se single and unsup-
ported evidence all t~iie infamous and insult-
ing accusation rests, testified explicitly that
he heard Captain Tyndale return to Strafford
and enter his room a little after midnight.
It follows, there fore, that he must have re-
turned home immediately after parting with
Miss Desmond."
"I really think the case is very strong in
his favor, Colville," said Mr. Purcell, in ~
whisper.
"So far from being in his favor, the case
is as strong as ever against him," said Mr.
Colville, in a loud, positive voice. His blood
and his mettle were both up. He looked
upon his colleague as a weak-minded fool,
and would not have hesitated to tell him so.
He believed that Max was guilty, and he
meant to prove him so. The idea that he-
the' murderer-should be sent forth scathe.
less to enjoy the inheritance of the man he
had murdered, seemed to Mr. Colville too
monstrous to be allowed!
"There is one point-the most important
point-which rests in mystery yet, and which
it is necessary should be cleared before any
evidence can be said to be in the prisoner's
favor," he went on, 'after a short pause.
'~ This is the subject of his dispute with the
murdered man. He refused to give any ac-
count of it himself, but, since Miss Desmond
has come forward to offer her evidence on
another point, it is likely that she may be

able to enlighten us also on this.-Will you
state," turning to Norah, "what was the ex-
act nature of that 'business' which Captain~
Tyndale had with his cousin, and in which,
you have already said, that you also were
concerned)'
"That can have nothing to do with the
matter-that cannot be necessary'(' said No-
rah. Max, watching her closely with eager,
anxious eyes, saw that i~he did not flush, but,
on the contrary, turned very pale. He thought
she would recognize now, with a sense of dis-
may, what she had brought upon herself. He
did not know that she ha4 seen it all, and
counted the cost of it all beforehand.
"Do you refuse, then, to answer the ques-
tion?" said Mr. Colville, growing exceedingly
like a turkey-cock in the face.
Norah hesitated. She did not know how
far his power extended, but she had a vague
fear of consequences if she did refuse. Not
consequences to herself- she had flung all
thought of herself to the winds-but ,to Mnx.
Was the wiwle truth the only ~t~hin which
I would clear him? Yet she h*d l~ped to
I leave part of it untold, if only I'or Leslie's
sake. Suddenly it occurred to her that Mr.
Colville had no right to make such an in-
quiry, and, acting upon this thought, she
turned to Mr. Purcell with the dignity and
grace of her bearing unchanged.
"I thought that you, sir, were conducting
the examination," she said'. "Will you al-
low me, therefore, to ask if it is necessary
that I should answer the question which this
very courteous gentleman thinks fit to address
tome?"
"This gentleman is Mr. Colville, and a
justice of the peace as well as myself," said
Mr. Purcell, hurriedly. "I-hem !-think it
would be best for you to answer the question
he has asked."
Norah looked at Mr. Middleton, appeal-
ingly, but her glance received no answer.
Angry, mortified, indignant, furious with Col-
ville, yet knowing that the story of Arthur
Tyndale's conduct must sooner or later tran-
spire, he' looked down, and dared not trust
himself to utter a word lest he should explode
in the invectives which he had used once be-
fore that day. Then she looked at Max. It'
was the first time that their eyes had met,
and the mute appeal of her 'glance was too
much for the young man, who had momently
felt the leash in which he held himself slipping


208                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.                                                    THE WRONG MAN.                    209

from ha grasp. He sprang to his feet with
a quick motion, and, before the sheriff or
anybody else could interfere, stood by her
side.~
"Take care that you do not go too far,
sir!" he said, addressing Mr. Colville, with a
ring in his voice, and a glance in his eye,
which made that gentleman take an involun-
tary step backward. "The charge on which
you have seen fit to cause my arrest is in.
- famous and unfounded enough, as you must
be aware; but when you undertake to brow-
beat and insult a lady, who has generously
come forward, of her own accord, to testify in
my behalf, you are going too far-muck too
* far! If you presume on the fact that I am a
prisoner now, you might remember that I am
not likely to remain one-~4'or, surely, in~this
country judges and juries are not fools as
well as magistrates ! - and when I am at
liberty, sir, you shall answer for this con-
duct, as surely as there is a sun tin the
~
"Tyndale! Tyndale!" said Mr. Middle-
ton, in a warning tone - but M~ax, having
yielded himself up to passion, haA no ear
for friendly remonstrances. He shook off the
other's hand, impatiently, and looked at Mr.
Colville with the most fiery eyes which it is
likely that gentleman had ever encountered
in his life. But Mr. Colville, who was not
easily intimidated, saw his advantage, and in
a moment seized it.
"Any one who doubts this man's guilt,"
* said he, looking magisterially -around at the
breathless but excited crowd, "has now an
opportunity to test the justice of his opinion.
The man who would venture to threaten a
magistrate in the prosecution of his duty,
would, certainly, be capable of assaulting his
cousin, with whom he had some mysterious
cause of disagreement, and whose heir-at-law
he was, in a secluded place at midnight."
Whatever this argument might have been
called in logic, it had its effect upon the lis-
tening crowd. A slight murmur rose. Norah
turned to Max.
"See what you have done!" she whis-
pered. "Pray-pray, go hack and be quiet!
I might as well answer the question. It must
come out sooner or later."
"Don't think of such a thing!" answered
he, impetuously. "For God's sake, don't
think of it! They have no right-it is in-
famous!"

"Tyndaic, if you don't want a scene, you
had better go back to your seat. Colville is
speaking to the sheriff," said Mr. Middleton,
anxiously.
r" The first thing that Mr. Colville knows,
he, or his friends, will have something for
which to commit me in earnest!" said Max,
who felt that patience and forbearance had
some time since ceased to be virtues in this
particular case.
Affairs were in this interesting condition,
the spectators were growing more excited,
and Mr. Colville more angry every instant,
the sheriff was hesitating, Max was defiant,
and Mr. Middleton was uneasy, when a young
man, who had elbowed his way from the door,
and whom nobody had observed in the pre-
vailing excitement, walked up to the magis-
trate's table and addressed Mr. PurcelL
"You have the wrong* man in custody,
sir," he said. "I know all the circum-
~tances and the cause of Mr. Tyndale's
death."
ChAPTER XXXV.
"1 was too proud the truth to show,
You were too blind the truth to know,
And so we parted long ago."
Ir would be difficult to describe the pause
of absolute astonishment which fell over the
excited crowd at those words. Every eye in
the room turned at once on the new-corner,
while Mr. Middleton, wheeling round upon
him, uttered an exclamation of mingled amaze.
ment and credulity, so violent that it startled
every one present.
"Great Heaven!" he said, " C'arl I-is it
you?"
"It is I, sir-all ~right!" answered Carl,
extending his hand. lie spoke mechanically,
and looked so jaded, pale, and grim, that it
was not surprising that very few persons had
recognized him as lie made lis way up the
room. "I did not mean to spring the thing
on you like this," he said, as his uncle took
the extended hand, half doubtfully, and looked
at him with a score at least of interrogation.
points in his eyes. "I thought I would go to
Rosland, talk it over quietly, and take your
advice about the best course to pursue; but
when I got off the train ten minutes ago, I
heard that ~yndale had been taken up and
was being examined, so I thought the best

U

thing I could do would be to come in at once,
state exactly how it all occurre'l, and take
the consequences, whatever they may be."
"But, are you mad?" said Mr. Middle.
ton. "It can't be possible that iou know any
thing of Arthur Tyndale's death, for you were
not even in the county."
"You are mistaken," sa~id the young man,
quietly. "I know every thing-every thing
about it." Then he turned abruptly to
Norab. 4. change which' it is hard to analyze
came over his face, a quick shiver of passion
crept into his voice. "Forgive me," he said,
"that I have to drag your name forward. If
it were possible to avoid it, I would do so, at
any risk or cost to myself!"
"My name!" said Norali. "What has
my name to do with it?"
But even as she i~sked the question, she
felt what ~er name had to do with it, and a
sudden sense of faintness came over her. It
must all be told, then-there was no help for
it! The faces around suddenly seemed to
swim before her. She turned to Max with a
blind instinct that in another moment she
would make a scene. "Let me sit down!',
she said, faintly.
But, after he had taken her to a seat, she
detained him and would not allow~ him to
open a window or ask for water. "Don't!"
she said. "People will think that I have
something to dread, and it is not of ,nysclf
that I am thinking. You know that."
"Bt4 you should think of yourself," he
said, angrily. What does this mean? What
can this hot-headed young fool have to say
about you?"
"Only the old ~tory seen from his point
of view. Hush! - what is he saying? Let
me hear!~~
He had taken the oath and was giving his
evidence to the magistrate with the manner
of one who wishes to tell his story and be
done with it. His quick, nervous voice-for
it was evident that his coolness was only the
result of supreme excitement - rang through
the rooms clearly that-everybody heard dis-
tinctly all that was said. The silence was
profound. Men pressed nearer, but no one
spoke. Mr.Purcell listened with the air of
a man who has reached tha last point of
possible astonishment, Mr. Colville eyed the
speaker sternly with an air of mingled sus-
picion and incredulity; Mr. Middleton sat
down with an audible groan. This was a.
14

terrible blow to him. Meanwhile, Carl was
speaking:
"In saying that I am acquainted with the
circumstances of Mr. Tyndale's death, I must
add that I was unfortunately the cause of
that death," he said, with his head upheld,
his face white and set, his brown eyes steadily
meeting the magistrates'. "The death itself
was purely accidental; but~he was struggling
with me when it~ occurred-when, stepping
back incautiously, he lost his balance-so it
is possible that the law will bold me account-
able for it. * However that may be, I am here
now to speak the truth and clear suspicion
from a man who has becir unjustly accused."
"You are rather late in coming to speak
the truth," said Mr. Colville, abruptly. ~' May
I ask where you have been ever since the
murder was discovered?"
"I will explain that point presently,"
said Carl, with a motion of the hand which
could scarcely have been more carelessly con-
temptuous if he had been brushing afly aside.
Then he went on, addressing himself to Mr.
Purcell with pointed directness:
"In order that you may understand the
cause of the struggle which resulted in Mr.
Tyndale's death, it is necessary that I should
tax your patience far enough to enter into a
detail of some personal circumstances which
preceded it. ~n last Saturday I decided to
leave my uncle's honac for a short visit to
some relatives in a lower county. Chancing
to drive into Wexford on business during the
earlier part of the day, I thought that I might
save time, in case I was late at night, by
buying my ticket then; so I went to the
ticket-office, where I was informed of the
change of schedule, which threw the trains
several hours later than the time on which
they hadbeen running, and where I also heard
that Nir. Tyndale was intending to leave Wex.
ford that night. This intelligence struck me,
for I "-he paused, hesitated, a glow of color
came into his face, then paled again.--."I at
once connected such an intention with some
words which I had overheard by chance that
mqyning -words exchanged between Miss
Desmond and Mr. Tyndale. They were talk-
ing in a summer-house in my uncle's grounds,
under the window of which I paesed"-he
emphasized this word for Norah, as she felt,
though he did not turn his glance on her-
"and, in so passing, caught a reference to the
ten-o'clock train at night which puzzled me.

Y~


210               A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIA.

When I learned the news of Mr. Tyndale's
proposed departure, however, all seemed plain
enough. I saw then that the man who was
engaged to one woman, had asked another
womanto ~lope'with him,' and, furthermore; I
l~eliev~ed ~hatshe.htd consented;to do so."
.Th~re was a slight 8tir as these emphatic
Wdrds.rasg out.- Kl~'eople were disposed to
be a; little. indignatit. " He won't clear him-
self byL sl~nd6ring' ~ dead man!" more than
one of.them mutt:ered.' Others had been
shrewd enough to' suspect some family scan-
'dal 'befoi~e' this. Max's reticence, and No-
rail's extraordindray beauty, .h~d been very
~igni~cantof scm
ethingof the kind.. Interest
began toineCease. 'Ftven Mr. Colville listened
m6re - attentively.. Max,. who was* overcome
with rage,'beut ~down~to Norah.. "Why do
you not go forward and contradict such an
assertion?" he said.
'.' There is time enough for that," she'an-
swered.'. "Let him finish' his story.' It is not
in ~y' ~ha~acter, hut 'in. Arthur Tyndale's
deatl~th'a't;th'&amp; magistrates are concernedd"
"I returned to Rosland,"' Carl 'meanwhile
went' on, "where .there was .a dinner-party
that evening. 'After. dinner I left, without
tellisg.my friends of the change of schedule,
of -which 'none of them'; were aware.. They
were all under the impression that I had taken
the :do~n-express, due' here by the 'old sched-
ule ~t' 9.40 p~'M.' -As soonas' I'reached Wex-
ford, I sent the dog-cart back to Rosland,' and
soon afterward set forth in that direction
myself.' I ivas' deta;rmin~d\to see if my sus-
picions with regard to Miss Desmond and
Mr. Tyndale were correct, and I was also de-
termined that' the elopement sho~4d not take
place:if I could prevent it."
.'"~ Excuse me if interrupt you for a minute,"
~aid' Mr. Purcell just'liere, "but why should
you.Jiave wished 'to' prevent it?" ' -
.",'Is it remarkable that I should have
wished 'to prevent a 'dishonorable scoundrel
fyoxn"playing fast-and-loose with the Cousin
in the 'fi'rst.instance, and 'the woman whom I
hoped to tuarry,~ in 'the second? " dematided
the young man, haughtily. ''. .
- "But..sin&amp;e Mr. 'Middleton.is the head of
ydur fanjillyand 'Miss Grahasne's guardian,"
ssld'the irrepressible Mr. Colville, "mayl ask
why you did not go to him, if you wished the
elopement prevented P"
"I am here to state that my conduct was,
not to render an account of the motives which

actuated mc," answered Carl, waxing more
haughty still. "Why I did not apply to my
uncle has nothing whatever to do with the
circumstances lam detailing." Then lie took
up the thread of his story again.-a story to
~which Max and Norah listened as eagerly as
any one else: "I entered the Roslax~d grounds
unobserved, and 'tbok'my way to the bridge.
I had an instinct that I should meet Arthur
Tyndale there, and I was not mistakenn' As
I crossed the bridge, I saw 'him advancing
from the opposite.side toward me. I "-he
stopped and hesitated for a minute-" I have
scarcely a clear recollection of what followed.
I met him just beyond the bridge, and asked
him where he was going. He answered with
an insolent refusal to tell inc. I charged him,
then, his intention. Upon this, he grew
very. viol~'~ accused me of insulting inter-
ference,: and finally drew- a pistol on me. 1
was uiiarmed; but I was the cooler man of
the two-besides which, I saw that he had
been drinking-and, as he was in the act of
firing, I knocked the pistol out of his hand.
Then' he sprang at me like a tiger, and we
closed. It was a hand-to-hand struggle for a
minute or two-how long, exactly, I can't tell.
I think he, would have got the best of me, if I
had not pressed him-almost unconsciously-
toward the edge of the ravine. It was there
his foot slipped,'and-with my weight telling
against him-he was hurled over. I should
have go~ie too, if iliad n~t save4 myself by
catching a:small tree.' He went down."
Again the speaker's voice ceased abruptly.
It was evidently only by.a 'strong effort that
he had forced himself to utter the last words.
These, words were simple enough, yet there
was something in tbem-an.unspoken. power,
an expressiOfl of reality-which thrilled every
one present. They' all ~felt that they had
listened to 'the truth. The magnetism of the
youpg man's tones seep~edto bring befoj~e
them, like a vivid picture, the midnight strug4
gle, with its awful ending. As for him, he
laid one hand on the table to steady himself,
while with the other be took up and drank oil'
a glass of water.; lie had not finished. There
was something still to tell and he must ~do it.
No ofle; spoke.' Even Mr~ Colville for~ once
was silent.' They waited eagerly, breathlessly,
until he went on:
"I was horribly startled when Tyndale
fell-for I knew the height of the bank just
there-and I waited for a minute that seemed

210


A STRAIGHTFORWARD STORY.               211.

to me an hour, to see if he would move or
speak. Since he did neither, I spoke to him.
He gave no answer. Then I struggled down
the bank as well as I could in the dim light,
and went to where he was lying. He "-a
short pause-" he breathed once or twice af-
ter I reached him, but he neither spoke nor
groaned. That is all."
"Not quite all," said Mr. Purcell, in a
grave voice, after a moment's pause, To him,
no more than to any one else~ did any doubt
of the statement come. Sometimes there is
an irresistible power in truth to ihake itself
felt, and this was one of those o .~casions.
No sane man could possibly have suspected
that any thing like falsehood lurked behind
Carl Middleton's white face, and simple,
straightforward story. "There is one thing
yet," said the magistrate. "If the death oc-
curred as y~u have described, why did you not
at once summon witnesses and acknowledge
the share you had borne in it ? "
"Because I was too horror-stricken and
excited to take time for rational thought,"
the young man answered. "The first im-
pulse which came to me when I realized what
had happened, was to leave the spot. This I
did at once. I retraced my steps to Wexford
so rapidly, that I reached there in time for
the Alton train, which I took. My undefined
intention was to leave the country as soon
as possible-not so much because I dreaded
any consequences of what had occurred, as
because I wished to fling it and all association
with it behind me. But, yesterday, cooler
thoughts came to mc. I began to realize that
the right thing to do was to'come back and
tell the truth, especially since I feared that
some innocent person.-I did not think of Cap-
tain Tyndale, however-might fall under sus-
picion. The result proves that this instinct
was a right one."
"I am sorry-extremely sorry-that Cap-
tain Tyndale should have suffered so much
annoyance," said Mr. Purcell-it was worthy
of note thateven such meagre expression of
regret as this stuck in Mr. Colville's throat,
as "amen" did in that of Macbeth-" I hope
he will remember that I only did my duty ac-
cording to the evidence given before me.
Such disagreeable mistakes will occur some-
times, but it gives me sincere pleasure to re-
lease him from custody now, with-with an
apology for his detention."
"I think you are proceeding rather fast,

Purcell," said his colleague, sti~y "The
law receives with reluctance-great reluctance
'-the evidence of a man against himself. There
are one or two points yet to be considered in
Mr.-ahem 1-Middleton's testimony. He does
not assert, but he leads us to suppose," pro-
ceeded this benig~.i minister of justice, "that
the ruling motive of the conduct which he
describes-very ungentlemanly and insulting
conduct, in my opinion-was a violent passion
for Miss Desmond, united with jealousy of Mr.
Tyndale. But it is a well-known fact that Mr.
Tyndale was engaged to Miss Grahame, and it
is scarcely likely, therefore, that he should
have been contemplating"(Mr. Colville was
fond of long words which had an imposing
effect) "an elopement with a young lady who
is-as I understand-related to Miss Gra.
hame."
Before Carl could reply-though the quick
lightning which leaped into his eyes replied
for him-Norah rose and came forward.
"Now is my opportunity!" she said, in a
nervous whisper to Max, and Max did not try
to detain her. He went forward with her,
however, and stood by her side while she ad-
dressed the magistrate.
"If you will excuse me," she said-and her
clear, sweet voice thrilled like music on all
the listening ears, after the harsh, masculine
tones to which they had been hearkening-
"I s~houId like to answer now the question
which was addressed to me before Mr. Mid~
dleton came in-the question relating tothe
business which took Captain Tyndale to Straf-
ford, and in which I have already said that I
was concerned. It will serve to explain and
in a measure substantiate the statement which
Mr. Middleton has made."
I am quite ready to hear any evidence that
.yo~ have to offer," said Mr. Purcell, cour-
teously. Elopement or no elopement, lie
could not resist the charm which Norah's
lovely countenance had for him. In fact, he
credited nothing in her disfavor, and would
not have minded breaking a lance for her iii
his old-fashioned way.
"I must ask you to believe, then, that it
is with deep regret, and only to'explaia things
which are misunderstood, and which may be
misrepresented, that I speak," she said. "I
am more than sorry-oh, much more than
sorry-to utter any thing which may reflect
discredit on the dead, or whieh can pain the
living; but I have no alternative. In justice

'I

I

I


212                      A DAUGHTER
to myself I must ~state the truth-.~-.in which
Captains Tyndale will bear me witness."
She then began, and, with a clear, un-
faltering voice, told the history of all that
had occurred between Arthur and herself,
together with the part which Max and Carl
had played therein; a history which has al-
ready been giv~i in detail, and need not
again be given in general outline. Mr. Mid-
dleton~writhed in his chair: but what could
he say? Even if objection would have done
any good, how could he object? He had
sense enough to know that this, which was
important to Norab, was essential to Carl.
Without her evidence, the cause of his quar-
rel with Arthur Tyndale would have rested
on his single, unsupported assertion. Now it
was proved beyond question by her testi-
mony and that of Max, corroborating all that
she said.
After the last words were uttered, she
drew down her veil and turned away. "That
is all I" she said. Then she walked up to
Mr. Middleton, who sat with one hand over
his eyes, the other resting on the top of his
gold-headed cane. "Will you take me to the
carriage?" she said to him, in a low, depre-
cating voice. "I suppose I may go now-
maylnot?"
"I suppose these gentleman will kindly
allow you to do so, since they have gratified
their curiosity by ferreting out all that they
wanted to know," he answered, bitterly. He
rose as he spoke and offered her his arm.
Keenly as he resented her. conduct, "from
first to last," as he said to himself, he would
not for any consideration have seemed lack-
ing in the most minute punctilio o~ respect-
especially before all the curious eyes that
were bent upon them. Leaning on his arm,
she passed down the aisle which the curious
crowd, killing back on either side, made-and
so out of the justice-room.
Mr. Middleton placed her in the carriage,
which was waiting on the outside, and then
closed the door. "After you havei~aken Miss
Desmond to Rosland, bring the carriage
back," he said to the coachman. "I must
trouble you to explain my absence to my
wife, Miss Desmond," he atded-very coldly-
to Norah. "Tell her that I will conic as soon
as possible-as soon as I get through with
those men in yonder, and am able to bring
Carl with me."
"Had you not better write a line to Mrs.

,OF BOHEMIA.

Middleton?" said Norah. "I-how can I
tell her all that has occurred? It is not that
I would shrink from the pain on my own ac-
count," she added, eagerly, "but it would
make it much worse to her if she heard it
from me."
He knew this was true. "Wait a minute,
then," he said, and, opening his pocket-book,
he began to scribble a few lines on a blank
page. While he was so engaged, Max Tyn-
dale (who had taken immediate advantage of
his newly-acquired freedom) came up to the
doorof the carriage. His face was still very
pale, but, his dark eyes were glowing.
"Are you going away without even giving
me an opportunity to thank you for all that
~ou have done for me?" he said, in a low
voice-a voice that seemed full of emotion.
"What is there to thank me for?" she
asked, almost brusquely. "I merely came
forward and told the truth. It was you who
were enduring suspicion and imprisonment
sooner thai~-4han call on me for this evi-
dence, as should have done at once."
"As I~w9uId have endured a thousand
times more~ a~ooner than have done 1" said he.
"You canno1~7tell what I felt when I came in
and saw yo4i-you cannot tell what I have
endured duy:yig this last hour!"
"It has been something very hard, even
to me-something which I am not likely ever
to forget;" she said. "But you see that, un-
der any circumstances, it must have come to
pass. There was no help for it. If I had not
offered myself as a witness for you, I should,
no doubt, have been summoned as a witness
for Carl Middleton."
"Have you suspected him at all?" asked
he, looking at her intently.
"Not at all-never for a moment. But I
feared from the first that you might be sus-
pected."
"And Leslie-Miss Grahame! What has
she thought ?-surely she has not believed
that I was guilty?"
"No; Leslie did not believe it," answered
Norah. She spoke quietly, almost indiffer-
ently; but there was a pang at her heart. It
was of Leslie, he thought; not of her. She
had periled Jier good name in his defense;
but all that he cared to learn was whether
Leslie, in the midst of her sorrow ~nd in the
safe seeIusi~ of her home, had tl4~ught him
guilty! At~.3east this was what Norak
thought. Sb~would not look at him to read

her mistake-if mistake it were-in his eyes.
She was buttoning her glove, with fingers
much more quick and nervous than her voice,
when she said, "What will be the result of
all this, us far as that mad boy is con-
cerned?"
"Nothing very serious, I hope," Captain
Tyndale answered. "I left the magistrates
deciding at what amount they will fix his
bail. He will be at liberty until the grand.
jury has taken cognizance of his cas'e."
"And then?"
"Then they may find a bill against him,
and he may have to stand a trial, but the
result can only be final acquittal. I have no
doubt but that every thing occurred exactly
as he states."
"Nor I," said she, in a low voice.
As she spoke, he saw that she was trem-
bling, and it suddenly occurred to him to
wonder jwhat Carl Middleton was to her.
What right had he possessed to take upon
himself the part of defender, which he had
played with such woful results? Not that
of an accepted suitor, certainly. His own
avowal had made that much clear. Indeed,
it was very evident that he had quitted Ros-
land as a hopeless or rejected suitor. Rut
many a hopeless or rejected suitor has pos-
sessed the heart of the woman who rejected
him, and that MaZ knew. He also knew
enough of No~ah Desmond by this time, to be
aware that she had sufficient pride to hold
aloof even from the man she loved, if she
thought that his family would be unwilling to
receive her-and of the unwillingness of the
Middletons there could be no question.
These thoughts went through Max's mind like
a fiash
"I don't think you need be uneasy about
Mr. Middleton," he said. "Your testimony
supported his own so well that-"
"Here is the note, Miss Desmond," said
Mr. Middleton, coming between them. "I
am very sorry to have detained you so long.
-Bring the carriage back as quickly as pos-
sible," he added to the coachman.
At this hint Max felt that he must fall
back. Not one straight look into Norah's
eyes had he gained yet. "She is thinking
too much of Middleton to care for me',' he
thought, with that exquisitediscerntnent and
reason which distinguishes a man to whom
love begins to come as enlightened and mys.
tifier both at once. Still he leaned forward

NORAH'S RETUR

N TO ROSLAND.                        213
quickly, and took the hand which was ab.
sently holding Mr. Middleton's note.
"God bless you 1" he said, in a voice
which rang in Norab's ears for many a long
day afterward. "If I were to try forever I
could never thank you for all that you have
endured for me-for the revelation of you?.
self you have made to me to.dayl There is
much yet to be done-at Strafford-which
claims my attention now, but I will ~ee you
very soon."
The words were little-the tone was every
thing. If Norah had looked up, a single
glaneemight have settled every thing between
them; hut Norah did not look up. She dared
not. Instinct warned her that tears-or a sug-
gestion of tears-were in her eyes, and she
wouldhave soonerdied(atI~ast so she thought)
than show those tears to gax Tyndale. He
was only meaning to th'~nk her -of that
she felt sure-and what ere his thanks to
her? She steadied her voice until it w~s al-
most cold, as she said-
"Good-by 0'
Only that. The next moment her hand
lay iii her lap-a poor, little crushed hand, if
she had taken time or thought to feel its pain
-and the carriage was driving rapidly away.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
"Man cannot make, bitt may ennoble fate,
By nobly bearing It. So let us trust
Not to ourselves, but God, and calmly wait
Love's orient out of darkness and of dust.
"Farewell, and yet again farewell, and yet
Never farewell-if farewell mean to fare
Alone and disunited. Love hath set
Our days, in music, to the self-same air."
WHEN Norah reached Rosland, her first
act-after having sent the note of which she
was the bearer, up to Mrs. Middleton-was to
go to Leslie. She found her alone. From
exhaustion and weariness, she had fallen into
a light sleep, but the sound of the opening
door, and the rustle of Norah's dress, as she
crossed the room, wakened her. She caine
back to consciousness with a start, but the
sense of sorrow had not left her even in
sleep, and she was spared that keen pang
which usually comes with waking to those in
grief.
"Are you back, Norah?" she said, spring-


214                      A DAUGHTER~
ing to a sitting posture. "Has Captain Tyn.
dale been disoharg~d? Is it all over?"
"It is all over," said Norah, coming to
her side. "He has been discharged. I knew
you would be glad to hear it, so Icame to you
at once."
"Yes, I am very glad to hear it," said
Leslie. "But what a terrible charge to have
been ~nade against him, of all people! Ar-
thur's cousin-I almost feel as if he were
Arthur's brother-Norah, were they mad to
say such a thing of him?"
"They had some show of reason for their
suspicions," said Norab, hesitatingly. The
truth must be told, and yet she scarcely
knew how to tell it. "You know that he
was in the grounds with me at midnight.
We heard a shot-TI did not tell you this be.
fore, dear-and it was then that Mr. Tyndale
was killed. We thought very little of it at
the time, but you can imagine that such a
fact might have thrown suspicion on Captain
Tyndale, especially since he would not ac.
count for his absence by summoning me as a
witness, or, indeed, by mentioning me at all."
"Aunt Mildred told me that," said Leslie,
simply. "It was not more than I should
have expected of him."
"It was more than I should have ex-
pected," said Norah. "But that does not
matter. Of course it was not likely that I
should expect any thing more than common
courtesy and respect. My testimony went
very far toward clearing him," she added.
"Indeed, I suppose it would have cleared
him entirely, but-"
"But what?" asked Leslie, anxiously, as
she paused. "Is he not cleared?"
"Yes-for the real circumstances of Mr.
Tyndale's death are now known."
"Known? Are they known?" said Leslie.
She started violently, her eyes expanded, her
face blanched even whiter than it had been
before, her lips enclosed. "Norah I" she
gasped. "How was it? Tell me I-I can
bear any thing!"
"There is nothing worse than you know
akeady to bear," said Norah; but as she spoke
her heart was beating at a suffocating rate.
"Indeed, there may be something better. It
scull be better to think that he died by acci-
dent, than that he was murdered, will it not?
That is what is now known."
*     "But, how is it known? "demanded Leslie,
feverishly. "Norah, you are keeping some-

SOF BOHEMIA.

thing from me. I see it-I know it! But
you need not be afraid-I can endure any
thing! Have you not learned yet how strong
I am?"
"There is nothing to test your strength in
this," said Norah, gently. "Mr. Tyndale's
death was purely accidental. You must appre-
ciate that, Leslie-you must put all thought
of violence away from you-for it was-it
was some one whom you know very well who
was the unfortunate cause of his death."
"Some one whom I know very well!" re-
peated Leslie. As she spoke, a whirl of con-
jectures passed through her mind. Then a
ray. of intuition came to her, and just as
Norah, who did not mean to keep her in sus-
pense, was on the point of speaking, she ut-
tered a cry. "Carl!" she said, catching her
sister's hands, in a quick, nervous grasp.
"Norab!" Was it-was it Carl ?"
Her eyes were bent on Norah's face to de-
tect any thing like evasion or subterfuge; but
Norah had no intention of employing either.
"Yes, itwas Carl," she answered, quietly-so
quietly that her words had more of a sooth-
ing than an exciting effect. "But, Leslie,
you must listen to me, and you must believe
me. He had no inure intention of killing
Arthur Tyndale than I had."
"How did he do it?" asked Leslie. Her
lips seemed' parched. A sudden shivering
sense of horror came over her. Carl! It
had been 'Carl 1 Out of her own household
had come: the slayer of the man she loved!
Norah saiv that she was thinking this, and
her voice sounded almost peremptory. "You
must listen to me!" sle repeated. "It is
only justice to do so."
And then she told Carl's story better than
Carl had told it himself-that is, she brought
it even more forcibly ana clearly to the coin-
prehensio~'ofher listener. She dwelt strongly,
yet with 4nfinite gentleness and considera-
tion, upon the state in which Max had left
his cousin, thus making it apparent that Carl
must have spoken truth when he said that
Tyndale had been the aggressor in the strug-
gle which ended so fatally. Leslie heard her
without word or sign. She sank back on the
pillows, and covered her face as she listened.
When NoraWfinished, a low, shuddering sigh
was her only comment on all that she had
heard. After waiting vainly for a minute or
two, the former bent over her.
"Leslie," she said, "do you not believe

F

A SENSIBLE

me ?-do you. not believe Carl? Do you not
see that it was accident; and that he was not
to blame, further than that he should not have
interfered in what did fiot concern him?"
"I see it all!" said Leslie-and the words
were an absolute groan. " You were the be-
ginning and end of the whole, Norah!"
The words sounded so much like a re-
proach, that Norah drew back. She had not
meant to do ill, but just then her conscience
stabbed her like a sword. It was true! She
had been the beginning and the end of the
whole! If she had not come to America,
Leslie might have been happy still, no more
deceived than many another woman has lived
and died. But Leslie had not' meant her
words for a reproach, and, feeling that retreat-
ing motion, she looked up, holding out her
hand.
"Don't misunderstand me," she said; "I
did no~ mean to blame you for what was no
fault of yours. It is well that I should re-
alize it. I was nothing; you were every
thing. And it all came from his deception.
But Carl-what will be done to Carl?"
"Nothing-Captain Tyndale thinks. I
have i~ot spoken to your uncle about it. I
can see that he feels very bitterly toward
me."
"Why should he?"
"Because, as you say, it has been through
me that it has all eqine to pass. 0 Leslie,
Leslie, can you forgh~e me? I shall never
forgive myself-never, never!"
Then all the over-wrought calm in which
she had been holding herself for so long, gave
way-and a great passion of tears burst forth
-a passion that fairly startled Leslie, and yet
did her good, for it drew her away from her-
self. All the inherent gentleness and noble-
ness of her character came out then. She
put her arms around Norah's shaking form
and uttered words of kindness, which the
other never forgot. In that hour they be-
came sisters in heart as well as in fact. To
the tie of blood which hadrhitherto united
them, Was added the deeper and rarer tie of
sympathy and affection. The shock which
would have divided forever two ordinary na-
tures, bound these together, showed these
one to the other more plainly and more clearly
than years of surface intercourse could have
done.
Yet, when Norah recovered her self-con-
trol, she announced a resolution which took

RESOLUTION.                        215
Leslie by surprise - which, amazed her, in-
deed. "I have come to tell you that I must
leave you," she said. "Surely you .are not
surprised! Surely you know why I must go?
It does not require either words or looks to
tell me how unwelcome my presence is to
your uncle and aunt."
"Why should you think such a thing?"
said Leslie. "They are too just to visit on
you all that has occurred! Norah, you must
not think of such a thing! It would be doing
yourself a grave injustice in the eyes of the
world. People would say-what would they
not say if you left us now?"
"What people say is a matter of very
small importance to me," answered Norah.
"I think very l(ttle-too little, perhaps-of
that! Besides which, they are likely to say
all that you fear, as it is. No, I cannot stay,
Leslie-you must not press me to do so. I
was wrong ever to come. This world is not
my world. I must go back to Bohemia.
You have been very good-very kind and
very generous-to me, my dear. I shall
never forget that. But still I must go."
"Norah, it is impossible! Not now-not
at once!"
"At once!" said Norab, firmly.~ "I am
told that a train for Alton leaves Wexford at
four o'clock this afternoon. I must take that.
Nay, Leslie, my dear Leslie, don't look at me
~so imploringly! You cannot tell how many
reasons there are which force me to go. IC it
seems terrible to you that I should start on
such a voyage alone, remember that I have
had a different training from any you can
ever imagine. Nobody has ever shielded me
from the world. I have gone everywhere and
done every thing. It would be rather late,
therefore, to begin to hesitate about doing
this. Even if it seemed as terrible to me as
it does to you, I must still do it-I must
go."
And his was the final ends of all argu-
ments, a~I pleadings. She must still do it-
she must go! Leslie at last saw that it was
hopeless to oppose or attempt' to dissuade
her. But, when Mrs. Middleton heard of. the
intended departure, she was outraged. This
seemed the crowning' stroke of all ~"orah's
enormity. "What will people say?" was the
thought. "For Leslie's sake, she must be
stopped. 1 wish to Heaven she had never
come, but since she Ace come, it would be the
source of endless scandal for her to leave


2168

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEM4.

like this!~' Yet even Mrs. Middleton remon-
strated in vain. Norak was decided. She
would g~.
Mr~ Middleton, meanwhile, having settled
with the magistrates about Carl's bail, was
anxious to take the latter back to Rosland
with him. But Carl, naturally enough, shrank
from that. "It is impossible, sir," he said.
"I must go away. I feel like Cain. It is
true I did not kill the poor fellow-but lean-
not forget that if I had not interfered in
what was no affair of mine, if I had not lost
my senses, he might be alive now! I cannot
go ~back to Rosland. I cannot face Leslie
and-and Miss Desmond, with that thought
between us. It is impossible 1 "~
"Very well," said Mr. Middleton, with a
sigh of resignation. "Where are you going?
Back to Alton 1"'
"Where everybody will be reading this in
the morning papers and canvassing it to-mor-
row ?-No I I could stand Rosland better than
that! I shall go in the other direction-
where, I don't know. The farther away, the
better."
"Go, if you wish to do so," said his uncle.
"But don't carry any morbid ideas with you;
to lead you into Tresh trouble, perhaps. lie-
member that an accident is only an accident
in the sight of man and God. After all,"
said he, shaking his head, "it may be as well
for Leslie. I never had any liking for the
*          match, though I did not suspect Tyndale of
such dishonorable conduct as he was plainly
guilty of."
So it happened that Mr. Middleton came
back alone to Rosland-a ?act which was a
*           relief to every 6ne concerned. "It is, as well
that Carl has gone," Mrs. Middleton said,
"though it is hard that he should be forced
to go." Then she added, bitterly: "Having
* given as much trouble as possible in every
other way, Miss Desmond is determined to
cause any amount of unpleasant talk by leav-
ing us Immediately after-after all that has
taken place to-day."
"Is she going away?" said Mr. Middle-
ton. Men usually think less of "unpleasant
talk," than women do, and he was honestly
relieved by this news. "She has brought
trouble enough in her train," he said. "Per-
haps she may leave us a little peace when she
goes. I think it is a sLensible resolution, Mil-
dred."
"It is a resolution which shows that she

holds her ~'a~ne very lightly-but then, her
whole conduct has proved gkat," said Mrs.
Middleton. "One could expect nothing else
from her rea~ng, I suppose; but it is hard on
Leslie-very~4rard."
"My dear," said her husband, with un-
wonted gravity, " does it occur to you to re-
member that her coming, and every thing
connected with it, has been Leslie's fault?
Do you recollect that morning-last May, was
it ?-when we tried to dissuade her from such
a step, and warned her of the ill consequences
I that might result? I cannot forget that, if
she had listened to reason and advice, none
of all this would have ocwjrred."
"I am sure it was very natural and very
generous of her to desire such a thipg," said
Mrs, Middleton, who was in arms for her dar-
ling instantly. "Though I tried to dissuade
her, I knew that, and felt that it was natural,
at the time. But there was no excuse for
Arthur Tyndale-none! Not any more than
for this Bohemian girl I"
"I am half afraid that this Bohemian
girl, as you call her, may end by marrying
Carl at last," said Mr. Middleton, uneasily.
"It would be an awful blow if she did, and
for that reason I am glad to hear of her in-
tended departure. The sooner she goes the
better, Mildred-you may be sure of that!
What doer a little gossip, more or less, mat-
ter in com~arisou-with serious mischief; and I
tell you that woman is made to work mischief
wherever she goes!"
In view of this emphatic opinion, Mrs.
Middleton made little further effort to detain
Norab. Not that any effort would have mat-
1~rcd, or changed the girl's resolution. She
felt too plainly th~ coldness and suspicion
which~ sui~rounded her, to be able to endure
such an atmosphere any longer. Besides
which, there was a reason of her own-a pri-
vate reason-in the background which im-
pelled her to go. More than ever she con-
gratulated herself upon having insisted upon
being supplied with money enough for such
an emergency. "I may not be able to en-
dure these people for a day," she had said to
her father. "I will not go unless you give
me the means to return immediately, if I
choose to do so.'~ And he, after much demur,
was obliged to comply with this demand,
though he cherished a warm hope that, in-
stead of coming back immediately, Norah
might be going to make or win her fortune.

U

MISS DESMOND'

Norah thought rather grimly of those hopes
and anticipations, as she packed her trunk.
They would h~ve a downfall indeed, when
she walked, penniless, in upon her father and
Kate, in the shabby Dublin lodgings, which
she knew so well.
She was nervously anxious to be off; how-
ever; and insisted upon leaving as soon as
luncheon was over, though Mr. Middleton
assured her that the train was not due in
Wexford until four o'clock. "It is better to
be too early than too late!" she said; and,
when the carriage came to the door, she went
at once to Leslie's ro9m te~ say farewell.
This had been something from which she
shrank-with reason. It was bitterly painful
on both sides-so painful, that it was short
and almost speechless . "This is not the
end, Norah," Leslie whispered, with pale,
quivering lips. "It cannot be the end of all
I hoped-wished-planned. Some day we
must meet again. Promise me that."
"I see no hope of it now," Norah an-
swered. "But if ever there i8 hope, dear, I
promise!"
And so-they parted,
When Norah came down-stairs, she found
Mrs. ~audI'ord lfl the hail with Mrs. Middle-
ton. The costume of the former was a work
of art, expressing chastened regret in the
most charming and becoming manner. She
was not one of the class of people who wear
black dresses to weddings, or gay ribbons at
a funeral; it was a point of pride with her
to be always dressed according to the oc-
casion, and, since she was in a house of
mourning, she dressed, if not exactly in
mourning, at least in sympathy with mourn-
ing. It must have been a very dull person
who would not have appreciated at a glance
the exquisite sentiment displayed in her at-
tire. Her dress of black grenadine was re-
lieved by soft white frills Qf illusion, and, in-
stead of a jeweled pendant with a chain like a
cable, a plain gold cross on a band of black
velvet showed to great advantage the white
roundness of her throat. She came forward
after Mrs~ Middleton had taken leave of No-
rak-with an heroic effort to appear cordial
'-and held out her pretty, white hands, bound
with jet bands (also for sympathy) at the
wrists.
"I am so sorry that you are going, Miss
Desmond," she said-her blue eyes wide open,
her dark (penciled) eyebrows arched-" but

S DEPARTURE.                       217
we must part good friends-I insist upon that!
You must forgive all the unlucky mistakes I
have made, one way or another, and, if you
ever come back to America, I shall be 80 glad
to see you at my house in Alton."
"You are very good," said Norah, in a
tone compounded equally of coldness and
scorn, "but it is not at all likely that I shall
ever come back to America" (this was what
Mrs. Sandford had specially desired to learn),
"I am willing to shake hands, however, and
wish you much health and happiness, if that
is what you mean by parting good friends."
"Oh, I mean more, much more than that,"
said Mrs. Sandford, with effusion; and before
the girl could draw back, she had leaned for-
ward and kissed her. "Have you no message
for Captain Tyndale 1"' she asked then, with
the pleasure which she felt springing, whether
she would or no, into her eyes. "Surely you
are not going away without leaving a word
for him-after your bravery in his behalf, too!
I assure you that I shall be very glad to de-
liver any message."
"I have nothing with which to trouble
you," said Norah, even more coldly than be.
fore. She drew down her veil abruptly, and
turned to Mr. Middleton. "I am ready," she
said.
He put her into the carriage, and followed
himself. To do him justice, he would will-
ingly have gone with her to Alton, or even to
the seaboard, if Arthur Tyndale's funeral had
not interfered. But his first duty, as he said
to his wife, was there. He bad told Miss
Desmond that, if she would defer her de-
parture for twenty-four hours, he would ac-
company her; but this offer Miss Desmond
declined. There was nothing for him to do,
therefore, but to take her to Wexford, see
her safely on the train, and telegraph to a
friend in Alton to meet her at that point and
see that she was safely started with a through-
ticket for New York.
N~t more than half an hour after the car-
riage had rolled away, Mrs. Sandfo' d was
sitting on the veranda alone - feeling very
much depressed, exceedingly bored, and a
little inclined to regret that she had not
borne Miss Desmond company as far as Al.
ton. The only thing which kept her at Ros-
land now was the consideration of Max. She
was not likely to forget; that his cousin's
death made him pwner of Strafford, and much
more besides-elevating him from a fair sub-


'218

A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

ject for flirtation to a very gbodparli. The
fancy which she had entertained for him all the
time, she now felt could very readily become
more than a fancy, in the light of this great
good fortune. He was one of the few men
whom she had ever met who was thoroughly
izidifferent to her, and for that reason, more
than any other, perhaps, she had bent, and
was prepared yet to bend, all her energies to
his subjugation. She was thinking of him as
she sat under the green shade of the vines, in
a low, luxurious chair-as bewitching a pict-
ure, taken all in all (stained eyebrows and,
powdered complexion thrown~ in!) as a man
could ask to see even on that golden summer
afternoon.
But Max Tyndale was not thinking of be-
witching pictures, or caring to see them, as
he crossed the lawn where he had last been
on the night of the dinner-party, and ascended
the veranda-steps on which he had parted
with Leslie when he went hi search of Arthur.
These things haunted him, together with the
dead face he had left behind at Strafford, and,
though it wa~ impossible for him not to de-
sire to meet Norah, he was able to say hon.
estly that he had not come to Rosland for
that purpose. He wanted to see Mr. Middle-
ton with regard to some of the final arrange-
ments which had been left undecided, and he
also wanted to escape 'from Strafford and the
intolerable gossips who filled it. Nothing was
further from his wishes, however, than to
meet Mrs. Sandford, and so he started, and
did not look particularly pleased, when that
fair widow rose out of the green nook and
waylaid him, wUh extended hands.
"Ah," she said, with a faltering voice,
"how can I tell you how glad, how very glad
I am to see you!"
"Thanks-you are very kind," said Max,
taking one of the hands-he could not have
conveniently taken the other also, unless he
had dropped his hat on the floor-and giving
it a nonchalant, indifferent shake which irri-
tated its owner very much. Then it occurred
to him that he ought to say that he was glad
to see her, but, since this would have been
stretching the truth to a really alarming ex-
tent, he asked, instead, how she was.
"Oh, thank you, quite well," she said-for
she was very much piqued-" I have sineS been
well," she added, on second thought, "but I
am better to-day-at least this afternoon. 0
Captain Tyndale ! "-a delicately worked and

scented handkerchief went to her eyes -
"when I think of all that has occurred since
I saw you last, I-oh, I wonder how we have
all lived through it!"
"We can live through a great deal," said
Max, knitting his straight, dark brows a little:
It is hard to say how this woman's artificial
words and tones jarred on him -how he
shrank from hearing her touch with any shal-
low, ready-made platitudes the subject of that
tragedy which had been so awfully real. "How
is Miss Grahame?" he asked. "It must have
been a terrible ordeal to her."
"Leslie bears it better than might have
been expected," said Mrs. Sandford; "much
better, I am sure, than 1 could have done.
She seems almost like herself to-day-though
her sister's departure was quite a shock to
her."
"I suppose you mean her going to Wex-
ford this morning," said he. "It was a shock
to me-that is, I deeply regretted it-but it
was so bravely and unconsciously done-"
"Excuse me," interrupted his listener,
rather sharply, "I meant what I said-her
departure /-Lsee that you are not aware that
she has left Rosland."
He started, and looked at her keenly.
"Do you mean that Miss Desmond has left
Rosland?" he said. "Where is she going?"
"She left half an hour ago. I think, as
well as I understoodthat she is going~o
Ireland. Of course it is very natural that she
cannot stay here after the expos which has-
Good Gracious, Captain Tyndale! What is
the matter? What are you going to do?"
"I am going to Wexford in order to see
Miss Desmond before she leaves," he an-
swered, turning quickly away. "It is "-
glancing at his watch-" only half-past three.
The Alton train is not due, I think I was told,
until four. That gives me time enough to
reach there."
"You are really very devoted," said Mrs.
Sandford, sarcastically. "But you must par.
don me if I say that I doubt whether Miss
Desmond will be very glad to see you. At
least, I asked her expressly if she would not
leav~ a word or a message for you, and she
answered as coldly and curtly as possible
that she had nothing to say."
"I am unlike her, then," said he, quietly,
"for I have a great deal to say, and I am
sure you will excuse me if I go at once, in
order to be able to say it2'

MAX'S PJ

He then made no farther apology, but
went with all haste to the stable where, much
to the ostler's astonishment, he ordered out
the best saddle-horse. Five minutes later, he
was galloping out of the gates of Rosland.
Mrs. Sandford watched him, with bitter,
angry eyes, from the veranda. She knew
now that all was over, and the realizatiQn cost
her a very sharp pang. It was a pang in which
wounded vanity played a greater part than
wounded feeling; but it was none the less
hard to bear on that account. A lacerated
amour-propre is almost as painful as a lacer-
ated heart, though it is a very strong point in
its favor that it can be cured more readily.
She went into the house after the rider dis-
appeared from sight, and told her maid to
pack her trunk. "This time to-morrow I
shall go back to Alton," she said-which was
her way of beginning a cure.
Mak, the while, galloped, without draw-
ing rein, 'into Wexford, and, disregarding the
many curious glances cast on him, did not
pause until he found himself before the rail-
road-station. The train was already there,
had been there for some minutes, a lounger
told him. It was evident that he would not
have time for more than a word with Norab,
but even a word was worth much, and his
eagerness for it increased with the apparent
hopelessness of gaining-it. He sprang off his
horse, and, throwing the rein with a quick,
"Pray, oblige me!" to the man who had
given the information, hurried along the plat-
form to the cars. As he came in sight of
them, the engine suddenly gave its warning
shriek of departure-at the same moment he
saw Mr. Middleton shake hands quickly with
a veiled lady who sat by one of the open win-
dows-the next instant, with a rumble and
clang of machinery the long train started into
motion and sped swiftly out of sight.
-4--
CHAPTER XXXVII.
"Fair, and kind, and gentle one!
Do not morn and stars and flowers,
Pay that homage to their sun,
That we pay to ours?
"Sun of mine, that art so dear-
Sun that art above all sorrow I
ShIne, I pray thee, on me here
Till the eternal morrow!'~
Ox the deck of the Cunard steamer, out-
ward bound from New York on the Saturday

PROPOSAL.                            219
following Miss Desmoud's departure from
Rosland, there was all the hurry, bustle, and
confusion, the shaking hands of friends, the
kisses of relations, th&amp;tears and laughter, the
good wishes, the waving handkerchiefs, the
brass-bound trunks and general bouleversement
common to such occasions. In the midst of
it, a young lady who had come unattended on
board, walked across the deck, and, taking her
position on the side which overlooked the
water, not the wharf, quietly turned~ her back
upon all the commotion. There is nothing
in the world, perhaps, more forlorn than to
be alone in such a scene, to have no fare-
wells to give or receive, no friends to hope
that you may have a pleasant voyage, no hand
to clasp, no good wishes to exchange. But
to such a feeling of isolation, Norah Desmond
had long since grown accustomed. If she
felt it a little now-if she was drearily con-
scious of her loneliness amid all the eager,
chattering crowd-no one would ever have
thought so, as she stood by the taifrail in all
the grace of her self-possessed bearing, with
her beautiful, clear-cut face turned seaward,
as if she drank in the salt breeze coming so
freshly from the wide, liquid plain which lay
far oil'. The attention of every one else being
turnedtoward the city they were leaving, she
was almost alone on this side of the deck;
and, as she watched with wistful eyes the
distant horizon line, her mind left her present
surroundings to go back upon all that had oc-
curred-the events which had followed each
other so fast-since she landed here so short
a time before. How short a time it had been!
-and yet how much had happened! Norah
could scarcely realize how much. "Yet the
end of it all is that I am going back to the
old, weary life of vagabondage 1" she thought,
with something between a sigh and a sob It
was a quick, nervoxis sound in her throat,
more significant of emotion than a hundred
undisguised sobs could have been.
But Bohemia teaches her children a better
philosophy than that of mourning over any
milk, spilt or otherwise. The old defiant light
came back to Norah's eyes in a minute, the
old defiant compression to her lips. "It is
the life to which I was born," she thought.
"What right have I to expect any other?
What is the sense of regretting that which is
past ?-what is the sense of 4jining about
that which is to come? The day is bright,
and th~ sea is smooth, and I well, I an~


220                A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMiA.

young. When one has youth, one has-or
ought to have-hope. The great world of
the Possible is all before me * a ad yet-and
yet-"
11cr head drooped a little. Was it a tear
that dropped into the briny, discolored water
below? Just then Bohemia might have hesi-
tated to own her child; and just then a tall
man, with long, dark mustache and keen
dark eyes, who had been making his way in
a very inquisitive manner among the throng-
ing crowd on the other side of the deck, hur-
ried over to this side and looked around.
lie had been the last passenger to come up
the ship's side, and as he stood there now,
with a wrap hanging carelessly across his
arm, there was a jaded look on his face, as if
he had traveled long and far. It was only a
second that~ he hesitated. The next instant
he caught sight of the stately, graceful figure
which he knew so well, and a few quick steps
took him to Norah's side.
"How glad I am to find you!" he said,
breathlessly. "I was almost afraid that
there might be some mistake! -that you
might not be on board!"
"Captain Tyndale!" exclaimed Norah.
She turned upon him pale, astonished, quiver-
ing from head to foot. "How is this? How
did you come here?"
"By rail most of the way," ho answered,
smiling. It was such a pleasure to see her
again-to meet her frank eyes, to hear 'her
sweet voice-~-that it is likely he would have
smiled if he had been going to execution
the next minute. "Did you not know that I
was going to cross in this steamer?" he
*     asked, with an admirable assumption' of non-
chalance. "If I had not been just one min-
ute too late in reaching Wexford the day you
left-thanks to Mrs. Sandford, who detained
me to hear that you had refused to icayc me
even a message of common farewell-I should
have told you so."
"You-is it possible you are going to
cross?" said Norah, incredulously. "I did
not think that you would go abroad again-
that is, so soon."
"May I ask, why not?"
"Because "-she blushed and hesitated-
"because you ha~ve inherited your cousja's
fortune, have you not?"
"I believe people suppose that I have," he
answered, carelessly, "but I have not taken
time to ascertain whether they are right or

wrong. There was something nearer my heart,
and of much more importance to me than a
hundred inheritances could be," he added,
quickly. "Norab-can you not guess what
that was?"
"You have become very1 familiar since
we parted, Captain Tyndale," said Norah,
who was herself again by this time. "No, I
cannot guess in the least what it was, unless
you mean to resign your commission in the
French army. But, you should have taken a
French steamer, should you not?" This will
land you at Liverpool, unless you land en
peasant, as I shall do, at Qucenstown."
"I should have taken no other steamer
than the one on which you sailed," he an-
swered. "As for my commission, I have not
thought of it any more than of my probable
inheritance. You know as well as I do," he
said, breaking off suddenly, in a quick, short,
passionate voice, "that I have thought only
of ~you I "
"Of me!" ejaculated Norab, scarcely
knowing what she said, Her heart was beat-
ing and thrilling as it had not beat or thrilled
on that summer evening at Baden, when Ar-
thur Tyndale told l~is love, or on that autumn
evening at Coblentz, when he said good-by.
What she felt tken had been flattered fancy,
girlish romance, any thing but this strange
feeling, which seemed to take away all her
graceful readiness of speech, and leave her as
silent and abashed as any convent-bred girl;
"Yes, of you," said Max, growing bolder,
as he saw the white lids sink over her eyes,
and the clear carmine come into her cheeks
as he had fancied one day at Rosland that he
should like to make it come. "Did I not tell
you when we parted in Wexford, after you
had borne so much for mc, that I should see
you very soon again-and did you think that
I would let such trifles as time and space
stand between you and the expression of my
gratitude?'~
"Spare me the expression of your grati-
tude, Captain Tyndale," said she, almost im-
patiently. "I have no claim on it-no desire
for it. I did a very plain and simple act of
duty-nothing more! If there is any grati-
tude necessary in the matter, it is Iwho owe
it to you. It was you who were willing to en-
dure more than I like to remember for me!"
"And did you not think-did no instinct
tell you-what a happiness it was to me to
endure any thing for you?" said he. "Did

220

A SATISFACTION

you not guess tkat much at least of the
truth?"
"No," said she-and her voice trembled.
*" How could I guess it? How could I think
that I was any thing to you but a girl whom
your cousin had narrowly escaped making a
fool of himself by marrying?"
"If you were even that to me," said he,
"it was so long ago, that it seems swept into
the dimness of memory. What you have been
to me of late, I scarcely know how to tel! you
without making you think that I have gone
wild with the extravagance of passion."
"I can scarcely fancy that," said she,
turning her face seaward again. The steamer
was out of the docks by this time, and a fresh
breeze met them-a breeze to make the heart
leap up with the spirit of its gladness. It
deepened the flush on Norah's cheek, and
waved back the short fringe of her chestnut
hair, showing the fair, candid brow which it
has been the policy of fashion to conceal as
much as possible for some time past. She
looked more like a beautiful princess than
ever, Max thought, and the doubts and fears
which had borne him company on all the long
journey from Alton, came back upon him now
with sudden force. After all, would his heart
prove any thing more than a new plaything
to this fair Bohemian, this woman who had
jarred upon and disgusted him, and yet whom
he could no more help loving than the earth
could refuse to put forth bud and leaf and
flower at the bidding of the sun? He could
not tell-it was likely enough; and yet, for
good or ill, his heart was hers. He knew
that now. Standing beside her, trying vainly
to read the riddle of her averted face, he felt
that he would freely sign away every other
good gift of life, if only he might claim and
~possess this one for his own. At last, out of
very impatience, he broke the silence which
had lasted between them for some time.
"We are off!" he said. "We are on the
sea together, you and I! Norab, you have
not told me yet-are you glad or sorry that I
came?"
"Is it necessary for me to be either?"
asked she, with a slight cadence of laughter
in her tone. After all, a man is deaf as well
as blind when he is in love, or Max would
have known every thing from that tone.
"You must be one or the other," said he.
"I am your only acquaintance on board, am
I not? In that case you will have to see so

~RY ANSWER.                         221
much of me that you mu8t be either glad or
sorry that I came."
"In that case, I suppose I am not sorry,"
said she, sihiling. "It is rather dull being
quite alone, though I ought to be used to it
by this time, and then I always manage to
make acquaintance, or, to put it more cor-
rectly, people manage to make my acquaint.
ance."
"I hope you will not let any of these
people make your acquaintance, for I am
selfish enough to want your society all to my-
self until we reach Qucenstown."
"But can you not imagine that I might
like a little variety?" asked she, laughing
again. "I might not want your society all
the time until we reach Queensthwn 1"
"That is very true. I should have thought
of that, perhaps. Will you promise, then, to
take as mueh of me as you want, and to dis.
miss me without ceremony when you do not
want me?"
"I am not sure that I should not dismiss
you at once," said she, turning her bright,
fearless eyes upon him. "I have had more
than enough of 'blarney' in my life-you
can imagine that, perhaps and my head
ou~ht to be steady enough to stand any
amount of it by this time; bu't I am really
afraid of the effect of your blarney for nine
days at sea. Now, that is a compliment for
you," she ended, with a smile that was rather
forced.
"I shall go back with the pilot if you say
so," he answered, quietly-but his face grew
paler as he spoke. "You know why I have
come," he went on, after a short pause. "I
only waited at Strafford, as I was in duty
bound to do, until poor Arthur's funeral was
over. Then I followed you, without pause or
arest, as fast as steam could bring me, in order
to say, face to face, that I love you: in order
to ask you to be my wife. Norah "-with a
passionate cadence in his voice-" you cannot
imagine half how well I love you! Norah,
will you not be my wife?"
Only the simple words as they rose out of
his heart to his lips. No eloquence-no at-
tempt at eloquence. Indeed, men rarely use
fine phrases when they are in such deep
earnest as Max Tyndale was then; and he on
his part felt the suspense too sharply not to
desire to end it at once. But it was not ended
as far as any word from Norah Desmond was
concerned. She turned her face from him


A DAUGHTER OF BOHEMIAN.

quickly-almost abruptly-and gazed seaward
again. Yet, as she gazed, a mist came over
her sight, obscuring all the green beauty of
the waves, 'and her heart seemed beating in
her throats It was not altogether her fault
that she was silent; she tried to speak, and
failed to utter a word. So, after a minute~
Max went on:
"Norab, is there no hope for me? I sup.
pose I am mad to come to you like this-mad
to think that you, who have known so many
men, could learn to love me-but I could not
bear to leave any chance untried. I could
not bear to burden my life with the haunting
regret of thinking that I might, perhaps, have
won you if I had only spoken in time. I
thought it better to risk every thing on a
single stake, and rise up-winner or loser for
life. Norah-which is it to be?"
"How can you speak to me like this?"
said she, turning upon him passionately.
"You know youdo not love me-or, if you
do, it is merely after a fashion, for my pretty
face! You do not care for me as-as you care
for Leslie! You are enough of a gentleman
to have showed me more respect than any one
ever did before-for which, to my dying day, I
shall never, never forget you! But, in your
heart you hold me in the colors Arthur Tyn-
dale painted me. You think me fast-Bohe.
rnian, bizarre-"
She paused abruptly, or, to speak more
correctly, he interrupted her by taking into
his possession the hand lying on the.taffrail.
"Do not wrong yourself and me by such
words aa these!" he said. "I think of you as

I think of the sun which is giving life to the
world. You are m~i sun-the only one thing
which can give light and fragrance to my life.
Not care for you as I care for Leslie Gra-
hame! My darling, are you blind? Leslie
Grahame is nothing to me, and you are every
thing-every thing, Norah! What I may
once have though of you-in what colors
poor Arthur may once have painted you-
has passed from me as absolutely as if it
had never been. I can neither ask nor de-
sire any change in you as I know you and
love you now!"
She looked up at him with tears, which
she did not try to conceal, shining in her
eyes. A new beauty-a beauty full of the
most exquisite softness-came over her face.
It was the happy content of the child mm.
gled with the tender joy of the woman.
"Are you in earnest?" she said. "Do
you really think all this of me? It isvery
gqod of you, but you are wrong-quite wrong.
I am full of faults which will shock you and
jar upon you. Think what my life has been!
You cannot tell-you cannot even guess-
half that I have gone through!"
"You shall never go through any more-
never so long as God gives me power to shield
you!" he said. Then he covered her hand
eagerly in both his own. "You have not
told me yet whether I must go back with the
pilot or not," he said. "Norah, my darling,
must I go or stay?"
And Norali's eyes as well as Norab's lips
answered-
"Stay!"

POPULAR WORKS OF FICTION,
Pz5Wished by D. APPLE TON &amp; COMPANY,
~49 ~T 555 J3ROADWAY~ J{EW ~ORL
Appletons' Illustrated Library of Romance.
Comprising the best Novels by celebrated Authors. Each volume illustrated with
numerous engravings . In uniform Svo volumes, handsomely illustrated, and
bound either in paper or muslin covers. Price, in paper, $1.00; in cloth, $x.~o.

i. Too Strange Not to be True. By Lady
Georgiana Fullerton.
2. The Clever Woman of the Family. By
Miss Yonge, author of "The Heir of Red.
clyffe," etc.
3. 7oseph II. and his Court. An Histori-
cal NoveL By L. Milbibach.
4. Frederick the Great and his Court. An
Historical Romance. By L. Miihlbach.
5. Berlin and Sans-Souci; or, Frederick
the Great and his Friends. ByL. Miihlbach.
6. The Merchant of Berlin, and Maria
Theresa and her Fireman. By L. Miihlbach.
7. Fredericle the Great and his Family. By
L. Mahibach.
8. Henry VIIL and Catharine Parr. By
L. Miihlbach.
9. Louisa of Prussia and her Times. By
L. Mithibach.
10. Marie Antoinette and her Son. By L.
Milbibach.
ii. The Daughter of an Empress. By L.
Miihlbach.
12. Napoleon and the Queen of Prussia.
By L. Milbibach.
13. The Empress ~osephine. An Histori-
cal Sketch of the Days of Napoleon. By L.
Miihlhach.

14. Napoleon and Blucher. By L. Miihl.
bach.
i5 Count Mirabean. An Historical Novel.
By Theodor Mundt.
i6. A Stormy L(/e. By Lady Georgiana
Fullerton.
17. Old Fritz and the New Era. By L.
Miihlbach.
18. Andreas Hofer. By L. Milhlbach.
19. Dora. A Novel. By Julia Kavanarrh
is-
20. 7ohn Milton and his Times. By Max
Ring.
21. Beaumarchais. An Historical Ro-
mance. By A. C. Brachvogcl.
22. Schiller and Goethe. An Historical
Romance. By L. Miihlbach.
23. Prince Eugene and his Times. By L.
1\tLihlbach.
24. How a Bride was Won; or, a Chase
across the Pampas. By Frederick Gerstncker.
25. The Chaplet of Pearls. By Miss Vonge,
author of" The Heir of RedelyfTe," etc.
z6. Queen Hortense. A Life-Pictkare of the
Napoleonic Era; an Historical Novel. By L.
Mithihach.
Z7. MohammedAli and his House. By L.
Milblbach.

Appletons' Library of American Fiction.
Consisting of Select Novels by American Authors; published in neat 8vo volume~,. fo~'
popular circulation, and usually accompanied with Illustrations.

x. Valerie Aylmer. 8vo. Paper, $z.oo;
cloth, $z.~o.
2. The Lad of the Ice. By James Dc
Mille. With Illustrations. 8vo. Paper, 75
cents; cloth, $z.a~.
3. Morton House. By the Author of "Va-
lerie Aylmer." With Illustrations. Bvo.
Paper, $z.oo; cloth, $s.~o.
4. Righted at Last. A Novel. With Il-
lustrations. Svo. Paper, $x.oo; cloth,
$x.~o.
~. Mabel Lee. By the Author of "Mor-
ton House." Svo. Paper, $x.oo; cloth,
$5.50.
6. Doctor Vandyke. By John Esten Cooke.
With Illustrations. Paper, ~ cents; cloth,
~

7. Ebb- Tide and Other Stories. By the
Author of "Morton House." With Illustra-
tions. Svo. Paper, ~z.oo; cloth, $5.50.
8. An Open Question. By James Dc Mule.
With illustrations. Paper, $z; cloth, $e.so.
9. Spicy. A Novel. By Mrs. Martha
J. Lamb. With Illustrations. Paper, $z.oo,
cloth, $z.~o.
10. Lakeville; or, Substance and Shadow.
By Mary Healy, author of "A Summer'~ Ro-
mance," etc., etc. Svo. Illustrated. Cloth,
paper, $x.oo.
ii. Nina's Atonement and Other Stories.
By Christian Reid, author of "Morton
House," etc. Illustrated. Paper, $z.oo;
cloth, $x.~o.
i~ A Daughter of Bohemia. By Christian
Reid.

'I

222

T HE E ND.


2            Works of Fiction published by D. Appleton &amp; Co.
Grace Aguilar.
New uniform edition, in I2mo volumes, bound in extra cloth. Price, per vol., $i.oo.
"Grace Aguilar's works possess attractions which will always place them among the standard
writings which no library can be without. 'Mother's Recompense' and 'Woman's Friendship'
should be read by both young and old."
Home Zi~ftuence.                             Woman's Friendsh6~p.
Mother's Recompense                          Women of israel.
Days of Bruce,                               Vale of Cedars.
Home Scenes and Heart Studies.
Rhoda Broughton.
9
"We believe that with one exception this authoress may be classed as the most popular writer of
fiction of her sex. The reasons are manifold: in her stories the plot is ever simple, but yet of in-
tense interest; her ideal characters are sketched with consummate skill; they are never crowded on the
mimic scene, yet thus afford contrasts thi~t yividly attract the reader's imagination~; added to this, a
bright, witty dialogue, a charming descriptive power, and a great depth of pat os, and we have
summed up the attributes that distinguish Rhoda Broughton."-N. Y. Albion.
"Good-bye, Sweetheart!" Library edi- Cometh up as a Flower. aamo. Cloth, $:.~o.
tion. zamo. Cloth, $x.~,.                 -      Cheap edition. 8vo. Paper, 6o cents.
-~     Cheap edition. 8vo. Paper, 75 cents.     Not Wisely, but Too Well.      Library edi-
tion. ismo. Cloth, $i.so.
Red as a Rose is She. Library edition. -- Cheap edition. 8vo. Paper, 6o cents.
Cloth, $z.~o.                      Nancy.    I2~0.    $i.~o.
-       Cheap edition. 8vo. Paper, 6o vents.   -       Cheap edition. 8vo. Paper, 75 cents.
J. B. Bouton.
Round the Block. A new American Novdl. Illustrated. I vol., i2mo. Cloth, $1.25.
"Unlike most novels that now appear, it has no 'mission,' the author being neither a politician ncr
a reformer, but a story-teller, according to the old pattern; and a capital story he has produced,
written in the happiest style."
James Fenimore Cooper.
New Library Edition of Cooper's Novels. Well printed, and bound in handsomest
style. Complete in 32 vols. lImo. Per vol., $1.55.
i. The Spy.*                                   17. Wing.and-Wing.*
s. The Pilot.*                                 z8. Oak Openings.
3. Red Rover.*                                 19. Satanstoe.
4. The Deerslayer.'                            20. The Chain-Bearer.
~. The Pathfinder.*                            si. The Red-Skins.
6. The Last of the Mohicans.*                   22. The Crater.
7. The Pioneers.*                              23. Homeward Bound.
8. The Prairie.*                               24. Home as FouncL
g. Lionel Lincoln.                             25. Heidenmauer.
20, Wept of Wish-ton-Wish.                      26. The Headaman.
xi. The Water.Witch.*                           27. jack Tier.
ig. The Bravo.                                  28. The Sea Lions.
23. Mercedes of Castile.                        29. Wyandotte.
24. The Two Admirals.*                          30. The Monikins.
z~. Afloat and Ashore.                          32. Precaution.
z6. Miles Wallingford.                          32. Ways of the Hour.
New Octavo Edition. Printed from new stereotype Plates, with new Illustrations by
Darley. [The volumes in the above list marked '~ are now ready.] To be completed in 32 vols.
Paper, ~ cents: cloth, $r.~s.
Leather-Stocking Tales. 5 vols. Comprising: Deerslayer, Pathfinder, Mohicans,
Pioneers, and Prairie. ismo, in box. Cloth, $7.50; half calf, $27.50.                                                                                                         A J
The same. Complete in I vol. 40 Illustrations by Darley. I thick vol. Svo.
Cloth, $4.00; sheep, $s.oo; half morocco, $6.~o.
Sea Tales, ~ vols. Comprising: The Pilot, The Red Rover, The Water.Witch,
Wing-and Wing, and The Two Admirals. zamo, in box. Cloth, $7.50; half calf, $27.50.
The same. Complete in I thick vol. 8vo. 40 Illustrations by Darley. Cloth,
$4.00; sheep, $s.oo; half morocco, $6.~o.

/


  
             
         
       
   
