
    ----CITATION----
        Wellmont, Emma. Substance and Shadows, or, Phases of Every-day Life .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8250
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Substance and shadows, or, Phases of every-day life 
            
               .4

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS;
03,
PHASES OF EVERYDAY LIFE.
BY
E~IMA W~LLMONT,
AUTHOR OF "UNCLE SAM'S PALACE," "HOUSE-KEEPING AND
KEEPING HOUSE," ETC. ETC. ETC.
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED 1~Y JOHN P. JEWETT &amp; COMPANY.
GLEV13LA~TD, OHIO:
JEWBTT, 1~ROCTOR &amp; WORTHINGTON.
1854.


I

Biatered, according to Act or Congress, in the year 1854, by
JOEN ?. JEW~TT &amp; 00.,
In the Clerk's Office of the D~strict Court of the District of~1assach~iaett&amp;
\4'4G01
Ste~.*t~~d b7
~k
Zi.w~aa4~a4Tud Btpwt~p~pi~ky,

WUPEQTION IN UVfl~G, .
SUDDENLY RIOfl,. ......
THE BUT ROOMS, . . . . . .
3~&amp;NOTWOEK,
VHASIN~ THfl XAINBOWs *
~IflCQ~ITy, * * ~ . . * * * .
Tk~i EOLflAT WALK, .
~EE 1~rDflorATUBT,. ...
TEE WIlE ON TIt3 HOMESTEAD,
A C1LLP ~E1~ ON CORNS,. . .
PXMaUEE4nKINO, 9....
A1~ XGREZA~L1D OOBANION,.
. . . . . . . . . .
OO~I1NG EVENTS, . . . . . .
MONDAYKOR?~XNG, . .
MRP.' PgLZI'S
TE~1 lAST YOU1~ 31kW, . .
. . '. . . .
WALTZ WITH INDOLENCE, . .
t~ouoau:s 7OR 1~HE GLOOMY, .
~UWSflfliR AN)) OWUDS,
THE ~OVNTRY ZN WI~TUR, .
1*

CONTENTS~

9

9
9
9
9
9
9
9

9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9

WA03
* 9 '9
* S IS
* * 21
.24
* . 80
9.85
*..
* . '40.
9948
* 9 '48
* .
..58
* . 58
* . 61
* . e~r
* . 89
..72
* * 74
* 9 77

9.
9.
99
9.
.9
.9
99
*9
* 9
9.
.9
9'
9.

99
.9
.9
.9
9.
.9
* 9
.9
9.
* 9
.9
99
.9
* 9
99

9
9
9
9


CONwT$9lT.

THE FEf ALE FINAN'01ER, . .
THE EXPRESSMAN, . '. . . .
ZlAS 3N MARRTED LIFE, .
A PINE MORNINQ, .. *.,. .
BOZLIan GARMEs, . . , ~
THE I3nOKEN PRO3ZISU . .
MODEaN TALK, . . . . . . .
"suszarx,"  . . . . . .9
SIN mH COUNTR, . . .
PPRESSED SEAMSTRESS, .
9 ss . .     . 0
SnvAQno   GErNIU,. ....
* "Qu#UIxE WIDOWER,"..
(UePr AT COST," ..
TOOue LATE, . .
a-NEOUSES, . . . . . . .
aT E PITON'S ENDH .G.EAT.
#:?sS400r, .      .
Asa )'AM NEAZ TRE DEPOT,
sg AD sHAD, .

. . .
.9.
. .. .
.99 .
9.. .
.. .
.9.9.
.9.
. 9 .9
.9.
.999.
9.9:.
.9.,.
. . .9

.9
.9
.

.9
.9

.9
.9
.9

4

9

9
9

.
.9

.9

9

.9
.9
.
.9
.9
9.
.9
.9
.9
.9
.9
.

999
.   .  .  9
9.9
.   .  .
. . .9

9
.9
.9
.9
9
9
.9
9
9
.9
.9
9
.9
.9

.9
.9
'9 .9
.9 9
9 .9
*9
.99
9.
.9 9
.9 .9
.99
9
.9
.9 9
99
9.9
.9 .9
9 .9

9.
99
* 4
9
94
9.4
* .4
.4 .1
9.9
91
9 -A
*4
.9 .4
.9
* ~f
9.1
9, .4
*1
99

i ~ 181)

.9
9
9
9

99
9 .9.
9
.9
.9

~4Q8

. 82
. 88
. 91
. 94
* 986
. 99
. 100
105
108
112
IW
191
128
3p
189
157
7
179
18?

THE FADED IBAP,. . . . . . .     ,    9.   99. 99. 99. 99. 9  818

INQUISITIVE CHILDREN, . . . . . . ...
IWUAT WILL -PEOPLE SAY?! . . . . . ...
IFE, . . . =. . . .. . ... ... .
A DARKPHASE INLIFE,   . . . . . ...
A FACETIOUS SEETCH,-. . . . . . . . ..
HAPPINESS EQUALIZEn, . ........
SWEET SIXTEEN ; OR, THE FIRST FIRTATION,
THE MAY-DAY FESTIVAL, . . '. . . . . .
31R. TANGLE'S EXPERITENT, . ......
FASHIONABLE BOARDING, . . . . . . ..
A WEEK AT THlE FARM-HOUSE, , . . . . .
WORDS OF KINDNESS, .~ . . . . . . . . .
EVADING A DUN, . . . . . . . . . . . .
A PEA FoR DOG-DAYS, . . . . . . . . -
IN A DTLEMMA, . . . . .       ...,
MAL T COQUETRY, . . . .. . . . . . . . .
WOVE OF F4$RION, . . . . . . . . . . .
Tlif AUJDIENOE AND THE LECTURER, ... .
MODERNZING, . . ..* .. .9..0..
THE"FIRST BEREAVEMENT, . . . . . . .*.
PROPERTY, . . . . . . . . . . . ..,
THE CAST-OU]i EVEnRREE,. . . . . . . .
THE WELL-OBDERED HOUSE,, . . . . . .

.
.
,
.

.9
.9
.9
9,
.9
.9
.

.9
.9
.9
.9
.
9.
..
.

.9
.
.
,9
,9.
.9
.9
.9
.9

.9
.9
,9
9.
.

.
.
9,-
.-
.9
.
9
.9
.9
.
.9
.9

, 9
. .9
. ,9
,.
.9,
.9.
.9.
. .9
. .9
9,.
.9.
9. ,
.9.

,9
,9
,9
.9
.
,9
.9
.9
.9
,9
.
.9

.9
.9
.9

VI-
lion
218
228
226
233
284
287
240
244
250
254
256
269
264
270
278
278
280
284
286
280
298
298
802
805
810
816


SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.
PERFECTION IN LIVING.
How few understand the art of living happily! Is it
not strange, when so many hive lived before us, and we
might derive the advantage of their experience, that, after
all, we so fail 4ff attaining the desirable end? We begin
wrong, and then keep on wrong, and, ot course, are
doomed to end wrong. Take, for example, a newly'xn~r-
ned pair. The inquiry is not often "what can we aftbrd,
and how can we best consistently live?" but, "what
can I induce my father to give me ~I -how handsome an
outfit can I possibly obtain?" The Brussels carpets and
long mirrors, in the houses of the afilnent, did not always
haiig there. There was a tedious process of a~cumu1ation
before si4llcient was earned to justify the outlay. The
father, ten chances to one, sailed ~o foreign lands, encount.
ered storms and shipwreck, but, not disheartened, still
pursued his employment, and at length became a success..
ful owner, and retired from his exposed condition upon
the waves. I3ut he has a daughter. She ne~e~ knew of
her mother's anxieties lest master and c~rg&amp; should be


10

SUBSTANO~ AND SHADOWS.

lost; for she was too young to be distressed with imagin-
ary troubles. She is to be married; and this same
hard-earned money is freely expended, and the new man-
sion outyjes the old one; but alas! we fear the experi-
ence of that toiling pair is wanting to learn the art of
living rightly. The idea that "father is rich, and I shall
never want;" has been the ruin of thousands..
There, too, is the opulent merchant. Was he always
so? Some may tell you he once traded in a very small
way; but they remember, too, how carefully he kept an
eye to his accounts, that expenditures should not exceed
the income. Is ~he ~son pursuing the same course?
Where he rides, the father walked. When the father
began life, the evenings were not 8pent at the theatres
nor amusements; but in a~snug. corner, with a little square
table before a small fire, he used to "flg~re up" how
much he could afford. to purchase for the enlargement of
his stock; and then hi~ prudent~ wife. was willing, to dis-
pense with all useless . finery. How is it n~w 3 He is
worth two hundred, thousand.! Does he enjoy more at
the marble table, when the son is~vexing him to know if
he.nia.y* not~go abroad, as an apology for doing nothing,
than at that little square one, where only one candle shone
upon his iDay~.Book and. Ledger? He will tell you,
"But Frank must be. indulged ;" and the money is
launched out which will unfit him for a busy, industri-
ous, . happy life. Traveling merely to be idle, never
benefited anybody; for they are too indolent to improve.
But what comes.of.ail this living? Certainly there is
little happiness; for, at present, a busy round of exciting
pleasw~e isco~iuted as the pprfeetioii of. living.

E

SUBSTAIIOB .A~ND :~ff~&amp;DOWS.

*11

:Now, satiety follows all this eflbrt to be 'happy~;
whereas a steady, industrious person, who lives with fore~.
thought, who really desires to .izr~jrove, does not do' so.
Things that are had for the mere asking are not
prized like those for which we have toiled. It is a mis.
enable notion that we must shield children from kiiowing
how to labor ~-~-ay, and from actual labor. They never
can know happiness; they never will live well.
When shall we learn that . it j5 not what is without,
'hut what is within, .that gives the true perfection of liv-
ing? I believe the trouble lies in not doing, as well as
in overdoing. When I see people so vexed because they
cannot procure some one to do for them what they would
feel all the better for doing themselves, my envy for the
wealth which occasions the torment, ceases. The fret-
fulness of the present day is much on the increase, simply
because we are so dependent on others. The multiplica-
tion of luxuries makes the multiplication of servants.
We Iwerload our tables, and at the same time have a dis-
taste for viands which no toil has sweetened. The poor
body is put under "electric shocks," because our nerves
are too weak to oversee our cook or direct our chamber-
maid.
We are forced to ride where we should walk, and then
complain of the inattention of the coachman, and scold
him about his carelessness. "Getting one's living" is
considered vulgar; and, as no passport to good society is
furnished people who work, is it any wonder so many are
striving to . be gentlemen and ladies? This causes the
clerk to lay out all his salary (it is well if he does not
more), in imitation of the rich man's son, who dresses no


12

SUBSTANCE AND SUADOWS.

bettor than he; and the little shop-girl foregoes many
comforts, that she may secure a silk dress like a custom-
er's? With these perverted views, where are we to end?
Who will make the next generation? Let us learn to be
as independent as possible of others. Let us ask, with
a manly courage, can I afford to do thus and so? Will
it dignify my character to yield to this indulgence? Shall
I gain the respect of the truly worthy by these false
shows '~ Give a bold, thoughtful, attention to these
things, and be guided by the answer; for the perfection
of living is in beginning to live rightly.

I

SUDDENLY RICH.
MR. ATHOL went to bed a poor man, and awoke the
next morning worth some two hundred thousand dollars!
Before the accession of wealth, he was a toiling man for
a dependent family; yet he always acquired sulllcient, by
his industry, to keep his children in good condition, and
his wife a light-hearted woman; besides having an agree-
able intercourse with neighbors in the same block, under
similar circumstances. With a free and easy heart, every
Saturday night Athol settled with the world, and squared
all his accounts; so he went to church with a feeling of
independence as long as his health should be continued~
him. To be sure, riches in the prospective looked invit-
ing to this worthy couple. They used to wish for them to~
enable tbem to highly educate their children, to befriend
the poor widow in the next street, and, as they needed,
to bestow a pittance upon their aged parents; but they
never coveted&amp; luxurious fare, showy dress, or a splendid
equipage; perhaps because they were so unattainable
they left no room for such wishes.
But we said John Athol awoke one morning and found~
himself a rich man. Being descended of English pa-
rents, it appeared, by an advertisement in the evening
paper, "that the heirs of Peter Athol could learn som~
2.


14

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

thing greatly to their advantage by calling upon Smich
&amp; Co." That intelligence was neither more nor less
than that an aged uncle a rich, miserly man, who had
never married had recently died, and left a will, be-
queathing to sundry unknown relatives in America, the
heirs of his brother Peter, the whole of his estate, after
defraying his funeral expenses, and giving an annuity to
his trusty servant, Jude.
The estate could not be exactly appraised; it was
thought that it could not fall short of as many English
pounds as in our currency would amount to two hundred
thousand dollars; and John Athol, a laboring man, was
the only heir to all this property!
The curious sensations which this event awakened were
worthy of a graphic sketcher. The postman handed
honest John the letter just. as he awoke at early dawn.
His behavior was not unlike the wild excess of joy
which a lunatic would manifest on some special breaking
Qut of sunshine in his heart. He read the letter first to
his wife. Her exclamation was characteristic of such
&amp; woman:
" Well, John, we shall not be obliged to work any
more, and can dress ourselves as well as the best of
, ,,
em.
"Yes," said John; "and we can have a new house,
and keep a carriage if we like, and have our servants,
and eat all the luxuries in the market. Turkeys and'
plum-puddings will make our daily dinners, instead of1,
soup and mutton broth, and cheap vegetables And
besides, we can travel all over the world. How kind it
was hi uncle Peter 'thus. to remember us! We must pay

I

5UBSTANOE AND SHADOWS.

1I5

our respects to his burial-place, and this, of course, will
carry us abroad. But let us wake the children, and tell
them of our good luck."
Peter, Nancy, Susy and Tommy, were all old enough
to know what money could do for them, and such a merry
household as the news created was never before in John
Athol's premises. Every oneof them immediately pro-
ceeded to tell what they could now purchase, and how
happy it would make them.
"Now," said Susy, "we must not associate with the
poor people around us. Having~wealth, gives us a new.
standing in society, and when we move we will bestow
some little presents upon the poor about us, just to keep
them in good favor, and then we will leave them for-
ever."
"That's a lucky thought," replied the mother; "but
would it not be best to conceal for the present our great
~ea1th, until we can get some plans matured 'i"
They all thought so, and agreed to keep the matter
close.
There was a heavy rap at the door. A whole company
of the neigliliors were standing without to welcome and
congratulate holiest John upon his good fortune. $~t~a
few, however, hinted that "they hoped this sudden ise
in the world would not turn their heads;" and an 91d
farmer in the neighborhood suggested "it was always
well to ask the Lord's blessing, that we be not led astray
by the snares thus thrown in our way." Honest J6hn
thanked him, but we fear forgot to put up the petition.
Our friends will notice that what this worthy couple
coveted rk~hes for, before they came, had never been

P'.


16         ~5U352~ANO~ A1O~ ~HADOWS.                                SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.       IT

* mentioned by them since, namely, the education of their
children, helping the poor, and giving a lift to the aged
parents. Susy, to be sure, had spoken of having a music~
master, and buying a 2harp, because pianos were so com-
mon; and reter said he should like to go through col-
lege, if he could do so and not study. All seemed to
have wishes very diiThrent from their former ones. The
news ran like telegraphic despatches, that John Athol was
a millionaire, gathering a growing sum in the mouth of
each one who heralded it. The Athol family were
nearly insane.
Never were people before in such a dilemma! They
began to be far more unhappy than ever before, and when
the steamer brought a remittance of several thousands in
specie, it was, on the whole, the most disquieted day the
family had ever known. Stepping out from daily em-
pioyinent, and looking upon such a store of .unco~inted
gold, and then feeling such a restless desire to appmp~i..
it in such a manner as to make themselves h~ppy,
wa~ anything but agreeable to ltokers.~on. Singular as
it~zuay appear, they began tQ be selfish in the very be..
g~nxAiug; or rather they were so contract~ they had no
vz'4~rd to supply anybody's wants but their own; and
Eereiu lay the secret of feeling such disquietude. In-
deed, so entirely had the family immured themselves in
consultations at home, that they were not regretted, as
they might have been, when they removed from their
~heap, small tenement, to the granite house upon the hill.
Qtwo~ however; fairly settled in great splendor in their
z~ew abode, and the name of Athol glittering showily
~pou i~e door, inquiries were at once commenced among

46

the neighbors as to who occupied the dwelling; and being
told how they had suddenly risen from daily labor to be
somebodyy," the wealthy old aristocrats' children, if
not their sires, turned up their noses and laid a veto upon
their acquaintance.
The first winter, therefore, was passed in most "in-
glorious ease." John .A.thol dressed in broadcloth and
had nothing to do, and, more than all, he had no asso-
ciates; for his former companions in toil he foolishly
supposed would interfere with his dignity, by coming too
closely in contact with him, and, to most of the old citi-
zens, John had an ungainly appearance which broadcloth
could not hide. His wife, too, was never so unhappy
before. She kept a great supply of servants, and erro-
neously concluded she could be thus relieved from all
labor herself. In a very short time, however, she heard
disagreement among the servants, and saw waste and
destruction in larder, kitchen and. cellar; and sometimes,
forgetting her wealth, she plunged into domestic matters
as formerly, and somehow she confessed she felt much
better than with her hands folded in the drawing-rooms.
She supposedit was natural to her to work, but now she
hid her labors from observation, lest it should not be creel-
itable to her station.
Jiut the children much more readily fell into the new
mode of living. They soon learned what it was to be
"fashionable;" but it evidently did not agree with their
constitutions. They grew puny, wasp-waisted, and de-
pendent. The* boys were in a fair~ way to be ruined!
They aped the complete dandy w~e patent leather
boots ~r French caffskins, carried wa1king-stick~ with
2*

17


18

~UBfl~A2WE ~&amp;~W ~iL&amp;DOW5.

~gdd heads, wore broad-brimmed hats ~nd fashionable
neck4ies; und, more than all, rose late in the morning,
because they were out so late at nights. Evidently John
Athol's family were depreciating; and before long he
became aware of the fact, that money, invested in mere
luxuries , dwarfed the better part Qf human nature..
still there canie continual remittances, and Mr. Athol
was now f6rcecl to consult with a broker as to investii~g
it. Re bought stocks i~i newly-formed companies, in the
e~pe~tanoy of doubling his property; but his schemes did
not all work as he had promised himself; still there was
a large margin wherein he could speculate. lit looked to
John Athol like prairie grass to a northerner, when he
has just left a stunted half-crop at home. Yet gradu..
ally the money seemed to elude his grasp, and he soon
found it was quite as much a task to~ learn to keep it as
to earn it, and far more unsatisfactory. The children
grew clamorous they grew dyspeptic, too, from want
of exercise, and they grew impatient and unhappy from
want of employment. The girls were in no fair way to
keep thoir present position, ~or one was Iiirting ~with a
profligate dandy, and the other was engaged to one who
lived on ice-cre~nis ai~d drank sarsaparilla bitters, if
nothing stronger and he had a character corresponding
to his diet.
John Athol and his wife began ti be alarmed about
their children more than themselves. They therefore
concluded to break up the city establishment in the
8prg, and~ begin a new life. They concluded Upon a
trip across the water, and all the fa~nily embarked for
~urope. On the passatg~ there was a clergyman, with

I

~U~5TAIWE A1~{D ~U4PQW8.

I
whom they formed ~ decided intimacy. John told him
all his former history. They had serious conversations
by moonlight upon the deck of the vessel, and the rich
man seemed troubled in mind. Sometimes he seemed to
be impressed that he was not making a right use of his
property, and he began to be afraid to give an account
of his stewardship. No one could rise up and plead for
him; no one could say they had been blessed by him,
no widow's heart ever sang for joy because he remem-
bered her "low estate." lie told his wife of bis
wretched misgivings. ~he tried to comfort him, yet
herself felt condemned. The children only laughed at
their superstitious fears.
There came a heavy storm upon them during their pas-
sage. The captain looked out fearfully, and the pilot
felt dismayed; the passengers were terror-stricken, and
John Athol quivered like an aspen leaf; and begged the
clergyman to pray for him. Money at this time seemed
of little consequence; all they coveted was the enduring
riches of an inheritance above.
John made most solemn promises if his life should be
spared; indeed, all his family seemed impressed while
the danger impended; but when the storm ceased, the
children forgot their resolutions, and frolicked as before.
Not so did their parents.
They were at length safely landed in England, and
there John ~Athol engaged in a lucrative business, and
again commenced an industrious career, taking his two
boys under his immediate supervision, and allowing them
only what was necessary for a respectable appearance,
and obliging them to work for that. At first, they


20         ~UBSTANOE AND SHADOW$.

relncta~itly acceded, but finding little enjoyment in com-
plete idleness, they soon were happy in their new occu-
pations.
Mrs. Athol attempted an amendment in the young
ladies, and so far succeeded as to make them cheerfully
surrender their foolish engagements; and, as in England,
air and exercise are deemed so essential to strength of
body and mind, they all fell into such "fashionable" and
healthful habits, and, by slow degrees, they all learned
the lux~Ury of doing good with their abundance; and the
delightful letters just received in America, represent
them in the most vigorous exercise of their powers, fully
convinced that to "become rich" without a ballast of
character proportionate to their weight, is always more
likely to prove a snare than a blessing.

20

THE BEST ROOMS.
TuER~ is a kind of grim, staid air, whiGh always gath-
ers around one on entering the spacious drawing-rooms
which are devoted wholly to select visitors and *hshion-
able parties. Who does not prefer the free and easy
atmosphere of the basement or dining room, or the snug
little nursery, where everything lies about carelessly,
but not untidily 3 You can sit down in these places, ~nd
feel you are a privileged guest; the stiff demeanor is
thrown off, and the thoughts run in an easy channel, and
you Thel at home.
But the "best r~ms"in a city do not wear ~izeih a
gloomy air as those select places in the country. Deliver
me from the tomb-like, sombre appearance of the best
parlor in a large wooden house, situated on some bleak
hill, where the wind is keeping the ]Eolian harps in con-
tinual play through the interstices between the window
casements. Such a room is only opened on great occasions.
Weddings are celebrated there, and so also are funerals.
Once in a few weeks, in summer, invited guests are
seated there a few hours previous to dinner or tea. if it
is a very warm day, it may be a luxury to stop awhile
in this apartment; for the flies rarely enter such a
place. It is too cheerless for any living creature to vol-


22          SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.                                     SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.          23

untarily make it a home, unless it be a company of
spiders, and they weave strange network in ~uch places.
It happened during the last summer months, a friend,
who was distinguished for her uncommon neatness and
keen observation whenever paint was discolored or
slightly soiled, threw open the doors of her best par-
lor to a party of city friends. Unluckily, a huge cob-
weh~was displayed from the mirror to the ceiling, thence
the fancy device ran obliquely to the mantel shelf; and
as it arrested the attention of-one of the party, her eyes
seemed riveted to the Spot. The hostess, observing it,
proposed a walk in the garden, and, having rid her room
of visitors, she lost no time in displacing the cobwebs.
When they returned, however, the lady very ungallantly
joked upon the removal of the web, and added, "I was
so delighted to see such an appendage in your room, my
dear friend, that I am amply repaid for the effort I made
to visit you." This practical joke was not, however,
pleasantly received, and it only serves to confirm the
truth that joking upon facts is at all times quite a haz-
ardous business.
And there is "the parlor chamber" in the country!
It has long, snowy-white curtains, deeply fringed, and
looped on one side, while the closed blinds give it a sad,
sickly hue; but a solemn air seems to gather about you
even here. The mahogany bureau lo6ks darker. than in
any other room; the bed presents an appearance of great
comfort beneath its white exterior, but you feel a strange
aversion to tumbling and rumpling it. It seems a fit
couch for a fevered patient, who longs for a cool and still
apartment, where the light of day is excluded. Such

22

28

are the associations which gather around "best rooms!"
0! I would infinitely prefer the more common-place, where
the sun has free access, and people come in and go out
cheerfully; where even the children play ball, and roll
hoop, and blow soap-bubbles; for all these things indicate
that life is within, and merry hearts make us love to live
in their sunshine.
Yet, what a strange idea have I broached against such
parlors and chambers! Who does not furnish and keep
such'? We hire a house or buy one. Forthwith we
shut up a certain part of it, and reserve it only to open
on great occasions. Woe to the child that ventures within
one of these sanctums with his playthings! If he is
dressed nicely, and his little feet are perfectly clean,
when mamma has a fashionable call from a lady who is
fond of children, little Tommy may go in and ask the
lady "how her little Susy is." But if he touches the
tassels upon that embroidered couch, or lifts up the cov~
ering a bit to look at the pretty damask all concealed
beneath, his mother tells him, "Tommy, dear, you may
go into the nursery with Margaret, now. Mother don't~
allow mischievous boys in this room." Poor child! how
gladly he runs out of his prison, to where he can play
unrestrained and run without fear! Tell me frankly,
kind reader, do you love the restraints which these "best
rooms" impose'?


FANCY WORK.
ThE young lady who spends most of her time in doing
"fancy work," has a variety of complaints. What ca~~
produce them ~ She lies in bed till she is called to
breakfast, drinks a strong cup of Mocha, eats a roll, and
sits to the fancy work! It is "so enchanting," she
would just finish that bud, or draw the outline of that
superb dahlia, before she dresses for dinner; but, hark!
the bell rings, and. she took no note of time; father has
come home, and Miss Paulina has her morning's work to
show him. He praises it exceedingly, gives her a two
dollar bill to expend in variegated worsted; declares he
does not believe a girl in town is more industrious than
she. But, somehow or other, she has little appetite for her
dinner; she utterly discards meat; will take a thin slice
of currant pudding, and finishes her dessert with a few
nuts and raisins. She desires her mamma to purchase
those "worsteds;" it will save her the trouble of going
out. In a few weeks, a beautiful screen is produced, the
work of Miss Paulina's own fingers! How it is shown,
by her admiring parents, to numerous friends!
This but goads on the young lady to undertake a set
of chair-coverings, and a piano~.cloth, to match! In her
~iind's eye, how splendidly they will look in her own

parlor! for Paulina expects to be married at no distant
day, when her lover returns from abroad. With this
engagement, and the fancy work, she has little inclina-
tion for society; when she takes a respite, it is to answer
her beau's last letter, or to linger over those sentences
which he penned on a foreign shore.
Two or three coverings are completed, when the
mother finds her daughter lounging upon the couch more
frequently, and complaining of a pain in her chest, be-
tween her shoulders, and in her side. She looks pale;
and, as she gets no better, it is thought best to send for a
physician. He comes, examines her pulse, looks at her
tongue, thumps on her lungs, leaves a prescription, and
goes away. But not so with the disease; a universal
debility follows, and a cough succeeds. People speak of
it as a case of consumption; but the parents are strangely
blinded, and talk about Paulina's native constitution;
that she never from infancy was sick a day before her
cough is a cold; she must take a composition of some
sort, which will remove it. The physician leaves a recipe;
says little respecting his patient, but examines the lungs
more frequently; and finally ends the chapter by telling
her friends she had better take a journey to the Sulphur
Springs. She does so, and is charmed with the effect.
The scenery, and bracing air, and entire change, almost
make her well before she reaches the Springs. The
parents are joyous they knew Paulina had no serious
disease; and, excepting a slight cough, and a little
tendency to night-sweats, they cannot discover but she
is perfectly well. Just to amuse a few dull hours, Pau~.
lina took her fancy work.
S

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.          25

25


28          SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.                                    SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

At the great hotel, filled with strangers and invalids,
she cares not to make herself common. A girl whose
affections are pledged to another, cares nothing for the
mass of people about her. She drinks the water, bathes,
eats at the public table, has a voracious appetite, and,
although she looks like an invalid, her parents' do not
believe her to be one. She spends a month with them,
and returns home greatly invigorated, having completed
three chair-coverings, and traced the outlines for the
piano..cloth!
The physician sees not so decided a change for the
better as he hoped; but who wishes to communicate such
intelligence to fond parents 3 Mr. Gill is daily expected
in the packet ship at New York, and Paulina is on the
tiptoe of expectation, and appears in her best humor to
meet him. He arrives, but exclaims, "Heavens, Paulina!
what have you been about 3 Why, you are as pale as a
lily, and I left you the color of the rose."
Mamma interposes, and details the child's illness; says
she attributes a good deal of it to anxiety on his account,
and quiets the lover with the assurance that she will soon
1e well again. She does grow better; for she walks now,
rides occasionally, and obeys more of the laws of nature,
which she has too long defied. Mr. Gill does not seem
pleased with the fancy work; has brought some home
from Germany, f~r richer; and so Paulina throws by her
worsteds, and bestows all her labor upon her mother, as a
parting present. Keep it, fond mother; it was at the
expense of a 'ruined constitution, those' buds and flowers
were made! Those cypress leaves will have a peculiar
significance soon ; - they should form the ohaplet which

encircles the birth, age, and death of this young
girl!
But she marries, - a frail, delicate creature, constant-
ly under the care of a physician, and a perpetual source
of anxiety to her husband. Her cough is more and more
troublesome, ~nd they are on the eve of starting to pass
the winter in Charleston, S. C., when Mrs. Gill is seized
with ~deeding at the lungs, and is utterly prostrated!
Her physician only wonders the crisis has been delayed
so long? The husband is distressed beyond measure;
her mother is frantic, and all at once is awakened to the
danger of the case. Now, what efforts are used - to
produce recovery! Physicians of acknowledged celebrity
are consulted; panaceas that have "never failed" do not
reach the case. Nurses and skill may prolong the suf-
ferer's life, but the termination will soon come. The
announcement is made that Mrs. Gill is seized with
another fit of bleeding, and, shortly after, that she. is
dead! There is no post mortem examination, although
the friends desire it; it is so clearly a plain case of con-
sumption, that medical men ask for no testimony but that
already furnished. 'There should, instead of a post mor-
tem examination, have been a coroner's inquest, and it
would have been clearly proved that the parents were
guilty of murder, certainly in the second degree; and
they should have been made to atone for such a crime as
permitting a child to live without any regard to physical
laws, and thns lay the foundation of incurable disease~
But how reads the community such e'~~ents 3
"By a mysteri0.ss Providence," says the biographer,
"a young and int~resting female, who had just entered


28          SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.                                    SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.          29

upon the responsibilities of domestic life, has been s~~d-
denly snatched from among us by the insatiate destroyer
who spares no mark, however prized. Endowed by
nature with a vigorous constitution, the insidious advances
of the common enemy were not observed until he had
sapped the citadel of life, and thus, in a few short months,
the parents' pride, the husband's hope, the light of many
a circle, has been snatched away, leaving a numerous
band of mourners the reflection that all which friendship
and skill could effect was promptly done;~ but, alas! they
proved unavailing." This libel upon Provid~mce ought
not to be borne! This natural effect of transgression,~
which as surely followed disobedience, as wilful suicide,
should not be ascribed to an inscrutable decree! If we
thus sin ignorantly, it is all our own fault, and we justly
deserve the penalty; since every school-book might teach
us that exercise and air are indispensable to any tolerable
measure of health, particularly in young females.
Fancy work has been tl~e death of hundreds. Who
can take any satisfaction in examining the nicest piece
of elaborate workmanship, when the penalty paid for it
was a spinal affection, or an aching side, or diseased
lungs ~ A great religionist once exclaimed, as he looked
upon such a piece of labor, "It is red with the blood of
murdered time," alluding to the most conspicuous color
in the embroidery. Rather would 'I call it suicidal
murder, inflicted by known causes, for reasons unknown;
for, after all, a yard of tapestry may be twice as beauti-
ful as that upon which life has been sacrificed.
]3y these remarks I would not be understood to discard
the use of the needle, and instead thereof substitute street

spinning! Far from it it is fancy work, that
enchanting labor, which binds some fingers to the employ-
ment, regardless of proper exercise, about which we
declaim. There is no need of enforcing upon a female
not to have so strict a watch over her hosiery and com-
mon sewing. I never knew the health to fail by too
close application to common work. Uow seldom is one
obliged to be reproved for over-practising upon a piano!
How few for mending, or remodelling, their own clothing!
low few for attending to domestic affairs! It is only
upon this useless, body-destroying, and, for aught I know,
soul-destroying, fancy work, that I would pass the laws
of condemnation. Believe me, when I add, I am acquainted
with a young lady who ruined her health, some years
since, by working a black lace veil!
8*
9


SUBSTANCE AND SHADOW.          81

CHASING THE RAINBOW.
THERE was a dark cloud in the western horizon. The
low mutterings of distant thunder were heard, and a few
drops of rain gave warning of a timely character to the
loiterer unprotected in his way. And as that heavy
cloud united with others, and assumed a still more ter-
rific aspect, the lightning began to play upon the mag-
netic wires, the wind with redoubled fury swept the
foliage against the window-panes, and suddenly the rain
fell in torrents. Now, the lately parched street was
filled with foaming, rushing water, and pedestrians
sought shelter in every nook that offered, and all the by-
places were secured as a shelter against the untimely
blast. The strife of the elements seemed maddened and
fearful; man, in his lofty strength, felt his insecurity and
inability to control the mandates of his Creator's will, and
shrank like a child, to adore in silence that wordless
voice which attested such almighty power. But look
now,-the clouds have parted; a narrow strip of clear
lAue sky is discernible, and a splendid rainbow is over-
arching the heavens. Yon little urchin would fain
take hold of its foot ~ for the rainbow seems to have set-
tled down just back of yonder hill. He runs to~ find
it~ termination; for he would examine the prismatic

colors which are so blended together. He would find
how they are commingled -would fain hold in his. tiny
hand the blue, the violet, and the delicate shaded pink.;
but, arrived at the hill, it seems still further onward,
and its foot now rests as far beyond his present location,
as when he first started. Chase the rainbow as far as he
will, it is always terminated in the distance.
The child cries over the delusion; he wonders of what
and for what rainbows were made; they are emblematic
of no promise to him; he wants a grasping reality.
But is it the child only who chases the rainbow'? How
many, who have started in life with the heavy cloud above
them, have, as it parted and unfolded some magic colors,
been allured by the dazzling brightness, and entered
upon a vain pursuit to catch the illusion, and yet have
always found it still further from their grasp! I would
not that so many misguided travellers should rise before
me; for that thunder-cloud ought to have left a salutary
influence; those heavy rain-drops were designed to
n~oisten the parched soil of the human affections, and that
rainbow which followed was a sure pledge that the prom-
ises thus awakened would be fulfilled - only we are too
curious to examine the blended colors, which are the
precursors of our future welfare.
Yet, look out once more upon tiature when the tran-
sient shower has subsided. That furious blast, which so
curled and bent, and even prostrated, the delicate buds;
that rain, which so washed the roots and made numberless
little seams of earth as if lacerated to the very found~
tion, has unsealed the bud, and, as we look, the flower
is imperceptibly but beautifully opening to our gaze;


SUBSTANOB AND SHADOWS.
the drooping tendrils again rise with renewed strength;
the bright sun kisses off the pearly drops that stood upon
leaf' and tender limb, and the beautiful reflection of the
rainbow tinges this once fearful shower with a beauty
worth the skill of the heavenly Architect.
Just so in daily life the discipline* of dark clouds is
only an augury of bright manifestations in the distance;
our tears are but the fertilizing of dry and dusty, spots
which needed their genial influences, and the rainbow is
but the light of our Father's countenance, to illumine the
eye of faith with the tokens of hi~ love.

TJMJDJTY
TUE feeling of timidity, which sometimes embarrasses
us in the presence of our superiors, often makes us unjust
to ourselves. Our timidity drives our senses out of us.
We are ashamed of our bashfulness, and this conscious
ness makes us awkward in our attempts to overcome it.
We have a friend who is very loquacious, and always
talks to the purpose, save in the presence of one man;
and before him he never uttered a sentence worth repeat..
ing. We were forcibly struck with the same kind of
reserve which llazlitt describes in a visit he paid to
Coleridge
The thought of the meeting had worn heavily upon
him, for he seemed to disparage his own powers~ and
magnify his friend's. After the small-talk incident to
meeting was discussed, Hazlitt undertook to give Cole-
ridge an account of some thoughts he had written "On
the Natural Disinterestedness of the Human Mind."
"But," said he, "I failed.~ and', after I had tried for
the twentieth time, I got some new pens and paper, and
determined to make clear work of it. I wrote a few
meagre sentences in the skeleton style of a mathematical
demonstration; but I was forced to stop when half way
down the second page, for I tried in vain to pump


34         8UB5T4NQ~ AND ~HAPOW8.

words, images, notions, apprehensions, fancies, and facts,
from that gulf of abstraction in which I was plunged,
and concluded by shedding a few tears of despondency on
the blank, unfinished paper. I can write better now!
Am I better than I was then ~ 0, no! my timidity has
left me."
Great minds undoubtedly feel distanced as well as
attracted by each other. Only weak heads with shallow
brains will chatter on regardless of their superiors. But
we* are fast, as a mass, getting out of this bashfulness.
We are running too far at random, reckless of what peo-
ple think or say of us. Hence, possessed of one idea, we
carry it about with us, and throw it in everybody's face;
we write with lightning speed, and the thoughts are
scorching, and show only the~ wildness of the brain.
Such people know not the definition of tirni~lity, and we
question whether, in the progress of the nineteenth cen-
tury, the word, if used at all, will not be found in our
dictionaries with a parenthesis, marked (obsolete).

84

THE HOLIDAY WAL1~.
WOULD that everybody were happy about these fes..
tival days! We would iron out the wrinkles from the
careworn brow, and put a jubilant tone into the speech
of those who are brooding over "memories of the past,"
and show every gloomy countenance how it may be irra-
diated by a cheerful smile in the contemplation of9
the blessings which, although withdrawn, were continued
so long and gave so much of zest to former days. But
we must remind such that they must look out from~ tkem.~
selves; and if they will put~ on their winter garments
and go with me into the crowded thoroughfares of our
great metropolis, where at every other step they will see
the inviting placards, "Christmas and New-Year Gifts
at reduced prices," "Dry Goods at cost," "California
outdone," "Secure your bargains here," &amp;c., just as we
happen to stop at the window of a toy-shop we shall be
sure to find Mr. Jones, or Smith, or Brown, who has
taken his wife and their two little precocities into this
very shop, to select their holiday presents. The parents
of these children have concluded it is best that "Sammy
and Tommy" shall make their own selections this year.
It will throw them more on their own resources, help
them develop their immature judgment, and, in short,


86

SUBSTANCE AND S1IAD~WS.

I

make ~them more manly. Now the spectator would
judge there is little need of that conclusion1 for they
both are dressed in small-clothes with knee-buckles, wear
tiny beaver hats, and carry walking-sticks, which they
flourish with more of an air than "Grandpa." Besides,
the little fellows know enough of the definition of words
to tell you the different meanings of "I will" and "I
won't," as they are selecting their holiday presents.
"Mamma" has stood this half hour trying to persuade
"Sammy" to take a little box entitled "The Wonders of
Creation in a Nut-shell;" but he has seen a drum, with
the two sticks attached to its sides, and master Tommy.
is blowing a miniature fife, and five and seven years are
not insensible to martial music, and th\ey are resolved to
secure these noisy playthings, and act the part of soldiers;
for Biddy has promised to make them each a paper cap
and put a red feather in it. Well, they have carried the
day, and the purchases are made.
Just at the further end of the same counter little
"Susy" is selecting a big doll. "No, she don't want any
other but that ;" although mother thinks five dollars is a
great sum. to pay for a miniature baby, when so many
real, living foundlings are set down at our doors for
nothing. Watch a moment.
"Susy" has secured her treasure, and it i~ laid in a
bit of a trundle-bed, and her little eyes sparkle with
delight, and she jumps and capers and tosses up the baby,
and imitates the exact movements of the nursery-maid
at home. All this is very pretty for sport in both in-
~ta.nces. But by and by, when we take a miff at some
foreigi~ country, or fancy Cuba would be a~ pretty append-

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOW.

3T

age to our United States, the little boys who are to-day
playing rub-a-dub will, perchance, have grown to man-
hood, and the fires of patriotism will burn so fiercely
that they cannot be restrained from fighting either ''to
conquer or die;" and should they be united to the little
miss who bought the big doll, but has now grown to
womanhood, and tosses a real, live baby, that crows and
cries and wants to put his fingers in the gas light, the
glorious fun which .the purchasers to-day have~ made,
causing them to be so gay and happy, will settle off in
a monotone, and they will talk plaintively together about
separating, perhaps forever, if slain upon the battle
field! So, after all, we see there is a responsibility
attached even to a holiday present. By these. very gifts
we may lay the foundation of a ferocious spirit, or sow
the seeds of a proud and vain superciliousness, which
may flower in after years, when you can never eradicate
the root, and shall even have forgotten that you helped
the germination by gratifying the~ indulgence of the first~
tiny wants of childhood.
4


THE HYDROPATHIST.
Wu~ not be a fish, and swim all the time in your
native element ~I Why dart out from the aquatic tub to
be placed between feather beds, encased in wet sheets,
and thus sweat out thy existence contrary to the law of
old, "by the sweat of thy brow thou shalt earn thy
1~read"? IDo not become a monomaniac upon one idea.
Bathing is good, -daily ablution is refreshing, invigor-
ating, cleansing, purifying; but, like all good things,
it may be perverted. Cold water is not the panacea
for every ailment and ill in life; a wet jacket will not
always 'ward olY every attack. But let us not quarrel
about this liquid element, water. It is to be highly
prized, - we will admit all its excellences; but, in doing
so, we would not overlook other bountiful provisions of
nature, by which both the outer and inner man is made
a worthy temple for the human soul. An exclusive
medicine, like an exclusive thought, is very apt to de-
range all the natural functions. You have lost flesh,
but you have the cleanly, wholesome appearance of a
duck. You have wasted your system by injudiciously
applying this element. Some have broken down, by
thus doing violence to constitutional laws. Yet you still
persist in this daily practice; its use occupies all your

thoughts; your medicine has become your daily
thought; and when this is the case, it is the more doubt-
ful whether the malady will leave you. Cheerful occu-
pation for the mind has done more toward recovery of
the body than all other remedies put together. Again.
I caution you, use, but do not abuse, this kindly elemezit.
A duck with the mind of a man would be a natural
phenomenon. Be a hydropathist if you will, but for
humanity's sake do not ally yourself with any other
species but that God intended for you.
Look at the canary in your window; watch his habits.
Early in the morning he dips his wings, and flutters
about in his tiny pond; but no sooner has he done so,
than he rises to the top of his cage, and begins to carol
forth his song. He is not again in the element rioting
in excess. Learn of the bird to be cleanly, but like ~im
plumethy wings for an upward flight.
4

SUBSTANCE AND 5IiA1~OWS.        89

89


THE WIFE O~N THE HOMESTEAD.
THERE are few positions in life more trying than the
situation of a daughter-in-law; particularly if she be
doomed to reside with the "old folks," and a variety of
brothers and sisters, who are all pledged to their own
ways, and feel infallible in their judgment upon others.
We are all frail; but the covering with which we shield.
the faults of our own kindred seems to be cast aside in
this new relationship. "Richard" never does an im-
proper thing; but if "Mary" has purchased a rich
shawl, or has treated herself to a new silk dress, and
appears out fresh and neat, without a previous consulta-
tion, what a whispering and wondering, perhaps what a
jealous and envying disposition is manifested! The old
lady says, "she never brought up..her girls to such ex-
travagance. Ilitty never owned a nice silk ~n her life,
but she earned it in keeping school; ~nd Sarah Ann has
never 'afforded herself a silk cloak. Now, to have such
an interloper come right in upon us, and set such fash-
ions, is quite too much for me. Besides, it will fail
Richard, poor boy, who has always kept his money in
such a snug way." But stop, my good friend; Mary
brought to your son some thousands, and has more in
expectancy; or she is a sweet-tempered lady, and such
conduct will Badly grieve her.

Then woe to the ~young wife if they live in common I
The veriest trifles are often magnified, and the happiness
of a family is often marred by the addition of a single
extra egg in the pudding' or a disposition to make a little
tasteful arrangement upon the table, even with her own
purchased articles. In this case, it is said, "modern
upstarts wish to begin where their fathers left oft: The
country is all tending to pauperism, an4 there is no such
thing as economy practiced now-a-days."
But the trials are not all told ; indeed, no pen could.
portray all the petty vexations with which some young
housekeepers are assailed. A few friends to tea, a light
entertainment for the evening, a few extra lamps, an
accompaniment to the piano as the finale piece, how it
grates and jars on the ears of the old people in the sitting-.
room! There may have been performers on flutes and
tamborines; solos and duets may have been sung for years
by their own daughters, without a word of complaint;
but the scene is changed now! These modern wives
have friends with whom they correspond, and sometimes
they do not feel as if their time is entirely thrown away
if they attend to some literary pursuits, read a valna.
ble book, or even glance over the contents of the daily
journal. But to encounter the imputation of "~saunt~
ing away one's time," or being charged with "being
indifferent to the interests of~ a husband," because one is
sometimes out of the treadmill, is, indeed, a hard lot.
And to fail in well-meant efforts, to have a wrong con-
struction placed upon all one's actions, to be watched,
questioned, bored and fretted at, why, it would destroy
the serenity of an angel. But worse than all is to have
4*

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.          41

41


42         SUB$TANU~ AND SHADOWS~

a backbiting spirit going on with Richard, the husband,
by loving sisters and an affectionate mother; to make him
feel he has erred in his choice! Let me tell you, Rich-
ard~ when it comes to this, for pity's sake find other
quarters; board at some third-rate hotel is preferable,
for there independence is felt, and this often atones for a
frugal table. If you remain where you are, as you are,
you will not be troubled many months with a cheerful
companion; she will first pine away without any apparent
cause; the family will never think her much ill; the
advice of a physician will be deemed unnecessary; and,
erelong, she, the light~-hearted, rosy-cheeked wife, will
slowly decay, like the damask rose with a worm at its
root.
This is not all a fancy sketch. Thousands have
endured similar trials, and if they have survived them,
you will iind cross-grained, peevish women have been
the result of such living; and who can tell how many
fatal diseases have followed in the train of blighted
hopes?
In most cases, the smallest establishment is more con-
ducive to happiness than taking the wife to the homestead.
Exceptions there may b~e; but they are few; like the
stars in the horizon when most of the sky is overcast.

42

A CHAPTER ON CORNS.
Wao ever wrote out a pain? What word can express
the swinging, indefinable sensation, which arises from the
small protuberance called a corn? Yet how few re-
gard such an irritation, that literally makes you so mis-
erable and unhappy! True, you apply a plaster when
your patience is worn out, or you wrap the aching
excrescence in emolient, or bathe it in cold water; but
who ever thinks of commiserating with one who has
only a corn? A fever may bring more debility with
it, but not half so much pain; a disease which calls for
medical aid may excite more alarm, but is not so trying
as a corn. Did you ever take a walk in the country
when the windows of heaven had been shut up some
days, and, after you had broiled an hour in the sun,
attempt to remove the tighf shoe which encased your
corn? Could you ever describe the sensation? Did
you ever put on a new pair of boots, and set off in a car
or coach, where you were confined all day without rem-
edy, and not suffer more distress than language could
describe?
I appeal to the great brotherhood of humanity, for
they are legions, who know by experience that I have.
sketched realities.


44

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

But the foot must be dressed neatly. One must have
a good fit, and that means a snug one; consequently we
go limping through the world with a distorted coun-
tenance, and walk as if treading on precious gems,
simply because our feet are scoured. How we welcome
the sight of our best friend, an old shoe! How gladly
we raise the aching iix~t to another chair, and feel how
comfortable is solitary confinement, if we are only at
ease! Whence come these afflictive evils ~-. what pro-
duces them? "Tight shoes, tight boots," is again and
again reiterated. You tell your shoemaker these troubles;
he measures you, gives plentiful allowance to ease; but,
alas! a woful twinge gives you warning that he has mis-
understood the ease. You grow despairing, threaten to cut
a slit in the side.Qf the new boot or. shoe, when along
comes the newspaper. The advertisement headed "Corns
Cured" has more interest to you than 4he Gomprornise
Bill. The corn can be extracted for the trifling sum of
one dollar! The coin in the desk drawer is drawn out most
cheerfully, and you are soon on your way to submit to
amputation. Some one in the crowded street treads on
you, and your corn is touched in the most sensitive part,
SQ that you literally cry out. You arrive at the surgeon's.
He looks at the cause of all your nervous agitation, and
tells you he can directly relieve you. You throw down
the dollar; without much ado he extracts the corn, and
you are a happy being. Life seems all sunshine; you fit
out in French boots and 'narrow-toed shoes, and patent
shining leather pumps, and really dance on, where 'before
you only limped.
Thit did ever an ecstatic joy last long? All at once,

in a hot dog-day, you feel another twinge. There is no
mistake in the feeling; a new corn is springing up just
where the old one was taken out. You feel that you have
been humbugged - go to your doctor with the perspira-
tion on your brow, and demand the reason of this sensa-
tion? He tells you, "My dear sare, for one dollar I
relieve you. You treat your toe like well person, whereas
it be in val id." You swing open the door and return,
wisely concluding if you are always to wear moccasins
and loose slippers, you will help him to no more amputa-
tions. In a few days he calls on you to inquire, "1f
sare, you object to append your name to von certificate,
that you were entirely cured by mine agency?" How
lucky it is we were taught lessons of good breeding!
How fortunate that we call it "vulgar and low" to kick
over a dumb animal, much more a contemptible quack!
There are ills we are born to bear, and corns come
under this' catalogue. We cannot tread firmly, and we
need not expect it; we cannot feel easy, and we need not
covet it, only when in a dark evening, or about our own
home, we find the old slippers and give ourselves to free
and easy treatment.
We read that St. Paul says, "a thorn was given him
in the flesh." Commentators are divided as to what the
annoyance was; but who can doubt but it was a cqrlz.?

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.          45

45


PLEASURE-SEE KING.
TRuNws and bandboxes were never in greater requi-
sition than at the present time. Look at the coach at
the door of your opposite neighbor. See the vast quan-
tity of baggage that is to be piled on behind, beside the
carpet-bags and valises under the driver's feet, and the
innumerable smaller boxes, and sunshades, and umbrel-
las, that are to ride inside. We have often pondered
upon the show the contents of such an outfit would make,
displayed to the eye of the multitude; What bachelor
would ever again think of marrying, after having wit-
nessed it? We are now speaking of the mere sight.~
seeing and pleasure-travelling public. They are starting,
they scarcely know where; they expect to touch at fash..
jonable resorts, to rest in quiet country inns, to see life
as it is, life as it should be, and life as we make it. All
these places require a great variety of apparel, adapted
to climate, situation, and the company to be met. So
"madam" must take her brocades, lest it become too
cool for her lighter fabrics; but the "tissues" must not
be omitted, because in some places there is a great display
of fancy dresses even .among the mammass," on account
of the daughters. Then the rigging for the head the
t~Iso fro3its, or half or whole wigs, fresh from the

dresser's shop, all perfumed with bergamot; the tasteful
head-dresses of ribbon, and lace and flowers; the nicely-
flounced skirts, over which laundry maids have so copi-
ously perspired, and quit their places; the network
hosiery of the choicest silk, which has been whitened
around black bottles for the occasion. Why, the legions
of articles, which help compose the contents of trunks
and bandboxes, who can enumerate half of them, all
compressed tightly together, but so carefully wedged as
not to wrinkle or tumble each other? Then there are the
smaller trunk and little valise, belonging, as the girls
say, to "father." These contain shirt-bosoms, stiff and
shiny as new pieces of tin ware, dickeys made to wear,
without wilting, the hottest of dog-days; perchance a
light gossamer wig, or an extra "scratch," to cover
the old gentleman's bald head, or a half-dozen cravats
that the young ladies can tie into a Brobdignagian style;
added to which is a cumbrous suit of new broadcloth,
and a case of the nicest cigars.
But we are told that this starting off is in consequence
of the poor health of the young ladies. And don't they
look puny, low-spirited and dyspeptic, only as the present
excitement; has got up a little glow? Ten chances to one
they are out this very minute, while their. trunk is being
packed, buying "Eva's Parting," or the very last fask~~
ionable music, and a small cargo of confectionery to con-
sume ~t odd times. And have n't they a big trunk of
dresses and flounced under-dresses, of which they alone
know the uses and names? Mark it, hQw feeble they
are! Is a walk proposed by the father or mother? "0
dear, do let us have a carriage!" is the exclamation of

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.          47

47


48

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

the youngest. Then They talk upon side-aches, and doc-
tor's prescriptions, and wish they c9uld rid themselves
of nervous complaints; but they are too feeble to ride
on horseback; they have no appetites for anything save
ice-creams and syllabubs; consequently, they move on
from the country inn to more fashionable quarters; and,
after travelling the six weeks in dog-days, come home,
little refreshed, to talk about winding up with a "Euro-
pean tour." The truth is, had they left those cumbrous
trunks and bandbbxes at home, and travelled for comfort
merely, they would have found what they sought.
Now take a peep at Mrs. Bogg's prospects. She has
been directed to change the scene, - to seek variety as
a restorative to "weakened nerves and general debility."
No sooner does she receive the prescription, than up
comes the inquiry, "What shall I want to wear 3"
The dressmaker is sent for; her work is slackened, and
here is a good customer. She recommends foulards,
silk bareges, light, graceful mantillas, and all the para-
phernalia which a young bride would desire on her wed-
~~ng tour. From inability to leave her chamber to
attend to any domestic avocations, she places herself in a
carriage, drives to our most splendid dry. goods establish-
ments, orders ~the most unique and expensive articles,
slowly concludes which color will best become her lily
cheeks, and finally orders a large parcel for the aforesaid
dressmaker to select from. A fortnight, by day and
night, is spent by seamstresses to array the invalid Mrs.
Bogg for this journey for health! When she finally
starts oft; she is only sustained upon "Sarsaparilla hit-

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOW$.        49

ters," and a prescription from the physician, "to iaereas0
the tone of the system."
Why did she not put on her travelling habit,: take a
few useful articles of dress from her. full closet, have
them packed in one trunk. or a large carpet-bag, and
thus derive some benefit from her journey 'I Need we
wonder that so many invalids return home no better~'
than they left it T~ So long as they are slaves to fashion,
and content to forego all the pleasurable benefits which
a journey in a rational way might produce, so long will
they talk about going "South" in the winter, and
hardly keep soul and body together at the " North" in
the summer.
Now, it is the contents of those big trunks and. band-
boxes that work all the mischief. They cost a vast deal
more than the two-dollar-a-day hotels; but the indulgent
husband or affectionate father very cheerfully toils on to
~ay the semi-yearly bills, and makes no complaints, save
"at the ruinous state of the times and the extravagant
follies of people in general."
We go for a good appearance abroad as at home -for
a "genteel outfit," if you term it, when among strangers;
but neither the weak, nor the lazy or fashionable, will
ever realize the full enjoyment to be derived from change
of scene and air, until they rise above all foolish rivalry
in dress and gewgaws. Half the day spent in bedecking
one's self for dinner, and the other half in preparing for
a " hop" in the evening, never created any more self-
respect on account of the labor. A whirl-about in dog-
days with gentlemen who wear "imperials," and w
lie in bed till noon, and then surfeit upon mint juleps to
5


SUBSTANCE A~W SHADOWS.

keep i.~.p the excit~nient, i~ not worth appearing in in
all that formidable array of finery contained in those
Iarge# trunks and bandboxes. Young ladies should never
nrry nor be married for outside appearances; and if
the qualities of the mind and heart are not sufficient to
- induce admiration, never imagine you can rummage any-
thing mit of a "great trunk or small bandbox," that
will enchain the affections during all the varieties which
ever await the marriage state.

AN AGREEABLE COMPANION.
Wn are often wearied with a great talker, but never
with an agreeable companion. How eagerly the society
of an agreeable friend is sought! How welcome they a~re
on a journey, in a sick-room, or at home! Life assumes
a very different aspect when we live in such a genial
atmosphere. We are never tired of living, because there
is a charm, a spell, that binds us to that fellow-being.
Look at the opposite character, a disagreeable person,
and you will understand my meaning. This is one
whose daguerreotype is more easily taken,- and may we
not fear the reason is, because the likeness is more com-
mon~ - a fretful being, who never sees a ray of sunshine
but a cloud all the darker follows it; one who enter-
tains her friends with descriptions of petty grievances in
her children, or who inveighs against her "help," who
are always rude and unaccommodating; and who inflicts
all yesterday's conversation with Bridget the cook, or
Nancy the chambermaid, upon you, and is sure to nar-
rate what "she said," and "1 said to her." Such a
person is severely trying, and more than once have I
heard one and another remark, "0, we won't call there;
Mrs. - is so tedious about her family affairs!"
An agreeable person never holds up the faults of her

*


52          SUBSTANCE ANb SHADOWS.

comiections, or friends, or domestics, to another for the
sake of "making talk," as some call it. There ar~
always a vast many subjects upon which we may dilate,
according as the taste, occupation, or habits of those with
whom we are conversing, may suggest, whereby mutual
benefit may be conferred. Perhaps we have need again
to cite the remark, the most agreeable are not of necessity
the most loquacious. Dr. Johnson once said, he knew
~ of but one agreeable woman in the world, and the whole
secret of her being so arose from the fact, she knew
just when to speak, and just what to say. A rare
gift, truly.

MONEY.
Do you see that thin-fingered, slender old man, bend..
ing over the daily journal, the moment it is left at his
door 3 What is he looking for with such intense inter-
est? Why, in a small square the prices of "stocks" are
quoted, and perhaps, in another square, some comments
are made on "money and business;" and, having read
these, he looks at the "Telegraphic" head, to learn how
the New York market stands -what is said about "cot-
ton," and other things, which materially affect his invest-
ments. If the "times" look favorable, that gouty old
toe pains him less; if squally, woe to the household
where he reigns supreme! Nothing goes right with him
when monetary affairs go wrong: "Women must curtail;
it's of no use to spend so much in finery; one silk dress
i~ enough for any woman. As to servants, he will not
pay so much wages." "But, who will rub your foot,
grandpa?" asks his little, smiling grand-daughter. "I'll
rub it myself~" he answers gruffly, "before I 'II come to
nothing by extravagant help." All this comes from
reading those little items mentioned above. his family
never guess the reason of this irritability; he hardly
knows what produces it himself; but, depend on it, its
whole origin can be traced to money.
5*


S

5A4

5UTANCF~ AND SHADOWS.

Now, I contend, much of our happiness, reason as we
will about it, depends on money.
It is vain to enumerate what it will procure. ThQ
richest land, the best house, the most elegant furniture,
the finest span of horses, the neatest vehicle, the best of
~attendants, the gayest troop of friends, the choicest old
wines, the rarest London porter, the first box of straw
berries, the finest salmon in the market, cucumbers in
March, peas in April, beans the first day of May! If
you are sick, it will make a most attentive physician, who
will call in a "consulting" brother, at the sight of the
most remote danger; it will make a person stand over
you the longest night, and perform any kind of office. If
you are asthmatic, it will prop up pillows behind you; if
feverish) it will change your mattresses daily; if desirous
of pleasant sights, it will command the most splendid
bouquet, and make Hamburg grapes as plenty as hail..
stones. If you are lonely, it will bring you a choice
companion for the hour, week, month, or life even. If
you are old, it will induce a pretty little girl of seventeen
to marry you. If you are desirous of travelling, it will
procure you the best berth in the steamship, and most re-
markable attention during the passage, and whenever
you land. It will give you the best pew in the church,
and the most commanding influence in the congregation.
All the weekly and daily journals can lie on your table,
and you can make even an editor happy by your sub~
scription, if he chances to be proprietor of the paper!
Now, who undervalues this great good 3 Why, the
clergyman says, "It won't give you the keys to a
heavenly inheritance ;" and Aunt Judith says, "Your

SUI3STANCE AND SHADOWS.

55

money perishes with you." But all this admits of
qualification. If you have opened your hearts to objects
of benevolence, if; in your life and in your will, you have
alleviate4 human woe, and mitigated sorrow and disease,
who shall say that heavenly treasures have not been pro-
cured by the wise use of money 3
Ay, in your life, that is the better way, appropriate
some of those accumulating dividends, which so harass
your daydreams, and cai.ise you to toss so uneasily at
night, lest you should not reinvest them in a productive
channel. Make somebody or something your favorite
object of regard, so that "executors" and administer&amp; .
tors" ~ieed not quibble because the phraseology of your
will is not perfectly understood.


~UB~TANCE AND SHADOWS.

COMING EVENTS.
THE habit of brooding over a coming event is not
preparation to meet it. The faithful performance of to-
day's duty is the truest test that we shall best meet to-
morrow's trial. Some are forever living in the future;
but this clearly is not the design of our heavenly
Father. Else why are we so completely shut out from
forthcoming misfortunes 3 Why no certain assurances
that contemplated happiness will ever arrive 3 Plainly,
because it isbest it should be so. And herein God h~s
made all alike, both high and low, subject to the same
contingencies. The care he exerts over the beggar is the
same as over the monarch - and this teaches us the
emptiness of earthly honors.
The fear of death keeps some in perpetual bondage.
Now, an event that our Creator has made certain, but
indefinite as to time, was not designed to keep us in con~
tinual servitude. I have duties to perform; family and
social engagements to meet; business wants to be at-
tended to, and daily employment upon which my physical
life depends. I need all the vigor of constitution, all the
exercise of mental power, to meet these cares. My time
cannot be frittered away in random fancies upon calcu-
lating chances. I must work! and if my time has come

that I must lie down and die, have I not made better prep-
aration, by this discharge of present duty, for the retri-
bution which awaits me 3
But there is a preparation. Yery true, but it is living
as if under the eye of a kind Parent, looking to him for
daily strength, and then pressing on to labor. I am to
be wise; - the necessary knowledge of my physical
frame will induce me to be temperate, and not per-
vert my powers; and if, by what we call accident, we are
suddenly removed, or linger out in a fitful fever, all is
well God has thus ordained the event -it came in
the, right time and place, because it was his ordination.
A little child visited its mother's tomb. It had been
told.her that her mother lay in a sweet sleep. Thinking
it could wake her, it shouted in its tiny voice, "Mother,
der mother, let me into your little room. Call me,
mother; I would be with youj; it is so cold and stormy
here, and so quiet and warm in your little room. Do,
mother, let me in. Once you took my little hand and
held it fast. Take me again as you did once. They tell
me you cannot hear but where is heaven ~ Here is
my mother."
An aged woman sat by the same tomb, and wept. "My
daughter," said she, "how I wish I were quiet and happy
like thee; thou art pure as an angel, and art gone to
dwell with them. But I fear to enter the dark portals,
lest my spirit should b~e separated from thine; for, alas! I
have not lived like thee."
We should live so that the grave our Redemer has
hallowed should appear as the gate to Eternal Mansions.


SUB8TAN~ AND SflADOW$.         59

MONDAY MORNING.
MONDAY morning! The most trying dawn of all the
week! The quiet Sabbath has just passed, and a new
week of vexations has commenced. It is washing-day!
The cook is cross; the chamber-maid has a beau who
keeps late hours, and discontent sits upon her brow on
Monday. John, the eldest boy, says he feels ill, and
does not care to go to school. This frets Emma, the lit-
tle girl, who thinks, if Johnny is allowedd to stay at home,
she may as well have the headache, and stay too. The
breakfast dishes are all on the table, unwashed, and Alice
says it is none of her work to clean them, and Phebe
say~ that chamber-girls never do it in "genteel families."
A quarrel ensues; the washing gets behindhand, and
the mistress perceives, just as she steps below to give
orders for dinner, that she must encounter wry looks and
short answers, although she is not conscious of any
special fault. Added to this, the husband has discovered
a hole under the arm of his coat, that he wishes his wife
to darn very nicely, and a few stitches are to be taken
in that fob-pocket, and afew more in cording anew the
bottom ~f his pantaloons; and in the mean time he in-
quires "if it would be convenient to invite Mr. Simonds

to dinner ~ " Just as if; on washing-day, any food could
be thought about, unless it be a "picked up" dinner!
The reign of disorder in the kitchen now increases;
the process of ataxching is commenced; there is great
haste to "hang out,?' and little care to rub clean, and a
gentle hint from the mistress brings down a shower of
abuse from the domestics, who declare every family in
the city sends away all nice garments to the laundry, and
intimate that hereafter they expect to be treated as other
domestics.
The children have fretted the morning away. John went
out to skate, about the middle of the forenoon, and grew
sick at his stomach, and is a fit subject for water-gruel
a beverage he despises. Emma has broken her doll's face,
which she promised papa she would keep forever, if he
would buy it for a "Christmas present;" and, to com
plete the vexation, some CC dear friends" from the country
have come in just to deposit their baggage, get their food,
and do some shopping.
Madam goes down to regulate affairs in the region
of discord. The bell rings, and some of her genteel
acquaintances have called; she would not but be dressed
in silk, for the world, to receive them; so she departs
hastily to her dressing-room, attires herself like a lady,
and is only mortified by a chattering little fellow, who
says, "Ma is getting diviner down stairs, but she went
up to dress her just now." And what a meeting!
"How glad I am to see you, my dear Mrs. H.!"
"No more so than I am to find you at home. Now
I really hope I have not interfered with any domestic
engagement."


64)         SUBSTANCE AN]) SHADOWS.

"Not in the least; I am perfectly at leisure; have
nothing in the world to do."
"How were you pleased at the Philharmonic, or the
Musical Fund, or the Handel and Haydn 3"
"0! delighted."
Just then Mr. H. opens the door, ai~d has come to din-
ner. The ladies retire. I will not portray the continua-
tion Qf the scene. Suffice it to say, there is a magic
charm which the serene countenance of the husband 'can
diffuse, so that when gathered around a less expensive
dinner than yesterday, the agreeable turn he can give his
conversation shall leave all the discomforts of the morn-
ing in the distance.
Monday, then, has its alleviations. "After a storm
there comes~the calm." The domestics become better
pleased; evening finds all things righted; life is not
looked upon as in the morning, and we set out afresh,
regardless of whatever trials may darken the successive
days, well assured that no morning will be half so try-
ing as this same Monday.

MRS. FELL'S EXPERIMENT.
TUB entire wish of Mrs. Pell's heart had long been to
remove into the country. She had taken so many after-
noon rides, passing by white cottages covered with honey-
suckle and woodbine; she had looked upon so many
open piazzas, where rocking-chairs and rocking-horses
composed the furniture of such shady retreats, and her
mind was so entirely fixed upon trying the experiment,
'that General Pell had little peace until her wishes were
fully carried out. So when "Rosebrier Cottage" was
advertised, General Pell was the purchaser. Mrs. Pell
was, at this. time, the most blithe and delightful woman
to be fQund. She was about to relinquish her city cares;
to vacate her large granite house; to make an overturn in
her domestic arrangements, and move into the countrV.
We must do justice to Mrs. Fell's character; therefore
we must not leave out of sight an avaricious propensity,
which ever led her to count the cost before undertaking
any 'great outlay. It wa~ a long time, therefore, before
she settled in her mind that would~ be a proper sum for
the occupant of her city dwelling. She thought the dif-
ference in rent between city and country, with economy,
would defray all the household expenses in her new
home. General Fell was not such &amp; nice calculator; he
6


SUBSTANCE AND SBADOWS.         63

62          SUBSTANCE XND SHADOWS.

was a military man, and when a heavy demand was
made upon his purse to support his office, he never
flinched, and it was in part to keep him more at home,
away from such enjoyments, that Mrs. Fell had been
induced to try the change. Then, again, the health of
her children was another prime consideration. Arthur
was just recovering from the effects of a whooping-cough,
and Billy always was afflicted with some complaint inci-
dent and attendant upon hot weather. Her physician
had for several years ordered them into the country dur-
ing the rage of dog-'days, and Mrs. Fell, and her chil-
dren and servants, had not found so much comfort in
staying by the sea-shore, or living at the "Springs," as
some other ladies. Those heavy payments at the close
of the term were a great drawback upon her enjoyment;
for she was mistress of her own purse, from property
inherited in her own right; so General Jell never con-
tradicted or advised contrary to her preconceived plans.
The removal to "Rosebrier Cottage" was, in itself,
quite an event in Mrs. Fell's life. The general had
found a tenant for the city residence, -a member of the
company whom he once commanded, and a five years'
lease was drawn; the general; however, reserving the
prii~ilege of one chamber in the mansion for hi~ private
use; so that when over-fatigued, or fearful, it might be,
of .a Candle, lecture, he could have a retreat where h~
could lie down in peace.
"Rosebrier Cottage" was just off from the great road;
down a verdant lane, boi~dered on each side with shrub~
bery. Just the spot where a romantic couple would
dream of living upon ethereal s~bsttumces, forgetting all

* about vulgar bodily wants. But Mrs. Bell had a difl~r..
ent taste and. a difti~rent family. She lived fi.ir her cliii..
dren now, and for het husband when he was with k~r.
But, in ~his chosen retreat, for the first time in her life,
she began to feel the effects of solitude. The nursery-
maid h9 charge of the two boys, and in their gym-
nastic exercises and rural sports she could not largely*
participate.
The cottage was darkly shaded by heavy trees; there
was a sombre look even in the sunshine, which reflected
only quivering brancl~es waving against the Venetian
blinds; there was a deep silence, save when broken by the
sound of the children's voices, and altogether a sense of
loneliness crept over the new inmates of the cottage. Gen-
eral Fell, when at home, left early in the morning, and
never returned till evening. So the dinner-table was
leaded by Mrs. Pell and her two children. To keep
them under wholesome restraint was an impossibility;
they would take advantage of their father's absence, and
a scene of wild disorder generally led. the nursery-maid
to remove them from the table before the second course
~as brought on; and to a lonely woman in a lox~e cottage
the attraction of a country home may be imagined. One
cannot twist wreaths of flowers the long day. Few are
listless enough to sit for hours at an open window to
hear the robins sing; and, after~ all the bustle of city life,
such profound quiet is but "inglorious ease,"~ without
friendly 'companionship.
It was a long while before. Mrs. Peil's city friends
found their way tQ "Rosebrier C~ttage." She had not
\ been pm~e~i~g in her invitation. th~t they should~ do so,


8UB$~ANOE AND SHADOW$.

84          suns~rA1w~ AND SHADOWS.

and so they sparingly came. Even then, there was a
sort of discomfort about receiving them; there was no
market near; she found it difficult to keep a cook, on
account of the retired situation. There were few to con-
sume the products of the market, and, as the general was
seldom at home, the dinner dwindled into a very common
affair. So a friend to pass the day, although it some-
what relieved the monotony, yet abated the pleasure by
the effort to wait on her.
But how were the~ children progressing ~ They were
quite as liable to illness as before. Arthur, from ex-
posure to damp evening air, had several times been
threatened with the croup, and Billy had broken one
arm, through the nursery-maid's carelessnessof course,
besides being subject to some chronic difficulties, wholly
attributable to the location of "Rosebrier Cottage."
The general, too, had been absent on duty the most
of the summer; and Mrs. Fell begau to wonder why
the charms of a country life were so incomplete. She
was certain she enjoyed nothing. The days seemed
to her of interminable length; she had read all her
books; she h~d even studied newspaper advertisements ~
she had hemstitched all her ruffles, and as to great care
upon her own wardrobe, who hut the croaking frogs, the
chattering swallows, and the whippoorwills regarded her
apparel 'I Ab.! she had made a mistake, and we will tell
you how she made it.
In the first place, her avaricious spirit led her to
imagine. a home in the country would be a more economi-
c~i a~'air; secondly, she misjudged her husband's taste.
And, hor.ft~r, let no woman ixMgine, if th~ charms abe

I'

can throw about a city home are not sufficient to retain
a husband there as his chosen resort, that leaving him
among the high spirits he ~ovets, will ever win him over
to rural felicity. Then, a~ to the matter of children's
health, there is no security against disease, whe±e pa..
rental care is improperly bestowed or wholly entrusted to
servants; and, last of all, it is never the part of wisdom
for a wife to make a distinction between "mine and
thine," hoping thereby to increase mutual esteem.
General Fell returned late in the autumn from one of
his tours. "Rosebrier Cottage" had a forlorn look
outwardly. The long, trailing vines were craving sup-
port. The gardener had long since left the place. Mrs.
Fell was a mere skeleton; and the boys were wild, un..
governable, and unrestrained by parental discipline. But
one domestic (the nursery~woman) remained on duty,
and she received extra pay for doing so. The general
met his wife in tears; but knowing it was not discreet to
commence any comments upon the obvious condition of
things, he waited until~ her proud spirit yielded, and
importuned his assistance.
A new house was taken in the city; soon after, (3Ien-
eral Fell resigned his commission, and Mrs. Fell en~
tru3te4 him with the investment of her money, and this
repose of confidence led him to financier in the best
possible manner, since their interests had now become a~
mutual affair. Since then he is much at home, and the
perfect discipline with which he has controlled those
wayward boys has convinced the mother which of the
two is the better fitted to enforce obedience. Mrs. Fell
h88 never since attempted to manage her family concerns
6*


88          8UB8TAN0~ AND SHADOWS.

alone, having been taught the folly of seeking to control
a husband and household, without having first, laid the
foundation upon mutual confidence and esteem.
The thought of her first experiment to live in the
country, in a sort of half-fledged condition, always man~
ties her cheeks with the blush of shame; but her repent-
ance was deep enough to effect a cure. We would not,
however, deem it amiss to say a word to other Mrs. Pells,
who are sighing for Rosebrier Cottages as the ultimatum
of 'their hopes. We would by no means disparage the
itiany pleasures connected with such a residence; but
that they have serious trials to encounter, who go without
forethought, admits of no doubt. The business of the
husband not unfrequently renders such retirement a
great inconvenience; he cannot be much at home while
his children are actively employed; the etiquette of the
table is too often neglected; the. privileges of good
schools are sometimes renounced; life too often ~degener~..
ates into a mere holida~j'; and, some philosophers will
have it, women become imperious by being unrestrained
in gayety. Therefore, we would recommend to all hus~
bands and wives to seek their pleasures as far as possible
together; never separate enjoyment from each other'a
society; but, above all things, if you sustain the parental
relation, live where you. can live most with your cliii-
drew; if your inclination t~nd means suggest, a Country
howe, seek it, but never disjoin tke~ two.

THE FAST YOUNG MAN.
T~w~i "fast young man" does not remember where his
father was born, nor what was his occupation. The slow
means by which he gained his wealth is all an enigma
to him. He stepped into his silver slippers when he died,
and has worn them half out before he has arrived at
years of discretion.
What a swell he makes! Money has made him some-
what popular with the upper ten; and the daughters of
former shoemakers, barbers, and wine-merchants, who
lived under ground, and "sold by the glass," iiow look
upon him asa "idce young man;" and to be sure he is.
His dickey is transparent with waxy gloss; his wristbands
protrude below his cuffs just far enough to show their
quality; over his vest is displayed such an elegant mas-
sive California gold chain, that it is very pardonable to
speak about it. Besides, he, is so generous! If he meets
a young lady, he. forthwith conducts her to a confection-
er's to take an "ice," or acup of smoking Mocha; there
the invitation i~ extended to 8 concert, then an opera;
and, by this time, both have lost their natural vision, and
can only see through expensive "eye-tubes."
But the fast young man has money, and what does he

9


68          $UD$TANC~1 AND SHADOWS.

care for labor, and old women's talk about the "road to
rum"? His motto is, "one life and a merry one."
At the expiration of five years we will look at him
again. He has now lost much of the "dandy," and be-
gins to exhibit quite a "seedy" appearance. His gait
is stiff; he lounges at the corners of the street, or is found
sitting, stooping and stupid, upon the loafer's bench; has
quit those "divine young ladies," or, rather, they have
left him, and he begins to think his prospects for the
future are rather cloudy. If he could but raise an outfit,
he would gladly take passage to Australia; but if he has
a friend (generally. he has none), as soon as he suggests
the idea of borrowing enough for "a start," he' is hushed
by the reply, "Why, to a person of your habits that
climate would soon prove fatal." sow, what hopes can
he entertain? The past has been all wasted; the present
finds him minus of character, cash, and credit; the future
lies before h~m with a diseased, bloated body, filled with
pains, and nobody to sympathize with him; and, beyond
this world, he so dreads a retribution, that he envies the
very dumb animal. He did not mean to finish off in this
manner when he started in life.
5-

SPEECH-MAKING.
WHY is it that our most talented public speakers are
forever apologizing, in the outset, for appearing before
the "vast and intelligent audience"? You ma~ travel
from one end of the continent to the other, and, in nine
cases out of ten, when the great man rises to speak, h~
will tell you "the call was unexpected;" or that "lie is
miserably jaded with the fatigue of a long journey;" or
"that he has made no sort of preparation for a speech,"
which he all the while intends shall electrify a whole
multitude. I wonder if public speakers think they thus
impose on their hearers, and get up a true sympathizing
spirit for their professedly unsound condition? Why not
tell the real state of their minds, if an exordium 1w so
needful to I going on with what they mean to say, and
prepare their remarks something after this manner?
"I rise, my friends, because I feel strongly inclined
to do so, knowing the power I possess, and the eloquence
for which I am distinguished; this props me up amidst
all the privatioi~s and fatigue attendant upon coming
before you. Fame (that is, popular favor) I covet,
yet I would not be accounted vain or filled with seW
esteem."
Eviry man sli~uld Izave a ert~in quant~im of %lf~


TO          SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.                                    SUBSTANCE AND $I{ADOWS.        TI

conceit; for, after being repeatedly told that his talents
are of the highest order, that he is remarkable for logical
precision, and always bringing the strong points in his
subject forward, so that 'they leave an overwhelming im-
pression upon the audience, how can he forget such enco.
miums when he next rises in a crowded assembly?
I~2ow, did a public speaker know how distasteful to an
audience are his first apologies, he would never make
them. If~ he is unprepared, why does he say anything?
If he is hoarse, he need not tell Qf it. If he is tired,
nobody can help it. Could he but see (I mean the
4ogizing man) how his best friends twirl their canes,
or pick the fingers of their gloves, or look suspiciously
into their neighbors' faces, there would, be few who would
venture to begin with talking about themselves.
We have sometimes fancied we saw a wag coming upon
the stage, after all the speakers had apologized for address..
ing ~the audience, and, although not in very good ~aste
to a refined assembly, yet commencing something
like this: "My friends, I am exceedingly glad to have
this opportunity to utter my sentiments. I know IL am a
good speaker. IL. love your applause, for it excites my
eloquence. I have no cold or disease which now troubles
me. IL am not weary, foi I have rested on purpose t~o
appear before you m a healthy condition. I am,, there-
fore, anxious to do my best. I trust the reporters will
so herald my speech that my breakfast to-morrow morn-
ing may be swallowed with a seasoning of just praise,
wl4ch I feel is my due; for I well know my superiority
above all who have preceded me; besides, I always aim
tQ l~mv~ a i~ost powerful im~ressiQn; my wit is not stale

and my reasoning is not overdone~ My manner is unex-
ceptionable, for I have practiced some years to acquire it,
and my personal appearance is dignified and imposing."
Can we be reproached as satirical if we appropriate
much of what the wag has uttered, as being the real
sentiment of many an apologist?
Let u&amp;have the truth; and,' although a wise man will
repress his vanity, yet let him not covet a sympathy to
which he is not entitled, when his whole life-time has
been a preparation for extemporaneous speech-making.


WEALTH WITH INDOLENCE.
WEALTH! Young ladies are prone to pay too much
regard to riches. They seek showy rather than virtuous
companions. A massive chain, an opal ring, a certain
dandyish pretension, is extremely taking with some well-
educated ladies. The young man who is unassuming,
and slowly makes his way to fortune by untiring indus.
try, is too often cast in the shade. Yet we will follow
the two a few years, and most probably the one~ whom
we cast aside will be considered the most useful citizen.
Women err strangely in forming marriage engagements.
They may not be altogether in fault here ; for does not
mamma, ay, and papa too, often inquire, is he rich?
as if this were the saving clause.
An heir to a large estate lately married a poor girl.
Every one looked on with the highest satisfaction. "How
fortunate!" was in the mouth of all her friends. But the
young husband had nothing to do; he wasted life in a.
public hotel, or he travelled to some watering-place, and
the long dog-days were spent in brushing flies, or
driving mosquitoes. The wife fell ii~to indolent habits,
and, from having nothing to do, learned to do nothing.
Some called it a state of elegant ease; nobody found
fault, because, where bills are paid, and plenty of money

is left, the world will not complain. But as to the real
happiness of such a life, it admits no comparison with that
of those who started in life poor but hopeful, combating
disappointment, and rising by degrees to an abundance;
learning how to use and enjoy, and in the very aequi~i-
tion deriving more pleasure than in fruition. For thus
are we made, const~tly finding new pleasure with new
acquisition; and no sooner do we sit down to enjoy our
wealth, than we find it insufficient to fill the vacuity.
For this reason people who retire from active busi-
ness with scanty mental resources are rarely happy.
They find a satiety they never knew in business; and I
lament when I hear a wife so urgent that her husband
should build a cottage and live upon his money - as if
idleness and ease made pleasure.
Pt

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.          TB

78


SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

THOUGHTS FOR THE GLOOMY.
IN the midst of the autumnal tinge I walk out in the
country to revive the association of the past. It is not
my taste to groan and sigh over the de~3ay of nature.
On the contrary, my thoughts are lively and buoyant.
What is there to make one sad? All things that are
dying we know will be again revived, and many of them
will put on far more beautiful forms. The trees, like
our bodies, will soon have a resurrection, and be clothed
with fresher beauty. Why, then, mourn if disease invades
our frame? What if it should yield to the influence of
this or that malady 3 Can we not trust to the beneficent
decrees of our Maker, who so planned the structure that
from its present ruins an incorruptible clothing may be
put upon it? Our thoughts need not be sad and enervat~
ing, cheating us of all pleasure in the present, and fore-
boding only gloom in the future. We cherish such
pernicious feelings until life becomes the most unpalat-
able drug, and yet we shrink from quitting it, so dis-
trustful are we of the kind care which placed us here.
0, it is painful to hear some Christian people complain
of" inflictions," and "their hard lot," all the wb~ile they
are themselves making it so!
Autumn is thought particularly to awaken these

gloomy sensations. It need not be so. A new sc~en~
opens on us; our eyes are dazzled with the fading land~
scape; its purple and gold touch the heart ~vith delight.
I feel as if in holiday attire. To be sure~ the flower.
beds are stricken down; the broad suniiow4rs no longer
wave majestically; the pinks and peonies have disap-
peared, but the box-tree is still as verdant as ever, the
pine-tree maintains its greenness, and there is always
something about me which retains its original. What
if I muse unconsciously? I am not sad.
I remember that flower-garden, once my delight as I
conveyed the water-pot to refresh it; how the scions and
slips I procured grew fair and strong under my skilful
training. They gave me satisfaction then, and the
retrospect does so now. There, too, stood the kitchen
garden.
The vegetables I so faithfully attended, yielded me
their reward. They grew luxuriantly, and the recol-
lection of those evening strolls, when I marked their
progress, now yields me pleasure. I cannot sigh because
they answered those uses, and are gathered and gone.
My eyes are now opened to other scenes. The lively
recollection of the past inspires me with hope for the
future. Yonder is a boy flying his kite. I cannot say,
"Pooi~ fellow, I used to amuse myself like you; but that
day of merriment will no ~more return to me!" I feel
merry now. I can recall my fluttering emotions when I
first let go the string, and I gazed to see it soar among
the clouds. To be sure, I have a different stock of fears
and hopes at this time, and these n~y yield me, If not~
/


SU28STANOfl MW SHADOWS.

so airy, quite as substantial pleasure. So why ~houId I
mourn that I can no longer fly a kite'?
We are always straining after some enjoyment beyond
our reach, away in the distance. Some are longing for the
season of winter gayeties, living on expectation of future
parties, balls, lectures and the like; but such people never
enjoy the now of existence. Retrospect and anticipa-
tion is the sum of all their pleasures.. Give me a lively
hope to sustain me to-day. I care not what season I am
living in. When we cease to be children toys should no
longer amuse us.
More than half the world are diseased, but they are
not all filled with bodily maladies which a prescription
will cure. They are mind~sick, and this is a malady
drugs never reach. Narcotics, to be sure, may deaden
sensibilities, but they do not give healthful vigor. I
would rather do the most menial work, if I could only
breathe a pure atmosphere, than cramp my faculties in
devising schemes to make me happy at some distant
period. To-day is all that can call my own, and
must be busy in its sunshine. "But," says the croaker,
"my days are all cloudy; I have had no sunshine since I
was a child." Again I repeat, the fault is your own.
What do you gain by moping over your troubles'?
"You cannot help it," do you reply'? You never will
help it, so long as you permit yourself to dwell upon
and talk about them. Do your own work faithfully, and
have some ever on hand to do; keep up a cheerful
exterior; and, nine times out of ten, you will cure the
wi~lady of which you complain.

SUNSHINE AND CLOUDS.
SUNSHINE and clouds! How beautifully they succeed
each other in the natural world! The heavy cloud which
rises in yonder western horizon emits flashes of lightning
which almost removes our natural sight; and that low
muttering report, which follows so closely upon it, shows
to us with what majesty nati~re reveals herself. By and
by comes the fertilizing shower, and the little, fainting,
parched twig has a rain-drop upon its tiny leag and
although the sun has come forth in its full splendor, the.
tear still glitters, and every hue of the rainbow is
reflected from it.
Why is it not thus with the showers of affliction which
are poured upon us'? They are surely designed for a far
higher end than the natural shower; for that water~ only
a parched earth, which will soon become thirsty and crave
it again; whereas the shower of tear-drops which bruises
our spirits carries with it the blessed influence of healing~
which should so fertilize our Christian graces, as to need
no repetition; but, like the varied hues of the rainbow,
which are so blended that no one color tahes precedence
of the other, so the blended and harmonious mingling of
the rain-drops of affliction should be irradiated by the sun
of righteousness, that a perfect bow should span the
horizon of our souls.
7*


TILE COUNTRY IN WINTER.
A WINTER'S residence in the country is much more
than it is usually accounted to mean. To one especially,
who does business in the city, some three, five, or ten
miles off, the privileges are peculiar; the cars are so
convenient and accommodating withal. You may miss
seeing the man with whom you have business, a dozen
times in a day; he may state the hour you can see him,
- but the train leaves just ten minutes before that time;
or you may conclude to stay over one~ train, and. what
confusion is made in the home where you were an ex-
pected guest! How the little ones clan~or for "turkey
and bread," not to say a word of the mother-in-law,
who, perchance, is fretting and knitting in the corner,
"wondering how people can expect to do business in one
place, and keep themselves in another;" or the wife
goes sighing thrcnigh the room with a look of anxiety in
hem~ face, "hoping there is no accident to-day;" aiid,
as she looks out, there is her neighbor who has been
home and dined, and is ready for a fresh start; and Miss
Muggins has~ happened from tbe city to spend the day
just atAhe time you were wanting in butter and minus in
groceries, and you buy everything 'in the city, where your
husband has an account. And then the children behave

so when their father is absent; they are so boisterous.
And when it is so cheerless within, as you look without,
how the blues creep over you!
The old flower-stalks are all empty and dry, the.
grass all brown and crisped, the vines all tangled and
overgrown with dead weed, the trees all dismantled, and
the leaves heaved up like little mountains, awaiting a
high gust to send them in mid air like snow-flakes; and,
then, to break the monotony, there is the hissing of the
tea-kettle, and the low kind of second which "Maggie" is
continually singing, and, more than all, your meditations
on this wise: "Why did I ever think of living in the
country the year round ~ Why, for the health of the
children, to be sure. And how has it proved? 'Ned'
has had the scarlet fever, and little 'Nell' the whoop-
ing-cough, and we were obliged to send into the city to
get our old physician (all practise on the new principle out
here) ;. and who cares for a fee, when a child's life is at
stake? Well, then, as we were here, why, the plea of
economy is urged, and a cheaper rent. Row much
cheaper? One hundred dollars less than we paid in the
city, where conveniences were much more compact.
Wood, water and drains all in a heap Ihere. We are ex-
posed to cold, sunshine and observation; our next neigh-
bor, exactly facing all our domestic operations, and always
happening to be looking at us just as we would avoid
scrutiny. Then the children must trudge half a mile to
school, and when Sunday comes, in what a state we find
ourselves! No Sunday~school very n9ar; omnibus to
take us to the city, but who can get ready seasonably?
Besides, the children's shoes are out of order, and the

SUBSTANCE AND S~RA1M~W8.        79

79


lacing ar~ broken, and father forgot 'the memorandum'
we so charged him to remember, and Maggie must go
to church part of the day, and hints she prefers to live
in the city, where she can attend mass in the morning."
And, then, it is so delightful to attend lecti~res, and
concerts, and parties of all sorts in the city; to go to
some friend's house and "fix, " after riding in the omni-
bus, bringing the baby atop of your best silk dress, -
and to stay till midnight, find omnibus gone, and obliged
to accept invitation to stay all night; to rise headache,
and put on your nice dress, and go home to find every.
thing helter-skelter; and have your husband's mother
meet you in the front-door passage, and inform you
"that Billy hurt his leg last night, and Polly was very
restless, and John has been a bad boy," and to feel that
th s' is your home.. 0, it is worth a great deal to live in
tlw country all the year round!
Ag~in, it is so pleasant, when your husband does
not come home to dinner, to take his place and help some
half dozen lady guests, who are "so fond of the country
that they have come to pass the day with you," although
when in the city they never thought of more than a call!
To sit and hear their admiration of your tasteful place,
and "the lovely spot it must be in summer," and, per-
chance, hear the conclusion, "but it is so dull, we
never could live in the country in the winter."
Then the snowstorm! To inhabit a house facing due
north, with a large hall on either side the parlors, where
the ~olian harps constantly are played! To wake in
the morning and find the house blockaded, the SnOW still
falling, and no vestige of a road visible, and to feel that

I

SU~$TANO]~ 4ND $RADOW$.                                               SUJ3STANCJ3I AND SHADOWS.            81

81

your husband has got to face the weather, and break the
paths, and thaw the pumps, and dig out some wood, and
that he must go, for he has a note at the bank to pay,
and you have such a dread of protested notes that you
are willing he should make the sacrifice.
More than all,-to feel that the die is cast,-that you
have actually bought this home in the country, and so
have no changes to anticipate; no returning summer can
find you again at board by the seashore; no plea can be
urged for a healthful mountain region, for the selection
was so made as to embrace all their salubrious influences,
and your husband is so deeply immersed in business that
all pleasure-seeking is forever at an end.
You may expect but few changes; The hinges will
rust off the gate, and the blinds will need a new coat of
paint, and the trellis-work will need repairing, . and 'a
kind of decay will come over your outward appearance;
but unless you are hopeful, full of sunshine, love birds
and annual plants, and children, and storms, and high
winds, and short trips in the cars, and little vexations,
'and a house of your own, my advice is, never live in
the country ~the year round, when your business is in
the city!


TIlE FEMALE FINANCIER.
never was a woman who has lived longer On
promises than I have, Mr. Oldbuck. More than a year
ago, when I told you we must have new parlor carpets,
you put me off till the' election' was over, because then
there would be such 'good times,' that I thought Cali-
fornia and our metropolis would only be another name
~f'or the gold region. Now look at it ,- where are my
carpets?"
"You speak, wife, as if I had the whole control of
events. How could I foresee that times would be as they
are money at nine and ten per cent., and banks refusing
to discount only the best of paper - stocks down, and
manufacturing interests at a stand comparatively for the
last;year, at least short dividends?"
"I wish 1 were a man, Mr. Oldbuck, and I '11 war-
'rant you I would have things different. Do you suppose
I would have served on ward committees during all that
exciting campaign to elect a President, attended cau-
cuses, carried torch-lights, and given such entertainments,
and, after all, be turned off without an office? This is
the world's gratitude, Mr. Oldbuck. No; when I was in
Washington, I would have kept there till I got some-
thing, if I had stayed a whole year to accomplish my
purpo~."

4
4

SUBSTANCE AND 8J!ADQWS.
You reason very foolishly, wife. Did I not secure
all the testimonials of my ability for an office? L)i4 I
not go to great expense, and wait until 'hope deferred
made my heart sick,' as Miss Keinbie said last night?
And did you not say I had better return and mind my
own business?"
"What if Idid? IfI had been a man, I should have
had more courage, I '11 warrant ye. I would have made
the President pay for all the champagne and time I had
spent in his behalf; if I had filched it out of his own
pockets."
"You would! Well, well, I did not, and so let th.
matter rest."
"But, I tell you, I want some new carpets."
"When my dividends warrant it, wife, you shall
have them. You know, as well as I do, how 'stocks'
stand now no agitation in the market, no time to sell,
and no time to buy."
You are a fool, Mr. Oldbuck, to let your broke'
serve you such a game. Have you lost all confidence in
your own judgment, that you must trust to him when it
isbestto 'sellout' or 'buy in'? He'Ufieece youas
clean as old Ichabod Gammon was served."
"Gammon, Gammon who was he?"
"Why, my Uncle Ichabod, to be sure. I)idn't he
employ a broker to invest, all his money, and didn't he
keep changing stocks, and crying up this, and down that,
until at last all hi~ property got in the worsted mill, till
it worsted him, poor old man, out of all he had? And
your fate will be no better, Mr. Oldbuck, if you don't
turn about and do your. own business in your own way."


$4           SU~TAN~IE AND SHADOWS.
"~What would you have had me do with ~be money I
had, wife 'I"
"Let it out in. the street, to be sure ; -~-if money is
worth twelve and twenty per vent, take it in State, sti~'eet,
and when you found a man 'hard p~nehed,' as you eall
it, let it to him on time, with #ood security."
"Ileigh4io!" sighed Mr. Oldbuck. "When I in-
vest again you shall certainly be consulted, wife."
"After it is all gone, and the time to get extra inter-
est is gone by, I suppose I may take it. After stocks
have gone down twenty per ~cent., and you have lost five
thousand on this) and ten thousand on that, I suppose
you would be very glad to have me undertake and clear
up things, just as I regulate a disordered house, or repair
a suit of old clothes~ but, Mr~ Oldbuek, this is not my
place nor work, I married you to look after out-door
concerns while I attend to the hoase(."
There was to be a house auction the next day. A
suit of Brussels carpets were to be sold, that had been
down but two years, and the size exactly fitted Mrs.
0ldbu~k's drawing-rooms. She had never been at an
auction, but herr neighbor Grimshaw had often showed
her great bargains she had procured. She thought she
would ask her to accompany her, and if she got a decided
bargain (as she felt confident she should), there would
be no trouble but her husband could raise the money to
pay for her purchases. The plan met with her neigh-
bor's entire approval, and early the next morning both
ladies were at the sale. There were some bedsteads of
beautiful finish, ~6tne x~att1~esses and a number of articles
which exactly filled Mrs. Oldbuck's eye, to famish anew

SUBSTANOB AND SHADOW.         85

her spare chamber. She resolved she would get some
bargains, at any rate; they were "so new, so little
soiled, so exactly what she wanted;" her vision magni..
fled every time she looked upon them, and it was with
the greatest impatience she waited for the auctioneer to
come to the articles she meant td bid upon. At length
the carpets were put up.
"How much am I offered for these beautiful car-
pets?" inquired the shrewd auctioneer -." new, clean,
beautiful pattern, and been used but two years, without a
stain or spot."
"One dollar per yard," said Mrs. Oldbuck.
Neighbor Grimshaw touched her -" You are too fi~at
don't bid again."
"One dollar five cents - ten twelve I am offered
- who says more for this splendid bargain?"
"Seven shillings," said Mrs. Oldbuck.
"One dollar twenty-five," hallooed an anxious by..
bidder.
"One thirty," shouted Mrs. Oldbuck; and) nobody
saying more, the 'carpets were knocked' down to Mrs.
Jedediali Oldbuck. "What a bargain!" said she to
Mrs. Grimahaw. "I guess my husband will be "-
"Did you ~n&amp;w, madam," said a bystander, "that
these carpets were badly moth-eaten? '~- look under that~
sofa, and in that recess.
Poor Mrs. Oldbuck! how changed in a moment of
time! But she comforted herself that she could fit it out
to suit her rooms. She was great for contriving, and
suck a bargain) she still persisted in. saying.
8

I


86           $UM&amp;TA~WE A1~D SHADOWS.
They walked up stairs. "That bedeteach-solid ma.
b~gany, with' slat bottom,- how much am I offered ~"
"Ten dollars," said Mrs. Oldbwck.
Nobody bid Over her,- it was fairly hers.
"The mattress - a new hair mattress, and how much
an~ I offered," looking at Mrs. Oldbuck (for an auc-
tioneer knows his company). "Five dollars." -" Five
dollars for this splendid mattress-why, it is giving it
away~
Seven,~ eight, ten, eleven, twelve,-" fifteen," again said
Mrs. Oldbuck, greatly advancing on the company; and
it was hers! And she purchased a bathing4nb, and
shower apparatus, and an antique bureau, and some old
prints, and a few old chairs; so that in all her bill
amounted to two hundred and three dollars and six
cents!
The articles were all sent home that afternoon~ and
such a motley exhibition was rarely seen. The same
pattern and quality of carpeting was selling at one
dollar and twelve cents at retail, the pattern being old-
fashioned; besides, it was so mothy that several yards
mustz be thrown' out. The mattress was filled with
western hair, and smelt very disagreeably, and cost but
six dollars originally! The bedstead looked as if some
occupants bad been, and were still, in embryo. The
chairs were fit only for a miser's gaxret, and the shower-
'bath was broken, and Mrs. Oldbuck'e 'physician said it
uever should be used, as showering the head was decid-
edly injurious to health.
Mr. Oldbuck came home attwilight, and looked upon
the purchases, and then upon his unpaid bill, and then

upon the countenance of his wife. lie said nothing -
no, he never did ; - she reproached him enough for
both.
Mrs. Oldbuck did not sleep, that night. She felt
quite sick the next day. The auction furniture still
stood in the back kitchen. It was a trying time for
Mrs. Oldbuck.
A week after, Michael, the handcartman, was directed
to carry every article to the auction store, to be resold;
and a suit of fashionable tapestry carpets were sent home
without any comments. 'Mrs. Oldbuck gradually re~~
covered. There are certain kinds of mortification which
do not prove fatal. Nothing was ever said of her
purchases between husband and wife; but Mrs. Grim-
shaw had to "take it," for leading her into such foolish
expenditures, and they are no longer neighbors.
Oldbuck was speaking of the money-market, the other
evening, to a friend, when the gentleman addressed him-
self to Mrs. (2)ldbuck, saying, "I suppose if you women
ruled without, as well as within, we should be saved
from all this trouble."
Mrs~ Oldbuck replied, "Female financiers wh&amp; knew
how to invest, are rare. I tried it once, and have never
complained of my husband since." And think you,
reader, that Major Gldhuck ever regretted his wife at-
tended that auction ~2 They have lived happily ever
since, and not a reproachful word has escaped her lips.

SUBSTANCEE AND SHADOW$.         87

87


SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.         89

TILE EXPRESSMAN.
How things change in this world! Hart, the stage-
driver, issucceeded by Adams, the expressman. Now, the
duties belonging to both these departments are very oner-
ous. Nobody fully realizes the importance of the calling of
the expressman, who has not lived in a country village.
Just sat yourself down, during a season, in a seven-by-
nine village, where there are some half-dozen dress-makers,
two or three milliners, a few grocers, and two* or three
dry goods' shops ; one lawyer, a Universalist, a Metho-
dist, Freewill Baptist and a Calvinist minister, whose
whole members, put into one house, would make a barely
respectable congregation. But there i~ but one express-
man to attend to all the calls of this little heap of people.
The milliner wants to match that shade of silk, or to
exchange a few shawls she purchased yesterday, for
another set of colors, and she has an errand to be done
she entirely forgot when in tfre city; and the dress-maker
wants a new cloak-pattern she has seen advertised, and
she negotiates with the expressman to get it for seventy-
five cents, because she is one of the trade, and ought to
be considered; and a great trouble comes out of this.
The pattern-seller insists on her dollar; says she knows~
only one prices and "Miss Bond" is a dress-maker of whom

she never heard, and, after the poor fellow has haggled
away his precious half-hour, and paid the full price, he
must run down on Long Wharf and deliver Mr. Grocer's
order, and out into Elm-street to speak for some dried
fruit; and this reminds him the widow Ellery spoke to
him a week ago to get her a drum of figs and a box of
raisins. Then he must hurry to Washington-street, and
leave an order from the dry goods' store for two pieces of
nice black silk, to be delivered -~ at a dollar per yard -
and the~ partner who sold it "is down town," and there
is nobody who knows anything about such a piece; and
then Sophia Blake wants a short lace veil, and Sally Slack
sent for a pair of corsets, and the measure was lost!
Squire Low wanted some blanks and forms for land
conveyances, besides a quire of ruled paper and a small,
cheap blank book. Gershoni Allen sent for a pair of
chickens, "first chop; "and Solomon Twist wanted a shoul-
der of mutton. Tom ]3owen desired the expressmau to
step into ]3oardman's and get a gallon of pure ~Coguac,
and a dozen of Champagne, "Cilley's brand." Mr.
Wyeth has not received his newspaper regularly, and
sends to the office to get back numbers, and to know the
cause of his not receiving them by mail. Old lady Con-
~tant wants a few gift books, under price, for Christmas~
and New-Year's presents to her grand-chiLdren, and like-
wise to know what good, strong gingham umbrellas are
worth. lie might give fifty cents for a prime article,
with nice whalebone sticks! Nancy Gerrish wants a
muff and boa, but limits the price to five dollars; and
Susan Hart has heard that good Bay State shawls can
8*


~UB5TAIWE ANP SEAPOWS.

be bought for three dollars, and will take one at two
seventy4ve.
Added to all these items on the memorandum card is
-" Oall at 676 Washington-.street, to get a bundle.;
down by Cragie's bridge, for a hat-case; at 'the West
End to deliver a package, and at the North 1~nd for Mrs.
~iy's cloak."
Now, all these errands are expected to be done pre.
wisely as they are directed, and the small sum of nine-
pence is considered a fair charge; but woe to the man
'who' fbrg~ts a single message!
Besides, it is expected the expr~ssman will carry about
him a sunny countenance, never get vexed with anybody,
thank everybody instead of receiving thanks, know
£~eryonej and be willing to oN.ige everybody,' because it
isId* business. No matter how many flouting remarks
axe made to him, he is not expected to resent them; and,
although he is the most importaiit personage in the vil-
lage',- better than clergyman, lawyer or representative,
all ~f whom conld be spared, and not be half as much
missed,-~-~.yet every idle man in the village feels competent
to' undertake the business of an expressman. In truth,
it is an important office, and he who fills it satisfactorily,
mnst be a. shrewd, good-natured, obliging, self-su1~cient,
all-sufficient, but by no means an insujlicient man.

PHASES IN MARRIED LIFE.
ONE may well be amused at the changes which come
over some people's domestic and connubial bliss. When
we first knew Mr. Fennel, he was a young man of quite
prepossessing appearance; at that time he was engaged
to Angeline Bright. ' I seem to see them now, starting
off at early twilight for a walk. Most lovingly and coseyly
did they lag along, seeming to have an inexhaustible
fund of conversation; so that, after being together till
midnight, ten chances to one they would agree to see
each other before noon the next day.
By and by Mr. Fennel married. There never was a
more agreeable honeymoon passed this side of the celes-
tial regions. They seemed to enjoy each 9ther's society
far better than any other; now they rode out every
afternoon, and the old counting-room was deserted, after
three~ o'clock, by the junior partner, much to the annoy.~
ance of the senior one, who used to prophesy, "these
~things will wear off by and by, when they have been mar-:
ned a few years." The man spoke from experience, and
he spoke truly.
Fifteen years after marriage, you might have seen Mr.
Fennel still taking a walk, but hi~ d4ugkter is hanging
on his arm, and his wife uaI1c~i behirni, leading the


SUBSTANcE AND SRADOWS.        93

92          SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.
little boy. The poor woman seems to have lost that
elastic step she once had; she looks faded and care..
worn, and talks about "Willy's fretfulness, having just
cut his teeth;" and "Margaret Ann is feeble, arid they
apprehend a spinal difficulty;" and if you. inquire why
they do not go into the couritry and try a change, she
will answer, "Bless me, Mr. Fennel is so, busy at the
store, I scarcely see him from morning till night!"
I don't know what ails the man, but he is so abstracted
he never gives a positive answer to anybody but his cus~
timers, and his wif~, when she inquires if it will be con-
venient to replenish her purse. An old friend occasion-
ally tells him what a fool he is to be so absorbed in
husiz~ess; that his wife is much changed, and really
looks like an invalid. This for a moment touches him in
a tender spo~. Perhaps he thinks, if she should die, what
a terrible expense it would be to procure a housekeeper,
and how much of his time it would take to oversee the
household the very thing which has worn her down.
~o he buys a horse and carriage, and resolves he 'will
give the family an airing once or twice a wee]t He
thinks once in the middle ,of the week, and sunday
afternoon, he can spare to drive them in the suburbs.
But now he is so delighted with his new horse, he ex-
pects all the family to be continually talking about his
good qualities. The children soon get tired of such fre~
quent rides, and beg the privilege of staying at home,
and playing with some of their school-fellows.
The next year, Mr. Fenuei~ carries his wife to ride in
a chaise. She is mu~h emaciated; and has a hollow cough
now.,, ~till, he is m~eustomed to it, and, as she isiuueoni.~

planning, he does not apprehend anything more than a con
stituttonal ailment. And as they ride, she is weary and
does not dare to talk; and he is thinking about some bad
debts, or about dismissing his book-keeper; and when
she inquires who lives in some splendid palace which they
are passing by, he invariably answers, "I am sure I
dunno;" then, perchance, he gives a long gape. How
interesting!
Mrs. Fennel won't live a great while, but still there is
no fear but he can get another companion, "he is such a
nice man, and so attentive to his business." Lady
reader, would you fancy Mr. Fennel for &amp; husband ~


"AND SO FORTH."
TRtaY, a mighty wide margin should be allowed for
all "and so forth" includes. It gives the closing zest to
~irnch of some people's conversation; it is the finale of the
speechmaker, the end of the delineator, and affords the
most ample field in which the imagination can riot. And
yet what sources of contention it has opened I All the
letters in the alphabet may be joined together, and their
exact meaning plainly indicated; but and so forth is
married to no letter, and so his bachelorship is quoted,
and made subservient to all purposes. A friend engages
board; he stipulates the terms, and the host enumerates
privileges, "&amp;c." The lover adds to his long epistle of
proposal that he hopes one day to be forever united,
where they shall realize one blissful dream amidst matri-
monial comforts, "&amp;e."
Now, although nothing is expressed in this winding
up, yet everything is understood. The man procuring
board sees a long array of agreeable privileges, which it
is ne~'er intended he should realize. The disposer of a
cargo includes many items in the termination with which
the owner will never be furnished; the lover winds up
with a delightful anticipation which may be dissipated in
imagination.

Whoever would give the definition of "4'~c.," would
confer a great blessing upon posterity. It certainly is
taken to mean a great deal, and it is used as the excuse
to mean nothing. And yet it is such a graceful close;
it so helps out a forgetful orator; it so finely finishes a
windy paragraph; it so exquisitely furnishes what one
dislikes to enumerate, and it gives such a pledge without
an obligation, that, were all the lexicographers in the
world to agree to set it aside, it could no more be done
than to quench the light of day.
There must be stops, windings-up of passages, a time
when eloquence boconies weary, when the man of letters
concludes, and, "with sentiments of heailfelt esteem,
&amp;c.," breaks off abruptly, and yet satisfies the most
fastidious critic. And yet there are times when this
much-quoted word is never applied. It never finishes a
prayer, nor affords a close to a sermon; it is not inserted
in a note of hand, nor in a will; and if by chance it enters
into a long, undischarged bill of goods, there is much care-
ful research to interpret its meaning. So, like many
good things which we both use and abuse, it has its place,
and when used aright helps finish up a long array of
wearisome details. Therefore, we commend and so
forth to all sweeping paragraph-writers, all elaborate
sentence-makers, all hurried correspondents, all disconso.
late lovers, all advertisers of real estate, personal proper-
ty, and whatever is wearisome in the whole catalogue of
minute enumerations.

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.          95

95


A FINE ~IORNINQ.
A FINE flow of spirits, like fine weather, will not
always abide with us. There are cloudy days and stormy
days, as well as those of sunshine, and there are moody
days and sad days and troubled ones, all of which make
up the diversity of human condition. In despite of quack
medicine advertisements, notwithstanding "the balm of a
thousand flowers" is concentrated, there are people still
with bloated faces and freckled skins~ There are carroty-
colored hair, and pepper-and-salt colored, and pure milk-
white, and gray heack, although every newspaper is her-
aIding the recipe that can change them "to a permanent
black, or a soft and silky brown." And there are chapped
hands, and burned fingers, and excrescences, which "Russia
Salve" purports to heal and mollify; and there is a long
catalogue of unmitigated suffering, notwithstanding thou-
sands of pamphlets are thrown into every vestibule,
counting-room, shop and dwelling, where poor humanity
sits on stilts, or is prostrate on beds, or reclines on sofas,
or stretches out in recumbent chairs.
So, a fine day is not always a guaranty of fine feel-
ing8. There is a poor, wasted skeleton of a man; and as
the wind flows balmily from, the south-west, he concludes
1~ venture a few paces from his home. He puts en his

$UJ3STA~cE AND SHADQw$.

heavy overcoat, and stout boots, and thick mumer, and
draws his hat pretty snugly over his forehead, az~d, at a
snail's pace, assisted by the use of a large cjane, he ap-
preaches you. You kindly inquire for his health, and
congratulate him upon being visible on the sidewalk'
but, alas! he coughs before he articulates a reply, tells
you he is almost afraid he is overdoing; that he has
not ate the value of a biscuit for a week, and thanks of
trying the effect of the water-ei9ire treatment. Well, he
needs the rubbing, and dousing, and chafing, and exer-
cising of that kind treatment. Awhile hence, leafy June
sends you to his place of sojourn, and you will see a man
wi.th a brisk trot, unbandaged, sucking in all the aromatic
fragrance he can inhale from the blossoms of trees and
the scent of perfumed flowers, and he wonders why you
stare so long in his face; tells you he has advanced
fifty per cent.; that his life can now be insured at a far
less premium than formerly; that he eats mush and milk,
dines on baked potatoes, and sups on tea and Graham
bread; that he walks fourteen miles a day, always feels
* cheerful, and yet calculates on a return to the city a well
man!
That invalid, too, over the way, who has been wrecked
all winter, swollen with the rheumatism, diseased 'in
the liver, lame, weak-visioned, a victim to poultices
and pills, whose physician has made him a daily visit for
three months past, has sallied out this fine morning. He
tells you, he feels encouraged; that his laix~eness is
better; that he is trying a new cure for the liver com-
plaint, and, as warm weather approaches, he has full con-
fidence his bodily ailments will be mitigated, perhaps
9


98          SUBSTANCE AND ShADOWS.

entirely leave him. A fire kindles in his eye as he
anticipates his future well-being; and. if the hope but
continues buoyant, he will soon dismiss. his physician,
ride into the country, live on dandelions, snuff the breeze,
and bid defiance to disease.
But invalids alone are not on the promenade. Can-
vass the streets where dry-goods' establishments have
advertised "$pring fashions opened this morning," and
witness the rush! There is the glitter of silks, satins,
and brocades; the fresh sunshade just mounted for the
season, which overshadows the last unique pattern hat,
made so flaringly open that the rich, ponderous ear-rings
are distinctly visible, creating a kind of thrill lest their
weight shall slit down the ear and cause an advertise
inent of "lost," in to-morrow's newspaper.
Verily, says the perambulator, this is an age of gold.
Our bachelor friend walked in behind the show at one of
these immense windows which exhibited the "very last
styles." "What is the price of this mantilla?" inquired
a young, economical miss. "Only forty dollars," replied
the shopman; "decidedly cheap, a great bargain." It
was taken! " And of this wrought handkerchief 3"
"Only twenty-five." What! thought he, as a heavy
roll was disgorged from her port monnaie. As he went
out he jostled against velvets, blonde lace, gaudy jewelry,
pointed remarks as well as collars, and, in a fit of despera~
tiQn, concluded he would stand the "landlady's rise on
board" some time longer, rather than venture into the
sea of extravagance which this fine morning had revealed
tohini.

SOILED GARMENTS.
WITH what care we bedeck our persons, and, if about
to enter the presence of a distinguished individual, how
shocked we should be to appear with soiled garments!
And, then, with what nice discrimination we put on the
apparel suited to the occasion!
But, while, we are so studious about the ~tuter man,
how is it with the inner temple 3 Are we careful about
the. soil or spots here? How happened we to wink at
that fraud to evade justice and secure wealth 3 Why
did we yield to that resentment, and thus cause a brother
to sin, and ourself to be the subject of recrimination 3
How came we to speak unkindly of that man, about
whom we ought to have been silent 3 Why that hasty
word in the family. 3 I fear we are not clean within,
however we practise outward ablutions.
If but half the time and attention we bestow upon
the body was given to correcting, purifying, and regen-
erating the soul, one-half ,of our bodily maladies would
be obviated. A pure soul never exists in an impure
body; but we dare not reverse the rule, it will not
bold. The physician gives the recipe for the earthly
malady. Christ came to give, the specific that would heal

98


THE BROKEN PROMISES.
"BUT .physical airments, Mr. Tompkins, admonish me
that I am not long for this world, and I do wish, hus~
band, you would make me one promise. I know I shall
not be here long, my dear." Her voice grew very
plaintive, and Mr. Tompkins was obliged to hear her.
"Well, what is it that I must promise, to make you
happy, wife; anything reasonable V'
'"Now, that is the way you always answer me. So
cavalierly, so unfeelingly, and in such a coarse way. I
tell you again, I shall not be here long. You are a
rugged man, Mr. Tompkins, and know but little of my
physical ails, I tell you."
"Pho, nonsense! You are nervous, wife. Go out,
take the air, brace up a little, and the vapors will quit
their hold."
"Butr that promise, husband 'U'
"Well, now for it."
"Will you promise me, sincerely,, as God spares your
life, if I should die, that you will never marry again?
You know how many girls would be glad to step. in my
shoes; how many widows would like the privilege of
sitting in ~z~/ drawing-rooms,-those ~beautiful rooms,
all hung in tapestry, and thb~e hri~ht ~haudolirs gus-

I

ended, looking just as good as new, if they were bought
at auction. My worsted work, too~ 0, I could not
bear to know that anybody should own it after me! But
I am going to a better place, I trust. Heaven, they say,
is paved with gold! It will be. hard to leave you,
husband; but I know you will soon follow. Now, prom-
ise me faithfully that you will never marry again, but
keep everything just as I leave it, which shall be in good
order. Will you ~"
"On condition, wife, that, if I should die, you will
observe the same injunction. You know how many
young men are dancing attendance on rich widows ;. how
many who have lost their wives would like to wear my
coats, and pants, and satin vests. Now, you will keep
them always hanging in the closets, just as I left them,
and never let my wrought slippers be put upon another
man's foot."
"Certainly, Mr. Tompkins; but that event will
never happen in my day. You will live long after me."
The promises being thus mutually exchanged, Mrs.
Tompkins seemed to revive, She' procured a bottle or
two of specifics for hypochondriacs, and really grew so
much better as to propose a journey. The autumn fob
lowing, she broke out in a European fever, and Mr. and
Mrs. Tompkins were registered as having taken passage
for Liverpool.
New sights so engrossed her attention, new faces so
won her heart, new cookery so improved her appetite,
that Mrs. Tompkins emerged from a pale, thin, sharp-
featured woman, to a healthful, plump English Th.dy;
and, after a two. years' residence, when she retttrn~d,
9*

I'

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.         101

101


102        SUJ~TANcE 4W  $UAPOW8.                                     8Ufl$TANOE AND SHADOW~       103

how her neighbors stared, as they accosted her with, "Can
this be you, Mrs. Tompkins 3"
But Providence and man are not alike in their designs.
Mr. Tompkins had gr~wn thin, had a cough, a pain
through the ~ho~lder~, little appetite, a~id great debility.
He was consumptively inclined, but remarkably resigned to
his situation. And now gossip abounded; some affirmed
he had lived a wearisome life with his wife; some said' they
"could tell things," but would not; others, who were in
her confidence, shook their heads, and said they "never
criminated church members;" for Mrs. Tompkins was a
very pious woman. But, at length, the man died, and the
bereaved widow lamented loudly, and begged the sexton
to see that all things were done in good order, and in-
sisted to know if he really believed the body could be
kept two days. She sent for an artist, had his picture
taken, bought the finest bombazine. dress, had a mantilla
trimmed with the deepest folds of crape, wore a blinding
veil, and cried as if her heart would break. She went to
Probate, administered herself on the estate, lived in her
own drawing-rooms, kept her servants, but complained
bitterly of loneliness. She was always at church meet-
ings, always wept, or held up her handkerchief, when the
good man prayed that "afflictions might be sanctified,"
and, in short, the. widow Tompkins, With her fortune of
two hundred thousand, without "chick or child" to
share it, was quite a prominent character in the mouths
of sundry widowers and forlorn stricken'bachelors. For
two f41 months she wore the veil down. It was.said she
was observed to draw it aside very slightly; then a little
f~i~tli~r, till, finally, ~he ,threw it over the crown of her

bonnet, just as parson Boneset repeated the text, "For
our light afflictions, which are but for a moment," &amp;c.
That night Deacon Sears called. But how excusa-
ble was his visit! His wife died suddenly, "but full
of hope;" and how natural that his sympathies should
be drawn towards the widow, full of hope likewise!
Mrs. Tompkins was always at the prayer-meetings, and
Deacon Sears always exhorted; and how natural it was
he should seq the widow home; and, when he got to the
door, how' natural that he should step in; and, when
fairly in, how natural to stay, disliking to leave good
company! Depend on it, then, matters were talked over
between the members, and some inferences were drawn;
but, curious enough, the deacon had promised Mrs.
Sears, in the event of her death, he would ne~'er marry
again! This promise was extorted before sundry wit-
nesses, and they were all living, and ready to testify to
the fact. The deacon was a man of truth, and ~he parish
generally thought him to be relied on. One person went
so far as to say to the widow Tompkins, aside from this
promise, she did believe he had serious intentions;
whereupon the widow grew faint, and was revived only by
sal-volatile. Here were two pledges made Vo dead people;
could they violate them 3 Was there any validity in
them 3 Grave questions were discussed in the public
meetings, whether certain promises were obligatory;
whether the dead took cognizance of the actions of the
living; and whether the spirits of our departed friends
were hovering over us mortals 3 These topics led to
much metaphysical discussion; but the deacon always
opposed the doctrine of personal recognition hereafter.


104         SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

We shall all be blessed in the mass, was his favorite
theory. still it wore upon him. The widow grew more
and more attractive. Just so far as repelling forces
diverged from the centre, the power of gravitation in~
creased, and Mr. Boneset was requested to deliver a
lecture upon moral obligations.
The divine took the ground that all promises made in
good faith were strictly binding; that death rather
sealed than annulled them; that the accusing spirit
might so torment a man who wilfully broke such an
engagement, as to be his perpetual misery in a future
state, besides the disquietude incident to existence here.
This was a poser. Matters grew worse and worse; but,
finally, taking shelter under the old maxim, "that a bad
promise is~ better broken than kept," Deacon sears and
widow Tompkins took advantage of our new law, and
were married.

MODERN TALK.
"I NEVER will marry Mr. Sinclair, ma,- so you may as
well drop the subject as not. Do you suppose I '11 have
a mechanic for a beau,~when Sophia Marshall, and Sally
Edes, and all my associates, have young gentlemen to
wait on them 3 Look at his coarse hands; they are too
big for a kid glove there is~ not a pair imported of
sufficient size for him. I never will marry huiA, and you
may toll father so."
"But, my dear, Tom Emery has only a small salary,
and you never need think your father will countenance
him. Why, child, should you slight a mechanic I Your
father was a journeyman carpenter once."
"Mother, 1 '11 hold my ears if you tell me that again.
I 'ye been mGrtified enough to hear father tell every
young gentleman that comes hers, about his beginnings,
and being b9und to old Mr. Gragg as an apprentice. I
really left the room the other evening, it was so painful
Certainly he was a mastpr-builder before he retired, and
neyer worked any; he only rode round in his chaise, and
superintended his workmen."
"But, my dear, he first earned hi~ horse and chaise by
hard labor and prudent living."
'~ And what good will all his money do, if' he h6~xdi it

9
104


106         DISTANCEE AND SHADOWS.                                       SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        107

up, and we girls cannot dress like other people? I 'in
sure, I 'in tired to death with hearing about how you
uset to live. I want to live well now, and keep up with
the fashions."
"If you should accept Mr. Sinclair, Hitty, I have no
doubt but your father would give you a handsome house,
and furnish it beautifully, and do everything you wish;
but if you disobey him and marry a worthless rake, you
alone must"bear the consequences; but I enjoin it upon
you, child, 'to look before you leap.'"
Sinclair was the son of a worthy mechanic, and chose
his father's occupation; but he was well educated, and
had just offered himself to Hitty, the retired ~, master-
builder's daughter, and many people thought he had
made a great mistake.
Torn Emery was a clerk at two hundred and fifty dol-
lars' salary,-wore white kid gloves, attended operasws"
threw bouquets at Signorina Teresa Parodi, carried a gold
opera-glass, a perfumed handkerchief and gold-headed
cane, was cultivating a moustache, whiskers and an im-
perial, and, above all, did not work for a living; he
only sold goods, and changed places aboi~it once a month.
Yet Ilitty thought "he was divine!"
"I should feel pretty, ma," said she, one day, "to be
seated in my velvet chair, or be in the street with my
* velvet cloak, and meet Sinclair with his working..dress
on. I 'm sure I would not bow to him. What would
Effle Grieves think of me?"
"You talk very foolishly, child. Sinclair has a mind
and purse as far above your dandy beaux as the donie is
above the steps of the ee-hou~e.~'

"But look at his hands, ma,- those awful big hands,-
and his smooth face! 0, dear! say no more to me about
Sinclair. Mr. Emery, ma, is a beauty, and pa had bet-
ter not oppose me too, much - 4iere are more ways than
'one to get married."
The mother wiped her eyes, and secretly wished "girls
had not such silly notions."
The mother said to her husband that evening -.-" If our
Hitty, pa, should marry Tom Emery, I hope you will
make the best of it."
The old man rattled his paper, and pretended not to
hear a word.
A few days after this the dear child was missing. The
morning journal told the cause of her disappearance,
and there was a very afflicted household, where slie had
been the pet and pride of maternal love.
Formal intelligence has, however, been transmitted to
her parents that "Mr. and Mrs. Emery have secured
board at one of our first hotels on their return," and the
fond mother is pondering whether it will do to hint to
"father" about the expediency of taking them home!


BIJEBLEISM."
MR. CEPHAS BUI3BLE is undeniably the "fastest"
young man in the market; for he is not only ashamed
of his parentage and birth-place, but he is actually
aeh~med that he was ever a boy! You never heard
him quote "what he did when a child ; " indeed, we
have no very authentic record that he ever was a child!
lie was a young man when we first knew him, which
was some twenty years ago, and he styles himself such,
now. When we first made his acpiaintauce he was about1
exchanging a clerkship for "one of the firm." It was
more manly to work for one's self; and so the poor fellow
rushed headlong into business without capital, and, as is
usual, experienced the disagreeable dose of not being
able to face his creditors; but, having passed through
the ordeal of bankruptcy, he was prepared to be a
"shrewd speculator,'.' and some days could count his
thousands, and some days only his coppers!
But he somehow always continued to, keep in the
fashion. He was the "nice young man," in the estima-
tion of all the fairest of creation; and no concert, party
or lecture, was accounted quite so pleasant "as those
which Mr. Bubble attended;" for he had a most prodi-
gious fund of small talk.

The fact that Mr. Bubble remained a single man un-
doubtedly increased his acquaintances, and made him a
more popular man. And yet parents used to caution
their daughters about being "engage~tto such fellows as
Bubble," and, at the same time, they never failed to
invite him to partake of their hospitalities! Although
often unsuccessful in his financial operations, he was
called "shrewd," "well posted," &amp;c., becaaise he always
dashed headlong into and through everything.
True he had been in all sorts of society, and had a
smattering of all kinds of phraseology, which adapted
him to all varieties of company. He knew the phrases
on change and in the drawing-room, in the lecture and
at the opera; and, by the right application of terms,
it was astonishing how often sound was taken for
sense.
He was always at home in a "panic" gotten up by
brokers; could be a " bull" or a "bear," as best fitted
his positions could put on his nice white kids and call on
the Misses Flambeaus, and converse about the "en-
chanting belle of last evening's party," and tell "how
divinely Miss Popinjay looked, at the opera;" could
bow and twirl his gloves, and pat down his huge mous-
tache after a hearty laugh with the ladies ;~ and at. the
lecture-room he could sit with his rolling eyes upon the
fair assembly, and ogle, and give a pleasant simper and
a graceful recognition fo many of the upper-ten; while
not a few exclaimed, as they sought him in the crowd:
" There 's Mr. Bubble, Nelly;" "There 's that pleas-
ant fellow, Bubble, liatty; " all showing how popular
he was becoming.
10

SUBSTANCE AND: SHADOWS.       109

109


110         SUB8TANO1~ AND 5~IADOW8.                                  8UD$TA~WJ~ AND SHADOWS.       111

And then Mr. Bubble was the pink of fashion. Yery
early in the season you might see him promenading,
dressed a Ia mode. If "adder-skin pantaloons" were in
vogue, you mightke sure Mr. Bubble had been seen with
them; if they were flowing ortightly compressed to the skin,
long or short, why, look at Bubble,- that determined
how they ought to be worn. If the dress-coat was short,
or the frock or sack were only a round-about; if the vest
were open and long, or close and short; and if Congress
half-boots or French red-tops were the fashion, Mr. Bub-
ble had been out.
But who was his tailor ~ Nobody knew, because, if
they had, the precise article might have been "com-
mon, "-.~-as it was, only an imitation could be selected.
He always spoke of his clothes being made in London;
and it was remarked that nobody ever wore a dickey that
sat so perfectly as did Bubble's. There did not seem to
be anything difficult in attaining to the perfection of cut-
ting out one bit of linen like another - but how many
hundreds failed in the experiment to do so! The differ-
ence was, Bubble's never wrinkled, never confined his
neck to a straight-ahead look, never broke down when
suddenly called to look on one side, never fa~1ed to be
graduated to the neck it enclosed. And, whose shirt-
bosom ever sat like Cephas Bubble's '? J)id you ever
see it ballooning out, or so tightly drawn down as to
make him round-shouldered for its accommodation ~ I
think not. Yet who made these articles nobody knew, and
he would never sell the recipe any more than the one by
which he had gained his reputation for being a "shrewd
fellow!"

Mr. Bubble is generally placed upon "lecture corn-*.
mittees," "associations for the moral improvement of
young men," upon "fancy grounds," "laying out circu-
lar paths," "widening and bordering walks;" and it is
supposed, by some, he was the architect of many of our
public buildings, where the finances were not commensu-
rate to the undertakings, for many unique models of
churches have been found in his old portfolio. Perhaps
this attempt at designing may have originated in his con-
stant effort to promote the progress of the age, having,
as he does, a profound contempt for the old, prudent
characters who caught the spirit of those who landed in
the "Mayflower."
But Mr. Bubble meets with serious opposition. He
desires an alteration in our constitution, so that younger
men may be eligible to office, and an "amendment" that
a retiracy to private life may be enforced at the age of
fifty, for he has been but thirty-two for the last ten
years. He has "thought abput being married" ever
since we knew him; but probably fearing it might lessen
him in the esteem of the frequenters at fashionable re-
sorts, he has conchided not to pay the penalty.
lit may seem too personal a matter to point directly to
him where he is sure to be seen - but ask any inveterate
attendant upon operas or popular lectures, to point him
out, and it can be done. He purposes, however, to leave
the city as soon as he ascertains which will be the most
fashionable summer resort, and if he finds it is decidedly
"vulgar" to stay in America (as some anticipate), he
holds himself in readiness to "go abroad."


GIJ RIO SITY.
iDo we not every day see people far more interested
in the concerns of others than their own affairs'? What
care I how my neighbor lives, provided he be a good citi-
zen'? Why this trouble to ascertain how much are his
expenditures, what he is worth, and why he dines on
mutton when he might afihrd poultry'?
Suppose Mrs. Grundy does employ a homocopathic
physician, and I prefer an allopathic 'one'? Why should
I meddle'? What if she is straitlaced in her theology,
and I cannot embrace the'~ame truths as she, in the same
way'? We both live in' a free country; let us live inde.
peiidently. Paul Pry left 'a vast progeny - his brothers
are in every village and street, and his "cousins" oc~
cupy more space than is generally known. The remote
connections lm~ng about market-places and counting-
rooms; they can tell you how much a man's business is
worth, and how much tax he pays; whether he is an epi-
cure, and how much he has invested in good securities
and bad stocks; and where the certainty is not known,
the guess alWays supplies the want. No wonder the man
out west fc4t 'he must move' when a neighbor twenty-five
miles off built a saw-mill. "That man," said lie, "will
know all about my affairs, for he is a curious fellow."

I

LIFE IN THE COUNTRY.
LET no one imagine he has leen in the country,
~ho has taken a drive around the suburbs of a city. All
such places are but so many miniature cities, where the
same fashions, works of art and decorations of nature, are
everywhere visible. To go into the country means to sit
in the cars three or four hours, and then find yourself
landed at a depot where the woods rise before and behind
you; where the people stare at every stranger who
alights, and where curiosity is excited to know your
whereabouts and your business. Then take a steady
family horse, and drive to some farm-house, where primi-
tive rocks surround the premises, and all the hedges are
the growth of uncultivated natur~. Step into the interior,
where diva~us and luxurious couches never stood, but,
instead thereof~ a yellow-painted, hard floor, with a bed
upturned in the corner, an antiquated fireplace, and
relics of other days in thick profusion strew the way
and here you may gain a~ taste for rural pleasures. The
gay routine of cit life enters not here; the morning
call is never made; the brocade is never needed; all you
have to do is simply to yield yourself* to the sweet inlu-
ences about you.~ For fragrance, you can lay aside the
elegant perfume, and substitute the refreshing incense
10*


114         SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.                                      SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.         115

of the clover-bed and honeysuckle; for a concert you
have the thousand songsters which flit from branch to
branch~and the "bird song"of our famed Jenny is but
an imitation of these real amateurs of the grove; for a
walk you have no need of the soft and delicate kid slip-
pers, but the coarser-made boot, which bids defiance to
and thu
heavy dews and scratching sand beds;   ~equipped
you may safely calculate on healthful pastime and enjoy-
ment.
Shall I carry you to yonder plat, red with strawber-
ries which have never been cultivated for a horticultural
exhibition, and which can lay no claim in size to a
Ilovey's seedling '~ Nevertheless, in the quality of sweet-
nests they have no superior. In yonder dairy are floods
of cream not such os poor city people pour from milk-
men's bottles, but thick, sweet and new, from the glossy
pan of the morning's gathering. And then you may
cool your heated brow under the shade &amp;f a wide-spread-
ing maple or elm; and what ~picuro could desire a richer
treat than you have just gathered ~i
And, after the dry and parched earth has all day been
burned by the scorching rays of the sun, a dark and
heavy cloud gathers in the west - the distant sound of
thunder in low muttering is fully confirmed as the
chain lightning darts from yonder yellow-edged clouds.
Anon, the rain pours in torrents, and the tender plants
lie drooping under their homoeopathio dressing, like the
invalid who first feels the douche upon his uncovered
body; but, as with him, this is only the renovating pro-
cess1 and, by and by1 the drenched heads of animal and

114

4

plant rise with a firmer, statelier mien, to buffet the
future adverse gales.
But the most enchanting rainbow appears, in a grace-
ful bend arching the sky, and bidding the first promise
rise to our remembrance - not the rainbow of the city,
where its varied colors are only visible between columns
of brick, but the glorious arch we have described. And
now for a stroll by the river-side. See the rushing, foam-
ing, tumbling current -here with a gentle flow, and there
like a dashing cataract. You wonder at the imagination
of the friend by your side, who. speaks of the fine mill
privilege here presented, and tells you how a dam
could be constructed and a fall obtained to carry so
many thousand spindles! Just so with yonder grassy
valley, it is so verdant and peaceful, the birds carol
so sweetly, and, the fire-flies flit so numerously at even-
ing's dewy coming, that it seems a cold calculation that
talks only about a warm, fertile soil, which is capable
of producing so many bushels of grain!
You feel that rural pleasures have not deadened all
love of gain, nor made plodders of the soil insensible to
the value of the land they~ till. The same specimens
of humanity are found the world over, and it is best
it should be so. We, too, with all our enthusiasm,
should soon see the sun rise without much emotion, and
the birds sing without heeding whether it be a golden
robin or a tiny sparrow. The fragrance of the fields
would be inhaled by degrees with insensibility, and the
supply of our animal wants would gain the ascendency,
and the glowing rapture which the change from a city
to a country life awakened, would lose its fre8h delight,

115


116         SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.                                        SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        lIT

and we, too, should sink into apathy amidst the glori-
ous manifestations of nature's curious workmanship. ~o
we will hie back again to our busy metropolis, ere the
charm has faded from our hearts.
As we were .sketching the life of the old-fashioned
farmer, we were struck with the dissimilar position of him
who ranks under the same title in the neighborhood of
our city. Our suburban farmer cannot often boast of his
hundred acres, iior yet of his heavy wood lot; he has
no "sheep pastures," nor land unfit for productive labor;
if so, his prolific imagination riots over the expediency
of "lotting"it, and causing a village to spring up in a
day. His vegetables are carefully tended, not to minis-
ter to his own palate, but to adorn with their dewy fresh-
ness some showy stall in yonder market. That cultivated
bed of strawberries is scarcely tasted at home; but children
are employed to pick for "boxing." Alas, for the rich
cream in his dairy! that, too, must be bottled, and made
to swell the amount of~ .his yearly gains; the asparagus~
bed, the early potato-patch, the corn so early ripened,
the long catalogue we class as "kitchen vegetables," all
are fostered and. protected4 and hastened to ripen, to
administer to other palates.
We were lately consulting with a friend, who lives on
such a farm as we have described, respecting board for
the summer. lie was a frank wan, and assured us, if we
were calculating upon enjoying or feasting upon the
product of his vines, that we should soon become dissat-
isfied. "All I raise," continued he, "is promised to a
particular stall; that man has his city customers, who
depend upon my forced hot-house productions; and mauy

4

a time have I carried my own vegetables to market, and
purchased others less fresh for my family's use. In this
way' only, I have attained to my present possessions; it
is literally by the sweat of my brow, and what many
would call~ the most parsimonious economy. The rich
pass by my fertile grounds, and stop in their carriages
to admire the size of enclosures devoted to one particu-.
lar species of vegetable, namely, my asparagus-bed, and
it~ neighbor, the plat of radishes. They apparently envy
the profusion; but suppose they were told we who
cultivated rigidly refrained from gathering for our own
use until they were fully satiated? This is the life of a
farmer who begins to clear his way, and sees indepen-
dence in the foreground.
"Well, the rich man who so much admired my
grounds becomes possessed of them himself. He knows
they must be profitable, as I relate the minute account
of what I have realized. But how does he find it? ile
does not labor himself; his wife and daughters know
nothing of the wearing drudgery of a toiling farmer's
life, and he erects a ~mall farm-house on his grounds,
hires a gardener and l~is wife to conduct the whole labor,
himself nominally ranking as superintendent. Friends
from the city in large parties come to enjoy'his fruitful
acres; the honie consumption very much abridges his
marketable produce ; his hired appendages are fed upon
the dainties they pick, and it requires no close~ arithmet-
ical calculation to find the result of farming 'like a gen-
tleman, and farming like a working man.
"Hence it comes that so many are humbuggedd,' as
they call it, in experimenting. In fact, there is no

9

116

117


118        8UB8TANO~ AND SHADOWS.

cheat about it. The difference has been clearly showD,
- what is consunied at home cannot be paid for abroad;
what is expended for hire is seldom as productive as the
work of one's own h~nds."
We pity the man whose experience teaches him such
practical lessons Let such aa~ one watch the unceasing
toil of the. thrifty farmer, who has secured his indepen-
dence by the sweat of his brow, and he will readily per-
ceive that employing others is a very different affair from
working himself; and nowhere will its results be more
keenly felt than in the "pocket nerve."

I

COMMUTATION.
THE word commutation has been much in vogue of
late. We have applied it to the fate of our fellow-men
convicted of crime, and whom we would save from the
ignominy of the gallows. We are not prepared to discuss
the vexed question and consequences of capital pui~ish-
ment, nor yet of imprisonment for lif~. We are only
speaking of commutation. We were fancying ourselves
sinners under sentence of death, and with the weight of
heavy transgressions upon us. We know we shall soon
be tried and found guilty, not in an earthly court, but at
~ heavenly bar. We' were thinking upon what we could
base a plea that would there avail in proof of our inno-
cence. We cannot offer any false claim, nor set up any
personal merit, be cause we are in the presence of the
Searcher of hearts, who knows the end from the begin-
ning. There is a ground of hope and fear in this assur-
ance. We can rejoice that our cause 'is in the hands of
such a judge, who knows what is in man, and will not be
misled by any prejudice or' false view. We can, there-
fore, throw ourselves into the arms of mercy.
But I apprehend we lose sight of our need of commu-
tation in the day of our trial, when we mete out the sen-
tenco to our erring brother man. He may have ~ininitted


120          SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS .
the greater transgression; he may have slain his brother,
and his doom* by earthly tribunals is death. There was,
probably, a dark o~iapter which led the way for this step
in his history. He is accountable for the indulgence of
unbridled passion, of deadly revenge, of a bloodthirsty
aim. His offence cries to Heaven for redress. And does
it not cry likewise for commutation there, if not here?
To lose a soul, what is it? Does it live in intense
anguish and remorse until it consumes itself by preying
upon its own powers? Or do those sufferings gain new
intensity when earthly clogs are removed, and burn on
forever 3 Or is there a. portion, terrible though it be,
meted out to transgressors; and, having suffered the full
measure for our iniquities, is the soul permitted to retrace
its tedious way back to the Father's throne of mercy, and
there receive an expiation for its sins while in the body?
These are fearful questioning, but they will come; and
the uncertainty with which we feel they are attended in
the final issue, should warn us against the indulgence of
all iniquity here. Certain we may be, we shall all stand
in need of commutation.

THE OIPiPRESSETi SEAMSTRESS.
SoME people seem to have an idea that they pay too
much for everything, and it is a positive duty to employ
those who will work the cheapest.
Mrs. Ellsworth lived sumptuously, and her daughters
dressed elegantly. We won't call them extravagant,~ be-
c~sse people who have plenty of money are not obliged
to give an account to their neighbors of their expenditures.
They were, however, discussing this very subject them-
selves upon their damask lounges, when the servant man
entered and presented the seamstress's bill. Such a
nicely..folded paper always attracted the family's atten..
tion, and having looked at the bottom and seen the
amount, and exclaimed, "Dear me! how high!" they
proceeded to examine the contents of the bundle which
accompanied the bill.
"The work is done beautifully," said Miss Henrietta.
"How superbly this lace is set on I How splendidly this
is hemstitehed! I declare, mother, I never mean to do
any work myself; again, it is so much better than I can
make it look."
"But you forget," said the mother, "it costs a great
deal to hire all our sewing for a large family, if it be
I'


122        SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.                                     BUDt~TA~WE' ;AND SHADOWS.    128

done ever so cheap ;" yet she felt herself that it was very
pleasant to have garments so made..
"1 wonder," said Sophia, a tall, graceful girl of sixteen,
to the little waiting seamstress in the entry, "what you
would charge to make papa ten shirts ~ I have engaged
to have them done by the first day of May; and it is so
* long a job, and so vexatious, I wish I could transfer them
to you to finish."
The child was sent home to inquire of "her mother
what she should charge to make ten shirts, with full
bosoms, hematitched each side, and rufiled, of the nicest
fabric, and workmanship to correspond."
The little girl returned and. artlessly replied.:.
"Mother says as how she shall charge a dollar ;~ i~it
if the young folks. said they would n't give it, rather than
lose the job, she would say seventy-five eents apiece."
Amused with.a simplicity which ought to have excited
sympathy rather than merriment, Sophia pretended that
seventy-five cents was all she expected to give; she had
hoped to get them done for, fifty cents. Mrs. Fuller gave
oily that; but she did not add Mrs. Fl's shirts were un-
bleaelaed,. and very common work was put in them. After
some hesitancy she brought them down, and, doing up a
largebundle, dispatched it. to the seamstress, a~lding:
"Now toy poor head and my eyes are relieved."
'Thit let us see to whom this burden was transferred.
The same sean~stress once had a husband who was a pros-
perous merchant; but he speculated unwisely, diQd ~sud-
denly, ~ left a widow, with two small children, to'
g~pple, with ~the hard fate of poverty, and the remem-
braace of "better days." They occupied but one room,

and, as her only employment ws~ sewing, it wa~ dI1BOUIt
to make both ends meet, with the most ufttiringinduatry.
"Don't you think, mother," said the little Rilen, 'who
brought home the work, "the young lady thought she
ought to get the shirts made for fifty cents apiece. But,
mother, she surely could not have known what a slow
process it is to gather, and hemstitch, and ruffle~ and do
all the sewing, just for half a week's rent, or she never
would have said so."
The mother brushed a tear away. "No, child, she
never sewed for a living!"
"And, mother, she told her sister that she was so glad
to get rid of the tiring work, and she said that her ether
would never know but she did it all,. and she should
have fifty cents clear, on every shirt. What could she
meanV'
Mrs. A. had heard of such deception before, but she
cared not' to inform her daughter that the young lady
was, probably, to receive one dollar and a quarter for
each shirt. She felt that her business 'was only to finish
the whole number as soon as possible.
She immediately set about the task of cutting them~.by
the pattern, asserting them into piles, and getting the
plainer parts ready for Ellen to hem, as she was very
nice in needle-work, as far as she had earned the art;
but it was always near "school-time," and the poor child
but little relieved her mother.
It was at the season, too, when storms. succeed each
other rapidly, and the heavens are often overcast; and,
as the tenement of the' widow was badly lighted,. it ~began
to make sad havoc with her vision. Her eyeswere weary


$U~STANOE )JD 1UAI~OW8.                                   SUBSTANCE AND ~KADQW$.        125

~fre~u continued use; and when the long job was patiently
aceomplished, who eQuld tell the aches and pains by which
it w~s all the way attended I Miss Landon, speaking of
suck poor, has well said:
"We little think how wearily
The aching head lies down."
Long before the promised time Ellen carried home the
ponderous bundle of ten shirts. Miss Sophia severely
scrutinized them, 'pulled upon the ruffles, next looked at
the gathers, then the stitching, and, finally, tossing them
in a heap, added:
"Tell your mother they are worth no more than fifty
cents, and I will give her that if she will receipt the bill."
The child returned with a heavy heart and imparted
the information.
The seamstress wept'; she looked at the portrait upon
the wall.
"If he were but alive," said she, "I should have
some~ protector from wrong usage." She could not but
exclaim, "How my head does ache!" as she untied an..
other budget of work; "five dollars for ten shirts! I
ought,'~' thought she, "to better vindicate my rights; but
they who oppress the' poor have the worst of it. Here,
Ellen dear, take this bill for making the shirts, and bring
me back just what Sophia pleases to give; but say, mother
has toiled very hard, early and late, upon them."
Ellen did so, and Sophia took her five dollars from her
purse, adding:
"' This; is a great deal of money for poor people to
spend ~ it will buy you a number of calico dresses."
"But ~mo1~her's rent is due~," said the child

"Pho! rent is nothing - make your landlord trust
you!" and, so saying, she darted from the room.
The seamstress never closed her eyes that night. Think
you no unseen Eye will vindicate her true claim ~i
"Sophia Ellsworth," said Grace Eaton, "where did
you get that splendid fan ~ It is really elegant!"
"I saved it," replied Sophia, "from money father
gave me to make his shirts; but I hired them done at
half price, and he never knows it to this day."
Poor girl! Your fan should be used as a screen to
hide the hard spot in your heart. Prosperity uever long
follows in the footsteps of oppression.
11~


SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.       l2tT

OUR EEL.
"Ouu Eel," writes a fond mother, "has become crazed
since she has been at a watering-place. I don't know
what to make of the giddy creature. iler father insists
that she ought to be returned home, but the dear little
pet is so happy and wild with enthusiasm, I do dread
to break the charm which now binds her to lovely N-.
I transmit to you, my dear friend, the identical letter we
received this morning, that you may be the better able
to~'reply to my question, namely, "What ought I to do
in this 'case?' "
"N -, Aug. 28, 1858.
"Mi DEAR PARENTS - I begin to realize more and
more what a blessed thing it is to be brought out in soci~-
ety. I am all' the time in a whirl of delight; there iS
something new at every turn. Truly, this is an earthly
paradise. Our old humdrum friends at home* talk about
poor human nature, and its degradation! 0 faugh! I
never desire to see better specimens than we have here.
"Dear mother, I have not time to tell you of half the
conquests I have made since I came here. We have a
lovely southern gentleman, who. sings exquisitely with me
every evening, and a decidedly brilliant young English-
man, who performs duets with me to gathered crowds in

our public parlors. I seem to be fast losing the foolish
timidity I once felt. The blushes which used to mantle
my cheeks, when you bade me perform any little piece
at home before the grave old squire and his lady, do not
torment me now. I am not afraid of any one here, and
this confidence which I have acquired is alone worth the
price you pay for me to remain here.
C~ ~ danced every time at the last 'hop,' and wore my
cherry-colored tissue over the white satin. It was thought
the most decidedly elegant costume that appeared on the
occasion; I only wish papa would afford me a set of
diamonds. He is so rich he might do it as well as not.
I should be willing he should take it out of my marriage
portion, if ever I should settle down as a staid old ma-
tron, and bind myself to one lover; but that is a thing I
can never bring my mind to conceive of doing. There is
a great charm in listening to varied specimens of making
love. For example, one little coxcomb, who regulates
his stomach upon 'Sarsaparilia bitters,' when he cannot
get a stronger tonic, came up to me in our crowded
drawing-room, and, said he, in a lisping tone, 'I am
sure, whoever is fortunate to gain your affections, Miss
Edgerly, has his fortune made for this world. Aw I
understand your papa, miss, is a millionaire. I should
like right well to call upon you in your city home.' As
I turned my head away disdainfully, Mr. Moxon caught
my arm, and in the most gallant manner asked me 'how
my heart stood affected since yesterday's conversation'
(for we talked over love matters then).
"And there is a squeaking little fellow here, who sings
celestially, and he has an abundance of hair of the most


128         SU~$TA~OE MW SHADOWS.                                           5UBSTA&amp;O~ AWP SHADOWS.         129

exquisite auburn shade. His face is some 'pitted' with
the relics of small-pox and yellow fever; for he is fresh
from New Orleans, and even he stroked his moustache,
until he coaxed it into a lovely curl, he was so embar-
rassed before he asked me if he should attend me to a
favorite walk we have here, called the 'Lover's Preci-
pice,' from the fact that last summer a most romantic
event happened. there. A gentleman, being disappointed
in the object of his attachment, threw himself headlong
down this height, and was taken up so mangled that he
survived but a few days. I have seen the lady who
caused his destruction; she is indeed fascinating enough
to make any~man lose his senses.
"But I never could run through the detail of thrilling
and ludicrous matters to which I every day listen. It
makes me so animated to be so constantly excited, that I
cannot bear to think of returning to our old systematic
way of living. Now, as my time is nearly expired, do,
dear mother, persuade papa to let me finish the fashion-
able season here, and then I will return, and, after I
have procured an entire new wardrobe, we will take up
our autumnal travelling. That will be nice, won't it,
mother '.~
"I have only to add, that I would like you to send
me, by express, two richly-embroidered handkerchiefs, for
I am so unfortunate as to have lost one, and my washer-
woman says the one I gave her last week blew away~
My dresses I will try and make last during the season.
I have torn my tissue one horribly; it being necessary
to wear them so that they drag all round; and the gen-
*

A

* tlemen are continually asking my pardon for !having
stepped on my robe.
"Heigh-ho! this is life; and may every year make
me as .happy as the last. I should not value being een~-
sidered an invalid, so long as it makes papa so generous
and solicitous about my health. Please tell him I was
never in better health ~ that sea-bathing agrees with me
admirably, and likewise please make my compliments to
our kind physician, and thank him, from me, for recom-
mending me to such a delightful watering-place. I shall
look to have my order fulfilled by to-morrow's express,
as a 'hop' comes off in. the evening. Please send a let.
ter saying I may stay until this merry season breaks up.
Kiss papa, and tell him a compliance with my wishes
will gain for him my warmest love.
"Truly yours,          ISABELLA."
When the friend to whom Mrs. ~]dgerly sent the above
letter, opened and read it, we may be sure she very soon
decided upon the advice which she shQuld bestow. It was
scarcely a year since Isabella visited this lady. She had
then just~ graduated from a four years' residence at a
celebrated boarding-school. She was not, of course, then
"brought out;" but talked of wondrous things she
I3hould do when that time arrived.
* She was a giddy, impulsive creature, just lika an
unbroken colt, ready to break the harness and neck ~f
the rider, if occasion. required. The young lady was
profoundly ignorant of alIdomestie affizirs, although she
graduated with high honors, and showed a diploma a

~IU

.1

11


180         SUBSTANCE ~AND CEAPOWS.

yard long, which attested great proficiency in scholar-
BIUp~
"While she was with me," writes the same lady with
whom Mrs. Edgerly conferred, "Isabella was far from
being industrious. She would eat fruit until her appetite
was completely satiated, and I could not induce her to
eat any solid food. She had little regard for the laws
upQii which our health depends, and would sit in a cur-
rent of air one day, and be confined to her bed the next
with an ear-ache. Her needle, when she used one, was
occupied in worsted work. She had some patterns of
elaborate finish (a boarding-school expression), but she
never executed much during her visit. She was forever
building air-castles in dreamland; wondering whom she
should marry, and always applying the phrase, 'an
exquisite fellow,' to the most consummate coxcombs.
"My dear Mrs. Edgerly, by all means take your
daughter home. She needs incessant watching, and how
you could have thus perilled her in the care of only a
young lady like herself, I cannot tell.
." What if she has the neuralgia, and sea-bathing and
change of air are recommended ~ Certainly, the recipe
did not add to the list those questionable acts. which she
writes about. Almost any disease is preferable to being
made a heartless coquette, and such Isabella is~ fast be..
coining. I would not only take her home, but I would
furnish her with useful employment when she gets there.
What if she does sigh and pine after such excitement $
~1IQW to her what, as a rational being, she was created for;
give her household labors to .~p~rfori~i, and make her feel
that to know how to prepare a dinner is quite as requisite

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.           181
to her comfort, as to be able to read Virgil French
authors. flo not err, as most mothers are apt to do, in
supposing her physical health will be endangered by do-
mestic labors. Those have the least pains and aches, who
labor most; at least, a refreshing sleep will remove such
infirmities; whereas a listless young lady fancies herself
ill until she becomes so.
"If I have been too diffuse in my advice, it is because
I every day see the evils which flow from a fashionable
education, to th~ exclusion of the practical knowledge
of which every female should be possessed. I do not,
however, feel I am too exact in my requirements, for my
conversation with well-principled, rational young men,
aSsures me that such do not wish for a wife like a waxen
doll, that will~ break to pieces if exposed to the least
"hut occasionally one gets sadly deceived in the
object of attachment. You may remember cousin Abi..
jah, who sought a country lass, because he thought
he should find in her the sterling qualities he desired for
a wife; and you may recollect, too, how it proved with
him; forever after the engagement she forsook her old em.
ployments, and, in attempting to fit herself for a city lady,
by keeping herself constantly within doors, and practising
only upon 'tent stitch,' a pain in her side was induced,
the bloom on her cheek was exchanged for a lily white,
and her closets, to this day, look like an apothecary's
shop. Yet poor Abijah, of course, is doomed to bear
what he cannot help, but always hoped to avoid. Many
a man becomes thus cheated.
"My parting advice, therefore, I reiterate. Let your

I


182         $UB$TA1~(CE MW SHADOWS.

daug1~ter be occupied every day with some~useful labor)
and if you cannot enforce it you may send her to me.
"I would never het~r my child detail her progressive
steps in a flirtation, - rather change the current of her
thoughts by leading her to ~el the responsibility of her
conduct, and the effect of he~ example upon character.
'Bel' certainly is endowed~ with good natural talents,
which ought not to be perverted at the shrine of vanity."
*       *       *       *
Not long since two gentlemen were expatiating upon
the excellent housekeeping of a friend of theirs, who was
receiitly married. "But they say," remarked one of
them, "she was a terrible flirt once." And would you
believe it, th~ now systematic model of a good wife, was
no less than our .13e1, who, previous to her marriage,
spent two years under the guardianship of her faithful
aunt.

I

I

A WIDOW'S EXPERIENCE.
WHY is sleep forever banished from the wretched'?
Why is night so fearful and its gloom so appalling'?
Why does the brain seem to rack its secret store-house,
to bring forth vividly all our buried hopes, and show us
i~he true aspect of life, when we are the least prepared to.
receive it  1
I had laid upon my restless, uneasy pillow, the live..
long night. Weary and sad, mourning in bitter anguish
that he to whom I had unburdened all my sorrows was
in the distant tomb; his shroud, with its snowy folding,
appeared distinctly before me; his form, icy and stiffened,
~and countenance beaming with no light but the str~J1g~
expression which death gives to the compressed lips,
whicli are sealed forever! Good God! I exclaimed in
my agony of loneliness, is this widowhood'? I looked out
upon the heavens, - all was peaceful there; the stars
seemed to shine with an unusual brilliance; why was
this darkness in my soul'? Again I sought my bed; I
clasped my pillow to stop the throbbing of iny fevered
brain. I felt my pulse,- they were low, feeble and in-
termittent. I had no' hope, no strength, no love, ne
faith! All was one eternal darkness. Life, why was it
given thus to mock our fancy'? H~pe, why implai~ted
12

I

*1

182


134

SUBSTANCI~ AND SHADOWS.'

to make us feel our impotence, bereft of its power 3
"Faith in the future," what idle words were those whis-
perings, to my solitary heart. A widow! Can it be,
that I, who have sported so happily and sung so merrily
along the floating stream of time, am now by the merci-
less waves to be engulfed in darkness 3
Once more I am at my window. Dimly in the east-
ern horizon there appears a faint streak of light. Is it
not the illusion of my weak vision, dimmed by my tears 3
Again I look; its tinge is a little deepened; a dim twi-
light seems to gather about my room, rendering more,
distinct surrounding objects. A thrill, shall I call it
joy 3 0, no! that word defines not the emotion ; - a
sensation, a thought, comes over me,- there may be light
in the distance; the night heralds another day; the
fliint rays ~of morning increase in light, until the 'sun
rises in all its splendor. Can this 'scene prefigure what'
*may be my coming fate 3 Alas! this conscious agony
of' utter loneliness comes in, to chill me again. Yet,
with the brightness of the morning, my soul instinc-
tively turns to the light, and thanks God that the night
has' passed I A momentary calm comes over my throb-
bing heart; its wild tumults are partially checked.
Worn and heavy, I am cQmposed to realize a troubled
dream. Now, I have peace; my companion again jour-
neys on with me, and we are under the same protecting
care as ever. But hark! A summons to leave. I am
again awake but still in my deep sorrow a comforter
ha~ entered ~my soul. He bids me look upward; he has
assurances of love, and tells me I am not forsaken. 'He
speaks of' earthly darkness to which heavenly light sue-

it

N

5UB$TANC~ AND SHADOWS.
ceeds.* I turn my eyes above,- the tomb has no tenant,
why should I linger there 3 My friend is above, I will
be there also.
Thus lamented the bereaved widow. It is truly said,
such severe sufferings are of short duration; their very
intensity wears out the subject of them.
*     *    *     *    *     *     *~   *
We will, transfer our glance to the future. A year
has passed, and there is a gay~ assembly. The priest is
there, and the bridegroom and the bride, who is' the
same widow whose overflowing heart was bursting with
grief. Who laughs so joyously as she 3 Who looks more
confidently into a future of domestic bliss?
Let us take another leap; for, strange as it may ap-
pear, the sudden changes of life are made up of leaps.
In yonder steamboat sits a man, and wife, and child.
The husband is feeble; he has a slow, irregular step,
breathes short, and is easily fatigued. lie is the prey of
consumption, and is now .on his way to a more genial
climate, attended by nil the loved ones of earth. Mark
his wife, my friend. She is watchful of his every step;
and even the tiny boy, "Johnny," the mother's first; idol,
seems to know that noise and roguery have no charms
for "dear sick papa."
The captain is interrogated, "How long will it proba-
lAy be before we reach Havana?" Adverse breezes delay
their steady progress, and the consumptive patient fails
rapidly. When they reach their destined port, ho is
carried from the ship to the nearest accommodations,
looks out upon the face of nature so verdant and beau-
tiful, and only murmurs, "Had I but arrived sooner,


SUBSTANCEE ~&amp;~D $HADOW$.
Susan ".-.- a choking succeeds; he is dead! A, second
time is the subject of my sketch a widow, in a land of
strangers.
She contrasts her present with her former situation.
Then she was surrounded' by 'loving friends, and. yet
she refused to be comforted. Now she is among those
who heed not her sorrows; for it is no uncommon oc-
currence thus to die, as the invalid first breathes these
spk~y gales; and all that remains is to commit to foreign
dust the relics of a ~econd' love, ~and mournfully return
to tell the tale of blighted hopes, twice sundered by
death!
*     *,   *     *~   *     *    *     *
A period of twenty years ha~ now elapsed since
this history was first chronicled. Yet, so often has the
sad drama been again and again realized, that every
soul exclaims, "1 have read this tale before." J3ut
did you know, my friend, that "Johnny" is married,
and the widow is now betrothed to her third husband ~
~JYhat husband in prospect is the father of the bride of the
widow's son!
"Time will work wonders," quote it as often as we
will. In his hurrying track he has left a deep impress
upon that household. There are fiaxened-haired boys,
whom want 'of paternal control has made ungovernable
and unlovely children. The father and son make but
one household; and the step-daughter is no companion
fQr her step-mother. Why is it ~thus ~ It began in a
frjfte. ~She did something her mother conceived wits
wrong; she did .not speak of it to her, but to the neigh~'~
hors. The~j recommended the older member to bear no

I

187

offence; and she brooded over the first source, of dis..
cord, till every act at length became odious. fll-&amp;ted
Ellen! A sad doom is thine; the children must never
be corrected before the grand-parents; the discordant
elements of strife are working, and life is very dreary
to the step-mother! Why not separate? Because the
property has been given to the children during the
lifetime of the parents, and no home remains for them
hut according to the "contract!"
That woman reviewed her life. Thrice was she mar-
ried, and two husbands had she laid in the grave. We
have heard her lamentations and grief; but she assures
us no hour of desolation in widowhood was half so try-
ing as the daily friction which now attended her do..
dining years. She had erred, but it was too, late to
retrace her steps; and her sad closing history can only
operate as a warning to others, lest they fidi into su~b
condemnation.
'The instruction we may gather is this: Never sir-
render, unadvisedly, your own comfort and means of
subsistence into another's power. Never, conceal tb.e
heart-burnings which rise on the commission or omission
of acts, which, if laid open, might be forever rectified:
in this way domestic disturbances first arise. Never
make a third person the depository of your own private
history, when their advice is not needed. And last,
though not least, in the chapter of," considerations and
hints," do not marry, too often; but we are totzching
upon a delicate subject, which everybody feels eomp~teut
to decide for himsell~
.12*

0UBSTANC~2 AND SHADOWS.


DISCOURAGED GENIUS.
SOME people account poverty the greatest of calami-
ties For many certainly it has proved the greatest of
blessings. flow many geniuses would have laid dormant;
how many beautiful works of art, poetry, fiction, sculp-
ture aria oratory, would have been lost, o~' only have
been brain cogitations, had not the bitter need of neces-
sity spurred %n half-slumbering genius with the hope of
reward! The hope of gain, profit, gold, has stimulated
more minds than all other incentives put together. The
f.xkest Bonnets have been composed in attics; the most
splendid works of art have been produced in dark, oh-
souro rooms, where the light of day hardly penetrated.
The first encouragement given to alleviate poverty haa
fbithwith sent an impetus to the brain, which ha~ led to
the creation of the sublimest conceptions, and the rarest
specimens of elegant and refined literature. Yet what is
more pitiable than the eo~ifessions of men of the most
brilliant parts; than the detail small appreciation
of their labors in their lifetime ~ After death, poSterity
may laud them to the skies; but their heart-aches are
over, and the anguish of "hope deferred,"'or promisee
bb~hted," noxuore stings like an adder! The encour-
agement bestowed in one's life would have enriched the
wc~ld with many more arid yet loftier specimens!

SUMMER BOARDING.
"BUT I should prefer to board where at least there
was an air of gentility about the place," remarked Mrs4.
Peters to her husband, in a somewhat irritated tone.
"Do look at my neigh2bdrs; every on~e has gone to some
fashionable watering-place, or to some noted hotel, while
you are quite content to set yourself and me down in an
obscure farm-house, where the broom is handled by the
hostess, and the butter churned by her daughter; and of
what use is such a life 1 1 ki~ow nothing of the world;
I see no amusing flirtations, have no reason for dressing
for dinner in any different' style, and for my evening en-
tertainment I am obliged to listen toyo~ and Uncle Jerry~
who talk only about mixing soils, or the best mode of
destroying caterpillars, or assigning perhaps half
dozen theories to aid you in solving the mystery of the
decay of the button-wood trees in the front garden;
Now just think what interest, Mr. Peters, can I be ex-
pected to take in such conversation'?"
"But you forget the cheerful endeavors to serve and
please you which Aur~t Kizzy makes, and her daughter
ifltty, who offers to read to you after their work is doixe~
and the ~nice griddle cakes, and the rich cream she so
generously mingles with the b~ries; end, above oil, there


140

SUBSTANCE AND SHAD0W~.

is Mount Cannel, where the high~bushed blackberries
grow in such clusters, of which lam sure you are equally
fend as myself. And all this, too, is furnished for so
reasonable a compensation; the trifling sum of five dol.
lars a week defraying all our expenses; including washing,
all the time we stayed in this farm-house."
"Ah!theie'~ tine secret," continued Mrs. Peters;
"the everlasting scarcity of mohe'y makes this place so
desirable ~ yO1L ~ exeu~e~when
you ~e. be~it~ged to give~for political purposes '~ I~or my
part, I ~si~oi~d4 ~piefer to 8tay half as long, and be able to
tell, w~eu~ ret ned~h~atI had seen somebody.' I:don't
oa~ .~ot~j~s4i ~bo~ the ~4ubrjous ~ir, nor the flue scenery,
uo~r ~qrea1~ of~which Mxs. Hobbs is so liberal; I
ebould prefer to be where I could see distinguished ~peo~~
pie ~. genteel wome; who manage to get at their hus~
bands' p~ses and make a figure in the world.' Farm..
house rusticity does not suit my taste, and I won't conceal
the faet any longer."
"But I have already written Uncle Jerry, to know if
they would be pleased to~ receive us another summer upon
the same terms as the last."
"I hope you mentioned that to re-carpet our chamber
would be indispensable; aud instead of those old braid-
ed mats' there must 'be a nice rug; and, for my part,
I shall insist upon a thicker mattress. There is no use
in paying one's money for nothing."
A.nd now we will, leave ~trs. Peters to do battle with
a vei~atious mosquito, and her husband to recon~le her
to r~tio simplicity, while we take a peep into the. sum-
mar quarters among the green hills of Vermont. It is

I

SUBST4NOE AND $HADOW$.~

14:1

T'

a charming location. The farm-house is at th~ top of
the hill, and overlooks one of the most commanding
views, dotted with neighboring farm~.houses, long ~elds of
'waving.corn, and now and then patches of heavy red and
white clover, which imparts a fragrance to the air and is
enough to fill the heart of a city recluse with ecstatic joy,
n~twithstanding Mrs. Peters's dissatisfaction.
~Bat there is a discussion going on. ILlitty is the
amanuensis, and sits biting her pen, awaiting orders what
to transfer to paper. It appears that a day or two before
Mr~. Peters sent his request, Judge (Jonley' was travelling
through this part of the country, and feeling the need
of the refreshing mountain breezes, he had inquired
whether he could b6 received into any farm-house in. the
immediate vicinity, ~and an application was made to Mr.
Hobbs, the very person with whom Mr. and Mrs. Peters
had boarded.
The judge was a widower; a man of wealth, but an
admirer of nature. He sketched some; he wished for
retirement; was liberal in his offers to remunerate our
friends, offering the same amount for himself as both
Mr. and Mrs. Peters paid; and as he desired no change ~of
style, Mr. Hobbs was disposed to receive him. And now
came the question whether the Peters' would be satisfied
with smaller acc~,umnodations, and whether, moreover,
they really wanted them on any consideration; for it was
apparent to peopl&amp;of such good common sense, that Mrs.
Peters' element lay in more fashionable society; so after
a full discussion it was concluded that they could nQt re~
ceive the above couple, and Hitty was d igilated to put


142        SUDSTANOJi~ AND SHADOWS.                                    SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        148

it in proper phraseology; which, with, her good education,
was no difficult task.
Upon receiving the reply, it was indeed a wonder to
the stiperfiojid Mrs. Peters how a farmer's daughter could
dictate sueh a delightful note. "I am sure," said she,
"'I never saw Rutty use a pen, but I always knew she
had studied grammar, and I have often wished,, Mr
Peters, we had treated the girl with more civility when
she came to the city last autumn; but my heart is so
estranged from country cousins, I acted naturally."
"And so, wife, after all, we cannot board in our Green
Mountain State - now where shall we go 'i"
Mrs. Peters immediately suggested advertising in the
evening papers. It was late in the season; 'all the fashion-
able quarters were occupied; but in a few days she re-
ceived a statement of terms from the landlord of a cele-
brated hotel, that a small, unoccupied chamber was vacant,
with a privilege in the common parlor, which could be
improved at the rate of twenty dollars per week; and Mr.
Peters determined to try the experiment of "genteel
boarding."
Mrs. Peters was in ecstasy; her satins, silks and bareges
were refitted by the last fashion-plate, and she was soon
in free and easy conversatiQn with the Joneses, the lUlls,
and the Gills; but she always scrupulously concealed the
fa~ that she bad passed her two last summers at the
farm-house. She was careful never to introduce her
daughter Clarinda, who was at a boarding-school, to
Eittyilobbs; and so the daughter had formed an idea of
Miss Hobbs, as some awkward Green Mountain hoyden,

li

who knew only how to do rough work, and would shame
a city maiden by contact.
Mrs. Peters, however, in her new home, did not find
"genteel society" so comfortable as she expected. There
were cliques and parties; there were jealousies, and envy,
and distrust. Mr. Peters was known as the tried hus-.
band, and sundry wives despised in others just what they
were guilty of being themselves. The small chamber
they occupied was filled with uncomfortable occupants ;~
the buzzing of flies, the whizzing of mosquitoes, and the
glaring blaze of the sun, compelled her to draw a com-
parison between that large, neat room she occupied in the
farm-house, where the eight-day clock ticked in the cor-
ner, and fresh bouquets appeared on the mantel shelf~
Yet a month's board there cost no more than a week here
- but gentility made the difference.
At the close of a sultry day towards autumn, the busy
rumor run the rounds that a newly-married couple, of
distinguished notoriety, had arrived, and would appear at
table. Expectation was on tiptoe, and the greatest prep..
arations were made for sight-seeing, when, lo, at the
head of the table appeared Judge Conley and "she that
was Hitty Hobbs!"
Mrs. Peters could not control herself. She ran and
saluted the bride as her most intimate friend; she web
corned- her; she expressed so much regret at not passing
the present summer at her father's house; she should
have been so delighted with Judge Conley's society; and
that same evening it was proposed they should ride over
to the seminary to be introduced to her daughter
Clarinda.'


8U~TO~ 41W 8H4~POW$.

1V~s. Conley did ~ liowever~ accept such attentions
at this time, when she did not need them. She plainly
added, with the refusal, "Mrs. Peters, my marriage has
not deprived me of ray original identity. When I visit~
ed you as Illitty lXobbs, I was only a green country girl;
my present position has added nothing to my worth of
character; if I can, ever oblige you I shall be happy to
do so,. but I cannot accept your present civilities."
Mrs. Peters was so chagrined that ~he left her board-
ng.heuse the next day; but she was never after ashamed
to A~Iekziow1edge that her most agreeable summer residence
w~s at the ~nansiou of Uncle Jerry Hobbs.
Mr. Peters had no difficulty in inducing her to take
any roqzn ~he might obtain with her Green Mountain
f~i~uds the n~4, sun~raer. And thoughh ~rs. Conley
spent her summers ~till at her father's, yet she taught
Mrs.  ~e~ers ~uch a~ salutary lesson in her daily courteous
condw~t, that she ~wa~ never after heard to complain of
rustic ~iwplieity, nor did ~he ~gain envy. J~hqse who were
coope4 up in genteel boai~ding-houses. fly degrees she
learned t~ di~aw the distinction between the artificial and
teal, i~nd though Qften led W feel the reflects Qf a s~per~
facial education and misdirected taste, yet~ she never again
inaniD~sted the foolish airs which an ilbbred lady is sure
to assume when she departs from her true position. Mrs.
J~eters did improve, and is now known as a quiet and
interesting women, showing how good ser~se can triumph

A "GENUINE WIDOWER."
TilE first deep shadow that ever rested upon Henry
Herbert's home was cast over it by the loss of his affec-
tionate and devoted wife. It was indeed to him one of
those mysterious dispensations, the meaning of which we
know not now; for there she stood at the domestic fire-
side, idolised by her husband, and seemingly perfectly
indispensable to her two children, who were just at the
ages to demand her constant solicitude. Such a loss
seems always doubly painful to be borne by the f~thsr
when the children are quite insensible of their h~vy
bereavement; and Herbert never felt it more intensely
than when contemphting the little volatile movementaof~
his daughter Grace, who stood arranging a bunch of nat
ural flowers to make a5 garland for her mother's grave.
True, the child wept, and called to her dear mother~ as
if invoking an ascending spirit in its upward flight; but
then she dried her tears, and sVood before her mirrat
half an~ hour after, parting her auburn locks, and rolling
ever her curls, so ~as to produce a pleasing effect - for
girls at ten years of age are no~ altogether insensible to
the budding charms which belong to that period; and
young Arthur Herbert, who was two yesra older thaai
(~race1, had learned to put on his cap quite jatmtily, i~i~
18


~U~A)TC~ 41~D SHA~OW5.

148          ~S~ANOB A~1D SHADOWS.

to exhibit some marks of precocity, which only made it
more apparent to others than himself how much he
needed the moulding influences of a judicious mother to
control his too-ripened propensities to manhood. It was
~ dark day, therefore, when that wife and mother was
borne forever from those loved objects for whom she had
lived, arid prayed, and sacrificed so much, and to whom
her husband still turned as if she were even now a
ministering angel, hoping by her' unseen and gentle in..
fluences to be still directed. If it were a mere fancy,
who would wish to dislodge it from such a troubled
breast? But what was to be done with this dependent
household?
Mrs. Herbert was most unexpectedly taken from a
scene of labor and care over which her supervision was
s~ipreme. If her husband was perplexed, she was his
comforter; if he was sick, she was his nurse; if he was
4ejeeted, she was his sun; in fine, one who smoothed all
the thorny experience of man's troubled' life, and upon
whom he always leaned and sought counsel, assured that
only words of wisdom would direct him. Of course, the
faithful discharge of the maternal relation was not want-
ing; and while the feeling of desolation bore so sadly
upon henry Herbert's heart,~ let us hear the first letter
he dictated to a very dear friend after his severe afflie..
tion.
"M~ DEAR ANNA :-~ I can never express to you iii
Iangu~ge the painful sense of~ loss which everywhere
me sizica my beloved Lizzie has gone from my
~ it mor~intonu~1y reali2~i thM the&amp;st

morning our little family group ranged ourselves ~rotu~4
the breakfaat~table. She who. was ever the presilin~
genius at that board, whose smile always made the most
lowering day open propitiously and hopefully, was not
there; but, instead, a pert young housekeeper occupied.
her chair, and by her attempts at afl~bi1ity. and affected
good-humor strove to dissipate the sadness of our counte..
nuances. 'Perhaps it was a kind act, well intended, but I
could not bear it; my coffee remained untasted, my roll
lay untouched on my plate. The children, of course,
partook of my emotion, and the housekeeper, being not
of any too sympathetic turn of mind, began to chide us.
'Why,' said she, 'Mr. Herbert, do you think nobody
ever buried a friend but yourself? Young as I am, I
have lost a husband; but I was led by the grace of God
to feel it was all right. If I had yielded to the pressure
of the calamity, wh4 would have become of my chil-
dren? No, sir, I immediately summoned my energies,
broke up housekeepi~~g, put out my children to board,
secured a situation rpr myself, and determined to look
beyond the cloudy a~pect. I at length succeeded, and
you see the cheerful acquiescence I have attained. Mr.
Herbert, you still have plenty of means to supply their
wants, and yet seem refining and unhappy.'
"There was a truth here which Mrs. Agnew pre..
scented, but it did not take hold of me as if uttered in a
sympathizing spirit. I wondered she dared express her.
self so freely. I felt her husband was never to her what
my wife had been* to me. It was too much; and when
Maggy, our old trusty domestic, entered. my rooiii
soon after, with a deep sigh and mdd, '0, l~Xr. Herbert,

M


$UJ~eTANqE AN]) AI)OWS,
we ha~e indeed met with~ sad loss, and I do not feel. as
if~ I can. stay with you under this new mistress,' it woke
up a tide of feeling, perfectly irresistible, and servant
and master wept together. Mrs. Agnew is not a pre~.
possessing woman in her maxiners. Maggy says she has
already dictated very unwisely to her, and they have
had some Blight altercation she is about to leave."
And now, if we will ibilow the journal of this dis-
tressed widower, we shall have before us an exact picture
of human nature. in its frequent manifestations.
"June Tth. It is now a month since dear Lizzie left
me. I begin to regain my composure, but I am terribly
oppressed with a sense of loneliness. . A thousand ob-
jects of' interest, upon which she daily looke4, tend to
keep her continually in my thoughts. There is her
writing~desk; the unfinished manuscripts lay upon~ the
table; a note addressed to a friend, but owing to some
circumstance never sent to her; an unfinished piece of
fancy-work kept for a stray hour's amusement; her
books, her pictures indeed, everywhere the. mute ob-
jects which her eyes or fingers rested upon. And where
is she now? comes to me with appalling force. Shall
we meet again?
"July 9th. It is recommended by my friends that J
shall surrender housekeeping. Mrs. Agnew is con-
sta~kitiy troubled with her servants,, the children have
grown very restless under her management, and Arthur
refuses to obey her at all.' It is thought I had better
send the children to some~good boarding-8choel, and find

*

1MP

some home for myself where 1-shall be subject to less
perplexity, and sooner regain my former cheerfulness.
" July 20th. The decision is made, and I have been
gathering all the relics of dear Lizzie's handiwork for her
daughter Grace to preserve as a precious legacy. The
dear children are at a weWrecommended school, and I
take lodgings to-morrow in a public house. It is
thought I shall be more in society in such a place, and
wear off the effects of my great loss. But the idea of
quitting a home where IL have enjoyed the most exquisite
pleasures, where a holy charm seems to pervade even the
apartments through which she so often glided, and
adorned, is indeed painful. But then, with such a
housekeeper, what is left for me but to pursue this
course? I cannot find one half the nice materials upon
which Lizzie expended so much time. Mrs. Agnew says
the servants must have carried them away. What was
in drawers is mostly abstracted; but, as I never gav~
attention to the minutiae of what was contained in trunks
and private receptacles, but gave all the keys to my
housekeeper, I have no means of knowing what was
purloined. But whoever is the aggressor must suft~r
more by the gain than I can by the loss.
"Aug. 8th. 1 do not exactly enjoy this bustlix~g
whirl in which I live. I sometimes picture to myself &amp;
re-gathered family, where we can agaiw garner up our
wasted hopes, and sit by our cheerful fireside. If there
were another Lizzie in this wide world who could but
supply the place of her who was gone but what have I
said '~ It is it is scarcely five months since she left
13*

~mm

SU~5TANO~ AND SUADOWS.


160        SU~0Q~ci~ AND 8HA1~OW&amp;                                    ~UB8TANOE AND. BUADOW~.     161

'me, and ihave every week since watered her grave with
my tears.~
"Sept. 20th. Have not visited my dear wife's grave
for three Weeks. At first I had a misgiving, as if she
were conscious of the neglect; but it is only the material
form which is entombed her gentle spirit would gladly
spare me from all unnatural grief. How much the
children need a- home and a mother's care!
"Oct. 17th. When I was first introduced to Amelia
Blond, she at once reminded me of my dear wife. True,
she is a mere girl compared with her - some fifteen
years younger --but still all the graces of womanhood
are fully developed. If- heavens! I blush to enter it
tipon my journal! How Mrs. Agnew, n~y old house~
'keeper, would glory in the fulfilment of her prophecy
made in my deepest bereavement! 'Mr. Herbert,' said
she, 'your feelings will be materially changed in a few
months, and in less than a year I predict your marriage!
Such violent grief never'survives more than one season.'
I could have turned her from my threshold for such an
ifltimation; but, alas! how little we know ourselves!
Lizzie, your image is still enshrined in my heart; but
must I go weeping through the remainder of my journey
because you were taken from my side? I met Dr.
Frost yesterday; he first ventured to joke me upon being
married again. This led to a serious conversation upon
the subject. The doctor~ has been through the depths of
arniction three successive times, and now is in the full
enjoyment of domestic bliss. He urged no objection to
Miis J~lorkd but her age; but some girls at twenty are as
fit to rule a household as others at fifty. I do not myself

I
I

think her age an insuperable objection; she will be more
companionable to Grace. But how 4o I know that she
would marry a man so much her senior ~ The doctor
says, 'how will you know unless you ask her?'.
"Nov. 4th. Since my last entry in my journal, I
have taken a great step. The proposal to marry Amelia
was accepted, and I find myself in a new world; the old,
restless, disconsolate feeling I have endured seems leav~
ing me. My weed is horribly rusty upon my hat, and
outward marks of mourning are superfluous. I have
thought Ii would not use any more crape s~nrroundings.
I must express my feelings to my dear friend to whom I
so recently communicated my deep sorrow, well assured
that she will ~eply, 'Henry, Itremble for you.'"
And let us hear the confession thus confidentially
made. It belongs to our humanity, that the sunshine
should succeed the storm, as much in the physical as the
material universe.
"My DEAR ANNA : - As you have been the faithful
depository of my sorrows, it is but justice due to you to
be made acquainted with my joys. 'Know then, my good
friend, that having been crushed by the weight of sorrow,
and feeling the desolation of a heart that turns to another
for support, I met, by the merest accident, a lovely girl,
who so strikingly reminded me of my early love, that I
~'sought an introduction to her. She was stopping here
with her father for a few days. She is well connected;
her father is cashier in a bank in Western New York. I
have been there, made my proposals, and have been ac~
cepted! Thus, dear Anna, you have been made ac-


'152

* A1W SH4D0W~.

quaintecl with this new feature in my history. Do not
ask me if I am demented ; -4'ar from it. Amelia Blond
is just about twenty ~ears of age, lively, fascinating, per-
fectly charming in conversation; the idol in her home,
being the eldest child,; handsome, sweet..texnpered, and
of the a being as would make Grace and Arthur one
most accomplished of companions, and the best of
mothers. I cannot, for I dare not, attempt to tell~ you
how I conceived of this beautiful being who has been
raised up to me to pour new life and happiness into my
once bruised heart. In personal beauty, she fair exceeds
my departed wife; besides, she has had all the modern
advantages of a fashionable education, which eminently
qualifies her to impart her gifts and graces to my chil-
dren. I shall not be married until January have
rented a fine house; and the very prospect, of being once
again reinstated as a happy family quite elevates my
.fi~elings,' and makes me enthusiastic in the contemplation.
The children, too, are delighted with the prospect. Do
not chide my prompt action; life is so brief we must
gather all the sunshine we can between its parted clouds.
Yours, truly,   H. H."
And thus the "dear Anna" playfully replied:
"Have I not the evidence before me, Henry, that you
are a genuine widower? Inconsolable the first month of
your bereavement.; not much relieved the second; quite
convalescent the third; beginning to look round you the
fourth; find a lovely piece of human perfection the fifth;
engage to marry her the sixth; live on the ecstatic pros-
pect the seventh; and enter upon the glorious realization
the eighth! Were you the first of your species who has

$U~STANC~E AND SHADOWS.

158

acted over the drama, I could joke you, or chide you, or
gravely caution you. But I always fear for those de-
voted husbands with overpowering griefs at the loss of
their earthly idols. At the present period of your ecstasy
I shall therefore intrude no remonstrances, 'for I am well
assured you are in a dreamy state of bliss that nothing
but the reality will equalize. Let me, therefore, wish
you as much enjoyment as you anticipate; and to ask
more would be superfluous. TrQly, ANNA."
On the first of January, seven months~ from the death
of his idolized wife, Henry Herbert and Amelia Blond
were united in marriage. The new home ~ias an attract-
ive place. Grace 'and Arthur were delighted with their
new mother; the father did not think her a day too
young for his wife, and the manifest pride~~with which he
introduced his wife, and the smile-lighted expression
which irradiated his features, bespoke the perfect satis~
faction which pervaded his inner being. When we took
leave of Mr. Herbert, he seemed fully persuaded that it
was a wise dispensation which removed his first idol.
And although her memory was atill fragrant, yet he
presented a living memorial that the crushed affections
may be rejiwakened, and that there is no heart, however
desolate, if it beats beneath a manly bosom, but may re-
pair its loss. And too often the truth is self-evident
that the newly-repaired affecUons seem to flow out more
spontaneously and with deeper fervor than' did the old;
for, as an ancient writer quaintly' remarks, "the old,
heart, rejuvenated by the fires of new passion, becomes
juvenile in its exhibitions of tenderness."


SUDSTANUJ3~ A2~W ~HAD0W5.          166

THAT YACA~CY.
DRATH does not make all our vacancies. There Was
a nice little miss who lived over the way, and she con-
ceived a most unfortunate attachment for his clerkship,
Mr. Anthony Dobbs, a youth of nineteen. II was a sad
event,' worse than death. We are reconciled (or ought
to be) to what Providence sends; but who would give
away a beautiful girl to a fellow who owned three, or f~r
bottles of hair-oil, some nicely-perfumed handkerchiefs,
sun4ry parti-colored neck-stocks, the wearing apparel he
had on, and two pairs of white kids, one soiled, the
other fresh~ Was it not lamentable to see the affection;
forgetful of such an inventory of worldly goods, march up
to Hymen's altar an4 wake solemn vows to "1~ve, protect,
and cherish," so much that was shadowy and unsubstan-
ti~il? But, then) poets talk about love as "ethereal,"
needing no substantial soups, only a few highly-spiced
condiments, to support the interior life. Certain gross
people, not understanding this definition, have been fool-
ish, enough to accumulate means where by the larder and
cellar can be supplied; but they are the beef-eaters, of
this lower world, who imagine a house, a table, and
worldly ~oods, are quite essential! How wonderful. that
such a theory shoi~d ever ~have taken so deep ~roo&amp;in
this pleaeure4aking wozid!

Then there is another vacancy of a different kind. Do
you remember the bachelor, with a high dickey and stiff
gait, who was always advocating the laws of health, and
took so much exercise that he used to be facetiously
called "the walking~ticket" 3 He boarded, ever since
our grandmother's day in Pelham-street, at the "cr~tck
house" of Mrs. Wines. Well, he has been caught, and'
there is a vacancy. Poor fellow! how he hated music;
bat his dulcin~a drags him to every concert in town. As
to parties, he abominated everything of the kind but a
game of whist with gentlemen. Now, the carriage is
ordered at ten to attend a fancy ball, and he dresses in
pumps, and says, "Coachman, call, at one o~cloek, at
No.-" How long think you it will be before some
malady seizes him and lays him on the sick-bed 3 And,
then, that young wife, will she sit by a dull lamp and
~ drop medicines, and warm flannels, and act like a faithful
nurse in his declining years? How fortunate it is we
are not made of glass, and transparent all the way
through! How well it is that half our dissatisfaction we
can throw off upon some "pain" or "an affection of the
liver"! The doctor cannot tell where the twinge comes
from which causes us to make a wry face. You tell him
it is in the toe; he discerns a slight inflammation there.
Poh, nonsense; it is in the heart.
But we were on vacancies. 'Weariness of the same
place makes many decamp. This disease comes on with
depression, proceeds to a cough, and thence t~ a southern
latitude, to escape easterly winds. A whole family are
thus scattered.
?a*I&amp;z~m, ~o, makes many va~w~ies. The house is


too small; the street is too narrow; the children have
no play.~room; the acquaintances maintain more style;
and so removals must ensue. And, then, comes a weari-
ness of' one's country. People have been west, have
seen Niagara, lived suimners at the Springs, been to
Virginia cotton.fields, ascended Mt. Washington, looked
at the jumping-off place dowa-east, and what can excite
them here? Plainly they must take the steamship and
go abroad. They would travel through High ilolborn,
peep into Westminster Abbey, pass through Switzerland,
spend a winter in Rome, see the crater of Mt. Vesuvius,
come back to Paris, get a smattering of all things,
fashions and people, and return home by the way of
New York!
flaying seen all this world, we sometimes wonder they
don't turn their attention to another; but few seem to
do this, and any premonition, in the form of gout or
consumption, draws the "facul~y"in earnest consulta-.
tion. upon their case, and every conceivable thing is done
lest they should leave this world, which is so trying.
And, when they must die, how they grasp still at fleet-
ing shadows ! - sometimes undetermined where to bestow
what they cannot carry with them, distrustful of every-
body, altering last wills, subjoining codicils, making
strange bequests, passing away with great parade through
public streets, and leaving places vacant!
All this we daily witness, a~id. never once think of
expressing our profound gratitude that we are corruptible
rather than transparent, for those we leave behind to
criticize our real characters.

K

F I
4

"SELLING OFF AT COST."
"WHERE did you get that splendid lace upon your
cape?" inquired Mrs. Eager of her neighbor, Mrs.
higgins.
"Why, I purchased it at Fonday's; did you know
they were selling off at cost?" Mrs. Higgins then un-
rolled an elegant striped silk, she had just purchased for a
dress, only fifty cents a yard! a nice de lame, only nine-
pence! lots of prints only fourpence! and a splendid
pocket handkerchief at six dollars, the original price of
which was twelve!
Poor Mrs. Eager took fire at such a display at once:
she never saw such bargains in her life. True, she was
not in want of any of these articles just now, but what
of that? A good thing in the wearing apparel line
neither eats nor drinks anything. She would have a
silk dress, that was so cheap; and there was some lace,
just such as she wanted, at half price. The de lame
would make a beautiful morning-dress. What matter was
I
it if she had half a dozen already? It was so cheap.
At all events she must have a pocket handkerchief to
carry to Mrs. Minor's ball. And with~ these thoughts
dancing through her brain, she immediately equipped
herself arid started to Fonday's, where a fla~zing pIa~rd,
14

i~6         SUBSTANCE. AND SHADOW$.

166


158          SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.                                          I~4~     A~D~ 8~4~4W%

with "No humbug selling less than cost," announced
to her that this was the place, although sundry neigh-i
hors purported to be selling the same.
sure enough there was a most tempting display.
Heaps of silk, glittering and changing in hue; elegant
laces, varying in prices, but all decidedly cheap; prints,
patches, linens, cambrics, satins and velvets, all by turns
attracted our friend's attention. And then the clerks
'were ~o attentive, so ready to accommodate, and even
Mr. Monday himself stepped forward and inquired:
"Mrs. Eager, let roe sell you a bill of goods to-day?"
to which Mrs. Eager replied:
Money is so scarce, Mr. Monday, I am quite limited
in' my purchases this season."
"That need not make the slightest difference," re-
marked the good-natured shopinan; "take just what you
please, have the goods booked, and pay just when 'it best
suits you."
Was ever any one so aceommodat~ing 3 Well, thought
Mrs, Eager, this is the first bill I ever ran. up in a dry-
goods store; but where 'a the harm? Mr. Eager, I
know, would riot approve of it; he always says, "Pay as
'you go, wife;" but I know he is short just now, and I do
want these things. She hesitated a moment, and then all
was over. Tier decision was made to take all she wanted,
it was such a good chance. One silk was so beautital,
she thought she would take fifteen yards of that piece.
Then there was another less elegant, but still very use-
[~ixi for some oceasions,-~--- she would have a dress from
that. As to laces, she was surprised to hear she had
ift~enAollars' ~vorth, ~nd, baying c~inpl~te&amp;l~er

trading, the footing of her bill amounted to a trifle ever
seventy-five dollars! Not one of these things was to~ b~
used now; but thou she remembered they were all :o
ckeap. She was truly glad to obtain so many things~ to
lay away. She thought it would be better to withhold
the fact of her purchases from her husband, lLntil money
grew easier, and the banks discounted more freely..
Mr. Eager caine home to dinner sick and dispirited.
He protested he could not get on much longer sinless
there came a change for the better and upon Mrs. Ea~ger
expressing much sympathy for him, he bade her keep up
good cheer, be economical as possible, and perhaps by
and by things would change for the better. For the first
time, Mrs. Eager wished all her goods back again in the
shop whence they were taken. ]3u.t what was to be
done ~ They harassed her mind, and she stowed them
all away in a back closet, putting them out of sight, hop-
ing to get them out of mind. We will leave them there
for the present, and return to Fonday's.
"I will look at your choice laces," said &amp; little miss
of some eighteen years. She selected of the prettiest
patterns, and "how much do you ask for this 3)3 she
inquired.
"Two dollars a yard, iniss,-.just such as we have
been selling for three dollars."
'T can't think of giving that. Mrs. Higgins bought
one here Lor four and ~ixpenee, which looked equally as
well."
"You are mistaken, 1 think," replied the clerk;
"this i# real Mech1i~i, a most rn~perh article~" o.n4 he


'~i~'diff~t0ftt I" ~So, aftercoaxirig and praisIwg~
~uditt1. n~i~ t~k ~the: 1~ ~t the clerk's price. The
d~ft~ence ~was~so u~gmportant, that when Mrs. Higgins
aiid ~Miss fl. met, &amp; lady present remarked:
~''~S~ ladies, I perceisre you have both been to Fon..
4i~y's~' The price made the difference!
"Let m~e see some of your nicest' black' silks," said one
~f'~eine dozen wh~ were pulling over goode and troubling
the clerks.' it was sh~wn'her. "What is the price'?"
1"~0ne 'dollar per yard, madam, and the best article
ever seld~ in the market for that price;"' and he~ twitched,
~ndA~Aded, arid rumpled it together ~to test its various
qua1iti~s.
"One dollar! Why, I saw just' as good a little below
here fox~ reighty~seven and ~a half cents' per yard. I
tugiwyou were selling at cost." So saying, the lady
~ it over her finger, and held it up to the light;
~" ~t ~a deddedly rusty," ~said 'she; "it looks dull; let me
see some with 'a better lustre."
" We have none," said the clerk, "of any richer qual-
it~i" The silk w&amp;s replaced, upon the shelf
" Let 'rae look at ~rour nierinos."
They were handed down, and our fashionable shopper
deolar$ they were~much higher thaiv'any she had 'seen.
She thus went, pricing awd decrying the goods, through
~bo whole lezigth of the shop, and at last returned where
the sI'*~ed frown, to, look once more at that piece 'of rusty
*tlk. "I don't know," Baid she, "l~ut I would take this
M ~btfr ~and "'~ixpenoe 5~ y~rd~" But the clerk was in~
~ and the lady left. She returr~ed, however',' that
tfternoou, tM~ tA)*k ~th~ ~erhoIe ~1O00 at OflO dollarr

p~rya~4l A'I'm au&amp; oW'8h.7~ppeP~" 4
the silk was measured, "and generaUy knoVwliat I ~
about% before I purchase." Who d ibted that. part of
her story  ~
Mrs. green's carriage is at the door. She has roa4
the advertisement, and although she has been l~4i~p
with the influenza for some weeks, yet she thought she
would venture Out and look at some cap laces. ~w$~s
muslims, tarltan muslims, book muslin~, &amp;c., were
exhibited, but~ nothing suits; she has~seen richer and bet..
ter for far less money. Mrs. Green, however, thoi~ghL ~
fourpenny print' "was pretty,'~ and avt~ally bought o~w
to give her waiting~maid for &amp; newyear'e present!
This is a specimen of some people who make "~1ie
rush" at those stores which advertise selling off at cost.
They literally den~a~4 the goods to be given sway. nut,
thank fortune, there are exceptions. There is M*~
Tibbs, she knows what she wants; 'inquires for it, and, if
it suits, takes it. There is Mrs. Bond, and a hog~ of
others, who generously patronisa dry goods e~t4dish-
znents, and are willing ~to pay for what they buy. Were
this class extinct, where would be the sIiop~keepers?
"I declare," said Fonday, one night to his partner,
"this 'selling off at c9st' i~ a ruinous bizsiness~ after alL"
He looked at the list of nQtes payable and those yeoe~iva..
ide. He estimated the~ store expenses. ~wer~ty ~c1.rk~
to be paid, a bookkeeper at.a large salary,~ and t
families,~ all' living in genteel style, with the go~la
workedd de~n and ~eUirig off at coat~ It~ was
'problem t~ make both~enda ~et, apd~wue~it utb*~isi
7-"               '7w""             9
14*


BU~S1~AJCB AND S~ZADQW~                                 RUflSTANCE~ AND SHADOW&amp;       188

o~i4 l~ave been done. -"I have taken 'during two weeks
~iuce my goods were marked down," pursued Fonday,
"cash to the amount of twenty thousand dollars; we-have
booked about ten thousand, and have sold our most do-
*~ble articles, and upon the remainder there must be a
further reduction, or we shall never get them off."
"No," replied the partner, "get in some new ones,
advertise again, and by- degrees we shall clear them all
out."
They did so; but here were new liabilities assumed,
and if no profit; how much loss think you, accrues ~
And upon whom is that to fall 3 If the firm are able
to stand it, of course they are impoverished; if not, it
iblis upon those who first sold the goods; and so the evil
consequences are traceable far back, and we hear of
much derangement in trade, unexpected failures, great
scarcity of money, banks that won't discount, and a
train of evils. If" selling off at cost" is really what it
purports to be, how can it be but a ruinous affair 3
There is another evil; goods are put at prices which,
-u*~less afterward adhered to, will not be purchased.
Other traders, who are pursuing the old way of fair
profits~ ~are neglected; for people will flock where goods
can be purchased cheapest. I remember an anecdote in
point. A short time since a small, insignificant4ooking
back storestood full a mile from any thoroughfare, in a
little dirty street. But the marr advertised "goods from
auction at unprecedented low prices." In the course of
~a week, so great was the rush, that the paasage~.way
iee4irig to the stor. was literally blocked up all h~rs in
the--day~ - II.~old-lacofoz' one cent, which were hel~t

thi'ee cents everywhere; and gloves for #our c~nts,~ aetti-
ally worth eight; and women will find out such things!
But we will turn to Mrs. Eager. She was invited to
a large party, and she could not resist the temptation to
show that eleg~int silk she had laid away in the dark
closet. Her mantua~znaker advised her by all means to
have it made up; it would show oft splendidly by gas
light. But then if Mr. Eager should find it out, as dis-
appointed and tried as he was already, what would be
the consequence ~ Vanity will make us risk conse.~
quences, and the silk was carried to a shop and made in
elegant style. Mr. Eager always knew when his wife
looked well, but could never tell what she wore. So
they started for the party with the unpaid dress, and
Mrs. Eager seemed to forget the past, and enjoy only the
present.
Soon after they entered the gay~ assembly, a volatile
young lady thus addressed Mr.. Eager:
"So your wife has come out in Fonday's richest ~ilk.
I saw it there, and meant to have purchased it, but Mrs.
Eager had got the start of rue. Fon~ay told me he sold
her a nice bill of goods."
Mr. Eager was thunderstruck, and said nothing, but
gave an assumed laugh, and passed on. His enjoyment
for that evening was at an end. He seemed abstracted,
dull and cheerless, and no one could divine the cause
not even his wife. They returned home, and she began
to chide her husband for inattention. This elicited the
whole matter, and Mr. and Mrs. Eager were changed in
tone. For the second time, Mrs. Eager wished all her
purchases in the store whence they were taken.

'4


4NX~ 5~ADew0.

A few days after, while sitting at dinner (having mado
up the disagreement), the bell rang violently, and the
bill was handed to Mr. Rager, which his wife had run up
at Monday's. For the third time, Mrs. E. wished those
goods back again in the store.
"~ If I had ever deprived you of money when you had
~ked it; if you had not known my ~ishes respecting
bills being left unpaid ; if you had not deceived me
bait why pursue his conversation ~ The. bill was paid,
a~nd~Mrs. Eager never again bought what she had not
cash to pay for at the time.
"But I have'bills at a number of stores," says 0fl0.
"And ~so do I," replies another.
Let me ask you one question, ladies; do you ~ever
purcbas~ many articles in this way which with cash in
hand you would feel that you did not need'? The answer
tothie' question tolls whether it is expedient or not to
purchase on trust. It may be convenient, it may be
~g~eeable to your husband that you should do so; then
very Well, but never, never deceive a maft,~-~- never let a
long, account be passed to him, if he disapproves the
practice. Sivch little breaks in the domestic threads *f
h~e should be carefally~avoided by every good wife.

THE UNFINISHED PICTURE.
HAVING recently called upon a family, consisting of
three daughters and one son, who bad just returned from
a fashionable watering-place, their fertile imaginations
were busy in the future, as a great event was about. to
take place.' "Hattie," one of the young ladies, had
recently become engaged, and that most fruitful topic of
"Who is he'?" having been disposed of (not exactly as
some of the friends would have desired), the subject of
bridal fashions formed the chit-chat of the whole call.
We will premise that the lady's father was only in mod-
erate circumstances, and leave the reader. to judge of the
wants, and their reasonableness, by a simple description.
"Hattie is to be married," said the mother, "in
splendid white brocade. The article is of recent importa-
tion, and cost five dollars per yard. Is n't it a beautiful
article'? Her pocket-handkerchief cost twenty-five dol-
lars, and she is now teasing her father for a diamond
bracelet. Dear child! it is an event that seldom hap-
pens more than once in a lifetime, and I do not wonder
the child feels a little particular in the style of her
dress," continued her fond mother., "The bridal hat
must be of corn-color. That is decidedly, girls, the
most genteel, the most expensive, and the most tasteful."


16~        ~UD8TA1WB MW $HADOW0.

"And where will they live 'V' inquired a friend.
"0, that is undecided! Probably board for the
present. My child is a perfect novice in domestic affairs.
She cannot assume the cares of housekeeping, at any
rate."~
"But, iiia," drawled out the engaged Hattie, "I can
get a cookery-book, and that will teach ~ne everything.
I can, then, make ices and cream-cakes, and all those
splendid fixings we have had for desserts all the past
~mmer." And the girl was on tiptoe at the very
tl~ought of her hixurious living. Poor thing! we pitied
her. - We could not, however, forbear tQ ask who was
most in fault, that mother or the daughter.
There was a rumor, a few days after this interviews
of a Ee~vy' fidlure; the father ~f Hattie was interested in
the same oor4cern, an&amp;he, too, was declared a bankrupt I
And once more the attention of people was directed to
'~ 4o~1ng man to whom she was about to be married.
ody~ knew who he 'was, excepting that be. had passed
t~ idle summer, at the Springs, and hail a love of sketch-
$~.g from nature for ~is own amusement; but here was a
sketch in. re~4 life, and the picture lay. in a very unfim.
i~he4 state. Can any one write the deseriptiQn of such
a family  ~ We gladly turn over the canvas, for we van
a~4icipate the son~bre shade which filled it.

MARRYING TOO LATE.
"THEIU~ is no season" said my Uncle Richard, " I
dread like the approach of spring. It is not that I have
not a taste for opening buds and' blossoms; it is not that
I am not a lover of rural pleasures; bizt it is because
your Aunt Hannah seems to have so many newly4lown
ideas and wants, that I find it hard to steer clear of the
breakers. I don't know the peculiarities of other women,
for I never studied the female sex much. You know I
lived a bachelor until I was eight-and-forty, and what tl~~
deuce I ever married for, sometime~ proves &amp; v&amp;xin~
question to me. But still I do know the reason. I felt
lonely, sometimes. I used to get irritated with landladies,
and mad at house-servants, and provoked with washer-
women; and whenever I spoke of my troubles to rziy
friend Squire, he used to say, 'All this, Dick, comes from
single blessedness;' and I was fool enough to believe
him. Then I had a terrible tussle with myself to *know
whom I had better marry! I hired a pew in the 'broad
aisle of Dr. Brodwell's church; for they said this w~s 'a
good place to look out for a wife; so I opened the window
of my 'heart, lifted my embossed prayer-book, and 'r-
peated, 'Good Lord, deliver us;' but I am afraid UGW 'it
was not an acceptable prayer.


188        SUBSTANCE AND SHAnOWS.                                    X~AN4~ AND ~HAD0W&amp;

"~We11, Judith Dunn, the widow, sat right before me.
She had three little daughters, all arrayed in black for
their 'dear papa;' and Mrs. Dunn wore so thick a veil I
never could penetrate beneath it to see her face, until
about the fourth Sunday after I took the pew. Then she
brushed by me, and, hitting the flap of my coat just as
she was turning the corner, '~xcuse me, Mr. Guy,' said
she. It was enough. Squire saw her, said she had
money, told what well-behaved children the little Dunns
were, what a nice wife she made, what an amiable dispo-
s~tion~ha had, how she mourned her husband's death, and
the uncertainty of her ever marrying again.
"'Find out that last fact for me,' said I to Squire.
Shaving committed myself, I must stand the racket.
"Squire made an errand to Mrs. Dunn's house, feigning
a kind of inquiry about a man indebted~ to her late hus-
hand. and himself. The widow appeared terribly down-
east, and Squire awkwardly said, I hope your days of
mourning will not last forever. Time assuages grief,
and it 'may be your duty to yet form another connection.'
~'07 heavens!' exclaimed the widow, 'never, never,
Mr. Squire. My heart is broken I can never love
another man. My husband, sir, was one of a thousand.'
I left her,' said Squire, 'but just as my hand was
on the latch to go, she inquired, "Do you know, sir, who
that gentleman is who has taken the pew adjoining mine
in our church?"
"'0, yes; he is my friend Guy, an old bachelor, but
a sterling maD, worth his. thousands, full of good-humor,
~ud on the look-out for a wife, as ~we say.'

"Mrs.' Dunn evidently looked brighter, arid remarked,
'lie is very fine-looking 'what is his business P
"'A commission merchant,' I replied, 'and a law-and-
order man - always on the right side. Shall I bilng him
in and introduce him to you, madam?' Y~u seem so lonely
a little society must cheer you.'
Do as you please, 'Mr. Squire; but you know all
gentlemen are alike to me ~now,' and she wiped her eyes;
"Squire told me all this," pursued iJ"ncle lLichord%
"and the widow Dunn yvas forever after before me. I
went again to my pew, but ere I started I remember
twitching off half a dozen dickeys before I could get one
of' becoming height. I ordered a new coat frbmn my
tailor, and for the first time in my life actually stood
upon a stool in ~ny chamber, against a looking-glass, to
ascertain whether it was a complete fit. I bought per-
fumery, carried real lawn handkerchiefs instead. of ban-
dannas; and all~ for what? Why, the widow Dunn, to
be sure! Arid who would believe a man of eight.'aud-~
forty could have been 8uch a fool? '1~ too, who had. e~ri~.
damned all the striplings for such folly, who was so indif-
ferent all my previous lifeto women, how could Ibeso
altered a man? I,' who used to go to 'bed to dream 'of
advances or fidis in cotton; who used to write long arti-
cles on free~ trade ~and the tariff; who studied the state
of mercantile affairs 'far more than my Bible ~ Rich-
ard Guy, entrapped by a green widow! I could scarcely
believe in my identity, for all my thoughts were turned
uporrthiw subject z Will she marry me? 116w e&amp;n I besfi
insinuate myself .ini her good. grave? '
"I made my call with Squire, all forearmed to admire;.
15

I


I
~           ful wo~iz e~t0r~ed the ~   arid
put on euoh,0weet sunfleand dded~ 'Ia~happyto
~t,~g.utJ~en,' I was what Squire called. 'washed
~for-gone.'
"Ihed~ope~00 then, xaorhave:Isnice; for~before I
obtained her c~n~ent, I worried riiyself to deatJi about
her reply ~. and after I g~t the afllrrnative, golden
4reain~ of issri~a4e a~new world for me. Arid them my
1~rrie&amp; friends were forever co~igratul&amp;ting me, for there
no truer saying than 'misery loves ~ozripany.' There
w~aWt QUO incorrigibla old widower, and whenever I
.poke~ to bim of marrying again, he would tartly reply,
'A burnt child dreads the fire.' I thought he was a pest
to* ~ra~ I think better of him now.
"That Mrs 1?unn, after a ~hort courtship, became Mrs.
She ~wus not a woman of truth, for did she not
deA~15Are~ i and again, ~he never, should uiar~y '~ Now,
i~ ~' persou d~eivea one. way, they are very apt to r~
~ And then again, there were some embarrassing
u~tanee* attendant upon our union. The children
ware forever calling ~ 'T'a' before ~y old comrades, and
I~lt kind4 sensitive to anch a word, especiallyy whey I
saw an unmistakable smile playing about the corner~ of
their t1t~i3~thS.
"~But it always appeared tome Mrs. (4uy was a singular
W**~I. She did not~ppas~' half as captivating aftet her
marriage ~a~before. 8he~ had so many wauts~ there was
never any ~.tie4$~g them..        the worst part of
all. were~er .Thi~i~rns. 'Mr. (~uy~ yoi~ know xay thirds
w~iiI4~ hate made n~e independent irithout row' and
at~ihle cress~      I~ knew        oS her

AN~E *~n ~

~1

thirds. 4Yertainly the other tw~4hirds were q~iite uough
for me to be acquainted with.
"And new, as I began.,. Repeat. it, there was no sea.
son I so much dicaded as the spring. About~ the middle
of April she always commenced talking about going out
of town. I inveighed agair~sb it, ~but she would. i~rever
add, 'Do you not wish to avoid taxation, Mr. Guy I My
poor husband used to say he saved~ all his summer's rent
at Oakland, and more besides, by these early removals.'
So, to keep peace the first year, I did so, and had the
pleasure of being publicly recorded as one who escaped
taxation never charging it upon my wife, where it
belonged. The second year we let our house. and fur-
niture standing, to my wife's cousins, a newly-married
couple, because they could do no harm without ehil..
dren to wear and tear. I wish you could have seen
the. house in the autumn - the yard - the back
sage the drains. You would. write u~ essay upon
fihhy, dirty housekeepers, I am confld~t. Suffice it to
say, we paid one hundred dollars . for repairs,. beyond
what we received, besides reckoning the cost of the new
carpets for our drawing-rooms. Jupiter! how I wanted
to ventmy ire. If it had only. been in a boardinghouse,
or a ~ece~tjon any one else had practiced, I oculd hare
found some relief~ in words. I~ut who ever thought
well of &amp; man who exclaimed against his wifi's ±
merits ~ I remember how it struck me when I was a
bachelor, and any of the men spoke d$~reapectfully of
their .*ives. I thought they ought. to be~±blow~ up.
"A thousand times, as I reviewed my lifb, I have
beau p~yp~ ~ the. lntion.oUwy n~a~ry~a


5TJ~8TANCE 4ND SUADOW~.

172        $U~~TA~OE AND $HADOW~.

v~idow and with three daughters! What if they had
money enough to support them? Was it not a great
care '1 assumed '~ Might I not have known the mis-
eriss of so much elear-starching? Then was it not
natural that Mrs. Guy should always be in a worry
about her children? Some people tried to comfort me,
saying that I ought to be thankful there was only one
set~ of them. But when' a man begins t~ feel a little
weather-beaten, and somewhat rheumatic, he wants a
axing little corner in his large house, where 'he may grunt
and groan just as much as he pleases. lie don't want to
be forever pestered about Clara's beau, and Judith's offer,
arid Susy's walking with a Carolinian. Besides, who
wants to see a rocking-chair always in motion, or a
young man talking in an undertone?
And then, too, what harassing work the spring
makes about journeys! Why, I used to take my carpet-
bag and umbrella, and say to my landlady, 'Shall not
probably be back for ten days.' All my cares were left
behind with' my old slippers; but now it is - 'Father,
I have left my India rubbers - Susy has forgotten her
sunshade -~ that shawl is missing - where 'a the basket
of oranges, and your thick shoes, and my sack, father V
0, it wears the life out of a man of any age! Then, of
all' things, who wants a house filled with dress-makers,
seamstresses and cousins, who come in to sew a few days?
I' tell you, I should rather double Cape Horn and be
landed among th~ Fejee islanders."
"Whys ~Unele Richard, you grow frantic. Your wife
calls." (
~' X"merely wish to say, Mr. Guy,' that you may~ order

the carriage at twelve, an4 I wish you would help we
pack the travelling-trunk, and just go over to the gro-
cer's and fill the hand-basket with oranges, figs, and the
like, for our Susy. She 'a a great dyspeptic, ~you. know,
and baths the sight of meat2'
I felt for Uncle Richard, and the more because I could
not help him. There is a project yet on. foot fox' him to
visit England. Mrs. Guy says, "The ~best educations
are completed abroad."
"But we must take things as they are," I repeated,
"when we cannot make them as we wish." It was a dry
moral, and, as the good man crushed a fresh-blown dande.~
lion under his foot, I saw there was but cold comfort in
the words I uttered.
Then I returned home and soliloquized upon a bache..
br. Take a man who has' lived eight-and-forty years,
and he is a strange animal. Look at his independence.
He can smoke, drink, chew, sit with his legs upon the
mantel shelf~ shave a mountain of newspapers by his side,
a hearth all covered with dust and ashes, a lounge with a
rickety foot, and a closet door with the lock torn off.
What does he care? There are choice baskets of cham-
pagne in the cellar, no dishonored drafts, no unpaid bills,
no tuition fees, no band-boxes in his way, no laces or rib-
bons on his bureau; no teetotums' belonging to "Tommy,"
nor grace-l~oops to !' Clara." Sundry old coats hang
in the closet, urimended shirts are in the old' hair trunk,
a chambermaid, all obliging, in the kitchen, to obey his
commands, a landlady who admires single gentlemen
boarders; and what fastidious worshipper of worldly con-
veniences could wish for more? Why, then, should such
15*


174         SUBSTANOB AND $HA~OW$.

~peei~iens of hutnanity trouble their heads about women?
Y~t you may listen to all their private intercourse with.
the fraternity, ~nd never will you find them ready to
separate, b~it ~some joke about women will be perpetrated.
They may ridicule, boast of their independence, of their
freedom front the trammels of the sex, but still they will
talk about women; and, as all this seems a natural prd.
pensity, we must come to the conclusion, after all, that
men and women were made to live together. Only the
mistake lies in marrying too late in life, as did my Uncle
Richard~

THE HENPECKED HUSBAND.
WELL, I suppose Mrs. Pipps did sufi'er with nervouss
headaches" and "spasms ;" but was that tiny reason why
she should keep all her family in a pucker 3 Why could
she not let the wind alone, if it blew from the east'? Why
not let it rain as hard as ever it did'? Why not let the sun
shine so hot as to blister, and the dews fall so heavy as
to wet her through 3 Surely, Mr. IPipps could not help
these things, and she was not exposed to bear them, and
it only made others unhappy to be forever in a fuss
about them.
And then Mrs. Pipps was never well. This was a
great source of unhappiness; but why need one ugly
pain put everybody else in a state of torture 3 And the
'poor woman 'kept up such ceaseless complaints. '"There
never was a worse cook than Bridget; she never made
anything fit to be eaten; the cakes for breakfast were
overdone, and the mutton for dinner was burnt up, ~nd
who wanted~buwit mutton chops and watery potatoes for
a meal "3 And then the chimney smoked when she felt
very nervous, and it ought to have been swept long ag&amp;;
besides, the kitchen was always in a hubbubr and there
must be a ~htmge of servants. One day she desired her
husband to get her a new kind of pills; the next some


1T8          SUBSTANCE AND B1[ADQWS.
N
liniment, and the third day a patent medicine that
was invigorating in the spring. Sometimes she believed
herself going into a deep consumption, and then, again,
her liver was affected.
Yet, Mr. Pippa was a pattern man. He never told
his wife she was "fidgety;" that exercise and air would
strengthen her nerves; because he knew such imaginary
diseases were to be differently treated from real ones.
Whatever she wanted, he helped her to procure. Still,
he looked the sicker of the two; he w~is sallow, and the
~rowafeet settled about his eyes, and his hair was
sprinkled quite too early forhis years. He was, more-
over, a patient man always told the, children to mind
what their mother said to them, and never to cross her
in her wishes.
And yet Mrs. ?ipps was solicitous about others as
wel1'a~ herself. She would send Sammy a mile out of
his way after school to inquire how old Captain Bodwell
did ; and she sent with the message an "infallible
reciDe" for his gout, which she cut out of an almanac,
and a recipe for nice bread, for his cook to try. To Mrs.
Budd she ordered ~a nice jelly, after she had fretted
abo~it its being slightly aeid; and there was not a ease
of soarletina, cough, ~r asthma, among her acquaintances,
bitt she could recommend a cute; so she was not a
se~#sk woman, ~u~d Mrs. Pipps, although a great trial
at home, was quite popular abroad. As to visiting, she
never did more than make a call, and that must be some
delightful moxriing, in a close* carriage, with the #trict
injunction if the wind veered easterly to be driven back
Immediately.

SUB8tI~AN.Ofl AND 8IIADOW$.          ITT

~omo peQple wondered this woman did not read more,
and divert her attention from self. But, suppose she
took a newspaper. Why, the first thing her eye would
rest upon would be a "late awful tragedy," or some-
body was "robbed ;" and such a fermentation ensued,
one might fancy her almost deranged. And then, the
fear that Mr. Pipps was assassinated, if he ch~inced to
stay out an hour later than usual, drove her into hyster-
ics, and hartshorn, and cold water, and valerian, all lost
their power. Sometimes sudden sickness seized her, and
then she fancied her flannels were not well aired, or too
much wind blew into the clamber through the key-hole,
and the windows and doors must henceforth be air-proof.
Another severe trial to her was living near an engine-
house. She never slept soundly (such people never do),
and her fear lest the fire was in her husband's store, or
down at iNetty's house (her married daughter's), knew
no bounds until Mr. Pipps was up and dressed, and in.-
terrogated the firemen; thus knowing, for a certainty,
where the great smoke came from. There never ~was a
watchman's rattle sprung from midsummer to midwinter
but she heard it; and then she knew there were thieves,
or some foul play, and she would sit tup wrapped in flan-
nels and dressing-gown and shawls, until she ha4 ascer.
tamed the cause. Finallyher disposition was so excitable
that both husband and daughters kept much concealed
from her; but, if by chance it ever got reported, a
heavy woe rested on the household. And she was such
a prey to superstitious fears that her mind was never at
ease. She saw letters with black seals in burning can-
dles, and heard death-watches behind her bed, and


SUT4I~CI~ AND SHADOWS.

dreamed about certain events which just as clearly fore-
t.1~ that something was going to happen, that, had it not
been 50 for years, a whole family might have been filled
with gloomy forebodings.
Things grew worse and worse. Mr. Pipps had no rest
day nor night, and such self~denying men will wear out
after a while. Indeed, nobody thought his life desirable,
a*4 old Aunt Esther said she thought "he would have a
dry funeral." The "general debility," which had fob
lowed him for years, took a more decided form, and after
a n~ght of unusual fatigue to procure his wife a bottle of
"Nervous Anodyne" he lay down quietly, and went
i~o that sleep from which there is no waking.

CLUII-HOTISES.
THERn are few places more outwardly attractive thar~
club-houses. To be sure, they have no high steeples, no
large gilded signs, no advertisements describing the fas-
cinations of the resorts, flQ placards to decoy the un-
wary; still, they are so inviting because there are no
domestic annoyances, - no fretful wives, no crying
babies, no disturbing influences; and, by the payment
of a few hundreds annually, a man can recline on a most
luxurious ~couch, or play "billiards," "chess," oz'
"whist," whenever and with (almost) whomsoever he
desires a game, women excepted!
Now, what if one does keep late hours with such
choice spirits? Has "Mrs. Caudle "~ nothing to reflect
upon? Has she never seriously interposed about having
her own will and way, and teased the "dear man"
until he has become almost frantic~ Did n't he fore..
warn her that such treatment would prove the death of
him? And whew he was actually upon the brink of self-
destruction, meditating between a pistol and dro~vning,
and discussing with a friend which he considered the
easier death,-I say, just then did n't Mr. Merryinaai take
him by the arm, and show him the brilliancy of a dab-

K

I78


SHADOWS AND SUBSTANCE.

house, so that he concluded it was not best "to shuffle
off ihis mortal coil" quite yet  ~
What if some gentlemen do have a resort, where
only their own* sex do congregate, and there smoke,
and chew, and loll, and - feel a little bewildered
bout the time the small hours are counted 'I They pay
for such i~xuries, and what law takes cognizance ~f~4~heir
doings '?i They are able to support such establishi$its,
and whose business is it to find fault, if Mrs. Candle
does not~
Besides, a club-house never goes begging for funds to
support it -0, no I - and it never wants for well-quail-
fled superintendents, nor is there any outside talk about
people and things; for every member keeps his own
secret, and not one wife in a hundred ever heard h~;
husband complain of his inability to pay his assessment,
although he may sometimes think "philanthropic socie-
ties make rather heavy demand~ upon his
But, Mrs. Twist, you must not be too inquisitive about
these matters. The curiosity so natural to your sex
must be repressed. Mr. Twist will, undoubtedly, tell you
all you ought to know He will show you the outside
~f the bull and, one of' these days, when there is a
general brushing and cleaning of the &amp;stablishm~t, per-
chance you can g~ a, peep inside, and, if so, ~&amp;u~ will
s~e some of the most splendid fur1~iture* ~le' an air~of
quiet and, decorum will so charm you, that, were it not
for your vexatious cares at homey you would propose just
such an establishment for your own sex. But, again I.
caution you, don't, be too minute in your inquiries to
ascertain the names of "the~ members"!

THE TRAITOR'S END.
"MORE than half a century ago, a terrible storm swept
over the city of London. It was the hour of midnight,
when the blast was beating most piteously, that an aged
clergyman was aroused by a piercing cry for helps lie
rose, threw~ide his curtain, and beheld the form of a
rude man, who appeared as a. common street-sweepers.
he r~ii poured in torrents, but the imploring accents
the call induced the preacher to take the arm of bi~
guide; and, threading his way through narrow street
and rude ~thoroughfares, he arrived at a rude dwelling
wherein lay a dying man.
"A strange tale was his. That very day a sra1~ger9
advanced in life, had fallen speechless at the scavenger's
door. The kind4iearted scavenger had lifted hirii from
the ~~vement, opened for him his bed, warmed' hi~ feet9
administered a cordial to his lips, and x~oiV he wa~
dying!"
The apa~inen~ was indeed a dreary one. Up a long
flight of rickety ~taix~nside a door' half~.hingele8s, en a
narrow pallet of straw, lay this same stranger. The
lamp burnt 'dimly on ~ broken chair; a few fading ems.
bers were on yonder hearth; a teapot without a handle
Stood upon it. The r4n was beating at the window~ an4
16

180

4II~


*111P

SUBSTANCE AND SUADOWS.

in ~undry panes were stuffed coarse pieces of clothing.
A valise stood by the bedside - it was the only property
which the stranger brought with him. The man was
only half-dressed; his coat was thrown aside, his neck
was loosely encased within a low shirt-collar, but upon
his legs there were a pair of huge mi1itar~ boots!
That face! There was an expression there which, once
looked upon, would haunt your memory forever! That
forehead, bold and manly; hair slightly changed by age;
lips compressed, but yet moving, as if life were loth to
quit its hold, and large, rolling eyes that beamed with
a~i unearthly glare.
Wh~t a spectacle! Those arms are bran stied in the
air; that fist seems clenching a sword, or holdi a rifle;
e~ damp2 cold sweat starts from that hand, an ild
does. he toss himself from side to side on hi~ u ,, as~
~oiieh. IPhrob ~nd beat, throb and beat, alte~nate!y,
went that poor man's heart, - for he was dying. The
clergyman took h6ld of that clenched hand, and gently
bending his head, incjuired, "My friend, hast thou a
Obristian faith?"
"Christian?" he e d~. in a loud voice, for the first
time, and in a deep tone,~ ibli made the preacher traui~
bk. "Will Christianity giv~ m~ b~ack my henori Go
with me &amp;,rer the blue waters. Listen!' #e have ar-
rived. There is my native vi~~e ~e green
do&amp;r-y&amp;rd in which my boyhood ~ay~d, th~ is jhe roof
of my paternal mansion, there is the graveyard, but
where is~the flag that used to~wav~i ~ Another ensign is
coating; my infamy is uttered by 9ie mouths of children,
pareiit~ taughtt to loathe my m~iety. 0, my God!
I

18A

the sting of remorse is throbbing in these very temples;
judgments are imprecated by dark demons; a tarnished
name, a nation's dishonor, ax~d the curse of unborn in-
fants, even now ring through my soul!"
The minister had watched beside many impenitent sin-
ners, many rebels, whose hands were stained with blood,
but never had he been called to such a death-bed.
Suddenly the man arose. With a mighty energy he
paced that creaking floor. If the storm was without, so
was it within in a most terrific form. Those white, bony
fingers laid hold of the valise, which stood by the bed-
side, and drew from thence a faded military coat lined
with silver, and an old parchment, in a piece of damp
cloth, that looked like the wreck of a battle-flag.
Look," said ~the stranger, "this coat is spotted with
ood," - bygone days seemed to rise before him,
"this. coat covered me when I heard of the battle of
Lexington, when I planted the flag of triumph on Ticon-
deroga; that bullet-hole was driven trough at the siege
of Quebec-and now look at me! I-am~--~-ietme
whisper softly in your ear ha! they will hear -"
One burning word was said only one. "Now help
me,"~ cont1in~ied he, "to put on this coat, for I have
no wife, no child to. wipe the cold sweat from my brow.
I must die alone; let me die as on the battle-field, with-
out a fear."
And while he sat arrayed in that tarnished co~, the
preacher spoke to..hjm comforting words of, faith, in
Christ, of hope for &amp;ying penitents, o1 mercy pleading
with justice, of that faith whioka Ufts effith~frown,~ az~d
shows us a compassionate Redeemer.

8UD0T4~OE AND 8UADQW$~

4


0U~~0TA*OE -AND ~0~W*W0.                                       &amp;t3BTAw~rn MW ~51rAIX~WS~.         1~5

~'aith !" again re4oed the dying-man, " faith] "-."-
th~ death-chill was on his frame, -~ death-light, too, wa~
in his eye4 "List! Is there not George Washington
over the blue waters, relating pleasant stories of his
sieges? Is there not George of England wailing over
lost colonies? And here a1m I, I the first that
struck the note of freedom, the first that gave the bloW
to that king, here. am I, dying like a dog, howling
over treachery, lost in pangs of remorse."
The preacher stepped back awe-struck. Who was
before hixx~? Again the heart throbbed, the death-watch
was heard in the wall, the death-rattle seemed hardly
suppressed in the throat.
"Silence along the lines there!" murmured the
dying stranger; "not a whisper; not one, for your liv
are at stake. Montgomery, we will meet in the centre
of. the tow~x. We will have victory or death! There
are steep rooks, silence, every man, as we move up
t~e heights. Boys, come on, on! Hoist the flag of
freedom'! What care we for darkness and storm? Hurra!
Now, now, one blow more and Quebec is gone, it is
ours!"
A ghastly look is there. The pale cheek, the glassy
eye, th~ heaving bosom, the wild stare, the death-rattle,
the tottering step, and lo! lie has fallen on the floor!
Who is this strange man dying in a garret? this
mark of nobility crushed like a moth ? - this wretched
maniac, still clinging to his faded flag and his rusty uni-
"Wh#uce come these ftre~ of remorse? -this faint hope

of heaven? - this more than tbar of hell? Where the
parchment where the flag ?'
Let us unroll the flag. It is a blue banner, with only
thirteen stars upon it. But what of 'the parchment T ~It
is a colonel's commission in the continental army, ad-i
dressed to Benedict Arnold.
Unhonored and unwept, there lay the' traitor! His
~corpse was in a rude house; he was unknown 'and
unpitied, save by strangers. Yet that right arm had
struck many a blow for freedom; but, for one act of base
perfidy, he has fallen forever. Quenched is the light
of his farmer glory; remorse hangs like a thunder-bolt
over his soul, and his last agonies are those of a dis-
'~graced man, who might have been a victorious and suc-
c~ssful hero.
Now, in dirnly.lighted rooms, when children beg of
aged grandsires to tell them tales of the Revolution,
Arnold; the traitor, is foremost in their thought ; 'and
then the dreadful effects of ti~eason are narrated. We
are told that he left the great metropolis, that he engaged
in commerce, that his warehouses were in Nova Scotia,
that his ships were in many ports; but in one night his
stately warehouses were laid in ashes' - the owner was
suspected as the incendiary. The entire population of the
British provInces' assembled in a mass, sand in Bight of
his wife they hung an effigy, whereon was inscribed,
"Arnold, the traitor!" When he stood beside kings,'
when in the house of lords, all faces were turned, and
all fingers raised. One venerable lord arose, and
declared that he could not speak to his sovereign in
the presence of a traitor.
16*


n1

0U~ANOE Ai~ID $~AP&amp;W$,.

"~One~ day," says an historian, from: whom we have
gathered the leading fact of this history, "in a shadowy
room, sat a mother and her two daughters, all attired in
th~ weeds of mourning, grouped in a s~d circle, gazing
upei~ &amp; picture shrouded in. crape. A visitor now ad~
danced; the mother took his card from the hands of the
servant ~nd her daughterB heard his name. 'Go,' said
tht~rnother~ rising with a flushed face, while a daughter
$ok each hand, 'go and tell that man that my threshold
can never b~ crossed by the murderer of my son, Arnold
the traitor!"'
*Thi~ w~s the individual who is said to have uttered,
"I am the only man born in the New World that can
raise his han4 to God and say, I have-not one friend -
not one in all America!"
Seldom does guilt meet such a retribution. The stings
of conscience ever goaded him; and has not the despic81~
ide wretch who can thus turn traitor ma4e hi~ own pan-
deinonium while on earth? Can a 8everer doom await
him?
41
~ 4A
771
*

LITTLE PITCHERS WITH GREAT EARS.
"MoTIIEU," said little Agnes, "what made you marry
father? You told Aunt Charlotte you had. all the
money."
"Hush, child! what are you talking about? I did.
nQt say so."
"Why, yes, mother,- you said he was poor, and had
you thought of being burdened with so many. 'country
cousins,' as you call them, you never would have had
him. Don't you like Aunt Phoebe, and Aunt Folly, arid
Aunt Judy? I 'in sure I do."
"Why, Agnes, you are crazy, I believe! When did
you ever hear your mother talk so? Tell me instantly."
"Yesterday, ma, when, I sat in the back parlor, and
you and aunt were in the front one. I 'm sure you said
so, dear mother, and I pity you very much,- for you
told aunt there was a time, before I was born, when
father drank too much,.-.. and then, you know, you spoke
of the 'pledge,' and said how glad you were that the
temperance reform saved him."
"~y dear, I was talking of somebody else, I think.
We were speaking of Uncle Jethro and his family."
"But they have no Agnes, mother, and-you know you
told about father's failure in business~- Uncle ~Jethro

-4

,4~4


188         SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

nev~' failed. And you said, too, when you moved in
this house your money paid for everything, but the world
did not know it, and__"
"You 'ye told quite enough, my child. What do you
stay listening 'in my back parlor fot, when I send you up
stairs to study 3 It has come to a pitiful pass, if your
aunt and I must 'have all our privacy retailed in this
way.. I suppose you havo 'already told your father all
you heard 3"
"Not mother, I have n't, because I thought it would
hurt his feelings. I love my father, and I never tell
him anything to make him unhappy~
Agnes sat looking in the fire, and asked, "Mother, if
people really~ love others, do they? ever talk against
them 3 Didn't you tell me never to speak of any home
difficulty; and if Edward and I say wrong words, you
tell. we never to repeat them, and I never do."
"Agnes," said the rebuked mother, "listeners are
despicable characters. Don't yoti ever let me know of
your doing the like again. You d&amp;n'~'hear ri~gAt, and
you make ~t great deal of mischief in this way."

THE PASS-BOOK.
THE greatest accommodation to a young housekeeper,
is a "little blue-covered book," containing an "account."
For a time it pu~ts her aIt ease in every particular. ~he
never teases her husban~t for little wants; far, send this
"book" to the grocer, the kind, accommodating man
will put up anything you desire, and if he has not got it
on hand, what is the difference 3----he will get it for you.
Some families have a large amount of Wants. Not 'only
eatables are included, but dry goods; and this is of great
moment to a woman, to open an account with a large
firm who literally keep everything
We are presupposing one's credit to be undoubted, and
the smiles and urbanity of the shopkeeper will not be
wanting. lie knows your husband, and assures you he
cares not how largely or long you are his debtor; - he
never expects b~~t semi-annual payments; and six
months ahead seems, with some purchasers, a long
period, during which time ten thousand clian~es of getting
money float before their vision.
"Thank fortune!" exclaimed TJiomizs Oarney, as be
threw d#wn some settled accounts; "this is the last bill I
owe on earth, and I have ~ve dollars left untouched,


19Q         8UI~STANCE AND SHADOWS.                                SUD5TANOE AND SHADOWS.         191

wife. Let people say what they will, housekeeping is
far 1eheaper than boarding."
Netty, the young wife, bit her lips, and wiped the
perspiration from her brow. Alas, for tlie book at the
dry goods establishment! It had now come to be the
first of July, and the young housekeeper was in hourly
expectancy of her bill. The book she had left some days
before, that the account might be added.
This was an expected guest, moreover, which she knew
would surely arrive. One might expect an aunt or
cousin for months, a sister from the western country, a
brother' from the West Indies, and some unforeseen cir-
cumstance might prevent their arrival. But who ever
heard of an account's being delayed long, or not being
sent at all? If the creditor fails or dies, is there not a
consignment of the books, or a final settlement of the
"effects" '1 You cannot hope to evade such visitors as
these..
Thomas and ~{etty sat on the sofa, at the close of the
third day. in July, contemplating who 'and what they
should~ see on the morrow., They had been married
seven months, a~id riot a word of altercation had, passed
between them. She was all he desired; he w~s more
than, she expected, '--a conclusion which young couples
are very apt to come to at seven months, perhaps, more
generally than at the end of seven years. In this con-
sciousness of joy, and full of hope, Ketty sat completing
a splendid muslin frock for herself to wear on the mor-
row, when the bell rang~loudly. She started to go to
the d~or, but was driven back by Thomas, who rebuked

her mildly for interfering with his business when Dinah
was out.
Ketty 'listened, -she 'trembled, it was "the ac-
count," for she heard the carrier ask, "If it would be
convenient to giVe them an early call ?"
Thomas, thinking it to be but, a trifle, asked the lad
to step in, and he would then settle it. Merciful Heaven!
What is it? Did it belong to him? A long sheet of
bill-paper literally filled, finely written, and &amp; variety
of items on many single lines.
"Is this your account?" eaid he to his wife, with a
scowl, the first scowl that she had ever seen upon his
brow.
"I have an account with Lombardie &amp; Co.," said she;
"but I was not aware of so many items, Thomas, truly~
What is the sum total?"
"Two hundred and five dollars and six cents."
"Impossible!" said Netty, springing from her seat.
"That is impossible. I did suppose I might be indebted
some twenty-five dollars to the firm. It can't exceed
thirty. This, sir,'~' said she, to the young man who pre.
rented the bill, "is a mistake. I never had half the
articles"
The young man happened to be the assistant book..
keeper, and felt not a little nettled at this off-hand
declaration.
But the young wife pretended to show the errors.
"There is a silk dress; I never, surely, had such an
article."
"Why,"~said Thomas, "what was the color of the
dress you had wade to attend Mrs. Wilkins' patty?"

190

191


8U*N9~ AJND     IA4~OW5.                                   8tT~$TA~eE AND SHADOWS.         193

"0, ii~oolleo~ now I That may be correct; buti this
spot~d muslin, I, surely, never had."
"That blue.spotted,~ Netty, I disliked 50 much. I
t~h~ugh1~ i~ a present from your father."
~{etty colored "Mechlin lace at a dollar per yard.
I have no recollection of more than two yards, bought
last February."
Bn~t~ lace, insertion, edgings, and fancy trimmings,
swelle4 the amount most prodigiously; and, after making
sundry dissenting protestations, it was concluded, if there
were any mistakes, they should be rectified. And the ~pre~
seuter, of this trying sheet ~very willingly made his exit.
"Thomas," said Netty, when they were alone, "I
naver bad half these articles."
"Woni~n a~e very apt to be forgetful, when the
money is not paid, wife, at the time."
"Two hundred dollars! I never had such an amount
in. the world," was the constant' reiteration. "Lombar-
die, i~ a very pleasant and agreeable man one of the
kindest and most obliging shop-keepers in the world.
Re never had a Ixergain but he told ma of it; and many
a time~ has ~h$ let ziw have some desirable shade of silk,
or a fashionable pattern of lace, much cheaper than I
cwgd have procured it, had I the money in my pocket."
"?eh, nonsense, Netty! if you had the money in
your pocket, think you the amount would have been
withdrawn for the same artielesV'
"$ut I have always made good purebases, Thomas,
and received my money's worth for what I have. cx-
p~4Q4~ All the trouble is, I have not kad all the
itez~ip here speoi~ed."

" I know nothing about tka4 Notty; but I do won-
der, knowing my salary as you did, you should have
ventured so largely upon credit, without consulting me.
I know not how I shall procure the means to settle this
bill; I have only five dollars towards it in the world. It
will take a long time, and great economy, to make up so
large an amount."
Ketty felt greatly disturbed, and did not omit the first
opportunity to examine the bill in the presence of~the
firm. In vain did she contend with this and' that article
she had no recollection about. One circumstance after
another was presented to her mind, and a dim conscious..
ness seemed to revive almost every particular.
"How many useless things!" said she, mentally, as
she reviewed the bill. "There are ten yards of]3russels
lace, I have never used it, but bought it so cheap!
There is a piece of ribbon, -I did not want so much.
Belts, silk hosiery, wrought handkerchiefs and collars,
cufl~, coverings for the shoulders, -very pretty and very
cheap; but as the money was not immediately called foV,
all these articles were taken."
It was a bitter experience, and. bitterly did she at one
for it; hut it did not originate in a bad heart, it was a
thoughtless expenditure, and her attention had not been
fixed upon the issue.
"I am thinking," said she, to Thomas, as she~ knew
he grew uneasy about the payment, "that I wil1~ do
without Dinah; and the nine shillings per week I pay
her shall be appropriated to the payment of my foolish
debt. I need to ftel the folly every day, and such an
experience will entfrel~ cure ~
17


194         su~rn~w~ ~     8HADOW~.

~ie word was s~iited to the deed, and black Dinah
was dismissed. $ome of the useless trumpery has since
been disposed of in aw auction room, and Netty has no
little bliie.covered book now but the New Eugland
Brinier!
As the occurrence does not date far back, we cannot
tell what will be the result; but at present the young
wife is doing her own work, to the astonishment of her
t~rnng visitors, doterzi4ued to b~ just, in future, to her
husband's Wiahe8,
~The little passbook" is frequently of great service
with experienced housekeepers; but the cominou propen-
sity to take more than is necessary, because payment is
delayed a few weeks, often swells the amount far beyond
etir~ expectation. In little trifles, large a~nounts will
accumulate; and I once hear4 tli~ wife of a poor attorney
remark it was n&amp; trouble to her to have coz~ipany, she
had only to send to the provision store and grocery, to
get all her war~ts supplied: but i~hose bills axe unsettled
t~ ~this day! Eonest tradesmen are thus cheated of their
dues, and appetites are pampered with luxuries which
should never be izidulged in, unless there are mepa~ to
pay for them. The credit 6ystez~i, onorably oarrie4 on,
may be useful; but a box of berries for whieh~ we pay
twenty-five cents, does not leave so disagreeable aUavor
as thatzfor~which I am t9 pay two shillings whez~ the
~ceouut is rendered, Thus we live and learn.

POSTERITY.
"WirAT al'e you planting those trees~ fur?" inquired
a young stripling of a venerable man. "You will never
live to eat the fruit, nor yet to ~ee them blossom."
"If I do not," replied the old man, "you may;. atid.
if you do not, 8omebod!,t will; and so I shall confer a
benefit to posterity."
"I love my ease too well," remarked the young man,
"to work for unknown beings."
"Poor fellow! " retorted the aged man; "1 pity you,
and if the fruit of my labor should come to maturity in
my lifetime, you shall have a portion of it."
The youth was so struck at 'the picture of disinterest-
edness, that he ever after became a cheerful worker for
posterity.
The old man lived, and age neither bowed his fram~
nor "abated his natural force," and the trees he planted
flourished and brought forth fruit. True to his promise,
when he firs(gathered the fruit he took a portion of the
ripest and best. to his friend, who tived at some distance
from his dwelling, and when he ard, thus addressed
him:
"Young man, the first gatherings from the trees I
planted f~r posterity I hare brought to your table; and


5UB5TA~TO2D AI~D $UAI~OW$.

with it I have brought, likewise, an old man's counsel.
Ne~er hesitate to work, at any period of life. It may
be the benefit will not come to thyself; but always re-
member, the fruits of thylabor will be a blessing to pos-
terity."
The young man thanked the sire for his gentle re~
proof, and heeded the less~n. What he spent before in
luxury, he laid by as a sacred trust, either to benefit the
present age, or to be a blessing to those who came after
him. Lie died, and a large. property was given to be-
nevolent enterprises; so that to this day many bless his
memory~
1s~ nbt this a rebuke to those who selfishly expend in
pet~on31 gratification the wealth of which they are stew-
ards '~ L~t each ask himself, "What have I done to
benefit my feliow-menV'

THE FARM

NEAR TILE DEPOT.

SOMEWhERE about the spring of 1849, the health of'
Mrs. Frink began to decline. She was yelloW as th~
dandelion that sprung up in her pathway, and weak as
the tender violet in its premature bloom. She consulted
with her f~mi1y physician what course of life would be
most likely to result in a permanent benefit.' 2U~ talked
of a sea-voyage; but how could she leave her young
family  ~ Of a season at Havana; but how could, her
husband leave his business ~I We all know, likewise, that
unless we can leave dull care behind us, or t~ake it with
us, no benefit can accrue to a weak stomach.
Finally, it was arranged that they should retire upon
a farm., somewhere near the sea-shore, on account of
the salubrity of the air, and the double benefit which
would thus accrue to the little Frinks. But where was
such a place to be found ~ lit must be easily accessible
from the city~ for Mr. Frink by no means thought of relin-
quishingixis business in the metropolis. Indeed, his
means wrnld not perjait him to do so, had he desired it.
sow, there were I indispensable things to be secured
by this purchase o a farm. It must have a neat, sub..
stantial dweUiRg-house upon it, and out-houses to match;
well divided "into pasturage, woodland and tillage;"
17*

*

196


.198       '8IJ~STANQE AND SUADOWS.                                BURSTANOB AND SHADOWS.        199

theti an experienced farmer must be secured to take
ch&amp;vge of it; and, above all, it must be near tke depot.
This was a prime consideration. Of course, after arriving
at these conclusions, all the eyes of the family were turned
to the public journals, and directed under the caption,
"Farms to sell." Nearly a week passed before one'
offered 'having the requisite conveniences; and. to show
that such an one was, now presented, we copy the adver-
tisenient~, verbatim.
"BEAUTIFUL COUNTRY-SEAT FOR SALE.
"The well-known estate of 'Mr. Oliver Shaft, situated
in Oakdale, eight miles from the city, is offered for sale.
It is in the heart of the village, on a beautiful slope over-
looking the sea, commanding an extensive view of the
shipping and intervening agricultural scenery; the farm
contains about thirty acres of~prime land, all of the very
best quality for cultivation, and can be improved by a
gentleman of fortune, for a summer or permanent resi-
dence, as he may require. The terms of payment can be
made easy, as a part of the purch~ise-money may remain
on mortgage, or the whole, would be exchanged i~r real
estate in the eity.'~
"Well," said Mrs. Frink, "I believe this is just the
place for us, after all;" and again she re over the
advertisement. "Stop," said .sh "I have omitted ~one
thing; it adds, £ within a few rod the dep~'. At
any rate, we~ will see this~place, and~. ~arrangeA~*s can
be madei should have no sort of Qbj~Ct*n to di~posing

of our city residence. It is ilot probable I shall'#irer
desire to return."'
"Wopien jump at conclusions," said Mr. Frink.
That afternoon passage was taken in the cars for Oak-.
dale. IBoth father and mother, with Jamie and little
Alva, and Hitty Frink, all alighted in a few moments at
Oakdale. With an eager curiosity, they cast a look in
every direction for their new home; but could it be
possible? - all the one which could any way answer the
description, was on yonder hill, a dilapidated old castle
of a house, with falling out-buildings,1 and this was the
"Shaft. place!" "How unlike the advertisement!"
remarked Mrs. Frink.
~' Nothing was said about the buildings, if I recollect
rightly," replied Mr. Frink.
Mr. Oliver Shaft 'was seen, in his long dressing-gown,
seated upon the piazz~., reading his newspaper, for if was
a mild spring day, as they proceeded towards the house.
"We wish to take a survey of your grounds," said
Mr. Fink, "with the intention of becoming purchasers;
but the dilapidated look of the buildings has rather put
the yeto upon 'my wife's intention." Mrs~ Frink here
coughed violentlyand thought the sea-breeze too bracing.
"The fact is," said Squire Shaft, "our sons have all
settled in the city, and their mothers anxious to follow
theta; none of them took a liking to farming, and, as we
are getting a little advanced in life, I being turned of
seventy, and. myg~ife being not far from that corner, we
thought we~woul~ dispose. of our farm."
Mrs. Shag, a large, %teshy old lady, with a rul4e4nd
fac~, now appeared. She curt8ied, and remarked,~ "She


$UA~Q~ ANX~ rnw~x~wa.                                       8UB8TANCJ3~ A~D SUADOWS.         201

re~4l~ I~ped t1~ey were people who meant to purchase,
for s1i~ was l~eartily tired of showing the house to people
who caine jis for curiosity."
They folly e lamed th~ object Qt' thmr visit, and the
~W lady ye nmenced hetjabors~ "here," said she, throw-
i~g open an old door, that the wet weather made swing
very rei~iet~ntly, "here is a large, nice room, look~
ing right out ou the sea, ships and all beautiful and
airy9 QQr ])orcas was married here, and she has made
~ut so poorly, it never seemS 50 pleasant to me since; "and
a deep sigh was heard. "And here is a room for yarbs
and clutter - it was made for a china closet, I spose, but
I never kept any in it. And this is our Thomas's bed~
room when he CQIflOS out of a night or so; and this is '~y
old man's and my room; there is the sitting-room, and
here~ is a kind of hack parlor. The next story has eight
ehanibeirs, besides the elI, where the man sleeps; it 's a
monstrous house," she conebided, "and a sight of work
to keep it clean." As it bore no marks of being kept so,
how did the old lady know how to calculate? To be
sure, it bore marks of former grandeur; but, scantily
furnished, and with z~umberless signs of decay, it did
look uninviting But, thought Mr~ Frink, if it can be
bought for a bargain, I will take it; repairs can be made,
and that paaturo out back might be divided into house~.
lots, and sold at a grand speculation.
1~r&amp; Frink did not seem so. much elated with he~
prospects. The~house was old and dirty, and a great job
it would be to make it look "geute~l." "But,~then,"
ike kept repeating, ~" it is so near ~he depoi!" (LI~v~
found th.t out, to my sorrow! '~ remarked old lady 8ha~

"Tat, tat, wife," replied&amp; the old man, "you are getting
old and clumsy to wait on visitors; I dare say this lady
delights to entertain them."
"So do I," continued the old dame; "but who wants
Toni, Dick, and harry, just for their own convenience,
when there 's not a mite of friendship in 'em?"
Mrs. Frink said, how forcibly that remark reminded
her of her mother's sayings; she supposed all old people
felt so about too much company; for her own part, she
hated to 1~e alone.
But' the price; that was the desideratum. The old
man asked ten thousand dollars. The depot-master said
it could be bought for ,a great deal less money; and-
how much less he promised to ascertain and inform Mr.
Frink the following week. * But did they really want it
at any price? ~Those large, open rooms rose before Mrs.
Frink, and she imagined how the ~wind would whistle
in a violent storm through the interstices; but then it
was airy, and it could be made to do.
The follow~g week Mr. Frink oame home with the
title deeds, and told his wife the purchase was secured,
provided she signed her right of dower in their present
home; for they had made an exchange nearly even, and
he considered it a decided bargain.
Jn a month after they were at Oakdale; but Mr.
Frink looked dissatisfied, and well he~ might, for,' upon
re~$xamination of the deeds, he found that pasture he in~
tended to divide into lots, was "to be kept forever open,
subject to no buildings thereupon." Strange such a
clause should have slipped his eye !
Previously however, to Mrs. Frink's leaving the city,


~UD8T4NQ13~ AbID SHADOW&amp;      208

~A~OE A~P Ab~W5.

~ll$' upoii all he±~ acquaintaiice~, and i~n6st '~rdially
i~kvi~e4 theTn to her residencee at Oakdale, adding the
great convenience she enjoyed of living 'near the depot,
subj~eting them to no extra ~nveniences.
The mechanics, ~ai'p~nters and masons, were all there.
Mr. Frink thought it best his family should be on
the spot to~ superintend the improvements; but, what
with the dampness and exposure, little Alva was seized
with the scarlatina, Jamie with a croup, and the little
girl with the measles! Yet this movement was all
made to benefit Mrs. 'Frink! And now she must have
her city doctor; nobody else was acquainted with the
constitutions of her 'children, and the old ~nurse and she
did so long for the friendly attentions of her old neighbor~
hood. She felt among strangers; and Nelly, the cook,
had already announced her intention of leaving. A man
&amp;iid his wife had taken the farm upon shares, and' very
difficult people Were they likely to prove. Mr. Frink's
share of the butter was almost always expended in cream,
for the 'visitors now began t~ find the ~y out. 'The
loneliness that Mrs. Frink feared, she was not likely to
realize; people ~hoin she scarcely called upon now c~n~ie
regular visi1~, and not a few maiden ladies were
always on hand. And then Mr. Frink was away from
the dinner-table, - he could not leave his business until
five o'clock, 4-and what a care and ~dditionaI burden thus
fell upon the wife's shoulders I The children greatly
took advantage of their' father's absence, and Hitty and
Al Va required constant checks at the table. And then
there were always some unexpected~ gnats, and when
~I~~LOtkt pr~~ti~ion was made for th~ir ewn farnil~, "the

e~tra oospauy must be. civilly treated,, and teii chances
to one the provision-store was closed, and this threw Mrs.
iI3~rink into a 'complete panic. Indeed, before a single
quarter had passed, she wished herself in the wilds of
Yerniont, rather than so near the depot.
"Who could have thought it," said she to a friend,
confidentially, "that old Captain hl3eers and his daughter
would have come here to stay a week; and Susan Rivers
and her child, because it was teething and so trouble.-
some, and Mrs. Snyders and her adopted nephew, just to
smell the sea-breezes? And all these I have had at one
time! Mr. Frink was in New York, and our man actu.
ally told me he could not raise vegetabk~s enough to
stipply our table, leaving his share out of the question.
Why, to tell you the plain truth, Mrs. Smith, I am worn
to death. I have not had time to walk down by the shore
since I came here; it 's nothing but, 'Ma, somebody is
coming with a travelling-bag and valise.' And then
they are so very glad to see me, and admire the place
so much ~ It isso roomy, and so airy, 'so delightful, why,
Mrs. Frink, I think you must be perfectly happy.' What
can I do?" inquired Mrs. Jrink, with the deepest solici-
tude. "It's a thousand times worse than being bored
to death with country cousins in the city."
This was "farming it," with a vengeance. The man
brought in a bill in the autumn far exceeding the rent
and cost of 'living in the city"; taxes were nearly in pro..
portion, fuel was at the same rate, and the freightage of
all the groceries must be paid over the railroad. Mr.
Frink had a season ticket for his family, dined at a res~-
tauraut, paid extra for doctor and nurse, they wore


SUBSTANCE AND BHADQW8.

~deprived of many privileges, and all this to own a farm
near tite depot.
And whe~i lie would sell or let it, what a drug it be-
ca~ne I Nobody from the city wanted it; and the fob
lowing year, as I passed, there was registered in flaming
letters, "Retreat for Invalids."
Is not this ~t hint to city people who are on the look-out
for farms? Uncle Richard's saying is just as true now
sever, "It 's always best to loolc before you leap."~

S

A TRYING CASE.
ARTHUR BRANCH, £sq., returned to'the city from a
fashionable watering-place to consult with his attorney
respecting the laws of divorce. It is thought he finds
them more stringent than he anticipated. lie was driven
to this expedient at the suggestion of a female friend, who
has interposed her meddlesome propensities between
Mr. Branch and wife. It appears Branch was mar~
ned more than a year ago to a city aristocrat. She
had been the pride of her wealthy parents upwards of
twenty summers; had coquetted at New York, and
danced the polka at Saratoga; had stood on Table Rock
a few days before it submerged, and, at the time of her
engagement with Arthur Branch, Esq., was undergoing
a process of flirtation with one Don Jose, a Spaniard, now
banished by the C~ foray" to the mines, for ten years of
solitary life.
Mr. Branch can bring sufficient witnesses to prove that
he has in all respects deported- himself. as a kind, loving~
forgiving and forgetting married man. His purse has
always hung outside his pocket, and its contents have been
most freely expended. The main difficulty seems to lie
in the discovery that Branch made a blunder in marry-
ing. He supposed his wife to be an angel, and she
proves to be a woman.
18


206        SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.         20tT

Soon after their marriage Mrs. Branch proposed a trip
to Europe. Her husband assented;* and after his ador-
able "sposa" had consulted with Parisian milliners and
London dressmakers to her heart's content, she declared
her willingness to return without a sight of St. Peter's
or a sail upon the Rhine; thus showing That her love of
the frivolous overcame that of the sublinie.
Mr. Branch had no sooner taken his American resi-
~lence, and issued cards for his* first levee, than Mrs.
Branch complained of "confined quarters," and proposed
taking her summer residence at some watering-place.
Since then she has become a perfect belle. Her first
conquest seemed to be the favor Qf a young sprig in the
medical faculty, and, under pretence of a singular hang-
nail on the little finger of her left hand, Mr. Branch has
been obliged to pay for medical advice upwards of two
hundred dollars!
All this he has borne with lamb-like resignation. He has
~iever crossed his wife in a single particular. Just before
the railroad jubilee, however, he did speak. Then he ex-
pressed the desire to' open his metropolitan residence, and
to invite a few of his select country friends, illuminate at
evening, and end the festivities in a manner suited to the
august occasion. The simple annunciation of this fact
~threw his wife off her guard. She raved like a lioness.
C~ Did he suppose she was going to soil her best drawing-
rooms to please the 'blue noses;' or that she was going
to give the use of her best chambers to country cousinS
who were boorish enough to sleep in barns?"
Branch did not urge the matter. His Monongahela
whiskey reposed in its cask, his pale Sherry lay still in

the quarter-cask, his Madeira and Hock were encircled
with cobwebs, and Branch felt like one of the "invited
guests." Worse than all, his wife kept the keys!
if Lopez had dreaded a contest as much as our friend
Branch, he woi~ld never have thought of possessing Cuba.
Somebody told him a divorce might be obtained; but
this was a female friend who~ had an eye to becoming his
housekeeper. Unquestionably enough has been done,
but how can it be proved ~ Besides, who wants to tell
what they do know?
The attorney advised Branch ~o return to his wife,
conciliate her confidence, agree upon some terms amica-
bly, and make the best of a bad job. Branch paid ten
dollars for the advice, wiped his eyes with an embroidered
handkerchief; and added, with a dolorous sigh, "but I
am afraid she will pick my eyes out."
The last telegraphic account reports the matter "all
settled." ~Branch holds the reins while l~iis lady and a
Spanish gentleman sit upon the back seat. She eats
boiled custard with a silver fork, while Branch uses a
spoon. The Spanish gentleman has heavy hair under
his chin, and huge whiskers; Branch has &amp; smooth face,
and shaves 'clean. These are only~ outside diftbrences;
but things of weightier consequence we pass by. The
moral of our story consists 'in this: Never marry a co-
quet for her beauty, nor an aristocrat for her money.
Never believe in walking divinities, nor terrestrial an~els.
But should you be so unfortunate as to make si~ch a
mistake, pocket the knowledge, and never divulge the
fact; for everybody laughs over the rehearsal of family
jars, and nobody pities a married man.


SUDSTANO1~ AND SHADOW8~        20g

THE EARLY SPRING FLOWERS.
THAT little bunch of crocuses! They shot up from
the cold, damp earth which encased their roots, and, all
delicately attired in their pure virgin whiteness, seemed
to cast an upward glance, as if by instinct taught that
Heaven provides for the defenceless. They were the
admiration of every passer-by ~ little fairy children, who
looked through the interstices which enclosed them, would
fain have borne them away as the earliest of spring fl~ow-
ers; and more matured lovers of the beautiful paused
and gazed with wonder, that beneath such an inclement
sky, so courageous a little bunch of rousess should open
to the first balmy influences of spring! Yet there was
an association of sadness which pervaded the thoughts of
some beholders. They bloomed beneath a deserted man-
sion, whose owner was dead; and the gardener, who,
years ago, had so enriched their bed of earth, he, too, had
departed I In the window just above them, bright eyes
had looked upon their early unfolding, and carefully had
the protecting shield been thrown around them when the
hoar-frost and icy snow had bound them in their winter
shzggishness. Yet early was that warm covering re-
moved, and the earth stirred gently, and the sun then
shot down some of those slanting, but warm rays~ which

quickened their germination; and with what delight the
fair maiden looked upon the little parterre of fiowerp
which so early met her gaze! And now she, too, was
gone, and the magnificent mansion was laid in ruins, and
the hand of improvement had torn down its massy walls,
and the sound of the hammer was heard demolishing its
once fair proportions, and rough ~boards were protruded
over our little fiower.bed, and no kind glance from the
owner ever recognized their beauty; yet still they
bloomed on, and even added a new tinge to their petals,
for the purple dye w~is now intermixed with the soft
white, and their blended colors sweetly attested how true
is nature to the laws which govern even the humblest of
her productions! And do we see no simile~ in natural
to spiritual beauty ~
The proprietor of that mansion left a daughter. Her
spirit was as guileless as the snow-drop she loved to tend;
her voice sweetly harmonized with the lute she so euw
chantingly played, and the 'soft touches of nature and
art seemed to ally her to the angelic rather than mortal
elements of humanity. ~he~ was the admiration of all;
yet there was no hauteur of demeanor, no arrogance of
spirit, no supercilious scorn; but she gently moved in
that upward path which knows no deviation from the dic-
tates of duty and filial aiThetion.
Scores of wealthy young men danced in the joyous
sunbeams which her cheerful spiri~ threw around her;
yet she refused them all for the high..toned, lofty worth
of one born in obscurity, yet destined to be great, because
he improved the matchless wealth which lay in his ye~
undeveloped resources. And now she was sneered at by
18*


21~         SUBSTAKC~ AND SHADOWS.                                 SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        211

thos~ who once bowed inadoration at her fireside ; cold
glances of recognition came from those who once deemed
her the fairest of maidens. Yet, possessed of the entire
affection of him to whom she had lighted her vows of
eternal constancy, what cared she for the glances of mere
fashionable adoration? Like the early spring flowers, she
was unobtrusive, and felt defended by the strength of his
affection, of whose f~rvor~ and unchanging confidence she
had theAeepest assurance. The world looked on and talked
of the disparity between their earthly stations; they
spoke contemptuously of those lowly born being thus
brought to mingle in palaces; yet the lover was unmoved
by such declamation, and slowly and steadily he pursued
his way, climbing up the hill of science, and implanting
such deep footsteps, that the imprints were iitot worn out
by light feet that followed after hi~n.
Years passed by, and the marriage day approached.
The owner of the mansion "was gathere~l to his fathers;"
the wealth of the father had descended to that only child;
yet she chose not to keep up the ancestral palace, for the
pomp and vain glare of heartless friends had sickened her
of gorgeous splendors. She cared not for the prismatic
colorings of the ricltchandelier, nor yet for the frescoed
walls, which an artist so elaborately executed. She chose
simple nature in a suburban home; and there, amidst
the chirping of insects, and the songs of the~ birds, and
the lovely summer-house, and the adjacent green-house
of rare ,exotics, she loved to commune with nature. Her
husband, too, with his early rural taste unvitiated, gently
stole away from the cares of his office, and, at early twi~
light, the happy pair seemed entranced with the love of

the beautiful which surrounded them never forgetting
the Giver of such bounty, while overshadowed with his
beneficence. But they lived not the lives of mere her-
mits, who selfishly enjoy, but do not bestow. Their home
was the resort of the intelligent and inquiring; the stu-
dent was there aided and cheered; the heavy-hearted was
lightened beneath such genial quietude, and. the pure in
K heart seemed to bask in one long~ hine of delight. Emi-
nent in his profession, studio ; ostentatious, freely
dispensing, yet always drinking themselves from the fount
of that happiness which never cloys, in a vine.claddwel-
hug, sheltered by overarching trees, lives she who tens
anted the mansion, and he who was born in the cottage;
conclusively showii~g that, if true to the laws which alone
can dignify our nature, there need be no disparity be-
tween our condition jn society; for he is only lowly bern
whose life ana.actions declare him such. The clump of
spring flowers \#ill rise as freshly from the cottage of her
whose scanty pittance barely supphie~ her daily bread, as
beneath tife windows of the most opulent mansion; there-
fore, take courage, ye of ambitious aim, since lofty worth
inquires not concerning the height of the dwelling which
was its birthplace.


5U]3STANOI~ AND SHADOWS.     218

LIGHT LND SHADE.
IT was at the close ~f one Qf those deliejous days in
autumn, when the foliage of the overarching trees looks
like pyramids of gold, when we. tread lightly upon the'
sward where the rustling leaves have 'thickly fellow~
shipped together, and our souls are given to memories of
love, or dwell sadly, yet tenderly, upon some object of
aO~ction whem death or distance has separated; on the
evening of such a day, that a mother and her two daugh-
ters sought ,a retreat amid the recess~ of decaying
nature, to enjoy a friendly conversation upon the son and
brother, over whom so many sympathies had been ex-
pe~ided since he had squght in a CalifQrnian home to pro-
cure for theni the glittering dust which his inexperience
had sugges~~to him~ was the panacea of all temporal ills.
Never was a fairer specimen of manly bearing, of
courageous heart and 'high resolves, exiled from the home
of his infancy. Full of promise, fill. of magnanimity,
with an heroic soul, he plunged into the a1l-t~bsorbing
gulf of ambition and the attainment of a fortune. lie
had bidden farewell to the church where he was baptized,
to the green where he sported when a boy, an~ in a huge
ship, which contained innocence and iniquity, purity and'
crime, he had embarked for the Eldorado of his hopes.

Letters had been. received since his departure, wherein
the common phrase was inserted, he was "doing well;"
miners had returned, who brought the report that he was
iron~hearted and accumulative; pieces of the metal in its
pristine state had been ~nt, too, as precious relics to that
mother and sister; and now eighteen months had elapsed
since the parting. day, that sad and tearful day when
silence reigned so profoundIy~through the household.
Now all the despairing fears had yielded to brighter
hopes. The. last intelligence announced that he should
soon embark for home; that his bags of gold were filled,
and that a happy meeting awaited them when he should
recount strange tales of suffering, while he should be
luxuriating upon the already gotten treasure.
At this still hour the mother and sister had stepped
out to think on the son and brother.
Mary! she was a delicate, fragile creature, hardly
ripened into womanhood; her hair of a chestnut br0Wn
waving in massive ringlets in the ~breeze, while her lily
face, her deep blue eyes and broad forehead, combined
in an expression of intellectual beauty, upon which ~an
artist was now lavishing his skill as a present for an
sent friend who had attended that brother.
Emma! she was fair, and more mature. Her face
presented a picture ~f never-ending freshness ~ her dark
eyes often aleamed with moisture; and these words came
impetuously from her lips:
"We shall be so happy, mother, when .Robert ret~irns,
having achieved the summit of his ambition. Our cot-
tage will be deserted, I suppose, for a more imposing
dwelling.' What a specimen of architecture brother will


TA~O~ AI~D -5HADOW~.

5U130TA~OR MW SflA~OW5.

ezhi~t to won~er-gazii~g multitudes! And my room
will look out upon my favorite friend, the sea. Yours,
mother, will be filled with sunshine and flowers; moss-
roses and evergreens will contrast strangely with our
humble daisies in broken pots, and our leafless multiflora
that is perishing inconsequence of our cold, room. All
these events 'will surely come to pass, and (she started
up) the fair-haired Mary shall realize a bright fulfilment
of my dream.
"It was only last night I saw Robert in my sleep.- I
Was' hitting at a piece of embroidery. My brother ~as
superintending the colors. He gave a singular laugh,
and exclaimed, £0, sister! life is just like yours many-
colored fancy piece; light and shade must alternate to
give full effect to the picture, and so is the reality of
life.' I am sure I saw him, and yet I know it is all
faney.~" The young girl started, even then, as if she
heard a footstep.
The' widowed mother, we have said,, was there. Her
ailver hair was parted back from a mild and beaming
face, and her countenance plainly indicated she had her
fear*, and 'her daughters their' hopes.
"How strange it is," said she, "that we have had
no letters by the last arrivals - not a word from Robert,
girls!"
"Perhaps the letters are intercepted, or delayed, or a
thousand casualties may have befallen them," said the
hopeful children'.
They~trolledalong, full 'of gayety and cheerful prattle,
whe~ Mzry' si~dden1y turned and laid -her hand upon her
~other's- ~heulder.

The another~ alarmed, proposedreturniughack, 'think-
ing some chill in this autumnal evening had seized her
daughter's delicate frame.
"But I am quite well, now, mother."
Yet the remembrance of that strange hallucination still
troubled her. She never revealed with what force. some-
thing checked her gayety; and, taught from childhood t~
be free from superstitious misgiyings, she chased away
the gloomy apprehension, and resumed her wanted cheery.
fulness.
It was in deep twilight when they returned home.
Henry, who was Robert's friend, and accQlnpanied. him,
was sit4g in the back parlor. The sisters each laid
hold of him, but his eyes- were downcast. He seemed to
avoid their gaze; his sea-burnt face seemed to have an
unwanted flush.
"My son V'inquired the mother. "Our brother 'i"
the sisters.
"Have you received no lettersV' said Henry, in a
quivering voice. He endeavored to speak, but there was
a choking sensation in his throat,
Emma stood there; Mary leaned against her; the
mother's face was white as a shroud. Robei~ was dead!
The gold he had gathered had all been abstracted by
ruthless savages; he had fallen a victim to disease on~
board the ship, as he was returning, and his body was
consigned to the great deep.
Transformed in every nerve stood that late hopeful
family. The sisters seemed on the very verge of mad-
ness; but the mother sank on her knees and uttered an
inaudible prayer.


$I~ST4NUE ANX 5~M2K~OWS.                                5UB5TANO~ AND SHADOWS .        217

~he light ..ud ehade.of the picture ~w stood before
them~ Butiwas.tl* end all shadow? ~~uehe4 ~with a
sense of the perishing, with that feeling of utter inse.
curity, the mother looked above for comfort. ~he had
felt the i~ough gales~of adversity; and the eerenocexpres.~
sion which ere long pervaded her countenance, told the
seor~tof her faith was triumphant.
And now a dreary aspect opened to those young hearts.
Tl~e world looked cheerless; existencee seemed an empty
blank; hope a mockery. In silence they bewailed their
sad fate~; in the depths of their hearts they even ques-
tinned the intentions of a good God.
2Forr 'wore than a year no -gleam of light illwnined
their dwelling. flenry, the lover of Mary, had returned
soc broken in health and so low in pecuniary matters, that
a nearer union could not be contemplated for years; and
a kind of secret sadness 'seemed to prey upon the hearts
of the two who usually met every evening to bemoan the
fate of the lost Robert.
it w~s no~ .a year since the tidings were communicated
to them. Again, toward. the close .of a bleak autumnal
day, the three young friends were looking. 'from a western
window, wl~n a. form was seen dimly approaching in the
distance. ~ot a word was ~uttered. ILenry was lividly
pale ~ the sisters shook like~~ aspen leaves. .The~ man
ap~roaohed yet nearer. Merciful -heaven! What do I
hear?
"~ literss, I have come at last."
-Au electric impulse throbbed through their hearts.
Sobs, i-ta, :incohereut ejaeul~tiens, followed. In the
midst of this scene the mother entered. For a~&amp;Qment

she looked, and, raising her hands. to heaven, she articu-
lated, in a husky voice,
"Robert, my son! is it you I embrace?"
His lip quivered, but his manly form still gave evi-
dence he was of human kind. And what was his
explanation?
Henry and Robert had separated after crossing the
Isthmus, and returned by different routes. While at
Panama, Robert consigned all his gold to the care of' an
American captain. His ship was boarded by ~i race of
outlaws, who pillaged it from stem to etern, and made off
with the booty. Robert received the intelligence just as
he was ready to sail for home, and, being chagrined,
resolved to return to the mining region; and, being well
acquainted with localities, established himself in a remote
part, inaccessible to transmitting intelligence by mail~
ll9re he assiduously labored, and realized a handsome
return. Again lie set his face rd, and this ~tim~
he was prospered to his journey's ~nd.
From the crew of the pillaged ship Henry had acquired
information of the death of a young man on board named
Robert, and of course supposing it was his' friend, as he
believed he sailed in the same ~jiip with l~s gold, nQ
doubt remained hut he was the dead maid
If there had been a~shadow over this dwelling, think
you there was no sunshine restored? It was a sight up~n
which angels might gaze, to see the grateful emotions
which pervaded this household for what affliction had
failed to melt and subdue, a grateful joy wade them
acknowledge that God is ever the mercifi~l dispenser (~f
light and sha4e.
19


SUJ3STANOE AND $HAPOW8.       219

INQUISITIVE CHILDREN.
"I WAS always brought up to attend church, Fanny,"
said Mrs. Green, to her newly-hired domestic, "and I
wish you to do the same. I shall require of you, how-
ever, to attend one of the evangelical order; for, while I
Kpay you for bodily selvice, remember I have an interest
for your soul."
Fanny thought she had, indeed, found a mother, and
was truly thankful for her new place.
The next day was Sunday. "Ned" was called early
to be washed and dressed for the Sunday school; Dan
was to repeat his lesson before leaving home; and the
eldest daughter, who was teacher, was to conduct both
children to church. But things did not work well. The
shoe~sti~ings broke/ the boys' collars were starched so
badly that ~they purposely rumpled them together the
lessons were very 'poorly committeA, and the breakfast
was not ready till after 'the bell rang for the opening of
the school. Mrs. Green was still in bed, for she was so
wearied with weekly services there must be some extra
time to rest. Ned fretted at Dan, and Dan threw his
pencil at 1'T~d. It wa~ a scene of great confusion for a
family who professedly maintained such order. Mr. and
Kr~. Gr0e~1, by dint 6f hurry and bluster, equipped

themselves for church. Fanny was despatohed, leaving
her dishes unwashed, and her kitchen in confusion, be-.
cause the essential duty of "attending meeting" demanded
the sacrifice. Nothing was said, and, perhaps, not much
thought, about carrying a right spirit into the sanctuary,
if the body were only placed in the pew!
A cold dinner was served. Of course, Mrs. Green
allowed no cooking on the Sabbath, and the children
were allowed no natural freedom; their business was to
keep still, and sit cross-legged, with their~ "primers" or
"question-books" before their eyes; and, naturally, this
was a dreaded. day to them. Mr. and Mrs. Green read
their prayer-book, and the chapter from. which the text
was taken; in~~red of the children respecting the scholars
present at the Sabbath school, and then took up the
religious newspaper, and thus gradually prepared the
way for worldly conversation. They had done all that
duty demanded; had been to church all day, kept the
time strictly, and now began to unbend their thoughts
from things above to things beneath.
"Husband," said Mrs. Green," that was a splendid
shawl Mrs. Sawyer wore to.day. I wonder if S&amp;wyer
is rich'? They are a family that seem to have, everything.
Susan wore an elegant bonnet. I saw just such a one,
for which they charged me twelve dollars. And did. yuu
see Mrs. Draper's scarf'? It was the most elegant one I
ever saw. I don't see, for my part, how people contrive
to get such things. I 'm sure we could not aflird to
dress so."
Dan here spoke up: "Mother, Tom Spencer has got
a beautiful plaid vest; won't you get me puch. a one?"


8UB5TAN4~ A~D ~HAD4~W5.                                      8UB~AIIO3 AND' 8HAD(~WS..        221

C% ~ ~want ~ xiew sack," said Ned. "All the boys dress
better than I do."'
"Hush, hush, children!" said the mother; "do you
know' what day it is? Sabbath days wore not' made to
talk about dress. Don't you know what the command-
merit says; six days shalt thou labor, but the seventh, &amp;c.?
What did grandpa tell you, boys, last summer, about
keeping Sunday?"
"If he did talk so good," said Ned, " he got his hay
in Sunday, for rear of a shower. How came he to do
that?"
"Boys I boys! what are you talking about?' Your
grandpa is a deacQn, and a very, very pious man. Never
let ~ne hear you question his doings."
"But, mother," said Ned, "you talk about dress on
Sunday with father; what is the harm for Dan and me
to doso'P'
"Children, you are young. Your father and I are
privileged to say what we please, provided we talk no
evil. We merely comment upon the vanity of the world,
and the little regard people pay to religious duties.
Mind your books, tind not listen to all we say." The
boys winked at each other as if they had good understand-
ings, and could see through a mill-stone.
'That evening the conversation turned upon the subject
of lying. Ned wished his mother to define to him the
exact meaning of falsehood.
"Why," said the mother, "it means when we wilfully
and intentionally deceive another. If, for instance, I tell
you the medicine you take is very pleasant, when it is
very o~rensiv~ and 'nauseous it would be a lie; if 'a

neighbor sends to me to lend an article, and I say I bav~
not got it, ~when I have it, that, too, is a lie "-.
"How came you, then," said Ned, "to tell Mrs.
Moody you had no eggs, wheii there was a firkin full in
the cellar?"
"Hush, Ned! don't interrupt me while I am explain-
ing to your brother. Have n't I told you, again and
again, how impolite such a habit is 'P'
"But, mother, I want an explanation, too."
"Order, order, Edmund!" said the father, very em-
phatically.
"Lying, Daniel, is the mark of a weak mind and a
bad heart. I hope you never do it, my son; and, more
than this, never teach your associates to do it, to screen
you from justice."
But Dan began to reason. "Mother, when you
direct the girl who tends the door, to say you are 'not
at home,' when you are in the nursery, is not that a
falsehood ~
"My child, there are certain conventional rules in
society, which are allowable, because custom sanctions
th~m. You are not old enough to reason upon such'
things now."
"And," said Ned, "when you say, '0, dear! I wish
such and such people were a hundred miles off,' and go
straight into the parlor, and tell them 'how glad you are
to see them, and how long you have been wishing they
would call,' is not that a falsehood?"
"You are the most disposed to question, Ned, that I
ever knew a boy. I tell you, boys, once for all, there
are certain eustoins in society which we can adopt, with-
19*


222         * 0UD$T&amp;I~Q~ A~D SflAD0WS.

oi~t feeling we have transgressed the bounds of truth.
Everybody who has had e~perien~e knows what these
things mean; lint unsophisticate&amp; chulden do not under~.
stand, nor should they inquire into such matters. lI)o
as I tell you, children; always speak the truth, and~ keep
the Sabbath day holy, and you will be bles~ed."
This oQnclusiQn 8ileflved the boys, but they looked very
dissatisfied with the reasoning.

WHAT WILL PEOPLE SAY?
"Now, Mr. Gill, I want to go to Washington as much
as anybody. ~Nobody would like to be introduced to the
president and all the men in the cabinet more than my-
self. But, dear me, what will people say ~ Everybody
will think you are elY in search of an police, and how
many comments will be made upon m~,i accompanying
you ~ I do wish I lived somewhere that people did n't
talk about their neighbors."
"That would be a region, Mrs. Gill, that never came
under my observation."
"Why, husband, they don't do so in country places;
they live at a distance from each other, and nobody med-
dIes with other people's affairs."
"How little you know of the country, wife! You can
do nothing there but it is made the subject of conversa-
tion. So trifling are the matters,~too, about which people
vex themselves, that a worthy clergyman told me that in
his parish the frequency with which he c~&amp;xged his
linen made quite a~ topic in the sewing-circle ~ and then
you can never weaa' a new dress, or buy a hood, or a
cow, but everybody is interested to know all the particu.
lars."
"You astonish me; then I'll never go into the country


224        8UB$TANVE &amp;N1 SHADOW$.                                  8UB$TA~TOE AND ShADOWS.        225

to live, flow singular it is that people have such a 3js..
position to be inquisitive in mat ~ 'oh so litt ~on~
cern them!"
Mr. Gill made his newspaper rattle, but said nothing.
"Billy," said Mrs~, I to her eldest boy, wh~ sat
studying at her work4a e, "what that freddy
Crawford t9ld. you about his mother cha i~her help 3"
"Why," replied the~ boy, "he sai ~ ~t his mother
told his father, yesterday morning, th~ wQuld change
her domestic as 6ften as she pleased, tIJI ~he got a good
ones and I believe, but I won't be positive, he sai4 they
had turned off ten cooks in three months."
"Tl~ere, Mr. Gill, don't you think I 'm patient with
our old crone, who don't know when it is time to put on
the potatoes to boil, only as I tell her? I wonder what
people would say if I acted as other women do 3 Here
I 'ye wintered and summered our old Nancy, and done
half the work myself rather than change, because people
will talk 80."
'~ Willy, dear, did you say Mr. Andxews is about
moving into an elegant hoi~s~?"
"yes, mother, I went into it to-day; they are just
~zr~iahing ~t. There are great mirrors, reaching from
the ceiling to the floor, and the room is all being hung in
pictures, a~ d one side of the library i~ all glass doors for
books to be xted, andit is very beautiful, mokh.r, all
over. Don't you wish we lived in such a house, mother?"
"As1~ your father, child, if he wishes so." ~he boy
obeyed.
"Yes, my son, I should enjoy the luxury of a well-
~Jeeted library; ari4 tQ regale myself with looking at

choice pictures would be a great feast; but, if I could not
do it consistently With4tly means, people would talk, as
your mother says."
~" And who would care for what they said?" inter..
erupted Mrs. Gill. "If I could only live in such a house,
little should I heed what people would say of me."
"What.! not you, surely, who make it such a daily
study to do things to avoid observation. I really should
have hesitated, ~ven if my circumstances admitted, to
have procured an elegant house, lest it should bring dish.
comfort on y~ou, wife."
"Never mind that, Mr. Gill. I tell you, when I feel
I am doing right, I don't care what people sayof me;
but wheu I have misgivings, I am forever upbraided that
everybody will talk about me. My conscience, Mr. Gill,
is precisely like every other woman's. If their husbands
or fathers can afford them all the luxuries they desire,
not a straw do they care what is said about them; but
let them feel they are not warranted in their indulgences,
and, at no distant day, see want and failure staring them
in the face, and then self-reproach added to these make
unhappiness enough."
"But, wife, are you not a little prone to talk of others
yourself?"
"That 's always the way; criminating me, Mr. Gill.
No, F never meddle nor interfere with anybody's busb
ness."
"William, go to bed," said the father.

K


MRS. BUTTERS' BABY.
Mus. BUTTERS' baby! There never was such a first-
born child. It had little diamond eyes, a complexion of
snowy whiteness, and its hair, thy, it was so flaxy, soft
and ourly~ that everybody begged a curl to remember it
by. And then it was the pet of the house; all the treat
its grandmother wanted was to spend a day with her
daughter, and~rock .the cradle where the baby lay, and
talk about its "knowing ".propensities; for it did seem
as 'if the child actually crowed before it was a week. old.
But, dear me, the baby was a boy! This was a sad dis
t~ppointnient, for its. aunts Jerusha, and Patty, and Phila,
i~ll ha&amp; prepared something as a namesake present, should
it be of the gez~tler sex, and :called after themselves.
But it was so lovable, although a boy, that it w~ie the
complete idol of the house. Mrs. Thitters was a fashion-
able woman, and, after the birth of the child, found her-
saif largely indebted to'wany of her acquaintances in the
business of waking calls. Judy, the. maid of all ~work,
was~ delighted with the baby, 'and if of a Monday mowing
Mrs. Butters summoned her from the Wash-tub to tend
the little fellow while she went out to discharge some of
her debts, Judy always smilingly ob.~erved, "the clothes
will Only wash the easier for soaking." Sometimes, it is

SUB$TANC~ ANI~ SUAPOWS.       227

"christening."
It was the first grandchild on both the paternal and
maternal side; and both grandparents were desirous of
its bearing their cognomen. But, alas! it made no
euphonious sound when the two names were coupled to-
gether. Timothy Home was the grandparent by the
mother's side, and Jeremiah Butters by the father's.
When it was proposed they should be united, it wee with
a shudder its dear aunts exclaimed, "Timothy Jeremiab.
Tim Jerry would surely be the nickname of that sweet
baby." There was a family feeling of no very~ enviable
stamp likely to be produced by this little a~Q~ir~. of a name
for the baby. Its mother could not bear the idea of bor
darling being forever nicknamed "Jerry Butters."

0

true, her mistress ~would not return in season for her to
do any justice in getting a dinner; but then Mrs. Butters
never fretted if the bez&amp;y was well attended.
Week after week,- nay,. more, month after month,~~-
this little idol seemed to steal a~vay the affections of this
household. It jumped and screamed, looked delightedly
ogt of the window, and its fond mother confidently af-~
firmed it knew its father before it was three months old.
"There never W~28 such a baby!" But remember, that
babies indulged, like men and women of older growth,
have changeful freaks, and evince strange propensities
and strong dislikes. The day of its " christening" it
was terribly out of sorts; it shrieked so loudly and grew
so restive in the nurse~ arms, that Mrs. Butters always
declared a pin must Mve pricked it somewhere.; so it
only gained sympathy for this ebullition of temper. But
I am a little in anticipation in thus arriving at the


2~8        5U~$TANCE AND SRAD&amp;WS.                                  SUBSTANCE AND SRADOWS.        229

Timothy was I'ar preferable.. Its father thought just the
contrary; and we.te it not that a stop was put to the dis~.
puted question, a serious quarrel might have ensued.
Qid Uncle Jerry Butiers deposited a thousand dollars
in a city bank, the~prinei~al a~nd interest of which were
to remain till the baby should arrive at the age of four-
teen, and then the proceeds were to be expended in its
education, provided it were named after himself. Grand~
pa Tim had not money so plenty, and of course he of the
larger means, in small as in great matters, carries the
question. The only disagreeable thing in the affair was
that not one of the iornes was present at the baptizing.
Little "Jerry Butters" soon began to know his name,
and quitosoon began likewise to show his disposition. He
was too old to be always excused by his mother with the
plea that a pin sticking into his "dear little self" made
him cry. His grandmother Home gave the true version
of the affiLir when she said it was a spice of old .A.dam-.-- the
child was depraved; for she was a sound orthodox pro-
Lessor, that never forgot
"In Adam's fall
We sinned all."
But it was the first baby, and it must be indulged.
It was a proud. day for its parents when it puckered up
its little mouth and ai~euiated "I won't." It always
had a lump of sugar for every repetition of those two
syllables. But by and by it did not sound~yo pretty.
Wben it tipped over its full cup of milk on purpose, and
threw its silver tumbler against the large looking-glass in
the front parlor and shivered it to pieces, its father began

996

to feel there was some temper that ought to be corrected.
Poor Judy, too, had long ~since declared she could do
nothing with the child in its mother's absence; so a new
girl on purpose to take care of it was provided. Mrs.
Butters' health made it very necessary she should be
much in the open air,- at least she often quoted, "her
physician told her so."
But fresh troubles began to thicken, and this dear lit-
tle baby, this pet and idol, was at the foundation of
them. That he was the most self-willed little urchin,
and a perfect torment, was the frequent affirmation of
the attendant; and, after sundry kicks 'and scratches, she
declared unless she were permitted to correct ~the darling
she must leave her situation. This Mrs. Butters would,
not permit, affirming that all correction should be given by
parents. It turned out that she was soon left in sole charge
of her baby, to do as she pleased with him. It was a
new and troublesome office. It was proposed at length,
to relieve her by giving her young gentleman a week's
visit at Grandpa Butters'. The trial was made, but two
days before its expiration, the "little treasure" was re-
turned as too unmanageable for its aunts and cousins!
Its mother was in a sad dilemma. To keep peace
every plan must be devised to amuse Masifer Butters.
Neither cook, chambermaid ~nor nursery-woman, would
stay, for the little rebel would contrive to make each one
unhappy.
Mrs. Butters was completely worn out. In a fit of
despair she protested to her husband she must adopt
some new mode of living, and the only expedient seemed
to be to break up housekeeping. Certainly this was
2%)

229


280         SI3BSTANCE &amp;Nt~ $HADOW$.

I

l~kelyto be an easy matter, for everything was in a fair
way soon to be broken by this incorrigible, uncorrected
child. Mr. Butters sighed at the proposal. He felt
this would be no antidote~ But a woman must generally
have her way, and Mrs. B. was not long in determining
to select a place for a new home. She called at many
of the first-class houses to ascertain the terms; but, alas!
they did not take children. This strengthened her be-
lief that all children were alike troublesome, and Jerry
was no Worse than others. The result of two days' per-
ambulations ended in this,- at the west end of the city,
in a genteel boarding-house, a family consisting of a man,
his wife and child, had just vacated the premises, she
sought, and if the boy were not "over troublesome," the
landlady thought th~ey might be received. Mrs. Butters
assured her he was not, and it was arranged, if it met her
* husband's approbation, that the place was secured. Be-.
sides, Mrs. Butters knew of a friend who would hire
their house, furniture and all, and she would be saved a
world of trouble by stepping into ready-furnished apart-
inents, which she might do if she seized those already
offered.
We will now introduce our friends to their new board-
ing-house. Master Jerry was a most refractory fellow,
and did not at all appear to like his new home. The
first dayihis fond parents dressed him in the most splen-
did manner, and brought him to the table, which circum-
stance so inflamed the landlady that they were glad soon
to conduct him back to their own apartments "No
children are allowed at my table, Mrs. Butters;" was

SUBSTANCE AND s~iws.          231

once said, so that its significant meaning was never for.
gotten.
At evening, Master Jerry 'took a freak in his head
th~t he was not at home, and should not go to bed. His
cries were loud and continued, and no entreaty, play..
thing, or earthly device, made the least impression to sub-
due his feelings. The strange sound in this hitherto
quiet house made sad notes of discord, and nearly every
boarder called to ascertain what could be the mat-
ter. Old Mrs~ Bellamy declared it disturbed her so
that she got no quiet sleep all night; and she intimated
to the landlady that she should be forced to seek a place
where there was less uproar, unless it ceased.
"1 protest," said little Miss Chapman, "I could not
hear myself play upon my piano last evening, and it was
so annoying to the gentlemen who called on me"- and,
taking her quizzing-glass and examining every one at the
table, she felt at liberty to observe, "1 do hope, my dear
madam, you will free us from such an annoyance."
Poor Mr. Butters was overlooked by her shrouded eyes,
and his chagrin at this speech really prevented him from
finishing his breakfast. He rose from the table, and,
after he left, a general smile ensued at Miss Chapman's
mistake.
There was still another difficulty. The help in this
house were all colored, and Master Jerry was continually
shrieking with fright as any specimen of ebony ap-
proached him. His motherdeclared he would have lits,
and so it was decided he must be kept alone in his own
room. Confinement was not his element, and his grand-
parents declared it must not be some other plan muat

S


282         SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

be devised. Just as the landlady was about issuing her
orders, Mrs. Butters informed her of their determination
to leave. Grandpa had consented to make one more
trial with his namesake. A married daughter should
never stay too long with an ungoverned child under a
father's roof, however urged to do so. Those maiden
sisters, or that stray cousin, or that old domestic, will
kindle a breeze when the weather seems most calm.
Scarcely had Mrs. Butters got settled at her father's,
before Master Jerry began to train. ~ Let the little
dear have this," or "He is not well to-day, and more re-
fractory than usual," had ceased to appease the disturbed
household; they began to see. that some sort of discipline
must be commenced. Here was a little fellow, just able
to trot about, once the darling and idol of his friends,
now their source of constant disquiet and unhappiness!
In that little breast an ungoverned temper had made dis-
cord to a large family of peaceful inmates. Truly to
such did a wise man say, "Spare the rod and spoil the
child." After a Thithful trial of patient endurance, Mrs.
Butters found that a home of her own was the proper de-
posit for her child; that wholesome correction was abso-
lutely necessary when the first display of temper appears,
and that neither boarding-house nor grand-parents will
continue long to bear a chastisement from which there is
an escape.
Master Butters is still unmanageable. His parents
think his irritability arises from delicate nerves, and his
fond mother has actually applied to the homoeopathio
physician for some quieting powders. "Uncle Jerry"
says the "essence of birch" is the only effectual remedy.

282

LIFE.
THE mind, the mind, it gives the hue
To each material thing;
The vision, if obscured, is sure
A sombre light to fling.
A cup of care! how wearisome
The duties of a day;
How labors sadden as they press
Upon our cheerless way!
The cup of joy! how oft we seek,
And yet as often miss;
How phantom-like it ifits us by,
With naught of real bliss!
The cup of grief! how often here
Tie after tie is broke;
While weak and impotent we fall
Beneath the sundering stroke!
The cup of faith! that blessed cup
Whose waters healing give;
How sparingly we sip that stream
Where we may drink and. live!
The cup our Master took; could w~
Unfaltering drink like Him,
Sorrows of earth! ye all would flee,
Nor clouds our pathway dim.
20*


0

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.         286

A DARK PHASE IN LIFE.
IT is a wretched condlijon to be poor! Besides the
wants and deprivations of daily life, there is the reserved
bow or mere nod, the apology for being "near-sighted"
when you are in company with a rich man, the con~
tempt of countenance which says, " You have not done
as well as you might," and the "I 'm glad to get rid of
you," which a sensitive person always feels most keenly,
because poor.
I wonder so many steeped in vice and poverty have
any moral courage left to seek a better fortune, rather
than that so few do so.. Few people take into account
the hard rubs it costs them to rise. Suppose it is a man
who has resolved to be somebody. He applies for assist~
ance, and tells the humiliating story of his degradation;
and that is no small cross when one is repentant to begin
with. His friend shakes his head, and says, "I don't
know of. anything I can do just now; I commend your
good efforts, hope you will be successful, and when I hear
of' a chance will let you know."
Back he goes to his. counting~room, and never thinks
of the fellow, till a hardy truckman stands before him,
waiting for his change, who, years after, tells him' he is
the same person who applied to him years ago for help

to become a man! Then there is a class who never
believe you are really in earnest to reform; and others
who wonder how you ever became so poor; and yet others
tell how many thoughtless vagabonds they have helped
into employment. When a man has a feeling, to rise,
they depress him, instead of lifting him; and many a
time this has sunk him in despair.
There is the poor woman asking for work; she says
she is a stranger, and has a sick child or husband, but
can do any kind of sewing.
She is sent to the slop-shop, and there she is examined,
before she takes a sack worth fifty cents, as if she were
about carrying Californian dollars away. She receives
at the most a shilling a day for her work; her charge
grows sicker, her courage less, and she sinks in utter
hopelessness.
Thousands die for want of one cheering word, - one
helping hand. We have all our charity so systematized
that its very essence seems drawn out. We are so afraid
of "imposition" that we would impose a fine upon a
spontaneous freak of nature that would unburden some
loose change from our pockets! We are so discriminate
that we have apologies for all our miserly affections.
This makes it a very hard world for a poor person to live
in! If he is virtuous, he must bring such credentials as
are "satisfactory." His honest countenance goes for
nothing, because we have been so often "duped," and
often one would rather starve than beg, because of the
very manliness it takes out of him.
Then a poor man stands a poor chance in countless
ways. He may have the talents of a Cicero~ and the


2~O         $UD8~~A~OH A~D SHADOWS.

perseverance of a Demosthenes; but he is objected to by
the rich man as a son-in-law because he is poor! With
great caution he obtains any business; for people are
afraid to put their effects where a man ha~ nothing but
his talents! His tailor is afraid to trust him; his boot~
maker points to his printed paper, "Terms Cash," just as
he selects a fit; his landlord sends in a bill once a fort~
night, ~~a-..the man waits to take the amount back. Indeed,
it is very difficult for a poor man to live any how, and
it always has been so. Rich men by their very credit
accumulate, letting their money lie at interest where the
poor fdlow has to pay his last cent. And all this is
done for years before "better days" begin to dawn, and
people look on, and wonder such and such people have
no more energy. The truth is, they have expended
energy enough to make up a dozen characters of great-.
ness, just to live.
We are not half willing to give people a start. We
ought to encourage struggling genius and self-sacrificing
laborers. To make, a man honest, show him that you
believe him so; if "Sylvia" will marry him, bolster
him up; give him a few hundr&amp;ts, if you have your
thousands; cultivate the manly part, and you will rarely
find a l~nave!
It is singular how little props sustain one. A trust
committed, business bestowed, a customer sent, a. ~atron~
izing "club," or a little cash remitted, will niake &amp; cheer-s
ful face for days after.
Much poverty might be unfelt if the tender mercies
of the world were less eruel~

A FACETIOUS SKETCH.
IN the progress of the age it is an incontrovertible.
fact that working for a living is decidedly "vulgar."
The disadvantages attending employment are sufficiently
~obvious without any argument. J~ist think of a man
always busy! No time for pains and aches, no inclina-
tion to be nervous, no disposition to look after "invigor-
ating medicine," but brain, hands and heart all occupied!
Why, such an individual is a perfect enemy to a doctor;
he is ~rarely sick, and so neither homoeopathist nor al-s
lopathist can claim him as a patient. And, then, what a
foe to nurses is such an one! Never needing some old
lady to watch by his bedside and drop out medicine,
never wanting a less substantial dish than a sirloin of
beef or a haunch of venison, and never oppressed or
depressed after a hearty meal!
And then the worker has no time to attend to other
people's affairs. He never inquires into the scandal so
fresh and racy, - never cares whether his~ neighbor's
daughters' beaux are aristocrats or plebeians, never
knows what he carries home in his market-basket, nor
whether he is living beyond his means!
He has no time to loiter about a courthouse, and is
never taken under an arrest, - never peered~ through


288         SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.
any grating to look at a "fugitive slave," never
attended a call to consider the constitutionally of certain
proceedings, and never hazards a farthing On a bet who
will finally sit in the congressional hail!
There can be no mistake but the working-man foregoes
uncommon pleasures. Never to be able to stand against
a post, nor to sit upon a seat on the Common. Never to
be seen with a gold-headed walking-stick, and backing up
a lady. Never to be caught napping after dinner, nor yet
lounging in the rocking-chair, nor behind the folds of a
damask curtain, with the last new novel. Why, is it
not plain enough he sacrifices a great deal? And all for
what? Why, to be an independent fellow, - to feel
that he has plenty of money in the locker, and is in a
fair way to gain a great deal more. And do you not see
how the beautiful law of dependence is thus frustrated?
Never obliged to ask the favor of a friend to lend him
a sniall sum to meet contingencies, never unable to
meet an account for want of funds, and, consequently,
under no necessity of uttering a lie, asserting he was
disappointed in not receiving a remittance from abroad.
And, as he is not forced to sin, of course the necessity
of penitence is done away!
And, then, the man who "works" has such coarse,
clumsy hands, if it be a handicraft he follows;, or, his
fingers are~ so contracted by writing as to be perfectly
shapeless in the white kid glove; besides, he cannot
aspire to be beau, general or particular, to those young
ladies whose dresses drag in the streets, nor yet to those
wh~ ogle young gentlemen behind the counters in dry
goods. estaJ4ishmeut&amp; Not he! Think you one who

SUJISTANCE AND SHADOWS.       289

"works for a living" is fit to attend a fashionable lady
to an operaw? Why, the very name of labor is odi-
ous. "If my father did work at shoe-making," says
Miss Angelica, "it was long before I was born; and I do
wish he would get ovef the silly habit of speaking about
what he did when a boy, while Mr. iluckins is present.
Ma was always a lady, so I have nothing to fear on her
account."
And then comes the strange anomaly, a working-
woman! One who is not ashamed to tell a daily street-
walker that she has some domestic affairs which call for
attention; who does not know, certainly as early as the
month of March, what will be the prevailing spring
fashions; who cannot tell whether she shall wear a visit
or a mantilla this year! Why, such a woman is de-~
servedly scouted out of all "genteel society." And,
then, what exquisite thinks much of her daughters;
good, plain, common-sens~ed girls, who know how to
sweep, and mend hosiery, and make puddings, and direct
Dinah when their mother is gone, but who never per.
formed an "Jitalian air, with all its trills," in their
whole lives? They never could lisp out sent mental
talk, never were "nervously ill" from living in a
heated house, and never had the "blues" for want of
exercise! Who could value such acquaintances?


HAPPINESS EQUALIZED.
IT is mighty' discouraging - this drudging toil we are
compelled to do to save us from starvation. Earning
one's "bread by the sweat of the brow," is no foolish
task; it 's very homespun work, talk as we will about it.
There 's a set of poor fellows digging, digging, digging
all day, just to earn a dollar. There 's a poor woman
stitching and sewing, and pressing, and button-holing,
to earn her fifty or seventy-five cents; and at night, in
the first case, the man with the clean, sleek, plaited-
bosomed shirt w~lks up and says, "Mike, here's your
money;" and the mistress, with flounces all the way up
her skirt, holds out the pittance and says, "Here, Mrs.
Saveall, is your 'money for your day's work;" and then
the laborers go 'home to stow away in an ugly, ill-venti-
lated, old, crazy apartment, filled with children, and, it
may be, a sick or scolding wife, who moans over her sad
fate, and says she never expected' to come to this -~-" cold
potatoes and dry bread; no nursing, and little to live for."
Now, such a picture makes one side of human life; but
it is only the 'shady one. We all have discouraging
days dark days cloudy ones. By-and-by the sun
shines. That man who earns his dollar goes home and
tells his wife he has taken a job for higher pay; tosses

I

up the baby, and tells its mother about the quantity of
groCeri~5 he is going to buy, and that she can have a new
bonnet, and "little Mike" a new pair of shoes, and that
they shall all fit out and go upon some visiting expedition
awhile hence, to see some distant aunt, or cousin, or
"very dear friend." And then, how she sings over her
work! How little she minds about the baby's fretting,
or Luther's mischievous ways! Her heart is all turned
to that outfit, and the pleasant idea' keeps running
through her mind that if she is not as well off as some-
body else, she, to say the least, is happier. She heard
the man with a ruffled shirt say, in the morning when she
took his clothes home, that his money did not bring him
in any dividends; that he had notes to pay, and did not
know how 'to meet them; and then he added, "You
people who work for your daily bread are the happiest in
the world." And she adds, "I know it is so; for Mr. Fry
looked dejected and careworn. His face was sallow, ~ai~d
his eyes looked as if he had watched all night; while I
feel as gay as a lark, and would not change situations
with Mr. Fry, the merchant, to.~day, if Ii could."
And there is the seamstress, and her' einplbyer in h~r
flounced dress. "Madam," to be sure, sits on an elegant
couch, and her eyes rest on tapestry carpets, and beneath
folds of damask the light stealthily peeps in, all soft
ened; but, ten chances to one, her husband was out all
night at some gaiDing4able; or he is a veritable Candle,
who gave her a ~urtain lecture about her extrav~gance;
or some son has vexed her life out about going to' Cali-
fornia; and thea seamstress, who is plying her needle away
in the back nursery, has a' thousand times as pl
21

F

241

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.


242        BUB5TAN~E AND SHADOWS.                                SUB8TA~W~ AN]) SHADOWS.      £48

thoughts coursing through her brain. She, perhaps, has
a prospect of marriage, and the work is cheerfully per~
formed, because she has her eye on some piece of furni-
ttire she means to purchase; and then too, she has an
idea how happy she shall be when she inhabits "a home
of her own," and John goes to his work, and she sits and
works for him. Would she change places with her em-
ployer, think you '~
Thus it is, we are very apt to take things on the
surface, and then come to a conclusion. We envy peo-.
pIe in coaches when we are tired with walking; we
de0i~e more spacious dwellings when we are pinched for
closet-room; we covet gold chains, and silk dresses, and
outside finery, forgetting that away down in human
hearts there are aches, and pains, and vexatious, and petty
trials, which corrode the peace and quiet of luxurious
peoplevarying in kinil, but not in degree, with the more
humble, toiling, plodding, every-day sort of people.
The man who rides in. the coach often has a gouty
leg; and how he envies the nimble trip of the mechanic!
The lady in diamonds and gold chains has a deep-seated
cough, and she covets the rosy cheeks and merry heart
of her washer-woman; or she has a little piddlingg,"
wefrd-~eed child, who has been heated to death in a
nursery, and the ruddy countenance of her cook's little
boy, who plays out of doors and takes care of himself; is
to her a perfect enigma. She would give all the world
if her puny boy was as robust. And so she feeds him
on sweetmeats, and buys him a nice covered carriage,
and hires a servant--girl to drag him to the Common, and
bopes by these means he will recover; whereas, if she

would let him trot about alone, and pick dandelions, and
fall into mud-puddles, and eat brown bread and new milk,
no doubt the little fellow would be hale and hearty'.
Thus we see the law of compensation is about equally
divided. One has more money, and the other more ac-
tivity; one has more luxuries, and the other more
health; one frets over a thing another \covets; and so,
taking it in the aggregate, everything is about equally
apportioned. And this should teach us perfect content-
mont with our lot, unless we are disposed to he idle; and*
a sluggard has no business to -live in God's universe,
where everything in nature is destined to progress.
Therefore, clear away the wrinkles; stop fretting because
your neighbor is better off than yourself; keep up a
merry heart, and you will find this world a pretty corn.-
fortable place after all.


SUBSTANCE ANJ) SHADOWS.       245

SWEET SIXTEEN;
OR, THB FIRST FLIRTATION.
"~MAMMA, have you any objection to my receiving the
attentions of that young gentleman who danced with me
at Jest evenings hop ?" inquired Edith Gray, as she
looked ~ut of7 the window at the Ocean House, whither,
for the fir~t tir~ie in her life, she had arrived.
~' Objections, my dear! I know nothing about the per-
son you speak of."
"Why, ma, don't you remember Mr. Rodolphus McGil-
very, the gentleman with long, flowing black hair, and a
bronze face? He wore those heavy whiskers that were just
tucked in at the corners of his mouth, and his hair curled
gracefully over his upper lip, and disclosed a set of the
most beautiful teeth I ever beheld. There ho is r~ow, sit-
ting on yonder piazza, smoking, with Eugene Fitzroy."
"You seem wonderfully posted, child, in the names
of the gentlemen about here. It is but six days since we
arrived,, and Edith, dear, you must not make too free
with those whose characters you know nothing ab~t.
What, then, of this Mr. Rodolphus what d'ye call him 3"
"Do ~,all him Mr. McGilvery, mother. He is a splen-
did young man; and now I will tell you what I do know

about him. The very first day I caine here, just before
papa went away, he asked to be introduced to me. He
is of Scottish descent, and is making the tour of the
United States. Well, in a very familiar manner he said
to me, 'Miss ~dith' (for he heard 'pa' call me so), '1
shall wish to monopolize your society while I am here.
I am fond of young ladies. I had a sister once who
strongly resembled you. That weed on my hat betokens
her deceased ' And be wiped his eyes and looked so
affectionately towards m~, ma, I began to love him at
once."
"Why, Edith, you should not indulge in such strong
expressions. Remember, you are a very young lady,
and know but little of the world. You must be cautious,
dear, about accepting attentions from strangers. Many a
young girl has been duped by their duplicity6"
"0,1 know all about that, mother! " replied the san-
guine sweet sixteen; "but they who deceive foolish girls
are not of the stamp of Mr. MoGilvery. He is alto-
gether above such mean conduct. Besides, did n't I just
explain to you why he feels attached to me? on ac
count of my resemblance to his dear sister."
"And it may be that he never had a sister, after all,
Edith. How do we know the fact V'
"Ma, I iiever saw such a doubting person as you are!
What earthly motive could have induced him to have
asserted such a tl~ing, unless it were true? Now, please
tell me, have ~iou any objection to my accepting his
attentions? He told me to ask you, and I am sure this
argue&amp; that he is not desirous of inveigling me against
your will."
21*


24~6          SU1~STANO)3~ A&amp;D SHADOWS.                                         SUBSTkNOE AND £1~AD&amp;WSI~           2~7

"'Still, I should have thought better of the man, had
h~ sought my acquaintance, and asked the question him..
self You may' tell him so, as your reply, Edith, to his
question."
"Bnt he was too modest, mother, to venture convers-
ing with you. There he is, rising from his seat. I will
run and ask him to come to our room."
"No, Edith; you must not be too familiar, I tell
you." But Edith waved her little hand for his approach,
and he came into the hail, and there stood, waiting for
her to join him.
Artless and thoughtless, she ran to him, and began
narrating all her late conversation, and, after pressing
Mr. Uodolphus MoGilvery to go and see her mother, he
reluctantly consented to do so.'
Upon entering the room, he ~was the picture of smiles
and the graces personified; so bland in conversation, so
delicate in remarks, so apparently diffident, yet resolute,
that Mrs. Blithe did not wonder her daughter was fasci-
nated~.
The interview was a long one, and ended iii a full dis-
closure of the object for which he came to this country;
indirectly keeping in View, all the while, that trwney was
no consideration with him, his father having just died
and left him sole heir to a princely fortune; that he only
pined for sympathy and companionship; and, as Edith so
strongly r~rninded him of his deceased sister, he, per-
haps, had ventured too far in endeavoring to gain the
friendly regard of one young and innocent heari~ an a
strange land.
These thoughts being uttered in a most winning a~eent,

suited by infiexions and cadences to the major or minor
key, as best suited the pathetic or more lively part of
his history, all counted with Mrs. Blithe, and she ven~
tured so far as to add, that "if, during their sojourn,
they could do anything to minister to his comfort, they
would most cheerfully perform it." And Edith was 'in
ecstasy that she had thus won over her mother to be-
come interested in Mr. Rodolphus MoGilvery.
What did she care for that staid young man, Mr. Les-
ter, from New York; or Mr. Fry, th~ rich bachelor, who
had promised Mr. Blithe to attend his wife and daughter
in his absence ~ 1i was certainly very ill-timed and
impertinent in the latter to inquire what they knew of
the character of the gentleman with whom they were so
intimately connected, after he had told them so minutely
his personal history. Truly, Mrs. Blithe, you are as
easily satisfied ~ind as credulous as your daughter.
Mr. Fry, however, took it upon himself to ascertain
authentically whether the Btatements made by Mr. Rodol-
phus were strictly true. He addressed a letter to a mere
cantile house in New York, upon whom he professed to
draw for money, and found they were ignorant of the
existence of such a man. He addressed another to Count
Zolvani, whom he said he knew intimately, and was
answered that "he never heard of the gentleman in
question." So that, when convinced of the falsity of two
asseverations, he began to distrust all others, which sorely
puzzled and vexed Mrs. Blithe and h~r daughter.
While in the heyday of apparent triumph, having
secured the affections of an artless girl, having Rirted
and danced in the sunbeams of fashionable lifb, suddenly


.248        DISTANCEE AND $HADOW$.                                  SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        249

Mr~ Rodolphus Mc(~ilvery disappeared, leaving the land-
lord with his unpaid board-bill, and at the liv~ery-stable
a large undischarged account "for sundry drives about
the suburbs," in which Mrs. Blithe and Edith had par-
ticipated; and, worse than all, leaving a young and
guileless heart to feel the chagrin which always ~attends
an unsuccessful flirtation.
But the present mortification wore away when they
felt the escape which the continued attentions of the
Scotch gentleman would, ere long, have made very
doubtful; and our young friend now was convinced that
a.~ster1ing character, generally, can furnish testimonials to
establish its owii assertions. So the mortifying lesson
proved a salutary one.
Mrs. Blithe and her daughter now willingly accepted
the protection of that estimable gentleman (Mr. Fry),
whose inquiries undoubtedly gave the walking-ticket to
the Scotch gentleman; and feeling, as they did, that his
professions of regard were sincere, Edith was never ques.
toned by her mother how far nor how fast Mr. Fry had
4
proceeded. Still, after their return in the autumn, she
one day inquired concerning the age of Mr. Fry.
"Your father says, Edith, that Mr. Fry cannot be
more than thirty4hree."
Edith reckoned. "Twice seventeen is thirty-four; that
is not so very great a disparity, after all," said she,
thoughtfixlly.
~' Remember, daughter, the old adage, 'Better be an
old man's darliz~g than ,a young fool's pet.'"
' , 014 man!" indignantly replied Edith, "J 'in sure

Mr. Fry is anything but an old man. Here is a let~.
ter he has addressed to both you and father."
"New Yoiu~,  ,
"To ~ PARTICULAR FRIENDS, MR. AND MRS.
BLITHE: A very delicate subject will be presented for
your consideration in this letter. It respects your approval
of an intimate connection between myself and your daugh-
ter Edith. You have had a perfect knowledge of my char-
acter from boyhood. I know there is a disparity in our
years, but only enough, I apprehend, VOL add the test of
experience which neutralizes the folly of youth. Should
you, therefore, accept my proposal to wed Miss Edith,
may I hope the event will not long be delayed ~ I trust
my pecuniary resources are adequate~ to common emer-
gencies; so that we may commence, and with ordinary
success continue, in a rational mode of living, in keeping
with your daughter's former style. Please answer by
return of mail. Yours, truly, J. FRY."
"Who is the reigning married belle of the season, at
the Ocean House ~" I inquired, upon my arrival the
next season.
"A Mrs. Fry, from New York," was the reply. '~ She
is truly lovely, and her countenai~icc and manners are
faultless. Besides, she has a most fascinating man for a
husband."
I gazed at the belle as she entered the dinixig.-hail. It
was she who, one year ago, hung upon the arm or that
disgraced McGilvery.; and I thanked HeaVen that SO
bright and beauteous a being had escaped th~ 8nares
which attended her first and last flirtation.


$U~$TANO~ AND SHADOWS.        251

THE MAY-J~AY FE$TIYAL.
TEE flowers resolved upon holding a festival on May-
day. They issued their invitations between the sunshine
and showers which flekle April produced. But it was
thought expedient to call a convention, and decide who
ani~ng all the gay races would be present. No sooner
had little~ Miss "Crocus" received her invi1~ation, than
she rose from her snowy embankment, arrayed in her ves-
tal whiteness, and declared her willingness to be present,
at the same time prefacing her remarks with the expecta-
tion that her robe might be somewhat soiled from its pure
delicacy, by the frequent contact ~ expected to encoun-
ter with the rough blasts of the season.
The Misses "Jonquil and Daffodil" next rose, and
signified their desire to grace the floral feast. They were
fron~ the sunny ~quarters against which defensess and
shields protected them from the rough 'usage of sister
April, at whose concert they had for years annually ap..
peared; and although they sometimes quailed at the in-
harx~eniox~s utterances with whieh she attuned her wind
instruments yet they had, always basked in her gra-
smiles, and appeared in full costume~ at her opening
d~spl&amp;y. ~J~hq, with pleasure accepted the call to~ppear
in the convention.,

A lowly, timid maiden, clothed in deep yellow, spoke
despondingly, and doubted whether her tribe, as a whole,
would venture into the gay assemblage. We at once
recognized the look of our familiar friend, the "Dande-
lion." She remarked she had never been petted by her
aristocratic neighbors in the bouquet, but that she had for
centuries bloomed outside the garden wall and among
common pathways; and that although she was of humble
origin, and often passed by as worthless, yet she was
highly prized by her jaundice&amp; patients, and eagerly
~QUght for at her first appearance as the harbinger of
health; and although she was seldom present at evening
parties, yet she had the honor of being conspicuous at
many a rich man's dinner table! She could not, there..
fore, feel assured that she should appear at the May-day
fes~0~~ a bright little wild flower, clothed in a robe
of delicate pink, who next took the speaker's stand., She
remarked that her residence was in an uncongenial cli.
mate to most of the sisterhood, yet she delighted to live
in damp soil, and among shady retreats; that she was on
perfect terms of intimacy with the wild "Honeysuckle,"
and they were neighborly and content, ay, and~ far less
likely to wither, than when ruthless hands transferred
them to china vases in splendid drawing-rooms, thus in-
troducing them into society from which they naturally
shrank often becoming sickly, and soon dropping
from their elevated position, preferring the mossy rock
upon which they originally grew, to all the heated splen-
dor vihich surrounded them. Upon hearing~ these words,
Miss "Violet," clothed in her delicate blue attire, Caine


2~2         SUBSTANCE AND $HAflOW$.                              SU]3STANOE AND SUADOWS.      253

forward most timidly, and wasreceived with much applause.
She spoke of a seeming delicate constitution, yet, having
laid imprisoned beneath a snow-flake, or encased in a
globule of ice, she had been permitted for some weeks to
expand her roots, and niake~an early appearance, as one
of the indicators that Spring had arrived. But she
was exceedingly flexible, could bear no rough usage away
from the clump t~ which she was attached, and remarked,
unless attended by a train of her companions, she should
prefer to diffuse her sweetness in the open field which
nature.had assigned her; she could not well bear trans-
planting.
A modest variegated "Daisy" next blushingly came
forward. She signified that it was quite too early for her
to appear on May-day in the open air that from her
box of earth she had only looked through a glass case-
ment,, and, as she had been so delicately reared, she feared
an outward exposure; besides, she was under a peremp-
tory engagement to keep her stand within view of &amp; sick
sufferer, whose eyes always turned toward her with de-
light. Upon this remark, however, a confused number
of voices were~ heard, all declaring that they were equally
prized 'by the invalid, whereupon the gardener at the hot-
house oomtnanded silence, and, throwing over them a
shower of moisture, they were soon seen bathed in a
flood of tears!
Miss "Heliotrope" made a short speech, which was
encored, and a sentiment was offered to the effect that
"she 'was the sweetest of Miss Spring's daughters,"
which 'threw Eer into such a delirious fragrance that she
was, more than ever, the admiration of all. The
*

"Bulbs," next came out in their glasses; but as they had
not much depth, and were full of doubts whether they
should be disengaged, jit was concluded to dismiss them
at pleasure.
There was a call at this time for the "Moss Rose"
and "Tulip," the "Cactus" and "Japonica," the Dah-
lia" and "Lily," when a delicate little Ilower, known as
Miss "Clover," addressed the meeting. She spoke of
making an earlier appearance than was her annual cus-
torn; but, being petted by Miss April amidst sunshine and
showers, she had ventured too early she feared for a public
appearance. She observed that she did not appear with~
out a train of companions, and therefore a non-compliance
with their invitation might be expected. There was a,
decided reluctance in the choicest exotics and the culti-
vated garden flowers, to 'grace the convention; they~
were preparing for a more public exhibition, in more
showy quarters, under the scientific care of the "Horti-
cultural Society."
Yet there were seine excellent remarks made 'by the
early Spring flowers., They observed that scores of
maidens and lovers were continually seeking them. In-
deed, their native charms were unadorned, and~ so they
attracted unfeigned admiration. On the whole, the
members of the convention acquitted themselves with
credit, and concluded to appear in sufficient nuinbem
and strength to grace the foreheads of the May Queens,
and to be borne in admiration among select private
groups, who promised to meet them at an early hour
on May morning, and transfer them to the ~nost eligible
quarters. ' 22

I

269

253


$U28$TANCE AND SHADOWS.       255

MR. TANGLE'S EXPERIMENT.
MR. TANGLE, above all things, loved rural life; so he
bought a cottage, and took up his residence "in the sub-
urbs." His family were delighted with the arrangement;
it would be so pleasant to sit under shady trees and eat
fruit seasoned with the richest cream, and to sleep all
night with such refreshing breezes to fan them. And so
neighbor. Tangle left the bricks and mortar of the city to
tread upon velvet lawns. He purchased the "Major's
place," where, for ~ long time, there had been a placard,
"This Place for Sale or to Let," and entered upon his
labors like an energetic man. He purchased a hoe,
a spade, and a rake; a horse, a cow, and a cart. He
hired a man and a woman to make things go on agree~
ably to all parties. His ~wife could drive the' horse, and
his children could all stow away in the' carryall, and
never did a family enjoy more in prospect.
"Weeds shall never grow in my grounds," was the
motto of Mr. Tangle; but the ambitious little runners
had displayed their roving habits before he entered upon
his labors. The "hired man" was employed to subdue
them, while his master wrought among ~the flower-beds.
How Mr. Tangle did work! How long he kept out
in the hot sun, feeling like a delighted husbandman!

how short a respite intervened between his labors! At
last came evening - cool, dewy evening, "so fragrant and
refreshing;" but, alas! there came with it a strange
sensation, and Mr. Tangle was not able to stand erect!
How his back ached, and how stooping he went into his
house, and what a suffering night followed! His limbs
were all stiffened there was a feverish action, a cramp, a
rheumatic affection, a loss of appetite; and, finally, all
the charms which so cheered him a week ago, had lost
their power to do so.
ile sent for his city physician, who pronounced his
disease "the result of over-exertion." It took. him a
week to recover his upright position, and, ever after, the
sight of "spade and hoe" was only suggestive of pain
and misery. The weeds grew among the flowers, and the
grass became entangled with the borders, and there was
an air of neglect which crept over his half-acre lot. He
came to the conclusion that he was not born to till the
soil, and went back to his old counting-room, as soon as
he had found and reported the old placard, whereon was
written, "This Place for Sale or to Let ;" and there it
stands, just where it was when it first met his eye. Am-
ateur farmers will please observe it.


SUBSTANOP~ AND SHADOWS.        257

FASHIONABLE BOARDING.
"MIcEAEL," says Mr. Benjamin Boody, "call me
to-morrow morning at ten o'clock precisely. I will
order my breakfast as my appetite stands at the time.
And l~re, Mike, take this note to Gondey, the fashion-
able tailor,- say the bill must be rectified before it is
paid. Here's a note to Miss Angeline Gray, at the
West End - the daughter of Barrister Gray. You know
their residence, and, on the way, just call for my white
kids at Masury's, and purchase a bottle of cologne, and
another of tricopherous. Tell them Mr. Boody sends,
an4 my name is already booked for a few little sundries,
for which I will call and settle."
The bell is pulled violently. "Margaret, will you
'ask the landlady to come to my room Mr. Boody,
No. 4V'
"What can that man want of me 'I I do hope it is to
settle his bill; let me see the amount. 'To be paid
monthly, as per agreement.' One, two, three, yes four
months have passed, and I have received just nine dol-
lars and fifty cents. Georgiana, here, make out this bill
to B. Boody, for four months' board. He has sent for
me probably to pay it. 1 '11 jutt slip on my cap with
flowers in it, and, Margaret, reach me my silk dress.

Boody, I believe, is is an English gentleman - came
over in the steamship - has a commission from Queen
Yio. Well, dear, if the bill is done, I '11 wait on him."
-   *    *     *    *     *-   *     *     *
"Mr. Boody, good morning, sir."
"Good niorning, landlady. I rang for your servant~.
maid to call her mistress. I merely wished to say' that
my coffee is not genuine Mocha, that my steak was not
juicy, besides being overdone, and that the rolls were
perfectly stale; and merely summoned you to say that,
unless better fare is provided, I shall be obliged to seek
lodgings elsewhere. Your accommodations, madam, are
not equal to your terms."
Michael enters, with a profound bow.
"The gentleman says he shall keep the gloves until
old arrearages are paid. As to t~e hair-tonic, yer honor,
they bid me say they had booked quite enough, and
here 's the bill for the past, sir." The landlady was
taken aback.
"Mr. Iloody, here is my bilL"
"Keep it, madam. I make no payments till my
drafts are accepted."
And the next morning the English gentleman was
missing, and the poor landlady, who keeps "boarders for
a living," was obliged to~ pocket the bill and the insult.
*     *    *     *    *     *    *     *
Mrs. Cornelius Flary wanted board. She would like
Mr. Body's apartments; had an only daughter and a
waiting-maid; had kept a carriage, and could give the
best of references. The landlady looked for a golden
shower to succeed her late overcast sky. Miss Aminta
22*


268       SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

the daughter, was engaged to Monsieur Ferrego, a
gentleman of genuine moustache. Madam attended "op-
eraws," occasionally morning~parties; had select friends
for games of whist or chess~; always ate in her own
rooms; kept a little poodle-dog and a dressing-maid.
Who could doubt her respectable standing in society '~
Monsieur Ferrego received a sudden calls to France.
The mother and daughter departed with him, leaving a
soiled white silk night-cap, an odd slipper, a dirty room,
and the unpaid bUff

I

A WE~K AT THE FARM-HOUSE.
A LITTLE robin sat perched on the highest bough of
a tall tree. There he sang, and warbled forth for hours
his sweetest notes, making the evening air vocal with his
rich tones. Day after day he continued this practice,
with little interruption, and only at nightfall was he
missed from his accustomed seat. Long, long before the
tired laborers awoke, he was a am caroling his morning
matins, refreshing~ the restless~ sleepless sufferer, ~who
had counted the weary hours of night. And what was
the office of this tiny songster '~ Was it to gladden my
heart that he made himself so vocal ~ Ay, not me alone,
for, underneath his seat, his companion had built her
nest; and, while she sat at her Weary task, her loving
mate attempted to cheer her with his most tuneful notes. '
No. doubt the phraseology, interpreted, meant, "I will
inform thee of impending danger, and should the mighty
eagle, or any of the feathered tribe, invade our premises,
I will give thee 'note of preparation.'" And then the
potectin~ ~songster would flit away a few paces, and
return with a morsel of food, and; kindly dropping it in
the nest, remount, and sing again a livelier strain.
What a lesson to a jarring 1~ouseho1d did this robin
teach! How, when weariedwitli care, or worn down


260         SUBST4NOiI AND SHADOWS.                                   SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        261

with labor do the accents of sympathy cheer and reserve
the spirits! how does the feeling that a protecting hand
is held out to support us, help us to bear together what
would separately ~sh us! And just this kind of reli~
ance we are invited to feel in ~our heavenly Parent's.
care.
The faithful hen. All day long, a hawk ha~d been hov~
ermg at. short intervals over a brood of chickens. Just
as the parent hen saw him approaching, she gave a pierc..
ing shriek and g4hered her brood under her wings. This
summoned the cock, who raised his erect comb, and gave
a note of defiance. We looked in vain for any abatement
of these creatures' care. Their instinct seemed almost to
approach the reasoning faculty; for, when the danger was
past, the hen arose, and the brood commenced busily piok~
ing at every seed or tinfstone, as if anxious to improve
the time till they should be again invaded.
What a moral we could have drawn of watchfulness
against impending dangers t Were we alike careful and
used our forecast aright, how many wrecks of fortune and
reputation might be saved! The hawk ~till pursued, but
the hen bafi~ed his designs by her unceasing care. So
might we escape many furious birds of prey, did our
reason serve us as well as her instinct!
The weaned calf. Gri~zing by the door of the hus~
bandman's cottage was the brindled calf. The mother
was a singularly gentle creature, and overflowed with
ziatur~l milk, beside that of "kindness." She was so
cherished, that her progeny was reared to take her place;
and the frisky little animal would eat bread from the
hand, ~ri~k 'warm milk' from the pail, and so readily

accommodate herself to her owner's wishes, That she never
bellowed for her mother, but quietly took what was given
her; and, when tired of grazing, as if fond of human
sympathy, would stand in the doo!'-way and thrust her
nose within; and so the tender creature won the good~
will of all around the rural homestead. Early training
effected all this; and might it not be so with a superior
race, if they were early led to the cultivation of the heart'~
Might Ihey not be reared by faithful mothers, and trained
by after-influences, to become benefactors of our race'?
The unruly cow. The farmer called her breachhy"
She showed her skill one morning in removing from her
enclosure. She was driven to the rich pasture, but had
an unaccountable love of straying out of it. No sooner
had the little driver deposited her safely, and whistled
his way homeward, than the restless creature took her
horns and raised every rail from its post, and made her
way to the public road. A passer-by put up the fence,
and travelled pn, thinking he had done good service to a
neighbor.
Jt so happen~1, at nightfall, that the owner of the ~ow
went for her, and, finding her in the road grazing con-
tentedly, he easily inferred that the faithful boy had not
turned her into her pasture; for how, reasoned he, came
the fence up? Surely, the creature that could tear
down, could not replace the work! In vain did the boy
protest that he put the animal where he was desired; and
it was only when his master learned, from him who put
up the bars, that it was so, that he was reinstated in his
confidence.
What a lesson this should teach us to moderate our


262         SUBSTANCE AN]) $HADOWB.                                     SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        263

opiuioi~. ~f acts, which, circumstantially viewed, seemed to
present but one side, and that an unfavorable one! We
might have added, another additional argument, which
proved that the cow 'had not been put in the pasture,
viz., the neighbors had observed her all day feeding out
of' it. How frequently do our prejudices become
strengthened by the superadded weight of trifling cir-
cuinstances!
The worn-out horse. He fed in the door-yard. For
many years he had done service in the heavy-laden team,
a~nd, pacing back and forth to the neighboring village,
he had carried the heavy lumber. But now his joints
grew stifi; his legs refused their office, and the poor
creature was turned in the verdant lawn to graze at will.
When he laid down, he could not rise without assistance;
and the blanched eye of the poor animal told full well
that he was a sufferer. Yet he meekly fed, and his mas-
tsr had a hope that he would again do service. Did you
never see other worn-out specimens, those who had
drudged and trudged life's dusty ways, that only laid by
when a sense of helplessness forbade i~Lhem to labor 3
They never enjoyed but in prospect, and the treasures
of years' accumulation had little worth when the palsied
limbs and dim visions of premature old age came upon
them.
And there were other ~summer' sights." The ant
was toiling upon her bed of sand, the hornet was build-
ing his clayey nest, the swallow was fluttering over the
babbling brook, the caterpillar was preparing for her
transformation, and all nature seemed obedient to the
laws of its Creator. Truly, this seemed a good world,

a pleasant world, and why should we not call it a~ hap p~,i
world 3 "Because," said Uncle Jetliro, "we have
sinned." "Well, then," I hopefully replied, "keep on
repern~ing, and ~do not be the only exception that mars
the original design of its Maker. By improving the
present world, and acting wisely, who can doubt but one
far more attractive will burst upon our vision when we
exchange time for eternity 3"


5UB~TANCE AND SHADOWS.       265

I

WORDS OF KINDNESS.
NELLY MoKIN was a child of Scottish descent. Her
Thtlier died iii her infancy; and her mother, being strait-
ened in pecuniary circumstances, was advised to seek in
America a home for herself and child, as offering better
remuneration for the toilsome life of plain sewing, to
which she now resorted for a livelihood. The poor woman
lent a credulous ear to the story that money flowed plen~
tifully in our streets, and embarked to assure herself
of the fact.
* Upon her arrival she found herself nearly penniless,
exhausted by a long voyage, and landed upon an inclem-
ent shore, with none to~ raise the eye of pity or extend
the hand of relief. She was a stranger, and knew not to
whom to apply. Even her own countrymen seemed
hardened by severity, and manifested no tenderness
toward the new emigrant who appeared among them.
Little Nelly could only cling to the scanty skirts of
her mother, and in* wonder trudge through our streets,
unable to divine why her mother sought such an inhos-
pitable shore. Besides, she was the only surviving one
of a family of eight children.
After many fruitless attempts to command labor, and
a shelter which would wear a neat and comfortable air,

Mrs. MoKin at length fell in with an honest, pitying
heart of her own sex, from the Emerald isle, who olThred
to share her room and furniture with her till such time
as she could recompense her for the kindness.
Mrs. MoKin then flowed the direction of some falsely-
styled philanthropic people, who directed her to certain
slop-shops, where, by excessive toil, she could only man-
age to procure her daily bread, leaving scarcely a cent
whereby she could help defray the rent of her tenement.
The poverty and loneliness of her own heart she eould bet-
ter have endured, had she not been compelled to witness
the inroads it made upon the tender susceptibilities of
little Kelly. The child had always been accustomed to a
plenty of common food, and she had hitherto ate, it with
a blithesome spirit,- and that always sweetens the coars-
est fare.' But now there was a stint; both her mother
and herself could not enjoy their homely meal, and feel
that their appetites were appeased; and so one coaxed the
other to take the last spare morsel, each feeling the
other had the most need of sustenance.
It may seem, to many outside observers of human con-
dition, that to feel the cravings of hunger i~an unneces..
sary thing. They think of their full larder, and of the
over supply which they would gladly render to such.
Bat how do the destitute know where to find such a sup-
ply? How gladly would the Scotchwoman have become
the useful inmate of a family, or her little Kelly have
lent her aid, could such a place have been assigned them!
Yet they lived in a neighborhood where luxuries abounded,
themselves inhabiting the only room over a livery stable,
which wa~ occupied as a "poor tenement."
23


260.

SUBSTANOFI A~TD SHADOWS.

Iiittle Nelly at length became what we call a "shav-
ing girL" She used to frequent the carpenters' shops
and fill her basket; and then, going to the doors of the
opulent, she SoxzLetimes obtained a few cents, with which
she bought a loaf of bread, which, in her first efforts, so
gladdened her heart that it really deprived her of her
usual appetite. She had 8 winning voice, a sweet smile,
and clear eye, which looked as if no taint of sin lurked
beneath, and no hypocritical guise concealed the truth of
her somewhat reluctant coiifession of poverty. S'till~'she
met with a cold and forbidding reception at most Oil! the
placess where she sought for aid, and not infrequently
was the doer rudely shut in her face, with the coarse
expression, "]3egone, and never trouble me. again!"
Perhaps this grating language was 'not entirely charge-
able upon ~those that uttered it; for are not our domestics
so constantly admonished to beware of street beggary, that
thay only reiterate the' language which their employers
~y have put in their mouths 3
And so little 1~elly 'trudged onee more to a door she
he4 often frequented without being severely repulsed.
~he 4omestics, at varied occupations, heeded not her
gentle ringing of the gate-bell; but the lady of the
hou~e i~nswered it. The soft, plaintive voice of the deso-
late child struck a vein of' tender sympathy in the heart
of 'that lady. She took her full basket 'of shavings, and
kindi~r added~ "Come in, my' little girl, and warm your-
4',
A. tear stood in Nelly's eye. It was shed at the voice
of' kindness.. So she followed her new friend, and an-
swered' her many inquiries as to her place of abode and

STYM~ANOE ,AND SHAD0W~.
tier destitution, in such a trut1tf~d and simple ~naaunpr as
completely won the heart of her benefactress. She mime-
diately went to a receptacle of castoff garments, and,
taking therefrom a supply suited to her condition in mid-
winter, most surprisingly gladdened the hea~'t of the des~.
olate child by fitting them on her person, and tying up a
little package for her mother ~ which was followed by so
many hearty thanks that no one, by the look and man-
ner, could have doubted the sincerity.
This kind lady did not feel, as many do, that, before
bestowing her alms, she must first make a formal call to
become an eye-witness .of absolute poverty; she saw
before her a shivering, thinly-clad diild, and she knew
by substituting more comfortable garments she was doing
no evil service; for sometimes we. seem to read clearly
in the eye. and manner of a sufi~rer that destitution is not
synonymous with imposition.. So she bade little Nell~
come again at a stated time, and she would furnish her
with another supply.
The grateful child ran home in perfect delight. The~
world was all sunshine to her now. She was soon a~
her mother's door, and, having displayed.a bright silver
piece, a basketful of ~omfortable and neatly-assorted
provisions, and a supply of clothing which exactly met
the wants of the mother, they both fell on their knees
and thanked their heavenly Father for raising up to
them such an unknown friend. Few more fervent
prayers 6were ever breathed; and the little girl seemed
wild with delightat her unexpected success. She be~ght
two candles at the neighboring grocer's, and, having
secured a few sticks of'drifl~-wood, that mother and child


were ~realIy, more heartily ~lad than many in an opulent
mansi&amp;i.
At the time appointed, however, for Kelly to make
her next call upon her benefactress, she dad not appear.
That evening ~ messenger came to say that the child was
very sick, and could only beg that '.' the lady who spoke
those kind words to her would come and see her." She
spoke not of outward gifts, -. it was only the kind words
~which seemed to linger in her heart. "They were the
first," said she, "that were ever spoken to me;" and
they. were the last, save the accents of a mother's voice,
whence nothing else could emanate.
Her benefactress called to see her; but Kelly's eyes
were closed, and her little heart beat faintly. ~he could
neither hear nor eec, - yet there was one incoherent
expression which she attempted to utter. It was of" the
lady who spoke - the kind words."
This simple narration, is strictly true, and with it is
embodied a touching meaning the power of a kind
word to the forsaken and friendless. It has a magic
spell which often reconciles the distressed to any out-
war4 condition, fir more than even the relief of present
wants.
Those words were incorporated in the soul of little
Kelly. She went to heaven's gates with the cheering
accents; and if the spirits of the departed are permitted
to welcome those who follow after them, may not she who
spoke those words of kindness hope to be recognized by
th8#grateful child, where all the artificial distinctions of
Bociety are done away, and the sweet charities and
benevolent, acts of this life are alone accounted worthy

of remembrance ' Speak, then, 0 speak words of kind~
ness to the suffering, if you can do nothing more!
Stands at thy gate no suffering child,
With sad, imploring air,
Who asks of thee her daily bread,
And would thy pity share?
Lean, shivering, wan, that haggard child
Solicits but in vain;
Thy door is closed with grating voice,-
"Begone! come not again."
Methinks, ere long, there is a gate
At which thou knockest too;
And, as itopes, that little child
Stands present to thy view.
Her guardian angel waits to hear,
How urgent thy request!
The door now closes with the voice,
"I know thee 'not, thou stranger guest;
For, inasmuch as to this child
The voice of love thou did~t deny,
So, now, to thy soliciting,
I must like thee reply."
The guest stood waiting, quite shut out~
From an expected bliss,
And felt how sad was the reverse
Between that world and this!
23*

268~        SUB~T4NUE AND. SHADOWS.                                SUD5TAN0J~2 AND SHADOWS.     269

269


SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        271

EVADING A DUN.

IT is curious to notice how some 'people can evade a
dun. There is the rich Mr. Skinner, who buys every-
thing on credit. lie gets his work, too, done by the best
of mechanics; but they are not cash jobs. 1f by way
of accommodation, a person to whom he is indebted sends
a messenger, stating, "it will greatly oblige him if he
would cash hi~ receipted bill," sometimes, if he feels in
a pleasant mood, Mr. Skinner will do sp, provided the
"fractional part over the amount is "given in ;" but let a
common workman present his bill for 'payment a few
days after his work is done, and he will be told "to go
about his business; that he only settles his accounts when
he receives his dividends, which is semi-annually; and
that if he wants any better treatment he may take a job
of some one else the nekt time' Now, as every one
knows Mr. Skinner is sure pay when the six months have
expired, he is passed over as a "hard customer ;" and,
to 'keep in his favor, it is generally known that only
semi-annually one must expect his payment.
Sometimes, Mr. Skinner boasts how much the interest
amounts to which he derives from thus 'withholding a
settlement; but he always forgets to mention 'how much
inconvenience and extra interest those to whom he is
indebted are Qbliged to pay to meet their liabilities.

Now, with our neighbor Tolman, the style o~f reason-
ing is very different. He affirms that Mr. Skinner
inherited his wealth, and never knew the anxiety attend-
ant upon not "quite enough;" whereas, he has been in
strait places, and feels it is only due the laborer to be
paid when 'his work is done. He therefore never has any
running accounts, and it was never said to him, "Will
it be convenient for you to settle our little bill to-day'?"'
and yet he seldom gets a job done as cheaply as friend
Skinner1 for he has not the desire to beat those down
with whom he contracts.
There is another class, who always have a frivolous
excuse whereby they avoid a dun, and defer payment.
The sight of a bill always finds them with an excuse for
withholding payment. Either "they have not yet ex-
amined. the one rendered," or "they have been absent,
or disappointed in receiving some expected remittances,"
or "there appears to be a slight mistake which requires
the supervision of the book-keeper;" all these are again
and again urged merely to postpone a ~~ttlement. This
is the delinquent creditor who generally settles arrearages
in July that were ~lue in January.
Then there is the man in moderate circumstances, who
means to pay as soon as he possibly can, and who hates a
dun tremendously; but he is constantly assailed by a
dapper little collector, who says, "We are greatly incon-
venienced by such small amounts as yours, sir, and when
may we with certainty expect our bill liquidated'?"
This man is sure to be punctual to the time assigned;
but he says to his family, "I don't know how it is that
people contrive to evade duns, and postpone paymeuW;

271


2T2       ~U~5TANVE AND ~HADOW$.

for my part, if I procure an article one week, I am sure
to hear'from it the next; while my neighbor has a six
months' reprieve without having an item presented to
him?'
'The fact is, nobody is afraid to dun the man who buys
but a small amount. The reasoning is, "If he don't pay
promptly, keep on dunning, and force him to do it; it will
be no great 1os~ to us if he withhold his patronage."
Whereas Madam Bruno, who rides in her coach, and
buys a thousand dollars' worth of silks and satins every
six months, on1y has to bid her coachman stop a moment
while she goes in to the bookkeeper, and says, "My
bill, sir, which you sent me last week, will not be settled
'for two or three months ~" and the young man with the
pen behind his ear bows very obsequiously, and replies,
"Just as it suits your convenience, Madam Bruno ;" and,
as she walks 6ut toward the door 'to her carriage, one of
the firm meets her with a most complaisant air, and asks
"if he shall not have the pleasure of showing her some
choice Thbrics he has just received'?"
Now, who says there is no advantage in keeping a
carriage? If any one, it must be he is profoundly igno~
rant of human nature, and the class of people who are
dunned~

A PLEA FOR DOG-DAYS.
EVERYBODY vilifies dog-days; there is no damp, um-
comfortable morning, -~ no day when. the furniture is
moist, and the flies light heavily, and bite voraciously,
no time when you feel debilitated and worn down with
having had a sleepless night, when. your disturbers have
been a concert of cats, whose voices could not harmonize,
or an army of mosquitos which, attacked you on every
point, - but forthwith comes the exclamation, "We
always have such trials in dog~days!" And so this
portion of time has come to be voted as the meanest,
most disagreeable, unendurable, of all days in the calen-
dar.
Now, for one, I should like to know ho~ we could
dispense with dog-days? We might do without' dogs,
I admit, because we can. dispense with hydrophobia, and
that emanates from the canines; but I should like to
know how we could live without the results which spring
from dog-days. Suppose it is a time "when all Bed-
lam and Parnassus is let out," when flies do bite, and
children scream, and seren~Iers are out till midnight,
and the anixxial~ kick in the stable, and the house-dogs
growl and howl as their peculiar prerogative, 'and women
scold their husbands, and old bachelors clear o~' to new

212


2T4         SUBSTAITCE AND ShADOWS.                                   5U~T41WB AND 8RADQW~

boarding-houses; suppose the milk is sour, and the air
is damp and foggy, With occasionally a flash of lightning
and a roar of thunder; who cannot bear six weeks out of
fifty-two, which are not altogether so pleasant, when the
harvest days come along, and the earth yields her richest
products, which were maturing all the time we were
defaming the weather?
I should like to inquire what great achievements were
ever carried forward without some drawbacks, some
endurances, some days of despondency, when the head
ached, and the heart grew sick? Dog-days, we admit,
are peculiarly trying t9 strong as well as weak nerves;
but for them, what woman could ever induce her husband
to take a journey, and shnt up the house, and leave his
unpaid notes, and welcome evei~ railroad train that car-
ries him further and further from bank and counting-
moms~ and old dingy associations?
If there were no dog-days, what would become of
those delightful watering~places, where swarms do con-
gregate, and cheerfully coop up in seven-by-nine bed-
rooms, and are most happy to. pay' exorbitantly for
such accommodations, with all other annoyances thrown
in.
If there were no dog-days, how could we test our
endurance' of physical' evils? How should we learn to
fed grateful for the difference between a morning when
the starch is, literally all' wrung out of us, when our cof-
fee tastes flat, and our neWspaper items are insipid, and
our family are all 'out of sorts, one complaining'that
her hair will not keep in curl; anethei~, that her newly-
ironed f~ck~ is all tuiiibled; and a third, that the shine

has disappeared from dicky and boots; I say, if we had
no such mornings, h~w little should we prize those cool
aut$nflal days when we are all on the right key, and
everybody looks smiling and feels happy!
And then there are the free-and-easy fashions which
dog-days especially countenance. The prim gentleman
can sit in his thin coat, and keep'on his slippers, doff his
neck-cloth, unbutton his vest if a fleshy man, swing a
fan to keep off. the flies in his afternoon lounge, con-.
descending to remark on his wife's flounces, and the
uncomfortable condition of gentlemen who are burdened
with wigs; and the poor woman is all of a perspiration
lest the false appendages when taken off should expose
the fact of her husband's indebtedness to them for his
youthful appearance; for size never appears with her
natural charms, save in the privacy of her own room. The
hottest morning finds the prim madam with her foretop
smooth and glossy, her "stand-off~" under-skirt, and her
rumpled, iron-rusted, white morning-dress; for the prim
lady maintains that "dress commands respect."
And then, besides all the. above enumerations, dog~
days have a tendency to cure envious people.
It was a hot morning some time in August, 1850,
when, at early dawn, I looked across the way, and espied
my neighbor, with his packed trunks ranged on the side-
walk, and other undeniable marks that they were fitting
out for a regular campaign in the country. Presently
he locked his outside door, and ran across the street with
the key, to know if I would take charge of it during an.
absence of six weeks Immediately my envy was ex-
cited. Why, reasoned I with ny~elg should the world.


SUB~TANO~ AND ~EADOW5.                                  $U~8T4NO~ AND SHADOWS.

be so unequally divided? And then name the query, I
wonder how he can afford such jaunts any better than I ~
Somebody s~id he w~ deep~ in "fancy stocks." I hope I
did not wish they would depreciate; but strange~thoughts
run through envious brains. At any rate, when he
wheeled round the corner in the carriage, with. all hi~
family, my impulse was to leaVe the window. ~1?hen it
flashed across my mind, how came he to think I could
take charge of his key for six u'eeks? Was it decreed
by everybody that I was a permanent fixture? I had
half a mind to travel off that instant. But, as the day
wore away, my feelings became more quiet. In a day
or two after, as .1 was looking over the items in the
morning journal, what should Ii discover but that "cer-
tam burglars had entered Mr. S.'s dwelling, and abstracted
many valuables, besides injuring the furniture and car-
rying off every~ article of plate!" I took the key and
marched over to the premises.. I felt no envy, then;
everything was in a state of "glorious confusion." Added
to all this, we were telegraphed that one of' my neigh-
bor's children was taken sick on the route, and they were
most uncomfortably situated at a poorly-conducted hotel!
Did I wish myself in his place then, think you? This
was the last time my envy was excited. I felt thankful
I ha4 a home, and a nice bed, and airy chamber, and a
healthy family; and all this lesson I acquired in dog-
What if we do perspire freely? What if the feline
race do~ hold ooticerts, and the canines howl, and the
babiescry, and the sky lowers, and women fret? If we
are but at home all these things can have an amicable

adjustment. There are no landlords' bills t4~ settle, no
"itew~"to quarrel over; and the effect of these debili..
stating dog-days results in heavy crops, plenty of produce,
a purse which no watering-place has emptied, and a con~.
firination that the necessity of the stay at home princi-.
pie is, after all, the most salutary. So, wipe the brow,
and cheer up with the certain good results of dog-days.
If the city is empty, then the air is purer, the streets
less crowded, and one's home all the more agreeable.
24


SUBSTANCE AND SHAD0WS.L        2T9

IN A DILEMMA.
"THE child will die, Mr. Foote, unless we have some
doctor, -and who shall we have? Do run and see
neighbor Gray."
"Mrs. Gray says, have a homoeopathist, by all means;
but I met Mrs. Gill, and she says it is all a humbug to
crack up this system. She knows two children who have
died already under this treatment; she says, try no
experiment, but doctor in the old-fashioned way, on the
allopathic system. Then you will have nothing to
reflect upon."
Mrs. Jones drops in to give her advice. "N~ow,"
says she, "as you are an inexperienced couple, I am
going to advise you to try cold water and friction. I 'ye
literally rubbed diseases down, and washed them off.
I~obody thought my little Peggy would live,, but I kept
on washing and rubbing till the dear creature opened her
eyes, and seemed bright as ever."
A. pail of water is furnished her, and a flesh-brush
and hair mitten. The child squirms and cries, and the
mother declares she must leave off
Mrs. Jones is in the other room, insisting upon it the
child must be treated with "energetic action," and rubs
accotdingly, t6 get up a perspiration. Mrs. Gill says she

looks upon such barbarous treatment as suicide; and
Mrs. Gray says calomel is just as bad, but one of the
homoeopathist powders would relieve instantly.
Here Jim runs for her doctor, Mrs. Gill sends the
father of the child for hers, and Mrs. Foote, in her
excited state, remembering hQW "hot-drops" once
relieved her, pours a quantity down the child's throat.
By this time, the two physicians have arrived. They
exchange glances at each other, and inquire if they are
mistaken in being directed to this house; They refuse
to confer together, and, both feeling their dignity some-
what offended by the novelty of being sent for, as if the
skill of e~ch is called in question, refuse to administer,
and both decamp. Mrs. Foote has offended Mrs. Jones,
and the child is now left quiet, and seems relieved; na-
ture has thrown off the alarming symptoms, and who
shall have credit for the cure ~I The mother says it was
the "hot-drops ;" the father says it was the quiet after
the rubbing; and Mrs. Jones says she did the work.
And now comes the question, who will they eniploy
when the child is next seized? People are all afloat
on the system of medicine. One doses one way, and
another a contrary; yet they both recover, have perfect
faith in their own way of doctoring, and are loud in
declaring against others. But hear the conclusion of the
whole matter, as given by experience.
Trust not thyself to quacks, neither in medicine nor
religion. A prescription for thy conscience should be as
accurate as one for thy stomach. Past~ keep thy mind
cheerful and thy countenance hopeful, and diseases will
not often come to thee; or should they threaten, they,
will not find thee an easy prey to conquer.

279


SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS. ,      281

MALE COQUETRY.
"WELL, mere attentions ought to mean something.
If you, Mr. Small, have been appointing such special
meetings, making engagements, likewise, to ride and
walk, and everybody has construed them into .a court-
ship, unless you mean something, you ought to pursue
a different course."
"But Mary is agreeable, and a pleasant girl to carry
on a flirtation. She sighs like an angel when I tell her
it will b&amp; inconvenient for me to call for a week, and she
actually wept when I left her for my travelling tour. I
suppose she feels dependent upon my attentions.
"Mr. Small, you are trifling with ~[ary's affections.
What is she to understand by your glances and visits, and
walks, and moonlight wanderings; by your sereflades,
your selecting her as your first partner in the dance,
your call the next morning to inquire for her health, the
music-sheets you gave her he invitations from the family
which you accepted to dine frequently with them, and
the whole stock of courteous and winning ways ~by which
you sought to win her regard? I ask you, Mr.. Small,
what4lid~theso things do but raise an expectation?"
"Only mere attentions, aunt;" and Small took his
cigar, and, with all the nonchalance in the world, acted the

comfortable gentleman who never did a wrong deed in his
life. His conscience was easy. He did care more for
Mary than anybody else. But, then, marriage was an ab-
surd thing; he never breathed a thought of it in her
ear, and how could she infer anything that had never been
expressed?
"Mr. Small, you know not the baseness of thus tri-
fling with a woman's affections. Mary is a gentle, ~confld-
ing, lovely girl; pure as the mountain dew, and unsullied
a~ the white violet that you and she have cultivated in her
pai'terre of flowers; but, be assured, she dreams these
'mere attentions ~ mean 8omet king. Why, the very
suggestion of your name mantles her cheek with such a
conscious blush, that I have seen her turn to the window
for concealment; and then you may be assured those
lonely musings in her chamber, and those solitary walks
by the river-side, greatly favor the idea, that in the
future she is weaving a Thntastic wreath of ivy over a
cottage, wherein are the charms of wedded life. But
tell me plainly, Small, did you never say anything by
which she might construe these attentions into that
which had its centre in the heart 'U'
"Never, aunt, never! And, really, your eloquence
has quite moved me. Mary has only been to me as a
pretty pastime of my idle hours. She is a sweet vocalist,
and we have only sung love songs, and glanced occasion-
ally in each other's. faces. With the old man, too,. I have
often accepted the honor of a. glass of wine; but I can
look them all in the face without a fear of being aa'rested
for a breach of promise;" and Small., puffed out a long
volley of smoke, and turned ever the pages of the book
24*


~82         SUMi~AN~E A~?D SHADOWS.

if 'he were not much interested in its contents, since~
this conversation commenced.
~?ar differently was Mary occupied. She was arrange~
ing a bouquet of flowers, according to the language which
they indicated, to present to Mr. .~Small; 'or' she was
catching the sweetest tone of music, or practising the last
chorus, hoping 'it would meet his enthusiastic approba-
tion;' and when she was alone with him, ~he was hop~
ing some of his sentimental sayings might be construed
into some definite words, that the mere repetition of them
might clothe them with an unmistakable, meaning. But,
to do Small justice, he never did mean to trifle, except
for his own pleasure; for ~he was supremely selfish, and,
since the remarks of his aunt had resounded in his ears,
he resolved to absent himself yet more and more; for
he would not injure the pure affections of Mary, not he
and so he saw her the less frequently, and was more
taciturn.
Mary~gre~ sad. She lost the vivacity of spirits and
the elasticity 'of gait which were her former character-
istics; there was a sinking at the stomach, a fluttering
at the heart, a throbbing in the head'; restless nights fob
lowed, 'and febrile symptoms called for medh~al aid.
Alas f~r the prescriptionn which could not effect a cure!
Then the incipient stages of consumption began to ap.
pear, and a change of place was recommended. But
Newport 'and Niagara both failed in restoring the bloom
that ~had faded upon Mary's cheek. Mere lookers-on
spoke of ~the baneful effects of our climate, in ~thus sap-
ping the'vital springs of health; and' the beautiful world
we lire in was' condemned as only fostering 'the 'seeds'of

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.            288
early decay. A sea-voyage was at length undertaken.
Italian skies, Swedish landscapes, and England's brac-
ing air, added to the subduing influence of time, did
give a partial restoration; but Mary was never again
the same blithe and happy being as before her affec-
tions were thus chilled. There was a tinge of ro-
mance, however, left in her nature. She lived among
floWers and pensive scenes, and erelong the village
clergyman became so enraptured withlier pure and gen-
tle nature, that he offered her his ha~nd, and soon, after
rejoiced in. the possession of so precious a tre~isure. Yet
there was a sad history, all unrevealed in words, which
those mere attentions had caused to tinge and shade her
once bright and joyous spirit.
And Mr. Small was still pursuing one gala day of
enjoyment. lie did occasionally wonder if Mary were
perfectly happy. He still had a kind of regard for her
welfare; but the field was large and his friends promis-
cuous. lie had since flirted with a dozen hearts and
pretty faces; they were to him like garments when
slightly worn, Which he threw off without compunction
as some fresh charmer appeared. Yet Mr. Small was
tolerated in excellent society; flirt as he might, and
entrap the affections. as he did, he was always re-
ceived with welcome, and scarcely a mother in the land
but would have freely consented to bestow her daugh-
ter upon him; for Small inherited a large fortune,
had a singular faculty of pleasing, and his mind' was just
cultivated enough to make him a fascinating companion;
but lie wa~ a heartless~ wretch, and caused more sighs
than smiles from having lived in the world.

1~


SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.         286

LOVE OFFASILION.
You may talk about love 6f parents, and conjugal
love, and brotherly love, and love of humanity, and love
of the church; but what do they all amount to, when put'
beside the love of fashion,- that everlasting pride of
appearance, which drives so many into insanity, which
makes so much wretchedness on account of unpaid bills,
which torments 'when one would be at ease, whioli pro-
duces a restlessness which no drug can relieve'? Yes,
that insatiate demand, which must be appeased, makes
the bane of existence to many sensitive minds;~ good-
natured fellows, who hate to deny their wives and daugh-
ters; 'who never did say "no"to an importunate request;
who are made to believe it is necessary to have half a
dozen French' hats and a change of jewelry once a
month; who can easily be persuaded by daughter or
wife that a change of climate is demanded by their
impaired health. All these get the better of a man's ~com
edition when his pe~uniax~y resources are insufficient~ and
he is' the most unhappy man alive. 1'lace him on a
splendid couch is~there any ease for him'? It is not
that'fly that lights upon his face which annoys him. Those
utipaid hills, and the face of that dunning little urchin,
who, twice a week, wishes to know "'when it will be con-

Venient to settle Mr. Todd's bill," take all the starch
out of his dickey, ~ind all the flavor out of his coffee.
lie turns over his newspaper; but what avails it to him
that California is disgorging her mines to consignees '~
he has no interest there.
"Why is it father is so dull '!" inquires young
sixteen, flounced up to her waist - one item which helps
out his misery. And just at this time the cook demands
her wages, and the seamstress exacts her pay, and "wife"
wants her purse replenished, and business is dull, and
fashion is importunate, and the good man cannot make a
clean breast of it, and say he does not feel as if he could
afford the supplies; and so he goes on, goaded with a
load of unrevealed anxieties, which prey upon his health,
and completely victimize him, so that he 'pays the penalty
by a short and fatal fever, or a paralysis, or some malady
which suppressed grief has engendered.
And what a family is left! The quantity of bomba~.
zine and crape for mourning his loss tells the story.
And then the estate is declared insolvent, and after a
great outcry about the extravagance of the man's family
- why, a purse is made up by the friends of the de-~
ceased, and presented to the widow; and she still keeps
cook, chamber-maid, and parlor-girl, yet forever has a
nioisture about her eyes a~ she speaks of the sacrifices
she makes on account of her "altered circumstances."
a poor mechanic die, and how people proclaim,
"Well, he has left a smart wife, and likely children, who
can earn their own living!" And who would not rather
be the independent wife of the mechanic, than the
patched-up widow of the late faabiQnable man'?


SUD$TANCE AWP SHADOWS.          28~I

*    CHANGI?~G PLACES.
A RESTLE$S, roving habit, seems to be gaining in our
community. Once it was considered almost indis-
pensable to a good marriage that the husband should be
the owner of the house he occupied, especially in the
country. Now, ever!,where has become a city, every-
bod~, has assumed city habits. The country shoemaker
hires his tenement, because he does not consi4~r himself
as "a fixture" in any village; the shopkeejer is making
a trial, and boards his family at the hotel; the minister
even has abandoned the old, ivy-grown parsonage, and
takes "lodgings" with some wealthy parishioner. In
the city, the trades-people move into the country in the
summer, and back again in the autumn. We have few
social firesides, and seldom does a man sit under his "own
vine and fig-tree."
What we are to become, where we are to gather the
household band fifty years hence, on a time-honored
"Thanksgiving," or a "Merry Christmas," is a mat-
ter of some perplexity. If there are no family "man-
sions;" 4f course one strong tie is broken that linked us
with the past. As it now is, who can talk of his early
home'? The child is born in one town, schooled in
another, his lot is cast in yst another for subsistence;

and, perhaps, the far West is destined to hold his family,
and be his sepulchre.
I should not wonder if our New England homes, our
old family records, the places where our fathers lived,
the very tombs of our ancestors, in coming time should
only be a beautiful history relics which have passed
away under the all-powerful ban of present "improve-
inents." Do you not know, reader, many a homestead that
has been transmitted for half a century, nay, more, some-
times a hundred years, from father to son, and again to the
same descendant of the same name; in the best parlor
of whidi you may 6x4 the "coat of ~ "the record
and genealogical tree," where all the different branches
are traced'? And who would think of removing such a
relic any n1o~ than displacing a landmark'? But times
are beginning to change. The most promising son hears
of large fortunes made in trade; of golden California, or
some region where the slow accumulations from agricul-
tural toil dwindle into insignificance. He goes to that
spot; perhaps fails in~ health t~id purse; but still the life
of a farmer does not suit his taste, and, rather than return
back and take "the homestead," where he might live
respectably, and die regretted, he suffers his patrimony
to be sold into the hands of strangers, takes his pittance,
perhaps settles on the banks of the Mississippi, dies of
some "fell disease," and his children never see, and
scarcely know, their father's birthplace!
The ennobling business of agriculture is too often ex-
changed for one of traffic or speculation in some distant
city. This arises partly from our aversion to hard labor;
but could I depict to you the thousand vexatious, the


288         SUBSTANCE ANT) SHADOWS.

sfruggl~s; the heart..sickness, nat, more, the ruin of
health iind loss of all the vigor which manly toil would
'give, I know you would desire to be carried back to the
plough, the scythe, the sickle, and the thr~shing.floor.
2'hese are toils which a few hours' suspension will enable
you to prosecute again with cheerful hope; but who ever
forgets "protested notes," settlement with a "hard cred~
itor," and the stignia and loss of manly strength which
he feels in never being able to do business in his ourn
name?
Young men, beware of change. 'All is not enterprise
that is ranked' as novelty; all is not a mine of wealth
which looks so' gilded. You' may part with your integ-
rity by leaving your home; you may secure a post' of
honor by remaining there, See where duty, leads, not
where inclination prompts, and your course will be right.
home! the old home of thy nativity! Is' there no
charm in its venerable look, in its ancient trees, in the
murmurings of that brook, in the yard where thou hast
rrolieked, and the green fields where thou hast sported ~
If iiot, sell the homestead -~-- it matters not to whom; but
if there be a sacred, touching influence in the spot, keep
it; often visit it, if thy lot is cast away; go to the tombs
of thy ancestors; ~keep alive the sentiment of love which
mace animated their bosoms, and be assured, when your
spirii~takes its flight, your last aspiration will be "bury
me with my kindred; let me sleep in death near the spot
where I awoke to life."

THE AUDIENCE AND THE LECTURER.
WE hope it is an innocent amusement to watch the
promiscuous company in a lecture-room, especially a
crowded one. Arrive at what hour you may, somebody
is sure to have preceded you. "Silsby," the man with
the high dickey, always "foregoes" his tea, that he~ may
occupy his particular seat directly in front of the lec-
turer. He carefully arranges his wig, draws up his
high overcoat collar, secures as much elbow-room a~ iS
necessary, pulls out his evening paper, runs over the
doings of the legislature and common council, and notes
particularly the action upon 'the subject of a public
library, as he is a bachelor, loves reading at a low rate,
and imagines there may be some spare seats in. the appro-
priated room.
Ne,~t in turn comes in the Widow Wadman. She is
generally found on the same settee with Silsby, although
there appears to be no affinity between them, since the
bachelor is quiet, and the old lady is all of a nettle.
She has so many things to look after; her spectacles, her
fan, her opera-glass, her muff and her ever-shoes, are
all in particular places, before she can hear a word. That
little roguish elf beside her is her grandson, and, as she
C~iot ~ee in the distance, his tiny ~eok is continually
25


su~s~u A~w sr&amp;nows.

ez~ the ~treteh to. ascertain for the old lady whether "the
Pickle f~miiy have come in) and if General. Bounce has
taken his seat, and whether he sees the governor yet."
Off in yonder corner sits an unhappy.looking couple,
izian and his wife, undoubtedly. The man is a grocer,
and the passage of the Maine liquor law would ruin his
trade; he is. conning over 8ome pan~graph adverse, to his
trade, and, heavens, what 'a frown! His wife asks him
a question, aiid lie shakes his 'head. Those pipes and
quarte~casks in the c~i~6in~house  11 Jd* brain.
Right behind him 'sits Commodore Apsley. He 'has
to t dinner party, and his eyes look hea~ry and red.
Dy his side co~nes in a dapper little clerk, and ~t young
lady with t~ *hite nuba on her head. All the world with
~h~i*~ g~e~ well; tlie~r are :ta1ki~g~~of rn~ine dventoro~
il~%h~$de, or som~ jiit~d s*~$ii wi~o went too t~r in 'hid
~t~k~tl6~s, ~ ~h~' Tai M~i~el ~ileyed a game ~Yith 'him.
~ ~is ~.' ~fr~bly*ng~ed Widower. I~o*
~gti~4fully he 'b6ww his lady into her seat! and 'thb
~       ~         he suilles~p1ay ~roun&amp;diuipled cheeks,
~IiI 'he irzqixires, '"if ~ ~±itfr~1iy '&amp;t her ease, warm
en~ugh,-does she feel the fatigue of walking'?-..and 'then
su~h ~a pl~ n't't~te.&amp;t~te '~fello~~! Eow strange it is
~tb~V~ra. $i leinustinake 'the ilhna ~dreniark, "it
'~m~i't '~o hi The 't v,4fe's day! She, poor woman,
h~'d tb delVe ~al1 day, ~uzd get the baby to 'sleep before she
'#ent ont; btit in those d&amp;y~ 'the man 'had 'not made his
~ft~kt4ne. Well," she si~hs out, '"that ~is 'hiun&amp;n nature,
'~&amp;ll ~ey~s ~ n6w directed 'to a ti~ula~ cpz&amp;rter, -
S ~                                ~e

blandly round ~ the awdienee; the inax~ h~ the ~xit
seat rises, and n~o~t heartily shakes ha~ds witl~ "the
illustrious," passes him to his seat, and feels mueli taller
for the honor conferred.
Now scores, of all ages, sexes and' conditions, crewd
the seats, alleys and vaesnt places; chairs and settees
are in high requisition; somebody has trodden on th~
skirt of old Mrs~ I~odn~an's dress, and she i~ almost fran-
tic; Corporal Stubbs sneezes.; Major Baron gapes; the
boys in the gallery stamp, and the o~~uist enters, pulls
out all the stops, and thunders im~sie loud enei~gh to
make one deaf a week afterwards!
B~4 the filling-in is not yet entirely comDleted. There
are those "reserved seats," where some stupid fellow
places his J' lady attendant," when they are suddenly
driven out by the keeper in charge, while, just after, the
particular friends of the orator enter and fill them.
Finally, the lecturer enters. He may have a school-
boy's gait, or a sailor's swagger, or a State.~street air;
and, if he lacks in confidence, few places are so trying
to his natural gait as the nine feet on 'the stage to the
chair behind 'the desk. Now he takes out his notes, -
opens a large white handkerchief, puts it to his mouth as
an excuse to look upon the audien*, and forthwith is an-
nounced and begins his theme. it takes some minutes to
engage the minds of such an audience. You have their
eyes at first, that is all.
Woe to the lecturer that is prosy! in a. short time,
in the further gallery, boots are in motion; the conta-
gion spreads, the door slams, it is 'all over with the
speaker~ The old lady in front is~ nodding; the mati


2~2        ~U~STANOIi~ AND BHADOW~.

behuiid' h~r i~ f~t~t asleep with his mouth partly opened.
The Widow Wadman has dropped her fan, and the en-
gaged couples are in close conversation. Why spin your
yarn to its close, my good sir?
Far different, however, is the reception of the witty
lecturer. He tells an anecdote, or says a "droll thing,"
and what a universal shout ensues! Everybody is wide
awake. Those a "little hard of hearing" place their
hands behind their ears to catch th~ sound; the ~boys are
all ~on tiptoe to clap, and old men bring down their caries.
The #a±or proceeds, holding his audience captive.
g
A

MODERNIZING.
Tais modernizing ha~ been the ruin of m~ny.
Says one, I bave tried it, and e~peri~meiitaI owl-
edge is worth a great deal. I once thought i~ w~ld l~
a fine a0~'air to repair a house somewhat out of fashion,
and thereby I should get the cost of my " prey rnent8 ~?
back again in the market value of my estate. I wait~4
to make a large parlor without folding-doprs; so I c~4le4
upon my carpenter and 8taLed my plans, which he assure4
me could be executed very satisfactorily. I engage him
forthwith, and ~et about the business. It soon damped
my wife's ardor, however, when she ~aw the d~t and
confusion it occasioned, and so I was forced to hold on my
way without sympaThy. The rooms were thrown into
one, but what could I do with the ceiling?
0
The niason protested against p4ching the walls;'
of course, then, the whole ceiling must be torn down~
newly loathed, and freshly mortared. Then the bookez~s~
on perceived as clearly ~ myself the impA~rtance of cut-
ting down the ~indow~, throwing out an iron balustrade,
&amp;c. This was includedd on ; - but, alas! who ever want-
ed two fire-places in one room, especially when bQth were
rendered useless by a furnace? And what could be doi~e?
WhyI had gone so fa~r, that I en4eav~re4 to'ma~ tl~


£94        BUB0TANQE AND SHADOW0.

295

as t~ultless as possible to myself and future purchasers.
So the fire-places were removed, and yet the unseemly
jog in the wall, which the chimney occasioned, left the
monument to tell where they once stood. Just as I be-
gan to think II saw the end, every one who stepped in to
witness "the improvements," made the remark, "What
a pity that the ceiling is so low! I think the cutting
down of the windows a decided failure !"
Upon settling with the carpenter, I found my "im-
provements amounted to nearly six hundred dollars;
my reason was sure his bill ought to be two hundred
more, for the work 'on the chimneys was a heavy job;
and sundries amounted to a few dollars short of a thou-
~and. And had I accomplished my aim? Scarcely one
looked upon the work but 'wondered I had not 8old the
old 'house as it was, and purchased a modern one; for
all the doors, windows, 'ceilings, and work in other parts
of the building bore distinct marks of the 'very year it
w~s completed. I was 'not satisfied, after all my labor,
and concluded; after passing one uncomfortable winter in
my large modem room, which the furnace was hardly suf-
ficient to heat, I say, I concluded to sell my house!
At a private sale I entirely failed in my purpose; at
public auction it was finally sold for just two hundred
less than I had I~een offered before I attempted to improve
it! Passing by the premises a month after, I felt a little
chagrined to see my improvements all displaced, and the
owner putting things back into the very condition from
which I had removed them.
Modernir~ing is very common; but we should remember
som~ things look best as 'they are first made. For exam-

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.

pie, a mafl generally looks best when he looks naturally.
False whiskers seldom improve him; a wig does not look
better than the gray hair which age puts on; indeed, any
attempt to improve nature will generally prove a failure.
I pity the girl who uses rouge instead of her natural
complexion, - who modex~nizes her form almost to distor-
tion, - who puts on artificial airs, and simpers affectedly;
for I am well aware the object is never accomplished by
such means.
This is the season for modernizing. We lay aside ht4s,
bonnets, coats, dresses, for a fashionable summeri~attire.
See that it is becoming before you purchase. Do not
wear a fashionable hat if you dislike it; do not wear an
unbecoming bonnet because your milliner tells you it is
fashionable. Do not repair your house unless you can
improve it; do not do it unless you can afford it. Make
no outlay which will haunt you if "money continues
hard," or "banks' refuse' to discount freely ~" but always
remember, seasonably, few people grieve over full purses,
while many cry over empty, ones!

294


STTh$TA~WE AND 5HAI~OW~.            297

~JJJ~FLJ~ST B~EAYE~IENT.
Li~ had been to me one summer's day. In that day,
to be si~re, there had ~been 8oi~e variation; but the cIQuds
tl~at 0v~rcast my sky only caused the sun to appear in
greater effulgence. From bereavement I bad bee spared;
~nd the tear of sympathy had not lavishly been bestowed
upon othe~' sOrrows. Judge, then, of the preparation
of mind with which ~ n~et the siekne~s and death of Myr-
t4a
~#e wp~s ~ lovely child; it w~s ~he general iwpre~sion,
~s well ~s the reeling of parental partiality, ~he bad been
us scarcely twQ full years when the messenger of
disease prostrated her which was only a prelude to the
Angel of Death. I had often sat and watched the expan-
sion of immaturity. The first accents of speech, how
fondly were they treasured, repeated and reechoed, by the
little, fragile child, who seemed delighted with the trans-
ports she thus inspired! And that feeble, tottering little
walk, supported by chairs, and held up by various arti-
cles of furniture; and occasionally the giving way of
some hold, which more generally ended in a merry laugh
'than the natural 5y. And now she began to notice, and
gradually develop the infantile mind. Sweet child! we
taught hexdhe old-fashioned but never-worn-out petition

of, 'KNOW I lay me down to sleep;" and. years have
passed since those lisping accents were repeated, yet they
are as audible to me this moment as if just echoed from
her voice.
When sickness came and assumed a threatening aspect
my courage forsook me. My faith (had I any 3) was too
weak for nay reliance. I felt she must not die. Had I
not a better right to the darling child than her heavenly
Father 3 And why was she forced to suffer 3 Innocent
and lovely, yet there she lay, racked with pain, fevered,
tossing, d~lirious ~ and I was equally so, questioning the
Almighty's behest!
The third day, Myrtilla died. A transient calmness
seized me, as I looked upon features now at rest; yet an
agonizing, choking sensation followed, and I would fain
have gone with ~her. But whither had she gone 3 Now
the awful realities of the unseen world began to dawn upon
me. In vain did my friends try to assuage nay anguish,
by comforting assurances that "of such were the king-
dorn of heaven,"~and that Jesus especially blessed such.
My sorrow was selfish: I wanted my treasure back again.
For weeks I 4rried about with me a disquieted spirit.
I shrank mostly from friendly intercourse, save with those
to whom I could detail the uncommon traits of my lost
one's character. I could not compose myself to rea~l.
Occasionally I would peruse some touching passages in
the records of the evangelists, showing me how Jesus
sympathized with the mourners; but, alas! I wanted a
present Savioiir to restore my child, as was done to the
Widow of Nain.
I felt myself rebellious and sinful, unreconciled arid


29S                                                                       ~NX~

dist~'ea#ed; and I waiidered abont, parfonning my nec~s~
sary duties, but having no heart in them. Many pious
and many worldly friends visited me. One besought n~e~'
in the offices of prayer and holy submission to yield to
~$Iod's wisdom, who always appoints what is best; while
others begged me in the round of gayeties and recrea-
tions to try an4 obliterate the past; but I could bear
anythingg better than the trial of forgetfulness.
There was no sudden change caine over me, which
immediately subdued me, and yet there was something
wholly distinct from the effacing hand of time iVhieh
brought resignation into my heart. I~Iy feelings were
gradually softened; my syinpi~thies were quickened; I
felt chastened, bu~ not destroyed. A friend of mine
begged me to interpret tohitn my experience. I thought
it over, and the first distinct beaming of God!s oountenanc&amp;3
~ap~n toy stricken soul was iu answer to my first pra~ier.
It was a feeble utterance; it was. wrung from my heart
after anguished weeks; hut it was sincerely uttered:
Father, lead me to understand thy dealings with me."
Years passed on, and we were gTh4dened by the birth
of five pronuising children. They were l~althy and vig-
orous; yet I never felt I had such a~ claim upon them as
was preeminently attached to Myrtifla. That chastise-
ruent was my first sorrow; and it broke my stubborn
heart. It did, indeed, prove a blessing in disguise. I
have since often watched by the death-beds of little
children; I have witnessed the convulsive agony of pa-
rental hearts, and have longed to tell them, that there is
relief for such troubled spirits; but the wqrds died upon

Yet I dau never tell you all the benefits of my earthly
sorrow. ft so wonderfully checked my~reliance on The
perishing, and' implanted such a hope in immortality,
that, bitter as was the cup, and rehietiintly as Ii drained
its bitter, dregs, yet of the fruit of such an experience
I would not be dispossessed, could that child have lived
to have been to me an earthly ministering angel.
" Where your treasure is, there will your heart be
also," says Holy Writ; yet I would not think to carry
the earthly attachment to a. heavenly state. I fear we
become too selfish, too carnal in our desires, to reach that
blissful state. I may not recogni2~e my lost child there as
once mine; I may not know any of my dearest kindred
and loved companion~ of this world; but I trust to Ood's
love for that. if I need such helps to make my 'enjoy..
merit, undoubtedly they will be furnished. What rnay
jiow militant~ against my wishes, I may leave behind ~
pith the perishing flesh. I would not ~fix my thoughts
on eternity by making it consist of similar pleasures I
have knoWn here. Alas! that Christian hearts~ should
be so distrustful of a Father's fostering care!
We are too prone. to feel that the friends who contrib-
uted to our enjoyment here will again rejoin us hero~-
after. It is a delightful thought, I well know; bitt who
can tell how independent the disembodied soul may be
of what made its essential enjoyments while here 'I N~
doubt there are hidden aven~ies to our future bliss, which
no mortal conception has penetrated. That redeemedd
host" may all be equally dear to us, employed in dift~er-
ent missions, but all fulfilling thdr immortal de~tiny.
The death of a. child, ~ any Tother ~ber e~ner~t, ~tbe

206


~U50TA~QE ~4ND SHADOWS.
severe disa.ppointx~ent, the failure of earthly.plans, in~.
deed, anything that has rebuked our waywardness and
iz~c1ined us to take hold of our Father's hand for sup~
port, may be a primary cause of gratitude, for which, for
eternal ages, we may thankfully bless our God; but, we
must remember, our, souls are destined to unknown ex-
pansion. It may not be necessary in eternity that we
should remember our birthplace in time, only just so far
as, the discipline of earth was the preparation for the
~njoymentof heaven. We talk profoundly of the capa-
bilities of the souL Alas, how little do we understand
them! The lifting of the thin veil, which partitions us
from such a revelation, may disclose such new senses,
such an illimitable state of progression, as to utterly ab-
serb all our earthly associations. Our employment may be
so happily adjusted to our enlarged conceptions, that the
friendships of time may seek no renewal. But in one
thing let us be confident: as we had no personal agency
in furnishing the auxiliaries which promote our present
peace, so, beyond this state of being, we shall undoubtedly
be introduced to just as radiant and beautiful visions as
our, improvement here has fitted us to comprehend or
enjoy there.
]~ut our faith is so weak! Do we not hear sorrowing
friends exclaim, under any fresh calt~niity, "If' the de-
parted know the sufferings of the friends they have left
behind, it must embitter all their glorious state;" as if -
we, only closed our eyes, and carried into the future the
same earthly feelings with which we struggled here!
No, I, would say; nothing but the impress of this life
f~l1ow~, us; the ~rogate of good or evil is ,one9ntred
t                                       /

SUBSTANG~ AN~ 5HADOW~.

801

in our judgment, which the soul passes upon itself; as
with heavenly vision it then sees the end from the begin.
ning. How ca~&amp; we, then, for a moment suppose, that
the great Author of immortality left such a flaw in his
almighty wisdom, as not to guard us against every ,defect
wl~ich our finite minds may suggest ~ I would arm
thee against such a jealous distrust, my bereaved friend.
Infinite wisdom has, in holy keeping, all those "who
have crossed the flood." See thou to thy earthly corn-
bat, and struggle on for the attainment of a more perfect
character, if thou vi~ouldst make thy sorrows blessed.
26

t


$UJ3$TANCJ3 AND SHADOW~3.

PROP~RTY.
AcQuxsrrmoN and possession are two very different
things, producing very different results. The desire to
get seems an instinctive element in many. Indeed, we
know not but it is a natural element of our being. Take
a glance at life. The little infant first opening his eyes
cries for something out of his reach; the blaze of a can~
dIe arrests his attention, and he would Lain put his tiny
angers in the brilliant light. Childhood is just as grasp-
ing. The boy begs for his kite, his marbles, and various
playthings, which, when obtained, fail to satisfy. There
is always some other lad who has a coveted treasur9.
The youth of sixteen longs to feel he is no more a minoi',
and boasts what he will do when that period arrives.
The man lo~ks out from his busy store, and hears of the
retired cottage, and sighs for ease amidst luxurious
indulgence, where the irritating bustle of trade will no
more reach him. The man of retirement feels a vacuity,
and* wonders why, as he ranges ever his elegant man-
sion and his gravelled walks, so little enjoyment attends
the acquisitions; and old age, still tenacious of life,
recounts the exploits of an early period, dwells on the
changes ~f society, and, when not solaced by the prospect
of a heavenly home, tightly clings to itB earthly posses-

sions, and even mourns that so little time is left to hold
on to present acquisitions. The desire, nay, even the
struggle to attain, seems to be the period of the greatest
enjoyment.
A friend invited one of his companions to visit him, and
promised to show him the beauty of his garden, the
varieties of trees, the shrubbery and green-house, where
so many rare plants ~irere deposited. He accepted; and,
having surveyed the beautiful enclQsure, and feasted his
eyes upon all it contained, as lie turned away from
beholding it, he bowed, and said, "I thank you."
"For what'?" asked his friend; "surely you have had
nothing yet demanding gratitude." "I think difir~..
ently," replied the friend. "I have gazed upon all,
which has cost you so much money and anxiety, for
nothingg, and have been about as much benefited as your-
self; for, after all, you can do no more than look upon
these things."
It does not necessarily follow that the man in posses-
sion of his million must be unhappy. If he is indolent,
he will undoubtedly be so; but, if his mind is active, of
course his hands will be often employed, and the ennui
which attends repletion will not be his Late. Why is it
that the poor and middling classes so often envy the rich ~
Certainly these people have the advantage of fortune's
favorites. A gentleman who owned a valuable hQr~e
once remarked that his ~rooni took the most pleasure
with him. said he, "I am always fearful when I drive
him that he will be lamed, or when I stop at a hotel that
he will not be properly attended. My~ servant has no
sue~i fears. He. drives him at will; whistles as he goes;

-0

308a

4


A~U~ £1W~QWS.

an4, refreshed by his ride, sits
down and enjoys a hearty n~eaL I, on the contrary,
have some vexatious bill to settle, or stocks are depre.
citing and money is difficult to invest; and, with these
the~ghLs c'~rewding upon each ether, the zest of my appe..
titeistakene~E"
The wan of wealth has many tenants who inhabit his
*h~ps and houses. He employs a man to collect his
rents; the person returns, and informs birn one is about
removing, another says he ~h'all do the same unless some
repairs are rnoAe, while i~ third deems it needful to his
o~rt that the pure Cochituate should be conveyed to
his chamber. Some of the rents are paid, some are 1ef~
in the arrears, and some will never be paid, The owner
f4zlds r~d trouble in his possessions.
Yen may call these trials small tries, unworthy
one's attention, yet they do lte~p to make up life; they
discompose the spirits, lead one to dwell upon the ingrkt-
itude4 human kind, and often wish they were acquir-
ing instead of possessing. There is a kind 'of vigor
ettp4s the getting a spur which urges us to make
sa~erifices, and a, deceitful, yet buoyant hope, that the
t~itur~ will remunerate us, for all present discourage-
ments., Rut in this we see th~ i~'isdom of our heavenly
thier~ who permits us never to rest satisfied with earthly
a~tainmen&amp; Thus the s~ul is, ~a it were, pushed along,
4o realize its higher destiny, and'seek its more enduring
tre~aures in things whieli perish not with 4he using.

THE CAST-OUT EVERGREEN.
IN a tangled wild-wood there grew a luxuriant ever-
green. It had taken root in the damp earth beneath a
clump of 'dried leaves. But gradually it peeped forth,
and, throwing its feeble tendrils around the scattered and
decayed bi~anches which autumnal and wintry winds had
thickly strewed ar~nnd, it entwined itself by such sup~
porting embraces, until it reached a trailing length; and
assumed a brilliant verdancy, which made it a conspicuous
beauty among the dried shrubbery and mouldering foliage
~hich encompassed it. And there for years, it may be,
it had grown unobserved. Even the bright rays ~f the
sun but scantily and slantingly shone in upon its branch-
9
ing progress"; for, among the majestic oaks and stately
pine-trees, the eclipse which fell' upon the evergreen Vras
sometimes almost total. Yet it ki~ew no ~tint, no fading
* hue; and no rude footsteps had ever trampled upon' it.
In its obscurity it seemed to obey o~e of the great' laws
of nature, and silently to 'live on with increasing beauty
and 'strength. At e~rery "few paces ~a livid green sh6t
out, more ~tender and beatitiful than others with ~which' it
claimed affinity, and thus an added bea~ity Was given by
its changing colors.
But erelong footsteps are heard' in this sacred '*brest.

*

B04


806         8UBSA~OE 4I~TD SHADOWS.                                su~mANo~ A~w 5HAD~W5~

Over briers and brambles, over underbrush and rubbish,
the pursuit is urged, and the lovely evergreen is at length
~espied in the tramp. The fatal knife soon severed it from
its damp root. Gently was it untwisted from its support-
lug holds, and through many a gap, and over many a
wild and thorny bush,. had it extended itself. It was in-
deed hailed by the gleaners as a rare treasure, and care..
fully and faithfully was it twined in a broad receptacle,
which was designed toenclose many of its kindred; for the
Christmas holidays were approaching, and this undying
evergreen was to be woven in a ohaplet as an emblem of
the Christian faith.
Its destination was in a stately mansion, and the prep~
~ration was in view of scenes of festivity and joy. By
maiden fingers it was rounded and arranged with more
perisha1A~e wild flowers, and hung in the splendid draw-
ing-room windows. Here was an emblem of life contr~ted
with a dreary prospectt without; but it was a new. life to
the vine which had been cradled amidst alternate snows
and scanty sunshine. In its strange atmosphere a radiant
glar~ of light always beamed upon it. When the setting
~un would have left it in its native darkness, the brilliant
artificial light shone quite as strongly upon it. And
theii only a frosty window-pane lent it any damp and
refreshing aid to save it from decay; for, amidst the
heated drawing-rooms where mirth and music were keep-
ing time, there was no absence of a blighting heat which
withered both anim~te and inanimate things. Yet for
twenty successive holidays did this evergreen maintain
its position. The wild flowers which were llrst put
betw~er~ it were long since perished, aa~d a decaying
/

beauty 'was nOW resting upon the evergreen. it twisted
itself; and grew rusty and fading. But it had answered
it5 purpose it had maintained its place as long as the
festive season lasted, and then the window which con-
tained it was suddenly thrown up, and the chaplet was
thrown among other rubbish into the street!
As with quiet gaze I looked upon it, I too saw an em-
blem of worldly friendships. It was no more suggestive
of Christian faith; for the place it now occupied was but
an emblem of fallen greatness, of short-lived remem-
brances, and of cast-off beauty. And while I moralized,
a little tattered beggar picked up the relic, and with her
oold and benumbed fingers sought to plane it around the
crown of her bruised and faded bonnet. Then with a
lightsome tread she made her way to yonder attic, where
the~ puny baby tore it in pieces upon the cold hearthstone.
Thus ended the cast-off evergreen!
Shall I weaken your impression, kind reader, by an
analogous picture ~? Have you never seen the protected
child growing up amidst sikn~t influences, maturing year
by year in a steady growth - the pride of parental fos-
tering, throwing out the tendrils of affection, dreaming
only of merry days, while the soft waters went murmur-
ing by, and in their placid; unruffled flow seemed to
image only the innocent thoughts and face of him who
stood upon the brink of the stream ~ By and by comes
a rough breeze, and the image is no longer reflected.
The world has called him out of that peaceful home, and
he mingles in a new and heated atmosphere. For a time
he is~ unmindful vhM he has severed the root from which
~ie drew his healthful nutriment. He phinges nt9 the

4


808        $U~BTANUE AND SHAD4~W$4                                SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        809

~strangegiare of brilliant and festive Ii%. He lives in
~n excited and pestilential miasma. By slow degrees
hi~ ~mera1 principles are undermined; he is enfeebled,
perhaps bloated, perchance fevered, with the association.
But, alas, he has withered at the root, and men cast him
out like the worthless evergreen!
Is it not so with the devotee at fashion's shrine? So
long as with princely fortune one gives and returns the
merry dance, and provides sumptuously at the festive
board, is he not sought, caressed and flattered? But
remove the gilded show which his ample fortune sup-
plies; let him now buffet the fierce gales which only
plunge him stiSl deeper in the dark shades of poverty,
and is he not, too, "cast off" as the evergreen?
Alas, that man should be rigid and cold with his bro-
other, even as nature with her rough winds and fearful
tornadoes, which sometimes destrQy the richest treas-
ures! The little wild-flower, that grows so comely in its
silent retreat, untouched by 'foreign hands, puts forth its
tender branches and shuns the vulgar eye, content to
bloom in some guardian shade. 4'he morning and even-
ing sun smile upon it; its honeyed blossoms scent the
dese4 air; but the unpitying frosts of autumn leave no
vestige of th~ flower. It came from nothing, and to
nothing it has returned!
But here my analogy fails. We are born into an
endless life, and if we. suffer ourselves through our own
misconduct to be "cast off" we cannot smother or anni-
hilate our life. Consciousness, once awakened, never dies.
But if, by adherence to the firm root of~ principle, we
fearlessly tread life's thorny passages, and find ourselves
I

"cast out" in the conflict, no whirlwind or earthquake
can destroy the germinating principle; for, unlike the
frail duration of the flower, or the decay of the ever~
green, we~ shall yet ripen beneath a more congenial sky,
under the guardianship and ~unshne of a Father's prom
testing love.

808


8U~0TAN~E AND SHADOWS.

TILE WELL-ORDERED HOUSE.
Mv friend has been two years building a house, in
order to surround himself with every convenience and
comfort that can possibly be brought within his range.
It is just completed, and is pronounced a perfect model.
The most exquisite taste is now being displayed in tbe
furniture. He has impor~4 the finest specimens of mar-
ble busts, the most antique vases, and some of the rarest
Specimens of paintings which an Italian artist could bring
out on canvas. And, when the whole shall be completed,
he intends to invite a numerous party of friends to inspect
it; for he is a little vain of the perfect specimen he is.
thus enabled to exhibit.
Yet, after all, my friend is not a good householder. The.
splendid out-building which holds his body has furnished
him with no suitable apartment, well fitted up, to hold that
invisible mind which is still vacant, or filled with a thou-
sand fancies which make him in a constant st~fte of unrest.
He, therefore, walks his splendid halls, and traverses his
magnificent drawing-rooms, where the mirrors only reflect
his discontented countenance, and the wan, haggard, look
of despair. Evidently, he is still in a dilapidated Btate;
the real tenement in which he lives is suffering for want
of repairs. There are a thousand vexatioui disquievudes,

~hi~h this outside show does not remove; vacant chain-
hers, which need to be furnished; large spare rooms,
that need to be brushed an&amp; ventilated, and set in order,
for the guests that temporarily reside there.
The poor man, upon whom he has just bestowed his
alms, looks somewhat puzzled to interpret that despairing
glance ~he cast towards him; he is at a loss, moreover, to
interpret the strange ordering of Providence in these
seeming inequalities of condition. "With that house,
those luxurious couches, servants to do his bidding,
plenty of money wherewith to anticipate every want," the
poor man queries, "why does he not look more like a
happy man 3" He turns away from that massive granite
dwelling, and down in yonder alley he carries the dollar
just given him, and distributes its avails among a swarm
of hungry children with whom he lodges. They are not
his own ;~ but the feeling of pity inspired him this morn-
ing to beg in his own name for them. The food is pro-
cured; and~ those faces, which hunger has made lean and
wan, now brighten with gratitude, and they bless .the
kind old man who was so thoughtful as to give them this
bountiful breakfast. This blessing sends a thrill of trans-
port through an infinite number of fibres,~ whioh lights up
the love in his heart, and makes him the happiest bene-
factor in the world. They all eat their meal together,
and sunshine plays around the 2~board. There are merri-
ment and jocund hilarity; and the youngest climbs his
* knee, and repeats her little hymn of gratitude.
The rich man took his meal alone. There was a ser~
vice of silver upon his table; the smoking Mocha was
distilled for an epicurean taste,.yet the flavor was un-


812        SttESTANOI AND SHADOWS.

SUBSTANCE AND $IL&amp;DOW$.

heeded; the hot roll was scarcely tasted, for he was fast
becoming &amp; dyspeptic; and the bit of sirloin was only
eat in small atoms from about the centre, lie moved
away his chair, gave a deep sigh, ning the. bell for the
removal of his delicacies, and paced his dining-room with
a heavy heart. lie, too, wondered why he was left a
prey to such sad forebodings; why life had lost all its
sweetness, and he should thus fall a wreck within his
marble palace. Evide~tIy he had taken better care of
his outward tenement than~ of that within. One half the
attention paid to regulating his idle fancies, to forgetful-
ness of self in some eflbrt to relieve another, together
with a cultivation of those ~social qualities which would
gladden his heart, would have made him what he so ear~
nestly desires to be, namely, a happy man.
And so people look on and condemn riches as the. bane
of personal enjoyment in many instances; as hardening the
heart, and making people morose and churlish. it is not
the mine of gold which necessarily produces this result;
buf rather, in our efforts to amass it, we so neglect the
interior condition of our dwelling, as to be incapable of
afterwards enjoying ourselv-es when most ready to do so.
I have a friend, too, who is not a good housekeeper.
Her home is the abode of neatness' and precision. A
single cobweb could not be found in all her house. 'Slie
is. forever reiirranging,, remodelling, and beautifying her
external condition.; yet she has great unrest within. A
petty vexation, a small, anxiety, may so ruffle her feelings,
that in that capacious and welbordered dwelling there
shall be no inward peace for the day. Plainly, trifles
ha~e a~quir~d~ sueh &amp;swqover hor feelings, ~that he

unable to rise above them. You c&amp;~ trace that assumed
cheerfulness; beneath it lies a world of harassing thoughts,
and a disquietude with which her friends may be familiar;
but th~y can never know its hidden depth. Life to her
is all a cloud; there is a painful intensity in living. The
enjoyment which her ample means might furnish is rare-
ly felt, simply because she has never removed the cob-
webs and dust which have so frightfully accumulated
within. Had the mifroz~ which so often reflected her
varied apparel but shown hem~the deformity within; had
that small beginning of indulgence in an ill-tempered
thought been subdued; had that wayward fancy been
subjugated a~d controlled by reason; in one word, had
she sought for strength from above to enable her to com-
bat successfully with these inward foes, undoubtedly she
might have become as efficient an interior housekeeper as
she is now an outward one
Alas for us that we know ourselves so imperfectly!
W&amp; talk about being "intimately acquainted with our
friends ;" we analyze their motives, and pass judgment
upon their actions; but what in truth do we know of our
"own interior I{f'e"? And, yet, it is this which makes
all our world; our whole prosperity centres k~re. There
would be much more significance in our inquiring after
the prosperity of the soul, than the health of the body.
Indeed, the former quite frequently determines the state
of the latter. So that, merely in a selfish view, to become
happy and well, it behooves us to regulate our interior
dwelling.
Take, for example, the dyspeptic man or woman. Y~u
may compound for them all the drugs in tho~ I
27


.314        SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.                                  SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.         816

voeabulary; but, with that mind "ill at ease," you can
zio more effect a cure than you can cause the sun to shine
at midnight. Hence, physicians so frequently recom~
mend a 'change of objects as most beneficial, something
which removes the moping melancholy of ill-assorted
thoughts; in one word, the refurbishment of our secret
apartments, which have become so blackened and shattered.
Yet, after all, thc~ mere journey from one continent to
another may only be a temporary alleviation of our in-
ward distresses. It may varnish over the unsightly
spots; but they will reiippear in coming time, unless a
more radical application is made. The truth is, we are
tempest-Lost we have - lost our chart, and know not our
latitade; and we need the efficient aid of more than a
kuman~ ,?ilot. The mind does not receive permanent
rest by change of place. Have we not long enough tried
the experiment 3 The spiritual appetite must be fed upon
spiritual food. We crave that nutrient, and yet vainly,
nay madly, seek to appease 6ur hunger by attention to
the mere shell which encases all that is truly ill-condi-
tioned. We build our houses, make our feasts, go out in
quest of ~ocial intercourse, ~r shut ourselves in. well-stored
libraries. Yet watch yourself; my friend, when ~all these
allurements have ceased, and you are alone with yourself.
What is the foundation of your future hopes 3 You have
plans for coming time, unquestionably; but do they not
all take hold 6f unsubstantial enjoyments? The partial
deception may gloss, over your real needs for a brief
period; but you are a prodigal, and, until you e to
gourseif, no permanent peace awaits you. Empty, then,
said sweep your interior dwelling. Place a mirror there

that shall faithfully disclose your true character. Regu-
late the furniture, and keep it in order. Subdue those
extravagant fancies which cause your unrest. Keep your
thoughts tranquil. Do not postpone this new arrange-
meat whereby your prosperity is secured. Would it n~t
just now be a* favorable time to inspect this inner dwell-
ing, and attend to repairing its condition 3 lIt is better
than any gift which a friend may bestow. It is better
than beautifying, by costly presents, your friends' apart-
meats; yet such an inspection shall so reveal the extent
of means whereby your generosity shall be . displayed,
that every proper token shall be bestowed; for the soul's
prosperity never curtails generous impulses, since, in its
spacious chambers, it admits every, true principle, and
hospitably entertains every well-conditioned guest.


SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.        SIT

IN A "WORRY."
SoMe people seem only to worr~, out existence. They
have all external means of enjoyment, yet they are never
at ease. A lady of this character, with ability to pro-
cure 'herself every 4~utward enjoyment, was lately con-
gratulated upon her freedom from all vexatious and
annoying trials. "Why," said she, "I 'in full of trouble.
I am always in a 'worry' about 'Isaac;' when he returns
from sea I can enjoy nothing, because I know he is going
a ; when he is ~t sea, I am always expecting to hear
he is dead, or cast on some desolate island." Yet "Isaac"
was not her husband, but an adopted nephew, upon whom
so much sympathy was lavished.
Another friend I could name is always tried, or
"worried," with her domestic troubles. "Bridget got
up late," or "Ketty goes out too often," or "Ned is
becoming a careless driver ;" and, between seeking com-
fort and finding it, life becomes a very wearisome aflidr,
arid is entirely fretted away in relating troubles that have
been lived over. What a pity it is that we are so forget-
ful of the laws of inward peace as to brood over the ~past,
talk about its evils, and thus make them ever preset!
Then, there is another class who are always "worried"
about w~hat no human foresight can prevent. An east
wind, a hot day, a sudden shower, a dense fog, or a heavy

dew, all alike vex them. Allowing such things to prey
on the spirits, makes us very disagreeable companions.
Who would select such a one for a travelling friend ~?
Who would take~ such a one for hfe? When a man
considers how mt~h his comfort, is concerned with a wife's
temper,- how she leads him through life's rough places,
with a violent or gentle hand,-before he chooses his future
destiny, let him consider. The embryo of the ~woman is
often seen in the child. Petulaflt, ungovernable, indulged
children do not always rise above the natural propensities
of early years when they arrive at womanhood; neither
does the surly, rough lad, often become the agreeable
gentleman. Yet, upon the disposition to meet the every.
day discipline of life, depends all our enjoyment. A calm,'
trusting spirit, a forbearing, hopeful temper, a county~
nance where smiles ~redoininate,- who would fear to unite
with such a one ~I The happiest effect upon a whole life
often follows a well-matched pair. The mild and amiable
graces will blunt the rough edges and the awkward man~
ners of one nearest our hearts; for the magic influence of
sympathy is electric, and assimilation often produces the
admirable traits we come in contact with, and a likeness
is imperceptibly stamped upon th~ character. It has
been said (I know not how truly), that gaming upon the
benign expression of the portrait of a deceased 'and be.
loved friend, will, in time, produce a calm and serene
expression upon the gazer; so indelible is the stamp,
that the soul of our friend becomes mirrored in our own~
Away, then, with "worrying," fretting trifles; they
mar the beauty of the huzn~u ~ea, and eat, like
canker, into the soul
2'T*


TILE FADED LEAF.
IT was Qnly a leaf wifich riveted my attention, a
dried, 'sere, yellow leaf! It fell from yonder tree, whose
luxuriant shade had so softened and mellowed the bright
rays of the morning sun, 'during the hot and sultry days
of znidsumnier. lit ni~de but one of the thousand 'which
had helped to form the deep shadow, and it was the first
to falt; yet it seemed possessed of a restless activity,
now it had dropped from its former companions. The
/
slightest wind wafted it under busy feet; anon it rose
again, as a higher gust came;~ then it whirled along the
thronged Street down the shallow ravine; and, after flut-
tering and dancing like a 'thing of joyous life, it was
b6rne into the watery current ~and floated down the nar-
rQw streani into' a vast reservoir, where it disappeared
forever!
Just after the 'fall of the leaf; I missed hundreds of
its' companions; at length they all disappeared, and only
the bare branches and b~irren~trunk stood, tuiclothed and
unsh4ltered, alone! Nature, as if prodigal ~f her moni-
ti~ns, put on a sterner countenance; and chilly winds and
clouded 'skieB, ~ahd' heavy 'storizis, succeeded;. soAbat
her~ si~iruiit~r smile was }~Alewed ~by strong indieatiens of
her inflexible purpose to c~iange her universaL aspect;

SUBSTANCE AND SHADOWS.
and, added W these, came an inscrutable dispensation
of Providence. In yonder apartment was the friend of
my summer hours, who had stood with me beneath ~the
spreading foliage of the desolate tree, and she too was
smitten by a sudden disease, which caused her to wither
like the frail leaf. Many tendrils of affection were en~
twined around her; loving hearts and ministering hands
were there; but the common decree, that causes the leaf'
to fall, had likewise been passed upon her. She too
faded, withered, and fell. We bore her to her last re~t~
ing-place among the rustling leaves and tall branches
of desolate trees, and, with a few clods of earth; we.
raised a mound, under which she securely sleeps. And
where was the &amp;pirit, with its unceasing activity, as it
floated down the current oi~' life'? Did it wander, like the
leaf, void of OQmpaflioflship, till it plunged into a ~vast
abyss, and there met its fhial e~tinction't lit could not
answer me on~ of the thousand queries which I would
fain know. But nature ag~dn spake; that leafless tree
was oniy preparing itself; by stripping its foliage, for i'~,
greener dress and more luxuriant shade; its branches wer~~
resting awhile, to expand and strengthen themselves, and
reappear in still more beauteous attire; This seeming
decay was not, then, real; the going away bf my friend
was only a preparation for higher life. "But why,"
said a lovely form, that gently whispered in my ear, and
whom I knew to be an angel, "why gatberest thou tiky
strength from the decaying, restless monuments of nature
alone '~ Hast thou no higher revelation of the God of
nature 3 Has he not sent a messenger to dissipate tire
darkness of the tomb, and to teach thee that it is meet


820          SUJ3STAWCE A1~D 8EAX~OW$.

the corruptible should put on immortality by this apparent
death 'I That spirit is now surrounded by ministering
angels, and, having been welcomed by its Saviour into un~
known regions of delight, after feasting awhile amidst
'the seraphic joys of its new existence, will have a mission
suvh as glorified spirits only can perform. A life of
u~efui, beneficial activity on earth, peculiarly trained that
soixl for its celestial employment in heaven. Thy friezid
is still near thee; heaven i~ no distant place." And while
I listened and wondered, the spirit fled, and my gaze was
only fixed~ upon a little white speck of cloud, wherein the
vision entered and passed away forever. ~So Nature was
swallowed up in Revelation, and I went on my way cheer~
fully, but thoughtfully; for I knew that in a little time
a greater company would be gathered,. and the tendrils
which now clustered around my heart would be broken,
and I, too, should long to join in the blessed society.
Then I, was glad the leaf had fallen, and I murmured
no longer that my friend had departed; for Nature and
Revelation were but handniaids to each other, and both
spake by the same great teacher, Death.

820


  
             
         
       
   
