
    ----CITATION----
        Williams, Henry Llewellyn, (1842-). Will Watch, the Bold Smuggler .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8330
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               WILL WATCH, 
               THE BOLD SMUGGLER. 
               A Stirring Tale of Wild and Desperate Adventure. 
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "DELAWARE DICK," "SUSAN WYLIE," "BINNACLE JACK," "BLACK CRUISER," "FLYING ARROW," ETC. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               ROBERT M. DE WITT PUBLISHER,  
                     160 & 162 NASSAU STREET. 
                  
               
             
          
       
      
         
            Will Watch, the bold smuggler 
             
            WILL WATCH, THE BOLD SMUGGLER. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                  
                      
                        "When in the storm on Albion's coast. 
                        The night watch guards his weary post, 
                        From thoughts of danger free." 
                     
                   
                
               "TIS a hazy night, and we are likely to have a weary watch of it," odserved Ned Topman to Harry Hardbrace. 
               "Ay, that we have," returned the latter, who relished grog in proportion as he detested cold water. "Then, to keep watch here to prevent the landing of stuff that, Heaven knows, would furnish a drop of comfort at the present time! D-n it, I was reared hard by, and have not much relish for the duty." 
               Ned Topman surveyed his companion for a moment, as if he at once desired and feared to communicate on a subject he was contemplating. The free, honest, and open air of Hardbrace, however, deterred him, and he proceeded. 
               "Nevertheless, it is my duty; and were it to run out a brother to the fore-yard-arm, or tear his flesh from the bone at the gratings, though your blood should curdle, and your heart recoil from a tasking so unnatural, there is'nt sich a word as choice in our sea dic'snaries." 
               "I say it's hard still, though I am obligated to do it in the way of my duty," said Harry, stoutly maintaining the point he'd started with. "There's old mother, she lives down in the bottom thereaway by Sheerness, often wants a drop o' comforting cordial to keep off the haggy, and it goes hard agin me to be here to prevent running the stuff she can get at more reasonable prices than the liquor as pays port and harbour dues in the reg'lar way. Howsomever, it is my duty, and, by G-d I'll not flinch!" 
               The brow of Topman, which had expanded, and his lower features relaxed into a smile at the earnestness expressed by Hardbrace in the beginning of his speech, contracted now into its usually thoughtful expression, while he observed in a somewhat sullen tone- 
               "A man bound has no right to question the authority of his superiors." 
               "I did not say he had!" observed Hardbrace, walking carelessly up to the handrail which marked the point of the cliff which might be trodden with safety, and, leaning on it, listened to the continual plashing of the influxing tide in silence, his mind no doubt occupied by the thoughts of home and the inmates at his mother's hearth. 
               Such was the subject of a conversation held by two of the coast guard or preventive-service men, stationed on a bold cliff or headland between Ramsgate and Broadstairs, in the Isle of Thanet, in October --. And two finer specimens of the bull-dog breed that man's Old England's navy could hardly be produced, than the companions of that evening's watch. 
               Hardbrace, the younger of the two, possessed a compactness of figure that admirably fitted him for a seaman's duty, whether aloft or tween decks; he was neither too short nor too tall, being about five feet seven, or it may be five feet eight inches in height, agile and elastic, with all the careless freedom and reckless dare-devil of the sailor about him-one withal who would rather have been playing at long shot on board a cutter, than keeping a miserable land watch to pick up the poor devils who were suspected of defrauding his Majesty's revenue. He was born in the neighborhood, and, therefore, may be presumed to have imbibed an antipathy to putting down a practice in which, it is more than probable, he might have been engaged in his boyhood. He was, nevertheless, too strictly disciplined to allow duty to be superseded by predilection. His companion was of more gigantic proportions, being six foot two inches in height; the outlines of his features were bold, and might in his youth have passed for handsome-he had a broad and high though somewhat retreating forehead, partially bald in the front, yet where it was covered it presented clustering curls of red, or rather sandy hair, and eyes which spoke of the good humored carelessness and gaiety of a true son of Neptune, save in those moments when his beetling brows were contracted by inward thought, and their fitful glances betrayed an expression which betokened danger to the party against whom they were directed. 
               His complexion had assumed that swart and weatherbeaten appearance usually derived from exposure to every vicissitude of temperature, and hard usage in all climates had converted his frame into iron. Both were wrapped in blue watch coats of a coarse texture, yet too short to impede their activity of motion, and each was armed with a cutlass and a brace of pistols. 
               While Hardbrace leaned upon the handrail before described, listening to the moaning of the sea, he unconsciously began to whistle, when his companion checked him. 
               "Silence!" commanded the latter, in a stern tone of authority-"have you yet to learn how necessary silence is in a duty like ours?" 
               "Beg pardon, Master Topman," returned Hardbrace, "but though brought up a seaman, I've more of the nightingale than owl in me. Egad, I could find it in my heart to sing in very spite at being stuck up here to find out the holes and corners where the poor devils manage to run their cargoes. Mind you, if out on the element, I should'nt have no objection whatsumever to knock a dozen or two on the head; or, if they would'nt surrender or come on board, send 'em swimming to find their way to Davy Jones' locker. But I don't stomach this land sarvice; I'd rather be makin' spunya'n all my life aboard-an' you know that is hell to a sailor, when neither brace, stay, nor lanyard wants securing-I say it goes agin my conscience to pick them up just as they think they've secured a snug profit agin Chris'mas. It makes me think of our fate, Ned-to escape the perils of a thousand miles of blue water, often to find shipwreck and death in sight of home. Nevertheless, it's my duty, and he must be a stout and bold feller as prevents my doing it!" 
               Hardbrace broke off abruptly. 
               "We shall make a capture to-night," he observed with a heavy oath. "Do you see that?" 
               "What, Harry?" demanded his companion, looking in the direction to which Hardbrace pointed. 
               "That light!" 
               "What, that blue light? Psha!" observed Ned Topman with a sneering laugh-"'tis only the spawn of a fish entering into existence. Your eyes are not practised enough yet to keep watch upon these cliffs." 
               "I was rated able seaman at seventeen," said Hardbrace bluntly, "and sarved aboard till arter I was eight-and-twenty, and many and many's the look-out I kept in that time, I can tell you. Nor was there ever an officer of the watch could say to me, Hurry Hardbrace, wrong you've done." 
               "Ay, ay," observed Topman, in a more conciliating tone, "but that was on the broad ocean. You have yet to learn that fish, and that like, fit for the use of man, lay their spawn near to land." 
               "So do smugglers," returned Hardbrace, in a sturdy and dogged manner; "and hang me but that light burns too steadily to be the thing you speak of." 
               "I say it is the thing I speak of!" asserted Ned Topman, assuming all the authority which a white lace beading gives a man amongst the blue jackets-the petty tyranny of the warrant officer; "I say it is; and what's more, by G-d, it shall be! I have kept watch here these ten years, and know the coast well. There's no landing near that spot. But," continued he, in a milder tone, as he observed Harry Hardbrace regarded him with suspicion, "use your night-glass, if you will doubt me." 
               "The night's too hazy for that like." 
               "And yet you pretend to see a signal light!" 
               "Pretend! why, man, there is the light." 
               "Those lights, I tell you," resumed Topman, "are most common in hazy weather, and always near the shore. But, come! take my glass, if your own will not serve your turn;-yet, no, no! you are wrong-altogether wrong-I say wrong! But if so be there's any stuff in the offing, a fire kindled on this cliff may chance to bring it in; and I have the permission of Captain Trunnion of the Wasp cutter to try it on. So bear a hand, d'ye hear, and make a fire. Why, what the devil ails you? You, an able seaman of ten years' standing, and make a fire to wind'ard!-why, a landsman couldn't do more than scatter fuel in that wise-" 
               "Hush!-silence!" cried Harry, in a tone of the greatest anxiety, and dropping the fuel he had in his hand. "It must be; I'm certain I heard a sound seaward." 
               "Heard a sound seaward!" observed Topman with biting sarcasm. "What like was it?-the scream of a sea-fowl, or the gabble of a land fool? It is your anxiety betrays you; I tell you there is no such thing. But, come, I'll help you to make the fire." 
               And, accordingly, Topman assisting his companion in the task, the beacon light soon blazed on the cliff, a "decoy duck," as Ned called it, to any of the rascally smugglers in the offing. 
               "I feel this a d-d hard duty, 'cause it goes agin all experience," said Hardbrace, breaking silence after a moment's pause. "Nor do I care telling you, Master Topman, that this firing of a beacon does not appear, in my mind to be the best means of netting our fish; for, should there be treachery amongst us--" 
               "Treachery! What do you mean by treachery?" demanded Topman, with a gesticulation of anger. 
               "O, you know what treachery means, without my telling you," returned his companion coolly. 
               "I!" responded Topman. "I tell you I have Captain Trunnion's authority for raising this beacon, and am to give signal by pistol shot, the moment any thing extraordinary happens; when he will run out with his cutter, and the smugglers, if there be any, must look out for squalls. But come, Harry, give us your hand; 'tis our first watch together, so don't be unsociable. I think a glass of grog would be a suitable companion to our fireside." 
               Saying this, Topman removed a flat piece of turf, and produced a small keg of water and a bottle of hollands, from a crypt of his own contrivance, thereby proving to Harry Hardbrace he had watched on that cliff before; and with faces reflecting the ruddy glow of the fire, the two companions, sitting on the damp ground, were soon enveloped in a cloud of the fragrant weed, and a glass of grog proved no less comfortable to them by the reflection that it might perchance have been drank more comfortably in another situation. 
               Yet, notwithstanding the jovial feelings inspired by the present occupation of Topman and his brother of the watch, the countenance of each betrayed a secret uneasiness; and they sat for some time wholly silent, as if laboring under feelings of mutual distrust, which forbade ail idea of perfect harmony or cordiality between them. 
               The manner of Hardbrace, to whom, as we have already said, the duty was a new and, from his local recollections and associations, by no means a pleasant one, although he had determined to obey its dictates with that strict attention to discipline which marks the character of the thorough English seaman, betrayed a quick and fitful anxiety that strongly contrasted the stern and steady look of Topman, who, smoking for some time in silence, contemplated the changeful features of Harry with a scrutinizing eye, as if he felt some doubt as to how far he might trust him in a matter he was inwardly contemplating, or succeed in detaching him from the steady attention to duty he had manifested, or bending him to a behavior more consonant to the success of something he appeared to have secretly at heart. 
               "A glass of grog," observed Topman, at length breaking the silence,-"a glass of grog is no mean comforter on a bleak cliff, in an October night." 
               Harry nodded his assent. 
               "D-n it, man! why won't you speak?" 
               "You reproved me awhile ago for whistling," returned Hardbrace, "and I must say that silence seems more necessary than ever, if you really mean we should detect the ducks our ruddy beacon is like to bring ashore." 
               "You are a goose, Harry Hardbrace, to think so," said Topman with a grim smile. "You are too anxious, man. Your true seaman should always be able to keep his ears, eyes, and mouth open at the same time, and spin his yarn in the top while he kept his weather eye up!" 
               "That may be all very well for the tops, though it's a deal more fitter for the idler in the galley," observed Hardbrace steadily; "but we occupy a station more fit for a marine than a sailor, and unless you keep silence a boat may creep under these overhanging cliffs, and we none the wiser." 
               "I'll stake my ear against the best member of my body for quickness, and it should win the wager," replied Topman, with his usual dry tone. "I have always one ear for a yarn and the other for the watch, and am so practised hereaway, that I'd detect any boat rowing under these cliffs, though her crew crept along with mouths as muffled as their oars. Come, come, man, spin us a yarn!-we have yet three hours of our watch to get over." 
               "I was never very fond of talking on duty yet," observed Hardbrace, with some degree of inward misgiving touching his companion's good faith or honesty of purpose, "and having set up this beacon with the avowed purpose of alluring our prey, I see less reason for it than ever." 
               "Whew!" muttered Ned Topman between his teeth, as he gave a low whistle, "I have met with something impracticable here; but it shall go hard if I carry not off his attention." 
               Then, addressing his companions more immediately, he continued: "Well, Harry, if so be you're unsociable, I can't help it, nor will I pretend to do so; but if you won't talk, I'll just take it for granted you can listen-and here goes. It was up the Mediterranean thereaway by Toolong-a fine place that, by the bye-have you ever been there?" 
                
               "I have," replied Hardbrace, with an anxious expression of face, and a manner which proved to Topman his attention was directed to catch the lightest sound that approached them from seaward, rather than to the story his companion thus compelled him to listen to. 
               "Then you know its a strong place without my telling you?" 
               Hardbrace nodded. 
               "Well, continued Topman, "we were on the cruise in the Saucebox brig of war, mounting eighteen guns, besides four carronades on her after deck. Ah, sir, she was something like a craft, and a match for any thirty gun frigate the mounseers could bring agin her. 
               "Well, the Nasionail-I think they called it in their lingo-lay under the range of the batteries, waiting to slip cables and run out, if we'd jest give e'm the opportunity. 
               "Our Cap'n offered them a fair challenge, but they were too knowing for that. So, at length, as nothing in the world would provoke 'em-no, not even sticking up their tri-colored bunting in the bung-hole of a water-barrel, and firing at it for amusement-he determined to bring them out whether they would or no; so, at eight bells, orders were passed for'ard for the men to muster-and there was no want of volunteers when prize money was in the wind. 
               "Well, night set in as black as the devil himself-all the better for us, thought we; so the boats were got out and manned, and the oars were muffled, and we crept along, not uttering a sound above our breath, no, not even the least whisper. 
               "The commander's order-'Steady! Silence, boys! Steady!'-chilled our very blood within us, when the accidental snapping of a pistol betrayed us within a few yards of the enemy. No time was to be lost. Leftenant Ha'lyard, who commanded our boat, called out in agony-for no seaman likes to be sent to the other world without a blow or a struggle-and giving way at the same time- 
               "Pull, lads! Pull for life or death! There's no retreating now, and one shot will send us all to Davy. Brave hearts, pull away, for dear life!' 
               "And we did pull, sure enough, and got alongside afore the Mounseers had time to think. But they were all busy by that time. I ran up the main-chains in a thought, but got split by an ugly blow from a handspik', which sent me stunned into the bottom of the boat. My brother, who followed, had his brains dashed out with the same weapon, and fell heavily on my body, half suffocating me with gore. 
               "Poor Ha'lyard, laying his hand upon the muzzle of a gun, to assist him in his attempt to board, lost his arm; and eighteen of our picked men lay dead. But we took her-gave three cheers for the honor of Old England-slipped her cables, and carried her out; and the next day the Nasionail sported her tri-colored buntin' below the old Union Jack!" 
               Hardbrace suddenly started to his feet. 
               "By God!" cried he, "I cannot be mistaken. If ever I heard the splashing of oars, I hear it now!" 
               "Fool! your anxiety deceives you!" said Topman, taken aback by the honest and persevering watchfulness of his comrade; "I tell you there is no danger." 
               "No danger!" exclaimed Hardbrace, at the same time taking off his handkerchief, he noosed it round the hand-rail, and twisting the end on his hand, so as to give him the means of leaning over the beetling brow of the cliff, as far as possible, he looked into the abyss and loudly shouted- 
               "Boat a-hoy!" 
               "You are mad, Hardbrace!" said his sturdy companion. "My ears are as good as thine. I tell you I can hear nothing in that quarter." 
               "Hear nothing!" cried Hardbrace, filled with astonishment by the apathy of his companion, and hanging over the dark abyss beneath him. "Hark! there it is again! I will give the signal;" and drawing a pistol he discharged it in the direction from whence the sound came. 
               A moment afterwards, a slash from Topman's cutlass loosened his hold on the neckerchief. Upon feeling the effect of the treacherous blow, Hardbrace sprang upward, recovered his hold on the handrail, and glared fiercely on his companion, whose treachery he could no longer doubt. It was but for a moment; for, with the force and celerity of lightning, his powerful assailant dashed the iron basket of his cut las into the face of the unfortunate preventive guard, while the shots from the different posts carried intelligence to the revenue cutter that smugglers were abroad. 
               The stunned Hardbrace spun round with his arms extended, and hands expanded, apparently in the act of grasping, as if in a state of insensibility he was inspired with an instinctive tenacity of life, and was then precipitated from a height of fifty feet into the waters that dashed in sullen murmurs against the chalk-ribbed cliffs below, while a shriek of despair, and heavy splashing in the water, announced to the homicide above the dreadful fate of his victim. 
               With that apathy which arises from a familiar intercourse with danger, Topman was no sooner rid of his companion, than he crawled to the edge of the cliff, and giving a low whistle hailed his companions below- 
               "Witch a-hoy!" 
               "Ahoy, a-hoy!" was the answer. 
               "Make all speed to Welling's Hole, boys; land the cargo and oars, and turn the boat adrift. I have to care for my own safety. Mind, turn the boat adrift, d'ye hear? With this wind the Wasp will be a full hour getting round the Foreland-so you've time enough. Where's the schooner?" 
               "She stood out again after lading the boat." 
               "That's all right! Her black hull and sails will prevent them seeing her through this haze. Turn the boat adrift, do you hear? There are always boats enough on Margate beach to serve your turn at a pinch." 
               "What was't you flung over the cliff?" 
               "Nothing!" 
               "It made a devil of a squalling." 
                
               "No matter. Pull away as if the devil was behind you," said Topman. "The fellow I helped over the cliff will never disturb us any more." 
               And away went the boat to her destination; while Ned Topman withdrew the bullet and wadding, and loosening the charge of powder, snapt the pistol so as to ignite the combustible within without producing a report loud enough to cause enquiry or raise suspicion, and then calmly waited the arrival of the relief. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "If circumstance do but approve my dream, 
                           My boat glides trimly both with wind and stream." 
                        
                      
                     -SHAKSPEARE." 
                   
                
               IT will, without doubt, already have been conjectured by the reader that the blue light seen and pointed out by Hardbrace, was, in reality, nothing more nor less than a bona, or, rather, mala fide signal, so far as its purpose of covering the run goods from Holland, on board the Witch schooner, may consist with the most approved terms of applying good or bad in reference to such a procedure. There are undoubtedly many sneaking, sordid spirits, who would rather drink French brandy, no matter how obtained, at twelve or fourteen shillings a gallon, could it be done in safety, than pay the higher price at once of legitimacy and patriotism, to support the dignity of the crown, and protect home labor. This is a mere matter of taste or opinion. We will now address ourselves to the narrative immediataly before us. 
               Ben Binnacle, the coxswain of the heavy-laden smuggler's boat, who, as in duty bound, duly answered Ned Topman's hail, the more particularly when he heard that hail accompanied by a whistle from- 
                     "The beaconed cliff above"-
                   a mode of signalling, by the bye, which occasioned such a display of stern authority in their comrade of the preventive service, towards Hardbrace, when the happened to adopt it as a very simple means of amusing himself. Ben Binnacle, on being ordered to make all speed to Welling's Hole, pushed his men forward to their utmost strength, and, aided by the tide, which was still flowing, made the point proposed in less than a quarter of an hour. 
               Welling's Hole, the rendezvous of the smugglers, formed in itself a remarkable evidence of the ingenuity and contrivance of men, who, evading the tyranny of fiscal regulation, are thrown back upon nature for means of defence against the despotic march of advancing civilization. It presented to the eye of the observer who occasionally visited it, an excavation at least twenty feet in length, by ten in height, tapering towards the innermost point, in a cavernous form. It seemed as if the sea, vext by its own bile, and lacking the chalk as a corrective, had licked it out with its huge tongue. But, abandoning metaphor, there it remained, a monument of the stupendous power of the ocean, but a still more splendid monument of the patient labor and untiring perseverance of man. 
               Tom Welling, who had been a smuggler from his boyhood, was one of the first visitants assembled to survey the mighty inroad made by the ocean on the solid wall which rears its green-crested head as a barrier against the enemies of Great Britain. But Tom surveyed it with the eye of a general who calculates how to apply any accidental advantage, which fortune has given, to his own advantage. Public curiosity was soon satiated-a nine days wonder and oblivion followed. Not so with Welling; as the public ceased to visit the spot, he became more familiar with it; and, indeed, he was aecompanied by several other familiars, but always at night, and when the tide served; for at high-water mark you could step from the boat into the mouth of the cavern. 
               Welling was possessed of a piece of freehold or copyhold land, which he cultivated, pursuing the profession and occupation of a farmer, at about the distance of a rood from the natural excavation we have been describing. And, accordingly, when others were lifting up their eyes in astonishment at the prodigious powers of nature, he mentally raised his in thanksgiving to heaven, for having providentially given unto him the means of cheating the revenue with greater ease and security than ever; for he had already formed in his mind the bold plan of cerrying forward the excavation to a debouche upon his farm. Not that he aimed at the luxury of commanding a sea view-no, his ideas were quite different, and rather comprehended a prospect from sea to shore. 
               Nor was the time at which he commenced his labor chosen with less skill and judgment than the boldness of his project required. He and his companions commenced their labor in the winter season, when they were less likely to be interrupted by the curiosity of visitants; and, by digging below the footing of the cavern, and then projecting the work in a landward direction, they contrived to preserve, to all outward appearance, the level of the cavern, as if it had never been touched by hand. 
               Two whole winters did Welling and his comrades labor at their toilsome task, ere they achieved their object. 
               A barn was then erected, which covered the entrance landward, and enabled the bold and hardy smugglers to defy detection, otherwise than by a split or division among themselves. 
               The entrance seaward was effected by raising a trap, coated with chalk, strongly cemented on a superfice of wood, and fitting so truly, that with the obscure light cast on it from the entrance of the cavern, it was utterly impossible to detect the jointings, or distinguish any difference between that and other parts of the cavern floor. In the dead hour of the night, then, would the hardy associates of Welling land their goods; while his carts and teams transported throughout the country, in defiance to detection, in the open day, and in the face of officers. Nay, such was the cool boldness of the Kentish farmer, that, on one occasion, when carrying twenty chests of tea, concealed within as many trusses of hay, meeting an officer, proceeding on foot to his duty at Canterbury, he invited him to a lift, and actually set him down, while he proceeded to London-the common mart of everything contraband-a feat he laughed at heartily on his return. 
               On the night, the events of which we are describing, Welling was watching within the cavern, the arrival of the third boat cargo laden by the schooner; and on the arrival of Binnacle with the boat, together with the orders of their comrade Topman, there was no lack of bustle in unlading and disposing of the stuff. 
               As Topman had told them, the state of the wind was a sufficient preventive to the interference of Captain Trunnion and his revenue sloop. 
               Lights gleamed from several torches, to assist them in their labor of stowing away, and threw a lurid glare on the ocean, which washed the entrance to their cavern. 
               The booming sound of a gun from the Wasp now convinced the maurauders they had not escaped notice. They had, luckily however, completed their labors; and the gun of the revenue protectors was answered by Welling's order to douce all glims and shove the boat off at once. 
               The post of honor was maintained by the farmer, who brought up the rear, and closed the trap, before he dared to think himself and comrades in safety. 
               But when shut from all human observance, and protected from eaves-droppers or intruders, by a chalk wall of at least ten feet in thickness, they gave loose to their jollity; and the song went round till, overcome with fatigue, they threw themselves on hammocks, of which a supply was always kept within the cavern, in case of an emergency like the present, and soundly slept till morning. 
               The progress of our story now renders it necessary to state the means by which Ned Topman had acquired such an influence over Captain Trunnion, whose duty was not only arduous, but also unpleasant and dangerous. 
               This was principally brought about by his making some seizures, of comparatively small value, on the principle that those who can hide can find; when the apparent ingenuity with which he made every discovery so astonished his brethren of the preventive service, that many of them thought he must have some dealings with a superior personage in the nether world, whose name must not be mentioned, save with the most profound feelings of veneration and respect. 
               These wonderful discoveries, while they stamped him one of the most active members of the coast-guard, naturally lent weight to his opinions and suggestions as to any course of action it might be deemed expedient to adopt; and Lieutenant Trunnion himself, from the superiority of intelligence manifested by Topman on various occasions, did not think it detracted from his dignity to hold conferences with the ci-devant master's mate; an office which Topman had held on board his Majesty's ship Revenge, and to which he often took occasion to allude, in proof of his zeal, loyalty and devotion to the service. 
                
               Topman's connection with Welling's gang enabled him, at all times, to carry the most accurate information as to every arrival; but the information generally came too late, or was misdirected, so as to put the collectors of his Majesty's revenue on a wrong scent; and though an occasional seizure contributed to keep up his credit as a diligent officer-their unfrequency and the smallness of their value was a matter of considerable vexation to those who had all the labor of search without the sweets of reward: and some of his brethren of the watch were not wanting in shrewdness to observe how wonderful it was that his accuracy and information should always lead to such unimportant results. 
               On the arrival of the schooner, Topman was the first to communicate the information to Lieutenant Trunnion, for the purpose of sending the Wasp down to Deal on a fool's errand; for though they took a few kegs of spirit, and a bale of tobacco, worth about fourteen pounds, they furnished time and opportunity for the smugglers to send ashore two boats heavily laden with hollands, brandy, tobacco, fancy gloves, laces and silks, which were all safely deposited in Welling's store, to the amount of more than two thousand pounds. Indeed, the schooner would have disembarked the whole of her cargo, but from the impracticability of their landing at the wharf at any period except about an hour before and after high water. 
               Their success, trifling as it was at Deal, and the report that the smuggling schooner had weighed anchor and stood out to sea, however, clearly evinced Ned's spirit, activity, and zeal, and kept him in sufficient credit with Lieutenant Trunnion to induce the latter to order the boats along shore in the direction of Deal, while the Wasp quietly returned to her station at Ramsgate, and thus had given the black-rigged schooner, which lay on the other side of the Foreland, a safe opportunity to discharge all her cargo, but from an accidental circumstance, which nearly made Topman an honest servant, and betrayed the secret of Welling's Hole, and the purpose to which it had been converted. 
               We have said that the weather was hazy, indeed almost too hazy for ships to be abroad, when they could find safe anchorage, particularly in that neighborhood; and the accidental arrival of a ship, which had spoken a strange schooner-rigged craft, determined Lieutenant Trunnion to watch the coast from Ramsgate upwards, as well as Deal wards. 
               Topman was therefore ordered upon this duty, and it required more than his ordinary skill and ingenuity to avoid trapping his confederates in contraband dealings. 
               The duty thus allotted to Topman was by no means an unpleasant one, as he had determined in his own mind, that any collision with his brothers of the schooner should be purely accidental; but, in a haze at sea, circumstances will happen to thwart the calculations of the most expert navigators; and so found the master's mate, for steering well out to give the smugglers every chance of hugging the shore, the two boats fouled-that of his Majesty running her head on the contrabandist's quarter, and canting round as if to lay fore and aft. 
                
               "Dem dam Philistines mean mischief!" shouted Delaware Dick, an American-born negro; "but no fightee yet, massa, ip I know what batter pudden made ob; try what im wooden leg im do:" and shifting his oar he swung round, and taking a purchase therewith near the bow of the opposing boat, prevented her from dropping alongside. 
               This manuvre of the black's proved efficient, by enabling their bow oarsmen to clear their distance, and they pulled like men rendered desperate by the heavy chances against them, if taken, and the fear of a perpetual durance in Dover castle. Seeing now the utter impossibility of such an operation, the cunning Topman started up in the stern-sheets of the revenue boat, and drawing his cutlass gave orders to board; in attempting which the bowman received a severe contusion from a smuggler's musket. 
               The struggle lasted not a minute, for, clearing their bow and midship oars, the smugglers shot ahead, and, from the time necessarily occopied by Topman in veering round to pursue, were completely lost in the haze, bearing away a rich cargo, consisting of French woollen cloths, Mecklin lace, and silks, intended for the London market; but when nearly within reach of their wharfing in the cliff, the man in the head of Topman's boat passed the word abaft, of 
               "A boat ahead! bearing on our larboard bows!" when Topman made hail. 
               The voice of Binnacle was heard immediately after, urging the rowers to renewed exertions to distance their pursuers, although the haze was still too thick to enable them to command a view of any object within half a furlong distance, even with the aid of glasses. 
               The smugglers' boat not answering the hail of her pursuers, the preventive man in the bow-sheets, levelling a musket, sent a ball in the direction whence the sound proceeded, which was returned by the desperate men on board the contrabandist, with such fatal certainty of aim, directed no doubt by the flash of the first discharge, that the unfortunate gunner fell dead over the larboard gunwale of the vessel. While his messmates, now more anxious than ever for revenge, encouraged each other to exert themselves to the fullest to overtake and capture the craft they were in pursuit of, by shouting, 
               "Execution Dock, and a flood-tide for the murderers of Harry Bracewell!" 
               When the smugglers' boat was better than half a mile from the Hole, the wind freshened for a moment, and partially clearing the haze, betrayed her fully to the revenue men, who were pursuing her, and who, starting up, enraged by the loss of Bracewell, sent a volley in that direction, which we judged was ineffectual, by the huzza of the antagonist boat's crew. 
               The next minute a ball hit our bow oarsman in the neck, who instantly fell dead; and in the confusion incidental to such a moment, the smugglers' boat's crew gave full way, and enveloped in the haze, in a few minutes found themselves in safety at Welling's wharf. 
               What was to be done? These desperate men knew they had forfeited their lives by firing into a boat in his Majesty's service; they knew also, from their deep lading, there would be no trusting to their exertions for escape; and as to unloading and depositing their cargo with Tom Welling, that would now be utterly impossible without incurring a certain detection. 
               Accordingly, after a hasty council, they determined to haul the boat bodily into the outer cavern, and lie perdu until their pursuers should have passed, relying on the hazy weather for concealment; when, if discovered, they determined, as they expressed themselves, to sell their lives as bravely as they could, and die sword in hand rather than swing at the command of any big wigged land-lubber amongst them. 
               And fortunately was it for them they came to this resolution; for they had hardly hauled up their boat high and dry ere they could hear their pursuers within one hundred yards of them, as they rowed on in the direction of Broadstairs. Topman had never done them abler or more important service than he had rendered them in that night of peril and of blood, when, by keeping them on for Broadstairs, he gave the contrabandists an opportunity of relaunching the boat and making all speed to rejoin the Witch, which they did in safety. 
               Notwithstanding the eagerness of the revenue cutter's men, after searching all night, and alarming the coast, they were obliged to return at last, dejected and dispirited at their ill success, and to report the loss of the two men, Cox and Bracewell, to the commander of the boat. Wherefore, on their arrival alongside the Wasp, Ned reported to the officer of the watch, who reported the Lieutenant Trunnion, who would have to report to the Admiralty, the death of two of his Majesty's seamen, who would have to sum up and balance their accounts for pay and prize money, for the benefit of their executors, administrators, or assigns, as the case may, might, would, could, or should happen to be, or turn out. 
               When Topman reported to the officer of the watch, he committed the matter formally to writing, for the purpose of transmitting it to the head and commander, who slept ashore-a circumstance not at all unusual among the superior officers, when vessels are in harbor-which communication, knowing Topman to possess the confidence of Lieutenant Trunnion, he sent a man, in company with the master's mate, to deliver, with directions for the latter to remain ashore to answer any questions which it might be deemed necessary to put to him. And, accordingly, crossing the pier, and climbing the wooden escalier, dignified by the title of Jacob's Ladder-although if we may judge by the predatory habits of some of the rascally lodging-house keepers who inhabit the row of houses level with the platform on the top of that ricketty building, we should decide, without hesitation, that the term Jacob's Ladder is grossly misapplied in the present instance, as its utmost elevation must fall immeasurably short of heaven-Topman and his companion found themselves fronting the house which contained the body of their captain; his soul, no doubt, busied about the sloop, and absorbed in the more important duties which awaited him on board. 
               A single rap announced the arrival of the two sailors, and the door being opened, the man who bore the letter topped his boom, doffed his royal, rubbed down his "fell of hair," and ducking with half a leg into a sort of sea-bow, grumbled out a few words that were lost in an unintelligible mutter-at least would have been, had not the letter spoke as plainly, though symbollically, as a letter could speak- 
               "A letter for his honor!" the only word rendered distinctly being the last, so extraordinary an effect has the despotism established on ship-board on the vocabulary of all beneath the dignity of a warrant-officer. 
               Now the individual who opened the door to these sailors was no other than the captain's body servant, or black-handed valet de chambre: and not only was the fellow black-handed, he had a black face also, whence it may be reasonably assumed that he had a black body; but of this it was impossible to judge, as the remainder of his precious person was covered with the spoils of plants, worms, and animals, arranged with the most refined attention to taste-in other words, his outward man was arrayed in the combined attraction of linen, silk, and superfine cloth; while the large ear-rings he wore, and the topaz glittering in his frilled shirt, lent a double refracted light to dazzle the sight and bewilder the judgment of the opposite sex, the sylphs of the kitchen, who occasionally would condescend to look not only upon that, but also would sometimes cast their eyes on and survey with astonishment, the immense bunch of seals appended from the region of his fob, and in displaying which he was not a little proud. 
               Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski was a Saint Domingo black, and one who, not withstanding the outbreak of the slaves, under Toussaint, had continued faithful, from long habits of attachment, to his old master. Like most colored people, Pedro entertained no very mean opinion of himself and his qualifications; and, to do him justice, he was not altogether vain without cause: for Pedro could read and write, advantages which, when he compared himself with the negroes he had contacted with in the British plantations, raised him at least ten rundles higher, in his individual estimation, on the ladder of fame. To the credit of the French colonist be it spoken, they seldom debarred the negro from learning, and the acquisition of knowledge had a tendency to temper and civilise, while it reconciled them to their station in life; for the branches of learning, laid down the principle of a religion which, of all others, has the most direct influence in rendering men contented with their lot-we mean Catholicism. 
               Yes, Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski could read his native French; and, having some ambition about him, when he transferred his services to an English master he applied himself with such unwearied diligence to his studies, as soon enabled him to read English, although with those occasional misfortunes of pronunciation and application generally observable among the children of Africa, which, notwithstanding a certain degree of talent exhibited by some few of the race, must essentially mark the great body of negroes as inferior to their paler brothers of creation. Thus, for instance, Pedro always mis-called superstitions for suspicious-while he not unfrequently denied Catholicism to be supercilious. 
                
               
                   
                     THE MURDER OF HARDBRACE BY NED TOPMAN. 
                  
                
               But what Pedro cheifly prided himself on was history, and in all his arguments, and in the kitchen he had held a great many, particularly with a certain town-bred man-cook, who superintended the dinner on any very extraordinary occasions, and whom he convinced Julias Csar blew Titus up for burning down Solomon's temple, for a proof of Christianity, by the following mode of reasoning: "Look you disnow-who fus' Cser?-tell me dat. Ya! ha! you can't-dere no Csar till Octabus, and af'er him come Titus, who burn de temple at Jereboam-an af'er him Come Julian Cser, who try 'em build up agen, when him die from arrow in him gizzard. Ya! ha! you cont'dic' dat." 
               Dipping into a French work belonging to his first master, he had become acquainted with a smattering of Russian and Polish history, which accounts for the lofty names he had assumed in 'confirmation'-a custom admitted among Catholics, who on being received into the church, after taking the latter sacrament, have permission to adopt another other tutelary saint, if the bare assumption of a name can be made to imply such an intention. 
               Now, this very Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski, as we have already stated, opened the door at once to the foremast man and the master's mate. But the mode of reception extended to the one and to the other marked the observant nature of the negro. Quenching the familiar smile with which he greeted Topman, in an austere regard of control he told the formast-man to follow them, and led the way to his own room or pantry, telling them his master had not yet risen; but he would make bold to carry up the dispatch, and bring orders directly-"But," concluded he, "Ha! ha! a s'poce dat you no d'jaction to cup ob coffee, Massa Ned; an' you, t'oder massa tar, know not you nam-not hab honor ob your acqu'nt'nces-ha! ha! ya!" and then chuckled all the time the coffee was running through the biggin. 
               Leaving the two worthies to finish their coffee, Pedro hastened up stairs with the letter; when the foremast man ventured to observe, "He always thought there was good and bad of all sorts." 
               "What do you mean by that, Tim?" asked Topman. 
               "Why, that blackee now is jist as good, and all as one as if he was a raal nat'ral Christian," quoth Tim Clark. 
               "Well, what o' that?" 
               "Why, it shows as all nat'ral Christians aint white." 
               "White!" iterated the master's mate, with a marked note of admiration; "there are some of 'em black enough, I can tell you. Blackee, by G-d, is as good a Christian as another." 
               "I can't stomach that," quoth Tim Clark; "though I will stand to it he makes excellent coffee. But then, you know, a Turk can do the like o' that. I know'd that when I was cruizing up the Straits. But, howsomdever, they might have been teached to make coffee by them Christian Greek chaps; for they used to do every thing useful, or that like; tho'f I've often thought they could hardly be called Christians, neither, when I've seen 'em drest up like so many mountebanks, with their broidered jackets and their tit-fallaras. What call has a Christian to any think furder nor a jacket and trousers?" 
               And the next moment Topman, being summoned to Lieutenant Trunnion, left Tim Clark to the philosophical solution of his own question; which we might safely assume him to be doing, by his fixing his eyes on the fire-place, while he slowly turned the bread and butter over in his mouth, like a cow in the act of ruminating. 
               On being summoned to the drawing-room, Topman doffed his hat, and was very sorry that such a misfortune should happen to the boat's crew which he commanded. 
               "Howsomever, your honor," concluded the master's mate, "every bullet has its billet. It might as well been me as Harry Bracewell or poor Cox-I say poor Cox, because Bracewell did have a slap at them for his money. But where's the use of slapping at the likes o' them? Why, the're equal to the devil or the Flying Dutchman. We had a full view of them within quarter musket shot, and they made just nothing of our bullets; and immediately after, a shot took Cox across the bow thwarts, an' then the smuggler's boat's crew vanished with the flash of their piece." 
               "Vanished!" 
               "Why, as good, your honor," said Topman; "not as I'm superstitious, or that like, your honor, though the whole boat's crew'd swear they seed Old Nick carry them off in a flash of fire. My belief is, your honor, they pulled out to sea, an' we shall have 'em in to night, landward, if your honor'll leave it to me." 
               "Well, Topman, you certainly have succeeded several times in making seizures, and redeemed our credit, after the success of the smuggling rascals had been a sad satire upon our efficiency as a body," observed Lieutenant Trunnion; "let me hear what you propose: the loss of two men, without making a capture, is a sad disgrace." 
               "The best of men may be lost in a hazy night-nay, the best vessels founder, without impeachment to the gallantry or skill of the crew or officers," observed Topman. 
               "As I said afore, every bullet hath its billet, and it might have been me, and I wish it had, rather than come here to report. But, if your honor will trust the manuvres to me, "I'll bring 'em ashore, an' make free with the rascals' cargo, in the name of his blessed Majesty." 
               Topman's eyes went up heavenwards on the pronunciation of the last three words, with such an edifying expression, as almost to provoke the master and commander to a smile. 
               And, after a considerable quantity of conversation, it was agreed on that Ned should have the order of thirty men ashore, distributed along every known inlet by which the contrabandists had the most remote chance of running their cargo. 
               The conduct of Topman, during his watch on the lesser Foreland, has been already narrated, as well as the complete success of the Welling's Hole gang, in getting their stuff ashore, and turning their boat adrift to be picked up by any poor devil who might have occasion for her. 
               There remain but a few words to be said of the schooner, which had taken advantage of the hazy weather to land her cargo for the benefit of her friends ashore. She lay securely riding by her kedge, under her mizen-spritsail and flying jib, all the rest of her canvass taken abaok, without any progressive or retrogressive movement. From the time the beacon Topman had lighted on the cliff cast its beams across the ocean, the commander of the smuggling craft looked wistfully towards Welling's Hole; nor-so valueable was the cargo sent ashore that night-did his face brighten into a smile until, by the aid of his glass, he could discover the red glare of the torches in the direction of the cavern. With an anxious mind did he count over every intervening minute of time, from the first appearance of lights in the Hole, until he heard the booming sound of the bow gun of the Wasp, and in an instant after all was darkness. 
               "That," thought he, "by its sound, should be a royal visiter. The sloop has arrived in time to be too late; but I have nothing aboard now that I am either afraid or ashamed of, and see no reason to prevent my joining the more legitimate inmates of Ramsgate harbor." Shaking out his canvass, therefore, he lay his vessel over with the skill of a steersmen who knew every inch of the coast, and the morning found him in the outer basin-while the Harbor Master had his vessel registered, "Gentleman's pleasure-yacht, schooner-rigged, the property of William Watch, Esq, of Tokenhouse-yard, London. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                  
                      
                        "I am a jolly gay pedlar, 
                        Travelling to sell all my wares." 
                     
                   
                
               NEAR unto the venerable city of Canterbury, that loadstar to pilgrims and devotees in the olden time, and thought by some to be the most ancient place in that part of England-on the road side, we say, leading through the city above mentioned towards London, might be seen an old-fashioned inn or hostelry, with a swinging sign-board and water-trough in the area or space in the frontage, on the first of which was painted, although the unsparing hand of time had nearly obliterated the letters, "The Three Jolly Anchorsmiths" 
               The building bore evident marks of a far remote antiquity, and appeared, from its appointments and characteristics, never to have lost its original destination, but to have been an hostelry from the beginning. 
               Every part of it exhibited the simple architecture of our forefathers, in its crude, massive, and cumbrous fashioning. But, though devoid of that harmony and finish which may be found amongst the moderns, the building had as yet been able to defy the devastating march of Time, by the solid masses it every where presented to his all-corroding tooth. 
               The heavy lintels of the door might, from their immense size and thickness, be fairly assumed to have been two stunted oaks originally growing on the spot they still occupied, and stripped of their bark and lopped, and cut into some resemblance of a square superfices by the rude instruments in use among the raisers of the edifice; while the architrave showed by its formation, the use of triangular supports in building to have been one of the primitive geometrical discoveries amongst mankind. 
               The heavy frame-work of the windows, though it evidenced an error in architecture long since exploded, also furnished a proof of the care taken to throw off the weight from above: thus the upper part of the frame work was carried far beyond the side cases of the window for the purpose of forming, by lateral pressure, an angular resistance to act against the depressing effect of the superstructure. The solid parts of the wall were composed of an aggregate of flint, shingle, chalk, lime, and a rude species of brick, burnt into clinkers, but without any regard to regularity or form; yet had these walls hitherto endured the flight of ages in pursuit of eternity, as if their whole substance had been primitively formed by nature, while more regular edifices had mouldered away and been forgotten. 
               The ends of the building were gabled, as was also the middle frontage, which gave the whole mass the appearance of a centre with two wings-though, from the more modern style of the interior, a traveller might readily conclude that what then appeared to be a hall, with refreshment rooms for two distinct kinds of customers, had been anciently a single apartment, wherein the pious visitants to the shrine of St. Thomas a Becket had met together for the purpose of refection, in the solemn assumption of equality which penitence at once enjoins and imposes. 
               A sort of bar, or bar-parlor, which served the family for a common room in the dead season of the year, when the pleasant meadows and luxuriant fields could no longer tempt the gay and joyous visitant, had been partitioned off; which parlor, or bar, looked into the refreshing room for the meaner sort of people, and as, indeed, there were seldom any other who visited the hostel, the latter apartment had been long despoiled of the tapestried hangings to furnish covering for the parlor floor. The remaining apartments of the house were rarely visited, except indeed by a passing traveller whose curiosity had been tempted by its antique appearance; and also excepting at Christmastide and other winter festivals, when the friends and neighbors of past days were invited to dine in the old oak and tapestried chamber, aud a barbacue duly given, together with such other cheer as the produce of their meadow or farm-yard afforded, and lamb's wool made of roasted crabs, humming ale, brandy and spices, was handed about from old to young, and drunk out of a common bowl, after the quaint custom of the wassailers of old. 
               Rereward of the building some vestiges yet remained of the stabling and sleeping apartments, with their corridor communication, which might tell of a past age; the principal materials of which, however, had been long since cut up and used as firewood, the trade of the inn no longer requiring such extensive accommodation, and the rage for building not having as yet penetrated thither, so as to furnish a monied customer for old wainscottings, etc.; and at the lower end of the premises, as if to mark the extent of the owner's freehold, a forge and smithy abutted on the end of the road, in such wise as to block out the view of the inn and sign-board from those who approached it on the country side; above which smithy, on another sign-board-the inscription on which, by the way, had nearly met the fate of its neighbor in front of the hostel-you might still, with some trouble, decipher pher, "Jeremiah Pardo,"-or Pardeaux, for it was thought his descent was Norman,-"Smith in general. N. B. Forgery of every kind, notwithstanding the recent act of Parliament." 
               Jeremiah Pardo, the owner of this hostel and smithy, was a blacksmith by hereditary descent, his family having conducted that business through seven or eight successive generations, while they added there to the dangerous though lucrative one of smuggling; which last mentioned avocation the aforesaid Jeremiah, with a holy reverence for the calling of his ancestors, had still continued, despite the devices of the devil, whether in the person of surveyors, landwaiters, supervisors, gaugers, or any other custom-house vermin with special information in their hands and a secret desire in their hearts towards their proper share of the plunder to be obtained by ransacking "The Three Jolly Anchorsmiths." But although they had upon several occasions put forth their claws with all the tenacity of purpose which may be supposed to animate the harpy genus, their unhallowed intentions had hitherto been frustrated, and Jeremiah Pardo still rejoiced in security. 
               Such a state of things completely posed the chief officers of his Majesty's customs. "It is strange!" communed they amongst themselves. "We know old Pardo to be the centre of a communication; through him the dealers in smuggled articles are supplied; through his agency are orders transmitted, while unpermitted goods are circulated in and about the country, and yet, so accurate is the intelligence of this secret violator of the laws, he baffles all our efforts, and laughs at the various plans we have hitherto laid to ensnare him. If we send an order by a bribed agent, it is not executed; neither is information transmitted to us. We know, we daily see proof of his being the nucleus of an extensive movement. He must certainly have had dealings with the devil." 
               Such was the conclusion arrived at by the commissioners of excise at a period when a more conscientious belief in the existence of the devil animated and governed the breasts of that class of society in which such kinds of animals as commissioners of all sorts live and have a being; but which belief, if we may judge by the conduct of a similar class of creatures in the present day, is very rapidly going out of fashion, and with it, we are very sorry to say, a great part of the very little conscience they possessed in better times. 
               In this conclusion, however, the aforesaid commissioners were wrong-for Jeremiah Pardo was not fool enough to deal with a personage who, however multipled the transactions, at the end of the account always calculated on having a balance of one in his favor. 
               Yet, though Jeremiah Pardo was too wise to have any personal transactions with the gentleman last above mentioned, he had dealings, and those very extensive in their nature, with a set of men only bound to each other by the ties of mutual safety; men who formed a community totally devoid of public morality, yet existing with no other guarantee of safety than the individual honor of every single and separate member of the fraternity. 
               These men were the smugglers of Welling's Hole; to whom old Jeremiah Pardo, the octogenarian, was now principal agent, and of and in whose reckless daring he had in boyhood been participator and associate. 
               The reader will have no doubt taken Jeremiah Pardo for a character-and he will not have formed a very wrong notion on the subject, if that heterogeneous compound usually denominated, by such plain matter-of-fact persons as have no fun in their nature, an oddity, can be taken for one. 
               Jeremiah was still fond of his joke and his pipe and his glass, and he was past eighty-five; although his jest had dwindled into repetition, his pipe was oftener laid aside than formerly, and his glass less carefully qualified than of old. 
               Jeremiah could also read the newspaper; and, with the true feeling of an adventurer engaged in an illegal mode of traffic, his sympathies revolted against every arbitrary stretch of authority, particularly such as affected human life. 
               Thus our eccentric marked his horror of the first execution under the statute against forgery, by inscribing on the sign-board over the smithy-"Forgery of all kinds, notwithstanding the Act of Parliament;" which inscription now constituted the principal or standard joke of mine host of the "Three Jolly Anchorsmiths." 
               Amongst the inmates of the hostel we must not forget to enumerate the old hammerman of the smithy, who now filled the situation of pipe companion to Jeremiah Pardo, for he had little else to do but smoke and take life easily. It is true that from long habit he rose every morning at five o'clock throughout the summer, and at six in the winter months of the year; and that, after he had risen and arrayed himself in his doe-skin smalls, vest, and leathern apron, he would sally forth, with his shirt-sleeves tucked above the elbow, to light the forge fire; and having done thus much duty, he would pull out a short pipe, and, seating himself upon the anvil, smoke until Bridget Mullaghney summoned him to breakfast. 
               But though Ephraim Clink never neglected lighting the forge fire, forgery, alas! had never been committed on those premises "full many a year." 
               It is equally true that, after breakfast, Ephraim Clink would go to sit upon the anvil again, until Jeremiah Pardo summoned him to bring his pipe and join him in his mid-day smoke; on which occasion Ephraim was expected to laugh at the jokes he had heard repeated daily-during thirty years at the least-for the closest observers of mankind have observed that garulity begins before sixty, amongst such persons as have nothing else to do but talk, and that the character known in the world as "a very conversable man" will rattle away with the same thing over and over again, the moment he gets on the weather side of fifty. 
               To claim, therefore, a similar privilege for Jeremiah Pardo can neither be deemed unnatural nor improper; and to do Ephraim Clink justice, no person could have been better qualified for a patient listener, age having rendered him quite deaf on the one side, and a little bothered on the other; so that, in the part of his duty in which he had to laugh at his master's jokes, he had merely to watch the broad grin upon Jeremiah's countenance, and follow it up with a boisterous cachination that never failed to please. 
               Nay, further to qualify him as a patient listener, he was naturally of so silent a turn, that an observer who did not know aught to the contrary might easily have been led to affirm he was dumb also, he never having been heard to utter any distinct sentence during the last fifteen years, save one, about eleven years previously, when being called, by way of jest, to bring forth a horse-shoe, he found he had been hoaxed, and vented his indignation in the following strain, viz.-"He wondered what the plague had gone along with the 'osses, seein' they never comed to be shoed; but he supposed now they went without shoes altogether, as poor people's child'n had come pretty nigh unto that pass." A sentence which told as much in favour of his natural goodness of heart, as it militated against the correctness of his judgment. 
               But the paragon of the house-nay, for beauty, grace, temper, simplicity and vivacity, the paragon of the world-has not yet been mentioned. This was Susan Wylie, the grand neice of Jeremiah Pardo, whom we have to introduce to the reader as one of the heroines of our romance; for, unlike the every-day writer of romances, it is our intention to have two. Susan Wylie was nineteen, and possessed of a form sufficiently rounded to add grace and beauty to every movement, conjoined to a mind which, though trammelled by the accomplishment of a superior education, had not yet been tortured out of its natural impressions; but, while budding into womanhood, had yet purity enough to indulge in the dreams of love with an unsuspecting and almost infantine innocence. That she possessed a simple conciousness of pleasure when her lover was near her, the wild, innocent, bashful irresolution of her glances might betray to a man of the world; but those glances were tempered by a timid, retiring and modest discretion, which had yet sufficent power to awe the sensualist, and convert his lust into a more pure, a more virtuous, a more holy feeling. To say her features were regular would be a praise as faint as it were false. In her countenance there might be said to exist regularity without design, so endless, so infinite was its power of expression; and her laughing blue eyes and smiling lips could at all times arm themselves with a look sufficent to awe the audacity of the most confident intruder. 
               Susan Wylie had not attained her nineteenth year, and kept her heart entirely free from the impressions which bring to females so much joy and sorrow in their train, as to form the happiness or misery of future lives; and the occasional visits of William, or, as he was called by her grand-uncle, Captain Watch, had made a deep impression on her young heart long ere she was conscious of the inroad, or her lover had summoned the resolution to declaire his passion. Howbeit, he did declare it, and her spirit rejoiced to find her secret aspiration responded to by the dear object of her youthful choice. 
               Yet happy had it been for Susan Wylie, happy for William, had that passion never been responded. Left to itself, it might perchance have wasted away, or found a refuge in another and an after passion, adopted when hope had past; but, fed by anticipation, nurtured, nourished by the tenderness and attachment of its valued object, it became the master feeling of her future fate-the arbiter of her destiny-a light in whose absence worse than she could deem of death. 
               Such were the members who formed the family at the "Three Jolly Anchorsmiths:" and who, together with Mrs. Pardo, and an occasional visitor or two, wore out the dead waste of the year in a hostel which in all probability had formerly lodged a hundred or a hundred and fifty at a time: but that was at a period when penance and pilgrims were more plentiful than they are at present; although the offences which occasion penance and pilgrimage are as rife in the world as ever. 
               On the morning which followed the schooner's entry in the register book of the harbor-master of Ramsgate, at about seven o'clock, the welkin in the immediate neighborhood of the hostelry rung with a joyous sound-a sound at same time so boisterous that it suspended the twitter of sparrows, and disturbed the robin's chirp; and on the road leading towards the "Three Jolley Anchorsmiths" might be seen a careless roysterer, in the garb of a private soldier belonging to one of his majesty's regiments, whose green-faced uniform and feather proclaimed the part of the empire from which the regiment derived its origin. As soon as this new importation arrived at the summit of the knoll leading to the "Three Jolly Anchorsmiths," in the fullness of his heart he cut a caper, and commenced lilting down the hill, in a pace betwixt a dance and a trot, singing- 
                      
                        "Och! long life to ould Ireland and, 'tis there they drink whiskey, 
                        Where the girls are all funny, the boys are all free; 
                        And a lilt from the piper can make them so frisky, 
                        Dance off care and trouble, a vourneen machree!', 
                     
                   On arriving at this part of the song he paused, flourishing his shilelagh, made a complete tournade, and exclaimed, "Hoo! the divel may care!" and recommenced descending. 
               On reaching the smithy soldier stopped, and leaning over the half panel which had been left open for the sake of light, and which the custom of that time did not prescribe should be glazed-the laborious employment of a smith, or worker of metals, being held, even by our immediate progenitors, unwholesome enough to require a free circulation of air-gazed for a moment upon the body corporate of Ephraim Clink, who, with his shirt sleeves tucked up above the elbows, and short pipe, his companion for the last twenty years, then and there sat upon the anvil, which prevented the gravitation of his nethermost end further earthwards, looking on the forge fire he had lighted, enveloped himself in a cloud of tobacco smoke, with the silence and gravity of one of the primitive Dutch settlers in the woods and wilds of America. 
               "Och! long life to yer, old chap, though the divel a much life in yer as far as I can see," exclaimed our Hibernian, with a twirl of his shilelagh; "and the top of the morning to yer, and good luck to yer, if you'd on'y tell me where I'll git a morsel of mate, and a thrifle of dhrink, for I'm as dry as a diveled biskit." 
                
               But though our Irishman spoke from the top of his voice, he might have spoken until mid-day without disturbing the cogitations of Ephraim, who, like the deaf adder, heeded not the voice of the charmer, but sat with his back turned towards the visitor, and smoked on without deigning word or look in the direction of the person who addressed him; whereupon Paddy, vext at having thrown so many salutations and good wishes away on so surly a companion, transferring his stick to his left hand, spat in the dexter palm to prevent its stinging his hand in its vibration, again grasped the stick with his right hand, and dealt the silent joker a smart stroke across his shoulders, exclaiming at the same time, in a voice of thunder, yea, louder than thunder, for that had little effect on the ear-drum of Ephraim-"Hav'n't ye a tongue in your head to give a christian answer, you baste?" 
               We have said that thunder sometimes slept in the senses of the old hammerman; but whether the smart blow of an ashen twig has any effect in brightening up the perception, particularly when laid upon shoulders simply defended by a covering of linen, or not, would hardly furnish a matter of interrogatory for a Master in Chancery to decide. Certain it is, that Ephraim Clink did hear the latter part of the soldier's speech, and equally certain that he started from the anvil in infinite surprise at such a mode of application, and, with eyes almost starting from his head, and merely catching the last word of the new comer, "baste," ran towards the fire, and casting a horse shoe therein began to blow the bellows with all his might, exclaiming at the same time, with that expression of semi-consciousness which usually accompanies deafness- 
               "Oh!-a!-yes! She him directly." 
               "Shoe who? Me! Shoe the devil!" vociferated the new comer, in anger. "What d'ye mane? Is it to insult me?" 
               "Yes, yes!" quoth he of the hammer, who did not understand a single word that was addressed to him, but kept raising and falling his body in the act of blowing the bellows, keeping his back turned towards the new comer in a manner far too contemptuous to be endured by one of so quick and irascible a temper. 
               "You do, do you!" cried the Irishman. "Thin by my sowl, I'll be even wid you in two twos." 
               Accordingly, with the agility of one accustomed to athletic exercises, our soldier sprang over the hatch partition, and in the next moment dealt a kick so adroitly at the ignoble part of the hammerman's body, which was as it were so insolently thrust in his face, that it laid Ephraim sprawling on the forge fire in such wise as would have burnt anybody but a blacksmith; but he, spreading out his hands in the fall, as if by natural instinct, luckily placed them in contact with the cold ashes, while the bib of his leathern apron protected his manly breast against any injury from that raging element so dreaded by the burnt of all ages, sexes, and conditions. 
               A moment afterwards and Ephraim stood upon his feet, staring about him in a manner which hath been likened unto a stuck pig's, so utterly astonished was he by an attack so wanton and unprovoked till turning in the direction of his new assailant he perceived, to his further surprise, that the soldier had not only effected what is called in military phraseology a lodgment in the smithy, but was actually grasping his ashen twig for the purpose of administering another dose of what had partially relieved his deafness already. Deeming him, therefore, nothing less than mad, Ephraim snatched, with the pinchers, the horse-shoe, red hot from the furnace, and discharged it in the direction of the soldier's head, at the very moment that Bridget Mullaghney was opening the door at the other other end of the building, to announce to Ephraim Clink that breakfast was ready. 
               Our soldier, accustomed to defend himself against missiles of all descriptions, ducked in so well-timed a moment, that the glowing discus, whirling through "the circumambient air" which not only "surrounds this globe terrene," but thrusts its impudent presence into every chink and cranny which presents a vacancy, struck against the gable end of the smithy, then fell perpendicularly upon Biddy's top-knot, and, without giving further notice of a mischievous intention, rested on her cap. 
               "The Lord save us!" exclaimed Bridget Mullaghney, unconscious for a moment of the nature of the accident which had just befallen her. "Are you all mad? What is the meaning av this?" 
               The next instant, however, she felt an idea flashing across "her heat oppressed brain," when, raising her hand to her head, she burnt her fingers in dislodging what appeared to her terrified senses, as undoubtedly it was, a red-hot horse-shoe! An instant after her cap was in full blaze. 
               "Murder! murder! fire! fire!" shouted the serving-woman of the "Three Jolly Anchorsmiths;" while Ephraim, seizing a ponderous sledge-hammer, stared fearfully upon the soldier, who, as may readily be supposed, stared no less fearfully upon him. 
               The cry of the unhappy Bridget, however, brought him a relief that saved his valor from the necessity of testing the equality betwixt a stick and a sledge-hammer, and knowing, by instinct, as the man in the play says, that "when we hear the voice of a woman in distress it is our duty to fly to her assistance," he rushed across the yard after Bridget Mullaghney, and pressed out the flames with his gloved hands before she had reached the door of the hostel; while Ephraim, readily comprehending the reason, why Bridget had opened the outer door, laid aside the sledge-hammer, and, rubbing the part last assailed with his broad and boney hand, followed them into breakfast, fully convinced by the time-piece in his stomach, that it was not an hour too soon. 
               After the important service thus rendered unto Bridget, it will not be deemed wonderful that the soldier should be seated in the warmest ingle, or that a slice of bacon, and, to use her own mellifluous brogue, "a hot cup of tay," had been prepared by the fair freckled hand of the Irish maiden for her gallant deliverer-but for whose timely assistance in extinguishing the flames that burst from her cap, her lovely head had been disfurnished of locks scarcely less fiery in their appearance and color-or that Ephraim's anger should have been mitigated by Bridget giving him an extra drop of brandy in his tea. 
                
               Peace was restored between the recent belligerents; the soldier talked, the grey eyes of the maiden twinkled as she looked and listened, and Clink sat with his mouth and eyes wide open, in absolute wonderment at what it could all be about. 
               "And f hot's yer name, agrah?" asked Bridget, with a look peculiar to the Irish. "Sure av yer country I needn't be axin.' 
               "Faith! now that's a quistin 'ud puzzle a moss-trooper," replied the soldier; "but I've mine at my fingers' end for all that-people call me Muldowney Trelawney." 
               "Sure now, Trelawney's a great name," said Bridget. 
               "Gentle or simple, its mine," replied the soldier. 
               "And have ye seen much sarvice?" asked the maid. 
               "Hoo! troth, more than I'd wish to see again." 
               The first exclamation came out in a tone so shrill and piercing, as to produce such a sensation on the tympanum of Ephraim as made his eyes flash fire, but presently subsiding into their usual inane expression, he began to beat the devil's tatto in silence. 
               "And have you ever been in battle?" asked Bridget. 
               "Is it in battle?-Stop, I'll tell you my history; sure I'm a bit of a poeter, and writ it all down myself, honey; an' I don't know where betther I can sing it, than in a chimney corner, by the side of a counthrywoman. But are the good people of the house up?" 
               "No faith! but they will be directly." 
               "Then you shall have it all to yourself, darlint. I've called it 'Irish Ultimism;' and, by my faith, it's no bad philosophy for a man to get through the world with." 
                      
                        "I'll tell you here, so list my dear, 
                        My story I vow, my story I vow, 
                        Then pray attend unto the end, 
                        Nor bother me now, bother me now. 
                        In Ireland, that fire land, 
                        Myself was rear'd, myself was rear'd: 
                        For bull-ing fam'd, we're never tam'd, 
                        Nor e're afear'd, e're afear'd: 
                        For there this maxim we have still, 
                        In wrangle or rest, wrangle or rest- 
                        Come weal, come woe, come good, come ill, 
                        'Tis all for the best! 
                     
                      
                        "When just a chick as high 's my stick, 
                        Crawling about, crawling about, 
                        To the place I crept where the fire 's kept, 
                        And burnt my snout, burnt my snout. 
                        I roared, I squall'd, my mother bawl'd 
                        'He'll lose his nose, lose his nose!' 
                        But I seiz'd the line where the clothes was dryin', 
                        And, 'pon my soul, burnt father's hose. 
                        'Och! niver fear,' says father dear, 
                        While myself he press'd, myself he press'd 
                        'Though our stocking's gone, I can put t'other on; 
                        Sure 'tis all for the best!" 
                     
                     
                      
                        "Grown a gassoon I whistled a tune, 
                        And quitted my lair, quitted my lair, 
                        Trudging along to that good old tune, 
                        'The devil may care,' devil may care. 
                        I'd a good friese coat my father bought, 
                        But for a thirteen, for a thirteen. 
                        In hunting a pig I got split, mind the gig, 
                        Creeping out of a ditch-och! a sight to be seen. 
                        They call'd me calf, and rais'd a laugh, 
                        When they saw me distress'd, saw me distress'd. 
                        'Hoo! laugh,' says I, with a wink of my eye, 
                        'Sure 'tis all for the best!' 
                     
                      
                        "I crass'd the say in a snug post-shay, 
                        On the deck of a ship, deck of a ship; 
                        Where my place I kept, and snugly slept, 
                        Fearing I'd slip, fearing I'd slip: 
                        But the usquebagh so rock'd me, agrah, 
                        That I niver awoke, niver awoke, 
                        Till in Grov'nor Square-Lord, how I did stare 
                        To find out the joke, to find out the joke! 
                        The maister thin laughed out agin, 
                        On disturbing my rest, disturbing my rest, 
                        And meself he hir'd-kase why?-I warn't tir'd; 
                        So 'twas all for the best! 
                     
                      
                        "Now my maister was-'tis fact, that's pos- 
                        A soldier brave, a soldier brave; 
                        Had a turn for wit, so told me I'd fit, 
                        As he wanted a knave, wanted a knave. 
                        Thin I march'd contint, wherever he wint, 
                        Till we storm'd a redoubt, storm'd a redoubt, 
                        And no more to be said, got knocked on the head 
                        As the foe turn'd out, the foe turn'd out. 
                        When I came to myself I'd lost my pelf; 
                        But my wounds being dress'd, wounds being dress'd, 
                        I'd a cut on my head, broke three ribs, as they said 
                        Yet 'twas all for the best! 
                     
                      
                        "Then, since I'm here, take me, my dear, 
                        For better for worse, better for worse; 
                        Sure a great grandee wouldn't equal me, 
                        Wanting the purse-wanting the purse. 
                        I've lots of love, as you may prove 
                        Whenever you plaise, whenever you plaise. 
                        And a heart that dare be thrue, I swear, 
                        For the rest of my days, rest of my days. 
                        Faith, I'll kiss an' press in the midst of distress. 
                        Unthinking of rest, unthinking of rest; 
                        And though 'tis a bore, should you whisper encore,
                         
                        Why, 'tis all for the best!" 
                     
                  
                
               Now whether the devil's tattoo accompaniment had so mesmerised our soldier as to transport him beyond himself, or whether Biddy had, in the exuberance of her gratitude, too craftily qualified his tea from the brandy bottle, or whether certain indications of the bar parlor being tenanted had reached the quick ear of the singer, we know not; but on finishing his song he sprang suddenly upwards, and lighting again on his feet with a mighty "hahoo!" dashed the basin into a thousand pieces: whereupon Biddy uttered a screech of dole for the loss of her crockery, and the inane Ephraim Clink started up in mute surprise, and stared as before, as the beautiful Susan Wylie ran into the ale-room to inquire the cause of the outcry. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                  
                     "They have pitched a toil; I am toiling in a pitch-pitch that defiles; pitch a foul word."
                   
                
               SUCH was the situation of the tripartite breakfasters in the ale-room-which room like the cobbler's stall in the old song, served Mistress Bridget Mullaghney "for parlor, and kitchen, and hall"-when the entrance of Susan Wylie changed the aspect of affairs in an instant, by staying the boisterous capers of the soldier, silencing the screech of Bridget, and converting the hitherto inexpressive look of Ephraim Clink into one of unqualified admiration-so potent is the spell of real beauty uncontrolled and unencumbered by the trammels of art; for, let the diseased mind of fashion think or utter what it will to the contrary, there is a point beyond which art disfigures nature: and as this point is best known to the dear sex, who are sure to succeed in captivating others- 
                     "When at the toilet they most please themselves."
                   we fearlessly venture to take their opinions against the field, and recommend fashion to abandon her fastidious assumption in favor of natural taste, which requires as much variety as we see changeful expressions in the numerous family of human countenances which led us a good journey on the road we are all compelled to travel. 
               "It's I, indeed!" exclaimed Bridget, who first found her vocabulary; "it's I, indeed, as am sorry that the likes of you, Miss Susan Wylie, should have your breakfast disturbed, that I made all comfortable and nice in the parlor, agen you'd come down, like an angel as you are-the graace of hivven be upan ye; but it's little I thought that schaming kinat of a counthryman of mine, after I thrated him to brickfast, and given him brandy in his tay, and all out of my own hard savins-for the divil a dhrop ovoid come out of the bar in a dishonest way-and to think that that born banshee of a souldier should have gone to break a chiney basin that I can't replaish for the matter of eightpence, let alone the disgrace he brought upon me to be seen in company with the likes of a red coat." 
               But during the whole of Mistress Bridget's address Susan Wylie's eyes were rivetted on the countenance of the stranger, with an expression of face at once betraying surprise and recognition in which also, a portion of pleasure might be traced, by a close observer, that hardly argued favorably for her sentiments of loyalty to her first passion. 
               When, therefore, Bridget paused in manifest surprise at her young mistress's want of attention, the soldier took advantage of her silence to throw in a plea in mitigation of the grievous offence he had just committed against the crockery of the household. 
               "Och! blessings on yer dear eyes and comely countenance!" cried he. "It's not on'y one basin, but a thousand I'd break to git one look on them, for it's many a day since I ve seen the like." 
               "The Lord save us!" ejaculated Bridget, holding up her hands as she sent a glance towards the ceiling; "f hot a power of words the man has! I'll be sworn upon a book if my young misthress an't smiling upon him! Thim Irish is divils for gittin' over our wakeniss. Hoo! misthress, misthress, f hot are ye about!" 
               And Mistress Bridget took advantage of her long acquaintance to assume a sufficient tenderness for Susan Wylie's virtue as to give her no slight twitch of the elbow, the meaning of which the latter quite mistaking, without withdrawing her eyes from that of the soldier-for he wore a huge patch over one-answering in her own silver tones-"Oh, never mind the basin, Bridget; I will replace that out of my own pocket" invited the soldier into the oak and tapestried chamber, leaving Bridget Mullaghney and Ephraim Clink looking at each other in mutual astonishment, for, for once, they were reduced to an equality-and, being struck dumb by what they had seen, were compelled, as most persons are upon similar occasions, to abandon speculation in a stare of amazement. 
               During this transient amazement, that busy devil the recollection of Bridget Mullaghney, began to furnish a variety of images which had been dancing before her imagination, like so many bottle imps at breakfast, and which were probably conjured by the copious commixture of brandy in the tea, furnished by Bridget for the purpose of allaying the strife between her countryman and Ephraim Clink. 
               These images were composed, as no doubt the principal part of such images usually are, of self-admiration, of gratitude, and hope, and ran principally on how her cap took fire, and how her gallant countryman put out the flames with his own hands, thereby saving her native tresses from the element that had begun to singe them; and how bright was the look of his one eye, and how one eye in the head of an Irishman is as bright again as any two you'll find in the head of another; and how the soldier had slapped her on the shoulder during the song he was singing, and how she thought he'd salute her when he had done, according to the fashion of her country, if she refused the response-for so pleased had she been with the service already rendered, that she had determined in her own mind to decline singing, to give him the opportunity; therefore, together with many more "hows" than we can mention, particularly how all those hows made her begin to think on what might be, when all her dreams were dissipated by the coquettish conduct of her young mistress. 
               As this suspension of her faculties, however, gave way to a sense of reality, Bridget drew a long respiration, and, turning to her companion, exclaimed- 
               "The Lord save us! did you ever thrame of the like?" 
               But she might as well have addressed herself to a post, for poor Ephraim Clink stood with his eyes starting in a forward glance, directed to the doorway by which Susan Wylie had made her exit with the soldier, without being able to comprehend a tittle of what it all meant-upon which Mistress Mullaghney feeling her really desolate condition, turned her resentment against the hammerman, whom, taking by the shoulders she thrust out of the room, exclaiming at the same time, 
               "Get you gone to the smithy; f hot do you here, you idle spalpeen! Fhot good is a deaf man when a body wants condolement! Is the room to be kept in a litter all day for you!" 
               Having thrust Ephraim out of the apartment, Biddy began in the first place to busy herself in washing the tea-things, but her mind was put into such a fluster by the circumstance she had just witnessed, that while in the act of taking water from the iron boiler for this purpose, her eye unconsciously wandered to the door, which door conjured up an image to her mind that kept it abstracted from surrounding reality till, the scalding water running over her hand, she dropped another basin, and consequently gave another screech. 
               "Divel have ye!" muttered Biddy to herself, "you are not in such a hurry to come. I suppose you are better engaged; but I'll be aven with you for takin my beau from me. I'll tell Mr. Watch av id, see now if I don't; and, that I may have something to tell, I'll just go listen at the dure. A consated cratur, to think she's a right to ivery one!"-for though Biddy had arrived at the discreet age of forty-two, she had not got so far on the old maid's list as to give up every hope of a husband, and acrordingly she left the ale-room in pursuit of her virtuous and politic intention. 
               There is a secret intelligence between lovers which is communicated in a glance; and notwithstanding the shock of red hair which covered the soldier's head, the black patch and the ochre-which latter gave a new coloring to the dark eyebrows of William Watch-the first look interchanged between them had told Susan Wylie that her lover stood before her; while his appearance in such a disguise, and so contrary to his usual wont, seemed a call upon her prudence to prevent a discovery in any other quarter. But upon retiring to the oak and tapestried chamber, disguise was no longer necessary, and the lovers were instantly locked in a warm and affectionate embrace. 
               "Dear Susan!" 
               "Dearest William!" 
               Such were the only words their tumultuous feelings at that moment of re-union enabled them to utter; but they surveyed each other with an expression of such blissful transport as rendered words unnecessary, by transfusing their most hidden and inmost thoughts through a medium infinitely more sincere than speech; the glance of the one breathing all the vehemence of the most ardent passion, that of the other the pure and artless confidence of maiden love. 
                
               Releasing herself at length from the arms of her betrothed, with a recollected modesty that controlled her lover's impetuosity, Susan inquired the reason of his disguise. 
               "Nothing, my dear Susan, nothing but the strongest necessity could have compelled me to a step so extraordinary," returned Watch; "and the extravagancies I have played off on Mistress Bridget and our old friend Ephraim, have convinced me my disguise is perfect enough to answer every purpose I have in view. We are betrayed, Susan." 
               "Betrayed!" 
               "Ay! Do not start, nor make the least exclamation. It is sufficient that I know your danger, and will take measures to prevent it. McWhat is a traitor!" 
               "McWhat!" repeated Susan, with an air of astonishment; "and my granduncle received an order from him but two days since!--" 
               "I know it!" returned Watch quickly; "he applied for two thousand pounds' worth of point lace, or as much more as could be obtained. Has Pardo forwarded it?" 
               "Welling must have told you--" 
               "I have had no communication with Welling as yet," replied the lover; "neither would it be altogether safe. But tell me, has your uncle forwarded the stuff?" 
               "Not yet, dear William," replied Susan, affording a relief which seemed instantaneous, if we may judge from the gleam of satisfaction that lighted his countenance, as he pursued his inquiry. 
               "Where are they?" 
               "They lie at Copeswood Cottage." 
               "That's fortunate." 
               William paused; but Susan with a look of interest which proved how dearly she valued the safety of the bold and energetic smuggler, continued her enquiries. 
               "But tell me, William-do not conceal anything from me, nor suffer me to remain in a state of suspense more intolerable than the most terrible reality-let me know the worst-what evil do you fear?" 
               "None from Mc What, as the cob-web has not been forwarded; some from government, since our boat's crew have exchanged shots with the revenue people, and two of them are slain. It is the first blood spilt since I commenced my career; they were aggressors, it is true, and that in some sort justifies us. Nevertheless, pray heaven it be the last!" 
               Susan Wylie turned deadly pale at this intelligence, and would have fallen, but that she grasped the high-backed, old-fashioned chair nearest her for support-the power of the government, and the vengeance it might take, appeared so vividly to her imagination. Watch, however, perceiving her apprehesions, quickly hastened to allay them. 
               "I have adopted measures," he pursued, taking Susan Wylie by the hand, "to meet the present exigency. I have never," continued he while his eye flashed with such an expression of daring as made the weak and timid girl tremble with renewed fears for her lover's safety, "I have never found a weak, puling, or timid policy succeed. No, Susan! Will Watch must be the bold smuggler, or nothing! If I have thrown myself back upon the laws of nature, in those same laws I find the element which teach me to resist oppression. Nay," concluded he, in a soft tone, "you grow paler-you lay this too much to heart. The line of conduct I have adopted may, possibly, be the saving of us all. Having been apprised by Topman that our vessel had been reported, and, particularly after the fatel renconter between my boat's crew and the revenue people, I had no resource left me but audacity. Therefore, having landed every contraband article, I ran my schooner, clipper-rigged as she is, into Ramsgate Harbour; where she now rides in safety, as the property of William Watch, Esq, of Tokenhouse-yard London, a craft whose character is entirely unsuspicious-ha, ha, ha!" 
               Though Watch concluded with a laugh, his affected gaiety brought no relief to the apprehensive anxiety of Susan Wylie, whose mind presented many circumstances of difficulty which might arise from the bold contempt of danger manifested by her lover; wherefore, in a tone which spoke the deep and heartfelt interest she took in the affairs of the hardy contrabandist who stood before her, she interposed- 
               "Should you blame my fears, dearest William, do not utterly despise the timidity of spirit which makes me value your safety above all other considerations. Pardon me, when I say you incur unnecessary danger by thus throwing yourself in the way of enemies, which seems a policy reckless and dangerous." 
               "Men engaged in desperate courses," observed Watch, with a smile of mingled gratification and contemptuous daring, "men engaged in desperate courses have no other resource than to find their remedy in desperate expedients. Safety, with such as I am, must be sought in the midst of danger: always run the hazard of being chased and taken; but by the laws of England, thank heaven, suspicion alone can never carry it-they must have proof-so I incur no danger. True, had I stood out to sea, I could well trust the wings of my black rigged schooner in every emergency! Yes trust the wings of my black rigged beauty against the fleetest sailer in the world and if overmatched, could ride like a cork in the shallows, and bid defiance to pursuers. Yet the greater part of my men were ashore; I was compelled to adopt the best means of disarming suspicion; I, therefore, stood in for Ramsgate peir, and, for one little time in my nautical life, entered my contraband Witch in a legal character." 
               Notwithstanding Susan Wylie gathered some degree of confidence from the careless and half-jesting spirit that animates her lover, she was not so utterly unacquainted with the world as to be ignorant of the dangerous position he occupied; nor so apathetic in her temper as wholly to shut her eyes against ultimate results. Her active mind embraced every, even the most distant, possibility of danger in which the recent fight betwixt the revenue men and the crew of the Witch involved her lover; and though, from long and early habits of observation of the daring smugglers amongst whom she had been nurtured and bred, she had acquainted herself with an axiom somewhat too masculine to be acted on by her sex generally-viz., that the best means of overcoming a danger is by moving upon it-she yet trembled at the perils which may arise to Watch from further inquiry, ventured to dash his apparent gaiety by suggesting the address he had given might involve the safety to himself and vessel. 
               "Sifence your fears, my dear girl," said our bold adventurer, with a laugh "my enemies can infer nothing from not finding William Watch, Esquire, in Tokenhouse-yard. Trust me I am too well acquainted with London to have to learn there are many esquires in that quarter whose names never find their way into the Post Office Directory. But I lose time in this disjointed talk, and must think of moving on my journey towards the great metropolis. You will come to Copeswood to help me on with my knapsack?" 
               Susan answered with a look beaming such an intense pleasure, that her lover, unrestrained by the presence of others, snatched her to his bosom and imprinted a kiss so warm, so ardent, that the blushing girl withdrew herself from his embrace in confusion; and scarcely daring to trust the expression of her eyes, veiled them under their long and silken lashes in a downward glance, while every pulse beat high, and every fibre trembled with the most exquisite emotion. 
               Now this latter circumstance happened at the identical moment that Mistress Bridget Mullaghney, curious as she was, and unfortunate as she turned out to be, choose to put her intended espionage into execution, in order to have something to tell the Captain on his arrival, touching and concerning the conduct of Miss Susan Wylie and the supposed common soldier, with whom, according to the notion of the disappointed Irish maiden, she was far more gracious than a prudent female ought to be at first sight. For, by Mistress Bridget Mullaghney's doctrine, and, indeed, according to the doctrine adopted by the generality of the sex, in judging of the frailties of their neighbors, a woman has no right to yield without making, at least, a show of resistance. 
               Thus, though Mistress Bridget Mullaghney had herself previously determined to give her supposed countryman, Mr. Muldowney Trelawney, the opportunity of saluting her, by refusing to sing when called upon, and thus challenging his gallantry, she had also determined, in her own mind, the precise amount of resistance which her virtue and her maidenhood required, before she submitted to the wished for visitation. 
               She had also mentally determined the salute in question should be nothing more nor less than a chaste one; and to this end, though she should have to kick, and plunge, and sprawl, and throw herself into attitudes anything but accordant with the taste of an Angelo or a Canova, she had fully resolved not to abate a single one of the aforesaid kicks, plunges, and sprawls, prescribed by virtue, ere she yielded the treasure of her lip to be profaned by breath of man. And when she had giggled, and struggled, and blushed enough, and when she did not choose to resist any longer, when, in fact, Cupid's first impression had been stamped on her coral lips, she had fully determined, in all the heroism of offended virtue, to get up, wipe her mouth, look indignant, and call him "a dirty blag-gard," and say, "none of his sect even dar'd sarve her so before!" And all this because she had a character in the world which she must keep, how willing soever, in other respects, she might be to lose it. 
               Fully bent on playing the eaves-dropper, on her arrival at the door-way or entrance to the old oak and tapestried chamber, Mistress Bridget Mullaghney placed her ear in juxtaposition to that orifice to which mechanicians have assigned the term of description comprised in the compound word, key-hole; and through that very orifice, at the very moment of her arrival, heard the appointment made by the supposed one-eyed soldier, for Susan Wylie to help him on with his knapsack at Copeswood Cottage; a matter that left the inquisitive Bridget in no doubt as to the infidelity of Susan to her first love; and which even filled her bosom with an additional fervor of hatred against the world's perfidy, and excited still greater ire in her enamored breast, inasmuch as she, from the first, had mentally appropriated the supposed one-eyed veteran to herself, having prayed that very morning for a husband, and, therefore, deemed his arrival a lucky stroke of providence in favor of a damsel who had already waited forty-two summers in patient expectation of an offer from the opposite sex, which had hitherto never been made; and deeming, further, that his being one-eyed, and moreover, a common soldier, were circumstances sufficient to counterbalance the difference of age between them. But hardly had the fair haired daughter of Erin obtained the modicum of intelligence contained in the Copeswood assignation, ere a sound of another kind produced a tumult in her veins that well nigh overwhelmed her in its effects, sending the blood in a sudden flow from her heart to her brain, with such terrible impulsion, that her ears reddened, and pricked, and tinged, and her temporal arteries were black and swollen, and beat with a painful throbbing, and her jaw dropped under the choking sensation produced by a high degree of excitement-even her breath was suspended, as the sound of a momentary and yielding struggle within the chamber convinced the inquisitive maiden that the one-eyed soldier was actually saluting her young mistress. 
               "The Lord save us!" exclaimed Bridget Mullaghney, her usual expression, as it is, indeed, a very common expression of her country people, under a sudden surprise; "sure thim Irish is devils in carnation-they've such wheedlin ways wid 'em. I'll be bound it's kissin he is, the one-eyed vilyain! I should like to catch him sarvin' me so. But may be I'm wrang; and I wouldn't like to spake a wrang thing of mortal, let alone Miss Susan. I'll jist have a look, and if I on'y gits 'cocular monstration of anything, I'll take care it shan't lose by being carried. Jist is jist, and right's right!" And with breath suspended by the excitement of over acted feeling, she placed her grey and glaring eye to the orifice or key aforesaid, eager to catch a glimpse of what was passing within, and secretly wishing she migh see-the Lord knows what. 
               Our daily experience will teach us that men of too cunning or too inquisitive a spirit, are very prone to transport their minds far beyond the trammels of every-day reasoning, into fanciful absurdity; whence they drop into various systems of philosophy, by which each resolves the whole world, and all contained within that comprehensive term, into the petty circle which the splash of his own individuality forms on the pitiful puddle of life; never daring to take a bold view beyond self, or sacrifice an opinion for the benefit of mankind. 
               Hence such men advance to a certain degree of attainment in the scale of moral power, when some idiosyncracy inherent to the natura constitution of the teacher, some principle at war with the known prejudices of his fellow beings, arms the opinions of the masses against the very good which might be derivable from his doctrine; and thus the vanity of the man is rewarded by finding itself plunged into the slough of disappointed ambition, ne'er to become appreciated. 
               If such be the result usually attending a too inquisitive spirit amongst the learned Thebans, who endeavor to bend mankind to the acknowledgment of their individual supremacy, with what redoubled force will the same rule apply to the ignorant. With what increased power will it act, when the busy spirit of curiosity seizes upon the mind of an ignorant and jealous woman! Not that we, for one moment, intend to affirm that Mistress Bridget Mullaghney fell into the slough above mentioned. No! she fell into something else; for just as she had projected her eye forward, the door of the apartment opening outward, struck the prying maid so suddenly and forcibly, that reeling backward, she trod upon the tail of a Spanish bitch, which griping her leg, so increased her confusion, that she fell over a slop-pail she had left in the hall, in such wise as to expose her hose and garters to the piercing glance of the one-eyed soldier, when he emerged with Miss Susan Wylie from the old oak and tapestried chamber. 
               Seeing Bridget in such a mal-apropos, as well as indecent position, Will Watch good naturedly hastened forward to assist her to regain her former footing; when the brawny maiden, determined on a stroke of policy which, by affecting the supposed soldier's life, should compel him to marry her, and thereby secure her in the fee simple of a husband at last, to have and to hold to her own personal use and behoof, seized him by the cross-belts, and began to scream rape and murder with so much heart and good-will, that if the good city of Canterbury had not been a mile's distance at the least, the inhabitants had certainly been aroused by the outcry. 
               Finding matters reduced to such a pass, Watch, not at all desirous of being detained on an accusation of this kind, in the present position of his affairs, shaking off her grasp with no very gentle violence, made his escape through the hall door, at the very moment Jeremial and Mistress Margaret Pardo made their appearance; the first in his morning gown and slippers, the latter in her black taffety, quilted petticoat, and short white night-jacket, utterly at a loss to know what had happened to disturb the usual tranquility of their mansion. 
               But to all their inquiries they could obtain no answer from the prostrate "kitchen vestal," who took especial care to keep her clothes precisely in the same condition in which her sudden accident had placed them, in order to favor the charge she had determined to bring against her supposed countryman. 
               All that she did was to roll her head from side to side, uttering screams in every variety of modulation, in the hope that her voice might reach the ear of some passer-by, and so induce an inquiry that might lead to the end desired, running on, at the same time, with incoherencies similar to the following: 
               "Hoo! the vilyain! the vilyain! the vilyain! To think I should be ruinated at my time of life! Hoo! an' it's not only ruinated I am, but it's bit by the dog, an' will die of hydrofogy." 
               That a man gets somewhat worse for wear at sixty-three, is a fact as common as an old song; and so Jeremiah Pardo found it. 
               Wherefore, after a vain effort to raise the maiden, he opened the door, and hurrying across the front area of the inn, rushed into the smithy, and seizing Ephraim Clink by the shoulder, made him understand, by dint of pointing and pushing, that his presence was required elsewhere; upon which the old hammerman rose, nodded his head to his master, and with his usual interjections of recognition and acquiescence grumbled out, 
               "Ha?-ho!-um!-um!" Then he put his ancient body into motion in the direction of the inn. 
               But fate wills the most untoward events, merely because it is her will that such things should be; and upon the arrival of Clink at the hall door, seeing Bridget in her prostrate condition, the recollection of his late unceremonious dismissal from the ale-room checked the impulse of humanity in his breast, and believing her to be in a fit, he, with a grin of grim satisfaction, very uncharitably turned his back to leave the maiden to come to herself without his assistance; whereupon Jeremiah Pardo seized his man Clink by the collar, at the very moment Muddlepuzzle Williams, Esq., the sheriff of the district, who, with two of his officers, was then progressing towards Canterbury, on a process requiring his personal presence, appeared in sight. 
               Another violent outcry proceeding from Bridget, in which the word "rape" was distinctly vociferated, reached the ear of the approaching dignitary, who, putting his horse to a trot, made his best way to the door of the "Three Jolly Anchorsmiths," and seeing Clink already in hands of old Pardo, without further ceremony ordered him into custody on the charge. 
               Now the person of Mr. Sheriff Williams displayed as much dignity as five feet four inches of perpendicularity could conveniently cram into four feet six inches of rotundity; and who being, like most officers similarly situated in the flesh, it will not be deemed wonderful that he should endeavor to make up his deficiency in height by a certain stateliness of gait, which kept his fair round belly in a forward projection, while the back part of his head, the deposit of his legal ammunition, hung over and protected his rear-guard. 
               Such being his habitual progressive motion, it will be perceived at once, by the judicious in such matters, that he could not move on unless less his point of sight projected upwards, and the point of his toe downwards, a series of corporeal dispositions which puffed out his fat and flabby chest in all the pettish pride of a pouter pigeon. 
               There could be no mistaking his character, even by the meanest or most humble capacity; the universal impression produced upon all observers by his appearance and manner, being that of a little man spoilt in a vain attempt to make him great. 
               Such was the person who, assisted by the under-bailiff in attendance on him, dismounted at the door of Mr. Jeremiah Pardo. 
               Having ordered Clink into custody, the county sheriff cast his little eye over the doorway in quest of the victualler's name, in whose house such an abominable outrage had been committed; where finding, in legible characters, agreeably to the act in that case made and provided, "Jeremiah Pardo, licensed dealer in foreign wines, spirits, tobacco, etc," he entered the house with his customary dignity, exclaiming- 
               "Ha! Pardo! Pardo!-this is very improper conduct!-shocking goings on!-can't suffer it in my district! I'm sheriff, therefore magistrate in my own right, vide Blackstone!-and am bound to say that such unlicensed conduct in a licensed house is very licentious, very licentious indeed. Nor will it do, Pardo! being in direct contravention of the Act for better ordering the conduct of persons keeping houses of public resort, passed anno quinto of King Thingummy-damn the fellow, I forget his name; I wish my man Perry was here." 
               Be it known unto all men, and more partiaularly to our readers, that this announcement of the sheriff had a marvellous effect in composing the nerves of Mistress Bridget Mullaghney; who, not only ceased her outcry, but even suffered her clothes to be replaced; and, fully convinced that the magistrate had seen enough to warrant a further examination, permitted herself to be conducted into the ale-room, where she patiently waited to make her deposition. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                  
                      
                        "--The sentinels, 
                        Like sacrifices, by their fires of watch 
                        In silence sit, and inly ruminate 
                        The morning's danger." 
                     
                   
                
               WHEN Ned Topman had prepared every thing for examination, even to cleansing his cutlass, which he did by thrusting it up to the hilt in the black mould, and wiping it on the dewy sward, and drying the blade on the sleeve of his watch-coat, he folded his arms, and calmly awaited the arrival of his brother preventives. 
               In the course of twenty minutes the sound of approaching footsteps announced the arrival of a small party of the coast-guard, in answer to the signal fired by Hardbrace before he was precipitated from the cliff. 
                
               Now, for the first time since that horrible tragedy, the master's mate experienced a chilling sensation; the blood retiring from the surface under a painful apprehension of the dangers to which he was exposed. 
               The feeling, however, was but momentary; and he rallied himself by a strong effort, determined, until sufficient proof were manifested, not to afford a chance against him by a weak or timorous bearing. 
               As the approaching party neared him, Topman, who, as we have seen, was no way deficient in knowledge of points of duty and discipline, challenged the comer, by advancing to the foremost man and demanding- 
               "Who goes there?" 
               "Who goes there?" iterated a voice, whose tone was too familiar to Topman's ear to be easily mistaken, proceeding from no other than the simple-witted seaman who was sent ashore with the master's mate to report the death of Cox and Bracewell, "Why, Tim Clarke, to be sure-don't you know me?" 
               "Who goes there?" repeated Topman, authoritatively, at the same time cocking his pistol, the click of which did not sound altogether pleasing in Clarke's ears, and who, therefore, answered in double quick time, "A friend! You need not stand so nice with one of the crew, Master Topman. But I suppose you only unmuzzled your bull dog in the way of a joke or that like." 
               "I am in no humor for jesting," observed Topman, gloomily, as he half-cocked the pistol he had just presented; "Poor Harry Hardbrace is dead!" 
               "Dead!" repeated three or four voices in astonishment. 
               "Aye, dead!" returned Ned Topman, in the same tone of gloom. "He fell over the cliff accidentally, while hailing what he thought to be a boat belonging to the smugglers we were in chase of last night. But, tell me, is there any officer here to whom I may report the death of Hardbrace?" 
               "Mr. Midshipman Hill has gone over to Broadstairs for the night, so that you yourself are the senior officer on duty," said a voice in answer to Topman's question. 
               "Then I must report myself in the morning. Will one of you do me the justice to examine my pistol, to see that it has been discharged lately, in my duty to give notice to the nearest post of the accident that occurred. For the rest, nothing can be done before the morning. Till then I request one of the crew to remain and watch with me; the orders of Captain Trunnion expressly were that the sentinels should be doubled." 
               Several of the crew having examined the pistol by the firelight, to enable them to depose to the fact of its recent discharge, the master's mate internally felt no doubt he could defeat any enquiry that might be had or made concerning the murdered man, when Tim Clarke having volunteered his services, Topman found himself fitted with a sentinel careless enough in all respects to answer his purpose; and, accordingly, having dismissed the other preventive men, he took his seat on a hil lock of turf opposite the fire, and fixing his eyes on the glowing embers, his hard, weather-beaten features assumed an expression of thought which added to their usual sternness of character. 
               A thorough seaman, like the American Indian, is characteristically silent. This distinctive feature may perhaps be in part derived from the custom of turning out at all hours, and in all weathers; in part, from the strict discipline necessary to be observed on shipboard, and the slavish obedience consequent thereon, which is exacted from those immediately beneath them by every grade of authority, from the Captain sweeper to the Captain himself, and, not the least, in part to the very limited experience to be acquired on shipboard by those directly confined to the service. Wherefore, Tim Clarke, seeing his companion in no humor to talk, very deliberately seated himself upon the hillock opposite, fixing his own small, twinkling, and deep-set eye upon the countenance of his brother watchman, in simple wonderment at what in the world he could have to think about. 
               But while Tim Clarke was engaged in this abstract contemplation, he himself unconsciously fell into a habit of mind (or mood, if the lovers of definition like it better) equally common to fools and to philosophers; viz that of thinking without thought, which the French call reverie, and the English dreaming awake. A thousand fantasies flitted across his imagination, and, without form or consistency, danced all sorts of galopades in the fairy court of fancy. A thousand perceptions too minute for embodiment, and totally devoid of order or arrangement, occupied his stunned faculties-the only object presenting itself in this confusion of ideas being an indistinct form of the missing seaman, surrounded by a variety of experiences which Clark had gleaned of his character during a three years' service in the same ship. 
               Nevertheless is this kind of abstraction at times highly beneficial in its effects, by confounding in its confusion the spider-like ingenuity by which some men, yea, Solomons in their way, do sometimes weave a web to trammel up truth in definition, and giving us correct notions of things by accident alone-the only medium through which your systematic reasoner will suffer the truth to appear. And, accordingly, the simple-minded Tim Clarke, who knew no more of Philosophy than Shakspeare's shepherd-"that the property of rain was to wet!"-Tim Clarke, after ten minutes' of abstraction, at the least, during which time the idea of poor Hardbrace and the cliff predominated all others in his mind, yea, after having, during this process of thought, turned his quid several times, and squirted the juice of the tobacco into the wood fire, Tim Clarke summoned the resolution to "hem!" very audibly; which effort not having been responded by his brother of the watch, he, the aforesaid Tim Clarke, opened the rusty hinges of his mouth, and let his ugly voice walk out of it, by grumbling forth in an indistinct mutter- 
               "So you have sent poor Hardbrace to his long home." 
               "I!" exclaimed Topman, starting from the hillock on which he sat. He said no more; but the effect produced on him was so sudden, so electrical, that an intelligent observer could have had no doubt that some unfair play had been used towards his missing companion. Even Tim Clarke, though a great simpleton in his way, had shrewdness enough to surmise the strange convulsive agitation which shook the strong and muscular frame of Ned, was somewhat unaccountable; for, as Tim Clarke afterwards said, in talking the matter over, "them shakes of Ned'ud look rayther odd at a court-martial." He, however, continued, "I didn't mean as you did it, master Topman. No, bless you not I! Sich a thought wasn't in my head at all; though you was alone with him. Ha'n't I bin alone wi' you afore now? An' what harm, I sh'ud like to know, ever come of it. No, no, master Topman, messmate kill messmate! That'll never go down, no hows. Besides, didn't I see you take potluck agen them rascally smugglers last night? It's true we lost sight on 'em all on a sudden; but p'rhaps that was as well, seein' as the devil guided their balls. The thieves only fired twice, and told each time. Lord, I wasn't thinkin' as you did it. I was only goin' to remark that them cards, an' the likes of them, were nasty dangerous things." 
               "Oh!" exclaimed Topman, recovering his self-possession, and resuming his seat, almost smiling at the simple remark of his companion, notwithstanding the weight which pressed so heavily on his mind. Tim Clarke, however, had his own way of accounting for things; and, like many philosophers of a higher grade, when laying down their mouthy nothings upon matters which must ever remain occult, thought his own the infallible method of arriving at the truth. And, indeed, if we might presume to say a word upon the subject, we should incline to give it in his favor, since the truth is a point; whereas the philosophers aforementioned generally argue in a circle, ending exactly where they began, and leaving the question wrapt in equal mystery. Now, Tim Clarke, testing the accident by his own method, had internally come to the conclusion that the death of Hardbrace was all owing to card-playing; an opinion which, rather than give up, he would have suffered martyrdom. Wherefore, pursuing the idea, he endeavored, with the most simple expression of solemnity imaginable, to impress his belief on the mind of his more wary companion. 
               "That Hardbrace," said Tim, with an air of mingled doubt and deference, as if to bespeak the support of his companion's opinion; "that Hardbrace was a devil of a fellow for card-playing." 
               "Well! what has that to do with it?" asked Topman, in reply. 
               "That nothing to do with it?" cried Clarke, with a broad stare of astonishment, surprised that his companion should be unable to see by his inward light. 
               "Nothing that I see," repeated Topman. 
               "Well, I never know'd any good come on 'em," observed Tim Clarke, steadfastly believing in the intimate connection subsisting between card-playing and a bad end. 
               "Nor I," said Topman, drily. 
               "There, now!" cried Clarke, in triumph, "you agree to that." 
               "Certainly." 
               "Then that," observed Clarke, "is the very pint I wanted you to come to." 
                
               He looked at Topman with an air of the most perfect complacence, as if he had succeeded in making out his case. 
               "But," returned the master's mate, "that can't make any difference; he wasn't playing at cards here, Tim, when he went over the cliff." 
               "I didn't say as he was, did I?" exclaimed Tim, crowing from the top of his lungs, in very triumph. "But thoughts is free, an I say as ould Mike Tarpaulin used to say, an that's as this, as them cards are very dangerous play things for seamen to meddle with, an no good can come on 'em." 
               "Psha!" what has Mike Tarpaulin to do with it?" 
               "Not much, to be sure," answered Tim Clarke; "only it was him as teach'd me all the seamanship as I ever know'd, an if so be I'd a bin a scholard, I'd a known a good 'e'l more; an a better seaman nor Mike Tarpaulin never stood in the chains to take soundings, or log'd the ship to tell how many knots; or took'd an observation; or made up a dead reck'nin; or made observation by the stars, or, as them land lubbers call it, when I heard 'em talkin in the publikins round about Wappin, asteronomy; or do all them there bits of seamanship as makes a sailor. I says as he used to say, and few men has more experience than his'n, wherefore I says as them cards is dangerous playthings, an no good can come on 'em." 
               "But what the devil has card-playing to do with the unfortunate accident of to-night?" questioned Topman, roused in some degree from his torpor by the superstition of his companion, whose belief inspired a hope that the matter would blow over without causing the finger of suspicion to point at him. 
               Clarke, however, encouraged by this question, proceeded in the following manner: 
               "Why I sees it all clear enough to my mind, but we don't all understand with the same head-piece, nor it wouldn't be proper as we should, or else Jack 'ud be allus as good as his master, which shouldn't be the case nohows, no not in no circumstances whatsomever. But old Mike Tarpaulin used to say-and he was bo's'n's mate aboard the Howdacious, and a man must have some larnin' to sarve in that compacity, and some exper'ence, as I said afore, and I stand to what I says, mind!-and it war a maxim of his'n that wherever them devil's books war opened there war inwariably head winds, and no seaman likes the like of them there." 
               Topman cast up his eyes and shook his head with a movement of impatience, while the persecuting Mr. Timothy Clarke, with the most imperturbable gravity, and without paying the slightest regard to the gesticulations of his companion, went on convincing that nothing but the card-playing propensities of Hardbrace had occasioned his calamitous fate. 
               "Why on'y look at this here now," he continued, with the greatest earnestness of manner, "and then say if them cards isn't the devil. There was Sam Slipton, a born imp arter cards, he'd be a playing night and day, on duty and off, whensomever he could jist git the opportunity portunity. Well, this same Sam Slipton was cap'n of the foretop, you see, when I sailed aboard the Fouderyont, a Frencher as we took last war, and a sweet sailer she war, if the devil laid her keel down-she war nothin' else but a good 'un. Well, we were becalmed in the Atalantic, d'ye mind, and not a breath of wind a stirring but what we made ourselves; and our cap'n, d'ye mind, war altogether unwillin' as she should lose her repetation, so he stretched out his lower stun'-sails and every inch of canvass as our sticks 'ud carry, but all to no purpose; she rolled, and pitched, and creaked under our head weight, but couldn't make no way whatsomever, d'ye mind. Well, this Sam Slipton had his watch in the afternoon, and there he war at his post, sure enough, in the foretop, and there war Bill Buntlin along with him, and they war playing cards like fury. Well, as I told you afore, them cards is dangerous playthings, and so Sam Slipton found it, for all on a sudden there comes a puff o'wind-that Atlantic is a devil of a place for sudden puffs-and there warn't no small stir in taking in the canvass, I can tell you; it war all hurry-scurry-the devil to pay and no pitch hot-main and fore royal and main and fore top-gallan' ha'ly'ds were cast off and let down by the run, d'ye mind, and nothing but our lower stun'-sails saved us from going clear over. Howsomever, all hands were piped, and in less nor ten minutes we were running under our flying-jib and mizzen sprits'l, while poor Sam Slipton war blown out o' the top, cards and all, and we never clapt eyes on him again. Wherefore I says, as I said afore, there's no good comes of card-playin'; and I shouldn't wonder if it wasn't summat o' that sort as caused it, seeing as Hardbrace was a devil at all fours or cribbage." 
               Timothy Clark having thus, by a series of deductions, arising out of the natural method of reasoning, rather than deriving themselves from the lucid arrangements of philosophy, which too frequently embarrass the jump conclusive by an equally impotent attempt to establish a concatenation of cause and effect, clearly made out the case in his own mind, establishing beyond doubt the connection between Hardbrace's catastrophe and card-playing. 
               We say, Timothy Clarke, having effected all this, paused for a reply, at the same time surveying his companion with a look of lofty triumph, as though he expected to see a similar conviction mantle in the grave and gloomy countenance of Ned, who, though accustomed to reckless daring, and callous from long habit, to the cries of conscience on the score of blood guiltiness, could not altogether rid his mind of unpleasant impressions that continued, spite of his efforts to the contrary, to intrude themselves; and which made him impatiently wish for morning, though it should bring destruction to all those plans his active genius had already framed for his own security. So that, notwithstanding the triumphant self-conviction of Timothy Clarke, as to the correctness of the inductive cause of the preventive man's destruction being nothing more nor less than a game of all fours or cribbage-for anything may be proved by induction-when he looked at the master's mate, and found him silently gazing on the remnant of their fire, his thoughts evidently engaged on a very, very different object. 
                
               Disappointed, therefore, in his views of obtaining a proselyte to his opinion, in the person of Master Topman, Timothy Clarke fell into a deep silence, during which he revolved, re-revolved the quid of tobacco in his mouth with great rapidity-a certain prognostic that he was in a state of cogitation, he never having, during a long life, been known to chew and speak at the same time. 
               In this silence he called to mind the various awful visitations which, in his own experience, waited upon such as had anything to do with card-playing; and how Jem Jinks had lost a month's pay, and Harry Harny a wooden leg, whereby the latter was laid up in ordinary till his pension-money came round to buy him a new one; and how he had heard of a Dutch skipper who took out a pack of cards in a storm being struck dead, and all the cards burnt except the knave of hearts; and how that that was struck to the skipper's cheek so that no one could get it off, and his friends were obliged to bury it with him: with many other matters, all leading to one conclusion, and very much to the point that no good could by any means come of card-playing. And, indeed, he was not very singular in his opinions on the subject, the superstition of sailors, particularly in the north of Europe, being hostile to the use of cards, musical instruments, or amusements of any kind on shipboard, from a common belief that indulgence in such matters is only tempting the wrath of the Almighty. 
               When this train of thought had subsided, he found himself filled with simple wonder to think what a simple fellow the master's mate must be, though in other respects a very knowledgeable man, since he could not see the connection between the fate of their unfortunate shipmate and card-playing. 
               "Howsomever," thought Tim, "his mind may be enlightened some time or other." 
               Tim's further cogitations, however, were disturbed by the booming sound of a gun from the Wasp sloop. 
               Both men started to their feet at the same moment. 
               "The Wasp is round the Foreland!" exclaimed the master's mate. 
               "I think that same," observed Timothy Clarke; "but what in heaven's name can she be firing at? May I never pay a seam agin, but it's that light to the nor'ard!" 
               Clarke turned towards Topman as he spoke, who, casting a hasty glance in the direction of Welling's Hole, was rejoiced to find the lights extinguished, and therefore answered- 
               "You must be asleep, man! What light can you see in that quarter? Do you want to persuade me out of my senses? I can see no light to the nor'ard." 
               "No more do I now; but I'll swear as I did see it awhile ago. This place must be bewitched. First poor Hardbrace is coaxed over the cliff by a happarition boat's crew, and now," continued he, laying his hand on the rail, which he instantly withdrew, exclaiming "Halloo! "my hand is all over blood!" 
               "What now?" cried Topman, startled at the suddenness of the exclamation. But recovering himself, he said- 
               "I know it. 'Tis Harry Hardbrace's." 
                
               "Not unfairly, I hope," muttered Clarke. 
               "Unfairly, no! 'tis from our lost shipmate's nose, which gushed out bleeding when he heard, or thought he heard-for I heard nothing of the kind-a sound as of a boat creeping along-shore below, and, springing forward to make hail, the poor fellow missed stays and fell over." 
               Topman, notwithstanding his secret consciousness of guilt, had intrepidity enough to utter the above sentence in so even a tone, that his simple-witted companion gave ready credence to every word, never dreaming for a moment that an actual murderer would be so foolhardy as to summon the coast-guard to the scene of his guilt, and thus lead to his certain detection; but though a fool in some matters which landsmen are well crafted in, Tim Clark had gleaned sufficient experience in his nautical career to be fully convinced that the master's mate stood in a very dangerous predicament, and that men had swung at the fore-yard-arm under less suspicious circumstances, and, hiding, a kindly disposition under a rude exterior, as your mealy potato conceals its farina under a rough jacket, began to take an interest in what might occur to his companion from the accident of the night, coupled with his own recent discovery of the blood upon the handrail. Turning his quid, therefore, after a few minutes of deliberation, he discharged the tobacco-juice, his usual preparative for speaking, and observed with a doubtful air- 
               "Mind, Master Topman, as I said afore, I ain't a goin' to think as you did this here murder, no, not nohows; howsumever the likes of these is very unfort'nate circumstances for a man to be under as has any vally for his life. Not as I think they'd hang you, if so be as you could prove an alleboy, as I think I can answer for that myself; for I mind right well as poor Har'brace wor troubled with a bleedin' at the nose, an' twice aboard the Spitfire I put the key o' my sea chest down his back to stop it-that's what them land chaps calls an alley-boy for sartin. But then, on the other hand, settin' the case as this here:-you war alone with him, an' the port admiral mayn't take it into his head to believe as you says on the matter; for if he believes all as you says, why I say as there's the alleyboy at once-an' if he shouldn't, there'll be a pretty how-d'ye-do. For as my ould gran'mother used to say to me-that's when I 'as a boy, an' afore I took to the sarvice-"Tim, my child," says she, "Tim, never you stay in company with a dead body wot you comes across by accident, for if so be you're cotched in sich company folks may happen to fancy as you did it, and that arn't quite so well; for, says she, its an old sayin' an' a true 'un, a wise man never found a dead man.' Wherefore, I says, Master Topman, I fancy you are in rayther awk'ard circumstances." 
               "'Tis fortunate for me," exclaimed Topman, eager to improve every chance of escape from the desperate situation in which he had placed himself by the murder he had just committed, "'tis fortunate for me you recollect our lost shipmate was subject to nasal bleeding--" 
               "'Vast heavin' there, Master Topman," interrupted Clarke, afraid of being made to mean more than he intended; "I didn't say nothin' at all about nasal bleedin', I said bleedin at the nose, and that I'll stand to, for why?-acause I've seen it, an' surely a man can swear to what he's seen." 
               "I mean a bleeding at the nose," observed the master's mate. 
               "Oh!" continued Clarke, "if so be you means nothin' more, then I says as you says, but somehow or other I ain't over 'cute at land lingo, an' them words as I ain't bin used to is all a sort of a riddlemeree to me. Still I says as this, that Har'brace war troubled as I said afore." 
               "It is enough," cried Topman; "Your recollection of this circumstances will save my life, which might otherwise be sacrificed to the suspicious appearances about me. Hundreds have been found guilty and suffered punishment without deserving it-hundreds, Clarke, hundreds!" 
               Though Timothy Clarke had some difficulty in following so many hard words uttered in the hurry of agitation, he did manage to catch his companion's meaning without being very wide of the mark; and this for two especial reasons, the one being that all seamen in his Majesty's service have a tolerable notion of the signification of the word 'punishment,' and the other that they are apt to deserve more encouragement than they get: and thus, having mastered the meaning of the two principal words, Timothy Clarke felt no difficulty in guessing at the rest wish sufficient accuracy to continue the conversation, without rambling very far out of the matter in debate. 
               "Now mind, Master Topman," continued he, "you stands in a sort of preminiry as ain't altogether pleasant; nor is it quite the thing as a body'd like to happen to hisself, acause there's no sayin' wat may be the end of it. Not as I wish to put you down upon your luck-no, never give up, not nohows, that 'ud disgrace the sarvice. Still I says, as I said afore, it's a bad job; an' them courts an' the likes of them don't vally the lives of the likes of us at nothin' at all; an' when you talk'ed just now of people bein' run out without desarvin' it, I knows as you've right on your side-but what's the use o' the right o' your side when the might is all o' theirn? Not that we shouldn't all be tarred by the same mop by rights, on'y they won't do it. An' I mind when I was a crusin' atwixt Ingee an' Manyla, as we were short o' water, an' we could'nt leave our station; I mind then, as I said afore, as there was a sort of jawbation, as they call it, among the men-an' they did talk about makin' the cap'n leave the station to get 'em more healthy prog and fresh water, for the men 'ad all got the dry scurvy among 'em. Yes, I mind as poor Jim Burke, as fine a feller as ever step main or quarter-deck, and one as had some 'larnin'; yes, poor Jim Burke, who tried all he could to prevent the men from goin' agin their duty, acause he didn't exac'ly carry the word aft, was tried, cast an' run out, as innocent as a lamb. An' though a single word o' Jim's 'ud ha' saved his life and hanged a dozen of his shipmates, Jim was too plucky to think o' that like; but he went out purtestin' of his duty to His Majesty, and died like a man rayther than turn agin his shipmates. Now there was a chap as was hanged without desarvin' it-but he war hanged though." 
                
               "Yes," said Topman, pursuing the subject, "yes, thousands of brave fellows as well as Jim Burke have been hanged without deserving it. Besides, had I murdered Hardbrace, could I not have removed every evidence against me, long before I summoned the guard? Could I not have cleaned the handrail and-" 
               "Vast, vast there," cried Clarke eagerly, as if catching at an idea which might benefit his shipmate, "two heads are better nor one, if they be only sheeps' heads, as my ould gran'mother used to say; though the ould 'ooman might ha' bin wrong in this here, seein' as in Lunnun two sheeps' 'eds is only one, a matter as I never could make out any reason for; but settin' that aside, I don't see no reason why we shouldn't swab this rail down clean, an say nothing about what has happened; for though I knows as Hardbrace's nose used to bleed, as I said afore, the port admiral mayn't believe it, and then you're sent to Davy for what you didn't do. What say you, isn't this here good advice?" 
               "Clarke! Clarke!" cried Topman in a tone of exultation, "you will be the saviour of my life; and what is more to a seaman as knows his duty, save my character in the service." 
               "An' wot more is there in this than the duty as one seaman owes to another," observed Tim. "Its all werry well for the landsmen to talk about doin' as they ought, but we seamen does as we ought, and no talk about it." 
               And without further circumlocution Clarke set himself about scraping the blood from the rail, while Topman viewed his simple exertions with feelings of exultation, convinced that, committed by this action as an accessory after the fact, the tongue of Clarke would be stopped in the event of circumstances leading to further inquiry; and the latter proceeded in his task with such zeal and activity, that by day break not a vestige of Hardbrace's blood remained to excite suspicion. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                  
                     "There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip."
                   
                
               TOWARDS the approach of dawn a light breeze from the north-east cleared off the haze, and though the rising sun had burst from the ocean enveloped by that dusky redness which commonly betokens rain, the mist, rolling before the wind, merely gathered in masses of threatening clouds, retiring in a south-westerly direction, and in heavy bodies, like the detached members of an army in the presence of a superior force, falling back upon the point of concentration. The whole of the south and west points of the horizon were one dense mass, except a small spot, against which a broken iris faintly relieved itself, revealing to the eye that a distant cloud had been discharged of its vaporous contents. The northern and eastern parts of the horizon had expanded into a pure heavenly blue, flaked over with white scud, carried 
                   
                     CONFLICT BETWEEN THE SMUGGLERS AND THE MAN-OF-WAR'S MEN. 
                   off in the direction of the dense mass that still frowned in the south-western distance, and notwithstanding the sun's rays trembled on the eye, as if the atmosphere was still surcharged with the vaporous exhalation, the day cleared up as it advanced, until sea, earth and heaven, were arrayed in a robe of universal brightness. 
               The sweetest poet in our language tells us, that 
                     "Nature's a mother kind alike to all;"
                   and so did Topman find her; for smuggler, traitor, murderer as he was, he still found hope when he looked upon the smiling face of heaven; even the faint iris brought back to his mind the lesson he had read in his youth, that God had set up his bow as an ark and a covenant of mercy unto man, and giving way to a superstition natural to all, even common to the most depraved, he hailed its appearance an omen of safety. Tim Clarke, on the other hand, felt equally disposed to be gay, from a consciousness, perhaps, that he had been instrumental in saving a fellow-creature from disgrace and death, for a crime of which he might be entirely innocent, and which opinion was strengthened by his previous knowledge of Hardbrace and his constitutional infirmity. The two preventive men, therefore, hailed the appearance of morning with more tranquility than a few hours previously they, particularly the former, could have supposed possible. 
               As soon as there was sufficient light for the purpose, Topman cast a hasty glance towards the spot where he had cleansed his cutlass, and examined the part of his coat on which he had dried its shining blade; but neither exhibited any appearance or mark which could lead to a detection of his guilt. Satisfied of this, he had recourse to his glass, and was surprised to find no trace of the contrabandist vessel in the offing. The Wasp lay well out, making for her former station with all the sail she could, bounding over the opposing ripple, and dashing aside the spray as if in playful dalliance with the ocean. Tim Clarke had also taken out his glass; for he bought one the last trip he made to the navy pay office, as also a sextant and quadrant; fully intending to pay the boatswain's mate to teach him reading and writing, the very next time he went to sea; for he argued, that could he only once learn to take a reckoning, his fortune would be made; but though Tim had made this resolution ashore; when he got on board, and brought out his sextant and quadrant, he was so ridiculed by his messmates, that he found his ardor for mathematical science had abated, and quietly deposited his cherished instruments in his sea-chest, while he continued to do his duty in his former capacity, without cherishing an ambition which had, in its very outset, exposed him to the laughter of his companions; yet, notwithstanding the ridicule had shamed him out of the use of the higher optical instruments employed in navigation, Tim Clarke could take a sight through a telescope as well as another, nor was he very unready in learning to adapt it to the proper focus. 
               Wherefore, when Topman pulled out his glass, Tim Clarke followed his example; and when Topman looked through the telescope, slowly moving it within a segment of sixty degrees, as if in quest of some object he expected to discover in a given direction, Tim Clarke did the same, like certain of the monkey tribes which imitate the actions of any human being who may chance to come within the scope of their observation; and when Topman, shutting his telescope, threw up his hands and eyes, with a gesticulation of astonishment at not finding the Witch riding at her kedge, Tim Clarke followed the example of the master's mate; but in turning his body, to give a full imitation of his companion, his eye caught and rested on the well-known hull of the Wasp, which he, poor simple soul, had all along thought was the object of Topman's search; whereupon, overjoyed at being able to direct the attention of his senior officer, he exclaimed:- 
               "Why, Lord! Lord! Master Topman! There she is all the time!" 
               "Where?" demanded Topman, still thinking of the schooner, and his companions on board. "Who? What? what do you mean?" 
               "What do I mean?" quoth Tim Clarke, surprised at the strangeness of his companion's manner. "Why the Wasp to be sure, you war lookin' for the Wasp, warn't you? An' yonder she is, dashing through the spray like a water fowl?" 
               "The Wasp?" 
               "Yes, the Wasp; you warn't lookin' for nothin' else, war yer?" 
               "No, no," said Topman, recovering himself. "I see her now, and a sweet craft she is, as ever stood under canvass. I wish I had been aboard last night, after what has happened, for poor Hardbrace's accident rests heavily on my mind; but you'll say nothing about the blood on the handrail, Tim, for God knows I should have been the last to hurt the poor fellow." 
               "Aye, aye, Master Topman, I well believe that; acause, as you never war fond o' reportin' or that like. If you'd ha' bin one of them there reportin' carry-slarvers, as old Kit Cathead used to call 'em, as tried to curry favor by tellin' tales out o' the mess, I shouldn't ha' thought no punishment whatsomever too bad for you; but as it is, and as I knows Hardbrace was subject to that like bleedin' as you said, why there's Tim Clarke's hand on't, an' honor bright, I'd as soon cut my tongue out as say the word as should harm yer." 
               "Thank you, Tim," returned Topman; "I shall never forget the interest you have taken in my safety; but 'tis time we returned to quarters. You will be sure not to say anything." 
               "Say anything!" echoed Clark with emphasis. "If so be, as you ever cotch me at it, I'd give you leave to spritsail-yard me with that skewer we seed when we went down into the cap'n's kitchen, and send me driftin' down the channel like a goose ready for roastin'-say anything, indeed! I should think not, cotch me at it that's all." 
               And the two preventives took their way across the dewy grass, in the direction of their appointed muster, Topman revolving in his mind the various chances which might arise to manifest his guilt. 
               After the discovery of the blood on the handrail by Timothy, Ned had been afraid to betray either uneasiness or agitation, lest it should give rise to a suspicion in Clarke's mind: knowing that when suspicion once takes root in an ignorant breast, the task of eradicating it is utterly impossible. Wherefore, notwithstanding his desire to look over the cliff in search of Hardbrace's body, he had abstained therefrom, least any appearance of anxiety he might evince should betray him. Trusting to chance, and little doubting that the body would be washed out to sea with the refluxing tide, and with it all proof or evidence of the sturggle which ensued previous to the murder, he commanded his feelings in the best manner he was able, though every step which neared him to his comrades was encumbered by an indefinite fear for the result, that called for the utmost self command. 
               As they approached the narrow road leading towards Ramsgate, Topman perceived several of the watch already assembled, when, glad for a moment to drown his gloomy anticipations in temporary occupation, he moved quickly onwards, and, the clock sounding their hour of muster, he soon saw his charge hastening from their various stations to the point of rendezvous. 
               After calling over the muster, he put them in motion for the town above mentioned, which the preventives entered amid the sneers and derision of the inhabitants, the success of the smugglers having been already made known by some secret or telegraphic communication, and public sympathy in sea-port towns, being pretty general in favor of cheap liquors. 
               On leading his charge to the parade, Topman to his great surprise, saw the well-known schooner of Will Watch lying in the outer basin; with which craft, however, he had now the strongest reasons not to seem acquainted. 
               Therefore, lest any of her crew should straggle up to view the discomfitted preventives under his orders, he left the men paraded under the next in authority, and summoning Clarke to accompany him, in order to secure his silence, by keeping him under his eye for the present, he made his way to the top of the cliff, and presented himself to the person of Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski, who opened his master's door. 
               "Glad you'b come, Massa Topman," said the negro with his usual grin, which exhibited a horse-shoe projection of huge boney substances, miscalled teeth. 
               "Hope you hab made capshum with your men. Ha! ha! ya! You hab prize berry orpen, Massa Topman. You go look war you fine. Ha! ha! ya! ya! No catchee no habee. Ben de debbil hold de bag, it 'ard to tak' any ting out. Ha! ya! ha! You no fine it so, eh, Massa Topman!" 
               Now as Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski had already heard of the complete failure of Topman's notable scheme for decoying the smugglers ashore, the whole of the above address was nothing more than an effusion of the negro's facetiousness; who prided himself, as indeed do most of his sable brethren, if not upon his wit, at least upon the good humor and cheerfulness which served in lieu of it, and which on all occasions, and under all circumstances, generally enables the children of Africa to bury the corroding feelings of misery and discontent under a hearty laugh. 
               But how amusing soever to the Captain's servant, Topman found his jokes so unpalateable, that he could in his heart have wished him dumb, nor would he, in the present state of his mind, have ventured on seeking the house, had he not feared that a recognition by any of the schooner's crew might thicken the circumstances against him. 
               In this intense anxiety of mind the laugh of Pedro was maddening; for though the master's mate had wound up his resolution to leave the events and discoveries of the morning to chance, and abide his fate with firmness, his hardy confidence sunk under a temper so opposed to his inward feelings, and gave way to a splenetic and waspish tenacity, which he felt the difficulty as well as the necessity of subduing. 
               Tim Clarke, on the other hand, stared with his little eyes upon the goggles of the black, wondering what he could find to laugh at, and longing to be inside to breakfast in his pantry, where he might feast upon soft tack at the skipper's expense; for not being able to understand more than one word out of three of their sable entertainer, the coffee of the latter had made a far deeper impression on the mind of the simple sailor than had his conversation. 
               While, therefore, Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski uttered his jokes, and Ned Topman was busied in curbing his temper, the mind of Tim Clarke was engaged in a philosophical speculation on the materialism of a breakfast. 
               Nor did his speculation lack realizing in the present instance, the Captain's valet leading them to his room, and furnishing them with the customary refection of the morning, further honoring them with his own sable presence; and, to do him justice, the spread was arranged with a degree of taste which had done honor to a more dignified company; for, in the capacity of valet to a single gentleman, Pedro had to perform the office of butler also, a circumstance which left him ashore to take care of the plate, while his master was engaged in a smuggler-hunt aboard; and so little did Pedro think the plate was made for the sole use of his master, that he would as soon have thought of going without breakfast altogether as cutting butter with anything but silver, the steel left such a nasty, ungentlemanly twang with it, particularly as in its transit through the kitchen it might have contacted with an onion, the smell or taste of which was most offensive to the negro, who therein, indeed, but imitated the fastidiousness of his betters. 
               The pantry table, therefore glittered in all the resplendency of a breakfast service manufactured by Rundell and Bridge, and the glory of the sight struck Topman dumb, while poor Tim Clarke was nearly taken aback by the awe which the display of so much riches inspired, inasmuch as his appetite began to fail him, under the idea of eating and drinking out of things only fit for the service of a port admiral. Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski, however, who had profited by the squandering observations he had made on the behavior and bearing of his master's visitants, taking his seat with that air of subdued hauteur which imposes a species of restraint while it appears to offer a sanction and encouragement to the guests to make themselves perfectly easy, did the honors of the breakfast table very much in the style of a monkey who had seen the world, rendering the scene more ridiculous by his grotesque affectation of his superiors' manners. 
               "Dis is liberry all, mine brudders!" said the valet, with a smile that displayed to the two seamen no small quantity of self-complacency-"mak yoo selps quite 't 'ome. Yoo'b not 'spose me notin' gratur dan yoosalp. Dam burglar dat, I tall yoo! Ebery body free here! Hab a slice 'am, Massa Topman, an' yoo, Massa Clark?" 
               And following up his address with a smile of patronage, he rounded his wrist in the most approved aristocratic style, and dropped the silver implement near unto the plate of the astonished Timothy, who, grasping it in his rude paw, almost as rough, and quite as sinewy, as that of a Polar bear, tried the edge of it on his sinister thumb with a look of the most profound astonishment, to think that people should be fools enough to endeavor to cut bread and butter with a knife like that. 
                
               Nevertheless, Timothy Clarke, who had always made it a maxim to try to do things like other people, in other words, when at Rome to do as Rome did, believing that persons in the sphere of society into which he had been accidentally thrown, cut their bread with a similar instrument, clapped his immense left paw on the small loaf his polite entertainer had placed fronting his breakfast plate, and began to saw it backwards and forwards, grinning with very spite at the obstinate resistance he was about to encounter in his fruitless endeavor to master a slice, to the infinite merriment of Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski; whose hearty laughter roused the ire of Timothy to a still more ungovernable pitch against the loaf he was endeavoring to divide, till, deeming it unprofitable to illustrate an old proverb by quarrelling with his bread and butter, he cast the silver instrument from him in disdain, observing, as he drew out a huge clasp-knife, keen as a razor, without which no seaman is properly equipped for heavy duty- 
               "He supposed as sich kind o' knives as them there war made for people as couldn't eat nothin'. For if so be they'd a happetite, they'd be all day long a gittin' their grub." 
               "Am apraid yoo's nut use to ginteel comp'ny, Massa Clarke," remarked Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski, with an air of mingled pity and condescension; "you sailom gemplem see so little ob rale lipe aboard ob ship." 
               "Little of rale life!" muttered Clarke; "if so be as they had you at the gratins, Master Blackee, they'd see if you war rale life or no, I can tell you. But what argufies talking! Rale life or sham life, I likes sarviceable things; and this here knife of mine u'd rattle through a lan'yard, or cut salt junk, which ever was most convenant-so don't go to talk to me about real life after that. I say as the rale thing is the thing as does the sarvice, an' this here's the thing for my money-a reg'lar chivey!" 
               After this eulogium on his knife, which Timothy Clarke delivered with a greater degree of self-possession and a better emphasis than usual, thinking he had said enough by way of preface, Tim slivered the bread and plastered it with butter, with such an appearance of hearty vulgarity, that the man of color, in order to cover the dignified disgust which agitated his bosom on beholding such improper behavior, took up a London newspaper that stood upon the table, and read, or affected to read, for some moments, in profound silence. 
               But the Chesterfieldian philosophy their black entertainer had acquired by commingling with polite society, entirely failed under the next assault his delicacy had to sustain; and when, after cutting and plastering with butter several hunches of bread, Timothy, with more sang froid than good breeding, deliberately took the quid of tobacco out of his mouth, and quietly dropped it alongside of his plate, Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski dropped the newspaper with a gesticulation of the most horrible loathing and disgust; and starting from his chair, at the same time pointing his index finger at the offensive object before him, exclaimed, 
               "Drow dat nassy ting in de fire!" 
                
               "Nasty!" quoth Mr. Timothy Clarke, with a marked note of admiration, and taking up the obnoxious morsel that had given so much offence to the half-civilized "child of Africa;" "nasty! it's good pigtail, an' ain't half chawed as yit; so, if so be as you don't like it, I'll stow it away in my hat till arter we've done breakfast." 
               Whereupon, depositing the unlucky plug in the oil-skin covering that kept his figure-head weather-proof, he duly placed his hat beneath his chair, and quietly waiting the transfer of the water, which stood boiling and bubbling and hissing in a silver urn, unto the biggin that coldly waited the outpouring of the vial of wrath, as the urn ultimately turned out to be, crammed his mouth with the precious mammocks he had been preparing, until his broad cheeks were distended into a close resemblance of those blown bladders that grace the ceiling of an oil and Italian warehouse, while his little eyes glistened with a degree of delight that none can comprehend save such of our readers as know what a treat fine bread and fresh butter is to a man accustomed to feed upon salt junk and hard buscuits, the particles of the first of the latter-mentioned kinds of food adhering to each other with the tough tenacity of rope-yarn, and the substance of the last almost defying tusks of iron in all parts which the inroads of the weavil have not converted into dry powder. 
               After handing round the first cups of coffee, Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski projected his goggle eyes with such an ireful expression, that an observer might be tempted to think them powerful enough to penetrate a two-inch board. 
               'Gor A'mighty neber cou'd hab put brain in de gut ob dem dam men'als!" exclaimed he, on finding he had exhausted the urn without producing more than four breakfast cups of coffee; "to know I ab comp'ny an' sen' no more worra dan dis here!" 
               And ringing the bell with great violence, a very pretty, meek-looking little girl entered the apartment, and stood for a moment waiting the commands of the kitchen autocrat. 
               "What d'yoo mean ba dis?' cried Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski, the moment his offended dignity allowed him to perceive that his peremptory summons had been responded to; "de debil neber sid such tritment as I git in dis hosse-Gor dam!" 
               And Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski finished his speech by stamping violently with his foot, in order to impress the trembling wench with a due and proper respect for his dignity. 
               "What do you please to want, sir?" questioned the girl mildly. 
               "Whar?" 
               "What do you please to want, sir?" 
               "Whar I want? Worra to b' sure! Don't see I ab comp'ny?" 
               "I can fill the urn, if you please, sir!" 
               "Ip I pleese marm, ip yoo pleese marm, an see yoo do please marm! Look dis an' hab de worra bile, doo y'ear, Missee debil 'kin?" and as she vanished through the door with the urn, Timothy Clarke, who had, during the short objurgation above described, cast his little, twinkling, ferret-like eyes from the meek-looking kitchen vestal to the fiery tem pered negro, and from the fiery-tempered negro to the meek-looking vestal again, several times in quick succession of glances, with a tremendous gulp forced the contents of his mouth, about a quarter of a pound of bread and butter, into his sophagus, which distended under the operation like the gullet of a boa-constrictor, and recovering his speech by the act- 
               "Begged he would'n't think of hurtin' the poor gal on his account." "No, Massa Clarke!" exclaimed the ireful man of color; "I'b no angry bid har on yoo 'count-'tis on by own 'count, Massa Clarke!" He here drew himself up to his full height, and beat his left breast several times with his right hand, and, turning unto the master's mate, continued, "Too mosh 'mil'arity brid content, Massa Topman. I'b allus found it so; derefore I kip mysalp elect wid such people as dem kitchen mena'ls. You scarce s'pose, 'cause I peak to dem som'times, day dreat me in dis bay." 
               Topman answered agreeably to the experience he had picked up aboard of ship, that he certainly thought the best way to keep up strict discipline, whether at sea or ashore, and commenced drinking his coffee, while Timothy Clarke took another huge bite at the bread and butter, rolling it about in the extensive premises of his mouth, in silent astonishment at his companion's approval of the entertainer's cruel bearing towards "such a nice young gal;" sending forth, at the same time, a series of such sympathising glances from his little eyes, with so odd an expression, that they might have provoked the black's laughter, had he not been too deeply occupied by his own self-importance at the moment. Proud, however, of the sanction bestowed on his opinion by a person so entirely in the confidence of Captain Trunnion as the master's mate appeared to be, the valet, by degrees, had sufficiently recovered his good humor to forget the vandal-like assaults so recently made on his feelings by the vulgarity of Timothy, and the gross inattention of the boarding-house maid-servant, to enter into conversation with Topman, who had just laid down his breakfast-cup, after having swallowed the contents. 
               "Do you eber read, Massa Topman?" said he. 
               "No great deal, Master Pedro; I can't pronounce those other two names of yours," returned the master's mate; "I mind I read Hamilton Moore some years ago, when I first larnt navigation." 
               "I'b read dat mysalp," observed the valet, willing not to appear ignorant of the matter; "I'b read dat ben aboard bid de Cap'n. Hablito Bore berry clabber; on'y I cou'den un'stan de perpendiclars ob de biggeromety. Him dam loggerheadins puzzle me too mosh. No sabey dem dam dismal practions. I berry mosh like bolite lidderatur-look dis drack, now. I jis tak it from de Cap'n's librie. Him berry gran borke," observed the negro, handing it. 
               Topman, setting down his coffee-cup, took the tract from the hand of his entertainer; but on casting his eyes thereon, they appeared rivetted to the page as if it possessed a fascination too powerful to be resisted; the blood forsook his cheeks and lips, and his whole frame trembled with convulsed emotion-his very heart seemed collapsed, and he gasped for a moment in a vain effort at respiration-a moment afterwards a cold shuddering ensued, and then the blood returned in a rapid rush to the surface. 
               The tract which had caused so much excitement in the master's mate was intituled "God's Revenge against Murder!" and the conscience-stricken wretch sickened and recoiled with terror lest the valet should, by any chance, have heard of Hardbrace's loss, and guessing at the perpetrator of the act, have adopted this singular mode of causing him to betray himself. 
               Writhing under the agony of conflicting emotion, his confusion would have certainly been observed, but at this crisis the maid-servant re-entered the apartment with the silver urn hissing hot from the kitchen; and Timothy Clarke, with all the anxiety of a sailor to prevent the poor wench's incurring a second scolding from the ireful valet, slipped his chair aside to make room for her, but in such wise as to block up her usual approach to the table; when, making a detour of the good-natured seaman's chair, she put her tiny foot into his broad-brimmed oilskin, and, tripping forward, discharged the full contents of the silver urn on the shins of the aristocratical negro. 
               With two or three mighty yells of pain, more like unto a concert of peacocks screeching in every variety of pitch, than any sound the imagination could conceive as proceeding from a human being, he started up, "grinning a horrible and ghastly smile," and showing all his bony yellow teeth like a baboon in convulsions. In this sudden start, however, the scalded black, lifting his knee, gave the poor kitchen vestal a kind of chuck under the chin, and that so far from being a kind one, that it threw her with great violence from her forward projection backward upon the shins of Mister Timothy; who being then in the act of stooping to extricate his hat, and, therefore, somewhat off his centre of gravitation, lost his equilibrium under this seconded-handed assault, and fell sprawling beneath the grate; while the unfortunate Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski went screaming, yelling, grinning, dancing and capering round the room in all that extravagance of gesticulation usually produced by acute pain, and which, notwithstanding the extreme torture that produces it, has something ludicrous in it in the eyes of the uninjured, however the cruelty-to-animals people may grimace about humanity. 
               When the first paroxysm had subsided, the unfortunate valet resumed his chair, and placing his hands upon his knees, as if to confine the pain and irritation to the part immediately affected by pressure, began to move his body backwards and forwards, grinning, while his teeth grated together in agony, and his thick lips separated, under the expression of extreme pain, so as to resemble in color and appearance the upper part of a violincello with an ivory inlay; uttering at intervals, in a tone rendered more than ordinarily guttural by intense sufferings- 
               "Chr-r-r-r-r-ri sabee?-bot a scal!" 
               Ned Topman, who, to do him justice, felt sorry for the valet's injury, relieved from his momentry confusion by one of those apparently accidental dental circumstances, much more common in every department of that motley assemblage denominated the world, than some lords of the as cendant are willing to admit, now began to busy himself in rendering assistance; and having observed the practice of the surgeon on board, in cases where ulcered sores adhered to the stocking, he got cold water, soap, and a sponge, and turning the silken covering gradually down, squeezed the soap over the inflamed parts, detaching the stocking by degrees, till seeing Clarke sprawling under the grate, he stretched his brawny arm, plucked him out by the breech, and desired him, in a tone of authority, "to lend a hand with the other leg." 
               Timothy Clarke, on being thus commanded, went to work in good earnest, and unbuttoning the knee of Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski's kerseymere smalls, seized with both hands the top of the wet silk stocking, which adhered as closely to the leg as sealing-wax, and turning it over with a single effort not only succeeded in detaching the white silk from the black leg, but the skin also from the knee to the shin, while the sudden contact of the organic surface with the atmospheric fluid, produced such a maddening pain on the unfortunate man of color, that convulsively projecting the leg in the hands of Timothy, he struck that good-natured and zealous personage in the pit of his stomach with such hearty vigor as laid him on his back, while his countenance exhibited the most sublime expression of wonderment at the patient's ingratitude for the service he had just rendered him. 
               Timothy, catching hold, however, of the hinder part of the dress of the before-mentioned vestal, who having recovered her feet was now endeavoring to get out of the room; made an effort to raise himself from the ground: and in so doing, managed not only to tear her gown and petticoat out of the gathers, but found one breadth of her figured calico remaining in the clutch of his own iron hand-which accident so enraged the meek-spirited girl, that she turned like a fury upon the half-prostrate sailor, and in the midst of tears and lamentations for the destruction of her dress, began to pummel his head and face with all her might. 
               "Wy-hoy, Miss," cried the unlucky Clarke, "what's all this for? I'll make your round-a-bout all right and tight again; and as for your poop-buntin', you shall have a new gownd at the next shop, a silk un' if you likes, an' Timothy Clarke into the bargain; for yer as clean timbered and well-built a friggat as ever I clapt my precious hies on." 
               Upon hearing this gallant speech of the tough merman, the girl began to giggle, and ran away, calling him a sinnywating devil; while order being at length restored in the pantry, Topman busied himself in making a soap and potatoe poultice, with which he plastered the unfortunate valet's shins. 
               Leaving Topman to perform his act of charity, which he did with the tender touch of a girl-a pretty good proof, by the bye, that a murderer may possess the organ of benevolence, for few, very few, of his more immaculate brethen of the white face entertain any very great regard for their sable brethren; and notwithstanding all the cant about the abolition of slavery which has been vomited from the time of that cruel humanist Sterne, to the canting hypocrites of the present day, in one part of the world where abolition has been actually tried, they would be, nevertheless, willing to change the word into ebullition to-morrow, provided they could get rid of their sable burthen by process of boiling. 
               We will advert for a moment to the Wasp cutter, which again graced the offing of Ramsgate with her master and commander on board, highly enraged by having failed of the success promised by the master's mate. But if his rage was excited by being unsuccessful, surely his surprise must have been infinitely greater to see the schooner he had been on the look-out for all the morning, and which had been reported as a suspicious craft, quietly riding in the outer basin of Ramsgate harbor. Wherefore, after seeing the anchor dropt, and everything on board put in ship-shape, as in duty bound, Captain Trunnion, ordering his gig, landed for the purpose of enquiring more closely into the character and destination of the schooner, whose suspicious appearance had given him what now seemed so much unnecessary trouble; and in a few minutes after, found himself on the parade, in company with a careless, easy, jovial companion, far too open in his opinions and communications to be considered a smuggler. 
               Yes, William Watch, Esquire, accustomed to the world, at once dropt in with the captain's views, and swore it was dem'd ungentlemanly in a set of vagabonds like those smugglers, to cheat his Majesty's revenue, and give their betters such a vast deal of trouble to hunt them up in their holes and corners; and further, "'pon honored" so heartily that such scurvy, vulgar beasts were insufferable, that his conversation, together with his accurate knowledge of the sailing and management of a vessel, completely won the master and commander's heart; so that when Watch declared himself a bachelor, a man of fortune, and one wedded (from a roving disposition and independant thought) to the changeful element on which Trunnion had been reared, the good-hearted seaman could hardly doubt him. Albeit he could not help still entertaining a thought that it was a strange freak in a man of fortune to work a schooner which, with a very weighty cargo, could float over shallows, wherein a vessel of a different build would ground with half her freight. 
               Watch, however, removed his doubts upon this point, by informing Captain Trunnion he pursued geography as a study, considering it incumbent on every gentleman who could afford it, to devote himself to something that would benefit the state of which he was by birth or adoption a member; and that his ultimate design was to take soundings and draw charts of all the deeps and shallows in the ports and harbors on both sides of the Channel, intending his labors for publication; which pursuit, he averred, he rather undertook on the score of its utility than from any idea of personal or pecuniary profit; though he did confess that the eclat naturally attending the completion of such a project had had some little share in stimulating an ambition which he hoped Captain Trunnion would consider had taken its rise in a pardonable vanity. 
                
               Will it be believed, in the course of half an hour, Trunnion and Watch, the cat and the rat, the revenue commander and the smuggler, were so friendly, that the former, hearing the latter had not yet provided himself with a residence, insisted on his lunching ashore with him; and Watch, during this short intercourse, obtained the information regarding MacWhat's intention of betraying the gang, which we left him on the road to London to circumvent. 
               Topman, who was still engaged in plastering the shins of the valet, on being summoned to Captain Trunnion's presence, started on perceiving his old acquaintance in such close intimacy with the commander of the revenue vessel, at first believing that the schooner had been captured; but Watch, passing his hand over his mouth, uttered a peculiar "hem!" which gave Topman to understand that all was right. Having accordingly made his report touching the loss of Hardbrace, he was ordered into temporary confinement; and the mishaps of the morning wound up by his being conveyed on board the Wasp, under the guidance of our old acquaintance Mr. Timothy Clarke. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                  
                     "If ever I was respected with her, or she with me, let not your worship think me the poor duke's officer."
                   
                
               WHEN Mistress Bridget Mullaghney, pacified by the announcement of a magistrate's presence, had permitted Mr. Oliver Hobbs (or as he called himself, Mr. Holliver Obbs) to lead her from the hall into the ale room, to wait her examination, the pompous little sheriff, with the natural instinct of all those who handle fi. fas., made his way uninducted to the best furnished and most comfortable room in the house, viz. the little bar parlor; in which apartment he found another paragon of a class which most of our readers have, doubtless, met and mixed with in the jog-trot journey of life-we mean the mediocre aristocracy. This personage was Mistress Margaret Pardo, an antique remnant of a past age, and one, moreover, who deemed the most ancient franklin in the country, though the habendum of his hereditary possessions should be comprised in a piggery producing a rental of forty shillings per annum, superior in point of blood to any lord of a creation of the era of, or posterior to, the Bentincks. 
               This lady, who had retreated thither on the first entrance of Mr. Muddlepuzzle Williams, drawn to her full height, at least five feet nine inches, stood near the fire-place, in a black quilted taffety petticoat which might have stood alone, her countenance exhibiting a degree of distance, or vulgar affectation of dignity, that somewhat abashed the obese magistrate, who, notwithstanding his habits of possession and self-possession, on passing into her private apartment, felt he was guilty of an intrusion almost amounting to what is called, in legal phraseology, a forcible entry. 
               Whereupon, like all students whose ideas have been trammelled by the "nice-cut quillets of the law," the august country conservator, on passing through the half glass door by which you entered the little bar-parlor from the hall, made a full stop, and began to revolve in his mind the various contingent circumstances that might arise or grow out out of his advance, or retrogression. He stood, therefore, for a moment; or it might have been a longer space of time, in that state of confused doubt of which neither the positive nor the negative can be affirmed, and which is rendered amongst modern philologists by the word flabbergasted.
                
               Yes, there he stood and stared, without exactly knowing how to act, or whether to advance or retire. But while he there stood and stared in silence, do not think that the immortal part about him, his mind, was unoccupied. No! That appendage of all truly great men, as well as of our little county magistrate, was busily employed in hunting up a vast variety of precedents, furnished by his legal reading, touching the present position he held with respect to the ancient mistress of the hostel; and whether, according to the case of Blubber versus Simkins, his intrusion on a lady's privacy might not be construed into an assault with intent, etc.; or whether, as intention makes the act, any indictment could lie for an assault without intent, etc.; or whether his further advance could be construed into a misdemeanor, instigated by unlawful desire, etc.; or simply resolve itself into a case of trespass, for that with force and arms he broke the close, &c.; a series of matters serious enough to make the little sheriff pause ere he committed himself beyond the power of retraction. 
               But in this, as in a great many other cases in which people labor under an over anxiety to keep themselves intact, our county dignitary might have saved himself a vast deal of unnecessary thought, had he boldly walked up to the lady in the first instance; as we may safely predicate that the expression of distance and dignity before noticed, would, on his so advancing, have merged itself in an austere smile, or dropped into a rigid courtesy. For, notwithstanding Mistress Margaret Pardo's predilection in favor of the descendants from the ancient franklins of the county-notwithstanding her own pride as representing a family who had held a freehold time out of mind, in Kent-she could not help feeling a little honored by the presence of the prime official of the shire; nay, so perversely inconsistent is the human mind in matters of this sort, that we are far from venturing to say she would not eqen have tolerated the presence of a Bentinck or a Petty, though mere representatives of 1688, if a Bentinck or a Petty could have been brought to tolerate hers. 
               Accordingly, having waited the address of the sheriff for the space of a moment or twain, in dignified silence, and seeing that official, as it were, dumbfoundered, as well by the novelty of his situation as the air of reserve and hauteur she had assumed on his opening the door of the family apartment uninvited, Mistress Margaret hastened to reassure assure him, by remarking, with an air of satisfaction, on the honor conferred upon their poor house by the presence of a person of so much consequence in the county. There was no need for her to say another word on the subject. The astute mind of the little sheriff comprehended, in a single glance, how such an admission non-prossed all the legal contingencies as to assault, misdemeanor, or trespass; the consent of the lady clearly constituting an induction of fair ingress and egress, and a right of way, although without conferring permanent possession. 
               Thus encouraged by the plastic Mistress Margaret, the pompous little official personage made a bow so reverentially profound, that it brought his rotund arriere to an equal elevation with his round shoulders, and then, raising himself up again, drew himself to the full height allowed by his diminutive stature, mustered sufficient gallantry to say, that he did not know whether he had most reason to feel regret at the accident which had occasioned his presence at the "Three Jolly Anchorsmiths," or pleasure on its having been the medium of his introduction to so amiable a lady-a compliment which so propitiated Mistress Magaret Pardo, that she felt herself, as she expressed it, constrained to ask the worthy dignitary "to take glass of wind," adding, by way of illustration, with a eructatory siffilation, or sort of subdued whistle, which brought the good lady's lips into that kind of compression observable in a flageolet player's, "they had all kinds of wind in the house;" an averment in which the worthy little sheriff fully and cordially agreed, if we might assume as much from a smile of suppressed and duplex meaning which at that moment played upon his countenance. 
               Mr. Muddlepuzzle Williams having ordered sherry and biscuits, and being, notwithstanding his learning, somewhat of a pragmatist in his way, while Mistress Margaret busied herself in getting out the refreshments-for Bridget Mullaghney affected to be too much deranged to be capable of her ordinary duties, and Susan Wylie had quitted the hostel during the confusion occasioned by the sheriff's arrival, and Mistress Bridget's singular charge, to apprise her lover of the new circumstances which had arisen-could neither contain his satisfaction, nor control his usual habit of speaking of his personal concerns. 
               He, therefore, took occasion to inform Mrs. Margaret Pardo that he was individually far better qualified to fill the office of sheriff of the county, than any person who had officiated in that capacity during the last century; having had a perfect legal education, and having been called to the bar, and being, moreover, considerably deeper read in the laws and customs of the country than many judges of the land. 
               He furthermore told her that not only was he a man of research and learning, but a man of courage likewise; adding several instances of historical record which called the sheriff's personal prowess into action; in proof of which latter assertion, he stated that he had already been out in a duel on his lady's account, on which occasion a ball had passed through the hinder part of his kerseymeres, about mid-way betwixt the waistband and the crutch; that the ball had gone fairly through, and was not, as some evil-disposed persons had maliciously affirmed, stopped in its progress by a platina plate which he had caused to be sewn into the seat of his "smalls," before he ventured to take the field; an assertion which the little sheriff, with great emphasis, characterized as libellous and base in the extreme. 
               As an evidence of which latter assertion, he further alleged, he had carefully preserved the unmentionable garment before alluded to, and had not unfrequently produced and shewn the same unto his friends, in order to convince them they had never been perforated with a greater number of stitches than were usual in garments of a similar description, and that the story of the platina plate was therefore an insidious fabrication. 
               Now, during the time the worthy little dignitary was making this expose in the bar parlor, his myrmidon, Mr. Oliver Hobbs, had been busily preparing Mistress Bridget Mullaghney for examination in the ale-room; a duty which the latter demi-official had undertaken in order to save his master, the sheriff, all the trouble on the occasion. Nor were many persons better qualified than Mr. Oliver Hobbs for so delicate a task; for Mr. Oliver Hobbs had been bred from boyhood upwards in the office of a London attorney, wherein he had gone through all the gradations and mutations, from fag to second management in common law, and, for a person in his grade, Mr. Oliver Hobbs might have been considered erudite, he having acquainted himself with the titles of Blackstone's Commentaries, Hale's Pleas, and the statutes at large; nay, to do him justice, he would have acquainted himself with the learning contained in them also, but during the long vacation he attempted to take a volume when they all came together, being in reality a row of fudge books to give the semblance of a library. 
               Neither had Mr. Oliver Hobbs quitted the profession until he found Tidd and Archibold swallowed up by Chapman, and a new practice destroying the ancient perfection of reason to be found in the old, when he answered the advertisement of Muddlepuzzle Williams, Esq., to whom he now contented himself with playing scrub, denouncing the present practice of what is called common law as unworthy a person with any claim to intellect. 
               "Do you mean to swear to the fact, Mrs. What's-your-name?" demanded Mr. Oliver Hobbs, putting on one of his most penetrating looks. It was his first question, and he received another by way of answer. 
               "Fhot else shou'd I swear, a vourneen?" asked Mistress Bridget, with a broad stare of wonder on her countenance, to think any person should be silly enough to put such a question. 
               "That hisn't for me," observed Mr. Oliver, using the emphasising aspirate by way of enforcing attention; "Hi say it hisn't proper for a person in my sitivation to tell nobody what to say upon hoath; for a hoath's 'eld in law, by hevery writer as hever writ on the subject, to be a sakered obligation, and being a sakered hobligation, no person sitivated has Hi ham hant hobligated to tell yer vot yer to say upon hoath. Hall as Hi can say is this, that his yer swear to the fact, hit's a very serious matter, serious enough to constitute felony, without bail or mainprize, has laid down in Burn's Justice of the Peace hand Parish officer-that his, if yer positively aver the fact upon hoath." 
               On hearing this lucid explanation, Bridget Mullaghney looked all astonishment, utterly confounding the meaning of the man of law, in the simplicity of her perception; for, without taking the word fact in any other sense than that in which it is generally received, she concluded with the shrewdness peculiar to the vulgar Irish, that Mr. Oliver Hobbs, from some interested motive she could not understand, merely wanted to entrap her into an admission that she was going to swear falsely about the matter about to be investigated. Wherefore, putting up both hands, and turning up her eyes as if in silent appeal against the horrible profligacy of the world around her, she exclaimed- 
               "The Lord save us! Fhot sart of a chrischen can ye be when ye'd ax me to swear to anything else but the fact? If yer think I'd have such a thing apan my conshince, ye are a mere omadawn wid all yer larnin' and scholarship. Swear to anything else but the fact indade! wouldn't ye like to catch me at it?" 
               "Then," quoth Mr. Oliver Hobbs, looking the utmost profundity of learning, "Hi say the matter his like to turn hout very serious, very serious hindeed! for the fact his laid down by the hact-I forget the statoot-has a capital hoffence." 
               "Get out wid ye for a dirty baste as ye are!" cried Mrs. Bridget, in all the vengeful ire of offended modesty; "call an ondacency like that capital! If it was like me ye were, I dare say ye'd nat think so." 
               "I merely say has the hact makes it so," asseverated Mr. Oliver Hobbs, waxing into warmth at the doubt cast upon his judgement by the Irish maiden,-"Hi'll stake my legal repetation hon it, afore any justice in the kingdom." 
               "And I'm ready to swear," exclaimed Mistress Bridget, with a look of defiance that might have cowed a bigger and a better man than Mr. Oliver Hobbs, "I'm ready to swear there wasn't anything capital in it at all." 
               "Then," observed Mr. Oliver Hobbs, with a look of dogmatism, "has sure has my name's Holliver, the hoffence han't h'ony a misdemeanor, has ye can't swear to the fact." 
               "I not swear to the fact!" shouted Mrs. Bridget in ungovernable emotion. "Is it me character ye want to take away from me? More shame an ye, and the likes av ye's, that ud put a lie into my mouth-whin I'm goin' to take my bible oath. Ha, balliack? for it's bad milk yer fadther's cow giv when yer mother suckled the likes ov ye." 
               And Mistress Bridget Mullaghney turned on her heel witu a look of disdain that might have furnished the late Mrs. Siddons' for a study, when she sat, or rather stood to Harlowe, a model of histrionic perfection, in the character of Queen Catherine. 
               We admit there may have been some trifling difference betwixt the tragic actress and the bar wnman, in dignity of deportment; yet, what nature had denied unto the Irish maiden in this respect, she had 
                   
                     ARREST OF CLINK. 
                   made ample amends for in another qualification, without which disdain cannot be manifested or shown, and which enabled the latter to transcend the Melpomene of her time in expressing this particular feeling. For though Mrs. Siddons should have tried to turn up her nose to the end of the chapter, she never could turn it up in such wise as nature had turned up Mistress Bridget Mullaney's; which, indeed, turned up so vigorously, that she squinted over the top of it, in an effort to look Mr. Oliver Hobbs into nothingness. 
               "My dear woman," interposed the latter, endeavoring to propitiate the offended maiden, "Hi didn't mean hoffence, Hi hon'y wished to put yer on yer guard. Hall as Hi want to saw is has this: hif yer do swear to the fact, why the hact makes the fact capital." 
               "Then I say it's a fact, as I'm a crischen woman," said Bridget. 
                
               "Hand Hi say as hit's a very serious matter," observed Mr. Oliver Hobbs. 
               Thus proceeded the preliminary examination in the ale-room, during which time the pompous little sheriff took Mrs. Margaret Pardo's sherry and biscuits into sessional consideration in the bar-parlor, as it is technically termed, "on merits;" and if we might judge from the eagerness and zeal with which he proceeded in the work of demolition, never had a case as yet come before that dignitary, "on merits," that he felt more disposed to do ample justice to; for he ate as if he were going through his commons again on the high road to the bar of which he boasted. 
               When he had finished the work of refection-which was not, however, until he had finished the last glass of wine contained in the black bottle, placed before him by the mistress of the hostel-the active imagination of the little man suggested the propriety of taking the depositions of the abused maiden, touching and concerning the nature of the charge which had brought him, in all the zeal of a public functionary, out of the king's highway into the "Three Jolly Anchorsmiths;" and knowing that attention is generally attracted by appearances, the county officer, on entering the oak and tapestried chamber, began to cast about him for means of putting into some resemblance of a court of justice. 
               To this end he singled out what appeared a very antique chair, to support his person with becoming dignity; and which, from the dais attached to it, had, no doubt, in the earlier period of the hostel, served to support some baron or bold knight, whose knee, perchance, had never bowed, saving always in reverence to the holy-rood, or penance to the popular saint of England, although now merely used as the king's seat in the mumming's at yule-tide. Its elbows, knees, and feet, were quaintly and curiously wrought; the latter with claws of that imaginary animal which ornaments the sheriffs' barges in London-and the former with such hideous, grinning, monstrous faces, as could only exist in the brain of a herald; while the elevated back was carved as a trophy of arms, surmounted by a baronial helmet, from the sides of which depended festoons, whose sharply cut leaves and deepened buds and flowers, told a mute tale of the patience, labor, and skill of a race of artists now departed. 
               This chair, which from its great weight he found much difficulty in removing, was placed at the head of a round, or rather oval table, that graced the centre of the room; while from an obscure corner of the ample apartment, the sheriff brought, with his own hands, a square but empty candle-box, whose flat surface might serve him in lieu of a desk; which latter article he covered with a piece of green baize, brought from the bar-parlor. 
               Then, going to the door, he obtained his counsellor's wig, a distinction of which he was so very proud, that he never travelled without having it in his saddle-bag; and then he prepared for the business of the morning. 
               But the bustle of preparation could not altogether exclude a feel ing of surprise at not encountering the master of the hostel, during his arrangements; and once or twice he had been desirous of asking Mistress Margaret what had become of that worthy personage, but had laid the thought aside, deeming him probably busied about some of the domestic affairs of the inn. 
               He further liked to do every thing with his own hands, having always made it a maxim, "that if you want a thing done well, do it yourself:" and this was the reason, and the only true one, perhaps, that in the midst of all the motion and re-motion of the morning, the sheriff had not yet craved the landlord's assistance. 
               Yet let not the reader suppose that Mister Muddlepuzzle Williams did all this to set off his own person in the vain ornaments of professional pride; no, he entertained higher and more philosophical views: he knew that weight and gravity of form would leave due impressions on the ignorant; wherefore he had made all these preparations to awe the supposed delinquent, and who was held in custody by Obediah Hogsflesh, his trusty pursuivant, in a certain out house or stable attached to the hostelry, bound by a rope to abide his examination, and tied like a horse to the manager. 
               The worthy sheriff, however, although he had authorized Obediah Hogsflesh to take Clink into custody, little deemed that that enthusiastic adherent, after he had, by the aid of Jeremiah Pardo, bound Ephraim Clink over to take his trial, had mastered and bound the landlord also, despite of his threat of an action for false imprisonment, to secure him as an evidence against the ancient hammerman. 
               Accordingly, having safely deposited them both in an empty stable, Obediah Hogsflesh, exulting in the cunning by which he had secured the ravisher and the evidence, walked forth to breath the air, leaving ancient Mister Pardo to bawl himself hoarse in a vain endeavor to produce an impression on Clink's tympanum; while he, poor fellow, with his hands tied behind him, stood and stared like an owl in an ivy bush, and answered nothing, until the inane expression of his countenance moved Jeremiah's laughter; when the ancient hammerman, observing the laugh, and deeming it had arisen out of one of his master's best jokes, took his part in the glee with such good will, that Jeremiah deeming himself no less than laughed at by his ancient man-servant, was so enraged, that had it not been for his bonds he had certainly struck poor Ephraim for his innocent mistake. 
               Preparations for the examination in the old oak and tapestried chamber being in the state of forwardness before described, the little sheriff, like little David with the armor, got into the great chair for the purpose of proving it; but the chair having been made for a man of colossal proportions, presented arms much too high for the use of our county official, so that when he placed his elbows on those of the chair, his shoulders were forced considerably above his ears, and his chin sunk upon his chest, while his little legs dangled below in an ineffectual effort to reach the dais which should have supported them. 
               In this position Muddlepuzzle Williams tried to smile before a pocket-glass, which he had, in his eagerness to produce an impression, set upon the temporary desk before him. 
                
               But, alas, instead of his usual smile of benignity and self-gratulation, he deemed it a sort of smile that would cause the laughter of the beholders. Two pillows upon the seat, and another box upon the dais, however, rendering the adaptation a little more perfect, the little man sat thereon, his little lungs crowing with no little vanity, as he compared his seat upon the pillows to the beds of justice of the old kings of France. 
               Yes, he took his seat, and with a look exactly suiting the importance of the occasion, called out-"Mr. Oliver Hobbs!" 
               "Hi'm 'ere!" responded in the well-known voice of that puffed-up personage, almost provoked the lungs of the little sheriff to ridiculous smiling; howbeit he subdued the ex-aspirating occasion, and proceeded in a tone of great gravity: 
               "Pens, ink, and paper, Mrs. Pardo, if you please; and then let the complainant be brought into the court." 
               And as Mistress Margaret Pardo receded from the room, she could not help thinking she had never seen anything half so grand in that apartment since she had kept house. She looked at the little man perched up in the great chair, then at his wig, then at the green baize, and then thinking of the candle-box, marvelled how a little arrangement could invest such common things with an appearance of dignity. 
               Agreeably, however, to the sheriff's commands, she brought pens, ink, and paper; and having deposited some before that official on the deputy desk, placed the remainder before Mr. Oliver Hobbs, at the table below, on the right hand of his master; and then went forth to desire her maid-servant, Bridget, to come forward for her examination. 
               Now though Mistress Bridget Mullaghney had, as aforesaid, most valiantly determined to swear to nothing but the fact, yet having, as is well known unto the reader, no fact to swear unto, it will not be deemed wonderful that, finding herself so unexpectedly confronted by a justice, the periphery of whose cranium was surrounded by the periphery of a wig, she began to revolve in her mind the best means of avoiding swearing to anything, while she secured the point she was secretly aiming at in capturing "the one-eyed villyan for herself." 
               Wherefore, on being introduced into the chamber, she advanced with a downcast look towards the lower end of the table, crossed her arms upon her stomach, and dropping a half-courtesy, while she put on a simpering air of modesty truly edifying to the worthy little magistrate, calmly awaited her examination. 
               "My good woman," prefaced the little sheriff, standing upon the box above the dais, and assuming all the dignity of which he was capable on so insecure a foundation, "before I proceed with this examination, I have a duty to perform. Some magistrates would take this matter as one of course, concurrent with the ordinary run of business. I am not one of those, but having been sent here, as it were, by Providence, to this investigation, it is my duty to point out the heavy responsibility of an oath, under the circumstances in which you, my good woman, are placed; still if you are determined to persist in the charge I am bound to do you justice as much as if you were the first lady in the land; and in this matter I shall have less difficulty, as the ravisher is in custody. 
               On hearing this, Bridget's eyes brightened with evident satisfaction. 
               "Many thanks and great glory to yer wertship," she exclaimed in a whining tone put on to express her gratitude, "and God be good t'ye for takin' the part av the fadtherless and modtherless and the sthranger, for it's a sthranger that I am, Gad be betuxt me an' harm, havin' on'y lived in this house twinty years come nixt June; and an orphian likewise, havin' needther fadther nor modther, and more betokenin', not havin' chick nar child av my bone; as it's little I'd have to boast av, if I had, bein' a maid, Gad knows, till this marnin', an' niver, havin' bin ill-used by mortyal man in any way onproper, till that vilyain sarved me in a way, savin' yer wertship's riverance, as shall be nameless." 
               "But it must not be nameless," cried the little sheriff, his eyes gloating with eager anticipation of the luscious description which the prospect of such a charge afforded. 
               "Mus'n't be nameless!" cried Bridget, sheltering herself under an appearance of modesty. 
               "No!" observed the magistrate; "in this respect the law is imperative!" 
               "Arrah! fhot's that mane?" 
               "What?" 
               "Imperative." 
               "O!" resumed the sheriff, "the law compels you to speak." 
               "Good gracious! I'll niver be able to do that," cried the maiden. 
               "Psha!" observed the sheriff, evidently in what is termed a "bad way;" "this is mock-modesty; let her be sworn, Mr. Hobbs." 
               And Mr. Oliver Hobbs rose accordingly. 
               "Take the book in yer right land, while Hi," he continued with his usual emphasis, "hadminister the hoath. 'You swear that the evidence you shall give unto his worship touching the matter now in question, shall be the truth, the whole truth, hand nothink but the truth.' Kiss the book." 
               And as the maiden did according to his desire, Mister Oliver Hobbs, turning towards the little magistrate, demanded- 
               "Ham Hi to charge a shilling for this, yer worship, as hit's a hoath taken hout of the hordinary way?" 
               "No!" replied the little sheriff, who had been pricking up his ears to listen to the damsel's disclosures. "I am astonished at you, Hobbs! You ought to know better than interrupt me with such a foolish question at the present moment. In a case of this kind, I don't like to lose the slightest particle of evidence. What's your name, young woman?" 
               "Bridget Mullaghney." 
               "Hobs! take down Bridget Mullaghney," commanded the sheriff. 
               "Will you hask the horthography?" said the latter personage. 
               "How do you spell your name?" questioned the sheriff. 
               "Upon my contchince," returned Bridget, "and by vartue av the oath I've taken, I niver larned to rade whin young, and therefore it 'ud be add axin' me to spell it at my time av life, yer honor." 
               "Shall Hi take hit down by the rule hidem sonnings?" asked Mr. Oliver. 
               "What's that?" asked the sheriff in return. 
               "Hi may be wrong in the Latin," said Mr. Oliver. 
               "Then spell it in the best manner you are able," observed the sheriff. 
               "M-u-l, Mul-l-a-w, law, Mullaw-n-i-g-h, nigh, Mullawnigh," spelt the erudite Mr. Oliver Hobbs. 
               "That will do very well," said the sheriff; and then fixing his eyes upon those of the Irish maiden-his own, by the way, glistening under the anticipation of what was to come-he continued, with an assumption of one in whose breast no passion of an improper nature could find an abiding place:- 
               "And now, Mistress Mullaghney, you will please to say what was done to you." 
               "Sure I tould yer wertship I couldn't tell the likes av that for the life av me. You wouldn't think me so immadest or ondacent; for if the law requires that, it requires what a madest woman ought to be ashamed av!" 
               "Then," said the sheriff, rather disappointed, "as you won't swear to the fact, I can't hold the accused in custody." 
               "Didn't Hi tell you so?" said Mr. Oliver Hobbs, in a tone which expressed his own value of his own opinion; "didn't Hi say has the hact rendered the fact himperative on the haccuser?" 
               Bridget, however, as heretofore intimated, though very desirous to obtain a husband to comfort her declining days, was in nowise willing to commit a perjury to further that object, proceeded as follows:- 
               "Dhough my madesty stands in the way of my prefarmint, may be yer wertship 'ud spake a word for me, or the like, to the vilyain that's bin the cause av all my throuble, in the way of abusin' my ondefinded wakeness, an' make him marry me. Sure thin, yer wertship, there'd be no harm done at all, an' every thing might go on fair an' aisy." 
               "A proper and most merciful conclusion," observed the sheriff.-"Oliver, tell Obediah Hogsflesh to produce his prisoner;" and Mr. Oliver Hobbs vanished from the presence in the twinkling of a bed-post. 
               Now Obediah Hogsflesh, upon receiving this order from Oliver Hobbs, went straightway into the stable, and, not knowing which of his prisoners might be first in requisition, dragged them both forth in the same manner Caucus of old pursued towards other people's cattle, viz., tail foremost, and, lugging them after him severally and respectively by the several and respective cords which held them firmly bound, with their hands behind them, forced them into the hall, and finally brough them before his worship, who uttered a loud exclamation of surprise on seeing two persons in custody, in which Bridget heartily joined on recognising in these persons the ancient hammerman of this smithy and his more ancient master of the inn. 
                
               "The saints be good to us!" ejaculated Bridget, fervently; "and fhot's yer wertship goin' to do wid these men?" 
               "Punish that hoary-headed monster of iniquity!" cried Muddlepuzzle Williams, with a burst of indignation, at the same time shaking his forefinger at Clink, "whose age should have been sufficient to have kept your person sacred, Mis-tress Mul-law-nigh." 
               "Fhot, punish him for what he didn't do!" exclaimed Bridget; "punish my ould fellow-sarvant!-sure he's as innocent as the babe unborn. 'Twas a counthryman av my own, a souldier, as did the mischief." 
               "A soldier!" cried the sheriff, in surprise, and, like Macbeth, beginning to repent him of his former fury. 
               "Yes, faith," replied Bridget; "and fhot's more, if yer wertship will jist assist me in it, I don't think we shall be too late to take the vilyain yit; for, as he's not in hoult here, I'll engage he has Mistress Susan in hoult, fast enough, down at Copsewood." 
               "What!" cried Mistress Margaret Pardo, "my grand-niece?" 
               "Fact, madam! faith and troth!" cried Bridget; "I heard them plan an assassination together wid my own ears." 
               "An assassination!" exclaimed the sheriff. 
               "An assassination!" re-asserted the maiden. 
               "'Tis rank murder," observed the country conservator. 
               "Worse than'd that," quoth Mistress Bridget; "but if ye'll on'y follow me, ye may take the vilyain yit." 
               "I think I'm bound to prevent such goings on," said the man learned in the law, with a grave look, pausing to considered whether, according to Blackstone, the sheriff was not an authorized felon-taker in a matter of this kind. "Follow me, Hobbs." 
               "Shall I take pen, ink, and paper, with me, that we may have all in readiness?" said the latter official. 
               "Do!" commanded his master; and in a few moments the whole party were on the road to Copsewood. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "--'Tis written in the stars, 
                        Thy violent death's foretold by gory Mars." 
                     
                   
                
               ON releasing himself from the grasp of Bridget Mullaghney, Watch made his best way through the green lanes leading from old Pardo's to the farm of Copeswood, situate some mile or mile-and-a-half distant; but on reaching a bend in the road, by which passengers diverged into a path directly opening on the farm towards which he was hastening, his footsteps were arrested by the sound of several voices, and a smoke arising from a clump of stunted trees, convincing him he was near company that might as well be avoided, lest, on inquiry or pursuit, they should afford both description and direction, he sprang over a gate, and, crossing over a meadow, in about twenty minutes arrived at the farm without being observed. 
               The sounds which arrested the attention of Will Watch proceeded from a party of those wandering gipsies, who had halted on their march towards a neighboring fair, and were about to take their morning's repast, presenting a mixed assemblage of mendicants, fortune-tellers, thieves, rogues, and vagabonds, living in absolute defiance to the laws of more permanent communities, and keeping up the wandering independence of the patriarchial ages, from which they boasted their origin, in very scorn of the civilized institutions around them. 
               The mickle pot was steaming over a fire collected from the clumps around them, and filled with the spoils they had collected in their tramp from the fields and hen-roosts of the neighboring farmers; and their bursts of unlicensed mirth seemed an appropriate thanksgiving for their ill-gotten meal. 
               This jovial party was under the guidance of Molly Purley, a well-known character, though more generally recognished by the cognomen of "Maundering Moll." Indeed, her reputation as a foreteller of events hidden in the womb of time, aided by one or two boldly hazarded predictions, which had been verified to the letter, had spread throughout the country, and rendered her an object of wonder to the simple and superstitious, who craved her aid in reading their future destiny. 
               This singular woman was of gigantic stature, and though exhibiting the encroaching hand of time in multitudinous wrinkles which had overspread her once handsome features, her hair still retained the dark and glossy appearance of youth, in places where it had been permitted to stray from beneath the kerchief or turban that covered her head. 
               On her right hand was seated her grand-daughter, Frontibelle, 
                     "The boasted beauty of the gypsy race."
                   To her nature had been so lavish in the gift of personal attraction, that could she have been removed from the wild companions who surrounded her, she might have passed for one of those dark-eyed immortals with whom the Arabian prophet peopled the paradise of all true Mussulmen. Her strictly Grecian features might have furnished a model to the sculptor who sought to mould perfection, while her beautifully rounded, slightly muscular, and elastic limbs imparted to every movement of her body a grace to lead the senses captive. Her eyes, shaded by long dark lashes, which lent the most bewitching softness to her glances, when they spoke of the more benignant influences of passion, roused by the fiercer emotions of her nature, could endue themselves with the malign and scathful power of lightning, and speak an energy and determination of purpose not usually found among the fairer sex, and unlooked for in one of her light and delicate appearance. An ornamental tambourin and silken flag lay on the grass at her side, while her small foot and spangled slippers and trowsers spoke of her avocation as a dancer at the various wakes and fairs through which they wandered. 
                
               On the left hand of Maundering Moll sat Bernard, her grandson, whose countenance, more masculine than that of his sister, beamed nothing but fierceness and determination. 
               A group of gipsies of both sexes-the men's limbs muscular and well developed by the carelessness and freedom of their wandering habits, and girls whose dark skins glowed with the ruddy tint of nature's pencilling, while their sparkling eyes bespoke their inward ease and careless jollity-seated beneath the blanket canopy that served to shelter and protect them from the night dew, completed the vagrant party, who, with appetites as keen as the morning air, and platters and porringers somewhat of the coarsest, awaited their breakfast in the green lane leading to Copsewood. 
               Notwithstanding all the fine-spun theories of philosophy to the contrary, there must be certain ideas which, having an existence separated from the material world, are essentially different from those arising out of habit, and even triumph over organization itself by receiving impressions of so high an order, as to be occult to the common media of human perception; and what Corporal Trim doubted and my Uncle Toby dogmatised, viz., that a negro had a soul, we intend to affirm on behalf of gypsies and all other vagabonds. 
               Yes, reader, how prejudiced so ever you may be by the materialism of the time, a gypsy has a soul. Frontibelle had a soul; else how could Frontibelle, despite the dissipation, the vice and infamy she saw around her, have cherished but one object in her heart's core with all the fond idolatry and constant virtue of primitive affection! Yes, it was so; Frontibelle loved! but, alas! the dark-eyed beauty was unhappy in her lot, and pined with a hopeless passion. 
               The modes of conveying run goods throughout the country, pursued by the gang at Welling's Hole, were numerous; and, amongst other aids, the agency of gypsies was not unfrequently resorted to: wherefore the connexion between Maundering Moll and farmer Welling was not very extraordinary. Many and many a bale of tobacco and other dry goods had been conveyed by Moll and her gang throughout the country; and as such farmers as delighted to treat their friends, without asking government to permit them, were induced to wink at occasional robberies by her followers, in consideration of the vast sums she saved them in the excise and custom duties. 
               On a visit of business to Welling's farm, with old Moll, Frontibelle first saw Watch, who, struck with her beauty, and deeming her a mere gypsy, endeavored to attach her to himself. In this he succeeded so well, that she indeed loved him; and, as the first impressions of affection, she now felt an ambition to love and be beloved of one. In the warm energy of feeling, Frontibelle would have surrendered all she enjoyed of freedom to the control of this chosen one. She would have married him-sunk the gypsy in the smuggler, and glorified in sharing the dangerous vicissitudes of her lover's fate-fought by his side-died with, or for him-in fine, endured everything except a rival. 
               One of those stupid, toothless, foolish Greek philosophers who, notwithstanding withstanding he lived when they measured time by Olympiads, with all his learning was only capable of mumbling out a few truths amid a bundle of falsehoods, which have descended to the present generation, gravely tells us that "an hour's dalliance is often followed by an age of pain:" a truth of which Frontibelle had sad experience; for as Will Watch's modicum of affection for the beautiful gypsy girl was of the kind which Monsieur Parolles ascribes to Count Bertrand towards Diana- 
                      
                        "He loved her, sir, as a man loves a woman; 
                        Marry, he loved her and he loved her not," 
                     
                   Frontibelle could hardly flatter herself with a hope of the preference she coveted. 
               Watch knew the habits of gipsies too well to suffer any impression made by Frontibelle's beauty to induce him to form a camp-kettle connexion. Wherefore, though he pursued her with the warmest admiration and most vehement desire, he studiously avoided her oft-repeated questions whether he would marry her and live as her fathers had always lived. 
               Yet though his passion for Frontibelle, lawless as his pursuits in life, craved mere animal gratification, such is the power of confiding innocence, such the cowardice of lust, that the heart of our smuggler had often failed him in moments when the weakness of Frontibelle would have surrendered all to him; till at length, unwilling to become the seducer of a being who appeared really and sincerely to love him for his own sake, he gave over the pursuit, and, avoiding her presence, soon forgot her altogether. 
               Albeit the task of forgetting the outcast gypsy was comparatively easy to Will Watch, who, as we have already seen, was betrothed to another, that of forgetting the man who had triumphed over her young heart was a heavy one to poor Frontibelle; and the energetic passions which glowed in the veins of the warm-blooded gypsy while they forbade "the worm i' the bud" to nourish melancholy, wore out her health by their intensity and fierceness Frontibelle loved Watch. Is it wonderful, then, that for the same reason she hated Susan Wylie with a fierce and bitter hatred, only to be appeased by blood? and the secret, both of her love and hatred, had been confided to Moll Purly, who had too much of the gypsy in her nature to suffer principle to baulk the proceedings of revenge. 
               But there is a certain little word, of immense power, much in use amongst diplomatists, and such like peddling, pettifogging characters, who drive the bargains of nations and kingdoms, and think themselves most successful in their aim when they have affixed their names and seals to a string of ambiguities which leaves ample room for whichsoever of the contracting parties to creep out whenever interest or inclination renders it convenient. This is expediency; and this word, strange as it may appear, stood betwixt old Moll and her grand-daughter's desire. From her dealings with old Pardo, the ancient gypsey knew he was possesed of considerable wealth, which would all descend to his grand-niece; and, with a grasp of anticipation worthy of the genius of a Talleyrand, Maundering Moll had conceived the bold project of marrying her son Bernard to Susan Wylie, and finally uniting the fate of the bold smuggler, whom she loved, with that of Frontibelle. 
               Had it not been for this notable project the knife of the old gypsywoman would have washed out the insult offered to her daughter, by Watch's abandonment, in his blood. As it was, however, she chose to play a long game, and to secure the end, her means were fully as destitute of morals as many of those adopted by parties who play a higher game in the world of politics. Moll Purley had made up her mind to succeed; and when she made up her mind to achieve an object, it was not a trifling opposition could prevent her. The present was their first visit to this part of the country for three months; and, as she wanted a supply of stuff to serve her fall and winter customers, she trusted to find opportunities enough to work out her secret intention, so as to secure the ultimate success of both these projects, while communicating between Welling and old Pardo, in the way of business. 
               The breakfast, al-fresco, having been prepared, while Mother Purley baled out the hot broth and pieces of fowl, and mutton, and turnips, and carrots, and potatoes to the tribe, some half dozen of the vagrants gave vent to the fullness of their hearts, in the following chorus: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           GIPSEY CHORUS. 
                            
                              When Winter crowns our zone, 
                              Some shed or hovel seek we; 
                              And our hearts are filled with glee, 
                              While December strips each tree. 
                              Though the hoar-frost's pearl 
                              The evergreen curl, 
                              Deem not of our misery! 
                              No! our faces are bright in the fire-light glow; 
                              We laugh at the frost and mock the snow, 
                              Scorning the winds deep moan. 
                              Then, think as ye may, 
                              We are happy and gay 
                              As the king upon his throne. 
                            
                            
                              When winter's days are gone, 
                              And furious winds are done, 
                              And smiling spring hath begun 
                              Her joyous course to run, 
                              And wild flow'rs proud, 
                              To be robb'd of their dew 
                              Leap up to embrace the sun 
                              Then hither and thither we tramp along, 
                              And carol aloud our blithsome song. 
                              Though the breeze our limbs blows on! 
                              Think, think as you may, 
                              We are happy and gay, 
                              The green sward sitting upon. 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               On passing through the copse which gave its name to the farm to which she was hastening, Susan Wylie suddenly found herself in the presence of this party; nor was the alarm she felt in finding herself alone with such company diminished by Moll Purley's starting suddenly up, crossing her path, and preventing her further advance. 
               "Ha, ha! my dainty dame!" cried the hag, "thou treadest the dews early this blithe morning. Thou'st heard, I'll be sworn, of our arrival, and comest to test my powers of prophecy. There's a brave girl! They shall not fail you, and you wot well they never missed as yet. Hold forth thy hand, girl, while I divine thy fortune ere the circling dew-cloud fades within the sun-beam." 
               "Good Mistress Purley," cried Susan, anxious to pass on her way, "I do not come to have my fortune told this morning. Some other time, mother. Let me pass on, I pray thee-let me pass-" 
               "What brought thee here, if not to know thy fate?" demanded the hag. 
               "In faith, I mean not to offend thee; but life and death are on my speed, and you would not be the cause of mischief, Mrs. Purley, to one who never did you any harm-" 
               "Cross, then, my hand, and tarry the fate I read thee," said the old gypsy, stretching out her long and bony fingers; "I promise thee, I've read thy stars since last I saw thee, and they speak many things hidden from all but me." 
               Susan paused. She felt her pockets-she had left her purse behind her. 
               "I have no money about me," cried she; "do not detain me. Life and death, I tell thee, may depend on my speeding this moment on my way. Do not prevent me, good mother-come to my uncle Pardo's-you can tell my fortune when and where you like; but I must have my way now. Come to my uncle's, and I will listen to thee there, and give thee money too." 
               "What is that bauble in thy bosom, Susan?" cried Mother Purley; "give me that as a pledge that thou wilt hear me read thy star-wrought destiny, and I will let thee journey unmolested." 
               "Nay, my good mother!" exclaimed Susan Wylie; "demand of me no pledge beyond my word. I will keep word with thee, good Moll; but ask not that. It is my lover's portrait and his hair, given me as a token, and I have worn it, as I promised him, nearest and next my heart, though, Heaven's my witness, I need not such a token to remind me." 
               "His portrait! his portrait, mother!" interposed Frontibelle, in a tone rendered almost inarticulate by her excited feelings, and she grasped the old gypsy's arm, while a sudden and tumultuous rush of blood suffused her features, and her eyes flashed as if endowed with preternatural light; "give it me!" she continued, violently; "I'll have it, though I dig it from her bosom with my knife!" 
               "Peace! thou fool!" commanded the old gypsy. 
               "Put up thy too ready knife; the stars have yet given thee no power of harm. You must not hurt this girl." Then, turning to the trembling Susan Wylie, she continued- 
                
               "That thou may'st know I have power to read thy destiny, altho thou hast not crossed my hand, I'll tell it thee in part. It is the time," and she made a sign to her son, as if some secret intelligence were held between them, and he disappeared suddenly through an opening in the copeswood. 
               "Draw near, Susan Wylie. Your safety is threatened, Susan. The evening star stands betwixt the red planet and the central fire, while the leaden light frowns in the mighty vast. Susan Wylie, dangers threaten thee, and it may be, there is blood upon thy path. But, mark me, the man who overcomes in the struggle must marry thee-such is the will of fate. Proceed now on thy journey." 
               "Mother, mother!" cried Frontibelle, half choked by her conflicting passions, rendered yet fiercer by the ineffectual struggle she made to release her wrist from the grasp of the powerful old gypsy, "I will have his portrait! It must-it must be mine!" 
               "Peace, Frontibelle," returned the old woman; "I tell thee, girl, thy destiny wills it not as yet." 
               "Destiny!" laughed the younger gypsy, in scorn, "seek you to impose on us? What dost thou know of destiny?" 
               "Presumptuous girl, wouldst thou demand!" 
               Frontibelle grasped her knife firmly, while she muttered between her close-set teeth- 
               "How can destiny prevent my following her, and-" 
               "Thus!" shouted Moll Purley, as with a powerful hand, she wrested the knife from her daughter; and, casting Frontibelle on the green sward, stood threatening over her with the long branch of willow she usually carried as a divining rod. 
               Released from further interruption by Moll Purley, Susan fled with the lightness of the fawn down the lane, between the overhanging trees, in the direction of Copsewood Cottage; nor was it long before she found that Mistress Purley had correctly read her destiny, and that there really was a danger in the path, against which she could not defend herself; for Bernard the gypsy had so well profited by his use of the short space of time his mother had wasted in prophetic greetings, as to emerge from the covert of the trees, through which he broke, and intercept her in her path, long ere she had reached the open road. 
               On perceiving the stranger approaching towards her, as if he designed to stay her progress, Susan Wylie timidly drew herself on one side, as if desirous of making way for him to pass. 
               "Hold, hold, sweet lass!" cried the stranger, endeavoring to master her hand as she retreated to avoid him; "fair time of day and civil greeting to you. Now, by my fated star, I am fortunate, for I have sworn to marry the first petticoat I met this morning, after the fashion of our wandering tribe." 
               The affrighted Susan Wylie, though a moment before congratulating herself on her safe escape from the gypsy station, would now have given worlds to be permitted to retrace the road she came by; but the powerful ruffian before her prevented that attempt by seizing her arm and detaining her in defiance of every struggle to release herself from his sinewy grasp. 
               "For heaven's sake!" exclaimed the slight girl, struggling against the athletic gypsy, "release me on your peril! I know you now! You are Bernard! Bernard Purley! Bethink you of the crime you would commit! Release me, Bernard! Recollect the dreadful punishment awarded for it, Bernard! Bernard Purley! I beseech you to have mercy on me! Release, release me, Bernard!" 
               "When we are one, I will," said the powerful savage. "Marriage with us is but a short ceremony. I say, you must submit. The trees shall form our overhanging canopy, and the voice of the birds sing our nuptial blessing. What would you have more than heaven for a silent witness of our plight of troth, and a man who will be true to you for ever." 
               "Bernard! Bernard!" screamed the struggling girl, rendered desperate by the struggle of the gipsy. "Save me, William! Bernard! William! Oh, I am lost!-William!" 
               "'Twould be a strong voice that could reach across the channel," exclaimed the exulting ruffian, laughing in loud derision at her seemingly senseless call, at the same time seizing her forcibly by the waist and shoulder, he struggled for the fall. 
               A moment afterwards the copeswood was dashed aside by a powerful hand; the report of a pistol succeeded, and Susan Wylie and Bernard Purley lay senseless side by side. 
               "Curse on my uncertain aim!" exclaimed Watch; "I have destroyed the being whom I prize beyond all the world!" and, brushing thro' the opposing thicket, he was instantly at the side of Susan Wylie, half distracted by the idea of having wounded her. 
               Raising the senseless girl within his arms, a rapid glance convinced him she had merely fainted; and turning his eye in the direction of the prostrate body of her late assailant, he recognized the features of an old acquaintance. 
               "What!" exclaimed the smuggler, "Bernard Purley! Am I then indebted to thee for this attempt. Thanks to my faithful weapon we are even. I see it all now! I owe this violent outrage to thy sister Frontibelle. A curse on that young gypsey-and a double curse on the senseless passion that led to this result. But all debts are paid between us, Master Bernard, though I am sorry to serve an old acquaintance in my reckless daring after so hostile a fashion. Still, 'tis the chance of war, which all abide who follow our bold calling." 
               And, sensible of the danger he incurred by remaining longer in the neighborhood of the man he had so unceremoniously sped on his journey to another world (for he doubted not his gypsy comrades would be attracted to the spot by the report of his pistol), he threw the arm of the inanimate girl over his shoulder, and raising her up from the ground, effected a retreat to the shade of Copsewood covert. 
               As Watch had justly calculated, the gypsies, though deaf to the screams of Susan Wylie for succor and protection, on hearing the report of fire-arms, had sought the spot, in alarm for their comrade's safety, reaching it a few moments after he had housed his fainting burthen. The rage of the gang on discovering their comrade, Bernard Purley, could only be exceeded by the grief of his gypsy grand-dam, who, approaching him, for some moments gazed upon the still and silent body, as if she had lost all sense of recollection, and then gave vent to her feelings in a flood of tears. 
               "Bernard Purley!" she exclaimed, while the most bitter sobs choked up her utterance; "Bernard!-child of the child of my early days!-never will old Mother Purley prophecy again! I told the maiden that blood was in her path, when I had laid it there, plotting for thee, my boy-told her that he who mastered in the struggle should marry her; and it has come to pass, yea, to the letter. In juggling with her fate I have marked my own; for well I guess whose hand has struck this blow." 
               A slight movement in the pallid features of the prostrate Bernard-a convulsive effort made by nature to rally-caught the quicker sense of Frontibelle, who had hitherto gazed on the body with a deep and silent grief, while her pale and quivering lips, and dry and lustreless eyes, gave indication that all the moisture had retreated from the surface to the heart. 
               "Mother, my brother moves!" she exclaimed. 
               "He does!" re-iterated the old gypsy woman with sudden energy; "and we may yet chance to save him. Take up his body gently, my children; convey it to the dell within the copse; there's water there, and silence. While there is life, there's hope! Oh, nature! nature! nought can banish thee. Though our husbands leave us-though our gypsy children smite and scorn their mother, her feeling's everywhere the same; from the dawn of infancy, till cold, stark death benumbs her faculties, she still cherishes her offspring." 
               And the melancholy wanderers, raising the body, proceeded down the green lane, followed by the old woman and Frontibelle, in slow and mournful procession, to the shadow of the wood. 
               In the meantime, Watch committed Susan Wylie to the care of Mrs. Ashford, who employed such restoratives as are usual in places remote from the intrusion of fainting and other fine ladyisms; and not being able to summon the aid of "Miss Ammonia," vulgarly called "Sal" by the apothecaries, she threw the cottage window wide open, and burnt brown paper and feathers under the nose of the insensible girl, restoring her faculties by half suffocating her-the doctrine of re-action being taught in other places than our metropolitan hospitals, and in none so fundamentally as in the school of nature-Watch, during the process, looking on with the most tender solicitude, kneeling by her side, and keeping her hands open, under the direction of the village doctress. 
               On regaining sensibility, Susan looked around her with an expression of terror on her countenance, as if she expected the presence of the fierce and brutal ruffian from whose grasp she had been rescued. Her joy, then, may be easily imagined, when, in lieu of Bernard Purley, triumphing in the success of his stratagem, her eyes rested on the figure of her lover, busied in aiding Mrs. Ashford in the task of recalling her. A full sense of the perils by which she had been threatened flashed vividly on her mind, and, throwing her arms over the neck of Watch, she wept without restraint; while he, overjoyed that she was restored to a perception of the objects around her, permitted the free indulgence of her tears, convinced that they afforded the best and most natural means of restoring her mind to the tone of buoyancy and cheerfulness which usually characterized it. 
               Short time, however, was wasted between the lovers in thanks and congratulations; for with returning sensibility came a recollection of the dangers which appeared to threaten Watch, from the absurd charge of Mistress Bridget, coupled with the mal apropos arrival of the chubby little sheriff; the whole of which Susan Wylie communicated to Will Watch without reservation, leaving her lover to determine the course of action he intended to pursue under this new trick of circumstance. Nor was our hero long in reflecting that, in the present position of his affairs, it would be much more prudent to avoid than to meet the charge; for though its absurdity was enough to defeat the accusation, on being investigated, the time such an inquiry would occupy was by far too valuable to be thrown away. 
               While, therefore, Bob Ashford, the keeper of the cottage, was engaged in endeavoring to catch and saddle a rough-looking pony that grazed in a paddock adjoining the Copsewood kitchen-garden, Will Watch busied himself in packing his knapsack with the most valuable foreign lace; which appendage to a soldier, with its costly contents, he had barely time to buckle on his shoulders, when the sheriff, Bridget, Hogsflesh, and Hobbs, arrived at the door. 
               "Hobbs," commanded the county officer, with an austere look of dignity; "Hobbs, dismount, and desire admittance to this dwelling, as well as the surrender of the person of Muldowney Trelawney, who stands accused of felony without benefit." 
               And Hobbs, descending from his horse, did according to his master the sheriff's desire, by knocking smartly on the cottage door with his loaded whip, and demanding in an audible tone- 
               "Hadmittance, hin the king's name." 
               Whereupon Watch, seeing his adversaries so close upon his heels, snatched a hasty kiss from his pretty Susan, and crossing the garden rearward of the cottage, clambered over the pig-stye and gaining the paddock, assisted Bob Ashford to catch the shy animal he had been sent in quest of; and which, from the unwillingness it manifested in coming forward to be bridled and saddled, plainly preferred feeding and freedom to labor and subjection. No fool neither! methinks we hear our readers exclaim. Good reader; do not conclude thus hastily; we could write a volume of excellent matter in praise of short commons and long faces, but will reserve such an intention for a period when our stomach is laboring under an attack arising from repletion. 
               No sooner had our hero vanished from the garden, than the door of Copsewood Cottage was opened wide unto the goodly company that so unceremoniously knocked thereat in the name of his Majesty, where 
                   
                     BOARDING THE FRENCH FRIGATE "NASIONAIL." 
                   the worthy little sheriff again found himself busied in an employment proper for his vast capacity, viz., hunting for a mare's nest. But as neither Mrs. Ashford nor Susan Wylie had heard the name of Muldowney Trelawney before, they denied all knowledge of that person, with such an air of sincerity, that the little sheriff was constrained to conclude that they either spoke the plain and simple truth, or were the best and most accomplished liars he had encountered in the course of his professional experience. He turned his eyes, therefore, on Mistress Bridget, in a glance of inquiry, who, on receiving this silent appeal from the sheriff, crossed the room to Susan Wylie, and addressed her as follows:- 
                
               "Och, Misthress Susan! Misthress Susan! sure, fhot's come to ye, that ye'd go on wid the likes av that talk, whin I'd tak' my sacrimint oath as Muldowney Trelawney axed ye down here to help him on wid his knapsack; whin you kim down, like a traithress as y'are, forgittin yer lover as shall be nameless, and givin' yerself up, widout the fear av God before ye, to the company of a soldier, more shame for ye." 
               "Bridget Mullaghney!" cried Susan Wylie, with a commanding look, "remember you are but a servant in the house of my grand-uncle, and learn to restrain your tongue within the boundary of discretion. Silence, I say, and know, that though I choose to bestow my company on fifty soldiers, your duty as a servant, Bridget, should be to conceal, not to expose such a matter." 
               Upon hearing her young mistress give utterance to this speech, the virtuous indignation of the Irish maiden broke through all restraint, insomuch that her gray eyes, starting from their spheres, blazed with the fire of offended conventional propriety, and her face, neck, and body were projected, very much after the manner of the female of the canine species, when her pups are about to be taken from her; and she clapped the palms of her hands together with such multitudinous clappings, and in so quick a succession, that the sound would have borne the closest similitude to a feu de joie, had there been a correspondent harmony in her voice; but, alas for our metaphor, that swelled up to a pitch that sounded like a fiddle-string lacking the resin. 
               "Cock ye up, indeed wid yer fifty!" cried the offended Bridget, in the first ebullition of her anger; and then, turning to the sheriff, she continued, in the same breath- 
               "Did yer honor hear that? or dis yer honor want to hear any more? Fifty souldiers, indeed! Did a dacent, modest 'ooman iver wish for'd the like? But don't be desaved, yer honor, by'd the likes av'e them. As for you, Misthress Ashford, who ought to know better at yoor time time of life, than to incourage young wimen in sich goins an; I'm ashamed av ye, wid yer blarney, and yer lies, and yer evil spaches; but that motch, and moreover to boot, shan't convence me to the contrary, but yoor consalin'd the man as insulted me, and I'll not believe a word as comes out av yer moths, ye desavin Jezabels, till I have ividence by sarchin the plaish. Follow me, boys, and I'll engage I'll find those vilyains yit." 
               And away went the infuriate maiden, followed by the sheriff and his myrmidons, casting quick, and prying glances on every object around them, like so many Indians on the trail of any enemy, and snuffing up the air as if the track of a soldier must, of necessity, smell of gunpowder, until fate led her footsteps, the sheriff following in her wake, to the identical pig-stye over which Watch had climbed. 
               "Moosha! Master Sheriff, whist awhile!" exclaimed Bridget pointing to the impression of a man's foot in the soil, with the intuitive sagacity of a new policeman; sure I've found the vilyain's hiding plaish; and if ye'll on'y quickin 'd the motions av'd thim fellows av yoors, I'll engage I'll have him out av'd that in a pig's whisper:" and, to this and, opening the door, she entered the enclosure followed by the sheriff iff, gallantly waving his myrmidons on with the riding-whip he then carried. 
               Now it happened very unfortunately for Mistress Mullaghney and her coadjutors in the search, that the old black sow of Bob Ashford, being at the time in a peculiarly delicate and interesting situation, had chosen to fancy herself sufficiently ill to keep her bed, which the honest farmer, in the joyous anticipation of a litter of another sort, had littered down with a truss of clean straw in the furthest and dirtiest corner of the shed or stye, in order that no object should be visible to create annoyance to the pork-producing creature in the perilous period of parturition, and so induce her to devour "the nine farrow;" and when Bridget, thrusting her head in at the low entrance near her, perceived a large black looking body crouching in the shade, like many other persons who "stand in their own light," she mistook the old black sow for the object of her search; wherefore, throwing herself desperately forward to prevent the escape of the imaginary soldier, she valiantly cought hold of the leg of the animal, which she held vigorously in her grasp, withstanding-what will not the gentler sex suffer for the sake of tyrant man!-withstanding divers and sundry visitations of the other hinder foot of the black swine, which, being at liberty, was used in such wise as to cover the lovely face of the Irish girl with gore and bruises. Nevertheless, to her honor be it spoken, she still continued to hold on with the same valorous tenacity of Amazonian devotion, which formed a theme for the swelling and highly wrought eulogium of the ancient poets, exclaiming at intervals- 
               "Hoo! murther, Masther Sheriff! murther! worradow! d' the man's batin me outright! Call assistance, or we'll niver be able far 'im. Och! devil's cure to him, that polthoge's knacked the nose off'd the face av me. Will ye suffer a famale to be murthered in'd this way? Blug an' ounters, I'm kilt! Honey, lend a hand, and catch hoult av'd the other ind av him!" 
               On hearing an appeal couched in such eloquent language that, indeed, it might be taken as a specimen of the new school of rhetoric called O'Connellism, the more particularly as it was delivered with the genuine pathos of a Munster tongue, and uttered in an Irish maiden's extremity, the little sheriff stood in the midst of the piggery uncertain what dourse to pursue-fearing to advance, yet shaming to retire-urged by his prudence to the latter, checked by his valor in the former resolution. 
               Under these circumstances, the country dignitary did what many a celebrated general has been compelled to do; he stood stock still, undauntedly waving his riding-whip, and, with many angry oaths and more vehement gesticulations, urged the advance of Hogsflesh and Oliver, whose attention, alas! was too deeply absorbed by the appearance of a tree of ripe and luscious pears, to permit them to observe the direct and rigid line of duty. The veriest caviller on earth must admit there are certain eventful epochs in life which mark the fate of distinguished characters, and this was one of them; for even while the irrascible Muddlepuzzle was dancing with rage to behold Hogsflesh and Oliver stuffing their pockets with the mellow fruit, instead of manfully advancing to the rescue, the enraged sow made her last desperate effort to rid herself of her posterior encumbrance, and emerged from the opposite entrance to the stye. 
               Yes, reader, even as the victorious and invulnerable son of Thetis dragged the cruppered corpus of the prime progenited of Priam, so trailed the savage sow the brawny body of the Irish maiden, till encountering the little sheriff in the rear, she threw him into the trough containing the kitchen-wash of the gentry five miles around, retreating again into covert at the very moment Hogsflesh and Hobbs arrived to witness their master's discomfiture. 
               Yes, hear it ye who delight in the downfall of the mighty, there lay the brawny Bridget, looking like Hector, bathed in her own gore, and dragged through the mire, a mere pigmy at the mercy of a sow; and by her side, wedged into the hog-trough of his own gravitation, and at full length, lay the principal man of the county, his fair round belly uppermost, as if old Silenus had brought home the infant god of wine after an evening's debauch, and in his own confused notion of sublunary matters, had mistaken the hog-trough for a veritable cradle. Yes, gentle reader, there they lay, and there for a while we are compelled to leave them. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Can'st thou not read it in my face? 
                        Dost thou not hear in my very silence? 
                        That which no voice doth tell itself." 
                     
                   
                
               WHEN Ajax, the son of Telamon, whom Homer sometime likeneth unto an ass, and you, good reader, have without doubt, seen worthily represented by the merry Andrew Ducrow, in his Hippodramatic exhibition at the foot of Westminster Bridge, on the Surrey shore of the River Thames-we say, when Ajax defied the lightning, he would never have been such a fool had he known anything about the principle of electricity; for he would then have known that the lightning properly treated, was a harmless well-conducted body enough. Now, of the latter Topman had heard something more than fell unto the knowledge of the Grecian worthy; and although he had never been told by the classic fabulist that lightning was originally carried from Mount Etna to Heaven, by eagles trained for such a purpose, he had learned something which we moderns are foolish enough to believe much more authentic, viz., that it had been brought from thence by one Benjamin Franklin, through the medium of another of the falcon genus a kite, which latter fact the master's mate had gathered from the discourse of some American sailors, at the Old Blue Anchor, in Ratcliffe Highway. But stern and steady as the glance of Ajax must undoubtedly have been, that of Ned Topman was both steadier and sterner; for though the former outstared the lightning, the latter could have outstared him, he having sturdily made up his mind to defy the internal reproaches of his conscience, and outstare all who came in his way-at least until his crime should be manifested by such positive proof as it would be impossible to triumph over; when, like other persons in similar circumstances, gifted with equal nerve or nobility of sentiment, he intended to bow to the decision of the court, take the matter comme il faut, and stick to his tether-in other words, die game. 
               But albeit he had made his mind up for the worst, he yet could not help certain twinges of inward horror, when the yard-arm and the noose intruded themselves upon his mental vision, and his irritable nerves had more than once given back, in terrible reality, the last expression of the murdered man's countenance, as he endeavored to regain a footing on the cliff, and he shook and felt a sudden sickness as he passed down the narrow, dirty, and crooked lane which the inhabitants of Ramsgate dignified with the pompous desrciption of High-street, in such a manner as drew down an observation from his simple companion on a bearing so different from his usual wont. 
               "Why, hoy, Master Topman!" exclaimed the good-natured tar; "why, man, don't go for to be down-hearted, seein' as the like o' that can do no manner o' good whatsumever. It isn't acause you're goin' into the bilboes, as ye hain't never comin' out agin; that 'ud be hard lines, indeed. But you needn't fear that; I'll stake my davy you're all right in the end, man. An' you know the likes of us are always tried when-somever any matter of this here sort happens, which, God be thanked, isn't but seldom." 
               "Would it were not now!" exclaimed Topman. 
               "With all my heart," echoed Clarke; "I should still have a shipmate, aye, and as good a fellow as ever broke biscuit. But don't be cast down, I tell you; I'm all right, as if my mouth wor a cathead. I wor thinking--" 
               "What?" demanded Topman in a querulous tone. 
               "What!" returned Clarke, "Why, that if we pulled up and spliced the main brace it 'ud be all as well, afore we went aboard. You are quite startlish. If so be as yer this way now, Lord! Lord! what will you feel when the yellow flag is flying at the main." 
               "D-n the yellow flag!" cried the master's mate; "I could better brook that than the suspense and delay which choke my resolution. But, come, Clarke, a glass of grog, as you say, before we go aboard, may be as well for both of us. 'Tis not the fear of death-when that comes it is gone-'tis the delay and the suspense." 
               And, accordingly, Timothy Clarke, putting helm a weather, lay close in for the Old Ship, to enjoy a can of that liquor which, in bygone days, sailors and 'long shore people most delighted in, viz., egg flip or hot, but infinitely better described in the lingo of the facetious Timothy-for the most simple sailor will have his jokes-as "knock-me-down-and-pick-me-up-again." 
                
               Now, when Timothy and Topman made port, the harbor-master, or landlord, stood in the doorway, with open mouth, eager to catch the lightest breath of wind which the narrow road permitted to puff into his narrower passage, gazing wistfully on the level of the streets, at a short distance from the two steps you descended on entering-as if the ascent of such a height had been a task too herculean for a man with the vast weight he had to carry-at the same time piping like an asthmatic miner in the mouth of a coal-pit. 
               Mr. Grubinstein, for no less a personage are we describing, was the parvenu of a pot-wench, and had passed through all the mutations of the tap-barrel genus until he bloated into a tavern-keeper; and, indeed so bloated had he become, as to bear a close resemblance to a tun filled to the bung with every variety of home-made or imported liquor 
               Crowding all sail, without keeping a good look-out, Timothy Clarke, on passing through the doorway or booby hatch, as he called it, loosened out his slacks, and slapped right a-head, as if expecting to find a level passage. The result was such as might naturally be expected; for as the specific gravity of a man is said by philosophers to be considerably greater than the atmospheric substance inhaled by his organs of respiration, that subtile fluid, yielding under the pressure of Timothy's fore-foot, his weight brought his head forward in reverential projection, which bowed it against the stomach of Mr. Grubinstein, and laid the latter personage on his back puffing and blowing, and unable to speak or help himself in the slightest degree, until Topman, extricating his companion, replaced the knight of the spigot on his beam-ends, who stared about him, hardly knowing whether to impute the matter to accident or design. 
               "Ugh! What the de-vil do you want that you come boring into a man's house after this fashion?" exclaimed the panting Grubinstein, as soon as the recovery of his wind enabled him to enunciate. 
               Truly fortunate was Timothy Clarke in having found a resting place on the big belly of the prostrate master of the house, when he was precipitated forward on missing stays in the doorway; for had he encountered the solid wall which reared itself a few paces abaft our bulky brother of the bung, a thicker head than had falien to the lot of the foremast man would undoubtedly have incurred no considerable injury. 
               As the matter had turned out, however, the otherwise unlucky Timothy experienced little damage when he found himself again on his feet; although, with the mischance which usually pursued him, he was doomed to arouse the ire of mine host by the unhappy nickname of the liquor he loved, when, in answer to the landlord's question, he called for- 
               "A can of the best knock-me-down-and-pick-me-up-again!" 
               "I think, ugh!" quoth the landlord, grunting at every few words he uttered, while the bilberry tint upon his cheeks and nose assumed a still darker purple, under the effort of nature to furnish a flush of indignation, "I think-ugh!-you might contrive-ugh!-to keep a civil tongue in your head-ugh!-and not add insult to injury-ugh! I don't know what you mean by it-ugh!" 
                
               "You don't?" 
               "No!" 
               "Then it's flip, to be sure!" cried Timothy. 
               "Flip! flip be d-d!" piously ejaculated the indignant landlord. 
               "D--d!" iterated Timothy, with one of his most philosophising looks. "I never know'd a chap as had been kept on short allowance, as 'oodn't rayther drink a gallon o' that like than a pint of salt water. So brew us a can, and you shall have a glass to make whole squares." 
               Our two sailors having raised the landlord to his feet, the landlord sought the inner sanctuary of the bar, to busy himself in the world of spirits; when, finding he lacked eggs-an indispensable ingredient in the desired compound-our old friend, Tim, volunteered his services to procure them, while Topman sought the common drinking room of the house, where on a broad bench, near the sea-coal fire, which generally sheds its animating and hospitable influence in English public-houses, took his seat to await the arrival of his shipmate, with a countenance betraying too much inward disturbance to leave him master of the ordinary salutations which custom prescribes between the casual sojourners in our inns-one of which class he found had preoccupied the room. 
               Nevertheless, though the gloomy mind of Ned Topman permitted not the ordinary interchanges of civility, conventienally prescribed, he was aroused from his torpidity, when, after a few moments of silence, on raising his eyes they encountered an object which at once rivetted his attention and awakened his fears. 
               The cause of his alarm was a pistol, which lay before the stranger upon the table, and which the anxious and guilty Topman had too readily conjectured might be the one discharged by his companion of the previous evening's watch, in his last effort of duty; and he gazed on the weapon as if he could have devoured it with his eyes. 
               "That pistol seems to be one belonging to his Majesty's service, and your dress does not wear the purser's stamp upon it young man; will you allow me to examine it?" said the master's mate, as soon as he had sufficiently recovered himself. 
               "Certainly," returned the stranger, handing it. 
               Topman started convulsively on receiving the pistol, the number on which plainly identified it as the one discharged by Harry Hardbrace; but immediately afterwards recovered his usual composure, and asked, in a tone of authority, as if his office had given him a right to enquire the stranger's property in the weapon- 
               "Where did you get this?" 
               "Why do you ask?" requestioned the stranger. 
               "I want answers, not questions," replied the master's mate, in a surly tone. "Nor do I lack authority to enforce them. Again, I demand where you obtained the weapon now before you?" 
               "And I beg to repeat," continue the unknown, "that I must decline answering such a question untill I know your authority for asking it. As a stranger, I am entitled to civility, methinks." 
               "I have no wish to be uncivil, young man," pursued the master's mate with an air of conciliation; "but I am a member of the preventive service-this pistol was stolen from me yesterday, and I now find it in your hands. Are you aware of the consequences of having his Majesty's stores in your possession under such circumstances?" 
               "I neither know nor care for the consequences which may result from my having any of his Majesty's stores in my possession, when I can account for that fact in a satisfactory manner; and, as you seem to challenge the ownership of this weapon, I cannot have the slightest objection to inform you I picked it up about an hour ago, on the sands under the overhanging brow of a lofty cliff, betwixt this town and Broadstairs." 
               "It is mine," observed Topman, "and you cannot have any objection to return it." 
               "Not if you are really the owner." 
               "It is marked." 
               "Yes, with the royal arms, and numbered nine." 
               Topman felt his blood chill with apprehension on hearing the stranger mention the number of Hardbrace's weapon; for, as by Captain Trunnion's regulations, the weapons of the men were numbered and registered in the ship's books, this circumstance seemed likely to lead to enquiry and detection. 
               "You seem, friend, to have examined the weapon pretty closely," he observed. 
               "As I usually do every thing that I deem extraordinary." 
               "Have you heard then of any thing you deemed extraordinary?" 
               "No!" was the laconic and prompt reply he received. 
               Topman drew a long and heavy respiration, which appeared to relieve him of some inward oppression, while he murmured-"Thank God!" and then continued- 
               "I do not think there is any thing extraordinary in a weapon of this kind; it is a mere instrument usually delivered to seamen when they are going on boarding parties, or any other service of personal danger." 
               "Nevertheless, this weapon may be connected with something extraordinary," observed the stranger. "It appeared, when I picked it up on the sands, to have been fired off immediately before its immersion in the water, and recently, too." 
               The master's mate commanded his feelings by a powerful effort of mind. 
               "How do you know that?" questioned he, in a faint tone. 
               "By certain appearances on the weapon itself," responded the srranger, in a calm and somewhat formal manner. "By certain appearances which I deem unerring. For instance, the hammer was down and the pan open; the whole of the barrel, hammer and steel, were bright, as they are ordinarily kept among disciplined bodies, except the pan, that seemed to have been over primed; and a portion of the powder, wild-fired by an absorption of the atmospheric air, exhibited granulations, of which the damp had prevented the explosion Furthermore, there was a graze in the inside of the barrel, as if a bullet had been discharged therefrom. Now," concluded the stranger, all these appearances, taken collectively, would go far to form a concatenation of circumstances almost amounting to legal proof, at least in my opinion, in the event of any murder being committed." 
               "Psha!" exclaimed Topman; howbeit he had grown paler and paler as the inquisitive stranger delivered his conjectures on the circumstances attending his finding the pisnol. "Psha! such a notion is ridiculous! What have we to do with the murder?" 
               "I did not say we had!" observed the stranger, with marked emphasis. 
               "What do you mean by we?" asked the master's mate, with a fierce look. 
               "Nothing!" returned the stranger, coolly. "Nothing! Still it cannot be denied, that the circumstances I have observed are certainly mysterious; and these circumstances, coupled with a murder, might go far to criminate any individual to whom the ownership of this pistol might be traced. Mind, I only speak of the ageney of circumstances in the development of fact." 
               "True!" observed Topman, suppressing, with a violent effort, the hysterical feeling which almost overcame him. "True, if a murder had been actually committed; but this same pistol was, as I have already told you, purploined from me; I lost it yesterday; the party who took it from me, no doubt, finding it of comparatively small value, and thinking, that had it been exposed for sale, the government marks upon it might have led to his detection and punishment, might have discharged it from mere wantonness, and afterwards thrown it away. I think this chain of circumstances full as likely as the other." 
               "It might, indeed, so have been." 
               "I dare say it was so," observed Topman. 
               "That would be more than I dare say," quoth the stranger; "more by a great deal-a very great deal!" 
               "What do you mean by that!" demanded the master's mate. 
               "Not much!" 
               "Not much, indeed!" observed Topman. 
               "Yet quite enough," pursued the methodical investigator; "quite enough to warrant considerable doubt, though I dare not say anything at present. I have always been taught to look on both sides of a questionable matter, as the best means to arrive at a correct conclusion; but I do not see anything at present of sufficient import to make me affirm or deny your proposition, which may or may not be the fact; for a fact is a fact of itself, notwithstanding circumstantial appearance; so if, as you say, the pistol your property--" 
               "I say it is mine!" said Topman, in an angry tone. 
               "Then," observed the stranger, in the same tone of caution, "I think I can have no right to retain it; though I confess, that being in the habit of investigating every thing that comes in my way, and knowing how many important matters have hinged upon apparently trivial circumstances, I have carefully noted down the hour and spot where I found it, the appearance of the pistol, and every minute particular. 
               "Then you appear to me," said the master's mate, "to have taken a great deal of unnecessary trouble in a matter that cannot by any means personally concern you, and most probably never may." 
               "Hold there!" cried the stranger; "I am Marmaduke Mugswill, of the Minories. I serve as grand juror, and know something of the law. I say every thing concerns every man, in a state of society, otherwise, such a monstrous thing as the law itself could have no right to exist. Now, sir, the law says, that property found in any part of the king's dominions vests in the crown, where no proper owner can be ascertained for the same; and the king's dominions, I take it, includes all within low-water mark of any sea, ocean, river, brook, or running stream, which washes the confines of the kingdom; and as in this case the law agrees with the fact in every particular, I can have no objection to give you the pistol, as being the property of his most gracious Majesty, upon your furnishing me with your proper name and description: I shall require them in case anything particular should happen; for the law says, that in the present case no murder shall be presumed, and where nobody is found nobody shall be hanged. Now, at present, as nobody has been found, nobody can be called upon to suffer. Such is the law. So, if you please to give me your name, I will give you this pistol." 
               "My name is Ned Topman," said the master's mate. 
               "Ned Topman!" repeated Mr. Mugswill, carefully writing down the same. 
               "I belong to the crew of the Wasp, which now rides in the offing." 
               "I know her," observed the stranger, handing the pistol; "she is a revenue vessel. God forbid that I should keep what does not belong to me; for, believe me, 'tis honesty, not fear, that leads to this surrender." 
               "I will believe you," observed Topman, transferring it to the pocket of his watch-coat, while the blood, which had previously fluctuated with maddening impulsions between his heart and brain, from the moment he had perceived the weapon of his murdered shipmate in the hands of a stranger, now resumed its wonted flow, under the impression that he had effectually removed the only circumstance that could compromise his safety. 
               But now the difficulty of getting rid of the piece of evidence he had thus so adroitly got possession of, began to haunt the imagination of the master's mate, and what compunction was powerless to effect, the animal instincts of life had well nigh achieved, viz., a half repentant wish to recall the deed of blood to which he had been instigated by the overwhelming necessity of the previous evening. He, therefore, hastily revolved in his mind various places of depositing the weapon, merely to find new difficulties on all sides. Weapons of his own he had none; he had delivered them to Clarke on being placed under arrest; nor could he produce that which he had just recovered, in the presence of his shipmates, without incurring certain detection. In this state of mental embarrassment the master's mate remained silent, while Marmaduke Mugswill, Esq., quietly folding up the memoranda he had been making, transferred the paper to his pocket-book, his pocket-book to his breast pocket, and putting on a top coat and shawl neckerckief or belcher, as if preparing for an immediate journey, addressed the preventive service man as follows: 
               "I am about to return to London, my good friend, by the packet which is now starting, or I should have hesitated to return that pistol until I had asked some questions about it of the proper authorities. I should have done so from principle, and not from an impertinent and prying curiosity, which I despise. Investigation, sir!-I say investigation is the life and soul of a commonwealth; else, why does the most enlightened legislature in the world send forth so many commissions of inquiry. Sir, I say nothing is too minute for the sagacious spirits of our lawgivers-the causes of increase amongst tax gatherers and toothpicks-the effects of a metallic currency and measley pork-the increase of national prosperity and naughty women-of steam and starvation-the confinement of wantons and enclosure of waste lands. In short, with such a glorious example to stimulate my exertions, I should be wanting in my duty to my country, to myself, and to posterity, if I failed to note down every particular of a strange or extraordinary nature which may occur to me; for, indeed, if we may presume to judge from the illustrious examples I have already quoted, the most trivial fact, provided it is a fact, assumes a character of the most vital importance." 
               Marmaduke Mugswill, Esq., had, without a doubt, spoken louder and longer; but, alas for English rhetoric! the bell upon Ramsgate pier rang out the gongish sort of announcement, usual, on all similar occasions, notifying that the hoy or sailing packet for London was about to depart, and this put an end to the eloquence of Marmaduke Mugswill, who, as the reader will easily discriminate-at least such of our readers as possess the faculty of discrimination-was neither more nor less than a Demosthenes from the London Common Council, who had come down to practice eloquence on the sea-shore. The bell, however, proved a pebble large enough to stop the orator's mouth altogether; wherefore, pulling out a purse of green silk with enormous tassels, which he seemed not a little proud of displaying, he called for the landlord, alleging his fear of being too late. 
               "You have a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes good as yet, sir," grunted Mr. Grubenstein, who now waddled into the room with the ale in the warming pot. "That bell will ring again five minutes before the packet starts." 
               "I always like to be in good time," observed Marmaduke Mugswill, Esq., paying the amount due to the landlord for the last pint of porter he had swallowed, and preparing to depart. 
               The unlooked-for departure of Marmaduke Mugswill, as may reasonably be supposed, left Topman more entirely self-possessed, and he entered into conversation with the landlord to waste the passing hour; wondering, however, in his own mind, what unlucky circumstance in the chapter of accidents could have detained Timothy, who, as we have already seen, had sallied forth in quest of the eggs, without which he would have been utterly unable to enjoy the compound he so dearly loved-as, indeed, what sailor in the by-gone period of which we write did not? 
               But in this, as in every other circumstance, governing the fate of that simple-hearted personage, he was doomed to encounter an extraordinary mishap; and accordingly, steering hither and thither in his devious course, he at length brought himself up all standing, while he took an observation of a shop-front, on which was painted in letters conspicuous for their size and form, the announcement that one Mr. Ferdinand Fluffin dwelt therein-not that Tim could read-he saw it was a cheesemonger's; and furthermore, he made like observation on a quantity of eggs which lay in the window, legibly ticketed, for such as understood numbers, at fourteen a shilling. 
               Fortune appeared to have at length rewarded all the seaman's toils, by conducting him to the wished-for haven; wherefore Timothy lay well over, and squaring his yards, made right for the port, which he entered without further accident, or requiring any other pilotage than the door handle, that yielded to the authority of his masculine wrist. But though Timothy had succeeded in making port, he found the shop untenanted, Mr. Ferdinand Fluffin being just then engaged in the parlor beyond it, giving his final instructions to his eldest daughter, preparatory to making his annual voyage to the great metropolis, accompanied by Mrs. Fluffin, to settle their autumnal accounts, and commence anew with the coming year. 
               "Fluffin ahoy!" shouted Tim with the voice of a stentor. 
               On hearing the rough hail of the honest sailor, the whole family rushed towards the spot whence the sound proceeded, in such evident alarm, that they literally jammed each other in the doorway; whence after a momentary struggle, Mr. Fluffin went forward in the person of a middle-aged man, wearing knee-breeches, gray stockings, silver buckles in his shoes, and that sauve smile upon his countenance, which, to the credit of the shopkeepers of former days, every tradesman thought it his duty to cultivate, although this truly requisite qualification for a tradesman is falling rapidly into desuetude. 
               "What do you please to want, sir?" asked Mr. Ferdinand Fluffin. 
               "Eggs!" quoth Timothy, throwing a half-crown piece on the counter. 
               "Half-a-crown's worth, sir?" again demanded the obsequious Mr. Fluffin. 
               "I suppose so!" quoth Timothy, showing as much importance in his countenance as if during the whole course of his natural life he had never possessed half-a-crown before. I suppose so, the money must be spent somehows." 
               "What have you to put them in, sir?" again questioned the smiling Fluffin. 
               "O never fear! I'll manage to stow 'em away somewheres." 
               And the eggs having been counted out, Timothy, cramming both his pockets, put the remainder into his broad brimmed oilskin, and toddled off, followed by Mr. Ferdinand Fluffin and his better half, encumbered with bandboxes, bundles and baskets of prog, and sea stores, on their road to Ramsgate pier, to take shipping for London. 
               Now, very fortunately for the progress of this story, Timothy Clarke's peregrination of that morning did not pass unobserved; for Mat Spunyun, who had come ashore in the captain's gig, having strolled up the High-street, made Timothy in the offing, and kept him in sight until he saw him fairly landed in the cheesemonger's shop. Here he was a silent witness of Timothy's purchase; and having noted his mode of stowage, dropt astern, and, with the frolic spirit of a sailor, made all sail until he reached a narrow entry, wherein he stowed himself away to wait his shipmate's approach: nor was his patience put to any severe test on the present occasion; for Tim having stowed his hat chock full, was consequently, on putting it on, compelled to tilt it a little behind to give the eggs he carried therein room for easy riding; when, with a hand in each pocket, and arms bent forwards, to prevent any damage in that quarter, he commenced his voyage to the port he had previously left. 
               In this position he carefully tiptoed the descent of High-street, his head pushed a little forward, in an effort to preserve the difficult balance aloft, and his chin inclined upwards to form an angle of resistance, while a consciousness of danger gave to his features an air of simple solemnity in utter variance with the jig step to which he was thus in a manner compelled, to preserve the fragile freight he carried. 
               But why should mortals vex themselves with sublunary cares, seeing that the earliest philosophers and sages made the gods laugh at their efforts to extricate themselves from the trammels woven by the fates, who, working the thready maze of life in a triangular form, are compelled to fill up the interval with a series of those petty circles we call circumstances, ending in one which crowns the whole and terminates in the grave! 
               And since none can escape the fate marked out for him, neither could our respected friend Timothy, who, jigging onwards as gravely as a Spanish hidalgo in one of his national boleroes, passed the identical inlet where the enemy lay in ambush. 
               Reader, if thou art of a grave mind, thou hast surely heard that in the twinkling of an eye shall all be changed; but if so mighty a change can be effected in the twinkling of an eye, as to confound the ideas of philosophy in its boundless magnificence, guess what a change might be produced in the clapping of a hand, the more particularly when that hand forms the brawny terminus of a seaman's arm, and is levelled against a hat full of eggs. Yes, the moment Timothy had passed the darksome entry above described, Mat Spunyun emerged from his hiding-place, and making a jump, to give more certain and deadly effect to the coming blow, let fall his brawny palm on the hat of Mister Timothy, driving the head-gear over his eyes, while the contents of each single and separate shell united into one body by this stroke of persecution, "yoke-fellows in love," descended over Timothy's face and beard in a manner that provoked the laughter of Mr. Ferdinand Fluffin, who closely followed him. 
               Reader, imagine, if thou can'st, the rage of the blind Sampson teased by Philistinian boys; imagine the blind Tiresias in a prophetic fury; imagine the mighty Polyphemus swearing and storming, with the wily Ithacan in the distance shouting "there he goes with his eye out," imagine the pride of self-inflated greatness puffed at by the vulgar in its vain effort to exert an unavailing strength: in short, imagine what you may, you will never be able to imagine the overwhelming wrath of Mr. Timothy Clarke, as, blinded with the eggs, and hearing the measured pace of Mr. Ferdinand Fluffin and his better half, he shouted-- 
               "What do yer mean by that?" 
               This question had hardly escaped poor Timothy ere, in the blind fury of the moment, he swung round his broad brimmer, half-filled with the crushed egg-shells and their coagulated dependents, and took the aforesaid Ferdinand a blow under the ear, that sent him reeling against the wall, while Mrs. Fluffin uttered a cry of consternation which brought all the neighbors to their doors. 
               "What d' yer mean by that!" shouted Timothy again. 
               "Wha-a-a-t?" faultered Fluffin. 
               "O, you know what?" cried Tim; "ain't you a pretty tradesman now, to sell me them there eggs, and then go and break 'em all!" 
               "It wasn't my husband as did it," observed Mrs. Fluffin, endeavoring to conciliate the neighbors, who, believing Timothy's assertion, one and all pronounced the frolic of Mr. Fluffin disgraceful to the general body of the shop-keepers of which he was a member. "I'll take my oath as my husband did'n't do nothin' to provoke him at all." 
               On hearing which, Quentin Quominus, Esq., a prating attorney, who had recently settled amongst them, gravely asserted that an action would lie; whereupon "Timothy swore by G-there warn't no lie about it; an assertion that proved most correct, as upon a subsequent examination Quentin Quominus, Esq., found that although Mrs. Fluffin was ready to testify, she could not be a legal witness on behalf of her husband. 
               Be this as it may, Tim put in leg bail while they settled the point, and arrived at the Old Ship without further accident. 
               Having got the flip, Timothy Clarke and Topman took their way down to the beach, the latter preserving a stern but uneasy silence, as he revolved in his mind the best means of getting rid of the pistol, and on being put on board the boat to be conveyed to the cutter, he could not help scrutinizing the countenances of the boat's crew, and with the self-tormenting tenacity of guilt, believing he could read suspicion in them all: nor was he able to breathe freely until, letting the skirt of his waistcoat hang over the gunwale, he cut through his pocket and let the pistol drop into five fathoms of water; when he resumed his usual boldness of demeanor, as if he defied fate itself to bring the death of his victim home to him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                  
                      
                        "All flew at Mag with furious ettle, 
                        But little wist they Maggie's mettle, 
                        Wha at a ane brocht Tam aff--" 
                     
                   
                
               WHEN the surprise of Hoggsflesh and Hobbs, at seeing the Sheriff in so unsavory a condition, had sufficiently subsided to permit their attending to their duty, they entered the enclosure; and, having raised the prostrate dignitary in their arms, and set him upon his feet, began to scrape and cleanse his garments. 
               "Hi'm sorry for your haccident, sir," said Mr. Hobbs. "Phew! you must find it very unpleasant." 
               "I should think so!" followed Hogsflesh on the same side. 
               During the time the Sheriff's followers were busied in this task, Mistress Bridget Mullaghney, slowly recovering her sensibility, sat bolt upright and stared wildly about her, at first wondering where she was, and, when the objects around her conveyed to her inward perception a painful recollection of the past, again wondering where her companions had gone, or what could have become of them, till finally raising herself, not without great difficulty, from the bruises she had received, she saw her little champion and defender at some distance, under the hands of his two followers. 
               Now, during the whole time occupied by the adventure of the pigstye, Will Watch and Bob Ashford were busied in the adjoining paddock, trying to catch-and imagine, if you can, a task more difficult-a horse determined not to be bridled and saddled, that is, if he could help it. 
               It was in vain that Bob Ashford called the animal by name, in the most affectionate and endearing tones-even his own name-Bob. 
               Driven hither and thither by the shyness of the animal they were endeavoring to take, until they were nearly exhausted by fatigue, our two horse-catchers at length, concentrating their gaze on the large round eye of the horse, completely fixed his attention, and then advanced on the centre and an angle of the field by a simultaneous movement-a manuvre which compelled Bob the brute to take the corner he had been hitherto so desirous of avoiding-when he was compelled to surrender to Bob the human, who, taking him, as we are told to take time, by the forelock, bridled him and saddled him, and held him while Watch mounted, and then opening a gate abutting on some common land that skirted the road leading to Thorndean and Whitstable, shook hands with our bold smuggler, and heartily wished him success in a journey which had involved him in so many difficulties in the outset. 
               And fortunate was Bob Ashford in having caught the animal as he did-catching him, as it were, in the very nick of time for the purposes of this history. Had not this happened, as it undoubtedly did, or had it been delayed a few minutes, it is absolutely impossible to say what a multitude of serious consequences might have arisen. 
                
               The capture of Watch on the absurd charge of Bridget might have led to the detection of the smuggler; the valuable contents of his knapsack might, on examination, have been transferred to some government officer, and Will Watch to the castle keep of Dover. 
               On reaching the spot where the horses stood, Mr. Oliver Hobbs, as in duty bound, being more immediately in personal attendance on the sheriff, his master, held the stirrup while the latter, with an air of dignity, made an unavailing effort to remount, which evolution, however, he was unable to complete unassisted by his faithful adherent, Oliver, who was compelled to transfer his assistance from the near stirrup of the horse to the off leg of the man, and thus get him into the saddle by giving him what is called a leg-up. 
               The whole party were soon mounted and gave chase to our hero, Will Watch, whom they descried emerging from a woody covert. 
               After a long pursuit the sheriff and his followers succeeded in driving our gallant smuggler "to cover" in a road-side inn, known as the Six Bells. But here Will Watch, who had a private understanding with the landlady, contrived to baffle the sagacity and elude the vigilance of his pursuers. 
               The further strange and perilous adventures which checkered the career of this most daring of "free traders," and the dark destiny of the murderer Topman, are detailed in the pages of the great romance entitled "Delaware Disk, or, The Chase of the Wasp." 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
