
    ----CITATION----
        Evans, Augusta J. (1835-1909). Macaria, or, Altars of Sacrifice .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8340
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Macaria, or, Altars of sacrifice 
            
               4,1

MAr CA RI A;'

OR,

ALTARS OF SACRIFIC,
BY THE AUTHOR OF cBEULAH
"We have all to be laid upon an -altar; we have all, as it were, Ito be subjected to the action
of fire."-MELVIV ,'/Y  .1
SECOND EDITION.

RIC HMOND:-
WEST &amp; JOHNSON, 145 AIN STREET.
1864.

'                       ,
, ,

a          _
r
!}
"
.'
i
i-
,.
t,
l'
r
s
}:
, "
t
"
i        ,(
l                   Y
i/
_               ,,

_         f           }   ,Y
{                   r
,''t .
" 1         fir ,r
v    t                      , r,:j .
r   :.


".A - , i

I ,

EVANS &amp; COGSWELL, PRINTERS,
COLUMBIA, $. C.
2&amp;,L -

TO THE
ARMY OF THE SOUTItERN CONFIDEACY,
WHO HAVE DELIVERED .THE SOUTH FROM DESPOTISM, AND WHO HAVE'
GENERATIONS YET UNBORN THE PRECIOUS GUERDON OF
 CONSTITUTIONAL REPUBLICAN LIBERTY:
TO ,THIS VAST LEcION            O]   HONOR,

WON FQR

WHETHER, LIMPING ON CRUTCHES :THROUGH
THE LAND THEY HAVE SAVED AND IMMORTALIZED,
OR SURVIVING UNINJURED ,TO SHARE THE BLESSING! THEIR
UNEXAMPLED- HEROISM BOUGHT, OR SLEEPING DREAMLESSLY IN NAMELESS
MARTYR-GRAVES O$ HALLOWED ,BATTLE-FIELDS WHOSE
HISTORIC MEMORY SHALL PERISH ONLY WITH
THE REMNANTS OF OUR LANGUAGE,
THESE PAGES. ARE
GRATEFULLY AND REVERENTLY D. DIdATED
B, ONE WHO, ALTHOUGH DER4RRED FROM .THE
DANGERS AND DEATHLESS GLORY 1O.F THE. "TENTED FIELD
WOULD FAIN OFFER A WOMAN'S "INADEQUATE, TRIBUTE TO THE NOBLE
PATRIOTIS'M AND SUBLIMk SELF-ABNEGATION 4FRHER,
DEAR AND DEVOTED COUNTRYMEN

'4

4t

Y

V

4 '       i

'                           " '       i .   .         " .'
,"    t       '±'                e
'                   '
,,i'           1                 c
ti                                          ,
,,                         r                e

t
1       r
i

i

.  ;      i    ,
#

s
'
1

F

# r '

r     "     4   I'tlt t         'i     v          .                    i
"  r'  1,   ,t,   '     (         _  },        , +{                '     ,

.,,!  '                          -

4 ..
t ,          ,
'~       ,  -          j.

.,.
i  +        ,

A      y~                   ,.
5
(,     V,     ,             (        L   E ', r  i y' f  ,   t  '  i
1               r  t'                '     ~       t       '  t '  '  r,
f                                  "
' i   Vi'i    4    +'1',tif
i                 Sy              t      J kjr

,                   i                                          I
t   t     ,^           ,            '.         v        d         Y    r
,                   h               '0.
. ,                -,          v
'               ,t     1.                                             i
t           . ~

r
f

f
1
" \       r   t    i  t
'    ,    1  "      i
t'e,  j                  l
"t
t                   tM
_, ..

i
r

1..     '                i ,.V   t   1 ,. , I    1 ' i .
i                  r         ',

'7c


''

r
r .

CHAPTER .
The town-clock was on the last stroke of
twelve, the solitary candle measured but two
inches from its socket, and, as the summer
wind rushed through the half-closed shutters,
the melted tallow dripped slowly into the
bri htly-burnished brazen candlestick. The
, flicTering light fell upon grim battalions of'
figures marshalled on the long blue-lined
pages of a ledger, and flashed fitfully on the
face of the accountant as he bent over his
work. In these'latter days of physical degen-
eration, such athletic frames as his are rarely
seen among the youth of our land. Sixteen
years growth had given him unusual height
and rema$kable breadth of chest, and' it was
difficult to alize that the stature of manhood,
had been a gained by a mere boyin years.. A
gray suit (evidently home-made),'of rather
coarse texture, bespoke poverty ; .and,/owing'
to the oppressive heat of the atmosphere, the'
-coat was thrown partially off.. He wore no
vest, and the loosely-tied black ribbon suf-
fered the snowy white collar-to fall away from
the throat and expose its w'ell-turned outline.
The head was large, but faultlessly proportion-
ed, and the thick .black  air, cut short and
clinging to the' temples, added to its massive-
ness. The lofty forehead, white and smooth;
the somewhat heavy brows, matching the hue
of the hair ; the straight, finely-formed nose,
with its delicate but clearly-defined nostril,
and full firm lips, unshaded by mustache, com-
bined to render the face one of uncommon'
beauty. Yet, asJie sat absorbed byhis figures,
there was nothing' prepossessing or winning in
his appearance; for though you could not carp
at the moulding of his features, you involun-
tarily shrank-from theprematurely grave, nay,
austere expression which seemed habitual to
them.' Hie looked just what he was-youthful'
in months and years, but old in trials, sorrows,
and labors; and to one who analyzed his coun-
tenance, the conviction was inevitablethathis
will was gigantic, his ambition unbounded, his
intellect wonderfully acute and powerful. It
is always sad to remark in young faces the ab-
Sence of that bearning enthusiasm wliich only
a joyous heart iniparts, and though in this-in-
stanoe there was nothing dark or sinister; fou

MAC ARI A.

could-not fail to be awed by the cold, dauntless
resolution which said so plainly, "I struggle,
and shall conquer. I shall mount, though the
world defy me."  Although , he had dlored
since dawn, there was no- drooping othe
muscular'frame, no symptom of fatigue, save
in the absolute colorlessness of his face.. Firm
as some brazen mnument'on its pedestal. he
sat and worked on, one hand wiel~ing the pen,
the other holding down the leaves which flut-
tered, now and then, as the breeze passed
over them.
" Russell, do you knowiit is midnight.?"
He frowned, and answered.without looking
up.a
"Yes.
" How much longer will you sit up ?"
" Till I finish my work."
The speaker stood on the threshold, leaning
against the door-facing, and, after waiting a
few moments, softly crossed 'the room and put
her hand on the back of his chair.- She was
two years his junior, and though evidently the
victim -of recent and severe illness, even in
her feebleness she was singularly like hin.
Her presence seemed to annoy him, for he
turned round and said hmetily '
"Electra, go to bed.' I told you-good-night
three hours ago."
She stood still, but silent.
" What do you want ?"
" Nothing."
He wrote on for some ten; minutes Ionger,
then closed the ledger and put it aside. The '
handle had burned low; he took:a fresh one
from the drawer of the table! acid, after light-
ing it, drew a Latin dictionary '0ai to'him,
opened a worn copy of Hor ce, andbegan to
study. Quiet as his own shadow -stood the,
fragile girl behind hia chair, but as 'she *atch-
ed %im a heavy sigh esoapd her. Once more
he looked ip with a linger still in the 'diction-
ary, and, asked impatientlf'
"Why on earth don't 'you go to sleep?"
can' gleep ;I have tried my bestA'
my 0*lttlecosn?
"Are y sick a ainmyfoP6htliedts   "
He stretched out his arm and drew herlose
to him.
"No'; but I"kno* you are up, hard i  ork,:
and it keeps me a*ak . If you *lpold onl
let me help you.'                'i


-- V  -S                                    -                a

6
" But you can't help me ; I have told you
so time and again.You only interrupt and
hinder me."
She colored, and bit her lip ; then answered,
- sorrowfully :
"If I thought I should be weak and sickly
all, my life, I would ,rather die at once and
burden you and Auntie no longer."
" Electra, who told you that you burdened
 me ?",'
," Oh, Russell! don't I know how hard you
have to work ; and how difficult it is for you
to get even- bread and clothes. Don't I see
how Auntie labors day after day, and month
after month ?  You are good and kind, but
does that prevent my feeling the truth, that
you are working for me too?  If I could only
help you in some way." She knelt down by
his chair and leaned her head on his knee,
holding his hands between both hers.
"Electra, you do help me; all day long
when I am at the store your face ,haunts me,
strengthens me;y I feel that I am striving to
give you comforts, and when at night you
meet me at the gate, I am repaid for all I
have done. You must put this idea out of
your head, little one ; it is 'altogether a mis-
take. Do ru hear what I say ? Get up and
go to sleep like a good child, or you will have
another wretched headache to-morrow, and
can'tbring me my lunch."
He lifted her from the floor and kissed her
hastily. She raised her arms as if- to wind
them about his neck, but his grave face gave
her no eneoura ement ; and turning away she
retired to her room, with hot tears rolling over
her cheeks. Russell had scarcely read half a
dozen lines after his cousin's departure when
a soft hand swept back the locks of hair on
his forehead and wiped away the heavy drops
- that moistened im. ,x..
"«My son, you promised me you would not
sit up late to-night."
" Well, Mother, I have almost finished. Re-
member the nights are very short now, and
twelve o'clock comes early."
4' The better reason that you should not be
- up so late. My son, I am afraid you will ruin
your health by this unremitting application."
"1Why-look at me. I am as strong as an
Athlete of old." He shook his limbs and smiled,
proud of his great physical strength.
"«True, Russell; but, robust as you are, you
*can not stand~ such toil without detriment.
Put up your books."
ot yet; I have more laid out, and you
1us
know I invariably finish all I set apart'to do.
But, Mothier, your hand is hot ; you are not
we."se the thin hand and pressed it to
his lips.
"A mere headache, nothing more. Mr.
Clark was here 'to-day; be is very impatient
. about the rent; I told him we were doing all
we could, arnd thought that by September we

should' be able t the whole. He spoke
of going to see youbich I urges him not,
to do, as'you were eering yourself to the
utmost." '
Slie scanned his face while she spoke, and
noted the compression 9( his mouth. He knew
she watched him, and waiwered:with a forced
smile:
" Yes, he came to the store this morning. I
told himwe 'ad been very unfortunate this
year in losi g our only 'servant; and that.
sickness had {orded us to incur more expense
than usual.   ever, I drew fifty dollars and
paid him all I could. True,'I anticipated my
dues, but Mr. Watson gave me permission.
So for the present you need not worry about
rent."
" What is the amount of that grocery-bill
you igould not let me see last week ?"
." My dear mother, do not trouble yourself
with these little matters; the grocery-bill will
very soon be paid. I have arranged with Mr.
Hill to keep his books at night, and, therefore,
you may be easy. Trust all to me, Mother ;
only take care of your dear self, and I ask no
more."
"Oh, Russell! my son, my son !"
She had drawn a chair near him, and now
laid her head on his shoulder, while tears
dropped on his hand. He had not seen her
so unnerved for years; and as he looked down
on her grief-stained, yet - resignd face, his
countenance underwent a marvelous change ;
and, folding his arms about her, he kissed her
pale, thin cheek repeatedly.
"Mother, it is not like you to repine in this
way; you who have suffered and endured so
much must not despond, when, after a long,
starless night, the day begins to dawn."
"I fear 'it dawns in clouds and heralds only.
storms.'- For myself I care not, but for you,
Russell-my pride, my' only hope, my brave
bo,y lit is for you that I suffer. I have been
thinking to-night that this is a doomed place
for you, and th't if we could only save money
enough to go to California, you might take
the position you merit;' for there-none would
know of the blight which fell upon you; none
could look on your brow and dream it seemed
sullied. Here you have such bitter prejudice
to combat; such gross injustice heaped upon
you."       ..                  ,
He lifted his mother's head from his bosom
and rose, with a haughty, defiant smile on his
lip.
" Not so; I will stay here and live down
their hate. ,1Vark me, Mother,I will live it
down, so surely as. I am .Rssell Aubrey, the
despised son of a -. Let them taunt and
sneer I let them rake up the smouldering ashes
of the miserable Past to fling in my face and
.blind me ; let them, and welcome!. I. will
"ather up these same ashes, dry and bitter, and
ltide them with sacred 'zeal in a golden urn;
and I will wreathe it with chaplets that never

MACARIA.

die. Aye! the Phonix lies-.now in dust, but
one day, the name of Aubrey will rise in more
than pristine glory ; and mine be the hand to
resurrect i.ts ancient splendor. "'Mens. cujus-'
que is est quisque I' Menzikoff, who ruled the'
councils of the Kremlihain its palmiest days,
once sold .pies for a living in the streets of
Moscow. 'Mens cujusque is est quisque!l'  I
will owe no man thanks;-none shall point to
me and say, 'He was drowning in the black,
seething gulf of social prejudice, and I held
out a finger, and clinging to it lie lived.' - Not
so ! dollar for dollar, service for Service, I will
pay as I rise. I scorn to ask favors; I am glad
none are tendered me. I have a grim satisfac-
tion -in knowing that I owe no human being
a kindness, save you, my precious mother.
Go to California ! not II not I ! In this state
. will I-work and conquer; here, right here, I
will plant my feet upon the necks of those
that now strive to grind me to the dust. I
swore it over my father's coffin ! I tell you,
Mother, I wifl trample otit the stigma,' for,
thank God ! 'there is no free-trade measure
which will ever lower the price of brains.' "
" Hush, Russell; you must subdue young fierce
temper ; you must ! you must ! remember it
was this ungovernable rage which brought dis-,
grace upon your young, innocent head._ Oh !
it grieves me, my son, to see how bitter you
.have grown ; it wrings my heart to hear you
challenge Fate, as you so often do. Once you
were gentle and forgiving; now scorn and-de-
fiance rule you.""
"I am not fierce ; I am not in a rage. Lay
your hand on my temples--here on my'wrist;
count the pulse, slow and steady, Mother, as
your own. I am not vindictive ; am noaIndian
to bear about a secret revenge, ready tocon-
summate iat the first propitious moment. If
I should  eet the judge and jury who doomed
my father to the gallows, I think I would serve
them if they needed aid.  But I am proud ; I
inherited my nature ;, I writhe, yes,, Mother,
writhe under the treatment -I constantly re-
ceive. I defy Fate ? Well, suppose I do: ,she
has done her worst. I have no quarrel with
,her for the past ; but I will conquer her in the
future. I am.not bitter; 'would I not give my
life for you? Are you not dearer to me than
my own soul?  Take back your words, they
hurt me; don't tell me that I grieve you,
.Mother.",.
His voice faltered an instant, and he put his
arms tenderly round the drooping form.
" We have troubles enough, my son,- with-,
out dwelling upon what is' past.and irremedi-
able. So long as you seem cheerful, I am
content.' I know that God will not lay more
on me than Ican bear: ias my day, so shall my
strength be.' Thy will be done, oh ! my God."-
There was a brief pause, and Russell Au-
brey passed his hand over his ejes and dashed
oil a tear. H~is mother watched him, and
said cautiously: .

,7

" Have you noticed that my eyes are rapid-
ly growing worse ?"
"Yes,   other ; I have been. anxious for
some weeks."
" You know\it all, then ?"
" Yes, Mother."
"I shall not murmur; I have become re-
signed at last; though for many weeks I have
wrestled for strength, for patience. ' It was so
exceedingly bitter.to know that the time drew
near when I'should see you no more; to feel
that I should stretch out my hands to you, and
lean on you, and yet look no longer on the
dear face of my child, my boy, my ally But
my prayers were heard;,the sting has passed
away, and I am resigned.' I am'g ad we have
spoken of it; now my mind is calmer, and I
can sleep. Good-night, my son."
She pressed the customary good-night kiss
on his lips, and left hiin. He closed the die'
tionary,- leaned his elbow on -the table, and
rested his head on his' hand. His piercing
black eyes-were fixed gloomily on the floor,
and now and then his broad chest heaved as
dark and painful thoughts crowded up.
Mrs. Aubrey was the only daughter of
wealthy and ambitious parents,'who refused
to sanction her marriage with the object of
her choice, and hreatened to disinherit her
if she persisted in' er obstinate course. Mr.
Aubrey was poor,     onest, highly cultivat-
ed, and, in every sense of that much-abussd
word, a gentleman. His poverty was nOt ,to
be forgiven, however, and when the daughter
left her father's roof, and wedded the man
whom her parents detested, the die was cast ;
she was banished for ever from a home of af-
fluence, and found that she a indeed'forfeit-
ed her fortune. For this sh  as prepared,
and- bore it bravely; but ere 'long severer
trials came upon . her.  Unfortunately,' her
husband's temper was fierce and ungoverna=
ble ; and pecuniary embarrassments rarely
have the effect of sweetening such. He re-
moved to an inland town and .embarked in
mercantile pursuits; but, misfortune followed
him, and reverses came thick and fast. One
miserable day, when from early morning every-
thing had gone wrong, an importunate predi-
tor, of-wealth and great influence in the com-
munity, chafed at Mr. Aubrey's tardiness in
repaying some trifling.sum, proceeded to taunt
and insult-him most unwisely. .Stung to mad-
ness, the wretched man resented the insults;-
a struggle ensued, and tt its;close Mr. Aubrey
stood over the corpse of the creditor. - There
was no mode gf escape, and the arm: of the
law consigned h im to prison. During the te-
dious weeks that elapsed before the; trial, his
devoted wife, strove to cheer and eiledurage
him~ by every effort which one human being
can make for another.~ Russell was- about
eleven years of age, and, boy 'though he was,
realized .most fully the horrors of his parent's


8,                   MALARIA.

situation. The days of the trial came at last;
but he had surrendered himself to 'the demon
Rage---had taken the life of a fellow-creature;
what 'could legal skill accomplish ? The affair
produced great and continued excitement;
the, murdered man had been exceedingly pop-
ular, and the sympathies of the citizens were
enlisted in behalf of his family. Although
clearly a case of manslaughter only, the vio-
lent prejudice of thecommunity and the ex-
ertions of, influential. friends so' biassed the
jury that, to the astonishment of the counsel
on both sides, the cry- of " blood . for blood "
went out from that crowded court-room, and,
in defiance of precedent, Mr. Aubrey was un-
justly sentenced to be hung. When the ver-
dict was known Russell placed his insensible
mother on a couch, from which it seemed prob-
able she would never rise. But there is an
astonishing amount of endurance in even a
feeble-woman's frame, and after a time she
went about' her. house once more, doing her
duty to her child and learning to "suffer and
grow' strong." Fate had ordained, however,
that Russell's father should not die upon the
gallows; and soon after the verdict was pro-
nounced, when all Mrs. Aubrey's efforts to
procure a pardon had proved unavailing, the
proud and desperate manl, in the solitude of
his cell, with no eye but Jehovah's .to-witness
the awful deed, the consummatioig of his woes,
took his own life-with' the aid of a lancet
lautched his guilty, soul into eternity. On
the 'floor of the cell was found a blurred sheet,
sprinkled with -blood, directed to his wife, bid-
ding her farewell, and committing her and her
boy to.the care of'an outraged andinsulted
God. Such was the legacy of shame which
Russell inherited; was it any marvel that at
sixteen that boy had lived ages of sorrow ?
Mrs. Aubrey found her husband's financial
affairs so involved that she relinquished the
hope of retaining the little she possessed, and
retired to a small cottage on the outskirts of
the town, where she endeavored to support
herself and the two dependent on her by tak-
ing in sewing.
Electra Grey was the orphan child of Mr.
Aubrey's only sister, who dying in poverty be-
queathed the infant to her brother. He had
loved her as well as his own.Russell; and his
wife, who cradled her, in her arms and taught
her to walk' by clinging to her finger, would
almost as soon have parted with her son as the
little Electra. For five' years the widow had
toiled by midnight-lamps .to feed these two;
now oppressed nature rebelled, the long over-
taxed eyes refused to perform their office;
filmy cataracts stole over them, veiling their-
'adness and their unshed tears-blindness was.
creeping- on. At his father's death Russel
was forced to quit school, and with ,some 'diffi-
culty he succeeded in obtain' situation in
large dry- ods tore, where hi labors were'-
onerous intm extreme and his wages a mere .

pittance. To domineer over those whom ad-
verse fortune places under their control is by
no means uncommon among ignorant and sel-.
fish men, whose industry has acquired inde-
pendence, and though Russell's,employer, Mr.
Watson, shrank. from  committing a gross
wrong, and prided himself on his scrupulous
honesty, still 'his narrow mind and penurious
habits strangled every generous impulse, and,
without 'being absolutely cruel -or unprinci-
pled, he contrived ,to gall the boy's proud
spirit and render his position one of almost
purgatorial severity.p'    .        '
The machinery of human will is occult and
complicated; very few rigidly analyze .their
actions and discern tle motives that impel
them, and if 'any one had told Jacob Watson
that Envy was the secret spring which prompt-
ed his unfriendly course toward his young
clerk he would probably have indignantly de-
nied the accusation. The blessing of an edu-
cation had been withheld .from him; he grew
up. illiterate, and devoid of refinement ; fort-
une favored him,-he amassed wealth, and de-
termined that his children should enjoy every
advantage which money could command. His
eldest son was just Russell's age, had been
'sent to various schools from his infancy, was
indolent, self-indulgent, and thoroughly dissi-
pated. Having been a second time expelled
from school for most disgraceful misdemeanors,
he lounged away his time about the store, or
passed it still more disreputably with reckless
companions.
The daily contrast presented by Cecil and
Russell irritated the father, and.hence his set-
tled dislike of the latter. The faithful dis-
charge of duty on the part of the clerk afford-
ed no plausibleoccasion for invective ; he felt
that he was narrowly watched, and. resolved
to give no ground for fault-finding; yet dur-
ing the long-summer days, when the intense
heat prevented customers from thronging the
store, and there was nothing to be done, when
Russell, knowing that the books were written
up, and the counters free from goods, took his
Latin grammar and improved every leisure
half-hour,:he was not ignorant of the fact that
an angry scowl darkened his employer's visage,
and understood whyhe was constantly inter-
rupted to perform most unnecessary labors.
But in the same proportion that obstacles
thickened his energy and resolution doubled ;.
and herein one human soul differs from anoth-
er, in strength of will which furnishes powers
of endurance. What'the day denied he, re-
'claimed from night, and succeeded in acquir-
ing a tolerable nowledge of Greek, besides
reading 'several' Latin books. .Findin that.
his small salary was inadequate, now that his
mother's failing sight prevented her from ac-
complishing the' usual amount of sewing, he
solicited and obtained 'permission to'- keep an
additional set, of books for the grocer who
furnished bis~ family with provisions, though -

MACARIA.                                      g
by this arrangement' few hours remained for  "You know very well your father can't
necessary sleep. The protracted illness and bear to see you carrying your own satchel and.
aeath of an aged and faithful servant, togeth- basket to school. se ;ordered Martha to take
er with Electra's tedious sickness, bringing the them every morning and evening, but she says
extra expense of medical aid, had prevented you will not let her carry them. It is just
the prompt payment of rent due for the three- sheer obstinadly in you."
roomed cottage, and Russell was compelled to  " There it is again I because I don't choose
ask for a portion of his salary in advance. His to be petted like a baby or made a wax-doll
mother little 'dreamed of the struggle which of, it is set down to obstinacy, as if I had, the
took place in his heart ere he' could force him- temper of a heathen. See here, Aunt Marga .
self to.make the request, and he carefully con- ret, lam tired of havin  Martha trampip g
coaled from her the fact that, at the moment eternally at my heels as though I were atwo-
of receiving the money, he laid in Mr. Wat- year-old child  There is no reason in her
son's hand, by way of pawn, the only article walking after me when I am strong enough to
'of any value which he possesseA---the watch carry my own books, and I don't intend she
his father had always worn, and which the shall do it 'any longer."
coroner took from the vest-pocket of thedead, " But, Irene, your father is .too proud to
dabbled with blood. The gold chain had been have you trudging along thesroad like a .
sold longbefore, and the son wore it attached other beggar, with your books in one arm and
to a simple black ribbon. "His employer re- a basket swinging on the other. Just sups
ceived the watch, locked it ,in the iron safe, pose the Carters or the Harrisses should meet
and Russell fastened a-small weight to the you? Dear me! they would hardly believe
ribbon, and kept it around his. neck that his you belonged to a wealthy,' aristocratic family
mother might not suspect the truth. It chanced like the I untingdons. - Child, I never carried
-that Cecil'stood near at the time'; he saw the my orn dinner to school in my life."-
watch deposited in the safe, whistled a tune,  " And I 'expect that is exactly the reason
fingered his own gold repeater, and walked why you are for ever complaining, and scarce-
away.                     ' lg see one well day in the three hundred and
Such was Russell Aubrey's history ; such his sixty-five. As to what people think, I don't
situation at the beginning of his seventeenth care a cent; as to whether my ancestors did
year. Have I a reader whose fond father lay- or'did not carry their lunch'in their own aris-.
-ishes on him  princely  advantages, whose tocratic hands is a matter of, no consecuence
shelves are filled with valuable but unread whatever. I despise -all, thil ridiculous 'ndn-
volumes, whose pockets, are supplied with sense about aristocracy of 'family, and I mean
more than necessary money, and who yet to do as I please. I thought that really well-
saunters through'the precious season of youth, bred-persons of high.standing and birth could
failing utterly to. appreciate his privileges Y afford to be silent on the subject, and that only
Let him look into that little'room wherekius. parvenus-coarse, vulgar people with a little
sell sits, pale, wearied, but unbending, ponder. money--put on those kinds of airs, and pre-
ing his dark future, planning to protect his, tended to be shocked' at what they had been,
mother from *ant and racking his brain for accustomed to in early, life."
some feasible method 'of procuring such b4oks  "I do not see where you get such plebeian
as he absolutely needs; books which his eager ideas; you positively make me ashamed!ofyou
hungry eyes linger on as he passes the book- sometimes, when fashionable, genteel persons
store every morning going to his work. Oh, come to the house. There is 'such a want of
young reader 1 if such I have, look at him  refinement in your notions. You are nything
struggling with adversity as a strong swimmer but a Huntingdon."'
with the murderous waves that lash himsand,  "I am what God made me, Aunt Margairet.
contrasting your own fortunate position, s'hake If he Huntingdons stand high,'it is because
off the inertia that clings to you tenaciously as they 'won distinction by their own"efforts;-
Sinbad's burden, and go to work earnestly, and I don't want the step~ing-stones of my dead
bravely, thanking God for the aids he has ancestry ; people must'judge 'me for myself, not
given you.                                from what my grandniother'was."
a' .
Evy's harsh berries, and the chokingg pool  'Irene Huntingdon stood on themarble steps
Of.the work's scorn, are the right mother-milk  of her' partial home, and talked with the
To the tough hearts that pioneer their kind.".  .. maiden aunt who governed herfathe's hoger
-.- hold. -The girl was about fourteen, tall for
CHAPTER xI                   her age, straight, finely-formed, slender. *'he
' broad strab 1jat shaded, but by no means con-
" Irene' your father willme displeased if he sealed, her features,and as she looked up at
sees yon that plight.                    heraunt the sunshine' fell upon'a face of pz-
"Fray, what is wrong'about'me now ? You 'traordinary beauty, such as israrely-seets sate
seem to glory in finding fault. What is the. in the idealized heads of the old-masters. Her
matter wit my ' plight,' as you call it ?" hair was of an uncommon shiide, neither~ au-


.AMACARIA.

burn nor brown, but between gold and bronze ;."
and as the sun shone on it the rippling waves
flashed until their burnished glory seemed. a
very aureola.. It was thick and curling; she
wore it parted on her pale, polished forehead,
and it hung around her like a gilded veil.
The face was an oval; you might measntre it
by all the rules of art and no imperfection
could be found, unless the height of the brow
were considered out of proportion. The nose
was delicate and clearly cut, and in outline
r sembled that in the antique medals of Olym-
pias, the wife of Philip of -Macedonia. The
upper lip was short, and curved like aow ;
the lower, bin, firm, and straight. Her eyes
were strangely, marvellously beautiful; they
werelarger than usual, and of that'rare shade
of purplish blue which borders the white
velvet petals of a clematis. When the eyes
were uplifted, as on this occasion, long curling
lashes of the bronze hue of her hair rested
against her brow. Save the scarlet lines
which marked her lips, her face was of 'that
clear colorlessness which can be likened only
to the purest ivory. Though there was an
utter absence of the rosy hue of' health, the
transparency of the complexion seemed char-
acteristic of her type, and precluded all
thought of disease. People are powerfully at-
tracted by beauty, either of form, color, or a
combination of both; .and it frequently hap-
pens that something of pain mingles with the
sensation of pleasure thus - excited. Now,
whether it be that this arises from a vague ap-
prehension engendered by the evanescentnat-
ure of all sublunary things, or from the ina'
bility of- earthly types to satisfy the divine
ideal which' the soul enshrines, I shall not
here attempt to decide ; but those who exam-
ined Irene's countenance were fully conscious
of this complex emotion, and strangers who
passed her n the street felt intuitively that a .
noble, unsullied soul looked out at them from
the deep, calm, thoughtful eyes. Miss Marga-
ret muttered something inaudible in reply to
her last remark, and Irene walked on to
school. Her father's residence was about a
mile from the town, but the winding road ren-
dered the walk'somewhat longer ; and on one
side of this road stood the small house occupied
by Mrs. Aubrey. As Irene approached it she
saw 'Electra Grey coming from the opposite
direction, and at the cottage-gate they met.
Both paused ; Irene held out her hand cordi-
ally-              -.
"Good-morning. I have not seen you for a
fortnight. . 1 thought you weretoming to school
again as soon as you were 'strong enough ?"
"No; I am not going back to school."
"Why?"              '          - .
" Because Auntie can't aff'ord- to send me '
any longer. You know her eyes are growing
worse'every day, and she is not able to take
in sewing as she used to do. I am sorry.; but
11it Can't be helpeth"

" How do, you know it can't be helped ?
Russell told me he thought she had cataracts
on her eyes, and they can be removed."
" Perhaps so, if we had the means of con-
sulting that celebrated physician in New Or-
leans. Money removes 'a great many things,
Irie, but unfortunately we have n't it."
" The trip would not cost much; suppose
you speak to'Russell aboutit."  -
" Much or little, it will require more than
we can possibly spare.t Everything is so high
we can barely live as it is. But I must go in,
my aunt is waiting for me."g
" Where have you - been so early, Electra ?
I hype you will not think me impertinent in
asking such a question."
"I carried tais waiter full of bouquets to
Mr. Carter's. There is to be a grand dinner-
party there to-day, and Auntie promised as
many flowers as she could furnish. However,
bouquets pay poorly. Irie, wait one minute;
I lave a little border of mignonette all my
ows, and I should like to give you a spray."
She hurried into the garden, and retur-ing
*ith a few delicate sprigs, fastened one in her
friend's belt and.the remainder in the ribbon
on her hat.'
" Thank you, Electra; -who told you that I
love mignonette so well ?  It will not do for
you to 'tay away from school; I miss you in
my class, and, besides, you are losing too much
time. Something should be done, Electra.
Good-by."I
They shook hands, and Irene walked'on..
" Something should be done," she repeated,
looking down fixedly yet vacantly at the sandy
road. Soon- the brick walls of the Academy
rose grini and uninviting, and taking her place
at the desk she applied herself to her books.
When school was dismissed in the afternoon,
instead of retuping home as usual, she walked
down the principal street, entered Mr. Wat-
son's store, and put her books on the counter."
It happened that the proprietor.stood near the
front-door, and he came forward instantly to
wait upon her.       .    .
"Ab, Miss Irene ! happy to see you.. What
shall I have the pleasure of showing you ?"
"Russell Aubrey, if you please."
The merchant stared, and she added:
"I want some kid gauntlets, but Russell
can get them for me."
The   oung clerk stood at the desk in the
rear of the store, with his back toward the
counter; and Mr. Watson called out':-
" Here, Aubrey, some ki&amp;gauntlets for this
young lady."
ie laid down his pen, and taking a box of
gloves from the shelves placed it on the count-
er before her. Hes had not noticed her par-
ticularly, and when she pushed back her hat
and looked up at him'he started slightly.
" Good-evening, Miss Huntingdon. What
number do you wish'?' ,
Perhaps it was from the heat of the day, or .

from stooping over his desk,,or perhaps it was
from something else, but his cheek was flushed,
and gradually it grew pale again.
" Russell, I want to speak to you about
Electra. She ought to be at school, you
know."
," Yes." '
" But she saysyour mother can't aford the
expense."                          II
"Just now she can not; next year things
will be better."
'"What is the tuition for her ?"
",Five dollars a month."
" Is that all ?'I
He selected a delicate fawn-colored pair of
gloves and laid them before her, while a faint
smile passed over his face.
" Russell, has anything happened ?"
" What do you mean ?"
" What is troubling you so ?"
Nothing more than usual. Do those gloves'
suit you ?"
" Yes, they will fit me, I believe." She'look-
ed atf him very intently.  '
He met her gaze steadily, and for an instant
his face brightened ; then, she said abruptly:
"Your mother's eyes are worse ?"  .
"Yes, much worse."
"Have you consulted Dr. Arnold about
them ?"
"-He'says he can do nothing for her."
" How much would it cost 'to take her to
New Orleans and have that celebrated oculist
examine them ?".
"More than we can afford just now.; at
least two hundred dollars."-
" Oh, Russell! that is not much. Would
not Mr. Watson lend you that little ?"
" I shall hot ask him."
" Not even to restore your mother's sight ?"
"Not to buy my own life. Besides, the ex-
periment is a doubtful one."
S" Still it is worth making."' .
" Yes, under different circumstances it cer-
tainly would be."
" Have you talked to Mr. Campbell about
it?'   -
" No, because it is useless to discuss the mat-
ter."    -
" It would be dangerous to go to New Or-
leans now, I suppose ?"
"October or Novemberwould- be better."
Again she looked at him very earnestly, then
stretched out her little hand.
" Good-by, Russell; 1 wish 1, could do some-
thiug to help you, to make you less sorrowful."
He held the slight waxen fingers, and his-
mouth trembled as he answered:
"Thank you, Miss Huntingdon. I am not
sorrowful, but my path in'life is .apt quite so
flowery as yours."
"1I wish you would not call 'me ' Miss Hun-
tingdon,' inthat stiff, far-off way, as if we were
not friends. Or maybe it is a hirit that you
desire me to address you as Mr. Aubrey. It

sounds-strange, unnatural, to say anything but
Russell."
She gathered up her books, took the gloves,
and west slowly homeward, and .Russell re-
turned -to.his '4esk with a light it.his eyes
which, for the remainder of the day, nothing
could quench. As Ireneascended the long
hill on which Mr. Huntingdon's residence stood
she saw her father's buggy at the door, and as
she approached the .steps he came out, draw-
ing on his gloves.
" You are lte, Irene. What kept you?"
"I have been shopping a little.. Are you
going to ride? 4ake me with you."
" Going to din at Mr. Carter's."
" Why, the su is almost down now. What
time will you ce home ? I want to ask you
something."
"Not till long after you are asleep."
He took his seat in the byggy, and the
spirited horse dashed down the avenue.  A
servant came forward to take her hat and
satchel and inform her that her dinner'had
waited some time. Miss Margaret sat croch-
eting at the front-window of the dining-room,
and Irene ate her dinner in silence. As she
rose and-approached her aunt the door swung
open 'anda youth entered, apparently about
Russell's age, though really one year older.
"Irene, I am tir d to death waiting for you.
What a provoking girl you are'! Tbe horses
have been saddled at least one hour and a half.
Do get on your riding'dress. ' I am out of all
patience."
He rapped his boot heavily with his whip
by way of emphasis, and looked hurriedly at
his watch.
"i did not promise to ride. with you this
evening, Hu'h,' answered his cousin, seating
herself on ie. window-sill and running her
fingers lightly over the bars of a beautiful cage,=
where her canary pecked playfully at the fair
hand.
" Oh, nonsense ! Suppose you did n't prom-
ise ; I waited for you, and told Grace Harriss
and Charlie that we would meet them at the
upper bend of the river, just above the Factory.
Charlie's new horse has just arrived from Ver-
mont--Green Mountain Boy he calls him-
and. we have a bet of a.half-dozen pairs'of
gloves that he can't beat my Eclipse. -Do come
along I. Aunt Margaret, make her come."
"I should like to see anybody make, her.do
what she is not in the hunior for," said his aunt,
looking over her glasses at the lithe, graceful
figure on the window-sill.
"flu'h, I would rather stay at home,,for I
am tired, but I will go to oblige you."
Miss' Margaret lifted tier eyebrows, and as
his cousin left the room Hugh Seymour ex-
claimed:
-"Is n't she the greatest beauty in the Uniled
States ?"
" She will 1e a h~elle when she is grown.;
just such a one as your mother was, ouly sh~e.

I

MACARIA.

11

10


I

MALARIA. -

lacks her gayety of disposition. s'She is full of
strange notions, Hugh,; you don't know thb
half of her character-he'own father does not.
Frequently I am puzzled to understand her
myself."
"Oh l she will come out of all that. She is
curious about some things now, but she will
outgrow it."'
I am afraid she will not, for it is as nuch
a part of her as the color of her hair or the
shape of her nose. She has always been queer."
Iiene appeared at the door with a'small sil-
ver pore-monnaie in her hand. She counted
the contents, put .it into her pocket, and,
gathering up the folds of her habit, led 'the
way to the front door. Hugh adjusted the
reits, and laying one hand on his she sprang
lightly to her saddle, then stroked 'her horse's
silky, mane and said:
" Erebus can leave Green Mountain Boy so.
far behind that Charlie would find it no easy
matter to count the plumes in my hat. Are
you ready ?"
The beautiful jetty creature, as if conscious
of her praise, tossed his head and sprang off
in a canter, but, wheeling round, she called to
the groom who stood watching them:
"Unchain Paragon I"              "
Five minutes later the cousins were gallop
ing on, with a superb greyhound following
close at fErebus' heels, and leaping up now
and' then in obedience to the motion of Irene's
hand.' The road ran through a hilly country,
now clad in stern ancestral pines, and now
skirted with oak and hickory, and about a mile
beyond the town it made 'a sharp angle and
took the river bank. The sun had set, but
the western sky was still aglow; and near the
bank, where the current was not perceptible,
the changing tints df the clouds were clearly
mirrored, but in the' middle of the stream a
ledge of rock impeded its course and the wa-
ter broke over with a dull roar, churning itself
into foam and spray as it dashed from shelf 'to
shelf of the stony barrier. Just opposite he
Fall Irene checked her here and paused to'
admire the beauty of the scene; but in another
moment- the quick tramp of hoofs fell on her
ear, and Ungh's youngifriends joined them.
Green Mountain Boy was flecked with foam,
and as Irene measured his perfections at one
hasty glance, she, patted her favorite's head
and ohallenged'Charlie for a trial of speed.,
"'No; Charlie and I must have' the race.
Miss Grace, you and Irene can take cafe 'of
yourselves for a few minutes. We *ill wait for
you on the ,edge of town, ,at the' graveyard.
Now, Charlie, I am ready."
They took there places in front, and were'
soon out of sight, as the rdad followed the
curved of the river. 'Erebus plunged violently
at first, not being accustomed to' lag /behind
el~lipse, buts by much persuasion apd frequent
.kind touches on his head, Irene thanaged to
reconcile hima to the temporary disgrace.

" Grace looked at his antics rather fearfully,
an observed that no amount of money could
tempt her to mount him.
" Why iot ?"
" He will break your neck yet."
" He is very spirited, but as gentle as Para-
gon. a Come, Grace, it is getting late ; they
will be waiting for us. Quicken your sober,
meek little brownie."
'"So Electra is not coming' back to school,
It is a greatity'she can't have an educa-
tion."'
"Who told you anything about her ?"
"Oh,.everybody knows how poor her aunt
is,; and now, to mend matters, she is going
blind. I would go to see Electra occasionally
if the family had not been so disgraced. .I
like her,' but no genteel person recognizes
Mrs. Aubrey, even in the street."
" That is very unjust. She is- one of the
most refined, elegant women I have ever seen.
She ought not to be blamed for her husband's
misfortune. Poverty is no crime."
- If she had been treated to a Hindostanee
proverb Grace could not have looked more
stupidly surprised.-
-." Why,. Irene I Mrs. Aubrey wears a bit-
calico to church.".
" Well, suppose she does? Is people's worth
to be determined only by the cost or the quality
of their clothes ? If I were to give your cook
a silk dress exactly like that one your uncle
sent you from' Paris, and provide her with
shawllind bonnet to match, would she be your
equal, do you think ? I imagine you would
not thank me or anybody else who insinuated
that Mrs. Harriss' negro cook was quite' as'
genteel and elegant aS Miss Grace herself, be-
cause she'wore exactly the same kind of clothes.
I tell you, Grace, it is all humbug 1 this ever-
lasting talk about fashion, and dress, and gen-
tility I PshaW I I amjick of it., When our
forefathers were fighting for freedom, for a
national existence, I wonder whether their
wives measured each other's respectability or
gentility by their lace collars or the number of
flounces on their dresses? Grace Harriss, your
great-grandmother, and mine, and probably
everybody's else, spun the cotton, and wove
the cloth, and cut and made their homespun
dresses, and were thankful to get them. ,And
these women'" who kad not even bit-calicoes
were the mothers, and wives and sisters and
daughters of men who established the most'
glorious government on the face of the broad
earth"  The way thewomen of America have
degenerated is a crying shame. I tell you, I
would blush to look my great-grandmother ii
tho face."m
Grace shrugged her shoulders in expressive
silence, and, Soon after, they reached the spot
wheu'e thie boys were 4aiting to join them. ,
"E6lipsenade god his name I" cried Hugh, ,
triumphantly, while Charlie bit his lip with
chagrin.

MACARI4.

"Never mind, Charlie; Erebus can distance
Eclipse any day."
"No soeasily," muttered'Hugh.
"I will prove it the next time we ride. Now
for a canter as far as Grace's door."
On they went, through the main street of
the town: Erebus ahead, Paragon at his heels,
then all the others. The wind blew Irene's veil
over her eyes, she endeavored to put it back,
and inthe effort dropped her whip. It was
dusk; they were near one of the crossings, and.
a tall, well-known form stooped, found the
whip, and handed it up, Erebus shied, but
the hand touched Irene a as it inserted the sil-
ver handle in ,the slender fingers.
" Thank you, Russell; thank you very much."
- He bowed fprmally drew his straw hat over,
his brow, and walked on with two heavy ac-
count-books under his arm.-.
"I can't endure that boy," said Hugh, at_
the distance of half a square, flourishing his
whip energetically as he spoke.
"Nor I," chimed in Charlie.
" Whynot? I have known him a long time,
and I like him very much."
".He is so confoundedly proud and saintly."
" That exists entirely in your imagination,
Hugh. You don't know half his good quali-
ties,"~returned Irene, a little quickly.
" Bah !-" began her cousin; but here their
companions bade them good-night,.and,as if
disinclined to continue the.subject, Irene kept
in advance till they reached home. Tea was
waiting; Miss Margaret and Hugh 'talked of
various things ; Irene sat silent, balancing her
spoon on the edge of her-cup. Finally, tired
of listening, she glided tothe front-door and
seated herself on the steps. Paragqn followed,
and laid down at her feet. Everything was
quiet, ave the distant roar of 'the river as it
foamed over its rocky bed; below, hanging on
the bank of the strearn,'lay the town., Fromni
her elevated position she could trace the wind-
ing of the ittreets by the long 'rows of lamps,
-and now and then a faint hum rose on. the
breeze as it swept up the hill and lost itself int
the forest behind the house. Very soon HughE
came out, cigar in hand, and threw himself'
down beside her.
"What is the matter, Irie,?"
" Nothing."                     . -
"What are you moping here for ?"
"I am' not moping at all I ani waiting for
Father.".                               -
" Ie will not be. here for three hours yet. t
Don't you know 'that, Mr.. Carter's dinners
always end in card-parties ? He is famous I
for whist and euchre,' and doubtless his din- i
ners pay him welL?" What do you want with
." Hugh,' do throw away your cigar It is
ridigulous to see a boy of your age puffing away t
in that style. Betting and sasoling seemr to
be the only things you have learned at T'ale.
By the way, when do you go back ?"  '    t

18

"Are you getting tired of me ? I go back
in ten days.' irene, do you know that ,I am not
comiiw;home next actionn,' I have remise4
a party of merry fellows to spend it w4h them
in Canada. TLen the next ummer I go to
Europe for two years atleast. .Are jouhieten-
ing.? Do you understand that it will be four
years before I see you again ?"
" Yes, I understand..-,
"I dare say the time will seem.long4r to me
than to you."
"I hope, wheayou do come back, we shall
not be disappointed in you."
He 'took her. hand, but she withdrew her
fingers.
"Irene, you belong to me, and you know it."
"NIo ! I belon' to God and myself."
She rose, anti, retreating to the library,
opened her books and began to study. The
night passed very slowly; she looked at the
clock again and'again. Finally the house be
came quiet, and at last the crush of wheels on
the gravel-walk announced her fathers return.
He came into thelibrary for a cipa , and, with-
out ,noticing her, drew his chair 'to th# open
window. She approached 'and put her hand
on hi shoulder.
"Iene! what is the matter, 'child ?"
":Nothing, sir ; only.I want to ask you Some-
thing.
" Well, Queen, what is it ?"
He drew her tenderly to his knee and pass-
ed his hand over het floating hair.
Leonard Huntingdon was forty years old;-
tall, spare, with an erect and martial carriage.
He had. been trained at West Point, and per'
haps early education contributed somewhat to
the air of unbending haughtiness which many
found repulsive.' His black hair was slightly,
sprinkled with gray and his features were still
decidedly handsome, though the expression of
mouth and eyes was, ordinarily, 'by no means
winning. He could seem very fascinating, but
rarely deigned to be so; and an intimate ac-
quaintance was not necessary to teach peq e
that 'hewas eroud, obstinate, and thorough
selfish, loving only Hugh, 'Irene, an himself.
$he was his only child; her mother had 'die4
during her infancy, and on this beautiful idol
he lavished all the tenderness of which ,his
nature was, capable. His tastes were culti-
vated, his house was elegant and complete,
and furnished magnificently; every luxury
that money could yield' him he 'possessed, yet,
there were times when he seemed ,moo4y and
cynical, and no one cogld surmise ths  use of
his glooi. To-night there was noshaeowton
his face, however; doubtless -thespre  e
wine sup s ill shone inin piercing ,blue eye,
one iheilood tip't himnfearinga ndenaL
" .   ,Xwis.pease you woukivep
wo hundred dollars."           ..
" What Nould ayou do~ with it, Queen ~
"I do n'ot want ~tfer  yseW; I sheulda li
o have that aluch to enable a pqor wwp p

12

t}
1
y
f
I
E
y
I
I
t
4
i
)r
1
t

(


MACARIA.

recover her sight.. She has cataracts on her
eyes, and there is a physician in New Orleans
-    who can relieve her. She is-poor, and it will
cost about two hundred dollars. ' Father,'won't
you give me th§ money ?"
He'tookthe cigar from his lips, shook off the
ashes. and asked indifferently:
" What is the woiian's name?  Has she no
husband to take care of her ?"
"Mrs. Aubrey; she-
" What!-"
The cigar fell from his fingers, he put'her
front his knee, and rose instantly. His swarthy
cheek glowed, and she wondered at the ex-
pression of his eyes, so different from anything
she.had ever seen there before.    .
"Father,-do you know her ?"
" What do you know of her ?  What busi-
ness is it of, yours, whether she, goes blind or
not ?  Is it possible Margaret allows you to
visit at that house ? Answer me, what do you
know about her ?"
" I know that she is a very gentle, unfort-
unate woman; that she has many bitter trials;
that she works hard to support her family; that
she is noble and-"
"«Who gave you permission to visi4 that
house ?"
"«No permission was necessary. I go there
because I love her and Electra, and-because
I like Russell. Why should n't I go there, sir?
Is poverty disgrace ?" '
-    "Irene, mark me.   You are to visit that
house'no more in future ; keep away from the
whole family. I will have no such association.
Neverlet me hear their namesagain. Go to
bed."
" Give me one good reason, and I will obey
you."
" Reason 1 My will, my command, is suffi-
cient reason. What do you mean by cate-
chising me in this way ? Implicit obedience is,
your duty."
The calm, holy eyes looked wonderingly into
his; and as he marked the startled expression
of the 'girl's pure face'his own 'efhs drooped.
"Father, has Mrs. Aubrey ever injured
you?"
No answer.
"' If she has'not, you are very'unjust to her ;
if she has, remember she is a woman, bowed
down with many sorrows, and it is unmanly to
hoard up old differences. Father, please give
me that money."   . -
"I will bury my last-dollar in the Red Sea
first!l /Now arb you answered ?"
She put ber hand over here 'es, as if to shut
out some'painful vision; and 'e saw the slight,
fore shudder.' In perfect silence she took her
'booh'and went up to herroom. Mr. Hunting-
don reseated himself as the door closed behind
her, and the lamp-light showed a sinister smile
writhin ovr 'his dark. features. In the busy
hours o day, in tlpe rush and din of active life,
men can drown remorseful whispers and -shut

their eyes to the panorama which Memory
strives to place before them; but there come
still hours, solemn and inexorable, when strug-
gles are 'useless and the phantom recollections
of early years crowd up like bannered armies.
He sat there, stai-ing out into the starry night,
and seeing by the shimmer of the setting moon
only the graceful form. and lovely face of Amy
Aubrey, as She had appeared to him in other
days. Could he forget the hour when she
wrenched her cold fingers from his 4lasp,,and,
in defiance of her father's wishes, vowed she
would never be his wife ? No; revenge was
sweet, very sweet; his heart had swelled with
exultation when the verdict of death upon
the gallows was pronounced upon the husband
of her choice; and now, i her poverty, her
humiliation, her blindness gave him deep, un-
utterable joy. This history of the Past was
a sealed volume to his daughter, but she was
now for the first time conscious that her father
regarded the widow and her. son with uncon-
querable hatred; and with strange, foreboding
dread she looked into the Future, knowing that
forgiveness was no part of his nature ; that i -
sult or injury was never forgotten.
CHAPTER III-
Whether the general rule of implicit obe-
dience to parental injunction admitted of no
exceptions, was a problem which Irene readily
solved,; and on Saturday, as soon as her father
and cousin had started to the plantation.
(twenty-five miles distant), she put on her hat
and walkedo town. Wholly absorbed in phi-
lanthropic schemes, she hurried along the side-
walk, ran up a flight-of steps, and knocked at
a door on which was written, in large gilt let-
ters, " Dr. Arnold,"   ,.
" Ah, Beauty I come in. Sit down, and tell
me what brought you to town so early."
He was probably a man of fifty; gruff in
appearance, and unmistakably a bachelor.'
His thick hair was grizzled; -so was the heavy
beard; and shag y gray eyebrows slowly un-
bent as he'took is visitor's little hands and
looked kindly down into her grave face. From
her infancy he had petted and fondled her,
and' she stood as little in awe of him as of
Paragon.-
" Doctor, are you busy this morning ?"
" I am never too busy to attend to you, little,
one. What is it ?"-
" Of course you know that Mrs. Aubrey is
almost blind."'
"Of 'course I do, having been her - phy-
sician-"
"Those cataracts can be removed, how-
ever."
"Perhaps they can, and perhaps they can't."
"'Mlut the probabilitiess are that a good ocu,.
list can relieve her. n '        -       .
" I rather think so."

" 'wo hundred-dollars would-defray all the
expenses of a trip to New Orleans for. this
purpose, but she is too poor to afford-it.'
-" Decidedly too poor."
His gray eyes twinkled promisingly, but he
would not anticipate her.
"Dr. Arnold, don't you think you could
spare that small sum without much incon-
venience ?"
"16eally! is, that what you trudged into
town for ?"A
" es, just that, and-nothing else.' If I had
had themoney I should not have applied to
you."
" PshawI your father could buy me a dozen
times,"
"At any rate, I have not the necessary
amount at my disposal just now, and I came to
ask you to lend it to me."
"For ho4w long, Beauty ?"
" Till I am of age-perhaps not so long. I
will pay yoti the interest."
"You will climb.Popocatapetl, won't you?
Hush, child.".--      .-
He went into the adjoining room, but soon
returned and resumed his seat on the sofa by
her side.           a
"Irene, did you first apply to your father ? -I
don't relish,the idea of being a dernier ressort."
" What difference: can it make to you wheth-
er I did or did not ?' That I come to you at
all is sufficient proof of my faith in" your gen-
erosity.""-                        _" .
Hiram Arnold was an acute and practised.
physiognomist, but the pale, quiet face per-
plexed him.
"Do you want the money now ?"
" Yes, if you please; but before you give it
to me I ought to tell you that I want the mat-
ter kept secret. No one is to know anything
about it-not even my father."
"Irene,; is it right to inveigle me into
schemes with which you are ashamed to hive
your own father'acquainted ?"
" You know the whole truth, therefore you
Are not inveigled- and moreover, Doctor, I
am not ashamed of anything I do.",
She looked so unermbarrassed that for a mo-
ment he felt puzzled.
"I knew Mrs. Aubrey before her marriage."
He bent 'forward to watch the effect. of-his
words, but if she really -knew or suspected
aught yi' the past, there was not the slightest
intimation of it. Putting back her hair, she
looked up and answered:'
" That should increase your willingness to,
aid her in her misfortunes."
" Hold out your hand: fifty, one hundred, a
hundred and fifty, two hundred. There, will'
that do ?'
*" Thank you! thank you! You will not
need it soorn, I hope.?" -
"Not until you are ready to pay me."
"Dr. Arnold, you have given me a great deal
of pleasure---more than I can express. 1--"'

" Don't try to express it, Queen. You have
given me infinitely more, I assure you."
Her splendid eves 'were lifted toward him,
and with some sudden impulse she touched her
lips to the hang he had placed-on her shoulder.
'Something like a tremor crossed the doctor's
.habitually -stern month as he looked at the
marvellous beauty of the girl's countenance,
and he kissed her slender fingers as reverently
as though he touched something consecrated.
"Irene, shall I take you home in my byg-
gy?"
" No, thank you,"I would rather walk. Oh !
Doctor, I an so much obliged .t9 yon."
She drew her hat over her face and went
down the "steps. Di'. Arnold walked slowly.
across the office-fior ,with his hands behind
'him; the grim face ,was placid, now, the dark
furrows on his brow were not half sg deep and
as he paused and ,closed a ponderous volume
lying on the table, a smile suddenly flitted over
his features, as one sees a sunbeam stiggle
through rifts in low rain-clouds. lH put the
book in the case and locked the, glass door.
The "Augustinian Theory of Evil" wascon-
tained in the volume, which -seemed by "no
means to have satisfied him.
"All a maze worse than that of Crete I I
will follow that girl; she shall be my Ariadne
in this Egyptian darkness. Pshaw ! if His
.Highness of Hippo were right, what wouilbe-
ctme of the' world ? - All social organizations
are based (and-'firmly too) on. man's faith in
man; establish the universal depravity, devil-
ishness of the human race, and lo ! what -sup-
ports the mightysocial fabric? Machiavelism?
.If that queer little unti'ained freethinker,'Irene,
is not pure and sinless, then there are neither\
seraphim nor cherubim in high Ieaven ! Cy-
rus, bring out my buggy."
In answer to Irene's knock,.Electra opened
the cottage-door- and 'ushered. her into 'the
small room which served as both'kitchen' and
dining-room. Everything was scrupulously
neat, not a spot on 'the bare polished floor;hot
a speck todim the purity of the snowy diniity
curtains,.and on the table in the centre stood a
vase filled with fresh fragrant flowers. 'In ,a
low chair before 'the open window sat the
widow, net'tinga,blue and, white nubia. 'She
glanced round as Irene entered.
"Who I it. , lectra ?"
"Miss Irene, Aunt."-  '"   '
" Sit. down, Miss Irene'; how are you to.
day ?""    '..
She spoke rapidly, and for a moment.seem
confused, then resumed 'her, work.
watched her pale, delicate fingers, and theo
auburn 19shes drooping ovet- the"'coloies
cheeks, and, when she'looked uip for-an ixitast
'the visitor saw that'the niildimeek brdwn eyes
were sdly blurred.' If ever esignato  en
throned' itself'on a'woiW# 'brow, ouni h.
have bewed,: bedre Amy Aubrey's sa~t
placidly, subdued face. No-D)niel *athet

a

MACARIA.
1     '

15

14

*


MACARIA.

to interpret the lines which sorrow had printed,
around her patient, tremulous mouth.
"Ms. Aubrey, I am'sorry to hear your eyes
ark no better."
" Thank you for your kind sympathy. My
sight grows more dim every day."
Ihoul4 think netting would, be -injrious
to you now."
 "It is purely mechanical; I use my eyes
very little. Electra, arranges the, colors for
me, aid I find it easy work."
Irene'knelt down before her, and, folding
one of the hands in both hers,.said eagerly:
*" You shan't "ffer much longer ; these veils
shall be taken off. here is the money to en-
ablq you to go to New Orleans and consult
'that physician.. As soon as the weather turns
cooler you muststart."
. "Miss Irene,'I can not tax your generosity
sq h0vily ; I have no claim on your goodness.
Indleed.I---"'
"'lease don't refuse the money !-You will
distress me very much' if you do. Why should
you hesitate ? if it makes me happy and bene-
fits yo, why will you decline it,? Do you
think if my eyes werein the condition of yours
that I would not thank you to relieve me ?"
The widow ,had risen hastily and covered
her face with her hands, while, an unwonted
flush ,dyed her cheeks. She trembled, and
Irene saw tears stealing through the fingers.
"Mrs. Aubrey, don't you think it is your
duty to recover your sight if possible ?"
" Yesif I could command the means,"
You have the means-you must employ
them, There,I will not take back the money;
it is ours.",
tDon't refuse it, Auntie ; you will wound'
'Irie," pleaded Electra.
IUow little they understood or appreciated
the sruggle in that gentle sufferer's heart;
how impossible for them to;realize the humilia-
gon she -endured in accepting such a gift from
the hild.of Leonard Huntingdon ?
With a faltering voice she asked:,
"Did youi father send me this money ?"
.X lo."
It was the first time she had.ever alluded to
him, pnd Irene saw that some. painful memory
linked itself with her, father.. What couldn't
be ?  There was silece for' a few seconds;,
then Mrs. Aubrey too' the hands from her face
and said: "Irene, I will accept 'your generous
oger. 'If my sight is restored, I can repay you
some day; if not, I am not too proud to be
u  thasgreat obligation to you. Oh, Irene!
you how much I thank you; my
is tgo full for words."  She threw her
the girl's waist and strained hierto
"' -' 4a.hot tears-fell fast on the waves
fairr, A moment after, Irene threw
-a ~p iso Electra's lap, and without
aer wor ghded out of the room. The
roi e al, and as she opened a
diet of spote-aper aten-dollar bill slipped out.

" Electra, come to school Monday.' The
enclosed will pay your tuition for two months
longer. .Please don't hesitate to accept it, if
you really love
"Y our friend, "IbE"
,"4IRENE n
Mrs. Aubrey sat with her face in her hands,
listening to the mournful, solemn voice that
stole up from the mouldering, dusty crypts of
by-tone - years'; and ,putting the note in her
pocket, Electra leaned her head against the
wind w and thanked God for the gif of a true
friend. Thinking of the group she had just
left, Irene approached the gate and saw that
Russell stood olding it open for, her to pass.
Looking upshe stopped, for the expression of
his face frightened and pained her.,
" Russell, what is the matter'? oh ! tell me. '
A scornful, defiant smile. distorted his blood-
less lips,mbut he made no answer. She took
his hand; it was cold, and the fingers were
clenched..
" Russell, are you ill ?"  ... .
She.shuddered at the glare in his black
eyes. -
" I am not ill."
"Won't you tell your friend what ails you ?"
" -have no friend but my mother 1"
" Oh, Russell, Russell i"
Her head drooped, and the glittering hair
swept as a veil between them. The low, flute-
like, pleading voice stirred his heart, and the
blood surged over his pallid forehead.
"I have been injured and insulted. Just
now I doubt all people and all things, even the
justice and mercy df God."
" Russell, 'shall not the. righteous Judge of
all the earth do right?"'
" Shall the rich and the unprincipled eter-
nally trample upon the poor and- the unfortu-
nate ?"
" Who has injured you?"'
"A meek-loolimg man, who passes for a
Christian, who turns pale at the sound of a
violin, who exhorts to missionary labors, and
talks often about widpws and orphans, Such
a man, knowing the circumstances that sur-
round me-my poverty, my mother's affliction-
on bare and mest unwarrantable suspicion
turns me out of my situation as clerk, and en-
deavors to brand my name with infamy. To-
day I stand disgraced in the eyes of t4 com-
inunity, thanks to the vile slanders of that pil-
lar of the church, Jacob Watson. Four hours
ago I went to my work quietly, hopefully; but
now another spirit has entered and possessed
me. Irene, I am desperate. Do you wonder ?
It seems to me ages have, rolled over mesince
my mother kissed me this mormling; thereis a
hissing serpent in my 'heart which I have no
power to ezpel. I could bear dt-myself; but
my mother! my goble, patient, suffering moth-
er I I must go' in and add a yet heavier bur-
den to those aIready. crughimg out her life.

Pleasant tidings," these I bring her: that her
son 'is disgraced, branded as a rogue !"
There was no moistlige in the keen eye,ono
tremor in the metallic'ring'of his voice, no re-
laxation of the curled lip.
" Can't you prove your innocence ? WsS it,
money ?"
"No, it was a watch; my watch, whith'I
gave up as security for drawing a portion of
my salary in advance. It was' locked up in
the iron 'safe ; this morning it w8 missing, and
they accuse me of having stolen it."
He took off his hat as if it oppressed him,
and tossed back his hair. ,
" What will you do, Russell ?"
"I don't know yet."
"OhI if I could only help 'you."
She clasped her hands over her heart, and,
for the' first time since her infancy tears rush-
ed down her cheeks. It was painful to see.
that quiet girl' so moved, and Russell hastily
took the folded hands in his and bent his face
close, to hers.=
"Irene, the only comfort I have is that , yoi
are my friend. Don't let them infuence you
against me. No matter what you may hear,
believe in me.' Oh, Irene, Irene ! believe in'
me always I"              . .
He held her hands in a clasp so tight that it1
pained her, then suddenly dropped them and
left her. As a pantomime all this passed be-I
fore Electra's.eyes; hot 'a word reached her,.
but she knew that something unusual'had oc-
curred to bring her cousin home at that hour,
and felt that now he was but the avant-cou-
rier of a new sorrow. She glanced toward her
aunt's bowed form, then smothered a groan,
and sat waiting for the blow to -fall 'upon her.
Why spring to meet it?  He went to his own'
room first, and five, ten, fifteen minutes rolled
on. She listened tothe faint sound of his
steps, and knew that he paced, up and 'down 1
the floor ; five minutes more'of crushing sus-
pense, and he came along' the passage and
stood at the door. She looked at him, pale,
erect, and firm, and shuddered in thinking of
the struggle which that calm exterior had cost '
him. Mrs.' Aubrey recognized the- step, and
looked round in surprise.'
"Electra, I certainly hear Russell'comin;."s
He drew near and touched her cheek with 't
his lips, saying tenderly:               s
"'How is' my mother ?"s
" Russell, what brings'you home so early ?" t
"That is rather a cold welcome, Mother, t
but I am not astonished. Can you benr 'to
hear soniething.unpleasant ? Here, putyour o
hands in mine ; now listen to me.' You know  a
I drew fifty dollars-of mysalary in advance, to $l
pay Clark. At'that time 'I ave my watch'to
Mr. Wdtson by way of p~awn,' he seemed 'so
reluctant to let 'me bae the tney; you und
derstand, Mother, why I did.ndt mnatidn 'it-at '
the time. H le locked it 'up in the irdn safe,% to'
which no one' has access except him and nmg- a

self.. Late yesterday Ilocked the safe  usu
but do not member whether th watch was
still there or not; this iornin  Mr. Wato
missed it; we searched safe, desk, store, could
fid it nowhere, nor the' twenty-dollgr gold
piece deposited at the ame tine. No other
money was missing, though the safe contained
'nearly a thousand dollars The end of, it all
is that I am accused as the thief nd
in disgrace for---"
A 1w, plaintive&amp;'y escaped the    ds
lips, and her head rsank ea o th    d's
shoulder. Passing his arm fondly around her
he missed her while faced conatrei   t
same hushed, pass onless tone,, like onespeak-
ing under his breath, and stilling soedevour-
ing rage:  I
" Mother, Ineed not assure you of my inno-
ce'ce. You know that I never ould 'be"
guilty of what is imputed toe
having it in my power to prove my iinocence,
I 'shall Haya'e to suffer the disiraco for a season.
Only for a season, I trust, ';othe, for in.time
the truth mus be dis'red. r, hav    n
turned out of .uhy situation, and;though vtey
hare no proof'fof my" guilt, theywill try-to
brand me With t' edisrace. ;  ut"tey can't
crush n'me;  soglo t re emaihs at tropof
blood in my veins,' I will 'score athdir slaide s
and their hatred. Don't cry,  other; your
~~~ tears hurt me,,om t Iu
teas hrt nc  ore 'than all my  rngI''
you will only be brave, and pt e  g
dence in me, I shall bear all tbi infinitely bet-
ter. Look at the bitter truth ae ytface
we have nothingmore'to lose: 'Por raicted
disgraced, there is nothi ig eleoniearthrto
fear ; but there is everything  'ope for:
wealth,,name, fame, influenpe.oThis is my
comfort; it is a.grim philosophy, 'born of D-
spair. I go forward fom to-da  like  a m a
who comes out of 'some fieryfurnace, ahd,
blackened and scorched 'though he be, looks  F
into the future, without apprehension, feeling,
assured that it can hold nortrials comparable
to those already  ast. SereI aInam'asron
but you should have'another'and far-brighter
hope to rest upon ; it is just such ordeals as
his for which religion promises you strength
and consola n 'Mother, 'I have seen gth
supported by Christian faith ina darker hour
han this. Take courage; 'all i ill weo
nome day."
For a few moments deep, silene'e~e    n
he little kitchei anddothe 1nme de eye
pierced the heart ff the lo td         r
Jh     e raised her head fromthe boy' -
Dm the face, though tear-stained, *as seine,
nd, pressing hr loe'twice to ais she  d
lowly .
"   ' Beloved, thidito t   concerning  . g

MACARIA'

16

171


MACARIA.

18.                             MACARIA.

which shall convince the world of your-inno-
cence. I wish I could take the whole burden
on my shoulders, and relieve you, my dear
boy."
"o  have; Mother ; it ceases to crush nie,
now thatyou are yourself once more."  He
spoke with difficulty, however, as if something.
stifledhim, and, rising, hastily poured out and
drank a glass of water.
s"And now, Russell, sit down and let me
tell you,a little that is pleasant and sunshiny.
There' is still a bright spot left to look upon."
Stealing her hand 'into 'his, the mother in-
formed him of all that 'had occurred during
Irne's visit, and concluded by laying the
money in his palm.
Electra sat opposite,.watching the change
that came over the face she loved best on
earth. Her large,' eager, midnight eyes noted
the 4uick flush and 'glad light which over-
spread his features; 'the deep joy that kindled
in his toistred 'soul; and unconsciously she
clutched her fin ers till the .nails grew. purple,
as' though sttivn uto strange le some hideous
object th rusting itself before her. Her breath-
ini became labored and painful, her gaze
more concentrated and ,searchis g, and when
her'ousin 'exclaimed, "Oh, Mother i she is
anangel! I have always known it. She is
unlke everybody else ." .lectra's heart seemed
tostand still; and from that moment a som-
bre curtain fell between the girl's eyes and
God'ssunshine. She rose, and a silent yet
terrible struggle took placein' her passionate
soul. Justice and Jealousy wrestled briefly;
she would be just, though every star 'fell.froin
Iimr sky, and with'a quick, uncertain step she
reached Uussell, thrust Irene's note into his
fin ersand fled into solitude.
'n hour later Russell knocked at the door
of an office, which bore on a square tin plate
these words, "Robert Campbell, Attorney-at-
Law." The door was only partially closed
and as he entered an-elderly man looked up
from a desk covered with 'loose papers and
open volumes, from which he was evidently
making extracts. The thin hair hung over, hi
fore ead as'if restless fingers had ploughed
releal thro gh it, and  as he -kept on
er on a half-copied    aragraph, the col
gey said very plainly, "This is a busy
time with mea despatch your errand at once.
" Good-morn in , Mr. Carpbell; are. yot
particularly 'engaged,?"'
"' flow-d'y-do, Aubrey. I "am generally en
e ; confoundedly busy thismorning. Wha
Is p en resumed its.work, but he turner
his head as if to listen.
I will call aain when you are at leisure,
'That will be-nxt' month-next year ; i:
fihp~toing your' visit indefinitely. Si
into a crner, ami let 's hear' your busines:

I am at your service for ten minutes-talk
fast."
He put bis pen behind his ear, crossed his
arms on the desk, and looked expectant.
"I came here to ask whether you wished to
employ any one in your office."
" And what. the deuce do you suppose I
want with an,office-lad like yourself ? To put
the very books I need at the. bottom of a pile
tall as theTower of Babel,., and tear up my
briefs to kind. the fire or light your cigar?
No, thank you, Aubrey'; I tried that experi-
ment to my perfect satisfaction a few months
ago. - Is that' all ?"
" That is all, sir."
The boy rose, but the bitter look that cross-
ed his face as he glanced at the well-filled
book-shelves arrested the lawyer's attention,
and he added:.-
" Why did you leave Watson, young man?
It is a bad plan to change about in this style."
"I was expelled from my situation on a foul
and most unjust accusation. I am seeking
employmentfron necessity."
"Expelled is a. dark word, Aubrey; it will
hardly act as a passport to future situations.
Expelled clerks are not in demand.",
" Still, I'must state the truth unreservedly."
" Let 's hear the whole business ; sit down."
Without hesitation"'he narrated all the cir-
cumstances, once or twice pausing to still the
tempest of passion that flashed from his, eyes.
While he spoke Mr. Campbell's keen eyes
searched hi from head to foot, and at the
conclusion heasked sharply :
" « Where-is the watch, do you suppose ?"
" Heaven only knows. I have a suspicion,'
*but no right to utter it, since I might thereby
inflict a wrong equal to that from which I now
suffer."
"It is a datk piece of business as it stands."
" Yes, but time will clear it up."
" See here, Aubrey; I have noticed youtwo,
or three times in the court-house listening to
I some of my harangues. I knew your father,
and I should like to help you. It sees to me
ydu might make better use of your talents
I than you are doing. And yet, if you rise it
e will be over greater obstacles than most men
I -surmount. Do you understand me "
"1 do ; for I am tho painfully aware of the
rejudice against which I have to contend.
u But if I live, I shall lift myself out of this pool
where malice;and hate have thrust me."
-    ' - Whatci you propose to do ?"'
t   "Work at the plough or before the anvil, if
nothing els can be done to support my moth-
d er and cousin.;and, as soon as I possibly can,
study law. This is my plan,and tor two years
I have been pursuing my Latin and. Greek
'with 'an eye te ageompliefing the schemee"
n " I see.Fate has thumped none of your; origt
t inal obstingscy. outbot ayou. Aubrey, suppose
~s I shut my eyes to the watch transaction, and
s. take you into my office ?" . .

"If so, I shall do my duty faithfully. But
you said you did not need any one here, and
though I am anxious to -find work I do not ex-
peet orgdesire to be taken in from charity. I.
intend to'. earn my wages, sir, and from your
own account .1 should jdge you had very little
use. for an assistant."
" Humph,! a bountiful share of pride along
with prodigious, obbtimacy. ' Though I am a
lawyer, I told you the truth; I have no earthly
use for such assistants as I have been plagued.
with for several years. In the ngain, office-
boys are-a nuisance, comparable only to the
locusts. of Egypt; I washed my hands of the
whole tribe months since. Now I have.a ne-
gro to attend to my office, make fires, etc., and
if I could only get an intelligent, ambitious,
honorable, trustworthy young man, he would
be a help to me. I had despaired of finding
such, but, on: the whole, I rather like you;
believe you cansuit me exactly if you will,
and I am disposed to give you a trial. Sit
down here and copy this paragraph; let me
see what sort of hieroglyphics I shall have to
decipher if I make you my copyist."
Russell silently complied, and after.  a care-
ful examination it seemed the chirography
was satisfactory.
" Look there, Aubrey, does that array fright-
en you ?"
He pointed to the opposite side of the room,
where legal documents of every shape and size
were piled knee-deep for several yards.
"They look formidable, sir, .but nothing
would afford me more pleasure than to fathom
their mysteries."
" And what security can you give me that
the instant my back is turned you will not i
quit my work and go off, to my books yonder,'
-which I notice you have been eyingvery
greedily."
"No security, sir, but the promise of ,.an
honest soul to do its work faithfully and un-
tiringly. Mr. Campbell,'I-understand my po-c
sition thoroughly; .1 know only too well;that I
have everything to make-an 'honorable name,
an unblemished reputation .-and, relying only
on myself, I expect to help myself. -f. you 1
really need an assistant, and think me trust-
worthy, I will be very glad to serve 'you, and-
shall merit your confidnee I come to you
under adverse circumstances, with a tarnished  t
character, and of course you feel some hesi-c
tancy in employing ume  L have concealed 1
nothing; you're acquainted with all, the facts, f
and must decide accordingly."            s
There was nothing pleading in his tone or I
mien, but a proud, desperate calmness unu-.
sual in one of his age. aWhen a truly honest,s
noble soul meets an equal, barriers of position i
andI age melt like snow-flakes in sunshine, allc
extraneous circumstances fall 'away, and, di- c
vested of pomp or ragst as. theta case may; bei
th fl, undimmed majesty of' spirit :greets t
spirit, and clear-eyed Sympathy, soaring above 's

the dross and dust of worldly eonventionali-
ties, knits them in bonds lasting 'as   .
Looking into-the resolute yet melancholy 4ace
before.him, the lawyer forgot the poverty and
disgrace clinging to his name, and leaning
forward graspedhishand.
"Aubrey, you and I can work peaceably to-
gether ; I value your candor, I like your reso-
lution.  Come to me on Monday,.and ' the
matter of salary, you 'shall find meiberal
enough. I think you toldime you had a cousin
as. well asyour mother to support.; I shall not
forget it. Now,. good-morning, and leave me,
unless you desire to accumulate, worker your-
self."
People called Mr. ,Campbell miserly,"
"egotistic," and "selfish." - These are harsh
adjectives, and, the public frequently applies
them with 'culpable haste and uncllaritable-
tess, for there is an, astonishing proclivity] in
human nature' to detract, to carp, to spy out,
and magnify faults. If at allprone to gxer
ous deeds;, Mr. Campbell certainly failed; to'
placard them in public places; he had never
given any large amount to any particular,
church, institution, or society, but tiefew wbQ
knew him well indignantly denied the charge
of penuriousness preferred by the community.
A most unsafe criterion is public estimation,;
it canonizes many an arch-hypocrite and mar-
tyrs many a saint..
CHAPTE R IV.
From early childhood Irene had eaperi-
enced a sensation of loneliness. ,Doubtless
the loss of her mother enhanced this feeling,
et the peculiarity of her mientalsorganitationi
would have necessitated it even under happi0e
auspices.' Her. intellect was of the masculine
order, acute and logical, ratherdeficient in
the imaginative faculties, but keeniyapalyti-
cal. It is an old predicate, that womenare de-
ductioniste--that womanflrintuitidnsare swift
and infallible. In richly-endowed femalamiads
it not. unfrquently happens that tedious,.
reflective processes; are ignored; but 'Irene
was a patient rather than brilliant thinher,-
and with singular perseverance searched every  :
nook and-cranny, and sifted, every phase .ot
the subject presentedefor investigation.' Hert
conclusions were never hastfnd consequent.
.y rarely unsound.. From the time her;baby-
ingers first grasped4i. primer she became a
student; dolls and toys such as constitite the
happiness of mostchildren hadneve&amp;Posssee[
any attraction, for her, andefore shewe:as
eight years4old she ,made the' rary-,he' 1 vor.
t resort. , e would, climb upon tha morrc.n'
.o-coyereil tante th'lere stood two glphes,aone.
elestial, th~e, othey' terrestrial, j; appends heit'a
ii deciphering the, strange1 heathensh figure
wined among the stai-s. When' er-y ofe
tudying thee 'ndex of the thermometer aad


MACARIA.                 -  1

barometer, and wondering why the quicksilver
varied with sunshine and shower,' she would
throw herself down on the floor and 'fall asleep
ovet the quaint pictures in an old English en-
cyclopedia,' numbering thirty volumes. She
haunted this room,,and grew up among books
centlies old. Thus until her tenth year there
was no authority exerted over her, 'and the
strong, reflective tendency of her mind rapidly
developed itself.  This was an abnormal, con'
dition, and indisputably an unfortunate train-'
ing, and perhaps in after years it might have
been better hadshe spent the season of care-
less, thoughtless childhood in childish sports
and childhood's wonted ways, for anxious
inquiry land tedious investigations come soon
enough with maturity.
She was not an enthusiastic, impulsive nat-
ure; fitful in moodiness or ecetacy, inclined to
passionate demonstrations. of, any kind ; but,
from infancy evinced a'calm, equable temper-
amedt, uniformly generous and unselfish, but
most thoroughly firm,,nay obstinate,in any
matter involving principle or conflicting with
her opinions of propriety.. How she- obtained
these notions of right and wrong in minor de-
tails, was a 'subject of some mystery. They
weke not the result of education in the ordi-
nary acceptation of that term, for they had
never been instilled by anybody; and, likea
wood-flower in some secluded spot, she lived,
drew, and expanded her nature, without any
influences to 'bias or color her views. In her
promiscuous reading she was quite as apt to im-
bibe poisonous as healthy sentiments; and
knowing that she had been blessed with few
religious instructions, her father often wonder-
ed at the rigidness of her codtefor self-regular
tion. ,Miss Margaret considered her "a strange
little thing," and rarely interfered with her
plans in any respect, while her father seemed
to take it for granted'thatr she requi-ed no
looking after. He knew that her beauty was
extraordinary; he was proud of the fact; and
having provided her-with agood music-master,
and sent her to the best school in the county,
he left her to employ her leisure as inclination
prompted. Occasionally her will conflicted
with his, and more than once he found it im-
possible to make her yield assent to his'wishes.
To the outward observan~ces of obedience and-
respect she' submitted, b; whenever these dif-
ferees occurred he felt that in 'the end she
was unconquaered. 'Inconsistent' as it may ap-
pear, though fretted for 'the time by her firm-
ness,,'he 'loved her the more for' her "'iilful-
ness," as he termed' it ; and despotic and ex-
acting; though'1 certainly wasin many re-
spects, he stood  mewhat in awe of his pure-
he-ated,.calm-eyed.chil. Hi s wa  ridneh-

instance nave rise to a deal of gossiping com-
ment.    ow the matter became public he
never knew; probably Sparrowgrasse's "e -
rier-pigeon" migrated southward, for it is now
no uncommon thing to find one in our cities
and country towns; and at all events Mr. Hun
tingdon soon found that his private domestic
affairs were made an ordinary topic of con-
versation in social circles. Irene had never
been officially apprised of her destiny, but sur-
mised very accurately the truestate of the case.
Between the two cousins there existed not the
slightest congeniality of taste or disposition;
not a sympathetic link, save the tie of relation-
ship. On her part there was a moderate share
of cousinly affection; on his, as much love and
tenderness as his selfish nature was capable of
feeling. They rarely quarrelled as most chil-
dren do, ?or when (as frequently happened) he
flew into a rage and tried to tyrannize, she
scorned to retort in any way, and generally
locked' him out of the library. What she
thought' of her father's intentions' concerning
herself, no one knew ; she never alluded tothe
subject, and if in a frolicsometmood Hughs
broached it, she invariably cut the discussion
short. When he went to college in ahdistant
state she felt infinitely relieved, and during his~
vacations secluded herself asmuch as possible.
Yet the' girl's heart was warm and clinging;
she loved her father devotedly, and loved most'
intensely Electra Grey, whom she had first met
at school. They were nearly the ,same age,
classmates, and firm friends. That she was
beautiful, Irene of course knew quite as well
as her father or any one else; how could she
avoid knowin it ' From her cradle she had
been called" Queen" and "Beauty;" all her
acquaintances flattered her-strangers om-
mented onher loveliness; she no more doubted
it than the fact of her existence; and often
stopped before the large parlor mirrors and ad-
mired her own image, just as she would have
examined and admired andenjoyed one of the
elegant azaleas or pelargonimus in the green-
house. I repeat it, she prized and enjoyed her
loveliness, but she was not vain. She was no
more spoiled by adulation than a meek and
snowy camellia, or one of those immense gold-
en~eyed pansies which astonish and delight
visitors at the hothouses on Long Island. God
conferred, marvellous beauty on her, and 'she
was grateful' for the gift--but to the miserable
weaknesses 'of- vanity'she wa a stranger.) In
the midst of books and rowe's she was happ
and seemed to desire no companions but sre-
bus and Paragon. She rode every day when
the weather' permitted, and the, jetty horse,
with its gr~eeful young rider, followed by the
everyhill ndvrley   ihi n ten milesof the

found the earliest sprays of graybeard that
powdered the forest. Often Mr. Huntingdon
had ordered his horse andagone ou$, in the
dusky twilight to'search for her, fearing that
some disaster had overtaken his darling, and.
at such times met Erebus laden with her favor-
ite flowers., -'These were the things she loved;
and thus, independent of society, yet conscious'
of her isolation, she grew up what nature in-
tended her to be.
As totally different in'character as appear-
ance was Electra Grey. Rather smaller and,
much thinner'than Irene, with shining purplish
black hair, large,' sad, searching black eyes,'
from which there was no escape, a pale livee
complexion, and full crimson lips that rarely
smiled.' The forehead was broad and promi-
nent, and rendered very peculiar by the' re-
markable width between the finely-arched
brows, The serene purity .characteristic of
Irene's features was' entirely wanting,'in' this,
face, which would have seemed Jewish in its
contour but fbr the Grecian nose; and the
melancholy yet fascinating eyes haunted the
beholder with their restless, wistful, far-reach-.
ing expression. Electra was a dreamer, richly
gifted'; dissatisfied because she could never
attain thatunreal world which her busy brain
kept" constantly before her. The child of
Genius is rarely, if evlr, a; happy one.--
"Heaven lies about us in our infancy."
If so, its recollections cling tenaciously to
those who, like Electra, seek continually for
the airy castles of an ideas realm. Her vivid
imagination shaped and painted, but, as too
often happens, her eager blood and bone
fingers could not grasp theglories. The thou-
sand cares, hardships, and rough handlings of
Reality struck gold and jarring' on, her sensi-
tive, highly-strung nature. She did not com-
plain; murmuring words had never crossed
her lips in the hearing of any who knew her ?
she loved her aunt too well to speak of sor-
row or disappointment.' Fourteen years'-had
taught her an unusual amount of stoicism, but
sealed''lips- can not sepulchre grief, and trials
have a language which will not be repressed
when the mouth is at rest. She 'looket not
gloomy, nor yet quite unhappy, but like one
who sees obstacles mountain-high loom between
her anq the destined goal, and ,sks only per-
mission to press on.. Hers was a passionate
nature ; fierce blood beat .in, heir veins,- and
would not always be bound by icy fetters.I
There was no serene plateau of theling where -
she could repose ; she enjoy ed keenly, raptu-t
rously, and suffered acutely, fearfulljyj Untbrt-Y

the towering steeps crowned with the Teeple
of Art. To. be an artist; to put on canvas
the grand and imperishableinages that crow'
ed her brain, and almost maddened her becauSe,
she could lot give them tangible frin---this
was the day-dreas spanning ,her life like :a
bow of, promise, but fading; slowly : as ?eats
thickened o'er her head and no helpingg hand
cleated the choked path. "«Poverty I pover-
ty I" Many a:night she buried her face und4
the pillow and hissed the word through closed
teeth, fearful of disturbing the aunt 'whoslutn-
bered at her side. Poverty'! poverty! What
an intolerable chain it binds around aspiring
souls I And yet 'the world's great :thinkers
have felt this iron in their flesh, andybursting
'the galling bonds, have carved their way' to
,eminence, to immortality. 'It isalamentable'
and significant truth that, with'a few honora-
ble, noble, exceptions; wealth is the Canneof
American intellect. -Poverty is a rigid, school,
and the sessions, are long, and bitter ; but the
men and women who graduate therein 'come
forth with physical frames capable of enduring
all hardships,.with hearts habituated f6 disap-
pointment and fortified' against thie rebuffs of
fortune, with intellects trained by patient,
laborious, unbending application. The ten-
derly-nurtured, child of wealth and luxury
very naturally ,and reasonably shrines from
difficulties; but increase the .obstacles in the
path. of a son or daughter of penury, inured
to trial, and in the same ratio you strengthen
his or her ability and',determination to sur4
mount them.
Electra's love of drawing had early dis-
played itself; first, in' strange, -weird figures
on her slate, then in her copy-book, on every
slip of paper"which she could lay her hands .
upon; an,.finally, for want of more suitable
material, she scrawled all over the walls of
the little bedroom, to the great horrorof her
aunt, who spread a coat of whitewash 'over
the child's frescos, and begged her to be guilty
of no such conduct in future, as:Mr. ,Clark
might with 'reat justice sue for denma es.n
utter humiliation Electra retreated to the
garden, and-here, after a shower hadsleft the
sandy walks white and" smooth, .she would
sharpen a bit of pine, and - draw figures and
faces of all conceivable 'and d inconceivable,,ae  C ncgtofd,'rths'eg  d
one Sunday afternoon, Russell supplied her ,
with a pack of drawing'p aper'and pancils.
So long. as', these lasted, i was 'perfectly
happy, but' unluckily their straitened'-dr-
umtances admitted of no' suchexpenditure
and before, many weeks. she was 'again without
materials. 'She, would .not, tel 1ussell. -the t
1he ha  xaitd"i pcae       n.pse
.Leepl wes nghtAti A Ng.L2-to devise some' ot.hqd1

MACARIA'

1


MECAMIA.                           23

22                           MACARIA.

time, because her aunts:could not al'ord the
extra three dollars.. How longingly the eyes
followed the master's form-boW hungrily they
dwelt uyoux the -sketches he leaned, over to
examine 'aid retouch !. Frequently during
drawing-hour the would sit with 'her head bent
down pretending to, study; but the pages of.
the book were generally blistered with tears
which no eye bit the Father's looked A:pon.
There was, however, one enjoyment wich
nothing could; steal from her : the town con-
tained two book-stores, and here she was wont
to liniet over the numerous engravings and
occasional ,oil-paintings they boasted.  The
proprietors'and clerks seemed.rather pleased
than otherwise by the silent homage she paid
their pictures, and, except to tender her a
seat, no on&amp;ever interfered with her examina-
tions. One engraving interested her particu-
larly: it represented Ot. John on Patmos,
writing Revelations.'° She went as usual one
Saturday:morning for anothe*plook at it, but
a different :design hung in its place; .she
glanced around, and, surmising the object of
her search the proprietor , told her .it had
been sold the day- before.'- Anexpression of
sorrow crossed her face, as though she had
sustained an irreparable loss, and, drawing
her bonnet down, she went slowly homeward.
Amid all these 'yearnings and aspirations she
turned constantly to Russell with a worship..
ing love that knew no bounds. She loved
her meek, affectionate aunt as well as most
natures-love 'their mothers, and did all in her
'power to li'h'ten her labors, but her affection
for Russell Bordered on adoration. In a char-
acter so exacting and passionate as hers there
is, necessarily much of jealousy, and, thus 'it
came to pasp that, on the day of Irene's visit
to the .cottage, the horrible suspicion took
possession of her that 'he loved Irene better
than.herself. True, she was very young, but
childish hearts feel as keenly as those of ia-
turer years'; and Electra, endured more agony
during that day -than in all of her past life.
Had Irene been other than she was, in every
respect, she would probably have hated ,her
cordially ; as matters stood, she buried , the
suspicion deep in her own heart, and kept as
uch out of everybody's way as possible.1Days
and weeks passed very wearily ; she busied
herself with her text-books, and, when the
lessons- had been recited, drew all over the
margins-here a hand, there anynentire arm,
now' and then a face, sad-eyed as Fates
Mrs. Aubrey's eyes became so blurred that
finally she could not leave the 'house without
! having some one to guide her, and, as cold
weather had ;now arrived, prepatations were
imade fo her journey. Mr. Hi1 , who was gO-
ing to New, Orleans, kindly offered to take
flcharge of her, and the day of' departure was
6xed. ' Electra packed the'little'trunk 'saw it
peosited on the to of the stage, in the dawn
ofan October morning saw her-aunt comforta-

bly seated beside Mr.- Hill, and in another
moment ali'had vanished. In the afternoon of
that -day, on returning from school; Electra
went to the bureau, and, unlocking a drawer,
took out -a small paper box. It contained a
miniature of her Mather, s';t in a handsome
gbld frame. ,She knew it had'been her moth-
er'samost valued trinket ; her aunt had care-
fully kept it for her, and as often as the temp-
tation assailed her she had resisted ; but now
the longing for money triumphed over every
other feeling: Having touched' the spring,
she took a knife and cautiouslyremoved the
bit of ivory beneath the glass, then deposited
the two last in the box, putthe.gold frame in
her pocket, and went out to a jewelry-store.
As several persons: had preceded her, she
leaned against the counter, and, while waiting,
watched with some curiosity the movements of
one of the goldsmniths, who, with a glass - over
one eye, was engaged in repairing watches.
Some had been taken from their cases, others
were untouched; and as her eyes passed swift-
ly over the latter, they were' suddenly riveted
to a massive gold one lying somewhat apart.
A  half-smothered exclamation caused the
workman-to turn round and look at her; but
in an. instant she calmed herself, and, thinking
it a mere outbreak of !impatience, he resume
his employment. Just then one of the propri-
etors approached, and said politely, "I am
sorry we have kept you waiting, Miss. What
can I do for you ?"
" What is this worth ?"
She laid the lodket down on the counter
and looked up at him with eyes that sparkled
very joyously, he thought. He examined it a
moment, and said rather drily :
" It is worth little or nothing to us, though
you-may prize it." k; ,
" If I were to buyanother jest like it, would
.you charge me.'little or nothing?' "
He smiled good-humor'edly.
" Buying and selling 'are different thing,
don't you'now that ? Come, tell me wha
you want to sell this for ?"
" Because I want some money."
" You are Mrs. Aubrey's niece, I believe ?"
" Yes, sir.""
"Well, how do I know, iii the first place,
that it belongs to you ? Jewellers haveito be
very particular about what they buy."
She crimsoned, and drew herself proudly
away from the counter, then smiled, and held.
out her band for the l6eket. ,1
" It is ine ; it held my father's miniature,
but I'took it out because I want a paint-box,
and thought I could sell this case for enough',
to buy one. It was my mother's once; here
are her initials on the back-Hi. G., Hiarrat
Grey.s But of course you don't know whether
I am telling the truth ; I will bring my cousin
with me; le can prove it. Sir, are .you so
particular about everything you buy ?"
"We tr to be."

Again her eyes sparkled; she bowed, and
left the store.
Once in the street, she hurried to Mr. Camp-
bell's office, ran up the steps, and rapped loudly.
at the door.
"'Comein" thundered tlte'lawyer,
She stopped on the threshold, glanced round,
and said timidly:
" I want to see Russell, if you please."
"Russell is at the post-office. Have you any
particlar spite at mny door, that you belabor it,
in that style'? or do you suppose I am as deaf
as a ate-post?'       -
"' beg you pardon; I did not mean to
startle you, sir. I was pot thinking of either
you or your door."
. She 'sprang down the- steps to wait on the'
sidewalk for her cousin,, and met him at the
entrance.
" Oh, Russell! I have found your watch."
A ray of light seemed to leap from his eyes
as he seized her hand.-
" Where ?"
" At Mr. 'Brown's jewelry-store."
" Thank God I"
'He went up the stairway, delivered the
letters, and came back, accompanied by. Mr.
Campbell.
"This is my cousin, Electra Grey, Mr. Camp-
bell."
" So I inferred from the, unceremonious
assault' she madae on my door just now. How-
ever, shake hands, little lady; it seems.there is
some reason for your haste. Let's hear about
this precious watch business."    -
She simply told what she had seen, Pres-
ently Russell said:     ,.
"But how did you happen there,'Electra
" Your good*,angel sent me, I suppose ; -"
and she added, in a whisper, " I will tell you
some other time."
'On re-entering the store she walked at once
to the workman's corner and pointed out the
watch.
" Yes, it is mine. I would know it among a'
thousand."
" How can you identify it, Aubrey ?"
He immediately gave the number, and name
of the manufacturer, and described the interior
tracery, not omitting the quantity of jewels.
Mr. Campbell turned to the proprietor (the
same gentleman with -whom Electra had con-
versed), and briefly recapitulated the circum-
stances which had occurred in connection with
the watch. Mr. Br6wn -listened attentively,
then requested Russell to point out the particu-
lar one that resembled his. He did so, and on
examination the number, date, name, and all
the marks corresponded so exactly that no
doubt remained on the jewelle s di .
"Young man,-you say onu were ac'6used1 of
stealing yog Own watch '
"Then I will try to clear your name. .This
watch was brought here several Neeks sm~ed,

*hile I was absent. I aup very guarded in
such matters, hd 'require my otig n Jere
to take a certificate of the name 'and ?laceof
residence of all ftran'ers who ofre artwies'f r
sale or excl ang e.   Oncee. eY innocently
bought som6 stored property, aid it taught me
a lesson. This watchtwas sold for: nimit' dol-
lars by a mhan named Rnfus Tirner, 'who'ives
in New Orleans, No. 240 -- street. I will
write to him 'jt once, and find o14j if 'ossib4,
how it came into his 'possessin.I 'rather
think he had some horses hero for sale."
"Did he wear green glasses ?" inqu red
Russell of 'the young man who had yurehased
the watch.
"Yes, and had one amin a sing.
"I saw such a man here about the tim y
watch was missing."
After soma directions from Mi.. Capbell
concerning the 'proper course to be prsued,
Electra drew out her locket, saying.-
" Now, Russell, is not this locket min?
" Yes; but where 'is the'miiature ?  Wha
are you going to do with it ?"
" The miniature, is it home, but T apt t,
sell the frame, and Mr. 'Brown does iot know
but that it is another watch case ?"
"" If it is necessary, I will swear that 'it be.
longs lawIlly to you; but what do you want
to sell it for'? I should think you  would prize,.
it too highly to be willing to part with it.",'
" I do prize the miniature, and would not
part with it for any consideration; but I want
something far more than a gold case to keep
it mn."
" Tell" me what you want, and I will get it
for you," whispered her cotfh.
"No ; I am going to self this frame,"
"And I an going to buyit from you," said
the kind-hearted iperchant, taking it from her
hand and weighing it;.
Russell and Mr. Campbell left the store, and
soon after Mr. Browd paid 'lectra sevral
dollars for the locket.
In half an hour she had purchased a smill
box of paints, a supply of drawing-paper and'
pencils, and returned hom, happier 'and
prouder than mny an empress 'whose jewels
have equalled those of .the Begums of Onde.
She had cleared Russell's character,,and her
hands were pressed over her 'heart to still its
rapturous throbbing. Happy as an unepged
bird, she arranged the tea4able and..sat dVwi
to wait for him. fTe came at last, later than
usual, and' then she had be*reward, he htook
her in his arms 'and kissed her.' Yet, while
his ip rested on hers, irene' image rqse'be.
fore her, and he Felt der shiver As se clungt
him.    e was her idol, and the i barle u
ion of his loving anothere matter chill'  'ths
blood in her ven. Xge spoke little of te
wabh, a    kred to mis his m te  4 hi  ef
ignorajit han *d   lisW t pd xin hiousin's
hear-t; how little he sui  fetd thl iu*nsityof


24

MARIA.

her feelings! Constantlyoecupied during the
dad, he rarely .thought of her away from
- home;.and though always li d and consider-
ate, he failed to understand 'her nature, or
fullya preci te her affection for him. Mpny
day'ea sed before M . Turner's answer ar-
rived.T e stated that he.had won the watch
from'sCecil. Watson .at a horse-race, where
both were betting and proved the  orrectness
of his aiertion by reference toseveral persons
who were present,,andY who resided in the
own. .issel had' suspectedeil from the'
moment of its 'disappearance, 'ud now, pro-
vided with both letter and watch, and. accom-
aniedby Mr. Brown, he repaired to Mr.
Watson's store.'- Russell had been insulted,
his nature w1;s stern,,and now he exulted -in
the power of disgracing thesop of the man
who had wronged him. There'was .no flush-
on his face, but a cold, triumphant glitter in
is eyes as he approached his former employ-
er, and laid watch and letter before him.Y
" What business have you here ?" growled
the.merchant, trembling before the expression
of the boys countenance.
"oMy business is to clear my character which
you have slandered, and to fix the disgrace you
intended for ne on your own son. I brig
youthe proofs of his, not my villany." g
"Come into the back room; I will see Brown
another time," said Mr. Watson, growing paler
each moment.
" No, sir; you were not sp secret in your
dealings with me. Here where yod insulted
me you shall hear the whole truth. Read
that.' I suppose the twenty-dollar gold 'Piece
followed the watch."               .
The unfortunate father perused the letter
slowly, and smothered a groan. Russell watch-,
ed him with a keen joy *hich he might have
blushed to acknowledge had ,he analyzed his
feelings. Writhing under his empaling eye,
Mr. Watsn4aid:
" Have you applied to the witnesses referred
to?"s ,   ,
"uYes; they are ready to swear that they
saw Cecil bet Turner the watch."-
"You did, not tell them the circumstances,
did you?.
"'Well, it is an unfortunate affair ;. I want
it dropped as quietly as possible. - It will never
do to have, it known far and Wide."
.a ha I you can feel the sting now. But
reanbar you took care to circulate the slan-
der ongny name. I heard of it. You did not
spar me, you did not spare my mother ; and,
Jacob Watson, neither willI spare you. You
never eliee me guilty, but you' hated me
IL and gloried ij n opportunity of injuring mel
Dlo you 'sppgie I shall shield your unprinci-
pled son for your sake ? You showed me:4 n
mercy ; you may expect aslittle. The stopf of
the watph shall make its way 'Whlerever we-"
He paused suddenly, for the image of is

entle, forgiving mother rose before him, and
e knew that she would be grieved at the-
spirit he evinced. There was an awkward
silence, broken by Mr. Watson.
1f I retract all that I have said against
you, and. avow your innocence, will it satisfy
you?   Will you be silent about Cecil ?''
"No!" rose peremptorily to ,his lips, but he
checked it,;. and the patient teaching of years,
his mother's precepts and his mother's prayers
brought forth their first fruit-golden Charity.
"You merit no forbearance at my hands,
and I came here intending to ahow you none ;
but,,on reflection, I will not follow your exam-
ple. Clear nay name before the public, and I
leave. the whole affair with you. There has
nevpr been any love between us, because you
were always despotic and ungenerous, but I
tam sorry for you now, for you have taught me
how heavy is the -burden you have to bear in
future. Good-morning"
Afraid to trust himself, he turned, away and'
joined Mr. Campbell in the office.
In the afternoon of the same day came a
letter from Mr. Hill containing sad news.
The oculist had -operated on Mrs. Aubrey's
eyes, but violent inflammation had ensued-; he
had done all that scientific skill could prompt,
but feared she would be hopelessly blind. At
the close of the letter Mi. Hill stated that he
would bring her home the following week.
One November. evening, just before dark,
while Russell was cutting wood for the kitch-
en-fire, the stage stopped at the cottage-gate,
and he hurried forward to receive his mother
in his arms. ,It was a melancholy reunion;
for a moment the poor sufferer's fortitude for-
sook her, and she wept. But his caresses
soothed her, and she followed Electra into
the house while he broucht- in the trunk.
When shawl and bonnet iad been removed,
and Electra placed, her in the rocking-chair,
the light fell on face and, figure, and the cous-
ins.started at the change that had taken place.
She was so ghastly pale, so very much reduced.
'She told them all that had occurred during
the tedious-weeks, of absence ; how much she
regretted having gone since the trip proved so
unsuccessful; how much more she deplored
the affliction on their account than her own ;
and then from that hour no allusion was-ever
made to it.
CHAPTER V.
Weeks and months slipp   away, and total
darkness came down on     e   widow. She
groped 'with,some 'diiculty frorp room to room,
and Electrawas compelled to remain at home
and watch over ,her. Russell had. become a
great favorite withl.his crusty engl~oyer, and,
when the labors of 'the office were ended, ,
,brought hopme such books-'as he 'needed, and..
spent his evenings in study. His powers of

I

MACARIA

applipatipn 'and endurance, were extraordi-'
nary; and his progress was in the same ratio.
As he became more  nd more ashorbes Ino
these pursuits 'his 'erve andetaciturnityy in-
creased, and his habiitually' hasty step and, ab-
strActed expression of eountenance told of a
strong nature straining at powers to 'the ut-
most to attain some 4dstantglimmering goal.
His employer was partieMariy impressed b
the fact'that he ever voluneered, remiark
on any subject, and rarlyopened ha lips ext'
cept to ask some necessary in foniation in
connection with his business. Sometimes the
silence of the office wasnugbroken+ for hours,
save by the dull setichra ig ofipens, oran
impatient exclamation from ,.Mr.Campbell.
Respectful in deportment, attentive tois dus-
ties, never presuming upon kindness, constant-
ly at work from morning until night, yet with
an unmistakable sorrow printed on his face--
a sorrow never obtrudedon anyone, never
alludied-to-he won firt the rigid scrutiny of
the lawyer, then his deepest, most abiding
affection. Naturally cold and undemonstra-
tive in manner, Mr. Campbell gave .,little evi-
dence of feeling of any kind, yet the piercing
blue eye lost its keenness when resting onvthe
tall, stalwart form of the clerk, and once ;or-
twice the ,wrinkled hand sought his broad'
shoulder almost caressingly.. Head not mar-
ried; had neither other nor sistersto keep
his nature loving and gentle; and, though he
occasionally visited his brother, who, was a
minister-in the same town, he was held in awe
by the members of thap brother's family. He
comprehended Russell's character, and quietly
facilitated'his progress. , There was no -syco-
phancy on the part of the young man; no
patronage on that of the employer.
One afternoon Irene tapped lightly at the
cottage-door, and entered the kitchen. . Mrs.'
Aubrey sat in alow chair close to the fireplace,
engaged in knitting ; 'her smooth, neat calico
dress and spotless, linen collar told that care-
ful hands tended her, and the soft auburn
hair brushed ofer her temples showed broad
bands of gray as the evening sun shone on it.
She turned her brown, sightless eyes toward-
the door, and asked in a low voice :
"Who is it ?"
"It is only me,  Mrs. Aubrey."
Irene best down, laid her two hands on the
widow's, and kissed her forehead.
"I am glad, to hear your''voice, Irene; it
has been a long time since ypu were here."
"Yes, a good many weeks, I'lnow ; ,but I
could not come" '''
"Are you well? Your hands and face are 1
cold."
" Yes, thank you, very well. I am always
cold, I believe. Hugh says Iam. Here are
some flowers from the greenhouse. I brought
them because they are sofragrant; and here, I
too, are a few oranges from. the sane, p lace. I
Rush!I don't thank med f you please. I wish

25

J could cone here oftener. I always f'el bet-
ter after being with you; but I can't 1ways
come when I want to do so."'
" Why not, -Irene ?"
" Oh, because of various things. 'etween
school and music, and riding and reading, I
have very little time; and, besides, father
wants me with him when lhe, is athong  I
play chess with him, an4, sometimes:.weSare
three orifour days finishing one game. Some-
how; Mt-.Aubrey, though I don't meanto be
idle, it seems.to me that I dorvery little, 'Ev-
erybody ought to-be of some use imthisagld,
but I feelslikaa bunch of mistletoe grgwin
ndsomebogy else, and ding nothing. I dan t
intend 'to sit down and hold my hands all my
life,; bt what can I do? 'Tell me how, to
begin"
Shelifted:a large tort ise-elored cat from
a small stool audIdrew.it near the hearth, just
at,the widow's feet, seating herselfgand re-
moving, her hat. '.E
That is more easily asked than ans-ered;
you are a great heiress,, Irene, and 'in all lnt-
man probability will, never be. obliged todo
anything.. For what is;generally denominated
work, you.will have no occasion; but alb*ho
wish to he really happy should be em.loedin
some way. 'ou will not have to laborfar
your fqod and clothes like, my Russel';and
Electra ,bit you will have it in your poer
to do a vast deal more good. In cut va ting
your mind, do not forget your-heart;, itisnat-
urally full of very generous noble ipilses;
but'all human beings have faults; what yours
may be you know best, and you-shouldcon-
stantly strive to correct them. Read your'
Bible, dear child; .not' now end then, but
daily and prayerfully, Oh, Irene I -bave bad
some bitter, bitter sorrows, and ,frequently I
thou ht that {they would crush "put my 'e
In .those times of trial, f I had 'nothdmy
Bible and my God I believe I should.hav; lost
my reason. But I read and wascomfortad.
His promises sustained me ; and iin loking
back I see manyplaces which souldbealled
Jehovah-Jireh, for the Lord saw and provided.
Your Bible will teach you your duty mnaeh
better than I possibly can. You'.owe 'your
father a great deal; his hopes-and joys centre
in you, and through life he .wil- look;to you
for his happiness. When yon are growp, sci-
ety, too, will claim you; you. will be sought
after and flattered; and,Jrene,enader these
circunstan es-with your remarkable beauty
and wealth-you will find it a{liffieult s0atter
to avoid being spoiled. Yqur In unce will
be nary great, and adkeafulresponsibility
munt,'attend its';employ est.ha it b
o Try 'tkepgor hea frtoe
5sh or ignoble- feedag ; pryt   o  for-
uiance, that you mayb  eabldtr
Eis grace to kepyourdlf'ngspotted  qa
the world;' those words, contain  he  hoa
Eunspotted from *&amp;k world' Yo have no

I1'

I

.9

r
l ,


26                                       [ACATRAIA.

been ',poiled thus far by luxury and life-long
petting, and I hope and believe that you never
will be ; but remember, we must be continu-
ally on the watch against temptation. Irene,
have Iipoken too plainly ?"
"No; I thank you for'your edndor. I want
you to advise me just as you would Electra.
I don't read My Bible as often as I ought, btt
there are'so many things in it-which ITdq nt
understand .that I hardlyever epn it now.
I have nobody to explain the-diffulties."
"It is very clear on the subject of our duty;
God:left not the shadow of mystery in his la*s
for 'thle government'of the heart and regula*
tiondf the life. He commands Iis to receits
tertain rules, to practice certain principles,
and to abstain from certain sinful= things, 'all'
of which are"specified, and not to be mistaken
by even the most .obtuse. Melvill has' aid, in
one of his beautiful and comforting sermons:
' God breathed himself into the compositiQas
of prophets and apostles and evan gelsts, and
there as in the mystic recesses of aneverlast-
ing anctuary, he still-resides, ready to -dis-
elose himself to the humble and to be evoked.
bytheprayerful. But in regard to everi-
other -book, however fraught it may be with
the iaxims of piety, however pregnant with
tnumentbus truth, there is nothing of "this
shining himself of Deity:in the. depths Of its
ineaning. Men may be instructed by its p aes,
and draw from them hope and consolation, iut
never Will they fh d there the burning She-
kinal which proclaims the actual pretense of
God; nover hear n voice as from the solitudes
of an oracle pronouncing the words of iinior-
tality .'
How then does it happen, Mrs. Aubrey,
that different churches teach such conflicting
dootrines ? Why are there d dmany denoini-
nstions ?. If the teachings of the Bible are so'
plain, how can sudh various creeds arise ?'.
'Because poor -hukhan nature is so full of
foibles.;because charity, the fundamental doe-
trine of Christ, is almost losteight of by those.
ehurOhes; it has dwindled into a mere speck,
in comparison with the' trifles which they have'
magnified to user  its place. Instead of once
great Christian church h ldi  the doctrines
of the New  Testament, praetising the true
spirit of the Saviour, andin geilumne charity
alowing-its members to judge 'for themselves
in the minor' questions relating to religion-
sLk0 for instance as the mode'of baptism, the
privilege of believing presbyters and bishops
equfl:in' dignity or otherwise, asthe ease may
be, the necessity ofininisters wearing surplices
or theoontrary, as individual taste dictates-
we :have variousadenomlinations, all'erected to
promulgate soine particular dogina, to mi'fy
add exl :as allbhnipotant somne trifling difr-
ence in~he formn of ,hurch-governmhent. Once
established, the menibers of' each sect- flf
themselves to the aggradisierent of 'their
peculiar church; and thus it -comnes 'to pass

that instead of one vast brotherhood, united
against sin and infidelity, they are disgracefully
*'angling about sectarian matters of no eon-
sequene *hate er.' In all this there is nitch
totally antagohistic totheiprinciplesinceBafted
by ourSaviour, 'who expressly denounced the
shortiighted'bigotiy of those who nma nified
externalobservances and ndn-essentials' t' the
expenserof the genuine spiritof their religion.
I wish most earnestly that these denomiiatin-
al bi rriers 4and distinctions could  bheswept
away thatthe names of Methodist and Epis-
copal; Presbyterian and Baptist could be
obliterated, and"that all the members were
gathered barmonidusly into one world-wide
-pale,the iuratestaut'Chatrch of our Lord Jesus
Christ."
"-Mrs. Aubrey, do you beIdng to any
chut'ch ?",
" Yes, Irene, because Christ founded a
church, -ahd I think every ian and woman
should belong to some religious organization.
Moreover, unless a member of some one of
the denominations, you can not commune;
and, asihe acrament particularly established
by our Saviour, all ought to be able to partake
of-It. I think it a matter of little consequence
which of the evangelical sects one selects-
Do not imagine that I believe people can only
be saved b7 entrance into some. church ; I
think no such thing ; the church is a valuable
instrument, but 'God who established it can
work without it. Still, it is very reasonable
to suppose that regular attendance on divine
service fosters piety, and keeps the subject of
our duty more'constantly before us."
She had fiished her knitting, aid sat with
her thin hands folded -in her lap-the meek
face more than usually serene, the sightless
eyes directed 'toward h'er visitor. Sunshine
flecked the bare boards under the window,
flashed on the tin vessels ranged on .the
shelves, and lingered like . a halo around
Irene's head. Her hair swept on the floor,
and- the cat played now and then with the
golden rings so softly as not to attract notice,
as though cotisciousthe new toy was precious.
The countenances of the group contrasted
vividly : the sweet resignation 'of the blind
sufferer, the marble purity of Irene's face, and,
just in the rear, Electra's broad, pale brow and
restless, troubled, midnight eyes. The latter
had been drawing at the table in the middle
,of the room, and now sat leaning on her hand,
watching the two at the fire. . Presently Irene
approached and began to examine the draw-
ings, which were fragmentary, except one ot
two heads, and',a sketch taken 'from the bank
opposite the Falls. After some moments
passed in ilobked over them, Irene addressed
the tjuet little figure.
n   v you been to Mr. Clifton's studio ?"
" No;wh6ois he?"
" An Mtist from 'New York. His health is
poor-, and he is speriding the winter Sodth.

Have n't you heard of him ? Everybody is
having portraits taken. He is painting mine
now-father would make me sit again,t hogh
he has a likeness which- was painted four
years ago. .I am going down to-morrow 'for.
my last sitting, and should like very much for
you tp go with inc. Perhaps Mr. Clifton 'can,
give you some valuable hints. Will yougo ?"
"With great pleasure."
"Then I will call for you a little before ten
o'clock. Here are some crayons I bought for
you a week ago. . Good-by."
She left the room as quietly as'she had
entered, and found Paragon waiting for her
at-the door. He gambolled before her all the
way-now darting off, and as suddenly re-
turning, to throw himself at her feet and
wonder w'hy she failed to caress him .as usual.
Other thoughts engaged her now,; she could
see nothing but the form of the widow, and
to-day she realized more than ever before how
much she needed a mother. Low, sweet, gen-
tle tones rarely fell upon her ear, and, except
her father and Dr. Arnold, no one had ever
attempted-to caress her.. She wearied of. the
fourteen years of isolation, and now on enter-
ing her fifteenth looked about her for at least
one congenial spirit. She knew of none-but
Electraand Mrs. Aubrey -who in. any degree
sympathized with her, and from these she was
debarred by parental interdit. Miss Mar-
garet, seconded by Mr, Huntingdon, now
constantly prescribed a course of 'conduct
detestable to the girl, who plainly ,perceived
that as she grew older these differences.-in-
creased. Was it her duty to submit unhesi-
tatingly to their dictation ? Did the command
of-filial obedience embrace all such matters,
or was it modified-limited by the right of
individual conscience ? This consultation was
long and patient, and the conclusion unalter-
able. 'She would do what she believed to be
proper, whatever she thought her duty, at all
hazards: She had no ones to guide her, and
must rely only on God and her 'own heart.
The following day Mi's Margaret accom-
pinied -her to the studio.  As the carriage
approached the cottage-gate Irene directed
the driver to stop.
 " For what ?" asked her aunt.
"Electra'Grey is going with me.; I prom-
ised to call for her. She ias an extraordinav
talent for drawing, -and I want to: introduce
her to Mr. Clifton. Open the door, Andrew."
"Irene, are you deranged?  Your father
never would forgive you if he knew"you-asso-
ciated -with those people. I ca't think of
allowing that girl to enter this enriage.
Drive on.' I. must really speak to Leoada
about your obstinacy in visitang'attihat-"
" Stop, Andrew I If yo edoiu't choose 4to
ride with Electra, Aunto " rgaet you may
go on alone, for either she shal ide -or I will'
walk with her."
Andrew opened the door, and she was

stepping out, when Electra appeared in 'the
wa k and-immaediately joined er.7 Miss Mat-
garet was thoroughly 'aroused and indig ant,
but thought,- it best - to submit for the 'time,
and when Irene; introduced her friend'she
took no notice of her whatever, ekeptiby
drawing herself up in one corner and iowev-
ing her veil. 'The gis  talked dring 'the
remainder-of thearde, and when they rathti
Mr.-"Clifton's door raniusp the 'steps togethe',
totally unmindful of ,the august 'lady's ill-
'humor.
The artist was standing before aneael
which held. Irene's unfinished portrait,;andas
he turned to greet 'his visitors Electra 'saw
that, though thin and pale, his face was one
of rare beauty and 'benevolence. Hisebrown
curling hair hang loosely about his shoulders,
and an uncommonly long beard of the same
silky texture descended almost to his waist.'
He shook hands with Jrene, 'and looked 'in-
quiringly at her companion.
u Mr. Clifton, this is Miss Electra 'Grey,
whose drawings I mentioned to you last week.
I wish, if you please, you would examine some
of them when you have leisure."
Electra looked for an instant into his large,
clear gray eyes as 'he took her drawings, and
said he. would be glad to a sist her, and 'knew
that henceforth the tangled path would 'be
smoothed and widened. She stood at the.back
of his chair during the hour's sitting,-and with
eculiar interest .watched'the strokes o'f his
brush as the portrait grew under his practisea
hand. When ,Irene rose, the orphan moved
away and began -to' seratinize the numerous
pictures scattered -about the room, A' gret
joy filled'her 'heart and illuiidnediher faceand
she waited-for the wbrds bf 'eacouiagtient
that she felt assured would'  be spoken. The
artist looked 'over her sketehe5' slowly, carefnl-
ly, and his eye went back 'to 'her brilliant
countenance,.as if to read'there answer' to ci-
phers which perplexed 'hiin. 'Bat etiore
baffling crypt  hy met him in 'the deep;
flashing ,ppealin° eyes  on thecritson, qui^
ring ips,"on the lo; 1;ullbrow,'with'its *ide
ly-separatedblack arches: Evidently the fbee
possessed farmore -attraction than the draw
wings, and ,he' made} her sit .down beside hi ,
and passed his hand over her 'head and tem-
ples, as a professed !phrenologist night prepi-
atory to rendering=a chart.
"Your sketches are'very rough,   otdet,
but they also display great poweroft ou ht
some of themtsingular beauty of conde ir
and I see fram your countenance that 'yeu arO
dissatisfied} because the exeesktion -fallsso4
short- f the conception.Letamentalk to
candidly  ou have ubotirnon talefnt*
the most exalod eniis csa not disp use ith
laboidasttudy.'Ml4h1eV* elostumhnatot
my for twelvyepasya wil requie Iog'nd
darnektapjyliatioi b    alyotcan 'o ib3 ac..
complish anythigfn p i&amp;~ co. Thestadydf

tI

M-A ARWA.

' 27


28                                 MAC.
Art is no mere pastime, as some people sup-
ose ; an artist'slife is an arduous one at best.
have been told something of your history;
you are very poor, and wish to make painting
a profession. Think well before you decide
this, matter; remember that long, 'tedious
mortls mutt elapse before you can hope to
execute even an ordinary portrait. You must
acquaint yourself with the anatomy of'the hu-
man system before syou- undertake anything.
I thought I had finished my course seven years
o, but I went to Italy and soon saw that I
had only begun to learn my'profession. Think
well of allthis."          ,
"1 have thought of it; I a willing to work
any number of years ; I have decided, and I
am not be frightened from my purpose. I am
poor, I can barely buy the necessary mate-
rials, much less the books, .b'ut J will be an
artist yet. I have decided, sir; it is no new
whim; it has been a bright dream to me all
my life, and I am determined to realize it."
"'Amen; so let it be, then. 'I shall remain
here some weeks longer; come to me every
day at ten o'clock, and I will instruct you.
You shall'have such books as you need, and.
with perseverance you have nothing-to fear."
He went into the adjoining room and re-
turned with a small volume. As he.gave it to
her, with some directions concerning the con-
tents, she caught his hand to her lips, saying
'hastily:
" My guardian angel certainly brought you
here to spend the winter. Oh, sir IIwill
prove my gratitude for your.goodness  show-
ing that I am not unworthy of it.  thank
you from the very depths of myglad heart."
As she released his h and left the studio
he found two bright drops on his fingers-drops
called forth by the most intense joy she had
ever known. Having some commission from
her aunt, she did not re-enter the carriage,
and4 after thankin ;Irene for her kindness,
-    walked away. The, ride home was very
silent ; Miss Margaret tat stiff and icy, looking
quite insulted, while, her neqe was too much
engrossed by other reflections:to notice, her.
The latter spent: the remainder of the morn-
ing in writing to Hugh and correcting her
French exercises, :ands when summoned to-,
dinher she -entered the room expecting a
storm. A glatice sufficed to show her that
Miss ' Margaret had not .yet -spoken to her
father, though it was evident from her coun-
tenance thatshe was about to make what she
considered ,an important revelation, ,The
meal passed, however,:without any allusion to
the.ssbjct, 'and; knowing what lshe had to
expect, lrene immediately withdrew to the
library to give her a1gut ansopportunity of un-
burdening her- mind. Thee srgle must come
some time, and she longed to have it over as
tooas as .possible. She threw up the sash,
seated hxerself'on the bread cadar window-sill,
and began to work out a sum in algebra.

ARIA.
Nearly a half-hour passed ; the slamming of
the dining-room door was like the first line or'
foam curling and whitening the sea when the
tempest sweeps forward ; her father stamped
into the library, and the storm broke over
her.
"Irenerl did n't I positively order you to
keep away from that Aubrey family? ,What
do you mean by setting me at defiance in this
way, you wilful, spoiled, hard-headed piece ?
Do you suppose I intend to put up with your
obstinacy all my life, and let you walk rough-
shod overme and my commands ? You have
queened it long enough, my lady. If I don't
rein you up, you will turn your aunt and me
out 'of the house next, and invite that precious
Aubrey crew to .take possession. Your con-
founded stubbornness will ruin you yet. You
deserve a good whipping, Miss; I can hardly
keep my hands off of you." ..'-
He did not ; rough hands seized her shoul-
ders, jerked her from' the window-sill, and
slook her violently. Down fell book, slate,
and pencil with ,a crash; down swept the
heavy hair, blinding her. She put it back,
folded her hands behind her as if for support,
and, looking up at him, said in a low, steady,
yet grieved tone:
" I am very sorry, you are angry with me,
Father."
" Devilish sorry, I dare say ! Don't be hyp-
ocritical! Did n't I tell you to keep away
from those people ? Doui't stand there. like a
block of stone; answer me I"
" Yes, sir ; but I did not promise to do so.
I am not hypocritical, Father."
" You did not promise, indeed-I What do I
care for promises.? It was your duty to obey
me."
".I don't think it was, Father, when you re-
-fused to give me any reason for avoiding Mrs.
Aubrey or her family. They are unfortunate,:
but honorable people ; and, being very poor
and afflicted, I felt sorry fog them. I can't
see how my going there occasionally harms
you, or me, or anybody else. I know very
well that you dislike them, but you never told
me why, and I can not imagine any good
reason for it. Father,,if I love' them, why
should not I associate with them ?"
"1Becagse I say you shan't ! you tormenting,'
headstrong little imp !" -
" My Father, that is no reason."
"Reason! I will put you where you will
have, no occasion for .reasons.  Oh! I can
match you, you perverse little wretch ! I am
pg  to send you, toa boarding-school, do you
ear that'st send you where you will have no
Aupreys to abet your obstinacy. and disobe'
dience ; where that temper of yours can be
curbed. Hlow will you. relish getting up be-
fore day, kindling your own fire, if you have
any, making .your own bed, and living on
bread and water? I will take you to New
York,. and keep you there till you are grown

MACARIA.                   29

and learn common sense. Now get out of my
With a stamp of rage he, pointed to the
door. Hitherto she had stood quite 'still, but
now an expression of anguish passed swiftly
over her face, and she put out her hands ap-
pealingly- 
"Father! my Father! don't send me away!I
Please let me stay at home."
"Not if I live long enough to take you..
Just as certainly as the sun shines in heaven,
you will go as ,soon as your clothes can be"
made. Your aunt vill have you ready in a
week. Don't open your mouth to me ! I
don't want to hear another word from you.
Take yourself off."
She picked up heir slate and, book and left
the room. Her hat hung on the rackin the
hall, and, taking it down, she passed out
through the rear piazza. Paragon leaped
and, whined at sight of her; she unchained
him, and, leaving the yard; turned into a nar-,
row zigzag path leading in an opposite direc-
tion from the .front of the house. The build-
ing stood by quite a hill, 'one side of which
sloped down to the brink of a creek that emp-
tied itself into the ,river :a mile above the
town. This declivity was thickly wooded, and,,
on the opposite side of -the stream, a dense
swamp stretched away. Cypress, pine,,beech,
magnolias, towered far as the eye could reach,
and now, in the gathering gloom of evening,
looked sombre and solemn. This was a favorite
haunt of Irene's; she knew every nook of the
forest and bend of'the creek as well as the shy
rabbits that flitted away at her approach;. and
tn this occasion she sought a rude seat form-
ed by the interlacing of two wild grape-vines.
At her feet the channel ran deep and strong,
and the rocky bed was distinctly seen; -but a
few yards off the stream widened into a small,
lake, and there, on its dark, still surface
masses of water-lilies spread out their broad,
green, glossy leaves. It was a lonely place;'
even in the. day owls hooted one to another;
and strange, harsh cries'were heard, from birds
that never forsook the swamp. It was April,
early April, and from the hill-side, fringed with
honeysuckles of varied hue, and'festooned with
yellow jasmine that clambered in wild luxuri-
ance over tree and shrub, the southern breeze
wafted spicy, intoxicating aromas. ,Redbuds
lifted their rosy limbs against dark, polished
magnolias, and here and there masses of snow
told where the dogwoods grew. Clusters of
violets embroidered tm -hill-side, and crimson,
woodbine trailed over the ground, catching at
every drooping bough, and'climbing stealthily,
anxious, like all weak natures, to hang on=
something sturdy. Ireneusually revelled amid
this wealth of floral beauty, but now she could
not enjoy it. She looked at her favorites, and
understood what was meant. by the words-
"I see thor all so excellent i rir,
I see, not feel, how beautiful they are." .

The first great grief of her life had fallen
on her ; heretofore all* had been so:serene, so
flowery, that she could not easily understand
or endure the crushing weight on her heatt.
Reared in seclusion the thought of being sent
from hersbeautiful, luxurious home, and thrust
among utter 'strangers, startled and filled her
with dread. She was astonished, pained, and
mortified by her father's harsh language; and,
loving him very sincerely, she shrank from the
long separation he threatened; yet, amid all
these complex emotions, she felt not the slight-
est regret for the 'course she had pursued;
under similar circumstances she would again
act just as she had done. Then came the re-
membrance that she might meet her unfort-
unate friends no 'more. Mrs.. Aubrey was
evidently declining rapidly, and what would
become of Electra and Russell ? They might
move away; they, too, might die; nay, she
might never come back to the home of her
birth; death's harvest was 'in all-seasons, and,
looking upon the lakelet, she shuddered and.,
moaned. The snowy water-lilies glanced up
at her, and seemed to say, as they trembled
unceasingly in the current fair below the sur-
face, "Bend I bend I" A passage in Dante,
which.she had read the week before, crossed
her mind now,. as she noted 'the constant
swaying of the fragile flowers, so impotent to
resist that undercurrent sweeping their roots:
No other plant,
Covered with leaves, or hardened in'its stalk
There lives, not bending.to thewater's sWay."
He had selected reeds as a type of Patience,
but the pale, pure, quivering lilies were to her
a far more impressive symbol of Resignation.
An aged gnarled cypress towered above her,
and from  the knotted limbs. drooped long
funeral wreaths of gray'moss, fluttering mourn-
fully in the'evening 'wind, like badges of crape
'in houses of death. From amid this sombre
drapery came, the lonely hoot of an owl, and,
with a strange sensation of desolation, Irene
fell on her knees and committed herself to the
care of the'Great Shepherd. Darkness'closed
around, but as she prayed the silver 'rays of
the evening-star peered down through the
trembling streamers of moss and gleamed on'
the upturned' faeg. She broke one'of the
lilies, and,'fastening it among her curls, followed
Paragon up the hill-side.
The week'which succeeded was wretched to
the girl, for her father's surveillance'prevented
her fromvisiting the cottage, even to sayadieu
to' its 'inmates; and eno alternative presented'
itself but to leave for them (in the hands of
Nellie,'her devoted nurse) a' note containing a
few parting words and assurances'of unfading
friendship ~and -rememrbrance. -The day ' of
departue dawned rainy, loomy, and the wind -
sobbed and wailed down the avenue as Irene
steod 'at her wind~wlooking .out on~ the lawn
where her life had beei passed. Although
Nlie was weeping bittrl   t 'er side, she.


CMACAR8A.                                                   31

hadnot shed a tear ; but they face was full of'
grief, and her little hands were clasped tightly
asthe faithful nurse pressed them affectionately
inher palms. Disengaging herself; Irene took
an umbrella and went to tje stable for a last
look ,at Erebus. This tried her sorely, and
her lip was unsteady when she left him and
sought Paragon. The latter, little suspecting
the true state of' affairs, gambolled and whined
as joyously as ever at her approach ; and,
when the'crowned head went down moaningly
on his silky neck, he barked and frisked in
recognition of .the caress. The breakfast-bell
summoned her away, and, a half-hour after,
she saw the lofty columns of the old house
fade from view, and knew that, many months,
perhaps years, must elapse before the ancestral
trees of the long avenue would wave again
over the headof their young mistress. Her.
father sat beside her, moody and silent, and,
when the brick wall and arched iron gate
vanished from her sight, she sank' back in one
corner, and, covering her face with her hands,
smothered a groan and fought desperately
with her voiceless anguish.
CHAPTER VI.
Youth is hopeful, beautifully hopeful, and
fresh pure hearts rebound from sorrow with
wonderful elasticity. When clouds lower and
the way seeaps dark and tangled, Hope flies
forward, pioneer-like, to. clear away all obsta-
cles. Huge barriers frowned between Electra
and the heights she strained every nerve to
reach,.but never for an instant did she doubt
the success of' the struggle. Like Orpheus
seeking Eurydice, to look back was fearful
and hazardous; and, fixing her eyes steadily.
on the future, she allowed herself no haunting.
foreboding.     -
" Cry, faint notI climb the summit's slope
-eyond the furthest figts of hope,
Wriapt in dense cloud from base to cope."
What human powers can endure and ac-
complish is to be measured only by the neces-
sity which goads, and all herculean trophies
are won by desperate needs. The laws which
govern our moral and intellectual natures are
as rigid and inevitable in their operation as
those whose wrkig we constantly trace in
the physical orld-o' which truth the, history
of nations and memoirs of great, men furnish
innumerable exemplifications. Consequently
it is both unjust and illogical to judge of the
probability of this or thatevent or series of
events, or.the naturalness of 'this or that char-
acter, whether in authenticated history or fic-
tit ous works, without a thorqugh acquaintance
with. alt antecedents and the various relations
surrounding the actor, Reader, as you walk
side by side with these whose lives 1 am-nar-
rating, bear this in mind--the silver-winged
pigeons that/flash in a44 out of the venerable

trees shading the old homestead, and coo and
flutter amid the rainbow-spray of the fountain,
would droop, shiver, and die on bald, awful
Alpine pinnacles, where in the fierce howl
and scourging of tempests eaglets wheel in
triumph, and scream defiantly ; and tender pet
lambs, coaxed into flowery, luxuriant mead-
ows, would soon make- their graves in the
murderous snow over which young. chamois
bleat and skip in wild glee, fearless as the ever-
lasting hills.
Day after day Electra toiled over her work;
the delicate frame learned its destiny, sighed
at its future, but grew strong ; and complain-
ing nerves, catching some of her iron resolve,
endured patiently-became finally thoroughly
inured to their arduous duties. Her aunt
constantly claimed her attention for the various
little offices so grateful to an invalid, but by
an extraordinary alchemy she contrived to
convert every interruption into an occasion
of profit. If lending her arm to support the
drooping form in a short walk around the
little garden, she would describe the varying,
tints of sky, as.the clouds shifted their gor-
geous curtains of purple and scarlet and gold,
until thoroughly familiarized with the varied
chameleon hues and strange, grotesque out-
lines, traced by - every rift. Nature was a
vast storehouse of inatchless, unapproachable
beauty to:that eager, thirsty soul-a boundless
studio, filled with wonderfutcreations, open to
her at all times-in the rosy,,opaline flush of
morning, the blazing splendor of full-orbed
noon, the silver-gray of twilight, peopled with
dusky phantoms, weird and shifting as Fata-
Morgana-the still sublimity, the solemn, sa-
cred witchery of star-crowned, immemorial
Night. She answered the first hoarse-call of
thunder by stationing herself at the window to
watch the stormy panorama sweep over the
heavens; and not Ruysdael, nor Vandervelde,
nor Turner ever gazed with more intense de-
light on the hurrying masses of vapor than that
fragilegirl, as she stood with the forked light-
ning glaring luridly over her upturned, enrapt-
ured, face. Favored - ones of fortune lean
against marble pillars in royal museums to
study the imperishable works of earth's grand-
est old artists ; but she lived in a cosmopolitan
temple whose skyey frescos were fresh' from
the hands of Jehovah himself. The rapidity
of her progress astonished Mr. Clifton. He
questioned her concerning' the processes she
employed in some of her curious combinations,
bt the fragmentary, abstracted nature of her
conversation during the hours of instruction
rave him: little satisfactory information. His
interest in her increased, until finally..it be-
came absorbing, and he gave her all the time
that she could spare from home. The eager-
neas with which she listened to his directions,'
the facility with which she applied his. rules,
fully repaid him; and from day to day he
postponed his return to the North, reluctant

to leave his indefatigable pupil.  Now, and
then the time of departure was fixed, but ere
it arrived he wavered and procrastinated ,
.Electra knew that his stay had been pro-
longed beyond his original intention, and she
dreaded the hour when she should be deprived
of his aid and advice. Though their acquaint-
ance had been so short, a strangely strong
feeling had grown up in her heart toward
him; a feeling of.clinging tenderness, blended-
with earnest, undying gratitude. She knew
that he understood her character.and appre-
eiated her struggles, and it soothed her fierce,.
proud heart, in some degree, to receive from
him those tokens of constant remembrance
which she so .yearned to have from Russell.
She felt, too, that she was not regarded as a
stranger by the artist ; she could see his sad
eyes brighten at her entrance, and detect the
tremor in his hand and voice when he spoke
of going home. His health had improved, and
the heat of summer had come; why did he
linger ? His evenings were often spent at the
cottage, and even Mrs. Aubrey learned. to
smile at the sound of his step., .
One morning, as Electra finished her lesson
and rose to go, he said slowly, as if watching
the effect of his words:
" This is the last hour I can give you. In
two days I ,return to New York. Letters of'
importance oame this morning; 1 have waited
here too long already."'
" Are you in earnest this time ?"
"I am;. it is. absolutely necessary that I
should return home."
" Mr. Cjifton, what shall I do without you ?"
" Suppose you had never seen me ?".
"Then I should not have had to lose you.
Oh, sir I .1 need you 'very much."  ,
"Electra, child, you will conquer your diffi-.
culties without assistance from any one. You'
have nothing to fear."
" Yes, I know I shall conquer at last, but
the.way wbuld be so much easier if.you were
only with me. I shall miss you niore. than I
can tell 'you."
He passed his hand over her short shining
hair, and mused for a moment as if laying
conflicting emotions in the balance. Shesheard
his deep, labored breathing, and saw, the
working of the muscles in his pale face ; when
he spoke, his voice was husky:
" you are right; you need me, and I want
ou always with me; we must not be parted.--
ectra Ilsay we shall not. ' Come. to meput
your hands in mine-promise me that you will
be my child, my pupil; I will take you to my
mother, and we need never be separated..
You require aid, such as can not be had here;
in New York yon shall have al that you want.
Will you come with me ?"            ..
He held her hands in a vice-like grasp,. and
looked pleadingly into her astonished counte-
'laance. A mist gathered before hier, and she
closed, her eyes.

"Electra, will you come ?"r.
"Give me ten minutes to thinkk" she a-
swered Bhiveringly. He turned away; Aid
walked up and down the floor, taking care to
conceal his face. She sat down before a table
and dropped her forehead in her palms.. What
slight things often shape human destiny:; how
little people realize the consequence- of seem-
ingly trivial words, looks, or actions ! The
day before. Electra would unhesitatingly have
declined this proposition: but only that morn-
ing, as she passed Russells door, before.break-
fast, she saw him with Irene's farewell: note in
his hand; saw him press his lips hastily to.the
signature. Her jealous heart was on tire; the
consciousness of his love for another rendered
her reckless and indescribably miserable.,.Jn
this mood she reflected: Mr. Clifton seemed
to have become warmly attached to her, and
could help her to attain the eminence she had
in view; she was poor, why not accept' his
generous offer ' Russell would npt missher-
would not care whether she left him ,or re- /
mined. If she were far away, at least she
would not be torniented by. his coldnessand
indifference. The future (barring her ambi-
tious dreams). was dim, joyless; she had to
earn a support, she scorned to be dependent
on her cousin, fame lured her on. Yes, she
would go. Mr. Clifton took out his watch and
paused beside her:               *    .'
" Ten minutes have passed ; - Electra, will.
you come ?"
She raised her bloodless face, stamped with
stern resolve, and ere the words were pro-
nounced he read his answer in the defiant
gleam of her eyes, in the 'hard, curved lines of
the mouth.
"Mr. Clifton, I can not go with you just
now, for at present I1 can not, ought ' not, to
leave my aunt. Helpless as she is, it would
be cruel, ungrateful, to desert her; but things
can not continue this way much longer,'and I
promise you that as soon as I can 1 will go to
you. I want to be with you; I want some-
body to care for me, and I know you will be a
kind. friend always.- Most gratefully will I
accept your generous, offer so soon as Ifeel
that I can do so."
He stooped and touched her .foreheadA rith
his lips.
" My dear Electra; I wil hield you from
trials and difficulties.; I wil rize you above.
everything on earth; I know you are making .
a great sacrice to be with me ; I know how
hard it is. for you toleave home and .relatives.
But,, my child, your aunthasonly a short
time to live; ,he is failing, very fast, and. your
duty to her will not keep you here long, You
are right to remain with her, but when; she
needs. you no wore I~ shall expect you to come
to me in lNew York. Meantime, I shall writn
to you frequently, and supply you, with. such.
books and materials as you. require. My
pupil, L.long to have yon in my owu' home.

'(I

30             f           MACARRIA:


A4

32

MALARIA.

Remember, no matter what happens, you have
pipmised yourself to me."
"I shall not forget;': but he saw her shud-
der.
"Shall I speak to your aunt about this
matter before I go ?"
No, it would only distress her ; leave it all
with me. - It is late, and I must go. Good-by,
sir."
He propnised to see her again before his de-
parture, and she walked honie with her head
bowed and a sharp continual pain gnawing at
her heart.           .   a
In the calm, peaceful years of ordinary
childhood the soul matures slowly; but a vol-
canic nature like Electra's, subj cted to galling
trials, rapidly hardens, and answers every,
stroke with the metallic ring of age. Keen
susceptibility to joy or pain taught her early,
what less impressive characters are years in
learning, and it was lamentably ..true that,
while yet a mere girl, she suffered as acutely
as a woman. 'the battle of life must be.
fought, and if one begins skirmishing in the
cradle tactics are soon learned and the conflict
ends more speedily. But Electra had also
conned another lesson : to lock her troubles in
her own heart, voicing no complaint, andwhen
she sought her aunt, and read aloud the favor-
ite chapters in the Bible, or led her up and
down the garden-walk, talking of various
things, telling- of the growth of pet plants,
there was no indication whatever of any un-
usual strife or extraordinary occurrence. Rus-
sell knew that a change had come over his
cousin, but was too constantly engaged, too
entirely absorbed by his studies, to ask or
analyze the cause. She never watched at the
gate for him  now, never sprang with out-
stretched arms to meet him, never hung over
the back of his chair ahd caressed his hands as
formerly. When not waiting upon her aunt
she was as intent on .her- books as he, and,
though invariably kind and unselfish in her
conduct toward rim, she was evidently con-
strained in his presence. As the summer wore'
on Mrs. Aubrey's health failed rapidly, and she
was confined to her couch. There, in a low
chair close to the pillow, sat Electra reading,
talking, exertipg-herself to the utmost to cheer
the widow. She filled the thin fingers with
dewy roses, and bpatiated on the glories of
thseouter world,  ile the thoughts of the in-
valid wandered' to the approaching shores of
another realm, and she thanked God that,
though thick folds of darkness shrouded earth,
the veil dropped from her souland the spirit-
ual vision grew clear and piercing. If faith
and'resignation could be taught like music or
arithmetic, then had Electra- learned the
grandest truths of Christianity ; but it -is a
mourifuhl fact that the bloody seal of Experi-
ence must stamp the lesson ere deepthinkers
I' or strong natures receive it, and as she watched
that precious life fade, like the purple light of

summer in evening skies, the only feeling she
knew was that of grief for the impending loss
-undefined apprehension of coming isolation.
If Mrs. Aubrey could have -seen the counte-
nance which bent over her pillow, her serene
soul , would have been painfully disturbed.
She felt hot tears fall on.her hands and cheeks,
and knew that the lips which pressed hers of-
ten trembled; but this seemed natural enough
under the circumstances, and she sank quietly
down to the edge of thectomb ignorarnt of the
sorrows that racked the girl's heart. One
morning when Mr. Campbell, the 'pastor, had-
spent some time in the sick-room praying with
the sufferer, and administering the sacrament
of the Lord's Supper, Electra followed him to
th'e door, leaving Russell with 'his mother. The
gentld pastor took -her hand kindly, and looked
at her with filling eyes.
" You think' my aunt is worse ?"
" Yes, my child. I think that very soon she
will bd with her God. She will scarcely sur-
vive till night-"4...
She turned abruptly from him, and threw
herself down across the foot of the bed, bury-
ing her face'in her arms. Russell sat with his
mother's hands ip hi's, while she turned her
brown eyes toward him and exhorted him to
commit hiinself and his future to the hands of
a merciful God. She told him how the prom-
ises of the Saviour had supported and cheered
her in times of great need, and implored him
to dedicate his energies, his talents, his life, to
the service of his 7Iaker. Electra was not
forgotten ; she advised her to go to a cousin of
her mother residing in Virginia. Long before
she had'.written to this" lady, informing her of
her own feebleness and of the girl's helpless
condition; and a kind answer had been re-
turned, cordially inviting the orphan to share
her 'home, to become an inmate of her house.
Russell could take her to these relatives as
soon as possible. ' To all this no reply was
made,'-and, a few moments later, when Russell'
kissed her tenderly and raised her pillow, she
said faintly-..
"IfI could look upon your face once more,
my son, it would not be hard to die. Let me
see yoti in heaven, my dear, dear boy." These
were the last words, and soon after a stupor
fell upon her. Hour after hour passed ; Mrs.
Campbell came and sat beside the bed, and,
the three remained silent, now and then lift-
ing bowed heads to look at the sleeper. - Not
a sound broke the stillness save the occasional
chirp of a cricket, and a shy mouse crept
twice across the floor, wondering at the silence,
fixing its twinkling bright eyes on the motioti-
less 'figures. The autumn day : id slowly as
the widow, and when the clock irged out the
sunset honi- Russell iose, and, putting back
the window-curtains, stooped and laid his face
close to his mother's. Life is at best a strug-
gle, and such perfect repose as greeted himnis
found only when the marble hands of Death

MACARIA.

transfer the soul to its guardian angel. No
pulsation stirred the folds over the heart, or
the soft bands of hairion the blue-veined tem-
ples; the still mouth had breathed its last sigh,
and the meek brown eyes. had opened in
Eternity.- The long, fierce ordeal had ended,
the flames died out, and, from smouldering
ashes the purified spirit that had toiled and
fainted not, that had been faithful to the end,
patiently bearing many crosses, heard the voice
of the Great Shepherd, and soared joyfully to
the pearly gates of the Everlasting Home.
The day bore her away on its wings, and as
Russell touched the icy cheek a despairing cry
rolled through the silentcottage-
"Oh, Mother! my own precious dead motherI"
Falling on his knees, he laid his head on
her pillow, and when kind friendly hands bore
her intq the adjoining room, he knelt there
still, unconscious of what passed, knowing
only that the keenest of many blows had fall-
en, that the last and bitterest vial of sortows
had been emptied.
Night folded. her starry curtains around the
earth; darkness settled on river and hill and
valley. It was late September ; autumn winds
rose, eager for their work of death, and rushed
rudely through the forests, shaking the sturdy
primeval monarchs in. token of their mission
and mastery, and shivering leaves rustled
down before them, drifting into tiny grave-
like hillocks. Gradually the stars caught the
contagiousgloom, and shrank behind the cloud=
skirts sweeping the cold sky. .It was a sol-
emn, melancholy night, full of dreary phan-
toms, presaging a dark, dismal morrow.. Amy
Aubrey's still form reposed on- the draped
table in the kitchen, and the fitful candle-light
showed only a dim, rigid outline of white linen.
Mr. Campbell and his wife sat together in the
next room, and the two young mourners were
left in the silence of the-kitchen. , Russell sat
at the open window, near the table; his head
leaned on his hand, tearless, mute, still as his
mother. At the opposite window stood Elec-
tra, pressing-her face against the framk, look-
ing out into the moaning, struggling night,
striving to read the mystic characters dimly
traced on the ash-gray hurrying clouds as the
reckless winds parted their wan folds. 'The
stony face of her merciless destiny seemed to
frown down at her, cold, grim, Sphinx-like.
Hitherto she had walked with loved ones;
now a vast sepulchre yawned to receive them;
a tomb of clay for the quiet sleeper, one of
perhaps final separation for Russell, and over
this last hideous chasm Hope hovered with
drooping wings. To leave him was like inurn-
ing her heart and all the joy she had ever
known; and then, to crown her agony, a
thousand Furies hissed " Irene will come back,
and loving her .he will forget .that you toil
among strangers." -
She crushed her fingers against each other
and stified.a groan, while the chilling voice of

83

Destiny added, "Trample out this weakness ;
your path and his here separate widely ; you
are nothing to him, go to work earnestly, and
cease repining." She shrank away from the
window and approached her 'cousin. ,3.or two
hours he had not changed his position-as far
as she knew, had not moved a muscle. She
sat down at his feet and crossed her arms over
his knees; he took no notice of her.
" Oh, Russell ! say something to me, or I
shall die."
It was the last wail she ever suffered to' es-
cape her in.his presence. He raised his head
and put his hand on her forehead, but the
trembling lips refused their office, and as she
looked up at him tears rolled.slowly down and
fell on her cheek. She would have given
worlds to mingle her tears with his, but no
moisture came to her burning eyes; and there
these two, so soon to separate, passed the re-
maining hours of that long, wretched night of .
watching. The stormy day lifted her pale,
mournful face at last, -and with 'it came the
dreary. patter and sobbingof autumn, rain,
making it doubly harrowing to commit the
precious form to its long, last resting-place.
Electra stood up beside her cousin and folded
her arms together.
" Russell, I am not going to that cousin in
Virginia. I could owe my bread and clothes
to you, but not to her. She has children, and
I do not intend to 'live on her charity. I know
you and I must part ; the sooner the better. I
would not be willing to burden you, a day
longer. I am going to fit myself to work'prof.
itably. Mr. Clifton offered me a home in his
house, said his mother was lonely, and would
be rejoiced to have me ; that letter which I
received last week contained one from her,
also urging me to come; and, Russell, I am
going to New York to stud with him as long
as I need instruction. I did not tell aunt of
this, because I knew it would grieve her to
think that I would be thrown with strangers;
and having fully determined to take this step,
thought it best not to distress her by any al-
lusion to it. You' know  it is my own affair,
.and I can decide -it-better than' any one else."
His eyes were fixed on the shrouded table,
and he answered without ookino at her'.
"No, Electra, you must g tolIrs. Harden ;
she seems anxious to have ) ; and as for be-
ing dependent on charity, you never shall be,
so long as I live. You will merely reside un-
der her roof, and shall not cost her a cent;
leave this with me.
"I can not leave it with anybody ; I must
depend upon myself. I have thought a great
deal about it, and my resolutions not to be
shaken.  You have been very kind to me,
Russell, all my life ; and only God knows how
I love and thank~rou.' But I will not accept
your hard earnings-in future ; I should be nus .
erable unless at work, and L, tell you I must
and will go to Mr. Clifton."


MACARIA.MACARIA

He looked at her no, urprised and pained.
" What is the matter with you, Electra ?
Have I not sorrows enough, that you must try
to,, add another by your' obstinacy ?'-'What
would she think oQi)ou ?"
.ie rose, and' laid his hand on the pure,
smooth brow of the dead.
"4There is nothing new the 'matter with me.
I have determined to go; nobody has any right
to control me, and it is worse than useless for
you to oppose me. We have but little time to
spend together ; do not let us quarrel here in
'Ier' presences' Let there be peace between us
in these. last hours. Oh, Russell !iis hard
enough to part, even in love and kindness; do
not add painful contention."
" So' you prefer utter strangers to yourirela-
tives and friends?"
"Ties of blood are riot the strongest; stran-
gera step in to aid where relatives sometimes
stand aoof and watch a fatal struggle. Re-
member Irene ; who is nearer -to you, she or
your grandfather'? Such a friend Mr. Clifton
js to me, and go to him-I will at all hazards.
Drop the subject, if you please.".
Ile looked at her an instant, then turned
once more to his mother's face, and his cousin
left them toether.
e The day was so inclement that only Mr. and
Mrs. Campbell and Russell's employer attend-
ed the funeral. These few followed the gentle
sleeper,"and laid her down to rest till the star
of Eternity dawns; and the storm chanted a
long, thrillin requiem as the wet mound rose
above the coffin.
Back to a deserted home, whence the crown
of joy has been borne. What a hideous;rack
stands at the hearth-stone whereon merciless
Memory stretches the bereaved ones t In
hours such as this we cry out fiercely, "The
sun of our life has gone .down in starless, ever-
lastn  night; earth has no more glory, no
more bloom or fragrance for us ; the voices of
gleeful children the carolof summer birds,
take the mournful measure of*a dirge. We
hug this great grief to our hearts'; we hold our
d     uindead continually before us, and refuse
to be glad again."' for et that Prome-
theus as paed from the world. Time bears
precious healing on its broad pinions; folds its
arms compassioirely about us as a pitying
flter ; softly lesup te'aged ,wounds,
dru;gamor and though the poisonous sting
is occasionally thrust forth, she soon relapses
ih to stupor. So, in the infinite mercy of our
God, close at the heels of Azrael follow the
winged 'hours laden) like Sisters of Charity,
with balm for the people.
The kind-hearted' pastor and his wife urged
the orphans to remove to their house for a few
pd; at tey ,pureferred to n eet and battleI a
onewth the' ectre which the knew sikiod
watn  ithd~solate cttae eAt midnight
a heavy sleep fell on Russell, who had thrown

himself upon his mother's couch,; and, softly
spreading a shawl over him, Electra sat down
by the dying fire on the kitchen-hearth and
looked her' future in the face. A few days
sufficed to prepare for her journey ; and a gen-
tl-bman from New York, who had met her
cousin in Mr. Campbell's office, consented to
take charge of her and commit her to Mr.
Clifton's hands.. The scanty furniture was
sent to an auction-room, and a piece of board
nailed to the gate-post, announced thatkthe
cottage was for rent. Russell decided to take
his meals at a boarding-house, and occupy a
small room over the office, which Mr. Camp-
bell had placed at his disposal. On the same
day the cousins bade adieu to the only spot
they had called homem" for many years, and
as Russell locked the door and joined Electra
his melancholy face expressed, ar bet,.er than
words could have done, the pain it cost him to
quit the house where his idolized mother had
lived; suffered, and died. Mr. Colton was
waiting for Electra at the hotel, whither the
stage had been driven for passengers; and as
she drew near and saw her trunk among others,
piled on top, she stopped and grasped Russell's
hand between both hers. A livid paleness
settled on her face, while her wild black eyes
fastened on his features. .She might never
see him again; he was far dearer to her than
her life ; how could she bear', to leave him, to
put hundreds of miles between that- face and
her own ? An icy hand clutched her heart as
she gazed into his deep, sad, beautiful eyes.
His feeling for her was a steady, serene affec-
tion, such as brothers have for dear young sis-
ters, and to give her up now filled him with
genuine, earnest sorrow.
"Electra; it is very hard to tell you good-
b    You are all Irhave left, and 1 shall be
desolate indeed when you are away. But
the separation will not be long, I trust; in a
few years we shall be able to have another
home; and where my home is, yours must
always be.  Til stretches before me like a
sandy desert, but I shall cross it safely; and
then, Electra, my dear cousin, we shall' be
parted no more. I should feel far better sat-
isfied if you were with Mrs. Harden, but you
determined otherwise, and, as you told me a
few, days ago, I have no right to control you.
Write to me often, and believe that I shall do'
all that a brother could for you. Mr. Colton
is waiting; good-by, darling."
He bent down to kiss her, and the strained,
tortured look that greeted him he never for-
got. She put her arms around his neck, and
clung to him like a shivering weed driven by
rough winds against a stone wall. He re-
m ear clasping arms, and led her to Mr.
Colton; butas theglatte r offered 'to assist her
into the stage she drew back, that Russell
might perform that office. While he almost
lifted her to a seat, her' fingers refused to
release hi, and he was fred to disengage

them. Other passenge rs entered, and the door
was, osed. IRussell stood near the window,
and saidgently, pitying her suffering:
"4,Electra, won't you say good-by ?"
She leaned out, till her cheek touched his,
and in a 'hoarse tone uttered the fluttering
words :
" Oh, Russell ! Russell ! good-by!t May God
have mercy on me "
And the stage rolled swiftly on; men laugh-
ed, talked, and smoked; an October sun filled
the sky with glory, and gilded the trees on the
roadside; flame-colored leaves flashed in the
air as the wind tossed them before it; the deep,
continual thunder of the foaming falls rose
soothingly from the river banks, andea wretch-
ed human thing pressed her bloodless face
against the morocco lining of the coach and
stared down, mute and tearless, into the wide
grave of her all-nd
" Fresh as the first beam glittering on a sail,
That brings our friends up from the underworld;
Sad as theaast which reddens oygr one
That sinks with all we love below the verge
So sad, so fresh, the days tot are no more."
CHAPTER VIIL
As tall tyrannous weeds and rank unshorn
grass close over and crush out slender, pure,
odorous flowerets on a hill-side, so the defects
of Irene's character swiftly strengthened and
developed in the new atmosphere in which
she found herself. All the fostering stimulus
of a hot-bedseemed applied to themend her
nobler impulses were in imminent danger of
being entirely subdued.nDiogenes Teufels-
aSeminary" is but the prototype of hundreds,
scattered up and down through Christendom;
and the associations which surrounded Irene
were well circulated to destroy the native
purity and unselfishness of her nature. The
school was on an extensive scale, thoroughly
fashionable,'and thither pupils were sent from
every section of the United States. As re-
garded educational advantages, the institution
was unexceptionable; the professors wercon-i
sidered unsurpassed i  their several depart-Y
mnt, and every provision was made for i
thorough tuition. But what a Babel reigned
outside of the recitation-room. One hundred
and forty girls to spend their recesses in envy,r
ridicule, malice, and detraction. The homely e
squad  banded  in  implacable  hatred  against s w om n ur ha c st i mul s f a
beauty  ;  the  indolent  and  obtuse  ever  so  h l it  o dor he uc s fu efo t  o their '

intdllec as the casepmisht be-growing more
arrogant and insufferaIe day by day. A
wretched climate this fora fresh, untainted
soul ; and it is surprising how really fon'd'
parents, anxious to, promote' the improvement
of their daughters in aeveryrespect, hasten to
place them where poisonous vapors wrea~the
and- curl about them. The principals of such
institutions are doubtless often conscientious,
aiid strive to 'diseharfe their duty faithfully,;
bot the evils of human nature, are obstinate,
difficult to-subdue under even the most favor-
able auspices; and where such a mass of un-
trained souls are turned into an enclosure, to
amuse themselves at one another's expense,
mischief is sure to -follow. Anxious to shake'
off the loneliness which so heavily oppressed
her, Irene 'at first mingled freely among her
companions ; but.she soon became disgusted
with the conduct and opinions of the majority,
and endeavored to find quiet in her owr room.
Maria Ashley, who shared the apartmcnt,was
the spoiled child of a Louisiana planter, and
her views of life and duty were too utterly
antagonistic to Irene's to allow of any pleasure
in each other's(society. .'To cheat the profess.
sorts by ingenious stratagems, and to out-dress
her companions, seemed the sum total of the
girl's aspirations; and gradually in lieu of the
indifference she. evinced toward her room-
mate, a positive hatred made itself apparent
in numberless trifles. Feeling her own supe-
riority, Irene held herself more and more
aloof; her self-complacency grew amazingly,
the graceful figure took a haughty, unbending
posture, and a coldly contemptuous 'smile
throned itself on her lip. The inevitable con-
sequence, was, that she became a target for
the school. Thus the months crept away ; her
father wrote rarely, and Miss Margaret's let-
ters contained no allusion to the family that
had caused her banishment. 'Finally 'she
wrote to Dr., Arnold, inquiring concerning'
Mrs. Aubrey, but no reply reached her.Early
in winter a new pupil, a "day scholar," joined
her class; she resided in New York, and-very
soon a strong friendship sprang up between
them. 'Louisa Young was about Irene's age,
very pretty, very gentle and winning -in her
manners. She was the daughter of-an affluent
merchant, and was blessed i4thepossessionp9f
parents who strove to rear their children as
Christian parents should. 'Louisa's attach.
ments were very warm and lasting, and ere
ong she insisted that her friend-should visit
her., Weary of the school, the ,latter gladly
availed herself of the-invitation, and one Fri.
day afternoon, she accompanied Louisa home.
The mansion was almost palatialand as Irene
Entered 'the splendidly-furnishedparlors her
~wn Southern home rose vividly before her.
"Mother,'this is Miss Huntingdon."
Mrs. Young received her cordially, and' as
he held the gloved hand,-and kindly express-
d her pleasure at meeting her daughter's-

S;
I
j  ,
11 1
'i
.r
1
f
!
t
1,
I  ,
t,
I
I
i
t}.
1
1i s
{
,  ;
,
F
tj
f
"  1
i
1,f

^   s

R

MACARIA.

34

35


'rl
,!
11
t  11
1! {
{
l"
f   f
t I
.lit
( it
" iii
1   {f
{lf

Sfriend,the girl's heart gave a quick bound of
joy.i
" Come up stairs and put away your bon-
net.",, eu
In  Louisa's beautiful room the two sat talk-
ing of various things till the tea-bell rang.
Mi. Young's greeting was scarcely less friendly
than his wife s, and as they seated themselves
at the table the stranger felt at home for the
first time in vew York.
"Where is Brother?" asked Louisa, glancing
at the vacant seat opposite her own.
t "He has not come home yet; I wonder what
keeps him?   There he is now, in the hall,"
answered the mother.
Moment after he entered and took his
seat. He was tall, rather handsome, and look-
ed about thirty. His sister presented her
friend, and with a hasty 'bow he fastened his
eyes on her face. Probably he was uncon-
scious of the steadiness of his gaze, but Irene
became restless under his fixed, earnest eye,
and, perceiving  her embarrassment, Mrs.
Young said-b.
" Harvey, where have you been? Dr., Mel-
ville called here for you at four o'-lock; said
you had made some engagement withi him."
"Yes, Mother ; we have been visiting to-
gether this afternoon."
Withdrawing his eyes, he seemed to fall
into a reverie, and took no part in the conver-
sation that ensued. As the party adjourned
'to the sitting'-room he paused on the rug and
leaned his efbow on the mantle. Louisa lin-
gered, and drew near. He passed his arm
around her shoulders and looked affectionately
down at her.
" well, what is it ?"
"Come into the sitting-room and help me
entertain Irene, instead 'of going off to your
stpd stdy do, Harvey."
stu   stu"A very reasonable request, truly ! I must
quit my work to talk to one of your school-
mates; nonsense I How old is she ?"
"Fifteen. Is not she a beauty ?"
" Yes."
"1Oh, Harvey!I you are so cold I I thought
youwould admire Irene prodigiously ; and
now you say 'yes' just exactly as if I had
asked you whether it was snowing out of
doors."     I
"Which is certainly the fact ; the first
flakes fell as I reached home."
lIe stepped to the window and looked out,
saying carelessly-
"Go to your friend, and when you are at a
loss for conversation, bring her to my study to
see those-sktches of Palmyra and Baalbec."
He passed on to his, work and she to the
sitting-room.s The study was simply the
library handsomely fitted up with choice old
books in rijhly-carved rosewood cases,~,and
antique bust peering down from the tops of
each Crinison' damask curtains .swept from
the ceiling to the carpet, and a luxurious arm-

36

.,                       . ,
'

AA AA   TT
MACARIA"

chair sat before the glowing coal-fire. The
table was covered with books and loose sheets
of paper wei-e scattered around, as if the oc-
cupant had been suddenly called from   his
labor. The gas burned brightly ; all things
beckoned back to work. He sat down,
glanced over the half-written sheets, numbered
the pages, laid them away in the drawer, and
opened a volume of St. Chrysostom. As the
light fell on his, countenance it was very
apparent that he had been a student for years;,
that his mind was habituated to patient, labo-
rious investigation. 'Gravity, utterly free from
sorrow or sternness, marked his face ; he might
have passed all his days in that quiet room,
for 'any impress which the cares or joys of out-
door life had left on his features ; a strong, clear
intellect; a lofty, earnest soul; a calm, unruffled
heart, that knew not half its own unsounded
abysses. He read industriously for some time,
occasionally pausing to annotate ; and once
or twice he raised his head and listenedifan-
cying footsteps in the hall. Finally he pushed
the book away, took a turn across the floor,
and resumed his seat. He could not rivet his
attention on St. Chrysostom, and, folding his
arms over his chest, he studied the red coals
instead. Soon after, unmistakable steps fell
on his ear, and a light tap at the door was
followed by the entrance of the two girls.
Irene came very reluctantly, fearful of intrud-
ing ; but he rose, and placed' a chair for her
close tohis own, assuring her that he was glad
to see her there. Louisa found the portfolio,
and, bringing it to the table, began to exhibit
its treasures. The two leaned over it, and as
Irene sat resting her cheek on her hand, the
beauty of her face, and figure was clearly re-
vealed. Harvey remained silent, watching
the changing expression of the visitor's couu-
tenance ; and once he put out his haiyl to
touch the hair floating over the back and arms
of her chair. Gradually his still heart stirred,
his brow flushed, and a new light burned in the'
deep clear eyes.
" Louisa, where did you get these ?"
" roth'er brought them home when he came
from the East."
Irene lifted her eyes to his and said:
" Did you visit all these places? Did you
go to that crumbling Temple of the Sun?"
He-told her of his visit to the Old World, of
its mournful ruins, its decaying glories: of the
lessons he learned there; the 'sad but precious
memories he brought back ; and as h8 talked
time passed unheeded-she forgot her embar-
rassment; they were strangers no longer. -The
clock struck ten ; Louisa rose at once.
" Thank you, Harvey, for giving us so much
of your time. Father and; Mother will be
waiting for you."
." Yes, I will join you at once.
She led the way back to the sitting-room,
and a few moments afterward, to Irene's art.
surprise, 'the student came i1, and stig

MACARIA.

87

down before the table, opened the Bible and  " Louisa, how came your brother to be a
read a chapter. Thein al knelt and .he pray- minister ?"  asked Irene, when they - had
ed. There was a strange spell on the visitor; reached their apartment.
in all this there was something so unexpected.  " When he was a boy he said he intended
It was the first time she. had ever knelt around to preach, and father never dissuaded him. I
the family altar, and, as she rose, that sit- was quite- young when he went to the East,
ting-room seemed . suddenly converted into a and since his return he has been so engrossed
temple of worship.  Mutual ",good-nights " by his theological.studies. that we are rarely
were exchanged, and as Irene turned toward together. Harvey is a singular man-so silent,
the young minister he held out his hand. so equable, so cold in his manner, and yet'he
She gave him hers, and he pressed it gently, has a warm heart.. He has declined 'two calls
saying:                                    since his ordination'; Dr. Melville's health s
"I trust this is the first of many pleasant very poor, and Harvey frequently fills his put-
evenings which we shall spend together."   pit.Sometimes he talks of going West, where
" Thank you, sir. I hope so too, for I have ministers are scarce ; thinks hb could do more
not been as happy since, I left home." ,  - good there, but mother willknot consent for
He smiled, and she walked on. His mother him to leave us. 'I am afraid, though, he will
looked up as the door closed behind her, and go-he is so determined when he once  nakes
exclaimed.                                 up his mind. He is a dear, good brother; I
"'What a wonderfully beautiful face she know you will like him when you know him
has ! Louisa often rhapsodized about her, and well; everybody loves Harvey."
now I am not at all surprised at her enthu- The inclemency of the weather confined the
siasm."                                    girls to the hbuse the following day. Harvey
" Yes, such perfection of features as hers is was absent at breakfast, and at dinner the
seen but once in a lifetime. I have travelled chair opposite 'Irene's was still vacant.' The
over the greater part of the world ; I have afternoon wore away, and at dusk Louisa-
looked upon all types of beauty, from the. An- opened the piano and began to play Thal-
dalusians whom Murillo immortalized, to -the berg's." Home, sweet home." . Irene sat on a
far-famed Circassians of Kabarda, but never sofa near thd window, and as she 'listened
before have I found such a marvel of loveli- visions of the South rose before her, till she
ness as that girl. In Venice I spent a morn- realized---
ing studying, one of Titian's faces, which some-
what resembles hers; there is an approlima- " Tat sorrow's crown ofsorrow isrememberinghappier
tion to the same golden hair-forming a nim-
bus, as it were-the: same contour of features, She longed inexpressibly for her own home,
but Titian's picture lacked her. pure, un- for her father,.for the suffering friends of the
searchable, indescribable eyes. Have ,you cottage, and, as she'thought of his many trials
noticed what a rare, anomalous color her hair Russell's' image was more distinct than all.
is?  There never was but one other head She closed her eyes,.and felt again his-tight
like it; the threads of fine gold in that cele- clasp of her hands; his passionate, pleading
brated lock of her own hair which Lucretia words sounded once more, " Oh, Irene ! be-
Borgia gave Cardinal Bembo, match' Irene lieve in me ! believe in me always I" It seem-
Huntingdon's exactly. . Well, and truly has it ed to her so unnatural, so cruel that they
been said of that glittering relic in the Am- should be separated. Then came the memory
brozian Library, 'Ifever hair was golden, it is- of Mrs. Aubrey's words of counsel: "Pray
this of Lucretia Borgia's; it is not red, it.is constantly; keep yourself unspotted from the
not yellow, it is not auburn ; it. is golden, and world." What would the blind woman think"
nothing else.' I examined it curiously, and if she knew all the proud, scornful, harsh feel-
wondered whether the world could furnish ings which were now in her heart' A sensa-
a parallel; consequently, when that girl's head 'tion of deep contrition and humilation came
flashed before 'me I was startled. Stranger upon her; she knew she was fast losing the
still than her beauty is the fact that it has not best impulses of her nature, and experienced
spoiled her thus far."                     keen regret that she had yielded to the evil
He folded his arris over his chest as if crush- associations and temptations of the school.
ing out something.                      . How could she hope to grow better under such'
His mother laughed.                 -  circumstances ? -w  at would become of her ?
" Why, Harvey ! . What a riddle your are. The snow drifted against the panes, making
Take care, my son ; that child would never do fairy fretwork, and through the- feathery
for a minister's wife."                   flakes the 'as-light at the corner burned stead-
" Of course not; who aver dreamed that ily on. o ought the light of conscience to
she would ? Good-night, Mother ; I shall not burn," thought she; "so ought I to do my
be -at home to breakfast ; do not wait for 1me; duty, no matter 'how I am situated. That
I am going to Long Island with Dr. Mhlville." ,light is all the more, necessary because it is
.He bent down to receive her customary stormy and dark."
kiss, and went to his own room.              Somebody took a seat near her, nd, though

A


iijr

MACARIA.

MACARIA.

the room was dim, she knew the tall form and
the touch of his hand.
"Good-evening, Miss Irene; we "have had
a -gloomy day. How have you and Louisa
spent it?"                              .
"Not very profitably I dare say, though it has
not appeared at all gloomy to me. Have you
been out in the snow ?"
"Yes; my work has been sad. I buried a
mother and child this afternoon, and have just
come from house of orphanage and grief. It
is a difficult matter to realize how many ach-
ipg hearts there are in this great city. Our
mahogany doors shut out the wail that hourly
goes:up to God from the thousand sufferers in
our midst."A
Just.then a servant lighted the chandelier,
and she saw that he, loo ed graver than ever.
Louisa came up and put her arms around'his
neck, but he did not return the caress; said a
few kind words, and rising, slowly paced the
floor. As his eye fell on the piano he paused,
saying, " Come; Louisa, sing that song for
me,"    -
She sat 'down and began, " Comfort ye my
people ;" aid gradually the sadness melted
from his features. As Irene listened to the
f solemn strains she found it difficult to control
her feelings, and by degrees her head sank
until it touched the arm of the sofa. The
minister watched the effect of the music, and,
resuming his seat, said gently :
"It is genuine philosophy to extract com-
cm fort and aid from every possible source. There
is a vast amount of strength needed to combat
the evils and trials which necessarily occur in
even the, sunniest, happiest lives; and I find
that sometimes I derive far. more from a song
-than a lengthy sermon. We are curious bits
of mechanism, and frequently music effects
what learned disputation,or earnest exhorta-
tion could not accomplish. I remember once,
when I was a -child, fhad given my mother a
great deal of trouble by my obstinacy. She
had entreated me, reasoned with me, and
finally punished me, but all to no purpose ;
my wickedness had not been conquered. I
was bitter and rebellious, and continued so all
day. That evening she sat down to the piano
and sang a hymu for my father. The-instant
the strains fell on  my ear I felt softened, crept
down stairs to the parlor-door, and before she
had finished was crying heartily,-begging her
forgiveness. When a sublime air is made the
vehicle of a noble sentiment there is no com-
puting the amount of good it accomplishes, if
p roperlydirected. During my visit to Lon-
dnrwent to hear a very celebrated divine.
I had just lost a dear friend, the companion
who travelled with me to Jerusalem and.Me-
roe, and I went to church full of sorrow. The
sermon washable, but had no more effect in
comforting me than if X had not listened to it.
He preached from that text of/Job treating
Ii of the resurrection, and at' the conclusion the

very words of his text, ' know that my Re-
deemer liveth,' were sung y the choir. Whlen
the organ rolled its solemn tones under the
dim arched roof, and I heard the voices of the
choir swelling deep and full-
. Throb tirougi the ribbed stone,'
then,. and not till then, I appreciated the
grand words to which I had listened. The
organ spoke to my soul hs man could not,'and
I left the church calmed and comforted. All
things are capable of yielding benefit, if prop-
erly applied, though it is a lamentable truth
that gross abuse has involved many possible
sources of good in disrepute; andit is .our
duty to extract elevating influences from all
departments. Such an alchemy is especially
the privilege of a Christian."       '''
As he talked she lifted her beautiful eyes
and looked steadily at him, 'and he thought
that, of all the lovely things he had ever seen,
that face was the most peerless. She drew
closer to him, and said earnestly:
"Then you ought to be happy, Mr. Young."
" That implies a doubt that am."
"You -do not seem to me a very happy
man."
"There you mistake ne. I presume there
are few happier persons."
" Countenance is not a faithful index, then;
you look so exceedingly grave."    .
"Do you suppose that gravity of face is in-
compatible"with sunshine in the heart ?" ~
" I think it reasonable that'the sunshine
should sprkle in the eyes and gleam Aver the
features. But, sir, I should like, if you please,
to talk to you a little about other things. May
I ?"                         '-
" Certainly ; speak on, and speak freely;
you may trust me, I think."
He smiled.encouragingly as he spoke, and.
without a moment's thought she laid her deli-
cate hand in his.-
"Mr. Young, I want somebody to advise
me. Very often I am at a loss about my duty,_
and, having no one to consult, either do noth-
in" at all, or that whiph I should not. If it
wil not trouble you too much, I should like to
bring my difficulties to you sometimes, and
get you to direct me. If you will only- talk
frankly to me, as you do to Louisa, oh ! I will
be very grateful."
He folded his hands softly over the white,
fluttering fingers.
" Louisa is my sister, and therefore I do not
hesitate to-tell her unwelcome truths. But you
happento be a perfect stranger,and might not
relish my counsel."
"Try me." ,
" How old are you ? Pardori my nuiqmisi-
tiveness."
"Fifteen." .*
"An age when young ladies prefer flattery
to truth. 'Have you no brother ?"
I" I am an only child."

89

"You would like a bother, however ?"
"Yes sir, above all things."
" Take care; you express yourself strongly.
If you can "fancy me or a brother, consider
me such. One thing I can promise-you-will
have a guardian sleepless as Ladon, and un-
tiring in his efforts to aid you as if he were in
truth a A3riareus. If you are not afraid of
espionage, make me your brother. What say
you ?"
",I am not 'afraid, sir. I believe I need
watching .'-
"Ah, that you do1" he exclaimed, with un-
usual emphasis.
"He can-be very stern, Irene, gentle as he
looks," suggested Louisa.
"If he never found fault with me I should
not need his friendship."
When Monday morning came, and she was
obliged to "return to school, Irene reluctantly
bade farewell to the new friends. She knew
that, in conformity to the unalterable regula-
tion of Crim Tartary, she could only leave the
institution oiee a month, and the prospect of
this long interval between her visits was by
no means cheering. Harvey assisted her into
the carriage.
" I shall send you some books in a day or
two,, and if you are troubled about anything
before I see you again, write me a note by
Louisa. I. would call to see you occasionally
if you were boarding anywhere else. Good-
morning, Miss Irene ; do not forget that.I am
your brother .so long as you stay in New York,
or need one."
The books were not forgotten ; they arrived
the ensuing week, and his selection satisfied
her that he perfectly understood what kind of
aid she required. Her visit made'a lasting im-
pression on her mind, and the Sabbath spept
in Louisa's home often recurred to her in after
years, as the memory of some green, sunny
isle of rest haunts the dreams of weary, tem-
pest-lashed mariners in a roaring sea. Maria
Ashley was a sore trial of patience, and occa-
sionally, after a fruitless struggle to rise above
the temptations presented almost hourly, Irene
looked longingly toward Louisa's fireside, as
one turns to the last source of support. Fi-
nally she took refuge in silence, and, except
when compelled to do so, rarely commented
upon anything that occurred. The days were
always busy, and when the text-books were
finished she ,had, recourse to those supplied
by her new friends. At the close of the next
month, instead of accompanying Louisa home,
Irene was suffering with severe cold, and too
much indisposed to quit the house. This was
. a grievous disappointment, but she bore it
bravely and went on with her studies. What
a dreary' isolation in the midst 'of numbers of
her own age. It was a thraldom that g'alled
. her; and more than once she implored her
father's permission to return home. His re-
plies were positive denials, and after a time

88

she ceased to expect release until the pre-
sci-ibed course should be ended. Thus an-
other month dragged itself away. On Friday
morning Louisa was absent. Irene felt anx-
ious AnYdistressed ; perhaps she was ill; 'some.
thing must have happened. As the day-pupils
were dismissed she started back to her, own
room, heart-sick because of this second disap-
pointment. "After all," thought she, "I may
as well accustom myself to being ,one. Of
course 1 can't hove the Youngs always." I
must learn to deperid on myself. She put
away the bonnet and cloak laid out in readi-
ness for departure, and sat down to wiite to
her Aunt Margaret. A few minutes after a
servant knocked at the door aid informed her
that a gentleman wished to see her in the
parlor.
CHAPTERR VI I
" I am so glad to see you, Mr., Young.
Louisa is not sick, I hope ?"
"I came for you in Louisa's 'place ; she is
not well enough to quit her 'room. Did you
suppose that I intended leaving you here for
another month ?"
"I was rather afraid you had forgotten me;
the prospect *as gloomy-ten minutes ago. It
seems a long time since I was with you."
She stood close to him, looking gladly into
his face, unconscious of the effect ofer words.
"You sent me no note all this time ; why
not ?"
"I was afraid of troubling you; and, be-
sides, I would rather tell you. what I want you
to know."
"Miss Irene, the carriage is at the door.- I
am a patient man, and can wait half an hour
if you have any preparation to make."
In much less time she joined him, equipped
for the ride, and took her place beside him in
the carriage. As they reached his -father's
door, and he assisted her out, she saw him
lopk at her very searchingly.
" It is time that you had a little fresh air.
You are not quite yourself. Louisa is in her
room; run up to her."
She found her friend suffering with sore
throat, and was startled at the appearance of
her flushed cheeks. Mrs. Young sat beside
her, and after most cordial greetings the.latter
resigned 'her seat and left them, enjoining
upon her daughter the necessity of remaining
quiet.afadfroj
" Mother was almost afraid for yo   come,
but I teased and coaxed for permission; told
her that even if I had scarlet-fever, your had
already had it, and would run no risk., Har-
vey says it is not acarlet-fever at all, and he
prsuaded mother to 'let him go after you.
Halashas things his own way, though he
brings it about so, quietly that nobody would
ever suspect him of being self-willed. Hiar-
yey is a good friend of yours, Irene."

P".

1


fil

MACARIA.

"I am very glad to hear it; he is certainly and power gathered into salvation a more than
very kind to me. But recollect you are not to adequate provision.' Louisa has told me the
talk much; let me talk to you."  .  ,    nature of the trials that beset you, and that you
Mrs. Young sent'up tea for both, and about still strive to rise superior to thembught.to en-
nine o'clock Mr. Young and his son both en- courage you. 'The books which I sent were
tered. Louisa had fallen asleep holding Irene's calculated to aid you in your efforts to.he
hand and her father cautiously felt the pulse gentle, forgiving, and charitable under adverse
and, examined the countenance. The -fever circumstances. I use the word cha'rty in its
had abated, and, bending down, Harvey said broad, deep, true significance. Of all charities
softly:                                  mere money-giving is the least ; sympathy,
"Can't You release yotr hand without, kind words, gentle judgments, a friendly pres-
wakig her ?"                             ure of weary hands, an encouraging -smile,
"I am afraid not; have prayer without one will frequently outweigh a mint of coins.
to-night."                         T     Bear this in mind: selfishness is the real root of
After the gentlemen withdrew, Mrs. Young all the evil in the world; people are too isolat-
and Irene watched the sleeper till midnight, ed, too much wrapped up in their individual
when she awoke. The following morning rights, interests, or enjoyments. I, Me, Mine,
found -her much better, and Irene and the is the God of the age. There are many noble
mother spent the day in her room. Late in exceptions; philanthropic associations abound
the afternoon the minister came in and talked in our cities, and individual instances of gen-
to his sister for some moments, then turned to erous self-denial nowand then flash out upon
his mother.                              us. But we ought to live more for others than
" Mother, I am going to take this visitor of we do. Instead of the narrow limits which
yours down to the library; Louisa has mo- restrict so many, the whole family of the hu--
nopolized her long enough. Come, Miss Irene, man race should possess our cordial sympathy.
you shall join them again at tea." In proportion as we interest ourselves in pro-
yHe led the way,'and she followed him very moting the good and, happiness of others our
willingly. Placing her in a chair before the natures 'become elevated, enlarged ; our ca-.
fire, he drew another to the rug, and seating pacities for enjoyment are developed and in-
himself, said just as if speaking to Louisa:  creased. The happiest man I ever knew was,
" What have you been doing these two a missionary in Syria. He had abandoned-
months ?  What is it that clouds your face, home, friends, and country; but, in laboring
my little sister ?"        ,   ;.      . for the weal of strangers, enjoyed a peace, a
"Ali, sir ! I am so weary of that -school. sei'enity, a deep gladness, such as not the
You don't know what a relief it is to come wealth of the Rothschilds could purchase. Do
here."                                   not misapprehend me. All can not be mission-
"It is rather natural that you should feel' arie in the ordinary acceptation of that term.;
homesick. It is a fierce ordeal for a child like I believe that very few are really called to
you to be thrust so far from home."      spend their lives under inclement skies, in
"I am not homesick now, I believe. I have dreary by-corners of the earth, amid' hostile
in some degree become accustomed to the tribes. But true missionary work lies at every
separation from my father; but I am growing man's door, at every woman's ; and, my little
so different from what fused to be; so differ- sister, yours waits for you, staring at you daily.
ent from what I expected. It grieves me to ' Do the work that lies nearest to thee.' Let me
know that I am changing for the worse ; but give you the rule of a profound thinker, who
somehow, I can't help it. I make good reo- might have accomplished incalculable good had
lutions in the morning before I leave my he walked the'narrow winding path which hp
room,.and by noon I manage to break allof stood afar off and pointed ouft to othei:
them. ' The girls try me, and I lose my pa- ' Know what thou canst work at, and work at
tience. When I am at home nothing of this it like a Hercules;' and, amid the holy hills of
kind troubles me. I know you will think me Jerusalem, the voice of Inspiration proclaimed:
very weak, and I dare say I am; still I try ' Whatsoevei- thy hand findeth to do, do it with
much harder than you think I do."       thy- might'"'
"If you never yielded to temptation you  His low voice fell soothingly on her ear;
would be more than mortal. We are all prone new energy kindled, new strength was infused,
to err ; apd, Miss Irene, did it never occur to- as she listened, and-she said hastily:
you that, though you may be ,overcome by "It would be an easy matter to do all this,
the evil prompting, yet the struggle to resist if I had somebody like you always near to di-
strengthened you ?  So long as life lasts this react me." -
conflict will be waged; though you have not " Then there would be no glory in conquer-
always succeeded thus far, earnest prayer and ing. Every soul' has trials which must be
,faithful resolve will enable -you to conquer. borne without any assiptaiice, save that which
Look to a merciful and watchful God for -the Father mercifully bestows. Remember
assistance; ' divine knowledge took the meas- the sublime words of Isaiah: 'I have trodden
ure of every human necessity, and divine love the wine-press alone ; and of the people there

MACARIA.

was cone with me.. And I looked, and there
,,was none to help, and I wondered that there
was none to uphold ; therefore mine own arm
brought salvation unto me.' Miss Irene, you,
too, must ' tread the wine-press alone."'
She held her breath and looked "up at him;'
the solemn emphasis of his words 'startled her ;
they fell upon her weighty as prophecy, adum-
brating weary years of ceaseless struggling.
The fire-light glowed on her sculptured feat-
ures, and he saw an expression of vague
dread in her glance.
"Miss Irene, yours is not a clinging, de-
pendent disposition ; if I have have rightly un-
derstood your character, you have never been
accustomed to lean upon others. After rely-
ing on yourself so long, why yield to mistrust
now ? With -years should grow the power,
the determination, to do the work you find.
laid out for you."  '
"It is precisely because I know how very
poorly I have managed myself thus far, that I
have no confidence in my own powers for fu-
ture emergencies. Either I have lived alone
too long,, or else not long enough ;i rather
think the last. If they had 'only suffered me
to act as I wished, I should have been so much
better at home. Oh, sir ! I am not the girl I
was eight months ago. I knew how it would
be when they sent me here."
Resting her chin in her hands, she.,gazed
sadly into the grate, and saw, amid glowing
coals, the walls of the vine-clad cottage, -the.
gentle face of the blind woman groping her
way, the melancholy eyes of one inexpressibly
dear to her.
" We can not always live secluded, and at
some period of your life you would have been
forced to enter the- world and combat its
troubles, even had you never seen New York.
It is comparatively'easy for anchorites to pre-
serve a passionless, equable temperament; but
to ignore the very circumstances'and relations
of social existence in which God intended that
we should be purified and ennobled by trial, is
both sinful and cowardly."
Taking a small volume from the table, he
read impressively:
"   tare we set on earth for? Say to toil;
Nor seek to leave thy tending of the vines,
For all the heat o' the day, till it declines,
And death's mild curfew shall from work assail.
God did anoint thee with his odorous oil,
To wrestle, not to reign. s -o others shall
Take patience, labor, to their heart and hand,
From thy hand, and thy hart, and thy brave cheer,
And God's grace fructify through theeto all."
"Some portentous cloud- seems lowering
over your future. 'What is it? You ought to
be a gleeful girl, full of happy hopes."
She sank .farther back ai her chair to es-
cape his searching gaze, and drooped her face
lower. . '
"Yes, yes; I know I ought, but one can't
always shut their eyes." -
" Shut their eyes to what ?" -

41

" Various coming troubles, Mr. Young."
.His lip curled slightly, and, replacing the
book on the table, he said, as if speaking
rather to himself than to her:
"' The heart knoweth his own bitterness,-
and a stranger doth not internieddle with' his
joy.' "
" Yqu are not a.stranger, sir.
" I see -you are disposed to consider me such.
I thought I was your brother. But no matter ;
after a time all will be well."
She looked puzzled ; and, as the tel-bell
summoned them, he' merely added:
"I do not wonder. You are a aby child ;
but you will soon learn to understand me ; you
will come to me with all your sorrows."
During the remainder of this visit she saw
him no more. Louisa recovered rapidly, and
when she asked for her brother on Sabbath
evening,. Mrs. Young said he was to preach
twice that day. Monday morning arrived,
and Irene returned to school with a heavy
heart, fearing that she had wounded him; but
a few days after Louisa brought her a book
and brief note of kind words.. About this
time she noticed in her letters from home allu-
sions to her own future lot, which increased
her uneasiness. It was very palpable that her
father expected her to accede to his wislkes
regarding. a union with her cousin;. and she
knew only too well how fierce was the contest
before her. Hugh wrote kindly, affectionate-
ly; and if she could have divested her mind
of this apprehension, his letters would lave
comforted her. Thus situated, she turned to
her books with redoubled zest, and her natu-
rally fine intellect was taxed- to the utmost.
Her well-earned pre-eminence in her classes
increased the jealousy, the dislike, and censo-
riousness of her less -studious comppanions.
Months passed ; and though she preserved a
calm, impenetrable exterior, taking no heed'
of sneers and constant persecution, yet the
worm gnawed its slow way, and the plague-
spot spread in that'whilom pure spirit. One
Saturday morning she sat quite alone in her
small room; the week had been specially pain-
ful, and, wearied in soul,-thegirl laid her head
down on her folded arms and thought of her
home in the far South. Thespicf fragrance
of orange and magnolia came to her,: and
Erebus and Paragon haunted her recollection.
Oh ! for one ride through the old pine-woods.
Oh! for one look at the water-lilies being
obver the creek.Only one wretched year had
passedl--how could she endurethose which were
to come. A loud, tap'startled, her from this
painful reverie, and, ere she could utter the
stereotyped "come n," Louisa sprang to her
side.
"I have come for you, Irene ; have obtained,
permission from Dr.       for you to accom-
pany us to tfi Academy of Design." Pit 'on
your bonnet ; Harvey is waiting in the raeor
Lion-room. *We shall have a charming day.

#       -

40,

lii
I


MACARIA.                  43

" Ah, Louisa! you are all very kind to rec-
ollect me so constantly. It will give me great
pleasure to go" 
When they joined the mister Irene fancied
lze received. her coldly, and as they walked on
he took no part inthe conversation., The an,
xiual exhibition had just opened; the rooms
were thronged with visitors, and the hifshed
tones. swelled to a monotonous hum. Some
stood in groups, expatiating eagerly on certain
ictures; others occupied ,e seats and leisure-
yscanned now the paint s, now the crowd.
Furnished with a catalog, the girls moved
slowly on, while Mr. Young pointed out the
prominent beauties or defects of the works
exhibited. They made the circuit of the room,
and began a second tour, when their attention
was attracted by agirl who stood in one corner,
with her hands clasped behind her. .She was
gaming very intently on an Ecce-flomo, and,
though her face was turned toward the wall,
the -posture . bespoke most unusual interest.
She was dressed i black, and, having remov-
ed 'her straw hat, the rippling jetty hair, cut
short like a boy's, glistened in the mellow light.
Irene looked at her an instant, and held her
breath; she had seen only, one -other head
which resembled that-she knew the purplish
waving hair. "What is the matter ?" asked
the.minister, noting the change-in her coun-
tenance. She made no answer, but leaned
forward to catch a glimpse of the face. Just
then the black figure moved slightly; she saw,
the profile, the beautiful straight nose, the
arched brow, the clear olive cheek; and glid-
ing up to her she exclaimed:
"Electra! Electra Grey "
The orphan turned, and they were locked
in a tight embrace.
"Oh,Irie ! I'am so glad to see you. I have
been here so long, and looked for you so often,
that I had almost despaired. Whenever I
walk down Broadway, wheneve- I go out any
where, I look at every face, peep into every
bonnet, hoping, to find you. Oh ! I am ao
glad."
Joy flushed the cheeks and fired the deep
eyes, and people turned from the canvas on
the walls to gaze upon two faces surpassing in
beauty aught that the Academy contained.
"But what tare you- doing in New York,
Electra? Is Russell with you?  How long
have you been here?".
"Since October last. Russell is at home ;
no, he has no home, now. When my aunt'
died we separated; I came on to study under
Mr. Clifton's care. Have you not heard of
our loss ?"
t "I have been able to hear nothing of you.
I wrote to Dr. Arnold, inqurng after you, but
he probably never received my letter."
"Andyour father?" queried Electra proudly.
"Father told mxe nothing." *    ..
"is the grave not deep enough for his
hate ?"

" What;do you mean ?"   -
"You don't probably know all that I do;
but this is no place to discuss such matters ;
some time we will talk of it. Do come and
see me soon-soon. I must go now, I prom-
ised."            .                   .
"Where do you live; I will go home with
you now.".4
"I am not going home immediately. Mr.
Clifton's house' is No. 85 West-,  street.
Come this afternoon."
With a long, warm pressure of hands they
parted, and Irene stood looking after the
graceful figure till it glided out of sight.
"In the name of wonder, who is that ? You
two have been the observedd of all observers,'
ejaculated the impulsive Louisa.
"That is my od school-mate and friend of
whom I once spoke to you. I had no idea
that she wasin New York. She is a poor or-
phan.".
"Are you ready to return home?    This
episode has evidently driven pictures out of
your head for to-day," said Mr. Young, who
had endeavored to screen her from obser-
vation.
"Yes, quite ready to go, though .Y have
enjoyed the morning very much indeed, thanks
to your kindness."
Soon after they reached home Louisa was
called inter the parlor to see a young friend';
and as Mrs. Young was absent, Irene found it
rather lonely up stairs. She thought of a new
volume of travels which she had noticed on
the hall-table as they entered, and started
down to get it. About half-way of the flight'
of steps she caught ,her foot in the carpeting,
where one of the rods chanced to be loose, and,
despite her efforts, to grasp the railing, fell to
the floor of the hall, crushing one arm under
her. The library-door was thrown open in.
stantly, and the minister came out. She lay
motionless, and he bentover her;
"Irene I where are 'you hurt ?  Speak to
me."
He raised her in his arms  an. placed her
on the sofa in the sitting-room. The motion
produced great pain, and she groaned and
shut her eyes. A crystal vase containing
some exquisite perfume stood on his mother's
work-table, and, pouring a portion of the
contents in his palm, he bathed her forehead.
Acute suffering distorted her features, and.
his face grew pallid as her own while he
watched her. Taking her hand, he repeated:
"Irene, my darling ! tell me how you are
hurt ?"
She looked at him, and said with some dif-
"ficulty :
" My ankle pains me very much, and I be-
lieve my arm is broken. I can't move it-"
" Thank God you were not killed.'"
He kissed her, then turned away and de-
spatched a servant for a physician. He sum-
moned Louisa,' and inqtired fruitlessly for his

mother ; no one knew. whither she had gone ;
it would not do to wait for her. He stood by
the sofa and prepared the necessary bandages,
while his sister could only cry over and caress
the sufferer. When the physician came the
white dimpled arm was bared, and he discov-
ered that the bone was broken. - The setting
was extremely painful, but she lay with closed
eyes and firmly compressed lips, uttering no
sound, giving no token of the torture, save in
the wrinkling of her forehead. They bound
the arm tightly, and then the doctor said that
the ankle was badly strained and swollen, but
there was, luckily, no fracture.. He gave
minute directions to the minister and with-
drew, praising the patient's remarkable forti-
tude. Louisa would talk, and her brother
sent her off to prepare a room for her friend.
" I think I had better go back to the' Insti-
tute, Mr. Young. - It will be a long time be-
fore I can walk again, and I wish you would
have me. carried' back. Dr. -  will be so
uneasy; and-will prefer my returning, as Fath-
er left me in his- charge." She tried to rise,
but sank  back on the pillow.
"Hush ! hush ! You will stay where you are,.
little cripple. I am only thankful you hap-
pened to be here."'
He smoothed the folds' of hair from her
temples, and for the first time played with the"
curls he had so often before -been tempted to
touch. She looked so slight, so childish, with'
her head nestled against the pillow, that he
forgot she was almost sixteen, forgot every-
thing but the beauty of the pale face, and
bent over her with an expression of the ten-
derest love. She was suffering too much- to
notice his countenance, and only felt that he
was very kind and gentle. Mrs. Young came
in very soon, and heard with the deepest so-
licitude of what had occurred. Irene again
requested to be taken to. the school, fearing
that she would cause too much trouble during,
her long confinement to the house. But Mrs.
.Young stopped her arguments with kisses, and
would listen to no such arrangement; .'she
would -trust to no one 'but herself to nurse
"the bruised Southern lily."  Having seen
that all was in readiness, she insisted on ear-
rying her guest to th% room adjoining Louiaa's
and opening into her, own. Mr. Young had
gone to Boston the day before; and, turning to
her son, she said :
" Harvey, as your father is away, you must
take Irene up stairs ; I am not strong enough.
Be careful thAt you do not hurt her.'
She led the' way, and bending down, he
whispered:
"My little sister, put this uninjured arm
around my neck ; there-now I shall carry
you as easily as if you were in a cradle."
He 'held her firmly, and as lie bore her up
the steps the white face lay oif his .bosom and.
the golden hair floated against his cheek. If
she had looked at him then, she 'would have

seen more than he intended that any one
should know; for, young and free from vanity
though she was, it was impossible to mistake
the expression of the eyes riveted upon her.
She never knew how his great heart throbbed,
nor suspected that he turned his lips to the
streaming curls. As he consigned her to his
mother's care she held out her hand and
thanked him for hisgreat kindness, little dream-
ing of the emotions with which he held -her
fingers. He very considerately offered to go
at one to the principal of'the school and ac-
quaint him with all that had occurred; and,
ere long, when an anodyne had been adminis-
tered, she fell asleep, and found tempo ry
relief. Mrs. Young wrote immediately to 1r.
Huntingdon, and explained the circumstances
which had made his daughter her guest for.
some weeks at least, assuring him that he need
indulge no apprehension whatever on her ac-
count, as sh Would nurse her as tenderly asa
mother could. Stupefied by the opiate, Irene
took little;notice of what passed, except when
roused by the pain consequent upon dressing
the ankle. Louisa went to school as usual
but her mother rarely left their guest; and
after Mr..Young's return he treated her with
all the affectionate consideration of a parent.
Several days after the occurrence of the acci-
dent Irene turned toward the minister, who
stood talking to his mother.
"Your constant kindness emboldens me to
ask a favor of you, which I think .you will
scarcely' deny me. I am very anxious to see
the friend whom I so unexpectedly met at the
Academy of Design ; and if she knew the cir-
cumstances that prevent my leaving the house,
I am very sure she would come to me. Here
is a card containing her address; will you
spare me the time to bring her here to-day ?
I shall be very much obliged to you.
"I think you ought to kee perfectly quiet,
and see no company for a fewdays. Can't
you wait patiently ?"
" It will do me no harm to see her. I feel
as if I could,-not wait."
"Very well, I will go after her as soon as
I have fulfilled a previous engagement. What
is her name"?"
" Electra Grey. Did you notice her face ?"
" Yes; but why do you ask ?"
" Because I think she resembles your moth-
er."
" She resembles far more an old portrait
hanging in my room. I remarked it as soon as
I saw her."
He seemed lost in thought, and immediately
after left the room. An hour later Irene's
listening ear detected the opening and closing
of the hall.door.
" There is Electra on the steps ; I hear het
voice. Will you please open the door ?'?
Mrs. Young laid down 'her work and rose 'to
comply, but Harvey ushered the stranger in
and then retired.

42                               MA.C:ARIA..


ARIA.

44                                 MAC
The lady of the house looked at the new-
comer, and a startledrexpression came instant-
ly into her countenance. , She made a step
forward and paused irresolute.
"Mrs. Young, allow me to introduce my
friend, Miss Electra Grey." Electra bowed,
and Mrs. Ybung exclaimed :
" Grey ! Grey! Electra Grey; and so like
- Robes '/ Oh ! it must be so. Child, who are
you ? Where are your parents ?"
She approached, and put her hand on the
girl's shoulders, while a hopeful light kindled
in her eyes.
"I am an orphan, Madam, from the South.
My father died before my birth-my mother
immediately after."
" Was your father's name Robert ? Where
was he from ?"
" His name was Enoch R. Grey. I don't
know what his middle name was. He came
originally from Pennsylvania, I believe."  '
"-Oh! I knew that I could not be mistaken !
My brother's child ! Robert's 'child I"
She threw her arms around the astonished
girl and strained her to her heart.
" There must be some . mistake, Madam.
I never heard that I had relatives in New
York."
"Oh, child ! call me Aunt ; I am your
father's sister. We called him by his middle
name, 'Robert, and for eiglhteen-years have
heard nothing of him. Sit down here, and
let me tell you the , circumstances.  Your
'father was the youngest of three children, and
in his youth gave us peat distress by his wild-
ness; he ran away from college and went to
sea. After an absence of three years he re-
turned, almost a wreck of his former self. My
mother had died during his long voyage to the
South Sea islands, and father, who believed
him to have, been the remote cause of her
death (for her health failed soon after he left),
upbraided him most harshly and unwisely.
His reproaches drove poor Robert to despera-
tion,.and, without givig us any clew, he left
home as suddenly as before.'Whither he went
we never knew. Father was so incensed that
he entirely 'disinherited him; but at hisdeath,
when the estate was divided, my Brother Wil-
liam and I decided that we would take only
what we considered our proportion, and we
set apart one-third for Robert. We advertised
for, several years, but could hear nothing of
him; and at the end of the fifth year William
divided that remainin third. We knew that
he must have died, and I have passed many a
sleepless night weeping over his wretched lot,
mourtnng that no kind words -reached 'him.
from us---that no monumental stone marked
his unknown grave. Oh, my - dear child ! I
am so glad to find you out. But where have
you been all this time ? Where did Robert
die ?"
She held the orphan's hand, and made no
attempt to conceal the tears that rolled over

N

her cheeks.. Electra gave her a detailed ac-
count of her life from the time when she was
taken to her uncle, Mr. Aubrey, at the age of
four months, till the death of her aunt and
her removal to New York.
" And Robert's child has been in want,
while we knew not of her existence ! Oh,
Electra ! you shall have no more sorrow'.that
we can shield you from. I loved. your father
very 'devotedly, and I shall love his orphan
quite as dearly. Come to me ; let me be your
mother. Let me repair the wrong of by-gone
years."
She folded her arms around the graceful
young. form and sobbed. aloud, while Irene
fpund it difficult to repress her own tears of
sympathy and joy that her friend had found
such relatives. Of the three, Electra was
calmest. Though glad to meet with her
father's family, she knew better than they that
this circumstance could make little alteration
in her life, and therefore, when Mrs. Young
left the room to acquaint her husband and son
with the discovery she had. made, Electra sat
down beside her friend's sofa just as she would
have done two hours before.
" I am so glad for your sake that you are to
come and live here. Until you know them all
as well as I do, you can not properly appreci-
ate your good fortune," said .'Irene, raising
herself on her elbow.
" Yes, I am very glad to meet my aunt," re-
turned Electra evasively, and then she added
earnestly:
"But I rather think that I am gladder still
to see you again. Oh, Irene !lit seems an age
since I came to this city. We have both
changed a good deal; you look graver than
when we parted that spring morning that you
took me to see the painter. I owe even his
acquaintance to your kindness."
" Tell me of all that happened after I left
home. You know that I have heard noth-
ing."
The orphan narrated the circumstances
connected with her aunt's last illness and'
death ; the wretchedness that came upon her
and Russell; the necessity of their separation.
"And where is Russell now ?"
"At home-that is, still with Mr. Campbell,
who has proved a kind friend. Russell writes
once a week ; he seems tolerably cheerful, and
speaks confidently of- his future as a lawyer.
He studies very hard, and,I know that he will
succeed."
" Your cousin is very ambitious. I wish he
could have had a good education."
"It will be all the same in the end. He
will educate himself thoroughly; he needs no-
body's 'assistance," answered Electra with a
proud smile.
" When you'write to him again don't forget
to tender him' my remembrances and best
wishes."
" Thank you."      .      '

MACARIA.

. A slight change came over the orphan's
countenance, and her companion noted with-
out understanding it.
" Electra, you spoke of my father the other
day in a way that puzzled me, and I wish, if
you please, you would tell me what you
meant."
"I don't know that I ought to talk about
things that should have been buried before
you were born. But you probably know some-
thing of what happened. We found out after
you left why you were so suddenly sent off to
boarding-school, and you can have no idea
how 4nuch my poor aunt was distressed at the
thought of having caused your banishment.
Irene, your father hated her, and of course
y6u know it ; but do you know why ?"
"No; I never could imagine aiy adequate'
cause."
" Well I can tell you. Before Aunt Amy's
marriage your father loved her, and to please
her parents she accepted him. She was mis-
erable, because she was very much attached to
my uncle, and asked Mr. Huntingdon to re-
lease her from the engagement. He declined,
and, finding that her parents sided with him,
she left home and married against their wishes.,
They adopted a distant relative, and never
gave her a cent. Your father never forgave
her. He had great influence with the gov-
ernor, and she went to him and entreated him
to aid her in procuring a pardon for her hus-
band. He repulsed her cruelly, and used.'his;
influence against my uncle. She afterward
saw a letter which Ihe wrote to the governor,
urging him to withhold a pardon. Oh, Irene !
if ,you could have seen Russell when he found
out all this. .Now you have thekey to his
hatred; now you understand why he wrote
you nothing concerning us. Not even Aunt
Amy's coffin could shut in his hate.".
She rose, and, walking to the window, press-,
ed her face against the panes to cool her burn-
ing cheeks.
Irene had put her hand over her eyes, and
a. fearful panorama of coming years rolled
before her in that brief moment. She saw with'
miserable distinctness the parallelism between
Mrs. Aubrey's father and her own, and, sick
at heart, she moaned, contemplating her lot.
A feeling ,of remorseful compassion touched
the orphan as she heard the smothered sound,
and, resuming her seat, she said gently:
" Do not be distressed, Irene; 'let the dead
past bury its dead;' it is all over-now, and
no more harm can come of it. I shall be sorry
that I told you if you let it trouble you."I
Irene knew too well that it *as not over;
that it was but the beginning of harm to'her;
but she repressed her emotion, and changed
the subject by -'inquiring 'how Electra pro-
gressed with her painting.
" Even better than I hoed. *Mr. Clifton is
an adinirable master, and does all' that he can
to aid me. I shall succeed, Irene I- I know, I

45

feel that I shall, and it is a great joy to
me."
" I -am very glad to hear it; but now- You
will have no need to -labor, as you once ex-
pected to do. You are looking. much better
than I ever, saw you, and have grown taller.
You are nearly sixteen, I believe ?"
"Yes, sixteen. I am three months your
senior. 'Irene, I must go home now, for they
will wonder what has become of me. I will
see you again soon."
Sbe was detained by her aunt, and present-
ed to the remainder of the family, and it was
arranged that Mr. and Mrs. Young should
visit her the ensuing day. While they talked
over the tea-table of the newly-found,. Harvey
went slowly up stairs and knocked at Irene's
door. Louisa was chattering delightedly about
'her cousin, and, sending her down .to her tea,
he took her seat beside the sofa. Irene lay
with her fingers over her eyes, and he said
gently :
" You see that I am wiser than you, Irene.
I knew that it would do you no good to have
company. Next time be advised." ,
"It was not Electra that harmed me."
" Then you admit that you, 'have been
harmed ?"
" No; I am low-spirited to-night; I believe-
that is all."
" You have not studied dialectics yet. Peo-
pleeare not. low-spirited without a cause ; tell
me what troubles you."
She turned her face to the wall, and- an-
swered :
, " Oh ! there is nothing which I can tell you,
sir."
"Irene, why ao you distrust me ?"
"I do not; indeed I do not. You must not
believe that for one moment."
"Y  u are distressed, and yet will not con-
fide in me."
"It is something. which I ought not to'tell
even my friend-my brother."
" You are sure that it is something I could
not remedy?"
"Yes, sir ; perfectly sure."
" Then try to forget it, and let me read to
you."
He opened the "'Rambler," of which she
was particularly fond, and began to reads
For a while she listened, and in her interest
forgot her forebodings,.but after a time, the
long silky lashes swept her cheeks, and she
slept. The minister laid down the volume and
watched the pure girlish face ; noted all its
witching lovelinesb, and thought of the homage'
which it would win her in coming years. A
few more fleeting months, and she wouldreign
the undisputed jueen of so,eiety. Wealth in-
tellect, manly beauty, all would bow beore
her ; and she was a woman ;' would doubtless
love and marry, like, the majority of women.
He set this fact before him and lookedd it in
the face,' but it would not answer ; he coul4


46                    M40Al A.

not realize that she would ever be other than
the trusting, noble-hearted, beautiful child
which. she was to him. He knew as he sat
watching her slumber that he loved her ktbove
everything on earth ; that she wielded a pow-
er none had ever possessed before-that his
heart was indissolubly linked with 'her. He
had wrestled with this infatuation, had station-
ed himself on the platform of sound common
sense, and railed at and ridiculed this piece of
folly. His clear, cool reason gave solemn ver-
dict against the fiercely-throbbing heart, but
not one, pulsation had been restrained. At
his age, with his profession and long-laid plans,
this was arrant madness, and he admitted it ;
but the long down-trodden'feelings of his heart,
having gained momentary freedom, exulting-
ly ran riot and refused to be. reined in. lie
might just as *ell have laid his palm on the
whitened crest of surging billows in stormy,
tropical seas, and bid them sink softly down to
their coral pavements. Human' passions, ha-
tred, 'ambition, revenge, love, are despots;
and the minister, who for thirty years had
struggled for mastery over these, now found
himself a slave. He had studied Irene's
countenance too well not to know that a shad-
ow rested on it now ; add it grieved apd per-
plexed him that she should conceal this trouble
from him. As he sat looking down at her a
mighty barrier rose between them. His future
hadlong been determined-duty called him to
the rude huts of the far West; thither pointed
the finger of Destiny, and thither, at all haz-
ards, he would go. He thought that he 'had
habituated himself to sacrifices, but the spirit
of self-abnegation was scarcely equal to this
trial. Reason taught him that the tenderly-
nurtured child of southern climes would never
suit him for' a companion in the pioneer-life
'which he had marked out. Of course, he must
leave her ; hundreds of miles would intervene ;
his memory would. fade from her mind, and
for him it only remained to bury her image in
the prairies of his new home. He folded his
arms tightly over his chest, and resolved to go
promptly..
The gas-light flashed on Irene's hair as it
hung over the side of the sofa; he stooped
and pressed his lips to the floating curls, and
went down to the library smiling grimly at
his own folly. Without delay he wrote two
letters, and was dating a third, when hi
mother came in. Placing a chair for her, he
laid down his pen.
"I am glad to see you, Mother; I want to
have a talk with you."  ',
"About what, Harvey ?" an anxious look
settled on her face.  -'
"About my leaving you, and going West. I
have decided to start next week." .
" Oh, my son'! how can you bring such
grief upon me ? Surely 'there is work enough
for you to do here, without your tearing yout-
aif' from us."

" Yes, Mother, work enough, but hands
enough also, without nine. These are the
sunny slopes of the Vineyard, and laborers
crowd to till them; but there are cold, shad-
owy, barren nooks and corners that equally
demand cultivation. There the lines have
fallen to me, and there I go to my work. Nay,
Mother ! don't weep; don't heighten, by your
entreaties and remonstrances, the barriers to
my departure. It is peculiarly the province
of such as I to set forth for this field of opera-
tions ; men who have wives and children have
no right to subject them to the privations and
hardships of pioneer life. But I am alone-
shall always be-so-and' this call I feel to be
imperative. You know that I have dedicated
myself to the ministry, and whatever I firmly
believe to be my duty to the holy cause I have
espoused, that I must do even though it sepa-
rate me from my mother. It is a severe ordeal
to me-you will probably never know 'how
severe; but we who profess to yield up all
things for Christ must not shrink from sacri-
fice. -I shall come back now and then, and
letters are a blessed medium of communica-
tion and consolation. I have delayed my de-
parture too long already."
" Oh, Harvey h.have you fully determined
on this step ?".
"Y es, my dear Mother, fully determined to
go."
a It is very hard for me to give up my only
son. Can't say that I will reconcile myself
to this separation ; but you are old enough to
decide your own future; and I suppose I
ought not to urge you. For months I have
opposed your resolution ; now I will not longer
remonstrate. Oh, Harvey ! it makes my heart
ache to part with you. if you were married,
I should be better satisfied; but to think of'
you in your loneliness l" She laid her head
on his shoulder, and wept.
The minister compressed his lips firmly an
instant, then replied:
"1 always told you that I should never mar-
ry.  I shall be too constantly-occupied to sit
down and feel lonely. Now, Mother, I must
finish my letters, if you please, for'they should
go by the earliest mail."
CHAPTER IX.
The artist stood at the window watching
for his pupil's return; it was the late afternoon
hour, which they were wont to spend in read-
ing, and her'absence annoyed him..A s he
rested carelessly against the window, ,his
graceful form was displayed to great advan-
tage, and the long brown hair drooped about
a' classical face of almost feminine beauty.,
The delicacy of his features was enhanced by
the extreme pallor of his complexion, and it
was apparent that close application to his pro-

fession had made serious inroads on a consti-
tution never very robust.  A certain listless-
ness of manner, a sort of lazy-grace seemed
characteristic ; but, when his pupil came in
and laid aside her bonnet, the expression of
ennui vanished, And he threw himself on a
sofa, looking infinitely relieved. She drew
near, and without hesitation acquainted him
with the discovery of her relatives in, New
York. He listened in painful surprise, and,
ere she had concluded, sprang .up. "I un-
derstand I they will want to take you ;, will
urge you to share their home of wealth, But,
Elect ra, you won't leave me ; surely you
won't leave me ?"
He put his hands on. her shoulders, and she
knew from his quick, irregular breathing that
the thought of separation greatly distressed
him.
' My aunt has not explicitly invited me to
reside with her, though I inferred from her
manner that she confidently expected me to
do, so. Irene also spoke of it as a settled
matter."
"'You will not allow them to persuade you ?
Oh, child ! tell me at once that you will never
leave me."
"Mr. Clifton, we must part sone, day ; I
can not always live here, you know.  Before
very long I must go out and earn my bread."
" Never I while I live. When' I offered'
you a home,.I expected it to be a'permanent
one. .1 intended to adopt you:  Here, if you,
choose, you may work and earn a reputation ;
but away from me, among strangers, never.
Electra, you forget ; you gave yourself to me
once.'
She shuddered, and tried to release herself,
but the hands were relentless in their grasp.
"Electra, you belong to me, . my child.
Whom have I-to love but you, my dear pupil'?
What should I do without you ?"
"1 Ihave~n tention of livig with my aunt;
I desire to be under obligations to no one buti
yourself. But I am very proud, and even tem-
porary dependence on you galls me. You are,
I believe, the best friend I have on earth, and4
until I can support myself I will remain under
your care; longer than that, it would' be im-
possible. I am bound \ to you, my generous,
kind master, as to no one else."
" This'-does not satisfy me; .the thought that l
you' will leave me, at even a distant day, will
haunt me coptinually-marring all my joy.
It can not be, Electra ! You gave'yourself tot
me once, and I claim you."
Shp looked into his eyes, and, 'with a, wom-1
an's quick perception, read all-the truth.
In an instant .her countenance changed
painfully.; she stooped, touched his hand with
hrlps, and exclaimed: -,-
"Ihank you, a thousand times, my friend,
my father ! for your interest in, and your un-t
varying, unparalleled kindness to me. All ~
thegratitude and affection which a child could

,give to a parent I shall always cherish toward
you. Since it annoys you, we will say no
more boat the ftiture; let the years take care
of themselves as they .come."
"Will   u promise me, positively,'that you
will not go to your aunt ?"
"Yes ; I have never seriously entertained
the thought."
She escaped from his hands, and, lighting
the gas, applied herself to her books for the.
next hour.
If Irene had found the restraint of boarding-
school irksome, the separation from Russell was
well nigh intolerable to Electra. ,At4lrst she
had seemed plugged in lethargy; butafter a
time this mood gave place to restless, unceas-
ing activity. ,Like 'one trying to flee from
something painful, she rushed daily to her
work, and regretted when the hours of dark-
ness consignee her to reflection. Mrs. Cliftoil
was quite aged, and though:unirmly gentle
and affectionate toward the   phan, there
was no common ground' of congeniality on
which they could meet. To a,.,roud, exact-
ing nature like Electra's, Mr. Ulifton's eon-
stant manifestations of lone and sympathy
were very soothing. Writhing under the con-
sciousnes of her cousin's indifference, she
turned eagerly to receive the tokens of affee-
tion showered upon her. She knew that his
happiness centred in her, and vainly fancied
that she could feed her hungry heart with his
adoration. But by degrees she realized that
these husks would not satisfy her ; and a sin-
gular sensation of mingled gratitude and im-
patience arose whenever he caressed her. In
his house her fineintellect found ample range;
an extensive library wooed her, when not en-
gaged with her pencil, and with eager cur-
osity she plunged into various departments of
study.  As might easily have been predicted,
from. the idealistic tendency of her entire
mental confirmation, she early selected the
imaginative realm as peculiarly her own.,
Over moth-eaten volumes of mythologic lore
she pored continually; effete theogonies and
cosmogonies seized upon her .fancy, and peo-
pled all space with the gods and heroes:of
most ancient days. She lived among weird
phantasmagoric creations of Sagas and J url
nas, and roamed from Asgard to Kinkaddlle,
having little sympathy or care for the realities
that surrounded her. Mr..Clifton's associates
were principally.artists,-and the conversations
to which slts listened tended to increase her
enthusiasm for the profession she had chosen.
She had' no f 'ale companion except Mr$
Clplton,'and little leisure to -discuss the topics
which ordinarily-^engage girls of her age, The
warm gushnga of hr heart were driven back
to their sprims and locked from human gazei
yet shesomete 'felt her isolation almost in-
olerable. :To escape from herself she' was
goaded into feverish'activity, and, toiling To-
lay, shut her eyes to the To-morrow.

MAC.     IA. r                                    4'?

d


48                        MACARIA.

She counted the days between Itussell's
leters ; when they arrived, snatched them with
trembling fingers, and hastened to,. her own
room to devour them. Once read and folded
away, this thought fell, with leaden weight
upon her heart': " There is so little in this let-
ter, and now I must wait another long week
for the next." He never surmised half her
wretchedness, for she proudly concealed her
discontent, and wrote.as if happy and hopeful.
The shell of her reserve was beautifully pol-
ished and painted,.and it never occurred to
him that 'it enclosed dark cells where only
wailings echoed. In figure, shewas decidedly
petit, but faultlessly sjmmetrigal and grace-
; and the piquant ,beauty of her face won
her the admiration of those who frequented
the studio.
Among the artists especially she was a well-
established pet, privileged to inspect their
work whenever she felt disposed, and always
warmly welcomed. They encouraged her in
her work, stimulated her by no means dor-
mant ambition, and predicted a brilliant and
successful career. Mrs. Clifton was a rigid
Roman Catholic; her son a free-thinker, in the
broadest significance of the term, if one might
judge from the 'selections that adorned his
library shelves. But deep in hissoul was the
germination of a mystical creed, which gradu-
ally unfolded itself to Electra. The simple
yet sublime faith of her aunt rapidly faded
from the girl's heart; she turned from its se-
vere simplicity to the gorgeous accessories of
other systems. The pomp of ceremonial, the
bewildering adjuncts of another creed, wooed
her overweening, excited fancy. Of doctrine
she kne* little 'and cared less; the bare walls
and quiet service of the old church at home
had for her no attraction; she revelled in dim
cathedral light, among mellow, ancient pict-
ures, where pale wreaths of incense curled, and
solemn organ-tones whispered through marble
aisles. She would sit with folded arms, watch-
ing the forms of deirotees glide in and out, and
prostrate themselves before'the images on the
gilt altar; and Fancy wafted her, at such times,
to the dead ages of imperial Greece, when de-
vout hearts bore offerings to Delphi, belos,
Dodona, and Eleusis. An arch-idolatress she
would have been in the ancient days of her
Mycenaean namesake-a priestess of Demeter
or Artemis., At all hazards this dainty fancy
must be pampered, and she gleaned aliment
fromevery source that could possily yield it,
fostering a despotic tendency which soon
towered above every 'ether ,element of her
being. The first glimpse of her teacher's
Swe enborgian faith was sufficient to rivet her
attention. S be watched the expansion of his
theories, and essayed to follow the profound
trains of argumentation, based on pysical
analogies and correspondences, which td him
so irresistibly to his conclusions. But dialectics
foi-med no portion of her intellectual heritage,

and her imagination seizing, by a kind of
secret affinity, the spiritualistic elements of the
system, turned with loathing from the granite-
like, scientifiefundamentals. Irene would have
gene down among the mortar and -bricks,
measuring the foundations, but Electra gazed
upon the exquisite acanthus-wreathings of the
ornate capitals, the glowing frescos of the
mighty nave, and here was content to rest.
Mr. Clifton never attempted to restrain her
movement or oppose her inclinations; like a
bee she roved ,ceaselessly from book to book,
seeking honey, and, without the safeguard of
its unerring instinct, she. frequently gathered
poison from lovely chalices. .Ah, Amy Aubrey !
it was -an evil day for your orphan charge
.when Atropos cut the tangled thread of your
life, and you left her to, follow the dictates of
her stormy temperament. Yet otherwise,
nature could never have fullywoven the pat-
tern; it would have been- but a;blurred, im-
perfect design. It was late at night when
Electra retired to her room and sat down to
collect her thoughts after the unexpected
occurrences of the day.
More than one discovery had been made
since the sunrise, which she awoke so early to
study. She had found relatives, and an op-
portunity of living luxuriously ; but, in the
midst of this beautiful bouquet of surprises, a
serpent's, head peered out at her. Once be-
fore she thought she had caught sight of its
writhing folds, but it vanished too instaiane-
ously to furnish disquiet, Now its glittering
eyes held her spell-bound ; like the Pentagram
in Faust,,it kept her in "durance vile." She
would fain have shut her. eyes had it been pos-
sible. Mr. Clifton loved her : not as a teacher
his pupil, not as guardian loves ward, not as
-parent loves child. Perhaps he had not intend-
ed that she should know it so soon, but his eyes
had betrayed the secret. She saw perfectly.
how matters stood. This, then, had prompted,.
him, from the first, to render her assistance ;
he had resolved to make her his wife; nothing
less, would content him. She twisted . her
white fingers in her hair, and gazed vacantly
down on the carpet, and gradually the rich'
crimson blood sank out of her face. She held
his life in the hollow of her hand, and this she
well knew ; death hung over him like the
sword of Damocles; she had been told that
any violent agitation or grief would bring on
'the hemorrhage which he so much dreaded,
and although he seemed stronger and better
than usual, the insidious nature, of his disease
gave-her little hope that he would ever be ro-'
bust. To feign ignorance of his real feelings
for her wouldprove but a temporary strata-
gem;. the time must inevitably come, before
long, when he would put aside this veil and
set the truth before her. Hlow should she
meet it.-how should she evade him? .,Accept
the home which Mrs. Young would offer her,
and leave him to suffer brietly, to sink swiftly

int  hestomb~No; her fathers: family haJI ee' t iNjh1e&amp;1 (1 NaH'    T      t    ,
s :ndsunjustly ffwithholdingh i patons6f herpoie          .,   care
:raneny ;!and now shescorned, 'tieveioe ed   eir ath0a
cent of the aloney which ,his fath  wasui. fn
w lllin I, the':,llouklndy   MeId   ho       o    01     inneyie
ifig tath   ,soldejoy, ;Be        oi ho'  "you sl o ld remember, _Elentra, =btha  ie
loved her asyell   s iHenry "lifton  She opha    iree      , proteetr   ch
owed more tohim than to any hyin being; it fain prove .se",
'uld be thejiart of an ingrateto leave him;  As   r         pke    e tok one
itwas cowardly to.shrink from repaying the handsand  re r to hin    Sh   i
dpbt". fut the thought;pf being hiswifs froze quickly and laidte other oi the art fiai4
her lood;',and;l eavy  rops.'gathered on her  I have one lr ,°sir  a protet  t
brow as sheendeavored to re ect upon- thi and kind as no  wn fat er could
possibility.                                 She underst o  the flash ofhs eyes and hs
AfMeeling of unconquerable repulsion sprang proud 'smile,'as..o assured .held rlati  tat
up i her heart,- nervingesteelingher against he'would guar hef frbom hares and s  t o
-isa affection. With a strange instantanueous' long as he lved or as-she re 'id de hif
reaction, she thoughtwith loathing, of his; care:  She~kin  hei'egard d this as ttcit
wordsefendearment. How could-she endure sealing of le of1 compactr andshe had no in-
the, in future, yet how reject without wound; elieition to unxd chive him at this juncture.
-ig him? One,'and only one, path of escape  Urging her tovisi the' as ofen as posible
p nted itself-a path .of measureless joy  and extendin  he invitatio  ,A to Mi'A Olifth
i e lifted her hands, -and murmurded:     the.Yungs it drewtvidentlor muchdisap'
"Russell! Russell- !save me fror this. -  paded and, a, sidoclose behind the,
.When Mr. and.Mrs. Young 'sited the stu- ledtratielt.tha thurcircle of doom .was
die the following day, and -urged the oiphan's rowing around herz Mr. Clifton  aa
removal to their house,;she gently bet eso-. her.bt aerting herhead, shelitted hOdamn-
lutely declined their'generous=offr,,fexpress;as cs urtain that divided the parlor froddhe
ig an affectionate gratitue( toward'  her: studio and effectedher retreat, dreadin, to
teacher, and a determination not to leave him, meet his glance-puttng off the evilday as'
at least for:the present. Mrs. Yodng was long as possible--trying to trarn leh, ths ser-
much distressed, and adduced every argument. dent: that trailed after her from that hour.
of  rhich she, was distress, hut" her niece re-
mained firm; and, finding 'their. entreaties
fruitless, Mr. Young, said thathe would im-
mediately take the necessary teps to secureA                   E
Robert Grey's.portion of the 'estate to his             CHAT       X
daughter. . Electra sat with her hand nestled  " You are better, to-day, Mother tells me."
meher aunt's, but when this matter was alluded  "Yes, thank  u, my foot is much better.
'to, she rose, and said proudly: ."You have not been 'ip to see me for two
" No,sir:; let the, estate remain just as it is. 'days."
I will nvedraccept one dent. My grandfather  irene sat in an easyehair by.the open *ip-
on his death-bed excluded my father from any dow, nd the. minister'took a seat near aher.
portion of it, and since heiwilled it so, even .so  "I have not forgotten  ou in the inter
it shell be. I have no legal claim to a dollar, however."' As h spoke hlaid a bouq
and I Will never weveive one from your gen- choice flowers in sher lap. She bent ovr
esity, It was the will of the dead that you with eager, delight, and held out one hand
and my. Uncle 'William should inherit the saying:
whole, and, as far as  am concerned, have it  - Oh, thank you; how very kd you
you shall, Iam poor, I know ; so, were my These remind se f t e reenhiou e athel
parents ; poverty- they beqcueathed as mny they are the most beautiful I have ee in Nw
birthright,,and even as they lived without aid York:"
frm"my grandfather so will L. I-t is very h ene, the main or womfan hoas inperva.
ob e and ,generous in young after the expi- ous to theasubtle, spiritualiaing aiuenes (dt
rotie of.nearlytwenty years,to be willing to flowers may feel assured that thees e g
diyide with theorphsni of the utcast; but I thirn lamentaby ar;iss aneithehis  keyr
will not, can notr ahllw youto do so.  I fully organization or habits of life. TX  e#
.prec mite and  most  ordially  thank  you  both foy  links   fts.4sociatr ;ul inor  blin g  thanf
r your goodness ; ut amyoung andarongr stee, and some mes of      icc1euaple   e
eay  pecto earntmy living. M.a Clfton Aiid the awf f : olitude oa s Aud a , l
and Is mother wat     eto remaining is  recollc the thill oasrt'ehs: he r
loui until  finish my seudiesand I rate- gentias ause4me, as I kotedth
fully accept hiskiid ffr.NayAunt I don't; eals sludderiii aox t   eey   ea    t
let t trouble yoso ;ishall, visit you very t iedof eternal .t  ie4 andaamofi= e;A6h'
frequently "    d                         inem.ne  of thNf  8h.,reis    atat,
" She h as all of obrt's Iaereobtiacy, hdodendroesl; the
a

Y


MAO ARIA                 51

50.                      MACARIA'

like a 'mantle of blood' pver Sysrin valleys,
and the oleanders fringing the gray, gloomy
crags.and breathing:their exquisite fragrance'
over the silent desolationof tl at grand city of
rock---immemorial Petra. I have reinarked
yoir fondness for flowers; cul ivate it always;
they are evangels of purity an faith, if we but
unlockour hearts to their ministry.  Callous
and sordid indee4must be th- t soul who fails.
in, gratefatr appreciation of gifts: designed es-
pecially to promote theh'appiness and adorn
the dwellings of our race; for, in attestation of
this truth, stand the 'huge,  hotry. tomes.of ge-
ology, proving that the pre-Adamic ages were
comparatively barren of' the gorgeons.flowers
which.tapestried the' earth so munificently
just ere man made his appearance on the stage.
A' reverent student of the rocks, who spent his
life i listening to the solemn, oracular whis-
ers of their grand granite lips, that moved,
Memnon-like, as he flashed the light of Reve-
lation upon them, tells us:-' The poet accepted
the bee as a sign of high significancee ; the ge-
ologist, also, accepts her as a sign. 'Her en-
tombed remains testify to the gradual fitting up
of our earth as a place of habitation for ascreat-
ure destined to seek delight for the mind and
eye as. certainly as for, the grbsser senses, and
in especial mark the introduction of stately
forest-trees and the arrival of the delicious
flowers.' A profound thinker and eloquent
writer, who is now doing a noble work for his
generation by pointing it to unstained sources
of happiness, has said of flowers: ' They are
chalices of Divine workmanship-of purple
and scarletrand liquid gold-from which man
is to drink the pure joy of beauty.' There is
you know, a graduated scale of missionary
work for all created things; man labors foi
God and his race through deep, often tor
tuous, channels, and nature-all animate and
inanimate nature-ministers in feebler yet stil
heaven-appointed processes. The trouble is
that in the rush and din and whirl of life, w
will not pause to note these sermons; ant
from year to year the, whispered precepts
of faith, hope, and charity fall on deaf ears
Nature'is so prodigal of refining: elevating in
fluences, and man is, so inaccessible in his iso
lating, inflated agotism."
-He paused, and busied himself in cutting the
leMaes of a new-book, while Irene looked inti
his calm, noble face, pondering .his words
then her eyes went hack to the bouquet, an
liO welt once more upon her.y
"Irene, you look sober to-day; come, chee
up. 'I don't want to carry that grave express
saba' away with me. I want to remember
your face as I first saw:it) unshadowed."
"What do you mean? Are you going t
leav home '"'
"'Ye; da after to-morrow I bid farewell t
ew York for a long time.: I rdm going t'
the West to take charge of a church."
~Oh, Mr. Young I surely you are not ii

earnest? You can not intend, to separate
yourself from your family'?"
She dropped her flowers and leaned for-
ward.,
'"Yep, I have had it in contemplation for,
more than a year, and, recently, I have _de-
cided to remove at once."
IlIe saw the great sorrow, written in her-
countenance, the quick flutter of her lip, the
large drops .that dimmed the violet eyes and
gathered on.the'long golden lashes; and far'
sweeter than, Eolian harps was the broken
voice :    -.
" What shall I do without you? who 'will
encourage and advise me when you go ?"
She leaned her forehead on her hands, and -
a tear slid down and rested on her chin. The'
sun was setting, and the crimson light flooding
the room bathed her with glory, spreading
a- halo around her.  He held his breath and
gazed upon the drooping figure and bewitch
ing face ; and in after year s, when his dark
hair had grown silvery gray, he remembered
the lovely sunlit vision that so entranced him,
leaving an indelible image on heart and brain.
He gently removed- the hands, and holding
I them in his.said, in the measured, low tone so
1 indictive of suppressed emotion:
"Irene, my friend, you attach too much
s importance, to the aid which I might render
t you. You know your duty, and I feel assured
s will not require to be reminded of it. Hence"-
s forth our' -paths diverge widely. I go to a
distant, section of our land, there to do my
Father's work ; arid,. ere long, having con-
eluded the prescribed course, you will return
to your Southern home and take the position
assigned you in society.  Thus, in all human
e probability, we shall meet no more, for-  "
" Oh, sir!'don't say that; you will come
I back to visit your family, and then I shall see
I you."
s   " That is.scarcely probable, but we will not
e discuss it now. ,'Ihere, is, however, a channel
1 of communication for separated friends, and
s of this we must avail ourselves. I shall write
, to you from western wilds, and letters from
you will most pleasantly ripple the monoto-
- sous -life I expect to lead. This is the last
- opportunity I shall have to speak with you-; .lef
e me, do so freely, just' as I would to Louisa.
o You are young and rather peculiarly sith
ated; and sometimes I fear that, in the great
d social vortex awaiting you, constant tempta-
tion and ;frivolous associations will stifle the
r noble impulses-nature gave to guide-you. As
- you grow 'older you will more fully compre-
r herd my meaning, and find that there 'are
social problems which every true-hearted man
o and' woman should earnestly strive'to,'solve.
These will gradually unfold themselves, as
o the web of time unravels' before you. You'
o' will occupy an elevated stand.-pomnt of view,
an'd you must take care that, unlike the great-
n mass ofs mankind, you do hot grow callous;,

turnipg;a deaf ear to the cry r-t lzborers are
few.' It is not woman's place to obtrue her-
self in the pulpitor harangue from, the ros-
trum   such an abnormal course levels the,
distiitetiens which an all-wise God established
between the sexes, but the aggregate of her
usefulness is often greater than man's. Irene,
I want you to yield the' vast influence your
Maker has.given you nobly and for,His glory.
Let your aiobstrusive yet consistent, resolute,
unerring.conduct .leave its impress for' good
wherever you are known. j would not have
you debar yourself, from a 'single avenue of
pureenjoyment; far from it. Monkish ascet-'
tfis and puri anic bigotry Iabhor ; but
there in a happy medium between-the wild ex-
cesses.of so-called fashionable life and the
straitlaced; rigidity of narrow-minded phari-
seeism; and 'this I would earnestly entreat
you- to select. To discover and adhere to this
medium path is almost as difficult as to skip'
across the Arabic Al-Sirat, of vhijch we read,
last week. Ultraism is the curse of our ,'ace,
as exemplified in all departments of society ;
avoid it, dear child; cultivate' enlarged views
of life, suppress selfishness, and remetnber
that charity is the key-stone of Christianity."
havenot the strength which you 'impute.
to me-"
Them;seek it from the Everlasting source.",
I do, but God does not hear me."
"You are too easily di heartened; strive to
be faithful and lie will aid you, brace you, up,.
hold you....Will, it be an comfort for you to'
.know that I remember you in my prayers, that
I constantly bear your name on my lips to the
throne of' race '."
"QA, yes l very great comfort.. Thank you,
thanlc you; will you always pray for me? If I
thought so it would make me happier."
Then rest assui'ed that I always shall; and,t
Irene, when sorrows come upon you-for come
they must to all-do not forget that you have
at least one firm, faithful friend, waiting and
anxious to aid you- by' every means in his
power.
Disengaging her fingers, which still clasped I
hia tightly, he moved his ,chair backward andt
took a.sma1, blank-book from his pocket, say-
ing:'
"You once asked me to give.you a cata-s
logue of thiose works which I thought it.advis-,s
alge for y.ou to study before you plunged into
miscellaneous reading. nSuch a list you will t
find here, and my experience hay enabled mea
to classify then so as to save you some o' thei
trouble which I had at your age.' In examin-
ing it, you will see that I have, giyen proli-
nence to the so-called " atural Sciences.'' As p
these furnishdata for almost alltbranches of '
mnvestigation, t owadays.(there being, a grow g
ing tendency to 'argue from the analogy, of
Physies), you can not too tlioroughly acquaint
ursef'winh all that appertains to thsubjet. f
he writings of Humboldt, Hugh Miller, Cu- c

vier, 'and Agassiz constitute a thesaurus of
scientific information essential to a correct ap=
prep iation of the questions:notw agitating the
thinking world ; and, as you proceed, youwill
find the wonderful harmony' ot'eationtu-
folding itself, proclaining, idpunmistakable aew
cents, that the works of God' 'aregood.' As
lime rolls on, the great truth looms up colossaly
Sciencgeand Christianity are handmaids,  t
antaonists.' Irene, remember:":
"cA pagan';k issfng ror a  te of Pan,.
The wild goat's hoo*print t theloamy down,
.Exceeds our modern thliker who turns back
The strata-graititelimnestone, cogw; agdeay'
Concluding coldly with Herd 's law 1 w  e's Gotl'
"Can't you, stay longer and talk to me?''
said Irene, as' he gave the blank-book toher
and rose.
"No;J promised toaddress the     street
Sabbath-school children to-night, and must.
look over my notes before I go."  He 'glanced
at his watch, smiled pleasantly, and left her.
The following day awas dreary to all 'in that
dwelling; Mrs. Young- went from   room to
room collecting various articles belonging to'
her son, making no effort to conceal the tears
that rolled constantly over her cheeks; {nd
now and 'then Louisa's" sobs broke "the sad"
silence. Harvey was engaged in the library
packing his books, and b.lue saw'him to more
till after tea. Then he cakne  up with his,
mother, and kindly inquired .concerniig her
arm. He saw that sihe shared the .distress'of
the family, and, glancing over his shoulder at
his mother, he said, laughingly :
" She looks too doleful to be left here alone
all the evening. Can t we conitrjve to take
her down stairs to the' sitting-room ?!What
think you,;Motheri"'
"Let her decide it herself. Shall Harvey
take~you down, msy dear? It is his last even-
ing at home, you 'know." - Her voice. faltered
as she spoke.
"  should like to join you all at prayer once
nore, and I thiik , Fcould walk down slowly,'
with a little help. Suppose you let ime"try
I walked a few steps yestei-day, by pugia
chair before me."
" Be very careful 'not to strain your foot
ShB wrapped a light shawl around the girl's'
shoulders, andaleaning on the minister arm,
he Jumped to the head of -the stairs ; ut he
aw, front the. wrinkle oil her forehead,, that
he effort gave her pain, and, 'taking herin his
arms as if she were an inl'anti he replacedear.
in the chair.
"I see it' will not do to carry you dwn yet.
Tou are.,not strong enogn;h,and, b side, you
qught to be asleep. ireite; would yot'like for
me to rFeat and' pray with you before.Isav
~ood-by ?                      l'     a
" Yew, sir; it would give me great pleasure"
Mrs. Young di- w the caudlehsaud auddUle~l
r'om its cornerand takg   scait nra the armi
hir,:'Harvey turned ovet the leaves and

0

-


52

I

MAdARIA.

slowly read the sixty-third and sixty-fourth
chapters of. Isaiah. His voice was low and
sweet as a woman's, and the calm lofty brow
on which the light gleamed was smooth and
fair as a child's, bearing no footprints of the
thirty years that had crept over it. When the
reading was concluded he knelt and prayed
fe-vently for the girl, who sat with her face
hidden-in her arms; prayed that she might be
guided by the Almighty hand into paths of
peace- and usefulness ; that she might, be
strengthened to do the work required of her.
There was no unsteadiness in his tone, no trace
of emotion, when he ended his prayer and
stood up before her. Irene was deeply moved,
and; when she essayed to thank him, found it
impossible to pronounce her words. Tears
were sliding down her cheeks ; he put back
the hair, and, taking th face softly in his palms,
looked long and earnestly at its fascinating
beauty. The great glistening blue eyes gazed
into his, and the silk y lashes and rich scarlet
lips trembled. He felt the hot blood surging
like a lava-tide in his veins,' and his heart
rising in fierce rebellion at the stern interdict
which he saw fit to lay upon it; butino token
of all this came to the cool, cahn surface.
":Good-hy, Irene. May God bless you, my
dear little friend 1" , '         -    '
He drew the face close to his own as thought
he., would have kissed her, but forbore, and
merely raising her hands to his lips, turned
and left the room. Verily, greater is'he that
ruleth his own spirit than he that taketh a
city." He left before breakfast the ensuing
morning, bearing his secret with him, having
given no intimation, by word or look, of the
struggle which his resolution cost him. Once
his mother had fancied that he felt more than
a friendly interest in their guest, but' the ab-
solute repose of his countenance and grave
serenity of his manner during the last week of
his stay dispersed all her suspicions. From a
luxurious home,, fond friends, and the girlish
face he loved better than his life, the minister
went forth to. his distantpost, offering in sacri-
fice to God, upon the altar of Duty, his throb-
bing heart and hopes of earthly happiness:
A cloud of sadness settled on the household
after his departure, and scarcely less than
Louisa's ,was Irene's silent griet. The con-
finement grew doubly irksome when his voice
and step 'had passed f'rdin the threshold, and
she looked forward impatiently to her release.'
the sprain proved more serious than she had
at first imagined, and the suunier vacation
set in before she was able to walk with ease.'
Mr. Huntingdon'had been apprised of her long
absence from school, and one day, when she
was cautiously trying her strength, hC arrived',
without having given premonition of his visit.
As he took he? in his arms and sharked the
alteration in her thin face, the listlessness of
her niander, the sorrowful gravity of her

countenance, his fears were fully aroused, and,
holding her to his heart, Ie-exclaimed:
"My Daughter! Iny Beauty I 'I must take
you out of New York."
"Yes, Father, take' me home ; do take me
home." She clasped her arms around his neck
and nestled her face close to his.
"'Not yet, Queen. We will go to the Cats-
kill, to Lake George, to Niagara. - A few
weeks' travel will invigorate you: I have
written to Hugh to meet us at Montreal; he is
with a gay 'party, and you.shall have a royal
time. A pretty piece of business, truly, that'
you can't amuse yourself in anly other way
than by breaking half the bones in your body."
"Father', I would rather go home. Oh I I
am so tired of this city, so sick of that board-
ing-school. Do, please, let me go back with
you."
" Oh, nonsense, Irene. Lift up youisleeve
and let me see your arm; stretch it out,,; all
right, I believe ; straight enough. You were
walking just now ; how is your thot ?"
"Almost well, I think; occasionally I have
a twinge og pain when I bear my whole weight
on it7-'
" Be sure you do not overtax it for a while.
-By Monday you will be able to start to Sara-
toga. - Your aunt sent a trunk of clothing,
and, by the way, here 'is a letter fron'her and.
one from Arnold. The doctor worries con-
siderably about you; is afl'aid you will not be.
properly attended to."
Thus the summer programme was determin-
ed without any reference to the wishes of"the.
one most concerned, and, knowing her father's
disposition, she silently acquiesced. After
much persuasion, .Mr. Huntingdon prevailed
on Louisa's parents to allow her to accompany
them. The mother consented very reluctant-
ly, and on the appointed 'day the party set off
for Saratoga.  .'he change was eminently
beneficial, and before they reached Canada
Irene seeized' perfectly restored.  But her
father was not satisfied. Her unwonted taci-
turnity annoyed and puzzled him; he knew
that beneath the calm surface some strong un-
dercurrent rolled swiftly, azid he'racked his
brain to discover what had rendered her so re-
served. Louisa's joyous, elastic spirits proba-
bly heightened the effect of' her companion's
gravity, and the contrast daily presented could
not fail to arrest Mr. Hunuingdon's attentive.
On arriving at Montreal the girls were left for
a few moments in the parlor of the ,hotel,
while Mr. Huntingdon went to register their
names. Irene and Louisa-stood by the window
.looking out into the street, when a happy,
ringing voice exclaimed:'
"ere you are, at last, Ir I I caught' a
glipse of your curls da you passed the dinig-.
room door."
She turned to meet her cousin, and held out
her hand. .

MACARIA.

" Does your majesty suppose I shall be sat-
isfied with the tips of your fingers?  Pshaw,
frie! I will have m'r kiss."
He threw his -arm round her shoulder, 'Irew
down the shielding hands, and. kissed her
twice.
" Oh, Hugh ! behave yourself! Miss Louisa
Young,,'my -cousin, Hugh Seymour."
.He bowed, and shook hands with the stran-
ger, then seized his cousin's fingers and fixed
.his fine eyes affectionately upon her.
"'It seems an age since I saw you, Irie.
Come, sit down and' let me look' at you; how
stately- y'ou have, grown, to be surely More
like a queen than ever; absolutely two inches
taller since you entered boarding-school. Irie,
I'am so glad to see you again !" .He snatched
up a handful of curls and drew them across his.
lips, careless of what Louisa might think.
* Thank you, Hugh. I am quite as glad to
see you."
" Oh, humbtg ! I know better. You would
rather see Paragon any day, ten to one. I
will kill that dog yet, and. shoot Erebus, too;
see if I don't ! then maybe you can think of
somebody else. When you are glad you show
t in your eyes, and now they are as still as
violets under icicles.  I think you might love
ine a little, at least as niuch as a dog."
" Hush! I do love you, but I don't choose to
tell it tp everybody in Montreal."'  I.1
Mr. Huntingdon's entrance. diverted the
conversation,-and Irene was glad to escape to
her own room..
"Your cousin seems to be very fond of you,"
*observed Louisa, as she unbraided her hair.
" He is very impulsive and demonstrative,
,that is all."
"How handsome he is !"
" Do you think so, really ? Take care, Lou-
isa! I will tell him, and, by way of crushing
his vanity, add 'de gustibus, etc., etc., etc.'
"How old is lie ?"
" In his twentieth year."
Fronthat time the cousins were thrown
constantly together; whereverthey Went Hughl
took charge of Irene, while Mr. Huntingdon
.gave his attention to. Louisa., But the eagle-
eye was upon his daughter's movements ; heY
watched'her countenance, weighed her words,r
tried to probe her heart. Week after week' t
he found nothing tangible. Hugh..was gay,
careless ; Irene equable, but reserved. Final- h
ly they turned their faces. homeward, and in A
October found themselves once more in New lI
York. Mr. Huntingdon prepared to return a
South and ,Hugh to sail for Europe, while f
Irene remained at the hotel until the morning
of her' cousin's departure '             ' e
.A private parlor adjoined the room she og-
oupied, and' here he camp to say farewell. She p
knew that he had already had a long- conver- t
eation-with her.father, and 'as' he threw -hims-
self'.on the sofa gud seized one of 'her hands, F
she imstmnctively shrank from him.

5p

" Irene, here is my miniature. I wanted
you to ask for it, but I see that you 'won't'db
it. I know very well that you will not value
it one-thousandth part as much as I do yopr
likeness here on my watch-chain; but perhaps
it will remind you of me sometimes. How ;I
shall want to see you before ,I cone hdome.!
You know you belong to me.. Uncle gave you
to me,'and when I come back from Europe we
will be married. We are both very young'I
know; but it has been settled so long. Irie,
my beauty, I wish 'you would love me more;
you are so cold. Won't you try'?"
He leaned down to kiss her, but she turned
her face hastily away and answered, resolute-
ly:
"No, I can't love you'other than as my
cousin ; I would not, if!I could. I do not think
it would be right, and I;won't promise to try.
Father has no right ' to give me to you, orto
anybody else. 'I tell you now I belong to my-
silf, and only I can give myself away. Hugh,
I don't consider this settled at all. You might
as well know the truth at once; I have some
voice in the matter."
Mr. .Huntingdon had evidently prepared bim
for something of this kind on her. part, and
though his face flushed angrily, he took no no-
tice of the remonstrance.
"I shall write to you frequently, and I hope
that you will be punctual. in replying. Ire,
give me your left hand just a minute; wear this
ring till I come, back, to remind you that you
have a cousin across the, ocean."
HIe tried to force the flashing jewel on her
slender finger, but she resisted, and rose, strug-
gling to withdraw her hand.
"No, no, Hugh!. I can't; I won't. Know
very well what that ring means, and I can not
accept it. Release my hand; I tell you I won't
wear it."
"Come, Hugh; you have not a moment to
spare ; the carriage is waiting." Mr. unting-
don threw open, the door, having heard"everv
word that passed. Hugh dropped the ring .in
his vest.pocket and rose.
Well.Irie, I suppose I must bid you fare-
well. Two or three years will change you,
my dearest little cousin. . Good-by; think of
me now and then, and learn to love me by the
line I come home."
She suffered him to take both her hands and
kiss her tenderly, for. her. father stood there
and she'"could not refuse;,but the touch of'his
ips burned long after he had gone. She put'
n her bonnet, and, when 'her father returned
rom the steamer, they entered tie carriage
which was to conveyher to thendreary, drea '
d' school. As they rolled along Broadway'
Mri. Huntingden. coolly toolk her hand 'and
laced Hlugh's ring upon if, saying, authorita-
ively:
( Hugh' told me you refused to aceepp"hs
artig gift'and seemedk~ much hurt about it.
~here is no reason why -you'should not wear


4

54

MACARIA.

it, and in future I do not wish to see you with- chairs and sofas matched it well, and from thn
out it. -Remember this, my daughter."-'    broad, massive cornice over the windows-
"Father, it is wrong for me to wear, it, tin- cornice representing  writhing  serpents in
less I xpected to---"                   clusters of oak leaves--folds of golden-flowered
"I understand the whole matter perfectly. brocatel hung stiff 'and stately to the floor.
Vow, Irene, let me hear no more about it. I The ceiling rose dome-like in the centre, and
wish you would learn that it is a child's duty here a' skylight poured down a flood of radi-
to obey her parent. No more words, if you ance on sunny. days, and furnished a faint
please, on the subject.'? ., *-tattoo when rain-drops rattled over its panes.
She. felt that' this was not the hour for re. Crowded as the most ancient catacombs of
sisbance, and wisely forbore ; but he saw re- Thebes was this atelier, but with a trifle less
billion written in the calm, fixed eye, and read ghostly tenants. Plaster statues loomed-up in
it in the curvpd' lines of the full upper lip. the corners, bronze busts and marble statuettes
She had entreated him to take her home, and, crowned mantle and sundry tables and wood:
only the night before, renewed her pleadings. en pedestals; quaint antique vases of china,
But his refusal was positive, and now she went crystal, alabaster, terra-cotta, and wood dark
back to the hated school without a visible to- as ebony with age and polished like glass,
ken of regret. She saw her trunks consigned .stood here and there in a sort of well-estab-
to the porter, listened to a brief conversation wished regular irregularity, as if snatched from
between Dr.    - I and her father, and, after the ashy shroud of Herculaneum, and put
a hasty embrace and half-dozen words, watch- down hastily in the first convenient place.
ed the tall, soldierly form re-enter the carriage. An Etrusean vase, time and lichen-stained,
Then she went slowly up the broad stairway was made the base for an unframedl piece of
to her cell-like room, and with dry eyes un- canvas, which'-leaned back against the wetn;
packed her clothes, locked up the ring in her and another, whose handles were Medusa-
jewelry-box, and prepared to resume, her heads, -and before which, doubtless, some
studies. 'Italian maiden, in the paimy days of Rome,
The starry veil concealing the Holy of Hohies bad stood twining the feathery sprays of blos-
of her Futurity had swayed just once, and soms whose intoxicatinghperfume might still,
as quickly swept back to its wonted folds; but linger in its marble'depths, was now.the des-'
in that one swift glance slhe saw, instead of crated receptacle of 'a meerschaum  and
hovering Cherubim, gaunt spectres, woful, ap- riding-whip. The walls were tapestried with
palling as Brimo. At some period of life all paintings of all sizes, many richly framed, one
have this dim, transient, tantalizing glimpse or two covered with glass, and so dark as to
of the inexorable Three, the mystic Moirm, pass, without close' examination, for a faithful
weaving with steely fingers the unyielding 'representation of Pharaoh's ninth plague;
.web of human destiny. Some grow cowardly, some lying helplessly on the olive background,
striving o wend their way behind or beyond others leaning from the wall at an acute angle,-
the out-spread net-work, tripping at last, in looking threatening, as if fiery souls had en-
the midst of the snare; arid some, with set tered and stirred up the figures-among which
teeth and rigid limbs, scorning to dodge the Deianira, bending forward with jealous rage
issue, grapple with the Sisters, resolved to to scan the lovely lole, destined to prove the
wrench the cunning links asunder, trusting Ate of her house. Where a few feet of pale
solely to the palladium of Will. Irene's little green would have peered forth between la rg'
feet had become entangled in the fatal threads, pictures, crayon sketches were suspended;
and, with no thought of flight, she measured and'on the top of more than one carved frame
the length and breadth of the web, nerving perched stuffed birds of gorgeous tropical
herself' to battle till the death. -      hues, a mimic aviary, motionless and silent as
if Perseus had stepped in to a choral throng
- and held up the Gorgon's head. In the centre
CHAPTER XI.                  of the room, under the skylight, stood the
artist's easel, holding an unfinished picture,
A halo seems to.linger around the haunts aid over its face was drawn a piece of black
of Genius, as though the outer physical world silk. Farther off was another easel, smaller,
shaped itself in likeness to the Ideal, and at and here was the dim outline of a female
the door of Mr. Clifton's studio crude, matter- head traced by the fair, slender fingers of a-
of-fact utilitarians should have "put off their tyro. It was late October; a .feeble flame
shoes from their feet "'beforetreading pre- flickered in the 'grate ; on the rug crouched an
cinots sacred to Art. It was a long, lofty, English spaniel, creeping closer as the 'heat
narrow-room, with a grate at one end aid I died out and' the waning light of day grad-
-two windows at. the other, opening on the unlly receded, leaving the room dusky, save
street. -The walls were stained of a pale Olive where a slanting line of yellow quivered down
hue, and the floor was covered witi'-a carpet from the roof and 'ilt the folds of black silk'.
of green, embroidered with orange eheaves of At one of the windows stood Electra, half-
wheat. 'In .color,' the morocco-cushioned concealed by'- the heavy- green and gold dra-

MACARIA.

pery, one dimpled hand clinging to the cur-
tains, the other pressed against the panes, as
she watched the form   hurrying a ong the
- street below. The gas was already lighted
on the crowded, highways of the *reat city,
and the lamp just beneath the wine ow glared
up like an electric eye.  She was dressed in
half-mourning, in sober gray, with a black
crape collar at the throat.  "There is no ex-
quisite beauty without some strangeness .in
the proportions," says Baron Verulam; and
the strangeness ofElectra's countenance cer-
tainly lay in the unusual width between the
eyebrows.   Whatever significance learned:
phrenologists or physiognomists attach to this'
peculiarity, at all events it imparted piquancy
to the features that I am striving to show you
by that flaming gaslight.  Her watching at'
titude denoted anxiety, and the bloom on her
cheek had faded, leaving the whole face color-
less. The lower lip was drawn under and
.held hard and tight by the pearly teeth, while
the wide-strained eyes-
Shining eyes like antique jewels set in Parian statue-
stone"--
searched every face that passed the window.
"..That hope deferred maketh the heart. sick,"
she stood there in attestation ; yet it. was not
passive sorrow-.printed on her countenance-
rather the momentary, breathless exhaustion
of a wild bird beating out its life in useless
conflict with the unyielding wires of its cage.
The dying hope, the despairing dread, in that
fair young face beggars language, and as the
minutes crept by the words burst from her
lips: " Will he never, never come I".
For three weeks she had received no letter
from Russell; he was remarkably punctual,
and this long, unprecedented interval filled
her, at. first, -.with vague uneasiness, which
grew finally into, horrible -foreboding. For
ten days she had stood at this hour, at the'
same window, waiting for Mr. Cliftgn's return
from the post-office. - Ten times the words
" No letter" had fallen, like the voice of doom,
on her throbbing heart. " No letter !"-she
heard it in feverish dreams, and fled continu-
ally from its hissing. Only those who have
known what it is to stake their hopes on a'
sheet of letter-paper ; to wake at dawn, count-
ing the hours, till the mail is due, working
diligently to murder time .till that hour rolls
round; to send a messenger, in hot haste, to
watch the clock, giving him just so many
minutes to go and come; to listen for the
sound &amp;f returning steps, to meet him at the
door with 'outstretched hands, and receive-
" rio letter;" only those who have writhed
on this rack know the crushing thought with
which thay pi-essed cold .hands .to aching
hearts; "-anothei- twenty-four hours to be en-
dured before the next mail comes in;i what
shall I do till then ?" These are the trials.
that plough wrinkles in smooth, girlish brons;-

that harden the outline of soft rosy lips; that
sicken the weary soul, and teach women
dece tion. Electra knew that 'Mr. Clifton
water ied her narrowly, suspiciously; an d be-.
biind the mask of gay, rapid words,'and ring-
ing, mirthless laughter, she tried to hide her
suffering.. Ah ! God pity all who live from
day to day hanging upon the brittle thread of
hope   On this eleventh day suspense reached
its acme, and time seemed to have loeke4 its
wheels to lengthen her torture., Mr.- Clifton
had been absent loner than usual., Most um-
wittingly we are sometimes grand inquisitors,
loitering by the way wien- waiting hearts are
secretly, silently dropping blood. At last an
omnibus stopped, and Mr. Clifton stepped
out, with a bundle of papers under his, arm.
Closer pressed the pallid face against the glass;
firmer grew the grasp of the icy fingers on the
brocatel; she had no strength to meet him.
He closed the door, hung up his hat, and
looked into the studio; no fire in the grate,
no light in the gas-globes-everything cold
and dark save the reflection on that front
window.
"Electra!"
"I am here."
"No letter."
She stood motionless a moment ; but the
brick walls opposite, the trees, the lamp-posts
spun 'round, like maple leaves in an autumn
gale. .
" My owlet ! why don'syou have a light and
some' fire ?"
lHe stumbled toward her, and put his band
on her shoulder, but she shrank away, and,
lighting the gas, rang for coal.
"There is something terrible the matter ;
Russell is either ill or, dead. I must go'to
him."
. ."Nonsense'! sheer nonsense; he is busy,
that is all. Your cousin has forgotten you for
the time ; after a while he will write. .You
are too exacting; -young men sometimes find
constant, regular correspondence a bore; a
letter every week is too, much to expect of
him. Don't be childish, Electra."
As she noticed the frown on his face, a dark
suspicion seized her: " perhaps he had inter-
cepted her letters."  Could he stoop to such
an artifice ?
" El.ectra, I would try to divert my mind.
After all, his letters are short, and, I should
'judge, rather unsatisfactory."
" What do you know of the length or con-
tents of hi letters ?"
"I know they are brief, because I occasion-
ally see them open in your hand; I judge that -
they are unsatisfactory from the cloud on your
face whenever they: come. But I have no
disposition to contest the value of his .oosres-
pondence with you. That article on chiar'o-
80us-o has arrived at last ; if you feel inclined,
you can begin it at once."
Chiku-o-scuro, forsgathl Mockery I 'She 'had


50                   MACARIA.A

quite chiaro-scuro enough, and to spare; but
the smile on the artist's lip§ stung her, and,
without a word, she took a peat at his side and
began to read. . Page after page was turned,
tehnicalities si'pped through her lips,.but she
understood as little'of the essay as if the lan-
guage had been Sancrit instead of Sakon ; for,
likt the deep, undying murmur of the-restless
sea, -there rang in"her ears, V"No letter  no,
letter, I" Ag she finished the pamphlet and
threw iton the table, her hands dropped list-
lessly in her lap.  Mr. Clifton was trying to
read her countenance, and, impatient of his
scrutiny, she rose to seek her own room, Just,
then the doorbell rang sharply; she supposed
it was some brother-artist comig to spend an
hour, and turned to go.
" Wait a minute; I want to---;" he paused,
for at that instant she heard a voice which,
even amid the din of Shinar, would have been
unmistakable to her, and, breaking from him,
she sprang to the threshold and met her cousin.
" Oh, RussellI I thought you had forgotten
me.".
" What put such a ridiculous thought into
your head ? My last letter must have prepared
yoiu to expect me."
"4What letter ? I have had none for three
weeks."
"One in which I mentioned Mr. Campbhll's
foreign appointment, and the position of secre-
tary which he tendered me.  Electra, let me
speak to Mr. Clifton."
As he advanced and greeted the artist she
heard a quick, snapping sound, and saw the
beautiful "Bohemian glass paper-cutter her
guardian had been using lying, shivered to
atoms, on the rug. The fluted handle was
crushed in his fingers, and drops of blood oozed
over the left hand. Ere she could allude to it
he thrust his hand into his pocket and desired
Russell to be seated.V
" This is a pleasure 'totally unexpected.
What is the appointment of 'which you
spoke?"       '-..-
" Mr. Campbell has been appointed Minister
to   -  , and sails next week. I am sur-
prised that'you have not heard of it from the
public journals; many of them have spoken of
it, and warmly commended the selection. I
accompany him in the capacity of secretary,
and shall, meanwhile, prosecute my studies
under his direction."
The gray, glittering eyes of the artist sought
those of his pupil, and for an instant hers
quailed ; but, rallying, she looked fully, stead-
fastly at him, resolved to play out the game,
scorning to bare her heart to his scrutiny.
She had fancied that Russell's affection had
prompted this visic; now it was apparent that
he came to New York to 'take a; steamer, not
to see her ; to put the 'stormy Atlantic between
them. The foaming draught which she 'had
snatched to her lips so eagerly, so joyfully,
was turning to hemIeck as she ~tasted ; and

though she silently put the cup from her, it was
done smilingly ; -there were no wry faces, no
gestures of disgust.
" New York certainly agrees with you, Elec-'
tra; you have grown and improved very much
since you came North. I never saw such color
in your cheeks before; Ican scarcely believe '
that you are the same -fragile child I put into
the stage one year ago. This reconciles me to,
having, given you up to Mr. Clifton ; he is 'a
better 'guardian than I could have been. But
tell me something more about these new rela-
tives you spoke of having found here.."
Mr.- Clifton left the. room, and the two sat
side by side for an hour, talking of the gloomy
past, the flitting present, the uncertain future.
Leaning back in his chair, with his eyes fixed'
on the grate, Russell said, gravely:
"There is now nothing to impede my sue-
cessful career ; obstacles are rapidly melting
away; every day brings me nearer the goal I
long since set before me. In two years at
farthest, perhaps earlier, I shall- return and.
b egin the practice of law. Once admitted, I
ask no more. Then, and not till then, I hope
to save you from the necessity of labor; in the
interim, Mr. Clifton will prove a noble and
generous friend ; and believe me, my cousin,
the thought .of leaving you so long is the only
thing which will mar the pleasure of my Eu-'
ropean sojourn."
The-words were kind enough, but the tone
was indifferent, and' the countenance showed
her that their approaching separation disqui-
eted him little. She thought of the sleepless
nights and wretched days ehe had passed
waiting for a letter from that tall, reserved,.
cold cousin,.and her features relaxed in a de-
risive smile at the'folly of her all-absorbing
love. Raising his eyes accidentally he caught
the smile, wondered what there was to call it
forth in the plans-which he had just laid before
her, and, meeting his glance of surprise, she,
said, carelessly :
" Are you not going'to see Irene before you
sail T"
His cheek flushed as he rose, straightened
himself, and answered':
"A strange question, truly, from one who
knows me as well as you do. Call to see a
girl whose father sent her from-home solely to
prevent her from associating with my family ?
Through what sort of metamorphosis do you
.suppose that I have passed, that every spark
of self-respect has been crushed out of me
" Her father's tyranny and selfishness can
never nullify her noble and affectionate remem-
brance of Aunt Amy in'the hour of her need".
"And when I am able' to repay her every
cent we owe her, then, and not till then, I
wish to see her. Things shall change ; mens ,.
cujusque is est quisque; and the day will come
when Mr. (Iuntingdon may not think it de-
grading for',his daughter to acknowledge my
acquaintance on the street."

A brief silence ensued, Russell drew on his
gloves, and' finally said, hesitatingly:
" Dr.' Arnold told me she had suffered very
much from a fall."
" Yes ; for a long time she was confined to
her room."
" Has she recovered entirely ?".
"Entirely. She grows more beautiful day
by day.",
Perhaps he wished to hearmore concerning
her, but she would not gratify, him, and, soon
after, he took up his hat.'
" Mr. Cliftonhas a spare room, Russell; why
can't you stay with us while you are in New.
York ?"
"Thank you; but Mr. Campbell will expect
me at the hotel; I shall be needed, too, as he
has many letters to write, I will see you to-
morrow, and indeed every day while I remain
iN the city."
" Then pay your visits in the morning, for I
want to take your portrait with my own hands.
Give me a sitting as early as possible."
"Very well; look for me to-morrow. Good-
night."'
The week that followed was one of strange-
ly-mingled sorrows and joys ;'in after years it
served as a prominent landmark to which she
looked back and' dated sad changes in her
heart. Irene remained ignorant of Russell's
presence in the city, and at last the day
dawned on which the vessel was to sail, At
the breakfast-table Mr. Clifton noticed the
colkelessness of his pupil's face, but kindly ab-.
stained from any allusion to it. He saw that,
contrary to habit,.she drank a cup of coffee,
and, arresting her arm as -she requested his
mother to give her a second, he said gently:
" My dear child, where did you suddenly
find such Turkish tastes? I thought you dis-
liked coffee ?"
"I take it now as medicine. My head aches
horribly."
"Then let me prescribe for you. We will
go down to the steamer with Russell, and after-
ward take a long ride ,to, Greenwood, if you
like."                  re.o.    i
" He said he would call here at ten o'clock
to bid us farewell."
"N'impo'te. ' The carriage will be ready,
and we will accompany him."  '
At the appointed hour they repaired to the
vessel, and, looking at its huge sides, Electra
coveted even a deck passage; envied the1
meanest who hurried about, making all things
ready for departure.  The last dell rang ;
people. crowded down on the planks ;~Russell1
hastened back to the carriage and took the
nerveless gloved hand.
" I will write as early as possible ; don't be-l
uneasy about me ; no accident has ever hap-
pened on this line. I am glad I leave you
with such a friend as Mir. Clifton. Good-by,
Cousin;.it will not be very long before we meet
amn."

He kissed the passive lips, shook hands with
the artist, and sprang on aboard' just as the
planks were withdrawn. The vessel moved
majestically on its way; friends on'slore waged
handkerchiefs to friends departing, and hands
were kissed: and hats lifted, 'and then'the
erowd'slowly dispersed,--for steamers'sa il eve y
week, and people become accustomed t tfhe
spectacle. .But to-day lit was freighted wjh
the last fond hope of a deep and passionate
nature; and as Electra gazed on the line'of'
foam whitening the dull surface-of the water,
the short-lived billows and deep hollows be-
tween seemed newly-made graves, whose han-
gry jaws had closed=for ever over the one
bright lingering hope which' she had hugged to
her heart.
"Are you ready to go now ?" asked Mr.
Clifton.
" Yes, ready, q rite ready-for Greenwood."
She spoke in a tone which had lost its liquid
music, and with a wintry smile that fled over
the ashy face,'lending the features no light, no,
warmth.
He tried to divert her mind by calling at-
tention 'to various things of interest, but the
utter exhaustion of her position and the mono-
syllabic character of .her replies soon dis-
-couraged him. Both felt relieved when the
carriage stopped before' the studio, and as he
led her up the steps he said, affectionately:
"I am afraid my prescription has not 'ured
your head."
"No, sir; but I thank. you most. sincerely
for the kind effort you have made to relieve
m'e. I shall-'be better to-morrow. e Good-by
till then."
" Stay, my child. Come into-the studio, and
let., me read something light, and pleasant to
you."
"Not for the universe ! 'The sight of a book
would give me brain-fever, I verily believe."
She tried unavailingly to shake off his hand.
" Why do, you shrink from me, my pupil ?"
"Because I am sick, weary) and you-watch'
me so, that I get restless and nervous. Do let
me go ! I want to sleep."
An impatient stamp emphasized the words,
and, as he relaxed his clasp of her fingerp, she
hastened to her room, and locked the door to
prevent all intrusion.- Taking oftl ber bonnet
she drew the heavy shawl closely around her
shoulders and threw herself a ross the foot of
the bed, burying her .facei her hands lest
the bare walls should prove -witnesses of her
agony . Six hours later she Alay there still,
with pale fingers pressed to burning, dry eye-
lids.
Oh, bigotry of' human nature ! By what
high, commission," by what royal patent, -do
men and women essay to judge of fellow-men
and sister-women by one stern inexorable
standard, unyielding as the mneasmte 'of Da-
mastes ? -'-The variety lof emiotignal and intel-
ectual types is even grater than the physical,

;CARIA.                               3 7


(.

MACARIA.

and, as the ages roll, we need -other criteria..
Who shall dare lay finger on fellow-creature
andaudaciously proclaim: "I have gone down
asiong the volcanic chambers of this soul and
-gped in its adytum, amid the dust,and ruins
of its overturned altars and crumbling idols;
lave fathomed its mysteries, and will tell'you,
icy infallibleplunimet, the depths thereof."
There are sealed cells, where,. veiled from
scrutinyand sacred as Eleusinia, burns the
God-given shechinah of the human soul. As
the myriad shells that -tessellate old ocean's
pavements, as the vast army of innumerable
clouds which ceaselessly .shift their coloring
and their forms at the' presto qf wizard-winds:
as the leaves of the forest that bud, and wane
in the flush of summer or the howl of wintry
storms, so we differ one from another. Lin-
naus and Jussien, with microscopic aid, have
classified and christened; but now and then
new varieties startle modern savans, and so
likewise new types stalk among men and
women, whose elements will neither be lopped
off nor elongated to meet the established
measure.
CHAPTER XII.
Once more the labors of a twelvemonth
had been. exhibited at'the Academy of Design
-some to be classed among things "that were
not born to die ;" others to fall into nameless
graves. Many, who had worked faithfully, rec-
ognizing the sacredness of their commission,
had climbed higher in public estimation ; and
a few, making mere pastime, or resting upon
reputation already earned, had slipped back.
Mr. Clifton ivas represented by an exquisite
None, and on the same wall, in a massive
oval frame, hung the first finished production
of his pupil. For months after Russell's de-
parture sh sat before her easel, slowly filling
ap'the outline sketched' while his eyes watched
her. She lingered over her work, loath to put
the  finalstroke, calling continually upon
Memory'to furnish the necessary details; and
frequen , in recalling transient smiles, the'
curl of 1is lip or bending of his brow; palette
and brut would slip from her fingers, while
she sat -eaving the broken yet priceless
threads of a hallowed Past. Application some-
times-trenqhes so closely upon genius as to be
mistaken f r it in its results, and where both
are happily blended the bud of Art expands
in immortal. perfection. Electra spared no
toil, and  it came to pass that the faultless
head of her idol' excited intense and universal
admiration. In the catalogue it was briefly
mentioned as No. 17-a portrait; first effort of
a young female artist." Connoisseurs, who
had committed themselves by extravagant
praise, sneered at the announcement of the
catalogue, and, after a few inquiries, 'blandly

MACARIA.

asserted that no tyro could have produced it;
that thesmasterhad wrought oitits perfection,
and generously allowed the pupil to monopo.
bze the encomiums. In vain Mr. Clifton dis.'
claimed the merit, and asserted that he had
never touched the canvas; that she had'jeal-
ously refused-to let him aid her. Incredulous
smiles and unmistakable motions of the.head
were the sole results of his expostulation.
Little nercy has a critical world for novices,
particularly those clad in woman's garments;
few helping hands are kindly stretched toward
her trembling fingers, few strengthening words
find her in her seclusion; and when these last
do come in friendly whispers, are they not
hung up "as apples of gold in pictures of sil-
ver " along the chequered walls 'of memory'?
Cold glances ,generally greet her earliest
works; they are handled suspiciously, the
beauties are all extracted, set in a row, and
labelled  "plagiarisms-;" the  residue, like
dross in crucibles, is handed back as "original,
and  her_ undoubted  property."  Or, per-
chance, . the phraseology  varies, and  she
hears " This book, this statue, this picture,
is no unpractised woman's work ; .we speak
advisedly, and pronounce the fact that pen,
or rasp, or chisel, or brush, belongs unmis-
takably to a master-an experienced writer
or veteran artist."  It is. this bent of hu-
man nature to load with chaplets well-estab-
lished. favorites of fame, to "whitewash"
continually with praise, to jealously withhold
the meed of beginners, rendering .ruidgingly
" Casar's things to Casar," which 'tips uaany
a pen with gall, and shadows noble pictures
with unseemly clouds. Electra was indignant
at the injustice meted out to her, and, as
might have been expected, rebelled against
the verdict. Very little consolation was de-
rived from the argument by which her master
strove to mollify her-that the incredulity of
the critics was the highest eulogy that could
have been pronounced upon her work. Some
weeks after the close of. the' exhibition the
iEnone was purchased and the portrait sent
home.. Electra placed it on the easel once
more,'and stood before it in rapt contempla-
tion. Down from- the arched roof flowed bil-
lows of, light, bathing her rounded form as in
a sea of molten topaz, and kindling a start-
ling, almost unearthly, beauty in the canvas'
What mattered the brevity and paucity of
Russell's letters now ?-what though Three
thousand miles of tempestuoussea roared and
tossed between them ?-she.had his untarhish-
ed image in her heart, his life-like features
ever before her. To this shrine she came
continually, and laid thereon the offering of a.
love passionate and worshipping as ever took
entire possession of a woman's heart. Cold-
ness, silence, neglect, all were forgotten when
she looked into the deep, beautiful eyes, apil
upon the broad, bold, matchless brow'.

.           .    Love is notlove  .
which alters, when it alteration finds,
Or bends with the reinover to renove,
Oh. no? it is an ever-fixed mark,
-That looks on tempests and is never shaken."
She had not the faintest hope that he would
ever cherish a tenderer feeling for her ; but
love is a plant of strange growth: now lifting
its head feebly in rich, sunny'spots, where
every fostering influence is employed ; and
now springing vigorous from barren, rocky
cliffs, clinging in icy crevices, defying every
adverse element, sending its fibrous roots
deeper and deeper in us genial soil; bending
before the fie'ce, breath of storms, only to
erect itself more firmly ; spreading its delicate
petals over the edges of eternal snow, self-sus-
taning, invincible, immortal. A curious plant
truly,.and one which will not bear transplant-
ing, as many a-luckless experiment 'has proved.
To-day, as Electra looked upon her labors, the
coils'of Time seemed to fall away; the vista
of Eternity opened before 'her, peopled with
two forms, which on earth walked widely sepa-
rate -paths, and over her features stole a serene,'
lifted expression, as if, after painful scaling,
she had risen above the cloud-region 'and
caught the first rays of perpetual sunshine.
Tiie, like a weaver, made strange, dim,
confused masses . of woof and warf; but in
Eternity the eirthwork would be turned, and
delicate tracery and marvellous coloring, di-'
vine gobelins, would come to light. Patience !
Away from the loom-let the shuttle 'fly !
" What I do thou knowest not now, but thou
shalt know hereafter."  Hence to thy,barren
field's, and till them until the harvest.
Mr. Clifton had watched her for some.mo-
ments, with lowering brow and jealous {hatred
of the picture. Approaching, he looked over
her shoulder and asked:.
" How much longer do you intend to stand.
here ?  Pygmalion was not more captivated
by his ivory image than you are-by your head.
Were it Antinous or Apollo, I doubt whether,
your admiration would be enhanced."
"It is more than.Antinous and Apollo," she
answered, drawing the folds of silk over the
portrait and turning toward him.
" Child, you are an idolatress."
"Perhaps so; but, at least, I am in a goodly
company. Many bow down before shrines of
their own hlindiwork ; some bring libations to
Mammon, some to Fame, some to Ambition,
some to Love. Nature intended us to kneel,
which- is preferable to standing, statue-like,.
exacting obeisance. from others. Which is'
nobler ? But how am I an idolatress? Shall'
1 not prize the features of my cousin, my, ear-
liest friend and playmate.?  Would you have
mue tear off and cast away the-kindly emotions,
the warm affectiguhs wherewith God clothed
me, as badges of humanity ?"
" By no means. But would you have a
secoiid Ixion's wheel ?" .
" Aye;-sir, when I am weak enough to wor-

:59

ship a. cloud. Mr. Clifton, I believe I, have
shaken hands with my' rosy-cheelied, sunny-
eyed, siren-charmed childhood ; -atid, to-day,
standing here a woman, with few tics to bind
me to my fellow-creatures, I boll this one
jewelled link of the past in the hollow of my
hand, and pet it. Why not ? Oh, -why not.?
I am but. seventeen ;~this is all that 7 have
left to caress, and soon the waves of dom-
ing years 'will wash this, too4 thi'ough imy
fingers. Would you, less merciful than time,
snatch it from me prematurely ?"
"I would, that in exchange I might heap
your hands with untold treasure and joy."
" I think I am less grasping, then,. than you.
Leave me the little I value'; I ask no more,
wish no more, will have no more."
She would shave left him, but his hand fell
heavily on hers.
"Electra, I must speak to you; hear me.
You bug a phantom to your heart; 'Russell
does pot and will not love you, other 'than as
his cousin."
The blood deserted her face, leaving a grag-
ish pallor, but the eyes sought his steadily, and
the rippling voice lost none of its rich ca-
dence.
" Except as his cousin, I do not expect Rus-
sell to love me."
" Oh, child! you deceive yourself; this is a
hope that-youeling to with,mad tenacity."
She wrung her hand from his, and drew her
figure to its utmost height.
"You' transcend your privilege, sir, when
you attempt to catechise me thus. I deny'the
right of any on earth to put such:questions to
me-to'make such assertions."
" Electra, I did not mean to offend you, but
the time has come when we iust understand
each dther -    ' - ."
" You did not mean to offend me-'well, let
that pass; another day we will discuss it, 'if
you please," she interrupted,'waving him off
and turning toward the door.
"No; you must hear me now. I have a
right to question you--the right of my long,
silent, faithful love. You may deny 'it, but
that matters little ; be still, and listen. Did
you suppose that I was'simply a generous man,  -'
when-I offered to guard and aid you-when I
took you to my house, placed you in my moth-
er's care, and lavished affection upon you?
Did you dream that I was disinterested in
what I 'have done to encourageand assist you,?
Did you imagine I was merely an, amiable
philanthropist, anxious to help all in difficulty
and sorrow? 'If' so, 'put', away the hallucina-
tion. Consider me no longer your friend ;
look at me as I am, a jealous and selfishly ex-
actinrg man, who stands before you to'dy and
tells you he loves you.' Oh, Electra! From
the morning when you first showed me your
sketches, yosthave'beeh more than my life to
me. -An uncomnerable love sprang up then,
and it has grown with the months and yea.,.


MACARIA.                    61

taking sole possession of a heart which never
bowed before any other woman. Every hope
I'ave centres in you. I have not deceived
myself; I knew that you loved Russell. Nay,
don't deny it; I have watched you too long not
to robe your mask. I knew that he had .your
grish love but I waited, and hoped my de-
votio would win you. You were but a child,
and I thought the depth and fervor of my
affection would out-weigh a childish fancy.
When he came here, I saw that the old fasci-
nation still -kept its hold upon you ;' but I saw,
too, what you saw quite as plainly-that in
Russell Aubrey's heart there is-room for noth-
in  but ambition. I knew how you suffered,
and .I believed it was the death-struggle of
your love. But instead, I find you, day by
day, before that easel-oblivious of me, of
everything but the features you cling to so
insanely. Do you wonder that I hate that
portrait?  Do you wonder that I am growing-
desperate ?  Where is your womanly pride,
that you lavish your love on one totallyindif-
ffrent to you? Strange paradox that you
arel--proud, passionate, exacting, and yet
clinging madly to a memory. Have you no
-     mercy, that you (loom me to, live for ever on
the rack.?  Shall yonder piece of canvas al-
ways stand between your heart and mine ?  If
heloved you in return, I could bear it better';
but as it is, Iain torturso4 beyJnd all endurance.
I have: spent nearly three years. in trying to
gain your heart ; all other aims have faded be-
fore this one absorbing love. To-day I lay it
at 'your feet, and asf if I have not earned
some reward. Oh, Electra! have you no
gratitude ?"
A scarlet spot burned on his pale cheeks, and
the mild liquid gray eyes sparkled like stars;
It was no startling revelation to her ; long
before she had'seen that this hour of trial must
come to both, ,and now, despite her resolution,
his words unnerved her. She dared not look
atihim ; the hollow voice told her too well what
effect thisexcitement was working on his
feeble frame.
"Oh,'Mr. Clifton ! Iam grateful; God, who
sees my 'heart, knows that I am. No child
ever.loved a parent better than I love you."
"It is not filial affection that I ask of you
now. I beg you to lay your dear -hands in
mine,andepromise to be my wife.a hask this
yof'ybu in the name of my devoti  You gave
yourself to me years ago, and t -d y I beseech
you to seal the compact by a  nal Vromise.
Electra, beware how you answer ! Bridge the'
lf between us. Give me your hand."
He stretched out his hand, .but she drew
back a step.
" God forgive mel! but I have no such love.
for yu."  -        '.-
A ghastly smile -broke over his face and,
.after a moment, 'the- snowy handkerchief'he
passed across his lips was stained with ruby
streaks.

"I know that, and I know the reason. But,
once more 1' ask you 'to give me your hand.
'Electra, dearest, do not, I pray you, refuse me
this.' Oh, child! give me your hand, and in
time you will learn to love me."
He seized her fingers, and stooped his head
till the silky brown' beard mingled with her
raven locks.
"Mr. Clifton,.to marry without love would
be a grievous sin; I dare not., We would
hate eaoh 'other. Life would be a curse to
both, and death a welcome release. Could you
endure a wife who accepted your hand' from
gratitude and pity?  Oh ! such a'relationship
would be horrible'beyond all degree. I shud-
der at the thought."
" But you would learn to love me."
The summer wind shook 'the window-cur-
tains and rustled the folds of black silk till
the drapery slid from the portrait and leftit
fully exposed to view. . She gave one quick
glance at the beloved countenance, and, fall-
ing on her knees before the easel, raised her
clasped hands passionately, and exclaimed:
"Impossible! impossible'! You have said
that he is my idol, and you make no mistake.
He fills my heart so entirely, that I have
nothing 'but reverence' and gratitude to offer
you. I am young, I know, and you think that
this is a girlish fancy which will fade witly com-
ing years. I tell you, sir, this love has become
part of me. When he went to Europe I said,-
' I will tear it out of 'my heart, and forget him;
I will give every thought to my noble Art.'
Faithfully I strove to do so ; but a little moun
tain-stream once merged in the pathless ocear,
might as well struggle to gather back-its tiny
wavelets and return to its pebbly channel. I
am proud ; it humiliates 'nie to acknowledge
all this; and nothing on earth could wring ,it
from me but my desire to convince you that
'it is utterly impossible I can ever love you as
you ask.
'-1 lift my heavy heart up solemnly,
As on e lectra her sepulchral un,
And: looking in thine eyes, I overturn'
The ashes at thy feet. Behold, and see
what a great heap of grief, lay hid in me,
And how the red wild sparkles dimly burn
Through the ashen grayness. If thy fout in scorn
could tread them out to darkness utterly,
-It miaht be well, perhaps."
But you can not take Russell's' place. None
can come between him and my heart."
The yellow light dripped down on her
purplish hair, crystalizing -into a nimbus, as
she knelt before the portrait, lifting her hands,
like saints.in medieval pictures, fleeing from,
martyrdom. Shame dyed. her cheeks, but'
desperate, reckless triumph flashed in the 'up-
raised eyes, revealingo' fully the aversioni which
'his suit 'had inspireY.'- Unfortunate, deplora-
ble as was her love for a cousin, it seemed'
for the momnt to glorify her, and 'Mr.' Clif-
ton piut his hand over his eyes to shut out the
vision. .,

"Electra Grey, you are unwomanly in your
unsought love."
She turned her head, and, looking over her
shoulder at him, smiled derisively.
" Unwomanly ! If so, made such by your
unmanliness. Unwomanly I I deny it. Which
is most womanly-to yield, to the merciless
importunity of one"to whom I am -indebted ;
to give my hand to him whose touch chills the
blood in my veins ; to promise to become -his
wife when the bare thought sickens my soul ;
to dare to stand before God's. altar and take
false vows on my 'lips, or to 'tell the simple
truth ? to shield myself from his' entreaties,
under the holy mantle-of a deep,-undying love
for another ? I volunteered no confession; you
taxed and taunted me with my affection. Sir,,
.it should have made me sacred in your eyes.
Unwomanly 1 Were you more -manly, I had
never shocked your. maudlin sentiments of
propriety."
"And this is my reward for all the tender-
ness I have lavished on you! Wlien I stooped
to beg your hand, to be repulsed with scorn
and loathing. To spend three years in faith-j
ful effort to. win . your heart, and reap  -
contempt, hatred." -
Staggering back, he sank into his arm-chair,
and closed his eyes a montent, then continued:
'4 If it were possible' that-you could be hap-
py, I would not complain ; but there is no
nope of that. You ought as 'well kneel to my
marble Hermes yonder anto Russell. Stranger
int'atuation never possessed a woman."
" I am not blind; I neither ask nor expect
anything from him. Unless you betray my,
confidence he will never suspect the truth,
and bIwould sooner endure the tortures of
Torquemada; than that he should know it.
But by what process will you demonstrate
that,'since a rare and royal banquet is for ever
shut beyond my reach, it is my duty to sit
down in the dust and try to content anyself
with husks?  Sir,mny God never intended me
to live on' crumbs, and 'I will not. 'I will be
true to my heart; if the vast host of i'ny fel-
low-creatures should pass away from earth, I
will stand alone and conquer solitude as best'
I may. Not 'one jot, nut one tittle' of my
'nature will I yield for companionship. No
mess of pottage will I have, in lieu of my
birthright. All or mone ! Marriage is holy ;
God, in his wisdom, institutedit with the seal
of' love ; ' but its desecration with counterfeits
makes Tophets, Golgothas instead of Edens.
I know wuat I have to expect ; on my own
head be my future. If quarrel there be, it is
between Fate and me ; you have no oncern in
it."
'"I would not have troubled you long, Elec-
tra. it ivas because 1 knew that my life must
teshort at best that I urged you to gild the
brief period with tike 'light of your love. 'I
would not have bound you always'to ne ; and,
when I asked your hand a few minutes sine,

I knew that death would soon sever the tie and,
set you free.' Let this sufficesto, palliate my
'unmanly' pleading. I have but.one request,
to make of you now, and, weak a itiay see,.
d beg of you not, to deny 'me. 'on, are pre-
paring to leave my house ; this .I know.; 1 see
it in your face, and the thought is harrowing to
me. Electra, remain under my roof while :I
live; 'let me see you every day, here, in 'my
hMuse.' It' not ;as my wife, stay as my friend,
my pupil, my child. I little thought I coild
ever condescend to ask, this of any one; but
the dread of separation bows me down. Oh,
child ! I will not clain you long."
She stood up before him with the portrait
in her arms, resolved, then and there, to leave
him for ever. But the ghastly pallor of his
face, the scarlet thread oozimg over his lips
and saturating the handkerchief with which
he strove 'to staunch it, told her that the re-
quest was preferred on -no idle 'pretext. -In
swift review, his kindness, generosity and un-'
wavering affection passed before her, and the
mingled accents ;o1 remorse and compassion
whispered: 'Pay your debt of gratitude by
sacrificing ydur heart. If you cad make him
happy, you owe it to him."
Without a word she 'passed him and went
up to her own room. It was an hour of sore
temptation for one so young and inexperienced;
but, placing the portrait on 'the low mantle,
she crossed her arms before it and tried to lay
matters in the scale. On one side, years 'of
devotion, the circumstances of tif artist's life,
his mother's infirmity, confining her sometimes
to her bed, often to her room, preventing her
from nursing him; the weary season, of' his
tedious illness, the last hours gloomy and mis-
erable, unsoothed by gentle words or tender
offices: On the other, stern adherence, un-
errimg obedience to- the dictates of her heart,
the necessary self-abnegation, the patient' 'at..
tendance at the couch ot prolonged suffering,
and entire devotion to him. For a time the
scales balanced ; she could not conquer her re-"
pugnance to, remaining in his home; theoi a
grave and its monumental stone were added,
and, with a groan, she dropped her face'in het
hanils. At the expiration of' two hours she.
locked the.portraitfrom view, and went-slew-
ly back to 'the studio. ,The house was' very
quiet; the ticking of the clock was distinctly
heard as she pushed the door open and glided
in.  Involuntarily she drew  a long, 'deep
breath, for it was like leaving freedom at.the
threshold and taking upon herself grieeua
bonds. The arm-chair-was vacant, but the
artist lay on one .of the sofas, with his fpe
toward the wall, and on asmall table beside hy'
stood a crystal bowl ofcracked ice, a  atiod
wine-glass,. and 'vial contaittizg 'somne, dhr
purpleliquid. 'Approaching soltly,'she se n-
ned- the countenance, and ;tears 'gatlherd 'n
her eyes as she~ saw how thin and 'hollow were
the now' flushed oheoks ; how the lips *mit I,~

MACA A

60


MACAIA.                    63

now and then, as if striving to suppress bitter.
words.' The beautiful brown hair was all
tossed; back, and she noticed that along 'the
fQrehead clustered many silver threads. One
hand was 'thrust within his.vest, the other,
thrown .up over .the head, grasping a fresh
handkerchief.; Softly she took this hand, and,
bending over him, said, sin a low, thrilling
tone:
- A Mr. Clifton, I was passionate and 'hasty,
an4 said some unkind things which I would
fain recall, and 'for which I beg your pardon.
I thank you for the honor you would have
conferred on me,'and for the unmerited love
you offered me. Unless it were jn my power to
return that love, it would be sinful to give you
my hand ; but, since you desire it so earnestly,
1. iill promise to stay by your side, to do what
1 can to make you happy; to prove, by my de-
''votion, that I amr not insensible to all your
kindness, that I am very grateful for the affiec-
tion you have given me. I come and offer
you this, as a poor return for all that I owe
you; it is the most my conscience will permit
me to tender. My friend, my master, will you
accept it, and forgive the pain and sorrow I
have caused you ?"
He felt her tears falling'on his fingers, and,
for a mlonmwnt, neither spoke ; then lie drew
the bands to his lips and kissed them tenderly.
"«Thank you, Electra. I 'know it is a sac-
rifice on your part, but I am selfish enough to
accept it. Ileaveni bless you, my pupil."
" i future we will not allude t) this day of;
trial-let it be forgotton; *let the dead past
bury its dead.' I will have no resurrected.
phantoms. Awl now, sir, you must not allow
this slight' heimorrhage to depress you. In a
few days you will be stronger, quite able to
examine' andu find fault with my work. .Shall
1 send a note to Dr. LeRoy, asking him to call
and see you this evening ?"
"6He has jqat. left me. Say nothing of the
hemorrhage to mother ; it would only distress
-her."
He released her hands, and, stooping over
his illow, she smoothed the disordered hair,
and for the first time pressed her lips to his
forehead.
Thus she bowed her neck to the yoke, and,
with a fixed, unalterable will, entered on the'
long, dreary ministry to which she felt that
duttycalled-
We shade our eyes, and peer into the dim
known, striving to see whither we are tend-
ingand a 'sudden turn in the way, a sharp
anile, brings us face to face with huge, frown-
ing obstacles, that grimly bar- all progress in
the direction to which our'inclinations point.
Strange devious paths stretch' out at our 'feet,
baffling all our niise conjectures, setting at de-
-fiance all'outr plans and prudential miachin&amp;g-
tions. .From breath to breath, from step to
step, from -hour to houi-, is man's sole empire,.
"NOast not thyself of tomorroww"

CHAPTER XIII.
" Cities give not the human senses. room
enough," says a latter-day seer, and Electra
Grey sometimes felt-that. heroheart and soul
were in the-stocks, or ironed down to a stake,
leaving only a periphery of a few feet. Brick
walls and paving-stones uttered no kindly
message; hurrying loot-passengers and crowd-
ed omnibuses told.of the din and strife of life,
but whispered no word of cheer, no lesson of
uncomplaining fortitude, no exhortation to be
strong and patient. She aiw colossal Selfish-
ness crushing along its Jaggernautic .way;
Wealth jostled Poverty into the gutter, and
Beauty picked a dainty crossing to give a wide
berth to Deformity ; hard, stern, granite-like
faces passed her window day by day; princely..
,equipages, with haughty, supereihousios  ecu-
pants, rolled along the street, and bridal trains
and funeral processions mingled in their wimd-
ings. If man be, indeed, a ."nicrocosm," 'to
what shall I liken that .great city wherein
dwelt, the painter and his pupil ?  Isis, the
great nursing-mother-genial Nature, teeming
with soothing influences, and missals of' joy
and strength, seemed sepulchred-and in her
place, a flint-featured, miserly, and most in-
tolerable step-mother frowned upon the luck-
less young artist. Citylife ! City starvation,
rather, she found it, until a long and painful.
apprenticeship taught her the priceless alche-
my whereby smiling Plenty beamed upon her.
Reared on the outskirts ofla cointry-town, she
longed for the freedom and solitude of the old
pine-woods at home, and, sickened at the
thought of spending her life within walls of
brick and mortar. .She had selected an attic
room; with dormer windows looking eastward,
and here she daily watched the pale gray'
dawn struggle with the vapors and shadows of
night. " Quiet fields of crimson cirri," fleecy
masses. of restless, glittering cumuli, or the,
sweep and ruslh of "inky-tringed," lowering
rain-clouds, alike charmed her. Long before
the servants stirred below she was seated at
the window, noting the waning. shimmer, of
the Morning-Star as the waves of light rolled
up and crested the horizon, whitening the
deep dark blue with their sparkling spray.'
The peculiarities- of each sunrise and sunset
were jotted down assiduously :.
"Cloud-waits ofrthe morning's'gray
-  '    Faced with amber coluimit,
Crowned witli crinisn cupola
From a sunset solemn,"'-
were-sketche'd with great ere, and put aside
for future use; and it rarely happened that, on
a dull, rainy morning, she came down to break-
fast looking other than moody and disappoint-
ed, as though her. rights had been infringed,
her priyileges curtailed. Constituted with
keen susceptibility to impressionis of beauty or
sublimity, whether physical, moral, or intellec-
tual, Nature intended her as a thing for sun-

shine and holidays, as a darlg to be petted;
but Fate shook her head, and, with a grimace,
set the tender young,soul'on a bleak exposure,:
to be hardened and invigorated.
With the 'characteristic fitfulness of con-
sumption,-Mr. Clifton rallied, and, for a time,
seemed almost restored; but at the approach
of Winter the cough increased, and dangerous
symptoms returned. Several months after the
rejection of his suit, to which no allusion had
ever been made, Electra sat before tier easel,
absorbed in work,' while the master slowly
walked up and down the studio, wrapped in a
warm plaid shawl.  Occasionally he paused
and looked over her shoulder, then resumed
his pace, offering no comment. It was not an
unusual occurrence for them to pass entire
mornings together without exchanging a word,
and to-day the silence had lasted more than
an hour. A prolonged fit of coughing finally
arrested her attention, and, glancing up, she
met his sad gaze.
"This- is unpropitious weather for you, Mr.
Clifton."
"Yes, this winter offers a dreary prospect."
"There is the doctor now, passing the win-
dow.   I will come back as soon as his visit is
over." She rose hastily to quit the room, but
he detained her.
" Do not go-I wish you to remain and fin-
ish your work." '
Dr. LeRoy entered, and, after questioning
his patient, stood on the rug, warming his ,
fingers.'
The fact is,my dear fellow, this is not the'
place for you. I sent.you South four yearsI
ago nearly, and saved yot ' life;i and, as I toldI
you last- week, you will have to take that'sameI
prescription again. It is folly to talk of spend-l
ang the winter here. I can do nothing fort
you. You must go to Cuba or toItaly. It is,
of no use to try to deceive you, Harry ; you
know, just as well as I do,'that your case is get-
ting desperate, and change of climate is your
last hope. I have told you all this before."
Electra laid down her pallette, and listened
for the answer...
" I am sorry you'think so, but I can't leave t
New -York."
' " Why not ?"
"For various good reasons."
" My dear fllow, is your life of any value ?"e
"Astrange question,'truly."    '
"If it is, quit New York in thirty-six hours;
if . not, remain, 'for various good reasons.'a
Send to- my office for an anodyne. Better
take myadvice. Good-day."                s
Passing by the easel, he 'whispered:
"Use) our influence; send him South." .And'
then the two were again alhne.           s
.Resting-her chin in her hands, she raised her
eyes and said: l
" Why do you not follow the doctor's' ad- I
vice ? A winterr South might restore you." .
He drew near, ands leaning his-folded-arms

on the top of the easel, looked down into 'her
face.
" There is only one condition upon'whieh I
could consent to go; that' is in' your hands.
Will yon-accompany me ?"
She understood it all in an instant, saw the
new form in which  the trial presented itself;
and her soul sickened.
"Mr. Clifton, if I were your sister, or your
child, I would gladly go; but, as your pupil, I
can not."
"As Electra Grey, certainly' not; but, as
Electra Clifton, you could go."
"Electra Grey will be carved on my tomb-
stone."
"Then yon decide my fate. I remain, and
.wait the slow approach of death."
" No, before just Heaven! I take no such
responsibility, nor shall -you thrust it on' me.
You are a man, and must decide your destiny
for yourself; I'am a poor girl, having no claim
upon, no power over you.  It is your duty to
preserve the- life which God gave you, in the
way prescribed by your.physician, and I have
no voice in the matter.'It is your duty to go
South, and it will be both weak and wicked to
remain here under existing circumstances."
"My lfe is centred in you; it is worthless,
nay, a burden, separated from you.
"Your life 'should be centred in something
nobler, better ; in your duty, in your profes-
sion, It is suicidal.to fold your hands listless-
ly and look to me, as you do."
"All these things have I tried, and I am
weary of their hollowness, weary of life and
the world. So long as I have your face here,
I care not to cross my own threshold till friend-.
ly hands bear me out to my quiet resting-
lplace under the willows of Greeiwood. Elec-
tra, my darling, think me weak if you will;but
bear with me a little while longer, and then
this, my shadow, shall flit from your, young
heart, leaving not even a memory to.haunt
you. Be patient ! I will soon pass away, to
another, a more peaceful, blessed sphere."
A melancholy suile lighted his fair waxen
features, as waning, sickly sunshine 'in'an au
tumn evening flickers over sculptured marble
n a silent chuch-yard.'"
How she compassionated his great weak-
ness as he' wiped away the , moisture which,'
even' on that cold, day, glistened on his 'fore-
head.
Oh ! I beseech you to go to Cuba. Go,
and get strong once more."
"Nothing will ever help me now. Sunny
kies andt soft breezes bring.;tlo. healing foi
ne. I want.to die here, in my home, wherm
yopr hands will be about me.; not among'.
trangers; in Cuba or Italy."
He turned to the fire, and1 pringing upyuhe
eft the, room. The solemn silence of the
mouse oppressed her ; she put on hler ,thicest
wappings, and took' the street leading. to-he'
nearest park. ''  steel-gray sky, with' slowly-

t

6                         MALARIA.

. i


MACARIA.     -                        65

MACARIA.

trailing clouds, looked down on her, and the
keen, chilly wind- wafted a fine snow-powder
in her face as-she pressed against it. The
trees were bare, and the sere grass grew hoary
-as the. first snow,-flakes of the season came
down softly and shroud-like. The walks were
deserted, save where a hurrying form crossed
from street to 'street, homeward-bound ; and
Electra, passed slowly along, absorbed in
thoughts solder than the frosting that gath-
ered on shawl and bonnet.. The thee and figure
of the painter-glided spectrally before her at
every step, and a mighty teinptation follow-
ed at its hecls. Wjiy not strangle her heart ?
Why not marry him and bear his name,.if,
thereby,. she Could, make his 'few remaining
months of existence happy, and, by accompa-
nying :him South, prolong his life even for a
few, weeks ?  She shuddered at the suggest-
ion, it would be such a miserable lot. But
then the question arose : " Who told you that
your life was given for happiness? Do, you
imagine your Maker set you on' earth solely
tohunt your own enjoyment ?  Suppose duty
costs ou pain and struggles ; it it ahy the less
.duty   Nay, is it not all the more urgent
duty ?"  She- knew that she could return to
the artist, and, with, one brief' sentence, pour
the chrism of joyover his suffering soul; and'
her great compassion, mild-eyed, soft lipped,
tender-hearted, whispered: Why not'? why
not ?      .
"Nature owns no man who is not a martyr.
withal." It' this dictum possessed any value,
did it'not point to her mission ? She could
no longer shut hbr eyes and stumble on, for
right in her path stood an awful form, with
austere lip and fiiiry eye, demanding a parley,
defying all escape; atnd, calmly, she stood face
to face with her Sphinx, considering her rid-
dle. A young, motherless girl, without the
girding of a holy religion, a free, untamed soul,
yielding allegiance to no creed, hearkening
only to, the dictates of her tempestuous nature,
now confronting the most ancient immemorial
Destroyer who haunts the highways of society.
Self-immolation, or a poisoning of the spring
of joy in the heart of a fellow-creature'?  Was
duty a Moloch, clasping its scorching arms
around its devotees ?-a Juggernaut, indeed,
whose iron wheels drank the life-blood of its
victims? ," Will you see your benefactor sink
swiftly into an early grave, and, standing by
with tolded arms, persuade yourself that it is
not your:duty to'"attempt to save him at all
hazards ?  Can nothing, less than love ever
sanction ,marriage ?" , Such wds the riddle
hurled before her, and, as she pondered, the,
floodgates of her sorrow and jealousy were
once more lifted-the rush and roar ot bitter
wite~rs drowned, fora time, the accents of con-
science and of reason. .
hut Qutsot these fierce asphaltic waves arose,
Aphirodite-like, a pure, radiant, heavenlysform
-'-a child' of all climes, conditions, and ages-

an immortal ev gei; and, as the 'piercing,
sunny eyes of w'manly intuition looked upon
the riddle, ths stony lineaments of the Sphinx
melted into air.. If womanly eyes rest on this
page the answer need not' be traced here,
for in every true woman's heart the. answer
is to be found-engraved in God's own charac-
ters; and, however the rubbish ofignoble mo-
tives may accumulate, it cannever obliterate
the divine handwriting. In the holiest oratory
of her nature is enshrined an infallible talis-
man, an ,gis, and she requires no other pano-
ply in the long struggle incident to trials such
as shook the stormy soul of the young artist.
Faster fell the snow-flakes, cresting the waves
of hair like toam, and, setting her teeth firmly,
as if thereby locking the door against all, com-
passionating compunctions, Electra left the
park and turned into a cross-street, on which
was situated an establishment where bouquets
were kept for sale.  The , assortment was
meagre at that late hour, but she selected a
tiny bunch of delicate, fragrant, hothouse
blossoms, and, shielding them with her shawl,
hastened home. The studio was brilliant with
gas-glare and warm with the breath of anthra-
cite,' bat an aspect of dreariness, silence, and
sorrow predohiinated. The figures in the
pictures' shrank back in their frames, the stat-
ues gleamed mournfully white and cold,,and
the emaciated form and face of the painter,
thrown into bold relief' by the dark green
lining of the easy-chair, seemed to belong to
realms of death rather than life. On the edge
of the low scroll-sculptured mantle, supported
at each corner by caryatides,  perched large
time gray owl, with clipped wings folded,,
and wide, solemn, oracular eyes fastened on
the countenance of its beloved master. .A
bronze clock, of exquisite workmanship, oc-
cupied the centre, and represented the Angel
of, Revelations "swearing by Rim that liveth,
fhr ever and ever, that Time should be no longer."
One hand held the open book, the other a
hammer, which gave out the hours with clear.
metallic ring; and along the base, just under-
neath the silver-dial-plate, were carved, in
German characters, the words of Richter:
"And an immeasurably extended hammer was
to strike the last hour of Time, and shiver the
universe asunder."
With swift, noiseless steps Electra came to
the red grate, and, after a moment,. drew an
ottoman close to the easy-chair. Perhaps.its
occupant slept; perchance he wandered, with
closed eyes, far down among the-,sombre, dank
,crypts of memory. She laid her coolfingers
on hid hand, and held the bouquet before him.
- " My dear sir, here are your flowers; they
are not as pretty as usual, but sweet enough
to atone for lack of beauty."
He fingered them caressingly, laid 'theak
against his hollow cheeks, and hid his lips
among their fragrant petals, but the starry
eyes were fixed on the features of the pupii..

" It is bitter weather out; did you brave it
for these ? Thank you, but don't expose your-
self so in future. Two invalids in a house are
quite enough. You are snow-crowned, little
one; do you know it ? The frosting- gleams
right royally on that black hair of yours. Nay,
child, don't brush it off; like all lovely things
it fades rapidly, melts away like the dreams
that flutter around a boy in the witchery of a
long, still, sunny summer day.".,
His thin hand nestled in her shining hair,
and she submitted to the touch in silence.
" My dove soared away from this dreary
ark, -and bathed her silver wings in 'the free
air of heaven ; returning but to bring me some
grateful memorial, an olive-branch, where-
with to deck this gloomy ark of mine. Next
time she will soar farther, and find a. more
tempting perch, and gladden Noah's eyes no
more."
"'if so, it will be because the high and dry
land'of God beckons her; and when the del-
uge is ended, she will be needed no longer."
"For, then, Electra, Noah's haven of rest
will be the fair still fields of Eternity."
In. this semi-metaphoric strain he often in-
dulged of late, but she felt'little inclination to
humor the whim, and, interlacing her slight
fingers, she6answered, half-impatiently:
" Your simile is all awry, sir. Most unfort-
unately, I have nothing dove-like in my na-
ture."
" Originally you had, but your character
has been warped."
" By what, or whom ?"
" Primarily, by unhappy extraneous circum-
stances, influences it you will, which contribut-
ed to a diseased development of two passions,
that now preponderate over all other elements
of your character."
" A diagnosis which I will not accept."
" A true one, nevertheless, my child."
" Possibly ; but we will waive a discussion
just now. I am, and always intend to be, true
to the nature which God gave me."
"A dangerous dogma that.  Electra, how
do you know that the 'nature' you fondle and
plume yourself upon emanated from your
Maker ?"
" How do you know, sir, that God intended
that willows should drop and trail their slen-
der boughs earthward, while poplars, like
granite shafts, shoot up, lifting their silver-
shimmering leaflets ever to the clouds? Who
fingered their germs and directed their
course ?"~
" The analogy will not hold between the
vegetable kingdom and the moral and intel-
lectual spheres. Men and women are not cast
in particular moulds, bound byiron laws, and
labelled, like plants or brutes, Genus ,
Species . Moreover, to man 'alone was
given free agency, even to the extent of
uprooting, crushing entirely the original ima
pulses implanted by God in the human heart
5

to act as motive power. I have known people
insane enough to pluck out the wheat, and
culture, into rank luxuriance, the tares in their
nature. Child, do you ever look ahead to the
coming' harvest-time ?"
"if  do, it contents me to know that each
soul binds up its own sheaves."
"No;.angels are reapers, and make up the
account for the Lord of the harvest."
"1 don't, believe that. No third party has
any voice in that last, long reckoning. God
and the creature only see the balance-sheet."
She rose, and, leaning against the mantle,
.put out her .hand to caress the solemn-eyed
solitary pet of the studio. How he came to he
the solace and companion of the artist she had
never been told, but knew that a strange fel-
lowship linked the 'gray old favorite with the
master, and wondered at the almost, human
expression with which it sometimes looked
from its lofty pedestal upon the langpid move-
ments of the painter. " Munin " was the
name he ever recognized and answered to,
and, when she one iay repeated it to herself,
puzzling over its significance, Vr. Clifton told
her that it meant " memory," in Scandinavian
lore, and belonged to one of the favorite birds
of Odin. It was one of his many strange
whims, fostered by life-lon researches among
the mythologies of the Old orld; and Electra
struggled to overcome the undefinable sensa-
tion of awe and repulsion which'crept over
her whenever she met that fascinating stare
fixed upon her. As little love had the bird for
her, and, though occasionally it settled' upon
the cross-beam of her easel and watched the
slow motion of her brush, they seemed" to
shrink from each other. Now, as her soft hand
touched his feathers, they rumpled, bristled,
and he flitted to the artist's knee, uttering a
hoarse, prolonged, most melancholy note, as
the master caressed him.
" Why are not you and Munin better
friends ?"
" Because I am not wise enough, r evil-bod-
ing in appearance, or sufficiently owlish'to
suit him, Isuppose. He Chills my blood some-
times,'when I come here, in twilight,-before
the gis is lighted. I would ,almost as soon
confront Medusa."
She took from the curious oval mosaic table
f new book containing her mark, and reseated
herself. As she did so, Munin flapped his
'dusky wings and disappeared through the door
opening into the hall, and, shading her'face
with one hand, she read aloud a passage
heavily underlined by a pencil.
"'But this poor, miserable Me!' Is-this. then,
all the-book 1 have got to read about God.in ?'
Yes, truly so. No other book, nor fragment
'of book, than that will you ever find-no vel-
vet-bound missal, nor frankincensed manu-
script; nothing hieroglyphic nor cuneitorm;
papyrus and pyramid ate alike silent on this
matter; nothing in the clouds above, nor ila the


A IATTA

66                                  M
earth beneath. That flesh-bound volume is
the only revelation that is, that was, or that
can be. In that is the image of God painted;
in that is the law of God written;, in that is
the-promise of God revealed. Know thyself';,
for through thyself only thou canst know God.
Through the glass darkly; but, except through
the glass, in no wise. A tremulous crystal,
waved as water, poured out upon the ground;-
you may defile it, despise it, pollute it at your
pleasure, and at your peril; for on the peace
of those weak waves must all the heaven you
shall ever gain be first seen, and through such
purity as you can win for those dark waves
must.all the light of the risen Sun of Bright-
ness be bent down by faint refraction. Cleanse
them, and calm them, as you love your life."
"Mr. Clifton, this epitomizes my creed.
There is nothing new in it ; I grant you it is
old as the Delphian inscription. Two thousand
years ago Socrates preached it in the Agora
at Athens. Now it shakes dff its Greek ap-
parel, and comes to this generation encumbered
in loosely-fitting English garments-immemo-
rial Truth peering through modern masks."
He regarded her with an expression of sor-
rowful tenderness, and his hand trembled as he
placed it upon her head._
"6This darling creed, this infallible egotism
of yours, will fail you iti the day of fierce trial.
Pagan that you are, I know not what is to be-
come of you. Oh, Electra ! if you would only
be warned in time."
The warmth of the room had vermilioned
- her cheeks, and the long black lashes failed to
veil in any degree the flash of the eyes she
raised to his face. Removing the hand from
her head, she took it in both hers, and a cold,-
dauntless smile wreathed her lips.
" Be easy on my account. . I am not afraid
of my future.  Why should I be? God built
an arsenal in every soul before he launched it
on the stormy sea of'Time, and the key to
mine is Will! I am young and healthy; the
rich purple blood bubbles through my veins
like Chian wine; and, with my heritage of
poverty and obscurity, I look fortune's favor-
ites in the eye, and dare them to retard or
crush me. A vast caravan of mighty souls,
'whose distant footsteps echo down the corri-
dors of Time,' have gone before me; and step
by step I tramp after. What woman has done,
woman may do; a glorious sisterhood of artists
beckon me on; what -Elizabeth Cheron, Si-
bylla Merian, Angelica Kauffman, Elizabeth
Le Brun, Felicie Fauveau, and Rosa Bonheur
have achieved, I also will accomplish, or die in
the effort.  These travelled no royal road to
immortality, but rugged, thorny paths ; and
who shall stay miy feet ? Afar off gleams my
resting- place, but ambition scourges me un-
ftagc/nl on. Do not worry about my future;
I will tae care of it, and of myself.",-.
" And when, after years of toil, you win
fame, even fame enough to satisfy your large

LL L.                               -
expectations,. what then? Whither will you
look for happiness?"
" I will grapple fame to my empty heart,
as women do other idols'"
"It will freeze you, my dear child. Re-
member the mournful verdict which Dante
gave the world through the lips of Oderigi:
Cimabue thought
To lord it over Painting's'fleld; and now
The cry is Giotto's, and his name eclipsed.
Thus bath one cJuido from the other snatched
The lettered prize: and he, perhaps, is born,
Who shall drive either from their nest. The noise
of worldly fame is but a blast of wind
That blows from divers points and shifts its name,
shifting the point it blows from."
" And, Electra, that chill blast will wail
through your lonely heart, chanting a requiem
over the trampled, dead hopes that might have
garlanded your life. Be warned, oh ! daugh-
ter of Agamemnon-!
'The earth hath bubbles'as the water hath;
And this is .of them. "   .
" At all events, I will risk it. Thank God!
whatever other faults I confess to, there is no
taint of cowardice in my soul.".
She rose, and stood a moment on the rug,
looking into the red net-work of coals, then
turned to leave hire, saying :
"I must go to your mother now, and pres-
.ently I will bring your tea."
4" You need not trouble. I can go to the
dining-room to-night."
" It is no trouble ; it gives me great pleasure
to do something for your comfort ; and I know
you always enjoy your supper more when you
have it here."
As she closed the door he pressed his face
against the morocco .lining and groaned un-
consciously, and large glittering tears, creep-
ing from beneath, the trembling lashes, hid
themselves in the curling brown beard.
To see that Mrs. Clifton's supper suited her,'
and then to read aloud to her for half an hour
from the worn family bible, was part of the
daily routine which Electra.permitted nothing
to interrupt. - On this occasion she found she
old lady seated, as usual, before the fire, her
crutches leaning against the chair and her
favorite cat curled on the carpet at* her feet.
Most tenderly did the aged cripple love her
son's protege, and the wrinkled sallow face
lighted up with a smile of pleasure at her en-1
trance.
"I thought it was about time for' you to
come to me. Sit down, dear, and touch the
bell for Kate. How is Harry ?"
" No strong , I am afraid. You know' this
is very bad wea her for him." .
S" Yes ; when he came up to-day I thought
he looked ifiore feeble than I had ever seen
him; and, as I sit here and listen to his hollow
cough, every sound seems a stab at my heart."
She rocked herself to and fro for a moment,
and added, mournfully:

-MAC.

" Ah, child ! it is so hard to see my young-
est boy going down to the grave before me.
The last of five, I hoped he would survive me,
but consumption is a terrible thing; it took my
husband first, then, in quick succession, my
other children, and now Harry, my darling,
my youngest, is the last prey."
Anxious to divert her mind, Electra adroitly
changed the conversation, and when she rose
to say good-night, some time after, had the sat,
isfaction of knowing that the old lady thad
fallen asleep. It was in vain that she arranged
several tempting .dishes on - the table beside
the painter, and coaxed him to partake of
them; he received but a cup of tea from her
hand, and motioned the remainder away. As
the servant removed the tray he looked up at
his pupil, and said :
" Please wheel the lounge nearer to the
grate ; I am too tired to sit up to-night."
She complied at once, shook up the pillow,
and, as he .laid his head upon it, she'spread his
fieavy plaid shawl over him.
"Now, sir, what shall I read this evening ?"
" Arcana Caelestia," if you please."'
She took up the volume, and began at the
place he designated ; and, as she read on and
on, her rich flexible voice rose and fell upon
the air like waves of melody. One of her
hands chanced to hang over the arm of the
chair, and, as she sat near the lounge, thin hot
fingers twined about it, drew it caressingly to
the pillow, and held it tightly.. Her first im-
pulse was to withdraw it, and an expression of
annoyance crossed her features; but, on see-
ond thought, she suffered her fingers to rest
passively in his. Now and then, as she turned
a leaf, she met his luminous eyes fastened upon
her ; but after a time the quick breathing at-
tracted her attention, and, looking down, she
saw that he, too, was sleeping. She closed the
book and remained quiet, fearful of disturbing
him; arid as she studied the weary, fevered
face, noting the marh of disease, the sorrow-
ful drooping of' the -mouth, so indicative of
grievous disappointment, a new and holy ten-
derness awoke in her heart.  It was"a feeling
analogous to that of a mother for a suffering
child, who can be soothed only by her presence
and caresses-an affection not unfrequently
kindled in haughty natures by the entire de-
pendence of a weaker one. Bleniled with this
was a remorseful consciousness of the coldness
with which she had persistently rejected, re-
pulsed every manifestation of his devoted
love ; and, winding her fingers through his
long hair, she vowed an atonement for the
past' irk increased gentleness for the remainder
of his waning life. As she ,bent over hini, wear-
ing her compassion in her face, he opened his
eye's and looked at her.
" How long have I slept ?"
" Nearly an hour. How do you feel since
your nap I"
He made no reply, and she put her hand on

ARIA.                                   67
his forehead. The countenance lighted, and
he said slowly:
'" Ah I yes, press your cool soft little palm
on my brow. It seems to still the throbbing
in my temples."t                hb
" It is late, Mr. Clifton, and I nMust leave
you. William looked in, a few minutes since,
to say that the fire burned in your room, butI
would not wake you. - I will send him to you.
Good-night."
She leaned down voluntarily and kissed,
him, and, with a quick movement, he folded
her to his heart an instant, then released her,
murmuring huskily:
it God bless you, Electra, and reward you for
your patient endurance. Good-night, my pre-
cious child."
She went to her own room, all unconscious
of the burst of emotion which shook the feeble
frame of the painter, long after she, had laid
her head n her pillow in the sound slumber
of healthful youth.
CHAPTER XIV.
The year that ensued proved a valuable
school of patience, and taught thqyoung artist
a gentleness of tone and quietude of'manner at
variance with the natural impetuosity of her
character. Irksome beyond degree was the
discipline to which she subjected herself, but,
with a fixedness of purpose that knew no wa-
vering, she walked through the daily dreary
routine, keeping her eyes upon the end that
slowly but unmistakably approached. ' In mid-
summer Mr. Clifton removed, for a few weeks,
to the Catskill, and occasionally he rallied for
a few hours, with a tenacity of strength almost
miraculous. During the still sunny afternoons
hosts of gay visitors, summer tourists, ofteh
paused in their excursions to watch the ema-
ciated form of the painter leaning on the arm
of his beautiful pupil, or reclining on a lichen-
carpeted knoll while she slktched the sur-
rounding scenery. Increased feebleness pre-
vented Mrs. Clifton from joining in these out-
door jaunts, and early in September, when it
became apparent that her mind was rapidly
sinking into imbecility, they returned to the
city. Memory seemed to have deserted its
throne ; she knew neither her son nor Electra,
and the last spark of intelligence.manifested
itself in a semi-recognition of her favorite eat,
which sprang to welcome her back as friendly
hands bore her to the chamber she was to quit
no more till death released the crushed, spi
A letter, was' found on the atelier mantle,,dir
rected to Electra in familiancharacters, whicha
she had not seen fer months. Very qne'1
she put it ih her pocket, and inthe soliti u~ of
her room broke "the seal; found that  :el
had returned during her absence,.hadsge t a
morning in. the studio-looking over bat''w'ork
and had gone' Southa,to establhsh hima~f e e


60v

laati et oghat r~h bagidbus, lidsons ii
appointment. A bitter cry rg din f  ha  lii
al  a hdlithaes wuneahs eherAspair-!
'   ufutpdbouri lategeht stood,,* s sA
artist with unruffled brow and- a.qrensnoutih
S oad bem muace4l  o htetreavwg-aw-
,ingiIha nheat.: MWilitne4:amalifi earlb r
lhahtiitsal pwiCthi nwosdte i1 sVer y ya  t
.reJsh aftirlweeyflec rii wd5aIe cQnttiualf
from one sufferer-to another, striN'iwn;toal .-
IatntiifJIrade stpab6beamsIsushmine
(id.l e-rih gened  asibi us  ugier l mg
,ind aafokaetshdasqaha' itted f brukeam'l4
room, sometimes shrinkiv dih  wnshad
'o'yt uefiti fdedksnfp tigmttge-pbiihd4 Wall
-mlskle  fsp atial down  am    hodead of
night. Unremitted vigil set its Ifdinfalle
esinatconddisfaasyhu#r.c0ifteititauld!
b tbreIo l hosr tib0 ainfid It sabi* p
hhdrbaipedtaneta dheuJ:Mngsdoungl si
-haas tvateduwitbbsr ~i-v &amp;[ uper adios
effects of this tedious confindnestAMhkhe%
she only answered, steadily: "I will nurse
him so long as I hav rstrength'left to creep from
one room to a    ' er',  n.
During Clirha n      grew alarmingly
ederralDa     HoRo peouutedthmenrid:life
" ydM       diysk, 4u e  aCie ;a nr ;ei  d eaimd
ikia   ais1 hmxe libnnhdaistedi ennbeng ari
1notgluiaestqdio. l  aiMwhiidcas humoed,
edid  rappniiih s iieisrobide chainkne,dhie
Alwdssaatesdl i  rggenlis ned ehaimglifig
-.t findwitm  lfdmee t  eliirehidst df i h
x~mnrsa'.diegkith;valvbedinfrony  u~e
3i* $ttenueted yuisii Aiftegahs'ishedfaitg
-towadd tl i umeg a datager y{ 5 J't 1won  I
,d      avm     e    s ukiWilhiamadani
-ist b idibtonhdetf&amp;shi wa  fhddi  i)enxtighi
Ghied An  e  gsalette;:wai taT hEqiledunth4
yfoneheagimy pIii otd4ti heds a:  c -lighti
rti T    aresnooste g no gh ta  r:ir  Mait
"I'n;;%iio  dwA temourgwe Xqsils cY xih1d#o d
-andAhaift iiharn Wet :I&amp;heains;ilsay'
eba4ell idlIda msf, a oiliwoodil-g
-rqlgwal*eeI bufigdssioestree  lnoideahr
-J andecidagaquiesoed it ad 1ing a+b lesekrs
gionn}rle.g,  , ale  hoit 4ireet s aad=  ectain
adspoi a10toss-eedm'heeleaneddefampra ia'
' gahskdieahneathyli lp&amp;amisa rnasterjhteceprthe
dt    gdesga a hichbihad whaube li idaniai
4aa;$ee .d~fr    #M b            pald-tishibeof
t "  fa v    h isk laa~ia  getrquane stpalliatia# ~
v' "7 iep eesing}i1s ed rlrpuYdthqadkathof
.   bar-~int eted  pl bdada,i ehrespSimb
-ij sitadhiagndoshgh thw winddwAof-
t',tset ,i  t      iuwiog  eysfiehde .
e reilt                  ndmh nea

Electra bear             j,4'4
touches, a shiver' ran thrp ug ,    1f;  ;  e
laymje            h   lcr iI
declining day stgy~4 "Off99, hA4
epilQI  l  i s  i s Y '     uf  -1
she, roet" amn            t~li  ejvae
"Give md o oreofit I w~i~a ag-l

lect clouded'by.opiates&amp;'  ?t it into the fire
and let me rest.""
"Oh, sir I can I do nothingf1ry 'wf
"Yes; read to me. Y6m!iksaIlsom ew
Read me that letter of lambliehnl to gathnI
Ies, which I marked last summer'i nwid  ii:
She read it, and, without questioningoIai llN
the book aside and.took up a volupiJana{mh
Belimen, of which he was very fond, elioting
here and there, passages designated by= enut&amp;4j
marks. -He had long 'revelled among the ohe b
less abysses ofdim, medieval, mystical lore,, a4
strange as it may appear, the quaint old boa I
preserved their spell and riveted the wander
ing mind, even, on the verge of dissolutiorno
She knew that Cornelius-Agrippa, . Theo-
phrastus Paracelsus, and Swedenborg held
singular mastery over hime; but she shrank
from all these*now, as though they had been
bound in flames, and a yearning to comfort
him frofn the sacred lips of Jewish prophets'
and apostles took possession of her. Passages
which she had read to her, blind aunt came
back to her now, ringing trumpet-toned in her
ears, and she rose to bring a bible from Mrs.
Clifton's room.
" Where are you going ?"
"To your mother's room, for a moment
only. I want a book which I left there.".
" Sit still. . Do not leave me, I beg of you."
He drew her back to the seat, and after a
short silence said, slowly:   '
"Electra, are you afraid of death ?"
"No, sir."
" Do you know that I am dying ?"
"I have. seen you as ill several times be-
fore."
" You are a brave, strong-hearted child ;
glazed eyes and -stiffened limbs will not
frighten you, I have but few hours to live;
put your hand in m'n, and promise me that
you will sit here till my soul quits .its ,clay-
prison. Will you watch with me the death of
the' year ? Are you afraid to stay with me
and see me die ?"            .
She would not trust herself to speak, but
laid her hand in his and clasped it firmly. He
smiled,.and added:
"Will you promise to call no one?  I want
no eyes but yours to watch me as I die. Let
there tbe dnly you and me."
"1I promise."
For some moments he lay motionless, but
the intensity of his gaze. made her restless,
and she shaded her face.
"Electra, my darling, your martyrdom
draws to a close. I have been merciless in my
exactions, I know ; you are worn to a shadow,
and your face is sharp and' hagaard ; but. you
will forgive me all, when the wdiows of Green-
wood trail their boughs across my headstone.
You have been faithful- and uncomplaining;
you- have been to me a light, a .joy, and a
glory ! 'God bless you, my pupil. There w-as
a time when, looking at the future that stretch-

6feeiassse' youia*#olluh~vIgadttti%
triekor  fou .aamingme~ridigististandyktr
d puty $ cm w&amp;ip  .  i hSri  ,y 4r
w;l bhaveanetlyieg     ,yogslgio thrs
nidst Pryg  R arkho geIgking yog)onti of)
|lth asain-  days  ahayigdagmbydi Ishg
boa req g  to'Wake.of yann.unhesitateng
:1 ga le # -r igi n  a  h o ng 494wat qk,/
aven::mgol.ap  o0 r3 :   s  9,1' igds c yng
biti ;l}p3i Ra   lyyggil-s lae.  ban-alta
yogii hdel eg#er' 14e  =idag    bhar-zet#a
slept;  fer.ggarble  hpiU    'renokggir
thati ' have ag eeef' =3r -20r M.a rgs  4
another-  J- 4r   g v    oek)4 s
of my
will; tab:c g gf 3   and'pJ 0 j   eiy'?
hands ast.eposo asppsil it Giye ingd1;se}
water." . ;k:::     ; igt3;::di boo.- Jndliit
She held th  '5; s. A s jps And; hi wp*
back, a brighy..yeAji  oya l4 a  te. .
"Ah, child ! it isecfr g haygig
here-you are so}qpyrejll    r,,     n
'She -took his thin hands i4, *r ogi a}  449
tears fell upon them.",  gt fir       . t
crushed her heart,   lf             ab pqidhpi le
dread, and she asked, f ltenegyj ijenil wi
"Are, you willing to dR,?, J"1 yam, s p  tp
peace with God ?   Havp gua '.   eggfa
Eternity ?" . -                   o 3 o
"None, my child, none." . . i,   boo-
"Would you like to have Mr.j  lsysp ;
and pray for you ?"           g a   ,.
"I want no one now but you.'aye ,1 "
A long silence ensued, broken gonly,;ij
heavily-drawn breath of the suffeg., J@he
memory of her aunt's tranquil death :hlpB
the girl, and, finally, the desire to dirgAP
thoughts to God, triumphed over every atb1
feeling. She. sank on her; kneesbeside .
lounge, and a passionate prayer leaped.fro
her pale lips. ,She had not prayed for nearly
four years, and the petition went, tsp to G$d
framed in strange, incoherent language--
plaintive cryito the Father to release, painless-
ly, a struggling human soul. His firigers clung
spasmodically to,hers, and, soon after,.the head
sank on his che@, and she saw that he.slept.
The glittering cortege of constellations mov-
ed solemnly on in their eternal march through
the fields of heaven, and in midskty hung a
moon of almost supernatural brightness, glar-
'ing down through the skylight liken inquis
itoria4 eye. Two hours elapsed; the measured
melancholy tick of the blocbre marked the ex-
piring moments of the old year,; the red coals
of the grate put on their robe ofasheg ;,the
gaslight burned dirnly,:and flickered now tnd
then as the wind surged through the partially'
opened window ; -and there by the couch sat

11
t


70                      MALARIA.

tWe motionless watcher, noting the indescriba-
ble but unmistakable change creeping on, like
the shadow which slowly-sailing summer clouds
cast down upon green' meadows or flowery
hill-sides, darkening the landscape. The fee-
ble, thread-like pulse fluttered irregularly, but
the breathing became easy and low as a babe's,
and occasionally a gentle sigh heaved the
chest. Once his lips had moved, and she
caught the indistinct words-" Didereet, de-
grees," -    , "influx      ," " type-cyeat-
ure."  She knew that the end was at hand,
and a strained, frightened expression came
into- her large eyes as she glanced nervously'
round the room, weird-and awful in its gloomy
surroundings. 'The damp masses of hair clung
to her temples, and she felt heavy drops gath-
ering on her 'forehead, as in that glance she
met the solemn, fascinating eyes of Munin
staring at' her from the low- mantle. She
caught her breath, and the deep silence was
broken by the metallic tongue that dirged out
" twelve."  The last stroke of the bronze
hammer echoed 'drearily ; the old year lay
stark and cold on its bier ; Munin flapped his
dusk  wings with a. long, sepulchral, blood-
curdling hoot, and the dying man opened his
dim, failing eyes, and fixed themn for the last
time on his pupil.,
Electra, my darling."
" My dear master, I am here."
She lifted his head to her bosom, nestled her
fingers into' his cold palm, and leaned her
cheek against his brow. Pressing his face
close to hers, the gray eyes closed, and a smile
throned itself on the parted lips. A slight
tremor shook the limbs, a soft shuddering
breath swept across the watcher's face, and
the " golden bowl " was shivered, the " silver
cord" was loosed.
She' sat there till the iciness of the rigid
form chilled her, then laid the head tenderly
down on its pillow, and walked to the mantle-
piece. The Angel of Time lifted the hammer
and struck "dne ;' and as she glanced acci-
dentally at the inscription on the base, she
remembered a favorite quotation -which it had
often called from the cold lips of the dead
painter:
"Time is my fair seed-fioid, of Time I 'm heir."
The seed-time had ended; the calm fields of
Eternity stretched before him.no'w ; the fruits
of the harvest were required at his hands.
Were they full of ripe golden sheaves, or----?
She shrank from her own questioning, and
looked over her shoulder at the dreamless,
smiling sleeper.
"is palms are folded on his breast;
There is no other thing expressed,
But long disquiet merged in rest.", '
The vigil was over, the burden was lifted
from her shoulders, the weary ministry here
te lonely woman wpt btteraly.   hr rm,

CHAPTER XV.
Four years had wrought material changes
in the Town of W-.-; new streets had been
opened, new buildings'erected, new forms trod
the sidewalks new faces looked out of shop-
windows and flashing equipages, and 'new
shafts of granite and marble stood in the ceme-
tery to tell of many who had been gathered to
their forefathers, The old red school-house,
where two generations had been tutored, was
swept away to make place for a railroad de-
pot; and, instead of the venerable trees that
once overshadowed its precincts, bristling walls'
of brick and mortar rang with the shrill whis-
tle of the engine, or the sharp continual click
of repairing-shops. The wild shout, the rip-
pling laugh of careless, childish glee were
banished, and the 'frolicsome flock of by-gone
years had grown to manhood and womanhood,
were sedate business-men and sober inatrons.
If important revolutions had been effected in
her early home, not less decided and apparent-
was the change which had taken place in the
heiress of Huntingdon Hill; and having been
eyed, questioned, scrutinized.by the best fami-
lies, and laid in the social scales, it was found
a difficult matter to determine, her weight as
accurately as seemed desirable. In common
parlance, " her education was finished "-she
was regularly and unmistakably " out." Eve-
rybody hastened to inspect her, sound her,
label her ; mothers to compare her with their
own daughters; daughters to discover how
much they had to apprehend in the charms of
the new rival; sons to satisfy themselves with
regard to the truth of the rumors concerning
her beauty ; all with curiosity stamped on their
countenances; all with dubiety written there
at the conclusion. of their visit. Perfectly
self-possessed, studiedly polite, attentive to'
all the. punctilios of etiquette, polished and
irreproachable in deportment, but cold, reti-
cent, grave, indulging in no familiarities, and
allowing none; fascinating by her extraordi-
nary beauty and grace, but tacitly impressing
upon all, " Thus far, and no farther." Havinga
lost her aunt two years before her return, the
duties of hostess devolved upon her, and she
dispensed the hospitalities of her home with
an easy though stately elegance, surprising-in
one so inexperienced. No positive charge
could be preferred against her by the inquisi-
torial circle; even Mrs. Judge Harriss, the self-
constituted, but universally acknowledged, au-
tocrat of beau monde in W-, accorded her
a species of negative excellence, and confessed
herself baffled and unable to pronounce a
verdict. An enigma to her own father, it was
not wonderful'that strangers knit their brows
in striving to analyze her character,'and ore
long the cooing of carrier-pigeons became au-
dible: "lHer mother had been very eccentric;
evnbefor he death it wa   hispre that
inany hung treateningly overherretrange

things were told of her, and, doubtless, Irene
inherited her peculiarities.". Nature furnishes
some seeds with downy wings to insure distri-
bution, and' envy and malice, and probably,
very innocent and mild-intentioned gossip,
soon provided this report-with remarkable fa-
cilities for progress. It chanced that Dr. Ar
nold was absent for some weeks after her ar-
rival, and no sooner had he returned than be
sought his quondam protige. Entering unan-
nounced, he paused suddenly as he caught
sight of her standing before the fire, with Par-
agon at her feet. She lifted her, head and
tame to meet him, holding out both hands,
with a warm, bright smile.
" Oh, Dr: Arnpld ! I am so glad to see you
once more. It was neither friendly nor hos-
pitable to go off just as I came home, after
long years of absence. I am so very glad to
see you."
He held her hands and .gazed at her like
one in a dream of mingled pain and pleasure,
and when he spoke 1his voice was unsteady.
" You can not possibly be as glad to see me
as I am to have you back. - But I can't realize
that this is, indeed, you, my pet-the Irene I
parted with rather more than four 'years ago.
Child, what is it ? What have you done to.
yourself ? . I called you Queen in your infan-
cy, when you clung to my finger and tottered
across the floor to creep into my arms, but ten-
fold more appropriate does the title seem now.
You are not the same Irene who used to toil
u my office-steps, and climb upon the tallest
chair to examine the skeletons in my cases-
the snakes andlizards in my jars. Oh, child !
what a marvellous, what a glorious beauty you
have grown to be."
" Take care ; you will spoil her, Arnold.
Don't you know, you old cynic, that women
can't stand such flattery as yours ?" laughed
Mr. Huntingdon.      "
"I am glad you like me, Doctor ; I am glad
that you think I have improved ; and, since
you think so, I am obliged to you for express-
ing, your opinion of me so kindly. I wish I
could return your compliments, but my con-
science vetoes any such proceeding. You look
jaded-overworked. What is the reason that
you have grown so gray and haggard ? We
will enter into a compact to renew the old
life; you shall treat me exactly as you used to
do, and I shall come to you as formerly, and
interrupt labors that seem too heavy. Sit
down, and talk to me. I want to' hear your
voice ; it is pleasant to my ears, makes music
in my heart, calls up the by-gone. You have
adopted a stick in my absence ; I don't like
the innovation; it hurts me to think that you
need it. I must take care of you, I see, and
persuade you to relinquish it entirely."
." Arnold, I verily believe she was more anx-
ious to see you than everybody else in )VW -
exept old Nele, her nurse."
She did  lot contradict him, and the three

sat conversing for more than an hour; then
other visitors, came; and she withdrew to the
parlor. The doctor had examined her closely
all the while; had noted every word, action,
expression; and a troubled, abstracted. look
came into his face when she left. them.
"Huntingdon, what is it ? What is it ?"
" What is what ?  I don't understand you."
" What has so changed that child ? I want
to know what ails her ."
"Nothing, that I know of. You know she
was always rather singular."
" Yes, but it was a different sort of singu-
larity. She is too still and white and cold and
stately. I told you it was a wretched piece of
business to send a nature like hers, so differ-
ent from everybody's' else, off among utter
strangers ; to shut up that queer, 'free, tintam-
ed young thing in a boarding-schoo[ for four
years, with hundreds of miles between her and
the few things she loved. She required very
peculiar and skilful treatment, and, instead;
you put her off.where she petrified ! I knew
it would never answer, andI told you so. You
wanted tp break her obstinacy, did you? She
comes back marble. I tell you now I know
her. better than you do, though you are her
father, and. you may as well give up at onCe
that chronic hallucination of 'ruling, conquer-
ing her.' She is like steel-cold, firm, brittle;
she will break, snap asunder ;-but bend.-
never! never ! Huntingdon, I love that child ;
I have a right to love her ; she has been very
dear to me from her babyhood, and it would
go hard wth me to know that any sorrow
darkened her life. Don't allow your old plans
and views to influence you now. Let Irene
'be happy 'in her own way. Did you ever see
a contented-looking eagle in a gilt cage ? Did
you ever know a leopardess kept in a pad-
-dock and taught to forget her native jungles'."
Mr. Huntingdon moved uneasily, ponder-
ing the unpalatable, advice.
"You certainly don't mean to say that she
has inherited  -."   He crushed bick the
words; could he crush the apprehension, to6?
"I mean to say that, if she were my cild, I
would be guided by her, instead of striving to
cut her. character to fit the totally different
pattern of my own."
He put on his hat, thrust his hands into his
pockets, stood for some seconds frown ing so
heavily that the shaggy eyebrows met and
partially concealed the. cavernous eyes, then
nodded to the master of the house and sought
his buggy. From that .day Irene was con-
scious of a keener and more constant scrutiny
on her father's part-a ceadeless surveida 'ce,
silent, but rigid-that soon grew intolerable.
No matter how she employed her time, or
whither she went, he seetned thoroughly cog-
nizant of the details of her life; and w 1r
she lenfst expected interruption or dictation his,
hand, firm though gentle, pointed the way,
and his voice ca'Imly but inflexibly directed.

MALARIA.                           ?1


MACARIA. 7

72                      MACARIA.

Ier affection had been in no degree alienated
by their long separation, and, through its
sway, she submitted for a time ; but Hunting-
don blood ill brooked restraint, and,' ere long,
hers became feverish, necessitating release.
As in all tyrannical natures, his exactions
grew upon her compliance. She was allowed
no margin for the exercise of judgment or in-
clination; her associates were'selected,. thrust
upon her"; her occupations decided without
reference to her wishes. From the heartless,
frivolous routine marked out she shrank in dis-
gust; and, painful as was the alternative, she
prepared for the clash which soon became in-
evitable. He wished her to behappy, but in
his own way, in accordance with his views and
aims, and, knowing the, utter antagonism of
taste and feeling which unfortunately existed,
she determined to resist. Governed less by
impulse than sober second thought and sound
reasoning, it was not until after long and pa-
tient deliberation that she finally resolved
upon her future course, and steadily main-
tained it. She felt most keenly that it was a
painful, a lamentable resolution, but'none the
less a necessity; and, having once determined,
she went forward with a fixedness of purpose
characteristic of her family. It was the begin-
ning of a life-long contest, and, to one who
understood Leonard Huntingdon's disposition,
offered a dreary prospect.o
From verbal differences she habitually ab-
stained; opinions which she knew to be disa-
greeable to him she carefully avoided giving
expression to in his presence ; and, while al-
ways studiously thoughtful of his comfort, she
preserved a respectful deportment, allowing
herself no hasty or defiant words. Fond of
pomp and ceremony, and imbued with certain
aristocratic notions, which an ample fortune
had, always permitted -him' to 'indulge, Mr.
Huntingdon entertained company in princely
style and .whenever an opportunity offered.
His dinners, suppers, and card-parties were
known far and wide, and Huntingdon Hill be-
came proverbial I'or hospitality thi-oughout the
state. Strangers were feted, and it was a rare
occurrence for father and daughter to dine
quietly together. Fortunately for Irene, the
servants were admirably trained; and though
this round of' company imposed a weight of re-
sponsibilities oppressiye to one so inexperi-
enced, she apple ed herself diligently to domes-
tic economy, and soon became familiarized
with its details. Her father had been very
anxious to provide her with a skilful house-
keeper, to relieve her of the"care and tedious
minutia of such matters ; but she refused to
accept one, avowing her belief that it was the
imperative duty of every woman to superintend
and inspect the management of her domestic
affairs. Consequently, from the first' week of
her return, she made it a rule to spend an hour
after breakfast in her dining-room pantry, de.
termining and arranging the details of the day.

The situation of' the house comianded an
extensive and beautiful prospect, and the an-
cient trees that overshadowed it, imparted a
venerable and imposing aspect. The building
was of brick, overcast, to represent granite,
and along three sides ran a wide gallery, sup-
ported by lofty circular pillars, crowned with
unusually heavy capitals.  The main body
consisted of two stories, with a hall in the
centre and three rooms on either side ; while
two long single-storied wings stretched out
right and left-one a billiard-room, the other-
a greenhouse.
The parlors and library occupied.one side-
the first opening into the greenhouse; the
dining-room and smoking-room were corres-
ondingly situated to the billiard-saloon. The
frescoed ceilings were too low to suit modern
ideas; the windows were large, and nearly
square ; the faciirgs, sills, and doors all of ce-
dar, dark as mahogany with age, and polished
as rosewood. The tall mantle-pieces were of
fluted Egyptian black marble, and along the
freshly-tinted walls the elaborate arabesque
moulding or cornice hung heavy and threat-
ening. A broad easy flight of white marble"
steps led up to the richly-carved front-door,
with its massive silver knocker bearing' the
name of Huntingdon in old-fashioned Italian.
characters ; and in the arched niches, on
either side of this door, stood two statues,
brought from Eurpe by Mr. Huntingdon's
father, and supposed to represent certain Ro-
man penates.
From the hall on the second floor, a narrow,
spiral, iron stairway ascended to a circular
observatory on the roof, with a row of small
columns corresponding with those below, and
a tessellated floor of alternating white and
variegated squares-of marble. Originally the
observatory had been crowned by a heavy
pagoda-shaped roof, *but recently this had.
been removed and a covering of glass substi-
tuted, whihh, like that of hothouses, could be
raised and lowered at pleasure by means  .
ropes and pulleys. Two generations had bm-
bellished this house, and the modern wings
forming .the cross had been erected within
Irene's recollection.  In expectation. of her
return, an entirely new set of furniture had
been selected in New York,. and arranged
some weeks before her arrival-costly carpets,
splendid mirrors, plush and brocatel sofas, rich
china, and 'every luxury which wealth and
fastidious taste could supply. *The grounds in
front, embracing several acres,-were enclosed
by, a brick wall, and at the foot of the hill, at
the entrance of the long avenue of elms, stood
a tall arched iron gate. A smoothly-paven
terrace of' hermuda grass ran round the house,
and the broad carriage-way swept up to a
mound opposite the door, surmounted by the
bronze figure of a crouchin" dog. -On one
side of the avenue a beautif~al lawn, stadded
with clumps of trees, extended to the wall; on

the other serpentine walks, bordered with low
hedges, carved flower-beds of diverse shapes;
and here delicate trellis-work supported rare,
creepers, and airy, elegant arbors and summer-
houses were overgrown with vines of rank
luxuriande. Everything about the parlerre,
from the well-swept gravel walks to-the care-
fully-clipped hedges, betokened constant at-
tention and lavish expenditure.  But the
crowning glory of the place was its wealth
of trees-the ancient avenue of mighty elms,
arching grandly to the sky like .the groined
nave of some vast cathedral; The circlet of
sentinel poplars towering around the house,
and old as its foundations; the long, undulat-
ing line of venerable willows waving at the
froot of the lawn over the sinuous little brook
that rippled on its way to the creek ; and, be-
yond the mansion, cloting the sides, of a
steeper hill, a sombre background of murmur-
ing, solemn, immemorial pines.  Such was
Irene's home-stately and elegant-kept 'so
thoroughly repaired that, in its cheerfulness,
its age was forgotten.
The society of W       was considered re-
markably fine. There was quite an aggrega-
tion of wealth and refinement ; gentlemen,
whose, plantations were situated-in adjacent
counties, resided here, with -their families ;
some, who spent their winters on the seaboard?
resorted here for the summer; its bar was said
to possess more talent than any other in the
state; its schools claimed to be unsurpassed ;'
its boasted of a concert-hall, a lyceum, a hand-
some court-house, a commodious, well-built
jail, and half-a-dozen as fine churches as any.
country-town could desire. I would fain avoid
the term, if possible, but no synonym exists-
W        was, indisputably, an " aristocratic'
place.
Thus; after more than four years absence,
the summers of which had been spent in travel
among the beautiful mountain scenery of the
North, the young heiress returned to the home
of her childhood. Standing on the verge of
nineteen, she put the early garlanded years
behind her and looked into the solemn temple
of womanhood, with its chequered pavement
of light and shadow ; its storied friezes, gilded
architraves, and fretted shrines, wherewhite-
robed hands of devotees enter with uncertain
step, all eager, trembling' Mystw, soon to be-
come clear-eyed, sad-eyed, Epnptc, through
the unerring, mystical, sacred initiation of the
only true hierophant-Time.
From her few early school associates she
had become completely estranged; and the
renewal of their acquaintance now soon.con-
vinced herthat the utter want of congeniality in
character and habits of life precluded the possi-
bility of,.any warm friendships between them.
For several months after her return shea pa-
tiently,. hopefully, faithfully studied the disgo-
sitions of the members of various families with
whom she foresaw that she would be thrown,

by her father's wishes,linto intimate relation-
ship, and satisfied herself that, among all
these, there was not one, save Dr. Arnold,
whose'counsel, assistance, or sympathy she felt
any inclination to claim. Human nature at
least is, beyond all cavil,-cosmopolitan in its
characteristics (barring a few ethnologic limi-
tations); and a given number of men and
women similarly circumstanced iii Chili, Eag-
land, Madagascar, Utah, or Biirmah would,
doubtless;-yield a like quota' of moral and in-
tellectual idiosyncrasies.  In fine, W..-----
was not in any respect peculiar, or, as a com-
munity, specially afflicted with heartlessness,
frivolity, brainlessiess, or mammonism:; the
average was fair. reputable in all respects.
But, incontrovertibly, the girl 'who came to
spend her life among these people was totally
dissimilar in criteria of action, thought, and
feeling. To the stereotyped conventional stand-
ard of fashionable lire she had never yielded
allegiance; and now stood (not in the St. Si-
mon, Fourier, Owen, or Leroux sense).a social
free-thinker. For a season she allowed her-
self to be whirled on by the current of dinners,
parties, and picnics ; but soon her sedate, con-
templative temperament revolted from the
irksome round, and gradually she outlined and
pursueda different course, giving to her gay
companionsjust what courtesy required, no'
more.
Hugh had prolonged his stay in Europe
beyond the period oiginaljy designated; and
instead of arriving -in time to accompany his
uncle and cousin home, he did not sail for some
months after their return. At length, how-
ever, letters were received, announcing his
presence in New York and fixing the day
when his relatives might expect him.
-           CHAPTER XVI.
The carriage had been despatched to the
depot, a servant stood at the end of the
avenue waiting to throw open the gate,Mr.
Huntingdon walked up and down the wide
colonnade, and Irene sat before the fire int her
own room, holding in one palm the flashing
betrothal-ring, which she had been forced to
wear since her return from New York. She
had loa ed into the rooms to see that all was
bright and cheerful,,had looped back the cur-
tains in the apartment prepared for Hugh, had
filled the vases with flowers that he preferred
in his boyhood, and now listened for his ap-
proach with complex emotions. The sole 'cfu-
panion of herinfancy, she would have hailed
his arrival with unmixed joy but for the pe-
culiar relationship in which she iow stood to
him. The few years of partial peace had
passed; she knew- that the. hour drew tiear
when the loug-dreaded struggle musg egin,
and, hopelessof averting i quietly fWaited for
the storm to break; Dropping the ring iii her


74                    MACARIA.

jewelry-box, she turned the key,. and just
then her father's voice rang through the'
house.
"'Irene ! the carriage is coming up the
avenue."
She went slowly down stairs, followed by
Paragon, and joined her father at the door.
His searching look discovered nothing in the
serene face; the carriage stopped, and he hast-.
ened to meet his nephew.
" Come' at last, eh! Welcome home, my
dear boy."
The young man turned from his uncle,
sprang up the steps, then paused, and the
cousins looked at each other.,
"Well, Hugh ! I am very glad to see you
once more."
She held out her hands, and he saw at a'
glance that her .fingers were unfettered.
Seizing them warmly, he bent forward, bit
she drew back coldly, and he exclaimed:
"'Irene 1 I claim a warmer welcome."
She made a haughty, repellent gesture, and
moved forward a few steps to greet the stran-
ger who accompanied him.
" My daughter, this is your uncle, Eric
Mitchell, who has not seen you since you were
a baby."
The party entered the house, and, seated
beside him, Irene gazed with mingled emo-
tions of pain and pleasure upon her mother's
only brother. He was about thirty, but look-
ed older, from life-long suffering; had used
crutches from the time he was five years of
age, having been hopelessly crippled by a fall.
during his infancy. His features were sharp,
his cheeks wore the sallow hue of habitual ill-
health,.and his- fine gray eyes were somewhat
sunken. Resting his crutches, against the
-sofa, he leaned back and .looked long and
earnestly at his niece. Very dimly he remem-
bered a fair flaxen-haired baby whom the
nurse had held out to be kissed when he was
sent to Philadelphia to be treated for his lame-
ness ; soon after he heard of his sister's death,
and then his tutor took him to Europe, to
command the- best medical advice of the Old
World.
" From the faint recollection which I have
of your mother, I think you strongly resemble
her,". he said, at last, in a fond, gentle tone.
"1I don't know about that, Eric. She is far
more of a Huntingdon than a Mitchell. She
has many of the traits of your family, but in
appearance she certainly belongs to my side
of the house. She very often reminds me of
Hugh's mother."
Conversation turned upon the misfortune of
the cripple; he spoke freely of the unsuccess-
ful experiments made by eminent physicians;
of the hopelessness of his case; and Irene was
particularly -impressed by the calmness ,and
patience' with which he seemed to have' e-
signed himself to this great affliction. She
could detect no ta~ce of complaining bitter.-

ness, or, what was still more to be deplored,
the irritable, nervous querulousness so often
observed in persons of his situation.  She
found him a ripe scholar, a profound archeolo-
gist, and philosophic observer of his age and
generation ; and, deeply interested in his quiet,
low-toned talk, she.felt. irresistibly drawn to-
ward him, careless of passing hours and of
Hugh's illconcealed impatience of manner.
As they rose from the tea-table her cousin said,
laughingly:
"I protest against monopoly. I have not
been able to'say three words to my lady-cous-
in."
" I yield the floor, from necessity. My long
journeyhas unfitted me for this evening, and
I must bid you all an early good-night."
" Can I do anything for you, Uncle ?"
"No, thank you, Irene; I have a servant
who thoroughly understands taking care of'
me. Go talk to Hugh, who has been wishing
me among the 'antipodes."
He shook hands with her, smiled kindly, and
Mr. Huntingdon assisted him to'his room.
" Irene, come into the library, and let me
have a cigar."
" How tenacious your badhabits are, Hugh."
" Smoking belongs to no such category.
My habits are certainly quite as tenacious as
ny cousin's antipathies."
He selected a cigar, lighted it, and drawing
a chair near hers, threw himself into it with
an expression, of great satisfaction. " It is de-
lightful to get back home and see you again,
Irene. I felt some regret at quitting Paris,
but the sight of your face more than compen-
sates me."
She was looking very earnestly at him, not-
ing the'-alteration in his appearance, and for a
moment his eyes drooped before hers. She
saw that the years had been spent,. not in
study, but in a giddy round of pleasure and
dissipation, yet the bright, frank, genial ex-
pression of boyhood still lingered, and she
could not deny that he had grown up a very
handsome man. She knew that he was capa-
ble of sudden, spasmodic impulses of generosity,
but saw that selfishness remained the great
substratum of his character," -I her keen feel-
ing of disappointment showeed her now how
much she had hoped to find him changed in
this respect.
" Irene, I had a right to expect a warmer
welcome than you deigned to give me."
" Hugh, remember that we have ceased to
be children. When you learn to regard me
simply as your cousin, and are satisfied with a
cousin's welcome, then, and not until then,
shall you receive it. Let childish whims pass
with the years that have separated us; rake
up no germs of contention to mar this first
evenin'r of your return. Bc reasonable, and
now tefl me how you have employed yourself
since we parted ; what have you seen? what
have you gleaned ?"'

He flushed, angrily, but the imperturbable,
face controlled him, even against his will, and,
muttering something which she thought sound-
ed very much like an oath, he smoked for some*
seconds in silence. Without noticing his'sul-
lenness, she made some .inquiries concerning.
his sojourn in Paris, and insensibly he found
himself drawn into a narration of his course
of life. She listened with apparent interest,
making occasional good-humored comments,
and bringing him back to the subject when-
ever he attempted a detour toward the topic
so extremely distasteful to her.
The clock struck eleven ; she rose, and said :
"I beg your pardon, Hugh, for keeping you
up so late. I ought to have known that you
were fatigued by railroad-travel, and required
sleep. You know the way to your room;'it is
the same you occupied before you went to
college. Good-night; I hope you will rest
well."
She held out her hand carelessly*; he took
it eagerly, and holding it up to the light said,
.in a disappointed tone:
"Irene, where is my ring?  Why are you
not wearing it ?'
"'It is in my jewelry-box. As I gave you
my reasons for not wearing it, when you offer-
ed it to 'me, it is not necessary to repeat them
now. Good-night, Hugh.; go dream of some-
thing more agreeable than our old childish
quarrels."  She withdrew her fingers and left
him.
As she entered her own room and closed the
door, she was surprised to find her nurse sit-
ting before the fire, with her chin in her hands,
and her keen black eyes fixed on the coals.
"Aunt Nellie, what are you sitting up so
late for?  You will have another spell of
rheumatism, tramping about this time of
night."
"I have been in to' see Mass' Eric, blessed
lamb that he always was-and always will be.
He is so changed I never would have known
him; he was a weak little white-faced cripple
when I- first saw him twenty years ago. It
seems like there is a curse on your family any-
how, both sides. They died off, and'have been
killed off, on your mother's side, till Mass' Eric
is the only one left of all the Mitchells, and, as
for Master's family, you and Hugh are the two
last. You know some families run out, and I
don't think Master ought to try to overturn the
Lord's plans. Queen, let things take their
course."
"Who has put all this into your head ?"
" Nobody put it into my head ! I should
like to know where myeyes have been these
many years ? I have n't been so near blind all
my life. Don't you suppose I know what Mas-
ter 's been after since you were eighteen
months old ? Wasn't I standing by the bed
when Hugh's mother died, and didn't I hear
Master promise her that, when you were grown,
you and Hugh should marry ? .Don't I know

how your poor dying ipother cried, and wrung
her hands, and said ' Harm would come of it
all, and she hoped you would die while you
were a baby?' She had, found out what
Huntingdon temper was. Poor blessed saint !
what a life she did leadsbetween Miss Margaiet
and Miss Igabella! It is no use'to shut your
eyes to -it, Queen. You might just as well
look at it at once. It is a sin for near kin like
you and Hugh to marry, and you ought to set
your face.against it. He is just his 'mother
over again, and you will see trouble, as sure as
your name is Irene, if you don't take a stand.
Oh ! they are managing people! and the Lord
have mercy on folks they don't like, for it is n't
in Huntingdon blood to forgive or to forget
anything. I am so thankful your Uncle Eric
has come--he will help to stand between you
and trouble. Ah! it is coming, Queen! it 's
coming ! You did n't see how your father
frowned when you would n't let Hugh kiss your
I was'looking through the window, and saw it
all. I have n't'had one hour's peace s~ e I
dreamed of seeing you and your.mothe to-
gether. Oh, my baby ! my baby ! thee is
trouble and sorrow thickening for you; I kiow
it. I have had a warning of it."
She inclined her' head on one side, and
rocked herself to and fro, much as did ewly
Pelasgic Dodonides in, announcing oracular
decrees.
" You need not grieve about it; 'I want no-.
body to stand between me and trouble. Be-
side, Nellie, you. must remember that, in all
my father does, he intends and desires to pro-
mote my welfare and to make me happy."'
"Did lie send you off to that boarding-scool
for your happiness ?  You were very happy
there, wern't you? It is no use to try to
blindfold me ; I have lived a little too long.
Oh, my baby ! your white, white face, and big
sorrowful blue eyes fellow me day and night ;
I knew how it would be when you were barn.
You came into this world among awful signs !
the sun was eclipsed ! chickens went to roost,
as if. night had 'come; and I saw stars in the
sky at two o'clock in the day ! Oh! I thought,
sure enough, judgment-day .had come at last ;
and when they put you in my arms I trembled
so I could hardly stand. Maj God have mer-
cy on you, Queen !"
She. shuddered for a moment, as if in the
presence of some . dread evil, and, rising,
wrapped her shawl about her shoulders and
left the room.
Irene looked after her retreating form, smil-
ing at the superstitious turn her thoughts had
taken, then, dismissing the 'subject, she fell
asleep, thinking of her uncle.
A week passed, varied by few, incidents of
interest; the newcomers became thoroughly.
domesticated-the old routine was re-estab-
lished. Hugh seemed gay and careless-hiunt-
ing, visiting, renewing boyish acquaintances,
and whiling away the, tine as inclination

*

M.ACARIA.


MACARIA.

MACARIA.

prompted. He had had a long conversation
with his uncle, and the result was that; for the
present, no allusion was made to the future.
In Irene's presence the subject was tempora-
rily tabooed. She knew that the project was
not relinquished-was only veiled.til  a conve-
nient season, and, giving to the momentary
lull its full value, she acquiesced, finding in
Eric's society .enjoyment and resources alto-
gether unexpected, Instinctively they seemed,
to comprehend each other's character, and
while both were taciturn and undemonstra-
tive, a warm affection sprang up between
them.
On Sunday. morning, as the family group
sat~ around' the breakfast-table 'waiting for
Hugh, who lingered, as usual, over his second
cup of chocolate, Mr. Mitchell suddenly laid
down the fork with which he had been describ-
ing a series of geometrical figures on the fine
-damask, and said : "I met ayoung man in
Brussels, who interested me extremely, and
in connection with whom I venture the pre-
diction that, if he lives, he will occupy a con-
spicuous position in the affairs of his country.
He is, or was, Secretary of Mr.'Campbell, our
Minister to ---, and they were both on a
visit to Brussels when I 'met them. His name
is Aubrey, and he told me that he lived here.
His talents are of the first order ; his ambition
unbounded, I should- judge ; .and his patient,
laborious application certainly surpasses any-
thing I have ever seen. It happened that a
friend of mine, from London, was prosecuting
certain researches among the MS. archives at
Bruesels, and here, immersed in study, lie says
he found the .secretary, who completely dis-
tanced him in his investigations, and then, with
unexpected generosity, placed his notes at my
friend's disposal. His industry is almost in-
credible. Conversing with Campbell concern-
ing him, I learned that he was a protege of the
minister, who spoke of his future in singularly
sanguine terms. He left him some time since
to embark in the practice of law. . Do you
know him, Huntingdon ?"
"No, sir; but I know that his' father was
sentenced to the gallows, and Only; saved him-
self from it by cutting his miserable throat
and cheating the law."
The master of the 'house thrust back his
chair violently, crushing one of Paragod's in-
nocent paws as he crouched on the carpet,
and overturning a glass which shivered into a
dozen fragments at his feet.
Irene understood the scowl on his brow, but
only'she possessed the clew, and, lazily sipping
his chocolate, Hugh'added: " I recollect him
very well as a-boy; he always had a bookish
look, and I met imn one day on the boulevard
at Paris. He was talking to an attachd of the
-American Legation as I camel up, and took no
more notice of me than if I had been'one of
the paving-stones. I could not avoid addhiring
the cool sublimity of his manner, and as-I had

snubbed him at school- long ago, I put out my
hand and said: ' Howdy-do, Aubrey ; pray,
when did you cross the water?' He bowed as
frigidly as Czar Nicholas, and, without notic-
ing my hand, answered: ' Good-morning, Mr.
Seymour ; I have been in Europe two years,'
and walked on. 'The day after I got home I
met him going up the court-house steps, and
looked him full in the face ; he just' inclined
his head, and passed me. Confound it ! he 's
as proud as if he had found a patent of nobility
in digging among Belgic archives."
" Nature furnished him with one many
years since," replied Eric.
" Yes; and his coat-of-arms should be jack-
ketch and a gallows !" sneered Mr. Hunting-
don.
Looking at his watch he said, as if wishing
to cut the conversation short :
"Irene, if you intend to go to church to-
day, it is time that you had your bonnet on.
Hugh, what will you do with yourself ? Go
with Eric and your cousin?"
" No, I 'ather think I shall 'stay at home
with you. After European cathedrals, our
American churches seen excessivelyhplain."
Irene went to her room pondering the con-
versation. She thought it remarkable that, as
long as she had been at home, she had never
seen Russell, even on the street.
Unlocking her writing-desk, she took out a
tiny note which had accompanied a check for
two hundred dollars, and had reached her a
few months before she left boarding-school.
The firm, round, manly hand ran as follows:
" With gratitude beyond all expression for
the favor conferred on my mother and myself,
some years since, I now return to Miss Hun-
tingdon the money 'which I have ever i-egard-
.ed as a friendly loan. Hoping that the future
will afford me some opportunity of proving
my appreciation of her great kindness,
" I remain, most respectfully,
" Her obliged friend,
"RUSSELL AUBREY.
",NEW YORK, September 5th."
She, was conscious of a feeling of regret
that the money had been returned; it was
pleasant to reflect on the fact that she had
laid him under obligation ; now it all seemed
cancelled. She relocked the desk, and, draw-
ing on her gloves, joined her uncle at the car-
riage. Her father accompanied her so rarely
that she scarcely missed him, and during the
ride, as Eric 'seemed abstracted, she leaned
'back, and her thoughts once more reverted to
the unfortunate topic of the breakfast-table.
Arriving at church later than was her wont,
she found the family' pew occupied by stran-
gers, and crossed the aisle to share- a fiend's,
but at that. instant a tall form rose in Mr.
Campbell's long-vacant pew, stepped into the
aisle, and held open the door., She drew back
to suffer her uncle to limp in and layeaside

his crutches, saw him give his hand to the
stranger, and, sweeping her veil aside as she
entered, she saw Russell quietly resume his
seat at the end of the pew.
,Startled beyond measure, she looked at him
intently, and almost wondered that she recog-
nized him, he had changed so materially since
the day on which she stood with him before
his mother's gate. Meantime the service com-
menced, she gave her hymn-book to her uncle,
and at the - same moment Russell found thej
place, and handed her one of two which lay
near him. As she received it their eyes met,
looked fixedly into each other, and she held
out her hand. He took it, she felt his fingers
tremble as they dropped hers, and then both
faces bent over the books. When they
knelt side by side, and the heavy folds of her
elegant dress -swept against him, it seemed a
feverish dream to her ; she could not realize
, at last, they had met again, and her heart
t so fiercely that she pressed her hand upon
7deding lest he should hear its loud pulsa-
4# it ,Lowering her veil, she drew her costly
et      apery about her and leaned ,back;~
I dhe Athem was chanted, the solemn or-
s a        hushed themselves, the minister
.     g4    he pulpit, and his dull tones fell
3p he .' brain meaningless as the dry
(   o         leaves in an autumn wind.
W.#.,  h  Qflthat tall, broad-shouldered,
aa                d'figure, replete with vig-
e          p      igth; the massive, finely-
1racefully poised, like'
,.    x pM       j -    all, the olive-pale,
,           y beard, with regular
?d hl i't.fully cut, like those
af,   ~Pe.venuto Celhini left
Y1o p .turn which way
we           at   ittoned to the
drgy3m    b  sed over the
1 *o'"pyg praised and
in            Itnas egrwell said:
e(t        y .l he soul,
n             AAA m . irm A i, s eady as-

ly held the pew-door open; both bowed with
stately grace, and she walked down the aisle.
She heard Russell talking toher uncle just be-
hind her, heard the inquiries concerning,his
health, the expression .of' pleasure at meeting
again, the hope which Eric uttered that he
should see him frequently during his stay in
WT  -   .' Without'eveb a glance over her
shoulder, she proceeded to the carriage,.where
her uncle soon joined her-taking the front
seat instead of sharing the back one, as is cus-
tomary. He scrutinized his niece's. counte-
nance, but it baffled him, as on the first night
of his arrival; the serene, colorless face show-
ed not the slightest symptom of emotion of any
kind. Neither spoke till they approached the
cottage on the road-side, then she extended
her hand and said, indifferently :
"Your European acquaintance, the ,quon-
dam secretary, formerly lived in that little
three-roomed 'house hid among the vines fon-
der."
"When I spoke of him this morning you did
not mention having known him. 1 inferred
from your manner that he wits a stranger to
you."
" He is a stranger now. I knew him long
ago, when we were children, and met.him to-
day for the first time in.some years."
." There is something peculiarly command-
ing in his appearance. He impresses me with
respect and involuntary admiration, such as
no man of' his ,age ever excited before, and I
have travelled far and wide,'and have seen
the lordliest of many lands."
"Years have greatly changed 'him. He is
less like his mother than when I knew him in
his boyhood."
" He is an orphan, I learned from Camp-
bell."
'" Yes."
She pulled the check-cord, and, as the driv-
er, stopped, she leaned out of the window,
pointing to a mossy tuft on the margin of. the
little brook just at the fiot of the hill.
" Andrew, if you are not afraid to leave
your horses, get me that cluster of violets just.
this side of the sweet-gum tree. They are the
very earliest I have seen."
le gathered them caretlly and placed them
an the daintily-gloved,) out-stretched hand.
,he bent over them an instant, then divided
JItjtiny bunch with her uncle, saying: "Spring
ihssappened its blue eyes at last."
She met his searching gaze as calmly as the
flowerets, and as they now neared the house,
he forbe any further allusion to the subject,
which he. shrewdly suspected engaged her
ionghts gpite as fully as his own.
., _T  t  "        .....--..
Om$. hfu  910mI1 PTER   XVII.
'"     gg       igo of having heard h im.

76

77


78                   MACARIA.

"6Irene, my child, it is one o'clock."
Without looking up she raised her hand to-
ward the clock on the mantle, and answered,
coldly:
"You need not sit up to tell me the time of
night; I have a clock here. Go to sleep,
Uncle Eric."
He rested his shoulder against the door-
facing, and, leaning on his crutches, watched
her.
She sat there just as he had seen her sever-
il times before, with her arms crossed on the
table, the large celestial globe drawn near, as-
tronomical catalogues scattered about, and a
thick folio open before her. She wore a loose
wrapper, or robe de chambre, of 'black velvet,
lined with crimson silk and girded with a heavy
cord and tassel.  The sleeves were very full,
and fell away from the arms, exposing them
from the dimpled elbows, and rendering their
pearly whiteness more apparent by contrast
with .the sable hue of the velvet, while the
broad round collar was dressed smoothly down,
revealing the polished turn of the throat., The
ivory comb lay on the table, and the unbound
hair, falling around her shoulders, swept over
the back of her chair and trailed on the carpet.
A miracle of statuesque beauty was his queenly
niece, yet he could not.look at-her without a
vague feeling of awe, of painful apprehension;
and, as he stood watching her motionless figure
in its grand yet graceful pose, be sighed invol-
untarily. Slhe rose, shook back her magnifi-
cent hair, and approached hin. Heicr eyes, so
like deep, caln azure lakes, crossed by no
ripple, met his, and the clear, ,pure voice
echoed through the still room.
Uncle Erie, I wish you would not sit up on
my account; I do not like to be watched."
"Irene, your father forbade your studying
until this hour. You will accomplish nothing
but the ruin of your health."
"1How  do you know that ? Do statistics
prove astronomers short-lived ? Rather the
contrary. I commend you to the contempla-
tion of their longevity. Good-night, Uncle ;
starry dreams to you."
" Stay, child ; what object have you in view
in all this laborious investigation ?"
Are you sceptical of the possibility of a
devotion to science merely for science's sake ?
Do my womanly garments shut me out of the
holy of Holies, debar me eternally from sacred
arcana, think you t Uncle Eric, once for all,
it is not my aim to-
brush with extreme flounce
The circle of thelciences.e"
I take my heart, my intellect, my- life, and
offer all upon the altar of its penetralia. You
men doubt women's credentials for work like
mine ; but this intellectual bigotry and mo-
nopoly already trembles before the weigh of
stern and positive results which women lay
before fou-data for your sp'eculationa-alms

for your calculation. In glorious attestation
of the truth of female capacity to grapple with
some of the most recondite problems of science
stand the names of Caroline Herschel, Mary
Sommerville, Maria Mitchel, Emma Willard,
Mrs. Phelps, and the proud compliment paid
to Madame Lepaute by Clairant and Lalande,
who, at the successful conclusion of their
gigantic computations, declared: 'The assist-
ance rendered by her was such that, without
her, we never should have dared to undertake
the enormous labor in which it was necessary
to calculate the distance of each of the two
planets, Jupiter and Saturn, from the comet,
separately for every degree, for one hundred
and fifty years.' Uncle Eric, remember-
'"--Wihcso cures the plague,
Though twice a we en. duni io'called a leech
ho rights a find's fuiances is exc used
For touching coppers, though her hands be white.'"
She took the volume she had been reading,
selected several catalogues from the mass, and,
lighting a small lamp, passed her uncle and
mounted the spiral staircase leading to the
observatory. He watched her tall form slowly
ascending, and, in the flashing light of the
lamp she carried, her black dress and floating
hair seemed to belong to some veritable Ura-
nia-some ancient Egyptic Berenice.    He
heard her open the glass door of the observa-
tory, then the flame vanished, and the click of
the lock fell down the dark stairway as she
turned the key. , With a heavy sigh the crip-,
pie returned to his room, there to ponder the
singular character of the woman whom he had
just left, and to dream that he saw her trans-
planted to the constellations, her blue eyes
brightening into stars, her waving hair braid-'
-ing itself out into brilliant, rushing comets.
The night was keen, still, and cloudless, and,
as Irene locked herself in, the chill from the
marble tiles crept through the carpet to her
slippered feet. In -the centre of the apart-
ment rose a wooden shaft bearing a brass
plate, and to this a telescope was securely
fastened. 'Two chairs and an old-fashioned
oaken table, with curious carved legs, com-
prised the furniture. She looked at the small
siderial clock, and finding that a quarter of an
hour must elapse before she cou d make the
desired observation, drew a chair to the table
and seated herself. She took from the drawer
a number of loose papers, and prepared the,
blank-book for registering the observation;
then laid before Tier: a slate covered with
figures, and began to run over the calculation.
At the close of fifteen minutes she placed her-
self at the telescope, and waited patiently .for
the appearance of a small star which gradu-
ally entered the field; she noted the exact
moment and position, transferred the reist
to the register, and after a time went back to
slate and figures. Cautiously she went over
the work, now and then having recourse to
pen and paper; she reached the bottom of the

MACARIA.                                     79
slate and turned, it over, moving one finger tively interdieted all observations after twelve
along the lines. The solution was wrong ; a o'clock. Most girls patronize certain branches
mistake had been made somewhere; she press- of investigation with fitful, spasmodic vehe-
ed, her palm on her forehead, and thought mence, or periodic"impulses of enthusiasm;
over the whole question; then began again, but Irene knew no intermission of interest,
The work was tedious, the calculation subtle, she hurried over no details, and, when the
and she attached great importance to the re- weather permitted, never failed to make her
suit; the second',examination was fruitless as nightly visit to the observatory. She loved
the first ; time was wearing away; where could her work, as a painter his canvas, or the
the error be ? Without hesitation she turned sculptor the marble one day to enshrine his
back for the third time, and commenced at the cherished ideal;- and she prosecuted it, not as
first, slowly, patiently threading the maze. a mere pastime, not as-a toy, -but as a life-long
Suddenly she paused and smiled ; there was labor, for the labor's sake. To-night, as her
the mistake, glaring enough, now.  She cor- drooping palms nestled-to eae'hother, and her
rented it; and working the sum through, found eyes, searched the vast jewelled dome above,
the result perfectly accurate, according fully Thought, unwearied as the theme it pondered,
with the tables of Leverrier by which she flew back-to the dim gray dawn of Time,
.was computing. She carefully transferred the "When the morning-stars sang together, and,
operation from slate to paper, and, after num- all the sons of God shouted for joy." In pan-
bering the problem with great particularity, oramic vision she crossed the dusty desert of
placed all in the drawer and turned the key. centuries, and watched with Chaldean shep-
It was three o'clock ; she opened the door, herds the pate, sickly light of waning moons
drew her chair out on the little gallery, and on Shinar's plains; welco ed the gnomon
sat down, looking toward the East. The air (first-born o the .great fadly of astronomic'
was crisp but still, unswayed by current waifs; apparatus);1toiled over 'a O gloried in the
no sound swept its crystal waves save the low, Zaros ;.st o at the armillar sphere of Ja,'in
monotonous distant thunder of the Falls, and the days  eConfucius; stu edhwith oTales,
the deep, cloudless blue ocean of space glowed Anaxima r, and Pythag as ; entered the
with its numberless argosies of stellar worlds. sacred p  'ts of the sc ool of Crotona,
Constellations which, in the purple twilight, hand in h'i with.Damo, t e earliest woman
stood sentinel at the horizon, had marched in who bowed  devotee at the strry shrine, and,
majesty to mid-heaven, taken reconnoissance with her,1, w s initiated intoits esoteric doc-
thence, and as solemnly passed 'the opposite ,trines; puzzled with Meton. over his lunar
horizon to report to watching gazers in an- cycle ; exhltkd in Hipparchus' 'gigantic labor,
other hemisphere. ",Scouts stood upon every the first collection of tables, tie earliest relia-
headland, on every plain;" mercilessly the in- bIn catalogues;- walked through the Alexan-
quisitorial eye of science followed the heaven- drine school of savans, misled by Ptolemy';
ly wanderers; there was no escape from the and bent with Uliegh Beigh pver the charts
eager, sleepless police who kept vigil in every at Samarcand.  In imagination she accompa-
clime and country ; as' well call on Buotes to nied [Copernicus and Tycho-irahe, and wres-
give o'er his care of Ursa-Major, as hopelessly tied with Kepler in the titanic struggle that
attempt to thrust him from the ken. or Cyno- ended in the' discovery of the magnificent trin-
sura. From her earliest recollection, and es- ity of astronomic laws framed by the Divine
pecially from tie hour of entering school, as- Architect when the first star threw its faint
tronomy and mathematics had'exerted'an over- shimmer-' through the silent wastes of space.
mastering influence upon Irene's mind. The Kepler's three laws were an unceasing wonder
ordinary text- books only increased her inter; and joy to her, and with fond, womanly pride
est in the former science, and while in New she was wont to recur to a lonely observatory'
York, with the aid of the professor of astrono- in Silesia, where, before Newton rose upon
my, she had possessed herself of all the most the world, one of her own sex, Maria Cunitz,
eminent works bearing upon the subject, send- launched upon the stormy sea of scientific liter-
ing across the Atlantic for tables and seleno- ature the'" Urania Propitia."  The Congress
graphic charts which were 'not to be procured of Lilienthal possessed far more of interest for
in America.                               her. than any which ever sat in august council
Under singularly favorable auspices she had over the fate of nations, and the na.uies of
pursued her studies, perseveringly, methodi- Herschel, Bessel, Argelander,.Struve, Arago,
cally, and, despite her father's prohibition, Leverrier,:and Maedler were sacred as Per-
indefatigably. He had indulged, in earlier. sian telefn. From the "Almagest" of Ptole-
years, a penchant for the same science, and mf, and the " Comstographie"' of Pingrd,'to
cheerfully facilitated her progress by rear- the "Mdcanique Odleste," she had searched
raging the observatory so as to allow full an'd toiled ; and now the sublimQ and almost
play fr her fine telescope ; but, though proud bewildering speculations of Maedleir held her.
of her proficiency, he objected most strenu- spell-bound. The delicate, subtle, beautiful
ously to her devoting so, large a share of her. problem' of parallax had'heretofore exerted
time and attention to this study, and had posi- the strongest fascination over her; but this


so

MALARIA.

magnificent hypothesis of a "central sun," adoration which no language could adequately
from the monarch of computations at Dorpat, coney she gazed upon nebula, and suns, and
seized u on berimagination with.painful tenac- systems ; and with the solemn reflection, that
ity  rom   th  hour when Kepler stretched some, like Cassiopeia's lost jewel, might be per-
out his.curious fingers, feeling for the shape of Iishing, wrapped in the last conflagration, while
planetary orbits, or Leverrier groped through their light still journeyed to her, she recalled
abysses of dai'kness for the unknown Nep- the feverish yet sublime vision of the great
tune, which a skeptical world declared existed German dreamer: "Once we issued suddenly
only in his mathematical calculations, no such from, the middle of thickest night into, an
darin  or stupendous speculation had. been aurora borealis-the, herald of an expiring
bred ed as this which Maedler threw down world---and we found, throughout this eyeleof
from his I ussian observatory.  Night after solar systems, that a day of judgment had in.
night she gazed upon the pleiades, singling deed arrived. The suns had sickened, and
out Alcyone, the brilliant central sun of the the planets were heaving, rocking, yawning
mighty astral system, whose light met her in convulsions; the subterraneous waters of
eager eyes after the long travel of five hundred the great deeps were breaking up, and light-
and thirty-seven years; and, following in the nings that wereten diameters of a world in
footsteps of the great speculator, she tried to length ran along from zenith to nadir; and,
rahp the result,, that the period of one revo- here and there, where a sun should have been,
utionof our suni and system around that glit- we saw, instead, through, the, misty vapor, a
tearing centre was eighteen million two hun- gloomy, ashy-leaden corpse of a solar bod'
dre thousand years.                        that sucked in flames from the perishing world,
The stony lips of geology asserted that our but gave out neither light nor heat.... .
glope was growipg old, thousands of genera- Then came eternities of twilight that revealed
tions had fallen asleep in the bosom of mother- but were not revealed; on the right hand and
earth, the ashes of centuries had gathered on the left towered mighty constellations, that
npon the past, were creeping over the present ; by self-repetitions and answers from afar, that
and yet, in the faceof catacombs, and mum- by counter-positions built ip triumphal gates,
mies, and mouldering monuments, chiselled in whose architraves, whose archways-horizon-
the infancy of the human rate, mathematics tal, upright-rested, rose at altitude by spans
unrolled her figured scroll, .and proclaiined -that seemed ghostly from infinitude.- With-
thatlTime had but begun ; that chiliasns imust out measure were the architraves, past nun-
elapse, that mons on mons must roll away, be- ber were the archways, beyond memory the
fore the first revolution of the starry universe gates. Suddenly, as thus we rode from infiu-
'could b9 completed about its far-off Alcyone ite to infinite, and tilted over abyssmal worlds,
centre. , What mastered human labors, what a mighty ary arose, that systems more myste-
need of trophies of human genius, of national rious, that worlds 'more billowy, other heights
grandeur, or individual, glory?  Eighteen and other depths, were coming, were nearing,
illions of years would level al in one huge, were at hand. Then the angel threw up his
common, shapeless ruin. In comparison with glorious hands to the heaven of heavens, say-
the mighty mechanism of the astral system, ing: ' End is there none to the universe of
the solar seemed a mere tiny cluster ofjewels God. Lo I also, there is no beginning,. ."' l
set in some infinite abyss; t e sun shrank into  Among the mysteries of the Crotona school
insignificance, the moon waned, the planets the Sanian sage had taught the "music of the
became little gleaming.points of light, such as spheres," and -to-night Irene dwelt upon the
her diaspond-rng threw off' when held under thought of that grand 'choir of innumerable
gas-cha deniers. Perish the microcosm in the worlds, that mighty orchestra of tarry systems,
limitless macrocolm,.and snk .the feeble earth- "where, through the long-drawn aisle and fretted vault,
ly segregate in the boundless, rushing, choral  The pealing anthem swells the note of praise"
aggregation !, She was oppressed by thestu-
pendous nature of the problem; human reason unceasingly to the Lird of glory, till her firm
andimagination reeled under the vastness of lipsrelaxed, and the immortal Words of Shaks-
he suject which they essayed to contemplate peare fell slowly from them.
and measure ; and to-night,' as she pondered       aook how the floor of heaven
iin silent awe the gigantic, overwhelming laws  Is tick inlaid with patines of.bright gold:
of God's great Cosmos, by some subtle associa-  'There 's not the smallest orb which thou behongt
g                           But in his notion like an angfel sings,
tionthere flashed upon her memory the sybil-  dill quiripg td the young-eyed oherubinis.
lie insc 'Intion orithe Temple of 'Neith at Sais :  Such harmony is in Inimortal souls;
But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
"I aml all that has been, all that is, all that . oth grossly close it in, we can not hear it."
will he. No mortal has ever raised the veil  _
which conceal~  e and theefruit I  e pro.  That the myriad membersh ord th   hiig
duced is the sun." . ad Maedler, with teles-, archipelago were peopd wit odrofit-
espic insight, clinmhed by mathenratical ladders ligest beings, differig from ur rae eve saa
'to the starry adyta of nanye, and trinphntly sthe planetsh 'difertine manitdoub and  asysi.a
raised the ,mystic veil  Wit a feel.ng ostctrhenetaedotaou;aids

I

MACARIA.

feeble Fancy struggled to grasp and compre-
hend the ultimate destiny of the -countless
hosts of immortal creatures (to which our
earthly races, with their distinct, unalterable
types, stood but as one small family circle
. amid clustering worlds) her weariedbrain and
human heart bowed humbly, reverently, wor-
shippingly before the God of Revelation, who
can " bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or
loose the bands of Orion; bring forth Mazza-
roth in his season, and 'guide Arcturus with
his sons." Kneeling there, with the twinkling
light of stars upon her upturned face, she
prayed earnestly 'for strength and grace and
guidance from on High, that she might so live
and govern herselfthat, when the season of
earthly probation ended, she could fearlessly
pass to her eternal bodme and joyfully meet the
awful face of Jehovah.  '      1' -
The night was almost spent; she knew from
the " celestial clock-work " that Day blushed
just beyond the horizon i that, ere long, silver-
gray fingers 'would steal up the quiet sky,
'parting the sable curtains ; and,. taking the
lamp, she hung the.observatory-key upon her,
girdle, and glided noiselessly down the stair-
way to her own apartment.  .
Paragon slept on the threshold, and raised
his head to greet her'; she stooped, stroked his
silky ears, and closed the door, shutting him
out. Fifteen minutes later she,.too, was sleep-
ing soundly; and an hour and a half' fterward,
followed by that faithful guardian " dweller of
the threshold," she swept down.the steps, and,
amid the matin-chant of forest-birds, thounted
Erebus: and dashed off at full gallop for the
customary ride. No matter what occurred to
prevent her sleeping, she invariably rode be-
fore breakfast when the weather permitted;
and as'her midnight labors left few hours for'
repose, she generally retired to her room im-
mediately after dinner and indulged in the
luxury of a two hours' nap. Duch was a por-
tion of the regimen she had prescribed for.her-
self on her return from schoo:, and which she
suffered only the inclemency of the weather to
iafrin'e.
CHAPTER XVIII.
"Surely,. Uncle Eric, there' is room enough
in this large, airy house of oprs to accommo-
date' my mother's brother ? I thought 'it was
fully settled that you were to reside with' us.
There is no good reason why you should not.
Obviously, we have a better claim upon you
than anybody else; why doom yourself to the1
loneliness of a separate household ?  Recon-I
sider the matter."'
"Noertenter. it is better that I should have.
a quiet little home of my own, free from the in-
evitable restraint incident to residing. 'under
the roof of another. My recluse 'nature and
habits unfit me for the gay young associates
6

81

who throng this house, making earnival-time
of all seasons."
" I will change the library, and give you two,
robms on this floor,,.to avoid stair-steps; I will
build you a wall of partition, and have your
doors and windows hermetically sealed against
intrusion. No sound of billiard-balls or dan-
cing feet, or noisy laughter.shall invade your
sanctuary. Not St. Simeon, of isolated memo-
ry, could desire more complete seclusion and
solitude than that with which I shall indulge
you."
" It is advisable that I should go."
"I appreciate neither the expediency nor
necessity."
" Like all other crusty, self-indulgent bache-
lors, I have many whims,.which I certainly do
not expect people to bear patiently."
" You are neither crusty nor self-indulgent,
that I have discovered ; as for your whims, I
have large charity, and will humor them."
" Irene, I want a house of my own, to, which
I can feel privileged to invite such guests, such
companions, as I-deem congenial, irrespective
of the fiats of,,would-be sbeial autocrats and
the social ostracism of certain cliques."
She was silent a moment, 'but met his;keen
look without the slightest embarrassment, and
yet when she ,spoke he knew, from her eyes
and voice, that she fully comprehended his
meaning.   "
" Of course, it is a matter which you must
determine for yourself.  You .ae .the best
judge of what conduces to your happiness;
but I am sorry, very'sorry, Uncle Eric, that, in
order to promote it, you feel it necessary to re-'
move from 'our domestic circle. I shall miss
you painfully."
" Pardon me, but I doubt the last clause.
You lean on no one sufficiently to note thesab-
sence of their support."
"Do you'recognize no difference between
a parasitic clinging and an affectionate friend-
ship-a valued companionship based on conge-
aial tastes and sympathies?"
" Unjuestipnably, - admit, and appreciate
the dstinction; but you do not meet me fall-
eyed, open-handed, on this conlmon platform
of congeniality, strengthened as it is, or should
be, by near relationship. You, confront me
always with your emotional nature mail-elad,:
and make our intercourse a mere intellectual
fencing-match. Now, mark you, J have .no,
wish to force your confidence; that isa curious
and complex lock, dhich only the golden key
of perfect loe and trust should 'ever open ;
and I simply desire to say that your constitu-
tional reticence or habitual reserve precludgs
the hope ormy rendering you either assistance
or sympathy "by my "continued' presence."
or Uncle hEric, iarises from no want of frust
in you, but in the consciousness that only I' can
help myself., I have.more than once heard;
you quote Wallenftein'; have so'soon forgotten
his.words:


82                    MACARIA.

"' Permit her own will.
For there are sorrows,'
Where, of necessity the soul must be
Its own support. I strong heart will rely
on its own strength alone.'
"But, my dear girl, you certainly are no'
Thekla ?    '
Was there prescience in his question, and
a quick recognition of it in the quiver which
ran across her lips and eyelids?
" The Fates forbid that I should ever be !"
"Irene; in the name and memory of your
mother, promise me one thing: that if sorrows
assail you, and a third party can bear aught
on his shoulders, you will call upon me."
" A most improbable conjunction of circum-
stances; but, in such emergency, I promise to
afflict you- with a summons to the rescue.
Uncle Erie, I think I shall never. gall any
shoulders but my own with' the burdens which
God may see fit to lay on them in the coming
years."
He looked pained, puzzled, and irresolute;
but she smiled, and swept her fingers over the'
bars of her bird-cage, toying with its golden-
throated inmate.
" Have you any engagement for this morn-
ing ,"
"None, sir. What can I do for you ?"
" If. you feel disposed, I should be glad to
have. you accompany me to town; 'I want
-    your assistance in selecting a set of china for
my new hemne. Will you gd.?"
A shadow drifted over the colorless tranquil
face as she said, sadly:
"4Uncle Eric, is it utterly useless for me to
attempt to persuade you to relinquish this proj-
ect -and remain with us ?"
""Utterly useless,'my dear child."
"Iwill get my bonnet, and join you at the
carriage."     cc
Very near the cottage formerly occupied by
Mrs. Aubrey stood a small brick house, par-
tially concealed by'poplarand sycamore trees,
and surrounded by a heat, well-arranged flow-
er-garden. This was the place selected and
purchased by the cripple for his future home.
Mr. Huntingdon had opposed the -whale pro-
ceeding, and invited his brother-in-law  to
reside with him; but beneath the cordial sur-
face the guest felt that other sentiments rolled
deep and strong. He had little in common
with his sister's husband, and only a warm and
increasing affection for his niece now induced
him to ettle in W -  .  Some necessary'
repairs had been made, some requisite arrange-
ments..completed' regarding seatst, and to-
day the 'finishing touches were given to the
snug little bachelor establishment. When it
was, apparent that no arguments would avail
to alter the decision, Irene -ceased to speak of
it, and busied herself in various undertakings
to' promote her uncle's' comfort. She made
pretty *hite curtains-for his library-windows,
knitted bright-colored worsted larAp-mats, and
hemmed and marked the contents of the linen-

closet.  The dining-roop pantry she took un-
der her special charge, and at the expiration
of ten days, when .the master took formal pos-
session, she accompanied him, and enjoyed the
pleased surprise with which he received her
donation'of cakes, preserves, catchups, pickles,
etc., etc., neatly stowed away on the spotless
shelves.
"T shall make a weekly pilgrimage to this
same pantry, and take an inventory of its con-
tents. I 'intend to take good care of you,
though you have moved off,.Diogenes-like."
She stepped forward, and arranged some
glass jars which stood rather irregularly;
" How  prim  and old-maidish you are!"
laughed her uncle.
"I never could bear to see 'things scattered
in that helter-skelter style ; I like bottles, jars,
plates, and dishes drilled into straight lines,
not leaning in and out, in that broken-rank
fashion. 1 am not given to boasting, but I will
say that no housekeeper can show a nicer,
neater pantry than my o n."
" What have you in that basket ?"
" Flowers from the greenhouse. Come into
the library, and let me dress your new vases."
He followed her into the next room,'and
watched her as she leisurely and tastefully
disposed her flowers; now searching the basket
for a sprig of evergreen, and now bending ob-
stinate stems to make stiff clusters lean loving-
ly to each other. Placing the vases on the
mantle, she stepped back to inspect the effect,
and said, gravely :
" How beautiful they are ! Let me always
dress your vases, Uncle. Women have a knack
of intertwining stems and grouping colors; our
fingers were ordained for all such embroidery
on the carse gray serge of stern, practical
every-day'life. You men are more at home
with state ; papers, machine-shops, 'navies,
armies, political economy, and - agricultural
chemistry than with fragile azaleas and golden-
dusted lilies."
Before he could-reply she turned and asked:
" What do these large square boxes in the
hall contain ?".-
" Books which I gathered in Europe and
selected in New York ; among them many
rare old volumes, which you have never seen.'
Come down next Monday, and help me 'to
number and shelve them; afterward, we will
read them together. Lay aside your bonnet,
and sped the evening with me."
No, I must go back ; Hugh sent. me word
that he' would bring company to tea."
He took her hand and drew her close.to his
chair, saying gently:
"Ah, Irene ! I wish I 'could keep you al-
ways. You would be happier here, in this
little unpretending home of mine, than presid-
ing as mistress over that great palatial house
on the hill yonder."
" There you mistake me most entirely. I .
love, better than any other place on earth, my

aJ,

I

I

MACARIA.         .83
stately,. elegant, beautiful home. Not Fqn- -I suppose ?  He returned last week, and, by
tainebleau, Windsor, Potsdam;. not ,the vine- the way, I half-expeoted to meet him to-day ;
yards of Shiraz, or the gardens;of Damascus, well, I was talking to him about Aubrey, and
could *in me from it. I love every tree, every he' laughedhis droll, chuckling laugh, snapped
creeper,'every foot of ground from the front- his bony fingers in my face, and said:
gate to the brink of the creek. If you sup-  "Aye !.aye, Harris ! let him alone ; hands'off!
pose that I am not happy. there,- you err and I will wager my new office against your old
egregiously."                             one that ie stepsinto your honor's shoes.. Now
" My intuitions rarely deceive ine.?  *  you know perfectly well that 'Carapbell has no
"At least,.Uncle Eric, they play you false in more enthusiasm than a brick wall or a roll'of
this instance. Why, sir, I would not give my red tape; but he is as proud of'the young man
grind old avenue of primeval elms for St. as if he were his son. Do you, know that he
Peter's nave. Your intuitions are full of cob- has taken him into partnership ?"
webs ; have them well swept-and dusted before  " Pshaw ! he will never comi
-I see you Monday.   Good-night, Uncle; I pas."     -
must really go. If you find we ave forgotten ." But he has; I read the notice. in this
anything, send Willis up for it."         morning's paper. Pass he madeira. The fact
He kissed her fingers tenderly, and, taking is, we must not allow our old' prejudices to
her basket, she left him alone in his new home. make us unjust. I know Aubrey has struggled
A few weeks passed without incident; Hugh hard ; he had much to contend_-"
went to New Orleans to visit friends, and Mr.  " Hang Campbell and the partrie'rship ! ' He
Huntingdon was frequently absent at the plan- will find that he has played the fool before he
station.                                   gets rid of his precious pet. Miss Grace, do
One day he expressed the desire that Judge let me fill your glass,?  My young prude there
Harris' family .should dine with him, and ad- at the head of the table just sips hers as if she
ded several gentlemen, "to make the. party feared it was poisofled. Mrs. Harris, you have
merry." 'Irene promptly ;issued the invita- no sherry; permitme."
tons, suppressing the reluctance which filled  " The ,young 'man's anteceded ts are most
her heart ; for the young people were not fa- disgraceful, Mr. Huntingdon, andI told the
vorites, and she dreaded Charlie's set speeches judge last night' that I was surprised at Mr.
and admiring glances, not less than his mother's Campbell's infatuation," chimed in Mrs. Har-
endless disquisitiois on fashion and the pedi- ris over her golden sherry.  .
gree of all the best families of W -  and   " Whose antecedents, Mother ?"
its vicinage. Grace had grown.up very, pretty,  "My dear, we were speaking of Russell
highly accomplished, even-tempered, gentle- Aubrey, and the stigma on his name and
hearted, but fulr of her mother's'fashionable character."
notions, and,:withal, rather weak and frivo-  " Oh, yes ! Hia. father was sentenced to
IOus. She and Irene were constantly thrown be hung, I believe, and committed suicide 'in.
into each other's society, but no warmth of prison. But what a splendid,idark-looking
feeling existed on either side. Grace could man he' is I Decidedly the niost superb figure
not comprehend her, companion's character, and eyes in W.------. Shy, though ! shy as a
and Irene wearied of her gay, heedless chit- school-girl; will cross the street to avoid meet-
chat, As the latter anticipated, the day proved ing a body. 'When he finds that) he can not
very tiresome ; the usual complement of music dodge you, he gives you the full benefit of his
was contributed by Grace, the expected quan- magnificent eyes, and bows as haughtily as
tity of flattering nothings gracefully uttered Great Mogul. Maria Henderson goes into
by her brother, the customary amount of exe- raptures over his figure.
crable puns handed around the circle for'pat-  With head slightly inclined, and eyes fixed
ronage, and Irene gave the signal for dinner. on Mr. Blackwell's face, Irene had heard all
Mr. Huntingdon prided himself on tis fine that passed, and as the gentleman paused in
wines, and, after the decanters had circulated his harangue to drain his glass, she-rose and led
freely, the gentlemen grew garrulous as mar- the way to the parlors. The gentlemen ad-
ket-women. '       -                      journed to the smoking-room, and in a short
,Irene was gravely discussing the tariff ques- time Mrs. Harris ordered, her carriage, plead-
tion with Mr. Herbert Blackwell (whom Mrs. ing an engagement with Grace's mantua-
Harris pronounced the most promising young maker as anexcuse for leaving so early. With
lawyer of her acquaintahde), and politely a feeling of infinite relief the hostess accom-
listening.to his stereotyped reasoning,.when a panied them to the door,,saw the carriage
scrap of' conversation at the opposite 'end of' descend the avenue, 'and; desiring one of the.
the table attracted her attention.'- servants to have 'Erebus saddled at once, she
" Huntinigdon, my dear fellow, I tell you I went to her r-oom and changed the rich dinner-'-
never made a mistake in my life, when reading dress for her riding-habit.' ' As she sprang into
people's minds; and if. Aubrey has -not the the paddle, and gathered up the reins,.ber
huest legal intellect in W , I will throw father called from the open window, whence
up my judgeship. You, have seen Campbell, issued curling wreath's of blue smoke:


84

MACARIA.

"«Where now, Irene ?4'
"lIam gOin to ride ; it threatened rain thi
morning, and I was afraid'to'venture."
He said something, but without hearing shi
-   rode off, and was soon out of Eight, leaving the
town to the left, and taking the road tha
woundl along the river-bank--the saie where
years before, she' had cantered "wie Grace
Hugh, and Charlie. It was a windless, sunny
Ap 'il afternoon; trees were freshly robed in
neWrborn fringy foliage, green and glistening.
long rassy slopes looked like crinkled velvet
starred with delicate -pale blue houstonias
wandering woodbine trailed its coral trumppet.
in and out of grass and tangled shrubs, and
late- wood-azaleas loaed the air with their
delicious, intoxicating'perfume. Irene felt un
wontedly depressed; the day had wearied her
she shook 'the reins, and the beautiful horse
sprang on in a quick gallop. For a mile fir
other they dashed alon' the river bank, and
then, reining him up, sIne leaned'forward and
drew a long, deep breath. The scene was
su*passingly quiet and beautiful; on either
side wooded hills came down, herd-like, to the
edge of the stream, to lave their thirsty sides
and listen to the continual solemn monotone
of the foaming falls; here a small flock of
sheep browsed on the young waving grass, and
there contented-looking cows, with glossy satin
skins, sauntered homeward-taking the road
with as much precision as their Swiss sisters to
the tune of Ranz des Vaches; the broad river
sweeping down its rocky pavement, and, over
all, a mellow April sky of'intense blue, with
whiffs of, creamy vapor, sinuouss as floss silk.
Close to the margin 9f the' river grew a luxu-
riant mass of ivy, and now the dark shining
foliage was flecked with tiny rosy buds and
well-own waxen petals, crimped into fairy-
like cups and tinted as no Sevres china ever
-will be.j Urging Erebus into, the thicket,
Irene broke as, many clusters as she could
conveniently carry; dragged a long tangled
wresth of late jasmine from its seclusion, fast-
ened it across the pommel of the saddle, and
turned her horse's head homeward. The'sight
of these ivy cups recalled the memory of her
Aupt Margaret; they had been her favorite
flowers and as' thought now 'took another
channel, she directed her way to the grave-
yard., She always rode rapidly, and, ere long,
, rebus' feet drew sparks from the rocky road
leading up the hill-side to the cemetery-gate.
Dismounting, she fastened the reins to one of
the iron spikes, and, gathering the folds of'her
habit ever her arm, carried her flowers to the
family. burying-ground. It was a large square
lot, enclosed Ey a handsome railing and tall
gate, bearing the name of "Huntingdon1" in
*  silver letters. As- she approached,, she was
surprised to find a lokv brick wall and1 beauti-
fuli aew marble monument close to her father's
lot, and occupying a space which had been
,filled with grass and weeds a few weeks pre-

vibus. While she paused, wondering whose.
s was tfe new monument, and resolved to ex-
amine it, a tall form stepped from behind the
e column aid stood, with folded arms, lookiiig
e down at the grave. There was no niistaking
t face or figure; evidently he was p naware 'of
her presence, though she was near enough to
,ark the stern sorrow written on his'counte-
y nance. - She- glided forward and opened the
heavy .gate of her own enclosure; with' difli-
culty she pushed it ajar, and with a sudden,
sharp, clanging report it swung back, and the
; bolt slid to its rusty place. He lifted his eyes
s then, and saw her standing a few yards from
I him; the ricl soft folds of the Marie Louisse
r blue riding-dress trailed along the ground;
the blue velvet hat, with its, long drooping
plume, had become loosened by the exercise,
and, slipping back, left fully exposed the daz-
zling white face and golden glory of waving
I hair: She bowed, he returned the silent'token
L of recognition, and'she moved forward to her
s aunt's tomb, wreathing it with the flowers
which Miss Margaret had loved so well. The
sun was low, leaning upon the purple crest of
a distant hill; the yellow light flashed over
the forest of marble pillars, and their cold pol-
f ished surfaces gave back the waning glaret,
1 throwing it off contemptuously, as if sunshine
were aC mockery in that silent city of the dead..
Sombre sacred guardian, cedars extended
their arms lovingly over the marble couches
of -fair young sleepers in Gods Acre, and
venerable willows wept over many a stela,
' whose insilption lichen-footed Time had ef-
faced. ,--Here slept two generations of the
Huntingdons, and the last scion of the proud
old house stood up among the hoarded bones
of her a-' estry, glancing round at the mose
stained costly mausoleums, and noting the..
fact that the crowded lot had room for but
two more, narrow beds-two niore silent citi-
zens-her father and herself: It was a reflec-
tion which she had little inclination to linger
over, and, retaining a Ieautifuk cluster of ivy
and jasmine, she left the enclosure; keeping
her .eyes fixed on the ground.
As she passed the new lot the gate swung
opeu, #ud Russell stood before her.
" Good-evening, Miss Huntingdon."
"Good-evening, Mr. Aubrey."
The name sounded strange and harsh as she
uttered it, and involuntarily she paused-and
held out her hand. He accepted it; for an
instant the cold.fingers lay in his warm palm,
and as she withdrew them he said, in the rich
mellow voice which she had heard in the
church':
" Allow me to show you 'my another's monu-
ment."'
.He held the gate open,.and she entered and
stood at his side. The monument was beauti-
'ful in its'severe simplicity-a pure, faultless
shaft, crowned ,with a -delicately-chiselled
wreath of poppy' leaves, and bearing these .

I

I

I

'MACARIA.

85

I

I

words in gilt letters: ',Sacred tojhe memory
of my mother, Amy Aubrey."' Just below, in
black characters, " esurgarn ;" and, under-
'neath the whole, on' a finely-fluted scroll, the
,incription of St. Gilgen. After a silence .of
.some moments.Russell pointed to thesingular
and solemn words, and said, as if speaking
rather to himself,than to her:
- .I want to say ,Jways, with Paul El em-
ming, 'I will be strong,' and therefore I placed-
here the inscription which proved an evangel
to him, that when .I - come to my mother's
grave I. may be strengthened, not melted, by
the, thronging of bitter memories."
- She looked up as he spoke, and the melan-
chbly splendor of the deep eyes'stirred her
lieart as nothing had ever done before.
"I have a few flowers left ; let ine lay them
as an affectionate tribute, an 'in memorial'
on yotr mother's tomb-for the olden time,
the cottage-days, are as fresh in my recollec-'
tion as in yours."
She held out the woodland bouquet ; he took
it, and strewed the blossoms along the broad
base of the shaft, reserving only a small clus-
ter of the rosy china-cups. Both'were silent ;
bht, as she turned to go,';a sudden gust blew
her hat from her head, the loosened conb fell
upon the. grass, and down came the heavy
masses of hair. She twisted them hastily into
a, coil, fastened them securely, and received
her hat from him,' with a cool:
"Thank you, sir; when did you hear from
Electra ?"
They walked on to the cemetery-gate, and
he answered :
"'I have heard nothing for some weeks.
Have you.any message?   I am going to New
York in a few days, to try to persuade her to
return to W-   . with me."    .
" I dou   the, success of your mission ;
W        'has little to tempt an artist like
your cousin. Be' kind enough to tender her
my love and best wishes for the realization of
her artistic dreams."
They had'reached the gate where Erebus
waited, when Russell took off his hat reverent-
ly, and, posted to the western sky all
"aflane." Masses of purple, scarlet, gold,f
amber, and pure, pale, opalie green blended
in one magnificent conflagratidfi; and toward
the zenith tortuous feathery braids and dashes
of blood-red cirri, gleaming. through the mild,
balmy air hike coral reefs in some breezeless
oriental sea.
;" No soft, neutral, sober , qraim', there,"
said Irene, lifting her hand to the glowing
cloud-panorama.
He took up the quotation' promptly, and,
added:' '
"' The Angel of the Sea' is abroad on his
immemorial mission, the soft wings droop still
with dew, and the shadows of their plumes
falter on the hill; .strange laughings and glit-
terings of silver streamlets, born suddenly, and

twined about the'mossy heights ii trickling
tinsel;,answein to them as they wave. The'
coile locks  'hundred-headed       hot'
lea, no.menace. y9nder."
He paused, ano'turing suddenly, with a
piercing look-at'his companion, continued:
"Miss Huntingdon, 'on what. anvils and
wheels is the vapor pointed,' twisted, hammer-,
ed, wl irled as- the potter's clay ? By what
hands, is the incense of the-sea-built up into
domes of marble ?"'
I" see that you follow assiduously the beck
of Nature's last, anointed hierophant, and 'go
in and out .with the seer, even among the
cherubim and seraphim of his metropolitan
cathedral, with its 'gates of robk, pavements
of cloud, choirs of stream, altars of snow, and
vaults of purple, traversed by the continual
stars."..
"Yes; I am a reverent student and warm'
admirer of John Ruskin. I 'learned to love
him first through the recommendations of.my
cousin ;. then foi his gorgeos,.unapproachable
word-painting."
While they . talked, the brilliant pageant
faded, the coral banks paled'to snowy lines,,as
if the blue waves of air were foam-crested, and
in, the valley befow rose the dusky outline of
dark-haired, wan-browed, gray clad Twilight,
stealing her'"'sober livers'. over the 'fluslied
and fretted bosom of the murmuringriver.
" You.have a long walk to town," said Irene,
as, Russell arranged her horse's'reins.
" I shall not find it long. It-is a fine piece
of road, and the stars will be up to light it."
He held' out his hand to . assist her ; she
spran  easily to the saddle, then leaned to-
ward himevery statue-like curve and mould-
ing of her proud ivory face stamping them-
selves on his recollection as sloe spoke.
"'Be so good as to hand me my glove ; I
dropped it at your feet as I mounted. Thank
you. Good-evening, Mr. Aubrey;, take my
best wishes on your journey and its mission."
"Good-by, Miss Huntingdon."  He.raised
his hat, and, -as she wheeled. off, the magnetic.
handsome face followed, haunted her. Erebus
was impatient, out of humor, and flew, up the
next steep hill as if he, too, were -haunted.
Glancing back as she' reached the summit,
Irene saw the erect, stern,'solitary figurevat,-
the extremity of the wooded vista, and in t-hat
mystical dim light he looked a colossal.aveng-
ing Viking.
Once more, as in childhood, she hea-d the
whirr of the loom of Destiny; 'and to-night,
catching sight of the Parce, fingers, she knew
that along tbe'silver warp of her life ran dark
alien threads, interweaving all in one shape-'
less, tangled- web.
On through gathering glpom dashed horse
and rider,' over the little gurglhng stream,
through the gate, up thie dark, rayless avenue
to thei door-siep. The blhiard-room was a
blaze of light, and the, cheerful sound of mim.

I .

0


MACARIA:s

gled voices came out at the open "window, to
tell-that the gentlemen had not yet finished
their game. Pausing in the 'hall, Iren&amp;'lis-
tened an instant to distinguish thi voices, then
ascended the.long, easy staircase. The lamp
threw a mellow radiance on the steps, and as
she reached the landing Hugh caught 'her in
his arms and kissed her warmly. 'Startled by
his unexliected 'appearance, she recoiled' a
step or two and asked, rather haughtily :
" When did you get home ?"
",Only a few moments after you left the
house. Do chance your dress quickly, and
conte down.. I Yave a thousand things to'
.say..
She waited'to hear no more, but disengaged
herself and went to her room.
" Now, child ! why will you do so ? What
makes you stay out so late, and then come
thundering back like a hurricane ? I never
did like that hoi-se's great big saucy, shining,
devilish eyes. I tell Andrew constantly I
'wish he would manage to break his legs, while
he is jumping over all ihe fences on the place.
You scare nie nearly to death about your rid-
ing; I tell you, Beauty, that black satan will
break your neck yet. Your grandfather was
-    flung from just such a looking brute, and
dragged till he was.dead ; and some day that
everlasting long hair of yours will drag you.to
your grave. iere it is now, all streaming
down your back; yes-just as I expected-
not-a blessed hair-pin left in it; done galloped
'em all clean' out. You will ride.yourself into
eternity. Sit down, and let me comb it out ;
it is all in a tangle, like ravelled yellow silk."
Nellie lboked -cloudy, moody, and'- her mis-
tress offered no resistance to her directions.
"Mass' Hugh 's come."
"Yes; I know'it."s
"But you don't know supper is almost
ready, do you ? Presently you will hear your
father's voice sounding like a brass trumpet
down stairs, if you ar'n't ready.  There !
John rings that bell as if he had the'dead to
rafise !"
"That will do, Aunt,.Nellie, only, give me a
handkerchief."
She went down, and met her father at the
.dining-room door. ,-
" Come, Queen ; we are waiting for you."
He looked at her fondly, took her hand, and
drew her to the table ; and, in after years, she
recalled this occasion with mournful pleasure
as the last on which he had-ever given her his
pet name.
  . ,There are fatal days, indeed,
In which the Tibrous years have taken-root
So deeply;'that they quiver to their tops
Whene'er you stir the dust of such a day."
-   CHAPTER XIX.s
" Come out on the colonnade ; tlie air is de-
licious." As he spoke, Hugh drew his cousin's

arimn through his, and led- the way from the
tea-table.
"You had company to dine to-day ?"
" Yes ; if I had known that you were com-
ing home to-day, I would have postponed the
invitation till to-morrow. . grace expressed
much disappointment at your absence."
" Indeed ! Of course I am duly grateful.
What a pretty, sweet little creature she is'! .
So sprightly, so vivacious, so ;winning'; so
charmingly ignorant of 'Almacantar' and
' Azimuth,', and all stdch ' learned stupidity.
Unlike some royal personages of my acquaint-
ance, who are for ever soaring among the
stars, she never stretches my' brains the hun-
dredth part of an inch to comprehend her. 'e-.
lightful prattle.  Like. Dickens' ' Dora,' she
regards any attempt to reason with her as a
greater insult than downright scolding. Your
solemn wo'shipper was also present, I be-
lieve ?",                  .
" To whom do you allude ?"
" Your tedious, tiresome, pertinacious shad-
'ow, Herbert Blackwell, of course'! Do you
know that I ,detest that manmost cordially:?".,
"-For what reason ?"'
"I really: do not feel in the mood to enu-
merate all his peccadilloes and disagreeable
traits; but it is supremely ridiculous to see the
way in which he hovers round you, like one of
those large black moths about the hall-lamp."
" Come, come, Hugh ! Mr..Blackwell is a
man whom I respect and esteem, and you shall
not make him a target for your merriment."
" Oh, doubtless ! my Czarina ! and, as a re-
ward for' your consideration, he would fain
confer on, you his distinguished hand and fort-
une. It is quite a respectable farce to watch
him watching you.",
" I wishyou had a tithe of his industry and
perseverance.- Did it. ever occur to you that
life is given for nobler purposes: and loftier as-
pirations than hunting, fishing, horse-racing,'
gambling, and similar modes of murdering,
time which you habitually patronize ?
" You are too young to play the role of
Mentor, and those rare red lips of yours were
never meant for homilizing. Irene, how long
do you intend to keep me in painful suspense ?"
~" I am not awafe that I have in any degree
kept you in suspense."
" At all events, you know thatyou torture
me with cool, deliberate cruelty."
"I deny your charge most solemnly."
" My dear Irie, let us understand each other
fully, for --."                         .
"Nay, Hugh-be honest; there is no mis-
apprehension whatever. We thoroughly un-
derstand eachother already."-
" You shall not evade me ; I have been pa-
tient, and the time ,has come when we must
talk of our futture.- Ikene, dearest, be gener-
ous, and tell me when will you give me, irre-
vocably, this hand, which. has been' promised
to me from your infancy ?"

v.

MACARIA. -

He took the hand and carried ittohis lips,
but she forcibly withdrew it, and, disengaging
her arm, said, emphatically:
"Never, Hugh. Never."
" How. can you trifle with me, Irene ? If
you could realize how impatient I am for the
happy day when I shall call you my wife, you
would be serious, and fix an early. period for
our marriage." -
i 'a Hugh, why will you, affect to misconceive
my meaning? ~ I am serious; I have pondered,
long and well, a matter involving your life-
long happiness and mine, and I tell 'you, most
solemnly,,that I will never be your wife.
L' Oh, Irene ! your promise,! your sacred
promise I" .
"1'Xnever gave it ! On the contrary, I have
never failed to show you that my whole nature
rebelled against the most unnatural relation
forced' upon me. I can not, shall not, hold
myself boun4 by the promise of another made
when I was an unconscious infant. I know
the family compact, sealed by my- father's
word, at your mother's death-bed, making two
little irresponsible children parties to a thor-
oughly selfish, ignoble contract, which is re-
volting to me. Your future and mine were
adumbrated from my cradle, and that which
only we could legitimately decide was usurped
and predetermined. You have known, for
years, that- I loathed the heartless betrothal
and ignored its 'restrictions; my unalterable
determination was very apparent when you
returned from Europe. You were kept in no
suspense ; you understood me then as fully as
now;.and it is ungenerous, unmanly, to press
a suit which you.can 'not fail to know is ex-
tremely disagreeable to me."
" My dear Irene, have you, then, no love for
me'?  I have hoped and believed that you
hid your love behind your cold mask of proud
silence. You nust, you do love me, my beau-
tiful cousin !"       .                . -
".You do not believe your own words you,
are obliged to know better. I love you as
my cousin, love you somewhat as I love Uncle,
Eric, love you as the sole young relative left
to :me, as the only companion of my lonely
childhood ; but other love than this I never
had, never can have, for 'you. Hugh, my
cousin, look fearlessly at the unvarnished
truth ; neither you nor I have ore spark of
that affection' which alone can sanction mar-
riage.  We are ubterly unlike in thought,
taste, feeling,. habits of, life, and aspirations';
I have no sympathy wi h your pursuits, you
are invariably afflicted with ennui at the bare
suggestion of mine, Nature stamped us with
relentless antagonisms of character ; I' bow to
her decree rather than to man's, word. -Dante'
painted no purgatory dark enough to suit the
wretchedness that would result from sucli an
unholy union as ours would 'be.. Think of it,
Hugh ; a loveless marriage ; a mere moneyed
partnership ; a sort of legal contract; the only

87

true union being of bank-stock, railroad-shares,
and broad plantations." -'
She leaned against one of'the pillars with'
her arms folded, and a cold, merciless smile
curling the beautiful mouth.
"Indeed, you wrong me ! my wogshipped
cousin. You' are dearer to me. than every-
thing else on earth. I have loved you, and
you only, from my boyhood; you have-been a
lovely idol from earliest recollection "
" You are mistaken, most entirely mistaken';
I am not to be. deceived, neither can you
hoodwink yourself. You like me, you -love
me, in 'the same quiet way that I love you;
you admire me, perhaps, more than any, one
you chance to know just new ; you.are pare
tial to mybeauty, and, from long habit, have
come to regard me as your property, muc' in
the same light as that in-which fou.look u on
your costly diamond buttons, or your high-
spirited horses, or rare imported pointers. Af-
ter' a fashion you like me, Hugh; I know you
do; and, my cousin, it. would be most lamenta-
ble and unnatural if.you-had not some affec- -
'tion for me; but love such as a 'man should
have for tlle woman whom he makes hisilife-
companion, and calls 'by-the sacred name of
wife,' you have not one atom of.' I do not
wish to wound' you, but I must talk' to you as
any -reasonable woman would on a question '
of such great importance; for I hold it no lloht
thing for two souls to burdenthemselves,with
vows which neither can possibly ,perform.
Hugh, I abhor' shams 1 and I tell you now
that I never will be a party to that which.
others have arranged without my consent."
"Ah ! I sep how matters stand.'. Having
disposed of your heart, and lavished your love
elsewhere, you shrink from fulfilling the sa-
cred obligations that make you mine. I little-
dreamed that you were so susceptible, else I
had not left you.feeling so secure. My, uncle
has not proved the faithful guardian-I believ-
ed him when I entrusted my treasure,'my af-.
fianced bride,' to his care."
Bitterdisappointment flashed in his face and
quivered in his voice, rendering him reckless of
consequences..' But though he gazed fiercely at
her as he uttered the taunt, it produced. not the
faintest visiblee 'efect; 'the cloudless chiselled
face still wore its quiet smile of mild irony,'and
the low clear voice preserved its sweetness.,
" You do ,,y father rank injustice, Hugh.
Not Ladon was more'faithful or tirepss than
he has been."
" He can not deny' that 'the treasure has
been stolen, nevertheless.".'
" He probably can and will deny that the
golden treasure has been snatched from his
guardianship. .Another ,,Atlas o,. a 'second
Herculespwould be needed for such a theft.
The application stung him; he criwmned;*
and retorted with a degree 'of bittei-ness of'
which he was probably unconscious at the
moment:'

"

#


88                   MACARIA.

"You, at least, dare not deny my charge,
my truthful, constant fiance !"
",Either . you , overestimate- my supposed
offence er underrate my courage; there are
few honorable things which I dare not do."
"Goiebs, 'then, who stands between your
heart and mine. I have a tight to ask ; I will
"You forget yourself, my cousin. Your
right is obviously a debatable;.question,; wre
-will Waive it, if fou pleiase. I have told you
already, and now I repeat it for the last time,
I will not, go with you 4o the altar, because
neither of us has proper affection for the other
to warrantuch a union; because it would be.
an:infamous pecuniary contract,.revolting to
every true.soul. I do not want your estate,
.andryou should be content with your ample
fortune without coveting my inheritance, or
consenting to sell your manhood to mammon.
I would not suit 'ou for a'wifeb; go find some
more congenial spirit, some gentle, clinging
girl, who will live only in your love, and make
you forget all else in her presence. I have
no' fancy 'for' the Gehenna our married 'life
would inevitably prove., Henceforth there is.
-    ib margin for misapprehension;' understand
that we meet in futureas cousins, only, as
cousins, acknowledging no other relationship,
no other tie save that of consanguinity ; for I
do not hesitate to snap the links that were'
forged in my babyhood, to annul .the unright-
eous betrothal of other hands, yHugh,'cherish
kio animosity:against me; I merit none.' Be-
cause we can' not- be more, shall we be less
than friends ?,-
'he held out her hand, but he was too an-
g -y to accept it, and asked, haughtily:
" Shall I break this pleasant piece of idfor-
mation to myuncle ?   Or do, you fdel quite
equal to the task of 'blighting all'his long-
cherished hopes, as well as rmine ?" 3 -
"I' 1ave it in your hands; 'consult your dis-
cretio " or your pleasure; to me it matters
little.. Remember my earnest request, that
you bear me no malice in the, coming years.
Good-night, my cousin."
She turnedto leave 'him, but he caught'her
dress,' and exclaimed, 'with more tentlerness
than he bad'ever manifested before:
" Oh, Irefie ! do not reject me utterly! I
can not relinquish$ you. 'Give 'me one. more
year to' prove my love ; to win' yours., If your
proud heart is still your own, may I not hope
to obtain it, by -'."
"9 Nb,'Hugh ! no. As well hope to inspire
affection iii yonder mute 'marble guardians.
Forgive' me if I pain you, but I, must be can-
did at every hazard."  She pointed to the
statues near the door, and went 'through the
*greenhouse Sto the library, thence 'to the oh-
set'rtery, expecting, ei'e long, to b6 joined by
hei- father. Gradually the house' became
quiet, and, yopressed with the'pairifulsehise of
coming'trouble, she sought her own roon just

as the clock.sti-uck twelve. Pausing to count
the strokes, shgsaw a light gleaming through
the keyhole of her father's door, oppoite her
owi, and heard the sound of low but earnest
conversation mingled with the restless tramp
of pacing feet. She was powerfully tempted
to cross' the;passage, knock, and have. the' r-
deal ended then and there ; but second thought
whispered, " Tomorrow will Loon be here;
be patient." She entered 'her room, and;
wearied by' the events of .the   day, fell
asleep, dreaming of the  ' lot in the ceme-
tery, and the lonely, joyless- an who haunted
it.  ,
As she adjusted her riding-habit the follow-
ing morning, and suffered Andrew to arrange
her stirrup, the latter said, good-humoredly:
"So, Mass' Hugh got the start of you? .,It
is n't often he beats you."
." What do you mean ?"
",ie started a while ago, and, if he drives
as he generally does, he will get to his planta-
tion in time for dinner."
"Did Father go, too ?"- -
"No ma'm; only Mass' Hugh, in his qwn
buggy."
In the quiet, leafy laboratory of Nature
there is an elixir of strength for those wise
enough to seek it ; and its' subtle,. volatile
properties. continually come to the relief of
wearied, overtaxed brains, and aching, op-
pressed hearts. The human frame, because of
its keen susceptibility to impressions from the
external world, and its' curious adaptation
thereunto, becomes, like the strings of an
]Eolian' harp, attuned perfectly to the breath
that sweeps-it,, and is, by .turns the exponent
of stormy passion or holy resignation. Thus,
from the cool serenity, the dewy sparkle, and
delicate perfume of the early morning, Iren'e
derived a renewal of streng h such as no pure-
ly human aid could have fitrnibhed. She re-
membered now the sibyllic words of the young
minister:' "You, too, must tread' the wine-press
alone," and felt that the garrients of her soul
were taking the dye, the -purple stainof the
wine of trial. Doubtless he had alluded to a
different ordeal, but she knew that all' the
future of her earthly existence was to receive
its changeless hue from. this day, and she could
entertain but a modicum of doubt as to what
that hue would prove. - Returning from' her
ride, she stood a moment on the fronthtep,
looking down the avenue: The Bermuda ter-
race, blazed in the sunlight- like a jewelled
coronal, the billowy sea of'foliage, crested by
dewy drops, flashed and dripped as the soft air
stirred the ancient trees, the hedges were.all
alive with birds"and butterflies, the rich aroma
of' briliant and countless flowers, the graceful
curl of smoke wreathing up from the valley
beyond, the nieasured muasleal tinklT of bells
as the cows slowly descenaed the distant hills,
and, over all, like God's 'mantling mercy, a
summer sky-

"'As bine as Aaron's priestlyrobe appeared
To Aaron, when he took it off to die.'"  "
Involuntarily she stretched out her arms ti
the bending heavens and her lips moved,, bu
no sound ',aped to tell what petition wen
forth to tliec'All-Father. She went to he:
room, changed her dress, and joined her father
at the breakfast-table. Half-concealed behin
his paper, he took no notice of her quiet
"good-morning," seeming absorbed in an edi'
torial. The silent meal ended, he said, as they
left the table:
"I want to 'see you in the library."
.She' followed him  without .comment ; he
looked the .door, threw open the blinds, and
drew two chairs to the window, seating him-
self immediately in front of her. For a mo
ment he eyed her earnestly, as if'measuring
her strength ; and she saw the peculiar sparkle
in his falcon-eye, which, like the, first lurid
flash 'in a darkened sky, betokened tempests.
" Irene, I was very much astonished to learn
'the result of an interview between Hugh and
yourself; .I can scarcely believe that you were
in 'earne'st, 'and feel disposed to' attribute your
foolish words to some triflinginotive of girlish
coquetry or momentary pique. . You have
long been perfectly well aware that you'and
your cousin were destined for each other ; that
I solemnly promised the marriage should take
place assoon as you were of.age ;' that all my
plans and' hopes for you centred in this one
'engagement.   I have not pressed the matter
onyour attention of late, because.I knew. you
had sense enough to appreciate your position,
and because I believed you would, be"guided
by my wishes in this important affair. You
are, no longer a child ; I treatyou as a reason-
'able woman,,and now I tell you candidly it is
the one wish of my heart to see you Hugh's
wife."-
lie paused, but she mad , no answer, and,
taking one of her hands, he continued.
" My daughter, I can not believe that you,
on whom I have lavished so much love and
tenderness, can deliberately refuse. to accede
to my wishes, can disappoint my dearest hopes.
Of course, in all that I do or counsel, I am
,actuated only by a desire to promote your
happiness. My dear child, I have a right to
direct you, and surely your affection for your
only parent will induce you to yield to his
wishes."             .'
wHe tightened his clasp of her cold hand, and
le ned toward~her.
'Father, my happiness will not be promot-
ed y. this marriage, and if you ire' actuated
solely by this motive; allow me to remain just'
as'I am. I should be most miserable as Hugh's.
wife; ;most utterly miserable."
" Why so?"
-" Forreasons which I gave him 'last night,
and *wlich it is hardly necessary for me to re-
capitulate, as he doubtless repeated them to
you."'-

"Let me hear them, if you please."
"Our characters are totally dissimilar ; our
o tastes and opinions wide as the poles asunder ;
t- our natures could. not possibly harmonize ;
t and, more than all, we do not love each other
r as people should who stand at the altar and
r ask' God's blessing on their marriage.  ?sup-
I pose, sir, that Hugh tells you he loves me ;
t perhaps helikes me better'thanany one else
- beside himself, but the 4leep, holy, affection
which he ought to feel for the woman whom he
calls his wife has nd existence in his heart.
It will prove mere temponairy disappoint-
.ment, nothing seriously touching his hap i-
3 ness ; for,' I ass ire you, that is not in'
keeping.".
" And if I answer that I know the contrary
to be 'true ?"
" Father,41 should still adhere to my own
opinion; and, even were I disposed to accept
your view'of it, my own feelings would stand
. an everlasting barrier to our union. I do not
love Hugh, and-I must -'tell you, sir,. that
I think it wrong for cousins to marry."
" You talk like a silly child ;' I thought you
had, more sense.  Your objections I have lis-,
tened to; they are imaginary and trifling; nd
I ask you,' as a father 'has a right -to ask his
child, to waive these ridiculous notions, and
grant the only request I have ever made of
you. Tell me, my daugther, that you will'
consent: to accept your cousin, and thereby
make me happy.
He stooped and.kissed her forehead, watch-
ing her countenance eagerly.
"Oh, Father ! do not ask this of me ! Any-
thing.else ! anything else."
"Answer me, my darling' child ; give me
your promise."
.his hold was painful, and an bngry pant
mingled with the pleading tones. - She raised
her head and-said, slowly:
"My father, I can not."
-He threw her hand from him, and sprang
up.
"'Ingrate! do you mean to say that youa4vill
not fulfil a sacred engagement ?-that you
.will break an oath given to'the dead ?"
"I do not hold myself bound by the oaths.
of another, though he were twide. my father.
'I am responsible for no acts'but my own. No
one has the right to lay his hand-on an unbon-
scious infant, slumbering in her 'cradle, a'd
coolly determine for all time, her destiny.
You have the right to guide me, to say what I
'shall not do without your consent, but I am a
free-born Anericafi, thank God I I did not
draw my breath in Circassiaj to be bartered
for gold by my -father.' I, only,' can give 'my-
self away. Why shOuld you wish to force this
marriage on mne,? , Father,.do you think that
a wanr has no voice in a matter involving
her happiness forllife?' Is one of' Gdd's.'holy
sacramernte t~ become a mere p    'ntrtrants-,
action ?-only a legal transfer of re state

M.A.CABIA.                                      89.

. .


90  ' ,a      MACARIA.

and cotton bales ? Oh, my father! would you
'make yourself and. your child parties to so
ignoble, so loathsome ,a proceeding ?"'
" Oh! I suspected that your cursed obsti-
nacy would meet me here, as well as elsewhere
in your life. You have been a source of trouble
and'sorrow from, your birth; but the time
has come to end all this. I will not be trifled
with ; I tried to reason with you, to influence
you through your affections, but it ,seems you
havenone. If I resort.to other measures now,
you have only yourself to thaiik. Irene,there
can be peace between us but upon' one condi-
tion; I have set my heart on. seeing you
ligh's wife; nothing less' will satisfy me. I
warn you, as you values youP own happiness,
not to thwart me; it is no trivial risk that you
,run. I tell you now, I will make you suffer
severely if you dare to disobey,me in this
matter. You know that I never menace idly,
and if you refuse to hear reason I will utterly
disinherit you, though'ye are my only child.
Ponder it well. You have been raised in
luxury, and taught to believe yourself one of
the wealthiest heiresses in fhe state ; contrast
your present position, your elegant home, ypur
fastidious tastes gratified to the utmost; con-
traot all this, I say, with- poverty.--imagine
yourself-left in the world without one cent !
Think of it ! think of it!. My wealth is my
- own, mark you, and I will give it to whom I
please, irrespective of all claims of tustom.
Now the alternative is fully before you, and
on your own hqad be the copsequences. Will
you accede to my wishes, as any dutiful child
should, or will you deliberately incar my over-
lasting displeasure'? . Will you marry Hugh ?",
Both rose, and stood confronting each other;'
his 'face burning with wrath, every feature
quivering with passion; hers.white and rigid
as a 'statue's, :wijh onlJya blue cord-like cres-
cent between the arching brows to index her
emotion., Steadily the large violet eyes looked
into tl@e that regarded her so angrily; there
was nO drooping of the long, silken fringes ;
no moisture dimming their depths; then they
were raised slowly, asaf to the throne of God,
registering=some vow, and, pressing her hands
over her heart, she said, solemnly:. -
" Father, I will not marry Hugh, so help
me God.!"
Silence fell,between them for several mo-
ments; something in that- filed, calm face of
his.child awed him, but it was temporary,.and,
with a bitter laugh, he exclaimed:
".Ob, very, well! Your poverty be upon
your own 'head in coming years, when the
grave .closes over me., At my death every'
cent of my prolierty passes to 'Hugh, and with
it my name, and between ,you and me, as an
impassable gulf, lies my everlasting displdeasure.
Understand that, Abhougli we 'lve here ingope
house, as father, and chald, I do not, and will
not,.ogve, you., You have defied me.; now
neat the hitter fruit of your disobedience.".

" I have no desire to question the disposition
of your wealth; if you prefer to give it to my
cousin, I am  willing-perfectly willing. I
would rather beg my bread from door to door,
prod though I am; I would sooner soil my
ILuntingdon hands by washing, or cooking,
than soil my soul with perjury, or sell myself
for gold. It is true, I love elegance and luxu-
ry ; I enjoy wealth as well as most people do,'
I suppose ; but poverty does not frighten me
half-so much as a loveless marriage. Give'
Hugh your fortune if you wish, but, Father !
YatIer ! let there be no estrangement between
you an me. I can bear everything but your
displeasure ; I 'dread' nothing so much as the
loss of your love. Oh, Father! forgive a dis-
appointment which my conscience would not
permit me to avert. Forgive the pain which,
Godknows, I-would not have caused-you,,if I
could have avoided it without compromising
principle. Oh, my Father ! my Father ! let
not dollars and cents stand between you and
your only child. I ask nothing.now but your
love."    -   '        -
She drew nearer, but he waved her-off and
said, with a sneering laugh:
"Away with all such cant ! I.gave you the
choice, and you made your selection with your
eyes fully open. Accept poverty as your
doom, and with it my eternal displeasure. I
intend to make you suffer for 'your obstinacy.
You shall find, to your sorrow, that I am not to
be trifled with, or my name. 'is not Leonard
Huntingdon. Now, go your own way, and
find what a thorny path you have made for
yourself."
He pointed to the door as he, had done, years
before, *hen the boarding-school decree went
forth, and without remonstrance she left him-'
and sat down on the steps of the greenhouse.
Soon after, the sound of his buggy-wheels told
her.:that .he had gone to town, and, leaning
her cheek on her hand, she recalled the. pain-
ful conversation from first to last. That he
meant all he had threatened, and more, she
did not question for an instant, and, thinking
of her future, she, felt sick at heart. But
with the shame and sorrow came, also, a thrill
of joy ; she had burst the fetters; she was free.
Wounded affection bled freely, but brain and-.
conscience exulted in the result. She could'
not reproach herself; she resolved not to re-,
proach her. father, even -in thought. Hers
was not a disposition to vent its griefs. ,and
troubles in tears ; these had come to her re-
lief, but three or four times in the course of a
life, and on this occasion she felt as little in-
clination to cry as to repine idly over what
could not be rectified. Her painful reverie
was interrupted by the click of approaching a
crutches, and she rose to meet her uncle-.
" Do, not get .up, Irene ;' I will sit here be-
side you.. My' child, look at me-are you -
sick ?" .
" No, Uncle Eriec; what put that absurd no- .

6

MAdARIA,                                    91
tion into- your head? I rode past your door lent'additional eagerness to her manner.. The
two hours ago, and was powerfully tempted to fingers trembled, the eyes sparkled unwonted-
stop and breakfast with your bachelorship."  ly, a deeper, richer . crimson gkowed on' the
He regarded her anxiously, noting the, sin- smooth cheeks, and the lips arted-and closed
gular descent on her pale forehead, and con- unconsciously. The tantalizing dream of
nesting it with the scowling face of his broth- childhood; beautiful but evanescent,' 'had
er-in-la ,.which had passed him. on the a've- gradually embodied themselves in a palpable,
nue. He knew that something very unusual tangible, glorious reality; and the radiant
had excited the calm, inflexible woman till the woman exulted in the knowledge that she had
hot blood swelled that. vein,, but he forebore but to put forth her hand and grasp it. The
all question.           -                patient work of twelve months drew to a close ;
" What are you thinking of, Uncle Eric ?" the study of years bore its first fruit ; the laat
  " Only of a line in a poem which I was delicate yet quivering-touch was given; she
reading last n~ght. Shall I quote it for you ? threw down palette and brush, and, stepping
"   sl    sw    md    krback, surveyed the canvas. The Exhibition
All curdled -.'      yr            would open within two days, and this was to
be her contribution. A std-eyed Cassandra,
She looked in his face, .smiled, and passed with pallid, prescient, woe-struck'features--an
her hand over her forehead, hiding the blue overmastering face, wherein the flickering
cord.                                    light of divination struggled feebly with'the
" Ah ! a gentle way of reading me a lecture human horror of the To-Come, whose hides
on ill-temper. I lay no claim to saintship, you 'mysteries were known only to 'tile royal
know, and when I am out of hurftor my face prophetess.  In mute and . stern despair it
won't play-the*'hypocrite. I am no Griselda ; looked out from the canvas, a curious, anoma-
obviously none of my name can ever expect lous thing--cut adrift from human help, bereft
canonization on that score. Come to the con- of aid from heaven--yq't, in its doomed isola-
servatory; the lemons are in 'full bloom, and tion, scorning to ask he' sympathy which its
niarvellously sweet. Put your hand on my extraordinary loveliness extorted from all who
shoulder,, and come down slowly."        saw'it. The artist's pride in this, her'-first fin-
"Where is Hugh.? I thought.he came home ished, creation, might well be pardoned, for
yesterday ?"                             she was fully conscious that the cloud-region
"He started to his plantation 'at daylight, of a painful novitiate lay far beneath her;
Take 'care, sir ; these flags are slippery with that henceforth she should never, iss  e
dew; your crutches are unsafe."           pressure of long-coveted Chaplets: from"-her
-"-  '                         brow ; that she should bask in 'the warm, fruc-
tifying rays of public favor ; and measureless
.   exultation flashed in her beautiful eyes. - The
CHAP'TER XX.                torch of Genius burned brightly, as, buoyant
"To-whit-to-whoo !" Munin stretched his and eager, she took her place ig the great
broad gray wings, and, quitting the mantle- lampadrome of life; but would it endure till
piece, perched upon the top of the easel; gaz- the end ? Would it lightuthe goal standing
ing down at the solitary artist, and uttering all upon the terminus of Time ?
the while a subdued melancholy note of com-  The door opened, and Russell came ' to the
. plaint,as if to attract her attention. ,he looked studio. She was-not expecting him-;ssud-
up and held out her hand coaxingly. '   'den .appearance gave her no time to adjust
"Munin ! Munin! what'do you want? You the chilling mask of pride, and 'all her uncon-
haunt me like my shadow. Poor pet, true to 'trolled affection found eloquent language in
. your name,'you pine for your master."'  - the joyful face.
The ruffled plumes smoothed themselves,  " Russell ! my'own dear Russell !"
the plaint'was hushed. He fluttered. to her  He drew his arm around her"and kissed her
shoulder, received her soft, caressing touches flushed'cheek, and each  looked at the-other,
with evident satisfaction, nestled his beak in wondering at the changes which years had
her shining hair, and then, as if soothed and wrought.
. contented, flitted to the open 'window. Re-  " Electra, you have' certainly -improved
suming her brush, Electra leaned forward and more than any. ono'I ever knew. You look
.continued her work. " Laborare est orare;" the impersonation of perfect health '-it' is
if so, no'more ardent devotee ever bowed at needless to ask how ydu are."  And again his
the shrine of toil, bearing sacrificial offerings, lips touched the beaming face pressed against
Thoughts, 'hopes, aspirations,, memories, all his shoulder. ' Her arms stole tremnbYiugly
centred in the chosen profession; to .its pros- around his- neck, past indifference was forgot-
ecution she brought the strength and energy ten in 'ths joy of his presence, and she mur-
of an indomitable will, the rich and varied re- inured:
soui-ces of a.well-stored, brilliant intellect. It ,I "-thought I 'should not see you before I
was evident that she labored con amore, and left America. I can 'not tell you what .
now the expectation of approaching triumph pleasure this surprise is to me.' O, 'Russell!


MACARIA'

- - "  I longed inexpressibly to be with you once
more.. Thank you, a thousand times, for com-
ing to me at last."
"Did you suppose that I intended to let
you put the Atlantic between-us without mak-
ing'anr effort' to see you again ?  Were you
unjust enough to believe that I had forgotten
tho only relative whom I love ?  My dear lit-
tle sceptic, I have come to prove my affection,.
and put yours to the test." ' ' ' ,
HO pressed her. closer to his heart, but sud-
denly she shrank from him, unclasped his ari,
and,,wheeling two chairs to the wndow,.said,
hurriedly:
"Sit down, and let me 'look at you. You
have grown so tall and commanding that-I am
half-afeaid of my owit.cousin. You are less
like Aunt Amny thtn formerly." ,        .
" Allow me to look at your painting first,
for it will soon be too dark to examine 'it.
This is the Cassandra of which you wrote me."
He stood before 'it for some moments in
silence, gind she watched him with breathless
eagerness-for his-opinion was of more value
to her than that of 'all the dilettanti and con-
noisseurs who would soon inspect it. Gradu-
ally his dark, cold face kindled, and she had
her-reward.:
"It is a masterly creation ;' a 'thing of won-
derful and .imperishable beauty; it 'is a great
success---as such the world will receive it-and
hundreds will proclaim your triumph. I am
proud of it, an dodbl proud of you."
He held out his hand, and, as she put her
£ngers in his, her head drooped and hot tears
blinded her. Praise from the lips she loved
best stirred her womanly heart as the applause
of the public could Aever 'dgl; and, in after
years, wheg grief and loneliness oppressed
her, these precious words rang sweet and sil-
very 'through the-darkened chambers of her
soul, working, miracles of. comfort infinitely
beyou    e,,potent spell of:-Indian O-U-Mor
mystic a.- Without perceiving her emotion
he con nued, with his eyes fixed on the pict-
ure: ..
..Some day you must make me a copy, and
I will, hang it over the desk. i} my office,
where I can feast.my eyes on  its rare loveli-
nee and my ears with.your praises from all
who see it. How long have you been at work
.upon it?"                          .
" I ean't recall the time when it .first took
hold of my imagination ; it paced by my side
when I was a cild, brooded .over me iin my'
troubled: dreams,-looked out from the pomp of
summely clouds and the dripping drab skies of
winter,-loated on snow-flakes, and flashed in
thunder-storms; but I outlined it about a year
ago. For my Exhibition picture, I wavere#l
long between 'this and an unfinished 'Antig-
one ; 'but finally decided in favor of Cassan-
dra.' -.-'.
" And selected wisely. While lb Etirope I
saw, in a private house, an .exquisite' head of

the ' Erythracen Sybil,' which somewhat ,re-
sembles your painting. The position is almost
identical--the nose, mouth, and chin very
similar; but the'glory of' this,Cassandra is the
supernatural eyes, brimful of prescience. It
might afford matter for curious speculation,
however, and some time we will trace,the subtle
law of association of ideas by which two ar-
tists, separated'by the Atlantic and by cen-
turies, chanced, under totally different cr--
cumstances, to portray similarly the two dis-
tinct prophetesses who both foretold the doom
of Troy."
." If such is.the case, the world will be very
sceptical of the coincidence. I did not even
know that there was an ' Erythrwan Sybil,'
much less a picture of her ; so much for igno-
rance!. The critics who 'knew that I did not
paint your portrait, simply because it was well
done, will swear that I stole the whole of m'
Cassandra," answered Electra, perplexed and
troubled.'
."You nee not look so rueful, and' plough
your forehead with that heavy frown. -In all
probability I am the only, person in New York
who has seen the other picture ; and, granting
the contrary, the resemblance might not be
detected. If you suffer it to annoy you, I sha,11
be sorry that I mentioned it. Yet, I doubt not,
the withering charge of plagiarism ,has often
been hurled in the face of an honest worker
quite as unjustly as it would be in your case.
Very startling coincidences sometimes occur
most innocently ; but'carping envy is a thrifty
plant, and flourishes on an astonishingly small
amount of soil."
"Who painted that Sibyl ?"  --
" It is not known positively..  Traveling
through the northern part of France, I was
detained some hours at a village, and employed
the delay' in rambling about -the suburbs.
Following a'winding road it brought me to -
the enclosure of a chateau, and I leaned o;
the fence and admired the parterre, which was
uncommonly pretty. The owner happened
to be=among his flower-beds, saw.me, and, with
genuine French politeness and, urbanity, in-
sisted'that I should enter and rest myself
while he gathered me a bouquet of mignonette
and pinks. The afternoon was warm, and I
asked.for a glass of water. He took me into
the house, and og the parlor wall hung this
picture. It riveted my attention, and flattered,
doubtless, by shy evident admiration,-he gave.
me its history.. IIis father had fouhd it at a
picture-shop-in Germany, I forget now exactly
where, and bought it for a Dolce, bit doubt-
ed its genuineness;.. and my host, who seemed
thoroughly au fait in. Art matters, asserted
that it .belonged to a 'much earlier school-.
That-is all that I or the owner know of it; so .
dismiss the subject from your mind." .
." I. shall not, I promise' :you.. Give me -
minute directions, and .I will hunt.up chateau,
mignotiette,' gentlemanly proprietor, Sibyl,

. aid all. Who knows but metempsychosis may'
be true after all, and that the painter's soul
possesses me bodily, striving to portray the
archetype which haunted him in the last-stage
of existence-?  According to Vaughan, the
Portpguese have a superstition that the soul of
a man who has died leaving some duty unful-
filled, or promised work unfinished, is'- fre-
quently known to enter into another person,
and, dislodging for a time, the rightfulsoul-oc'
cupant, impel him unconsciously to complete
-what was lacking."
"1You are growing positively paganish,
Ele'ctra, from constant association with the
dead deities of classic ages, and I must reclaim
you. Come, sit down, and tell me something
of your life since the death of your friend,
Mr. Clifton.".
" Did youreceive my last letter, giving' an
account of Mrs. Clifton's'death ?"
" Yes; -just as I stepped upon the platform
of the carsit, was. handed to me. 1I had heard
nothing from you, for so-long, that I thought it
was 'time to look after you.'
. "You had started, then, before you knew,
that I was going to Europe?"'
"' Yes."
-  He could not understand the instantaneous
change which came over .her countenance--
the illumination followed as suddenly- by a
smile, half-compassionate, half-bitter.' She
pressed one hand to her heart, and. said:.
"6Mrs. Clifton never seemed to realize' her'
son's death, though, after paralysis took place,
and shei became' speechless, I thought she re-
covered her memory in some degree., She
survived him just four months, and, doubtless,
was'saved much grief by her unconsciousness
of what had. occurred. Poor old lady ! she
suffered little for a 'year past, and died, I hope,
without paiif. I have the consolation of know-
ing that 'I did all that could be done to pro-
mote her comfort. Russell, I wodld not live
here for any consideration.; nothing but a-
sense of 'duty has detained me this Tong. I
promised him that I would - not forsake- his
mother. But you can have no adequate con-
ception' of 'the feeling ,of desolation which
comes over me when I sit here during the long
evenings. He seems'ratching me frompicture-
frame and pedestals; his face--his pleading,
. atient,' wan face-haunts me perpetually.
And yet I tried to make him happy; Godi
knows I 'did my duty."       -
'She sprang up and paced the'room for some
moments, with her hands behind her, and
tears glittering- oi her'cheeks. Pausing at
last on the rug, she pointedto a lai'ge square
object closely shrouded, and added:
4Yonder stands his last picture , unfinished.
The day he d he put a 'few feeble strokes
uponit, and bequeathed the completion of the
taek to me. For several year he worked oc-
.casionally on it, but much remains to be done.:
It is tlie ' Death of Socrates.'; I have not even

looked at it since that night; I do not intend
to touch it until after I visit Italy ;.I doubt
whether my hand will' ever.be steady enough
to give 'the last strokes.  Oh, Russell! t ii
olden time, the cottage-days seem-far; far off
to me now 1"
Leaning against the mantle-piece she-drop
ped her head on her hand, but when he ap
broached and stood at the opposite corner he .
saw that the tears had dried.
" Neither of us has had a sunny life, Electra;,
both have had numerous obstacles to contend
with ; both'have very bitter memories. Orig-
'inally 'there was a pertain parallelism in our
characters, but with our growth grew the di-
vergence.  You: have preserved the' nobler
part of your :nature better than I; for my
years I am farolder than you; none of the
brightness of mr boyhood segms to ,linger
about me. Contact with'- the world is an in-
durating process ; I really'-did note know how
hard I had grown, until I felt my heart soften
at 'sight of you.  .need  you to keep-the
kindly charities and gentle amenities of life
before me, and, 'therefore, I'.have cone for
you. 'But for my '(poverty, I never would,
have given you up so long; I felt thatit
wduld be for your advantage, in snore than.
one respect, to remain with Mr. Clifton un-
til, I had 'acquired my profession.' I knew
that you would enjoy privileges here which
I could not give -you"iu  my straitened =cir
cumstances.   Things have changed .; *r.
Campbell has admitted me to partnership;.
my success I consider an established fact.
Give up, for a season, this projected tour of
Europe ; . wait till I can go, with you, till I
can' take you; go back to W    -    with
me.. You can continue your art-studies, if you
wish it; you can prosecute them there as well
as here. .You are ambitious, Electra; so am 1;
let us work together."
She raised 'her head and .looked  at the
powerful, nobly-proportioned forp, 4'rand,
kingly face, calm and colorless,:the large,
searching black 'eyes, within whose baffing
depths lay -all'the mysteries of mesmeriun,
and a spasm of pain seized her 6wn features.
She shaded her brow, and 'answered':
"No, Russell, I could not entertain that
thought an instant."
"Are you too proud .to accept a home from'
me
" Not too proud, exactly ; but, as long as'I
have health, J mean to make a support. I
will not burden you.".
"What bunglers you' women are atlogiol
The thought'of living on my charity alfrights
you, and yet you fly from me to the cold ehaii-
ty of the 'world-for :what else is flesti ng'
fickle public favor-fitful public patronage 'or
praise ?"'
"Full value received fori benefit rendered is
not charity;a beeide, Russell, yoiu, too~seek ad
subsist~uponi this same fickle public favor."

M

MACAlRIA.

.


94

MALARIA.

" Partially, I grant you; but I ground my.
claims far deeper than ,you; I strike down,
*taking root in the substratum of selfishness.
Interest, individual interest, is.the outpost of
which Isam paid to be the sentinel; 'stern ne-
cessity is my guardian angel, compelling 'all
men. to see that my, wages are inviolate. I
stand in the great brain market-place, and
deal with mankind in the normal, every-day
manifestations of avarice,,selfishness, or hate ;
.profit and .loss the ,theme-dollars- or blood
,the currency. .1M. Quetelet, one of the most
eminent ,statisticians of Europe, - has proved
that, in a given population, a given number of
crimes will annually be committed ; so.you see
that, in this market, also, production keeps
pace with consumption, and legal counsel is
necessitated. 'On the contrary, you address
yourself to a class of-emotions fluctuating and
short-lived--common to comparatively few-
involving no questions of utility-luxuries, not
necessities. Yours is a profession ofcontingen-
dies; not so mine; for injustice, duplicity,
theft, are every-day, settled certainties. A
man will give me one-half of his estate to save
the. other, which the chicane of his neighbor
threatens."
"And ,if that villanous, avaricious neighbor
had employed you half an hour before the in-
jured man sought to engage your services ?"
" Why, then, the lawyer next in his estima-
tion gets the case, and it is resolved into a
* simple question of his- superior adroitness,
.acumen, and industry, or mine. The world is
hard upon lawyers, its faithful servants,' and
holds them up as'moral monsters to the very
children whose mouths their labor fills with
bread.; An erroneous and most unjust i-
pression prevails that a lawyer of ability, plus
extensive practice,' equals 'Bacon, Jefries,
Impey, or some other -abnormal disgrace to.
jurisprudence ; whereas, the sole object of the
institu  nof law is to secure right, justice,
and tr.  ,You are opening your lips to ask
if the"ast is not often wilfully suppressed ?
Remember that even. the Twelve found a.
Judas among their number, -and the provision
of counsel is to elicit truth, and all the truth,
on both sides. I bring testimony in defence of
all that. is susceptible of proof in my client's
favor, and it is the business of the opposite
counsel to do likewise ; if he neglects his duty,
or, through lack of intellect, suffers me to gain
thecease, even a ainst real justice,.am I culpa-
ble? 1 did my .duty; he failed to defend his
eause, however righteous, and on his.shoulders
rest the turpitude."  '
"4Ah, Russell I you have taken a diploma in
the school of sophistry."
"1I. am- content' that you should think so,
since a recent great historian 'has decided that
the. Sophists were a sadly maligned sect, afnd,
-instead of bec'ommn a synonynse of reproach,
marited the everlatig gratitude of mankind,
a.s the tireless public teachersof Greece-the

walkin-school system of"Athe'ns in her impe-
rial, palmy days."
"" I'never will believethat ! I wish to heaven
archeologists would let the dust of Athens
rent, instead of ploughing it up periodically
with the sacrilegious shares of newfangled
theories."
" And thereby exhuming the mouldering
bones of some of your favorite divinities, I sup-
pose, ? The literary philhellenism of the pres-
ent age, and especially its philologic tendency,
is fast hunting the classic spectres of the heroic
times ,into primeval shade. Old-fogyism in
literature is considered,.I believe, quite as un-
pardopable as in politics.  Take care how
you handle the Sophists, for I hold that they
differed in but one respect from your hero,
Socrates." -
" You shall not insult his mefnory by any
such, disgraceful association," interrupted, his'
cousin.          .
" And that difference," he continued, with-
out heeding her, " consists. in the fact that
they taught for money, .while he scorned to
accept remuneration. Sydney Smith main-
tains that ' Socrates invented common-sense
two thousand years ago, as Ceres invented the
plough, and. Bacchus intoxication.' -1 should
receive the dictum  more, readily if he had
pocketed the honest wages'of his talents, in-
stead of deluding himself with the belief that
he was the heaven-appointed regenerator of
Athens, and making his labors purely eleemo,
synary, to the possible detriment of his family.
Whd knows but that, after all, .Xantippe de-
served a place in martyrology,'having- been
driven to paroxysms of rage and desperation,
by an empty purse or wretched household
derangements, victimized by her husband's
cosmopolitan. mission; forsit is a notorious fact
that men who essay to manage tle Qpinions of
the world invariably neglect their domestic
affairs, and'allow them to'run to ruin."
" Five years ago you would not have said,
that, Russell, and I think  it :questionable
whether you believe it all now. I hold my
profession a nobler one than yours, and dis-
pute your- predicate that it involves, as utility.
Whatever tends to exalt, to purify, to .enno-
ble, is surely useful;- angl Aesthetics, properly
.directed, is one of the most powerful engines
of civilization. 'See what it wrought for
,Athens."      .
" You inistake effect for cause. The free-
dom of. Athens was the lever which raised itf
tosuch'a pitch of glory ; as a 'sequence, the
arts flourished rand beauty was apotheosized,
When freedom   perished the arts received
their death-blow, and, impotent to preserve
the prosperity of the 'city, shed 'a lingering'
halo around its melancholy but majestic ruins. '
Tfhat- aesthetics and utility arl syn~onyeies is
an axiom which might find acceptation in
' Bensalem ;' but. in this intensely practical,
mechanical epoch of human history, and this

I

I

/

S

MACARIA.

95

money-making quarter of the globe, you-mus
educate the masses up to an entirely differen
level before you can expect 'them to receiv
it."
"1And, so Par as my feeble influence extends
or my'limited ability will permit, I purpose t
become such a teacher. Do not laugh at fne
" Russell, I beg of you."
"I smile at the beautiful dream, rather thai
the enthusiastic  dreamer.  So, doubtless
drean ed Phidias, Praxiteles, and the Rhodiar
Trio, and only a few time-corroded blocks o
marble remain in attestation. Cui bono ?"
" Yours and nine !-for dead nations, an
for- generations yet unborn, who ,shall gaze
upon their noble and imperishable monuhments
'You'are worse than Goth or Vandal, if you
can ignore their-softening, spiritualizing infln
ence--for even they, rude 'and untutored
bowed before' their immortal beauty. What
has come over you, Russell, hardening your
nature, and sealing the sources of genial, gen-
nine appreciation ?"
"The icy breath of experience, the crystal
izing touch of years. .You must .not 'be so e
vere upon me, Electra; many a time, si ce
we parted, I. have left my-desk to watch a gor-
geous sunset, and for a few minut-es fancy my
self once more leaning on the garden-gate of
my early home. I love beauty, but I subordi-
nate it to the practical utilities of life. 'have
little time for msthetic musings; I lite among
disenchanting commonplace realities.  It is
woman's province and prerogative to gather up
the links of beauty, and bind them as a gar-
land round her home;'to fill it with the fra-
grance of dewy 'flowers, the golden light of
western skies, the low soothing strains, of' iu-
sic, which can chant all care to rest; which
will 'drown the' clink of dollars and cents, and
lead a man's thoughts to purer, loftier themes.
Ah I there is'no apocalypse of joy and peace
like a happy home, .where a;.woman of ele-
gance and refinement goes.to and fro. ''This
recalls the object of my 'isit. You say,' truly,
.that full value received for benefit rendered
is not charity.; apply your principle, come to
W  .    '.,share my future, and what fortune
I may find assigned me. I have bought the
cottage, and 'intend to build a handsome house
there some day, where you and Mr. Campbell
and I can live peacefully. You shall twine
your aesthetic fancies all about it, to make it
picturesque enough to suit your fastidious a-
tistic taste. Come,. and save .me from what
you consider my worse' than vandalian pro-
clivities. I came here simply:and solely in the
hope of prevailing on you to return with me.
I make this request,'not 'because. I think it,
will be expected of me, but fo' more selfish
reasons'-because it ,is a matter- resting very
near my heart."               .-  .
" Oh, Russell! you tempt me."
'" I wish to do so. My blood beats in -your
4eins ; you are the only relative I value, and

t were you indeed my sister I should scarcely
t love you more. With all'a brother's interest
e why should I not claim'a brother's right to
keep you with me-at least until you find your
s, Pylades, and give him a higher claims before
o God and man     Electra, were I your brother
, you would require no persuasion ; why hesi-
tate now ?"
h    She clasped her hands behind her, as if for
, support in some fiery ordeal, and, gathering
n up her strength, "spoke rapidly, like oi' who
f fears that resqlutioin will fail" before some nec-
essary senten e is pronounced.
d    " You are very kind and generous, Russell,
e and for all that you'have offered me I thank
. you from the depths of a full heart. The con-
u sciousness of ygur continued interest and af-
- fection is inexpressibly precious; but' my dis-
, position is too much, like your own to suffer
t me to sit down in idleness, while there' is so'
r much to be done ' in the world. I, too, want
- to earns a noble reputation, which wilt sur-
vive long after I have been gathered to my
- fathers; I wantto accomplish some work,;look-
- ing upon which, my' fellow-creatures'will pro-
claim: ' That woman' has .not lived in 'vain
- the world is better and happier because she
" came and labored in it.'I want my name
carved, not on monumental marble only, but
upon the -living, throbbing heart of my ae !
stamped indelibly on the generation ii which
my lot is cast. Perhaps,1 am too sanguine of
success; a grievous disappointment may await
xl1 my amltious hopes, but failure will come
from  ant of genius, not- lack of persevering,
patient toil. -Upon the threshold of my ca-
reer, facing the loneliness of' coming years, I
resign that, hope' with which, 'like a golden
thread, most women embroider their future.
I dedicate myself, my life, unreservedly to
Art."
"You believe that you will be , happier
among the marble and canvas of Italy ian in
W   ' - with me?".      $
" Yes;.I shall be better satisfied there. All
my life it has gleamed afar off, a glorious land
of promise to my eager,longing spirit. From
childhood I have cherished the hope ofleach'
ing it, and the fruition is near at hand. Italy !
bright alma mater of the art to which 1 con-
secrate my years. Do you wonder that, like
a lonely child, I stretch, out my arms toward
it ?  Yet my stay there will be but for a sea= .
son. I go to complete my studies, to make
myself a more perfect instrument for my noble
work, and then I shall come home-come, iot
to New York, but to . my own dear native'
South,,toW   - , that I may labor under the
shadow of its lofty pines 'and within heai'ing
of its murmuring river--diarer tome than
classic Arno or immortal Tiber:, I wrote d
that Mr. Clifton had left moe a legacy, which,
judiciously invested, will defrayy my exenses
in Europe, where' living is cheaper 'tha in
this country. 'Mrs Young has taken charge of

4


MALARIA.

the, money for me, and has kindly offered to'
attend to my remittances. Aunt Ruth'sfriends,
the Richardsons, consented to wait -for me
until: after the opening of the Exhibition of
the Acadeiny of Iesign, and one week from
tomorrow we, expect to sail,"
' What do you, know of the .family ?"
"Nothing, except that'the lady, who is an
old friend of my aunt, is'threatened with con-
sumptiori, and ha's- been advised to spend. aj
yearaor two in Florence. Aunt Ruth took me
to see her the other day ; she seems intelligent
and agreeable, and, I dare say, I shall find her
kind and pleasant enough."
" Since such is- the programme you have
marked out, I trust that no disappointments
await you, and that all your bright dreams
may. be realized. But, if it should prove
otherwise, and you grow weary of your art,
sick of isolation, and satiated with Italy, re-
member that I shall-welcome you home, and
gladly share with you all that I possess. You
are embarking in an experiment which thou-
sands have tried before you, and wrecked hap-
piness upon; but I have no right to control
your future, and certainly no desire to discour-
age you. At all events, I hope our separation
will be brief."
A short silence followed,,broken at last by;
Electra, who watched him-kee'nly as she spoke.'
';Tell me something about Irene. Of'course,
in a sinall town like '   , you must see
her frequently."
" By no means. I think I have seen her
but three times . since her, childhood -'once
riding with her father, then'"accidentalfy at
church, and again, a few. evenings before I
left, at the graveyard, where she was dressing
a tombstone .with flowers. There we ex-
changed n few words for the fist time, and
this reminds me that I. Am bearer of a message,
yet undelivered. She inquired after you, and
desired me to tender you her love and best
wishes.-'
. He neither started fior changed color at
the mention of Irene's name, but straightened
himself,.and buttoned to the, throat the black
coat,-which, from the warmth of the room,,he
had partially loosened.
"Is she not a great belle ?"
".I. presume few women have been more ad-
mired than she is. .I hear much of her beauty
'and the sensation which it creates wherever
she.goes ; but the number of her suitors is
probably limited, front the fast that it is gener-
ally known she is engaged to her cousin, young
Seymour."
"'I can not believe that she loves him."
"«Oh i that is not necessary to 'latter-day
matrimonial contracts; it is an obsolete clause,
net 'essential to legality, and utterly ignored.,
She is bound-. hand atnd foot, and her. father
will, immolate her on the altar of Mehxey."' -
He smiled bitterly, and crossed his arms
over his chest.

~.  tI

"You mistake her character, Russell. I
know her better, and I tell you there is none.
of theiphigenia in her nature.":.
" At least I do not mistake her'father's, and
I pity the woman whose fate rests in his iron
grasp."
graShe holds hers in her own hands, small
and white though they are; and, so surely as'
the stars shine above us, she will marry only
where she loves.. She has all the will which
has rendered .the -name of her farnily prover-.
bial. 'I have her here in crayons; tell me what
you think of the likeness."
She took down a portfolio and selected the
head of her quondam playmate, holding it
under thelgaslight,,sand still -scrutinizing her
cousin's countenance. . He took it, and looked
gravely, earnestly, at the lovely features.
"It scarcely does her justice: Idoubt wheth-
er any portrait ever will.-. Beside, the expres-
sion of her face has changed materially since
this was sketched. There is a harder outline
now about her mouth, less of dreaminess in.
the eyes , more of cold hauteur in the whole
face. IF you desire it, I can, in one line of
Tennyson, photograph her proud beauty; as I'
saw her mounted on her. favorite hdrse the
week that I left home;
'"raultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly nulli"'
He laid thedrawing back in' the open port-
folio, crossed the room, and took up his hat.
"Where are you going, Russell ?  Can't you
spend the evening with nm at Aunt Ruth's ?"
' "No, thank you; I must go. There is to be
a great political meeting at Tammany Hall to-
night, and I am particularly anxious to attend."
" What ! are-you, too, engaged in watching
the fermentation of the political vat ?"
" Yes ; I-am most'deeply interested ; nq true
lover of his country can fail to be so at ,this,
juncture."
"How long will you be in New York i"  .
"Since I cannot persuade you to return
with me, my stay here will be shortened; One
of our courts meets soon, and, though M.
Campbell will be there to attend to the cases,
I, want, if 'possible, .to be present., I shall re-
turn day after to-morrow. And now good-
night ; I will see you early in the morning."
The door closed behind him, and she remain-
ed standing. for some time just as he left her.
Slowly the folded hands shrank from each
other, and dropped nerveless to her side'; the.
bright..glow in her cheeks, the dash of crimson
on her lips, faded ffrom both; the whole face
relaxed into an expression:of hopeless agony.
Lonely.as Moses when he 'calmly climbed .Nebo
to die, she'bowed herself a despairing victim
upon the grim, flint-fronted altar of Necessity-.-
Curio;usly subtle and indomitable is woman's,
heart -.o often the jest bf the Ilippalit and4
unthinking, the sneer of the 'unscrulously
calculating, or mercilessly cynicaL. It had long
been no secret to this woman that she geccu-

I

MACARIA. .

9?

pied the third place in her cousin's af'ections
was but atdweller of the vestibule.  Her pri
had been tortured, her vanity sorely wounded
yet, to-night, purified from all dross, love--r
invincible,, triumphant, from, the, crucible
long and severe trial-sublime in,'its isolatio
asking, expecting no return--
"Self-girded with torn' strips or hope."
Such is -the love of a true woman.' G
help all such, in this degenerate world- of oui
socursed with shams'and counterfeits.
Raising her tearless, shadowy eyes to ti
woeful face of her Cassandra,.Electra extend
ed bec arms and murmured:
"Alone henceforth! a pilgrih in' foreii
lands ! a solitary worker among strangers.  S
be it! I am strong enough to work alone. S
be it !"
The flaming sword of the'Angel of Destin
waved her from the Eden of her girlish dad
dreams, and by its fiery gleam she read th
dim, dun future ; saw all-
"The long mechanic pacings to anl fro,
The set gray life, and apathetic end."
CHAPTER XXI.
Don't you know that even granite mil
stones finally grind themselves into impalpabl
powder?    You give yourself no rest, Aubrey
and human machinery wears rapidly."
" But if the powder ground be golden ?"
"Th       , dust is but dust still, despite its glitter
and fills men's eyes and dims their vision lik
any other dust ; ending often in a moral oph
thalmia past cure.
"'The plague of gold strikes far and near,
.ud deep and strong it enters.
This purple cliimar which we wear,
Makes madder than the centaur's;
Our thoughts grow blank, our words grow strange,
We cheer the pale gold-diggers;
Bach soul is worth so much ona'Change,
And marked, like sheep, with egures.
'    .Be pitiful, o God!'"
"I should really dislike to think that yot
had become a confirmed, inveterate chrysolo-
gist. - Take time, Aubrey I take time; you
are overworked, and make months press upon
your brow more heavily than years on most
men's.. After all, my dear fellow, as.Emerson
says, 'Politics is a deleterious profession, like
some poisonous handicrafts.' I sometimes feel
like drawing a long breath for yott; it wearies
me to hook at you-you are such a concent-rted
extract of work I work ! Simply for this
reason, I sent for you to come ani.take a cup
of tea withme."                          up 1
'" Have been too much engaged of late to
spare an evening to merely io ial claims. .A
man~ whose I#fe rests at his fea~tto be 'Jifted~tsp
somis fitting 'pedestal; has little leisure for the'
-luxury of friendly visiting." -
The two were ia Erie 'Mitehell's pleasant

- library. Russell sat in an arm-chair, arid the
de master ofthe house reclinedon.lounge
d ; dr awn near thd hearth. ;The mellow glow of
iso the lamp, the flash and crackle of the ,ir, the
of~ careless, lazy posture; of the ,invalid, lhe
n, tokened quiet comfort, save the dark   ed
face anderect, restless figure of the guest.
"But, Aubrey, a man whp has already
achieved. somuch should be content to est a
rd while, and move more slowly."
s, ".That depends altogether on the nature and
he distance of his goal."
d-   :And that goal is-what ?"
'Men, call it by a variety of name' hoping
to, scape Lucifer's fate by adroitly cloaking
o Lucifer's infirmity."
" Yes; and whenever I look at you toiling
so ceaselessly, climbing so surely to mine ce,
1 am forcibly reuindedof Macaulay's fine'paa--
y sage; on' the hollowness of political,.life. 'A
e" pursuit from which, at n'ost, they can only ex-
secit, py relinquishing liberal; studies and
ial pleasures, by' passing nights without
sleep and summers without one, glin ,se of
the beauty of nature,.they mayattaim t at a,-
borious, that invidious, that closely-watched
slavery which is, mocked ,with the' name of
power.' You have not asked my opinion of
your speech."          .
l    "I was; not aware that-;ou heard it.".-
e " Of course note but I read it; jAnd, let rme
,o tell you, it was a great speech, a iriasterly ar-
gument,, that will make a lastingi'mpression
upon the.people. It has greatly changed the
', vote-of this county already,"
e , "You mistake appearances; the-seed fell in
- good sail, but party spirit came, as fowls of the
air, and devoured them."
"At any rate, it produced a profound, im--
pression on public opinion and startled some of
our political a riar-s."
o, a, mere transitory effect; they have
folded their arms and gone to sleep ag 'p
am, of course, gratified by your favorat'4ap-
preciation of my eF'ort,- but I diffet wit you
as 'to-its result.  The" ploughshare of' naked
truth must thoroughly subsod the mi' f' the
Southern states before the futureofbe'coun
try is realied in.any degree; as yet, the eur
face has been but slightly gr  . he hydra-
-eaded foe of democracy is slowly bt certain-
coiling around 'our Aamrican. 'eagle, and
will crush it, ifnott seared.promptly.. Bet,
Mr, Mitchell,the "flamig' rands' are. not
"To what hydra doyou alludl?" '
Demagogism, of course' lo     was the
prototype of a' numerous class; t ha shbl. is
flourishing vigorongly at th  north, and hs
toner 'a sraiher e. .'Thp4,eJed itst roo4
istence are -numbed" "
History proves it an .ivasble 'cnox.
from than. antgonsi t e itra'6%

/,

1.


MACARIA.

"Taou confound the ass and abuse of a sys-
tea. Civilization is, indisputably, a blessing:
tofour iaee,'-yettan abuie of the yery improve-
ments and discoveries that constitute its glory
nails incalculable sorrow and.swells criminal
statistics.  The march"of medical science has
induced the ladministering of deadly 'poisons
with the happiest results, when -skilfullf di-
rested; yet it sometimes happens that fatal
effects follow an overdose.  Powerful politi-
cal'levers should be handled judiciously--not
thrown into the clutches of ignorant einpiries."
"Ijniversal suffrage is not your hobby,
then?"'
"On the contrary, I hold, with one of the
most brilliant statesmen this country everpro-
duced,dthat' it is the Greek horse introduced
into the citadel'of-Anerican liberties and 'sov-
ereignty."'
"On my honor, Iam astounded at hearing
you quote and endorse a dictum of Hamilton.
The 'millennium can't be -far off, when demo-
crat' seek illustration from federalism !"
"Igotry in politics is as indefensible as in,
religion'or science. -Truth is a sworn foe to
mdhopoliats; is the exclusive right of no one
'otgaaization or party that ' ever waxed and
waned.  I am a democrat ; I believe in liberal,
enlarged, but not universal suffrage; it is a
precious boob,  any;.'hould be hedged about
with. ca 'ous restrictions. The creation of
the ephor was a sort of compromise measure,
' co cession tolappease' the peopleLof Sparta,
and, as.an extension 6f the elective franchise,
was most deplorable in its results. Universal
suffrage always recalls to my mind the-pithy.'
criticism of Anacharsis, the Scythian philoso-
pher, on the Solonian code, which lodged too
'much :power in the' hands eof the people :
'Wise men debate' /but. fools decide.' Mr.
Mitchell, it. matters little whether We have
'one oi-' one hundred million tyrants if our
riglta are trampled; it is a mer' question of
'tastelwhether-you call the despot Czar, lDicta-
tor or Ballot-bdx. 'The masses are electrical,
anti valu'able principles of government should
be kepijtheyend the reach of explosion."
'  And, except'in a powerful centralization,
where could"you place them"for safety ?"
* 4 They are:already. deposited in the consti-'
tution. I ould}Fin order.to secure them,'ex-
' tend our naturalization'laws so as to restrict
,tle foreign vote, limit'the right of suffrage by
fixing a property qualification, make the ten-
ure of our judiciary, offices for life or ,good
behavior, andlengthen the term of administra-
tio  ''our chief magistrate, thereby diminish-
.ing the frequency of popular elections, which,
in offering premiums for :demsagogism, -'has,
been a prol lo use of mischief. °n-examin-
ing the stjitistics of the Itorthern and Western
states aecently,. and 'noting sthe dangerous
sepults4fite cade foreign vote, I was forci-
b~ly'temais4d of' a' passage in Burke's t Refiec-
tions on dte Fredo Revolution:-' 'Those *vho

attempt to level never equalize. In all socie-
ties, consisting of various, descriptions of citi-
.seps, some description must be uppermost.
The levellers, therefore, only change and per-
vert the natural -order' of things ; they load
the edifice of society by setting up in the air
what the solidity of the structure requires to
'be on the ground.' The day is not far distant,
I fear when.European paupers, utterly igno-
riant of our institutions, will determine who
shall sit in the presidential 'chair, and hove far
the constitution hall be observed. These are
grave truths, which the enlightened body of the
American people should ponder well ; but, in-
stead, they are made mere catch-words for
party purposes, and serve only to induce a
new scramble for office. It requires no extra-
ordinary prescience to 'predict that the great
fundamental principles of this government
will soon become a simple question of arithme-
tic-will lie at the mercy of an unscrupulous
majority. The surgig waves of Northern
faction and 'fanaticism already break omi-
nously against.our time-honored constitutional'
dykes, and if the South would strengthen her
bulwarks there is .no time to be slept or
wrangled away."
As he spoke, Russell's eyes fell upon a large
oval vase on the mantle-piece filled with rare
exotics, whose graceful tendrils were tastefully
disposed into a perfumed fringe. Rising, he
looked carefully at the brilliant hues, and said,
as he bent-to inhale their fragrance:
" Where do you grow such flowers at this
season ?"
"'Irenebrings them almost every day from
the greenhouse on the hill. . She takes ap e-
culiar pleasure in arranging them inmy va es.
I think she stood a half-hour yesterday twin-
ing and bending those stems the way she
wanted, their to hang. They. are so brittle'
that I snap the. blossoms off, but in her hands
they seem pliable enough."
Russell' withdrew  the fingers which -'had
wandered caressingly amid the delicate leaves,
and, reseating himself; took a book from his'
pocket.              - -    -.Of
" Mr. Mitchell, I dare say  ou recollect a
discussion which we had, some months ago, re-
garding.the Homeric unityquestion?  Since
that time I have been looking into Payne
Knight's views on the subject, and 'am more
than ever convinced that the German theory
is incorrect. I will read a portion of his argu-
ment, and leave the book for you to' examine
at your leisure."
'' By all means! But I thought 'your red-
tape. gyves kept.,you from  archaologic re-
searches ?"
It -is true they do bind me tighter than I
sometimes relish ; 'buta we 'are all in bondage;
more   l ess, Ahnd, since one must, sub'iui to
tyrany I prefer a stern utaster."'R e 'drew,
hi chs nearer the 'lamp and began to read'
alu. 'Nearly a half-hour passed tusy when

I6

MACARIAT

I

the library-door was opened hastily and Ires
came in, dressed magnificently in .party co
tume.  She stood a moment, irresolute 'ai
surprised, with her eyes fixed on Russell'
then'both bowed silently, and she came to t
fire-.
"How are you,: Uncle Eric ? You loo
flushed-feverish." She, laid her cold pearl
hand on 'his forehead and stood at'his side.
'"Tolerably comfortable, thanks to Mr. Au
brey, who has made me almost forget . m
headache. You will be fashionably late at th
party to-night."
"'Yes ! as usual;, but for a better reaso
than because I wish to be fashionable..
Wanted to know.how you were, and, as Fathe
was not quite :ready, 1, came in advance- an
sent the carriage back foi- him and Hugh.
was not aware that you were in Mr. Aubrey
hands for the evening. You were reading,,
believe ; pardon my intrusion, and do not'le
me interrupt you."
" Sit down, Irene ; here, child, where I car
look 4t you. We can. both bear such an in
terruption."
Russell closed the volume, but kept hi
finger in the leaves, and -his fascinated eye
went back to the face and form of the heiress
The- dress was of heavy blue silk, -with 'ar
overskirt and bertha of rich white lace, loop
ed with bunches of violets and geranium leaves
" the rippling hair was drawn smoothly over
the pure brow and coiled at the back of th
head under a blue and silver, netting, from
which fuchsias of turquoise and pearl hung
low on the polished neck. The arms and
shoulders gleamed like ivory as the lamplight
glowed over her; and, save the: firm, delicate
crimson lips, there was no stain of' color 'in the
cold but superbly beautiful face. It was the
first time they had met since that evening
at the cemetery, many months before. Lift-
ing her splendid violet eyes, she niet his gaze
an instant, and, tapping the book, Russell
asked, with quiet nonchalance: '
"Where do you.stand, Miss Huntingdon, in
this 'vexed Wolfian controversy concerning
the authorship of the Iliad and Odyssey?"
" I would render unto Cesar the things
'that are Cmsar's."g
" Equivocal, of course 1-a woman's answer,"'
laughed her ugcle.
" Explicitly, then, I believe that, as Scott
absorbed the crude minstrelsy of.Scotland, and
-reproduced national songs and legends under
a fairer, sweeter form, so 'Homer, grand old
blind eclectic, gathered the fragmentary myths
of heroic ages, and, 'clothing'them with the
melody of .wandering Greek rhapsodists, gave;
to theworld. his wonderful epicA.+he first and
last specimen of composite poetic architects-
,."You ascribe the OOyssey, then, to a diffar-
-ent author and a lafer period ?" asked Mr.
Mitchell. '

.  1

ne    4I am ,too little versed in philology to de
)s- terrine so grave a question, My acquaint-
id ance with Greek is limitedand I am not Oem-
s, petent to the task of onside  ll h
he h ience in. favor of  identity. of;auth ship "
She put 'on her' ite cashmere bloak
k stood still a-moment, istening.
y    " Good-night, Un e Eric ;the carriageis
coming. I believe  should know tho tramp
a- of those horses amid' regiment of cavalry.
y    " Why needyoh      menca a      r
e father come in."
"1 'will spare' aim that trouble.  Good-
n night, Mr. Aubre
I   She-burned to  ave the room, but, in gath-
r ering her cloak  ound her, dropped her fai.
d Russell stooped o' pick it up, and, as he, re-
I stored 'it, there. hands met. '  brow flushed,
's but.not even the pale  early 'glow of asa
I shell crept to her cheek., Again- she raised
t her eyes to his, and a haughty, 'dazzling smile
flashed over her face-as .sh inclined her head.
n    " Thank you, sir.
-   There was a brief silence, broken by Eric,
when the sound, of the carriage . had died
s away.
s   " Irene is the only perfectly beautiful wom-
an I ever"saw.; and yet, Aubrey, it makes the
n sad to watch her countenance."
-   "Whenever I see'-her- I can not avoid
. recalling an' old Scandinavian 'myth,. slie
realizes so fully my ideal Iduna stand  a
e the portals of Valhalla, offering apples of i-
mortality."
He returned at once to his book and read
I several pages, ofcasiohally 'pasn to call
t attention to some special passage; finally.he
rose and took his hat.
"it is early yet, Aubrey; don't go."
" Thank you; I must fulfil another en
meant "
"A word before you leave; will you be' a
candidate for the legislature ?"'
" Yes I was waited upon by'a committee
to-da    Gmy .am  will . be announced to-
daoro,. Good-night."
Slowly he walked back to town, ah n
upon the iain street, took a new pair of-govnce
from  his pocket, fitted them earsefull, and
directed his steps to the eleganrzt residence
whose approach was, well-nigh bloclk4 '4P
with carriages.. This was the second time that
he had been invited by the ,Iendersops,;and
he had' almost 'determined 'to decline as
formerly, but somethingin Ireenes :chill man-
ner changed his tresolution.:oe kn ew; frOm
various circumstances,'that the social 'diet
agahint him was beingr'evoked, in fashion le
circles; that'because: he hadrisen without'its
permissiol,:aidercoUntenaneapfin dfia e
of-its sneers,e'.worid:was'heginiing'todonrgi
'him.-A gloomy sepal sat on -his~ stpis 
he mounted the 'steps of 4the 'innson firim
AWhich hais mee and sufferig 'mother hd
borne burdlies'of plain wdrk, r delicrqtema a'


of embroidery, for the mother and daughter
*ho passed her in the street with a supercilious
stare.' Beau nande suddenly awoke to the
r eo!lection that, " after all, Mrs. Aubrey be-
longed' to one of. the M*ealthiest and first
fhilies in the Mtate." At first Russell had
proudly repelled all overtures, but gradually
he was possessed by ,a desire to rule in the'
very circle which had so long excluded his
fami y. Most folly he appreciated his position
'and the motiyes which actuated the social
autocrats of; W----; he was no longer the
pqor disgraced clerk, but the talented young
lawyer, and prospective heir,of Mr. Campbell's
wealth.. Bitterly, bitterly came memories of
early'trial,nd now the haughtiness of Irene's
manner stung him as nothing else could pos-
sibly have done. He was at a loss to compre-
bend this change in one *ho had dared so
much in order to assist his family, and proud
defiance arose in his 'heart.. It was ten o'clock ;
the fete was at its height,; the sound of music,
the shimmer of jewels, and rustle of costly
llks mingled with the hum of conversation
and the tread of dancing feet as Russell de-
posited hat and overcoat' in the dressing-room
And entered the blazing parlors. The'qua-
drille had just ended, and gay groups chattered-
in the centre of the room; among these, Maria
Henderson, leaning on Hugh's arm, and Grace
Harris, who had been dancing with Louis
Henderson. As, Russell crossed the floor to
speak to the host and hostess all eyes turned
upon him, and a sudden hush fell on the merry
dancers.          ,,...
"dCoaxed at last within the pale of civilia-
tion I how did you contrive it, Louis ?" asked
Maria.-..
"Oh I he declined when I invited him; but
I believe father saw hiuM afterward and renew-
ed the request. Do observe him talking to
mother; he is aspolished as if he had spent his
ife at court."
"He is ai man 'whom I never fancied ; but
that two hours speech pf his was certainly the
finest effort I eve' listened to. Caesar's am-
bition was moderate in comparison with
Aubrey's; and, somehow5 even against my
will, I can't help admiring him, he is so coolly'
independent," said Hugh, eyeing him curi-
ously.   '
«uslyheard' father.s aythat 'the democrats in-
tend to send him to the legislature next term,
and the opposition are bothered to match him
fully-. By the way, they speak of Mr.. Hun-'
tingdon for their candidate. .But here comes'
our hero, Miss Maria." ' As he spoke, Charlie
Harris drew back a few steps, and .suffered
Russell to speak, to the. young lady of the
house. Irene stood not far off, talking to the
bovrnor othstate, who chanced to be on
'udge Hrris and her father werae 'in earnest
aiton, hr eyes folowed him as he bowed

to the members of the central group ; and, as
she heard the deep rich voice above the buzz
of small-talk, she waited to see if h  would
notice her. Soon Governor G- gave her
his arm for a promenade, and she found her-
self, ere long, very-near Maria, who was ap-
proaching with Russell. He was saying some-
thing at which she laughed delightedly ; just'
then his eye fell on Irene; there was no token
of recognition on the part of either ; but the
governor, in passing, put out:his haid to shake
Russell's, and asked for Mr. Campbell. Again
and again they met during the ensuing hour,
but no greeting was exchanged ; then he dis-
appeared. As Irene leaned against the win-
dow-frame in the crowded supper-room she,
heard Charlie Harris gaily bantering Maria on
the events of. the evening.
' What have.you done with, Aubrey ?.. I
will challenge him before to-morrow morhing,
for cutting'me out- of my schottische with his
prosy chat."
" Oh 1 he left a half-hour ago; excused him-
self to mother on the plea of starting off to
court at daybreak. He is perfectly 'fascinat-
ing ; don't you think so, Grace'? Such eyes
and lips 1 and such a forehead !"
" Don't appeal to, me for corroboration, I
beg of you, Maria, for you really gave nobody
else an opportunity of judging. Take a
friendly hint, and do not betray your admira-
tion so publicly, answered the friend, pouting
her pretty childish lip.
S"1 see clearly that the remainder of us may
as well go hang ourselves at once for any fu-
ture favor we can expect, since My, Lord
Aubrey condescends to enter the lists. Miss
Irene, I have not heard you rhapsodizing yet
about the new sensation."
" I rarely rhapsodize about anything, sir."
" To whom does he allude?" asked Governor
G--, good-humoredly."
" To Mr. Aubrey; who is no stranger to you,
I believe."
". Ah ! Campbell's partner. I have had
some correspondence with him recently, and
when I met him at his office yesterday I was.
no longer surprised at the tone of his letters.
His intellect is one of the keenest in the state;
his' logical and analytical powers -are of the
rarest orders I shall watch hiscareer with
great interest. Campbell may justly be proud
of him."
If she had felt any inclination to reply, the
expression of her father's face discouraged her.'
He had joined them in time to hear the gov-
ernor's pulogium, and she saw a sneer distort
his features ashe listened. during the driveQ
'homeward Mr4 Huntingdon suddenly inter-
rupted a strain 'of Hugh's nonsense by ex-
clanreople have certainly lost common-senSe!i
Their memory is not as long as my~ little
fingr"
"hat is the matter, sir ? With what re.-

4

MALARIA.

I

to0o

MAcARIA.. .

i1

l

cent proof Qf imbecility have they favored from the cold realm of political economy; he
you ?"                                    closed the books, took off his watch, and
"The idea of that upstart wheedlinglthis wound it up, - It:wanted but three hours' to
community is utterly preposterous. His im- dawn'; but he heeded it not; the sight of the
pudence'is absolutely astounding., I am .as- massive old watch brought vividly back the
tonished that Henderson should, give him  boyish days of sorrow; and he sat thinking of
countenance '"                           that morning of shame, when Irene came'close
"The world has strange "criteria to deter- to him, nestling her soft little Hand in hi 
mine its verdicts. Ihis father was' sentenced and from some long-silent, dark, chill chan-
to be hung for committing murder; and my ber of memory leaped sweet, silvery,'childish
uncle, Clement Huntingdon, who deliberately echoes:
shot a man dead in a duel, was received in  " Oh, Russell! if I could only help you!"
social circles as cordially as if his hands were 'With .n involuntary sigh he arose, and,
not blood-stained. There was more of pallia- walking to the chimney, leaned his elbow e,
tion' in- the first case (one of manslaughter), the mantles *But it would not answer; the.
for' it was the hasty, accidental work. of a faint, delicious perfume of violets seemed to
moment of passion; in the last a cool, pre- steal up from the gray-ashes on .the hearth,
meditated taking of human life. But the and the passionless, peerless face of a queenly
sensitive, fastidious world .called one brutal woman followed him from the haunts of fash-
and disgraceful, and the other ' honorable ion.'. The golden-haired dreani of his early
satisfaction,'in which gentlemen could indulge youth had lost none of 'her former witchery.
with impunity by crossing state lines. 0 ten- she only shared the masteryy, of his heart
pora / 0 moresI"                      '. with stern, unrelaxing Ambition, and the gulf
As. Irene uttered these words she invol- which divided .them only enhanced thedepth,
untarily crushed her bouquet and threw it the holiness. of his love for her. Since his
from her, while Hugh.expected an explosion return from Europe he had accustomed; him-
of wrath on the part of his uncle. He merely self to think of her, as Hugli's wife ; but he
muttered an oath, however, and smoked his .found it daily more difficult to realize that
cigar in sullen silence, leaving the cousins to she could willingly give her hand to her heed-
discuss the events of the party during the re- less, self-indulgent cousin'; and now the alter-
mainder of the ride.                      ation in her manner toward him perplexed
Once more in his own room, at the quiet and grieved him. Did she-suspect the truth,
boarding-house, Russell lighted the gas-burner and fear that he might presume on her charity
over a small desk and sat down to mass of in by-gone years? '.To his proud spirit this
papers. The apartment was cold'; the fire had was a suggestion singulaly insulting, and he
long ince (lied out; the hdarth'looked ashy and had resolved to show her in futurethat he
desolate. There was nothing home-likeorcosy claimed not even a .nod of recognition. Inr-
in the aspect'of the room; the man lived at stead of avoiding her as formerly, he would
his office, and this was but a place to pass the seek occasions to exhibit an indifference which
brief unconscious hours of sleep. He had no he-little thought that-her womanly heart would
home-life, no social existence:; was fast becom- rightly interpret. le had found it more dif-
ing callous, impervious, to the gentler emotions ficult than lie supposed to keep ais attention
and kindly sympathies which domestic. ties chained to Maria's and Grace's gay nonsense;
foster and develop. No wdmanly touch left to prevent his eyes from wandering to 'the face
pleasant traces here, as in Erie's home; no whose image was enshrined iphis' lonely
graceful, luxurious trifles 'met the eye ; all heart; and now, with complex feelngs of ten-
things were cold and prim and formal. He deriess and angry defiance, he soughthi pil-
had no kindred and few friends, but unbound- low for a short respite before thejourney that
ed aspiration stood in lieu of both. Fortu- waited but for daylight.
lately for him, his great physical - strength  For a few weeks all W-- - was astir with
enabled hi'm to pursue a course of study which interest in the impending election ; ,newspaper
men of feebler .constitution could never have columns teemed with caustic articles, :and
endured. On the,.desk lay several volumes, Iuntingdon, and Aubrey clubs vilified each
carefully annotated for future . reference-  other with the. usual:.acrimony obf'. such occa-
Ricardo, Malthus, Say, and Smith. To these sions. Mr. Camp ell's influencewas exten-
he turned,,td busied himself in transferring sive, but the ,Luntingdon supporters',were
such .excerptsas suited.his purpose to an un- powerful, and the 'result seemed doubtfuliun-
finished M19S. designed for future legislative til the. week- previous. to the election,' when
service. The brilliant:smile which lighted his Russell, who had as yet taken no active ,art,
face an hour before, imparting 'an rresistible accepted the challenge of" histopponent t80 a
ohry had wholly faded, leaving the features public discussion. The meeting was held in
to their wonted grave immobility-the accus- front- of the cout-thoise; the .massive stone
tomed non-coninuttahism of the business-man of steps' serving- as a' temporary rostrum, 'tlhe
the world      "e measured tones of the watch- night was dark' and cloudybut hugehonfires
man on the twn-tower recalled him, finally, 'blazing barrelt of; pith, threw j luridTIAir


10MACAAIA.
over. the broad street, now converted into a ing the people of the state; warned the oppo-
sdrging sea of human heads.              sition of the probable results of their policy,
Surrounded by a committee of select friends if triumphant; and, with resistless eloquence,
Mr. Ituntingdon sat, confident of success; and pleaded for-a firm maintenai -e of the princi'-
when, the hiss of' rockets ceased, he came for- pies of his own party. He was, he averred,
ward and addressed'the assembly in an hour's no alarmist, but he proclaimed that the people
speech.  As a warm and rather prominent slept upon the thin having crust of a volcano
politician, he was habituated to the task, and  which would inevitably soon burst forth ;. and
bursts of applause from  his own party fre- the period was rapidly approaching when the
quently attested the effect of his easy, grace- Southern states, unless united and on the
ful ptyle and pungent irony.  Blinded by alert, would lie bound- at the feet of an in-
persodal hate, and hurried on by the excite- solent and rapacious Northern faction. ''He
ment of the hour, he neglected the cautious .demanded that, through the legislatures, the
policy which had hitherto been observed, and states should appeal to Congress for certain
fin '  launched into a fierce philippic against restrictions andguarantees which, if denied,
hi'antagost-holding .up for derision the would justify extreme measures on the part of
;melancholy fate of hisnfather, and sneeringly 'the people. The man's marvellous magnetism
denouncing the " audacious pretensions of a was never more' triumphantly attested; the
political neophyte."               '      mass, who had listened in profound silence to
Groans and hisses greeted this unexpected every syllable which passed his lips, now vent.
peroration, and many of his own friends bit ed their enthusiasmin prolonged and vocifer-'
their lips and' bent their brows in angry stir- ous applause and vehement cries of "'Go on!
prise, as he took his seat amid an 'uproar go on I"  The entire absence of stereotyped
which' would have been respectable even.1in Thodomontade rendered his words peculialy
the days of the builders of Babel.  Russell impressive, as he gave them utterance with no
was sitting on the upper step, with his' head visible token of enthusiasm. He did not lash
leaning o his hand and his eyes fixed on the the passions of the 'populace into a passing
mass of upturned, eager faces, listening pati- phrensy, but effectually stirred the great deep
ently to the lengthy address, expecting just of sober feeling and sound sense. With his
what lie was destined to hear. ,At the men- elegant, graceful delivery, and polished, spark-
tion of his family misfortunes"he lifted his ling diction, he stood, as it were, on some lofty-
head, rose, and, advancing a. few steps, took cool peakstal, and pointed unerringly to com-
off his hat and stood confronting the speaker ing events, whose shadows had not yet reached,
in full view of the excited crowd. And there them, of which they had not dreamed before,
.the ved light, flaring over his- features, showed and it was not wonderful that the' handsome
a caln, steru,'self-reliant man, who felt that young speaker became an idol tobe worshipped'
he had nothing to blush for in the past or to afar off.'
dread in 'the future. When the tirade ended,  As he descended the steps anti disappeared
when the  tumult ceased and silence fell upon amid the shouts of the crowd, Judge Harris
the audiehee, he turned and 'fixed his deep, turned to Mr. Huntingdon and said, with ill-
glowing eyes'full on the Face of his opponent concealed annoyance:
for one moment, smilino- haughtily ; then, as  " You'have lost your election by your con-
Mr. Huntingdon quaileti before his withering founded imprudence."
gaze, he crossed lis arms over his chest and  " That remains to be seen, 'sir," was the
addressed thep meeting.                   petulant rejoinder.
He came,. he said, to discuss questions of ' " It is a foregone conclusion," muttered Dr.
grave airport to the state, not the pedigree or Arnold,' buttoning his overcoat* and looking'
antecedents of his antagonist, with wch,he around for his cane.  '
supposed,' the public had no concern.  He   " I have sworn a solemn oath that I will
could not condescend to the level of the gen- trample the upstart out of existence, at least
tleman ; was not a proficient, not his equal in politicallyP"'
slang phrases, or gross, vulgar vituperation,  . "As well try to trample on the stars yonder!'
and scorned to farther insult the geod taste of Your speech ruined you, I am afraid n"
his beavers by acquainting them with the con-  'The judge walked off, pondering a heavy
temptible motives of individual hatred which bet which he had relative to the result.  .
had induced his opponent to forget what the . By sunrise ,on the day of the "election the
rules of good-breeding and etiquette impera- roads leading to town were crowded with vot-'
tively demanded. .lHe would not continue to ers' making their way to the polls. The
'disgrace the occasion by any refutation of the drinking-saloons were full to overflowing ; the-'
exceedingly irrelevant portion Qf the praeced-- sidewalks thronged with reeling goups'as
mny harangue, Which related to purely personal the day advanced. 'Becatise the Huntingdon
matters and -was unworthy of notice, but side bribed freely, the Aubrey p rtisans felt
asked the attention of his hearere, fdi, a' few that they must, from necessity, follow the dis'
moments, While he 'analyzed-the platform of gaceful precedents Not a lady showed her
his party. Briefly hie stated the issues divid- face upon' the street ; drinking, wrangling,

I'

I

MACAU$IA,                                  1O3

f

fighting, was theorder of thesay..: Windows
were smashed, buggies overturned, and the
police exercised to the-utmost. Accompanied'
by a few friends, Mr. Huntingdon' rode from
poll to poll, encouraging his, supporters and
drawing heavily.upon his purse, while-Russell
remained quietly in his .office,.well assured of
the result. At five o'clock, when the town
polls closed, Russell's votes showed a majoI ity
of two hundred and forty-four.. Couriers
came in constantly from. country precincts,
with equally favorable Accounts, and at ten
o'clock it was ascertained, beyond doubt, that
he was elected. Irene and her uncle rode
down to learn the truth, and, not .knowing
where to find Mr. Huntingdon, stopped the
carriage at .the corner of the main street and
waited a. few moments. - Very soon a rocket
whizzed through the air, a band of music
- struck.up before Russell's office, and a number
of his adherents insisted that he should show
himself on the balcony. A crowd immediately
collected opposite, cheering the successful can-
didate and calling for a speech. He came
out, and, in, a few happy, dignified words
thanked them for the honor inferred, and
pledged himself to guard most faithfully the
interests committed tohis keeping. After the
noisy constituents had retired he stood talking
to some friends, when he chanced to recognize,
the fiery horses across the street. The car-;
riage-top was thrown back, and by the neigh-
boring gaslight he saw Irene's white- face
turned toward him, then the horses sprang
off. Mr. .Campbell noticed, without under-
standing, the.sudden start and bitter though
triumphant smile that crossed.his face in the
midst of pleasant gratulations,
"Go home, Andrew. I know now what I
came to learn."
.rene sank back. and folded her mantle
' closer around her.
"Is Master elected ?"
"Your father's speech, last week, was most
unfortunate in every respect," said her uncle,
who felt indignant and mortified at the course
pursued by his brother-in-law.
" We will not discuss it, if you please, Uncle
Erie, as it isentirely useless now."
" Don't you think that Aubrey deserves to
succeed ?".
" Yes."
Her dreary tone disconcerted him, and he
offered no further comment, little suspecting;
that her hands were pressed hard against here
heart and that her voiceless sorrow, was:
"Henceforth we must be still more estranged;
a wider gulf, fromthis night, divides us."
SThe. din, the tumult of the day, had hushed
itself, and deep silence brooded over th~e sleep-
ing town, when, by the light of the newly-risen
moon, Russell leaned upon the little gate and
gazed on, the neglected cottage, overgrown
with vines and crumbling to ruin. A. sweet,

resigned face smiled at him, once more from
the clustering tendrils that festopne' the,
broken window, where, in -other years, hpi
niotl er had been wont to sit at work,'wate*
ing fpr,his return,; and, in this'hour ofhigAfrst
triuniph, as he sought the. hallowed' sot anda
thoughts of her longinartyrOd , reco leetoio
rolled its troubled waves over his.throbbing,
exultant heart, until-the proud head dropped
on the folded arms and-tears' fell 'upon the
mouldering gate.
"Oh, Mother ! Mother ! if you could have
lived to see this day--to share my victory i".'
"Ghost-like I paced round the haunts of ,mychildhood,
Earth seemed-a desert I was 'bound to traverse,
Seeking to 'find the old familiar faces.
All, all are gone, the old familiar faces 1"
CH APTER XXII.s
The icy breath of winter,:the mild wander=
ing airs' of spring, the luxurious laissez-aous-
faire murmurs of summer,and the solenn
moan of' autumn had followed 'each other in
rapid succession. Two years rolled on; stained
with the tears of many, ringing with the son's
and laughter of a fortunate few. The pates
of some had widened into sunny pastures,
flower-starred, Cridavana meadows;' others.
had grown' narrower still, choked with the
debris of dead hopes, which the tide of time;
drifted from the far-off glitterng eaks of
early aspirations. .,The witchery of Southern
spring again enveloped W    -, aid'Irene
stood on- the lawn surveying' the "greenery
of the out-door world "' that surrounded her.
Peach and plum orchards, on the slope of a
neighboring hill wore their, festal robes f
'promise ..and: as the loiteringg breez-,stet,
down to the. valley they showered rosy pe9
fumed 'shells, tiny avant .couriers of abum ant,
fruitage. The air was redolent ith delhate
distillations from a thousand flowery laborato-
ries, stately magnolias rustled 'their: polished
shimmering leaves, long-haired acaciastrailed
their fringy shadowsiover the young wavering
grass-blades, and, far above. the 'soft green
wilderness of tangled willows,' regal pines
spread out their wind-harps,. glittering in the
sunshine like spiculan of silver. A deligious
languor brooded in the atmosphere; the ditant
narrow valleys were full,.of purple haze; be-
yond' and above - the. town, that' nestledso
peacefully along the river banks,;the marble
fingers of the cemetery glaaiedae  *hte and
cold ; and afar off, and over all,;was heard the
measured ausic of 'fatory blls, hbant  a
hymnuto sacred and eternal Laborn.'  it eri
brotn straw hat Tin one hand d da willow
basket filled with flowers in the other; rene
leaned against the glossy trunk of.in 'aneiexn
wild-cherry: tree, 'and hooked in dream'b
straction down the lqng shadowy vista ofveni-


104

MALARIA.

erable elms. Paragon lay panting on the grass
at her feet, now and then snapping playfully
at the tame pigeons who had followed their
un tress out upon the lawn, fluttering and
cooing continually around her ; and 'a few
yards off a golden pheasant and two peacocks
sunned their gorgeous plumage on the smooth-
ly-cut hedges.
Some faces show
The last act of a ttagedy in their regard;
Though the Bret scenes be wanting -"
and in this woman's sad but intensely calm
countenance a joyless life found silent history.
The 'pale forehead bore not a single line, the
quiet sotith no-ripple-marks traced by rolling
years;. but the imperial eyes, coldly blue as
the' lonely ice-girt M'rjelen-See, revealed, in
their melancholy crystal depths, the dreary
isolation of soul with. which she had been
cursed from, infancy. Her face was an ivory
tablet inscribed with.hieroglyphics which no
social, friendly Champolion had yet deciphered.
Satiated with universalhomage, weary of the
frivolity of the gay circle surrounding her,,
and debarred from- all hope of afectionate,
sympathetic intercourse with her father, her
real life was apart from the world in which
report said that she ruled 'supreme. She
wandered 'in the primeval temples of nature,
and ministered, a solitary priestess, at the.si-
lent, blazing shrine of Astronomy. The soft
" folds of her white muslin dress stirred now and
then, and the blue ribbons 'that looped back
her braided hair flittered like mimic pennons-
in the breeze'; but the clematis bells which
clustered around her cameo-pin were unshaken
by the slow.pulsations of her sad.heart. She
felt that her life was passing rapidly, unim-,
proved, and aimless; she knew that her years,
S stead of being fragrant with the mellow
, itage of good deeds, were tedious and joy-
less, and that the- gaunt, numbing hand of
ennui was closing upon her. The elasticity of
spirits, the buoyancy of youth, had given place
to a species of stoical mute apathy; a mental
and moral paralysis was stealing over her.
The slamming of the ponderous iron gate
attracted her attention, and she saw a carriage
-ascending the avenue. As it reached a point
opposite to the sp6t where she stood it lahed,
the door was thrown open, and a gentleman
stepped out and approached her. The form
was not familiar, and the straw hat partially
veilts the features, but, he paused before her
and said, with ,a genial smile:
"Don't you know tne ?"          -
"Oh, Harvey!' My brother! My great
guardian angels"!
A glad light kindled in her face, and, she
stretched out her hands with the eagerness of
a delighted child. ' Time had 'pressed heavily
'upon him ; wrink les were conspicuous about the
corners of his eyes and' mouth,.and the black
hair had become a steely gray. He wse not
" A little sunburnt by the glare of-lfe,"

but weather-beaten by its storms; and, in lieu
of the idiosyncratic placidity of former days, a
certain restlessness of expression betokened
internal disquiet. Holding her hands, he drew
her nearer to -him, scrutinized her features,
and a look of keen sorrow crossed his own as
he said, almost inaudily:
" I feared as much ! I feared as mugh I The
shadow has spread."
"You .kept Punic faith with me, sir ; you
promised to write and failed. I sent you one
letter, but it was never answered."
" Through no fault of mine, Irene ; I never
received it, believe me. True, I expected to
write to you frequently when I parted with
you, but subsequently determined that it would
be best not to do so. Attribute my silence,
however, to every other cause than want of
remembrance."
" Your letters would have been a great stay
and comfort to me."
" Precisely for that reason I sent none. I
knew that you must.rely upon yourself; that
.I could not properly judge of the circum-
stances which surrounded and influenced youi
One, at least,.of my promises has been faith-
fully fulfilled: I have prayed for you as often
as for myself in all these years of separation."
" God only knows how I have wanted, how
J have needed you, to guide and strengthen
me."        .
'She raised thetwo hands that still held hers
and bowed her forehead upon them.
" You had a better Friend, dear child, al-
ways near you, who would have given surer
guidance and borne all your burdens. What
I most dreaded has come 'to pass.  You have
forgotten your God." - ,
" No ! indeed, no ! but He has forsaken.
me."
" Come and sit down here, and tell me what
the trouble is."
He led her to a circular seat surrounding a
venerable oak, and placed himself where he
coulC1 command a full view of her face.
" Mr. Young, you must have had a hard life
out West: you have grown old so fast since I
saw you. But you have been doing good, and
that is sufficient recompense."-.
" I have, of course, endured some hardships
inseparable from such a long sojourn on the
frontier, but my labors have been so'successful
that I forget everything in my great reward.
Many a fair June dayl have wished that you'
could see my, congregation, as we stood up to'
sing in a cool shady grove of beech or hack-
berry, offering our orisons in *'God's first
temples.' No brick and mortar walls, but
pavements of God's own living green, and
dome of blue, and choir of skinless consecrated
birds. My little log-cabin in tile far West is
very dear'to me, for around it cluster some of
the most precious reminiscences of my life.
The greatest of my unsatisfied wants was that
of congenial companionship. I betook myself

U.

M ACARIA.

.1I

to gardening in self-defence, and finer annuals  "It is a cloud that enveloped mofrom the
you never sa~w than those which I r-aised on 'hour of my birth, and grows denser each year;
my hill-side. My borders I made of iigno- I cau neither escape from'nor dissipate it. It
nette, and the rusty froit of my cabin I draped will not break in-storms and clear away,; but,.
with beautiful festoons of convolvulus. My perchance, as I go down to my tomb the silver
hermitage was pleasant enough, though hum- lining may show itself., The sun'was eclipsed
'ble indeed."    .                        when I first opened my eyes in this world, and,
" Tell, me the secret of your quiet content-' my future was faithfully adumbrated. I am
meant.  By what spell do you invoke the not superstitious, but I can not be blind to the
atmosphere of happy serenity that constantly striking analogy-the sombre symbolism."
surrounds you ?"                            His grave face was painfully convulsed as he
"It is-neither occult nor cabalistic; you will- listened to her, and it was with, di finplty that
find it contained in 'the few words .of. Paul: he restrained himself from drawing the head to
'Be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abound- his shoulder and' revealing 'all the depth and
ing in the work of the Lord ; forasmuch as ye strength of love which had so 'long rpled his
know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.' heart and, saddened his life.  But he, merely
There is nothing recondite in this injunction ; enclosed her hand in' both his with a gentle,
all may comprehend and practice it."  .   pressure, and said :
" It may seem so to you, who dispense peace  " Carry out your metaphor, and at least yous
and blessings wherever, you move ; but to me, must admit that,,though the sun was eclipsed,
alone and useless, cut off fromuch a sphere stars come out to light you."
of labor, it might as well be locked up in .Par-  "But, at best, one shivers and gropes through
see.  I thought odce .that God created every the cold light of stars, and mine have all, set in
human being for some particular work-some a clouded sky. You.only are left to me; you
special mission. That, in order that the vast shine on me still, undimmed, all the brighter
social machinery of the world might move bar- for my gloom.  Oh.! if I could have you
moniously, each had his or her allotted duties, always.  But as well stretch out my hands to
in accordance with the great fundamental law  clutch the moon." ,     t    hd
of economy-' division of labor.' But, like  He started;and looked at her wistfully, but
many other youthful theories, I have been: the utter passionlessness of her face and man-'
compelled to part with this also."        ncr showed him all too plainly the nature of
" Rather hold fast to it, for the precious her feelings and her ignorance of his own,',
truth it is. Do you not find, on reflection,  " Irene, you dealin similies and vague gen-
that the disarrangement,. theconfusion in this eralities. Has absence shaken your confidene&amp;
same social mill proves that some of the hu- in me? Be frank ;,tell me what this haunt-.
man cogs are broken, or' oht of' place, or not ing trouble is, and let me help .you to exor-
rendering their part ? I am older than you, cise it."
and have travelled farther, and I have. yet to  " You can, not. All. the traphim of the
see the New Atlantis where every member of East would not avail. Let it suffice that,,
society discharges fully the duties assigned.  many years since, I 'displeased my father in a
"1 might say. In a world full of lips that lack bread,  trifling matter ; and; as I grew older, my views
And of souls that lack light. titere are mouths to be fed. and wishes conflicted with his. I disappointed
There a-e wounds to ihe healed. thet'e is work to ie done, a darling plan which he had long cherished,
And life can withhold love and duty from none"  andari
and_ we, are estranged. We live, here,, father,,,
" Irene, 'why stand ye ,here all the (lay and daughter, in luxury ; we give and-go to
idle ?' Why wait afar off to glean, where you parties andedinners; before the' world we 'keep
should be a busy reaper in God's whitening up the semblance of affection and goodl feel-
harvett-fields ?-closing your ears to the eager ing; but he car not, will not, forgive me. I
cry, The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers have ceased to ask or to expect it; the only
are few !'"  -                            possible condition of reconciliation is one to
A wintry smile flitted over her lips and she which I can' never consent ; -and, for more
shook her htead..                        than two-years, he has scarcely ,pokln 'to me
" Al, sir'! long ago I marked out a different except when compelled to -do so. I pass my
programme ; but my hands are tied. I am led days in a monotonous round, wishing for to.
along another path.; I can do nothing now."  morrow, and my nights ;yonder, .among the
" You owe allegiance first to your Maker, stars. I have little money to dispense in chari
What 'stands between you and your work? ty ; I dress richly, hut the materials are select
-Irene, tell me what is this dark-cloud that ed by my father, who.will have my clothing
shuts out sunshine from your heart and throws of the costliest fabrics, to suit his eleffant and
such a c1111. shadow over your face ?"  . fastidious taste. Though a t only e'ild,and
He- drew down thte hand with which 'she presutnptive heiress of one of-the finest estates
shadedl 11cr eyes, and bent his head till ,the at the South, I- have not a dime itt the world
gray locks toucited hter cheek. She (lid not whiich I Oan call -mg own, except a small. sum
shrink away, but looked at him steadily, and which he voluntarily' allows'~me per' annum.
answered : . . Mark you, I do' not complain 6f my 'father-


106 ,                        MACARIA.

MACARIA.          .      10y

for, in the twinkling of an eye; I could change
this unnatural position of affairs in my home ;
only mention-some 'stern facts to prove to
you that my hands are tied. It was once the
fdndest desire of my life to expend the fortune
that I'supposed-belonged to me in alleviating
suffering and want and making people happy
around me ; but, like 'other dewy sparkles of
childhood, this hope vanished as the heat and
strife of life overtook me."
Shetspoke in a lowmeasured tone; unshaken
by'emotion, and' the expression of dreary ab-
straction showed that she had long accustom-
ed herself to .this contemplation of'her lot.
The minister was deeply moved as he watched
her beautiful calm features,'so hushed in their
joylessness, and he passed his hand across his
eyes to wipe away the moisture that so un-
wontedly dimmed them. 'He press O her fin-
gers to his-lips and said, encouragingly:
"'Lift thyself up! oh, thou of saddened face!-
euse from yh sighing, draw from out thy heart'
The Joyful light of frith' "
"You asked me once to be your brother ;
my dear child, let me prove myself such now;
let me say that, perhaps, it is your duty to
yield obedience to your father's wishes, since
R     this deplorable alienation results from your
refusal. You -never can be happy, standing
in this unnatural relation to' an only parent.
Because it is painful, and involves a sacrifice
on your part, should you consider it any the
less your duty ? Has:he not a right to expect
that'his' wishes should guide you ?"'
She rose instantly, and, withdrawing ;her
hands, folded them together and replied, with
an indescribable minghng of hauteur and sor-
row:
" Has he a right to gi e my hand to aman
whom I do not love'?  Has 'he a.right to drag
me to the altar, and force me to swear to 'love
and honor' one whom I can not even respect'?
Could you stand by and see your father doom
your sister to such a miserable fate ?; I would
consent to die for my father tomorrow, if
thereby I might make him happy; but I can
not endure to live, and bring upon myself the
curse of a loveless marriage ; and, God is my
witness, I never will!~"
Her eyes gleamed like blue steel, and the
stern, gem-like features vividly reminded him
of a medal of the noble Medusa which he had.
frequently examined 'and admired while in
Rome. In that' brief flash he saw, with aston-
ishment, that 'beneath the studiedly calm ex-
terior lay an iron will and a rigidness of pur-
pose which he had never conjectured belonged
to her character.
"Forgive me, Irene ; I retract my words.
Ignorant of the nature of the demand, I should
not, havd presumed sto counsel you. Keep
true to, the -instinctse of your own heart, and
you will never go far astray in th'-path of
duty. 'May God bless and comfort you! O th-

er friends can lend you no assistance in these
peculiar circumstances."
' He could not.trust hiinself to say more, for
feelings too' painful for utterance stirred the
depthspf his soul.
For "some moments silence reigned; then,
standing before him, Irene said, with touching
pathos :k
"My friend, I am so desolate ! so lonely ! I
am drifting down the current of life aimless,
hopeless, useless ! What shall I do with my
future ?  I believe I am slowly petrifying ; I
neither suffer nor enjoy as formerly; my feel-
ings are deadened;,I am growing callous, in-
different to everything. I am fast losing sym-
pathy for the sorrows of others, swallowed up
in self, oblivious of the noble aspirations which
spanned the early years like a bow of promise.
I am cut off from companionship; have no
'friend, save an uncle, to whom I could put out
my hand for sftpport. People talk of the des-,
olation of Western wilds and Eastern deserts;
but, ohI God knows there is no isolation .
comparable to that. of a woman who walk
daily through halls of wealth ard gay salons,
knowing that no human being understands or
truly sympathizes with her. My prophet ! as
you long ago foretold, I am 'treading the
wine-press alone.' Once more I ask you, what
shall I do with my life ?"Y
" Give it to God."
" Ah! 'there is neither grace nor virtue in
necessity. He will not accept the worthless
thing thrown at His. feet' as a dernier ressort.
Once it was my choice, but the pure, clear-
eyed faith of my childhood shook hands with
me when you left me in New York.";
For a short while he struggled with himself,
striving to overcome the unconquerable im-
pulse which suddenly prompted him, and his
face grew pallid as hers as he walked hastily
across the smooth grass and cane back to her.
Her countenance was lifted toward the neigh-
borifig, hill, her thoughts evidently far' away,
when he paused before her and said, unsteadi-
ly:
"Irene, my beloved ! give yourself to'me.
Go with me into God's vineyard ; let us'vork
together, and consecrate our lives to His ser-
vice."
The mesmeric eyes gazed into his, full of
wonder, and the rich ruby tints fled from her
lips as she pondered his words in unfeigned
astonishment, and, shaking her regal head, an-
swered slowly :
" Harvey, I am not-worthy. I want your
counsel, not your. pity."
" Pity'! you mistake me. If you have been
ignorant so long, know now that I have loved
you' from the evening you first sat in my study
looking over my foreign sketches. You were
then a child, but I was a man, and I kniew all
that you -had so suddenly become to me. Be-
cause of this great disparity in years, .and
because I dared not hope that one so tenderly

nurtured could ever brave the hardships of
my projected life, 'I determind 'toquit New
Yorkearlier than I had 'anticipated,.and te
bury a' foolish memory in the trackless forests
of the far West. I ought to have known the
fallacy of my expectation; I have'proved it
since. Your face followed me'; your eyes met
mine at every turn'; your glittering hair swept
on every breeze that touched my cheek. I
battled with the image, but it would not avail;
I i'esolved not to write to you, but found that
the dearest part of my letter's from home
consisted of the casual allusions which they
contained to you., Then came' tidings from
Louisa that you were probably married-had
longbeen engaged to your cousin;and,though
it wrung my heart to think of you as the wife
of another, I schooled myself to hope that, for
your sake, it might be true. But years passed;
no confirmation reached me; and the yearning
to look on your dear face once more took pos-
session of me. 'My mother wrote, urging me
to visit her this summer, and I came out of
my way to hear ofrand to see you. The world
eers at the possibility of such love as mine,
and I doubt not that it is very rare among
men ; but, through all the dreary separation;
I have thought of you as constantly, and fond"
ly, and tenderly as when I first 'ret you in my
father's house. Irene,- you are young, and
singularly beautiful, and I am a gray-haired
man, much, much older than yourself; but, if
you live 'a thousand years, you will never find
such Affection as I' offer you now: There is
nothing on earth which would make 'me so
happy as the possession of your love. You are
the only woman I have ever seen whom I even
wished to call my wife-the only woman who,.
I felt, could lend new charm to life and make'
my quiet hearth happier by her- presence.
Irene, wiill you' share my 'future ?  Can you
give me what I ask ?"
The temptation was powerful-the future he
held out enticing indeed. The' strong, holy,
manly love, the noble heart and head to guide
her, the firm, tender hand fo support her, the
constant, congenial, and delightful companion-
ship-all this passed swiftly through her mind;
but, crushing all in its grasp, came the memory
of one whom she rarely met, but who held
undisputed sway over her proud heart.
Drawing close to the minister, she laid her
hands on his shoulder, and, loodng reverently'
up into his fine face, said, in her peculiarly
sweet clear voice :
"The knowledge ofyour priceless, unmrited
love makes meproud beyond degree;.but I
would not mock you by the miserable and only
return I could make you-the affection of a
devoted sister. I would gladly, thankfully go
.w-th'yo to yorWestrn hm, and redee
my pst byfur et     , a yor wie
could not ; and, without the protection of your
honored name, it-would not be permitted ie
to accompany you. I look up to you as to no

f other human being; I revere arid love you,
Harvey ; and, oh! 'I[wish that I could pass .my
life at your side, cheered 'by your smile, doing
some good in the world. That I do not 'love
you as you wish is my great misfortune; for
I appreciate most fully the noble privilege'
you have tendered me. I do not say what I
earnestly wish could happen, that you will
find some one else who qan make you happy,
because, I feel that no tnoman whom I have
ever met is worthy of beingfyour wife. 'But
I trust that the pain I may give you now will
soon pass away, and that, in time, you will
forget one who is utterly undeservingof the
.h9uor you have conferred on her to-day.
Oh, Harvey ! do not,'I beg of you, let one
thought of me ever disquiet your noble, gen-
erous heart."
A shiver crept over her still face, and' she
drooped her pale forehead. She felt two tears
fall upon her hair, and - in silence he bent
down and kissed her softly,,tenderly, as one
kisses a sleeping babe.
dO , fHarvey ! do not let it grieve you,
dear friend -"
He smiled sadly, as if not daring to trust
himself in words ; then, after a moment, laying
his hands upon her head, in.the baptism.of a
deathless love, he gently.and solemnly blessed
her. When his fingers were removed she
raisedther eyes, but he had gone;she saw
only the retreating form through the green
arches of the grand old avenue.
"Unlike are we. unlike,-O princely heart!
Unlike our uses and our destinies.
Our ministering tio angels look surprise
On one another, as they strike athwartr
Their wings inpassing........
The chrism is on thine head-on mine the dew,
And death must dig the level where these agree."
CHAPTER XXIII.
Says D'Alembert:. " The industry of men is
now so far exhausted in Canvassing for, places
that- none is left for 'fulfilling, the duties, of
them ;". and the history of our government
'furnishes a melancholy parallel. The regular
quadrennial storm had swept over the nation;
caucuses had been held and platforms fiercely,
fought for, to be kicked away, plank byplank,
when they no longer served as scaffolding by
which to climb to office. Buchanan wag
elected,' but, destined to exempilify, during hiS
administration, the truth of Tacitus' words:
He was regarded as greater than a private,
man whilst lie remainedirn privacy, and would'
have been deemed worthy of governing if he
had never governed."  The heat of the can=
vass cooled, people settled down once more to
ad sold, sowed and reaped as uua-lttl
realizing that the 'temporary lull, the perfect
calm, was treacherous as the glassy green ed-


108                      MACARIA.

panse of waters which, it is said, sometimes
covers the location of the all-destroying mnl-
strom of Moskoe. Itaving taken an active
and prominent part in the presidential cam-
paign, and made frequent speeches, Russel1
found himselfagain opposed by Mr. Hunting-
don, who was-egually indefatigable during
the exciting contest. The old feud received,
if possible, additional acrimony, and there
were no bounds to the maledictions heaped.
upon the young and imperturbable legislator
by his virulent antagonist. Many predicted a
duel or a street r'encounter; but weeks passed,
and though, in casual-meetings, Mr. Hunting-
don's glare of hate was always'answered by a
mocking smile of cold disdain, the cloud floated
off without breaking into bloody showers.
Mr. Mitchell's health had failed so rapidly,
as winter approached, that Dr. Arnold per-
suaded him to try the efficacy of a sea-voyaze,
and he had accordingly sailed. from New Or-I
leans in a vessel bound for Genoa. Irene1
begged the privilege of accompanying him,
but her father peremptorily refused ; and she
saw her uncle depart, and superintended the4
closing of his house, with silent sorrow, and
the feeling of one who knows that the night is
deepening around her.  In the course of the -
political cataclysi much chaff came to the
surface, and whirled along with portentous 1
alacrity; gossip seemed to have received a new
impetus, and among the most important on-ditsl
was, that of' Irene's speedy marriage to her
cousin. Hundred-tongued rumor was busy,
too, with the mysterious fact that, Russell hadI
laced a handsome iron railing, around the
humble home of his boyhood ; had removed'
the little three-roomed crumbling dwelling
and planted shade-trees. Much curiosity was I
excited, and the only plausible solution att
which the kindly inquing public arrived was
.that he imtende d to marry somebody. Buti
whom ? He o(casionally visited at Judge Har-
ris' and Mr. Henderson's, and, as he had been
seen last at the house of the former, by a spe- s
cies of not very abstruse ratiocination it wasu
finally decided, and promulgated as a social i
edict, that the talented young lawyer would
soon claim GracO's hand at the altar. In less
than  twenty-four hours all of fashionable
W-.--h---had discussedd the young lady's I
brilliant future, and were ready to tender
their congratulations to the ambitious man, t
who was utterly unconscious of the commotion -
which his individual plans and actions had t
induced., This insatiable mania for obtainin t
information about other people's affairs and
purposes, this ridiculous and contemptible g
tittle-tattle, this news-mongering, scandal-ped- I
lering proelii ity, characteristic of' cities, towns, r
villages, and- even country neighborhoods,t
should( certainly have been included 'by their
Miassaebusetts seer in his catalogue of "social a
inflict ions which the magistrate can hot cure or c
defend you from, and which must be intrusted I

to the restraining force of custom, a'nd pro-
verbs, and familiar rules of behavior impressed
on young people in their .school-days.;" and
I trust I may be allowed the additional sug-
gestion, "by mothers around-the hearthstone."
But, unfortunately, the admirable adage, "it
faut attendre le boiteux," finds no acceptation
in beau monde. .
Late, in the afternoon of Christmas-day
Irene went into the greenhouse to gather a
bouquet for an invalid friend in town, and had
almost accomplished her errand when the
crash and whir of wheels drew her to the win-
dow that looked out upon the lawn.   Her
father had gone to the plantation early that-
morning, and she had scarcely time to conjecte
ure whom -the visitor would prove, when
Hugh's loud voice rang through the house,
and, soon after, he came clattering in, with
the end of his pantaloons crammed into his
boots and his whip trailing along in true
boyish fashion. As he threw down his hat,
scattering the petals of a snowy camellia, and
drew near his cousin, she sa* that his face was
deeply flushed and his eyes somewhat blood-
shot. . . .
" Hugh ! what are you doing here ? Father
expected you to' overtake him at Crescent
Bend ; you said last night that you would start
by five o'clock." .
" Merry Christmas, my beauty ! I have come
for my Christmas gift. Give it to me, like the
queen you are."
He stooped, -as if to kiss her, but she shrank
back instantly and said, gravely:
"You ought not to make promises which
you have no idea of keeping ; Fat her will be
annoyed, and wonder very much what has'
happened.' le was anxious that you should
go with him."
" Oh! confound the plantation ! I wish it
would sink ! ,0f' all other days none but Christ-
mas will suit him to tramp down there through,
mud and mire. The fact is, I did not. go to
leep till four o'lock, and nobody ought to be
unchristian enough to expect me to wake up
n an hour. You may be quiet, though, for I
am on my way now to that paradise of black
mud. I only stopped to get a glimpse of you,
my Sappho! my Corinna ! so (lot homilize,
I pray you."
Better wait till daylight, [-ugh ; you know
he state of the roads and coudition of the
bridges. It will be safer, and an economy of
tue, to defer' it till morning, since you have
made it so late" ".
"No; I must go to-night, for I have an en-
agement to ride with Maria Henderson, and
can't get hack in time' if'I wait till to-mor-
ow morning. I want to start- hack day after
o-morrow. As for time, Wildfire will make
tthe better for the darkness; he is as much
fraid of' night and shadows as itf he had a
-onscience, and had maltreated it, master'-like'.
shall convince him that all Tam O'Shanter's

I

witches are in full pursuit and his matchless
heels his only salvation."
A shade of apprehension- settled on her face,
and, placing the bouquet in a basket, she
turned tQ her- cousin, saying:
"Indeed, you can not be insane enough to
drive that horse'such a night as this weather
threatens. If go you wi'l, in the face of a
coming rain, leave Wildfire here, and drive
one of the carriage-horses"instead: I shall be
uheasy if you start with that Vicious, unman-
ageable .incarnation of lightning.  Let me
ring the bell and direct Andrew'-to make the
change."     -.
.She stepped into the parlor adjoining and
laid her fingers on the bell-cord, but he
snatched up the hand and kissed it several
times.                   -
"NoI I '11 be hanged if I don't-drive my
own pearl of Arabia I I can manage him well
enough; and, beside, what do you care whether
he breaks my neck or not? Without com-
punction you broke my heart, which is much
the greater catastrophe."
"Come into the library; you don't know
what you are say ing."
She drew him into the room, where a warm
fire burned cheerfully, and made him sit down.
"4Where did you go last night when you left
here ?  Tell me."'
" To Harry Neal's ; a party of us were in-
vited there to drink eggnog, and, of course,
found something stronger afterward. Then
we had a game or so of poker, and r--, the
grand fnale is, that 1 have had a deuced head-
ache alt day. Ah, my sweet saints how shocked
you are, to by sure ! Now, don't lecture, or I
shall be off like a flash."
Without answering, she rang the bell and
quietly looped back the heavy crimson cur-
-tains.
"What is that for ?  Have you sent for
John or old Nellie to.carry me up stairs, like
other-bad boys sent to bed in disgrace, with-
out even the cold comfort of supper 7"
"Hush,- Hugh !hush.",.
Turning to John, who opened the door and
looked in, she said:
".Tell William to make some strong coffee
as soon as possible. Mass' Hugh has a headache,
and wants some before he leaves."
"Thank you, my angel ! my unapproachable
Peri! Ugh ! how cold it is. Pardon me, but
I really must warm my feet."-
lie threw them carelessly on the fender of
the grate.
"hall I get you a pair of slippers ?"
"Could not afford the luxury; -positively
have not the.time to indulge myself."
- With a prolonged yawn he'laid his head
back and closed his eyes. An expression of
disgust was discernible in - his companion's
countenance, but it passed like the shadow of
a sumnmet cloud, Antd she sat down at the oppo-
site side of, the fireplace, with her eyes bent

upon the hearth and the long silky 'lashes
sweeping her cheeks. A silence of some min-
utes. ensued; finally Hugh rapped startlingly
on -his boot with the ivory handle of his whip,
and exclaimed: -
* " A -Quaker-meeting is no part of my pro-
gramme'l What the mischief are you thinking
about ?-looking as solemn as an archbishop in
canonidals!t"
'D.  you really want to 'know what I am
thinking of'?"             -
"Of course I do, if it is not something as
supernal and faraoff -as the stars, which you
have taken under your special protection and
patronage."
" 1 was thinking of a passage which I read
yesterday, and wishing that it could be f'ramed-
and hung up in'every dwellings Euerson
says: 'Goethe said-well, "nobody should be
rich but' those who understand it." - They
should own who can administer, not they who
hoard and conceal; not they, who, the greater
proprietors they are, are only the greater beg-
gars; but they whose work carves out work
for more, opens-a path for all. For he is the
rich tian in whom the people are rich, and
he is the poor man in whom the people are
poor; and how to give all access to the nas-
terpieces of art -and nature is the problem' of
civilization.' Weighed in this balance, how
many of our millionaires, think you, would
find Belshazzar's warning traced on their
walls ?"
" All of which, I suppose, I am to interpret
into a polite circumlocutory way of telling me
that I am a worthless spendthrift, squander-
ing, awqy a fortune which I don't deserve,
and a disgrace to my' fair cousinly Lady
Bountiful? When do you contemplate mount-
ing a pedestal, marble image that you are,
folding those incomparable hands of yours,
ard encouraging idolatry? I promise you I
shall fall down and worship most irrepioacha-
bly. But, seriously,: Irene,'if you do not ad-
mire my style of living, why don't -you take
me in hand, as is your-privilege, and make me
a model of strait-laced propriety ?"
"You might, with very great advantage to
yourself, take a little common-sense in hand.
Of course, Hugh, you are your own master, but
it frequently pains me to see you throwing
away your life and privileges so recklessly.
You might do a vast amount of good with
your money, if you felt disposed to" employ it
benevolently and judiciously"-
" Well, whose fault is it?' I offered to
make you my banker, and let you dispense
charities for both of us, and you snatched
back your dainty fingers in haughty .refusal.
If I play Prodigal to 'the end of' the ehap r,
you are responsible for it."   -   ptr
"Beggizlg your pardon, sir, I am no seape--
goat for'any of your shortcomings. Shoulder
your -own - pecuadilloes, if you please. -But-
here comes~your coffee. Put the waiter on

MACARIA.                   109

4


.110                                MACA
the table, John, and tell And  to take Mass'
Hugh's buggy."
"Do nothing of the kind ! but send some-
body to open that everlasting gate, which
would, not have disgraced ancient Thebes.
Are you classical, John ? Be off, and ~see
about it; l\must start in five minutes."
"Hugh, be reasonable for once in your life
yc  are not in a proper condition to drive
that horse. For my sake, at least, be persuad-
ed   s wait till-morning. Will you not remain,
to ob_.Kme ?"
" Oh, hang my condition ! I tell you I must
and I will go, if all the stars, fall and judg-
ment-day overtakes me on the- road. What
splendid coffee you always have! The most
fastidious of bashaws could not find it in his
Moorish heart to complain."            .
He put on. his hat, buttoned his costly fur
coat, and, flourishing his whip, came close toI
his cousin.    ..
"Good-by,.Beauty. Ihate to leave you.;upon
my word 1 do; but duty before pleasure,imyI
heavenly-eyed monitress. I have'not had my
Christmas present yet, and have it I will."
" On one condition, Hugh: -that you drive
cautiously and 'moderately, instead of thun- .
dering down hills and over bridges like someI
express-train behind time. Will you promise'?"l
" To be sure I will ! everything in the
world!; and ams ready to swear it, if'you are
sceptical."                     .
" Well then, good-by, Hugh, and take care
of yourself,   -
She allowed him to press his hot lips to hers,s
and, accompanying him to the door, saw him t
jumpinto the frail open-topped buggy. Wild- .
fire plunged and sprang oft in his usual style, 1
and, with a crack of the whip and wave of his
hat, Hugh was fairly started.        .
Seven hours later li'ene sat. alone at the
library table, absorbed in writing an article on  f
Laplace's Nebular Theory for the scientific
journal to which she occasionally contributed L
over the signature of " Sabwan.t' Severale
hooks, with close "marginalias," were scatteredI
around, and the " Mdcanique Cdleste " and 'a t
volume of "Cosmos" lay open before her. The t
servants had gone 't6 rest;. the house was i
very spill, the silence, unbroken save by the g
moan of the wind and the melancholy tapping t
of the. poplar branches against the outside. f
The sky w as black, gloomyas Malbolge; and, h
instead of a hard, pattering rain, a. fine, cold t
mist drizzled noiselessly down the panes. p
Wrapped in her work, Irene wrote on rapidly w
till the clock struck twelve. .She counted the h
strokes, saw that there remained but one page w
uncopied,- and concluded tos fiigish the MS. ti
At last she affixed her norn de jlume, numbered c
the paves, and folded the whgle (or transmis- 1l
sion. T2he' fire' Sas 'still bright ; and, with'no .h
inclination -to go to sleep,.she replaced the .il
looks qn their respective shelves, Aurned up d
the wick of the laip,.and sat down close to the p
e

LRIA.
grate to warm her stiffened fingers. Gradually
ler thoughts- wandered from the completed
task to other themes of scarcely less interest.
The week previous she had accompanied
Hugh to 'an operatic concert .given :by the
Parodi troupe, and had been astonished to
find Russellseated on the, bench in front of
her. He so rarely showed himself on such
occasions, that his appearance elicited some
.comment. They had met frequently since the
evening at Mr. Mitchell's, but he pertinaciously
avoided recognizing her; and, on this par-
ticular nigh, though he came during aninter-
lude'to speak to Grace Harris, who sat on the
same row of seats with Irene, he-never once
directed his eyes toward the latter. This
studied neglect, she felt assured, was notthe
result of the bitter animosity existing between
her father and himself; and though it puzzled
her for a while, she began finally to suspect
the true nature-of his feelings, and, with wom-
an's rarely-erring instincts, laid her finger on
the real motive which prompted him. The
report of his engagement to Grape had reached
her some days before, and now it recurred to
her mind like a haunting spectre. She did
not believe for an instantthat he was attached
to the pretty, joyous girl whom rumor gave
him; but she was well aware that he was am-
bitious of high social position, and feared that
he might possibly, from selfish, ignoble reasons,
seek an alliance with Judge Harris' only
daughter, knowing-that the family was one of
the wealthiest and most -aristocratic in the
state. 8te-recollected, with unutterable scorn,
the frequent sneers at his blind mother, in
which *i ace, Charlie, and even Mrs. Harris
had i uiged in the season of trial and adver-
sity ; and, pondering all'that she had silently
entdurea because of her sympathy with him
aid his mother, a feeling of bitterness, hereto-_
fore unknown, rose in her heart. True, im-
passanle barriers divided them; but, she could
not endut-e the:thought of his wedding anoth-'
er-it tortured her beyond al expression.
With a . suffocating sensation she untastened
he caineo-pin that held her robe de chanbre at,
he throat,-and threw back the colar.:' Tak-
ng out her conib, she shook down her.'hair,
;athered it up in her hands, anid-'tossed' it over
he back of her chair, whence it fel to the
floor, coiling there in glittercihg rings. Life
ad seemed dreary enougli be'kore; but, with
his apprehension added, it appeared insup-
ortable, and she was conscious of a degree of
wretchedness never dreamed of or 'realized
eretofore. Not even a sigh escaped her ; she
tas one of a few women who permit no -ex-
ernal evidences of suffering, but look it se-
urely in their 6wn proud .hearts, and in' si-
ence and loneliness go down into the "ghoul-
aunted,". darkened chanmbers to brood over*.
t, as did the ,Portusguese monarch the moul-
ering :remains of his mutdered 'wife. The
'ainful reverie might, perhaps, have lasted till

'the pallid dawn looked in with tearful eyes at
the window, but Paragon, who was sleeping on
the rug at, her feet, started up and growled.
$lei raised her head and listened, but only the
ticking. of the clock was audible, and the
wailing Qf the wind. through the lqafless pop-
lars.
" Down, Paragon ! hush, sir I"
She patted his head soothingly, and he sank
back a few seconds in quiet, then sprang up
with a loud bark. This time she heard an
indistinct sound of steps in the hall, *and
thought: "Nellie sees my light through the
window, and is coming to coax me up stairs."
Something stumbled near the threshold, .$
hand struck the knob as if'in hunting for it,
the door opened softly, and, muffled. in his
heavy cloak, holding his hat in one hand, Rus-
sell Aubrey stood in the room. Neither spoke,
but he looked at herwith such mournful ear-
nestness,' such eager yet grieved compassion,
that she read some terrible disaster in his eyes.
The years of estrangement, all that had passed
since their childhood, was forgotten; studied,
conventionalities fell away at sight of him
standing there, for the first time, in her home.
She' crossed the room with a quick, uncertain
step, and put out her hands toward him-
vague, horrible apprehension blanching the
beautiful lips, which asked shiveringly:
"What is it, Russell"? what .is it'c"
He took the. cold little hands tremblingly in
his, and endeavored to draw her back to the
hearth, but she repeated:
"What has happened,?' Is it Father, or
Hugh ?"
" Your father is well,, I believe ; I passed
him on the road yesterday, Sit down, Miss
Huntingdon; you look pale and faint."
Her fingers closed tightly over his; he saw
an ashen hue settle on her face, and, in an un-
naturally calm, low tone, she asked :
Is Hugh dead'?  Oh, my God ! why don't
you speak, Russell ?"
"iHe (lid not' suffer much; his death. was
too sudden."
Her face had such a stony look' that he
would have passed',his arm around her, but
could not disengage his hand; she seemed to
cling o it as it' for strength.
"  c°1 you let me carry you to your room,
or cal 'a servant ?  You are not able to
stand.
She neither heeded nor heard him.
" u;as it that horse ; or how was.it ?"
" One of the bridges had been swept away
by the freshet, and, in trying to cross, he miss-
ed the ford. The horse must have beenfright-
ened and unmanageable, the buggy was over-
turned in the creel, and your cousin, stunned
by the fall, drowned instantly ; life was just
.  extinct when I reached him."
SSomething like a mnoan escaped her as she
listened.
" Was anything done ?"

"We tried revery .means of resuscitation,
but they were entirely ineffectual.".
She. relaxed her clasp of his fingers and
moved toward the door.
"Where are you going, Miss Huntingdon?
Indeed you must sit' dow."
",Russell, you have brought hirn home;
where is he ?"
Without waiting for an answer, she walked
down'the hall and paused suddenly at sight of
the still form resting on a gray travelling-
blanket, with a lantern at his head-and an
elderly man, a stranger, sitting near, keeping
watch. Russell came to her side, and, draw-
ing his arm around her, made heratlean upon
him. He felt the long, long lingering shud-
der which shook the elegant, queenly figure;
then she slipped down beside the rigid sleeper
and smoothed back from the fair brow the
dripping curling auburn hair.
" Hugh, my cousin ! my playmate ! Snatch-
ed away in an hour from the life you loved so
well. Ah! the curse of our house, has fallen
upon you. It is but the beginning of the end.
Only two of us are left, and we, too, shall soon
be caught up to join you."
She kissed the icy lips which a few hours
before had pressed hersso.warurly, and, rising,
walked up and down the long hall. Russell
leaned against the wall, with his arms crossed
over his chest and his head bent low, waiting
for her to speak again. But, calm and tear-
less, she walked on and on,' ip profound si-
lence, till he grew. restless at the strange sound
of her hair trailing along the oil-cloth, and
once more approached her.
" Are you entirely 'alone ?"
" Yes, except the servants. Oh, Russell!
how am I to break this to my father?' He
loves that boy better thanieverything else ; in-
finitely better than he ever loved me. How
shall I tell him that Hugh is dead--dead.?"
"A messenger has already gone toinfbrm
him of what has happened, and this distress-
ing task will not be yours. Herberti Black-
well ands I were riding together, on1our retUrn
from T    ,- when we reached the ford where
the disaster occurred. Finding' that all our
efforts to resuscitate were usless, he turned
back, and went to your father's plantation to
break the sad intelligence to him.'"
is soothing,'tender' tone touched some
chord deep in. her strangenature, and unshed
tears gathered for the-first time in her eyes.
" As you have no friend near enough to call
upon at present, I will, if you desire it, wake
the servants, remain, and. do all that is neces-
sqry until morning."'
" If you please, Russell; I shall thank y.un
very much.".
As her glance fell upon her consin'segleam--
ing face'her lip fluttered, And she turned away
and sat down ott one of the sofas in the pador,
dropping herface in her bands.e A. lttle
while after-the lightfo a caigdle streamed in,

MACARIA.

I111


112                    MACARIA.

and Russell came with a cushion from the li-
brary lounge and his warm cloak. He wrap-
ped the latter carefully about the drooping
form, and would have placed her ,head on the
silken pillow, but she silently resisted without
looking up, and he left her. It was a vigil
which she iiever forgot ; the slow hours crush-
ed her as they rolled, .the very atmosphere'
seemed filled' with the curse which brooded
inexorably over the ancient house, and when,
at last, 'the eastern sky blanched, and the wan
forehead of- the day lifted itself sadly up, it'
seemed, indeed, as it'-.
" The dim 'red mornI had died, her journey done,
-     And with dead lips smiled at the twilight plain,
Haltlallen across the threshold of the sun,
Never to rise again."
Shaking off her covering, Irene passed into
the greenhouse and broke clusters of jasmine
and spicy geranium leaves, and, thus engaged,
her glance tell upon the dashed camellia petals'
which Hugh had ruined so recklessly the pre.
vious dvenin   They seenied fitting symbols,
as they lay in withering heaps, of the exuber-
ant life so suddenly cut "ort--the gay, tirob-
bing heart so unexpectedly stilled.
e   *  * Life struck sharp.on death,
Makes awful lightning." '
And she.felt a keen pang at sight of his cam-
bric handkerchief, which had been dropped
unconsciously between two branching itich-
si s. As she 'stooped and picked it up his
name stared at her, 'and the soft folds gave out
the powerful breath of' bergamot, of which he
was particularly fond. She turned -away from
the wealth of beauty that mocked her sorrow,
and walk on to the library.
The fire had died'out entirely, the curtains
were drawn back to lit in the dtty, on the li-
brary-table the startling !glare of white linen
showed the outlines of the cold young steeper,
and-Russell slowly paced the floor, his arms
crossed, as was their habit, and his powerful
form unweariedly erect. She stood by the ta-
'ble, halt-irresolute, then folded down the sheet
and exposed the handsome, untroubled face.,
She studied it long and quietly, and with no
burst of' emotion laid her flowers against his
cheek and mouth, and scattered the gerani-
ums over his pulseless heart.'
"I begged him not to start yesterday, and
he answered that he would go, if the stars felt
and judgment-day overtook him. Sometimes,
we are prophets unawares. His star has set
--his day has risen! Have mercy on his soul!.
oh, my god l"
The voice was low -and.even, but wonder-
fully sweet, and in the solemn morning-light
'her face showed itself gray and bloodless; no
stain ot' color on the still lips, only the blue
cord standing out 'between the brows,. sure
signet of a deep distress which found no vent.
-Russell felt2 a crushing weight lifted from his

heart; he saw that she had "loved her cousin,
cousidnly-no more;" and his face flushed when
she looked across the table at hin, with grate-
ful but indescribably melancholy -eyes, wlich
had never been closed durig that night of
horror.
"I have come to relieve you, Russell, from
your friendly' watch. - Few would have acted
as you have done, and for all your generous
kindness to poor Hugh I thank you most ear-
nestly, as well for my father as nyselt. The.
day may come, perhaps, when I shall be able
to prove my gratitude and, the sincerity of
my friendship, which has never wavered since
we were children together. Until that slay,
farewell, Russell; but believe that I rejoice to
hear of your successes."
She held out her hand, and, as he took it in
his, which trembled violently, he felt, even
then, that there 'was no quiver in the icy white
fingers, and that hit name rippled over her
lips as 'almly as that of the dead had done
just before. She endured his long, searching
gaze, like any, other Niobe, and he dropped
the little pearly hand and quitted the room.
She heard his quick step ring changes down
the long hall and stony steps, and, when all
was still again, she knelt beside the table, and
crossing her arms over it, bowed her face upon-
them. Now and then the servants looked in,
but crept away awed, closing the door stealthi-
ly ; and as the day advanced, and the news of-
what had happened flew through the town,
friends came to offer assistance and condolence.
But none dared disturb or- address the kneel-
ing figure, veiled by waving hair .and giving
no more sign of life than the form before her.
At ten o'clock Mr. Huntingdon returned, and,
with his hat drawn over his e) es,-went straight
to the library. le kissed the face of the dead
passionately, ,and his sob and violent burst of
-sorrow told his child of his arrival. She
lifted her rigid face and extended her arms,.
pleadingly.
"Father I Father ! here, at least, you will
forgive .me!"
lie turned from her sternly, and answered,
with bitter emphasis:
"I will not 1 But for you, he would have
been dillerent, and this would never have
happened."
"Father, I,have asked for love and pardon
for the last time. Perhaps, when you stand
over my dead body, you may remember that
you hat a child who had a right to your af-
fection:  God knows, if it were possible, I
would gladly lay'my weary he d down to rest,,
here on Hugh's bier, and give him back to
your arms. 'Life is not so sweet to me that '
I would not yield it up to-day without- a mur'-
mur." -      s  .-                    .  .
.She bent down 'and kissed her-cousin, and,
with a hard, bitter'sexpression min ler cotta-
tenance, went up to her own room, locking

out Paragon and old Nellie, who followed
cautiously at her heels.    °
"Forvthe drift of the Maker is dark, an Isis hid by the
v'eil.
Who knows the ways of the world, how God will bring
them about."
CHAPTER XXIV.
"Where are you going, Irene ?"
"Onlyto the Factory-row."
" For what, I should like to know ?"
"To see Bessie Davis, who has been very
ill."
"Fiddle-stick ! I want the carriage myself.
I promised to send down to the hotel for Judge
Peterson, who is coming to spend the night
here."
"Of course, Father, if you want Andrew I
do not wish to interfere with your arrange-
ments. I did not know that you intended to
use the carriage. John, tell Andrew to drive
the horses back to the stable-yard until called
for, and have 'Erebus saddled at once. Un-
pack that flat basket I left on the pantry-shelf,
and put the things into one with a handle? that
I can carry in my hand. The egg-basket will
do very well; it has a cover."
She went to her room, changed her dress for
her riding-habit, and came down to the front
door, where her father sat smoking..  , ,,
"What are you going'to do with that bas-
ket ? Erebus won't suffer you to Carry it."
" Yes, sir; he will suffer just what I please
to take. I have a bottle of wine,,some jelly,
and some light bread for poor Mrs. Davis."
"What sort of wine ?"
"Not your high-priced sherry or port, but
a pint bottle- of niadeira. Tighten that girth
for me, Andrew, if you please; the saddle
turned the last time I rode.
"I 'II bet that you will let that basket fall
before you get to the gate, and lose every drop.{
in it. It is all nonsense ! sheer nonsense I"
She mode no reply,' but 'mounted the beau-
tiful spirited animal, who arched-his neck and
curveted at sight of the basket. Patting his
mane'soothingly, she hung the basket securely
on the pommel of the saddle and rode off.
" He is wilder to-day than he was when I
first bought him; he wil break her neck yet,
I have n't a doubt," muttered lir. fiuntingdon,
looking.after her.
"No he won't,'-Master; she can tame him
down any minute. Last week shd wanted to'
ride, but he had, got out into the creek-pasture
and I could n't catch him. I raced him for a
- half-hour up and down, and could n't come
'near him; I'tried him wit corn and fodder,
buthe ran like a deer. I give it up, sir, and
,toi Miss Irene he Was intane of his tantrums
and I could do nothing with' him. -''She just'
put on her laat and walked over to jhe pasture,
and the minute he saw her coming heneighed

two or three times, and, before I could get to
her, she had her hand on his mane, patting
him, and he was rubbing his head against her.
Miss Irene can tame anything in this world,
she has such a steady, conquering look in her
eyes."n
Such ,were Andrew's reassuring words, as,
with his hat on the back of his head and both
hands thrust into his deep pockets, he stood
watching his young stress until a turn in the
road obscured both horse and rider, then walk-
ed back to the stable.
It was a cold afternoon in November-
And Autumn, laying here and there
A fiery finger on the leaves,"
had kindled her forest conflagration. Golden
maples and amber-hued cherries, crimson dog-
woods and scarlet oaks shook out their flame-
foliage and waved their glowing boughs,'all
dashed and spedkled, flecked and rimmed with
orange and blood , ghastly green, and tawny
brown. The b0 tic spot- burned everywhere,
save on the solemn sombre pines that lifted
themselves defiantly far 'above the fevered re-
gion of decay. .Royal clusters.of golden-rod
were blackened and seared by the lips of an
early frost, and pallid starry asters shivered
and dropped their faded petals as the wind
bowed their fragile heads. The smoky atmos-
phere, which had hung all day in purple folds
around the distant hills, took a golden haze as
the sun sank rapidly; and to Irene's gaze
riverr and woodland,' hill-side and valley, were
brimmed with thatweird "light which never
was on sea or land."  Her almost "Brahmini-
cal" love of nature had grown with her years,
but a holier element mingled with her adora-
tion now ; she looked beyond the material veil
of beauty, and bowed reverently before the
indwelling Spiritual:Presence. Only during
these silent hours of communion afforded by
her solitary rides was the shadow lifted from
her heart, and at such times 'immemorial Cy-
,bele's fingers,.soft and warm, touched the still
face, and the icy lines melted. Since Hugh's
death, nearly a' year before, she had become a
recluse-availing herself of her mourning-
dress to decline all social engagements; and
during these months a narrow path opened
before her feet, she - became a member 9f the
church which she had attended from infancy,
and her hands closed firmly over her life-pork:'
The baffling Sphinx that had so long vexed
her sat no more at the cross-roads of her ex-
istence ; she Ibund an.uEdipus in the far more.
than ca-balistic words:
"Thy path isnplain and straight, that light is given.
Toward in fulthI and leave the rest to heaven."
Sorrow  and want hung out their signs .
among the poor of W---, and here, silent,
but methodically, she had become, not a'inn..
'istering angel certainly, but a generous ene-~
factress, a noble, syrapathetic friend--a coun-
sellor' whose strong good sense rendered her

MACARIA:


114  ACARA.                                          MCARI.                     FI

advice and guidance valuable indeed. By a
system.,of rigid economy she was enabled to
set apart a small portion of money, which'she
gave judiciously, -superintending its invest-
ment ; kind, hopeful words she scattered like
sunshine over every threshold ; and here and
there, where she detected smouldering aspira-
tion or incipient appreciation of learning, she
fanned the spark with some suitable volume
from her own library, which, in more than one
instance, became the germ, the spring of'" a
joy for ever."  Frequently herfather threw
obstacles in her way, sneering all the while at
her '- sanctimonious freaks." Sometimes she
affected.not to notice the impediments, somse-.
times .frankly acknowledged their magnitude,
and climbed right over them, on to her work.
Amopg the factory operatives she found the
greatest need of ameliorating touches of every
Kind. Improvident, illiterate,, in some cases
almost brutalized,.she occasionally found her-
self puzzled as to the proper. plan to pursue ;
but her womanly heart,.like the hidden Jew-
elled levers of a-watch, guided the womanly
hands unerringly.
This evening, as she approached the row of
low whitewashed' houses, a crowd of children
swarmed out, as usual, to .stare at her. She
rode' up to a door-step, where a boy of some
fourteen years sat sunning himself, with an
open book on his knee and a pair of crutches
beside him. At sight of her a bright smile
broke over' his sickly face, and he tried to
rise.
41Good-evening, Philip ; don't get up. How
are you to-day ?"
"«Better,'I thank you, ma'm; but very stiff
yet"
"«The stiffness will pass off gradually, I
hopt. I see you have piot finished your book.
'yet; how de you like it'?"
"' Oh ! I could bear to be a cripple always,
if I had plenty like it to ream."
"You need not be a eripple ; but there are
plenty more, just as good and better, which
you shall have in time. Do you think you
could hold my horse for me a httle while? I
can't find a suitable place to tie him. lie is
gentle enough if you will only hold the reins."
"4Certainy, ma'm; I shall be glad to hold
him as long as-you like."            ,
She dismounted, and, taking her'basket,
placed the bridle in the boy's hand, saying en-
couragingly, as Erebus put up his ears aird
looked vicious:
"6Don't be afraid 'of him. Speak to him
quietly, if he gets restless, and ifyou can't
keep hin in order, call me; I am going in next
door."  :  ".
He smiled assent,'wrapped the bridle round
his wrist, and returned eagerly to is treasure,
Sims' " Life of Nathaniel Greene," while
Irene passed into the adjoining hopise. Soein
sick-rooms are- inviting, from thie costly display
of marble, rosewood, velvet, and silver; from

tJe tasteful arrangement of books and flowers ;
from the air of delicacy and affectionate con-
sideration which pervades them. But those
where -poverty stands grim and gaunt on the
hearth are rarely enticing, and to this dreary
class belonged the room where Bessie Davis
had suffered for months, watching the sands of
life run low and the shadow of death growing
longer across the threshold day by day. The
(lust and lint of the cotton-room had choked
the springs of life, and on her hollow cheeks
glowed the autograph of. consumption. She
stretched out her wasted hand and said :
" Ali, Miss Irene !. I heard your voice out-
side, and it was pleasant to my ears as the
sound of the bell when work-hours are over.
I am always glad to see your face, but this
evening [ was longing for you, hoping and
praying that you would come. I am in trouble."
"About what, Mrs. Davis? Nothing seri-
ous, I hope ; tell me."
"I don't know how serious it is going tobe.
Johnnie is sick in the next room, take .yes-
terday; and, about-noon to-day, Susan lead to
kn'oek off work and come home. Hester is the
only one left, and you-know she is but a baby
to work. I don't like to complain o( my lot,
'God knows, but it seems hard if we are all to
be taken down."
" I hope they will not be sick long. What
is the matter with Johnnie ?"'       -
"'Dear knows! I am sure I don't; he com-
plains of the headache and has fever, and
Susan here seems ailing the same way. She
is as stupid as can be-sleeps-all the time. My
children have had measles and whooping-
cough and chicken-pox and scarlet-fever, and
I can't imagine what they are trying to catch
now. I hear that there is a deal of sickness
showing itself in the Row."
" Have you sent for the doctor ?" asked
Irhne, walking around to the other side of the
bed and examining Susan's pulse.
",Yes, I sent Il"ster ; but she said lie told
her he was too busy to come."
" Why did you not apply to some other
physician ?".
" Because Dr. Brandon has always attended
me, and, as I sent for him first, I did n't know
whether any other 'doctor would Like to come.
You know some. of them have very curious
notions about their dignity."
" And sometifthes,. while they pause to dis-.
cuss etiquette. humanity. suffers. Susan, .let
ne see your tongue. Who else is sick in the
Row, Mrs. Davis ?'t".
"Three of Tom Brown's children, two of
Dick' Spencer's, and Lucy hall, and Mary
Moorhead. Miss Irene, will you 'be good
enough to give me a drink of water? Hester.-
has gone to tr~ to find some wood, and r can't
reach the pitcher."  ..
-" I brought y ou some jelly ; would you like
a little now, or shall I put it away in the
closet ?".

114-                                 MA.CA.RI:A..

" Thank you ; I will save it for my Johnnie,
he is so fond of sweet things; and, poor child!
he sees 'em so seldom now-a-days."
" There is enough for you and Johnnie too.
Eat this, while, I look after him.'and see
whether he ought to have any this evening."
She placed a saucer filled with the tmpt-
ing amber-hueds delicacy on the little ,pine
table beside the bed and went into the next
room. The boy, who looked about seven or
eight years old, lay on a pallet in one corner,
restless and fretful, his cheeks burning and his
large brown eyes sparkling with fever.
"Johnnie, boy I what is the, matter ? TellI
me what hurts you ?"              -
" My head aches so badly," and tears came
to-the beautiful childish eyes.
"It feels hot. Would you like to have it
bahedin cold water ?"1
'If you please, ma'm. I have been calling
Hettie, and she won't hear."           "
" Because she has gone out.  Let me see if t
I can't do'it just as well as lettie." .  . {
'She hunted about the room for ascloth, but,
finding nothing suitable, took her cambric  1
'handkerchief, and, after laying his forehead
gently for'ten or fifteen minutes, laid the wet
folds upon it, and asked, smilingly :    s
" Does n't that feel pleasant ?"
"Ever so nice, ma'm-if I had some to a
drink."                                o
She put the dripping gourd to his parched h
lips,. and, after shakmn  up his pillow and h
straightening the coverinjk of his pallet, she
promised to see him again soon, and returned m
to his mother.
" How does;he appear to be, Miss Irene ? sl
I had him moved out of this room because he
skid my coughing hurt his head, and his con- a'
tinual fretting worried me. I am so 'weak in
now, God help me '" and she covered her eyes tI
with one hand.e                         se
" He has some fever,, Mrs. Davis, but not si
more than Susan. I will ask Dr. Arnold 'to, tl[
come and see them this evening. This change tv
in .the weather is very well calculated to make d(
sickness. Are you entirely out 6f wood ?"  fe
" Very nearly, ma'm-a few sticks left'"  th
" When Hester comes keep her at home.
I will send you some wood. And now, how
are you?"         '.
" My cough is not quite so bad; the pectoral
holds it a -little in -check; but I' had another ov
hemorrhage last night, and I am growing fa
weaker every day. Oh, 'Miss Irene1 what few
will become of my poor little childrenewhen I th
amgone? That is such an agonizing thought." in
She sobbed as she spoke.                 ter
"Do not let that grieve'ou now. I    i
'you that your children shallube taken caroe f.y
-will send a servant down to stay here to- isi
night, and perhaps some of"-the women in the 'he
Row wihll be willing' to comti in' occasionally 'Yc
and help Hester till Susan gets able to cook.: of
I left two loaves of bread in 'the closet, and tre

will send more in the morning, which Hester
can tout.  I shall go by town and send Dr.
Arnold out."
l"s would rather have Dr. Brandon, if you
please."                               .
" Wh ?"
"I have always heard that 'Dr. Arnold was
so gruff and unfeelig that I ain afraid of him.
I hate to be snapped up when I ask a qtes
tion."
I That is a great mistake, Mrs Davis. Peo-
pie do him injustice. He has one of the kind,
est, warmest hearts I ever knew; though some-
times he is rather. abrupt tn his manner. If
you prefer it,' however, Twill see your doctor.
Good-by; I will come again to-morrow."
As she took her bridle from Philip's hand.
the boy looked 'up at her with an expression
borderingon adoration.
" Thankyou, Philip ; how did he behave ?"
' 'ot very well; but he is beautiful enough
to makeup for his wildness."
xThat is bad doctrine; beauty never should
excuse bad .behavior. 'Is your mother at
home ?
"No, ma'm."
"When she comes, ask her I say' please to
tep in now and then and overlook things for
Mrs. Davis; .Sasan is sick. Philip, if it is not
king too much of you, Johnnie would like
fr you to sit hbyhim till his little sister comes'
Tome, and wet that cloth which I left on his
leadl. Will you ?
C"Indeed I will; I am very glad you told
e. Certainly aIvWill.e"
" I thought so. Don't talk to him; let hai
heep if he will.t ood-by."
She went first to a wood-yard on the river
end eft an order for a core of wood to be sent
immediately to No..13, 'Fctory-row; theft took
lie street leading to Dr. Brandon's office.' 'A
ervant sat on the step whistling-merrily, atd,
answer toher question, 'lhe  inormed'het'
dat his master had just left to* , to be absent:
o -days. She rode on for a few 'squares,
oatbing her veil in the hope of shroudither,,
eatu'es, and stopped once more in front of'
e door where stood Dr. Arnold's buggy;"
" Cyrus, is the doctor in his office ? '
" Yes,Miss rene,
Hold my horse for me."'
She' gathered the folds'of her riding.hibit
e heb ar' an went up stai's.Leaning
d    in his chair, wits'his feet ou the"
der of the grate, sat Dr. Arnold, watching'
fa blue smoke of his nmerschaum earl lazily
fadnt wreaths over his head;' and, as she'enr.
'ed,,a look of pleasart surprise Oame instant .
into his 'cold,' clear-eyes.
"Bless me'! Irene, Iam ghadto'see you.' I-'
ren a i day Njc ~  thar shw*orf~
be'st on  Now, ten, what% to'p~y?
'me except whe youre;. Hna Q4  ele
ated herself to anotherspell of'reumtais,


116                                 MAC
or Paragon broke his leg, or small-pox broke
out anywhere; or, worse than all, have the
hawks taken to catching your pigeons
"4 None of these catastrophes has. overtaken
one; but I come, as usual, to ask a favor. If
you please, I want you to go up to the Factory-
r-pw this evening. Mrs. Davis, No. 13, has two
children very sick, 1Iam. afraid. Don't like
the appearance of their tongues"
" aumph! what do you know about tongues,
I should like to be informed ?"
"How to use my own, sir, at least, when
there is a necessity for it. They are what you
medical savans call typhoid tongues; and from
what I heard to day, 1 am afraid there will be
a distressing amount of sickness among the
operatives. Of course you will, o, sir ?"
" How do you know thatso well?  Perhaps
I will, and perhaps I won't. Nobody- ever
looks after me, or cares about the condition of
my health; I don't see why I must adopt the
whole human race. See here, my child! do
not let me hear of you at the Row again soon;
it is no place for you, my lily. Teti to one it
is some low, miserable typhus fever showing
itself, -and I will take care of your precious
pets only on condition that you keep away, so
that I shall not be haunted with the dread of
having you, also, on my hands. If I lay eyes
on. you at the Row, 1 swear I will write to
Leonard to chain you up at home. Do you.
hear ?"
"I shall come every day, I promise you
that."
"(Oh! you are ambitiousof martyrdom I But
typhus-fever is not the style, Queen. There is
neither 'eclat nor glory in such a.death."
A sad, smile ,curved her inouth as she an-
swered slowly :
Indeed you wrong me, poetor. I am' not
ready to die; I am not fit for eternity; my
work has but begun."nh
"Why do you think so, my dear child?
What sin have you ever committed ?"
"Sins of omission, sir, efot up as heavily as
those of commission."
"Don't tread upon my Antinomianistic toes,
if you please'! they are tender. Wherein
have you failed -to do your duty ?"
"God and my own soul only sit in assize,
upon my derelictions."
" Irene, I have watched you for years with
huygr y.eager eyes; and of late I have fellow-
edjou in your rounds among the poor. You
are inaugurating a new system.; the fashion is,
to organize societies, flame in print as officer,
president, treasurer, as the ease may be, and
pl.card the members and purposes of the A r-
'whant agthand doeth Ind  it not so' One
of you own sex, the greatest, Atrongest, no.-
blest of yur learned women-singers, pithily
tells you
'"hero's too seuch abstract willing, purposing, ','
1n this poor'world. We talk by aggregates,

ARIA..
And think by systems..,..If we pray at all,.
We pray no lobger for our daily bread,
But next centenary's harvests. If we give,
Our cup of water is not tendered till
We lay down pipes and found a company
With branches. A woman can not do the thing she ought,
Which means whatever perfect thing she can,
In life, in art, In science, but she fears
To let.tho perfect action take her part
And rest there; she most prove what she can do,
Before she does it-prate of woman's rights,
of woman's mission, woman's function, till
'bhp men (who are prating, too, on their side) cry--
'A woman's function plainly is--to talk.
Pool souls, they are very reasonably vexed !
They can not hear each. other speak.-"
" I tell you, Queen, I have watched tbgse
associations all my life': I am getting old now,
and I am as completely nauseated with their
cant and phariseeism   as Macaulay was with
that of the seventeenth century Puritans. Self-
glorification has a deal of influence over our
modern Dorcases."
"I think, sir, that you are unjust in some
instances; your cynical lenses distort the
facts.  Judicionsly-conducted cliaritable so-
cieties greatly facilitate matters, by system-
atizing the  ork and inducing punctuality. I
grant that the evils you spetk of are much' to.
be deprecated; and, to complete your own
lengthy quotation:'
'-I'd whisper-Soft, my sister! not a word!
By speaking we prove only we can speak:
Which ho, the man here, never doubted. what
le doubts is, whether we can do the thing
With decent grace we 've not yet done at all:
Now do it 1"
" Doctor, I .wish you were more. of an op-
timist."
He took one of her hands, 'spread out the'
ivory fingers on his broad palm, and said, in a
lower tone :
"owMy haldean priestess, who says that I ani
not as orthodox -on optimism as Leibnitz him-
self?  Don't you know that I am a sort of
latter-day troglodyte, very rarely. airing my'
pet creeds for the benefit of the public?  That
was a.wise law    of Soton's which declared
i every man infamous who, in seditious or civil
dissensions of the state, remained neuter, and
refused to side with either party ;' but I do not
regard it as expedient or incumbent upon me
to advertise my individual status on all ethical
schisms.' What is it to' the public whether i
endorse ' Candide ' or Leibnitz's ' Theodi-
t' "
One thing I certainly do know, with great
regret, that, your. seeming austerity, your,
roughness of.manner, renders you very un-
popular ; whereas you should be universally
beloved."
"Really I have -I become a bugbear in my
"Not that exactly, sir ; but I irish, if it were
possible, that you would not mask f)our really
kind, generous, sympathizing heart by such
repellent, abrupt conduct in sick-rooms, where
pople expect gentleness and consideration on
the part of a physician. I know you are often

MACARIA.

117

annoyed by senseles and ridiculous questions; who will question ?  Not I, surely  and yet I
but I wish, for your own sake, that you could know that girl will take hers -safely to the
be a little more patient with poor,, weak terminus of time, pure, with no smut or smell
human nature."    '             .        of gunpowder.,A pearl before swine ! But I
Child, I am not gregarious ; never was. I -swear, untrampled to the end."
touch my hat to the world, and it is welcome  He shook the ashes from his pipe,'put it
to think just what 'it chooses of m.   away behind the clock,, and went down tolhis
"    so,ir ; far from touching your hat, you buggy. Before breakfast the' following morn-
stand. aloof, scowling at your. race, smiling' ing, while Irene was in the poultry-yard'feed-
grimly at the strugghng, drowning men and ing her chickens and pigeons, pheasants and
women around you, as if, we were not , all one , p'eafo ls, she received a note from' Dr. Arnold
great family, designed  y God to assist and containing these few scrawling words
cheer each other. 'E\ ery man-"     "'
" Pardon me, Queen ; but I am not 9ne'of  "if you do not feel quite ready l'or the' da
those deluded, selftcomplacent human beings of judgment, avoid the Row as, you would the
who actually lay the 'flattering unction' to plagues of Egypt. 'I found 'no less than six
their souls that tey were sent into this world developed ,cases of rank typhus.
for some particular purpose-some special mis-         "Yours,
sion. . I want you distinctly to understand,                 " '  "HnAn AN *OLD."
child, that I don't consider myself appointedRN
. to any work but .that of attending to my -own She put the note in her pocket, and, while
affairs and taking care of myself."      the pigeons fluttered and perched 'on her
Then yon admit yourself a marred, imper- shoulders and arms, cooing and pecking at her
fect block, rejected by the Divine Architect as fingers, she stood musing-calculating the
unworthy of a' place in -the grand social tem  chances of contagion and death if'she persist-
ple. God clothed you with human- affections ed. - Raising her eyes to the calm blue sky'the
and sympathies that, in accordance with the' perplexed look passed from her countenatie,
fundamental law of social existence, you might and, fully decided regarding her course, she
extend a helping hand to your fellow-creat- went in to breakfast. Mr. Iluntingdon was
cres."  '                               going ;to a neighboring. county with, Judke
He moved restlessly, and his gray shaggy Peterson, to transact some business connected
brows met in a heavy frown.              with Hugh's estate, and, 'as the buggy came to
"I believe, Irene, I am entirely innocent of the door, he asked carelessly:
any agrarian or socialistic tendency.'     " What did'Cyrus want ?"
"And so, I trust, am 1. But, sir, because I  " He came to bring me a note from the
abhor Brook-F armn I will not take refuge in doctor, concerning, some sick people whom'I
the cave of Trophonius."   '             asked him to seq."'
He looked up at her with one of-his steely,  " Oh -!, John, put my overcoat in the
probing glances, then the b:Ows unbent, and buggy. Come, Judge, I am ready."
he drew  er hand caressingly across his cheek.  As hemade no inquiry about the sick she
"Well, child, we won't quarrel over my volunteered no explanation, and he bade her
bearishness. If you will keep that hard, frozen good-by with manifest cold indifference. "She
look away from your lips, and smile now and could not' avoid congratulating herself that,
then as you. used to do in your -childhood since he must take this journey soon, he had
when I held you on my knee, I will promise to selected the present occasion to be absent,'
try and unearth myself,,.to seal up my gnome for she was.weIl aware that he would violently
habitation, and buy Ihe a tub which I can op ose hetnWishes in the matter of the Row.
drag after 'me into the sunlight. Is it a Wen Dr. Arnold met her, late in the fter'
bargain 2"                                noon of the same day,,at little Johnnie's side,
SThat is problematical, Doctor. But it is his surprise and chagrin found vent, firatin a
getting late, and I wish, if you please, yo' series of oaths, then, scowling at her like some
would go at once to th aRow."    a      thunder-cloud with the electricity expended,
"Stop!1 if any good is accomplished among he said:'
those semi-savages up'yonder, who is to have  "Do you consider me a stark idiot, or a
the' credit ?' Tell -me that."           shallow qua~ck ?"
"God shall have the thanks;, you all the  "Neither, sir, I'assure ou."
credit. as the worthy instrument, and I' as  " Then, if I know anything about my busi-
much of the gratification as I can steal from ness, I wrote you the truth this morning and
you. Are you satisfied with your wages, my you treat my advice with: cool contempt. 'ou
honored Shylocky? 'Good-nigt."           vex me beyond all endurance! Po'yu want
"Humph I it is strange what a hold that to throw yourself into thejaws of Death ?"
queer, motherless child took upon mys heart in ' "No,sir; 'tar from' is; btt /I had' fiursed
her babyhood,'and tightens as.she growsolder.. the risk beforeI was aware'tliat. tlere 'was
' That souls are dangerous things to carry straight any. Besides, I really do not think 1 shall take
Through all the spilt saltpetre of the world ' glt the fevdr. ' 'I believe a good resolution i.'a


MACARIA.

powerful preventive] and that, you know, I
ave."
" The deuce you have! you obstinate, un-
governable piece of marble! : Look here,
Irene, I shall go straight to your father and let:
'him know the facts. It is my duty, and I mean
to do it."
"I don't think you will, for he 'started to'
3.-5-- county this morning. And now, Doe-
or, you may just as well quit scolding me, for
I have made up my mind to nurse Johnnie,
Ospme what will."
" Yes! I will warrant' you have!1 and you,
mAy as well go make up your shroud, too-for:
you will want it, I am thinking."
"Well, my life, at least, is my own, even if
it should prove-the price."
" Oh ! is it, indeed ? What has become of
that pretty doctrine you preached to me
yesterday ? I thought you belonged to the
?hole human fraternity ? Your life yours,
indeed I"
"You forget, Doctor; 'greater love bath no
mian than this, that he lay down his life for his
friends.'"
She slipped her hand into his and looked up,
smiling and calm, into his harsh, swarthy face.
"My child, you made a mistake; "your life
belongs to me, for I saved it in your infancy.
I .cradled you in myarms, lest Death should
snatchyou, I have a, better right to you than
anybody else in this world. I don't want to
see you die ; I wish to go first."
" I know what I owe you, Doctor; but I am
not going to die, and you have scolded me
enough for one thne. Do make peace."
"Remember, I warned you, and you would
not heed."
From that hour she kept faithful vigil in No.
18--passing continually from one bedside to
another. Susan's attack proved comparative-
ly light, and she was soon pronounced conva-
)escent; but little Johnnie was desperately ill,
and for several nights Irene sat at his pillow,
fearing that. every hour would be his last.
While his delirium was at its height Hester,
was taken violently, and on the morning when
Irene felt that her labor was not in vain and
that the boy would get well, his little sister,
'Whom she had nursed quite' as -assiduously,
grew rapidly worse, and died at noon. As is
fequentl observed in. such - diseases, this
increased in virulence with every' new case.
It spread with astoraishing celerity through
the Row, baffling the efforts of the best physi-
cians in ,W     ; and finally, the day after
Hester's death, as Irene sat trying to comfort
the poor mother, a neighbor came in, exclaim-
iig:
"iOh, Miss irene! Philip Martin is down.'
'too. Hie caught the fever from his mother, and
his father says won't you please come over"
Se went promptly, though so wearied-she
could scarcely stand, and took a .seat by the
-bEd where tossed the poor boy in whom she

had taken such an interest since the accident
which crushed his, leg. in the machinery and
rendered him a temporary cripple.
" He has been talking about you constantly,
Miss Irend, and calling- for you. Philip, my
son, here is Miss Irene."
He smiled 'and turned, but- there was no
recognition in the hot eyes, and after an in-
stant he muttered on incoherently.  -
"You must go home, Miss 'Huntingdon;
you are worn-out.. His father can watch him
till his ,mother gets stronger," said Dr. Bran-
don, who was fully acquainted with her unre-
mitting attendance at the next house.
" No, I must stay with Philip; perhaps he
will know me when he wakes."
A hope doomed to disappointment, for he
raved for four days and nights, calling fran-
tically -for the serene, sad woman w~io 'sat
at his pillow, bending over him and laying her
cold hand on his scorched brow. On the fifth
day, being free from fever and utterly pros-
trated, he seemed sinking rapidly ; but she
kept her fingers - on his pulse, and, without
waiting for the doctor's advice, administered
powerful .stimulants. So passed two hours of
painful anxiety.; then Philip opened his eyes
languidly, and looked at her.
"Philip, do you know me'?"
" Yes-Miss :Irene."
She sank back as if some strong supporting
hand had suddenly been withdrawn from her;
and, observing that she looked ghastly, Mr.
Martin hastily brought her a glass of water.
Just then Dr. Brandon entered, and examined
his patient with evident surprise.
" What have you done to him, Miss Hun-
tingdon'?"
"t Since daylight I have been giving him
ammonia and brandy; his pulse was so feeble
and thread I thought he needed it, and I was-
afraid to wait for you.'i
" Right I and you saved his life" by it. I
could'not get here any earlier, and if you had
delayed it until I came it would probably,
have been, too late. You may call him your
patient after this."
She waited no longer, but staggered to the
door ; and Andrew, seeing how faint she was,
came to meet her and led her to the carriage.
The ten days of watching has told upon her ;
and when she reached home and Nellie brought
her wrapper and unlaced her shoes, she fell
back on her lounge in a heavy, death-like
sleep. Mr. Huntingdon had been expected
two days before, but failed to arrive at the
time designated; and, having her fears fully
aroused, Nellie despatched a' messenger for
Dr. Arnold.
CHAPTER XXV.
" Do you see any change, Hiram ?"
" None for the better-."

Mr. Huntingdon dropped his head on his
hand again, and Dr. Arnold resumed his slow
walk up and down the carpet. The blue
damask curtains had been looped back from,
,the western window, and the broad band of
yellow belting in the sky threw'a mellow light
over the bed where lay the unconscious heiress
of the grand old Hill.' Fever rouged the polish-
ed cheeks usually pure asalabaster, and touched
the parted lips with deeper scarlet, lending a
brilliant and almost. unearthly beauty to' the
sculptured features. Her hairpartially escap-
ing from confinement, straggled in crumpled
rings,"and folds across the pillow,, a mass of
golden netting; and the sparkling eyes wan-
'dered from one object to another as if in
anxious search. The disease had assumed a
different type, and, instead ofraving paroxysms,
her illness was characterized by a silent, wake-
ful unconsciousness, while opiates produced
only the effect of increasing her restlessness.
A week had passed thus--during which time
she had recognized no one, and though nu-
merous lady friends came to offer assistance,
all were refused permission to see her. Mr.-
Huntingdon was utterly ignorant of the duties
of a nurse ; and though he hanted the room
like an unlifting shadow, Dr. Arnold and Nel
lie took entire charge of the patient. The
former was unremitting in his care, sitting be.
side the pillow.through the long winter nights,
and snatching a few hours sleep during the
day. Watching her now,'as he walked to and
fro, he noticed that her eyes followed, him
earnestly, and he paused at the bedside and
leaned over her.
" Irene, what do you want ?   Does my
walking annoy you ?"
No answer.,
" Won't you. shut your eyes, my darling,
and try to go to sleep ?"
The deep brilliant eyes' only looked into
his with mocking intentness. He put his
fingers on the lids and pressed them gently,
down, but she struggled, and turned away her
face. Her bands crept constantly along the
snowy quilt as if seeking for something, and
taking them both he folded them in his and
- pressed them to his lips, ,while tears, which he
did not attempt to restrain, fell over them..
" You don't think she is any worse, do you ?"
asked the father, huskily.             .
"I don't know anything, except that she
can't lay this way much longer."
His harsh voicetfaltered and his. stern mouth
trembled. He laid the bands back, went to
the window, and Aood there till the room grew
dusky and the lamp was brought' in. As.
Neflie. closed the door after her the doctor
came to the hearth and said,'shai'ply:
" I wobld not be in your plac6 for John Ja-
cob Astor's fortune."
" What do you mean by that'/",
" I meain that, if you have any conscience
left, you must suffer the pains of purgatory for

the manner in which you have persecuted that
child,"
" In all that I have ever done I have looked
only to her good-to her ultimate happines.
I know that she-"
Sflush, Leonard I'hush ! You know 'very
well that you have been down on your knees
before the Golden Calf ever since that 'girl
opened her' eyes in this plagued world of
trouble ! You are no more fit to be a father
than I am to be a saint ! You have tyrannized
and fretted her. poor innocent sonl nearly 'out
of her ever since she was big enough to crawl.
Why the d-l- could' not you let the .child
have a little peace ? Itold you how it would
end ; but oh, no'! you could see nothing but
the "gilt face of your bellowijgg' god! You
tormented her so about Hugh that anybody
else would have hated the poor fellow.'  Mind
you, she never opened her lips to me with
reference to that matter in her life ; she would
have been -gibbeted first. But I am not blind
entirely ; I knew what was goieg on ; I knew
that the proud, sensitive bird was' hunted
and could find no spot to rest upon. ' There
are ninety-nine chances to one that she has
come teher rest at -last. You will feel pleas-
antly when you see her in her shroud."
His hard face worked painfully, and tears
glided down the wrinkled cheek and hid
themselves in his gray beard. Mr. Hunting-
don was much agitated, but an angry flush
crossed his brow as he answered, hastily:
" I am the best judge of my family matters.
You are unjust and severe. Of course, I love
my child better than anybody else."
"Heaven preserve her from such love' as
you have lavished on her ! She is very dear
to me.   I understand her character ; you
either can not or will not. .She is the only
thing in this world that I do really love. I
have fondled her from the time when-she was
a week old, and it hurts me to see her suffer
as she has.done ever since you posted her off
among strangers in New York. It will' go
hard with me to lay her dwn, in all her love-
liness, in the grave. My pet, my violekeyed
darling I"
He shaded his face and swallowed a sob,
and for some moments neither spoke. After a.
while the doctor buttoned up his coat and'took
his hat.
"I am going down to my office to get a dif-
ferent prescription.' I will be back soon."
"Mrs. Harris and Mrs. Clark'said that they
would sit up to-night. Hiram, you must be'
worn-out, losing so much sleep."
"Tell Mrs. Harris and Mrs. Clark to go to
Egypt ! Po you suppose I want two such
gossip-hawks perched over my dove? I am
going to sit up myself. .Give Irene a spoonfi1
of that mixture in. the small vial at seven
o'clock."
C ontrary to hisphlegmatic habit, the doctor
had. taken counsel of his fears until he tras

1'

MALARIA.

119

118


120                         .  .        MACARIA.

completely unnerved, and he went home more
than usually surly and snappish. As he en-
tered his o0ele.Russell advanced to meet him
from the window,' whence, for nearly an hour,
he had been watching for his arrival..
"Good'evening, Doctor."
"What do you want ?"
" How is Miss Huntingdon ?"
"What is Miss Huntingdon to you ?"
".She was one of my mother's best'friends,
though only a little girl at the time."
"1And you love her for your-mother's sake,
I suppose ?  Truly filial."',
"For that matter, she is beautiful enough.to
be very easily loved for her own sake, judging
from the number of her devoted admirers.
.But.I-certainly am very grateful for her kind-
ness to my mother, years ago."
" And well you may be, Aubrey ! She paid
dearly for her friendly interest in your family."
"Ip what respect, sir ?"
"In more respects than I choose to recapit-
ulate. Did you ever know where she got. the,
two hundred dollars, which she .gave your
mother ?"
"I presume she took it from her own pujse."
"She borrowed it from me, and pail me.
back gradually in the money that her father
gave her, from time to time, while she. was at
boarding-school. , Cyrus ! you stupid ! bring
me some coffee."  .
" How.is she to-night?  Rumors are so un-
reliable, that I came-to you to find out the
truth."    :
"She is going to die, I am afraid."
A sudden pallor overspread Russell's face,
buthe sat erect and motionless, and, fastening
his keen eyes upon him, the doctor added:
" She's about to be transplanted to a better
world,'if there is such a, place. She is too
good and pure for this cursed, pestiferous
earth.",
"Is the case so utterly hopeless ? . I can
not, I will not, believe it !" came indistinctly
from the young man's Illoodless lips.
" I tell you I know better !- She stands on
a hair stretched across her 'grave. If I don't
succeed to-night .in making her sleep (which
I have been trying to accomplyh for two days),
she can't possible live. And what is that
whole confounded crew of factory savages in
"comparison.with her precious life ?"s
"Is it true that her illness is attributable to
nursing those people ?"
" Yes. D-l take the Row ! I wish the
river would swallow it up."  .. .
"Is she conscious ?"
" Heaven only knows; I don't. She lies
.with her eyes wide open, looking at every-
thing as if she were searching for something
which she had lost, but never speaks, and un-
derstandsanothing, except to swallow the med-
icine when'I put the spoon to'her lips.''
."*if I could only see her I" exclajilied Rus-
sell, and an expression of such intense agony

settled on his features, usually so inflexible,
that his companion was startled and astonish-
ed. The doctor regarded him a moment with
perplexity and compassion mingled in his own
'face ; then light  broke upon him, and, rising,
he laid his hand heavily on Russell's shoulder.
" Of course, Aubrey, you don't visit at that
house ?"
"Of course not."
" Do you meet her often ?"
"I have not. seen her- for nearly a year.
Not since'the pight in which Hugh Seymour
was drowned."
He rose, and turned away to screen his
countenance from the scrutiny to which, it was
subjected, for the painful shock baffled all' his
efforts at-self-control and he felt that his fae
would betray him.
"Where are you going,' Aubrey.?"
"Back to my office."
".Is there any message which you would like
for me to deliver to, her, if she should recover
her consciousness ? You may trust me, young
man."
" Thank you; I have no message to send.
I merely called to ask after her. I trust she
will yet recover. Good-night."
He walked on rapidly till -he' reached the
door of his office. The gas was burning brightly
over his desk, and red-tape and legal-cap beck-
oned him in ; but fathomless blue eyes, calm
as mid-ocean, looked up at him, and, without
entering, he turned, and w.dnt through the
cold and darkness to the cemetery, to his
mother's tomb. She had been his comfort in
boyish sorrows, and habit was strong; he went
to her grave for it still.
When Russell left hin Dr. Arnold took
from his pocket the only solace he had ever'
known-his meerschaum. While he smoked,
and mixed some powders in a marble mortar,
memory industriously ran back, raking amid
the ashes of theoby-gone for here a word and
there a look, to eke out the Ariadne thread
which his imagination was spinning. The
possibility of an attachment -between Irene
and the blind widow's son had never occurred
to him before ; but that Russell's unmistak-'
able emotion could be referable simply to grat-
itude to his 'mother's benefactress was an.
explanation of which he was disposed to be
very sceptical. If this surmise should prove
correct, what were Irene's feelings toward the
popular young politician? -' Mere he was ab-
solutely without data; he could recall nothing
to assist him; but, comprehending the bitter
animosity existing betwee'tfthe lawyer and
her father, he sighed involuntarily, knowing
the hopelessness of any such attachment 'on
either or both sides. Determined to satisfy
himself of thle .truth at the earliestopportuni-
ty he carefully weighed out the powder and'
rode back to the i1. He-could perceive no
change, winless it were a heightening of the
carmine on cheeks and lips and 'an increased -

I

twitching of the fingers, which hunted so per-
tinaciously about the bedclothes.
."That everlasting picking, picking at every-
thing, is such an awful bad §ign," said poor
Nellie, who.was crying bitterly at the feot of
the bed--and she covered her, face with her
apron to shut out the sight.
" You 'pick* yourself off to bed, Nellie ! I
don't want you snubbing and groaning around,
day and night."g
"I am afraid to leave her a minute. I am
afraid when my poor baby shuts her eyes she
never will open 'em again till she opens 'em in
heaven."5
"Oh, go along to sleep ! you eternal old
stupid.- I will wake you up, I tell you, if she
gets worse."
He mixed one of the powders and' stooped
down.
" Irene-Irene, take this for me, won't you,
dear ?"
She gave no intimation of having heard him
till he placed the wineglass to her mouthand
raised her head tenderly; then she swallowed
the contents mechanically. At the expiration
of an hour he repeated the dose, and. at ten
o'clock, while he sat watching her intently, he
saw the eyelids begin to droop, the long silky
lashes quivered and touched her cheeks. When
he listened to her breathing, and knew that at
last she slept, his gray head sank on his chest
and he murmured, inaudibly, " thank God I"
Patient as a woman, he kept 'his place at her
side, fearing to move lest he should wake her ;
the dreary hours of night wore away; morn-
ing came, gloriously bright, and still she slept.
The flush had faded, leaving her wan as death,
'and the little hands were now at rest. She
looked like the figures which all have seen on
cenotaphs, and anxiously and often the doctor
felt the slow pulse, that seemed weary of its
mission. He kept the room quiet and main-
tained his faithful watch, refusing to leave her
for a moment. Twelve o'clock rolled round,
and it appeared, indeed,.as if Nellie's prognos-
tication would prove true, the sleeper was so
motionless. At three o'clock the doctor count-
ed the pulse, and, reassured, threw his head
back against the velvet lining of the chair and
shut his aching eyes.. Before five minutes had
elapsed he heard a faint sweet voice say,
"Paragon."  Springing to his feet, he saw
her put out her hand topat the head of her
favorite, who could not be kept out of the
room, and howled .sa intolerably when they
chained him that they were forced to set him
free. Now he stood with his paws on the pil-
low and his face close, to hers, whining with
delight. Tears of joy almost blinded the doctor
as he pushed Paragon aside and said, eagerly:
"Irene, one dog is'-as good -as another You
know Paragon ; do you know me, Queen ?"
" Certainly-I know you, Doctor."
" God bless you, Beauty I You have n't,
known me for a week."

I.-

s
r

MACARIA. ii

"I am so thirsty-please give me some wa-
ter."
He lifted her head and she drank eagerly,
till he checked-her.
" There-=we have n't all turned hydropath-
ists since you were taken sick. NellieI I say,
Nellie ! you Witch of Endor 'I bring some
wine-whey here. Irene, how do you feel,
child ?"
" Very. tired and. feeble, sir. My head is
confused. 'Where is father ?"
" Here I am, my daughter."
He bent down with trembling lips and
kissed her, for the first time since the day of
their estrangement, nearly three years before.
She put her arms feebly around his neck, and
as he held her to his heart she felt a teardrop
on her.,forehead.
" Father,,have you forgiven me ?"
He either could not or would not answer,
but kissed her again warmly ; and, as he dis-
engaged her arms and left the room, she felt
assured that, at last, she had been forgiven.
She took the whey silently, and, after some
moments, said :
" Doctor, have you ,been sitting by me' a
long time ?"
"I rather think I have !-losing my sleep
for nearly ten days you unconscionable young
heathen."
" Have I been so ill as to require that? I
have a dim recollection of going on a long
journey, and of'your being by tny side all the
way "
"Well, I hope you travelled to your entire
satisfaction Sand found what  you wanted-for
you were feeling about as if hunting for
something the whole .time. Oh ! I am -so
thankful that you know me once more. Child,
you have cost me a deal of sorrow. Now be
quiet, and go to sleep again; at least don't
talk- to Nellie or Paragon.  I shall take a
nap on the sofa in the library."'
- She regained her strength very slowly, and
many days, elapsed before she was able to
leave - her room. One bright sunny morning
she sat before the open window, looking down
on the.lawn where the pigeons flashed in and
out of the hedges, and ntw and then glanc-
ing at the bouquet of choice hothouse flowers
in the vase beside her. In her lap lay a letter
just received from Harvey Young-a letter
full of fond remembrance, grave counsel, and
gentle encouragement-and, the unbent lines
about her mouth showed that her mind was
troubled.
The doctor came in and drew up a chair.
"I should like .to know who gave you leave
to ride yesterday ?"
"Father thought that I was well enough,
and the carriage was close add warm. .I hope,
sir, that I shalIl not be on your hands mauch
longer."
" What did I tell you ? Next time don't be '
so hard-headed when you are advised by older


MAhLMiACARIA.                                                               I23

and wiser persons. I trust you are quite sat
asfied with the result of your eleemosynary
performances at the Row."      {
" Par from it, Doctor. I am fully acclimat
ed; now, and have nothing to fear in future
I am ;very sorry, sir, that I 'caused you all so(
much trouble and anxiety ; I did not believe
that I should take the fever. If Philip had
not bean so ill I should hav s come out safely;
but, I suppose, my uneasiness about him un-
nerved me in some way-for, when I saw that
he *buld get well, all my strength left me in
am instant. How is he, sir
"Oh ! the young dog is as well as ever ;
limps around now without his crutches. Comes
to my office every day to ask after his blessed
Lady. Bountiful."
Leaning forward carelessly, but so as to
command a full view of her face, be added
" You stirred up quite an excitement in
town, and introduced me generally to society.
People, who never inflicted themselves on me
before, thought it was incumbent on them to
hang around my door to nake inquiries con-
cerning my fair patient. One night 1 found
even that statue of bronze and steel, Russell
Aubrey, waiting at my office to find out wheth-
er you really intended translation."
A change certainly passed swiftly over
her countenance ; but it Was inexplicable, in-
describable ; an anomalous lightening of the
eye and darkening of the brow. Before he
could analyze it , her features resumed their
wonted serenity, and he found her voice un-
fluttered.
" I was not aware that I had so many
friends; it is a pleasant discovery, and almost
compensates for the painof illness. Take
care, Doctor!, You are tilting my flowers out
of their vase."
" Confound the flowers, Queeni They are
always in the way. It is a great pity there is
such Theban-brother affection between your
father and Aubrey. He has any amount of
fine feeling hid away under that dark, Jesuit-
ical, non-committal face of his. He has not
forgotten your interest in his mother, and
wben I told him that I thought you had de-
termined to take your departure from this
world lie seemed really hurt about it. I al-
ways liked the boy, but I think he is a heretic
in olitics."
Lookig steadily at him as he spoke, she
smiled coldly, and answered:
"It is very apparent that this fierceness of'
party spirit, this bitter political animosity, is
driving the ship of State on the rock of Ruin.
The foamy lips of the breakers are'just ahead,
but you*men will not open your eyes to the
danger.'
'Be tter get some of you wise women to
*pilo&amp; us, I dare say 1" sneered her compa,nion,
provoked at -her unsatisfactory manner and
alflexible featurese.--
" It is not our calling, Doctor; but I promise

- you, if the experiment were tried, that you
y would find no Palinurus among us. We-ha-ve
no desire to thrust ourselves into the forum,
- like Roman women 'storming at the Oppian
Law and crushing Cato;' still less to imitate
3Hortensia and confronting- august Triumvirs
in the market-place, harangue against the tax,.
I however unjust. Practically, women should
have as little to do with politics as men with
darning stockings or making puff-paste; but
we should be unworthy of the high social status
,which  ' our chivalry accords us were we
indifferent to the conduct of public affairs.
' Man for the-field, andw oman for the hearth :
Man for the sword, and for the needle she: .
Man with the head, and woman with the heart;
Man to command, and woman to obey.'
Such is the judicious arrangement of nature-
a wise and happy one, indubitably. We bow-
before it, and have no wish to trench on your
prerogatives; but we do protest against your
sleeping on your posts, or lulling yourselves
with dreams of selfish -ambition when Scylla
and Charybdis grin destruction on either side."
".Phew-Queen ! who told you all that?
Has Aubrey indoctrinated you in his 'fire-eat-.
ing,' schismatic principles ?  What platform
do you propose to mount ?"
"None, sir, but that of the constitution-r--
ignoring both whig and democratic additions,
which make it top-heavy.. I don't like latter-
day political earpentering. I want to see Nes-
tors in the councils of my country, not nerve-
less imbeciles, or worthless, desperate political
gamesters."        ..,
"You rabid little Jacobin !   Don't you
think- that, Portia-like, you might completely
transmogrify yourself, and get into Conres
and Cabinet long enough to write ' Nene,
mene' on their walls ?"
" They would have no Daniel there, even if
I should, which is no business of mine. Dock
tor, I claim to be no politician; a thousand
years will scarcely produce another pe Stfel.
I am simply a true lover of my country-
anxious in view of its stormy, troubled future."
"Aubrey has not proselyted you, then, after
all ?"
She had unlocked her writing-desk, and,
without seeming to hear his last words, handed
him a letter.
" Here is a letter from Uncle Eric, which I
received yesterday. It contains a message
for you about some     medical books  and
journals." ' . ,-
He muttered something indistinctly, put the'
letter in his pocket, and took her hand.
" Irene--what is the matter, dear, child ?
Your pulse is entirely too quick."
" That as nothing :new, Doctor.  Father
insists that I shall drink port-wine, and it does
not suit me--keeps my head aching continu-
ally."
" Try porter instead."
She shook her head wearily..

" I need nothing, sir, but.to be let alone."
He smoothed back' her hair and said,
hastily :
"You will never get what you need. Oh,
child!' why won't you trust me ?"
" Why-Doctor ! I do."
" Hush ! don't tell me that ! I know better.
You steel that white face of yours, and-"lock
your confidence from the old man who loves
you above all other, things."'
She drew down his hand from her head and
leaned her cold cheek upon it.
" You misunderstand me, sir; I repose the
most perfect confidence in you. If I were in,
trouble, and wanted help or a favor of any
,kind, I would apply to you sooner than to any
'other human being-for you have always been
more patient with my whims than even my
own father-and I should 'be worse than an
ingrate if I had not the most complete trust in
you. My dear, kind friend, what have I done
to fret you?"      ,
He did not reply, but searched her counte-
nance sorrowfully.
" doctor, tell me one thing. You nursed
me constantly while I. was unconscious, and I
want to know whether I said anything during
my delirium that surprised Or annoyed you."
"No; the trouble was that you sealed your
lips hermetically. Are you afraid now that:
you divulged some secret which I may betray?"
"I am not. afraid of your betraying any-
thing-never -bad such 'a thought. When do
you think that-I may take a horseback ride
with impunity? I. am so tired of the house."
"Not for a week, -at least. You must be
prudent, Irene, for you are not strong yet, by
a great deal."
. " I wanted to talk to you, this morning,
about something very near my heart ; but you
are going."
"I can wait, my child. What is it ?"  -
." To-morrow will do as well.' I want you
to aid me in getting a bill passed by the legis-
lature appropriating a school-fund for this
county. Perhaps you can obtain Mr. Aubrey's
influence with the members of the lower
house."   -        -'-
" Perhaps I 'll go to, the North Pole to cool
a glass of amontillado for your majesty ! I'll
be hanged, if I have anything to do with it !
Why the deuce can't you ask Mr. Aubrey
yourself?"     -      "
" Because, in the first place, you know very
well that I never see him, and I could not
ask 'him, even if I should meet him; and,
beside, I do not wish to be known at all in, the
affair. It is not a woman's business to put
forward legislative bills;"
"Indeedl  Then why are you: meddling
with other people's business ?" .
"Our legislators seeni, to have forgotten one
gand and good maxim of Lycurgus: ' Chil-
dren are the property of the state, to whom
alone their edngatioi 'should obe intrusted.'

They have forgotten that our poor require
educating, and I simply desire .some oC their
constituents to call their attention to the.over-
sight. Doctor,' I know you will do it."
" I will first see myself' floundering like
Pharaoh ! I 'll rake out nobody's chestnuts!-
Not even yours, child! Put down that, win-
dow; the air is too chilly. You are as cold as
an iceberg and as blue as a gentian."
The doctor had scarcely taken his departure
when Nellie's- turbaned heal showed itself at
the door.
"That factory-boy, Philip, is down stairs ;
be brought back a book, and wants to see you.
He seems in trouble ; but you don't feel like
being bothered to-day, do you?"
"Did be ask to see me 2
'" Not exactly; but showed very plainly he
wanted to see you."
"Let him come up."
As he entered she rose and held out her
hand.
" Good-morning, Philip; I am.glad you are
well enough to be out again."
He looked at her reverently, and, as 'he no-
ticed the change her.illness had wrought, his,
lips quivered and his eyes filled.
"O h,Miss Irene.! I am.so-glad you are bet-
ter. I prayed for you all the time while you
were so very ill,
." Thank you. Sit down and tell.me about
the sick."
" They are all better, I. believe, ma'm, ex-
cept Mrs. Davis. She was wishing yesterday
that she could see you again."
" I shall go there in a day or two. You are
walking pretty well without your crutches.
Have you resumed'your work ?"
" I shall begin again to-morrow.-
"It need not interfere with your -studies.
Tbe nights are very long nowi and ,yoti can
accomplish a great .deal if you feel disposed
to doso."
He did not answer immediately, and, observe
in" the cloud on his countenance, she added:
" Philip, what is the -matter? You. look
troubled; .can I do anything for you.?"
A deep flush mantled his sallow cheek,, and,
drooping his head as if in humiliation, he said,
passionately:
" ." Oh, Miss Irene ! You are the only friend
I have.'' I am so mortified I can hardly look
anybody in the face.,. Father is drinking again
worse than ever; and is so violent that mother
won't stay at.home.; she has gone;across the
river for a few days. 'I have done all I could
but  I can't influence him,"
" Where is he now ?"
'a The. police put him in the :guard-house
last night for creating a disturbance. I sup-
pose, when the Mayor holds nour,,h will be
fined and turned out... Miss Isrene, Ifeet like
'jumping intQ the river and drowning tgself.
It is 'so horrible to be ashamed of my owns
father I"

MAkCARFA.

,


124

MACARIA.

He dropped his face in his hands, andsh
saw that he trembled violently.h.
"'You must struggle against such feeling
Ph'ip; though it is certainly very mortifyin
to know that your father has been arreste
If you conduct yourself properly, people wi
respect you all the more because of your mil
fortune."
"No, Miss Irenei they are always holding
it up to me. Hard as Intry to do right, the
are continually sneering at me, and sometime
it makes me almost desperate."
" That is unjust and ungenerous. No one
who has any iefinement or goodness of heart
will be guilty of such behavior. I do. no
know positively that I can assistyou, but
think it possible .I can obtain a situation fo
your father as- carpenter on a plantation it
the country, if he will promise to abstain front
drinking. 'I have heard that he was a ver3
good niechanic, and in the country he would
not meet with such constant temptation. Do
you suppose that he will be willing to leav
town ?"
" Oh, yes, ma'm ! I think so; he is generally
very repentant when he gets sober. If you
please, Miss Irene, I should be, so glad if you
would talk, to him, and persuade him to take
the pledge before he starts. -I believe he
would join the Temperance society if you ask-
ed him, to do it., Oh I then I should have some
heart to work."
You and your mother must'try to influence
him, and in a few days I will talk to hih. In
the meantime I will see- about the situation,
which is a very desirable one. I am very sorry,
Philip, that this trouble has occurred again; I
know that it ts very painful, but you must en-
deavor to be patient and hopeful, 'and to bear
up bravely. Brighter days will soon come, I
trust."
He took his cap from the carpet, rose, and
looked at her with swimming eyes.
"Oh, Miss Irene ! I wish I could'tell you all
I feel. I thank you more than I can ever ex-
press, and so does mother."
"iYou have finished your book, I see ; don't
you want another ? Nellie will' show fou.the
library, and on the lower book-shelf, on the
right,- and 'side of the door, you will find a
large volume in leather bining-' Plutai h,
Tae it with you and read it carefully. Good-
by.. I shall come down to the Row to-morrow
or next day.
As she heard his halting step descend their
stairs she leaned back wearily in her chair,
and, closing her eyes; these words crept almost
inaudibly over her pale lips:
4. But go to!- thy love
'allatersef its own beok.Atcids kis
Setonthlsighin lip, sall make theeglad - -
A poor man serve by thee, shall make thee rich;
A sick man hlped by thee; shall make thee strong."

Ae            CHAPTER XXVI.
s, " Well, Irene, what is your decision about
g the party at Mrs. Churchhill's to-night'?"
d.   " I will go with you, Father, if it is a matter
ill of so much interest to you; though,'-as I told
. you yesterday, 1 should prefer declining the
invitation as far as I am concerned." -
g    "It is full time for you to go into society
y again. You have moped at home long enough."
s   ""Moped' is scarcely the right word, Fa-
"It matters little what you call it, the fact
t, is the same. You have shut yourself in till
t, you have grown. to look like a totally different
I woman. Indeed, Irene, I won't permit it any
r longer ; you must 'come out into the world
n once more. I am sick of your black looks;
n. let me see you in colors to-night."
y    " Will not pure white content you, Father?"
"No ; I am tired of' it ; wear something
bright."  --
e Mr. Huntingdon smoked his after-breakfast
cigar, half-reclined on the upper step, and
Irene walked up and down the wide colon-
nade, enjoying the cool, dewy, fragrant June
day, whose sun was rapidly mounting-in heav-
en. The air was of that peculiar, stillness
found only in southern summer mornings, but
. now and then' its holy calm was rippled by the
contented ringing whistle of a partridge far
down among the grassy orchard~depths, and
by the peaceful chime of doves cooin soft and
low, one to another, in the thickest saiadors of
the dripping grove. True summer sounds-
sure concomitants of June. Frail, foam-like
cloud-navies in line-of-battle, as if piloted by
dubious, treacherous winds, sailed lazily across
the sea of intense blue, staring down covet-
ously at a ripening field of flashing wheat
which bowed and wavered in a long billowy
sweep and swell as the mild June breeze stole
over it; and on A neighboring hill-side, where
sickles had been busy a few days before, the
royal yellow shocks stood thick and tall in
crowded ranks, like golden gods of Plenty. ,
Ahi rareJune day, impearled and purpled,
freshly glowing from the robing hands of Dei-
ty, serenely regal on her southern throne as
Sheba's brown queen.
ShIrene, sit here on'the step, where I can
see you without twisting my head off of my
shoulders. Now, then--what is the matter
with you ?"                  '
" Nothing unusual, Father."
"Don't evade me. Why can't you look and
act like other girls,of your age ?"
"Probably because I feel differently. But
to what do you allude ? In what respect have
I displeased you ?.
" Oh I in a 'thousand. You never would
lokat things in their poer light. Why did
you treat William Bainbridge so coldly yester-
day evening? You know very well that .he
came here expressly to see you." .

IU

MACARIA.

" And) for that reason. sir, I felt it my duty
to receive the visit coolly."
"You disappointed all my planefor you
once ; but let me tell you, if you are not a
lownright simpleton, you will accept the offer
William Bainbridge came here to make. You
are aware of the warm friendship which has
always existed between the governor and my-
self, and his son is considered the finest match
in the state' If you live a thousand years
you will never have a better offer, or another
as good ; and I do hope, my daughter, that you
will not be insane enough to reject him."
Father, why are you so anxious to get rid
of your ony child ?"
"I am not.; but you must marry some time,
and I know very well such an opportunity as
this will not recur."
" Don't youthink, sir, that you and I could
live always happily here without planting a
stranger at our fireside'? Father, let us un-
derstand each other fully. I speak deliberate-
ly, and solemnly-I shall never marry.".
Mr. Iuntingdon started u' from his indo-
lent posture and surveyed his daughter keenly.
lHer spotless muslin morning-dress swept
down the marble steps, its wide sleeves falling
away from the rounded dazzling arms, and a
black cord and tassel girding the waist. The
geranium-leaves fastened at her throat were
unstirred as the silver-dusted lilies sleeping,
lotoslike, on some lonely tarn ; and the dewy
Lamarque roses twined in her coiled hair
glttering and kindled into faint opaline flushes
as the sunshine quivered into their creamy
hearts. One hand held a steel ring, to which
half-a-dozen keys were attached--the other
toyed unconsciously with the heavy tassel,
and the hushed face, with its deep holy eyes,
was lifted to meet her father's.
" Nonsense, Irene ! I have heard fifty wom-
en say that same thing, and have danced at
their weddings six months later."
"I do not doubt it. But, Father, no one
will ever dance at mine."
"And pray why have n't you as good a right
to marry and be happy as Qther women '"'
.tohe abstract right, and the will to use it,
a    heeiffeent, Father; and, as regards happi-
areduiful'hom             1to    1el
ness, I love my own beautiful"hm, oowl
to desire to change it for any other. Let me
be quiet here-I ask no more."
"b uet, Irene, I cant be expected to live
always, even were my society sufficient for
you, which is not true."
"Death yields allegiance to no decree of
mani. I mayfind Hugh in another world
before you -are'called to quit this."
er father shuddered, and smoked silently
for several seconds; then the'crash of whess
~nteshelled avenue startled both.
*" Here comes Bainbridge now. I promnised
higi that you would play a game of billiards
wihhim this morning. For heaven's sake,
Irene ! be reasonable for once in your life;g let

1 5

me hear nomore such stuff as you have been
talking, but treat the man civilly, and giye
him w'Iat he will ask." ,
The handsome suitor came up the steps
rather dubiously, as if fearful of his welcome;
and the heiress rose composedly and, received
him with graceful, polished, imperturbable re-
serve. A few months before, in compliance.
with her father's earnest request, sie had ac-
companied him to the capital of the state, and,
during this brief visit met aid completely fas-
cinated Mr. Bainbridge, whose attentions were
susceptible of but one interpretation. He was
a year her senior-a chivalric, agreeable, gay
young man, who had grown up without select-
ing a profession, knowing that his ample fort-:
une would more than suffice for his mainte-
nance. He was the only son of the governor;
his character was unimpeachable, his nature
magnanimous, and many of his impulses were
truly (noble-but his intellect was far inferior
to hers. He could no more comprehend her
than .sonie long-inurned Assyrian scroll, for
which the cipher-key is wanting; and in the
midst of his devotion she was conscious of no
feeling save that of utter indifference, some:
times waxing into inipatience at his frequent
visits. She had studiously avoided encourag-
ing' his attentions, but he either could riot or
would not interpret her cold reticence.
The morning was spent over the billiard-
table, and at last, foiled by her skilful-guiding.
of the fragmentary conversation, Mr. Bain-
bridge having been refused the honor of es-
corting her to the party, took his leave, ex-
pressing the hope 'that in a few hours he
,should see her again...,
"Well ?" saidWvr. Huntingdon, seating him-
self at the luncheon'-table.
" Well, Father; we played till I was heartily
tired."
",But the result of the visit, Irene ?'
" The result was that I beat him 'three games
out of five. John, where isthe claret? You
have forgotten it-; here are-the keys."
" Pshaw ! I mean, did Bainbridge come to
the point."
i took most of the points from him."
" Confound your quibbling ! Did you, ac-
cept him ?"
"I am happy to be able to tell you, sir, that,
he did not afford me an opportuity."
" Then I will be sworn it was your' fault-.
not his.!"
A short silence ensued; Irene sat,,seemingly
abstracted, dipping her slender, hand in a
rub "-colored Bohemian finger-bowl. Present
lv John returned ; she took the bottle from
him, and,. filling  her father's glass, said,
earnestly :
"FEather, I have a favor to ask ato yotur
hands ; are you in a mood for concession, ?"y
"' That depends-,' as Guy Daril s~ys.
What is it ? Do you. want a new collar for
Paragon, or a bran new pigeon-box twice the


126

MALARIA:

size of the old one ? Something unreasonable
I will warrant. You never want what yo
ought to have. Speak out, my bleached ge
tile Esther !"          -    .
"I do ,want another pigeon-box badly, bu
that is not to be asked for today. Father
will you give me that large beautiful vacant
lot, with the old willow-tree, on the corner o
Pine street and Huntingdon avenue, opposit
the court-house ?"
"Upon my word I I must say you are ver
modest in your request. What the deue d
you want with it?"'
"1 know that j am asking a good deal, sir
but I ivatit itas a site for an orphan-asylum
Will You give it to me ?"
"No ! 1 '11 be hanged if I do ! Are yot
geing entirely deranged ? What business have
you itith asylums, I should like to know
Put all of that -ridiculous stuff out of your head
Here is something for which I sent to Europe
Erie selected it in Paris, and it arrived yes
terday. Wear it to-night."
He drew a velvet ease from his pocket an
laid it before her. . Touehing the spring, th
lid 'flew open, and on the blue'satin.lining lay
the blazing coils of a magnificent diamond
necklace and bracelets.
" How, beautiful! how splendidly beautiful !
She bent over the flashing mass in silent
admiration for some time, examining the deli
cate setting, theft looked up at her father.
" What did they cost ?"   
" Why do you want to know that ?"   °
"'I am pardonably curious on the subject."
" Wll, then, I was silly -enough to give
seven thousand dollars for them."
"Aiqd what.is the value of that lot I asked
for ?"
" Five thousand dollars."
"Father, these diamonds are the finest I
ever saw. They are superbly beautiful; a
queen might be proud of them, ani I thank
you most earnestly for sn-h a gorgeous present;
but, if you will not be offended, I will be can-
did with you--I would a thousand times rather
have the'lot than the jewels."
The expression of blank astonishment with
which these words were received would have
been ludiero.us but for the ominous thickening
of.his brows.'                  *
"Father, do not -feel hurt with me, or at-
tribute' my conduct to any want of gratitude
fbr your indulgent kindness. If' I love the
siles of happy children more than the radi-
ance of those costly gems,'anI 'would rather
wear in my heat the contented faces of well-
cared-fororphansthan od my neck these glitter-
ing diamonds, may I not at least utter my
preference without. oflfeding you? When I
-.think of then better use to which this money
might -be -a pplied, the incalculable .good it
would effect, I shrink from hoarding it upi on
thy person to dazzle the eyes of my associates,
to incite some -to imitate 'the lavish' expeadi-

e, ture, and to awaken in others envious discon.
u tent at their inability to cover themselves with.
n- similar splendor. The result of such an exam-.
pie on our society would be like dropping a
it pebble ipto 'some crystal lakelet sleeping in
r, evening sunshine; the wavering ring would
it widen till the entire glassy surface was shiver-
)f ed into spinning circles and dashed on the
e rocky shore beyond. Father, forgive me if I
have said anything ,disagreeable to you. I
y shall be grieved indeed if, on the occasion of'
o your too generous indulgence, any disserision
arise between us. Tell. me that you are not
angry with me."
i.   She laid her fingers on his arm, but he
shook -off the touch, and, scowling sullenly,
i snatched the velvet case from her hand and
e stamped out of the room--slamrning the door
? so violently that the glasses on the table rang'
. out a tinkling -chime and the red wine in the
. bottle danced a saraband.
-   He went to town, and she met him no more
till she was attired for the party. Standing-
I before the mirror in her own room she arrang-
e ed the flowers in her hair, and, when the leaves
were disposed to suit her fastidious taste, she'
I took up apearl set which he had given her
years before, intending to wear ii. But just
then, raising her eyes, she saw her father's
t image reflected in the glass. Without turning
- she put up her arms, and laying her head back
on his shoulder said, eagerly:.
" Mrydear, dear Father, do let us be recon-
ciled."
Clouds and moodiness melted from his hand.
some features as-he bent over her an instant,
kissing her fondly ; then his hands passed,
I swiftly ovmi her neck, an icy shower fell upon
it, and she was clothed with light.
" My beautiful child, wear your diamonds
as a seal of peace. I can't let you have the
Pine street lot-I want it for a different'pur-
pose; but I will give you three acies on the
edge of town, near the depot,-for your asylum
whim. It is a better location every way for
your project."
"Tuauik you, Father. Oh!I thank you, more
than ivords can express."
She turned her lips to one of the hands still
lingering'on her shoulder.
"Irene, look at yourself. Diana of Ephesus I
what 'a blazeof glory I"
S"'Father, it would not require much stretch
of imagination to believe that, by sonie deseenn
'dental netempsychosis, I had become an ex-
humed inember of the sacred gnomides, 'tdrn
rutjilessly from my sisterhood in Cerro do Frio
or the cold dreary caverns of the Agathyih"
"The metamorphosis is not sufficiently con-
plete without your bracelets. Put them ' -
and' come down'; the carriage is ready. Where
is your bouquet-holder? Give it to me; I will
fasten the ildowers inwhile you draw on ye
'gloves"-
'Two days before, the marriage of Charles-

1

MACARIA.

Harris and Maria' Henderson had been cele-
brated with considerable-pomp, andthe party
to night was given in honor of the event by'
Mrs. Churchhill, a widowed sister of' Jidge
Harris. She had spent several years in Paris,
superintending the education of a daughter,
whom she had recently brought home toreside
near her uncle and dazzle all W --with
her accomplishments.          .
At ten o'clock there stood beneath the gas-
lights in 'her elegant parlor a human fleshy
antithesis, upon which all eyes were riveted-
Salome Churchhill-a dark imperious beauty,
of the Cleopatra type; with very full crimson
lips, passionate or pouting as occasion demnand-
ed; brilliant black eyes that, like August days,
burned, dewless and unclouded, a steady blaze;
thick shining black hair elaborately curled,
and a rich tropical complexion, clear and
glowing as the warm blood that pulsed through
her rounded graceful form. She wore a fleecy
fabric, topaz-colored,' with black lace trim-
mings; yellow roses gemmed her hair, and
topaz and ruby ornaments clasped her throat
and arms. An Eastern queen she looked,
exacting universal homage, and full of fiery
jealousy whenever her eyes'fell upon one who
.stood just opposite. A statuesque face, pure
and calm as any ever cut from Pentelie quarry,
and cold as its dews-the- delicately-carved
features borrowing no color from the glare
around her, the polished shoulders and perfect
arms gleaming frigidly in the'rainbow-light of
her diamonds, and the bronze hair caught up
by a pearl comb, with here and there a cluster
of clemaiis- bells drooping toward her neck.
Irene's dress was an airy blue tulle, flounced
to' the waist, and without trimming save the.
violet and clematis clusters. Never had her
rare beauty been more resplendent-more
dazzlingly chilly; it seemed the glitter of an
arctic iceberg lit by some low midnight sun,
and, turn whither she would, fascinated groups
followed her steps. Salome's reputation as a
brilliant belle had become extended since
Irene's long seclusion, yet to-night, on the re-
appearance of the latter, it-was apparent to
even the most obtuse that she resumed her
sway--the matchless cynosura of, that, social
system. Fully conscious of the intense ad.
miration- she excited she moved slowly from
room to room, smiling.once or twice when she
.met her father's proud look of fond triumph
fxed upon her.        -
Leaning against the window to rest, while
Charles Harris went' in search of a glass of
water, she heard her name pronounced by
tome one on the gallery.'
"They say Irene Hluntingdon is positively
going to marry Bainbridge. Splendid match
both sides. Won't she shine at the governor's
.mansion ? I wontder-if siie really grieved much
for Seymour? h ow perfectly lovely she is ;
and Hluntingdon is so .proud of her. By the
way, Neal, have you heard the Iast gossip ? '

i

" About whom ? I have been away a month,
-you mnut remember, and am -behind the times.
Do tell me."
" Well, the very latest report is that, after.
all, Aubrey never fancied Grace Haris, as the
quidnunes asserted-never addressed her, or
anybody else-but is now sure enoughabout
to bear off belle Salonie, the now prize, eight
in the face of twenty rivals. I should relly
like to hear of samethng whicl that man could
not do, if he set himself -to work ii earnest. I
wonder whether it ever recurs to him that be
once stood behind Jacob. Watson's counter ?"
"But Aubrey is not here to-night. Does
not affect parties, I believe ?"
-" Rarely shows himself; but you mistake;
he came in not twenty minutes ago, and you
should have seen what -Csaw-the rare-ripe red
deepen on S'alome's cheeks when he spoke to
her."
Irene moved away from the window 'and
soon after was about to accompany Vharlie-to
the hall, when Mr. Bamnbridge came up and
claimed her hand for the cotilion forming in
the next room. Asrthey took their-places on
the floor she saw that. Salome and Russell
would be vis-a-vis. With an effort she raised
her eyes -to thQse of the mat whoin she had
seer last at Hugh's bier; he drooped his head
very slightly, she inclined hers;, then the'band
smote their instruments, violin and piano, and
the crash of music filled the house.
Irene loved mechanically through the airy
mazes of the dance, giving apparent attention
to the low-toned, half-whispered observations
of her devoted partner, but straining her ear
to catch the mellow voice which uttered such
graceful fascinating nothings to Salome. Sev-
eral times in the course of the coillon Ru sells
hand clasped hers, but even then- hi avoided
looking at her, and seemed engrossed in con-
versation with his gay partner. " Once Irene
looked up steadily, and as she noted the
expression with which he regarded hiscorn-
pamion she wondered no longer at the rumor
She had heard, and' acknowledged to herself
that they were, indeed, a handsome coule.
Dr. Arnold, whom Mrs. Churchhill had coaxed
into "showing himselff" had curiouslywatched
this. meeting,'and, observing IRusel's marked
attentions, puzzled over the question: Does
he really care for that firetly, or is he otdy
trying to make Irene jealous"?". lie looked
long and earnestly at both, then-sigheeheavi-
ly., What did that haughty 'blue-robed woman
know of jealousy ' How absurd such a sug'
gestion seemed when she turned her smiling
passionless face full upon him. The dance
ended; Irene found herself seated on a sofa 't
the window of the deserted library, and IRe-
sell and Salome walked slowly up and dowR
the veranda in front of it. Mr. Bainbridge
had maumuvred for this opportunity, and, Wa*
ed beside Irene, he eagerly 'and eloquenty
pleaded in cause,s assuring hr of a dvoi


128

which should know no diminution, and empha-
sizing- the fact that he had possessed himself
of her, father's sanction.
She made no attempt to interrupt him, but
sat erect and motionless, with one hand par-
tiallyshielding.her face and the other pressed
hard against her heart, where a dull continual
pain was gnawing. Every few minutes Russell
passed the wiu4ow, his noble head bent down
to the beautiful companion on his arm. Irene
could see the outline 'of his features distinctly,
and her soul sickened as she watched him and
reasoned concerning the future. . He would,
probably marry somebodyy, and why not. Sa-
lopne ?  She could not expect him to remain
single always, and he could never be more
than' a stranger to her. After his marriage,
what a blank her life would be ; to love him
still would be sinful. She moved her fingers
slightly and looked fixedly at the handsome
man beside her, entreatingher to give him the
privilege of making her life happy. For an
mstant she wavered. The world held nothing
for her but dreariness at best ; she was wegry
' of alienation and contention; why not accede
to: her father's wishes, ,and thus repair the
'grievous disappointment of other days?' Wil-
liam Bainbridge loved her, and perhaps if she.
were his wife the sanctity of her Aws might
strengthen her in tearing another image from
her heart. She took her future in the palm of
her, hand and pondered. At this moment the
couple on the veranda paused in frontof the
window, to allow the promenading cr6wd to
pass, and Russell looked in, with a brilliant
smile on his countenance,' It seemed to mock
her with a," Marry him. if you dare !" The
two passed on into the parlors, and closing her
eyes a moment, as if shutting out some hideous
vision, Irene' briefly, but firmly and irrevoca-
bly, declined the flattering offer; and rising,'
left him with his disappointment. She looked
about for Dr. Arnold, but he had disappeared ;
her father was deep in a game of euch re ; and
as she crossed-the.hall she was surprised to see
. Philip leaning' against the door-facing and
pecrin curiously into the parlors.
" Philip, what are you. dong.here ?"
" Oh,,Miss Irene l I have been hunting for
you ever so long. Mrs. Davis is dying, and
Susan sent me afteryou. I went to your
house two hours ago, and they said you were
here. I ran back and told mother you could
not come. But Mrs. Davis worried so, they
sent me here. She says she won't die in peace
unless she sees you.- She wrung her hands,
and asked me if you would not have time
enough to go to parties when she was in her
grave?  Will you come, ma'm ?"
" Of course.,. Philip, find Andrew and the
carriage, and I will meet jou at, the side door
in five minutes."
She went .to the .dressing-room, ,asked for
pencil and paper, and wrote a few lines, which
she directed the servant to hand immediately

4'

MACARIA.

to her father-found her shawl, and stole down
to the side door. -'She saw the dim outline of a
form sitting on the step, in the shadow of clus-
tering vines, and asked :
"Is that you, Philip ?  I am ready."
The figure rose, cameforward into the light,
hat in hand, and both started visibly.
" Pardon me, Mr. Aubrey. I mistook you
in the darkness for another.'
Here Philip ran up the steps.
" Miss Irene, Andrew says he can't get to
the side gate for the carriages. He is at the
front entrance."
" Can I assist you, Miss Huntingdon ?"
" Thank you; no."
"May I ask if you are ill ?"
" 'ot in the least-but I am suddenly called
away."
She passed him, and accompanied Philip to,
the carriage. - A few minutes, rapid driving
brought them to the Row, and, directing An-
drew to return and wait for her father, Irene
entered the low small chamber where a human
soul was pluming itself for its final flight home.
The dying woman knew her even then in the
pierce throes of dissolution, and the sunken
eyes beamed as she bent over the pillow.
" God bless you! .I knew you would come.
My children-what will become of 'them?
Will you take care of them?  Tell me quick."
" Put your mind at rest, Mrs. Da% is. I
will see that your children- are well cared for
in every respect."
" Promise me !" gasped the poor sufferer,
clutching the jewelled arm.
" I do promise you most solemnly that I will
watch over them 'constantly. They shall
never want so long as I live. Will you not
believe me, and calm yourself ?"
A ghastly smile trembled over the distorted
features, and she bowed her head in assent.
Irene poured some cordial into a glass and put
it to .her lips, but she refused the draught, and,
joining her emaciated hands, muttered half-
inaudibly :
" Pray for me once more.  Oh ! pray for
me, my best friend."
Kneeling on the bare floor in the midzt of a
sobbing group, Irene prayed long and earnest-
ly ; and gradually, as her .sweet. voice rolled
through the room, a peaceful look settled on
the dying mother's face. At last the petition
ended and silence reigned, broken only by the
smothered sobs of Susan 'and little Johnnie,
who clung to Irene's hand and buried his face
in her dress as she still knelt at the bedside.
"Mrs. Davis, don't you feel that you will
soon be at rest with God ?"
-" Yes ; I am going home happy-happy."
She closed her eyesand whispered:
" Sing my-hymn-once-more.".
Making a great effort to crush her own
feelings, .Irene sang the simple but touching
words of " Home Again," and-thdugh her voice
faltered now and then, she sang it thirough-

4


MACARIA'

bitter heart -.hungers for one of your. gentle
words, ,Qebe-of your sweet, priceless smiles.
Ienet look at me! Giveit to me!"
He sat down on the step at her feet and
raised. hiS 'dark' magnetic face, glowing with
the ove which',had so long burned undimmed,
his lofty full forehead 'wearing a strange flush.,
She d ared not meet his eye, and. drooped
her head on her palms, shrinking from the
scorch ng furnace of trial, 'whose red jaws
yawned to receive her. He waited a moment,
and his low, mellow voice' rose to a stormy
key. .        i
Irene, you are kind and merciful to the
poor ;wretches in the Row,  Povertf-nay,
crime, does not frighten away yourcompassion
for them,; .why are you hard and cruelly.
haughty poly to me ?"
"4You do not, need my sympathy,' Mr. An-
brey, and congratulations on' your great success
would not come gracefully from my lips. .Most
unfortunate obstacles long since rendered all
intercours between usimpossible, still my
feeling ":for you' has undergone inO change. I
am, I assure you, still;your friend.".
It eost her a powerful effort to utter these
words  and her voice took a metallic tone
utterly, foreign to it. Her heart w1'ithed and
bled and moaned in the  ripe of her steely
purpose but she endured aIl calmly-relaxing
not one jot of her bitter resolution.,
"My friend! !Mockery ! God defend me
from such henceforth. Irene, Ilooked at you
to-night in all your wonderful, incomparable
loveliness as you hung upon the -arm of your
acknowledged lover, and the possibility of your
becoming that man's wife absolutely maddened
me. I felt that I could never endure that
horrible reality, and I resolved to know the
truth, Other lips deceive, but yours never
can. Tell me, have you promised your hand
to Banbridge'? Will you ever, give it to
hhn?"
"Such questions, Mr. Aubrey, you have no
right, to propound."
"Right!1 does my worshipping love give me
'no right t relieve myself from torture, if pos-
sible Y~' Oh ! relentless,, beautiful idol, that
you are"!   .have cheated myself with a
heavenly dream-have hugged to my soul the
hope that, after all, I was more to you than
you designed to show-that far down in your
proud heart yepu, too, cherished ,memories, of
other days. Irene, you loved te once-nay,
don't-deny it'! You, need not !blush for the
early folly which, it seems, you have interred,
so deeply; and though you scorn to meet me
even as an equal, I, know, I feel, that I am
worthy of  your love- t Icomprehend your
strange nature as no one elseever will-that,
had such a privilege been accorded me, I could
have kindled, your heart, and. made you su..-
p-emely happys'tCrsed barriers have divided
us always; fate deniied me' my right. I have
suffered 'many things; iut does it not, argue,

130

at least, in favor of my love, that it has sur
vived all the trialsto which your father r'shate
has subjected me?  To-night I could forgive
him all! all! if I knew that he had not so
successfully hardened, closed your heart against
me., My soul is full of bitterness which would
move you,, if one trait of your girlish nature
remained. But you are not my, Irene ! The
world's queen, t dazzling idol of the ball-
room, is not my blue-eyed, angelic Irene of
old! I will intrude upow you no longer
at least not to despise me for my folly; I will
crush it; and if you deign to remember me at
all in future, think of a man who laughs at his
own idiotcy and strives to forget that he ever
believed there lived one woman who would be
true to her own heart, even though the heavens
aHe rose partially, but her hand fell quickly
upon his shoulder and the bowed face lifted
itself, stainless as starry jasmines bathed in
equatorial dews.
"Mr. Aubrey, you are too severe upon
yourself and very unjust to me. The circum-
stances which conspired tg alienate us were
far beyond my control; I regret thenas sin-
cerely as you possibly can, but as unavailingly.
If I have individually occasioned you sorrow
or disappointment, God knows it was no fault
of mine. We stand on the opposite shores of
a dark, bridgeles gulf; but before we turn
away to-be henceforth strangers, I stretch out*
my hand to yo rin' friendly farewell-deeply
regretting thepain which I may have inno-
cently caused you and asking your forgiveness.
Mr. Aubrey, rem  aher me as, I was, not as Io
am. Good-by, my. friend. May God bless- you
in coming years and crown your life with the
happiness you merit1 is the earnest, prayer of
my heart."                           ho
The rare blue cord on her brow told how
fiercely the ava-ood surged under its icy
bands, ; and the blanched .lip matched her
cheek in colorlessness; save these tokens of
anguish, no other was visible. d.
Russell drew  down the hand from     his
shoulder andafolded it in both his own.  p
"'Irene,-, are4 we. toy walk different patths
henceforth-utter strangers?  Is such your
will ?"
Such is the necessity which must be .as
apparent to you as to me. Do not doubt my
friendship, Mr. Aubrey; but doubt the pro-
priety of my parading. it before the world."
- He, bent his cheek down on her cold hand,
then raised it to his lips once, twice--laid it
back on her lap, and, taking his hat, walked
away, toward town.-,-
Two     r blithe .crickets chirped merrily some-
where in the brick pavement round,the door,
a solitary mocking-bird, perched on the limb
of' a neighboring china-tree, warbled his sweet
varied -'notes; as ,if in answer,; the mellow
,diapason of the Falls rpse'agothingly over all,
and the bflue-robed woman sat still as the stone

steps of the Factory, watching the vanislhin
dyingsparkles of a crystal draughtof j
which Fate had rudely dished at her fe
sternly denying the parched eager lips.
For some time she remained just as Russe
had left her, then the  white arms and dr
eyes 'were raised to the midnight sky.
"dMy io! my God!, strengthen mein m
desolation'
She put back the folds of hair that, damj
with dew, cling toher gleamig temples, an
recrossing the wide road or street, entered
the chamber of death. Lowispoken word
Crept'to and fro between Mrs.Martin and tw
-niddle-aged, sad-faced women of the Row
who sat around the candle, on the little pin(
table, clipping and scalloping a jacoet shroud
As Irene approached the scissors rested an
"Where i Philip, Mrs. Martin?  I shal
ask him to walk home with me, and not wait
for the carriage."
I expect he is asleep, Miss Irene-but,
will wake him.",
W"You need not; I' think I hear wheels
Yes; they are ,coning, for me. Mrs. Martin
I will see you about Susan and Johnnie to-
morrow or next day; meantime, I leave them
in your care. Good-niight."'
" What a white angel she is !--alnmst as
pale is the poor creature on the bed yonder.
I catch my breah sometimes when she looks
like she did just now."
All three sighed simultaneously, and the
dull click, click, beg i again.
It was no the carriage which Irene met at
the' door, but  Dr. Arnold's buggy..
" Irene, are you ready to go home ?"
"Yes. Mrs. Davis deadd"
"As I' was leaving Mrs. Churchbill's ypur
father told me where you were, and I tNought
I would come after you. Put on your shawl
and, juhmp in. You are i i  pretty plight,
truly,..to stand over a death-bed I'Vanity of
vanities ! all is vanity I'.  ere, let me wrap
that gauze, cloud around' your head. Now.
thThe top of the buggy had been lo6wered,and
as they 'rode homeward she leaned her head
back, turning her face!to the sickly moonlight;
rsuee, did Aubrey come up here .with
No, sir. . He was at the'Row for a while
however . You must havermet him returning. "
"'  'did ;, what did  liewanthere ?'"
" You' nust sk himIf you are curious. It
is mln bUsiness of eihethryours or mine to watch
his: moyenaents." ,x
I wonder he was able tohear himself from
tha~'rown Sybil, Salome. What a slendid
dark pair they will he some day, Ien he
maks her' Mrs. Atubreyf "
Sugeoni-like, le was" ptesig his fig~
heavily on the Notind, but no ilnli~ ud
be detected-no'inoan ofpalin; and 'le was

I                      r

131

1

MAVAdI

ig startled by a singular short, quick lalgh , which
y sounded to his ear like the sd    sniping
t, of musical string.  t    the
hd hearda her 1        htid            h
hcd heard her laugh since her return t'r'om'
;i York. '"{ Saf       h
y  " Sae f Siipe ! ;how bong'sine your trans'
migration into a latter nedag ei gey rt
y     News-monger be      ged'! It s a trans-
parent fact that Aubey intends to marry t h
p daughter of', erodias. Don't;uele
i Irene ?     -' you                ellevet,
d     Doctor, °I believe I have droppedIm
s bouquet-holder. eI a        tve rope   s
o nu  t-obl iu  am sorry to goe yo~u so.
o much, trouble, but ;Unele Elric bought 'it ,fur me1
', in Geneva, and I should dislike to.'lose it.
e Give me the reins. Y"nder it is, in the sand-
. I see its glitter."
d Fulminating inaudible lagues on the clasei
silver ,toY the doctor pked it upaad yaced
1 it in her hand.,.,'
t   " Drop yourself out next; won't you,, when
you have another question to dode ?"
t " What is the 'Mtte'?. Who has fretted
your sir 'cWere 'you cheated' out 'of your
You fret me  yondalltiece      slipping
everlastingly through 'my fingae  h1 , pang
swer me one thing truly; arc youagoing to
marry Bainbridgo, as everybody believes, and
as Leonard led vme yo suppose    evn
" No, Dr. Arnold; 'I shall never mnrry 'Mn.
Bainbridge."              n
prif hi does not suit your fastidious.taste
pray who- will, Queen P?"
" You might, perhaps, if you'ert thirt
fve yeryo     g J-      aii re        y~
five   y  yungei,',and, 'a ,trifle ,leis' surly.
'Dor, come in, and let me give you a glass
of1 wn   i'ey late and you must beitired
"  ,o.-but I wiill' light my pip e at the' haill-i
lamp."
They went into thehouse, and as he, filled
and lighted' his pipe his-cavernous eyes ran
curiously over her."
"How you have blazed to-night !   Your
diamonds are superb."
Y1es, sir. "
41Go to sleep' at. once, child:: , You look as if.
you had. seen a ghost.  W  t h ' noted   f
your forehead in that sy
1I have looked upo    m      c
to-night, and haveseen to hedpe chideien
orphaned. Conaewand see me~nu~X*'to
consult you about an rpha  n u    i  ni
father' has given me a lot"  G an  i
am very mu Ax o!    a figeto o     , sr ; sI
hnide        e   "  'body else is half so
ceonsider atand t  61zi til '
In her.own ro  she tool soff the jwels,
on her dresino  n, n  tutoe     obera
tory and stdowno*    h   heh~dp ~qo
the' lasdoorlnn    a~wr~,'
idio4 and s~i~st       'xgt'hth'ee
bei Aed there lived one woniam wh~o woul be


182

MA t  C1. .

true to her own'heart,;-though the heavens
fellan tliworld p hsed away!"
' Th~~ Wd     of corn'were the .burning
shoes  or.hch iher bare Tet 'trod, and his
bit  e  ents"iled up',anddown her lonely
heart, mourful as the ceasedss .cry of
'Afzq Perdiia"in miobless, breezeless Ama-
zonian solitues i-Through the remainder of
that cloudlestnight she wrestled silently--not
like th'eJerish patria'oh, with apgels-but
with D#~aie', grip as Geryoh." At last, when'
the  k' flushed rosily, life aa opal smitten
with light, and hlpResionation-the blessing
born only of great 'tria?,like' hers-Wshed' its
heavenly' chrism;over the worn and weary'
brUised and bleeding sirit,'she gathered u
tharaniedhovs that might h ave laddened,
and  ifled and glorified her earthly 'career,,
and pte sihe the ruills to' hey'"heart, lain' her-
self  e;kly downoffering 'all'upon the tod-
built altar of Filial Obedience.
Inthe'
.      .early morning,'when the air
was delicate with some last starry touch,"
she opened the doorof, hel' faher's room and
approached the bed.    The noise wakened
him, and, raising himself on his elbow, he
looked-*onderingly at her.
What iA the matter,.Irene ?  You look as
if you had notclosed your eyes."
44 ather)you took ,ne in your arms last
night, and kissed me as you have 'not done
before for years; but I feared'that when Mr.
Bainhridge told you what passed between us
at' Mrs. Churchbill's you would' g in .close
hr eart against -me. 'Do not! 'o, do not !
eesuse I prefer to remain at home with you
rather 'tan accept his brilliant' offught
youto' l e me less ?  I have 'pent a sorio*-
ful, a.wretched night, and, like,a" weary child,
I have~come to you to find rest for my heart.
Oh, "-therl my father I do not cast me .off
:again I Whom have I in the world .but you ?
gBy the memory of ry sainted mother I ask-
I claim your love !"
-""Yodeare a strange girl, Irene ; I never' did
understand you.'But I don't want to drive
syo froni me if:.otprefer to live -here single.
here shallbe peooehtween us, my dear
- aughte+"', le leaned' forward and laid his'
band ressingly on 'her head as she knelt at
hisa side pleading with uplifted arms.
"And lier face'is iily-icar,
Lily-shapied and dropp~dciIn duty
To thi law of its own biuty.
Asd a forehead, fair and saintly,"
Which two blitie byes utdershine
ike meek prayersbefor a'shrine."
QRAPTER XXII.
~ The tleadherbus four ~ereblla   'broken
,at'lasth bythe niutter of the 'stokniwhich' wae
soasoon to adep orvr the aiod ipostrdtlig

all interests and 'bearing'-desolation to almost
every hearthstone in our once'happy, smiling
land of constitutio al 'freedom.  Sleepless
watchmen on the tower of Southern Rights-
faithful guardians, like William L. Yancey,
who had stood for years;in advance of public
opinion, lifting their warning voices far above
the howling waves of popular faction and
party strife, pointing to the only path of safe-
ty--,now discerned the clou4 upon the lori-
zon; andI at the selection 'of' delegates, to the
Charleston Convention hedged our cause with
cautious resolutions. Among the number ap-
pointed was Russell Aubrey; and during' the
tempestuous debates which ushered in the war"
of 1861 his earnest, eloquent pleadings on the
question of a platform rang through his state,.
touching the master-chord that thrilled re-
sponsive in the great heart of the people.
When demagogism triumphed in that convep-
tion, and the Democratic party was rent' into
hopeless fragments, Russell returned, to stamp
the state in favor of the only candidate whom
he believed the South could trust with her lib-
eries ; and during the arduous campaign that
ensued, he gathered fresh laurels and won a
brilliant reputation.  Aside from individual
ambitious projects, the purest patriotism nerv-
ed him to his ceaseless labors. He was deeply
impressed with the vital consequences, of the
itrpending election ; and as the conviction
forced itself upon his mind that, through the
demoralization 6f the Northern wing of De-
mocracy, Lincoln would be elected, he en-
deavored to prepare the masses for that final
separation which he foresaw was inevitable.;
During that five months campaign faction,
'fanaticism, demagogism, held high revel-ran
riot through the land. Seward cantered tow-
ard Washington on the hobby labelled Eman-
cipation, dragging Lincoln at his heels; and
Breckinridge, our noble standard-beare, with
the constitution ii .his hand, pressed on to save
the sacred precincts of the capital from pollu-
tion.' The gauntlet had been thrown down by
the South at Charleston and Baltimore: "The.
election of a' sectional President will be the
signal for separation."  The North sneered at
the threat,'derided the possibility,'and in fran-
tic defiance the die was cast. '- The 6th of
Noveniber dawned upon a vast populous em-
pire, rich in every resource, capable of the
acme of human. greatness and'prosperity,,
claiming to be the ardian of peaceful liberty.
t set upon a naati'dirent in 'twain, between
whose sections yawned bottomless, bridgeless
gulf, where the;shining pillars of the temple'
of Concord had stood for eighty years; 'an'a'
rating sound of horror shuddered throughthe
and as 'the 'brazen, bloodeclotted' doors, of
Janus- flung themselves suddenly wide a part.
Linicoln was elected. ' Abolitionism, so Son
adroitly cloaked, was triumphantly' clad n
robes of states-shamneless anw and 'hideogms;
and while the ~thlooked upon the loathsome

A ,;

face of its political Mokanna, the South pre-
pared for resistance.
No sureri ndiation of the purpose of the,
Southern people could have been furnished
than the- temper in which the 'news was re-
ceivel. No noisy outbursts, expendingresotve
in einpty words--no surface excitement--ent
a stern calm gloom, set lips, heavy bent brows,
appropriate in men who realized that they had
A revolution on their hands.; not indignation-
meetings, with fruitless rps&amp;lutions-that they
stood asbody-guard for the liberty of the Re-
public, 'and would preserve, the trust 'at all
hazards. It would seem that, for a time at
least, party animosities would have been crush-
ed ; but, like the Eumenides of Orestes, they
merely slept for a moment, starting up wolfish
and ,hnplacable as ever; and, even here in
many instances, the old acrimony of feeling
showed itself. Bitter differences sprung up at'
the very threshold on 'he modus operand of
Southern release from Yankee-1gyptic bond-
age. Separate "state action" ,or" co-opera-
tion" divided the people, many of whom were
earnestly impressed by the necessity and ex-
pediency of deliberate, concerted, simultane-
ous action on the part of alf the Southern
states, whileothers vehemently advocatedthis
latter course -solely because the former ,plan
was advanced and supported by their old op-
ponents. In this new issue, as if fate persist-
ently fanned the flame of- hate between 1ir.
Huntingdon and Russell Aubrey, they ware
again opposed as candidates for the State Con-
vention. Ah! will the, ghost of action ever
be laid in this' our republican land? Shall
this' insatiate immemorial olitical Fenris, 'for
ever prey upon the people .
W --- was once more convulsed,, and
strenuous efforts were made by both sides,
Russell was indefatigable in his labors for
prompt, immediate state' action, proclaiming
his belief that co-operationwas impracticable
before/seoession ; arid it was now that 'his reo-
searches in' the dusty regions of statistics came
admirably into play, as he. built up his ar u-
ments on solid foundations of indisputable ci
culation.P
For the first time in her life Irene 'openly
confronted her father's wrath on political,
grounds.  She realized the imminence of the
danger, :dreaded the siren , song of co-opera-.
tion, anddauntlessly discussed thematter with-
out 'hesitation. The iin  t was closeand
heated, and resulted, "'hat sin ' larly ini
the election-of a mi  cketh-=two ecession-
ist      ret irned, aa One, Co-operatoirst,
Mr. fduntindon, owing to personal popularity. :
While the entire Southi ai gigrdingfolthe
contestsouth Carhlina. gert evantgoyrri' '
iii the mareh~ of 'fde lo  a sege  andijf
dAij had existed hefoie it~iihdno u from
ererind..-for all felt :ht he gillant ptate I
rist' e su'staine.t  8.on aft r,J Knell '( d
Mr. Huntingdon stod'face o 'ae oni the foor

ARIA.'". 133
of their own state eonve o i  d wrestled
desperately. The latter, headed n  opposi-
tion, apd so contumadiose did itproe that,
for some days, the fate of thestt  apn-
geroua equilibrium . ,Fintlly:the vg  a9eof
the Secessonists prevailed, and, la$ i  be
afternoon of a winter day, theordinancesas
signed.
Electricity washed t1.g decree to ever) ppr-
tion of the state~ and the tmu der of  y tiler
and iaze of countless ijllnuigations t9;.that
the people. gratefully and joyf lydaegepted
the verdict.  W'-.   was 'vociferos  ds
Irene gazed from the colonnide othe  stant
iut brilliant rows ofilghts flaming alo g the
streets;. she regretted-;tiat respect for her
'father's feelings kept the windows of her own
home dark and cheerless.
Revolution .is'naQla'g rd, bpt.shift-winged
as Hermes; and in 'unuccenion0even spy-
ereign states, ii virt' of theinherent rights
of a people acknowlegin allegiane, only to
the fundamental doctrine that alljust'gove-
ments rest on the' consent of the governed
organized a provisional government, spraug,
Pallas-like, upon the political arena, ndclaim-
ed; an important rolein'the.:grz i.'drama of
the nineteenth century. Itwssnot to be ex-
pected that a man of Mr. IHuntingdon's known
acerbity of teinpei would yield gracefully:to 'a
defeat against'which head struggledfe arn-
estly, and he submitted with charcte  tie suil-
lenness.
Great contrariety of opi ioggjrevailed co
cerning the- course of the e derai oyern-
ment-ana;geluding thehieees T    ith the
belief4tls eparation would be pea",ul.
But Rusell be4 stated his convctien at'he
trae        ino election, that no bloodles
revolutio of!equal magnitudehad yet bein
erfected,;and tl ' !weYust pepare to pay the
invariable sacrificial dues whi liberty in-
exoably demands.
Sofirm was-this belief, tht Ihe apliedhin
self to'4he study of' military acctiesn;i-
p tion of entering the arny ; andm nyaaid
no ht found biri bending eve Hiardee,,  han,
G hany,, Jominiand Army    uin.
The 12th ad 13th' ' A    {'er days of
unexampled exciteme  tpouth-
ern states, The disc r e of'   first;"un
fromFort' Monltricrushed th ,lat ingerig
vestiges'of " Uninisin" and wed the entire
Confederacy in .ne huge homogeneous mass
of'stubborn resistance:'t , depo  With th,
explosio.ofthed frphey' ,niedlb  eiieral,
Beaure arfdagaint ' Frt'Su wfter.burs4ti e
frail painted bbble of   R     su
ilnidh had danced' allurigl uothd     k'
suvg blows of reyol~n    'w         a~
if te 8afn'     d f     ;i     nt es
lriviig rapily hswrd~         e    g   e
t'eps, she niet him athe bngg~r .14

.;III


134                                MAC
"Beauregard has taken Sumter. Anderson
surrendered unconditionatly. No lives lost."'
"Thank God.!".
Tli.y sat.downon the steps, and a inoment
after the roar'QI' guns shook the, atmoAphere,
and :theer after cheer went up the evening
sIy."-/
"hAt 1, of a long and bloody civil iar,"
said 1Mr. Huntingdon, gravely.
"Perhaps so, Father; butit was forced 'upon
us. We left no honorable neans untried to
event t;' and now it rust be accepted as the
least of two evils. Political' bondage-worse
than . Rsian ser dom.-or armed resistance,;
no other alternatives, turn it which way you
will; and the° Southern people are aot of stuff
to deliberate as to choice in such an issue.
God is witness that we have earnestly endeav-
ored to avert liostilities=-that the blood of this
war rests upon' the government at Washing.
ton" our hands are stainless."
'' believe you are right, and to4lay I have'
come to a determination which will doubtless
surprise you."_
H  paused, and eyed her a moment.
"No, Father ; I am not surprised that you
have determined to do your duty."
" How, Irene ? What do you suppose that
a itis ?".
;'To use Nelson's words, the Confederacy
'expects that every nian will do his duty;'
and you are going into the army."
"Whi told you'that ?"
" M'rown-. heart, Father; which tells. me
whlat should do were I in your place."
"Well I, Ihave written to Montgomeiy, to
Clapham, to tender my services:   e  ere at
West/Voint torether;i I served under- him at
Contreras and Chepultepec, and ,,will no
doubt press matters through .promt.a.The
fact is, I could not possibly 'stay 'at home how.
My blood haf een at bilingheat since yes;
terday morning,: when .I read Beauregard's
first dispatch"'
' Did you specify any branch of the ser.
vice'I
"Yes;' told,him Ipreferred artillery. What
is the matter ?  Your lips are as white as cot-
ton. . ourage 'ailing youa already, at thought
of grapef,4  l, a4p sister ?"
A long "s  orept ver her, and she shield-
ed her face-*itlh her hands. ^'When, she niet
hiseagle eye again her vdibe was unsteady.
'O,'Father! if I worn only a man, th4a
might gb witli you--stand y youuhder all
circus stances. Could n't -you take me ang-
i b  ?''Surey a daughter ma      follow her
S:rfather, eye hn the battle-dfied' _
1(e I ule lightly, ad dwept his 'fingers
"'Could n t you learil a little conmrden-sense,
if you 'were 4g try? Do1 youauppose 1Iwant
all this gI blid doif yours' stremhimg in ray
taowhl af getng    y guns inooii

ARIA.
my battery ! Really, though, Irene,.I do not
believe that you would flinch before all the
cannon of Borodino. My blood, beats at your
heart,-and it has never 'yet shown a cowardly-
diop. If yogi were a boy, I swear you would
not disgrace my name in any conflict. By the
way, what shall.I do with you ?  It won't do
to leave you here all alone."
" Why not, Father ? '"Home is certainly the
proper place -for me, if you cannot take me
with you."
"'What ! with nobody but the servants ?'
" They will take better care of 'me than
anybody else. Nellie and Andrew and John
are the only guardians I want in your absence.
They have watched over me all my life, and
they will  do it to tlie end. Give yourself no
trouble, sir, on my account."
"I suppose your Uncle- Eric will be home
before long; he can stay here till I'come back
-or--till the trotiblesare over. In the mean-
time, you could be with the Harrises, or Hen-
dersons, or Mrs. Churebhill."'
" No, sir ; I, can stay here, which is infinitely
preferable on many accounts. *I will, with
your permission, invite-Mrs. Campbell to shut
up the parsonage in her husband's absence
and ,remain with me -till Uncle Eric returns.
I have no doubt that she will be glad to make
the change. . lo you approve the plan ?"
" Yes. That arrangement will answer for
the present, and Arnold will be here to take
care of you."
At the close of a week a telegraphic'des-
patch'was received, informing Mr.'iuntingdon
of his appointment as major in the provisional
ardy of the Confederacy, and containing an
order to report immediately for duty.
Some days- of delay were consumed in.
necessary preparations for an indefinite ab-
sence.  Sundry  paper, were drawn up by
Judge Harris-an old, 'will was destroyed, a
new one made-andexplicit directions were
reiterated to' the overseer at the plantation.
More 'reticent than ever,'Irene ' used herself
in devising and arranging various little com-
forts for her father, when: he should be de-
barred from the luxuries of home. No traces
of tears were ever visible on her grave, 'com-
posed face ; but several imes, on coming sud-
denly into the room, helfound that her work
'had fallen into her lap and that her head was
bo ved down on her- arms. ' Once he dis-
tin'iuished low pleading words of prayer.
Sh loped 1in w t devotion ver rarely
found' between father d child, and this sep-
arktio cost her hoursadf{silent 'AonY which
even Ee father conl tinot fully a prelate.
X irgcon leted lis arrangmens and
liglit htext'mening to convey him to the depot,;
he bade her good night 'much as usual' and
retired to hik Own room.
Hotund eslssyo'hs ilw, ros      and

MACARIA.

smoked a second. cigar, and, returned,: to find
himself more wakeful than ever. 'The clock
down stairs in the library struck one.; his door
opened softly, and, by the dim moonlight strug-
gling thi ugh the window, he saw rene glide
to his bedside.
" Why don't you go to sleep, Irene ?"
"4Because I can't. I am too miserable."
Her,-voice was dry, but broken, faltering.,
"I never knew you to- be nervousibefore; I
thought' you scorned neryes ? .Here, my
daughter-take this pillow, and lie down by
me." .
She put her arm about his neck, drawing
his face close to hers, and' he felt, her lips
quiver, as they touched;'his cheek.'
"Father, when you know exactly:where you
are to be stationed, won't.you let me cone and
stay somewhere, in the vicinity, where I can
be with you if you should be wounded? Do
promise me this ; it will be the only comfort I
can have."                     .
" The neighborhood' of an army would not
be a pleasant place for you; beside, you could
do me no good even if I were hurt. 'I shall
have 'a surgeon to attend to all such 'work
much better than-your inexperienced hands
could possibly do it. I am surprised at you,
Irene; upon my word, I am. I thought' you
wanted me to go into service promptly ?-",
" So'I do, Father.' I think that every man
in the Confederacy who can leave 'his family
should be in our army ; but a stern sense of
duty does not prevent people from suffering
at separation and thought of danger. Should
be unworthy of my country-if I were selfish
enough to want tokeep. ou from'its defence;
and ,yet I were unworthy- of, my father if I
could see you leave home, under such circum-'
stances, without great grief., Oh!,if I could
only go with you!  ut to have tostay here,
useless and inactive!"
"Yes_-it is bad to be obliged to leave you
behind, but it can't be helped. I should feel
much better satisfied if you were married and
hadsomebody to take care of you ,in case any4-
thing happensto me. It is'your own fault'that
you are not; I never could understand what
possessed you to discard.Bainbridge,,Still,
that is past, and- I suppose irreparable, and
now youmust abide by your own',choice."
"I am satisfied with my choice; have no
regrets ,on 'any score, save that of your de-
parture. But, ,Father,,the future is dark and
uncertain; and I feel ti I want an assurance
of your entire reconei  ib . and afeetion( be.
fore'you go. I came4ere;tosay tocyod that I
deeply regret all the unfortunate circumstances
Of% y'life which' caused-you to threatt. me'so-
coldy for'a season.-'-tbat inauythinga I lve
ever seoxed obstinate or upd i~ul' itwas not
begaiise ~,aiedim love for you, but from ahi
unhappy differenceof iopini9n as to oiy duty
hart ached erybittry ude )'ru estis ge

ment-the very memory is unutterablypain-
ful  I want your full, free forgiveness. nOwef
all the trouble I have eder occasioned you.
Oh, Father ! give it to me 1   .
He drew her close to him afid  isC her
twice.
You 'have my forgiveness, mny daughter-
though I must tell you that your treatmer of
poor Hugh has been 'a'continualsouree of
sorrow and keen disappointment' to me.'I
never pan forgt, your disobedience'i that
matter.  I do not believe you will ever be
hippy, you have such a strange disposition;
but, since you took matters socomnpsletely in
your ownhands, you have only yourselt to
reproach. Irene, I very often wonder wether
you have, any heart-.-for it seems to me tat if
you have, it would, have been won by t e'de-
.votion which has been lavished 'on you more
than once. You are the only woman I ever
knew who appeared utterlyincapable of ,lova,;
and I :sometimes wonder' what willibecome of
you when I amt dead."
",God will protect me. I look continually
to his guardianship. Father, do not be o fend-
ed if 1 beg you most earnestly to givoe:so sie
thou ht to Rimwho has blessed 'youso'an-
dantly in the privileges of this Wotld, und to
prepare for that future into which you maybe
ushered, at.any moment, from the'jbattle-ekld.
You have never allowed me to speak to you on
this subject; but oh, my dear father! it is too
solemn a questions to 'be put aside anylomi.
If you-would'only pray tor yourself; my mind
-would be eased ofsuch a weight of aiziety and
apprehension. "Oh! that the spirit of my.
mother may rin in my prayers before the
Throng ,in Yourbehalf,!" '
Hfle unclasped her arm and turned his fhce
away,. sayii ,'coldly:
avd7 you consider; it your privilege to' tell
me. that I am so wicked there is po ho pe4'or
me in the next world..if the'e be'.one''
o "lo! no! Father f 'but it is enjoiend eS the
duty of even the purest and h dliest, t  datekk -
edge theirdependence on Godail d 'snplicate
flio mercy and direction.- It is truei-I=pray b*
stanty for you but that is a ut whi  our
Maker requires every ,ndividial to',,efom
for himself . o not be displease4, Father;.if
it wereanythingoles t 'a,, yur 'Prna hap-
piness I should not presume to'4estion yoor
conduct. :1can only hope, and trast'that'your
life will'be sp reds and tl soie ayouwill,
without - ffene, suffesrimie to talk . to you of
what deely t" Col cOri ,nz"peaice'or ,ind. .I
wyoh ence
wott   e 70u             ger a    M  ,Yu b  e
a tedousourieyd                      t,
~ny, dear father."   "  ' ;;.,  F,:., v,, a
$hekse1l heiinenr'lyand letl 'him, 4 0ng
whe t   c   iaer     tted       dfrene
folowt hr the t thstpo

1'35

.lU
I       Z.
Jli
it"i {I F


MAGARIA.

Ever in that dim,.uncertain -gray light he tops; the sundflashed up in conqueringsplen-
E oul4 eetba her face was rigid and haggard, dor, and the glory Qf the spring day broke upon
a   trs filled, hig old:brilliant eyes as he the world...
foalde_  l her  te  his heart  . ,  ,  .               '                '
to,' hi       y herC                      "'To-day thou girdest up thy loins thyself,
;YI dS ,', ; '  ty.. ieer up, .mybrave    And goest where thou would'st: pre ntiy
ch ..;I :iadlobk.on .the 'bright side. After all,  Othora shall gird thee.' said thq Lord; to go
S  I  cor'e' balk a brigadier-general, and      Where thou would't not.'
tiake yononepf my'stafflofflcers! You shall-
be pyr'aijutani, and light up 'niy office with      CHAPTER XXVIII
routrgoldnhead, Take care of yourself tillC-E- ',
Eric:t# mes, and write, to me.often. Good-by;  To those who reside at the convulsed throb-
Ty dear,,y 'darlingdaughter."           bing heart of a -great revolution a lifetime
She trembled convulsively, pressing her lips seems compressed into the compass of days
repeatedlly to his.  .    ',       -'     and' weeks, and menu and women- are, conscious
"O,,may G dblss you, my father, and of growing prematurely old while watching
bring ypu agfe. back to ;me !.            the rushing, thundering tramp of events, 'por-
Regwo   . her arms,,put her gently aside, tentous with' the: fate of nations. W --
and atepedinto the carriage.            presented the appearance of a military camp
, William, the cook, who was to accompany rather than, the peaceful manufacturing town
him; stco4;sobbing near the door, and now  of yore. Every vacant lot was converted into
advancipg,graspe her hand.                a parade-ground--and the dash of cavalry,
" ' Good-by, .iss Irene., May the Lord pro- thle low, sullen -rumbling of artillery, and the
tect yot all till we comeback !"  '     slow, steadystread of infantry echoed through
'Willian, .1 look to you to 'take care of its wide, handsome streets.°lag-staffs were
Patter, ,and let  e know at once if anything erected from  public buildings, private resi--
happe                     .dences, and at the most frequented corners,
"es. Irene., I promise you I will and from these floated banners of all sizes,
take ggpd care of Master, and telegraph you if tossing proudly to the balmy breeze the new-
he is hurt'                               born ensign, of freedom-around which clus-
He wrung her, band, the carriage rolled tered thehopes of a people who felt that upon
rapidly away, and the sorrowstrieken, tearless them, and them only, now'devolved, the sacred
woman ,at downon the steps and dropped her duty of provingto the world the ,capacity of a
head in her:hands. Old Nellie drew near, nation -for .self-government. In view of the
wiping her eyes and essaying comfort.'    iniquitous and impossible task which it =had
"Don't fret so, child.. When trouble comes insanely set itself to accomplish,' the goyern-
it will be tine enough to grieve over it. . Mas- ment at, Washington had .swept aside all con-
ter was in the Mexican war, and never had a stitutional forms,.in order to free-its hands for
scratch ; and maybe he will be as lucky this the work of blood-had ultimatedi in complete
time. Don't harden your face in that flinty despotism. -,The press Was: thoroughly muz-
*y. You never would cry like. other chil- zled --freedom, of speech was erased from the
drengbut gust set yourself straight up,ifor all list of American privileges; the crowded cells
thqworld like one of the stove dihurea standing of Bastile Lafayette, Mcfenry, and Warren
ovet your'grandfather's grave. Try to come wailed .out tostheeivilized 'world that 'hebeas
and "take a nap; I know you have n't' shut corpus -was no more; and, terror-stricken at
your eyes this night."  "'_thehideous figure of Absolutismscarved by the
No-I catsleep. Go in, Nellie, and cunning fingers of Lincoln and. Seward,; and
leave me to'myself."        .           -set up for worship at Washington,-Liberty fled
The:shrill scream of the locomotive rang froni her polluted fane and sought shelter and'
through the' still,' dewy 'air; and 'between two shrine on ,the' banner of the Confederacy, in.
neighboring hills the long train of cars dashed. the dauntless,, devoted hearts of its uncon-
on, leaving fiery trauok of sparks as it disap- querable patriots. Fondly and proudly was
eared around a curve. Oppressed with ,a the divinty guarded., Smiling flowery val-
orrible dread; against:which she struggled in leys rang with pmans that rose high above the
vai  rene remaied- alone, and was only din of deadly strife-and rugged, lonely hills
aroused from her painful reverie by the, low and purple'mountaisilifted themselves to the
musical cooing of' the 'pigeons; already astir. God of battle, 'lik 'huge smoking 'altars 'ed
As they fluttered' and nestled aboutshe 'ex- witj,'the .noble 'blood:of slaughtered 'heroes'
teided'aher a  s, and  atchi a' two of the Loathingeeand detestation succeeded the'old
gentlest to her seart, murmure raournfully: affection 'for the Federall government, nand
'KCors egniessngers of  e I "bring me "tCion. b ame.._veijherethe .synonyme
resignation. Teach 'me Vatsenceand fpith.'"' of political duplicity, despotismy~aid the uitter
'4Te 'erupty  ardiage~ aie sely' up 'he abrogation of all that 'had onee' constituted
aveiasfs returning frbrna'fdnereil and' American freedoma and rendered 'the rieppblic,
passed tosgthefstabletyard ; ids'etgd, twit- in earlier years,'the'civil Phaseof's Christen-
tered, sang in othe. wavering, glistening dree- dom." The OonfederacyzfaIlized thatthe hour

had arrived when the historic. Sphinx' must
find an'todips, or Democratic republican lib-
erty would be devoured, swept away, with the
ebris of other dead systems. Lifting =their
eyes to God for blessing, the men of the South
girded on their swords' and resolved, calmly
and solemnly, to prove that ogdipus-to read,
and for ever set at rest the hatintin, vexing
riddle. Another adjective than "6Spartan "
must fleck with glory the pages of future his-
torians, for -all the stern resolution and self-
abegation of Rome and' Lacedmaon had
entered the souls'of Southern women. Mothers,
4ilosed their lips firmly to repress a wail of sor-
row as they "uckled on 'the' swords of' their
first-born, and sent them forth with a " God-
speed-l"to battle for the right ; fond wives
silently packed their husbands' knapsacks, with
hands that knew no faltering; and sisters, with
tearless eyes, bent by the light of;midnight-
lamps 'over canteens which their thoughtful
care covered for brothers who were to start to
the scene of action on the morrow. A nation
of laboring, -nimble-fingered, prayerful-heart-
ed, brave-spirited women, and chivalric, high-
souled, heroic imen; who had never learned
that, Americans could live and- not be free.
Grant us our reward, 0 Godi! the independ-
ence of the land we holds dear.'
W-' gave her young men liberally;
company after company was equipped, 'fur-
nished with aniple funds by the muiificenee of
citizens who remained,, and sent forward to
Virginia, to make their breasts a shield 'for the
proud old "Mother of Presidents."  The bat-
tle of Bethel was regarded as pa-t of an; over-
ture totthe opera of Blood, yclept'" Subjuga-
tion,"- and people' watchedin silence for'the
crimson curtain to rise upon the banks of the
Potomac. Russell 'Aubrey had succeeded in
raising 'a fine full company for the'war, as
contra-distinguished  or twelve months vol-
unteers; and, to properly drill and discipline
it;"he bent all the energy of'his character. It
was made the nucleus of a 'newregirient, re-
druits gathered rapidly, and when the regi-
ment'organized, preparatory to starting for
Virginia; he' was elected colonel, with Herbert
Blackwell for lieutenant-colonel, and Charles
Harris was appointed' adjutant. They were
temporarily eneamped on the-common between
the railroad depot and Mr. Huntingdon's resi-
dence, and'from the observatory or colonnade
Irene could loot down on the gleaming tonts
and the flag-staff that stood before'the officers
quarters  Reeille startled her' at dain,-and
tattoo regularly waredl'herfof the shortness ff
susmerimghts.'As' ti filerycariia esho s
would'notbtok the sight of the eaipm'inert ;
she discarded Sls or t4inie''g gwhen' cOti-
pelled'to leave homet rodt Erebus, atnitelighyt
ritk'f~'Or 'life.'fbouhe' eyfnued' the 'greatest
rehu  ance/to/the'soutrd/df' Oumrrfife. "
e'sftinrnoonaalhe weattpvr 'ton'heRo,#
a4thence to thie"Faetoryf' Ahew  oingdny

had been named in ''honor of her father;'"n i-
forsni and 'haversabits were 'to be furnished,
and Mr., Huntingdon had ntri4ised"'he'ihti
the emmission. Selecting the cloth aniac-
conplishing her errand,'she returned by w
of the-orphan-asyum, whbos brick'wall  ere
rapidly rising under her supervision. O  of
the workmen took "her horseand she went
over the building, talking to the principal me-
chanic about some additional closets wlilph she
desired to have inserted.' 'Dr.'Arnold'chOanced
to be passing, but saw Erebus at the' gate,
stopped, and 'ane in'
"I was just going up to the 'Hill to fee-viou,
Queer-glad I am saved the 'trouble. 'Here,
sit down a minute; I will clear these shaviings
away. - When did you hear from' Leonar ?"
" I had a letter yesterday. 'He was 'well,
and on outpost duty hear;lanassas."
"Well, I shall join himvery soon."
"Sir ?":'.'
"I say I shall'join him very soon;' don't you
believe' it?  Why should n't I serve, my conui-
try as well as younger' men ? 'The fact 'is, I
am going as surgeon of. Aubrey's'reghent. "It
would never do'to have the handsoite"colonel
maimed for lith through'the awkwardness'of a
nOw-fledged MD. "'Miks Salomewould spOil
her superb eyes with crying-which catastro-
phe would, doubtless, 'distress'himi ore than
the loss of a liib  eh,'Irene?
She looked at him, betraying neither sur-
prise nor 'regret.
"When 'will you leave W '
"Day after tomorrow morning, can't jget
transportation any sooner.- :ubrey has re-
ceived orders to report at 'onde} to General
Beaurn ard. Child-,have you been sick",?"
'"'No, sir. 'Tam glad you adrgrbingwithi the
regirni,t; very glad;"' Everyf.god suigeon'in
the Coiifederaey should haste to the Front
lipe of' our atnies. Since ybu' leave'hetIl
am particularlyglad that 'you "onta  going 'to
Manassas, where you can'be near Father.'
'Himah!    Do"-You supiose thatUil'a
patent lfe-preserveragainstminie'balls'and
grape-shot ?
'"I know you will'db all that kItll andaffeca
tion can'suggest, 'andY shall feelmuch better
satisfied."
He mused 'a moment, watching her ft r'
tively.
"I suppose you have"heard of the perform -
ance ifor toimerrow ?"
No, sir. Towhat do ydu allude    ~'?
-Thede+aughter of"Herodias e preparing to
dadced
- mohaddet Vo inded ?   W.'  11thef',sh.

188

M AE4.

137


1i88

4

M4qARIA.p

I knew that, Salonge was having ,an elegan
,laggnsde, but waw not-agware that to-morrov
was appo klted,~ for' the ceremony of presenta
tion.
"Who will look after you when 1 amin gone;
Youare the ,only tie I have here. I can'
beat'to leave you;."--
I dare say. I shall get on very well.;. and
betide, you,.o1 course,, must go and,.do you
duty, no matter whathappens,"  d d
but yoi will be so lonely and isolated til
Erie comes.
She smiled suddenly, strangely,,yet with no
tinge.of bitterness.
"That is nothing new. I have been solitary
all my life." .
"And it is your own fault., Youmight bave
married like other people, and been happier."
"You are mistaken in assuming that I -am
not happy, in my lome '.    ,
"Hush, Irene ! hush ! I know the signs of
true "happiness, if I don't possess -it myself.
You. never murmur; oh, no !--you. are too
proud !, You don't droop like .some poor,
weak, sickly souls; oh, no l-7you'are too stately
and regal. You will live and die a model of
reticent chill propriety;, and when you, are
in your shroud your plaid, treacherous face
will bear no witness that you were cheated out
of your rights in this world." -..
gain she smiled, and laid ber hand on his.
"e What apity yoq mistook your forte in
earlylife ; with such a' fertile imagination, not
physic, but fidtior, was your calling. . When
will you come to.see me?   want you to take
a.. arcel to'fathrer former; and then I want to
have: A long lk."
" I know what the uloog. talk amounts to.
You need not hold out any such rosy.cheeked
apples f odom as a bait. ] am comin, of
course, after the flagacerewoniesewhere fam
eete ,d. At one o'clock I will be at the
Iill-1perhaps earlier. Where now ?"
"tI must go' byMrs. Baker'str see about
givingout some, sewing for the ' Huntingdon
Rifles.' I can't i6 it all at home, and several
families here require work. I shall expect
you'at one o'clock-shall have lunch ready for
you. . By the way, Doctor,.is there anything I
can do for you jn the sewing line ? It would
give  e genuine pleasure 'tpmake something
for you, if jou wil ohly tell me what you need.'
'Think tover, your wants;"
She had caught up her reins, but paused,
looking at him.. He averted his head quickly.
' Ill tell you to.morrow..  ood-evening."
Taning;from the town;.pe .took a narrow
sandy ;ad loading.amongdJomirregular hills,
anud a    psing a thiket ofwee gum,,bay,
and  pl    that bordered *  lear: brawling,
ro  xiok edstreat wluich 'ranacress the
royd~ $a rod~ ts o a tgree roe  og onesse.
Twg 4nmali -esldren,  ith. anomale~ hlishe
white hair, were playing ,mgrples. an the pas-
sage, nd a boy, apparently.tet yeats at age,

t was seated on the ground, whistling ", Dixie "
w and makingssplit baskets, such as are gener-
- ally used on plantations ,for picking cotton.
lie threw down.his work and ran to open the.
? gate, which was tied with a piece of rope.
t   ":How do you do, Hanson ? -Is your mother
at home ?"
,  Yes, ma'm"
r    She gave him her bridle andt entered' the
house, in one of the rooms of which she-found
l a, ,.tall, muscular, powerful-looking woman
kneeling on the floor.and engaged in cutting
out workfrom a roll of striped cloth.. Putting
her grayish hair behind;her ears, she paused,
lgoked up,. and, with scissors -in hand, said,
bluntly:
I Be seated,. Miss Irene.. I have n't time, or
Would get .up. Lucinda, bring some water
fresh from the spring,,and if your grandmother
is awake, tell her Miss Irene is here."
" I see you have not finished your contract,
Mrs. Baker.".
"Very nearly, 'ma'm. I .will finish off and
send in the last lot of tbese haversacks, by
twelve o'clock. to-morrow.. The captain was
out to-day to hurry.me up ;,.said the regiment
bad orders to leave. day after to-morrow. I
gave him my word. he should have then by
noon, and that is something I never break."
"Have you heard from your husband since
I saw you ?"    ,
Again the busy scissors paused.
4Not a; word.. But my boy, Robert, has
had aterrible spell of fever in Lynchburg. I
received a few lines from the ,doctor of the
hospital yesterday. Thank God,! he wasbet-
terwhen the letter was written.  Hisfather
knows;inothing of it. I can't find out exactly
where Mr., Baker's companysis. - They are do-
ing good service, I hope, somewhere-making
their mark on the Union. wretches in the Vir-
ginia valley. I want to hear that my husband
had a hand in burning Wheeling4" .
"I believe you'told me that you were from
Virginia."y
"Yes, ma'm; but not from that part of it,
I; want you to understand. 'I was born in
Amelia, thank my stars ! and that is as true as
steel."
." It must be a great trial to you to have
your husband and son'so far off, and yet sepa-
rated.",
" Qf course I hate to have them away, and
times are hard for such a family, as-mine, with
little means of support; ,but I don't grieve.
Everyman has to do lis duty now, an4 every
womanl, t90.:told Stephen !.thought I could
take. care of the children' and myself-that -I
would rather liye penacorns, than.that he
should nt.servte his country when itneded
him ;- and I eld Jthrwhen I fixed hii'off,
that Inever woAd 'die contented if he and his
father $d pt bothede something-to distinguish
theeiselves in 'his war.. Ilam a poor woiu~n,.
Miss .Xane,4brt no soul eloves the Confederaecy.

MACARA.

better. than I do, or will work harder for it.
I have no money to lend our government, but'
I give. n husband -and my ,child-and two
better soldiers no. state can show."
" You have done jpur part nobly, and 'I
trust both your dear ones will be spared and
brought safely back to you. .How 5is your
mother to-day ?"       y
" Very feeble. I was up nearly all night
with her. She had one of her bad spells.
Have some water; it is sweet and cold,"
"Do you want any more,,work this week ?"
"Yes ma'm; I should like some after to-
morrow. Do :you know where I can get
any?"
" I can give you seventy-five flannel over-
shirts, and the same number of haversacks ;
but you could scarcely finish them all in time,
and I thought I would send you the shirts and
let Mrs. Pritchard take the haversacks."
" I shall be very glad to get them. You
are not raising a company 'yourself, Miss
Irene-?"
" Oh,' no! but there is a new  company
named 'Huntingdon Rifles' for my father, and
1ie wishes to give them everything they need.
When can you come in to see me about cut-
ting out the shirts ?",
" Day after to-morrow niornigg, quite early,
if it will suit you."
"That 'will suit me very well. Here is that
reiiedy for'asthma, which I mentioned to you
once before. If you will try ,it faithfully, I
have no doubt. it will at least relieve your
mother of much suffering.  If you can't find'
the.ingredients here, let me know, and 'L can
get them from the plantation."
As the kneeling .figure received the slip of
paper she rose,,and tears gathered in the large
clear gray eyes.
"Ihank you, Miss Irene ; it is very good of
you to remember my poor old, mother bo con-
stantly. I am afraid nothing witl ever do her
much good; but I am grateful to you,' and. will
try your remedy faithfully, ' I want to thank
yop,, too, for the good you have done Hanson ;
I never saw a boy so changed-  He is up by
daylight Sunday mornings, getting all things
in trim, so that he can be off to Sabbath-school.
I have always tried to teach my children to be
honest and upright, but I am afraid I dinot
do myp duty fully ; I am afraid they were neg-
lected in some respects, till you began ,'with.
them in Sabbath-school."
"Your children all learn very readily, but
iaiison:is particularly bri ht.  amvery glad
to. have him in myelass; he is . e opm9 best
pupils."'  went 'i"  r~,:r    -    ',
As shewent homeward a shadow fell ,uppu
her'"ace --a shadow darker'than.;that cast by.
ti'black plume in her riding-hat...--akd once.
or tice other lips ws'ithegl fiognheir oriigary
curves of, beguty'. Neargng the eampment
she lbwered her vsil, but *awhit dregar a4
'had been dismissed ais sheliook therema

139

and Erebus quickened his gallop,,;she round
herself face to faee with the, colonel, who had
just, counted his horse and  as ridin toward
town. -She looked at him and bw d,   i
passing, he kept is eyes fixedon the roadl te-
fare him, and in the duskiness 'his face ased
colder and more 'inflexile.; than yer.
had been the manner.of their ocpasimial eet
ings since theinterview at t ie actoryp, and
she was not surprised that this, her firstefret-
ing, was disregarded. . The public beved
that an engapm rent existed between;him and
Salome, and the attentions heaped uponhim
by the family of the latter certainly gave; color
to the report. " But Irene was not deceived ;
she had learned t9 understand his nature, and
knew that his bitterness of feeling and studied
avoidance of herself betokeped" that the.old
affection had not been. rushed. "Struggling
with the dictates. of her heart. and a sense
of the  respect due toy er father's feheligs, she
passed a sleepless night in pacing the gallery
of the observatory. It was a' vigil of almost
intolerable perplexity and anguish.  Under
all its painful aspects she patenly weighed
the hitter, and at .sunrise .next morning,
throwing open the blind of her 'room, she
drew her rose-wood desk to' the ,window,' and
wrote these words:
" COL. 'AunxY:
" Before you'leave W ---- allow me to
see you for a few moments. If your depar-
ture 'is positively fixed for to-morrow, come to
me this afternoon, at any hour which "nay
be most conienieft.
"Resectfully
p' 5iENE HKTpG ON.
"' )Intingdon Hill, .Jtnef1861."
As the.regiment prepared to niarch to Mrs
Churchll's residence,'the note was received
frin Andrew'shands. Retnrnizgiis sword to
its scabbard, the colonel read the paperat*ice,
three' times-a heavy frown gathered 'on 'his
forehead, his .sarthy cheek fired, apd, thrust-
ing thi noteintohis pocket, he turned toward.
his regiment, saying hastily to the servant:
" YoU need not wait. No answerr' is ex-
pectedZ?
At the.breakfast-table Irene opened ahasty
missive from Salome inviting'her tobe pres-
en :t  e presentation of ,he  and nlgg-
gin a, few choice flowers for te 'oeasign
Sriingi s uetly, she filed the eempanyig
basket with some of 'therarestatreasuree o'
the  reenhouse, added a bQ 1 of rasprri
whieh ahe 'gardener had justrp thi, i' .onan
sena g J'Ya*iti a b ef ine, ex.cusing  rsel im
attending.
faTerpg1psrng  gas  1fr .:;ix, '4  i
peiitending the making 'favg    ~ *t~ti
of .kberry ,pelyan4 coditr hnief
Anout noonr      rn   e

t;   , .
t; '.
";
,t
Y     i
1
.f},,1
; .
5 '
{.
~ ,
i           i
,
,
1  t
,
1
, .

*


MACARA.

engaged in 'sealing' up a number of the jars,  "And what is to become of my conscience
all, neatly labelled. The day'was warm;,she in'the meantime ?"
hba pushed back her hair from' her brow as "Do6torI might answer in the words of
se eaYnt over her 'work ;.the full' sleeves were Raphael to the Prefeat of Alexandria: 'What
pihn d up above 'the elbow, and she wore a "will become of it in'any case, my most excel-
iti~e cheek-msli apro nto protect her dress lent-lord'?'
from the resinand beeswax.     '  '      -"    mph, child ! I am not such   e
"in Ae- nae op ,ece .namhnot suchiaabrepirb-
'"n the name of'Medea and her Colchian bate, after all. But I am thankful i am not
caldroh ! what are you about, Irene ,?"   as some pharisees 'I know."
"Pixing a box of hospital stores for you t'o  She looked up inhis harsh face to read its
take ' ith you."                          meaning.' He leaned forward, seized her
"I'Fiin  you Yankee ! crucify that' word ! hands, and said hurried~ly:
I detest it. Say  arrangin;, gettin up, putting  "Do n't look so muchlike one of your own
in order, aggreg'ting,"conglqmerating, or what pigeons might, if youhad coaxed it to: come
you will, but save my ears from ' fixing'!'. How  to you and then slapped it off. When I say
do i know that althat trash was n't boiled in bitter thin gs y'u maybe sure you are the last
a brass kettle and is not rank poison ?"  personin my thoughts. Straighten that bent
Because I always use a porcelain ke title. lip -1 did not allude to you, m t  i
.                              ,' g   ,   . , .     o    youstaarry priest-
It et is a lassd ; try some of my 'trash.' ess. I meant all that noisy crew down town,
I am detei1tined to receive you " cordially.,"' who--"
"Take' ti advice, Queen, and never at-    " Let them rest; neither you nor I have any
tenipt -another pun so long as life  and reason interest in them. I wish, if you please, when
areas pared to you. 'It is an 'execrable, heeath- you get to Manassas, that you would persuade
enish, uncivil practise, which should be taboo- Father to allow me to comet at least, as far'as
ed 'inall well-regulated respectable families.' Richmond. You have some influence vith
As a class, your punisters are a desperate, him; will you use it in my favor ?"'
vinegar-souled set:  Old  Samuel Johnson    "You"'are better off at home; you cold
treated th world to a remarkably correct es- possibly do no good."
tim'ate of the whole sorry tribe.' Just a half- . " Still I want'to go. Remember, my father
grass more., YoO have spilled a drop on your is all I have in this world.".
immaculate apron. Well, your pun and your   "'And what have you elsewhere, Irene ?"
cordial are about an a par; not exactly either-  " My 'mother, hy Sa iour, and miy God."t
forqone has too much spice, and the otherunone " Are 7ou, then, so very anxious to go to
at .all.'                                 Virginia ?"he repeated, after a pause.
"Well, then, Fadladeen, I will reconsider, ' "  am. Want to be near Father."
and send the box to'a Richmond hospital."   "Well, I will' see what I can do with him.
"No; give it'-to me.. The poor fellows who If I fail, recollect that he"is not proverbial for
are to use it mar'not 'be so'fastidious. How  liability.  Look here--are you nervous ?
much long er' do you intend to sit here ? I did Your fines 'twit h 'and so do your eyelids
not'  i tr 6nake m   visit to the pantry.'  occasionally, and your pulse is twenty beats too
" 1 have 'finished,. si'r. Let me 'wash my quick."
handgand r,"ill",ive' you some lunching the  '"" I b'elie~e J am rather n ousatoa "
diniiig-room'                              "Why    v"tay."
o;Iuriehed with the'israelite.y 'Salome  " I did not sleep last night; that is oi because,
was brilliant as a Thazilianire-fly, and pre&amp;  I suppose."
set'd her banner quite 'gracefully. 'Aubrey "And the 'reason why you, did not sles ?
lookedsplendidlyin bis'utniform'; was superbly Be honest with me'"
happyin' his sp"ieh-always is. Madam did    "'My thoughts, sir, were very painful. Do
the honors mimitably,and, in fine----give ine you wonder at' it, In the present state of the
that fan on tlie table--everything ;ws decid- Ountry ?"
edly come ii faut. You were expected, and  "Irene, answer me one question, dear child;
- your ought to have gouse; it'looked spiteful to what does the future;cortamn for you?  What
'a  away. I should absolutely like to see you hope 'have youth ?- what do you live for ? ,
duIected to "212°.Fahreniheit, in order to  "I have much to be " atefyl for-mnuchthat
mnarl he'result.' fHere'[ an almost suffocating makes me' happy ; ani a hol e to do some ood
*1t' s.tieat, trhiieb 'wohl')e% )ectable in  ii' the world whie. d l ie. I wanit to b'e use-
.  i6i, adyou sit tlfebit u lyghtlook- fuli-4odfeel that Ihasylgadhed spdeat,
i "'ioaMwest wiid ia Ma      . Beauty, strengthened some despond'iy spirits, cared
yop                     ""ould  yoursef pante '"as 'social' bam toi'soi 4 n"she  -oe
'r  tet  - We.attd b'oit n's the'  ressd wndthe  ph s of  tos li Wm alk t e   me
o       ofd  a  i n   d i'a n '          g 'Bfife. Th'srnare tehds  n  I ei-ed
tG 6%duedmyra inc aitp teormiplsh uoe; battat edeh
Sn aarel 'and e                ser"',o ynud tiinens p d    laner 'theliniteid
b    ng  . Please hand 'them to Father a  tell sp eofehea  ,tened, I o ni i-ded
him:" ina' 'I 'i'" 'lE"'  "  "" '  '"'  of?'aseri  5rand&amp;if hithm': ''I si'

which the centre is everywhere, the circum-
ference nowheeu;' and' feel encouraged to
hope that, after',all womans .circle,of action
will prove as sublimeandextended. Doctor,
remember:.
S-         ' No stream frQrm its source'
Fiows seaward.,how lonely soever its course
But what some land is gladdenei.' No star ever rose
And set, without influence sorleivhere. "Who knows
What earth n es from eaath 's Jovest teaturet No.11f
Cai be pure in its p* rPose and strong in its atrife,
And all life not be purei and atronger tierelby."
'bBut who pointed your aims and .taught
you these,the~ories .'
The emptiness of my 'former alife-the in-
satiable yearning for solid,unalloyed happiness..
1 enjoy societyafln"clingto -many social ties;
but these alone coul~dnQt content ie. I 'love
the world betteinfor striving to be of some
littleuse to it, and i1should be pained to have
anybody believe that I lhave grown misan-
thropic or cynical, simply because I sometimeA.
tie ft a roun  of gayety, an: rn eabn t
employ 'my tune usefully; and fors tho benefit
of my.race, '.felt the pressure ofthe iron
signet which.the Creator set to his high com-
missionIs lhr lilo-lom'g human labor, and ,break'.
ing the spell of inertia that bound mime, .,have,,
in part, my reward.
- .et leave to work
in this world't is the best you get at all;
For c, in cursinig, gies us better gifzp'
Thaimn in beneictio. tlod say. 'sweat
For oreheads;' men say"crowns;' and so *We are crowned,
Ay: gashed bysome tormenting circle of steel
'Whichsimgps with a secret spring, Get work: get work;
Besure't is better that 'what you wyork to get.'
"Godknows we dolittie enough for eachother
in this whirl"of selfishneq  and grasping after
gain.
Have; you, then, fully resolved to, remai
sin'eIt"
Why' do you ask me that, Dr. Arnold  ?
k6 Because' you'are 4ear to me, Quteen;' and
I should likdto seeyou happilymareied bef'oi'e
I atimlaid away in my grave-    "-.
"you will never see it  Be sure I shall live
and die frene RutmingdoA- r
"W Vhat' has induced you to doom yourself
to a-"' ^ "
" Ash mne no rore, Doctor  If iam content
with my lot, who else has thP right to ques-
ti"on    -  ' ,
'He looked,'into that fair chiselled face and
wondered whether 'she could "be truly" ou-
tent" 'and the purity and peace in her deep
4alm.eyes bafled'hiua rely. She rose, and
laid her hand'on hisshouldere4
Dr. Arnold, promise nuie that, if there isa
batty; andh Father huld he.hurtyu -will tel-
.graph ' tn'gg      p not, hesitte-le 'e
knot the utik pmnediatel  X . iIIyou0 "
"Apniise. uo,,va     h     nk    rhv

" " Have.you any old 'ligenleft about the
-house, that could be useful anong the
onuided '?"
?  have sent off a good deal but hae some
deft- (Inwht formfdo you wat it': Asant,
or bandags ?"
" Nether. pack it just as .itandsend
on ,by express, I can't carry the wor d 'on my
shoulders;"
A' ytiiing elase
'ri io the overseer's vie to aQW  th ,
mu tard-see'she can lay 'her ha   ad,
save all the sage she can, And, Ztn   b
sure to send me every drop of honey yot can
spare. That is all, I believe.,If 1,think'of
anything  else y I willwrite you."'
'a Will you take Cyrus with you
Of course.. What guarantee have I that
some villainous  tray shell or shot ,my' not
rjcoeliet ajid sh tve my head offt 1' I shall take
him along totdrag m'e off'the ie4 in" any u h
emergency; for, if'Ian not a Christian nfself,
I want'to be'buried by Christian pegle -not
by those puritaical 'goldeun'alf wor ihppers,
of 'higher-la' notoriety.
"trust that, yinthe exercise of yourprop
fessional dutiesyou' will be in no'danger.
Sur eons are rarelyhurt, I believe."
"Not so sure of, that, $phericalease: or
grapeshot have very little aspect for seientiic
proficiencyor venerablold"'sg.' One Ything
is artau; hoMMevr r4f afsythighappensTto
me Cyrus will 'bring mnehome ;;and I ga t
quiet place ' nea bo 'lot in the'ceoter,
where your hads Queenwill s           ei  tie'
about 'my'grave; Ab child"'TI'irea"'l ed e,
lonely, savage sort of life, and isp  l love
on the ;w'rl  or the y eople aboutme&amp;  have
bid neither wife nor children ior'sierstrity
home to hutnan ie ino,'butyou have alwteys
had a.large shAre of my heart, and even Eebn
ard canhardly love youbetteb tbasi dok
Think of me sometimesQoeen,. aind*rit to
me freely.: 'No' eyes but mir ne  ilL eez'acsee
your'letters."
"I e stdod with his haiids.yon her s l d der
speaking falteringly ; and' ;nable-t repl f
inaidiately, she turaed'her lpaoto thse
bawny' handwhich had stressedd Mler=,:r
twenty-fte ears.
Makioga great effort,' she said pleadingly
".r. Arno d; when "I pa' father I
always include 'you 4: u peattdns I.o ;ou
never intend to ,pray forous
"I ahould nod, knw ho  to 4egip pno*,"
'A" Werd4 alwaysy  ci  it:l     Fopo
"' olon 1i' er". Ohl Do  t9  JoiI 4;.:of y~u .tor,
'sl~looed p s 1nshe    go " ' y
"! hiave faith in yor prayers      ht
" ,siot inzsy 007- ~    or  t~awye&amp;a

*

9
141
ate

, ,{
',qtr
'a

!!11s
1Y1  I. . 7"r .;'r
,

140


142

MACARtiA

* 'ie stooped kissed her Forehead, n hnle
oi tot bug iede th      hea od hried hair was oped aid fastened with blue rib.
out'oeli gy.(bons and from theheheayy folds her favorite
She could not realize that he would be ex- clemtis bells hung quiivei with eve
pose4'to tch eminent danger.as many others notion, and matchin   ' in depth of  h
--and,'havig' eneluded her ilekirf tnd dei- violets 'that clustered on her bosom The
spatched the bot to the depot, shewrote 'a.few" crystal calmness of her countenance was
es to  well known bookseller nd sent broken at last; a new strange light brimmed
Andrew to' the store. 'An hour after he the unfathomableeyes and broke in radiat
returned, bringing a package. of small- but ripples round the matchless mouth  On the
elegantly bound bibles.  Frbm  among the white brow, with its rarble-like gleam, "pure
n    bhe seleted ne of b beautiful, clear lilies of eternal peace" seemed resting, as
type, ' d tkig it to her room'locked herself "
in t esaallntrusion.                        oney length of a life. There we ad uiits idays,
There were 19ng months and years, in thatheart-search-
**ins*gaze.
IAPTER XXIX.                    Never had her extraordihary beauty so
R'he summer day was .near its death, when stirred his heart; a faint flu h tinged his'cheek,
Volonel Aubrey rode uptestately avenue    but he bowed frigidly, andhaughtily his words
whose o green .arches were slowly filling broke the silence.
with wiadows, Fastening his spirited horse to  t" You sent for men, Miss Huntingdon, and I
the J a pos,.he ascended, the marble sps, obeyed 'your- command. Nothing less would'
44 received his nard and. ushered him, have brought ine to your presence."
into the, st parlor. The riph lace curtains  She crossed;the rbonW andstood before him
were aught back from thlihwide windows to, holding out both hands, while her scarletlips
admit the air, and the whole room was hooded Auttered perceptibly.  Instead' of receiving
with ibtle intoxicating !-perfume, from  nu- 'the hands he drew- back a step and crossed
erous elegantvases otraie-Aveers,'which . his arms proudly over his°chest. she raised
crowned mantle; 6tgbre, and , centre-table  her fascinating eyes to his, tolded her palms
a small ,paper-machk6standdedrawn before' together, and, pressing them to her heart, said
n ;ov i win4ows atoed an e#risite cuti slowly and distinctly:
glass bowl, fringed at the edge with eauiutim  "I heard that you were ordered to Virginia,
leave.d filled .itJi peretgold gart   to the post p f danger; and, knowing to what
watedri ,',whose snowy -petaes or tp : t: tb rties.you will be exposed, I wished to see you
selve.sggsil, breathing incense hh pro   at les  nesuore inthis world"   erhapsthe
and mody visitor regsdY thena:Noment     step  amedaking'may be condemned by some,
then:his piercing eye ran atoundt4heom and aa odeyiatia from the delicacy of my sex-I
resed uon a large Qval picture QiOTe e:ntrust;Ian 'wauting in proper appreciation
.site lA. this portrait 4Ie ad     e   of what is (he to my own selfrespecr--butthe
painted .osn afier eh'legft''school, and repre  feling _which . have. crushed back so -long
sentpd nly the face:  d, batnd ising out of a now emand utterance. Russell, I'have de.
luminous'purplish 'uist=-a face'which might termunecd, to) freak ,the seal of many years
have ;erved. for Guido's aurora, Clad in ,th  silence-'o roll away the stone from the sepul-
ha+ds a 'glitterig .unitorm, whio i' showed chre-$ telltyo all.1, f that ygu and I;
is noblyepro ortioned ands powerful figure so ,nust understand each oqier before' .  part
ad    gtogen  the oler stood,hat in hand  for al time, arnd,.therefore I sent for you."
tlia #ngs ea ou'plute} dropping, toward 'the  .he pauses, droopinMgr'head, unable to
floon, i4d, ,  a'scanned the portraits  lps meethis 'earhing !stady black eyes riveted
mive4tsn4 hewords(crept inaudibly, mut ;upon hers; and, dawing his tall athletic fig-
teringly, oner them:                      ure to its .utmost height, ekegd defiantly
_    "Deholidher there,      ' ,    eou  nt for  through compassionate
,    91 heYid her ere she kne iheyt-'  compunctions, then.-ritendiug, at the .close,
i rst, i ee "the idol ef ai r youuth,  to,               of        ,;ellt4us  w
'  The     h isfmaoda  aldost ta a;     agaimousind in l     oeu disdain t81 1
oiwthemeMessed inenr  ae           7y' you? No, Uussell4 I do not pity
The ~rwa obhihsaface  dae ered ahmost t to no t y
s.owi   escribahl stern  h tiedabru               wellI.neither deserve nor desire
awayedI look d  roi h i :he open u*idow  it."
out upott the l       easl+s   .            Wh Whatiae    o yu    oppose
and t, dus ysaos   tt~le&amp;,- for',;i "ste ,  one    fo yo o   heeou 'your    dt
e'is.              ey"ae             f       thughnA  y      er4eo youiseeo to
A lwi :.r ress s f sewi  muslin re. aling her ifita f. .r    o       on;t
dazzling 'shouddef  and every dirmple and God - hsitrityi             nxrsil
curve of her arms. The glittering bonze painfto memeprssbl

II'l

X numbingig t uspicion; crossed bei' miz d, kzi s hat sufterin  our , long  fleatj h
blai'hingplipand cheek1to othh 1Fi te 4 a th  co ,,lF
a     rdinto the q14 stue-1ik'e es         A 'F nstant he *a redd ahi ij'igfl
e. 1?hIdhe hideed, dead tglove her:g uinfel, Wad hea ebwiht herd  a$
dFk eh          n  e  plate i  his mn h s a is,-estinhedhpl r,    bo
heart?   e sdl without roipehenaing,eth, leaning  isaarthy ho  d1ek
intntart esceha ie wleh eei v    hych weg   her and transparent asglabaste.r ':, m
features, :aid'regarded her wit mingled  i  l "At las I iadbz 'the on n driem of'ui dm e
patience an perplexity. 'I hioldyou tb mpt' ek'igd                        a
"If   dbe the truth  Cole 'Aubrey, the owin[Who Ahall dare dispdte thari ht ypu '
inteviei isended'                       lips havgi in  e Htred ia nWe    ;
bowed and tunee partially away, but noneli tall coibetwenie a't d 4ay %*nd
pa   d drresolntes ahinda by thatIlectrical Oh,renr-Iy mfbeautifulrdarlix  itill
pale face  hiqhno    , oman, or'child eversambitious hopes, not' all Ilhe fut 0re hol not
0okdRt withouetin otion- '            time, noreternity;,c4,0ltpuruhase the p;onc,
ABefore wejp t       bg f eereIshould ineprssible      'this   utascrane .  Ihave
lilevto kuowhlhyf ,ow  egt forgo e."   toiled :andatrug e' tl h  sullered  'sK
"Do . o sgraer 'that, one year a o to lence; I have            isen t"a  d4
u ght, ie'&amp; san thsteps of the ;'actory, and that soniti es' etun yiry, rlrao
yotide    ehefehngyou had: herished us nesri  'Fs n 1ha "+ utd;Ia'rg
fagr n   yar boyhood                   n my bard-e rnd ~success;lutt atnljc ix
"].ti a :, eetig too fraught with pagn dim  and m :, et ao
an'nof'tiieation to be.soon'forgotten  withtgreeaoi priQfle' 41
.lnl'eve you thought me cold  eartless, yetirlove. Isaid .ribit hZlo
and  fligtheht shall                               he
o c*n          or ''o to  b t it.  or  ift d: fairYggishti ge  bfttod 'trs  '
hegly coldnessearried its own int rpreta  followed, iaudatedme cont  a 4l" r P
tion~'~   ' *   ,              a  rom MS. geehe o   ffdyu4m
yedause I knew th such was the harsh' ble inagetigse
o i nyelthd.enterta iedrfor twelvemonths, mitoftttlr ie s a , = o tf es MI eav
I idglihi opportu ityt' relieve myself of greatcw  dGo 'eI.
a unjgst'imputatt oe  4f peace had been oe.hour, o  efe  h       n a
ressured and you hade ~a  i remained quiet= joyle  fei
lfrhere, I should nee have 4.cved you by your   b c 1,;polished rese I  Iar
o for 'the :ame im erative reasons, thesame orddn  erh unjust tpFs,    a te
st ru ,                 necessity whichkhpt:Ve 'slentpeuthe yoering      l
nighttgl ice   alue, wpuld have=ealed rmy ,an y trn±   c atto  ddi exif
lip  inugh life  But alathine are-changed, u                  ht
you are oinginto t  ery  w'off death, horrible
withlg   result no hin'fereght can re                 h
at x now afi lng       'eri' I feel that ineyqutru lf   alnt' itr0Iltliene'
1have mad ana 'ayclim the 'right to g oa your      -a"Ff1
epee.k to'rn ofthat 'h  bave e ys ea   t e, that'you wet.,vOt
peated to biywinthr i  r y grave.     tor   t e°
Agan wher eiaea head bowd itsl         ' a Vint dnit'}4'tlyyooit
Past biternessnd wounded ride were in- ci       blame  :t#Y  W,   it; 'di t be
atayjy fprgotteidho!'  kindled i mhis dark, with              e
stern faceaa beauty tat r rnly dwelt tb er ,  ee'I'ahdu eetn' I'  'otIV '
and, throwing lon hIs hate  t  ed for    sr.u1Tht.d'   hy  t e;#n    =I toR-.4;:
wapd nd took ler folded  hinds inhi strpagp yO1z          46ti~ri'iythz~s  n  l''
* Irenedo you intend m e te understand  Was  AlaV      ityar4     iv    I~
ar6 you willing~ that i she bielieehat after tedt  Buthe
all, have anraterestminyourihealrt--that Iam  peramtent p sa o  utl~e  yQt bbi
,mofe toe'than you iver, before designed to tue  I ried fib~yt
letute 'know  If tdndeged eso, ohl g ive heri  faenin~tailai'hr
snen uintakable assurngee'            faded srgn :
*lelips mond, he, stooped his, haughty itsb plwrll'  yi'ns
~k~*1 ~h~t)ru kae enh te fr no soy   a     9tei
"iti]dh6  d'1(" niyr''S(*'hd. "\;EI o  e 's'; , at, \ y,    +eheoeM   t 2
beey.                                             '


" No ! I had faith that, despite your angry
efforts, your heart would be true to me."
" Why-did you inflict no much pain on us
both, when a wordwould have explained all?
Wheo the assurance you have given me to-.
day would have sweetened the .past years of
trial?"
"Because' I knew it would not have that
effect.  I am constitutionallyy more patient
than you, and yet, with all. my efforts to be,
resigned to what. couldn't be remedied and,
to-bear my sorrow with fortitude, I fbund my-
self disposed-to repine; and, because I was so
sure of your affection,-to-
" Cry tothe winds, oh. God I it might have been."
A belief of my indifference steeled you against
me-nerved you to endurance  But, a knowl-
edge of the truthswould have increased your
acrimony of feeling: toward hitn whom you re-
"ardedias the chief obstacle, and this, 'at all
Lazgrds, I *wasresolved to -avoid. Russell, I
knew that our relations could never be chang-
ed 1 'that'the barriers, for whichneither you
nor I are responsible in any degree, were in-
surmountable; and. that,..in. this world;:e
must walk widely-diverging paths" exchano-
ing few words of sympathy. .Because .I real-
ized so fully the necessity of estrangement, I
should never have acquainted you with. my
awn feelings, had .I not known that a long,
and perhaps final,,.separation now stretches
before.us. In the painful course which duty,
imposed on me I have striven to, pronpote your
ultimate happiness, rather than my own."
"Irene, hQ)v can you, persuade yourself that
it is your duty to obey an unjust and'tyranni-
cal decree, which sacrifices the happiness of
two to the unreasonable vindictiveness of
one?"
" Remenuber that you are speaking of my
father, and do not make me regret that I have
seen yopt in his house."
"You must not expect of me more forbear-
ance than'my nature is capable of. I' have
lost too much through his'injustice to bear my
injuries coolly. I was never a'meek man, and
strife and trial have not sweetendtl my temper,.
If you love me aindthe ;beliefis too precious
to me to be questoied now, I hold it your'
duty to me and to your. own' heart to give.
yourself to me, to gild our future with the
happiness of which-the past bas been cheated.
Your father has no right to bind your life a
sacrifice upon the, altar of his implacable hate;
nor have you. a right to doom yourself and me
to lifelong srrow. because of an ancient feud,'
which neither of us had any agency in effect-
ing;.
" Duty because inflexible and involving
great .pain is not therefore less imperative.
SRussell, have you forgotten Chelonis ?"
He tightened his claspinig arms, 'and'eo
claifned:
"~'Ab, Irene I I ould willingly go into

exile, with you for-my Chelonis. Perish. am-
bition !, live only.such ;a future. but you' re-
member nothing. but Chelonis' filial obliga-
tions, forgetting all she owed and all she nobly'
gave, Cleombrptus. If you would lay your
hands in mine and giveie, his right, - oh-!
what a glory would crown 'the coming'years!
Irene, before it is too late,.have mercyon us
both."
She lifted her head from his shoulder, and
looked up pleadingly 'in his flushed, eager
face,
" Russell, do not urge me; it is useless.
Spare me the pain of repeated refusals and be
satisfied with what I have given you.. Believe
that my heart is, and ever will be, yours .en-
tirely, though. my hand you can never clain.
I know what I owe my father, and I will pay
to the last iota; and I know as well'what 1
owe myself, and, therefore, I shall live true-to
my first and only love and die Irene Hunting
done More than this you have no right to
ask-I no right to grant. Be' patient, Rus-
sell;, be generous."
" Patient 1, patient ! I am but human."
"Rise above the human; remember that,
at best, life inshort, aud that after a little while
eternity will stretch its holy cires before our
feet. Such, 'is my hope. I look dwn' the
lonely, silent vista of m.y coming years, whise
niches are filled, not with joy, but quiet' resign
nation--and I see beyond the calm shoes of
Rest, where,. if faithfulthere, you and .I may
clasp hands for everI! Tome this is no din,
shadowy,.occasionalcomfort, but a fixed, firm,
priceless trust."
She felt :the deep, rapid throbbing of'his
heart as he held her-to his bosom ;.anda dark
cloud of sorrow settled on his features while,
he listened to her low, sweet, steady voice.
He kissed her twice, and said huskily,:
" Do you' intend to send me from you ? To
meet me henceforth as a stranger ?"
"Circumstanges, which I' can- not control,
make it necessary."
' At least you will let me hear from you
sometimes? You will' give me the privilege-
of writing to you 2"
" Impossible, Russell; do not ask that of
me.
"Oh, Irene ! you are cruel!1.Why withhold
that -melancholy comtbrt from me ?"
"Simply Tor the reason that it-would un-
voidably prove a source of painto both.-.1
judge you by myself.    A   correspmidence
would keep your mind constantly harassed on
a. subject which time will inevitably' soften,
mellow.; and the expectation of letters'from
you would:'induce a feverish excitement and
impatience in my own heart, which 1 wishit
,escesped It would feed useless- regrets, nd ;e
productive only. of harm. JI. want, neither
your usefulness in. life nor, mine. impaired by
continual weak. repining. 'fI ean Ptijaly
bear a great sea of silende-betwebn.us'hence&amp;

144

MACARIA.'


MACARIA.

forth, you certainly should be stronger ; should
appreciate my motives,, without suspecting any
diminution of affection on my part. If your
life' is spared I shall anxiously 'watch your
career, rejoicing in all your honors and your
noble use of the talents which God gave you
for the benefit'of your race and'the advance-
.ment of truth. . No matter how the world may
deride, or cynics sheer at the supposition, I
tell you solemnly absence has no power over
a .true woman's heart. Her affection will
triumph over separation, over . silence, over
death ! over everything bt loss of confidence;
over all but discovered unworthiness in its
object. It can bid 'defiance to :obstacles, to
adverse fate, so long as trust remains intact
and respect is possible ; that you will ever for-
feit either I entertain no fear."
"'I am not as noble as you think me; my
ambition is 'not 'as unselfish as you suppose.
Under your influence, other aims and motives
might possess me."'
" You mistake your nature. Your intellect
and temperament stamp you one of the few
who receive little impression from extraneous
influences ; and it is because of this stern, ob-
stinate individuality of character that I hope
an extended sphere of usefulness for you, if
you survive this war. Our country will de-,
mand your services, and I shall be proud and
happy in the knowledge' that you are faithful-
ly and conscientiously discharging the duties
of a statesman."
"Ah! but 'the wages are hollow. My am-
bition has already been gratified to some ex-
tent, and in the very' flush 'of triumph I sat
down to eat its fruit, and smiled grimly over
its dust and ashes."
Because self-aggrandizement ,vas then the
sole aim. But-a holier, a more disinterested,,
unselfish ambition to serve only God, Truth,
and' Country will insure a blessed conscious,'
ness of well-spent years and consecrated tal-
ents, comforting beyond all else that earth can
give."
He shookhis head sadly; placing his palm
under her chin and tenderly raising the face
in order to scan it fully.
"Irene, oblige me in what may seem a trifle;
unfasten your haii and 'let it fall around you
as 1 have seen it once or twice in your life."
She took out hei" comb, untied the ribbons,
and, passing her fingers. through the bands,
shook them down till they touched the floor.
4He passed his' hand caressingly over the
glssy waves, and smiled proudly.
"'How often  havelonged to lay my fingers
gon(these ripplingfolds'as they flashed around
yop so, or wereitoediiiato arown about your
head. With ilit a glory they invest you !
Tbur pictusieereupgn thewall seems liglated
with the godenggeank' Irene, give mhe a hike-
ness of youir sf as ,you stanidnow, or, if you
*prefer it, ha~ve a' sme e one photgraphed to-
morrow Prom that 2prtrast pand send it to' me
10"

by express. I shall be detained in Richmond
several days, and it will reach me safely. Do
not, I beg of you, refuse me this. It is the
only consolation I can have, and'God knows'it
is little enough! Oh, Irene!I think of my
loneliness and grant this last request."
His large brilliant eyes were full of tears,
the first she had ever seen dim their light ;
and, moved by the grief which so transformed
his lineaments, she answered hastily:
" Of'course, if you desire it so earnestly,
though it were much better that'you had' noth-
ing to remind you of me."
"Will you have it taken to-morrow ?"
"Yes."
She covered her face with her hands for
some seconds, as if striving to overcome some
impulse ; then, turning quickly' to him, she
wound her arms about his neck and drew his
face down to hers.
" Oh, Russell! lEnissell ! I want your promise
that you will so live and govern yourself that,
if your soul is summoned from the battlefield,
you can confront 'Eternity without a single
apprehension. If you must yield up ydui- 'l'e
for freedom, I want the: assurance that you
have gone to your final home at peace vith
God ;,that you wait there for me; and that,
when my work is done, and I, too, lay my
weary head to rest, we shall meet goid to soul
and spend a blessed eternity together where
strife and separation , are unknown. In the
realization of your ambitious dreams, I lhnow
that you have given noithought to these things;
and it was chiefly my anxiety to impress upon
you their importance,, their vital necessity,
which induced me to send for you. Your
hard, bitter heart must be softened ; youmist
try to overcome your vindictiveness; to' cher-
ish more ' parity and forgiveness toward'sme
who have thwarted'you. Sometimes, itiwath-
ing your gloomgstern face I have almost de-
spaired that you would ever feel otherwise ;
and many a night I have prayed fervently
that you might be influenced to make some
preparation '% or futurity. 'Oh, Russell   I can
be brave and strong and patient ; I can bear
to see your dear face no more in this world;
I can give you u  to our country, and not
murmur that'you died defending her ihberies
-if I have the convition that, in'thiit noble
death, you found the gate of heaves=that I
shall meet you again when my God calls ime
home.   Think of this when yod leave me for
the temptations of camp-life and go forth to
scenes of strife and horror. Think of it Yby
"day 'al ight, striving to subdue your heart
in accordance with the precepts of Christ,; to
'xert a restraining, purifying influence over
your command ; and remember, oh, ren ember,
Russell ! that this'is th~e only hope I hjes to
cheer me.' 'Will 'you'prgniise to read 'the bible'
I give you pow-to .prgy constantly for-
self? Will'youprois    tne meeyoidhe
grave ?"

145

4
f


148                     I~D ACAJUA..                                                                                                                      4

His black locks lay upon her forehead as he  The suri had set, but waves of rich orange
struggled for composure, and, after a' moment, light rolled through the window and broke
he answered solemnly:     .over the 'white figure kneeling there half-
" I will try, my darling."              veiled by curling hair. The clasped hands
She put into his hand the bible, which she were uplifted and the colorless face was thrown
had carefully marked, and which bore on the back in silent supplication. :He watched the
blank leaf, in her handwriting : "Colonel Rus- wonderful loveliness of face and form till his
sell Aubrey, with the life-long prayers of his pride was utterly melted ; and, sinking on his
best friend."                             knees, he threw one arm around her 'waist,
The shadow fled from her countenance, exclaiming:
whigig grew radiant as some fleecy vapor sud-  "Oh, Irene ! you have conquered! With
denly smitten with a blaze of sunlight, and God's grace I will so spend -the residue of my
clear and sweeter than chiming bells her voice life as to merit your love and the hope of re-
rang through the room. union beyond'-the grave."
" Thank God ! for that promise. I shall   She laid her hand lightly on his bowed head
lean my heart upon it, till the last pulsations as, he knelt beside her, and, 'in a voice that
are stilled in my coffin. And now I will keep knew no faltering, breathed;, out' a fervent
you no longer from your regiment. I know  prayer, full of pathos and sublimein faith--.
that you have many duties there to claim your invoking blessings upon him-life-long guar-
time. Turn your face toward the window ; I dianship, and final salvation through Christ.
'want to look at it, to be able to keep its The petition ended, she rose, smiling through
expression always before me."            the mist that gathered over her eyes, and he
She put up her waxen hand, brushed the said   .,
haIir from his pale, dome-like brow, and gazed  " I came back to ask something which I feel
earnestly at the noble features, whicheven the that you will not refuse' me. Electra will
most fastidious could find no cause to carp at. probably soon come home, and she may be left
"Of old, 'when Eurystheus threatened Ath- alone in 'the world. Will you sometimes go to
ens, Macaria, inorder to save the city and the, see her, for my sake, aud give her your friend-
land from invasion and subjugation, willingly ship ?"'
devotee hersdlf a Ocrifice upon the altar of  "I will, Russell, for her' sake, as well as for
the gods. , Ab.tussell I that were an easy yours. She shall be the only sister I have ever
task, in 'comparison with the offering I am known."
called upon to make. I can not, like Macaria,  She drew his hand to her lips, but he caught
by selfimmolation, redeem my country ; from  it away, and pressed a last kiss upon them.
that reat privilege I am debarred; but Iyield  "Good-by, nyown darling!    ny life angel!"
up more than she ever possessed.' I give my  She heard his step across the hall; a moment
allon earth--my father and yourself-to our after, the tramp of his horse, as he galloped
beloved and suffering country.  My God!1 down the avenue,,and she knew that the one
accept' the sacrifice, and crown t e South a happy hour of her life had passed--that the'
sovereign, independent nation! Gladly, un- rent sepulchre of Silence must be.resealed.
shrinkingly, would I meet'a death so sublime ;  Pressing her hands over her, desolate heart,
but to survive the loss of those dearer far than she murmured sadly; :
my life, to live and endure such desolation---  " Thy will, not mine, oh, Father I Give me
oh! ny lot, atid that of thousands of mycoun- strength to do my work ; enable me to be
trywomen, is infinitely more bitter than the faithful even to the bitter end."
fate of Macaria 1"
She smothered a moan, and 'her head sank'
on his shoulder ; but lifting it instantly, with
her fathomless affection beaming in her face, -A
she added:                                           CHAPTER     XX.
' To 'the mercy and guidance of Almighty  Strange heroic parallelisms'startle the grave,
God Icommit you, dear Russell-trusting all reflecting student of history, and propound the
things in His hands., May He shield you from  inquiry: Is the Buckle theory of immutable
suffering, strengthen yod in the hour of trial, cycles -correct?  Is the throbbing, surging
and reunite us eternally in His kingdom,.is, world o~f human emotions and -passions but a
and ever shall be, my constant prayer. G'ood- mere arithmeticalproblem1 tobe solved through
by, RussellI Do your duty nobly ; win death- tile erudition and aat ness of a Quetelet or
less glory on the battle-field in defence of our Hassel, by an infallible'' statistical rule-of-
sacred cause ; and remember that your laurels three?  Has the reletless le essity of Comte
will be very precious to my lonely heart."  erected its :huge mill ol 't contineito
lie folded her in 'his arms and' kissed. her grimly grind out the aimnual r~ility of patriot.
repeatedly ; but, disengaging herself, she put ism, tyranny,.noble'self-~e aion,-or Mach-
him gently aside; and, snatching up his hat, he javelisin, in the prescribheidinai-iable ratio of
left the room. ' lHe reached his horse, then " Sociology ?"'-I Mitdatimes make men and
paused, and returned to the parlor. -" women, 'through dire' Wecessity' of individual'

E '9

MACARIA.

or national salvation, or will it be urged that
sublime records of the past fire the soul to.
emulation and duplication of ancient heroism ?
Davus sum non CEdipus. In 1781, when com-
pelled to raise the Siege of Ninety-Six, it
became very important that General Greene
should communicate with Sumter. The inter-
vening country was, however, so filled with
British and Tories, and such dangers attended
the mission, that no one could be found willing
to undertake it. In this emergency, when
.even our patriots of the first Revolution shrank
back,: Emily Geiger, only eighteen years of
age, volunteered to make the hazardous at-
tempt, and received from General Greene a
letter and verbal' messages which he was ex-
tremely desirous should reach their destination.
Mounting 'a swift horse, she performed a por-
tion of the journey in safety ; but was ulti-
mately arrested by two Tories, who suspected
that she might be rendering important,.though
clandestine, service to " the rebels." Swiftly
and unobserved she swallowed the written
,despatch, and, baffled in their expectation off
finding suspicious documents, they allowed her
to proceed. Sumter'scamp was safely reached,
the messages were delivered, General Greene's
army was reinforced, and soon became'strong
'enough to assume the offensive. Rawdo:n was
forced to retreat, and' Greene subsequently
met and vanquished the British army at Eutaw
Springs. Was not Emily Geiger's slender
womanly hand instrumental in preparing for
that battle, the results of which freed the
Carolinas ?       - -  I
In July, 1861, when the North, blinded by
avarice and hate, rang with the;cry of "On to
Richmond," our Confederate Army of the
Potomac was divided between Manassas and
Winchester, watching at both points the glit-
tering coils of the Union boa-constrictor, which
writhed in its efforts to crush the last sanctuary
of freedom. The stringency evinced along
the Federal lines prevented the transmission
of despatches by the Secessionists of Mary-
land, and for a time Generals Beauregard and
Johnston were kept in ignorance of the move-
ments: of the enemy. Patterson hung dark
and lowering around Winchester, threatening
daily descent; while the main column of the
grand army under McDowell proceeded from
Washington, confident in the .expectation of
overwhelming the small army stationed at
Manassas. The friends of liberty who were
compelled to remain in the desecrated old
capital appreciated the urgent necessity of ac-
quainting .General Beauregard with the de-
signs of McDowell and the arch-apostate,
Scott ; but all channels of egress seemed seal-
ed ; all roads leading across the Potomac were
vigilantly guarded, to keep the great secret
safely 5 and painful apprehensions 'were in-
dulgeds for the fate of these Confederate army.
But the Promethean spark of patriotic devo-
tion 'burned irt'the hearts of Secession women;

and, resolved to dare all things in h cause' so
holy, ayoung lady of Washington, strong in'
heroic faith, offered to encounter any perils,
and pledged her life to give Gen. Beauregard
the necessary information. -Carefully conceal-
ing a letter in the twist of her luxuriant hair,
which would escape detection even should she
be searched, she disguised herself effectually,
and, under the mask of a market-woman, drove
a cart through Washington, across the Po-
tomac, and deceived the guard by selling vege-
tables and milk as she proceeded. Once beyond
Federal lines, and in friendly neighborhood, it
was but a few minutes work to "off ye lend-
ings" and secure a horse and riding-habit.
With' a courage and rapidity which must ever
command the admiration of a brave people,
she rode at hard gallop that burning July-after-
noon to Fairfax Court-house, and telegraphed
to Gen. Beauregard, then at Manassas Junc-
tion, the intelligence she had risked so much to
convey. Availing himself promptly of the facts,
he flashed them along electric wires to Rich-
mond and to General Johnston ; and thus,
through womanly devotion, a timely junction
of the two armies was effected ere McDowell's
banners flouted the skies of Bull Run.
Carthagenian women gave their black-locks
to string their country's bows and furnish cord-
age for its shipping; and the glossy tresses of
an American woman veiled a few mystic
ciphers more potent in GeneralBeauregard's
hands than Talmudish Shemhamphorash.
Her, mission accomplished, the dauntless
courier turned her horse's head and, doubtless,
with an exulting, thankful heart returned in
triumph to Washington. When our national
jewels are made up, will not a ,grateful and
admiring country set her name between those
of Beauregard and Johnston in the revolution-
ary diadem, and let the three blaze through
coming. ages,'baffling 'the mists of tirae-th
Constellation of Manassas? ,The artillery duel
of the 18th of July ended disastrously for the
advance guard of the Federals-a temporary
check was given.
All 'things seeined in abeyance;,dun,' sal-
phurous clouds of smoke lifted-themselves from
the dewy copse that fringed Bull Run, floating
slowly to the distant purple crests of the':Bhie
Ridge, which gazed solemnly down tn  the
wooded Coliseum, where gladiatorial' Ihnats
were soon to pour out their blood' injthe 'hid-
eous orgies ,held by loathsomie Fanaticism-
guarded by Federal bayonets and canopied
by the Stars and Stripes. 'During the silent
watches of Saturday' night
" Slowly comes a hungry people, as a lion creeping nigher,
Glares at one that nods and winks behind a slowly-dying
k pure Sabbath morning kindled on the
distant hill-tops, wearing heavenly credenti41s
of rest and sanctity on its pearly forehead-
credentials which 'the passions of mankind

1460

147


148                         MACARIA.

MACARIA                                          149$

could not pause to recognize ; and with:th
golden 'glow of summer sunshine came th
tramp of infantry, the, clatter of cavalry, th
sullen growl of artillery. Major .'Huntingdoi
had been temporarily assigned to a regimen
of infantry after leaving Richmond, and wa
posted on ,the right of General Beauregard'
lines, commanding one of the lower fords
Two miles higher up the stream, in a differen
brigade, Colonel Aubrey's regiment guarde
another of the numerous crossings. As th
day advanced, and the continual roar of can
non' toward Stone Bridge' and Sudley's For
indicated that the demonstrations on McLean's
Blackford's,. and Mitchell's fords were -mere
feints to hold our right and centre, the trut i
flashed on General Beauregard that the main
column was hurled against Evans' little band
on the extreme 'left. Hour 'after hour passed
and the thunder deepened on the Warrenton
road ; then the general learned, with uiutter-
able chagrin, that his order for an advance on
'Centreville had miscarried, that a brilliant
plan had been frustrated, and that: new com-
binations and dispositions must now be resort-
ed to.: The regiment to which Major- Hunt-
ingdon was attached was ordered to the sup-
port of the left wing, and reached the distant
position in an almost incredibly' short time,
while two regiments of the 'brigade to which
Colonel Aubrey belonged were sent forward
to the same point as a reserve.
Like incarnations of Victory, beauregard
and, Johnston swept to the front, where the
conflict was most deadly; everywhere, at sight
of them, our thin ranks dashed forward, and
were mowed down by the fire of Rickett's and
Griffin's batteries, which crowned the position
they were so eager to regain. - At half-past
two o'clock the awfulcontest.was at its height.;
the rattle of musketry, the ceaseless whistle of
rifle-balls, the deafening boomiof artillery, the
hurtling hail of' shot,, and explosion of shell,
dense volumes of smoke shrouding the com
batants, and clouds of dust boiling up on; all
sides, lent unutterable horror to a scene which,
to cold, dispassionate observers, might have
seemed sublime. As the vastly superior num-
hers of the Federals forced ourstubbo'rn bands
to. give back slowly, an order came from Gen-
eral -,eauregardfor the right of his line, ex-
eept the reserves, -to advance and recover the
long and desperately-disputed plateau. With
a:shoit, the shattered lines spriang- upon the
foe and forced them temporarily back. Major
IHuntingdon's horse was shpt .under him; he
disengaged himself:and marched on foot, wav-
ing hIs sword and uttering words of encour-
a eme t. He,'had proceeded-but a few yards
ea giape-shot entered his side, tearing its
way' through his body, and he fell where the
dead lay 'hekest.y Fox' a time the enemy re-
tired,'but heavy reinforcements pressed in and
they returned, 'reoceu ying the old ground.
Not.. moment was to be lost ; General Beaureg

e gard ordered forward his reserves for a second
e effort, and, with magnificent effect, led the
e charge in person. Then Russell Aubrey first
n came actively upon the field. :At the word of
t, command -he-dashed forward with his splendid
s 'regiment, and, high above all, towered his
s powerful form, with the long' black plume of'
. his hat drifting upon the wind as he led his
t admiring men.
d    As he pressed on, with thin nostril dilated
e and. eyes that burned like those of a tiger seiz-
- mg his prey, he'saw, just in his path, leaning
d on his-elbow, covered with blood and smeared
'with dust, the crushed, writhing form of his
bitterest enemy. His horse's hoofs were al-
most upon him; he reined him 'back an in-
stant and glared down at his old foe. It was
I only for an instant; and as Major Huntingdon
, looked on. the stalwart figure -and at the ad-
vancing regiment, life-long hatred and jeal-
ousy were 'forgotten--patriotism throttled all
the past in her grasp-he feebly threw up his
hand, cheered faintly, and, with his eyes on
Russell's;, smiled grimly, saying with evident
difficulty:.
"Beat them back, Aubrey ! Give them the
bayonet !"
The shock-was awful-beggaring language.
On,' on they swept, while ceaseless cheers
mingled with 'the cannonade ; the ground was
recovered, to be captured no more. The Fed-
erals were driven. back across the turnpike,
and now dark masses of reinforcements de-
bouched on, the plain and, marched'toward our
left. -Was it Grouchy or Blucher?  Some
,moments: of painful: suspense ensued, while
General, Beauregard strained his eyes to de-
eipher the advancing banner. - Red and white
and :blue, certainly ; but was it the ensign of
Despotism or of Liberty? Nearer andnearer
came the: rushing column; and lo! upon the
breeze streamed, triumphant as the Labarum
'of Constantine, the'Stars and Bars.. Kirby
Smith and Eliey-'-God be praised !, The day
was won, and Victory nestled proudly among
the folds of our new-born banner. One more
charge along our whole 'line, and the hireling
hordes of oppression fled, panic-stricken. Rus-
sell had received a painful wound from a
minie ball, which entered his shoulder and
ranged-down toward the elbow, but. he main-
tamed his position, and led his regiment a mile
in the pursuit.. When it became evident that
the retreat was a .complete rout, he resigned
the command to Lieutenant-Colonel Black-
well and rode back to the- battle-field. Hide-
ous was the' spectaclepresented-dead and
dying, friend and foe,.huddled in indiscrimi-
nate ruinweltering inblood and shiveringtin
the agonies of dissolution; blackened headless
trunks and fragments of limbs-ghastly sights
and sounds 'of woe, filling the scene ofeom at-.
Such were the first 'fruits of the bigotry and
fanaticallhate of New England, aided by the
unprincipled -demagogisnm ofthe West; such

I

were the wages of Abolitionism, guided by
Lincoln and Seward-the latter-day Sejanus;
such the results of "higher-law," canting, pu.
ritanical hypocrisy.1
Picking his way to avoid, trampling the
dead, Russell saw Major Huntingdon at a
littledistance,:trying to drag= himself toward a
neighboring tree. The memory of his injuries
crowded up-the memory of all that he had
endured and lost through that man's preju-
dice-the sorrow that might have been averted
from his blind mother-and his vindictive
spirit rebelled at the thought of rendering him
aid. But as he paused, nd struggled against
his better nature', Irene' holy face,-as he saw
it last, lifted in prayer for him, rose, angel-like,
above all that mass of death and horrors.
The sufferer was Irene's father ; she was
hundreds of miles away ; Russell set his lips
firmly, and, riding up to the prostrate figure,
dismounted. Exhausted by his efforts, Major
Huntingdon had fallen, back in the- dust, and
an expression of intolerable agony distorted
his features as Russell stooped over him' and
asked, in a voice meant to be gentle:
"Can I do anything for you?  Could you
sit up if I placed you on my horse ?"
The wounded man scowled as he recognized
the voice and face, and turned his head par-
tially away, muttering :
"What brought you here ?"
"There has never been any love between
us, Major Huntingdon.; but we are fighting in
the same-cause for the first time in our lives.,
You are badly wounded, and, as a. fellow-
soldier, I should be glad to relieveyour suffer-
ings if possible. Once more, for humanity's
sake, I ask, 'can you ride my horse to the rear
if I 'assist you to mount ?"-
"No. But for God's sake give me some
water !"'
Russell knelt, raised the head, and unbuck-
ling his, canteen, put it to his lips,'using his
own wounded arm with some difficulty. Half
of the contents was eagerly swallowed, and
the remainder Russell poured=slowly on the
gaping ghastly wound in his side. The proud
man eyed him steadily till the last cool drop
was exhausted, andsaid sullenly: -
" Youowe me no kindness, Aubrey. I hate'
you, and you know it. But you have heaped
coals of fire on my head. You are more gen-
erous than I thought you. Thank you, Au-
brey ; lay me under that tree yonder and let
me die."
" I will try to find a surgeon. -Who belongs
to your regiment ?"
"ISomebody --whom-' I never saw till last
week. I won't have hin hacking about me.
Leave me in peace."
'a Do.you know anything of your servant ?
I saw him as I came on the field."
" Poor Williain i he followed me so closely
that he was shot through .the head. He is

I

lying three hundred yards to the left,; yonder.
Poor fellow ! he was faithful to the last."
A tear dimmed the master's eagle, eye as he
muttered, rather than 'spoke, these words.
" Then I will find Dr. Arnold at once, and
send him to you."
It was noeasy matter, on that crowded, con-
fused Aceldama, and the afternoon ,was well.
nigh spent before Russell, faint and weary,
descried. Dr Arnold busily using his instru-
ments in a group -of wounded. hie rode up,
and, having procured drink of)water' and
refilled his canteen, approached the surgeon.
" Doctor, where is' your horse? I want
you ?'~
'" Ho, Cyrus!bring him up. What is the.
matter, Aubrey?  You are hurt."
"Nothing serious, I think. , But Major,
Huntingdon 'is 'desperately wounded-mor-
tally, I am afraid. See what you can do for
him."
" You must be mistaken! I have asked re-
peatedly for Leonard, and they told me he
was in hot pursuit and unhurt. I hope to
heaven you are mistaken !"
"-Impossible ; I tell you I lifted him out of a
pool of his own blood. Come ; I will show you
the way."
- At a hard gallop they crossed the interven-
ing woods, and without- difficulty Russell
found the spot where thq mangled form. lay
still. He had swooned, with his face turned
up to the sky, and the ghastliness of death
had settled. on his strongly-marked, handsome
features.
" God pity Irene !" said the doctor, as he
bent down and-examined the horrid wound,
striving to press the red' lips together.
,The pain caused;'from handling him roused
the brave spirit to consciousness, and, opening
his eyes, he looked around wonderingly.
"Well, Hiram ! it is allover with me, old
fellow."
"I hope not, Leonard ; can't you turn a lit=
tIe, and let me feel for the ball ?"
"It is of no use ; I am torn all ,to pieces.
Take me out of this dirt, on the, fresh grass
somewhere."
" I must first extract the ball..' Aubrey, can
you help me raise him a little ?"
Administering some chloroform, he, soon
succeeded in taking out the ball, and, with
Russell's assistance, passed a ban age--round
the body.
" There is no chance for me, Hiram; I
know that., I have'few.minutes to live. Sonie
water."
Russell put a cup to his white lips, and,-call-
ing in the assistance of Cyrus, who had. fol-
lowed his master, they carried him several
yards farther, and made him comfortable, while
orders were despatched for an ambulance.
" It will come after my corpse.. i Hiram, see
that I am sent 'home at once. I don't want


MACARIA.

my bones mixed here with other people's; and late child!1 what an awful shock for;her ! She
it will be some comfort to Irene to know;that- loves him with a devotion which I have rarely
I 'am buried in sight of home. I could not seen equalled. God only knows how she will
rest in a ditch here. ' I want to be laid in my bear it. If I were not so needed here I. would
own vault. Will you see to it ?"         go to her to-morrow.'
"Yes.".                                  "Perhaps you Can be spared."
t Hiram,come nearer, where I can see you  " No ; it would not be right to leave so much
better. Break the news gently to Irene. Tell suffering behind."
her ["did my duty; that will be her only coni-  He turned to Cyrus and gave directions
fort, and best.- Tell her I fell in the thickest about bringing the body into camp, to his own
of the battle, with my face to Washington ; tent; and the two mounted and rode slowly
that I died gloriously, as a Huntingdon and a back.
soldier should. Tell her I sent her my bless-  For some moments silence reigned; then
ingmy love, and a last kiss." "-..     Dr. Arnold said suddenly:
e paused, and tears glided over his wan  "I am glad you were kind to him, Aubrey..
cheeks as the picture of his far-off home rose It will be'some consolation to that pure soul in
temptingly before him.-; 'r               W       ,.who has mourned over and suffered
"She i bravee child; she will bear it, for for his violent animosity. It was very gener-
the sake of the cause Idied in.-' Take care of ous, Russell."
her, Arnold ; tell Eric I leave her to his guar-  " Save your commendation for a better oc-
dianship. Harris has my will. My poor lonely casion.; I do not merit it now. . I had, and
child-1 it is bitter to leave her. My Queen I have, as, little magnanimity as my old enemy,
my golden-haired, beautiful Irene 1" -   and, what I did was through no generous
He raised his hand feebly, and covered his oblivion of the past."
face.                                      Glancing at him as these words were uttered
" Don't let, it trouble you, Leonard., You gloomily, the doctor noticed his faint, wearied
know how I love her ; I promise you I will appearance, and led the way to his temporary
watch over her as long as I hve."       . hospital.
"I believe you. But if I could see her once  " Come in ahd. let me see your arm. Your
more, to ask her not to remember my harsh- sleeve is full of blood."
ness--long ago. You must tell her-for me ;  An examination discovered a. painful flesh
she will understand. Oh!I '-".          wound-the minie ball having glanced from
A horrible convulsion seized him at this mo- the shoulder and passed out through the upper.
ment, + and sointense was the agony that a part of the arm. In remo ving the coat to dress
groan burst through his set teeth and he strug- the wound the doctor exclaimed:
gled to rise. Russell knelt down and rested  ",Hereis a bullet-hole in the breast, which
the haughty head against his shoulder, wiping must have just missed your heart! .Was it a
off the cold drops that beaded the pallid brow. spent-ball.?"
After a little while, lifting his eyes to the faqe A peculiar smiled disclosed Russell's faultless
bending over him, Major Huntingdon gazed teeth .an instant, but he merely took his coat,
into the melancholy black eyes, and said alr laid it over his uninjured arm, and answered:
most in a whisper:.              -         "'Don't trouble yourself about spent-balls--
"I little thought I should ever owe you finish your job. I must look after my wound-
thanks. .Aubrey, forgive me all myhate; you ed."
can afford to do so now. I am not a brute ; I  As soon as the bandages were adjusted he
know magnanimity when I see it. Perhaps I walked away, and took from the inside pocket.
was wrong to visit Amy's sins on you; but I of the coat a heavy square morocco case con-
could not forgive her. Aubrey, it was natural. taming Irene's ambrotype. ' When the coat
that I should hate Amy's son."'    '     was buttoned, as on that day, it rested over his
Again the spasm shook his lacerated frame, heart; and during the second desperate charge
and, twenty'miutes after, his fierce, relent- of General Beauregard's lines Russell felt a
less split wasreleased from torture.; the proud, sudden thump, and, above all the roar of that
ambitious, dauntless 'man was with his God.  scene of carnage, heard the shivering of the
Dr. Arnold closed the eyes with trembling glass which covered the likeness. The morocco
fingers, and covered his 'face with his hands to was torn and indented, but the ball was turned
hide the tears'that he could not repress. . aside harmless, and now, as he touched the
"A braver man'never died for freedom. He spring, the fragments of glass fell at his feet.
cheered me on, as my regiment charged over It was evident that his towering form had ren-
the spot-where he lay," said Russell, looking dered him a conspicuous target; some accurate
down at the stiffening form.  ,           marksman had aimed at his heart, and the
" He had his faults, like the rest of us, and ambrotype-case had preserved his- life.' He
his wer-e stern ones;' but, for all that, I was looked at the uninjured, radiant face . till a
attached to him. He had some princely traits. mist dimmed his eyes;.nobler aspirations, puirer
I would rather take my place there beside him, aims possessed him,:and, bending his knees, he
than have to break this to Irene. Poor deso- bowed his forehead on the case and reverently

I

I

u

1ah.

thanked God for his. deliverance. With a
countenance pale from physical suffering, but
bearping with triumphant joy for the Nation's
first great victory, he went out among the dead
and dying, striving.to relieve the wounded and
.to find the members of his own . command.
Passing from group to group, he heard a feeble,
fluttering voice Pronounce his name, and saw
one of his men sitting against a tree, mortally
wounded by a fragment of shell.
",Well, Colonel;I followed that black feather
of yours as long as I could. I am, glad I had
one good chance- at the cowardly villains
before I got hurt.  We've thrashed them
awfully, and I am willing to die now.",
" I, hope you are not so badly hurt. Cheer
up, Martin; I will bring a, doctor to dress
your leg, and we will soon have you on
crutches."
"No, Colonel; the doctor has seen it, and
says there is nothing to be done for me. I
knew it before ; everybody feels when death
strikes them. Dr. Arnold gave me something
that has eased me of my pain, but -he can't
save me. Colonel, they say my captain is
killed ; and, as I may not see any of our com-
pany boys, I wish you would write to my poor
wife,, and tell her all about it. I have n't
treated her as'well as I ought ; but a wife for-
gives everything, and she will grieve for me,
though I didact like a brute when I was drink-
ing. She will be proud to know that I fought
well for my country, and dieda faithful Con-
federate soldier; and. so will my boy, my
Philip, who wanted to come with me. Tell
Margaret to send him to take my place just as
soon as he is old enough. The boy will ,re-
venge me ; he has a noble spirit.' And,,
Colonel, be sure to tell her to tell Miss Irene
that I kept my promise to her-that I have not
touched a drop of liquor since the day she
talked to me before I went out to build Mr.
Huptingdon's gin-house. God bless her sweet,
pure soul I I believe she saved me from a
drunkard's grave, to fill that of a brave
soldier. I know she will -never let my Mar-
garet suffer, as long as she lives."
"Is there anything else I can do for you,
Martin ?"
"Nothing else, unless I could get a blanket,
or something, to put under my-head. I am
getting very weak."
"Leavens, pick: up one of those knapsacks
scattered about, and bring a blanket. I prom-
ise you, Martin, I will write to your wife ; and
when I go home, if I outlive this war, I will see
that she is taken care of. I am sorry to lose
you, my brave fellow. You were one of the
best sergeants in the regiment. But remem-
ber that, you h   ave helped to win 'a great
battle, and your country will not forget her
faithful sons who fell at Matnassas."
" Good-by, Colonel; I sboul like to follow
you to. Washington. You have been kind'-to
us all, and I hope you wills be spared to ou~r

MACARIA.

regiment. God bless you, Colonel Aubreyj
wherever you go."
Russell changed him from his constrained
posture to a more comfortable one, rested his
head on a. knapsack and blanket, placed his
own canteen beside him, and, with a long, hard
gripe of hands, and faltering ",Godlbess you!"*
the soldiers parted. The day of, horrors was
shuddering to its close,; glazing eyes were
turned for the last time to the sun which set in
the fiery west,; the din and roar of the pursuit
died away in the distance loweringno clouds
draped the sky; the groans and wails of the
wounded rose mournfully on the reeking air;
and night and a drizzling rain eame down on
the blanched corpses on the, torn, trampled,
crimson plain of Manassas.
"I hate the dreadful holov behind -the little wood.
Its lips in the field above are dabbled with blood-red heath,
The red-ribbed ledges drip with a silent horror.of blood,
And Echo there, whatever is asked her, answers 'Death!"
But all of'intolerable torture centred not there,
awful as was the scene. Throughout the
length and breadth of the Confederacy tele-
graphic, despatches told that the battle was
raging; and an army of women spent that lst
upon their knees, in agonizing prayer 'for
husbands and sons who wrestled for their
birthright on the far-off field of blood. Gray-
haired 'pastors and curly-headed children alike
besought the God of Justice toblessthe Right,,
to deliver our gallant. band-of patriots from
the insolent hordes sent to destroy us; and to
,that vast trembling volume of prayer which
ascended from early morning from the altars of
the South God lent his ear, and answered,
The people of W----- were subjected to
painful suspense as hour after hour crept by,
and a dense crowd collected in front of the
telegraph-office, whence floated an ominous
red flag. Andrew waited on horseback to
carry to Irene the latest intelligence, and
during. the entire afternoon she paced the
colonnade, with her eyes fixed on the winding
road. At- half-past five o'clock the solemn
stillness of the sultry day was suddenly broken
by a wild, prolonged shout from 'the town ;
cheer after cheer was caught up by the hills,
echoed among the purple valleys, and finally
lost in the roar of the river. Andrew galloped
up the avenue with an ettr , yet damp from
the printing-press, containing the joyful tidings
that McDowell's army. had been completely
routed, and was being pursued toward Alex-
andria, , Meagre was the account-our heroes,
Bee and Bartow, had fallen. No other details.
were given, but the premonition', "Heavy loss
on our side," sent a thrill of horror to every'
womanly heart, dreading to lesrn the price of
victory. Irene's white. face flushed as ' she
read the despatch, and, raising her 'hands, ex-.
claimed:
" Oh, thank God I thank God !"
" Shall I go. back to .the office ?"
" Yes; I shall certainly get a despatch from

11


1W                                 M ACAR'i
Fatheriom'emnie to~iight.  o badk, and wait 'She resumed her walk, ith'her eyes strain-
f9r it. Tell Mr. Rogers, the operator, wht ed in the direction of the town.
you' corae' i',.and'ask him 1 say please to let  'Thus passed three ir miserable hours ;
yog have:it as soon as it arrives. And, Ari- then the clang of the iron gate at the foot of
dre  bring tme another news that niay come the avenue fell bi her aching ar; the tramp
~'' des' steh."    -of hoc es' hdofsand roll of wheels came u
idusl Tiineworu on the shadows on the the raviled wapk.
lawn i a'dd' rrace ,refitlonger  and thinner ;
yt id'   e trc   eoges     thi     ,   "" Bad news! they are coniing to' break it
the 'biras''deseul the hedges; the pigeons to me 1" said slue hoarsely, and, pressing her
fobrso  the colonnade lud-steps;Paragon, hands togethher, she leaned heavily against'
tired if*alking'after Irene, fell asleep on the one of the guardian statues which had stood
rug; hau the'jlow, drowsy tinkle of 'cow-bells so 'long' before'the door, like ancient Heimie'
died awa among the lils. "at Athens.'-Was the image indeed president?
Fairo  t'the ea~st the blue was hidden by It tilted front its pedestal and fell with a crash',-
gray thtulder s' niasses of' rain-cloud, now  breal4pg nto" frag ents. The omen chilled'
and tEihi vened by lightning; and as Irene her, and 'Abe stood 'still, with the light from
watched their jagged, grotesque outlines they the hall-Iamp streaming over her. The caf--
took the   form of battling .hosts. Cavalry riage stopped Judge Harris and his'wife came"
swept pokri op'the flanks, u e fems heaved up the, steps, followed slowly by Andrew,
along the centre; and the luridaurrows, plough- whose 'hat was slouched over his eyes. As
dg thewhole from time tq time, seemed indeed they a preadhed, Irene put out her hands'
deat' «dealig fla phesof artillery. She recalled wistfolly.
the. ph ritom eond-battle in the Netherlandish  'W'e have won a glorious victory, Irend
visioaYd 8liddered mvoluntarily as, n im- but 1any of our nobfe soldiers are wound-.
agikation, she                           ed. I knew you would be anxious, and we
",heard the heavensfill with shQuting,,and thererained a came--"
ShJistly dew"Is my father killed
-'thesnations airy navies grappling in the central blue. '   my  father w "
qaaklly ' l '"Your father was wounded: He led ' a
Q itlally the distant storm drifted southard, splendid charge."
the repeat passed the horizon, a' redsunset  ' Wounded! No! he is killed'! Andrew,
din the weft; rose,and amber and orange tell me the truth-is Father dead ?"
were quenched, and sober 'blue, with starry  The faithful negro could no longer repress
lig1 si was ever all.- Iow the serene regal his grief and sobbed convulsivelf, unable to
beauty. of that sumnier night mocked the tu- reply,
nmntuious throbbing, the wild joy, and great  "Oh; my God! I knew it,! Iknew it !" she.
ezultation 'of the national: heart ! Mother gasped.-
Erth{ industriously weaves and hangs about e T  gleaming arms were thrown up de
the worI4 her radiant.lovely tapestries, pitiless spairingly, and a low, doary cry wailed
dzirad'swailsan rnequieis,'deafto his prans. through the stately old mansion as the or-
Iren iad earnest endeavored to 'commit her phan turned .her eyes upon Nellie' and An-
father and  ussell to .the merciful care and drewnthe devoted two wh- had pettedher
prteon 'of .dbd, and to 'irstin faith, ban- from childhood.
ierd  pprehen ion, but;a Horrible presenti-  Judge Harris led her into the librar-and
mep ,hichwoula not" "4wn' thenbdding, hjs weeping wife endeavored to offer'onsola-
kept hersgeqti-ung tyi their utmost tension: tion, but she stood rigid and tearfess, holding
As the night advanced her face grew ha gatd out her hand-for the despatch. Finally they
an4 the wan hps .iluttered ceaselessly; Ius- gave it to her, and'she' read :
ie'hile rewarded as already dead to her in this     T
world, bu for her there r she wrestled des-  CHARLES T. HARRS
perately in spffit.Mrs. Campbel joined her  "Huntingdor was desperately wounded at
uttering hopefl, encoraing words, and :e- three o'clock to-day, in making a charge, ie
li caine out, with a' cup 0'tea on a'waiter.  died two hours ago. I was 'with him. The
"Please drink your tea, just to please me, body leaves to-morrow for W...
9ueen. I can't bear to, look at you. In all'                 "HIRA- AIRNOLD."
your life ,I never sew 'you worry so. 'D 'sit  The paper fell' from her fingers; with a dry
dowinand 'rest; you have walked fifty miles' sob .she turned from them and' threw herself
sinc morning."                           onthe sofa, with her faceof woe to the' wall.
" . ke it a~way, Nellie; ,J don't want it." So'passed the night.
* 'B t, child,.it will be time enough to 'fret'  *  *-    *    '
whegi you know Mass Leonard is hurt. Don't  'Four days after, a number of 'Major lHunt-
run 'to meet~ trouble ; it will face you soon ingdlon~efriends waited at the'depot to receive
enough. If you won't take the tea, for' pity's the body. The train" had been detained; it
sake let me get' you a glass of wine." .was: nine o'clock at night whien 'the cars ar-
"No;. I, tell you I'can't swaldow~ anything. rived, and the' coffin was placed in a heade
I( you want to help me,~ pray for'1?ther." ahd escorted to blie 'Hill. By' udge Harris'

I

MACAfTtAL

153

direction it was' carried into :thi parlor arid
placed on the table draped for the' purpose';
and when arrangements had been'mad 'for the'
funeral oni the morrow, he dismissed all but ai
few who were to remain during the night.
Irene sat at her window up stairs, looking
out upon:the'sombre soughing pines' that rose,
like a cloud' against the starty sky, while Grace'
and.'Salome walked about' the room, crying
spasmodically and tryingtoutter something'
comfo-ting.;to the still figure,; which night
have been of ivory or granite, 'for any visible'
sign of animation. After a time, when the
bustle had' 'ceased, when ohe carriages had
withdrawn, and the hurried' tread of"many
feet had subsided, ene iose and said.
" Grace, tell your father I wish to' see him."
Judge Harris' came protnptly.E
"I am greatly obliged to you for all your,
kindness. Please take the gentlemen into the.
dining-roodior library, if you will'stay} ind-do
not 'llew any of'them to return torthe'parlor ;
I shall sit there to-night, and teed ,o ene.o "
'o" Oh; my child! impossible. IRwould net
be proper. , You are not able."
" I know 'what I am able to do and what I
have resolved to do. Be good enough' tore-
move those gentlemen at once." -
Somnething ii her face startled him ; perhaps
its frightful; tearless immobility, and he silent-
ly complied:
When all was quiet she crossed ihepassage,'
entered the draped"room, and, looking' the
door, was alone with her dead. Th ',coffin
stood in the centre of the floor, and upon its
lay the sword and plumed hat. She looked
down on the lid where the naute' was inscribed.
and kissed the characters; andhs all her iso-
lation and orphanage rushed. upon her, she'
laid her head on the table, calling' ournifully
upon th'nanly sleeper for comfort' and for-
giveness.
'When morning brokefully, Judge' Harris
knocked softly at the door. '"o answer. He'
rapped loudly, trying'the bold. All within was
silent-as the grave. He' hurried round to the
greenhouse, threw up 'the sash,,ptished- open'
the door, and entered, ful"of' undefinable
alarm.' The wax-candles'on the table 'and,
mantle had just expired; the smoke from'eriet
was still creeping,' thread-like,"to  the eillng.
A white form knelt' on thefloor, with'clasped
.hands and bowed head, resting-against the
coffin.
"ofiIrene l Irene !" '."
She did not stir.
He-looped back the curtains toadmit the
light, and, bending down, liftd 'the head.
The face was chill and colorless as death, the'
eyes were' closed, anid 'raslt-dera str~Ara"of
blood oozed slowly over' the' lips ahd'dipged
upon the linen shrouditig  of' the 'table. ''he
had fainted from the hemorrhage, and1 tking
her in his ai-ms, he carrie#l her up 'to hbeor 9~
roomn.  2                    :"

-'         CHAPTERI'XXL
* I intend to trust you *ithimportant de'
spatehes, Miss Grey.-for'I have greatdonfi'
dence in female;ingehuity;as Well ' as fernale:
heroism.' The 'meekest ':f 'you- 4onenvpare
miniature Gran'veles; satur mad'eyo a 'ace!
of schemers#,' Pardon, men' if I asksh'ow . yo '
propose toconceal the cspatches' ItEisri
easy' inatter- now "toyr'un theyblookade of'a"
Sa tthern port, especially on -the Gulf, arnd
yun amusrguardagainlslbeing picked rip by
the Philistines."
"" I amhily aate'of all theriskiitendlhg
mf'trip ' bt if  'owill'giio me the pater;
prepared is I direeteadn m note from Paris
x will pledge m'lif that'Athey shall reach,
Richmond safely. If' Iam captured and c'ar"
tried North, I'hate 'friends 'who will, assist}  W
it'proecuring passport t tkeSouth,=anTd flattle
delay'ill oddur   If'  ''swesrhed"'I" date
bid them defiance. 'Give ne the 'deepatelh
es, and I"willshow you howI intend to takeo
themd
]lectra opened her trunkg took out a latge
ortfdlio,atd selected frdnithe drawings' one
ini crayons rep'rOening the 'hekd9 of  i Ihaelt
Angelo's Fates. Sp'e dingitosit, faced'd*M'
ward, on the table, she  d thtolooly-rittett
tissue paper, of -despateestuseoothly ior"he
back of the thin pasteboard y then"fitted'a,
square piece'(of Oil-silk' oihe" tissem'2misite,
and haping,"with"is smallbrush, &amp;oated;the
silk with pasteeoveredctli'whole with apiece
of:'thick drawifgpTape f the 'edgesfwhich
were carefully 'gluedltd'tlrse   ofheftbe' aste
board. Tag      hotiron fom the grats, ie
passed it repeatedly'over the papr; till'all
itas 'mtothaniddry" thenhitithe centre *rateg
witha pudit " MichkleAngelo's Fdee tn tb6
Pitti Palace. "opodMay8th,i861/
a 'list of ifguress in apsall note-bookrshe;. itd
thesdiineisiois of the pioturegand,.nndhe eth
all, a ine firei tEuripides' ' " '
'Her' eyes';'sparkled as she''befnt over 'er
work,'-ardat"'leugth, liftirdgiit obr i ispeotild
she exeliied triumphantly
;" There 'sir' ' can baffleeven the Paris de-
neetive, much iess the' lynx-epd eaiseaties of
Liicoin, Saiard, and Co. A eyd satiisle4"
Examihe i1f with your own hands" "
. " Perfectly' satisfied, my4 dstg1ldyu
But suppose they Should sei et'yontit-utrknE
Confiscationis the cry 'all over theNorth."
" Finding t6'thiitg supieious{or c; on"
band' about me, except ny Southern bint
and sympathies, theywouldearely ck3'bs-
ssion of the' necessary tools of my'profest'.'
I have no fear; sir ; thegDaper is fated t  soe
its destination."'"'         '   "
"'Are yobroier'despatches sealednj ci-
She laughed heartily...
'"Of curse net. 'We Wori are the s ird
to hazard all upoin'oue diet" ."


1W                                 M&amp;QARIA.
"Well-well iYulee'that,we trust impor-  " Master, from  the way he watches, the
tant data to your cunning fingers. You leave clouds, I believe he is about to run out. May-
Loksdon to-morrow for Southampton.; will ar- be ,he canetake us ?"
rive just in time for .the steamer. .Good-by,  " Willis is invaluable to you, Mr. Mitchell,"
Mass Gey.. When I get .bask to the Confed- said Electra, as-the negro left the room.:
eracy.I shall certainly find, you out.- I want  "He is, indeed., He is eyes, ears, crutches,
you t paint the portraits omfiny wife and ehil- everything to me, and never forgets anything
dren. i rom the'enviablerputation youhave or anybody, ,;He has travelled over half the
alreadysacquired, I am proud to claim you for. world with m could desert me, and be free
my countrywoman. , God bless youians lead* at any moment he, felt inclined to do so-but
yon, safel  home,, Goadby, Mr. Mitchell,, is as faithful 'how as: the day on which I first
Ike are of her, and let me hear;from you on left home with him."
your arrival."                              "Ah, Captain !.this is an unexpected pleas-
Aeomthe hour' when..tidings of the fall-of ure.  I am heartily glad to see you.  Miss
hunter reached Europe, Electra had resolved Grey-Captain Wright. Take a seat."
tJ~eut short the studies whichshe had pursned  'The captain looked about thirty, possibly
sa vigorously since her removal to ,J Iorence, older ;z wore a gray suit and broad straw hat,
and return, to the, South; But ,the ,tide; of and, when the latter was tossed on- the floor,
tr~avelset toward, not from, European-shores, showed a'handsome, frank, beaming face, with
ad it was not until aftertrepeated attempts to large, clear,, smiling blue eyes, whose stay
find some ooehomeward-bound, that she learn- light nothing human could dim. His glossy
ed of lric Mitchell's. presence in Paris, and reddish-brown hair was thrust back from a
hi. intention -of soon returning to- W  . forehead white and smooth as a woman's, but
She wrote at once, requesting his permission themlowerportion of the face was effegtually
toyp tceherself d rist. care. It was crdi- bronzed by exposure to the vicissitudes of
ally accorded,; -sand, bidding adieu to Italy, she climate and weather; and Electra noticed a
joined him without. delay, despite the plead- 'peculiar nervous restlessness of manner, as
'ngs of Mr, ,Mrs. Younng,and Louisa,; who had though he were habitually on the wat~h. .
recently arrived at: Florence, and -sincerely  - ". :am: astonished to see you in. Havana,
iared atseparation under such painful cir- Mitchell... Where did you come from ?"
ounmstances.                                "u st from Paris, where bad health drove.
Erie was detained in Paris. by a severe me, after I bade you good-by at Smyrna.
attack of- the old disease, but finally reached Whiat are you doing here ?"
Iiondon-+whence,.having ,completed their as'n "I su ose you have heard of our great vic- ,
rangemients, they set off for Southampton, and tory at  anassas ?"
tokpa~ss e mn.the 'Trent, wIch was destined -" Yes, and .am rejoiced beyond all ex-
subseinantly to play a prominent part in the: pression, 'but feel anxious to see a full list
tangled rle .of Diplomacy, and to furnish the of ours loss. I had a brother-in-law in that en-
most sut4/erly humiliating of, many chapters of gagement."
the psidlariimiy, sycophancy, -and degradla- " His name ?"
trn f the 1iFederal government. - . " Huntingdon - Major Huntingdon, of
hel oyaggoyed pleasant and prosperous; W-, in -      "
and,.onee atHyavana, nric anxi  gly -so '.ght  " ;have sen io mention of his name in the
an opportunity of tstig the vauted efficien-  p s, butour loss inMofficers was very heavy.
oy f he eloekade.' Un frtunately, two stenin- .We-can ill'afford to spare Bee, B~artow, and
era had started the week previous one to New  Fisher; and I want' the war carried on till
eans, the other to Ch.aleston; only sailing we brn every 'public building in'Washington
vessels were to be found, and aboutthe move-. and. raiseanmonument to our, dead on the site
ments of! these' penetrable. mystery seemed of the Capitol. .We owe this debt, and we
.wrapped. On ,he afternoon ofth e third day must pay it?
afer' their. -arrival, liric, .wearied- with the "tHave yon, a vessel her, Captain ?"
morning's fruitless inpuiryu was resting on the  "Of course I have! Don't you suppose
sofa at ther hotel, while lectra watched the that I would be in the army if I could not serve
td e of passers-by,. when WIs, Br'ic's ser- my country better by carrying in arms and-
vant, came i quickly and walked up to the ammunition ?  I have already made two su-
c'essf ul trips with my schooner-ran in, despite
afMaster,'Captai  Wright is here.. I asked the blockades. Iamnegotiatin for a steam-
i tofcome and see you, and he is waiting er, but ntil- I can .get one ready I intend to
4wpa~r."  -'' ,                      sail on-"                         -
"Captain Wright ?"elca      tet       - "When did you arrive here last ?" s
--   es sli; th eqcaptainyowalikedso mucheat  "bout ten days ago. aThey chased me fo
Siryrna-the one who -gave you that pipe, nearly fifteeniiles, but I stole out of sight be-
sir"'                      '    ore morning,"   o
"O, ellremember I Yes---yes; and he- is  "When do yen expect to leave here ?"  -
aere? Well, show him P."                  The captain darted a swift, searching glance

at Electra, rose, and .closed, the door, saying
with a light laugh.;
"Take. care, man! -You are -not exactly,
deer-hunting or crab-catching in, a free coun-
try! ;Mind that- and talk softly- lam watched
here; the Federal,,agents; all know me, and
there are .several : Federal vessels i6 portr
When do I expect to leave?  Well, to-night,_
if the weather thickens up, as I 'think it will,;
and there is evident sign of a storm.- Most
sailors wait for -fair- weather ;- we blockade-
runners for foul.".
"'Oh,; Captain ! do take us *ith you !" said
Electra, eagerly. .
- 'AWhat! In a rickety schooner, in the teeth
of a gale ?  Besides, Miss, I am taking a cargo
of powder this trip, and if Iam hard pressed
I slall blow up vesseland all, rather than suf,
fer it to fall intoYanikee.clutches. ' Youiwonld.
not -relish going up to heaven after the:fashion,
of -a rocket,-would you ?" ,
"I am willing,, sir, -to risk, everything you,
threaten, rather than wait here i f\defiitely."
" Can't you take us, Wright-Miss: Grey,
Willis, and myself ? We are very impatient
to get home."  -
" But I have no accommodations for passen-
gers. I should be ashamed -to ask -Miss Grey
aboard my little egg-shell-everything .isso-
small and' comfortless. I have not-lost all- my
politeness- and chivalry, if- I am a rough.'look-:
ing ,Confederate sailor.- I assure you I have,
every disposition to oblige you, but really it
would not be rightito-subject a lady to such a
trip as I may have before ine."
" But, Captain, if, with all these .facts star-
ing me in the face, I appeal to your chivalry,,
and beg you-to allow me to undergo the hard-
ships incident to the trip in preference to un-
certain delay here. If -I prefer: to run' the
gauntlet in.your schooner, you surely will not
refuse me?"                      -       ,
" Really, Miss, I don't know what to:say. -I
thought I would frighten you out of the no-
tion-for, to tell you the truth, I 'am always-so
much more anxious when I have ladies',lives,
in'my hands. .I, pledge you my word I,;would-
sooner run -afoul. of a Federal frigate than see.
you suffer for want of anything. I can't even
set a table half the time.".
"But I suppose, sir, we could contrive to
live a few days without eating at a regular
table.   will take some cheese and crackers
and fruit along, in a- basket, if that will ease
your mind. Do waive your scruples, and con-
sent to take charge of us."
"I add my prayers to hers.'- Wright, do,
take us. We shall not mind -privations or'in-
convenience."     .
" Well, then,. understand distinctly that,'if
anything happens, you are'not to blame me. If
the ydung -lady gets sea-sick, or -freckled, -r
sunburnt, or starved to death, or blown up, or
drowned, or, worse than all, if the Yankee
thieves by the way-side take her as a~prize,.it

I

will be no fault of mine whatever,;and I tell
you .now I shall not:layit on;my conscience."
"'Rawhead and bloody bones' never fiight-
enedwme, even when I was a little child, sir;;so
youi may reconcilIyourself ;to the prospect of
having as.as cornpagnons 4e-voyage."
-R Suppose a small- hand-to-hand fight forms
a partof the programme ?".        .
'Irtthate case, .1 have a splendid brace-of
pstols,.which were given to me before I left
Europe.".
'Do youtknow.how to handle them Y"
" Moderately well. -I will-practice as we go
along, by making-a target of one of your small
ropes."          '
f' I, see you are inorrigible; and I suppose
I must let you go with me, bongri~ nalqri.,
"Boqr let it be, by =all means.  am in-
expressibly impatient to get home.".
"Wright, to whatport are you bound ?"
"Ab.l; that is more, than Ican tel you,
Theawinds must decide;it.;.l ;.gan't trytAie}
Carolinas again this trip; 'they arewatehinig'
for me- tooclosely there. ONew  rleanuis
rather a- longer run- than:I care to make, and
I -shall keep my.eyes on Apalachicola .and
Moble,"a-             ' ;             -.
S What object have you in starting to-night;
partic larig in the fade of a gale ?"
Again the captain's eye :sw1pt round sthe
room, to guard against 'any.doors -that might{
'be  ajar. -.o                        .;
," As I told you before, I am, watched here.
The Federals have a distinguished regard' for
me, and I have to-elude suspicion, as well'asi
run well, when i do get out. Two hoars' ago
a ;Federal armed steamer,' which hast;been
coaling here, weighed.-anchor, and has proba-
bly left the harhor4 to cruise between this
place and Key West. As they passed, one of
the.crew yelled out to me- that they weuld
wait outside and catch' me certainlyethis ip e:;
that I.had made my last jaunt toJ ixieleIC.
I have carefully put out the impessiogitthatI&amp;
need some repairs  which-can notfbe finished
this week; and have told one or' two, confi-
dentiallythat I bould no. leave until 'ths'are
rival of a certain cargo 'from. Nassau, whiehj
due. to-morow. .'That puritanical eraft:*heh
started off' at- nopn does dot expect :pxe;f t
several days,  d to-nght  -sha  rub
fingers and -sail out tight in  er wake.: Ha!
ha ! how they will howl!- Whatgnashing ;of
teeth there wil he when they hear of me in a
Confederate, port! .'And nowabout:your, ag
gage.: Have ,everything ready ;  Iwillshow
Willis the right whar, and at dark he al t
bring the/trunks.down-; -will be on thsw'th,
and send a boat ashore. -About,.saset,-y -
and- Miss Greyf-can comeanboard, as if for
mere visit.- I.mustgg and--sake what little -
rparation I can for your corpifort."
ting oeurred to frustrateghp plai; Ernc
and Electra were- cordially receiA4 4aend at
dgsr Williss and the bpggage arrlked-psaneW


MACAiA

ally. 'The schooner wae lying sohe- distani
from the wharf, all sailsdown, and-apparent
ly cohtenplatimg no niovement, With ark
ness- dame a brisk; stiffenin+* wind, and eldd
shutting oit even ,di  i:alight.  At ,"te
o'clock, all thing being'in readiness, the ap
taint went ont deck ; very- soon- after tbe gliin
nering lights of the city, then the f iniin
walls of Moraowere left behind,'and' th
" Dixie'.took 'her way silently .and swiftly
seaward-.                         .T
About =two, oclock,= being -.anableito sleep
from the rocking of the:vessel' Eleetra, know
itig that:Eric was still,,*on dedkrcrept up the
steps in the darkness, for the lights had been
extinguished. Th   captam was passing, but
paused, saying in a whisper
" Is that you,Miss Grey ?  Come this way,
and I will show you'something."r
I     "easped her handled her to the bow,
wliete Eric was 'sitting dn -a coil of Iope, and,
pointing .etiraigltforward, added,, in the "same
suppressed tone:.:
"Lok right ahead- --you-see alight?  The
Philistines are upon us! -Iook well, and you
will'seie a dark, irregular moving mass; that is,
the steamer of which I told you. The have
fouh 'out atiast that there is going:to ie  all
sorts of a.gale, and as they can't ride it like
my snug;, dainty little egg-shell,-they are put-
ting back with all possible speed.  Twenty
minutes ago they were bearing down on me ;
nowyou see that they will pass to our left.
What -a pity they don't know their neigh
bors.!"-
" Do you think that they will not see you ?"
"UCertainly! Fwith- sails, down, and lights
out, there irs thing to be seen' on such. a
night as this. There ! don't you hear her
paddles ?"..
" No; I hear nothing' but the roar of the'
wino and water-r
"All that is because your- ears are' not
trailed-like mine. -Great Neptune !, how she,
lab6rsalready I NoW !. be silent."-
On came the steamer, which 'Electra's un-
ttained eyes; almost blinded - hy spray,,'could
barely 'discern; and her heart beat like a
niufied- drtin as it drew -hearer and -nearer:
Oice she heard alow;ehuekling laugh of sat-
isfabtioti' escape the captain ; thee, with start-
ling  distinctnes,, the ringing -of- a, bell- was
borne from the steamer's'deck.   : .
" Pour bells--two o'clock. fHow chagrined
they- will be to-morrow, 'when they find out'
the passed me without paying-'their respectss"
*  speed the daptaii.
Gradually-the vessel receded, the dark mass
g  'indistincthe lightlflickeied, d was
donoh last-to visw, and the tound of 'the labor.
ing'hchnerfwas'drowned in the roar of the
wavess' ~ "-
"-Huralb ! for the 'tlxie -I Strike a light
below, Hautchhson,-axd get somenglassgs. We
ntut-hvalvitle champagne in honor of'this-

e' performance-.O' tone down, Miss' Grey,:and
' you, too, Mitchell; the water is beginning to
- break very near your feet. Oh ! but you must
St take some wines Miss 'Grey.- I can't have you,
n loking like a-ghst when I land-you-on Con-
federate 'soil.'  ople' will 'swear I starved
- ydh; and nothing-humliates me half so much'
as n imputation on my hospitality. Here's
e tod:the   Confederacy-I and, to 'our Beauregard
T and Johnston ! God bless them both !"
Elentra drank the wine; and, 'before he
went back on deck, the -captain made a com..
fortable place- for heron the sofa 'in thelttle
cabin. The storm increased until -it blew -a
perfect hurricane,-and thechsooner rolled'and
creaked, now and. then shivering in every
timber., It wasutterly impossible to sleep;'and
Eric,swho was sufferino frora-headache, pass-
ed a miserable.night. in the white sickly dawn
the' captain' looked, in again, and -Electra-
thought that no ray of sunshine could-bemore
radiant or cheering than his'joyous noble face.
" Goodmorning. .I wonder if I look as'
much like a drenched lily as you do, Miss
Grey ? Doubtless, much more-like a drenched
sunflower, you think. Were you alarmed all
night ?"'
. "-No, sir; -I 'knew that we were not in the
hands of Palinurus."
" Oh ! thank you for your confidence ! I
will tellmy wifasof that, if I live to see 'her
again.: I certainly 'did not fall overboard,
which was'lucky-for, though I rather pride
myself on' my proficiency as a swimmer, I am'
very sceptical concerning the mythologic three
days performance. Mitchell, I hope a good
cup of hot coffee will set your head straight."
"How is the storm?    Any abatement ?"
asked Eric.-
" Not-a whit yet;. but the wind has veered
a little, and I think that by twelve o'clock it
will break away."
"Captain, can I go on deck for a little
while ?"
' " Whew! 'My dear young lady, you would-
not be able to catch your breath again for a-
half-hour." You could not stand a moment -
'spray nand, wind would blind you, and the
waves would take- you overboard-wash you
away."
" ButsI want to see a genuine violent storm'
at sea. I shall probably never have another
opportunity."
"I will answer for the genuineness of this
specimen, if you really want to -look out.
Wrap a shawl round your shoulders; give me
your hand; step up; look for yourself. No
counterfeit --take my- word for that. Squally
enough, is n't it ?"
A wild howling'waste of waters leaped and
rolled- like -leaden mountains against a- wan
drab sk3y, where -dun smoke-colored clouds
trailed sullenly before the wind. Foam-crown-
ed swells towered on either Side the schooner,
leanedl oversas if to tieet and crush it,- and

I

broke in wreaths of spray; about the deck,
while ghastly sheet-lightning glimmeredcease-,
lessly.   .-
-"Old Father Neptune must be ina tearing;
rage with his pretty Amphitrite, tochurn up,
all this commotion. Don't you think ou have'
seen enough, Miss Grey ? -You are getting
wet."
He saw her face flush and her eyes; sparkle
strangely.
"IfI could only.paint this sea,! If I-could
only put that roll and sweep of,-waves yonder
upon canvas! I could afford.' to die young.
r-Oh! for the brush of Clarkson Stanfield for
one hour ! to fix that sea-' where it, gathers
itself into a huge billow, fronting theblast like,
an angry brow, corrugated in' agony and rage.',
My father was a sailor; and I think I must
have inherited my love of the sea from him."
- Where is he now-?";
"Dead-long ago-before I was born. lHis
' ship, the:" Electra," went down with, all on
board." -
M- And your mother?"
" 'Named me -for the, wreck, and followed
my father when I was four months old."
As swirls -of spray dashed in-her face,-
"  Her eyes had looks nikd prisoner birds."
S" Captain, I-have read somewhere of a Dutch
painter who, in his passionate lgnging to por-
tray accurately such scenes as this, had himself
-lahed to the deck of a vessel during-a; terrific
gale, where he could study and: note the pe-
euliar aspects, so diflicult;tp, render correctly.
I am tempted-to follow his- example. Doubt-
le ,you could furnish a:rope for such a pur-
pose."         ' -  a , .   4
"Not even a bit,.of, twige. ;Come down
instantly, Miss ,Grey';, lean t afford the,-lux-
ury of a -physician -on . board; sand if, you
should be so unfortunateas t.catch a catarrh
or spell of pneumonia; by this-piece of 'impru-
deneo, I should be distressed to death, and
frightened out' of. my -wits. ,;Come down at'
once."
About noon:the fury of the gale subsided,
4he sunlooked outthrough rifts in the scudding
clouds,.and toward-nigh.t .fields-of. quiet blue'
wcre once 'uwre visible., By next morning the;
weather'had cleared up; with:a brisk westerly
;wind ; but the sea. still, rolled heavily; and
Fxic, unable- to .bear the -motion, kept below,
path to trust ;himself -,on 'hi, feet. 4dElectra
't eve to while way thse tedions time: by read-
ing aloud to ,hii;.-ht many ayBrsing lok.
.wascast toward,,thd4ech, an4 finally;she left
inn W ith a, fe w: ooks, aid va  upto he-open
- On the- ahernpon of 4le third: day after.
-Javyng:Having she-easysitting on- buffal-
,robe stretchesd-inearitligten, watching the
.:Aggi-and gracf rcurlsqt'fam that marked
ntbd sconrspteadfrgbe Aseason
of the 5ftz meiie -if 'f  derg:.Paiter"

which lay;open a beside -her.-- Thelywind -had
blown back other atraw--hat,:and her ;hetblaek
hair 'fluttered about a face fullymeaposed :to
view.
The captain had been tuning a  gritar-for
-some inoments, and now drew::nearthrpwing
himself down on the.buffalo-robe.-
What, are you staring at o solemnly'
Tell me what you are thinking fof
"If you are. really curioftr,.you ar we-leame
to know.:   was only watching thcwake  of
the :vessel,-and thinking of that's beautiful
simile ofColeridge in the-' Friend r  OIman
experience, .like -tl e stern-lights of +a ship at
sea, iltuminessonly the path we have passed
over.'"' -e-
Her clear olive cheeks burned 'and  her
great shadowy elfish eyes ,indled, as was -their
wont. when her feelings were deeply-stirred,
"-I believe you are an artist, Miss. Grey?"
".1 am trying to become one,- sir. Before
we leave you I want you, to examine ;some. of
my sketches,.and,select the-one whib yowlike
best. .It will afford me:greatpleasure4Wpaint
it for youas a feeble token of my gratmitdaad
appreciation of yourkindness- -  ; -
" Thank you. I hope theday ji.not-disthat
-when I shall have my-wife, with me once more,
and then I shall beg you to paint her portrait
for me."  y-                  ,  --
"Where isshe ?".,
"At our home in Maryland."
"Are you a Marylander, Captain."    - -
1t'.0-h, yes LI-but that:is no plane ,for tru,:-men
now. :Nothing, can.be accomplished ,there at
this, juneture, and those who are true to the
Constitutionand the $outhhavejoined the Con-
federate;-service i4 oneform' anothere. We
shall have to hang that infamous traitor'hicks,
beforeswe can free;thestate; and it is because
1 :appreciate the -lamentable scarcity; of farms
and ammunition that I. anenoaged May
present-business ;If Iarm=ten t lursand sen;
it .will: be better-. for our -glorious:cause than if
I handled a musket myself. .Poor, doinuod.
den, handcuffed, humiliated, Maryland I Miss
Grey, you have probably notheard ourifavosite
new song, ' Maryland, my Maryland ? seets-
fort-myself-by singing-it-now and..thek4ii-e
badreds of miles of stormy sea twsabetween
maand my home. Would you liketo ,ear
it,  "  a                 ;      y  y;"'
",y all,,means.-. In Europe II of;equme,
heard nothing."-" , -               -
He struck a few full rich, chords andsang
-the,- stirring words,;as enly' a.truqMapyl tder
can who feels allpthr tirougsand; ignominypf
his state.    -    -             -  -
IHis--fine eyes:wete illofttears a3 enbe-
gan the last prophetic verse; and ef it-wms
concludedd, be spiranggup and r4peste4 rium--
pbantly.; -1    . -              un a
- "he breathisa 1hestdiale*t areeshd'lnnou
-   MaryMammy Mar rylaudl"  ,.a -
-,  -   -   , ;  -  -   )  1 '  -,


-158lt MAATA.
' Ifench bethe feeling of her sons, Captain, 'has given to gild life with. There is grief.and
she willMoon 'gird her beauteous limbs with, gloom enough at best; and so much innocent
steel,' and- as a state Come out proudly from  exquisite joy may be extracted from a thousand
amid the Abomination of Desblation.  The sources that}it seems philosophic, as well as a
music i' peculiarly adapted to the burden of sacred luty, totreap the great harvest of hap-
the noble thoughts, and invests them with-ex-, piness which calls to us from a proper appre-
traordinarypower and pathos. The wonder- ciation ofBeauty. ,I do not mean learned
-fintFeffect of national lyrics in such stormy disquisitions, or tedious, scientific terniinology.
times as these exemplifies the truth of the ad  A childcan admire, love an aster or a magno-
mi4'able remark, "which I have seen"very lia,without understanding botany; may watch
felicitously applied' to Bdranger, but which for and delight in such a sky as that, without
was-first quoted, I believe, by Fletcher of Sal- classifying the--clouds or designating -the gor-
touni ' If a, man were permitted to make all geous tints in genuine artistic phraseology ;
the ballads, he need not care who should make may clap" its little hands, and, shout with joy,
the laws of a nation.' Oh I what a sunset 1.I in looking at the stars, without knowing
never saw anything from Fiesole comparable  Orion front Ursa Major. I have often been
to that"   .-                            laughed 'at, and requested not to talk non-
The sun had gone down below the water- sense, when I have. expressed these views ;
line. , Frohi the zenith, eastward, the sky was have been sneered .at as an enthusiast; but
violet-hued'; in the' west, light 'cloud-flakes the longer I live the more - earnest becomes
had gathered in fleecy masses and semi-spiral my conviction of the truth of my opinion.
whiffi ; ome-burned like dashes of vermilion- The usefaI, the material necessities. of life,'
in lakes off beryl or chrysoprase ;'others,'in pur- require little study ; our comfort involves -at-
pleporth ,.fringed their edges with gold; snowy tention to them ; but the more ideal sources of
mountati ranges -were tipped with- fire, pil- -peace and- enjoyment demand eare and culti-
lared cathedrals with domes of silver; and, vation. I am an orphan;-,I had no parental
beneath all, glared- a,.liquid sea of rippling hand to guide-my thoughts and aspirations to
flame., A sky which only Ruskin could de- the Beautiful, in all its protean phases; my life
scribe 'or'"Turner paint.,,               has not been spent in the most flowery paths;
" The West is an altar where earth daily but because, as :a lonely child, I learned to
gathers up her garlanded beauty in sacrificial derive pleasure from communion with Nature
,offering to God. Agamemnon-like, she gives and Aft, 1I have seasons of rapturous enjoy-
her loveliest.''                          meant which all California-could not purchase.
These words seemed to pass the girl's lips un- The useful,.the practical,and the beautiful are
consciously' as she leaned forward with hands not opposed'-are even united-ifpeopleWould
classed on her lap ; and smiling at the breath- only'open their eyes to the truth. I anu Aio
less eagerness of .her face, and, the to him morbid sentimentalist or dreaming enthusiast ;
incomprehensible enthusiasm -she evinced, the if nature intended me for such, a cold, matter-
captain said:                             of-fact world has cheated me out of my birth-
; 4 If you are so very fond of such things, I right. . I live, sustain myself by my art, as you
wish you could- see -a midnight sky in -the by your sailor's-craft; it feeds and clothes my
tropics as I have, seen it,- sailing between Rio body as well as my mind. , But I can't -bear
Janeiro and Baltimore. I believe 'I 'have not to walk through a-grand metropolitan cathe-
mueh sentiment in, my nature, but 'many'a dral of wonderful and varied loveliness;and
-night, I' have lain awake on deck looking up see the endless .caravan of men and women
at the 'stars that glowed, burned -I hardly traihping along' its glorious aisles, looking
know bow to express it-like great diamonds neither to right nor left, oblivious of surround-
-clustered on black velvet. There are splendid =ing splendors gazing stolidly down at the bag
constellations there, which you have -never ofd coins in their hands, or the bales of cotton
seen. 'When-we win independence and- peace or hogsheadsof 'stgar or tobacao they are roll-
I1ntend to. have a fine steamship of myown, 'ing before them. I long to lay my hand on
and , then I shall ask you to make a voyage their shoulders, 'to stay their hurrying steps,
with one -as far as Uruguay. ,[ will s hol you and' whisper gently: 'Fellow-pilgrims, broth-
scenery in Brazil that will put you on your ors, sisters, look up- at the glories that canopy
knees in adoratioti?                   . you. Bend your knees ,one 'instant 'before
-1' Ishall accept the invitation when peace is yonder shriries of Beauty.' Oh !d" stheticst is
_made. Captain Wright, have you any chil, heavenly ladder, where, like Jacob's angels,
dren ?"          -                     -pure thoughts and holf -aspirations comie from
"Yebetwo;a son and daughter; the eldest and go to God. Whatever - tends to elenute
-five y ears old."    -                   and ennoble tlye- soul is surely usefullyl and
'iTerntrain them -up to love sunsets;/stars, 1ove. of beauty'ils a-niighty educational engine,
flowers, clouds of all kinds. We are creatures whichh all miay' handle if they will. -Captain,
ofeducation and I hold it the imperative-duty soW the seeds ofe&amp;ppreCiatiOn early' inyour
-of arents to teach their children to appreciate children's heai-ts/ addthbf -will -thank ydu
-th beautiful things in this world which -God whedlyou are an old biiveriaired man."

M1Ae A ,'-19

Across that rosy sea tripped magic memey
ries. The 'sailor's -heart found its distant ha-'
venV in h'e' joyful, tender welcome of his blue-
eyed wife-the lisping, birdish tone- of his fair-
browed, curly-headed children, stretching their
little dimpled arms to clasp his neck; and to
the artist-woman came melancholy -thoughts
of by-gone years,- shrouded in crumbling gar-,
lands-of hopes and feverish aspirations that
had fbund their graves-of her future cheer-
less life, her lonely destiny.
.For some time both were silent ;then-the
captain roused himself from his dream of home,
and, passing his hand over his eyes,- said : -
""Well, Miss Grey, I shall place you on Con-
federate soil to-morrow, God willing.",
",Then you are going to Mobile ?"
"Yes I shall try hard to get in there early
in the morning. You will know your fate be-
fore many hours."                      '
"Do you regard this trial as particularly
hazardous ?"
" Of course ; the blockading squadrons grow
more efficient and expert every day, and some'
danger necessarily attends every trial. Mo-
bile ought to be pretty well guarded by this
time."
The. wind was favorable, and the schooner
ploughed its way swiftly through the autumn
night. The captain did not close his eyes;
and just about daylight Electra and Eric,
aroused by a sudden running to- and fro, rose,
and simultaneously made their appearanceon
deck.
" What is the matter, Wright ?"
r" Matter I why, look ahead, my dear fellow,,
and See where we are. Yonder is Sand isl-
and light house, and a little to the right is
-Fort Morgan. But the fleet to the -left is
hardly six miles off, and it will be a tight race
-if I get in."              ;
There was but a glimmering light rimming
the -East, where two or three stars burned with
indescribable brilliance and -beauty, and in
the gray haze anA wreaths of.: mist- which
curled up over the white-capped Waves Elec-
tra could distinguish nothing. 'The air was
chill, and she said with a slight shiver;
" I can't see any light-house.
- " There is, of course, no light there, these
war-times, but you see-, that tall white tower,
don't you ? - There, look through my glass.,
That low dark object yonder is the outline
of the fort; you will-see it -mare ' distinctly
after a little. Now, look -right where ry
finger points; that is the flag-staff.- Look up
over head=li have' lloisted our flag, and- pretty
soon it will be a -target-fot 'those dogs. ' Hal
Mitohell- Hutchinson I 'they.sese'us I There
is some  o   mna *tno eg them  They are
setting -read$ to- cuts off this'side of the
bwksh ofauneN  We shalsee.' '  --
- -ed had -crowded on ai'vailg and 'the little
vessel dashd though the light fag asif- con-
scio*r f her dager, and resolved tosuastarn

herself gallantly; Day broke -fullyi :sea and
sky took the rich orange tint which only au-
tumnin ornings giver and-in-this glow- a Feder-
al frigate- and sloop slipped frong, tbeii. modr-
ings and bore down -threateningly on the
graceful bounding schooner.
-"But for the fog, which 'puzledme about
three o'clock, I should have run by unseen,
-and they would' never have known 'it -till[
was safe in Navy cove. We will beat:them,
though, as it is, by about twenty --mnutes.
An hour ago I was afraid I should have to
beach her. Are you- getting frightened, Miss
Grey f"
" Oh, no' I I would not have missed this for
any consideration. 'How rapidly-the Federal
vessels move. Theyaire gainig on us.T
Her curling hair, damp with mist, clustered
around . her -forehead;' she', had- wappeda
scarlet crape shawl about 'her 'shoulders, 'and
stood, with her .red ,lips apart 'and trembling,
watching the exciting rain.
- Look'at the-frigate I". -   '
,There -was a flash- at -her bow, .a curl ,of
white smoke- rolled up, then a heavy'}-oar,
and" a thirty-two pounder round shot fell
about- a- 'hundred yards to the right of the
vessel.
A yell of defiance rent the air' from the
ereW of the'ixie --hats were waved-and,
snatching off 'her shawl,' Electra shook its
bright folds to the stiffening breeze, while her
hot- eheerls-matched thein iidepth of color..
Anothetrand'another shot who fired inqiiek
succession, and so-accurate,-had they become
that the' Iest-whizzed throughthe rigging, cut-
ting one of the small topes.  ,-f
";Huinph I they are getting saucy" said the
captain, looking up coolly, when the yells--of
his crew leased  for 'a -moment-and; With a
humorous-twinkle=nhis fine eyes, he 'added, ,
" Better go below, Miss Grey ; theym.ght
clip one of'your Curls nekt time., The an-
dais 'see- you dare say, and your-red flag .
'stins their' Ya*ke pride' a little'  '-  - .
'4 Do you suppose'they can distingnish-mo ?"
- "Certainly 'Through ,.y -glass,.1 'eu'see
the gunners'ate work;"and, of course 'the  ee
you.-  hould not be-surpmided if they ainid
4pecially-at you' That is the' style -d New.
EFgland bhialry             ----     --
Whiz =    ii both lodp and frigate were
firifig'uo tn'Wgoodearnest, and"one -shellex-
ploded'a'fewyards fromthe side-of thlittle -
vresselitosshi ' the foamahd water- over,,the
group  op;d .et ._. - -  - '  - --   -  '.: 3  :'
-" Theyithikdyouhige"hardly washed -yoir
,face yet,'. Miss G-ey;-and are courteouly
-4nxious' to periornc th .goperationfor , .
But' bhe'gamaisn.- -Luugyonder-    utx   -
for -DiiO I and Fort Mbrggtn -" -
The- boomedof a  dludmdadT -e~l     fr
shibkythe airh'iks th1ideisy ndth e

4'


blockaders'the unmistakable assaratice, ",Thus
farpdn4 no farther."
Tea schobner .strained on itssway ; a few
shots fell be ind, andisoon, under the frowning
basdqns if .the fort; whence the Confederate,
banner floated so proudly onthe.balmy Gulf
*breeze;:sproadingitsfree .folds. like aniegis,
Ahe gallant little vessel passed1.np the channel
'an  c ame: to. anchor in Mobile. bay, amid,
the shouts of ere ,and garrison,and.welcomed
by a salute of five-guas.-
CHAPTER XXII.
Immediately , after her arrival in, Mobile,
Electra prepared to fo ward'her despatches by,
,Cptain Wright, whoe0'business called him to'
Rich iond before his return to Cuba and an
examination of the  proved' that the expedi-
,ent; resorted:to wis perfectlysuc'essfu. ,3y
moistening the edges .of thn drayring-paper,:
the tissue missive was drawnypoi uninjured,
and ,. to, ,r4's surprise, she removedd rthe,
.carefully-stitched bluesilk whichlined the tops
of her. trayeiiing, gauntlets and, extracted
similar despatehes, allf,9 wkhie:were at once'
transmitted to the seat of . government.
:While waiting 4r a ppat,they heard;the pain-
ful- tidings of 1ajpr I{ustingdoa's 4e h,
Whih inc'eamd, ]rig's ;impatiencesto=reach
.  'the rem inder .of,the journey was
sad,iand four-days after leaving ;he)Qlf Q iy
ithsf ighits qf nd gudaricof'the Pails
.simultaneopsly greeted ..the ,spt ,travellers.;
ayigg telegraphed of .his;safe ,arrival,, the
carriage was waiting, at, the depot, and An-
Arew ,handed, to Electra a notsfrom   his
mistress, requesting hertocozmeat oneito her
:house instead of going to the  tel. :]ric ad-
dad.'arnest persusiogga  wt r44mp ,or ejc-
taee,4he:artist finally ccngeted. (hey were.
prepa'd for. the4ilntasoJera ,aspeetr of the
haugie.and for ,the mourning-dess ,of, the
orphan; but not forte ,pro findgealm, the
'nelane9o!y, $eNIeps composure withwhichshe
rege ed thep. !.rentakla  p hygela1 sufering
had dly changed her.., ,he, ?,y face as
;t1h4py?,nd lher 'rmhdalJstitarundaess,
. dt ta epunenanqe  tigine4  singular love-
liness and'the mesmeric sple  ote:gne
eyes seme enha o4. pftherf4therIg#  did
,tpegipak,'but gay  er, unclea rsndte-
pelit pf ali the itswhich -;he had }qepi ge
to g  pgr, er nipg the, c  gimatagep of his
death,; and .thus a tacit, compete was formed
stqraken so efeyn#9r$9ethe  u4 fu subject.
v     ashe  agoompppie&amp;  le t ~to the rqppo
.lprep edd    iQr,  on ge tightgf hen.rriyal
.Lashbttensked.witA l.ll.Oeqa 4.emionon
"irene, can sypu tekl .mei pgtheggahout
Rumgell? I am very anxious to hear~ some-
I he iglgeM.isipr IamnId  h ,table,

"He *as wounded in the arm at Manassas,
but r tainsieommand 'of.his regiment and is
doing very well.. Dr. Arnold is the regimen-
tal surgeon,-and in one ,of his letters to ie he
mentioned{ that your cousin's wound was-not
serious., "                       { .
"I amgging to him immediately."
"Unfortunately, you will not.be allowed to
do so. T; wounded were removed to.Rich-
mond as pgamptly as possible, but, your cousin
remained at Manassas, whereladies are not
permitted."
"Then I will write to him to meet me in
Richmond."
Irenemade no reply, and,-watching her all
the whilg, Electra asked:
"When did you see him last ? How did he
look?"
"Theday before he started to Richmond.
He was very well, .1 believe;, butlooked
,harassed and. paler than usual. He is so ro-
bust, however, that I think you need entertain
no apprehension concerning hi, health."
The infietible features, tho low,, clear, firm
voice _were puzzling, and' Electra's ,brow
thickened and darkened " she thought:
"Her father is dead now ; there is no obsta-
cle remaining. Al e must loye him,, and yet
abe gives no signof interest."
".Good-uight, Electra; I hope ygur will sleep
well after ypur  fatiguing journey.  Do not
get up early. .Iwill send your. breakfast to
your room wbenver you wish it."     1
She'turned away, but the artist steppedle-
fore her and,{eaught up both her hands.
Qh,.heg eI, it grieves:Me to see youlook-
ing so.r. Talk to me about your great pent-up
sorrows and it will.relieve you."
" My -sorrows can not ,be talked, away.
Graves never giveS. back their dead. Good-
night, my dear Electra."      - ' t.   .
Electra.looked at. her sadly, wistfully;, and,
suddenly throwing her arms about the queen-
ly figure, kissedher white cold cheek. ,I'ene
returned the caress, withdrew from:the -em-
brace, and passed to herown room.
.Jedouswomen;are rarely generous toward
their rivals,.and Electra's exacting, moody
character renderedit peculiarly ificult for
.her to, stifle :her, feelings.. 'She Iwould most
certainly have cordially hated ay pthe, wor-
~an who-stop4 between her and ler icoqain's
,heart ; but.beforethe nobility,, the;loftiness,
.the, ebgl p'dy  f Irene's 9sul, her own rest-
less spirit bowed 4own -wtjh emotions nearly
akin sto adprato. The gglermaserenity,'of-
that ,palesbrewawet andt sopthed thef'ever d,
t nultuggs at.uret;pfF tha  List ,agd shebad
schoaled ,lerself doloo;yupqn her as aRssell's
future .ife-nwith'a.pang a painiis -true, but
oertainlyawahtb no t9 chotabi ress.eShe
could endure,thathJeakpnid' ole;se4atedly
4a witp wjniste.,d stahe shde,ofnChtjtian
charityjgag4     shns    r~oa        hr
aMer~se inved,theblessetla gesssfpgpe,

INa fi

M4JABIL

r f o '6  t f

r


I I .

MAO    rnA                                  a1s
C'1 arl ~ot Avoid feeling scetic l oel' he te   Nbewirs wo, p~~a4reiae
public virtue,. when seasons ,off .prbape ity atid the respoitsbility~f P hei~ap s tioin is) e l'
t w    Ith 'suteed the iy ar ,of -trial";and; Estln ly :r blenf %t, wr~~  s'&amp;
F    ji    a i ' he$hoo ope' of' our" young f'ulidea, which seems t jibe g tino un
-b tiederaoy. I habve ' fn queutl3 .rec-lled'that, an'fa v 013nt oar cti  };rl vae
1Utii au4 Fall of I ep ip :_:.  Greece,  once adrastin kbr ,sarrie belles  dt  ' le
the   "  t }f ~ a dseien es, th~ frithtf ul beauk are, ntb har lesi, "nor se d 4  e
mbther bf philosophers ,law g ive s, an4 herote, toldra edin r all.goodso/iy    Woaewbi
~no  r lies''rostr atetui~der the= iion, yoke ofigno- sO far :for ge  tnf;.tsl.ea ao nthelr o  4W,
". ane and barbarism .Carthgr;u".d ndte"p                      t4n    p         "i pi1
!; "b th,, tigltu soverel naof the ocean, and ion,?as tor'
th.cntre fo'urive 1.., om)Uere e, which 'niad   Vhrl hi .sa-called fas ionaf .r'   gn~
poured the rhehes of all' nations into Sher lad,. i rs usto4 obliF i n h ~o d  .! ,dI iapt
noiw puzzles the Tquisitiiv traveller in'iis re) #f*oim wetl*b0r+ ;'iintd;, Qre1e Ide the
searches ater even the vestiges of Iiernroine " degi'adatOn s atte afrs 'thyh /Q
.Aend'fme, the mztres 6f tire grac iTh     w Ivs sidald odnxtt  u n    y
~universe, which  tiie "contained whatv  ws  }'o  rvasu~     rae~~dwed~i~
esteemed'gread~. or'brillianf in humani nattfr ely'  a fasa gt .' s i"e, l r4 'o ew
iiowsunh'jnto the'igiiol e, seat &amp;whate~&amp; r acre dixd ty t.bu 1 leaut enshbuldbr re
A eiteened mean ,an ids n3 "oCs.    : $4:        r                        .,   tl
Should F action  gain predonminatei and rsutd' husband's heart's more closl  t~jtbl
'ceetl in' its destruccstviews;Ind';th'e ~da tard- homes at' active, instead, of 'beirgcdn0ostantlt
ly maimnS of luxury anid $fl~I~inacy'un v  t11-;paraded b'her lhe  orld'   f  ,%ii1r o  ut-
lY prevail ainrongst ; "  ,  f ' kY  ,"'Il ';suth, too,  ose o' seeurie nthee te0 a~  t
will b ithe Late of Brita n ;? ind;I rma  add=,f ofetothe;r  ntlomen .  d  os~  et
the Oontedrsey-for'i hereare the sateguard  m riwenelI9                 coy
of It public pur ity?': '  " "_ ib Iithat society h'        p r ,t ,iym~is u zp
}  ie tea had fished the I~anodas and alwas them;  hth  hude~ mt~e
; igsu~b~r'h    hdw~And,, waths       ully  .  , rh    l    a   r b i. 4
out locigup ti'om the lii t,' wbieh''L hbwas t .ioi, e4  i    @jvv )whoe9+ s wa44i,
tigitoniipdcvg s1~awrd                 terhsanrds when they, ca: oic           4
~" he afeu'a~ls~il befoud 1 th oh  are never happy unless riding or, walks~i
~rs Woi s ?and sister'a'of Our land: '?  _ '.' st r eror reueiyin t ebeir' atteti  a rth
* "b  but .their hand (are tird, and they'- 6641' ct,,  P44'
walk -but  a&amp; short, narrow path; frein ieit th- nation which'   hey 'are raduaill-  deaorniza
stn  thsod'anybc    gi1     hand corrupting.     o utb     e     ' tr)~e
hanL   i .ee3'P ireliuiiato'exnra re tfewvdeluded' weak libelsion ou~r 'ao  m
straining influence, but no- power to htili e t. prhse rvrn ur"age a a1 cbun  lr rThey
neti zes 1 l lost thart hag th faked l  e4  y'                          o
Rfagnadik 'is , darkernin4#.over thxsie entiiinta. oudly fibevc  3 tioc "th  r  t      , +y
rphemnonster, Midad aSeitn4eni'is, .and ne 1ark "tri ed h er     4Q
all, have certainly been unloosed"l' at 'the ohair,,and Y s  hn ruxi   ~)ie ,  thE~
( y      2  "'   '  "=1    '' 4!  "  $, f'  1, e 'tlm".      t ~  d  ', 5p,'     4  '  " {!
"Electra, though iwe' are veyproperly da-o-  ars hende,:sht 1, r(4 llhijaot r " ni6
baitfedi }from' the"' tme ' : ic dv IIh ve ,Afilre tad1s'   t  r   y)
*confidence that .thea use of ow co untryxirisy Truth- -theugb  tinrd&amp;lyr Avtea foit
be ad'ran ed, and its oo4 ' urtoted;%'hritih electi n' fa {l aw ty  / llke  t F ,;
th  gsy, n3tt its d ulser" ftb out ot,{ t e atuxtsw, Wh   atie h~ riem     ; cl i
din i  t ' ic=pa  t  om0 4e' oids ;alp=  ncuis' Oltthis; holy'heart nh  "rY,, +( .- Y" 'ld a " 'a Y  stop,.-isar  +  _-T,.",  r  e c9$NiteU-
*meat. Have you forgotten tt =xwleeh Spahrtatip, de    I,;sand {a  ti4 ttj
to ook ske stern aindl'stxbluzce smlph c~dy of :her  bhi a a, o ,dare t4 of eua r    oE illsxwe
anci i manners' ,I iid . A&amp;isfouut hi nself'aui 4ini l jurit ''  .. f  ; tf {   ,'
ably tX co    ish'i  hlwechene, ot redeenig  "AMit perfectly tu  a     u
hrg htrt  ountry} t roum avariee' a  } aor- ih'  cataba      e.   r     c"ve
ruiptnio;ii iltfie atl~s of Sparta gave their'd  o  ups ~tdw.4o4
Southern sWomninhave ued sire t itusu p leg.  a yfrr    4  ,  t


Arito&amp;We want no;feeble,.sickly sentimentali-
tdr yet thewombra austerity which-seems to
-pervydb yourxmind,'jtidging..fron the works
youi.have shown toeal' '  '  I  '
A slight quiver crossed- themobile features
'ofthetartist as she bit her full lip:andiasked:
adiWhat :would you 'pronounce, the, distin-
ghishing characteristicc ohfmy works? I saw,
vesterday, thatyouawerenots fullysatisfied."'
"A morbid1melancholy,-which yon/seem to
have fcsteredi teriderlysrinstead =of.inushing
. g rusly.p   di ositiow'to dwell upon the
-stern; and       "aoo aspects of the 'physical
'world, and 4o intensifyiand;'reproduces abnor-
mal an  unh'app !tphasesof character. Your
breesy4tdunshiny j yyous'moodsyou have. lept'
under'ldok andkey while inyouestUdio."
"'You -are right; pbut4 I.mnerely dipped .my
nralbianIthecolors'qf my.town life; andif d-my
wrk'iSigray iand sad and shadowy,:it is no:
fault f man,.  One who sits at her easel,
listening ever to'
Iwfow t aps ef eachs corning in
P     O lwso a o n o  a h c m n  1 , h o u ld   b e   p tr d d tie d   i  ';h e r  c a n v a s  ,g lo w s   tno t
'ith. g a' oecaions 'adradiant' fuces that
have never looked beyond the glittering con-
'Ones  f Aladdin's .palace. ,Iemember,-the
'.lineS did'not all to me' 'minpleasant places;
and it i  6 hst trane that I sometimes paint
desert, barenseesies, without grapes o(Eshcol
orT        r         r   d
nr n a ts
;Worn iW~eldfgrass and sunshine--long eaiin'nfghte'
roml~which 'the bllkehsleepis werefrbtied out-'.
Bwitness for iae, with no amateur's
nrreve eut asst ancif usp lIleness
1'ye set unself'tb dit s' ', ",nt' ''
I admit the wrgthoof, 'our criticism,'and
have gtagled!againstthe'spirit whichhovers
'with '41olng wgsi overall thateJdo; but
the shadow hasidotlifted-God' ,no*s wheth-.
4 it ver wjlli 'Do yodirecollect,among those
Laneillustrations of +dee;Rorks wich weiexr
tam inedyesterday, the 'dia spectral, head and'
,bl p'nlons brooding ,qpuanfgdly ,over .The
City Ithe Sea ,'A lAs darkening cout-
'terg  fits oversne. ''owhave finished'your
""orkgome toimyrooni forea fewuminutes.".
T    went up stairs together;'.and as.Elec-
at anoeked    nd bent ever a large square
eruak ier companion noticed a peculiar curl
about . the lines of the mouth and a =heavy
eoowVhenthe road brow.        f
' ' Iw:ntsto 'show you.the only bright, shin-
is. face Lverpaiinted:W2  '
' he unwrapped atnoyal portrait, placed it
1     itbe.adtlepiece,,ad, stepping:backtfixed
b"  =gae oi' Irene.;d She sawa tremor cross
4helqsit 0bethasid trhisome seconds the.sad
*  ps dielhuonstha picture as if fageinnted1.
'44X'nust 4avebepn a apiieent portrait:
ay~ cusingl~eam 4go; hut beihas changed
6   e~w tesneryeow'W'   i

"Woild you .have recognized it, under any
circunistances 7?':+
"Ves.-~-anywhere.;'if I had ,stumbled over
it. in thea dusty: crypts of Luxor, or the icy
wastes of Siberia, 1Ihave never seen butone
head that~resemble that; or eyes that were in
any degree comparA e,":
'4lrene,"Ivalue this portrait above every-
thing else save the original; and, as I may be
called to'pass through'various perils, I want
you'to take care, of it for me, until I come
back to W     -.   . It is a precious trust,
which I would be willing toleave in no hands
but yours:" .     '.
'" You forget;that, before long,.I too, shall:go
.tVirginia."
" Then pack it awaycariefully among your
old family pictures where it, will be secure. I
left my large and best paintings in Italy, with
Aunt Ruth, .who iprornised to preserve and
send -them  touame as' soon as the blockade
should 'be.raised.1 ' =,
'" Whatare Mr. Young's views concerning
this war?"  J"
" He utterly abhors the party who. man
gurated it, and the principles upon which it
is waged. Says he will not return to America,
at. least for the present ; and assoon as he:ban
convert shi property into Money, intends to
move to ;the South. He opposed and regret-
ted Secession, until hey saw ,the 'spirit, of the
Lincoln dynasty, and from. that' timeheac-
knowledged that all hope of union or'lecon-
struction was lost. RHave you heard. anything
from Harvey since 'the ttoubles began ?"'
"'It is more than a-year since-L received a
line from him. 'He was then stilldart the West.
but madeno; allusion to the. condition' of ,the
country."  '
",Irene,,I hope to see Russell; soon.. You
were; once dear' friends; have you any mes-
sage for. -him -.any' word of kind remeli-
brance ?" ,         '      '
One of Irene's hands glided to her sidebit
she answered composedly : -
"He knows that he always'his my best
wishes.; but will expectno message."
.2On the followipg day Electra ,started to
Richmond,-taking with her.a large supply of
hs ital stores *hioh the ladies of W  -
had contributed, :.f ,}
Eric hadp reposed to 'his niece the :expe-.
diency of seeing the' Hill andbecoming an
inmate of his snug, tasteful, bachelor honie';
but she firmily refused to'consent'to-this plan ;
said that she would spend her life in thehotse
of her birth; and it:was finally arra ged that
her uncle shouldtreserve suhof the furniture
as he valued particularly, and'offer the reside
for ialewith theApretty cottage,' to which le'
was warmly'attachtid.e.During~the remainder .
of autumnd rene was constantly engagedda
superintesiling. work for the doldiersp~pro
vidingsfor.'eeeali~poordamilies nluin the
wasmnuch iersted%,asfd in freqsehtvisits to

#164

M ,MARIA.,

Ix

MALARIA

I8&amp;

the plantation, where'-she found more-thdn
enotuh' to  occupy her mind;gandEric often
wonered at the admirable Wystem adpunct-
utyshe displayed--at the'grave oomposure
with -which; she discharged her dailyjduties,
and the invariable} reticence she obse*red-
with regard to her past life.
CHAPTER XXXIL
,Didyou ring, Mass' Eni  "
" Yes ; hag Irene come home ?"     s
"Not yet, sir.".
" Bring some-more wood."
SOwing to the scarcity of coal, the grate had
beaniremoved andmassive brass anirons sub-t
stithteds  om  piled them  with, oak-wood,
swept the hearth, and retired.,It=was   cold'
elening;- there hadbeen# sleet the; night{
before; the trees ;were' glittering with icicles;r
but in theyafternoon the sky cleared, cnd, a
sharp northwestei. promised °goods-weather.:
Eric drew the sofa nearer the blazing'fire
and laid himself down toirest--.aMiting ipa-
tiently for the return ofrhis niece,; who had
bieuabsent since dinnr,;The'library looked
cheerful, comfortable, luxurious. rene's pret
ty work-basket sation the little mosaic table,
close to the hearth; and by its side lay a vol..
umn of Tennyson open at "Locksley Hall,"
with a half-finished glove which she had been
knitting that meolning) nesting" on the, page.
Upon the- low mantlepiece stood two ruby-
colored bulb-glasses containing purple;. hya=-
cinthsins full bloorn; between them afluted
crystal vase of perfect white camellias from-the,
greenhouse;, and in - arrich ' bohemian goblet
three early golden crocuses looked out from a
mass of geraniumta leaves. 43ronne busts of
Kepler, Herscheland La Plae, crowned the
heavy carved. bookcases;" the,' soft silvery"
glow-of the lamp fell upon the form of the
cripple,. wrapped in a warm  plaid' dressing
gown, and showed the thin, sharplyocut-visage}
of Paragon, who had carled-lhibself laaily on
the velvet rug. The room was very still;"save;
the sound of the cracklingfire an&amp;dthe-chirp
ing of the, canary, whose cage had been;placed
on {one.of the:.broad wimdo*ksillW;After a
timer the door opened and the gisti-ess came ih
"Irene ! you must benarly frozen. What
kept you out so late?"
"1 hadmore than'usual'to attend to at the'
Asylumnthis afternoon."
What'was the matter?"
Ye have anew Matrong andI was particu-
larly anxious thatshe should start Nt in one'
or two respects., .1 waited, too, ihi order to see
the cihildigep at supper ansdatisfy myself about
the bookmg..                     .,
'4~ow many orphans are, tI ere in the'4sy-
"Thirsty-four. I admitted two this eeing

-children of rne' f osr soldiers hovdied frosb..
wound reeierd4Leesbu4"wt  'ei
"Poor littl'hings 12'am' afraid you will
find numbesE  simiitariastanti@ before his
war is at an end.;'
S"We will ntrtofradiroom forall  4tdehss.
The biildingillaedomnibd'ate one huidr d.P
" You' must-bevery cold; 1Il make Joh
briieyou'a glass ofT ine."
_To; sireI o not need it: ,My shawl 4s
eting =vis=elboir on the silken  ushien}'
her 'unele leatei f'orard so as' tO tee Ohe
countenance distinotly.g She had  toitoe
handed thy' shidinrhead of her ; d a, ho nMoM
sat close to huerhair gazing soler nly Itothai
rid coals; and berkpottre, asshe rested}
back against the. piofoeco lxining;et ke e
weariness.. pB' contrastwith;the th kitbds
of hey b  b aiie ehrss thefaoeglermedi .
gularly white, and the cuirhng brow  Ihe
made fringy shad raonMthepolishhed cheoks
*  'Trehe."i   . *;J'              '
She turnie hbr head slightly  ad -aselher
eyes:  *  m     i' °a         4 m'r
'Did.you receivela letter whichit sentto,
your room ?"         ' '        g
" es, si: It.was from  p   nen'okr
" He has established himself in Riond."t
"'Yes,'sir -his;renet'attackbf rhebtamtisfn
unfitted him for service in the felodi"n
S'I h'iad alletter froisColonel Aubrey to-day.
He want to buy my hose: ',       m
She-made no dommn ent,and lIer eyp9  -
ed again to the perusal of the strnana shapes
which danced and .flicktered on thebumished
andirons.      .;";'
" Whatuse do you:suppose hellas for it
"I'can not imagihe, unless he intends it a
a home for Electra.f'
"What a witch ydifre at guessing ;ithys
exactly it wlHe days; intisletery thai kmay
not survive'tht war, and wishes to he the
assunnce thatisi cousiinpislcomfortabl prow
vided forobefo- a he goes intoanother battle.
His offer is iberalg and4shalluc t l&amp;g
WellIaiglad she pill oer it--for1htve
often heard rer' speat of those ;old Ib ar-
ti es} n the -front yard. She has al r  a ds
nmi'ed 'the glace."y'4            "
fI tri'ut  brey wileotie batk    . ly
aiarer soneotnan worthy of ilns heti't
intellectand lidt di.there'ha pdi hnneefi  o'
you believe the current report that he is 6n,
gaged to  alome?" 2'"   '1,
"Why not?    She is "certainly ab-rilliant
girl, and an uidoubted beauty y   ;
"Such atemeamineza as her would     arcea
ly enzt ?hiim Ttin""
.i 'ndtapeoplo often Seleut their oppOkite'
"And 'fer itg eason I su pect Ethat~t
*would net aiake ham h Ppr 'Whats'
eaty'he it js      went to the .ln
asnhia'rdih    iith Isame gelitlenietI, sle a&amp;


them neair ho rnig ch e.        oi- a    no     o       ent       n .~I
t shBI oL4f w  deuni  s llr iedah'er, fpise  t hbIs ellioy.: ; Jamwa ' e o'ih t r u  y,  °'o S  t  o                   3}
aft  al ", ,."         "ir         is;h   a     b  sd  1spoe    , #  , o                      s   x  ! r     '
,i. "ip 1  s ' m e  , o ~teh nee "     . o i      !,x' uobjectious iid go      A     I               t s"4 , , X1t4 ''I~tV
3          n, b b~r;~Utlia *P4 r e  r   V&amp;  o~ron with mu next we ej,  ,r Ir,'   t"  x ;y0   1'        1
;E,' r,"uu        1 ynv rent  '   It is a strange and unreasonable freak,    Se.  * 'r~      y  n
of, the dimpled' hand w  bdl aci Pirrga' 4   ih, I umiust sayI do not approve of: There fQd orsJ~                  i
h d J~i p1d hit 4t hey 1n est inMek&amp;- are' plenty of' nurses to be. hired, who have.
tipa of. ibterest. At this ,dun :  tur  item W more experience .a d are every y 'yfar more     4  rt  i                 O eU5.
s  d  4hm:toith 4iff tt r4 &amp;;4.*Iie  suitable for snobpu ltio hs."  ,  4ntI }y o                     , (J..
rms Ie             t   t fw I l0 .  "«Upeha, thte °moen in _'our ' rmies- atr, xnut  "I ont, s                 Alt ,  r; I
t~t  ~on 'jhr;          u .i    n  hired to' figYht'iouri'aktle.;  axnd! then las the      -fj
chd d i "tt y    r d  r c i t h  li rary 1 womnof' the land can do i' to, rsi-t ln       ! a',           t
'    ed       i,1  e .; d  ht ar,4ti tbur-when sick or *onded'v The  call.i:,s xi4eru-  f s I$ .,s on 9       _
!  fl    fi  tl ;s      ;, .   ; r  a;,  eel Jt Qttat-hoie';.but I.1   o dn gt oI .icane.Inot  lo s &amp;O  a7 ,,
s     ,              a,ths    are bjh4moih ro. ;J b  no ties tai:pev iiW~be       l  0J.
t          nwa, ku tr       .nrh adfrom givring;,kny.services,,in .tbe,,oxilyway jn;             ' 1 "l,. -          .
"  '    ,I         'Iw  °_f ~   ;j  V;, t~   .   .t,.  lcIii    a.  n S  the  cau~e&amp;if or' which  ,    f",' . ° w
"h the  fixit 1oe Itdo al t  ,,  ,knit ,n sf ther  dcbI e1it a s ced',d Oyu nd,, Uoe  i1     ffieB tr  e
pue~nehan  l  ey esy, an . 4ichk't.Eric, ,it aiiip ess to ar u   I'aar e m ;
,,, *         1 , ~nb   ;.he, "  datertntdt&amp;.go ib 6nce - Will yo acnapi",  ~      t,               ;c
our men )need them' when they iure ,standing:ny  'tee  ' ! ;  ;a f, .  , zpi  ;w          4     ,    inn' uu  4~~      nxIAnst r~1
j0N+ ,4d Jt,41R,4*idiwok lhol in ; a niusket in  "Y n  lllykill, yourself " .IVA4o,,e-,                               De&amp;1, ri ,k  ft+/1P'
thie' pen anr such weather as this.''    e '    u  ."I could. uot.die, in' .better, cause." . ,; ;'                      nted, ib 4.
:14less *d ~noy d'an d ived dee per iong  . " Is: I ife'bft  hess  bat1 u:weldtrshy"'.t                                 (4 itu)Qk s   r1
,, ,     91   el:   u d 1 this e en   ;  By no, mens:I amab   to eutidrei hat     -.      '
everlastiw  of+ ai                                                                   .  ,.,O ,~tu  ell enough Bart I" hatti the  '."fdes: d'otbone que ulpus i.nvalid ' eripple  .  t"" a moio  "a  o  11i
eeas  moonothose t    r  eedle   uset.               - es.' . ~ouco n                        wic ,   e:,
\"'  *,' o~Ie ' z  he glove;':put t" in  her bits-"  No, sir. 'BesideI. can' tke care .of:.yO ii  k  i:'  4p  I Y{{.  ~     tl I s{''  rs
ktt 1trc i:l ; ;# t:     x ,;; ;  .r.I i chon: Riwllhmond  oheswh asd, well, as to  of'others;o whuloyui  needhmre";. ,; j,  " ,  oorTlI
i, ,a..., $ he, '" o            . ~  r what do you propose todo *itb~the house, ~lmxut 1   '
A ove l1 tfbgsr mythld, ,I.radtetought  . ii hall! send the-1horsesl'tolthe (plantation,  , ; or 5,l'n  l                 i"4 e  (1 l
ofbIr o    be ha o,;i~,, ",v. ou, t ,"'I °and takendrel . tthtme; he isi-ana dnirablo  a  p r ,d ,          e a     4 X.
,  ., bethat, I b l R'rr;  tdI f  'nurse.  s, rha, also, whvim I have "  to teon  as I ,is k teie :st '  ryo's , ; '   e gan1g~
s  r;       if' you alouur 'how1,   ' d1, ert ral ,o o'asmons, 6 'uissiet~ moj readt'in  he,  then Il-nitheiii''a vlmaniy~v Y
oii  ~ o   it Apme ;Pass more Ip aiady~ . 'hospital: 'The ;other, servants' I shall leave  den  I foro?  ~ y oeii h             f tkre *d
o   h   at      ,globsmy;enough' at. ' he. Johb'a id Nellie will Jinep things   ip;  griefs slip rpm 'i  ,  .                 onuih
d  rhess u  ,4  ont   avoi endea rnet to 'afreee andre-      eeb~~'t            ~      n.egt        ax ~
,o 'etx n ~uope r~'     eeaobstacle' t  +ry departure;" '..'          nd'd t&amp;      afartt              n
,1;  zgt t heo ax'ed;r'e              A ,"h t ,bu you, .have'y boeen o. delicately  the' g nr4   t ;;.s oJ sie..asor
to         a l     sii~ ~a (', taoh nurtu db and ,the :burdens ' ou' would ; .  herle 'se'o ~~', yAlf ,1     y1
b                 w i  hen .BribW&amp; o r    l  'u' s  ol  a  e   i  o  ei'bns '? .  1.;  '' ,  "huinbly:, ,               ' ,   4  ':
s                td ~8e~tl,,rd leriand:'geatly on his whttenz  'shu ~*i h, :      i ,~ot'"r~t~rI~f
lr ~ it , *L h4  t, A,4ae: e Oll3.repl a '   Ir anad: added jple hlr.: zgI1,ric  "    :; ', ssle j  " -  '..''n' .
thr tx  y," eb itunts1 an their l"bax  kexany  " 4 lDb n   ot~po,  eV nn   want " /,'        ty JM (b i(WI ie ss "a he*nd c&amp; rd  1tyJy,'
*M&amp;i  '  '  "  I.               y or aac"on in all at do. There'are only:    ', ho'.t             ;   6    '   P    tW"
W~~e ou know that Ihar~e longdesu'ed itwo'ofurs left ;gowith uras                 foade at7 p o'
,oritas niesuybedto eep ite' tim no wih m."  " ."  ''                                               ' H" 0ji a{s
~and lateldd to go to Rtclhrao lc,'h.ivat',o'ns tector. I 'could not be , hapy      "' v                        atoi i)-Ite h~iIi
dc r   tg &amp;'   1ow ' t ttrua'ha Wbe' at e ' I cl ostt i, e""  " CFir  'd'tri p usy '_  f  '{iti, n'of  l' w't  j  Oli
Ar  9 ol  ' tns oa1ter. { h rge s .  ital'  .,.? _' _ _'c i  n      th.o' t  " . a . ,. yow i p  yt u"ppy  I. . +r. '-  '  f  j 4IJ "?{.  _aa 'r ''4       4)51%2

~~VWV
P  1   v   t f
V t   i  ; ,   "   y 3 a'', i''
ois}
r, I r ,
Dee

4 , .r


,r

s

r+

P rqacl g ene and 1eeptr f It $ :~y; ha4p; aa, as he drain tto  1 itA6'
Yr/y'  Q  _  j  I   w tp  t4  .        s  .     j
V W  y  "  ', ,L  .i   t  t:  . ib~C    t      -     b      .  1  1V   'S #t l  %T it  ,ypu  t,  t3 p ;  ir
C"f } Fr  l t.  ;+ tr  _ t,  i  y  Vlj  'it    1 iitof  )  i;. jK   ,  x~r § IPU ~   e *t'i "tFA'
blood"I  .t "aic  t l  sMlt{ j rttret  lr f 4    Y y  {[[   s{{  "  ,".i   i * {i~
a, 1 v~ s  + dv fio wit~l4s?::,eIL0 , t. 4  T Afpi   tt eI  1 7i #.  "'
$j         }}  y £    o ,  da  g  t r Mxry- ou d have ,  i   ,
r i              } ry  ,u           '  t'4iyY+
t'  r,'! ."  sr4       !  3 .-(  '
H A ''  )    l .       y  a  ,  a /"   [
r y4                        1'*.ptt YoFo ho RY!  'T M,
j(     ee 1 J~arrid  hpax i't  ?   bean 'Q  'Cly x i roa
A.p~                          33            raI  F *i  +% prs ~o  p~i ~ t  $~~n t
RO &amp;rtr                            "
:t r~'1   p aI ,  ';,   , t c, ,t
Jo odwhen  elt o  it. iia      rae.'  '  -
"              3,tt .fr$;F  4 g :?   r i!  w;; i l x  ' '  w "  '
S i   fo*  wl a.a '  t'    e .!  he3   r f  q   aw  .,   .   O0  tV'
m eld  n  t o.  h p9 e ry-,. 1 ft.  ur g   vest-  "  O R 1   w r
1, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~  v ,as d   zghwtb  -r  b-o("  , y~'
e" t hi pary" drhs ~t4  l~  w  m~jto     tpn~
"  }i ;usof 'ftf  ' Abet~                              ~
froc   a  n c d  '  ra in g e   ' 'M e p  -    p Ab e  hn} ge f  tyA '
tra e i dnto  .  t't  rl the .lL~is }+:di9)- X94 fl Tt~~  #.   K  t  t  le p r  s "
' under,  d                  4 '.,  W , C  ,'
waoortoeas
xte  cueJ'                      , : 01  q g~
n      t Wi
"         a  ?4: :1 Lhp    X0      ?#RxI; Tr~'


0

}ti l ~     i'v  'Yo   tl  ,_  "#, '  'tl 'iheeye § had  vvr  iy the bonds ;of'1-hh
4'N1othing.'k I LT ve racked  '    and the soul was near its exodus.'  Sorrb 4.fsl'y
iitlt ~r rmedM .p With  4ooi;4 i ik- she watched the sharpenin"  features, which
ing+  very rapidly. ,and yop must stii il tW hiWi, five weeks of nursingr a4 rendered singularly
s sftl . ITlie  a  ' '(id=  r ' rah  baedfan~tiar;"a aprs bqtogh  f ',the atred wife
£~$'O~W~ftfli~"        ~   o b ~vdow94, a id - , dau htej orphaned,
0-1 n5it~hi~   t  mrn i  " s i'sd' i cm  eso  h  +r'd  'fth.  '°  isses stirred 'the
p~r t ; y  u et r  e'o 'ctrtl :   +ar  a'ufer i'rit ad tears ' atJa rsd in
Pd-1 urt" 1'EU 5U, ,       ' r- u  fe oct r  fn' 1  e'. -i:nd ; ui Fevj mct" is
4;,, h6 -W thitened LdL       '  r  iow tr i"°edr~e' =1pm[ auna sdtlulibut
'* 1im oi t  1*t d h  thefl-6' sm i°i he abu he ro aed; and'f
a.h .id'r'he do, PwI 1 pn'totds    lr.ly eoBid&amp;'o'6e
fry (u a  latine f' air A h rtf e1''o~kti"}1d  t$cos h'ii~~  h  hw  rlid~~f
i,   ht o.fn'a)tene d1at° . Idi h  ain s  ie kd rid' qus e in,  ansa' A  xhe d-
s    nk ! c  e ly~' a 'ea 'ropd   &amp; b ii 'nis and whett she e e ~' thelood
cri~eeng acroh ithis1qaj vr , tiea'vas~4ihs frshe iss rl"cf'ated Shouer ic -
ts tahe 6k.'Theu ei  rn  ' hlae fth   lieds "nr gourd,'  ' Flie rfe-n
ca.. ' g e m d-fitfulys ion'fthes'hue1of6eat dfldi' ' '             cold
uIs '' -somO 'y~tn  ith'   m ; ~hld,  oh Ij s wim  allopw4)ed  td ut a . eglry assdhis"
"d s o  ' 9rin iwd it h  .fe  -'or; 'dti i  "  n  s 4I fieds lif  'd  hipe'''' '"
sleprhie 6psh'ea' d   hdk'         J FaryBele!InWsed to singbut h st4,ind
thned,'wlcome bays of t; lh  t'r the d6d pakJHry}' in ireet a  r nd  p tbdfromi
fr+a ~ tiho no f a'ieAniurthe 'd 'foI ;i e  ° ' i  mtrs-4he hi  wakefbito'  '
.,o    i ' p irildi so t ' l id   ia  l  °  1.0' in he' -she foul
morn, #y irsde'              s~~hs  tf~hh~  "sd~e'w'n}t'"" , saf ±  !
beepperriited" tavist teir sek &amp;i' dp 'so u d  ark  idead uupre' d ~i lto cotne
anrb~d'dn st   -ie ir; &amp;the ir'op  b hidv' hl' ard' h'shoe're.tr'e'ro
'whO  s, ~e, hr lh~l        arl'is=ati d  'T e gurd eoiidae mple nr' pd
then sank bamk .Th le .'  ,. "flam 'V"' e " Iam is r  h sgord "ieistd co aons.
ca  t'la m afilly ln  tl ine f'fre t=  e 1Wha'}hih1  'l"{ or':': n  " ~ ' "'J
uea ihiborarlu, o os,e I it ish  olers f'b  swalloietd"6'd r  ht wi'l y'ad ais
bre    t r'he ,  re ron  a~r  i  f tt' :  N; a gs, d h 'e iwie t;i'y ,wre 'toK',  ht  I xpt ress~ion
She erd ~lepaitpfel ireathhtrf' the 9d acte dldlk a'gurtn wiLeaenf;"": '  '""
~tlist'sI d f altlbrhe ii~to 'e lhuiy!tpom ' Hrad  "Here4 its sboe;ishoinning ind  lieol
'  h e datbe#adg heri han s'toa"t6'hai fdie e"a   on"eb h f-ic ping 1 iie'cn-
t~e, ad-her acoeuts'smileligng', ie ybiU nobd  ins' i' casie WSlloWeit  .l'  son'
"sen ~a                                                         ojotid  rhnerhor  i  yttI
inherselc  a  fedwjtchv-d'orrt )d"b}the oo'st3 sf  y histi )4ha, and sLiutinden; i

A ~17 1
could 'render' any servrie. As it is, I sam nriod ,spicer 1  dr p  de 6j#AU1 w Wh
needed u pstair's."                            ' ' c1a~ted e  t d ti       re $~t
The" aro: vishrrs Were 'l hort; abut}so . were  'br  +sh  'tmt h oi h # k tfe  oP
that occasionally she required Andre i 4 t  h4.  fns A  g 4  $hdn   1 wW    f   %Ii4
ance to, held the suffi. er dn his ceit, anid' as   ef S t§,'   ler lv  lo
they ir;grIw les frequent she                 es~Wta  i  iahe~  ~~hl5i4
strength failed;rapidly. ''tFin'ly'befell initb  ~orth a~pall  , td i4    i  i.  '~t
troubled sleep, with onehi   eue h u       'Vri' tbuld'"ae  e  ti ow the a; t fpeop  ' Warm
N~earIY an, hou , passed- th 1Vanti the t4lise ed their sdltl,&amp;(t.               f.t  t
knelt softly beside h hi    an4 pi' aeiPlbngwoen n  nd
PIand ferv'ently that; the- souxl' f the younrii ,i-ttit i  ' to  i1Itu i   Co
tyr  miirhr find its home' with' lGod, 'ahd tlt hi'' tthe 'p raltel ,ho r rof a se
far-;off mourning mpthei' might be stththeOd ti~hi PTh6 bilHiW !cofi nr nft bl od  %i
to "bear this heavy l nrde n of l roe::Ther~e,: ithgitftumy:shed suitd b tw  f ats-saI
th6 shadow f D'eath~th&amp;ewonianivs sp h'W soared  las  f~1idt   § i' cr  i'; r i..
f'ay from sin and l  o#, flfom 'the stornyshrs# rdly'tbhtbe fhi%'fr  i  d ofo3 t A
of Time,'and' held  holy tommutuon' "with'~heI'her d  td :1~ ~ ~ ~
nation 'through'the, relmalnztPa years' ot' her drat   willh 'diei ndt  +  1a, ,
earthly pil~ritna~re '  :       "o'     ° ' Though I look upon my iotlier's fac #,,w '
As s&amp;ketwt        e face 'upturned a sof't in fl 4 'orld'aci( i  pf~f~e ri'rr sig'  hee1a -d
warm palm was laiaihipongyhoied for.eed and a' -t ° '&amp;mnycf their's  bl ii j' flI i  _ "5
lawv, svi eet, manly .rdiu  ponounceti in bane  smile, t sbatl ieve e'  rT1k  i~
' May the }Lotrd bless you; I i n  n~abin' r-iy s fad  d  g  a'he~dr  lJb  aie
dahtly answer all your-prayers  ' and         eell '   h    i 'ho  i ' Witl t thod tlh;iy
She prose quickly and'puot' h4"r' dis nn ged" h;tpes and d' tffhr    ~esolO  l ' +d,
had.'                               struggles mine.        , Q''
"OhHarey!  earfridnd' t}' Thank God',  Hiswhite schola~rly handl  wt  stnt
I have found you once' more.   =,  4-"'"  K  ' ' o  r is i'kkei'            _     -tvii  of~
'He" Iiftid the 'candle 'aaid held{ i1t nearlief trimmed hair and  beard'Jcueau{grim, j riale r
face, scathirtg the 'seulptuned' Afeatui'e ,;then aS Get' '~th e t",bIWf cel 1' ik th " Wfli 'ii~d
stoop euladkissed' her white iheek='  '  'faded' nforirh e  d'aequ~ga'ttan'rith"
"I felt that lI'could ' not 'be "mistakeni i  the 'pditive hatd ifi's and' * osire if an ac-
heard our soldiers blessing a'kale 'woman' in tive'ea ipaign:L  '3K    '     x
black,' with large eyes bluien' thansummr skies,' '.,Iex eeted: iiothsihg° es~ frbti  'oI"~n
and hair that, shone like r"ays of a set'tin k-tin ;'brothli't~  felt that A61i~whuly- a b ' iqC  ratim'
and "I ,knew th&amp; silent, gentle, tireles Watc her your sympathy and support ;' and ,I 'tt ptu9i4
before they told' hdr nanme. 'For'!mrany 'years acid =in x i 4ily h i p,"ttin Pf  e frh 'obur
I have prayed that you might' be&amp;6nieL al i' ''atciie Afitd d  ttiat  i s,   "Y ti ee- d a
strumient' o good to your fidlloiv-cn'eatui'es, and' t&amp; nme i~ before l'k a ; s fr ;;Ii r 3At~ty v  'w udelr
tQA-night I rejoice to fII M you, }at last; 'su eariest'd rei' ties ' ea'l rka :of' trial,,'wie,
coworker." yu'A'hak" "v' ' you                              ly 1"hos
H"Wrve   have you "ben this long' tim~e,' yourg, brave, strun'gling Nht~ ~ ~  d
Hre   And ' ho'Ii~ it .that' Oud Ne a°'fH± s oea d welt [I Jruhthr"; &amp; i 5  l e d.
Conifederate uniforms?'          ""  M'gadly kat hUi, &amp;nd 0&amp; bed JF raven''hair 4u5§
1am chaplain in a' Texcas regfimetadhnspse      ~i, s'hy;sd'dni ~k
have been with a'the armiiy'from the begnixisg  years b ei et, h~i n le w s' :an in^ ahd  li
of thesedays of 'blood,  At ,first it was a pain=,fa her' h  :H'*k  ,. 'r~a "',;  re  ' "' 'fk=;c .
ful step, for' me;"my affeetions:''my ssiiatno ;''; "f "ot  t# i&amp;4iad'.your Wsirk fa d.A$a  s
thel 'hallowed ,remis4denes  f"' m-boyhood, contenIineii, in £Lhss i lne*  It '' t. 8p i
all linked m  heart wih  e'York.'~'M   eadme        hhiw    ahltg        stt~4eM
tire' and, friends werethere q-audi 'Vk tie  uo t  =v'tbe vm:14d.chbery tie f' '"  , the'pae
hteyrmany of 'thiem: " I- ti~t  et :asong the fnl ltlok Sf byo' h'ded
war«wolvess that -'hen &amp; An hungry hoe  :aloe ' y'o  ' f ce lr  ' ti''  ~   I"
the uor~ers'if h&amp;$uth.'M~ee'vr 4twed ' " '~hankd to  'out uidaui'O41;. i
f atd revere' 7' '    flthe U : iion-4id 'eobtn#hlU' O em "l   mer '  y'"e am''"hfrt~  i#  1


ve t% fi l pItiton a  w   gtQ th M wo~
~~~o vh-r4te ?ervpx , t ryt:do p
8i*Uiug8 efi~thoy   vt;, t    '~o l
' i    too,,.esszay;, ;inu r  b a } sn; w
Qtg                        be nve ALL  ith yo aq
e  Gins:t   is0  :fie, W-h&amp;-; youe
4k) o ab o  f ,gr  t {bfc;, or"e
uI iiae  ea'G.tyo, Jh-ig  o  yte ;  y0U'pe ~n
rowJ1atea    ona3erningyd i ps; b ttiiso
i,"s nt t nowtSim&amp;py  Qs4Iiia
of thought and feeling. 'To-nlQ rOw ;w zlli
tejlk ;1,to,=nigbt I  conld not .repress 44y, hpa-
ti0 ,e ,to ,gee, , you, 1thIugh : but for Fa,,few ro-f
: eft7hoy had qQ ver ed inAwo.sftotIherdtolea,.
lnge s,' whioh  a.#ii re pedI, her aiws, rie $.
veut~rbeek to the. 1iI zMA's., pIitjw 04,en
g~ , thghstly face, where the chill ovf, eath
1 t;4p      trayiwfel.;te:plei a;i ow ,more t robsb, '4tl~he iert, wilt J e.
fIhave nursed, him, and nw  hs  tee4
i ehbaplan bow  isz h  ead,   flau
la4,ida he  ° t'£ngeaecon 1;l4
aid: fes aetiem  own oor' the glIiie  y
i,      .at i        Y@evpz$buiave hi
r~v,  nth   a icomforts mee . I beyteh" in"
, ii               "
A II  1 1iA~d N_/ l  dn IL  i1..T ...a  Y_0

dead, an ibeckoxihg to the two soldiers who
O  now stood near, silent and awe-struck, they
tol.np the et aud bore it into a' small room
o ';A.h,4hone3how harrowing such frequent
spectacles  pet be. .I should think,.this posi-
' tiou wont be hmst intolerable to one of!
y3 your keen sympathies.",               .
S   " Ilow harrowing,.only God knows."
She drew ahar near.young Walton, and,
e- sea4mg ,berself,.contiuuedt,: '
;    bat.uwould be intolerablee, but for the con-
Svicti-tha-1, sometimes sav livesr-lives pre-
e; clous. tp. 1friendt, and country, Hard as that
Scapermy seem, this is sadder still. That old
4. qin{ hadbut, few, years.'left .at bent ; this boy
' stands othevergeof mahgod, with'the fair
l: g'en; Meadow  of. life stretching dewy and
J untroden before him,, enasielled with hope
and bounded, l by shining peaks. which his
brave, ambitious spirit panted .to scale. A
motherspride aud solace, a sister'e joy, one of
;aNaton' sreasred guardilands,sricken down,
inii firs.battlembathing hiscountry's rid-
dled banner in his warm young blood. How;
'longbr4l .lanj will..Ahnigh-ty, God withhold
his vengeance fromthe wolfish ardes who
are batting upon:the blood of freemen?
Harvey, if there be not a long and awful re-
tributioi;for that Cain-nursed race of New
Enoland, there is neither justice nor truth in.
hig   eaven, I have .become strangely .at-
tached to this, boy.; He mistakes me for his
mother, follows me eagerly with his eyes, clings.
to my dress, fondles myhands. Around his
niek is suspended a locket containing; her
miniature,; nd yesterday, when I dressed lhis
wpund,, he felt. for it-showed .me how he
kissed, it before going into battle-,believing
that it would prove a talisman., What harm,
could befall, ,with his mother's face over his
heart'?Only, a privatein the ranks ! No-
stars and bars to deck; his homespun jacket,
no official pomp and glittering paraphernalia
torplease his youthfulfauiy-none of :the.gor-
geops,accessories whicligild .the Stern profes-
sion' like jewels on a corpse-+inobadge of dis-
iAttiQp, ave his gh stly death-wound.,' The
derly nurtured darlingsof:Soi thern parents,
chegrf l intl, midst pf unparalleled hardships,
eantentwith magrerati ns which his negroes
at hoine wplgd, scornfutly, reject, standing
drear ,watbh inspon andeleetand rain, with
r4em'ri of lo p'y and Areside:joys tempting
Jim' fromhbis gloQpy, plitary post--springing
to, met. the colums ,9f thefoe. though the
Oatignis fate depended.;upon his individual
yalogand asking biqt a grave tn the soilbha
diedldefeang. Only a private in the ranks!
Qh64Athisconsecrateddegion, stretehing like
aj'all of iesh aelng the borders of our land,
whnta ensreless 4ebt weogy I 'Wed~e-
peaa eis ebtiajued, aend wht.r,obei; Peace
spredaor stainlesyhaidds i Wlessinggoer us, .
lot history proclaim, aridlet our people rever-

U

MA.0e
ently remember, that to the uhcomplaining for-i
titude and sublime:devotionof th'e-private vol-
diers of theConfederacy, not less-thahitotile ge=1
neius of our generals-and the heroi's'n of our sb-
ordinate officers, we are indebtedfor Freedom.'
She laid her head F lose 'to the boy's mouth
to- listenatoIhis low breathing, and thte inister
saw her tears fall-on hispillow and' gleamVon
his auburn' locks. The deliriumnasseined to
have liven place t6 the dreamless leep of'ex-
haustion, and folding one.-of her hands around
his fingers, with the other she'softly stroked
the silky hair from his fair smooth forehead,'
" Irene, will my presence hieaidoe om-
fort you ? If so, I will'-remaisrtillmio 4ng."
.. No; you can douio good:' ,It'is inidnight
now, and you irust be wearied with your long
ride.  You can not' hel'tne he,,but, to-mor-
row I shall 'wanit you-'to Igd With: ao to 'the
cemetery. 'I wish his family to hive the sa d
consolation-of knowing that-9ninister knelt It
his grave when we laid the   youxgpatriotin
his last resting-place. Goodsby, my lbiother,
till them.' -Eleetra is' in thet next room  will
you' go in 'and speak to her ?"' ' "'
6" No ; I will see her early in the morning'
He left her to.:keep alone her solemn vigil;
and through the remaining hours of that star.
rv Jun' night she stiri-ed noV froii ths nui ro
cot-kept her fingers on the sufferer'e fleeting
ulse-Lther'eyes on'hig whituringface. Abd6u
three o'clock he moaned,stru led lightly,
and looked intentl at her.  ' e ave him
sie' bdiindy, and folind that he'swallowed
with great difficulty. '  "  ' - - "
"WEillie, re y9u in pain ?".
SIs 'it you, Mother-and are we at home ?s
he askedindIstin tly r  I  "' ' .'   ,:{
Sou are' gging home, Wlllip; you 1wil
soon be there." ,
"L ,have not .said ray:prayers' to-night.
Mother} ;hildrmy i iskne agaidute"'  '  ,L
I  put otthis arin nasMf to;onsig. it to er
'a reand folddLhishands together. e, K!.'
nr lathet who martin heayefNihaoiveg
b' thy name-4' His voice s.adtoia'whis.
per, inaudible'forjsome .se4ondsip then. he.
paused, as if confused; a troubledok;l erosed
hisfeatures, the hazeleyes'6fledand the hands
fejl;powerless onhisehOst. ,  aying, herhanu
on psrowIren i''ly repe t. arfavonft
pela which ,bad; seemed toghat'hisminm
tW,  d y  befor -tlttpealt ofj pranbxeoel.
ord is ;my.Shepherd ; ;I 'shyltnotse  5.
Whether he, derslped it .now; themnerer
knew,, buthisd.r-gero. crept -caretsingly to
her face, eekly strking her che,* wihilnab.
spoke, and when  he concluded he seeed*r t*
hsT~ewe it al-I; 4don't--'&amp; 'Then
tue~indstictlygenatehhinfatrayer
wbiclha been taught hibt at his tnekle-bed
4 ft~er a shortsilence he shivered1 etd'mr.
wrir d':' '  '.  '  '.     .

"Caporalkof the gnardU poet .,umbar
nine I Mother, it is 'coldtandinge t
'night, battthe  lidf+ill   n i bin und.
His eyes wandered .ardunzd the; diin'oonm,
then slowly losedj'asthe fell int&amp;thdalep
that knewai aathly  akin'g   FA   K r
A sick gra$ fewfadst offaske for some
walte,4fid asIrebe'reeitedths tunblerifrom
his l"andhe said, under:his reath      -
"'lie iswoiseyto night, isn't=he;'Ma'ii ?' *b
;"Y1e      w Iowr is that pairiingyotar side 1' I
mustputa'blisten en it ifpit growg mote see.
"i1 dbesuiot trouble mne as muoli as =ithid
abont dk. How is rmy fevers,
"Ndt so hi thy fifteentbeats 1 o'willki
able':C6%kes iine'e at seven:odelck;'};A
She snuffed the candle and resumed hdr
setan  gaiu' ileereigned s ll nee brToken
bolydby'taPdeep breatin-. the0 p iedtsand
the sudden jihgle o etvetalsoin'th table asa
hi   gradn oseraxt linen theni to idhble atthe
open jarofrsiple eerat  f.; l,''r °{
S e-airgeechillypasa liht ist gatlieed
along, dhe James, andi;tnnI  the irnmble ot
whe liig  tho paved stred  told thate ople
were begnnngEtostu ifr the ,leepmg cetr.
Slowly a halfhourarollediawdy ; Ireneabiuld
krelylfeel the' faint 'pulsatieis at,"Wslie Wal-
ton's wristband asdhe ppWhedt, ear tk;hidipsia
long,"ast shdderingasigh.escaped ;hiiwehe
battle' of lifeis 'endadt: Willi es  e af'had
6ome  The youtgjsentiuel paseo hiastery
'1Ta+   e +d f dai '4
*Tea s droppedorthe;tif f'aeas the uurse
cut several locks of curling h ir;thtilsteid
aroirnd:the boyish temples and' took'froii the
motionless heart theloved picture which"had
been so ofte  -a      ndyo o r'kissedy iihe
fitful light of'eafniirycovered tie
nobs ;heatihe farrat  e   fatnris,4iIth
~er haudker hefgutndgwakibg indrw  ontu
edt the bodg  left her ow yad s tta d
onebego n!he passage:}.'
;tasmallet blat einniear iri range  V
to the rodprwhernsheThadepaedadd he
AcanrdlprwaSaggtterinli4# s lo, ~~
Midcold :,msty hito dawnsted   e
1era blindow Ao'rwis'i ooi~
o at rr iedh
ta           t, a od,4d
ing so ndly, with 'hes car
about her ls pidess4t
lone hand and the otheididigeei  %jl
dren &amp;ftd th  b ar  ls thejtd
yville&amp;thathijhedoxeek atid eks0~t
s eJ -  ha ..  bdenisleep 'a$~$4

r


fo  i 1  oek  q  H6W TM p  tv e":two  a ft '' .I  m  r  r  W  h t t -t   he  matter ? "Surely  you "1  are.a,4 +' ),  i {Si  ,,f"1 t  ~Jlt  fPCti   ,+r  ,' a.r i*14'D ii1i  h1 ,ild yih  B t  . .  i1tnd r-rA nl ?, o Ih v 'n
dead;  .... . ,R  ;  .i.',  w t -.,   f .4  ears ;about the: sa yo  i~ no l feieat is
' i)hilhwg tlhbow dioi uragin k L*ent inotwritt ni ~ -' Lr .ion; ,but I shudder tin
r  ~ of5 *lOlk, t~rie; nd  ldkod 'i Mtvr +- obade :i w oflth~uproeipus hiuman I1httatou~ns to be
you were prayiikgp)fh&amp;-th : ast tie' on hud iunuoolate~aoz,;yoncler. hilIs before McClellan is
you r fa ib iibnii   Iie tpon  i  , t  Iii'e  i pill  N wlybt.on,'ictr) iIqiet .4 ivaht d  k. rii'.R a  k.;frQ"hit  . ofb tVector01y dio ,,.uiepti
oJld                   Lr                 L it''     (, Totgh o'its'awfii"prce."
" more told'm t11 f wdulddie, awli  y~iads  $I eshacl ed J,1w ,a e ,nd lshudlrJered '
me'u   w( hok         ita -could~ot relfrve. F}-1' Oti  tup, ebild1. a We  av make quicker'
Iwl ; wpfk- ofY i',th1an you seeNm 'to                       r iagin... But
t-tvow pr ~  ip~i = ha.aoted( f a te ltyOilsupposeo 'reveprseir, should overtake us, ,what
Mr. Ihlidly yoid'er, who has pneutmoia.Just wou~d., you "do ?" -"I  F
"1 l lia e l buu sole,a t peanas al  ( :'  _;s al:: ) ' ee', .s Ionig 4s aman or
{  r « Iha'e LAourt rt ' uto   I i0 ei etwith a!ornEi~is .Ilt to attend :to; tbie wouudred; and
ab aaot,,4i r1 i1Ylooro sbi, doe- j w'hieb !,-God fQr+0id --ur rmy sl ut b
for cdniss AMVw ,L and, theri 1 s1alb o,"bons. for 'd l,              o 1rwe~ig.n~rh' ,b e
e'yn ra~ ? ' ",;(t~  :,. s3  .   oicto t ,knbjV, tbat the., spirit of'Eitug
j.  ;,G ~ ~  nlr;'e~rAo:my Aft6Ar,+l dthw ail .be .befotund in Richmond.
tempIisl~ adl,'pp  i~rnwhen'.Ik-c ould  No;r4 n b  n $ ssbul, never-f4nft ovr u
ne~wd~1tki~e a ¢ t i~J P I~hI IA,,   apit ~itiig,: t e atlnospher we breathee;
' ;  di~g~a ~           ?~ ~n ue Jrweewergeiwy the people ire-Resolved,
"{No.,',W here dd (btsA-coaodrof ' g f; sf, ilo I" 10_f w$JJ ehW thegr~nd WQrds of Atun
m~n                    U hrAIch- as we' gather round our, magnifio t x national
tnoisd, d wxd;1h 3'vc uJ4 seep~s;~t~ti  y:       4
+ls re4 s {              gh .        C U    'T   botrttht In fiery flhnie the roof,811h1u1(? thun-
"1 us  eJihi;tNot 1   hy (do yeualJ 1  I le ir1 0  )i""  R'sit     e   ,
hieh ltyY * t k s~u seen duv[ 3'; ^ t y    haltt tI~e  f t giot uo sould..  upten the
! t S lre  c r/qukdy' g f  dl he8ri band    4 n s;  '  *  '     .~i!F'" 2  i* *  *
andslo~ed swtrexftly f~ier.~ ~Thp gh the rTmpags,,,rpck, beneath us, and ,thie va11s
",      ,        .wL~wu .  3'  a  G    oglg tlis * ar .o~? conifiaritien bellow opeC the sinking
r  silum'ler ~tp  ta?  ,ini±d  ecis}of n  ace uf l aer where the foemn ,111c1 not
hadbu aIL liui t rmai.  wllgot toy Where the summons never sounded,of thie~fr npet or the
shawl andjmin :?°,1 un vc  ni ji4s. Eleetra  dii,. , t
you must stayyout home an rstfr a dad or                          ;  lwead e?~d~ih u
t'pwo y "'YOUatr fveidith -, dif lino t wig1h vn- Audthe ashes of tecity be onu iqve s4 l gve i'
stla . y  imva'lz':~'                 Irepeat it;}   etorunot:the- fate of = Rich-
I                  IiP       'llr     i~1onad troubles me-forthave not "a hadow ~t
)4 ", .  .F                    i                               ' i4  - ' dbj atG:1  d  *illf~ v ie  itx'--btthe
4    %                i i s s         ''t  ha  ;  r  i  t h e o g t o   ' ' h o  v e i i sr  e   l~ d ~ o lhu  f  p
g                             WhatVt  sal
~iiA&amp;*~btay ro~bkt~iit~tht  therstio iotd ; iWawul bvietn u  o1-a
tou    b      tth ta i iY   =u ;u o. r                3' Yt;  fld sg  n:Jjh o ,Wrkebfr
"                              yiWraifat lh'ehiijuC  W-t  h i-~h"t~e fr_"am thee irorWhs
dt-da -d, but,  h . c:                   ~far    lauv'  d pa  nthlnguioil  o say
"Nv' u  b'rFWt  ,0nr toh nfih o ;s t figilafrxuh a  pity jrn ii d~fo  t
" eaieMdl~                   t  e SII&amp;   s p    u i  nd "r hle f   b e 'ie
1*          Iptr  a0 uk  4tle  f~litioh ait a  ei d her apeandsll ot on hishit
p         "o       na'             y e al lbg  t P~atA isit ? rd~ni ii'til, at
.~  lk. l                                    auiaytdfdo ' athese f()movs youso  "

'«:Jo ,i~,orrmsoe that il~s cJ9r e4urey
is mortally 'woiuntl d yp9 , s, t
f o r '*i i t 9;;i~u t siie:himi once more.'
Her head wcnt down on her hands, and she
nr~.Cupa -ioniate y thi o  Uan dr. v, ;
ar   rupd he" '.      x. i.A{i.
despite 3our 4ln     resrvq11an'4 appadit;
indif iertitice ?,Ihavee xpefl s ,a
era1time~s, bat khan  erturbl W  s iz r   e
of yours' 4way ' b, ;~ se "        ,'
Ieea. Yiot 1,9~P R yoaw4, $e  is   ' ty 94
your love ;'he is tht only man I ,ntxi  rJ
would adJ we  uoary,    rti lP
tel me-d-cid Lconar ..ln rwt  r" Q,4 4
of  u1 ou  fection,.t~' Ae1s$  !a  o jyou
'to  your lonely  lot  ° {"    : i  itI9:).   iy, K f
"n.  fa either , d.   ancd    ht
measure., Kii   1       ,- im  iiel1 as o,+4
cait ) tt s t" 4ti t, *Ould1vr  aow
ed hiiu,, t siS ect, the t ,.t "iG4e' e Id'
dutjand inuIfilletd it.; that ,gtlie only conso 4-
yJ1 I.lvel  i. A    vIue           ope
ti+14      .I~'~  z ,tor    jAAJrt rob 9j  ret1  1wns e4 (o4; )it9r,
reflection; anId the debtoi4~
his m                gut ipj  u1 c l~tu r ri
If CtloAuo;11rey y,;'4t
pe ndlc~e bfr .wt ich 1  , is    tp l rZ-,n g ., ,
should kespayse    ; ' o  po  e  ;,  v Y ued
these dark  a              edh rnnr a
t 1i  "'othongb seRa~jt4e  %4ciha1l
wid!g"usbrdlliant juar ii" r k
he 'must give ,his lift. for"ti A~4
ilea tsl u1 .t ask-,the rlgvI4
uain~a of a + 1rj witti ; pi it "s ; ~$e, r .
~his consolation the bravespiritof my f
r uli ,nutLAilol4 t'iqrft04Ai?
al o,                    Ae t~eeu;iVq' ;g
can hiuave the right to deny  ,)i   +'
~  or  4, ka,  ll  uoly
rslu tinn what happesscan the fte     ; ,
God's gloryatid of contributig, a&amp; s4$u O f
t                     *feeble womau e n, ,to b;h bp'i9V  'a r'wat
aid ev r ,,u t. ,b  tle y, 'xt P1tIng,  ty~
aXru i4pie i    h uv:e t 1t rir'     ,
,.,r ti ?  #  ,cl;Q' u ii rte '  o ° tm the roa0, 'I:
Th   o  r ati 4r ubre   j ,htl  s l 4  ,

o  n4    s if  t60o Wwov
a   l 4  , 4 r#9yp #,up tisAd lbf
11a5t  },J1 ti; I  , ir t'4, Vet51lsg I1
and:'[ q   ihew4t  j~i~ l1
be                   11 se   1j mht
~~~L~~~~~j~  10, nez&amp;P~Aa~ey.
awas silnul rly "[ein thebesgy
, J ;gbp t  t jlQ~Ideq
140140w~     #~o hss4Y*s,
, , . k" 1 i^        i

ot dakn.
fo t1;°ir ktabROtrat
r oo, Westver   tiide  rto dd  ft th

t    t
i

, !                                               AVI#99 -MORSIXOMM'

,it

t' i


ee r  e d'lfi 1&amp;of' ' ae' s8t~tionu C~m&amp; it'  VAYb eW is badlyfruded.
511'ss command had pj eIt~l tbi u
h'i~ii htd  dkii~~ eoifillt  "Y6ix are gj to faint, Miss Irene! Drink
dIftad f  h~'s thw~ztd1'1 c, tiI  b!ai                 '
ta tily-iorer"tegre,. hr ifte  . iiir t !"N. Tell Anew to go after te r "ig
~ U~tl1ti~llr h~ ies  ~   *  ~ibkas pbsible, aa:d have t~othr
dre  i  f     iI wiT   oo-i ,6  id~ieY i edteIl  an1  k. UF  trnle ipt6code
4rsigtewounds of those who 1Iad  bkeirramy  b'or,, !'
fr _i rit         trfnl  11thstrife:"  I*e1 i'  #n  to  her ,   ' apartme', a h; c
bj  &amp;dlbfiat    d, cdifh  ' ;  t 'nr ht bonniet and veil,
i ttl r &amp;   le '                        n a the "6 'e   .ip"  Q  a
iadti     si        r  d * t t( f it1._rMl  ch  1 ntet soon aft er, Mrid   stated
,  orzn  {   ! r  t6  a"t  l't  hi  'sfacer~
l )IMee to4Ard  he   Aiblte  ' btt Wi he   .'1 ie, i~e *  t d&amp;6s  f   a4~W " . eA?   iir'l  l .w ere are
~  l~ed  tai ihi 9eh Unit= yoq  ping'at this lour Si?."Z
Tx , atn d!  ' lest; .read  , IZ  _lft  n ' oI   t ki/ je°' t  mxod~ay wounded, and
lIn   f     ' ~i '',z         10fu  j[[(( illu   i l moewih:
tlWt a s  'v tt   a ie 'bd  ,I o 4 tJ '       't~y   o6  ohe a' ra'ea
/  '(  yf "  .  *dt~~n', d s ,  askli ho }   ie  tng  Dior  thee  d gay!wit
hyt ? r.    1Abn," e  ei~d y   J qu p t  h  jii,  ddfT'Wim   eeism
thn ik - tst a~ ~ei  a,       t rI'  ha  d bn 'rlniavg  or thee datick
l   d we 'e me, iid  t %tit'rvsin  lae t  e oe  C 4T~~M~h  Ib tria. wic;s
hf Y iri e' f               h d   oid 'ed  eni4 " f  If 'r',  n oti ec aned
4 '  ,4i b.r  r ,   #      tt 1 1  'iUb, hW bmerebr  'fti ie  as
m' d tt Kali l 6&amp; -  'dxn Wtid d1     '   4  1, '; ds rfl '  l a  ' I
reew oth f' i+   .:l,     '- "I  onl.  i.d  agli pseaf~ hi, easrter
hTbi   e   d Ia et'tM We do i b* i htours;" 'n ' of, ' diai, h "wtht
tdfri ik L tr s*1   4i6*U  thV16;e  thb°at.'
I~4~4~hr  i  ,     ssf d h tyhd  ,  d  ! Yn~t-uv 6 t ahe.  .t' rust  ouia ,
sO  d, -1]  ' ei'dar 'ctjh t; foi'ii a  1 heh~'Wa1 gdr , ad'ec  alasSht_
"          f4, y.  K  a d i~h i tlne' at a"h°*nnldaskbb'x mWI, ei etr n=oug t ,
ta~lt h e sh 'phcln wfth6ib l      "alw t~wd  Wi  ~t f l esrp
=616,u                           111011 . 'tionsteKand returningfrohe fel
{tiou,.  t  eel              ordipar,  sihan e
71 ..qy  ,, ~lyjj tt, uit n    hbeiflyae'rbid; ad t ee the wayd'siem e'efied
e !j     d' 4i hy  at '  ato tih   +.uciia i~na  t   dh
dtr~t  k , :  1 {  i' t,{ .   k'' -i  ,n0J  1  ta l f  a  j l  ' ' i
- 4l %     ?r e  k  . b161                    h  ,was.7
I  '    4~    t~   fL )~:vh cud ou~~ti~yn~riieq"i ~~~

CAA.     '    .           1.77.

. She shrank farther back in one corner, and
answered with a voice which he could scarcely
recognize as hers.,
" If you love 'me spare me all questions
now.
By the glimmer of the carriage-lamps she
could see the wagons going to and fro-sone
filled with empty coffins, some with mangled
sufferers. Now and then weary, spent soldiers
sat on the, roadside, or struggled on toward
the city which they had saved, with their arms'
in slings, or hands bound up, or bloody band-
ages across their stern faces. After another
hour, when the increasing number of men
showed proximity to the scene of danger,
Cyrus turned away from the beaten track,
and soon the dash of' lights and hum of voices
told that they'were near the place of destina-
tion. The carriage stopped and Cyrus came
to the door.
"We are at the lines and I can't drive any
nearer. If you will wait, I will go and find
master."'
It was one o'clock; and as they waited, men
passed and repassed with blazing torches, sbme
bearingwounded men, whose groans rose above
the confusion., The cannonading had long
since ceased, and Eric/ called to a group of
soldiers belonging to the Infirmary corps.,
"What is the last news'from the front?
Have the enemy fallen back ?"
"Not yet; but they are getting ready to run
again, as usual. By daylight they will be out of
sight, and we shall be all day to-morrow hunt-
ing them up. Their style is to fight -about
three hours and run the balance of the twenty-
four. They take tothe swamps like all other
such miserable varments."   -.,
The delay seemed intolerably long, and for
the first time an audible moan escaped Irene
just as Cyrus came back accompanied by a
mutiled figure.
" Irene, my child."
She leaned out till her face nearly touched
Dr. Arnold's. .   .-.
" Only tell me that he is alive and I can
bear all else."
" He is alive, and sleeping just now.- Can
you control yourself if I take you to him ?"
"Yes ; you need not fear that I will disturb
him. 'Let me go to him"'
He gave her his arm andled her through the
drizzling ,rain for sonie distance-avoiding,:as
much as, possible, the groups of wounded,
where urgeons were at their sad work. Fi-
nally, before a small tent, he paused, ;and
whispered.:
"Nerve yourself, dear child."
"Is there no;hope ?" -
She agept aside her long mourning-veil and
'gazed imploringly. into his face.
Tears filled his eyes, and, hastily averting
his 'head, he raised the curtain of the tent and
drew her inside.        -
A candle burned dimly in one corner, and

here, on a pallet of straw, over whigh a blank-
.et had been thrown, lay the powerful form of
the dauntless leader, whose deeds of desperate
daring had so electrified his worshipping coin-
mand but a few hours before. The ,i0ble
head was pillowed on a knapsack.; one hand
pressed his heart, while the .other 4rooped
nerveless at his side, and .the .breast of hi
coat was -saturated with the blood, which at
intervals- oozed through the, bandages ,and
dripped upon, the straw. The tert was silent
as a cemetery, and.not a sound passed Irene'.
white fixed lips as she bent down and looked
upon the loved face, strangely beautiful in its
pallid repose. The shadowy wings of theb :tter
By-Gone hovered no longer pver the features,
darkening theit chiselled perfection; a tranquil
half-smile parted tie lips and unbent the lines
between the finely-arched black bgws.
Sinlking softly on the floor of the tent, Irene
rested. her chin on her folded hands.and
calmly watched the deep .sleep. So passed
three-quarters of a  hour; then, as PLJimold
cautiously put his fingers on the pulse, the
sufferer opened his eyes.
Irene was. partially in the shade,.but, as she
leaned :forward, a sudden, bewildered smile
lighted his countenance; he-started, up axd
extended one arm.
"Irene! My darling! Do I dream? 'or are
you indeed with me ?"
"I have come to nurse you, Russell; but if
you do not calm yourself the doctor will send
me -away."
She took the outstretched hand in both
hers, and pressed her lips repeatedly upon it.
"Come close to me. I t am helpless now,'
and can not go to you."
She seated herself on the edge of the straw,
laid her shawl in her lap,a  tin 'his head,-
rested it on the soft woollen fol s. Pr. 'Arnold
removed the warm cloth soaked with blood,
placed a cold,,dripping towel on .thew gaping
wound, and, after tightening the -bandages to
check the hemorhage, passed out of the tent,
leaving the two alone.
" Oh, Irene ! this is a joy I never hoped for.
I went at night to the hospital in Richmiond,
just to get a'gliimpse of you--to feast my eyes
with anothersight of your dear, dearace 1,I
watched yo  p urperinglihe an angel o geQ
and wounded soldiers, and Ienvie' thes the
touch of your hand-the ,msund pf ypur voice.
I little expected tQ dielin your arms. Tis
reconciles me to my 'fate ; this compensates for
all!"
Her fingers tenderly  qhoea4d the black
locks that clung to his templ s, and, beid
down, she kissed his forehead. 'hs gu'nu
arn stole up around her peekdreyr her fie
to his, and his lips pressed hers again and
again
"PIear Urissell; you, pns be quist, or you
will exhau$t yourself. Try to sleep;--it will
refresh, strengthen you."

1  *,~   , ,  4

.r


178                               .MACARIA.
"«INoting *ill strengthen me. I Jiave' but rated in life; you and I shall be united by death.
a shore tiin to live ;'shall I sleep away' th op- Oh, Irene I but for your earnest piety this
pbrtinity of m  last earthly communion *ith precious anticipation might never have been
ou, my, life-long idol ?  OI, Irene ! my mine. But' for you, I would have forgotten
beautifiti treasure!1' think proof of your love my mother's precepts and my mother's prayers.
sweetedis death itself. ,Thete bave been hours Through your i ifluence I shall soon join her
(e C  iice  e parted a year 'agb) when ,I *here the fierce waves of earthly trial can
reproached 'you fr the sot ro* and pain you lash my proud soul no more."  '
sternly neted out to me adto yourself. When  " Thank God!' Oh, Russell! this takes
I said bitterly, if she loved'me as she shbiald, away the intolerable bitterness of parting; this
she would level all barriers-she' would lay will support me in' coming years. I can brave
her hand in mine-.-.glorify my nafie by taking all thingsan future."
it as ziy wife and thus defy and acnc'e1 the  She saw that a paroxysm of pain had seized
past. I was s lfish in ny love ; I.wanted you him. Hi' brow !rinkled, and he bit his-lips
in my'home; I' onged for the soft 'touoh of hard, to' suppress a groan. 'Just at thi mo-
youffAtigers, for your proud, dazzling smile of mpent Dr. Ariold re-entered, and immediately
welcome 'wen the day'&amp;w  k was ended ; for gavehim another potion'of morphine.
the 'privilege "of drawing you to my heart and  41Aubrey, you mu  be quiet, if you woull
listening to yo'ir whispered words of encour- not shorten'your life"
agement and fond congratulation'on my'suc-  He silently endured his .suffering for some
cesses.  l'knew that this could never be; that, moments, and, raising hi'eyes again to Irene's,
your vieration' for your father's memiory said in a tone of exhaistion :
would separate us -in'future as, in the past;  " It is selfish to make you witness my
that tny pleadings would not sh sko your un- torture; but "I could not bear to have you
'fortunate and erroieous resolution ; and it was leave me. There is something I want to say.
bard'to give up the dearest 'hope' that: ever while lPhave strength left. How1is liectra ?"
bightened a lonely man's life.. Now I kriow  "IPartially delirious still, but the doctor
Ifeel, that your love is et onge deathless-"as thinks she will recover.' What shall I tell her
my' own, though lon   loclred deepin your for you ?"             '.
heart. I know it by 'e anguish in your face,  "That'I loved and remembered her in my
'by the uiVerQf your mouth, by your presence dying hour. Kiss her ,for me, and teli her I
n thi    ace  f horrors. God comfortt 'and fell where. the dead lay thickest, in a desper- 4
bless yjott ny own darling i--my(brave, patient, ate 'charge on' the enemy's batteries-that
$'aithftil Irene 1'                        none can.claim a'nobler, prouderdeaththan
'He smiled triumphantly and 'drew'her hand mine-.-tht the name of Aubrey is once more
caressingly across hs sheek  '.         'glorifled-.-rebaptized with my :blood upon the
'4Ru sell, it 's 'ueless' no to dwell upon battle-field. Ireie, she is alone in the world;.
our sorroful past; what sufferirag our separa- watch over and love her for my sake. Doctor,
tioli has cast mare 'one but my God can ever give mesotne water."
know.      His hands I commit my destiny,   :As the hemorrhage increased despite their
and ITe  oetlh all things mellt' In a little efforts to staunch it, he 'became rapidly weak
while you will' 1eave ie, and then-ohi !i the  er, and aoon  fter, with one han l16ked in
I' lfll.ieutterly desolate indeed!. But I can. Irene's, he fell asleep
bear:loneliness--.I can Wlk my' dreary earthly  "She 'sat; 'motionless, supporting his head,
path ncoinplairlngly ; I cagive' ,ou up' for uttering no sound, keeping her eyes fixed on
"the sake of 'm y country, if 1 have the bl ssed his upturned countenance. Dr. Arnoldwent
assuranc0 that, you have, only hattemied home noiselessly in and out on various errands of
before me   aitang for 'e there =th t saved money ;' ocasionailly- aixions, weather-beaten
through 'Christ',we shall"Oon meet in heaven soldiers 'softly'-lifted the curtain of the-tent,
and spen9. Eternity tether' Oh, Russell! gazed sadly, fondly, on the 'prostrate figure of
can yo    ve "me this 'o9isolatiah, without the beloved commander and turned 'away
which my   tues b  e dar tindee'd? 7Have silently, withtear# trickling down theirbronz-
yoi  kept youi proise,-to live so that you ed faces. Slowly' the night waned, and the
coidat last   eet the 'yes .of your Gtod in shrill toes of reveille told that another day
peace "   "',                      '      h     .d risen before the 'murky, sky brIgtened.
a    ae,   Iaterhaverstruggled against the Hundreds, who had' sprung upat't atc
4evMed tgeoenish theiditiN' feligs jof theIr gore, sleeAn 'their last 'slep where
iny hea; nd     hav 'conscientiously tried to neither the sound of fI  and  runi1 no the
nr  y duty to mfnfellow-creatnress to msy battlecry of comrades, would eve i-duse them,
comn; alid my comitir. 'I ham r ead' the froin 'their final'est beore Mavaran Hill-''
bible you gave me ; and, dearest praying ?va1t which' winds Walled a frequien,lanid trAil-
for o     have learned 'to  ay fo'yself. in ,yfuipping cloudo'settld like a palE' 1'"i
Through Jesus, I hlave  sure 'hope of hapi-  'he bustle and stir of amip  'Mreased as
ness beyond the grave.' There, though sepa-" preparations were made to follow the foe, whoQ

MACARIA            '179

had again taken. up the line of retreat.; but
.within the tent unbroken silence rejgned, It
was apparent that Russell was sinking fast,
and at, eight o'clock he awoke, looked uneasily
-around hun, and said feebly,:
" What is going on in front ?"
"McClellan has evacuated Malvern Hill
and, is in full' retreat toward his gunboats,"
answered the .doctor.  .
"Then there will be no more fighting. ,My
shattered regiment will -rest for a season.
Poor fellows! -they did their. duty-nobly yes-
terday. Tell my men for me that I am inex-
pressibly proud of their'- bravery and their
daring, and that, though my heart clings fond-
lyto my gallant regiment, I glory in the death
I die-knowing that my soldiers will avenge
me. Give my, love to one_ and all, and tell
them, when next ,they go'into battle, to:re-
member' him who,.led their last: charge. I
should like to have seen the end of the strug-
gle--but Thy will, oh, my God!1 not mine."',
He lifted his eyes toward heaven, and for
some moments his lips moved inaudibly in
prayer. Gradually a tranquil expressionget-
tied on his ' features,. and as his eyes closed
again he murmured faintly;
" Irene-darling--raise me a little."
They lifte.f him and rested his head against
her shoulder.,
Irene ,"
"I am here, Russell; my arms are:around
you."
She laid her,cheek on his aud' listened to
catch the words}; but none came., The lips
parted once, and a soft fluttering breath, swept
'across them. Dr. Arnold put his hand over
the heart-no pulsation greeted, him; and
turning away, the old, man. covered his face,
with'his handkerchief.
"Russell, speak to m* once more."
There was no sound-no motion. She knew
then that' the soldier's spirithad soared to the
'shore of Everlasting Peace, and thatnot until
she, joined him there would the loved tones
again-smake music in her heart... She tightened
her -arms around the still form andnestled her
cheek closer to his, now growing cold. 'o
burst of grief escaped her, to tell of agonyand
despair:
aBut ike a statuS solid set,
And moulded in colossal aimn
she sat, mute and resigned, at the foot of- the
" RedDripping Altai.t',patriotism, where Slay,
in hallowed Sacrifice, her nobde, darling DLead.
. nthe inornaig-light hey;' face looked rigid,
pallidas his, and tie tearlgsbut indescr ibabl
mournful eyes were riveted on his placi,
handome features. Eric and yiarvey.Young
stood in one coraer,of th teatry'wping ay
,,tears 'which would got..b~ restrae and
finally Pr Arnold stooped  and said fat@ep
"My dear child, e~ime within me1 now." .

She did not seem to hear bim,i and he re-
peated his words,,trying, at the same time, to
unwind her arms.,
She yielded, and with her ownhaud~  oth-
ed out and cut a lock pf hair that waved over
his gleaming forehead.    ,
Leaning over hya, she kissed the icy, lips;
then rose, and clasping her hands, nm rxnured :
" Farewell, my own brave aussell !'"
The minister approached  nd etobd-befoe
'her. She lifted her  an dry fce,.and, as she'
put out her arms to him, a wintry smile fli ed
over the mouth that had see n4 frozen-
" Harvey! Harvey 1h'wasm y' all! !e
was the idol of my childhood! ant girlhood !
and womanhood   'Oh I pray forme that1
may be patient and strong in my great desola-
tion.
*      *      C *       *
Electra's speedy convalescence' repaid' the
care bestowed upon her; and.one'oaf trn on,
ten days after quiet hadagain settled around
the Confederate  capital, she insisted'on being
allowed to sit up laer than' usual, protesting
t at she would no longer lbe regarde as a inm-'
valid.
" Irene, stand in the light where I can se
you fully. 'I-ow worn and weary you:look!
I suspect I am, regaining myhealth at the, ex-
pense of yours."
pno; I a ouas well in body as f'could de-
sire; but, no doubt, ny, a xiety. has left its
traces on my countenance."
She learned over Zlet a'echairand stroked
back the artist'ssl inir hair.
" I wish you 9ol let ne 'see    p e~pes, -
yeyes are strong, enough now, and I want
to kni 'exactly what hitaken pia", every-
where 'duing mp sickness  It seems eto 'e
possible that .reneal ees aiy an
eClellan's nuellopnger without bringingon'
a battle, an  am so anxious about    ssel
If he should l,+,hurt,  of course, I must  go,
to ,him. It is very strange that le hasnot
written. .dre you sure no, letters'oarefr
me
'hre are letterse, I am'sue;but:I
have a message for you.  iveuseen
once since you were taken sick    I    i
"Ah ! what is it? Ih leard'-that'1 was. ill,
and dame to see me,I bsuo    When      e
here ?
Irene bent downand'kissed her cd  d on
tremulously, saying sowly-
trmlulsyn       lwy," He. desired' me'to' kissyou for',him. ] lec-
tra, I hvye not old' yourlbfore, 1liecdne
feared the effect upon yon in your weak state;'
but there havt ben, de      bts aond
Richnmond duriu ' your ! n ess, an. r
Gls have been defeatedpven.ack to James
standi all now! Whr jsae~        fJ,
~he ipran up5u~t a deatlike pallor6e-


180                                MACARIA, .
sere   her face and she tottered 'to the open ported to the Army of Tennessee, and air and
Iene follow  dththi                      sunshine entered umpeded. Electra sat be-
hee flb uthee tn figure, and, putting fore her canvas in this room, absorbed in the
her. rms about her, made her lean against design which now .engaged every" thought.
he  w  w                             The witchery of her profession had woven its
"Hen was wounded on the last:day, and I spell about her, banishing for a time the spec-
went 'to' see him ; you: were then deljrious.".  tral Past,
" Let p-i                       ;      .      '   -
him t  Lme go at once1 I will not 'disturb  'The extension of the Consription statute
him    will control myself! Only let me see had, several months before, deprived Irene of
him o-day "                              a valued and trusty overseer;. and to satisfy
gEe tr' you n 'not see him. 'He has herself concerning the charam'ter of his succes-
gpe' to hi God'; but in. his dying' hour he sor, and the condition ofaffairs at home, she
spoke of yoebtldly,. sent love, and"     and her uncle had returned toW-Tsl, bring-
The briield, trooped, shivered, and fell in~ Electra with themm;  -
*  ack insens~Jle in Imene's arm~s.'        Irene stood on the colonnade, leaning over
ea    as the swoon that it seemed as the back of Eric Mitchell's arm-chair, drop
if her spirit had fled to join her cousins 'in ping crumbs 'for the pigeons that cooed and
endless union; but at length consciousness re- scrambled at her ftet,and looking dreamily
turned, and with it came the woful realization down the avenue at these band of orphans who
o  h    A long, lwWailrose and fell had just paid her a visit,.and were returning
upbit the air like the cry from lips of feeble, to the asyldmi convoyed by the matron.
suffering, helpless children, and her head sank  "What contented-looking,'merry little chil-
upon tite' 'ehouler of the sad-faced nurse, dren those are," said her uncle, watching the
Whose grief could find no expression in sobs, or small; figures diminish as they threaded the
moans, or tears.               '       ' avenue.
"'Dead I dead !           'a-naenue.
fa   d! ea    ar d I shall see his dear  "Yes; they are-as happy a orphans'possil-
face  o ?re !'Oh! why did you not let me bly can be. I love to look into their smiling,
die, too? What is my wretched life worth rosy faces and feel their dimpled hands steal
now?   One grave might have held us both ! timidly into mine. ',But, Uncle,. Dr. Arnold
My noble, eerless Russell 1 the light of my has finished his nap and is waiting for you."
Withay l    TGod! be merciful! take me   She gave him 'her arm to the library-door,
" iy idol! Take me. now i"         saw him. seated zconifortably at the table,
Very tenderly and -caressingly' Irene en- where the, doctor' was examining a_ mass of
davored to soothe her-detailed the circum- papers, then.joined Electra in the parlor.
stnce      l of her cousin's death, and pointed her  "What progress ar'you making, Electra.?"
soulftaia enion..                  Very -little. I can't work well to-day.
ut no rift appeared in the artist's black Ruskin says that no artist has fully grasped or
r            ho sorrow; she had not yet learned that,.in matured his subject who can not quit one por-
drawin near the.'hand that holds the rod, the tion of it at any moment and proceed to the
bo lightened and she bitterly demapded completion of some other part. 'Doubtless' he
of her Maker ;to he released from the burden is. correct ; but I am -b haunted by those-blue
oflifec                                 eyes that Ican paint nothing else this after-
"Electra, ;hush your passionate cries! crush noon. Do you'recognize them ? Yours, Irene.
kno     r drethlofus words.' Your 'heart Forgive me ; but I can find no others, in im. "
ow' t   dnoedepth of agony which mihejhas agination or in life, that so fully express'sere,-
o  sound   ,and    et, in this season of ity. My work -has taken marvellous hold
h,   ,rs 4 w -tassel is taken-'from us both, upon me; ,sleeping or *'aking, it follows,,pos-
I look Upon his gravO aid feel that,    sesses me, ,I shall not hurry myself; I intend
-t  '  .,:  l" , r an strong,        that the execution shall be equal to My ideal--
i g ye are                     n pt lost for aye aminh and that ideal entirely worthy of the theme. I
n     , with last nea nh aGodkeepsa niche  want to lay my 'Modern Macaria,' as the
In 1*9aven, to hold our cols:and albeit "Jamy            dr      lacraste
bke then tb our fees. and denied  first offering of Southern Art, upon my coun-
er cloe eokiscs should impair their white,  try's altar, as a nucleus aroundwhich nobler
k  we shall behof d them bisedacomlete,  '  and grander pictures, 'from the hands, of my
b di lt swept'frgma'heir heauty..-glorified  *   '
New Memnons, singing in the great God-light"' .,  countrymen and women, shali cluster. In
sunny climes like ours, my glorious.Att had
its birth, its novitiate,-its apotheosis; and'who
HAPTER XXXVI.                - dare say that fatr  ages shall 'not find..Art-.
The Nh ofStudents fromall nations pressing, like pilgrims,
Theugsunlgh of a warm spring day flashed to ther Perfected School of' the 'Southern
thruh te open wndow, andnade ag ~en States?    Ancient repubhcs'offered premiums,
'ee   aery  ttt t' Hle d' 'ortits abid saw the- acnme of tnhe 'artS; why not our-
dfth  aas ic.iigon Hi-  Thj gost- Confeder~te republic, When days of national
y cinto dairs foeraias had Ion since prosperity dawn upon us? If the legisla'
be~  ut it sir~ o the soldiers an~ trans- ture of each 'state would' annually' purchase,

I

I

for the embellishment of the galleries and
grounds of its, capital, the best picture or
statue .produced within its borders during the
twelvemonfhs, a generous emulation would
be encouraged,   Our marble-hearted   land
will furnish materials, which southern -genius
can mould into monuments of imperishable
beauty. This war furnishes instances of -he-
. roism before which all other records;pale, and
our Poets, Sculptors, and Painters have only to
look around.theim for: subjecs {which Greek
or.Italian.'Art would glorify and immortalise.
"' I do distrust the poet who disderna
No character or glory in hid tunies,
And trundles back his soul dvn hundred years.'
" Our resources are inexliaustible,-otr capa-
bilities as a peoplenihmited and te regqiie
only the fostering influences whichh Cosmo De
Medici 'and- Niccolo Niccoli exerted in Flor-
ence, to call int9 action energies and latent
talents of which iwi are, as yet, scarcely con-
scious. Such patrons of*Art and Literature I
hope to find in the pldtatprs of the Confedera-
cy. They have wealth, leisure, and every re:
quisite Adjunct, 'adsfpon them, as a class, iust
devolve this lgborof love-the accomplishment
of an American, Renaissance-the develop-
ment of the slumbering genius of our land.
Bu,rke has remarked: 'Nobility is a graceful
ornament'to the civil order; it is the Corin-
thian capital of'polished society.'  Certainly
Southern planters 'possess all the elements of
tilis highest order of 0social'adrchitectu e, and
. upontheir correct appreciation of"the grave
re pnsibility attending their wealth and  in-
fluence depends, in great degree, our emanci-
pation hom the gross utilitaiianism which has
Sithertcoharacterized us, and our progress iii
refinement "and tsthetie culture. As *e are
distinct, socially aid pblitically, front other na-
tions,'so let us be intellectuallytand artistically.
The world has turned its back upon us in i ur
grapple with tyranny; and, in-the =hour of our
triumph; let'us not forget' that, as we won In-
depender1Oe'without aid or syinpathy, so we
can maintain it. inall departiments."
* "Electra, in order to effect 'this ' consum-
mation devoutly to be wished,' it is necessary
that the primary' branches ofArt 'should be
popularized and thrown opento themasses.
iI /contends, in his Political Economy, that
the remunerationt of the ebuliar Oenployinehts
of womep s always far below"that of mploy-
ments 'of equal' skill caried an 'b3 "re,,f and
he finds an explanation in 'the 'fact that they
are overstocked. Heftet;in 'improving the
condition of wamen,it is advisable to'-give
them the readiest access to'independent'inr.
dustrial pursuits  and extend' the 'itcle' of
their appropriate occupations. Our Revolus
tion has lheggatd thousands' anrd depriVd
many of their nktnial' provides; nutnbe&amp;
of wbiren in the Confedefaey 'will 'bC'tiro~fi
entirely 'upon their Own~iesourdes fbr ntai@

tenance.. All can not be' nuii-nmhkers,
milliners, or .school-teachers; and, in ordei'to
open for them new avenues of support, I have
'determined 'to establish in.W--  ' school
of Design for women-similar in" lan, though
nore extensive, than that founded ome'years
agq by Mrs."Peter, of Philadelphia. p T'd up-
per portion of the 'building will be arr&amp;e d
for drawing-classes, 'ood-engtavinfg, and the
various branches'of Design ;' ard' th 'lovef,
corresponding iii si e and generalappe&amp; i'e,
I intena"afor. a c'rculatig-librai  foroi
county. tOver' that School' of'Design" ant
you to. reside'  our talents, 3our  Iaddea-
ti  r olrdevotion to  °iu  rti yoi~cu
liarly for' the' position M  i slr r  hb
sieh as, to compensate'yat for your de i'e ;
ind, when calmer dayg dawn upon us,' ie'
may be able to secure somhe very valuable
lecturers among our gentlemen-artists. 'I
have 'a large lot on the 'corner Vf Pine stteet
and Hurntingdon avenue, opposite the 'eour -
house, which *ill be a fine Ietion'for it, and
I' wish to appropriatO)'it t 'this 'feirpoes.
While   ou ar  adorning the inteip ofrthe
buildigg' the'walls of which are to contain
frescqb of dome"of the most linpresie sceness
of ourRevolutior, I will emnbellish thi'g1bunds
in front, and 'make them myspeli charge.
I understand the cultivation of flowers, though
the gift.of painting them is deniedie  Yes-
terday I sid'my diamondeOr' a much larger
amount thai'I supposed they would contMiand,
and this sum,'added toother funds noy at 'ny
disposal, *111 enable :me t-, ac  lishthe
scheme.   Dr. Arnold and Uncle e      6
dially approve my 'plan, willul ,idme- very
liberally, and as soon as tranquilt t!i' restored
I shall succeed in erecting;'the building with=
out applying to an one ele 'for aistatie.
When your picture 'is finished, I wish you
to make me a copy 'to be hung up in out
School of Design, that-'the studenits'ma;be'
constantly reminded of the debt of gratitude
wewe our armies: How lifelike your figures
grov; Iocan almost see the4iivter of that'*ifb
whitd lips and heat the 'dishl -howlih g of'the
deadinan's dog".
The canvas, which she leaned forward'to
inspect more closely, contained an. allegorical
design representitl, in the'foreground, twe
female figures. One steiei yet noblb~faturad,
crowned with stars-triuipk  and exultation
flashing ify the luiinods eyes; Zdependence,
crimson-mantled, grasping- t ,he 'op e
Banner'of the Cross, whose 'vird     folds
streamed above 'a captured "battery; where
a Federal flag trailed in the ldist. "At her
side stood white-robed, 'an ell Peace, with
one hand -over, the ten 'hho~e of othe cannoh .
against which she lean d, ad the other. ez-
.tiended in- benedictienn 'Vividly the fae'es'
'contrasted.-aevill itob ith nationMl pride~
beaming with 'brillant 'destiny, the other
wonderfully sernie andl holy. 1k thn dlitancd,

MALARIA.                         181


182                                  MAC
gleaning in the evenin light which streamed
fro4 the west, tents dotted -a hill-side; and
intermediate between Peace and the glittering
tentsstretched a torn, stained' battle-field,
over hjch the rgar and rush of' conflict'had
just swept, leaving-iangled heaps of deadin
attestation of its fury! Among the-"trampled,
.b9.9y sheaves of wheat, an aged, . infirm
Nidbe-mother bent, in tearlessanguish, yress-
inlher chapd upon- the puisel'ess heart of a
handsome boy of sixteen symmrs ,whose' yel-
197 locks were dabbled frim his i.ath-wound
e. ;.steps. farther, a lovely' young Wife,
kneeling;beside the stalwart, rigid form of her
husband, whose icy fingers still clutched his
broken sword, lifted leer woful, ashen face to
heaens in mute despair, while-the fair-browed
infant on the ground beside her dipped its
ljttle-snowy,. dimpled feet in a pool of its
father's ,blood, and, with tears of terror still
glistening on its cheeks, laughed at the scarlet
coloring. Just beyond' these mourners, a girl
Mof surpassing beauty, whose -black hair floated
like"a. sble banner: onthe breeze,.clasped her
rounded   argis  boit her dead patriot-=Iover,
and %he ft her sad vigil in voiceless agony-
with all eC'Sparta's stern'stoicism in beif1blanch-
ed, 'st9ny, countenance.. And, list of the
stricken groups, a faithful dog, crouching close
to the corpse of an old silver-haired man,
threw back his head and howled in desolation.
Neither' blue shadows, nor' wreathing, rosy
mist,,nor golden haze of sunset glory, softened'
Keacrificiai scene which  showed itsgrim
features strangely solemn in.the weird, fading,
crepuscularmiigbt.  .
"How-many months do you suppose it will
require tp complete it ?" asked Irene,-whose5
interesk,;in'the picture was scarcely inferior
to that'of itscreator.
" ; I work steadily-upon it, I can soon-finish
it;' but if I go with you to a-Tennessee hos-
pital, 1 must, of..course, leave it here until the
war ends., After all, Irene, the joy of success
does not equal that. which attends-the patient
working. Perhaps it is because 'anticipation
is the 'purest part of pleasure.'  I love pny
work; no maor woman ever loved it better;
andyet their is a painful -feeling of isolation,
of loneliness, *hieh steals over me sometimes
- and chillsall,my enthusiasm. It is so mourn-
ful to'know that, when the labor is ended and
a new chaplet encircles my brow, I shall have
no one, but you to whom I can turn for sympa-
thyr n 'my' triumph. If I feel this so keenly
now, how shell,I bear it when the glow of life
. fades into sqber twilight shadows and, age
creeps upon me ?,
"'Ormy God! imy God i.-
o suprente Artist, who, a sole return ,,..
For all the cosmic wondlpr of Thy work, .
* Demianid t of usjust it word-a name,
" Mi FathieW'--thou hast khowledge-'only thou,
flow gkesry 't is fotrwomen to sIt stiil
On finr niht bsoiayfr,

ARIA.

'She threw down her brush and palette, and,
turning toward her companion, leaned her
purplish head against her,
" Electra, it is very true that single woman
have trials for which a thoughtless, happy.
world hashlittle sympathy. But lonely lives
are not necessarily joyless ; they should be, of
all'others, fmost usetl. The head of a house-
hold, a wife and mother, is occupied with
family cares and affections-can find little-
time for considering the comfort or contribut-
ing to the enjoyment of any 'beyond the home-
circle. Doubtless' she is happier,' far happier
than the unmarried woman; but to the last
belongs the privilege of carrying light and
blessings to ma'ny'firesides-of being the friend,
and helper of hundreds; and because she bt
longs exclusively to ,o one, her heart expand
to, all her su firing fellow-creatures. In my
childhood I always thought of Old-Maids with
a sensation of contempt. and repulsion ; now I
regard those among them.who preserve their
natures from cynicism and querulousness, and
prove themselves social evangels of mercy, as
an uncrowned host of martyrs. Electra, re-
member otler words of tie same vigorous, gift-
ed woman whom you so often quote :
"'And' since we needs must hunger--better, for -man's
love.
ThanGod's truth! better, for crpanion sweet,
Than great cnvictious t let us bear our weights,
Preferring dreary hearths to desert soui  -
",Remember that, the woman who dales to
live .alone, and be sneered at, is braver and
nobler and batter than, she who escapes both
in a'loveless marriage. It is true.that you and
I are very lonely, and yet our future, holds
much that is bright. You have the profession
you love, so well and our now School ot Design
to, engage your thoughts; and I a thousand
claims- on my ~time ; and. attention. I, have
Uncle Eric to take care of and to love; and Dr.
Ariold, who is, growing quite infirm, has
promised me'that; as soon as he can be' spared
from the 'hospitals, he will make his hone with
us. Whn this storm of war has ppent itself,
your uncle's family will return from Europe
and. reside here with you. Harvey, too, will
come to W      '=to live-will probably take
charge of Mr. Oampbell's church--and we shall
have the pleasure and, benefit of his constant
counsel. If I could see you a member of thgt
church I should be better satisfied-and you
wouldbe happier.".
"I would join, to-morrow, if therdby I could
acquire your 'sublime faith and strength,,and
resignation. Oh, Irene I my friend and com-
forter ! I want ,to live differently in 'future.
Once . was wedded to life and ,ny Art--pre-
eminence i my profession, fame, was all that
I cared to attain ; now I desire to spend m
remaining years .so that I may meet Russel
beyond the grave./ His death broke .the ties
that bound me to this world; I.live now in
hgope of reunion in God's eternal kingdom.

I

MACARIA.

- have been selfish and careless and complaig-
ing; but, oh! I want to do my whole duty
henceforth. Irene, my calm, sweet, patient
gnide, teach me to be more like you.".
"Electra, take Christ for .your model, 'in-
stead of an erring human being like-yourself,
constantly falling short of her own .duty.,
With Harvey to direct us, we ought to accent-
plish a world of good, here in sight of Russell's.
grave.  Cheer up I   God's great'vineyard
stretches before us, cdlling forlaborers. Hand
in hand we will go in and work till, evening
shades close over us; then lift up, in: token Of
our faithfulness, rich ripe clusters of purple
fruitage. You and I have much to do during
these-days of gloom and national trial-forupon
the purity, the devotion, and.the patriotism of
the women of our land, rrot less than upon the
heroism of our armies, depends our national
salvation.. To jealously guard our honies and
social circles from the inroads of corruption,
to keep the fires of patriotism burning upon-
the altars of the South, to sustain ,and en-
courage those who are wrestling along the.
border for our birthright of freedom, is the:
consecrated work to which we are called; and,
'beyond this bloody baptism open vistas of life-
long usefulness, when the reign of wrong and
tyranny is ended, when the roar of battle, 'the
blast of bugle,- and beat. of drum is hushed
among our hills, and Peace I blessed Peace !
again makes her abode in our smiling, flowery'
valleys. Hasten the hour, oli! my God 'I
when her white wings shall -hover over us
once more I"
The eyes of the artist went back to the
stainless robes and seraphic face of her pictured
Peace in the loved "Modern Macaria," and, as

sha resumed her work, her brow  feared the
countenance kindled as in days of yore bitter
memories hushed their moans. and fell asleep
at the wizard-touch of her profession ,and the
stormy, stricken soul found balm andrest in.
Heaven-appoie'd L~abor..
Standing at theback  of Electra's 'ehaif
'with o e hand resting on her shlder, Irens
raise her holy.violet eyes-and looked through
the window toward the cemetery;where ghit
tered a tall marble sijaft which, the eitigens of'
W    -.-- had ereted overthe last quie 't.
ing-place of RussellAhibrey;. Sands:of Tline    t
were driftingstealthily around.thedruiibling
idols of the morning of life,'levelling andten=
derly"shrouding the Past, but'soaow left its
softening- shadow on theorphan's countenance
and laid its chastenin fi ngea .abbu 'thehli
which, meekly murmured, "' Thywill be ,o        r
' done."'  The rays of theta setting .duagilded her
nourning-dress, gleamed -in the .white' roses
that breathed their perfume in, her ripplg
hair, and lingered :like  a benediction onthe
placid, pure face of the'lonely woman whhad
survived everysehrthly hope;,,and whoealnl
fronting her Altars of Sacrifice, here'dedioated
herself anew to the hallowed work 'of pio
voting the happiness and ghlddening the
paths of all wh0:journeyed with her dowrn
the chequered aisles ofTnie
-iuThe Womac, risei
to thy peculiar and best altitudes *
Of doing good and of endur  ii'
Or cootortiog Jor ill, and teaching. food, r~'".
And reconciling al that ill and good'
Unto the patient e of constant hope:'
-enceforward; rise. apre  .
To all the calms an, .~agnanimities, '
-  he ofty uses a  a noble end.-
Thesanctiied devotion and full work,
To which thou art elect for evermorel"  ,'Y .

- At'

f    f}  'v~    t!'f
e     '  .k '     1  f  }'rir l

f                             '.E
                             _     ,!    i
'
'      1  ..j',

I

s
,

_  _

i.


  
             
         
       
   
