
    ----CITATION----
        Wentz, Sara A.. Amy Denbrook : A Life Drama .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8253
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Amy Denbrook: a life drama 
            
               (

4,'

AMY DENBBO OK.

A LIFE DRAMA.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
"WOMA~                   ~C SMILES AND FROWNS,"
COGITATION~ ETC., ETC.
NEW-YORK:
JAMES O'KANE, PUBLISHER,
~O. 128 NASSAU STREET.


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867,
B~ JAMES O'KANE,
In the C1erk'~ office ol' the District Court of the United Stt~tea for the
Southern District of New York.

j
I
I

TO HER,
WHOSE SACRIFICES FOR ME HAVE BEEN MADE WITH A SMILE;
TO HER,
WhO NEVER WEARIED OF MY JOYS;
'[0 HER,
UPON WHOSE BREAST I HAVE WEPT ZN SUFFERING,
THIS VOLUME
IS TENDERLY, MOST TENDERLY, DEDICATED
BY THE
WRITER.


AA[Y DENI
CHAPTER]
1   .                                                                                    "Now there's Napo~eo~ !" earne~
een; he spoke to a pretty creature
placed her hands over her ears.
"V/hen you speak, I listen, A
panion.
am     aiv~1-r~ death of iu~
the young girl, quickening her pa
well enough in his way-but I ha
home from the village seminary.
you
pain ran over the of
usually arbitrary, but he was now
castic: he walked silently by hi
I                                                                                        lifted his cap, and said "Good aft
She looked at him, and held out
I                                                                                        slightly, and went away without
1                                                                                                         7
I

BROOK.
i~ I.
~tly argued a lad of eight.
c at his side, who instantly
my !" remarked her corn-
~t man's name 1" returned
Ce, for the two were going
"Napoleon the Great is
te him !"
her's couAtenance: he was
~oo much hurt tp be sar-
.s friend a moment, then
ernoon 1"
her haiid: he smiled very
noticing it. She cried:


AMY DENBROOK.

8

they had simply fallen upon a topic that always 'proved in-
harmonious. George Coleman's essay for that day reflected
a little adversely tpon the better half of creation: Amy
'Denbrook was angry about it: sh~had diligently 'studied
the history of Napoleon, that she might have his defects at
her command, when George lauded him: she was in love
with every imbecile king or prince who gave. het' opportunity
td say, "I suppose you think such an oAne more worthy of
his~position than his wife."
She expressed' herself with an exceeding latitude and
asperity, which was partially the result of having lived but
sixteenn years, and partially from a desire to make her posi-.
tion strong. Whenever she had been able to silence George
into sudden thoughtfulness, she felt as if lifted upon wings,
but as she kept on her way home that. October day, she was
seIzed with an aching sense of failure in her whole being: she
was not niaking the most of herself: she was not usino' the
divine subtlety bestowed upon woman to help George :2-this
came to her vaguely in the shape of repentance and yearn
ing; \it came to be effaced by a thousand mdods, by a world
of childish and selfish fancies, but the yearning and repent.
ance struck root that day, as some tree Abegins its .lif~ in the
soil without much seeming cause: perhaps this stirring in
the tangled garden of 1~er soul, l~ ad taken place before'
,she remembered it because it was a preludeto a higher kind
of life; it was an episode in a fa ~eful day. Sh~ reached
home, and before entering the hous4, noticed the soft, strong
wind that swayed among the elm 4 in slow niowment, and

/'

then lifted up and around the heavy mass of cedar
foliage: the door yard was slightly strewed with brilliant
red and yellow leaves: a thin gray vapor moved from the
north-east over an upper sea of dimmed silver: the long,
muslin curtain of her chamber window had loosened itself
from its rude bracket, and floated outward: the vine which
was twined thickLy about the porch moved from stem to
topmost leaf: the grain-tields~~ waved, the wooded hills
breathed in unison, and the breeze coming freshly from Long
Island Sound, swept through the open door and out into the
vegetable garden with a pleasant murmur. She ascended
noiselessly to her chamber, and sat down by the open win-
dow: the restless wave of the eternally grecn cedars dis-
quieted her: for the first time they seemed to suggest rest-
less endeavor: the hastening sky rolled dull shadows over
the water: so het' hasty words someti\~ies rolled shadows
into the sea of family life, and even beyond it, as they had
done to-dayb That very morning her invalid father had
said to her, handing her his overcoat, "I wish, my dear, you
would mend this: I f~el pretty comfortable today, and will
try to walk a few' rods."
She had answered, "0, papa, I am right in the 'midst of
my lesson. Can't you wear it this once as it is ~"
"Yes !" he had replied  1 gently with a look that now smote
her more than it had d ne at the time: she sti'ove to still
the remorseful 'throbbi g within her, that she might go
down to him, and strolfe his hair, and say with unwanted

iii

Ii
it
I'

AMY DE3~BR00K.              9


Jo         .AM~ X~I~NBRO0K.                                        AMY DENBR0OK.

11

love, "Are you still better, father dear? Where is the
oVercoat? I am just in the mood fur mending it now
Brushing away a few drops, she looked down the roai to
a graceful gateway among the treetops, which indicated a
curve toward the beach: even thence there seemed to float~
the low sigh with which her father had resumed his ~hair:
after his fruitless request to her1: she felt that it was her
careless lack of tenderness which occasioned it: when first
he was sick, she was so eager to do him sohie little service,
but he had been ill so long, and had seemed to grow no
worse, so that she was used to it all.
"Ab, that I might be newly created, and cast i~fto dis-
tanc9 my old self !' she murmured, still looking toward
the archway against the clouded heavens, as if it strength-
ened her: her spirit, like her eyes, sought a mysterious
something beyond he.i' ken: she laid her face on the ~vindow-
sill and prayed, and when she lifted it, there was an earnest,
tender outlook upon it; she felt that she should sometime
meet a~ tide of peace as she travelled on.
"I will ask George's pardon for my rudeness," sh&amp;
thought, "I will be tender, tender, tender to my father."
She went down stairs, and looked out of the back door
into th~ garden as she passed: her younger sister Isabel sat
swinging under the butternut tree, and nodded her heed air-
ily and condescendingly to her; she went intQ her mother's
bedroom, and found her quietly sleeping; every day she took
a nap, because her rest was much disturbed at night by Mr.
Denb.rook's cough.

I:
ii1111
Ii!11

10

.74
K4

"What a pretty pThk color, mother has in her cheeks !"
thought Amy, looking at her with a daughter's exaggerated
admiration; she did not think how much fairer she was her-
self: she was not wholly beautiful, yet her hazel eyes were
bright and dewy with good thoughts; her lips were red with
the tide; there was a suggestion of innocence about the
white temple, from which the chestnut hair was gathered
back in waves; the lines of her face were soft, scarcely
representing the abrupt depth of her passions: of these she
knew little herself except that she often became angry, and
often repented. She wished she were obedient by nature as
Isabel seemed. to be: she looked out of th&amp;win~ow; there
the child sat and swung, touching her foot to a stone every
other moment to give impetus to her motion. She sang
"Old Dog Tray !"
"1kw childish she is for a girl of thirteen !" mused Amy,
not knowing that it was as well to be a. child as long as possi-
ble: she noticed that the curls of her golden-brown hair
were gathered into a dignified twist at the back ~of her head,
which circumstance probably accounted for the airy style of
her recognition a moment before. Bel had forgotten her.
hair now; for her white chin was a little elevated as she
watched the scudding clouds, and trilled and quavered softly
through the air she was singing with a comical pathos.
Amy entered the sitting-room, and went to her father's
arm-chair, the back of which was toward her. "Are you
watching those sloops, father ?" she asked, drawing the wifl~
dow-shade a little higher. "One two, thrue, four, five yes-
1*

)


AMY DENI3ILQOK.          13

sels, I see ~" She turned and 'laid her hand upon his, which
rested upon the arm of his chair: her eyes simultaneously
fell i~pon his face. She struck her hand ~ipon her heart,
with a stifled, " oh !" and sank upon the floor in a kneeling
posture, her eyes startlingly turned to the open door of her
mother's bed-room. Mrs. Denbrook sprang up from h~'
~'ecIining position, and cried,
~'What?" with frightened eyes and accent.
"He's gone !"
"No!"
And the wife was at his side': she saw that he was dead,
and her right hand, which had been unconsciously uplifted
as she crossed the room, fell with a gesture of despair; she
shook violenti~r, and held to his chair a moment, then she
sat down, and after wiping the cold brow, laid her white
face upon his breast without any tears: he had told her that
he would be apt to die thus.
Amy rose and looked in the ghastly face: there seemed a
heavenly shining iR the half-closc'd eyes. "Mother, is he
gone ?" she breathed, touching her shoulder.
Her mother lifted her face, and uttered "Forever I" in a
strange tone of anguish and triumph.
Then rolled with a stunned bewilderment through Amy's
brain, the great flood of self-reprc~ach and love.'
"Gone !" slL0 said, as she staggered from the room.
"Gone /77 she repeated, as she mounted the 'stairs with a
swaying wiotion, holding by the banisters. "Gone !" she
gasped with a cry, as she closed her door,' and dropped upon.

'3

'I

the carpet prostrate. "Aye, forever! I can never reach
after him until I die, ana tell him I said; I would be tender,
tender, tender to him,"
Nearly an hour went by, filled with startled shocks, for
the gate opened frequently, and each, time the click seemed
so sudden and terrible, Amy could scarcely restrain her
shrieks. Isabel's hand shook her door, and her voice called,
"Amy, Amy, let me in !"
The girl had half unconsciously turned the button, of her
door, when she fled up stairs to be alone with her remorse:
she admitted IsaI~el silently, and the two dropped down by
the bed and laid th~ir faces upon it: Bel shuddered, clutched
her sister's hand, and whispered, "Do you hear the rain? it
began to get dark down stairs !"
"Where's mother, Bel ?" at this instant the door was
softly rapped upon, and then pushed open. George Cole.
man's mother entered; she was a pale, gentle woman, yet
there were certain indications of character about her mouth:
she saw deep excitement in the countenances of the children,
and a solemn trouble in their eyes as they regarded her
questioningly. She bathed Amy's forehead as she talked
'wfth her about some household details, then she said,
"Your mother is very frail; child; she will require all your
courage !"
Amy abruptly pushed away the hand 'that was bathing
her forehead, while a crimson flood surged over her face.
"Do you mean," she uttered with difficulty, "that my
mother is sick ?"

'1
I
4

12

AMY D]3NBROOK.

1'


14

AMY DENI3RO0K.

"I mean that she is very much worn out with the care of
your father." Mrs. Coleman did not reflect that the death
of a loved ohe fills the heart with a superstitious dread lest
another may be snatched aWay: this feeling now trembled
at Amy's heart, but she arose with a self-controlled expres-
sion, laid 13e1's hand in Mrs. Cok man's, and left them: she
wanted to see her mother alone, and she passed uncon-
sciously among the kind neighbors h1 the hall, seeking her
in her chamber. Mrs. Deubrook sat by the window: the
exceeding paleness of an hour before had gone, and instead,
there was that pretty pink color.
"hectic !" thrilled through Amy's spirit. She wa~s going
to say, "Mother, I will attend to everything !" but instead
of that, she sank at her feet, and buried her face in her lap:
she was going t&amp; comfort her~ and she saw a singular splen~
dor in her mother's face.
"Amy, it is ILig morning.! he has reached the break of
day !" Amy looked up into the heavenly countenance, and
her mother went on: "I am surprised to feel that his ph-
tient heart will never again be strained Ito lift a burden: a
strange, deep fountain of assurance is reached in my soul.
All is well--aye, all is amazIng. My child, you and I may
looked into    eyes: she took her face in
take new courage: our      g draws near also-I see it in
the distance. My dear !" she softly pushed back her daugh-
F ter's hair, and
her two palms. "He has jus~t now entered another world:
was he not good? was he not~ fitted for it? did he not live
for it every day 'P

7

vs

AMY DENB1~O0R.                   15
Amy put her hand over her eyes, and sobhed,4 "0
mother !" then passionately caught her beloved hands and
laid them on her forehead with a deluge of tears.
"He talked to me last night, Amy. I did not believe
his death was so near, but there was a seraphic calmness
about him-such hole, such expectation: all that he said
and looked, has overspread me ever since 'likea cloud for
a covering.' The future seems so near: the days so filled
with room to work for it."
"I am so young, mother, the great future is not near to
me. I must be religious some day, but if I could only
mount a material Jacob's ladder step by step every day,
instead of this hard, hard work of holding fast to that
which is good: oh! that bodily fatigue could satisfy the
Lord! oh! that I could travel to some shrine to be a Christ-
ian. I pray sometimes !-once in a great while I pray
spontaneously, aside from my regular morning and evening
devotions: but, mother, I scarcely ever attend family pray-
ers with real pleasure: there is rarely anything in me that
craves them. I want to push away religion often, and yet
oh! I feel that I must have it! Talk to me! talk to me P
"Your father talked about you and Isabel last night 1"
"V/hat did he say ?"
"He said he pitied you most~ because you would have to
acquire an equable temper and the sort of religious rever-
ence that belongs naturally to isabel-but he believed you
would conquer, and would ere long rivet your eyes upon
the Morning Star."


16             '.A~MY D~13R00K.
"He believed it! he ~~ad faith in me !" exclaimed Amy
with an illuminated look : she cast her eyes down thought-
fully, serenely. "Then, dear mother, he will not be pained
about-about my conduct, where he is, if he believes I will
try to do better."
"Tie said, 'I shall leave them with perfect trust behind
me, for I know that their destiny requires just such discip-
line as they will have: entreat them to look up as they
journey along.' Jie had suffered incredibly in mind for
many monthss, knowing that our little substance was wast-
ing, but that feeling has of late beer~ utterly taken from
him.'
"Are we poor, mother? haven't we enough to live on
"We are very poor, my child !" answered her mother,
and a shadow fell on her face.
"Well, I don't seem to mind that: we never were rich."
The sense of property was not very keen in Amy unless
some dear association was connected with an object: nor
did she naturally appreciate care: her mother was one of
those rare spiritual souls within whom pressure de~~elopes
a spring of strength: whet~ the Father's hand touched her
most nearly, sh~ saw his glorious plans the best: it had not
always been so: she had striven much.
Isabel came in softly: her blue unquiet eyes sought her
mother, and an expression of relief passed into her face as
she noticed her outstretched arms: she sat in her lap, and
laid her head upon her shoulder: Arny~s head rested upon
Bel's knee. And thus long hours passed away, while the

16

17

mother's lips seemed touched with inspiration: she was for
the time lifted above herself-she felt that she was soon to
cross the bridge and change worlds: the vitality of her
inward life rose supreme, and sublimated her maternal love
~o that its whole strength condensed into a desire to prepare
her orphans for the journey that lay before them: her pity
for them took a higher aspect: as Christ changed the, water
into wine, so evei}y throb of her soul was alehemised into
'something vigorous ere it passed to them. Mr. Denbrook
had been a scientific man, an unrequited inventor, but~ the
bitterness of his lot became salutary in the highest sense:
so he felt towards the last : he had bent over fiery furnaces
with sweat pouring from his brow: he had worked late at
night in his dark, grim shop: he had strained endurance to
complete a delicate design, and when he f~Wed of means, he
sold his invention and his knowledge for a trifle to keep the
wolf~ from his door: he never entered the palace that his
genius first made possible to its owner. Yet perhaps he
was a successful man: his trial in the workshop of the
world doubtless wrought for him ~a palace in the upper
kingdom: thus he came to think, and every honest struggle
in God's name came to ~eem to him like a pearl ordiamond
in his crown of life. So he went Qut of the door of this
world with a smile in his heart, and he knew that his child-~
m'en must toil for far-off palaces as he had done.
*      *       *      *      *       *      *
In a few months Mrs. Denbrook followed her husband,
and the orphans were left to wander on alone.

AMY DENI3RO0K.


AMY DENBRO0K.        19

18         AMY DENBIIOOX.

i.

CHAPTER 11.
0.
Two years after, Amy Denbrook stood before a looking-glass
*                                         0
in a third story front room the windowss opined upon a
S~poor, retired street in New York. Isabel w4s tying her
shoe, for it was six o'clock in the morning. A dead silence
prevailed, for Del was reckoning ~ip in her unmatbernatical
br'un just how much money she had earned during the few
months she had been book-folding in the same establishment
~vith Amy. After an ineffectual attempt to be a seamstress
in her native village, Amy had followed the advice of Mrs.
Coleman who had removed to Ne~v York, and had gone there
~ to commence life as a book-folder: a small stun of money
~ had been realized from the sale of books and various articles,
of furniture: this amount, together with Ainy's industry had
~ supported the two girls. Isabel had attended a public
school until recently, and now her added IThor made the
~little parlor and bedroom which she called hon-ic, quite beau-
~iful with new embellishments. To be sure, the floor was
~vered with the carpet she had seen from her childhood:
t~ie old mahogany spfi~. stood against the wall, so did the

?

ancient table and chairs, but the window-sills were gay with
plants: dainty temples of moss and shells adorned the man-
tel, and above it hung in an oval gilt frame, the face of a fair
child; this had been a Christmas gift from George Coleman
to Amy just under it stood a delicate white vase of ancient
design and tracery this was George's gift to Del, and many
were, her efforts to keep it filled with something fresh and
green. The orphans ha&amp; wept many tears during the first
year of their lonely estate, but youth is recuperative, and
they might be called happy girls nuw: very often they be-
came tired of their work, but a return to their beloved par-
lor' was always a holiday. They lived as simply as if they
had been European peasants: how indeed could they afford to
live otherwise? Would it not spoil their room to cook
much in it? Was not cold water friore healthy than tea
ahd coffee? and was it not lucky for them that they were
obliged to drink it, else what a trial it might have been, if
they could have had it, and yet fdlt it a duty to resist. Not-
withstanding these congratulations, it sometimes happened
that on a Sunday afternoon, an old coffee-pot steamed on a
tiny new stove in a most fragrant and suggestive manner.
What a love of a ~tove that was! Del bought it herself; and
sometimes stood looking at it entranc~d, particularly before
going to church; even there she reproached herself fbr won-
dering if pancakes could be baked on it: she hoped it was
not wrong to get up a beautiful tea on the Sabbath, they
had so little time to make a joy out of the stove on week-


/

20

AMY DIiNBROOK.

U

AMY DEKBI~00X.

21

days: gratitude and delight must be acceptable to the Crea
tor. George Coleman often came in Sunday afternoons to
read essays to Amy: he was studying law in the city.
It was of George Coleman that Amy was thinking SO in-
tently as she stood before the absently curling' her
hair.
"Belt" she at length exclaimed.
"What?" briskly inquired that young lady, holding her
third finger in order not to lose the place in her reckoning.
"Do you think, eh-would you like crackers and milk for
breakfast ?"
0,1 tfl~it                                b
ou~ you were going to say something' else.
Yes! suppose we do !"
Amy fastened her collar fastidiously, then with an averted
face said "Bel, do you think George likes me? that is, do
you suppose he is-what any on~ would call-in love with
me!"
"Amy Denbrook, you don't say so !" cried Bel in raptur..
ous excitement. "I never thought of it. Isn't it roman~
tic ?"
"I don't know that it is !" returned Amy a little sulkily,
for she did not enjoy Isabel's demonstrative manner upon a
subject tha~ she had just dared to breathe into words. The
two busie4 themselves' for an hour about their domestic
deities, say ng very little: during this time, Bel had in
imagination~ got George and Amy to hou~ekeeping in a inure
pleasant street, after a charming bridal tour in which she

shared: she was receiving a lover one evening whom she
had met on this trip, when it occurred to her that it was as
yet all a dream.
"Amy,~~ she inquired, in a very respectful tone, "shall
you marry him ?"
"lie has not asked me yet," said Amy, coldly, though
her color rose a little. "I would not have spoken of it,
Bel, only it occurred to me a few days ago that-that he
might care for me particularly; and if so, I shall see him
less frequently, and you must help me."
"Now, Amy! I've heard you say we had not a friend in
the world that you thought so much of as George."
"That may be! I4may not want to come under ~his yoke
for all that! his father was a Spaniard: I have often
thought that George inherited a certain feeling of disdain
toward women: education has done much for him, but
there is a well-spring in his nature that I do not fancy."
Why, Amy!' you said not long ago that he was so
honest and manly, and I thought his father was an English-
man
"No! he lived in England a dozen years: he was a poor
man there, and he probably overlaid his chivalry with prac-
tical ideas about the domestic usefulness of the fair sex.
Did you notice the other day that when I was on my knees
washing the oil-cloth, and George came in, he said, "That's
right, Amy, I like to see you industrious!" It made me
angry: I like industry myself; and I like elegant poverty,

-


22               AMY DENBRO0XL
but I don't want any man to love me becan e I am an in-
dustrious girl. It may be all right for me to work at very
commonplace duties-I don't complain of it, but if Ihad~i
husband, I should rather ha would sayj '1 wish I could save
you from such humble labors: you are fitted for nobler
work."'
"I think no man of sense would want an indolent s~rife.
You want George to think you an ~riel goddess 1" said Bel.
"I'm sure I thought he was complimentary the other day:
I hever should have been angry abbut that, especially whe~i
he seemed so bright and joyou~ U'
"1 suppose I was foolish, and I dare say George merc~l
thinks of me as an old friend, otilyl wish "
Amy did not complete the expression of her wish : she an
Bel put on their bonnets, and went to their work. Or~ their
way, they met George Qoleman, who bowed rather care-
lessly, looking chiefly at Isabel: there was a reason for thiu:
Amy had been somewhat cold and perverse on the day that
her industry was admired. ~George was piqued by it,
though he could not guess the causp: his indifferent manner
restored Amy's equilibrium, and convinced her that her bus-
picions had been very egotistical. All that was noble and
attractive in him came to her ~fre~h, when she believed that
he sought only her friendship: ~he was so heartily glad the.
old footing could be retained: she felt quite xxilling now
that George should tyrranize over her reading.
The next morning just as she and Bel were ready to go to
their work, George came in with his old, cheerful smile.

AMY IE~BJ1~O0K.             23

i
I

23

'1-Jere is a book for you to read,, Amy !" he said, as he
threw one on the table.
"Thank you !'~ she replied, cordially; then with an ani-
mated smile, she called his attention to a white rose that
was inbloom.                           4
lie nodded, as if pleased with. her ~leasnre, but he did
not seem to care about examining the fiowe'~. "Have you
finished this yet ?" he ~inquired, taking D'A4igne's history
from the table.
"No! I've been reading something else~ A most be-
witching book !"
What ~"
"Ivanhoe !" she answered, bending toxyara the floor for
a pin which she had dropped.
"I asked you to leave that until you had finished the
history."
"Gui, monsieur U' *she looked up from her kneeling posi-
tion with a particularly smiling, provoking expression in her
eyes; he could not withstand the playful malic~ of her air,
and responded with a smile,
"I believe you refrained from reading the history just be-
cause I happened to ask you n~t to let ~ny thing else inter-
fere with it." ~
"Was it safe to ask me if you did not wish me to run in
an opposite direction ?"
~He looked suddenly very grave: Amy observed it, but
she said joyously, "Come, my little friends, take flight! I
want to lock up the castle !"


AMY DENBROOK.        25

24          AMY DENBROOR.

When they were on the street, George said, "You seem
to be perverse just for the love of it !"
." Yes} I enjoy it !" giving her shawl a graceful little
shake. "You are wilful because you like it; are you
not ?"
"Me?"
"Yes, you !" an~ Amy laughed with a mixture of mirth
and satisfaction, knowing that it always nettled him to be
supposed amenable to the same rules as herself.
"1 arA older than you, and-"
At. this moment they met a well looking gentleman of
forty who lifted his hat to the young girls; they bowed
with a pleased, respectful smile, as they said, "Gbod morn-
ing, Mr. Second !"
"Isn't he good to lift his hat to us, with that courtly air,
just as if we were as rich as he ?" said Isabel.
"Your landlord ?"' demanded George laconically.
"Yes," replied Bel, "and ~he also~ owns the building
where we work: the first time we ever saw~ him was when
he came there on business: we lived where we do now for
six months, su~5posing that the agent who collected the rent
was the owner. Mr. Second calls himself now every month
for it, and he always seems so friendly; he had the two
little closets made each side Qf the fire-place in our parlor,
without our even suggesting it, and ho told Amy she must
not f'eel diffident about speaking of any little improvements
we should like."
"I didn't ask him to put up new blinds to the windows,"

struck in Amy. "J had spoken to the agent about it, but;
he paid no attention to me whatever. That is just the dif-
f'erence between a gentleman and a clown. As soon as Mr.
Second saw those shattered blinds, he said, "I am sorry I
V
did not know what a condition these were in before !"
"Where does he live ?" asked George, "has he a large
family?"
"1 don't know !" responded. Amy. "It seems as if he
must have daughters at home, because he is so fatherly and
considerate toward us
A few months passed away, during which George Cole-
man alternately attracted and repelled Amy, according to
the side of' his character which was towards her: one side
she loved,, and it drew her heart with power into his grasp:
theother,~ her whole passionate nature rebelled against: it
ignited the pride that w~s rarely astir except under his
touch. It came into her consciousness often that he intended
to make her his wife, and under his melting smile, it seemed
as if there was no way for her, except to glide along at his
side in the future. When he was prosaic and exacting, she
coiled, and showed the recoil outwardlywonly by tossing into
the air every serious idea which he was disposed to endow her
with: when he would fain instruct her in regard to~ the
intricacies of a symmetrical female character, she was in-
variably full of levity and jest :-so provokingly heedless
and high.mninded that he could not have believed his ears,
had he heard some of her earnest conversations on the same
subject with Isabel. If one day there was upon her face, a


26          AMY DENI3ROOK.

sudden outlook of love and sunshine, the next time he saw
her, he was surprised at the indifference of her manner: he
set these change~ down to womanly caprice, not knowing
that they were all controlled by causes which he did not
perceive: her inconsistencies were regulated by nice laws,
and hung upon his moods: if she had pained him, she was
gentle afterward: if he presumed upon her gentleness, she
strove to define a certain distance that must be observed be-
tween them. When he resented this by absenting himself
from her for a week a1~ a time, there grew such a fear at her
heart that he might be very deeply displeased with her, that
she was docile and sunny and joyous under his returning
beams of approbation. She lived in the happy present un-
til some chance remark struck the wrong chord, and made
her see that he supposed she would inevitably become his.
One night she went to bed saying to herself; "I fear I love
him !" This was after he had been singing, or after his
voice had unconsciously fallen in speech upon a rare, deep
tone :-the next night she went to bed saying, "the idea,
the bare idea of my electing him to be my lord and master!
never
George had fallen Into a frequent habit of encountering
the girls in the morning when they w~re on their way to
woi~: he was not obliged to go to his office so early, but he
chose tQ do so.
Upon one of these mornings, Amy exclaimed, "Guess
what I am studying !"
"Mother Goose's Melodies ?"

AMY DE~BI~OOK.

27

"Not precisely. I am getting more profound. 'Locke
on the Human Understanding'"
"Would it not be as well to keep to your poetry and
history ?"
"Why?"
"Well, women do not need to fill their pretty heads with
heavy lumber. A young~girl ought to remember that home
is to be her sphere, and that she may become a wife some
day. I don't know that it would make iaer husband as hap-
py to find her reading "Locke' as it would to see her mend-
ing his stockings. She ought of course to know enough to
pass creditably in society, but where there is on a woman's
part too great a passion for research, there is~ usually too
little taste for domestic affairs."
A slight approach to a smile curved Amy's lip: her cheeks
grew brilliant with suppressed disdain; she was too angry
to trust herself to speak. George was half in jest and half
in earnest in his remarks. "What do you think, little one
he questioned after a few moments' silence.
Amy dropt her veil before he caught the expression of her
face, and replied in a low voice, "I think a woman should be
the judge of her own capabilitiesand duties."
"Usually: but in the family circle it sometimes happens
that a husband and wife may disagree in a practical matter:
a certain course of action is to be pursued: one must give
up: which one
"The one that chooses to ?"
George laughed~ but added more seriously, "I think the
0

w

26


28

AMY flI~NI3ROOK,

ii

AMY DENBROOK.

29

only way to begin married life would be to have it under-
stood that there must be a head to a family, and an umpire
in case of disagreement."
Amy's whole sWriv revolted at this conversation: it was
so matter of fact for a lover, and underneath its current she
recognized the arrogant assumption that 84e was to be the
individual who was to give up. She did not see that George'
was so honest he would not beguile her into a new position
upon the understanding that she was always to have her
way; that is the ordinary style, but it was not his style: she
did not know h6w yielding George could often be, and how
easy she would generally have found it to have harmonized
herself with his wishes. She was at an age when the heart
expects a perfect sympathy in disposition and mental en-
dowment: she was too sanguine about life, too penetrating
in detecting dissimilitudes of nature, and she had too little
charityfor these dissimilitudes. When the sun's light and
heat fall equally tempered upon the earth, they create sum-
mer bloom and fragrance: light and love had not created
this~garden of geiuiuine freshness in Amy's spirit yet: a win-
try brilliance shone upon it, though she believed with the
multitudB that there was no dew of youth separate from the
springtide of years: it was more vital to her symmetrical
growth that thorns and briars should be removed by a disci-
pline suited to her character, than that she should 'marry this
man or that: she had often given way to an impulse of un-'
diluted coquetr5~; she had sometimes exulted in her power
over her lover's haughty spirit, and had arrogantly said to

3

A
ii

herself that it was not he who was master of the situation.
It was i~n accordance with her free-will that she gave a turn
tq her destiny at this epoch which she could not foresee.
When she parted from George, he little dreamed that his
seemingly'sensible remarks had like a pebble turned the cur-
rent of his life: the woman who seemed drifting toward
him, swirled around in the eddy, and was borne away from
his side.
Amy and Isabel went up a broad, dark stairway to the
room where they folded books: Isabel was light-hearted irnd
frolicsome with the yQUng girl who was beside hei': her sis-
ter worked diligently ud silently with a fire in her eyes and
glow upon her cheek -after an hour, the angry defiant fire
was quenched by that she bit her lips hard to re-
press. Her companions remarked hoxV very quiet she was,
but there was no silence within her, and that passionate in~
ward utterance which God hears broke forth thus, "Never!
never! I have hesitated before to-day! I have been so wrapt
around with his influence, that I saw no force within myself
strong enough to make a change. Now I ask God to help
me withstand myself 'and hi~'n. I. ask Him to show me why
I can turn my face to George no more! I know too well! I
cannot have combative feelings aroused by him: I caiinot
bow my neck to him! Aye, his love baptises me as in a
flood sometimes, but"----here, with slow movement, she
changed a ring which she 'had wor~n for many years fropi one
hand to the other. "There, my vow is made: my pledge
is given !-never nevermore will I look into his ey-es, and


30

AMY DE~BR00K.

[1

AMY DENBROOK.

31

awaken the fond smile that has been my sunshine: never,
nevermore shall I chase away with happy words the. serious
curve of his lips. He has beei~ so good to me !-but Iv
would exact my duties: he could not look over an occasion-
al mistake : I will not forget our unlikeness: he says I am
fanciful,-heaven knows my days are chained to hard prac-
ticalities. Why should he prison one poor faculty? I slip-
pose his intellect is superior to mine, but my little fancies
are dear to me. I will never be broken in by him: I ~~'il1
be my natural careless self. Sometimes when I have been
defiant in regard to his advice, I have seen a flash in his eye,
and a sudden settii~g of his lip, which revealed the thought
passing in his mind, 'Snme day you may find yourself in
my hands.' George needs to find out that every woman is
not to be had for the, asking. I don't think I love him be-
y()nd all things: when there is tenderness in his looks and
voice, I-I am captured, but only for a season. I reflect his
Iox~e on the surface, but the waves are stirred into billows
when he shows that arbitrary disposition: now I don't intend
to spend my life in trying to surmount such billows-~---l,
don't want to quarrel with him forever. I want to have a
pleasant time: my whole being has i~ot been moved o~ sat-
isfied by him." But there was a deep ache in her heart.

10

I.

CHAPTER III.
MR. SECORD sat thoughtfully in an easy chair: he was not in
his own house, for he was a bachelor; near him sat a lady
of thirty-five; she was handsome, but her expression nega~
tived her attractions, and did not create pleasure, although
her features gave a sort of artistic satisfaction. Two girls
of the respective ages of twelve ~nd fourteen, were playing
a duett at the distant ~nd 6Ci the long parlor.
"Girls i
~, f you sound another note, I won't answer for the
consequences !" cried the lady. "Pray stop, and go up
stairs to study. I am sure you have ascertained the beau-
ties of the piano by this time."
"Let them enjoy it !" said her husband, who was slowly
pacing up and down the spacious apartment.
The lady merely waved her h~nd backward with an im-
perative motion toward the door, as she eyed her daugh-
tei's; they obeyed her, and quitted the room. After a few
moments' silence, she looked at the gentleman who was sit-
ting by the lace-curtained window, and exclaimed, "Justin
Second! why don't you say how you like our new establish~

it


AMY DEKBROOK.         33

AMY DE U3ROOR.

nient? You have not been in the house before since it was
completed and furnished !"
"It 'is all very recherchc-very magnificent, and displays
my sister in-law's good taste. Some of these days I must
get a wife, and have a home like this."
Mrs. Ashley smiled at the compliment to her taste ;all
her interest in life was invested in outwqrd appearance and
style. Her husband, who was only a half 'brother to his
guest, exclaimed dryly, "Women never count the cost of
anything !"
"We never should have beautiful things if they thought
much about such considerations, Clinton," responded his
brother. "No one likes a fine house and turn-out better
than you !'~
Pshaw !" Mr. Ashley ran his hand through his bl:~ek,
curling hair as he spoke: he was two or three years older
than Mr. Second, morel handsome; but ~vith the same fine erect
port: he was in his mental and rn~i'aI undress now; in so-
ciety he never said "p~haw," but was exceedingly polite to
every one, and had a slight precision in ~is tone and man-
ner; he talked flowingly upon all subjects, as if he had a
supply of prepared conversation at all times.
Mrs. Ashley excused herself to her brother-in-law, under
the pretext of answering notes of invitation, but in reality,
she knew that the two gentlemen would feel more free to
talk of politics or business, if they were left alorw~.
As soon as she left the i'oom, and~ her hUsband's look had
ascertained that the door was shut, he said, "Justin! your

idea of, getting a wife is a poor one. iRemain as you
are
"You made a mistake, Clinton, in marrying a rich and
fashionable girl: I should exorcise more judgment !"
"Judgment !" echoed the other, with a bitter laugh.
You'll find yourself deceived as well as the rest of us! Let
well enough alone !"
"here I am, forty years. old, Clinton, and I' have no
family ties. I am rich, and I see no reason why~ I should
not select a loveable little girl, and have a few cherubs frol-
icking around tue. I should avoid a fashionable woman like
a pestilence, and would seek a pretty witless creature who
would adore me for myself. I shall get married 'some
day!"'
"Devilish agreeable you'll find ~t !"
"So I think! glad you agree with me
"Poh !" said his brother.
"Any man, can get along comfortably with a wife, if he
makeup his mind to it. I am alone in the world; I have
tried various ways of being happy, and have failed: I can
keep a wife handsomely, give her plenty of servants that she
may have time to amuse me, and I think ~he ~peration
will work. It makes a man selfish to have no one to care
for 1"
"Suit yourself! but let me tell you it is easier tQ get
into the trap than out of it. All may seem fair at first. I
was deluded fool that sighed like a furnace after that very
woman who has just gone out of the door: there have been

32


AMY DIL2{BROOK.

AMY DENI3ROOI~.

times since, when I felt as if I could raise heaven and earth
to put a space between us. What does she care for me? I
give her money and jewels, that is all she wants! Bah!
she cares as much for me as I do for her, but you see~ it is
necessary that we should be amiable ~before the world."
'~ Yes," was the dry answer, "I think ydur pretense is in
the style of high art. S~he loved you once: how is it that
the genuine passion has etherealised itself' to such a degree
that it is not to be found, ~and has left only the counterfeit
upon your hands ?"
"Loved me! she never loved anything but herself."
"1 seem to recollect a certain letter you wrote me many
years ago, in which you dilated upon~.-.."
"Don't recall those silly rhapsodies! i've got past that
foolish age !"
In which you said, ''when I was thrown~ from my korse
the angel fainted.' Didn't the passage run in that way T'
A relentless smile was on Justin Secord's lip. "You know
I never liked her, and advised you not to marry her; but I
can tolerate her now much better than you can. As you
intimate, you are in the trap, and you may as well make
the best of it."
"Am I not doing so?"
~' After a fashion! The fact is, I am sorry for you,
Clinton, but I can't help you,~you are the best of the two,
for you have a soft spot under your waistcoat. There are
those daughters of yours; they ought to be a comfort to
you."

"I do love my children: but they are not what they
would be, if they had had a different mother." The two
lapsed into silence, and Mr. Second finally rose, sayThg,
"Well, I must go to my hotel: good night !"
"Good hight !"
2*

4
V

34

~it
''I

a


U

U

AMY t~EN~BR00K.

AMY DEN13ROOK.

ChAPTER Iv.
AM~ sat by the workstand in her parlor a~one, for Isabel
had gone out to spend the evening with one4ff her friends
of the book-room: a lamp was lighted, and th~rou~h the par-
tially closed blinds the soft air of September ~tole in, sway..
lug the flame a little: Amy scarcely noticed~ this, for her
thoughts were burdened with a restless wish that everything
mig~t be different. She had noj seen Geor~o alone since
the day that his conversation had been so distasteful to her:
she had avoided meeting him often, but when he had seen
h~r, she had looked a little pale, and seemed ~o gentle, he
believed he saw her crowned with the very gPace that was
needed to make her perfect. She knew that she was to
stab his hope: she felt as if she could give him everything
that she possessed-save herself! She hac~ a vague sense
of having injured him, and a dread of the hour when he
should be undeceived. She looted up from her work with
a sudden recollection that even now he might find her
alone: the street door closed: she started as if at the sound
of approaching 1~attle, and sprang for 'safety into her little.
chamber: she heard a step coming up the first flight of
stairs, then up the second, quicker, lighter, happier in its

tread: his familiar hand knocked at the parlor door; then
*it flashed over her that. he could see a light beneath it.
She wrung h~r two hands together with a senseless appeal
for deliverance :-then came forth to give herself up to
whatever lay before her: the excitement of his step
sounded the depth of her resolution and her love: she grew
~vhite at thot~ght of the combat with him: he seemed the
stronger party. She opened the door, and inclined her
head with scarcely a smile as she met the loving baptism of
his dark eyes: she strove to speak and smile, but her lips
had lost their mobility.
"Amy, how very pale you are 1" ~he said with dangerous
anxiety in his voice, "What is the matter~ ?"
She turned her face a little aside from him as she closed
the door. "What is the matter, dear !" he ~continued, plac..
ing one arm almost unconsciously about her, atid leading.
her to the window: she drew herself away as one might
slowly turn against a strong, strong wind, and lai4 her hand
upon the window-blind to push it open a little fur~her.
"Is it anything that concerns me ?" he       asked
with a shake in his voice.
"Yes !" she answered, clenching the tassel of the window
curtain: almost without looking, she saw that his chest rose
and fell: he stood a moment then turned and walked up
and down the room many times. At length he came to her,
offered her a chair by which she stood, and gently touched
her shoulder to make her sit down. She had resolved to
stand, but she did not seem able to do otherwise than obey

306

37

4


Ii'
0
44:
I~
f t
.41~
it
4:
4!
~it
'11
4!
411
jtI~

AMY flENBROOK.

'49
41
9
4:

AMY DENI3R0OK.

39

his gesture, and she seated her~eIf as he also did opposite
her: he did not speak for an instant, then as if he disdained
the timorous silence, he asked
Amy, have you not known that I loved you ?"
She was very silent.
"have you knozvn it ?" he repeated more gently..
She 'made a restless motion as if she would fain escape:
he took her hand, "will you be my wife ?" he spoke
scarcely above a breath, yet distinctly.
She had seemed to herself prison-bound, as she strove to
repress the tide that trembled through her: it was with
effort that she answered, "I ~cannot !"
"Why?"
She tried to remove her chair a little, hoping thus to inti-
mate that she was not to be persuaded, but his tone was
half command, half entreaty, as he persisted, "tell me why,
Amy !"
"I should no~ like to' be your wife !"
A dead silence fell between them, but the blows seemed
lead that struck against George's heart. He said at length,
"you hav~ not told me why yet !"
"You would not let me be myself: act for myself:
choose for niyself. You do not understand me !"
"Would to God I did! wherein do I fail, 4rny ?"
lie spoke with a humility so new to him, that her heart
grew faint with pity. "Do not let us talk about it !" she
entreated "only say good bye to me, and forgive me."

"It is my right to know why you refuse me, when I have
-had some reason to suppose you would not !"
There flowed out in this remark somewhat of an impera-
tive spirit: it was not natural to accept defeat.
"George, you say I am too romantic, too self-willed:
you have intimated that I have follies: that may be, but-"
"I would only seek your best goad, Amy! I have been'
too sincere to flatter. I have only desired that you should
be still more lovely and perfect."
"That is it !" she returned with a little petulance. "I
am not lovely enough to suit you ! When I amend, I want
to do it from my own impulse, and not be constrained to it
by another. I appreciate domestic virtues in a woman's
character, but I have no wish to cultivate them, to the ex-
clusion of all higher tastes~ I know your feelings and
tastes by casual remarks from your mother: you cannot ex-
4      cuse any deviation from the ordinary track. We are both
poor: if we were rich, you would not object to my painting,
studying, embroidering, to my writing little tales to amuse
myself. I like to do these things, but your' veto would be
upon them, even if 'I neglected no household duties for
them: you would imagine something must be amiss about
the dinner if you saw me cultivating my fancy. I know
that I have often seemed petulant and defiant: I am free to
be so now, through it is wrong perhaps, but if I were mar-
ried to you, policy 'might restrain my lips, when my heart
K        was burning with a sense of injustice: I never would quar-
rel as I have seen some women do :-but I will not place

38


ii
$ ~t
4
pp'
I

AMY DBNBROOK

40AMY DE~BRO0K.
myselff in a p~sit~on where I might be tempted to. I wtsh
from my soul, you had never thought of being more than a
dear friend to me !"
'You have not half comprehended me, Amy," he an-
swered huskily, "I may have been exacting; I may be arbi-
t~'ary, but there isa wretched depth of love within me, that
I never fathomed until to-night :-if you understand it, you
would have no fear in coming to me! I have no fear ex~
ce~pt that you may vanish from my life! you are my daylight!
God will teach me, to be gentle with you !"
She softly shook her head, and rose to leave his side.
"Amy !" his touch was very light, and instantly loosened,
but she dropt powerless into the chair which she had quitted:
all the pathos of his soul thrilled in his tone: that reverence
for her womanhood which she had longed for, was in it also:
she met his impassioned look, all unconscious that the lumi~
nous, melting fire in her eyes showed how he swayed her
heart: again he took her hand: she laid her face upon the
* windowsill, but as a trembling bird, whose strength is in-
sufficient to escape: passionate tears dropped from her eyes:
only the word "farewell" sounded in her spirit.
When George next spoke; his perfect honesty brought out
* the prosaic side of his character. "I have never deceived
y ou, Amy, when I have hoped you might cast your lot with
mine. I believe you would be happier than you fear, though
you might flQt be a plaything as some men's wives are:
your duties would be many and not easy, but would not
love be a compensation for a little toil? Would I were rich

41
for your sake ~ you know that I am heir to my uncle who
lives in Spain, but I pave no right to* count upon his
death !"
She lifted her head, strong once more. George had mis-
taken her emotion for a partial asset to his hopes, and he
had again thrust before her a life of duty; she withdrew her
hand; "love in a cottage". might be fascinating with a poet,
but the view which George took of their wedded life, turned
away her pleasure4hirstiflg spirit: somehow reality and
common-sense are apt to be repugnant to young girls. She
arose resolutely, saying, "George, I shall never be your
wife 1" and then she went to her little workstand, took up
her sewing, found the place where she left off, and seated
herself; with an earnest pretense at work: she looked very
calm and pale: George sat by the window : there was utter
stillness in his attitude: the light breeze lifted tenderly the
loose rings of dark hair from his shapely head: it passed
over his forehead, his cheek, his lip: he knew as. little of its
touch, as he did of God's love, which remembered him in
his darkness. He sat thinking whether he could ~capitulate
to despair; whether he could bend his proud nature to make
a wild and last appeal: she was so young, just~ eighteen, how-
could she be beyond entreaty? He went to her, "Amy
will you not re-consider your words ?"
"No !" she uttered in a low voice.
"Is this your last word to me
"The last !"          -.
His handsome motith closed firmly: his listening figure

41


~j,     (~jP
itK
~44
4i4
~i4
I',
44;'
I
44
4~j
444
I,

AM~T DE~J3RO0I~

grew erect, his pale face paler; though he was b~it little
over twenty, he looked as if all the. iron determination of
middle lift were concentrated in his breast, and as if he
could tread out of existence any feeling that he willed should
die: he had humbled himse1~ and she had rejected his ex-
ceeding love. lie turned from her abruptly, took his cap,
and went toward the door. She lifted the lamp, and foh
lowed him into the narrow passage, not speaking until he
had descended two or three steps.
* "George!" she leaned over the banister, and held out her
hand. "Good bye !"
The light fell upon his black hair and Spanish features:
the sternness passed from his brow, and an Unutterable soft-
ness revealed itself in his gaze, as he studied the meaning of
hers tremulous voice and most sorrowful eyes: he' pressed
the little, cold hand that was extended to him: she drew
away with a gentle inclination of the head-..with a shadow
of decision upon her downcast face,
It was all Over: they both felt it.
When Amy was alone, she threw herself into a chair and
abandoned herself to weeping: she was unconscious that she
had lost a thing that might be regretted: she did not pity
herself: she was very wretched because George was: the
world was very large) there must be plenty of all kinds of
love in it: plenty of success of all kinds, but only anguish
was dealt out to her now. She ~vas wrestling against her
first love: if she had h~id parents or guardians, she would
without doubt have been engaged to George, for do not oldei'

AMY DENBROOK.

43
people make half the marriages that are consummated?
Would they not have said to her, "My dear child, you do
not know the world at all: here is a young man of excellent
principles, of a reliable intellect, of a handsome address, of a
noble heart, of good business capacities,-and last but not
least, he loves you above all other women: and you like
him better than any other man; if you live to be a hundred,
you Will probably have worse offers, but no better: you
xviii fade, and grow unattractive to eligible men: your natu-
ral protectors will die, and you will be a most forlorn old
maid : your friends will not want you in their families, and
the earth will be entirely too small to accommodate you !"
This style of influence was not brought to be ar.upoi~ the
young gil'1, hence she acted upon her own sweet will, and
found herself crying' because George Coleman would not
come to see her any more: she wondered if he would pray
that night; as the thought occurred to her, she dropt upon,
her knees, and prayed for him with her whole soul. Isabel
came home with blooming cheeks, and took off her bonnet,
saying, "0, such fun, Amy, as we have had! I thought I
never should stop laughing. I made one line of poetry,
you see, and Jennie matched it with the most ludicrous
turns !~' Thereupon Bel repeated some of the verses, and
was aggrieved that Amy did not see the point of the
joke.
Amy saw only two pictures shifting alternately before
hei' ;-one represented her standii~ at the altar with
George, whose face softened with time glory of feeling was'

42

43


Iii)
4'
[4
iv
4)'
.4

AMY DENBROOK.

turned toward her. The other represented her as a weary,
toil-worn wife, from whose nature the poetry had all been
stricken out by her master's hand! 4
*        *         *        *         *
Ere a week had passed away, George Coleman was on
his way to India as a sailor: his proud heart was stung and
embittered, and ye~ could not save itself from the sudden
softness and agony of love: the bounding of the billows
gave a wild delight, and seemed at times to dulIthe sharp
edge of Amy's woi~ds: but when the moon looked tran-
quilly upon the waves, he saw only the luminous melting
fire in her eyes : he believed that he would have been illib-
eral in his requirements, had he gained his object without
hindrance: when he looked into the silent sky, he thought
he saw in the hush that the Great Supreme had detected his
imperfection, and with relentless precision had sent an
arrow through it, to transfix his every hope.
The pilot-boat brought to land two letters from the new
sailor: one was directed to Mrs. Coleman: the other fell
into Amy's hands and read as follows:
"Amy, I wish you well, and shall always remember you
as a friend, should we never meet again. I am going to
India! Your coquetry has sent me from my mother, from
my native land: forbear hereafter to encourage love, when
yoji mean to trifle with it: to reject it. Forgive my plain
speech ~ it boots little to utter soft words! May God bless
you!                                      GEORGE."

AMY DE~BR00K.

45

The pilot-boat had not passed from sight, ere George would
have given all he possessed to have been able to recall his
reproachful words: they had appe sed his pride, but they
had gone: all that night he lay aw ke thinking, " if I had
written generously, forgivingly, tenderly, it might have
been that a year's absence would have changed Amy !-I
might have won her at last! Aye, I have made the breach
wider I',
Amy read the cruel charge against her: it went down
deeper every moment.
"Do I wholly deserve this, Bel?" she asked, handing her
time note.
"No !" cried Bel, with indignant energy, after she had
read it. "I'm sure you often avoided him~"
Amy could not bear to have George blamed, and she said
after a short silence, "I think it very natural he shoi4ild feel
as he does-you know I did like him, and--perhaps I
showed it sometimes-then I was ogten contrary. I thought
1 was behaving as well as I could, but yet I suppose that
coquettes act just as I did. He says, "May God ~bless
you !" that is a comfort, but" her lip piivered; she rose
and went into the little bed-room: there she moaned, and
threw herself on the bed, and wept, and felt sure the dread-
fQl sea would swallow up the friend ~vho seemed dearer to
her even than Isabel: she blushed amid4 her tears as she
acknowledged this, and believed that she was the most un-
natural wretch living to feel so: it seemed treachery to.
her sweet sister: she had not known that she eared so much

44

ti
44)


40        AY DENBROOK.

1!;

iJ

46

for George, until it was too late to recall him by a word or
smile.
Isabel entered the room with the softest light in her azure
eyes. "Don't mind it, my dear, dear, dear love I" she said,
caressing and kissing her.
"0, Bel, I have found that\ I love him better than
anybody in the world !,' and she looked helpless and miser-
able.
"Poor soul !" sighed Isabel, without suspecting treachery
toward herself: after a little reflection, she added, "Why,
Amy, you needn't feel so wretchedly: write a letter, that
will meet George when he reaches India, and tell him you
will marry him: he'll forgive y~ou !"
"Another woman might do that, but not I!" answered
Amy, proudly: she arose and gathered up her h~Ur reso-
lutely, saying, "Th~ past is dead, and will never bear fruit
again. I ~an endure it, and I hope God will sustain
George I" His letter had led her to sound her character
and motives: it did her good, for it pointed out to her a
tendency which she had not thoughtDf: she had in her com-
position the elements of coquetry: she loved admiration,
and' did not object to the influence it gav~ her: she remem-
bered that at the room where she worked, there 'was a
young printer who regarded her with a shy worship; some-
times she had fouhd a white rose lying on her table when
she arrived in the morning; she had usually placed it in
her hair, sometimes in a little glass of water, but she had
alwa~ s carried the gift home at 'night: the donor she had

/

A~Y D~NBROOX.                    47
only exchanged a few friendly words~ with once in a while:
all this took a new aspect, when she searched her heart
-she knew by the young man's changing color when he
met her, that she was far more to him than he was to her:
it is easy to be merciful when we are unhappy: sh~ made
a simple and firm resolve to find no pleasure in that which
must ultimately wound a f'ellow-creature~ After George's
letter came, she wore no white roses in her hair when she
was at work, and carried none home ~vith her. It was not
in vain that George and Amy had met, had loved, and w'ere
now suffering: it was the pain they felt that made them
recognize the flaws in their natures. Yet methinks they
saw no compensation; no coming brightness for that'which
had retreated. Where does God keep all the splendor that
is to come?


i~j Jt
~tii~
tU;~
iii
t
r

AMY DE~BROO1r.

AMY DENBROOK.

49

"I was thinking that if we go through e~r~ry' moment
doing all we ought, all \viil be perfect in the~ end. I have
always thought of ha;?~'ing, and not of doing. I mean to
take up my old studies! I can't fold books 'forever; there
is too much time to think. I will prepare myself for ~a
teacher."
"Can you on with Latin without Georoe 2"
"Yes, of course
At this instant there was a knock at the door. Isabel
opened it, and both girls saw with pleasure that it was Mr.
Second: it was his evening to call fQr the rent. Bel placed
a chair for him with alacrity, and Amy obtained the money
due him, and gave it into his h end.
"You are always prompt !" he said, with a kind smile:
he had taken up a Latin grammar while Amy had gone into
the next room for' the money. "Do you study this?" he
asked.
"I mean to study it more faithfully than I have hereto-
fore done !" she replied; "I want to become a teaclThr 1',
"Ah! perhaps I could, help you in your wish'!"
"Help me !" she joyfully asked.
"Yes! I have influence in one of our best schools, and I
think if you wish it, I can get you a scholarship for a year:
it will cost you nothing, and it will be an advantage to
graduate from such an institution !"
Amy's face was radiant; then she remembered that she
must live, and how should she earn money.
'"You are looking thoughtful now !" said Mr. Scored.

48

'CTTAP.~'ER V.
Oi~ evening the sisters sat together sewing. Isabel was
disposed to be social and agreeable, and Amy replied to
her remarks, but not iyi a very animated strain.
"Do, pray, be funny a few minutes !" said Bel, laying
her fore-finger impressively upon ~he other's chin. "I
thought you didn't like to see people get sober and prosy !"
"I did not; but it seems to me now that I could never
wholly love a person who was always gay: that is, after
learning what real life is. I have been thinking lately how
few friends we have! Did you notice that Mrs. Coleman
treated me a little coolly when we called there the other
morning?"
"Why, yes! but she was 'as cordial to me as ever !"
"Bel, I suppose there is such a thing as falling into a
gloomy way of looking at things! I am cheerful by
nature: I won't be overcome. Shall I read aloud to you?
I borrowed this book on 'Thankfulness.' I feel so unthank-
ful, it may help me!"
She 'read awhile, then lapsed into thought. "That has
done me good already !" said Bel. "What are you think-
ing about'P'


AMY Di~N13ROoK.                                   AMY DE~BR0OIC.           51

"Not because I am ungrateful !"
"No, but because you are wondering if you can afford to
accept thy proposition !"
"You are good at guessing, sir !" she smiled with a certain
lightness of heart, for Mr. Scored seemed good and helpful
and strong, as if he saw a way through her difficulties.
"Can you copy neatly'?" he asked.'
"Shall 1 show you my writing, sir'?" She brought him a
sheet of paper on which some verses were transcribed, and
stood timidly watching his countenance for signs of con.
demnation or approval.
"This hand will do very well, if made larger and more
distinct. I hire a man to copy for me, or rather have done
so:, he has sought a more lucrative situation, as I c )uld not
keep him employed steadily. If you will copy for me four
hours on Saturdays, and one hour a day the, rest of the
week, it will cancel your rent, and leave you something for
other e4enses."
"Oh that would be earning money so easily t"
"If you do the same amount of work, Miss Amy, is it
not fair that you should receive the same compensation that
a man would 2"
"I suppose it would be just, Mr. Second, but women are
not compensated as men are 1"
Amy looked with a pain in her heart at Isabel. " Bel,"
she said softly,. "I. will te~ich you evenings everything that
I learn !"
"Thank you !" Isabel was thinking how lonely she

should be, to go to the i~ook.room without Amy. Mr.
Second arose: he laid, his hand on Isabel's head, and said,
"Are you disposed to be studious too, my little girl'?
Would you like to become a teacher'?"
"0, so much !" she answered, and a tear rolled suddenly
down her cheek.
"Then I must get a scholarship foi you, and get you to
do some copying for me. Will that suit you'?"
"Will there be work enough for both of us'?" inquired
Amy quickly. "I might find copying elsewhere."
"My brother will be glad to get such work done through
me, so have no fears !"
"When shall we begin'?" said Isabel with a glowing, smil~
ing, half tearful face. Mr. Second smiled at Amy, and then
the child remembered in whose stately presence she stood.
"You may begin next week, if it will suit you both !" he
answered.
"You have made us so happy !" said Amy: her lip
trembled, as she dashed away a tear. "You have always
been so kind to us since you knew ~
"Ah! it is nothing at all. I chance to ~e so situated
that I can do you a service as well as not. Miss Isabel,
will you allow me to see your penmanship?"
"0 Amy, what shall I show him'?" she whispered.
Amy handed her pen, ink and paper, and, with a little
laugh, said, write,
"how beauteous are their feet
Who 8tand on Zion's bill ;"

C
&amp;


AMY DENJ3RO OK.       b3

52                AMY DEI~fl3R0O1~.

To her thought, Mr. Second stood transfigured on Zion's
hill: she glanced at him with a shy, smiling gratitude, while
a sense of refreshment entered her heart, to think there
were such good beings on earth.
What did he think as he met her innocent expression
and then leaned his head slightly over Isabel's shoulder? he
thought her far more captivating then he did the day he
first saw her: she was the "Loveable little girl" whom he
had selected to marry, should she prove all he hoped. lie
was a man of excellent judgment and due caution: he
wished so to act that Amy shoiAd not suspect his object
until he had won her heart: he looked most frequently at
Isabel, and addressed her perhaps oftener in his ordinary
calls: he was always dignified iii his graceful courtesy: yet
nothing about Amy had ever escaped hin~i; her accent in
speaking, the fit of her dress, the size of her hand, her
changing color when she was in earnest, her method of sew-
ing were all as familiar to him as to Isabel: he had re-
volved many plans in his mind for sending her to ~chool,
but he had never opened the subject, lest it should seem odd
and startling; hence when the matter came up naturally, he
was prepared for his part. The scholarship was a conve-
nient term under which to conceal the fact of his bounty: it
was enough to excite her gratitude, without oppressing her
by a sense of obligation. She was a pretty vision to him:
she had caught his~ fancy, and her presence came every day
nearer his heart, though he did not seek her often as yet.
When he had gone that evening, the sisters flew into each

others' arms and cried and laughed: they found that they
were so tired of their book-folding, so glad to enter upon a
different lire: their sweet young faces shone as did that of
Moses when he came down from the mount, and their
happy talk and laughter rippled musically over dresses
school-books and Mr. Second. They got down all the
dresses they had, and began to make some desirable changes
in them.
"1 suppose nobody but himself knows how much good
he does !" broke out Amy~
"If we were rich, Amy!" suggested Isabel, "don't you
think we should be delighted to find two orphan girls like
us to help ?"
I hope we should !"
"If our dear parents only knew it !"
"I always think of them when any good fortune happens
to us. They taught us such a sweet and bright philosophy."
"1-low would you like to open a boarding-school in the,
country, Amy? You could be the principal, and I would
be the assistant! I should think we could become compe-
tent in a year !"
It would be delightful! Would we be old enough
thowrh 2"
I guess so!" decided Bel.
K        flow    should you think Mr. Second is, Bel ~"
0, why, forty or fifty, should'nt you think so
"Yes! when people are not young, they look forty or
fifty, or somewhere along there!"

53

52


54        AMY DENBROOK.

"Js'nt he gentlemanly and benevolent looking ?"
"Very !"
"Don't you wish he was an uncle of ours, or some rela-
tion 3"
"Yes1 indeed I do! I reverence him so
"I'd be a butterfly born in a bower 1"
sang Isabel joyously, then added, "Shall we wear our
best bonnets to school 3"
When Am~ and Isabel knelt with their arms around each
other that night, and committed themselves to the Father's
care, Mr. Second was pacing his room saying to himself,
"What a perfect little angel she is !" and his idea of an
angel was different from theirs. had Amy known his
thoughts, she would not have fallen asleep with a smile on
her lips-with an "All hail !" to the new future in her heart.
She would have repelled her joy with a shock of pain, and
would have turned back to her toilsome existence. Love
for woman is most sure of a final return, when it drifts
toward h5 without her knowledge: there was nought to
startle the selected maiden, nothing to keep her grateful
spirit from seeing the shining halo around her benefactor's
head.
The next morning Mr. Second took his prot6g~s to the
school which he had chose~m for them: their i'epressed glad-
ness, their sudden smiles, and childlike, admiring pleasure in
him, which was mingled with a tender reverence, all gave
him a keen refreshment. When they reached the handsome
buildings before which they paused, a trepidation seized

AMY DE~BR00K.

55

them, and half cau~lit away their rapture. It was too early
for the assemblage of the pupils. Mrs. Barker, the principal~
of the school, met Mr. Second with many smiles and bows
and professed a deep 5n~erest in the dear girls. After a little
*     conversation, Mr. Second left, and Isabel was removed to a
*    distant department. ~The'lady inclined her head to Amy
and asked, "What ar~ your acquiremnents, Miss Denbrookl'
The young girl gav~ her estimate.
"Then you have never taken lessons in music, my dear 3"
"No mna'am !"
"Mr. Second wishes particular attention given to it, ~s
you heard him say !"
"Yes ma'am V' was the reply, with a very willing look.
"Italian 3"
"I should like to study it, if Mr. Second think best!"
+      "You draw, it seems, but do not 'paint! that you must
learn! Is Mr. Sedord your uncle or guardian 3"
"lie is our guardian n 1" was the answer after an instant's
b
consideration.
Mrs. Barker left her, and then Amy looked around the
room, and saw that it' w~ms occupied by but one person be-
*    side herself. A young girl, apparently of her own age, was
seated with negligent grace upon a long low bench: her
elbow rested upon a dusk, and her hand supported her head
as she looked at Amy.
"It is a pleasant morning!~' she said smiling.
"Yes !" returned Amy with an answering smile, and with
the quick bound of frankness to her whole expression: she

54


AMYDENBROOIC.       57

56         AMY DENBROOK.

did not look like the reserved young ladf whom Mrs. Barker
had addressed a moment before. "You are a scholar here,
I suppose?"
"Yes, I have been a pupil i~.ere a short time !"
"Do you like it?" -
"Very much ! I love study better than anything else !"
"Doyoa? sodol!"
"Then we shall be good friends 1 most of the girls study
because they ?nu8t 1"
"What is your name? Mrs. Barker did not introduce
us!"
"Agnes Leonard I"
"I think you rather look as if that were your name 1"
Amy said a little reflectively, then she smiled, and then
laughed, as Agnes did.
"Come sit here !" she indicated a place next her: Amy
was sitting on a chair by herself: she arose immediately and
obeyed; indeed there was something in the whole gentle
aspect of the girl that won trust, and made Amy look up to
her, as if she was in some way superior to herself; and yet
like her. Agnes had looked at her quietly as if measuring
her endowments: Amy could not so calmly have met her
fixed regard, had she been caught in the s~me studying atti-
tude; the stranger's eyes were of a dark blue, and they
were very clear: her jet blaQk hair was swept back from
her brow almost too severely: her mouth was firm and
sweet, yet not fascinating: the nose and forehead were alto~
gather beautiful: she was ~ handsome maiden~ upon the

whole, although not showy or very striking 4 first sight.
Her dress was of the finest material, and ~very neat: at a
distance, one could not have said which of the VWQ was the
better dressed, for Amy selected delicate patterns, if the ma-
terial were coarse. For a moment she was silent, consider-
ing the probable difference of position between herself and
her new friend: and these same thoughts were passing in
Miss Leonard's mind; she discovered that Amy's French
chintz as she had supposed it, when taking an inventQry of
her appearance, turned out to be a cheap calico. Miss
Leonard was not wholly untouched by the prestige that
wealth gives to an object: she liked refinement from the
soul down to the shoes, though her rich tender nature could
spare it in materialities: she looked again at Amy's profile,
at her rosy finger nails, tipped with white. The silence that
followed upon their girlish freedom said a greet deal to
Arn5r: she had taken a fancy to Miss Leonard, a~ dhad di-
vined her thoughts as her eye fell upon her dress: an indig-
nant feeling stirred within her, but the belief that there was
something congenial in her new acquaintance and a desire
for such a friend overcame her pride. She lift4 her head,
which had a little drooped as she played with the tassels Qf
her silk apron, and said, "Your experience of life and mjne
must have been somewhat different? Look !" she held ~
fold of each dress between her thumb and finger, and strove
to smile, but she blushed instead.
Agnes laid her hand impulsively upon her~, and n~Jced;
"Do you think I cannot appreciate anything but ~u~faee-


58         AMY DT~NUR0OK.                           AMY DENI3ROOK.

life? I feel as if you and I shall begin today such a
friendship, as 1 have always longed for. You think about
the experiences of life, do you i? I wonder what the future
will bring !"
They talked earnestly and cordially for a few minutes:
Amy was only conscious of a sensation of delight at having
met a friend who seemed to understand her, and who was
educated and refined: she felt as if Miss Leonard had occa-
sion to rejoice also. Sudden and beautiful attachments are
very easy to form in youth, when such deep treasure
seems lodged man attractive face, and doubt and ddibera-
tio~ never tjirow hindrances in the way of impulse~ The
two girls were very sorry when the door opened, and ad-
mittect another pupil, whose glance settled upon Aigy.
"This is Miss Denbrook, Miss Blake !" exclaimed Agnes
Leonard, without any of the embarrassment which school-
girls are apt to feel in making an introduction.
Miss Blake bowed slowly, and then came forward and
offered her hand, with a hearty "How ar~ you ?"
Amy received her greeting rather bashfully, for her per-
fect ease and assurance took from her the u~e of the same
qualities. Miss Blake was rather pretty, with an arch, in-
telligent smile, and brown eyes in which intensified fun
seemed to be asleep.
"New scholar ?" she questioned, as she untied her bon-
net-strings.
Amy bowed and answered "Yes !"
The demoiselle stationed herself ~t the window, which

she opened, with her back to the two occupants of the
room; she had a book in her hand, but she was constantly
looking up from it, to observe the passers-by in the street.
Agnes touched Amy's elbow, and motioned her to watch
her. She xvas at the instant nodding with a coquettish air
to a young gentleman who paused on the side-walk: she
threw out a tiny bouquet, and then waved her hand for him
to pass on: he caught the flowers, ~nd with a delighted
smile, bowed, and obeyed her. When he was out of sight,
she clapped her hands, and laughed gleefully: her school
mates were laughing too.
"You won't tell her high mightiness, will you 'I" de-
manded, the sinner, turning around *as she heard their
laughter.
"Certainly not !" replied Miss Leonard.
Amy only shook her head, but her interest was so appa-
rent, Miss Blake laughed again delightedly, and asked,
"'Don't you wish you had such a dapper little beau to make
a fool of?"
"Are ycu making a fool of him, Miss Blake? I thought
you were in earnestt !"
"0, you thought I was concentrating my imperishable
affections upon a nose like that! a pug nose! no! he is to~
genteel for me! I hate a genteel man
"Don't make fun of him !" said Amy.
"Why not ?" demanded the girl with a look of interest.
"State the reasons logically !" she placed her hand on her
3*


AMY D.ENJ3ROOX.         61

60             AMY ~ENB1~00TC.

side, aud stood in a listening attitude, contemplating ker
companion with merry mischief.
"It isn't treating him as you would like to be treated
is it?"
" Good! what a little saint it is! I'll make it my spirit-
ual adviser !"
Amy reddened and set her lips together, taking up a
book as she did so: her action said that there was no
moral meeting-ground between her and Miss Blake: she
did not like the ridicule that met her remark. There was
something in Miss Blake's nature that made her symupathise
with the quick, wounded exp~'ession that passed over the
girl's face: she felt sorry that she had spoken so, but she
did not want to yield. She spoke in a diffi~r5t tone.
"Now why shouldn't I captivate him? I want to hang his
heart at my belt, as the Indians hang the salps of their ene-
mies! He is all scalp, he hasn't got any brains inside! he
never had an original idea, except to adore the side of my
bonnet in church, and to ~try to look into my bewitching
countenance at all other times. I want to make him
happy, you see
Amy smiled ironically and incredulously, and replied,
"Of course this matter does not concern me, only I feel
sorry for him. You would, if he were a brother of yours,
and I werO doing as you are doing toward him. I havc
thought of such things lately I"
A grave shadow passed over Miss Blake's conntenance:
an expression full of feeling, but she said nothing, as several

pupils were entering the school-room. lEre long the bell
was rung, the school was opened, and the regular business
of the day began. Amy made observations upon her school-
mates, whenever she was not watched herself: many looked
at her, and treated her as ladies treat each other at an even-
ing party-as though they should never meet again: she
particularly observed the movements of Miss Leonard and
Miss Blake: the former wa1s the best schohir, and was ap~
patently looked up to by all the pupils: she seemed to ac-
cept her positioli as if it belonged to her-she was very
kind, but a little queenly in her supremacy. Miss Blake
exerted an equal influence but it was of a different character:
she caused the teachers to~i h, and pretend they did not ob-
serve her capers: she made some girls laugh beyond con-
trol, and cover their        their two hands, or throw
up the lids of their desk spasmodically for a screen-and
other girls whose peculiarities she touched off with irresista-
ble humor, glared at her with hurt and angry faces. rn
the midst of this popular commotion, she would frequently
cast a beneficent glance and smile at the new scholar; it
lighted her features up. most attractively, and as it was half
inquiring, Amy would send back a smile that was at once
friendly and reproving, provided she was not laughing her-
~elf: she found that she could not watch Miss Blake profita-
bly, and anxious to gain a good reputation, she resolutely
refused to take note of the corner in which the gay girl
flourished. No one seemed able or willing to brave her, ex-
cept Miss Leonard: ~t noon-time she accosted her with the

5.
r r
?


AMY DENBROOK.                                 AMY DE~BR,001~.

63

words, "Miss Blake, if you have no wish to improve your
own time, you certainly have no right to interfere with the
studies of other pupils, as you did this morning !"
"Stop !" cried the offending one, laying her pretty hands
over .her ears, and shaking her white shoulders. "I've got
but one life to live, and-"
"And that should be lived worthily I"
"You got that idea from me, my dear duchess. I forgive
you, because it's flattering to be quoted !" ~she removed her
self to a distance, and Miss Leonard turned to Amy, asking,
"Did you ever see such a girl~"
"She seems very wild !"
"I never know how to take her! I cai'i't understand her. I
wonder if she has a heart: she has more talent than any 01
those girls around her: one can't help feeling an interest in
her because she is not like every body else."
"Do you think she is heartless ?"
"I hardly know! what do you think? I saw you observ-
ing her a good deal !"
"I rather like her but I am a little afraid of her."
"She likes you !"
"Do you think so
"Yes! if she didn't, she would have mimicked you all
day, and would have performed all sorts of maneuvers be-
hind your unconscious back."
"0, you frighten me to think of what might have been !"
laughed Amy.
During the afternoon; when Amy's new experiences were

less imperThtive upon her attention, she fell into reficetion up-
on the life that seemed opening befoi~e her: the disparity of
circumstances between herself and Miss Leonard oppressed
her somewhat; she was as *proud in a certain way as that
lady herself; she saw that there was no one in the whole
school who was a fitting or beloved companion to her: in the
morning her heart sprang with a careless joy to her, and her
quick fancy clothed her with all perfection, but reverence
was not indigenous to the soil of Amy's mind: she venerat-
ed only intellect and goodness, the former far the more, and
her friends must find these satisfactory in herself, or leave
her. As her head was turned to Miss Leonard, the young
lady who sat next her observed in a whisper, "Yqu knew
her beforee you came to school, I suppose 1"
No f"
"She's an heiress! They live in grand style, and she don't
forget it. She's a first rate girl, although we call her Queen
Victoria sometimes !"
"XVhy?"
"0, she's so dignified, so kind o' stately. But it's against
the rules to talk."
When the school closed for the day, the two sisters met
in the hail, and exchanged warm greetings. "11 ike it !" ex-
claimed Isabel, dragging forward a fourteen~year-old maiden
with whom she had interchanged vows, of never-ceasing
fidelity. Amy took the little girl's hand with a smile, say-
ing, "I am glad Isabel has found a friend in you: she will
not be lonely."


AMY D]3~NBROO IC.'

AMY DENBRO0K.           ~35

"Which way do you go, cara mia 9" inquired Miss Leon-
ard, coming up, and encircling Amy's waist with her arm.
An answer was given, and the two sallied forth into the
street together: they walked silently a few minutes, then,
with a brave effort, Amy said, "I suppose you ~ know,
Miss Leonard, that Mr. Scored sends my sister and mc to
school from pure kindness. Perhaps it would be best that
you should understand, before entering into an intimacy."
This was spoken candidly, but with pride; it riveted
the kindness of Miss Leonard's regard it deepened her
fancy into sincere affection, because it appealed to that
which was truly good within her.
"You know me very little, if you judge me by the
many!" she said, "If I loved you, I would cling to you un-
til death, if you were worthy, though all the world laughed
at me for it."
Amy returned the pressure of the soft hand that cl:isped
her~, but she was not unmindful of the self appreciation that
lay in the remark, nor that Miss Leonard believed that it
was a valuable thing to gain her friendship. She said,
"Love must make all things equal, else our attachment must
begin and exid to-day. I must be judged by my heart, and
mind, and by nothing else, inferior as these may be."
"We understand each other !" responded Miss Leonard,
and her eyes beamed with a starry softness: Amy smiled
with an expression full of childlike trust, gratitude and
admiration. They were very happy in this morning of their

love: they found it pleasant to worship human nature with-
o u~suspicion.
"I shall not be as frank with others as I have been with
you. It does not matter to the other pupils how Bel and I
are sent here.~~
"No! you're right !"
"I could be frank with Miss Blake: she, I know would
like people for what they are."
"Still I wouldn't tell her! she wouldn't care."
This heed of public opinion, so naturall to young
girls, Miss Leonard's after-life was to defy, to disdain. We
hear much of the innocence and simplicity of youth, and
among retrograding characters there was once doubtless a
freshness which time killed in its advance, hence the sorrow-
ful eye that looks backward, and the hopeless one that
looks forward. But true candor and freshnesssometime~
become more actual and living qualities with years: foolish
little arts are discarded: restless hopes settle into one great
hope, and the light that beams from God floods this mortal
existence with just perceptions of others and ourselves.
The world holds a large class of people who look, at middle
life, over the ocean of the past, only to descry a fairy isle,
whose like they never shall meet again: perhaps these un-
happy ones h'~ve stumbled on to riches and honor, pouring
Qut strong energies to attain them, bu tthey have not won
such wishes as yield a delight daily, and bear transportation
to the land that looms to sight at the end ,~f earthly
Journey.

4


Yfr

66

AMY DENBROOR

As the young girls walked on, they were overtaken by a
gentleman of abdut twenty-five; he was travelling rapidly,
but took time to look in Miss Leonard's face with the cx-
ejamation, "fley, Agnes !" then his quick tread hastened
on; in a moment he joined Miss Blake, who was sauntering
slowly along.
"Shall I carry your books, Miss Diana ?" he asked
laughingly, after he had lifted his hat and bowed.
"Certainly !" she replied, with a coquettish light playing
over her fhce. Amy and her friend purposely dropped be-
hind, to be out of hearing distance, but they could see the
pretty bearing of Miss Blake, and the pIeasi~re that beamed
in her companion's face as he jested with her: he was tall
and well proportioned, but rather attractive-looking than
handsome in feature; his air and laughter, for his voice
could not be heard distinctly, were full of character and in-
telligence.
"That is not the gentleman to whom Miss Blake tossed
the flowers this morning ?" observed Amy.
"He is my brother !"
"Indeed! you do iiot much resemble each other !"
"And yet in many respects we are alik6. I have often
wondered how he could be so pleased with Miss Blake: she
is without principle in everything that she does, and Marcus
is so high-principled, so studious, and noble in his aims."
"There may be a few points of character where they can
meet heartily, and he takes it for granted that she is charm-
ing in all other respects."

AMY D]3NBROOK.

637

"He always insists that I don't understand her, if I in-
timate that he had better lessen his admiration. She is very
fascinating when she chooses to be: the most beautiful girls
fall into the shade beside her in company."
"Do you stop here ?" questioned Amy, as Miss Leonard
laid her hand upon a stone balustrade that led up to the
front door of a stately house.
"Yes! I live with an uncle and aunt: I am an orphan a~
xvell as you, Miss Deubrook. Call for me in the morning, as
you go to school, xviii you ?"
"I don't know! if you will sit at a front window I will !"
"Well, I'll be watching for you at the dining-room win-
dow! I'm so glad we have met: we think and feel so much
alike about everything!"
They parted, believing that they should always see things
alike, as they had seen them that day, for the seal of syinpa-
thy had dropped upon every uttered thought.~


AMY DENI3ROOK.

AMY D~J3R~00X~.                 69

CHAPTER VI.
AMY and Isabel h~d attended school hut a few weeks,
when the former encountered Mr. Second one afternoon on
her way home: she looked up in his face with an ex-
pression of bright confidence, which he answered by turning
about, and offering his arm, with the words, "how are you
getting on with your studies, my dear ?"
"Very ~velJ, I think! I am going to a party to-morrow
evening, at one of the girl's houses." Seeing that he looked
a little grave, she added, "If you approve, of course !"
"You had bcttem~ go this time, as you are expecting it:
but while you are at school. I had rather your mind should
not be directed from, your studies."
"I will stay at home, if you say so, sir! I want to do
exactly as you would have me !" she lifted her grateful
eyes so earnestly, that he was assured the deepest wish of
her heart was to obey him: a pleased satisfaction passed
over his countenance, and he said with some heartiness,
"Go this time! Where is it to be? who gives the
party ?"
"Mrs. Harrington dives ~t, but she permits her niece,

Miss Leonard, to invite a few of her school-mates, and I am
of the number."
are you intimate with Miss Leonard'?"
"Yes, sir! we think everything of each other: she is the
noblest girl I ever saw
Mr. Second smiled peculiarly, and said, "You are very
school-girl ish-you haven't lived in the world long, Amy !"
She reflected on his meaning, and thought if he supposed
that anything upon earth could ever lessen her new friend-
ship, how mistaken he was, but she regarded him as too
much above her in years and experience to dispute the
point.
"Do you visit Miss Leonard often ?'~
"Yes, sir! two or three times a week: some of our las-
sons we always study together; I pass her house in return-
log from school, and she persuad'~s me to go in and run up
in her room an hour or two."
"Do you like Mrs. Ilarrington ?"
"Yes, sir! she is a very gentle lady."
"Does Miss Leonard ever come to study with you?"
"Nqt very ~ften! she comes Saturdays sometimes for
to take a walk with her. Once she came in a carriage,
and took Bel and me ridin~"
"I always supposed Miss Leonard was an exceedingly
proud girl!"
"Are you ~vell acquainted with her, sir?"
" Yes,~ have known the family some years. I am in-
vited to the party to-morrow night !"

69


AMY D~Ni3I~0OK.                71

AM.Y DENB1~0OK,

70

"Is it possible?" She was a trifle disappointed, for she
felt as if he would watch her,~ and desire her to appear well,
when she feared that she should be far less at ease, than
when she was tripping along at his side.
"1 will call for you, and take you thei~e !"
"Thank you, sir !"
"Had von an escort provided ?"
"No, sir! Miss Leona~rd said I must come before dark,
and then I could help her with the flowers; but I might soil
my dress, and I had rather not be there so long in magnifi-
cent array!"
Mr. Second gave a light~ laugh, and said, "You have a
superb wardrobe, little friend !"
"When I come out in my white dress tomorrow evening,
I shall look deceitfully aristocratic, because the most gorge-
ous silk is not so pretty an evenIng dress as a light snowy
one."
"That's true !"
With her own father, Amy had hardly felt more free than
with Mr. Second: he always seemed interested in little
things that concerned her, and was so patient and indulgent
in his goodness, that her heart reverenced him beyond any
other human being; it wus this childlike trust that made her
very frank and careless in the expression of her thoughts at
times.
The evening for the party arrived, and Amy donned the
Swiss muslin that was already two years old: it had passed
through her busy fingers for a remodelling, after she had one

afternoon promenaded- Broadway, and looked at handsome
ladies, and slowly eyed showcases With tissue-paper sleeves
an~ waists: her observations had been summed up, and with
her labors, they culminated in her modernized white dress.
She had but one jewel to wear, and that gwas a bracelet of
her mother's; a breastpin she possessed, but it was of an
ugly fashion, so it was laid aside as unsuitable, and a crim-
son rose took its place; this rose and a half blown white
one blossomed on the plants that George had given her and
Ri: she picked them with a sweet, sad ru~h of thought, but
the prospect Qf a brilliant evening prevented her from de-
voting much melancholy to the past: her luxuriant chesnut-
brown hair was twined in a world of ringlets to fall over a
comb at the back, apd Qthers shaded slightly her brow and
neck; the w!~itc rose with many green leaves trailed upon
one side. While Isabeiwas saying, with her pretty head
turned critically aside, "Why, Amy, if you were born to a
A knock at the door announced Mr. Scored, and inter-
rupted the remarks of 13e1. Amy looked at hini a little
anxiously, fearing he might deem her dress plain for the
occasion, but the ad miring smile that broke over his fhce,
set her at rest. She flitted about the room, picking up rose-
leaves, and dancing a little when Mr. Scored'~ head was
turned, then subsided with a solemn eye upon Isabel. Mr.
SecQrd laughed as he discovered this pantomime, and then
took her shawl from a chair and wrapt it around her.
When they left, Amy said, "You shall go to parties too


AMY DENBROOK.

AMY DENDROOR.

when you reach my age, Bel. Don't sit up for me, darling!
I shall have so much to tell you to-morrow. Go down in
Mrs. Walcott's room."
When 'they were stated in the carriage, Mr. Scored asked,
"Are you in the habit of associating familiarly with the peo-
ple i n~ the house ?"
"B ~l is intimate with Lizzie WaleQtt; we are hot very
social with any one else !"
fir~t time I called, I went into ,the rooms of the two
families in the house, and I thought they were not partieular-
ly refined !"
"No! they are not! but Lizzie Walcott is an honest little
soul, and I am always sure Bel will learn no harm from her."
"It is a harm to her to have her manners tinctured
with the ways of such people."
Amy felt a warm tide mounting to her brow: she was
struck with astonishment that her companion's heart did not
overflow with kindness toward the families in the house;
but her trust in him was a beautiful lever to adjust anything
that momentarily surprised her: she thot~ght that he had
'measurably adopted herself and Bel, and that he desired that
they should be very pure and delicate in all respects, and
should learn no coarseness or evil of any one: she remem-
bered that he was unaware of the real goodness of the people
he referred to, and that it was 'exceedingly thoughtful in him
to desire to protect them from harm. How often, and how
unweariedly have we seen noble natures giving to doubtful
sentiments or actions, a blessed motive. After a mental

process of this kind, Amy said, "They are good, Christian
people, I esteem them~ although our tastes are different: I
never 'thought particularly about Bel's catching unrefined
habits from Lizzie !"
"These things ought to be considered: perhaps it would
be well for you to che~k Isabel's pen4~~hant a little."
Again an uneasy sensation sent the color ~o her face:
she answered slowly, "I'll try to manage i~ so that Lizzie's
feelings won't be hurt: the intimacy can tbe gradually less-
ened, sir !"
"You can manage it, Amy !" he spoke in a tone of con-
fidence, and then conversed upon other things, until they ar-
rived at Mrs. Harrington's.
When Mr. Second entered the parlor, with his ward lean-
ing upon his arm, half-clingingly, half-confidently, his heart
rose with secret ~ratification to see that others thought her
very lovely: after greetings had been exchanged with the
host and hostess, Miss Leonard took Amy's two hands with
a warm smile, whispering, "You look like a little syiph !"
Mr. Scored's attentive ear caught this ~remark, and she was
v~dued all the more, because others praised her. When
Miss Leonard's attention was demanded elsewhere, Mr.
Second l~d Amy directly to a lady. and gentleman who had
been observing them from the moment of their entrance :
he introduced her first to the gentleman; as the lady turned
away to speak to some one, when sure of their approach:
this did not confuse Mr. Second, for he was an unusually
self-possessed man: he spoke urbanely, "Brother, thi5 is


AMY DENJ31~O0K.                           AMY DENBROOK.

Miss Amy Denbrook of whom you have heard me speak!
Mr. Ashley, Amy !"
She accepted the offered hand almost in silence, wonder-
V             ing if the lady turned away at that moment accidentally or
intentionally.
"Mrs. Ashley !" called her brother-in-law in a low
* voice: she was not speaking at the moment: she turned
around all smiles, as if she had not the most remote suspi-
don of his intention. "Miss Denbrook-Mrs. Ashley !"
His tone was a little determined.
The lady bowed with some hauteur in her black eyes.
Mr. Second partially turned Amy to his brother, who imme-
diateJy began a conversation with her, into which he scat-
tered, a few artful compliments : Mr. Second removed him-
self to a slight distance, but his attention was not diverted
from the blushing girl, who timidly replied to the easy flow
of talk addressed to her. Mrs. Ashley devoted herself to
Miss Leonard, for whom she had evidently an exceeding
fancy. "Do you like Miss Denbrook ?" she whispered.
"Yes! I more than like her: I have a fr~endshi p for.
her !" she replied, looking steadily into the haughty face
before her: she had observed the cool manner in which
Amy had been received; it awakened resentment, and
II
made her own heart gush out with generous love.'
"She possesses talent, I suppose, if you like her !" Mrs.
Ashley found it difficult to understand how' so stately a girl
as her young friend Agnes could have formed an intimacy
with Miss Denbrook.

Yes'! Nature has crowned her with beautiful gifts 1"
Mrs. Ashley perceived that she ~vould not be alone, if
she supported th~ poor, obscure girl, and thinking Justin
Second might consummate his~ present folly by marrying
her, ~he resolved to be a little n~ ore affable.
"Don't you find it warm here, Miss Deubrook ?" she,
0
asked, after having turned toward her with a brief silent
inspection.
"It is a little warm !" was the quiet reply: involun-
tarily Amy's eyes turned to Mr. Scored: she did not feel
at home, and she wished he would take her to another part
of the room: he met her look very calmly, and' she saw
that he had no intention of paying heed to her wishes: she
wondered at this, not knowing that he did not care to have
his relation to her talked about. Miss Leonard came to the
rescue, after she had been to Mrs. llarrington's side with
therequest, "Aunt, please pay some attention to Miss Den-
brook-Mrs. Ashley treated ier c6olly !"
"Yes, dear !" was her aunt's reply.
Amy was soon made to feel at ease, and saw herself in
the iiiidst of a group of people, laughing and chatting with
a very witty young gentleman: she did not however lose
the opportunity of taking general observations: she saw Miss
Blake performing ~he part of a belle with an infinite charm;
arnoiig the lively circle that surrounded her, Marcus
Leonard appeared, and to him were the sunniest smiles
given, and for him were the merriest sallies spoken. Agnes
turned again and again to the coquette with grave 'obser-
4

{


AMY DEN13ROOK.

AMY DENBUQOK.

vance: the difference in the demeanor of the two girls was
most striking.. Agnes, unmindful of her youthful years,
exacted an almost reverential manner from gentlemen: if
they trifled with her, as they might with Miss Blake or
Amy, she did not meet them on their own ground: her
calm and deeply cutting sarcasm remindec~ them that she
0
thought herself superior to their nonsense: yet she was
cordial and gay with many, and when at Amy's side, she
laughingly entered into the merry jesting that was going on
between her and the witty young gentleman: her fondness
for her friend made her enter ii~to her feelings. Diana
received compliments believing only half of them, while
Agnes was in reality more accessible to flattery-she quietly
believed the whole. When the dancing commenced, Amy's
hand was perpetually sought: it delighted Agnes to see the
homage divided between her and Miss Blake, and yet to her
chagrin, she perceived\ that her brother was conscious only
of the letters presenc~. In the sudden sunshine of adula-
tion, the once, checke~1 fault of Amy's nature broke out
anew: she revelled in~ the admiration* that she excited with
a joyous abandon: it inspired her with grace, and bewitch-
ing woxds and ~zaivete: unmindful of all but the present
moment, she was deep, her will was active and not passive
under temptation; in all the; intricacies of coquetry: she
was more timid in manner then Miss Blake; she wag less
brilliant, but more winning: her kind heart and tact pre.
vented her from wounding the feelings of others, butt they

were dangerous allies in her present crusade. Mr. Second
was a rein upon her-she desired that he should be satisfied
with her, and her looks and words were more subdued after
slip had encountered his obsePving eyes: but he was an out-
ward rein only, for the inward control of will and high
principle was temporarily wanting. lie marked all that
occurred well: he was pleased and proud to see the position
of the pretty orphan: he saw the effect that she produced
but did not care for the moral harm that might touch her:
on the other hand, it galled him to see how lightly and
heartily she entered' into the spirit around her; he saw that
she might easily b~ ~von away from him by younger men,
~ and he resolved that this should be the last party that she
should attend before they were lighted: her happy and
careless manner toward others assured him that she did not
ypt suspect herself appropriati~d by one: something with-
held him from taking the character of a lover before her
astonished eyes then; the way must be gradual to her
afThctions, and yet the wealthy landlord found himself actu-
ally in love that evening, and he could not throw off the
embarrassed sense of weakness: he felt as if his eyes
would drop to the ground if the hazel ones of the girl were
lifted to his with their childish trust. He wrestled against'
his fully, and his characteristic secretiveness triumphed, and
gave him power to conceal the current of his emotk~n~: he
entered into conversation with those about him, ~nd 9 id not
permit himself to direct his observations to the spo which.

Li~
p

II


78           AMY DENBItOGIC.                                  AMY DENI3UOOK.           79

h~s prot6g6 occupied. A little after twelve o'clock, he found
himself near her, and asked, "Are you ready to go,
Amy?"
"Yes, sir !" she answered, quite disappointed that she
must leave the fascinating scene long before many others.
"Then leave the rooms quietly, and I will be in the hail
'V when you come down stairs 1"
"Shall I bid Mrs. Jlarrington good evening' sir ?"
"No! it is not late, and she would n~t wish the leave.
V taking to put others in mind to go."
She stole from the room, but when on the stairway, she
cast a lingering look into the parlors, and said to herself;
"0) if the dear man could only rem ember how he felt when
he was young himself; he would not tear me away in the
IlIf          'midst of such a splendid time !" sudde~ily she espied him
iii
makiun- his to the hail, and she incontinently ran up the
~ way
stairs, lest he should see her looking back to Paradise.
If1             In a few moments she joined him in the hall with a smiling
face; as the carriage rolled toward home, she forced her
thoughts from their natural channel, to chat about the peo~
plewhom sh~ had seen. When she entered her little home,
and saw Bel sitting alone at the table, fast asI~ep, she thought,
"lie was more con~iderate than I, to make me come home
in season to this poor child !"
~he threw off her shawl, before she awoke Isabel from her
profound slumber.
" You can tell me to-morrow !" said the half aroused girl,
as she undressed and instantly sped into dream-land again.
K

Amy's faculties were all awake; she seated her-
self in the little rocking chair, and a delicious tide
of thought ran oyer her light heart: she murmured
inly, "1 shall have many years of such happiness as
this! I have at last reached just such careless joys as
I used to dream about after reading novels. I neVer knew
before to-night that I was attractive, like many girls I
have seen! It seems so strange, so wonderful! I thank God
for it! Ah! perhaps 1 thank him selfishly, but I love to
dance on roses !" She buried her face in he~' hands and
dreamed a long while, then ~he thought. "I must read a
verse in the Bible, I can't read a chapter to-night !" but
when she raised her head, the lamp had just died out; she
was conscious of a feeling of relief; for she was not in a mood
for scripture reading: she undressed herself in the darkness;
involuntarily her soul broke forth, "Fath5! mother!
what would you say to me now? I know that a flood of
worldliness is sweeping in upon me! I know that to angels'
eyes I am not lovely this i~ight! I have exulted in myself!
not one unspotted thought for others, pleasure has had birth
within me! I turn to earth too passionately, I shade my eyes
from heaven! only sweet, seducing laughter reaches me, and
itssiren sound is lulling! Ah! I must drink the bewitching
draughts; I cannot mount a step of my Jacob's ladder at
this time !" Amy did not know it, but it was the remem-
brance of Mrs. Ashly's cold look that bad led her mind from
satisfaction to reflection. For an instant she stood in the
deep gloom around her, with her clasped hands dropped be-

8


AMY DE ~B1LOOE.            81

80             AMY DENI3ROO1~.

fore her: she hesitated whether to pray, COnSCiOUS that she
felt no desire to become spiritual: religion seemed so cold
and prosaic; it had no charm, no rainbo~v glory, no exalt-
ing poetry: it simply said, "The happiness of tlis night S~
not healthy, for it d4racts from your enthusiasm fur Godi
and the right." She wavered still, almost unconsciously
asking herself "Shall I throw myself on the Lord's side,
and beseech him to make this experience an ascending step
in the cale of my life? Does not the Lord's prayer mean,
'Lead u~ not into temptation, but to deliver us from evil V
and I have seen an evil tendency in myself this night. I am
not willing to turn away from such adulation! I desire to
exercise the power I have been made conscious of !~No!
If I pray, it will be mere hypocrisy !-I don't want to amend
now I perhaps in a few days, I shall feel differently !" so she
sought her bed, and sleep fell balmily over her senses, but in
all its extent she did not read the effect of her de~ision.
Even if she should arise, and take up her march to her
Father's Hou~se very soon, she had lost some of the splendor
that might ha~ e accrued? to her. The Great Creator did not
so quietly resign her good: He did not hesitate in his design
to stay her faults, that her aforetime appeal might be grant-
ed. She had with yearning heart and tearful eyes read the
words, "Let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us !"
*       *      *       *      *       *      *
When Amy went to school the next morning, Agnes and
Miss Blake were already there with a few other pupils; 'as

it was early, the latter damsels went into a recitation room
to talk over a secret; Diana immediately stationed herself
at the windoW to dash off some little fascination to the inno-
cent young man who was expected to pass. Miss Leonard
watched her with a severe expression, for her brother's
charmed affections were in her thought: at length she said
in a cold cutting voice, "Miss Blake, you may trifle with
others, but I wish you to understand that I will not have my
brother trifled with !"
Miss Blake turned around like a Pythoness at bay: her
eyes filled with defiance, her lip curved, and she haughtily
answered, "I shall please myself; Miss Leonard, in all my
actions," and thereupon, she turned her back upon Agnes,
and gloomily looked down upon her book: for ten minutes
she was motionless, during which time the cloud had grad-
ually disappeared from her countenance: she then abruptly
went to Miss Leonard, and held out her hand, saying, "I
should feel as you do under the circumstances! You are a
true sister !"
The coldness all vanished from the manner of Agnes:
she took Miss Blake's hand with an appreciative smile, and
pressed it, but she said nothing, and soon quitted the room.
"Wasn't that prettily done; fellow-sinner ?" Diana ex-
claimed with an instantaneous return to her usual manner,
as she nodded at Amy.
The latter colored deeply, and asked, "Why do you say
fellow-sinner ?"
Diana laughed a peal of infinite amusement: then she


82         AMY DENRROOK.                              AMY DENBROOIL        83

laid her hand over Amy's mouth with th~ word, "Hush !"
erhphatically uttered, and seconded by her merry iook.
"Do you know you read me a touching lecture the first
morning I ever saw you? and don't you know there is an
ocean of coquettish wickedness in our composition as well
asInine? Forgive you-you cant help it! It's easier to
preach than practice, isn't it ?"
"A great de~U, Miss Blake !" returned Amy when power
of speech was given her. "I know better than I do, still I
think you mistake me a little. I would not go so far as to
m~ke a person love me, if I did not mean to return it: I
like to please but I would not excite, or trifle with deep feel-
ing!"
"Can you say to the tide, 'Stay!' when you have directed
its course?" Diana spoke earnestly.
A regretful feeling settled upoii the features of Amy; it
rose up~ from her bt~tter soul* she grieved at the weak good
that was so powerless within her: she saw th4 her, own cx-
ample had no sustainhig strength for Dianai~ "Let us do
better," she said after her companion had stood looking at
her, "let us try to make others better !"
"How can I?" questioned Diana, whose quick heart
seemed to catch the mood of her school-mate.
Amy pointed with an entreating, doubting smile to the
window.
"It's of no use! it's my nature !"
"Still do right this once! I'm not good, but I want to
be !"

"I'm dreadfully impulsive, Amy! I can't stay good more
than an hour, but this is to please you !" she went to the
window, closed it, and unrolled the curtain even to the sill,
then she took the little bouquet that hung at her apron
string, and fastened it in A my's belt. "My heart bounded
to you the first time I saw you. I shall be better if you
love me."
"I am so glad !" responded Amy.
4*


AMY DENBUOOK.                              4MY DENBRO-OK.       85

84

CHAPTER VII.
A YOUNG physician sat in his office with an open volume be..
fore him-it was a medical ~vork: once he had studied such
books with ardent interest, but now '~ cares for the morrow"
overshadowed him. He had selected his profession from a
love of it ; he had weighed his powers, his proclivities, and
his character, and had decided that nature, or rather God,
had ordained him to minister to the suffering. He hoped to
become well known and rich, but these were not hg first
considerations; it was a peculiar delight to him to turn his
love of science to a practical use; he had ~spent days in
roaming through the country adjacent to New York collect-
ing plants, and then days and even weeks were spent in his
laboratory, which was in one corner of his office-to furnish
this, he had fared and dressed in a manner that 'vould have
cut a dandy to the quick, and yet he was a gentlemanly
looking young man too; he supported a dog and a cat, not
altogether to gratify his social interests but that he might
try experiments upon them. During four years Ralph
Kendrick had lived his lonely life, keeping up his hope

amid bitter discouragements; he was now twenty-six, and
he was scarcely a whit better off than he was the day that
he had received his diploma: he had patients, quite a good
many of them, but they were in the main poorer than him-
self: the few of ample means never seemed to suppose his
wages would l~e acceptable, and he hesitated ~o appear per-
sistently in the character of a dinner lest he should lose
practice. As to the greatly indigent, he thanked God that
he did not quite live in vain, while he could instil health
into their bodies and minds: the brightness of his simple
career came in largest measure from the blessedness of
giving~to those who had not so rich a field of enjoyment as
himself-~--his gifts were time and skill, and they were
treasures to one who valued their use, rather than their pos~
session. His pleasures lay in books gained through great
pecuniary straits-an occasional attendance upon the lecture
of a gifted man-and a rai~nble in the country: he could
not afford to go much into society, nor did his nature
demand lighted evening parlors, and small talk;. upon a
few well chosen friends, his heart would have cast all its
social sunshine, but these he had not.
Inasmuch as all people are subject to diverse states of
feeling, Dr. Kendrick had his variations also: he was not
always philosophical and calm, as careless observers might
have supposed.
As he sat alone in his office, the bright side of his life
went down below the horizon; the driving September rain
swept against his window panes, and darkened the grey sky

I"


AMY DE~BROOK.
more gloomy tint as he glanced towards it; the
lirowni sh floor took a homeless aspect, so did the blue-
painted wood-box, which had preserved its winter quarters
for lack of' a better place to stow it: excessively hot weather
had been succeeded by raw, chilly days-had his fuel been
abundant, he might not have deemed a fire absolutely neces-
sary, but as he h~td none, he eyed his little empty stove, as
if it had been the enemy of his place----it looked of a bright
rust colors where quondam fires had burned the lustre off;
this disgusted him suddenly, for although he was neat in his
person, with his books and papers, and chemicals, he was
very helpless in the art of domestic embellishment. He
was not in hi~ best mood; he closed his book with an
emphatic bang, and walked the floor, exclaiming, "It is
confoundedly annoying to live as I do! Look at ekety
chair !" he contemplated it a moment, and then relieved him-
self' by giving it a slight kick: he was not demonstrative
mans or the force of his feelings would have sent it over and
demolished it. He resumed his walk, and stopt at the
other side of the office. "What a dismal, heaven-forsaken
look the whole room has! carpetless! meagre and mean as
the abode of a miser! What is the matter? Other men
succeed? haven't I ability? am I lazy? or is the world at
fault? Nd! that is too silly! I am willing to help my-
self; does God never mean to help me? does He intend for-
ever to thrust me into the traces, and goad me~ on in the
same rough track? If I had trampled upon rhy better
nature, and had set in full play all the artifice and acquisi-

AMY D1~N BROOK.       87

tiveness that is dowered to me, I should not now be looking
upon this dreayy room perhaps! Ah well! My con-
N
science ~vill not permit m~ even now to wish I were a
morally wors~ man, for the \sake of worldly prosperity. I
should be no happier today} for having driven the necessi-
tous into deeper po~'erty t~ pay me: we suffer together;
they groan under the same lash; they must appear what
they are not, as I must. Hark! there comes the man
for the rent! I know his infernal rap! poor dog! it is his
business !"
Dr.. Kendrick opened the office 4oor, and bowed with a
dignity that would have adorned a court; he looked well as
he stood there confronting his visitor; his straight brow,
well-cut lips, and very clear, dark eyes inspired trust. "My
friend, you must call at another time !" he said with an ac-
cent Qf decision, as if he were in the ascendant.
"This is the fifth time I have called, sir! the rent has
been due a month. I am very sorry you are so hard up, and
I would make it easy for you, if I could, but I must look to
head-quarters for approval, or I shall lose my agency. Mr.
Second is strict about business-he lays down the rules, and
I must follow 'em.\ lie said I must get another tenant if you
did not pay to-day !"
A deep scarlet rose in the young physician's cheek, but
otherwise his reserved countenance did not alter;. his look
did not remove itself from the agent's face: he was siknt a
moment, and then he replied, "You must do your duty, sir,
of course. I cannot pay you, but I will see Mr. Second my-

I?

87


88             AMY DEN~3R00l~.                                        AMY DE~BR0OR.               89

self to..day: perhaps some arrangement can be made, so that
I need not move."
"Mr. Second don't like to be troubled about the business
he delegates to me, sir! It isn't every tenant I'd be willing
to have go to him, but If' you will, I suppose I can't help it."
" You can't help it, sir !"
The man left him, and he turned to his cheerless room
with a darker look than he had yet worn. He had never
spoken with 'Mr. Second, although he knew him quite well
by sight; there was nothing in his looks indicative of a hard
man, and he believed that he would accommodate him when
he understood the real state of the case. He seized his hat
and umbrella, and wended his way to th9 hotel where his
landlord boarded: he was shown into a private parlor; after
waiting until dinner was over, he had the satisfaction of wit~
nessing the entrance of Mr. Second. ~r. Kendrick proceed-
ed at once to speak of' his business, after stating his name.
"I was told by your agent this morning, sir, that he had
orders to get a new tenant for the office I occupy, provided I
did not pay to-day. I have r~o money at present."
"How long has the rent been due~ sir ~" inquired Mr.
Scored.
"About a month !"
"We are obliged to have regular rules in these matters,
sir, and rules are of no avail unless tl~ey are enforced. I
don't like to put you to inconvenience, but cannot see
how your ease can be an exception. You have some prac.
tice ?"

"Certainly! I have enough due me to live free from
debt, if I could get it; my income would keep off starva-
tion. I hope to pay you soon, sir, if I partially relinquish
my profession to do it. It depends upon you, sir, to give
me the fruits of studious years;. if you press me now, I
may be obliged to sacrifice, everything to earn a mere sub-
sistence. If you will wait, you shall not be a loser."
"I might wait a long time. It's hard for you, doctor, but
in justice to myself I am obliged to demand the rent or the
office."
A dead silence followed this unexpected' remark; Mr.
Second experienced an uneasy sensation of pity, but he had
so long schooled himself to follow his judgment in matters
of business, that corn passion always glided away from his
thoughts in a subdued condition: his judgment invariably
demanded temporal, and not moral success. Dr. Kendrick
took up his hat, which he had placed upon a table, with
firmly-set lips; "You shall have the office to-morrow, Mr.
Second !" he responded, with his clear look upon the rich
man's face; he felt that he was the superior person, and the
feeling penetrated to the landlord's consciousness-.he did
not like Dr. Kendrick from that moment.
"Money !" soliloquised the doctor fiercely, as he went to-
ward home. "What an advantage it gives one man over
another; here I stand in the universe endo'ved with gifts
equal to that man's, and he is my tyrant! here I stand over-
flowing with the desire to do some great, good work for my
fellow cr~atures-l thirst to be generous, and I must bQ


* AMY DENB1~OOI~.

AMY DI~NBROOK.        91

mean even to my washerwoman : I must put back the hand
that appeals to inc-I must turn from the supplicating faces
that are pinched with hunger, and: such I meet every day in
my rounds. Meanwhile the rich man's heel grinds upon hi~
brother's neck. Ah! rich man! you have done me no
harn~! you have aroused me! you have struck out the "I
will!" from the depths of my spirit. I will live and die in
my profession-the evil one shall not tempt me to abandon
it in this my hour of extremity. I vegetate in a circle so
narro~v that I cannot draw a free breath. 0, the sun is
shining, is it? and I've got my umbrella up! And here's
the alley where. that poor wretch lives who broke his leg the
.other day and who never will be able to pay mc :-J must
see to him, or he may die for want of care, while I'm taking
care of myself." The doctor went up the alley, and into a
dilapidated house, where his presence ~vas sunshine to a
numerous family; he spent a half hour over his patient,
stroked a flaxen head or two, said an encouraging word to
the anxious wife with his rare, illumining smile, and to an
old woman on the hearth, he rern~mrked, "Your eyesight
must be pretty good, grand~rnother, to enable you to mend
those stockings." All these little common-place things were
not costly, and yet they settled rainbow-like over the hearts
of the poor~ family, for they sprang from human kindness-
and their mission did not ~nd with the recipients: the rain-
bow spanned the doctor's heart also; the clouds rolled a~ray,
and the ~un of trust shone do~vn upon him: when he fc~und
himself on the street, he perceived that the panorama of~ his

existence had undergone a changQ; he thought of the same
things in a different light: after steering his course toward
a reading room, he began a new soliloquy. "One aiway s
has a very crooked vision, when in a passion with his fate.
Poverty has certainly laden me with blessings: it has made
me more sympathising ~and considerate; it has sharpened
my wits to see if there were no gifts beside those which
wealth can bestow; it has caused me to test the exceeding
value of kind tones and words and deeds: they are magical
in their effect. This moi~ning I could have sworn unmiti-
gatedly, if I had given the rein to my wishes, and now I
seem to see everything disposed with a certain tendency to
harmony. The agent called, and driving me to desperation,
I went to see the landlord: the first appearance to an un-
philosophical mind would be that I had a fruitless visit-~--but
just the contrary; a crowd of beneficial results fallow. flis
hardness deepens in my breast a determination to exercise
greater charity toward the suffering: it shows me the power
one person has of imparting pain or pleasure by a few words
and an accompanying tone and manner. I passed the alley
on my way home--I 'should not have gone there but for the
visit--I was solicitous to cheer the family under the influ-
ence of my mental investigations, and I saw the bright looks
that I desired to call out-they were in reality worth more
than Secord's thousands of silver-figuratively speaking,
perhaps I had better say. if he had been lenient, I should not
have bestirred myself to look up some light work to fill my
hours aside from my piofessio~-as it is, I shall pitch into


92           AMY 1)ENflROO~*                                         AMY Di~NBRO0K.            93

something with the spirit of John Adams. "Sink or Swim!
live or die! survive or perish, I am for bread and butters
and rent and money." The doctor wound up his mental
remarks as he reached the reading..room; he looked over
many papers, and found some advertisements of rooms to
let, and one that desired writing done. He copied them in
his mind, for he had a good memory, and set forth upon his
walk again: the writing he obtained, then he went to two of
his influential patrons, and obtained, reference as to his hon-
esty; with these he secured him a new office. Before night
he had removed all his effects from his old home, with the
aid of ~wo Irishmen whom he had gratuitously attended.
His shingle was hung out. When evening came, he sat
once more alone; his chair was tipped back, and his boots
rested on the edge of the table; it wanted yet a few
moments to his usual hour of lighting up: as he surveyed a
pile of papers to be copied, and reviewed the incidents of the
day, and of many previous days, in his usual dissecting
style, he half audiiAy murmured:
"How can a man doubt that there is a Divine Providence
over him, disposing both the good and evil of his fellows to
his actual advantage, if he will seek out the behests of cii'-
cumstance ?" how long or how wisely the lonely doctor
xnighf have meditated ~annot be known, for through the
twilight and the glass Window in his door, he saw a well
dressed gentle~nan preparing o to meet him. "This is
probably a superior locality for ~my business !" he thought
as he arose to meet his expected patient: he opened the

r

door, and greeted him with the quiet reserve of manner
which was peculiar to hin~i, and attractive because one
naturally supposed from his countenance that beauty of
character lay behind it. The stranger desired him to accom
pany him in baste, as a lady had fainted, and had been
carried into a store; as the two entered upon tl~e street, the
doctor asked two or three questions about the lady's illness,
and then relapsed into silence; his companion directed
rather interested observations to his countenance when they
passed a brilliantly lighted store, or a street lamp. The
ady was soon in a condition- to ride home, and as the.
l~tranger was only one among several who had cared for her
he resigi~ed her to others, and when Dr. Kendrick took leave,
he stept out of the store also, saying frankly, "I go your
way, doctor; I~lI walk with you as far as your office, if it is
agreeable."
Qertainly, sir !" responded the doctor smiling, and offer-
ing his hand. They fell into conversation quickly, as intelli-
gent and thoughtful men are apt to do when they meet one
whom they suppose can understand their cast of mind.
"Will you spend an hour in my den, sir V' asked the
physician, as they reached his office.
Not to-night, sir. I thank you! I will do myself the
pleasure of calling at another time !" with these wordg, the
stranger handed his card to the doctor. ~' Marcus Leonard"
was engraved upon it. They shook hands heartily, and
parted. The one was wealthy and gifted, fitted to shine in
society, or to enloy solitude. The other was such as we


94             A~MY DE~BR00K.

AMY DEI~BI~OOK.              95

have shown him. In their brief interview, each' nature had
~seized upon something which was real and attractive in the
other.
SEVERAL months      CHAPTER     VIII.
had passed away very quietly with th4
teFs, during which, study had been uppcr most intheir in
~r. Second had been absent from the city a few weeks,'
one day Amy met him, accidentally as she supposed, 01
return from school. She accosted him with a welcol
smile, and took his offered arm gaily: he did not turn r~
to accompany her home, although they were very neain
he took h~r with him in the opposite direction.
"Where are we going ?" she laughingly asked, r~
amused at the silent turn in regard to which she was
consulted. lie did not reply, and his reserved expre~
y        made her fear he had some unwelcome intelligence
f        thought of ~ pecuniary loss, which might interfere witi
for herself and Isabel. They turned into a rel
street, still without a reply to her question; she venture
lift a timid glance to his t~tcc, and this tim he returned
9
fully! it was powerful in its effect upon her! it all b
over her with suddenness, as if his long.cherished thou
had been written out in characters of fire: a crimson I

sis..
iiids.
when
m her
Tiino'
und
~ it
~ther
not
;sion
she
~ his
tired
d to
it-
roke
ghts
lood


AMY DENi3I~OOK.               97

98            AA!Y DE~U3R00r6

swept to her face, then it retreated again to her stunned
heart: she looked downward !-she was helpless! She had
called him father in her thoi~ght: he bare no likeness to the
glorious lover of her fancy.
"Amy, would you like to be my wife ?" The words were
terrible to her. She walked beside him, speechlessly, h~r
nerveless arm dropping its hold upon his.
"You are very much surprised, Amy 1',
Ii'
"Yes, sir !" she faltered with great difficulty, as her head
drooped low.
"1 have loved you from the first, Amy I"
"May 1 go, sir !" she lifted a frightened look to him. He
replaced her hand upon his arm, and pressed it down as if
to strengthen her.
"You are agitated now! walk with me slowly. I would
only have you think of this! your happen ss is mine!" he:
iI~          threw himself upon her generosity, and  he stroke went
deeper. With a beseeching look, she drew her hand away,
and hurried on alone: she turned the first orner, and then
with a vague fear that he might overtake h r, she fled ~s if
for life, gasping, panting like a hunted gazell she was cone
[41           scious only of misery when she entered he home. From
Iii           her benefactor's increased kindness and care, she had been
led to believe that she and Bel would become the daughters
of his heart, and the shares of his luxury; he had intimated
that it would be a joy to share his wealth with them. But
the price! the price she was expected to pay.
111             "What is it, Amy ?" cried Isabel coming in from school,

and tossing her bo~inet on the sofa hastily, as she approached
her sister's chair.
"0, it is too dreadful! Oh! if I should come to it! oh,
if I must come to it !"
Bel fell on her knees beside her, and took hold of her two
hands with a look of startled entreaty. Amy tore away her
hands as if she could bear nothing in her present state, and
then with a burst of tears, she laid them on Bel's shoulders,
and groaned, "Mr. Second wants me to be his wife."
"Gracious !" the child turned quite pale, "he's old enough
to be your father !"
"He's twenty-three years older than I am 1"
"What did you say ?"
"I don't know! I broke away! I wished the world
would roll between him and me, so that I might never see
him again; a revulsion of feeling overwhelmed me: it was
so dreadful to know that he was selfish in his kindness to
us, when I thought he was the best man that glorified the
earth-he was buying me, and oh, my God! I am bought !"
she started to her feet, and walked the floor awhile, then with
a very bitter~ smile, she said, "I have said I would kneel
phere, so that I might be bathed in the very glory of God.
only to love supreme! I have had such dreams of a won-
drous heart that would take me to itself, and shield me from
all hard things, while it would lift me up into a purer atmos.
thought I should be so happy-that I should some day
strong friend to help me to be good. But he! would
take~mne if he knew how I felt !"


98               AMY DRI~1J31~0OK.                                                   AMY DENBROOIC.                   99
"I don't believe he would, Amy. You are not going to
marry ~im! You never, never shall, if it1 makes you so un~
happy!' Bel pressed her sister's face close to her own, and
dropt tears upon it, continuing brokenly. "We have energy
we have health! we can work !" she paused here, and with
trouVled brow confronted the idea of poverty and toil,
wondering if they could still look upon Mr. Second as a
father and guardian if Amy refused him. "lie is so be-
nevolent: you have often said he found his happiness in
doing good. Would he wholly cast ~ cii; ~f "
"0, Bel, there is another sword to threaten me !" cried
Amy starting up. "If I refuse Mr~ Secord, do you suppose
I would be the object of his charity ?" A new conflict
arose in Amy's spirit; it was more fearful than th~ first:
that was pitiful, for it displaced her ideal lover, and
gave her a middle-aged parent in his stead: the suddenness
of the revulsion swept away her former footing, but only
transitoyily: at bottom she. had a liking, a partiality for her
guardian: when Bel's words suggested the alternative of
accepting him or leaving him, every gentle deed and look
of his came before her, and upbraided her: closely knitted
to this feeling was another, that revealed to her all the weak-
ness and selfishness that had slum bered in her being. She
could z~ot get away from the thought that glared at her per
tinacioi~sly: Mr. Scored's wealth would save her from effort
and la}~or twid that motive ranged itself beside griititude to
him: then with h~r lay the power to keep Bel in luxury or
to thrust her into poverty.

Amy went into tl~e next room that she might be alone
while the contending forces battled for mastery: she had an
inward sense that it would be the nobler course~ to go back
to the old life, but instantly there came upon this sense the
words, "0 how can I seem ungrateful, and leave him soli-
tary and unhappy '?"
The "I will" uttered itself as it had done a dozen times
against the "I will not." She believed that she was decided,
and hoping to push away the subject, she took up a book.
11cr eye fell upon a passionate sonnet of Mrs. Browning's,
which smote her with an agony of' longing for such love:
the cry and protest burst from her heart wildly: but
strong as her emotions were, she fell woman-like into the
groove ma~le by another's will: it had been her habit to
obey Mr. Secord~s slightest wish, because she was grateful
not because she was docile: it had always seemed to her a
paramount duty and pleasure: she had often playfully
acceded to his suggestions, and had seemed lightly to think
of them, that he might not see th~ principle of obedience
that governed her, and thus feel free to demand an$rthing.
This had been wi.tI~x Amy an intuition rather than a plan
of action. A new insight into his character had come to
her: she felt his iron determination: time, and circum-
stance and trial had not sounded the depths of her
own character: she knew not what she was worth, or of
what she was capable: she had not put off the child-
like habit of dependence in thought and action thpse
who were older, seemed wiser: actual contact and friction

99

98


100

AMY DEN BROOK.

often open the. eyes that were veiled. A certain precocity
of intellect and feeling sometimes forerun strength of char-
acter, without indicating it: this precocity is not incoiisist-
ent with a great measure of ignorance and weakness. The
comparative ease of her present life, and the class of young
girls whom she met at school had a tendency to make her
over-rate the value of' style and position: her nature was
not by any means as large as it was capable of bQcoming:
she took a small measure of spiritual reaches and outgrowths
and saw far more clearly narrow distances: she was too
limited as yet to walk in a wide path, therefore she did not.
Yet the prison learning of her soul made its moan, as she
sighed, "He asks me never to look into the eyes of my
ideal: he asks me to resign the dream of meeting a wholly
congenial heart, I have expected utter gladness: thei~e was a
blessed river of hope in my being that sent forth tides of
life! I see it now, but the river is dry! this is why people
laugh at dreams: they know how it will end. 1 ant told
that love-matches after a few years are rarely as happy as
those founded 'n judgme~it! Judgment! I hate the word!
O George! would to heaven I had married you! I turned
from you unsatisfied, and yet I shall fall into the hands of
one who satisfied~ me less. Shall I love Mr. Scored as well
when I have known him as long? Wives, who seem very
happy often say they did not love their husbands when
affection was first solicited. I shall love him more, shall I
not ?" she looked up prayingly, as if God would 'deliver ~er~
from a fatal error. Ab me! God does not always do this:

AMY DEXD1~OO1~.

101

He allows our weaknesses to work out their own cure. She
went on, "It seems as if Mr. Second loves me because he
thinks I may be ornamental: he has often spoken of my
beauty: George never did, and yet I felt that 1 was a de-
light to hint. Jn my simplicity I expected my life would
bloom under a rarer heaven than his love arched over me:
if I had not looked for measureless happiness, deeper than
that which wealth can give, I might deem myself fortunate.
I like splendor, but I thought of it as the frame to a glorious
heart-picture." She dreamed a moment of this picture, then
resolutely banishing it, ~he said; "Mr. Second is a good man:
a xvise man: perhaps I need just such an one to guide me:
I think I have the heart to do good, and he will give me the
means. Should I forget this thought of rebeving suffering,
may my right hand forget its cunning !" A vague fear that
a sordid reason might preponderate and soil- other motives,
made her cleave to the idea of atonement.
The next day she sat alone and idle in her chair, with a
marble pallor on her face:. she still swayed between rejec-
tion and acceptance: when the street bell rang, a flush rose,
lest Mr. Second sought her, and then it died away. It was
a letter frm him; after the bearer of it had disappeared,
she held it in her hands, looking at it, not daring to break
the seal, knowing that her destiny hung upon its words: it
dropt upor~ the floor, and lay there, while she prayed feebly
and received neither light nor strength.
"Well, the matter must be decided in some way! all the
wishes in the world will not ~et me out of this position.'

It'if


102              AMY DENfl1~OOK.                                              AMY DENBIUI~0K.              103

She picked up the letter, tore it open and read,-.~-
"DEAR A~r,-J did not say all to you that I wished
yesterday, as you were SO startled-a very natural conse-
quence, [confess, when the subject was so new t6 you. I
have watchedd you long, loving you better every day, and
feeling as if you of all the womeI~ in the world, are suited
to my peculiar character and disposition. I have passed by
women both rich and beautiful, to fix my heart upon the
violet that bloomed in my path. I will devote my life to
your happiness! Although you ~viclent1y had not thought
of me as a lover, yet I h~ve seen trust and affection in your
looks. If you do not yet love me, as you will upon a clearer
understanding of my id~latry for you, you will wholly re-
turn my feelings in time. I have long sought happiness, but
it has eluded me! you alone can give me the boon! You
will not withhold it, will you, dear, dear Amy '~ 1 shall ex-
pect an answer from you by this afternoon's post-an an-
swer of some kind-a line, if nothing more. blind that I
am not patient now that I have revealed to you my affection.
I look with assurance for a favorable reply.
Your devoted lover,
JtX5Tfl~
She arose impulsively, and procuring pen, paper and ink,
wrote:
"Mi- BENEFACTOR~-'~ I was greatly startled by your words
yesterday, as you say. You must know my heait before

you seek such a possession. I honored you! I loved you as
my adopted father! 'I looked up to you, but I had no feelii4~
that should belong to a betrothed wife-I, have not now ! 1~
have loved another better, I still love him better. I rejected
him, because there were points in our characters where we
should have disagreed. Every one of your acts of kindness
is burned imperishably upon my heart, could I repay them
by making you happy, I would do so, but I sadly fear, kind
friend, that I would not be the companion you would hope
to find in me. You have seen me when I was gay and
trffling, pleased with everything-but I am passionate,
quick in temper, and can imagine that in the trials of life I
should not be found a cheerful console. I am so young, to
think of marriage! last month I was eighteen. I have now
told you my thoughts !-4 caflnot xvithhcdd the poverty'
stricken gift of my hand, if you desire it.
"AMY."
She directed and sealed her letter, then, throwing on her
bonnet, she carried it to the nearest post-office: when she
returned, she cast herself on the floor; after vehement
weeping, she fell asleep, which she had not done the night
*
before. At sunset, Mr. Scored's second letter came; the
sisters sat together when it was handed to them. It read
thus:
"DEAREST AMY,-YOU can well imagine that your letter
wounded me deeply. I had little thought that the heart


AMY DENBROOR.        105

104            AMY DE~BR00I~.

which I had hoped was to be all my own, had been mdved~
by another. I thank you for you candor in mentioning this.
Can you believe it would be possible fbr me to resign you,
Amy ?-.--rny darling little one ! You shall bless God yct
for the right to call you my own, whioh you have this huur
given inc. You shall be my treasure, ray idol, the light of,
my eyes-the joy of my' heart. Strange as it may seem,
your cold, wounding letter has only shown me how madly I
love you-how impossible it would be ~br inc to live with.
out you. Tomorrow, I shall come to see you: perhaps at~
twelve o'clock. Ah! Amy, love me a little--my affection
muit and will win a fond return.
'~ Your devoted lover,
"JUSTIN SCORED."
The girl then lifted her white face and looked from the
window with a half bitter smile. "You see how it is 1" she
said to Isabel, "he loves me madly, a very suitable word !"
the smile died away, and the whiteness turned to an a shy
hide about her lips: BeT rose affrighteU, as her head sank
back against the window frame, and her eyes closed;~ her
breath came gaspingly; she could not speak or move as a
lethargy stole over her, but she was not unconscious: a dash'
of water, and fresh air after a while revived her. This
physical illness seemed in a measure to subdue the anguish
that had possessed her;' it removed the bitter feeling that
had turned her life to gall: she saw that her fate was decid-
ed, that her romantic dreams were swept away without the

prospect of a realization, and she called upon all that was
wise within her to embellish her sacrifice. For an hour or
two she sat in utter silence, with her head leaning back on
the rocking chair which Bel had brought for her; the 5oung
sister only held her hand, and glanced at her quiet face oc-
casionally. At length, Amy exclaimed, taking Isabel's hand
in both her own, "Bow hot you are, Bel! your hand is
like fire! Are you sick V'
"I guess not !" Isabel returned in an evasive manner.
"My head aches a little 1"
"You have been waiting on me, dear, and I never thought
you needed my care."
"I'll be well enough in the morning, Amy 'if you'd only
be happy as you were before, I should be so glad. I don't
want you to marry Mr. Second, if it will change you so."
After a moment, she said, "I'll, take a little nap! I don't
want anything to eat." She went to the sofa, where Amy ar-
ranged the pillows for her, and then took a seat beside her,
saying:
"Bel! don't trouble yourself about me! you know I
don't' take things to heart much except for a little while. I
couldn't get a kinder husband then Mr. Second if I were to
search the world over. I was very cruel and ungrateful to
him in my thoughts yesterday~L~~and to.day. People can
make themselves miserable if they try-I am going to look
on the bright side. We shall have a beautiful home, and it
will be a joy to see you coming in my boudoir !'~ she
smiled for the blue eyes that so earnestly regarded her:


106           AMY DEI~TIJROOK.                                         AMY DENBROOK.             107

they were~ satisfied, and closed theni in sleep. The watcher
turned her chair slightly aside to conceal her face; once
more she laid her had back, but this time slow tears rolled
over her cheek, one after another-one after another! She
uttered "George !" with such an appealing spiritual cry,
she half believed it must reach him, and bring him to her
sight. She had no right to think of him now: she must be
an honest betrbthed wife as far as she could control herself.
She left her chair' and by the fading twilight gathered out of
the table drawer a few notes, poems and withered flowers:
it was her imp~ilse to clasp them to her heart, but she laid
them on4he ta1~le, and lighted a lamp. Then she took them
to the little sto ~e, but ere she dropt them in, she did hastily
press them to l~er lips, mentally saying, "They are the last
records of my joy! how little I dreamed when I so wantonly
cast that love away, that the world was not full of it-I
asked for more, and I have met with less."
She consumed her treasures, lighting them by the flame of
the lamp: and~ during the dreary evening she sat and
thought-.--and asked herself~ if she had acted rightly: she did
not know! ~he was young and had no counsellor.
5*

~tI~

CHAPTER IX.
"THE fact is, I hate to take a bird's-eye view of the condi-
tion of my heart-my mind I won't consider at all, for it
has been of small account for a few months past," said
Marcus Leonard to himself; as he contemplated a daguerre-
otype of Miss Blake, which he had stolen from her moth-
er's parlor table, and put in his vest pocket before the young
lady's eyes,~-meeting with no rebuke for the act; only a
blush. "It is remarkable how a man's whole nature can
change under such an experience-how his steadily pursued
aims can grow insipid-how the scientific discoveries in the
papers can grow trifling-4he minister in the pulpit can be-
come tame, the lawyer at court dull in his most fiery
speech. I look at uncle Harrington, in his counting room!
-he thinks he is engaged in important business: to me the
loss or gain of thousands seems less moving than the arch-
smile of Diana! A year ago I was deep in the classics-I
was deep in scientific studies-no thought gave my life
such a start as the hope of entering deeply, ifito the arcan~
of the universe. I thanked God that there was no bottom
to the well of knowledge. I talked with Agnes.-4 had


AMY DENI3ROOK.             109

108            AMY DE~BRooic.

much to 'say to her, and now that thought is rapid, burning
and poetic I cannot communicate with her; she has no wor-
ship for the idol to whom perpetual incense is offered by
my h~art. A year ago I performed my duties at the count-
ing-room with clearnes~ and dispatch that I might hasten to
my study-~now I daily over business and am incompetent
to literary effort. Look at that good feilowi I{endrick
how calm and wise he is! how industrious! he is steady
and plodding; he lives on little joys-that laboratory 'of his
will light up his- ihce with his brightest smile: to g~t a sick
Irishwoinan fat and healt4iy, will diffuse a radiance Au about
him: Once 1 thought of doing greater things than he
dreams of-I thought of moving masses to an enthusiasm
for intellectual culture: I thought of swaying their hearts to
noble acts, but I fear I never was as willing to do work for
my fellow-men in detail: that taxed my benevolence too far.
But now moral and intellectual vigor are swallowed up in
my infatuation for Diana-'-.iufatuation! that is the word, for
I still have a little 'reason sitting coldly on the top of my
head, overlooking the fireworks of feeling. She fascinates
me-she would not help me and elevate me as the ideal wo.
man of my choice would-I would point out the glories of'
the earth to my beloved; I would have her represent to me
the loveliness of heaven-would have her otiide me by her
intuitions into the intricacies of the soul-world within her-
self and others. Diana has no religious tendencies; nature
has not made them strong with me, but they are very valu-
able-.--! would lay down all I possess rather than have my

spiritual nature blunted or disused." The young man walk-
ed the floor of his study uneasily-it was a large room, and
served also as a bed-chamber: after pacing up and down
awhile, he looked at the likeness; it smiled at him, and re~-
gained flr its original unlimited power. lie took his hat
and went to the house of Mrs. Blake. Diana was more irre-
sistable than ever, and they exchanged betrothal rings that
evening.
A few weeks passed away, during which Mr. Leonard was
in a perfectly satisfied cQndition; much of the time he was
engaged in pitying the rest of the world: a humdrum
phase characterized all people's lives save his own, and
Diana's. But his pity soon returned upon himself, for with
all Diana's love for him, he saw that she was not quite Will-
ing to give up her former admirers: he turned away from
the conviction that he could not trust his loved one, for it
came upon him perpetually. Not that she was intentionally
unworthy of trust, not that one' thought of Leonard's was
not more dear than an ocean of ideas from another, but it
was in her nature to hunger with an insatiable longing to
sway the hearts that loved her; it was a brief satisfaction
to see the suddenly fiery eye, paling cheek, or trembling lip
of a worshipper: she could be self-forgetting, noble and de-
voted in all but this; her impulses led her to magnanimous
acts but not in this 'shape: only the deepest religious
principle could make her consistently merciful to suitors,
and that she had not. Her lover understood her; he saw'
his place in the temple of her heart, but it was bitter to


110          A1~[Y DENBROOK                                       AMY DENDROOK.            111

his proud soul to realize that he was not sufficient for her,
as she Was for him. One evening after he had left her, he
walked the street f6r hours musing upon their two characters.
lie s~w that his love was weakness in the strength of its
tyranny over him ;~ it had from the first pleaded against his
judgment: it had brought her girlish figure before him
with the arch smile that he loved, and with the eyes that
interpreted her sweeter self: it had robed her faults in a
draper~r so seducing and airy, that they took the form of
bewitchments: with his intellect he apprehended that they
might bring anxiety in iJie future, yet he hoped that for him
they would be subdued, and then Diana would be more
'~~recious than ever. He had not mentioned his engagement
to his sister, feeling instinctively that she would regret it:
as he chafed under his jealous pangs, he wished that he had
talked with her freely before he was bound~-had looked
with her clear eyes upon Diana, rather than his own.
His next visit to his betrothed awakened no slumbering
fears: she had been grieved that day, and it made her
doubly thoughtful and kind. Marcus had dropped in to see
her on his return from his uncle's eoun.ting-room: he left
her full of hope, at peace with all the world. lie was ready
now to disclose his engagement to Agnes; he was not there-
fore disappointed when he heard her gentle tap upon his
door a moment after he had entered his room.
"Come in !" he ca]le~1 out, as he xyas raising a window-
shade to admit the western sunshine.
She entered without a smile, and advancing to his escri-

toir, stood leatilug against it, until he handed her a chair,
and took one himself; with the words, "Sit down, Agnes!
why do you look so serious '?"
"I have heard some news to-day that surprises me, Mar-
cus !" she said, looking steadily at him. "1 came to ask if
it were true-are you engaged to Diana Blake ?"
J' I am!" lie answered,~coloring ~ little, and closing his
lips after he had spoken with a cha r~acteristic expression of
firmness; it likened him to his sister, although the expres-
sion was habitual to her, and occasional with him* she
had never moved him from a purpose after she had thus
seen his lips close together: she sat ~ilentIy thinking what to
say, until he said, "Who told you
"Diana herself."
"At school to-day ?"
"Yes 1"
"Was she surprised that I had not told you myself?"
"No! she knows how I regard her 1" Agmes lifted her
eyes, and looked at her brother.
"What do you think of it, Agnes ?" he observed her
keenly as he put the question.
"I am very sorry, Marcus 1"
"Why?"
"I have heard you speak of &amp;rngeniality of aim and
character as requisite to a happy m rriage."
" Well ?"
"Are Diana's aims yours, Marcu ?"
"They may become so! she has glorious nature !"

110

111


112        AMY DENBROoK.                                                   113
AMY DENJ3ROOK.

"Did she ever cast upon the elevation of the race an
earnest thought ~ can she sympathise with you in this
respect ?"
"Agnes! I find there has been .a vast deal of humbug
about me !"
"Marcus! you are changed! H~ve you forgotten all we
used to talk about in our twilight walks ?" her self-posses-
sion gave way, and she burst into tears-it was very bitter
to see that her brother's spirit had gone from hers-he had
carried his brightness to another; his inmost heart was not
open to her, and if it were, it would only grieve her.
He supported his forehead upon h~s hand as he sat by the
escrituir. and the shadows of thought swept over his grave,
flushed face; he sat with his eyes b~t upon the floor while
Agnes wept: when she ceased, ~e took her hand gently, and
spoke in a low tone. "I have not forgotten my better aims,
Agnes! I have not forgotten our blessed twilight walks.
You forget'that Diana may in~prove through my ardent
love for heF: she is to be my wife-she has my affection--
my passionate affection. I acknowledge that she is not the
woman whom I once described as my imaginary wife, but
now I would turn from that picture ~o clasp Diana-.--.I
prefer the real object of my love."
"Because you clothe her with the halo that belongs to
your ideal-you see her through it, but when close intimacy
shows her as she is, she will pain you !"
"Stop, Agnes !" he said rising and walking the floor as
her spoken arrow pierced him: it was too keen when flying

from ~another hand than hi~ own: after a few moments, he
returned to a gentler voice. "People rarely act as they
think tney will in a given case. You do not see all that is
noblest and best in Diana~!"
"Perhaps not 1"
"She is a young creature of eighteen; a school-girl
still !"
"She has a strong character; many girls do not show
what they will b~ when so young: she does."
"Do yott fore-see that the merriment of her nature will
never be subdued ~o, riper virtue ?" asked Marcus with a
little sarcasm in his tone.
"I see that she and I are eighteen, and that we are very
different."
This was another arrow, and he paced the room a long
time without speaking: at last when tender feelings gained
the ascendancy he went behind his sister's chair, and bending
over, kissed her forehead. "Agnes! you are the best sister
a brother ever had! I wish that I could have satisfied you
K
in my choice--I wish that we could have walked along hand
in hand in regard to our mental experiences, so that nothing
could have stept between us-but this is our fate-we are
acted upon by circumstance, or by providence. Of what use
is it to talk of the impossible? resign yoursel~C to this en-
gagement. If at some future time, you should disappoint
me in your choice, I will try to have charity for you-I will
try to recognize the feelings that will act as a necessity upon
you. There are few as young as we are, who have thought

112

113


114            AMY DENBROOK.                                           AN[Y DI3NBROOK.           115

over the problems of life so seriously-do not regret that 1
may be the meais of causing Diana to think, feel and act
differently from what she has been taught."
"1 should not regret that: You know that I desire her
real good, and if it can be promoted by you, I will believe
that it is best she should be my sister-our interests must
not be divided, dear Marcus. Diana and I are good friends:
before she told me of the engagement, she held a little vial
of salts to my nose to sustain me, as ~he said."
Agi'ateful smile repaid Agnes for the efforgwhich these
words cost her.

r

CHAPTER X.
THE day after Amy received the letter which bound her to
Mr. Scored, Bel arose and declared herself 'veIl enough to
go to school: her wish was not opposed, for Amy was anx-
ious to be alone: out of the thousand blessings she had de-
sired in times past, she selected one to pray for-she had
no speech nor language" for any tither-it was resigna~
tion: and one who looked upon her haggard face, upon the
dark circle around her eyes, and upon the compression of her
flexible lips would have seen that the spirit would have de-
voured the body slowly but surely, unless it came. She
was in the habit of prayer, but never before had she prayed
i1 such abandonment; every faculty of her being sent out a
cry for resignation,-a cry for light! It is a fearful hour
when the fabric of hope first gives way completely-when
the splendor of life breaks and' fades from the astonished
grasp. Our cherished habits of thought, our peculb~rities of
mind plunge us into trials that others would altogether
escape, were they similarly situated. In Amy's condition,
many young girls would have settled the matter by pro~


116        AMY DENBROOK ~

A?~fX DENI32ROOK.               fl7

flouncing it a sin against heaven to marry without lore, and
with some tears and a thousand uncomfortable sensations
would have continued free. All this she thought of also;
all this she trembled to consider, but there was a stronger
force in her nature that urged her to give the only equiva-
lent in her power for benefits received: she had no higher
light than that which sacrificed her. As she knelt by the
hour, sometimes with far-wandering thoughts, and again
with intense entreaties, these words came to comfort her.
"Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth no sin,
and in whose spirit there is no guile." An ambition to
become pure, she still might cherish, for although she might
he weak, blind and erring, her conscience exempted her from
wilful sin: the words of IJoly Writ shone with broadening
ray upon her for an instant, and awakened a fleeting hope
that she might help to shield from guile, one who had
choose her as a life.cornpariion.x. She took her Bible and
went to the window to read; her eye fell upon this passage.
"Thou hast showed thy people heavy things: thou hast
given us a drink of deadly wine." This she read over and
over again,~ and after passing on, she returned to it, a~ to t~e
echo of' her life: while with a sort of consolation she
repeated it, she heard uneven steps, and a girlish voice in
the hail. With a, sudden fear that Bel was returning frorn~
school very ill, she sprang to the door and found her lean-
ing heavily upon a schoolmate, with her eyes half closed-~
Afriy received her, and laid her upon the sofa, frightened at
her condition : she was soon able to speak and smile, and

she whispered," I'll soon be better, Amy! it was coming up
stairs," but there was a yearning sense of illness in her look
-an appeal that she should be taken care of.
"She was very sick in school: Mrs. Barker said she
should be placed under a physician's care," said the young
girl who had accompanied her home.
"Will you go for one 1" demanded the elder sister, laying
her hand upon the girl's arm.
"For Dr. Kendrick? he is our physician !"
"For anybody's-for your mother~~.~~
Mary Brown cast an affectionate look upon her friend, and
quitted the apartment. Amy sat down by Isabel, whose
he~vy eyes were again half closed; her lips were red and
thrQwn apart slightly, and a faint pink hue was deepening
in her cheeks: a paler face was gently touched to hers, ~"~d
a loving voice uttered, "You must not die, Bel, for my sake
-I could not bear it,"
"I won't die, Amy !" said the invalid, as if her fate de-
pended upon her own sweet will. "Won't you fan me
When Bel's lovely face reposed upon the white pillow,
with her tangled golden curls pushed b8ck from her delicate
temple, and held there with her snowy hand, Amy stood
* contemplating her in surprise; she had not realized her
loveliness, and now she felt it with mingled pain and ~atis-
fhction. "You are almost sixteen, BeP?" came slowly from
her lips. "I have so much experience now, how I shall
watch you, and advise you, as I have never been ~ad-
vised-that is, if you should need it," she bathed her


118        AMY DENJ3Ro~K.                               AMY DENBUQOK.        119

face, and then sat down to fhn' her, thinking how soon a
woman's responsibility would be upon her, if she lived, and
she entreated that she bight live: as she looked upon the
child, she was for the first time perhaps, herself far less
beautiful; all soft and bright lights had left her countenance,
or they only gleamed upon it~ for an instant: her chestnut
hair was drawn back, and carelessly knotted; her dress was
neat, but without any of the trifling embellishments which
go so far ~towards making an ~agreeable toute ensemble.
When she dressed that morning, it was a satisfaction to
make herself look as plain as possible; she said, "After we
are married, he shall not tell me I always took extra pains
with my toilette, before the wedding."
Dr. Kendrick returned with Mary l3rciwri. As nis 'eye
fell upon Amy, he thought she must be his patient, but she
pointed to Isabel. sudden admiration passed over his
grave face, and he lingered over the lovely' sight crc he ap~
preached her: when he did thei'e was something akin to
reverence in his 'voice as he questioned her; she hardly
noticed him, but said wearily, ~'Te1l him, Amy !"
And Amy told hir*k all her symptoms, while he listened
thoughtfully, now and then putting a question: he reg~irded
her attentively while she spoke, and even after she had
ceased speaking, as if he were thinking of her; the regard
was sp grave that it did 'not annoy her. "You are not well
yourself !" ~he remarked quietly.
'"Q yes,' I am !" she returned$~' rising, and going to her

sister, but a bright scarlet drove 'away her paleness momen~
tarily.
"Keep your mind upoh her-she will get well !" he said
as he followed her to the sofa: he had discovered in her
aspect an anguish th~ cause of which lay deeper than Bel's
illness: he hoped he had prescribed 'for it by giving an
active direction to her thoughts. TJe~ portioned out his
medicine, and bade Amy be careful in following out. his
directions; her pro-occupied expression showed that she
needed his hint: yet she liked him and trusted him; his
motions were all quiet and to the purpose; he looked
around very little; he did not once smile, or remark upon
any matter unconnected with his profession; y~t he was
suddenly interested in that quiet room, and when he reached
the street he gave many thoughts to its occupants.
After putting ~ cloth saturated with cold water upon
Isabel's head, Amy took her old seat beside her, with a*
little sewing in her hand; the city clocks struck twelve: it
was the hour that Mr. Second had named for his first visit
to his betrothed: she wondered to see herself so calmly go
through her duties, when her life was so ~hanged-wheu
her pulsations were those of double anxiety.
She heard his approaching step-her first impulse was to
sit in silence, and not disguise the coldness that suddenly
froze her whole being, then recollecting that she had given
herself to him, she arose and met him, and laid her hand
within 'his: he put ~his arm around her, not noticing her
sister's couch, but she drew back, and pointed to it-her

Y
E -
7
L e


120             AMY D1i~NBR00K.
husky 'voice could not second her gesture. He started to
see the sick girl; she had fallen asleep. Amy handed him
a chair, and took one a little removed from him.
You have growi~jjl from anxiety !" he said.
"Thedoctor thinks she ~vill get well !" said Amy, striving
to fasten her whole mind as well as her eyes upon her
sister.
"How long has she been ill ?"
"Not long !"
"She must have every comfort, Amy! when~ she is
stronger, you had better re ove to pleasant rooms. She is
not able to ride, I suppose !"
No, sir !" She went o the window to conceal the
agitation which she could n longer master; fiery tears fell
over her cheek as she sto d in silence not wiping them
away. Mr. Second's kindness to Bel melted her: he joined
her, after watching her a few minutes-he would have used
words of endearment, but her manner repelled him: she
mechanically strip ~ofl' some dead geranium leaves from a
plant that stood before her, but this employment she sud~
denly desisted from, least Mr. Second should take the hand
that was at work: she could scarcely refrain from fleeing
the room.
"You are very cold to me~ Amy !" he said in a wounded
voice.
The genuine feeling in his mariner; his lips which had
grown white and stiff, revealed him in a new aspect: he re~

AMY DENBROOK.       121

moved himself a step from her. She covered her face with
her hands, and sighed, "I am so sorry !"
Sorry for what, Amy?"
"That I do not feel as I ought."
lie sank on a chair-speechless: man of the world as he
his blow struck hard; he ~ad supposed love might be
her grateful regard: he was unprepared for her
manner, so at variance with her former frank confidingriess.
She felt the darkness that came over him ;~ the shock which
her want of gratitude gave.
"Forgive me!" she entreated, "I had never thought of
your caring for me in this way."
his pained, reproachful look broke off her words: she
sank on a chair, and after weeping passionately, said, "I
will do anything, everything you say-I will try to-"
"That is all I ask, dear Amy! try to love me, and you
will do so: you cannot remain insensible to devotion such
as mine-you have cut me to the quick."
She looked up, and saw that he had ~poken the truth;
she sawn that he truly believed his desire ~o make her happy
would succeed-he was a d!gnifled man, proud in his bear-
ing: his fixed pursuit of her was the effect of a strong will
that did not believe in the word fail. The sligh resent-
me~t in his tone gave him an attraction which craven
homage alone could not have done-a new interest invests a
strong man when he bends under the weight of feeling.
Isabel moved restlessly, and Amy hastened to cool her
forehead: the fever was going off, and she relapsed into


125~         AMY DE~TBROOK.

AMY flENBROOIC.       ]23

sleep ~gain. The young nurse took a low seat by her lover,
noticing as she did so, the sad look he still wore: with a
kind 'impulse, and an attempt at her former light manner,
she said, "I shall soon get accusk)med to my new relation
to you."
Mr. Second was silent several minutes, considering
whether' it would jeapordise his final possession of her to
say, "You shall be free, Amy, if you prefer it." lie con-
eluded not to run the risk, but said, "Leave the future to
care for itself: think -of yourself only as a beloved friend
to me. You are a school-girl yet: continue so as long as
you please, only let me surround you with means of
pleasure and improvement."
Her grateful smile shone on him in reply: but he did not
mean to delay' their marriage for years, as she supposed.
Her mental condition after this conversation~ was variable:
she was drawn tQward him as her best fri ei~d. and protect.
tor, and then with swift impulse her very heart fled away
desquieted by itself and by him. She studied him. some-
times with satisfaction sonletimes with doubt.
Isabel had a long and tediop6 fever: when she was able to
sit up, Mr. Second daily drove the two girls out into the coun-
try; they enjoyed it, both of them : he was too shrewd to
spoil Amy's tranquility by assuming the bearing 'of a lover;
he rather turned his kindnesses and attentions to the young-
er sister for they won him most frequently the frank smile
of his betrothed: he did not visit the little home of the
orphans except to bring a book, some fruit, or to inquire if

Bel would he strong enough to visit the opera or a gallery
of paintings on a certain evening. This judicious course on
his part gradually restored a measure of Amy's old frank-
ness; she could not help admiring his gentle consideration
for Bel's weakness-and when sometimes the little conva-
lescent laughed heartily at an amusing remark from him, it
struck Amy as very amusing too, simply because she saw it
through her sister's mind-thus she came to glide into -her'
position without the shock which it had first occasioned her.
*      Mr. Second said one morning as he handed her into the car-
riage for their usual drive, "1 am going to take you to look
at the new home I have talked of for you. I hope it wUl
please you, little friends! What do you say, Bel ? don't
you think you and-Amy could bear a little more style?"
"That is - as you say, I suppose sir !" Two days before
Mr. Second had made light of Amy's religious convictions,
and the matter preyed upon her mind ceaselessly.
lie would have glanced at her but she turned her head
away, under pretence of gathering her dress into the car-~
riage: a sort of agony, shot through her and again it seemed
as if the walls of a prison were about her: his elected wife
must live more fittingly for her future destiny; he spoke
with a settled purpose: he seemed very strong, and her in-
4-
voluntary 'mental cry was, "Oh!' that I was not bound !"
"See! there is the doctor !" cried Bel delighted, she
bo~ved smilingly and gracefully as he looked at her fron~ the
pavement with a quick lighting up of his usually quiet' ace:
he was so intent upon her radiant presence that he did~ not
6


124         AMY DENBROOK                                                    i25

observe her companions: it had chanced that he and Mr.
Scored had never met by her sick bed; his reserve had pre-
vented his knowing how the young girls lived; he wondered
about it, but naturally supposed they must have some small
means Of their own, as Bel had begged him to cure her
speedily, so that she could go to school again.
A cloud gathered upon Mr. Second's brow as he recog~
nised the doctor. "What did you say that young man's
name was, Jsabe~ ?"
"Dr. Kendrick !"
"Ithink you mentioned it once, but did I not think about
his being identical with this person."
"Do you know him, sir ?" questioned Bel with interest.
"Slightly! as much as I care about knowing him. J
presume you would have been well long before if you had
had a do or who knew anything !"
"He'kn wsa great deal !?' retorted Bel coloring indig.
nantly.
"'We'll let that matter go !"
The maiden had very red cheeks for an hour after this,
and not so gay an expression as she had worn for a few
days. They alighted: at a handsome house, and were intro~
duced to a matronly lady as Mr. Second's cousin. "Will
you show us, the rooms now, Mixs~. Brooks ?" asked Mr.
Second in a business-like manner.
"Did you say the lady was a cousin of yours, sir ?" asked
Amy in a whisper, as she preceded them up a broad fli~,h
of sttirs to the second story.

AMY DENBROOK.

"Yes! yes: she is obliged' to hire out the rooms-sh~
will have an interest in you 1"
They were ushered into a richly furnished parlor, with
marble hearth, mantle, and large windows that opened tc
the floor, and led out upon little balconies; bedroom, pantry
and drawers were attached.
"flow do you like these arrangements, Amy ?" asked
Mr. Secora observing her carefully: she knew his thoughts,
and that she would seem unthankful if she looked as she
felt, lie was so good, yet his goodness was so costly to
her: so high priced.
"Everytling is very pleasant-very beautiful !" she
answered turning to the window to try how it opened; the
sh of dependence was ~eating her heart like fire; an
attempt at independence would only cause Mr. Scored to
hasten the marriage. Mr. Second w~nt to her, removed her
little gloved hand with his own, and opened the French
window. "Thank you !" she said, "you have provided too
beautiful a home for us-I would rather stay where we are,
if you will consent, I have said so from the fiYst."
"I will 'not consent !" he said, pleased that she admired
his tastes: "Amy will grace a room like this!" It gave
him p~culiar pleasure to see in her no disposition to gain
gifts from him-no overweening love of fine things: he
thought her in this respect a rare exception to the women he
was in th~ habit of meeting: he contrasted her with his
/
brother's wife, and congratulated himself upon his choice.
"Wont it be nice to have Agnes come to see you here,

125

124


120           AMY D~NBI~OoK.                                         AMY DENBROOK.              l'27

and Diana too ?" ask~d Del in a whisper, as Mr. Second
talked with Mrs. Brooks in a low voice. Amy did not re-
ply; a scornful light gleamed in her large eyes, and her lip
arched with ~. like disdain. It irritatod her that Is~ihd did
not feel that this dependence was ignoble. Bel looked
wounded; her innocent nature saw no occasion for this re-
ception of her kind rei~ark. Amy soon laid her hand upon
her shoulder as an appeal for forgiveness, and said, "Sit
down and rest! aren't you tired stand in
She remembered 4hat a short time ago, it all scorned right
to Aer that Mr. Second should do therr~ a world of kind~
nesses; she looked with pity and tenderness upon Del, per-
ceiving that no deep knowledge of the world had burned it-
self into her life with the events that had happened : she did
not desire to destroy her girlish pleasure in their pretty
home.
In the evening, Amy said, "I happened to think this
morning when you spoke of Agnes and Diana, I wi~heJ
that. home was ours from our parents, like other girls'
homes; I suppose that is what made me look cross at you.
I feel utterly unworthy to night."
"Don't you think it was strange; Amy, the way Mr.
Second spoke of the doctor? You know he has shown me
how. to..dissect flowers, and he has dropt so many remarks
about them and about insects and a great many other things.
I never saw a man that had so much knowledge."
"Mr. Second has probably fallen under a wrong impres-
sion about him. I should like the doctor if a hiAdred

'1

people did not think of him as we do: Mr. Second said he
knew him slightly; we know him well-I'd trust him with
anything, and in any place."
"So would 1!" replied Bel withher loveliest smile.
At this moment, there was a knock at their door; Amy
expected to see Mr. Second as he had promised to call and
say when they would inov~. She was a little surprised
when Isabel admitted Dr. Kendrick.
"Ah ~" she said, rising and giving him her hand with an.
animated smile, "we feared, doctor, you would forsake us
when Bel no longer needed you !"
"I wish she did need me in some way !" he replied laugh-
ing and coloring.
"Well I do! come look at my herbarium !" said that
damsel lightly: everybody had always admired Amy, as
she was the elder, and Bel had grown to believe that all
gentlemen must of course direct serious regard to her sister,
if it were expended upon either, so she was pleased with the
doctor's i~emark, but she did not see in it all that Amy. saw,
considering herself a child, and an escape-valve for other
people's devotion, as she had frequently been in the case of
George Coleman, and as she was in regard to Mr. Scored. It.
was one of her pretty weaknesses to imagine that everybody
must be struck with her sister: everybody was not struck
with her, and Del, when she occasionally realized this, was
quite surprised. "See how many pages I have filled in two
weeks !-it i~ two weeks since you have been here, you
know V' she said, opening the herbarium, and laying it on


128            A-~'Y DENDROOK.                                               AMY DENI3R00l~.              129

the table before the doctor. "Sit down !" she carried him
achair, and then placed one for herself next it.
"Where did you ge~ these wild flowei~s, Miss Jsabcl ?" he
asked directing his at mentionn to them, and experienci-og a
sensation of extreme ai~noyance at the idea of her being pro
vided with them by ~ one but himself~
"0,1 gathered them ~nyseli or Amy and I did !"
"AhI where do the~e grow plentifully?" pointing to a
page.
"We got them at Bloomingdale !-but we saw a great
many at Yorkville; and Astoria-.--and a few on Staten
Island."
"You have been out in the country frequently then ?"
he said taking out his penknife, and erasing a tiny blot.
"Yes! every pleasant day. I meant to have scratched
out that little blot, but I forgot it. Amy ! see how pretty
these flowers look, now that they are dry !" she held up the
volume a moment.
"Yes! they are beautiful !" replied Amy, looking up from
her sewing rather to contemplate the two persons than the
flowers: there was a charm in Bel's innocent freedom, and
in the doctor's repressed manner.
".W e're going to move! did you know it ?" questioned
the convalescent,
"No! how should I? Where are you going?"
"In street !"
"Who is going to move you ?" he asked regarding her
with a smile.

"Mr. Second! he is our guardian! You will come and
see us in our new home, won't you?"
~' Does Miss Amy second the invitation ?" turning toward
her.
"Ceiainly, doctor, we regard you as a friend, rather than
as a physician now."
Mr. Scored joined the liltIe party the next moment; he
bowed distantly to Dr. Kendrick, and then motioned Amy
to a seat on the sofa next hjm, where he entered into the de-
tails of the following day's moving. It was his plan to take
the two girls to their new abode, order what they would
want sent to them, and then have everything else go to an
auction room.
"I want to take that little roeking.chair !" said Amy.
"You don't want that, do you ?" touching it with his boot.
"Yes! it was mother's !"
"Then keep it by all means 1"
"I would rather superintend the moving myself."
"It will be a tedious business for you-too fatiguing !"
"But the woman you speak of, will not know what I
want to take. Some things are dear to me."
"Lay aside what you want 1"
"That can't be done in a short time !-I will stay, while
you take Bel to the new house."
'"Very well, if you are suited that is all that is necessary:
I th~nik we shall move harmoniously."
The next evening 'Dr. Kendrick received the following
Liote, to intimate that his professional visits were at an end.


130             AMlY DENflROOI(.                                            AMY D]~NBROOK.                131

"DR. KEi~DnIoI~ :-~r: I should feel obliged if you
would send me the bill Miss Isabel Denbrook's illness, at
an early date.
"Yours, &amp;c.
"JUSTIN SECOND."
"We will see if you are to be my tyrant in this case,
sir !" mused the young physician, as he tQok up his pen, and
instantly made out his bill.~
"He intimates in this way that my intercourse with isa..
bel is dissolved..~he is mistaken. I have brain and strength,
and they shall win me the right to sue that others have-I
am a man, and in myself have as much to offer the woman
of my choice, as that man has: and yet, my little fragile
one, I will be the last to bring you to toil arid hard service,
should you ever give yourself to me." The doctor put an
end to his musings with the abruptness of a man who has a
motive to work; he copied until after niidnight, and when
he pushed back his chair and threw down his pen, his cheeks
were deeply flushed and his eyes glittered with the energy
of determination: he arose at daybreak, and continued his
writing until his usual hour for making professional visits.
The "I will !" had gone~down more deeply into his spirit,
and it asserted itself the conquerer~ of difficulties, for it
stood obedient only to the mandates of the Supreme Will

CHAPTER XI.
"AMY, it is too bad we have not been to see Mrs. Coleman
in such a great while !" Is4abel exclaimed one day as they
were returning from school together. It must be three
months since we called. Let us go now, I know she must
be lonely."
"You may go, Bel! I wish you would, but I want to.
study, and must go directly home."
"0 no! she will think we are proud since we live and
dress more handsomely than we used to do."
"She wouldn't be so silly. Perhaps I had better go!
They accordingly went, but found that Mrs. Coleman was
boarding like themselves, and was in a new place; this
they sought, and half fearing it was too stylish a house to
be the right one, they rang the bell. They were ushered
into a room as fresh and handsome as their own, and Mrs.
Coleman came forward to meet them kindly; the~ next
instant George entered from a back room: his presence
was so unexpected Amy turned red and white alternately;,
he had the advantage of her for he had heard her voice.
He greeted Isabel first, and with much cordiality, and' then,
with some pride~and more feeling, shook hands~ with Amy.

130


132               AMY    D]~X13R0OK.

AMY DEN)BROOK.          133

"We thought you were at sea !" she said as soon as the
.~hokin~ in her throat would allow her to speak.
"I returned two week's ago !" he answered, surprised to
see how speca ly she took a quiet and self controlled air;
she was reser~ ed; not the laughing Amy~of his renlem
branee.
"You have oved since we saw you, Mrs. Coleman !"
she said turning to her.
"Yes! we c me here a week ago. Ge2rge's uncle has
left him a large property, and that made his return neces-
sary. He has been to Spain !"
"Indeed !"
"He won't have as hard a time'as formerly," the mother
smiled fondly.
"Poverty is sometimes a valuable test, mother. If my
uncle had died a year ago, I might have seemed different in
the eyes of my friends." George's lip wore the scornful
curve that it had worn upon the evening of his parting with
~ my: she saw that he must have heard of her relation to
r. Scored, and deemed her mercenary: she looked at him
proudly; he could not meet her eyes: he Was still too
weak for that.
"Shall you become a lawyer ~" asI~ed Isabel, hoping to
turn the unfortunate direction which conversation had
taken.
"I shall. You are going to school, Bel !"
"How did you know ?~ have you been to see us durin~
our absence from home ?"

"No! I have not been to see you. Dr. Kendrick is an
acquai~itanCC of mine: he. told me that you and Amy had
been attending school for some time past. , I saw Mr.
Second yesterday-you have become acquainted with him,
it seems." Anothcr look was directed to Amy: it stung
her acutely, the more so that she must submit to be meas-
urably misjudged: it was very bitter to have George think
her an artful, scheming girl; had he been near her, when
heP landlord first become her benefactor, she would have
been enlightened as to the n~otive of Mr.~ Secord's gene-
rosity when it was first offered: George's knowledge qf the
world was far wider than had been that of the credulous
orphans. Mrs. Coleman did all in her powor to atone for
the bitterness of her son, which she well understood; 'she
saw that Amy was taxing all the pride atid bravery of her
nature to bear up with lady-like quietness under the wounds
that struck her, and her manner therefore was as gentl&amp; as
it had been on the day that the children had been left father-
less. Amy would not instantly retreat as had been her
impulse when she saw, George; she determined to stay ~a
qi~rter of an hour and talk on common-place subjects until
she could regain an indifferent manner-she would not
leavo him with the impression that ne could agitate her~
for more than a surprised moment, so she sat under her tor-
turing ordeal, conversing and even smiling with his mother,
knowing that her profile was watched by him, as he vainly
strove to talk connectedly with Bel on ordinary topics.
She had a subtle dignity that compelled his respect for the

132

183


134            AMY I~ TflROOK.

135

moment. When they parted, there was neither hauteur nor
Coolness ~in hers graceful adieu, but something~ more cutting'
still-a something that said, "You and I are mere-
mere acquaintances !" Yet he could no forbear offering
his hand as he saw her passing from h rn-as it were,
eternally.
When the two girls reached the stre t, Amy hastily
drew down her ~.rei1 to conceal the tears hat fell-.-Isabel
observed the motion, and detected the suffe ing face.
"I suppose George suspects that you ar engaged to Mr.
Second !"
"I Suppose so !, I don't like to have him think I tried to
interest Mr. Second because he was rich !"
"I believe George would be glad to marry you yet,
Amy!"
"We are as unsuited to each other as we always were-
you see he does not judge me tenderly-with allowance !"
"Perhaps not, but you and he are better suited, than you
and Mr. Second."
"Hush, Bel !"
"Why !" demanded she after a short obedience.
"There is no use in talking about these things !"
"But you said once that Mr. Second had bought you-I
am sure "
~' Mr. Scored lobs me, sincerely. If I could not marry
George when he was poor, I cannot marry him when he i~
rich-I have already hurt Mr. Second: it would be doubly

i

AMY DENDROOK.

base to seem ~bo~h ungrateful and mercenary. You know I
am engaged to him: engaged."
lEven as she spqke, she hid frqm Isabel the doubts t1~at
,wrenched her heart.
"You love George best 1"
"Cease tempting me !" uttered Amy, grasping her sister's
hand with the force of sharp feeling.
"I don't mean to tempt you, Amy-but your happiness is
' so dear to me-it seems as if I can't help saying what I
think. I know it wou1~d seem dreadful to break your en.
gagement to Mr. Second when he has idolized you so long,
and has been ~a benefactor to us. I can't help thinking if
things had been a little different--"
"If things had been a little different, we should live a ro-
mance, but the story of life is broken, disjointed, full of un-
welcome surprises-circumstances are too much for us-we
cannot weave the plot: God's hand is too powerful; all we
havt~ to do is to look through the great darkness, and follow
the path that seems right at the time-if it turn out the
wrong one, God forgive us."
"But it caDnot turn out the wrong one in our Heavenly
Father's sight, if the motive has been sincere, can it ?"
"No! that is true: it often rests in my heart, Bel, that it
would be a species' of cruelty and dishonesty not to devote
my life to Mr. Scored. I know that ~i torturing array of ar-
gument can be brought against my position; one set of my
faculties and feelings has thus argued, but at the end of
every mental encounter, I find myself almost in the same

134


136         , AMY DENBROOK.

AMY DENBRO0I~.             137

place.. I seem called to x~alk with a man whose natural
goodness I may perhaps* deepen into Christian grace;. hi~
love for me, and the singular web of incident about me irn~
pels me to believe th~i t my mission may be oi'dered by a
will higher than my own. if he were bad-if I had reason
to* believe that he never ~would become religious then I
should fling every other motive to the winds--I should be
free-there has been a wearing conflict in my mind ever
since I have been engaged-I want to put off the marriage
until I am at r~est-I have suffered so much, Bel, that it
would bring me peace to know that I was the child of right
even though I could not be the child of happiness. I never
meant to tell you thcse thoughts, for the lips [of a promised
wife should be sealed, if they cannot speak of joy, but it
seemed as if my heart would break without utterance.
Agnes and Diana are going to leave school this fall; and
make their regular debut in society-I should leave too, only
I fear it would make Mr. Second think it was time to be
married?
"0 dear !" sighed Bel. "I wish I could bear half of your.
sorrows, Amy!"
"A great many people suffer more, I suppose, I3e1: some
of the time my spirits are good, you know: it xviii all
come out right sometime."
"We must walk a little faster. Mr. Second was to come
at half past five for you to return Mrs. Ashley's call, and
you must put on your very handsomest apparel."
"1 dbn't care what I w~ar-she hated to call on me, I

know, or Mr. Scored would not have brought her-she is so
haughty. I wouldn't stir a step toward her house, if he did not
seem so desirous that I should make her acquaintance.
Probably I am  an artful girl   her eyes, as well as
in Gcorge's."
"Well don't put on your pr~Gd look, as if the earth
were too mean for your step. If you go to oblige Mr.
Second, behave as he would like to have you."
"I will ! I'm glad you mentioned it, for I was just think-
/ ing what a satisfaction it would be to meet Mrs. Ashley in
haughtier style than her own."
"And you must dress handsomely: he likes to see you
well dressed-he is always bringing you something that is
costly."
An hour after this,, Amy emerged from her home, leaning
on the arm~of her lover and wended her way to Mrs. Ash-
ley's with him: when he saw her seated in the magnificent
apartment of his sister4n.law, he regarded her xv ith secret
exultation; he rejoicedin her youth, grace and beauty: she
possessed in herself enough to make her charming in the
circles of fashion, and he possessed the wealth to surround
her with the eclat that he desired: her manner toward him
before company suited him exactly; it was respect-
1 and considerate, [hut neither distant nor familiar: he.
wished that when alone with him, she seemed as much at
rest by his side.
'"Have you seen your frh~nd Miss Leonard within a few
days, Miss Denbr6ok?" inquired Mr~. Ashley.


138          AMY DENBROOJ~*

"I have flot! she has not been at school this week."
"She is to be my guest this winter !" Mrs. Ashley
smiled as if very much pleased.
"How is that ~ it is a n~w movement, isn't it V' asked
Mr. Scored.
"Yes! quite new. Mrs,, Iiarrington's health is delicate,
and her husband is anxious to take her to Cuba for the
winter-when I put in my plea for Agnes, she consented to
go."
"I am very glad she wiil be here I" said 'Amy with anima.
tion.
Mrs. Ashley condescended to a gracious expression of
countenance at this-she thought Amy must like her, and it
flattered her; but the real reason of the maiden's satisfac-
tion was, that Mr. Second inclined to urge her to an inti-
macy with his brother's wife, and the lady w~s profuse 'in
hollow invitations: it would not be difficult to visit fre-
quently the house where Agnes dwelt. As they were speak-
ing with more ease then at first, a lady entered the parlor,
with her bonnet in one hand; the twilight prevented her
countenance from being seen distinctly, but her form and air
were graceful. She bowed to Mr. Scored, who rose and
shook hands with her as with a previous acquaintance.
Amy was introduced to her as the friend 6f Mrs. Ashley-
Mi's. Collins. She did not utter a word save the compli-
ments of the evening after her' entrance; the visitors took
their 1e~we soon after; Mrs. Collins also left her hostess
and sought her apartment to write letters, as she said-in

~MY DENBROO~                    139
reality she went to ait in the darkness with looked hands
and bu~sy brain all the livelong evening: the occasion for
this was, that a servant had mentioned to her before she
*went in the parlor, that Mr. Scored and his little lady-love
were making a call on Mrs. Ashley.

1


140            AMY D]~N]3R0oK.                                           AMY D1~BROOR.               141

CHAPTER XII.
"GOT a new beau, too--you know-to exhibit!' whispered
Diana to Amy as they sat at their desk in school; s14
flourished l~er jewelled hand towards her left as she spoke.
"Have you snapt his head off yet?" asked Amy careless-
ly, as she leaned back to survey a botanical drawing.
"I haven't had time yet--he only appeared on the arena
last evening. Splendid! perf-.~plen 1" these last syllables
meant perfectly splendid: it sometimes happened that Diana
affected to overflow with so much delight that she had not
time to dress her emotions in whole words. Pin goin~ to
have him at my jubilee next week! What a little goose
you are not to'leave school ~oo."~
"0, keep stIll! you're forever talking and exposing me
to suspicion. Mrs. Barker's eye will be on us in a minute."
"Come to my party, and I'll stop! if you don't I'll tor-
ment your life out until' I leave school. Will you come ?"
she laid one haid on Amy's back comb and with the other
susp~ded an inkstand over her drawing, looking so un-
speakably malevolent, that Amy suddenly hovered her
I
mouth to keep back her laughter, and closed her eyes in ex-
pressive winks, not daring to nod lest Mrs. Barker should

suppose her an accomplice in Diana's disorder, rather th'an a
victim to it.
"I'll tell MIr. Second you make faces at me ?" she veti-
~tiired as soon as she could speak.
"Are you subjugated? say 'yes' or your hyacinthine
locks will be given to the breeze, and your dress will be del-
uged with a sable flood !~' whi.'~pered the tormenter in a
friendly and confidin~ voice.
"Yes, I'll come in the middle of the afternoon."
Diana put back the inkstand and released the comb with
a patronizing pat on her companion's head, saying, "The
little thing means xvell enough but she's weak !"
V
"Miss Blake, I consider your conduct extremely unlady-
V       like !" sounded across the school-roornfrom Nt ts. Barker's
desk.
After this the two scholars went on with their drawing in
&amp;ouimendable silence.
"lie used to study law wjth father, and he's going to be-
gin again !" broke out Diana after as long a silence as she
could possibly preserve.
"Who?"
4,        " iMiy new beau !"
"Who is he ?" questioned Amy with a startled blush, for
she knew that George Coleman had been a student of Mr.
Blake's , although he had neYer made the acquaintance of his
family.
"lie's a Mr. Coleman! stately, majestic, intellectual,
lordly. He has lately received a fortune, and I suppose that


142          AMY DENEROOK;                                    AMY DENI3ROOIC.         143

made my beloved father think that his society would not be
unsuitable for his family."
"I don't see how you ~an flirt so, Diana, when you are en-
*
gaged !"
"hush! I'll never tell you anything again, if you mention
that so loudly. Thei'e's no harm in it, for 1 would lay down
my life for Marcus--I would go with him to a prison or a
hovel."
"I know that! but you would not refrain from wounding
him every day."
"0 he! he thinks all the more of me for being on the
anxious seat part of the time."
"If he has anything of Agnes' disposition, he ~vill beay so
much, and no mor~. Some fatal day Diana, you.will w~ep
bitter tears, if I am not mistaken !"
"Well, Amy, the truth is this, Mr. Colem~tn was so in~lif~
ferent to me as to ihake the fact most conspicuous to ~ny
observation: it came very near piquing m~ into a deterniina.
don for revenge. There! I'm a better girl than you sup-
posed. I only flirt, a very little !"
Another silence fell, and continued until the school was
dismissed.
The next week Amy went with Mr. Second to Diana's
party. It was painful to her to go into company with her
lover; she felt the disparity in their ~es, still she ~vent.
She met George there; a dark and scornful look flashed
upon her as she accidentally encountered him in the hall:
he bowed coldly; many times during the evening his eyes

were fastened upon Mr. Scored, and when he saw him speak
to Amy or show her any casual attention, the slight disdain-
fiil curve passed over his lip, and was gone again: he was
not one to nurse spiteful thoughts in secret; they looked
out candidly from his countenance. He was most particu-
tar in his devotion to Miss Blake, probably forgetting the
heinousnesS with which coquetry had struck him, when he
thought ~{iss Denbrook addicted to it. He did not of
course know that Mr. Leonard considered him the most
wretched apology for a man extant; that person kept his
9
own counsel, and his gentlemanly bearing did not indicate
the unrest within him: he did not watch Diana after the
first moment, he had no desire to aggravate the difficulty of
his behavior, after having witnessed the joyous and laugh-
ing face with which she n~et Mr. Coleman's jests-most in-
significant jests they were, he knew, and George also-but
people laughed as if they enjoyed them.


AMY DENBRO0IC.             145

144          AMY DENX3ROOIC.

V
F

CHAPTER XIII.

DIANA BLARE was an only child; she had been petted from
her birth and had ruled the family always. Even when a
school-girl, her mother could not resist her entreaties to in-
troduce her into society: she soon became a belle, and
every evening when she was at home, the gas was lighted.
iii the parlors-upo~i these occasions; she flitted into the
rooms tastefully dressed, ready to r~cciye any gentlemen
who might chance ti call; her mother unwisely kept aloof,
as American mothers are apt to do, and the pretty coquette
was left to obey every freak of her most wilful nature.
Two evenings after the party which had celebrated her
emancipation from school life, she made her entrance into
the parlors robed in white; the evening was balmy, although
it was early in November; her fair neck and round arms
glittered with jewels; she was a showy girl, and ornaments
became her; roses were wreathed in her brown hair, hot.~
house roses from her lover; they blushed in the bosom of
her dress, and hung from her girdle. She expected Marcus
Leonard, and she had arrayed herself with especial pleasure
for him: he did not come as early as usual, and she was

particularly jealous of'any event, or even aceiden~t that could
not be conquered immediately for the sake of i'eaching her';
Leonard usually visited every evening, or they had en gage.
ments at the same places; on the previous evening he had
sent her the flowers, without a note, or any comment on his
absence. She felt vexed every time she took out her watch
to observe the time; at length there was a ring at the street
bell, and a gentleman was ushered into her presence; it was
a bitter disappointmeift to her, when she saw Mr. Coleman;
he did not visit her in the expectation of being made very
happy, but she was lively and amusing enough to divert
him as he was not aware of her engagement, he hoped that
she would report his visits to Amy, and he was wicked
enough to think such a report would be annoying to her, and
would make her realize the mistal~ she had made in not ac-
cepting him. Diana was too shrewd not to have detected
that there was very little heart in Mr. Coleman's attentions;
she resolved that he should feel what he assumed-she put
on a careless manner, and began to talk upon topics which.
were calculated to interest him, and to display her own in2
tellectual abilities, foi~ these were of a high order; it was an
agreeable ~surprise to him to find unsuspected depths of'
thought and acquirement in the merry girl-she had the
faculty of using what she did know to capital advantage.
When he was really aroused and interested, she went off in
her usual light and witty style, as if she disdained to show
her worthier self long. They jested to the point, and with
actual zest after a deeper insight into each other's characters;


146              AMY DE~B1~ooK.
Diana saw that he was thinking her absolutely charming.
"May I ask for this?" he inquired, lightly pointing, to a
moss rose with which she was toying. "I have distracting
fears that you will tear it in pieces."
"Yes, you shall have i !" she good humoredly replied,
glying it into his hand. A she raised her eyes, she encoun-
tered the stern gaze of Ma cus Leonard; he had not heard
the light Conversation of th two; he had only seen his gift
transferred into the palm o another, as if it had been of no
value: he walked forward a step and bowed to the two, then
beckoning to her, went through the back parlor and into the
conservatory. She impulsively followed him without a
word of explanation or excuse to her companion.
"Diana! take your ring !" Leonard's voice was husky,
but he handed the circlet to her x~ith a bitter laugh, as ~he
joined him.; her face looked perfectly white in the bright
twilight of the conservatory.
She took it, and, with all the power withi+x her nature
stirred, drew from her own finger the ring which he had
placed there; she was ill-used to bearing the rebuke which
his whole action had administered.
"Have you anything else to say to me, Mr. Leonard?
any other business to transact ?" she asked with a plentitude
of haughtiness.
"' I have nothing more to say henceforth !" he returned
bowing, and his action was as full of bitter pride as hex
own. He left her, and she heard his step ring along the hail.
she heard the street door close after him ; then she dropped

.1

AMY ]~ENBROOK.                  14~
uj~on the floor senseless; no ohe heard her; when she re-
covered and entered the parlors, they were deserted.
Marcus Leonard walked the streets for many hours that
night, and they were all filled with vehement bitterness; his
good angels, if they looked ix~ upon the tempest within him,
gave no token of their presence. But the next day he was
more quiet, and with less jaundiced sight reviewed thelife
which he had lately led; he was free from the slavery of infat-
uated passion, although its effects lingered upon him: he ha&amp;
reached the point toward which his e4eriences had been
tending; they demanded freedom from jealousy-they asked
in his loved one, a singleness of affection equal to his own-
they asked for rest and peace, they dent anded a different
person from his erring, too fascinating Diai a He was fixed
in his purpose to give her up-he was unshaken in judgment
although deeply shaken in feeling: her sweetest looks her
heaviest tears could not have undone the results which his
study of her had brought about: the event that parted them
was such a circumstance as would have happened sooner or
later: it precipitated the purpose that had been forming
almost unconsciously in his own mind: he had a horror of
women that are solicitous for the adulation of many, rather
than for the deep love of one. He was impatient at the
misery that gnawed his heart. lie ~aid "I am free !" as he
paced his room, and there was a half smile on his lip as he
spoke, but the smile was in self disdain: his eyes, which were
of a dark, clear grey, had no fire in their sombre depths;
the shapelyy head was not erect; the well-looking but not

V

A
~1

7


148         AMY DE TBROOK.                                   AMY DENBROOJL           149

handsome face was pale, and its intellectual cast was more
observable in its gloom; he looked severe, but nut happy in
his strength-he looked the exact reverse of the man who
spoke with his friends, for in his darkness there beamed out
no iiAications of a genial and attractive nature.
"I'll return to books !" he mused, as he glanced toward
his library. "I'll be governed after this by my head and not
my heart-they are superficial, (they meant woman) hasty,
but not reliable-this superficiality I abhor! A man is bet-
ter off to remain in the cold domain of his intellect, than to
trifle with them. And yet why were they created, if not to
fill a void in our nature, that craves something out of itself?
I was well enough satisfied with the manner of man I was,
before this episode with Diana-I was filling my brain with
new and strong food-~-now there is a singular craving as if
I had been introduced into a new chamber of my soul's
house, and an influence issued therefrom that debarred
me from being what I was ere it was revealed to me. It'
Diana had been what I hoped, if she could have filled this
new want of my life, I should then have been ,~t rest to pur-
sue old aims. But what folly to muse thus! why not force
myself back to what I was ?--this can be done in a measure.
I started upon the race of life with streaming banner and
bold defiance. More than this, my forgotten God, I kn&amp;lt
I
at a Sacramental ahax !-he lifted his eyes a moment up-
ward, full of regretful shadows. "I have gone backward-
I can take up my march again with humbled knowledge of
myself-with deeper devotion to the cause of righteousness.

r
y

I have held to the outward forms, while I have made small
advance in the inward life. I entreated in times past that a
divine beauty might be impressed upon my spirit, though it
were done at the expense of mortal throes. I have so deep-
ly draitied the essence of Diana~s life, th~t I have lost some
of my own. I return to myself as I break from her--I re-
turn to find that no new strength has accrued to me during
my life of passion-and yet is it her life that I received, or
did she reveal to me only what existed in myself? Agnes
says I have clothed her with the halo that comes from hei'
who should be mine,! and she-this ui~iknown womai~, where
is .~he 9 does she exist? does she live somewhere in the
boundless domains of the merciful ?-does she live for me
alone? is she tooblind, and struggling to break from a soul
not fitted for her? or is she livin~~ in a happy delusion ?-
l)elievin~ thatshe has found her counterpart? how are we
to know people ? the garment of flesh is not translucent:
it does not show us the being ~vho lives within at first sight,
perhaps not for years. 0, Diana! I)i~~na! would to God
you had not drawn me toward you? would to God it were
easy to break away! may the Almighty grant that the de-
parture of my happiness, ~ay hasten the advent of a holier
life. I see her white flice !-~-~I iilmost feel her clinging, arms,
for she loved me-yes! she loved inc beyond others-she
is weeping now-she cries out to inc to come back ! she
longs to lay her head on my breast once more! 0, Diana!
the fatal step has been takeb! you have already bowed my
manho6d as low as it can be bent by you, and if years of


150           AMY D]~J3ROOK'.                                     AMY DIENDR0OK             151

misery were a sure consequence of this act, I would take up
the burden and leave you." lie sat down by his desk, and
loxyered his head upon his arms-he was not given to weep-
ing, but his tears fell there, and he was ashamed of them -
there was no need of shame, for they came from a source
almost as pure as the source of his praj*ers.
Marcus Leonard's uncle, Mr. Harrington, had for several
months past desired him to take up his evidencece abroad as
a partner in his business: he was a merchant, ~nd he
thought the limited time which it would take to buy goods
in England, France and Germany would leave Marcus an
opportunity for tra~eV and study during a large part of tim
year. The gentleman who was to undertake this business
was averse to it: it would have been peculiarly acceptable
to Marcus had it not involved a separation from Diana. Tie
was now free to g6; one day, shortly after his parting with
Miss Blake, he passed the door of his sister's room, it stood
ajar, and he saw her kneeling before a~ trunk which she was
packing. "Come in, Marcus !" she cried,, as she stowed a
glove boK in its place.
lie entered; and stood a little behind her, looking down
upon her. "You seem to be terribly busy !" he said.
"Yes! I want to leave to-morrow immediately after uncle
and aunt do. I hate to have the family broken up-uncle and
aunt at Havana, and you boarding at a hotel-you must
come and see me every day at Mrs. Ashley's, will you ?"
"No! that will be impossible !"
She looked up hastily, and then rose to her feet. lie had

preserved his ordinary manner until this moment. What is
the matter, Marcus ~"
"I am going abroad. You know uncle has wanted me to
for some time !"
"Yes! but you are in trouble sit down !"
He obeyed, and she laid her head on~ his shoulder, and
put her arms around him. "What is it, dear2 wom~t vuu
tell me ~" her voice was dif the gentlest, tenderest tone.
"My engagement is broken I" he abruptly said.
She did not make any inquiry as to the cause of it: she
guessed. it. "I will not ask yr~u to stay then, Marcus.
You need the change of scene."
"Will you be a faithful friend to Diana ?"
~ will ! I will be most faithful !"
his sternly-set lips and sombre eyes were more than she
could easily bear, and she dropt her h~ead upon his shoulder
after she had lifted it to answer him; his noble heart and
kingly brain were her wo~'ship-she saw none of his faults-
she believed only in his aspirations :-in the approaching
future she saw men growing better and wiser, as they
- gleaned pearls of trut  from him.
After he had made arrangements to. embark for England
in two days, he sat down and penned a letter to Diana; he
told her of his deep affection, and also of the great fault
which had driven their lots asunder; he gave her liberty to
gather to her breast the floating homage which had weighed
against his love. He withheld his communication until a
few h~urs before he xvent on hoard the vessel. When in his


152         AMY DENBRQOK.                                AMY DENBR0O.K.        153

little state-room, he clasped Agnes to his heart for the last
time, there came before his mental sight a vision of a pallid
and yearning face-it was fancy ! SO we say, yet a strong
and thrilling consciousue~s caused him to believe that at that
instant Diana was reading his farcw~ll. A second time he
repeated his ehai~ge to Agnes. "Be a friend to Diana ~" and
then he was left alone.
Of a truth; the soul of the stricken girl had reached him ;.
at that very hour she sat in her luxuiloPs chamber, with her
eyes upon the fatal letter, but the spirit was turning toward
the vessel that was making ready to sail-she turned to see if
the unutterable light that had beamed upon her from his gaze
were lost-she received no assurance-it was fancy all, that
he could comprehend the tide of anguish and yeatning~that
s~t toward him, yet her every life-beat as she looked toward
the sea, was an entreaty to stay his cruel purposQof departure.
lie quitted his state-room, and watched the sailors casting
off the lines: when the steamer first ploughed the w~ives, he
mentally uttered, "Now the impossible has come between
me, and this sudden impulse to retrace my course: it is well
perhaps that the machinery of this vessel, and the uncon-
scious will of another man shou-ld keep me steady in. my
chosen path. So we help and hinder one anotheix Sc,
Diana, my life parts from yours." The strength of his wilt
had triumphed over all emotions ~ but when he no longer
needed to exert it, the rein seemed given to his tnadness of
desire once more to behold her-once more to pour out the
rich argosy of his idolatry.

CHAPTER XIV.
THE Eastern sunrise shone into the room. Isabel was in the
adjoining chamber dressing.. Amy looked from the window
through which the glory streamed: she smiled as she stood
in the brightness. " Thus I can stand in God's love" she
murmured, as she gazed over the housetops at the rising
illumination. After a while she went to a richly-carved
book-ease; below the shelves were two drawers-one was
appropriated to Isabel, and one was all her own: she kept
the key; for in the drawer was deposited a record of her
secret thoughts. She had kept i~ journal since her engage-
ment, for it had by its very nature thrown her back upon
herself-she was no longer the frank girl that she had been.
To Del she usually revealed a comparatively cheerful outer-
most-4o hen lover she wore a visiting aspect-she talked
of European politics, of new books, lectures, and of her
studies-to the white pages of her journal she turned with
sad, happy or wayward thoughts-she did not receive con-
solation by refleding, without writing. When her ~ uP
thirsted to pour forth its locked-up life, she took her diary
from its hiding place, and penned her eager thoughts-exist-
ence did not seem half-lived unless in solitude she gave into


1I54

A~Y DENBIU)OK.

the listening ear of ~od and angels the aspirations that
gushed from her inmost heart-she kept no statistical
record of events-her hoaven-reachin g hopes. her tempta-
tions, her blindness, her pleasures, her passio~iate ~nrest,
her frequent devouring desire to break her betrothal chains
-her eager thirst for a noble field of labor----her prayers
~that she might in some way pour out her soul arid treasure
at. the feet of the suffering: her cry for a deep draug~it of
joy: her importance in the great, world if she acted by her-
self-all these things formed the ~taple of her written
words.
While she was unlocking her drawer, a hasty knock dis-
turbed her. Shie went to the door, and saw Diana standing
there.
"Why Diana! so early in the morning? how pale you
are! come in and sit down !" she led her friend to a sofa,
turning pale herself as the shock of' her suffering smote
her.
"Are we alone ?" whispered the visitor.
"Yes! I will tell Bel to remain in the bedroom, or go
down to breakfast without me, if you wish."
Diana nodded: when Amy returned to her, she took her
hand witha wringing pressure, and looked into her eyes.
speechlessly, ere she covered her face and broke into passion,
ate sobs. "I am the most besotted fool upon this eai'th !"
she cried out at last. "Tell me what to do, and I will do
it, though I die."
Amy regarded her wonderingly; she kissed her, and then

- AMY DENJ3R0OK.                  155
stroked her hair in silence, for she had drawn her head upon
her bosom, as ~he ceased her weeping.
"Marcus has left me, Amy ! You predicted it-tell me
how to bring him back !" she related the cii'cum~tances of
their parting.
" XYhere is he, dear ?"
"lie sailed for Europe yesterday-there is a strange
cruelty and hardness in him, or he could not have done it."
"Not that perhaps altogether," said Amy, " his judg-
mnent has led him to believe that you iixe a coquette to , t~he
very centre-he thinks it would peril his future, rest to yield
to his feelings now, but it is all in your power to bring him
back, if you will-I can see a straight way out of your
trouble !"
how? how ?"
"First resolve in God's strength, not your own, to resign
nih your coquettish tendexicies. Resolve to conquer in every
little temptation: we women understand this, Diana-you
know with ~ fullness of knowledge that you can turn to Mr.
Leonard wholly, or not, 'as you will-if you are willing, to
do it, he will joyfully return to you-if you yield to your
proclivities for interesting every gentleman within your
reach, you must live on such miserable husks as such pas-
time affords-"
"But I will return to him alone."
"So you have said before, my dear, but in ,a week the
purpose has been forgotten,-and a new masculine face has
only suggested the idea of a new victim."

q


AMY DENDROOK.       157

156          AMY DENBI~00K.

"Q what ~id God make .me in this way for ?" groaned
Diana, with a solemnity of regret~ that caused a smile to
shine across Amy's lip a moment--it was so strange to see
the madcap in grief. "Amy, I don't care that," she snapt
her finger, "for any mixn on earth but Marcus Leonard.-I
wish all the rest were in the bottom of the sea. 'But tell
me what to do !" she looked up with keen anxiety into her
companion's face.
"Write to him, and tell him you have been to blame,
that you repent and ask his forgiveness, and will try hence-
forth to be-to be more thoughtful. Thoughtful is the word
isn't it? it isn't quite as humble as saying you wil ~ry to
be worthy of him."
"It is too hard--too hard so !" answered the proud girl,
slowly shaking her head. "Is there no other way? Advise
Agnes to write that she believes I still love him, and that he
has been hasty-cruei----let her tell him that I am i~npulsivc
but faithfuL 0, do this for me, Amy, and I will love you
to the last day of my life t"
"This is too hard for me, dear Diana! You know bow
willingly I would serve you-but knowing your temperament
-knowing above all, that you do not draw your strength
from the Divine ]3eing, I dar~ not, as it xvcrc, promise that
your future life will be different-you ar~ the one to make
both the resolve and the written promise. You will be
happier and better for having acknowledged your fault.
Mr. Leonard has the right to expect it from you before he
returns to you-it is not treating him well, to have in-
jured him, and then to ask him to make the first advances."
A

"I have not injured him. Hundreds of men would have
thought nothing about my little flirting ways."
"Do you really think so, Diana ?"
"They would not. have taken the matter so seriously:
they would have hastened the wedding, if they could have
done so."
"That would have been because they were less far-seeing
as to consequences: Mr. Leonard not only desires to possess
you, but he desires to possess a heart that reflects his own,
purposes, aspirations and affections."
"You seem to know a great deal about his aspirations."
"Not a great deal !-I never spoke with him except to ex-
change the compliments of the day, but I read his character
from many. little incidents which Agnes has told me. He
has always been too much occupied with you, to notice other
young ladies."      /
"0, Amy, if I could write to him !" Diana wrung her
hands in lamentation over her stubborn pride.
"You can! you know you can! You said you would do
as I advised-don't be so blind, so mad as to destroy your
happiness: I believe it ought to be secured at any honorable
priee-.--you may thin it will come again in s~me shape, if
you let it go now, bu it may not."
"Do you think he 'ill ever write to me
"Agnes says he is very determined when he has once
made up his mind on any matter."
"0 !" murmured the miserable girl weeping bitterly. "I
wish I had die&amp;---'I wish I were dead this moment !"
"Now, dear Diana, how absol~e~ly foolish you are !-.~

-g

V
t


158               AMY DENBRO0K.
what's the us~ of dying when you can repair your troi~bles
by scribbling on a sheet of paper? What can be more
easy 3 This is a turning point in your life-he is good, and
he would do you good if he were your husband 1"
A deep carnation suffused Diana's pale cheek; her eyes
shone proudly thro gh her tears. "If a lover of yours had
virtually pronoun ed you unworthy of him, would you sup-
plicate to be ta n back to his regard 3"
This was a home-question; An~iy wished to r~st6rc
Diana'~ joy: "advice is easier than practice," she replied
evasively. " I think when I commit a fault, it relieves inc
to confess it."
"I cannot confess mine. I was so wretched, I thought
you could show me some hope that I could make a Mailable."
She looked so truly miserable as she spoke, and so determin-
ed, that Amy perceived it would be useless to urge her
farther, so she tried to comfort her.
"J dare say he'll write to you, dear. Have a little
patience !-he perhaps will see that he was too abrupt and
severe-he will learn how deeply he loved you by being ab-
sent from. you: it is far better for him to know that he can-
not reach you when he will, because that will make him
'groan in spirit' at the separation, so you must try to be
gQOd, and if he writes, you must aiiswer in the very pret-
tiest way possible."
"I Would acknowledge all my folly-all! I woul d~ be so
hui4ble, if he would first write, and say he had been arsh!'
Diana's head was resting like a wearied child's on Amy's

AMY DENBIiOOK.
heart, and her arms were clasped around her; when the two
were in a lively mood, Amy seemed the victim of merry
tyranny, but in moments of grief or earnestness Diana was
appealing and childlike.
"You would be such a delightful girl, if you would only
be at you :can be, Diana. I cannot help wishing you
would take warning from what you suffer, and would turn
over a new leaf and not live so much for the pleasure of
the moment."
"There is no pleasure oC the moment to live 'for ow."
The clock struck half-past eight, and Diana took he~' unwil-
ling departure that A my might breakfast and go to school.


160          AMY D132N13R0 OK.                                   AMY PENflR0OK.

CHAPTER XV.
"You are going to Mrs. Ashley's to-morrow afternoon, I
suppose, Amny-you and Isabel !" said Mr. Second.
"Yes, sir! she says in the note that she will have no com-
pany-only Agnes and Mrs2 Collins will be there !"
"1 will meet you theme at tea!"
"Well, sir, that will be right. I should be glad' if we
could leave quite early !"
"Why ?"
She 6olored, and then replied, ~' 'We ~xpect a friend to
spend the evening with us at home 1"
"Who is that, Amy ?"
"Dr. Kendrick is' going to bring us some minerals to
examine !"
"I think it would be a good plan for Dr. Kendrick to
stay at home !" Mr. Second said with a smile, but there was
an under current to it that showed he was not jesting.
"Why, sir ?" asked Amy, gravely; catching his real feeb
ings~ she found it impossible to appear as if' she did not
under4~and them. Mr. Second had stood with his hand on

the door ready for departure, but observing her expression,
he took her hand and led her to the sofa from which they
had risen a moment before: they were alone.
"Jt will not do for IsabQl to ~become interested in this
1"
young man.
"She has, never said that she was, sir-nor has he profess.
ed an interest in her."
"Yet it exists on both sides !"
"Is there any harm in that. sir? he is very good and
honorable !"
"Amy, do you never mean to drop the ~ir in speaking to
me?"
"Yes, sir !"
"There it is again !"
"I will drop it!"
"Well, don't look so convicted of impropriety; it is time
that you had got acquainted with your privilege of flimiliar-
ty." He held her hand; she did not withdraw it, although it
lay like a dead and passionless thing in his clasp. "You
must use your influencewith Isabel, and oblige this young
man to stop his visits."
I ought to know why !"
ttle girl  are!~ If you will
"What an unsophisticated li     you
reflect, you will see that Isabel as the sister of my wife will
be~ble to make a much more advantageous match."
"But you did not seek an advantageous match, when you
chose me."
"I could afford to follow my heart, this young man cannot !"

ii


162          AMY DE~BRO0K.

AMY DENBROOK.       16~1

"May not they decide whether they would prefer each
other with poverty, to ethers with wealth ?"
"No!"
Amy looked up as the calrii "no '~ wa s pronounced: it
was singularly decisive in its freedom from excitement.
"You see, Amy, these young people are full of romantic
notions, and it will not do for them to act upon them: it is
your duty to guard Isabel from an intimacy with Dr. Ken-
drick, I rely upon you! your gratitude to me should insure
compliance with my wishes."
She had sacrificed her heart to gratitude, but it was too
vast a tax upon it, to ask her to break away the tendrils of
her young sister's love from a worthy object: she saw her-
self entering upon a field where heP will and Jsabel  were
always to be subservient: not one act alone, but a life of acts
would be demanded by Mr. Second as payment for her
debt. But she had learned to love luxury, and to hate the
toilsome life which she had once led--she looked with dread
at the idea of being launched again into the ocean of poverty
and barrenness, and struggle-she was not yet goaded to
the last extremity. Mr. Scored loved her; she had not
sufficient power to wring hk spirit. She sat in' silence, and
pleaded to heaven to have a way opened before her; she re-
solved to make an appeal.
"You love me ?" she asked, looking in his face with
trembling lips: she clasped both his handy in her slender
~ uger~ with entreaty.
"Love you, sweetest? my every deed shows it !" he fold-

ed her close to his breast, and for the first time she laid her
head upon it a moment, while she wept.
"0, do not ask inc to interfere with Dr. Kendrick and
Bel ! don't!"
"We woift talk of this now, dear, if it distresses you!
there! don't cry!"
"I am not crying now !" she raised herself'. "I pant
you to think about this !-do, for my sake. If they care for
each other, l~t them be happy."
"But, my dear, it will not guarantee their happiness to
let them rush into all sorts of straits-the doctor is exces-
sively poor! poor to starvation! and it is not honorable in
him to seek a wife."
"But he is not seeking a wife :-I think he has no idea of
reducing Bel to starvation, and I am sure he would not ask
her hand, if he had not means to support her. What harm
is there in their being friends for years, and then marrying,
if he is able? Bel don't thiiik of such a thing as being any-
body's wife at present."
"You don't understand him: he is deep, I can assure you.
lie knows if he marries Isabel, I would not let them live
discredi~tably: he counts upon help from me
There caine upon Amy's heart a tide of repulsion: it did
not lessen, when Mr. Second said, "I think, Amy, that the
wealth which will surround you, should make you consider-
ate in wishing Isabel similarly circumstances: it will be for
your interest to have the past obliterated from people's

a


AMY DENBROOK.

minds, and if your sister should live in a narrow way
people would naturally ask about-" he hesitated.
A deep scarlet flamed in her cheek: her tongue was dip-
pod in scorn as she replied. "I am not able to discover but
what I have occasion for pride in my antecedents; poverty
is an accident, but mental and moral wealth are the gifts of
God; my early life was not passed aloof from these."
"Certainly not, aiid it was the marks of these, together
with your air of refinement and beauty that attracted me to
you as a suitable wife."
"I used to think you did not care for tl~e eclat of
wealth !"
"On the contrary, no man cares more for it: I value
wealth for what it can do. It gives a' man power to please
himself-and a woman too."
"Have you granted my petition ?"
"What's that? oh !"
"You will, wont you! make mc happy by not asking me
to pain Isabel. You said 'once that your happiness was
mine !"
"My dear child, you are too inexperienced to judge in
this matter. Manifest your love for me, and your confidence
in my judgment by doing as I wish."
"But suppose my will is as dear to me, as yours is to von
-what shall we do-?" Amy looked up as if she were put-
ting a very serious question. ,
Mr. Second smiled, then "he' ha'd" as if impelled to the
irresistible discharge of mirth: the idea of that pretty little
A

AMY   DENBROOK.                  165
girs will crossing his own after she was his, was unique:
he patted her under her, chin, and said, "I think we shall
get along first rate, Amy! who could resist such a little'
witch as you ?"
"Then you consent ?"
"No! no! Do you refuse to do as I ask, Amy ?"
"I am afraid I do !" she responded with a deprecating
look at him.
"You do?"
She lowered her eyes in silence, and began to cry. Mr.,
Scored would melt at this she knew-but she did not know
that the transitory s')ftness would not affect his purpose in
the least; however she would not be comforted, she would
not allow her hands to be taken down from her face; she
would not allow her erect position against the sofa-back to
be altered.
"Don't feel so badly, Amy !"
4
" You make' me
"Not willingly, I am sure I"
"Yes, you do 1"
"But, my love, you are unreasonable: we will let the
subject go. There! dry your tears, aud bid me 'Good
Night !'
Good night !" she answered, sitting still with hei~ hands
yet over her face. lie kissed a little spot on her forehead,
and repeating, "Good bye, pet,"' and left her.
She uncovered her face and listened to his retreating
step, then she laid her head on the arm of the sofa, sighing,


r

166

AMY DENJ3ROOIC.

"Jt is'nt the kind of love I want !-I can't comprehend it-it
seeks his will, and not my happiness."
The next day she did not tell her sister of the conversation
about Dr. Kendrick: she desired that she should still con-
sider herself a little school-girl, and should not trouble her
head about the possible event of being married some day:
more Vhan this, she was ashamed to say that the sentiments
of her betrothed lover were not generous. Th~e they started
for school, she said abruptly, "Del, I have no idea that we
shall return early from Mrs. Ashley's; suppose we stopia
at the doctor's office, and ask him to come to-morrow even-
ing, instead of this evenino'"
"Dear ! will we have to spend the whole evening at Mrs.
Ashley's ?"
"I suppose so! and if we did not, you know I could riot
look much at the minerals, for Mr. Second would be here,
and I should be occupied with him: he and the doctor are so
stately to each other, we could not expect it to be pleasant."
"That's true! well! we 'II stop at the office."
They accordingly stopt at the office, and met Dr. Ken-
drick's smile: it seemed to come from some deep well ~bf
brightness; his writing was scattered over the table, yet
there was a method in the, various piles of letter paper; un-
consciously, there was in Amy's manner, a sisterly frank-
ness; and Isabel was as gay as a sunbeam. They stayed
but five minutes: when they had gone, the doctor remarked
mentally.-
"Yes! Amy understands my hopes, although she does not;

AMY DI3NBROOK.

167

my poverty is not the greatest sin of which a man ~an be
guilty in their eyes, although it may be in the estirna~ion of
Amy's proud lover: how did it ever happen that she 'should
~ngage herself to him? she does not seem mercenary'! I am
at last in the narrow road that leads to modest sUccess,
sweet Isabel! To-rn ~rrow evening! heaven bless her sunny
smile, I shall see it then I"
In the afternoon, when the sisters went to Mrs. Ashley's,
they were met by Agnes Leonard, who conducted them to
her chamber.
"There is really a wonderful woman dwn stairs, girls,"
she said enthusiastically, as she folded B il's shawl, and laid
it on the b~d, "such a scope of intellect 1! such insio'ht into
human nature I never saw ! she has told me of things I have
only dreamed of in myself! she seems to understand every
want of mind and heart. I am completely captivated by
her, and she manif't~sts a deep interest in me."
"What is her name ?" questioned Amy, with eager grati-
fication in her looks. "I am all impatience to see her.
Pray help me with this rebellious knot !"
Agnes beset the bonnet strings, and replied a~ she un-
fastened the knot. "She is a widow-her name is Collins."
"0, yes! I was introduced to her the other day, but it
was nearly dark at the time."
"You may not be pleased with1 her at-'first sight! I was
not! but now I think she is the most fascinating being Lever
met, and she is not handsome either-not even pretty."
"How old is she ?" inquired Isabel.

A


A~I Y DEN]3ROOIC.               169

168        A~Y DENBROOK.

"About thirty! she is going to spend the winter here.
She is from Philadelphia !"
"I hope she'll like us, don't you, Amy ?" said Bel.
"Of course I do !"
"She is prepared to like you; she said you called the
other evening, Amy, and that she 'was delighted with the
little she saw of you !"
"0, indeed !" exclaime~ Amy, a little surprised, not~ rcA-
membering that she had a peered unlike ten thousand y~.ing
ladies might have appear d, in making a formal call at twi-
light.
The three fair girls went down into the parlor, where
Mrs. Ashley welcomed them with an: air of friendliness.
Mrs. Collins was kind, but a little reserved; she evidently
listened to every remark that drop~ from Amy with atten-
tion. Once the young girl raised her eyes to have a good
look at the wonderful lady, whose countenance was tranquil
and expressionless, until she darted an intensely bright
glance upon her; it seemed blazing with infernal fire, capa-
ble of burning though every impediment in its search for
mdtive-life: it impressed Amy mast powerfully and disa-
greeably, although it was withdrawn with a smile. The un-
pleasant sensationwore oW when Mrs. Collins said frankly,
and with an air of interest, "This is the friend @f whom
you have spoken, Agnes "-she believed in calling young girls
by their christian names. I am glad to believe, my dear,
that you are not a sample of a class who live after general
rules, and never seek to develope their own individuality: 1

bAiove you are one of the few fitted for a higher life." Be-
fore Mrs. Collins said this she had ascertained that Mrs.
A8hle.y was absent: she played a different role in her
presence.
Amy smiled: it did seem rather gratifying to be so high-
ly esteemed by such a gifted person: but the higher life,
what did she mean by that? and why should she try to de-
velope her individuality, when it developed itself Past
enough for her comfort?
"What do you understand by a higher life, Mrs. Collins ?~'
she asked a little timidly: the expression rather charmed
her after all, and she was pleased that her new acquaintance
said something ~uggestive immediately, instead of wasting
time on the weather and the gay world.
"I simply mean that every person should act as he or she
feels: I mean th4t perfect f~anknes~ should characterise the
intercourse of rational beings-I mean that we should dis-
card all bonds-the bonds of conventionalism, of fashion, of
ungenial acquaint~nce-it~ fact I mean that the inner life
should never be a lie to the outer life: there should be har~
mony all through-thought and speech should act as one, the
latter should always clothe the former truthfully."
"We can only live thus in heaven !" responded Amy, as
a heavy shadow gathered oVer her. "We should make
C
people unhappy if we always expressed ourselves as we
felt."
" We should not seek to live with friends who Will not
give us freedom ~o be oursdves."

N


1~O         AMY DE~BROOK.                                 AMY DENBRoOn.         171

"You say, Mrs. Collins, that we must act as we feel---we
do not always feel rightly."
"You are correct, my friend-but we n~st be pure wit L~-
in: there must always be a few brave spirits to inaugurate a
new era; every si ~igle soul that is true to itself does a
gre&amp;t work for hunAnity: you hurt others by being untrue
in any way."
"1 desire to be true: one does not always know how to
be truest !" the faint rose on Amy's cheek had deepened to
a brilliant tint: her soul was moved with all its doubts and
fears.
"Yon think, Mrs. Collins," said Agnes, "that our friend-
ships can never ~ast, unless there is absolute, interior affini-
ty of character."
"Certainly ! and we sin against our higher nature by at-
tracting to us, persons with whom we have no affinity. God
will not forgive us for thus wronging ourselves; we lo~se
half the glory that is stored up within us if we do not give
the key of our spirit-life to the true magician." Mrs. Col-
Jins looked around and saw that Mrs. Ashley was still ab-
sent frdm the room. "You have seen the evil that arises
from want of congeniality in this family. Agnes: we will
leave friendship, and' speak of love, as both are governed by
similar principles. Mr. and Mrs. Ashley are a wretched
pair, although in each there are elements of a glorious life:
each acts upon. the other di~astrously."
"Not necessarily !" said Amy, she received a slight
shock at this discussing the private affairs of her host and

hostess: she believed that Mrs~ Collins' frankness was con-.
sistent with her principles, but it made her uneasy: she
guessed that Mrs. Ashley or Agnes might naturally have
spoken of her engagement, and she dreaded lest Mrs. Col-
lins should deem it her duty to talk with her about it, and
ask her if she lqved Mr. Second beyond all the world; she
felt as if taken possession of by her powerful will: she felt
as if the strong woman could read her through in time, and
as if the study would be ruthlessly undertaken.
"I think people can get along well enough, if they are
disposed to," she added after a brief pause. "If the two
you have spoken of~ should become sincere christians', much
of their trouble would vanish."
"My dear," Mrs. Collins laid her hand upon Amy's
arm, "I reverence christianity a~ much as you do, but do
not igflore the very constitution of your mind !-the Creator
made us for happiness-all the misery in the world arises
from our not obeying His laws: I grant that the two we
speak df sinned innocently-they supposed they could be to
each other w~hat time has proved that they ~cannot; now
that they have discovered their error, it is a lie for them to
live together, and pretend to the world that they are mar-
ried, when they are in truth divorced by the laws of nature
and of~spirit: to be holy and truthful they should part, and
each should~seek the one with whom there is a real affinity !"
"Suppose they should seek and should not find, as mil-
lions have done before them ?" returned Amy, with a very
8


172              AMY ]~

)ENBROOK.                              AMY DENBILOOlr.

173

slight curl of her red lip: the uneasiness within amounted
almost to anguish.
"Those who are in earnest always do find !"
"Or thi~dc they do !"
"You are incredulous !" said Mrs. Collins, with a singular
smile.
"Bel, hand me the scissors !" demanded Amy, abruptly.
The smile of Mrs. Collins deepened as she bent over her
work and then it disappeared: she augured well from the
young girl's impatient tone : she had stirred up the warfare
in her breast: she had set the match .to the train of
smothered thoughts: from Agnes she had learned enough
of Amy's character to know what must be the state of
things between her and Mr. Second.
"I should think that those who are not married, Mrs.
Collins," said Bel, " would learn to be very Qareful how
they step into the noose, if they calculated to step out
again, if it didn't fit."
~ That is a very sensible remark. A.n unwedded person
cannot be too careful: it is a misfortune when married per-
sons are surprised at their want of congenialIty, but it is a
crime in single persons to enter so holy a state, knowing
that God hath not joined theni together."
The fire burned at Amy's heart-burned to its centre.
At this moment, Mr. Scored entered. "God hath not join-
ed us together !" were the words that sprang up in her soul:
she greeted him with a bow, and a hastily uttei~ed "Good
evening!" lie noticed that sh~ did not smile, and he a~tribut-

ed it to the pet of the evening before: the other ladies were
social and lively: Mrs. Collins displayed a new side of her
character: she was humorous, gentle and fascinating; there
was not the least trace of the solemn earnestness that had
characterized her a few moments previous. When Mr. and
M rs.~ Ashley had jofried the circle with their children, Mr.
Second rose with the word "Amy !" and j~roceeded to the
distant end of theapartment where the piano stoQd: she
followed him.
"Let me look at the bracelet you have on, my dear !"
She pushed back her flowing sleeve a little, and showed
his gift which eneit~cled her arm just above her wrist Next
it, he clasped a new diamond bracelet, or began to do so,
ere she guessed what he was about.
"No !" she uttered, laying her hand upon it to hinder
the fastening. "This is all I can wear~! I thank you, but I
would rather not take it !"
"Are you angry still, Amy? this is childish! hold out
your arm
She held it out, unfastened the cameo circlet herself and
laid it on the piano while he waited-then she pushed away
the hand that held the other, toward the old one.
"What do you mean ?" he questioned with a frown.
"I don't want either! You intend to buy my consent to
interfere with Dr. Kendrick." She xvas~ultimating Mrs. Cob
lins' ideas of frankness.
He set his teeth together hard: after some reflection, he
looked upon her downcast face and slightly trern-bling form;

172


174    K       AMY ~E~B1~00K.                                         AMY DENBRO0K.              175

there was grief in her countenance; her folded arms un~
clasped that she might brush away a tear.
"Amy !" he said softly.
She looked at him, and saw only gentleness in his face;
a sudden dread of losing her, had darted into his mind,
bringing up all his love, and enhancing her peerlessness: he
remembered th~it George Coleman was rich uo~v, he had pre-
vailed on her to tell him who it was that she had loved: he
resolved to speak no more about anything that could trouble
her until after they wei'e married.
"0 you are passionate Amy. J love you in spite of'
this cruelty, but you mistake me greatly, if' you suppose I
can insist upon anything that causes you real unhappiness-
I will give up my wish. My very life is centered in you; do
not wound~ me so carelessly-it is no light thing to hold my
happb:iess at your mercy."
"Forgive me !" she besought, conquered by his forbear-
* ance toward her.
"Shall I put on the bracelets ?" he asked;
She laid her snowy arm upon the piano, and he clasped
on her fetters; he looked with a smile upon his work when
it ~vas done, and then turned over the betrothal ring on her
finger:, she, felt as if the costly gems were all badges of
her servitude: and yet his love and kindness had soothed
the pain that had arisen in her heart.
La e in the evening' the two girls ascended to Agnes' room
to g4 ready for their short walk home.
"II~Iow do you like Mrs. Collins ?" demanded Agnes.

"She is an original woman, and can make herself very
fascinating," answered Amy to whom the question was ad-
dressed.
"But her ideas, they startled me at first, but don't you
think she is correct ?"
"Partly, perhaps !"
"0, Amy, how much I have thought of you for a long
time, and I have not dared to utter my sentiments on your
approaching marriage, but it seems a duty now. I know
too well that you are not going to marry for love-i know
that Mr. Scored is not such a person as you would choose."
"You have not gained your supposed knowledge from my
lips, Agnes. Leave me free to act as I wish."
"Certainly, dear, but we have loved each other so well, I
felt as if' I had a~ right to speak."
"You have 1" murmured Amy, clasping her in her arms
and kissing her lips, " but do not !"
When Agnes retired to her room for the night, Mi's. Cob
lins tapped at her door, and entering at the same moment,
exclaimed, "Agnes dear, can you lend me a towel? the ser-
Vant has forgotten them today !" Mrs. Collins often
sought Agnes for private' colloquies.
"Sit down, Mrs. Collins, I'll give you one in a moment !"
The lady carelessly seated herself' on the bed.~" What
beautiful hair you have, Agnes, when it is unbound! why do
you always wear \t plain?"
"It suits my style, I think " returned Agnes, with a
lau h.


176-       AMY DENBROOK.                              AMY DENBROOK.         177

"I like your friend extremely, Agnes !"
"Do you'? I knew you would! I spoke to her about her
engagement."
"What did she say?"
"She begged me not t~ mention it ~o her, yet I hope she
will be emancipated 1"
"She prol5ably Will! it is well enough to leave her to the
action of her own mind at present -you were i'igjit in say-
in~ she did not love Mr. Secord-4 saw it in a moment."

*

CHAPTER XVI.
WH]~N Mrs. Collins returned to her chamber, she stood be-
fore her 1ooki~~g-glass thoughtfully soliloquising, "Agnes
spoke to her, it seems-that's well-I brought that about,
and I'v~ given the bride-elect a pillow of thorns this night:
I may well say I like her, for better material I could not de-
sire-she thinks !-she feels! and thinking and feeling with
one like her,, work out results-how her eyes rind cheeks
glowed with suppressed feeling as we sat at the tea-table;
that diamond fetter cut into her heart! how she strove tO
avoid him, as if his devotion heaped coals of fire on her
head-when she stood alone at the window, none but my-
self saw the scornful curve of her lips! who did she scorn'?
herself or him? and yet when ~he did speak with him, there
was a singular kindness in l~er tone-a passionate regret in
her eyes! It is this that I fear! her benevolence and his
wealth, which will save her from a hard life, may master me
after7 alb-the two are powerful.\-.-.she loves to play through
the world-she hates cares for the morrow: the poetry of
life is a necessity to her. And he. 'the fool! more than


AMY DENBROOK.        179

irs         AMY D~{BROOK.

twice her age, and yet he is' enslaved by her every cap nec!
I never thought this of Justin Secord--I believe the most
prosaic men becomes the greatest fools in such matters~
he is one who never gives up his will to any one !-he, would
tire of her if she could be easily won-if she manifested fond-
ness to any degree, he would thrust his foot upon her heart.
I care nothing about winning his love, except as a means of
winning his wealth-and this must have, yes, and I will
have it. I have a great deal of artillery yet-she asked tue
to visit her with Agnes-she desires to understand 'me
I
yet shrinks from hearing what say. It is a glorious
thing to make slaves of men and women-and they
are all my slaves in a measure: Mr. Ashley, in the
silent den of his thought, boils over with a mad desire
to cast his wife to-Well-I won't say . where to-~-
and she, the red hot fires of passion seethe on him
often. But better than all, Agnes is slowly coming under
my magnetism-there is an intense enthusiasm under her
calm exterior-fate throws me kindlings-sh~ pities Mr.
Ashley-she could 'brave the worl~i, ~nd the higher the fire
of her enthusiasm rises, the greater will be her influence
over Amy, so let matters take their course: I care not
what is consumed, so that the tie between that girl and Sc.
cord is consumed with the rest. Ashley fancies Agnes-she
don't understand it-she 'is innocent, and thinks that she is
doing him good becausQ he listens to her pure sentiments
with de1ep attention~! Bah! if they were uttered by an ugly
old man in the pulpit, he couldn't keep his seat under their

tediousness: she thinks he is a good atid suffering man!
Pish! I help her in the opinion!, but if ~he knew as much of
men as I do, she'd believe their assertions with allowance.
A man like him pure! Ha! She little thinks that I hold
her in my hand !-when I praise her intellect, (and she is
an uncomm~m girl,) she little thinks that I am guiding it to
results that may startle he~~ friends-she is cut out for a
inartyr-she has bravery enough for it. Well! let her
think she is one-let her be baptised in the fiery flood of
condemnation for the truth's sake-The word' truth strikes
a note in her life-h4manity! holiness! bravery! these
help me. I got that .n~oney out of her adroitly, by pictur-
ing the poverty of my gifted friend. I hould be rather un.
willing that she should discover that y touching letter
enclosing the funds, still lay in my draw r. I'll burn it! the
fire is not extinguished. Thirty dollars !" the lady's white
fingei~s opened the bureau drawer and passed amid the
money. "This will keep me awhile! ere are those taw-
dry swiss muslin aprons I am stitching with colors for the
servants, to show my practical benevolence !-~--my desire to
promote happiness !" she turned over the pile of work with
a derisive smile. "The world is full of fools! Mr. and Mrs.
Ashley do not siispect the vkws I am putting in Agnes'
head: yes, she is my ally in cutting Amy Denbrook's
chains."
Mrs. Ashley had for years made it a point to be as dis-
agreeable to her husband as possible-he had a kind heart,
~hc had not; but a kind heart is a poor protection from
8*.


180          AMY DENBROOK.                                    AMY D3~BROOIC.           181

n~any evil passions; it is not always protection from the
exercise of cruelty. The gall in the wife's composition was
distributed as freely as ever after Agnes became a gijest at
her house-it was in fact intensified, although the lady was
often lively, and always agreeable to her guests.-sWe visited
her husband with sarcasm, with undisguised contempt in the
very presence of Agnes, until her cheeks burned with dis-
tress and shame, and pity for the object of this wrath be-
came a present and powerful emotion: it lent a humid
sweetness to her eyes as she spoke with him-'--it toned her
voice to the gentlest cadence-it made her hasten uncon-
sciously t&amp; get his mislaid papor-and sometimes when they
were ~lone it gave to her Words a bearing that was all the
more appreciated fur her reserve of expression. Perceiving
the effect which his persecution had upun the lovely girl, he
quite rejoiced in it-that is in secret: he rather withered in
public under her eye. It chanced occasionally that Mi's.
Ashley would be away from home at twilight: if her hus-
band came in, Mrs. Collins always had some excuse for
leaving him alone with Agnes: he read beautifully, and then
in a voice rich with expression he would give forth the
thoughts of the great and gifted: if perchance, there was
aught in the reading that touched upon his own lot, the sud~
denly deepened tone brought an unbidden tear to the clear
eye of hi~ auditor: he never spoke directly upon his domes.
tic trials, but sometimes he uttered sad words that could
only come from such a source: then from the lips of Agnes
flowed a soft and earnest consolation, a timid entreaty that

he would look higher than earth for his joys. When they
parted after' such conversations, he smiled in triumph; she
knelt at her white bed and poured forth to the Creator her
appeal that he would bend down with his rich grace to the
disappointed one-and she saw no tempter nigh, although
she realized that her voice and look were those of an angel
to the world-weary man: she had trulyrnoved his better
nature somewhat, but alas! it was far off and he had his
being in the earth rather than the heaven of his spirit.


182        A Y PENB ROOK.                                    AMY DI~NBROOK.

183

CHAPTER XVII.
IT was six months from the hour of Mareus Leonard's part-
ing with Diana Blake. During two. or three months she
had looked with a sickening impatience for a letter frpm
him: each day it had seemed as if the merciful sun could
not go down without lending her light to read such words as
she panted to decipher. But no letter came; the subdued
manner and pale ~heeks that had revealed the strength of
her suffering, gradually disappeared under the effect of pride
-she could not suffer for naught--she rushed into the field
as a coquette with all the reckless energy of her character-
she devoted every talent and grace that had been bestowed
upon her to wreaking upon other hearts such pangs as she
had known.-...it was a bitter pleasure to wring the spirits
of those whom she judged incapable of suffering long-
Leonard could not have suffered long, or he would have re-
turned to her. Her small feet trod upon human hearts with
an impious nonchalance: she looked to see if perchance an-
other could be found to rivet her affections as het' proud
lover had done, but she hoped in vain, and dashed away the

importuning effects that would not seem like his. Often she
walked her chamber until daybreak, filled withself-reproach
as she reviewed her conduct under the solemn fall of the
night season; she sent agonised cries over the ocean, and
prayed to Marcus as to one who could ~alone win her to
peace and goodness; but with the next evening, she invoked
a different set of feelings; she stood before her mirror
radiantly robed; prepared for her insane crusade against
those who, were hapless enough to love her: she was not
all heartless therefore her course of life held her always
balancing between gratified vanity and remorse: sometimes
with a wild impulse to atone to the All-seeing, she statte(l
from her home laden with money to bestow upon the miser-
able: it solaced her to see the pleasure that broke over hag..
gard countenances ;it was more soothing than the idolatrous
rhapsodies that sought h~r ear; it convinced her that she
was not yet too bad to walk in woman's sweet, appointed
path-.-.-she was not ~oo bad to lift up the bowed down: after
these rare missions she was more thoughtful about entrap-
ping the hearts of men, for under the light of a performed
duty, she saw how wide a field might be hers: although
youthful, both men and women were attracted to her by a
strong magnetism; she could elevate these, if she would:
she could not but impress herself upon others in some way:
she either won enthusiastic friends or' met with strong an-
tagonism.
11cr distant lover had not found it easy to preserve
silence, particularly when Agnes wrote of the change; in

4,

182


184           AMY DENBROOI(.                                         AMY DI~NBR00K.            1S5

Diana's looks; he waited to hear a regretful word from her;
he had resolved not to return to her without this word, and
to resolve was, to execute his xviii: even the letters of Agnes
brought a little pang of disippointinent, for the small white
envelope had given hopes that it might be from Diana, ere
it reached his hand from the postmaster. At length these
letters related the unprincipled coquetries into which Diana
had thrown herself; grief had not bettered her nature, and
Leonard gave her up completely; although his aching heart
did not easily relax its bold up~n 'her.
Upon his arrival in England, he had presented his letters
of introduction; one of these brotight him in contact with
the family of a merchant at whose country house he was a
welcome guest: Mr. Stonehouse was a widower, and his
establishment was under the supervision of his eldest
daughter Margaret; she was a plain girl of twenty-eight
perhaps, absolutely coarse in her exterior, and it was not un~
til she spoke that her beautiful enunciations and choice lan-
guage led one to regret that a delicate spii'it h~d been so
rudely set; she was thoughtful, timid and secretive, living
in the world which poets had created for her; if all the
glory of her actual being had ,been frankly given forth
some noble man might have loved her, for there are many
to whom the outer vesture is riot all the woman; she felt
keenly the unprepossessing exterior that had beei~ lent her for
the use of her earth-life-.--the veil of flesh was hateful to hei',
and she felt that it ~is little betrayed the spirit within, as the
clumsy veil of the Turkish women betrays the charm of

life, color and proportion in the face underneath: she w~s
often awkward from a sense of her lack of attractiveness-
sometimes she was a little bitter and sarcastic, but her gen-
tlest self was lived in her quiet home-there she strove to
be to her father and younger sister what she believed
she could not be to, the world. There she strove to
bestow upon her young Sylvia such sweet excellences as she
could receive; she taught her such music as seemed fi1~ted to
gush from her lovely lips-she pointed out ~he richest gems
of thought in the authors which she read to her, or obliged
her to read aloud. Sylvia was in truth lovely to look upon;
~she gratified every sense: she was as timid as Margiixet but
infinitely graceful in all her motions, with the rose deepening
and retreating from her cheek at ~ word from a stranger;
she looked as if sweetest dreams came from afar to her
spirit, nor was the impression dispelled when her voice b~-
trayec] in its exquisite intonLition the culture that was re-
flected from Margaret's mind-her words were unfrequent,
but they only made one long to learn of the rich treasures
that seemed held too charity. It was Margaret's delight to
arrange daily her masses of golden hair, according to her
own taste, and when every fold of her delicately tinted dress
.pleased her, she would quietly kiss her brow or lips, saying
"That xviii do,' Sylvia." In her secret soul she said, "she's
the loveliest vision ever poet looked upon !" When Sylvia
bent over her guitar and sang her sweet song, Margaret's
soul xvas conjuring up remembrances of heroines, and won-
dering if any could have surpassed her sister in grace or


18.6            AM~ DENBI~OOI~.

AMY DRNBROOK.

beauty: we have described the young girl as she often
seemed--as friends and acquaintance saw her; she had a
little identical self of her owli, aside from all the cloud-like
splendor that invested her; this Margaret understood very
well, but the real and the apparent were frequently separate
in her mind as she contemplated her.
When Leonard first saw Sylvia, she broke upon his vision
with such sweet forc~, he involuntar4y murmured to him-
self, "I have found the unknown woman! I have found
my own !" They met at a party which Mr, Stonehouse
gave; Margaret could not be said to give it, for parties
annoyed her either in the giving or the attending. Mi'.
Leonard was not so void of good sense as to trust to his
imagination alone in regard to the beautiful Sylvia; he re-
treated into a corner, and artfully watched her; when he
saw with what timid grace she strove to withdraw from the
rapid compliments of fashionable young men, and yet how
kind was her look and smile, he contrasted her with Diana~;
he almost adored her7fo-r this innocent for~getfalness of the
power of her beauty-she did not care to use it as a means
of captivating. He sought 'an introduction to her as she
stood by a table, where she had for a moment sheltered her-
self; her little hand was laying like a snowflake upon a
volum.~ of Teirnyson's poems. After a few common-place
remarks, Mi'. Leonard asked, "What book have you there
prisoned to its glace ?" he had been lifting up and looking
at the titles of several.
She named it, and turning over the leaves, pointed out

k

187

one of his favorite poems, saying, "That is the sweetest
song to me
This singular a~n~ty of taste struck the young man as
most peculiar the effect of this little incident could not
have been undone by many seemingly contradictory phases
of character. Almost ere he could reply, Margaret called
her to look after the supper-table a little, and arrange the.
lights; his next view of the fairy was when she flitted from
guest to guest offering a dish of fruit or carrying a silver
basket, and he remarked that her occasional directions to
the servants were given with the same gentle, "Please,
John," that she would have used in saying "Please, sir, let
inc pass !"
It is rather surprising that after one has loved and lost
the object, instead of being faithful as we would romantical-
ly wish, the empty heart seeks for a new idol; it may not
supply the place of the old one, but it se~nis better th~u
vacancy: the absolutely faithful people are rare, and de-
serve unlimited admiration, such as they receive from those
who cannot follow their example. Men never marry so
abruptly as after a rejection, or a quarrel.
The next time Marcus Leonard saw Miss Stonehouse, it
was a beautiful afternoon in May: he had contrived some
business that rendered it necessary for him to ride out to
the home of h~is merchant friend. The picturesqi~e dwelling
was halt' concealed by trees, as he approached~ it: a gable
could be seen here, a bay window there, and a balcony yon-
der; at all these portions of architecture, the young man.


188         AMY DENBROOK.                                  AMY DENBI~O0K.        ]89

looked scrutinizi ngly as he dismounted from his horse: he
was very slow in securing the animal, owing to the time oc-
cupied in his observations; but he saw no fiUry flitting
around; the vines that clustered about the porticoes climb-
ed and drooped in a thousand graceful curves; he fancied
the taste of Sylvia had directed the arrangement of these,
and doubtless her snowy hand had often gleamed amid the
- foliage as she gathered the flowers that were less lovely
than herself: the trees were many of them jewelled with
blossoms: as he entered within the gate, the short grass
was bathed in a tender, shimmering, light; it was embellish-
ed with bunches of golden dandelions; as he was noticing
the effect of the~e, his eye wandered to a distance, and there
he saw Sylvia reposing on the grass in a white dress and
sky blue scarf: she was looking at him, with a book in
her hand, and with some embroidery at her side, but per-
fectly confident that he would not detect her, she had kept
her place. Wher~ he bowed, she hurriedly rose, as if she had
been guilty of a great impropriety in thus carelessly enjoy-
ing a day that was rare in Thgland: she hesitatingly start-
ed toward him; he needed only this invitation to join her,
~ o look over her book, and to talk of many things. But
he had no idea of conversing much; she directed her steps
the house, and guided Mr. Leonard to a sitting-room,
where Margaret was painting in water colors, and Mr.
Storehouse was reading: she took her seat at a window,
and industriously set herself to xvork on her embroidery,
quite conscious that ~ pair of dark eyes were altemmate-

ly perusing her countenance, and then dropping lower to
observe the motion of her pretty fingers.
A month from that evening, Sylvia Stonehouse became
Mrs. Leonard; another month elapsed ere the married pair
had travelled, seen company, and subsided into the quiet of
domestic life. It was a sincere delight to both to sit down
at ease in their pretty London home the first evening. Syl-
via lighted the lamps herself; and drew out a little stand in
the middle of the floor, but she also drew forth the news-
paper that peered fromh her husband's coat pocket, and p~it-
ting it in the stand drawer with a laugh, turned the key
upon it. "You must talk !" she said, with her hand on the
key, as her inquiring look asked if she had presumed too
far.
He laughed, and took from another pocket a copy of
"Othello," "Read to me, Sylvia !" he said, handing it to
her, with the book open at the place where Emilia reveals
to the Moor the innocence of his wife.
"Do you like that play ?" questioned the silver voice of
the bride. "Othello is such a terrible man: I like anything
that is soft and tender and flowing"
"But we cannot always be soft, and tender, and flowing"
j      responded Leonard with a smile, "we are not all such little
doves as you are-I like to see passion expressed as Shakes-
p~are expresses it. Give inethe book, little darling! I will
read to you because I can apprehend Othello: you are the
gentle Desdemona 1', Leona d read well, because his whole
soul moved to the passions f the play; his rich voice was


190            AMY DENBR00J~.

scarcely richer when it gave to Sylvia's ear his tenderness;
his cheek glowed and his smile was half repressed, as he
closed the volume with the words, "Isn't that glorious?
wasn't that man a master in portraying human passion ?"
"I don't like him! I think it Was awful for him to
smother Dcsdemona so! I don't see how she could like a
black man."
"Which don't you like? Othello, or Mr. Shakespeare ?"
demanded her husband laughing.
"Why, Othello!"
"Couldnt you lik9 me, if I were black and ugly ?-~I'm
very handsome, bear in 'mind."
"You're not black and ugly-I like handsome people the
best: I do at first."
"But is that just, Sylvk~ ? Suppose I were in all respects
the very man that I am, but that the beauty of my counte-
nance had disappeared; suppose my skin had drawn into
wrinkles atid my two front teeth had been knocked oLt.
Don't you think you could have liked rue, after you found
out that my external man lied most unaccountably in trying
to represent the internal ?"
"I never should have found out the internal to such a
looking creature."
Leonard threw hack his head and laughed heartily. "But,
my little beauty, we ought to like people for what they are,
and not for what they appear; it is pricing the clothes more
than the wearer, to like people only for their looks." lIe
had conspicuously committed this error himself.

AMY D~NBROO1~.                   191
"I wish Margaret was handsome: she has such a beau ti-
ful mind and heart, bat nobody tries to discover it: she
asked rue once if J would be willing to give her part of my-
part of my looks"-Sylvia blushed, and did not dare to say
beauty, "for a part of her intellect !"
"But what do you want of her intellect when you have a
noble one of your own? you are full of poetry and appre-
ciati6Vi of everything that is beautiful !"
"I'm not as fond of books as I ought to be, but if you
like me, I don't care
"Not fond of looks, Sylvia ?" questioned Leonard.
"What do you mean ?"
"Why, I don't like to read: Margaret made me read
every day. Shall you think I had better?"
Leonard looked at his wife, and a grave shadow~ spread
itself over his whole countenance: he fell into dead silence,
as the shadow spread itsElf over his whole heart. "Was
she teasing him? probably she ~was, for whenever she had
spoken of books, she had always shown a highly cultivated
taste in selecting passages for him: he did not know that
she knew they must be good, because Margaret said so:
she had not intended to deceive him: she was not deep
enough for that, but she had naturally desired to appear well,
and as if she knew more than she did. He arose and walk-
ed the floor awhile, then he abruptly said, "Sylvia, repeat
the poem you recited last night for me, will you? beginning
"The splendor falls on castle walls."
She did not answer: his manner had wounded her to the


192         AMY DE~BROOK.                              AMY DENBROOK.        193

heart: she saw that he was disappointed in her. "What's
the rnittcr, Sylvia?" he asked, going behind her chair, and
lifting up her face by placing his fingers under her chin:
her cheeks were wet with tears. " What's the matter, little
darling ?" he repeated in an accent full of tenderness.
"You looked so gravely at me !" she sobbed, already
consoled by' his voice.
He only remembered that he had promised to shield her
from sorrow; everything but her timid loveliness was
forgotten, as he took a great arm-chair, and held her as if
she had been a little child in his arms, whispering words of
fondness, and smiling when her April teais were gone, and
she sat upon his knee, softly laughing, as she said, "how
foolish I was! shall [repeat the poem now, Marcus ?"
"Yes, dear !"
She repeated it well, and all the fond light was in her
husband's eyes, as he pressed her to his heart after she had
finished her appointed task: she was happy, and she laid her
head on his shoulder as quietly as a kitten, toying with the
buttons of his coat, and talking the pretty nonsense which
he had deemed so artless and captivating when he had sup-
posed it light play of a mind capable of poetic excellence.
"0, Marcus! you ought to hear Margaret repeat poetry-
she walks the floor and recites whole cantos sometimes:
she only taught me a few short pieces. You have'nt
noticed my new cuffs !" She straightway displayed the
articles upon each wrist. " I embroidered them all myself
-don't they look pretty? have'nt you got an industrious

wife? wife! it almost frightens me to think what a digni~
fled woman I ought to be! do you wan't me to be digni-
'V
fled?"
"Oycs, of course !" he replied, thinking~ meanwhile that
Margaret had taught her the pieces which he supposed her
own choice had selected.
"You did'nt think I was such a little rattle-head of a
talker before we were married, did you? I am afraid to talk
to gentlemen, that is the reason I am so still in company,
but I'm not afraid to talk to you."
/ her husband stroked her soft hair as she prattled on, but
when he did speak he probed her mental capacities-he de-
I:
sired with characteristic boldness, to ascertain the extent of
his misapprehension: she did not understand the object of
his seemingly casual questions, nor did she dream of his
sufThring-.when every answer revealed an absolute incapaci-
ty to apprehend him from his own stand point: he had
looked eagerly to the time when they should be less occu-
pied, and should discover rich resources in each other. He
did not blame her; God 'had created her tu be a "phantom
of delight" to one fitted for her; it was worse than foolish-
ness to wish her. differently constituted-but it was very
bitter to him that with his desire for inward sympathy he
had been misled by the dazzle of appearance,-he who
above many, scorned the incessant folly that seemed to link
a beautiful interior to a similar exterior, lie was only like
the rest of us; he simply committed the innocent error
that millions had done before him; that millions are doing


194               A!~tY D1~NBI'~OOK.                                                     AM1~ DE fl3I~oOK.                  195

every day, and that they wilido for a long time; unwit-
ting mistakes are legion, but the Providence of God over-
rules them, and makes them work together for good to
those who love Him. Alas! in that hour of discovery, th~
*     brilliant mind and passionate heart of Diana were glo ~ious
to him :-she had seized his thoughts with quickness ~ she
understood them, although she sometimes broke away from
them, as from a bondage to something that demanded of
her more than she was, or was willing to be. lie turned
his thoughts from her, conscious that it was wrong to allow
them to run in that direction: he talked kindly to Sylvia,
fondly even, for he regarded her ~s a gentle child given to
his care; the bridal glow of love had not lost its power; it
had received its first blow-the fascination, the rich ro-
mance, the sweet glory were fi~ding, not into 'nothingness,
but into friendship, that sad exchange for idolatrous love.
When the hour grew late, Marcus said, "I have a~ little
writing to do, dear, wheii you cans pare me !" he kissed her
as he spoke.
"What makes you write so much V' she pouted, but she
left him, and went into the next room: when the silence
proclaimed her at rest, he dropt his forehead into his two
hands, and mused in a strange and painful bewilderment; so
extraordinary were the shocks of 'temptation, disappoint-
ment and anguish, that cold drops of sweat started to his
brow; as her beauteous presence left him, he saw her as
she was truly and spiritually: he reviewed a thousand
things which she had said since their marriage which had

glanced off from his thought without conveying a true im-
pression of her. Now he had the real and not the false key
to her character; she was an amiable little woman, with
narrow views, utter incapacity for an exalted enthusiasm,
and as little able to conceive or execute an original idea as a
babe: but her narrow affections were pure and innocent ;-
perhaps it was mere lack of mental vision that would have
rendered it impossible to her to sacrifice a ne~V dress to, th~
good of her country. 'When Margaret or her father suiThr-
ed she was the tenderest of nurses, but if all humanity hid
hung in peril for need of her life or theirs, she could never
have understood that sacrifice was a duty-she could be
commanded to do a noble deed, but the principle of obedi-
ence would have been at the bottom, rather than that of
benevolence. All this perception of her nature came to her
husband's mind as he kept his solitary watch; it struck into
his heart, as a hammer drives the unwilling nail to its place-~:
he had hoped that he dould have cooled the fever of his dis-
tress by writing and destroying his thoughts, but he had
nothing to say. "To write well, one must feel truly, but
not heart-breakingly." It was more easy to commune with
th~ "Master of Life~~ who looks on pityingly at our stumb-
ling walk toward IJim. He softly closed the door of his
wife's bedroom, and then knelt in new and strange humility
to ask such guidance as hi~ own proud intellect could not
assure to him. Did any one ever dry from ~tbe depths of
the spirit unto the Lord in vain ~ The more intense the cry,
the more clear the answer. The life which has so suddenly
9


AMY DENBROOK.      197

196              AM Y DENI31~00E1.

changed from exj~ected delight and harmony to bitterness
stilled revealed its difficulties, but they were viewed from. a
height, and were seen to be necessary to the develope-
ment of wider schemes than his own: the childlike bein~
who had been laic~ on his heart by the Divine hand-who
had been a gift to his blindness rather than his knowledge-
this little one needed him to lead her up higher-to walk
with one like herself through this perilous world would not
have enriched her for the world to come, for with all her
sweetness, Sylvia had no reliance upon Omnipotence: the
husband saw that he was to bend to her sunny, heart, that lie
was called upon to assimilate to her, because to him it was
possible; he could keep from her tro~~bled sight the intellect
that worried instead of pleasing her, when she was expected
to respond to it; if it grew less pliable from lack of contact
with an equally developed xvomanlv mind, his heart would
grow rich for its unselfish devotion. As he rose to retire,
he repeated, "I will be faithful unto death, my gentle Sylvia
.-.I will be to you what I ought to be. I sought unlimited
happh~ess, but I see now that the All-Wise seeks my good
first, L ud bid~ me seek yours-we are joined together fbr a
purpose more important than our present happinet~s; this
unrest will settle into content 1" Aware that unrest seldom
does settle into~ repose without a cause, and, knowing that
his thoughts would fly into the realms of discontent, he cast
about for a rnea~s of perpetuating his good intentions by
strengthening his memory of them. He went to a drawer,
where he kept papers and various small articles; from thi~

he drew an old-fashioned breast-pin, and fastened it in his
plaited bosom. " When I look on 'this unseemly trinket, I
shall remember the purpose for which I place it there," lie
mused.
The next morning Sylvia exclaimed in sbme little disgust,
"Goodness gracious, Marcus, are you going to wear that
ugly pin ~ I wanted to get you a diamond one, and you
wouldn't have it !"
"This is my breast-plate, little Sylvia: it stands at the
door of my heart to turn away wicked thoughts. Don't
you remember the flaming sword which the cherubim
wiLided to protect the garden of Eden ?"
Oh !" answered Sylvhi, anxious to know whether he was
in jest or earnest, and not able to discover from his counte-
nance what she desired. "I should think a handsome~ pin
could protect you ju~t a~ well."
"No! a handsome pin would not disturb my placidity. I
shall he rather surprised whenever my eye falls on this."
"I don't like it !" said she, busying her fingers with it,
and then beginning to take it out.
Marcus prisoner her hand, and removed it without smiling
so she did not dare to say anything more about it. After a
moment he said, "Sylvia, Ii think it would be safer for us to
begin life with the habit of family prayer. Where is the
Bible ?"
She colored, and, looked surprised, but instantly procured
it for him. As~ he read, he was conscious that the pro-
eeedipg was ~ little strange to her-she felt uneasy, for she

196


AMA~ DEN13ROAOJ~.

AMY DENBROOK.

had not been accustomed to anything of the kind. Jie
offered up a fervent petition that the two who had started
in life together might find at death occasion for rejoicing
that they had been brought to act, each upon the other-~--he
prayed that they might learn to forbear, and being merciful
to weakness and sin, might learn the blessed art of reveren-
cing all that was sincere and pure in the other: he entreated
that in every phase of the life that was hurrying toward
them, the Angel of the Lord would appear by day and by
night, and would teach them to appreciate their many bless-
ings, and to draw lasting wisdom from apparent trials-
more especially he entreated that his own harsh nature
might be saved from bringing sorrow in any shape upon the
head of her who had committed herself to his earthly care.
Sylvia went impulsively to his side as soon as his service
was over; her eyes were full of tears: she laid her head
on his breast, and murmured, "I wish I were good like you,
Marcus."
"You can be good by appealing to One who is' more
powerful than your husband, dear," he tenderly responded.
"I will help you if I can, but my little wife, you have as
yet seen only my best side-sometimes I shall be hasty and
impatient, and sometimes momentarily unjust, but let us
bear with one another 'and trust in the omnipotence of a
puze afThction." He felt that his love for her was purer
than before, although it had lost its element of delight: he
loved her now, not so much because she could minister to

his happiness, as because he could help her to her place
among the angels of heaven.
"I wish I were talented so that you could be~roud of
me, Marcus !"
"And I would not alter your mental organization if I
could, Sylvia. I would not interfem~ with the handiwork of
God: you have a hem~lthy mind, and to alter it would be to
disturb the chain of being: your place in the creation could
never be filled by any other. All that I ask, and all that
your Maker asks is that you obey his will, and cultivate the
faculties that you have."
"And you wouldn't alter me?" she questioned with ra-
diant pleasure.
"Only to make you better."
"0, thank you! thank you !" she gratefully repeated,
pressing her arms around him as she once more laid her
beautiful head on his breast: humility was a touching trait
in her character. His tenderness was all satisfying to her,
~tud she resolved to do her little best to make a good wife,
happily ignorant that interchange of ideas niust be a neces~
sit~ to her husband's perfect happiness. It was well she did
not know that it was more easy for her to be happy in her
position, then for him to be in his: he was capable of strpg~
gle and conquest-it was meet he should leari~ to be patient
und~r the dispensation of life. And so they walked toaeth~r
and even thus they won some divihe treasure which coild
not have been otherwise obtained.

198

199


200

AMY DENBROOK.

CHAPTER' XVIII.
DIANA BLAKE had long ceased to mention to Miss Leonard
her brother's name, but she daily ran her eye over the
papers to read the arrivals from abroad. She sat one even-
ing alone in the dining-room of her father's house, whither
she had gone to glance over the news; her countenance was
pale; she sat down as if faint, and pressed one hand against
her forehead. She had an instant before passed through sueli
an experience as coquettes sometimes encounter. She bad
just parted at the front door with a m~n of dark and singu-
lar character who loved her profoundly, yet with the kind of
love that would have slain~ rather than have lost its object,
had not fear of ihe law withheld him. She had just rejected
his ~ffer; his fiery eyes, and his White teeth that had gleam-
ed hastilyy in the moonlight, seemed still before her as b6
hiss~d, "Diana! may God never blessyou! may you drink
the ~~up of ti-emblirig." She believed that retribution would
come upon her, that it must ,con~e upon her;' already its
gloomy folds seemed ready to shroud her: she paced the
floor, then resolved that her melancholy fancies should not

AMY ThENBROOIC.

triumph, she seated herself at the table, and began to read:
her eye fell upon the marriage of Marcus Leonard and Syb
via Stoneho use: she read it over and over again, then her
shaking bands folded the paper and she carried it to her
room-there she abandoned her spirit to its agony. TA~
next morning she did not appear at breakfast: finding all
messages ineffectual, her mother sought her, and found her
wild and fevered~
"My poor child !" she uttered in alarm. "What ails
"Nothing!"
"Nothing? your cheeks burn, and, your eyes gleam like
fire-balls !"
"Perhaps they are fireballs burning up my brain !" laugh-
ed Diana.
Her mother turned deadly pale, and grasped the bedpost
for support: seeing this, her daughter said more calmly,
"I am sick, mother! bring me cold water! dash it 6ver my
face, and let me drink some !"
11cr mother obeyed her! Diana was seized with a brain
fever; f'or many weeks thc mother watched by the bedside
of her child; a good constitution triumphed over disease';
when reason returned, her first question was, "flave I
been delirious, mother ?"
"Yes, my daughter !"
"Who has been with me ?-who has watched beside me ?"
"Only the nurse and myself !"
"What did I talk about ?"

4.

201


202        AMY DENDROOK.                          AMY DENBROOK.        203

"A thousand things!" her mother gently laid h~r finger
upon her lip: the moment it was removed, she persisted in
speaking.
"Did I mention th~ name of Marcus Leonard V'
"You did sometimes !"
"Has Agnes bi~en to see me V'
Yes often! but I only allowed her to see you once when
y~u were asleep 1"
"Amy and Isabel?
"Yes; Amy sat beside you a couple of hours once," she
was silent a long time afVer this, then with her wea1~ fingers
she sti~ove to reach her mother's hand; she could i~ ot, but
the thin fingers xVere tenderly pressed. "Thanks, other
for you devotion to me-you are pale and tired. T~mrc is
no love on earth like my mother's !" she closed her eyes, hut
tears forced themselves from under the1 lids and slowly flow-
ed over her cheeks: she soon fell into a tranquil sleep. A
week later, she was able to sit up in an arm-chair, and even
to take a few steps. her mother had resisted her entreaties
to see company in her room, but at last gave her consent fr
Amy to visit her, when she herself expected to be occupied:
it happened' that Amy did not receive her message, as she
was at school. The next day, Diana wrote a characteristic
note in. pencil to her. It ran as follows:
"DEAR AMY :-I cried' yesterday until I 'made myself
look beautiful because you did not get my message, for you'
to spend the day with me. I am just weak enough to be

touched at the pathetic side of events. You'll find me
looking intensely interesting from loss of color and sub-
stance! Come, Amy! come and do me good Come and
help your loving,                        "DIANA.'~
This note was received and joyfully obeyed. It cheered
Amy's whole heart to hope that Diana had at la~st purposed
to become what she had wished to ~become, yet had' not
earnestly attempted. The hour was early when her light
tap announced her to the invalid-she entered the airy and
well furnished chamber with a smile that was quickly re~
pleated on the lips of her friend. As soon as she had re-
moved her bonnet and shawl and had 'taken a seat at
Diana's side, the latter exclaimed, laying her thin hand up-
on Amy's: "I am going to tell you of all my follies and
errors, and then tell me if it will be of any use for me to try
to become good. The past is full of bitter memories, the
future God knows. I have told you that I loved Leonard,
and yet after he went away, few were the days that I did
not listen to words of love from others. He is married !"
"Yes, so I heard." responded Amy.
"And did you think it would so prostrate the heartless
coquette ?"
"Why, no ! I did not !"
"The heart is a strange thing, Amy. Had I heeded your
advice I should have escaped much suffering. I fear I shall
ever be in the iron grasp of pride. He will never will find
9*


AMY DENI3R0OIC.              205

204           AMY DI~iBROOK,

one to love himn more than I have done, but his wife will
value him more. I have suffered deeply, and now I shall
become a mor&amp; reckless, or a better woman"
"Diana, can you affirm the possibility of' growing mcre
reckless than you have been? think of the eternity ~that
abides your choice 1"
"Yes, I think of it! I would give anything for an hour's
contentment: I crave continually for something to hilL ~iiy
meni6ry! Will the future ever be cheered? Ifeel as though
I must, and would be satisfied.
"F~l1 sorrows tooth doth never rankle more
Than when it 1~ites, but lance th not the sore.7T
"But, Diana, it seems so very beautiful to inc to know
that sorrow makes it possible for us to begin with more zeal
a better course of life."
"I feel that a little, Amy !"
"Surely you and I would not be so earnestly talking, ~if
sorrow had not caused you to lift the mask from your
heart."
"From the first, Amy, I believed that to you I might
show myself !-with all my errors~ I am not so heartless as
I am esteemed."
"I know that, Diana,. by your ardent love for a poor girl
like me."
"You don't think I am best6wing a favor !" Diana smiled.
"No! We give each other treasures of the heart."
"New for my confession, Amy !" Without removing her.

hand from her companion's, she related circu mstant~l1y a
course of coquetry so heartless and wicked, that it pained
Amy's ear t6 liten: she did not extenuate- her fault; she
did not withhold the rebukes that she had received, nor did
she shrink from pointing out one young man who had ruined
his fortunes by dissipation, and who in his degradation had
~    er, and bade her look on her work-he slept in &amp;
drunkard's grave. After rapidly relating many incidents,
she closed with the words, "You see how much good I
have done! You see that I have listened to curses-you see
that I deserve them. But, Amy, I sicken of all this! Oh! if
I were strong! Oh! if you were beside me in the hour of
peril! Oh! if temptation were not so powerful, but mark
me, don't suppose I saw the end of my folly at its begin-
ning! I yielded to the pleasure of the hour, and that has
dragged in its wake all my misery; 0,' if by one great
sacrifice, I could save myself and others from my faults, I
would make it, though it were to open a vein in this thiu
arm, and let my life-blood out. Amy, do you think I am
doomed to become a mere woman of the world? will my
heart be drained of all its purity! Shall I become what I
hate, when there are in my breast aspirations that are earn~
est, holy, heavenly? I am capable of something better! .1
know it! I feel it! 0, help me! No one helps me, no one
inspires nw! I am pushed down the current. No one but
you and Agnes' and Marcus ever mentioned to me that I
had a soul or that God would demand an account of my'
7,     stewardship. But how to begin the reform, when the ap-


206            .A~MY DENBROOK.

207

preaching years stare at me laden with temptations! Can~
you give me hope ?"
"Ah, yes, Diana! infinite hope: you have only to resolve
fur the future, there is no need to take its burdens in ad-
vance. 'As thy day is, so shall thy strength be.' You
will prove that the Lordyis strong enough to guide you
through all things, if you will throw yourself upon his ten-
der compassion. Do you attend to the little passing hours
and He will weave out of them a wonderful glory. Do
you bole for the temptations that will come, and entreat di-
vine aid to meet them; they will not grow insurmountable
unless they find yon sleeping on your watch."
"I should be so happy if I could be rescued from my old
self!" said Diana hopefully, "I am sarcastic, prone to
ridicule others, I will strive to overcome this fault. 0, if
I should gain an entrance at last into the beautiful world
that is so dear to you, Amy. This quiet life in my sick
chamber is good for me."
As she spoke, a servarmt entered the room, and placed in
her lap a bouquet and a ote, saying, "The gentleman down
stairs asks if you are no yet ~vel1 enough to see him !"
"Wait in the hall a w minutes, Mag! Shut the door !"
she then turned to Ai y, saying : "I have trifled with
hint !" his note was on of tender inquiry--.-.its last lines
spoke of his devoted affe. tio~m-his hope that the time would
come when no one woul have the right to debar him her
presence.
"Amy! I'll delude him no longer? I'll cast that tempta-.

tion out of my path. Give me paper and pencil from my
seci'~tary."
Amy handed them to her, with a book for her to write
the following upon:
"KIND FRIEND :-For many light words, I will speak
one true one. Your attachment is utterly wasted on me.
It will never be reciprocated by one who is not worthy of it.
Forgive!                          "Di~m~ BLAKE."
She called th~ servant who waited without, and directed
her to give her note to the gentleman below.
"When he reads that, Amy, he will think me more heart-.
less than he ever dreamed I could be !-and yet at this
moment 1 am better than I was when he deemed me good.
So people judge our actions, calling the evil good, and the
good evil."
When Diana variedd of talking, Amy took out her sew-.
ing: suddenly the work was touched by the invalid, with
the words. "Tell me of yourself; Amy, are yo~i happy ?"
"0," returned Amy, lightly. "I don't find the world per-.
feetly delectable, still I have a great many bright hopes !"
"What are they ?"
"Guess !"
"I can't, unless they centre in your marriage prospects.
I imagine that you did n~t love Mr. Second 'entirely, but I
know your truthfuln~ss and goodness so well I feel sure he

I;

AMY DENBROOK.


208          AMY I~ENBRO OK.                                      AMY DENB1~OOX.           209

has won your heart. When shall you be married, Amy ?~'
"Mr. Second has named the autumn."
"Shall you live in the new stone house he has built ?"
"No ! I have preVailed on him not to furnish it for us
said Amy, reddening.
"Why? I should live as handsomely as~j could! what is
money gpod for if you don't use it to embellish life?"
"I don't want to keep house the first year!'
"But why ?" said Diana, pertinaciously. "I've heard
you say you didn't like boarding'"
"Do you suppose I want to be burdened with the cares of
a great establishment ?" demanded Amy. "No, indeed!
I like my freedom !"
"But you are going to lose it!"
"For one who loves me too well to ".-.---she did not finish
the sentence, but hehLaloft the sleeve of a dress which she
was sewing on with the question: "Did you know this was
the fashion, Diana? is'nt it pretty ? you must have that In~
dia muslili made this way, will you ?"
." Yes, it is pretty! what an industi~ious little soul you
are! what do you make your own dresses for ?"
"~It is such a bore to go to a dressmaker !"
"I never touch a needle. I hate sewing !"
While the two girls thus chatted, they had small appre-
hension of the gloom that was to fall over an affectionate
home~~ through the little note which the servant handed to
the young man who had called to see Miss ~Blake. The
shadow of her sin did not fall on ~him alone; it settled

grievingly upon the hearts of a mother and sister, to 'whom
he was a sunshine; they wept when they sought their pil-
lows, to know that he was struggling to put on the cheerful
smiles that had lieen so easy once! When after long
months they came as freely as ever, they did not erase the
bitterness that had banished them for a time.


210'        AMY DENBROOK.                                AMY DENI3RO0K.         211

CHAPTER XIX~
A ~w week~ after Amy's visit to Diana's sick chamber
Isabel was one day slowly walking home from school with
a couple of books in one hand; with the other, which held
her drawing book, she occasionally fanned herself~ for the
afternoon was warm: the impromptu fan caine to an
abrupt cessation of its motion, and her heart gave a, start-
led leap, as in a gig that rolled onward, she discovered Dr.
Kendrick; he was carelessly eyeiug his horse, and . his lips
were in motion, as if he were singIng an air; he very
naturally glanced toward the lady on the side-walk as he
neam~ed her; his musical capabilities suddenly ceased, and a
short, quick pull on the rein brought his horse to a stand.
lie had not intended this, but as he bowed, a swift thought
passed through his mind; how delightful it would be to
have Isabel sit beside him all alone, and if he could not con-
ve~y her to sotne enchanted island to live with him forever,
he j~7ight at least dream of such a thing as they rode a few
miles into the country.
"Wait an instant !" he cried, driving to the curb-stone.

"Now will you take a ride with me, Miss Isabel ?" he
questioned hopefully, yet doubtfully, ere leaving his seat.
"Yes !" she smilingly replied, for her while heart assent~
ed. "how did you happen along at this very time, when
I was thinking how lonely I should be at home without
Amy !"
"I think my go6d angel was in an indulgent mood, and
ordered me down this street, instead of the next one 1" he
laughingly responded, as he sprang out, and assisted her in
the carriage.
"Do you believe in good angels ?" she asked as they
started.
"' Yes! I've been a very happy man to-day, Miss Bel,
and I believe that angels have leaned 'down, and rejoiced
with me. Shall I tell you the prosaic origin of my joy ?"
"Yes!" she returned, looking toward him with a warm
smile that seemed to break from his exultant spirit and. fall
over her as the sunset casts lights upon the opposite etirth
and heaven.
"Don't pronounce 'me unromantic, when I say it is oc-
casioned by my having found and cured a very rich and
grateful patient."
The smile still lingered on her lips; it was full of trust;
as she said, "And it will enable you'to do something that
you have wantedd to do ?" she thought of his paying his
debts, or helping some one.
"Yes?" he answered, still looking upon her as if unable.
to remove either his smile or gaze; her eyes slowly droop-


212

AMY D~NflROOJi.

ed and the roseate color deepened in her cheeks, but her
happy smile did not, could not fade; although a revelation
of his love and her own, broke into her spirit with delicious
power ; she sat as one enchanted, overcome by a sweet sur-
prise, yet introduced into a most familiar Paradise.
Dr. Kendrick said no more, and with- a consciousness
that he could not break the silence without thrilling her
more than she desired, she strove to turn with, womanly
tact to a new theme.
"I thought you didn't keep a gi"
"I don't ! I get one from the livery stable when I need it.
I have been' to see the patient I spoke of: his good-will per-
haps may aid me in reaching forth to the one beautiful hope
of my life. Shall I tell you what it is ?"
"I am very curious!. Let me hold the whip, won't you!"
she was timid .in the presence of her new -emotions; she
could nott meet his look, now that his power over her .seem-
ed absolute ; with child-like bashfulness she would have put
back any~ expression of the love that so deeply startled her.
" What is it you want to hold'?" he asked, pretending
not to understand, and purposely keeping the article. out of
her reach, that she might be obliged to look at him in
making a second demand for it.
" The whip !". she answered, laughing and blushing, and
catching it froni his hand;.with this in her possession, she
felt as if it, had been a talisman to restore her to common
life. " How do you spppose these handles are braided ?"

I

A MY DENB3ROOK-

213

she queried, passing her gloved fingers over it, and looking
itently upon the curiosity.
"I have no idea whatever. I think we ought to know:.
to-morrow we will drive out to a whip factory and investi-
gate the matter, shall we
" No, sir ! I haven't time to be idling every day!"
lie laughed happily, and then asked in a tone that trem-
bled as it fell to a deep cadence, "Would your life be idled
away if it were spent with me, Isabel?"'
She grew pale, and her lips had no power to form words;
she turned her head away from him, as if it could conceal
the hastened beating of her heart,
'could you live 'with mne for myself alone ? Could you
choose me ?" there was an accent of deepest anxiety in his
voice, for he did not understand why she turned from him.
She hid her hand impulsively upon his, in assurance, and
then hastily removed it, murmuring, "I could, if others
thought it were best. I am too young to know."
lie took the hand that had touched hip, replying: " This
is all I ask at present; and this is what I did not mean to
ask for a long time yet."
As they talked, -they did not observe th t the twilight
shadows were falling and that they were proceeding at a re-
markably easy pace along the Bloomningdale road. A his-
tory of the past fell from the lips of the lovers. Dr. Ken-
drick did not conceal the poverty that had beset his way,
nor the very moderate success that had at- last crowned his
patient efforts. Bel had always had romantic ideas of " love

f


2                 AMY D1~NB1~00K.
in a cottage ;" she had no true perception of the actual mis-
ery which want entails upon rn~rried life~ All she thought
ot was herself and Dr. Kendrick illuminating a clean rodm,
and rejoicing at a simple repast: she thought it would be
beautiful.
"And you often felt unhappy because you were so poor?
you thought itwould make a difference With me ?" she said,
as they turned about, Ifaving reached Harlem Bridge.
"I did not think it. would make a difference with you, but
I could not consent myself to bring you to trials which you
could not realize before t~hey came; and I feared that you
might become prejudiced against me ere my fortunes would
mend enough for me to seek your favor boldly."
"Who did you think would prejudice mc ?" she asked.
"I felt that Mr. Second's influence would be against inc
-an* perhaps Amy's through his representations."
u are mistaken! Mr. Second does not like you, I im-
agine;\ but I do not believe he has ever spoken to Amy
about us, or she would have told me. She has fhitlj in
you ! I believe she would rather trust me to you, than to
any Orcosus on earth-but she thinks I ought to be studying
my lessons, I expect, instead of talking in this way."
"You shall be a child as long as you desire, Isabel.
From the first, I feltthat you must be transplanted into the
garden of my life-i felt that God had led me to you, and a
closer approach arid knowledge of your nature deepened
this impression. Yo~ did not know how intently I watched
you, when I seemed occupied with other things, nor hoxv

I

many hours I spent in meditating over all you said arid did
for you talked with the freedom of a child before me, and
unconsciously revealed 'your mind and heart. Every day
and every hour your picture rose on my view; it tinged all
my life: every evening 1 felt impelled to seek you, and yet
ii only caine once in two or three weeks-wasn4t that a stu
pendous sort of self-martyrdom ?" he looked by the light
of the early risen moon into her down-cast face: she met
his smile with a tremulous one, ~but did not speak.
'The doctor had, through inobservance, taken a wrong road
in the early part of their ride; it was this which made their
return home quite late: he looked at his watch, as they
reached the house, and found that it was after nine o'clock.
"What will Amy think of me ?" said Bel, looking up at
their parlor windoww crc she left the carriage; the lace cur-
tains were swept back by Amy's hand, and she stood there
looking down; Mr. Scored~ stood beside her with his arm
around her waist; it was suddenly withdrawn, as the moon-
light revealed the erect figure of Dr. Kendrick. A thrill of
distress passed through Amy's heart as she caught the
angPy light on her lover's ~ountenance, and then, as if irre-
sist~bly impelled to follo~ his eyes, she saw~ the doctor
~eaoh forth his arms, and tenderly lift Isabel to the ground.
In another rhoment, she heard the street door open, and Bel
ran up stairs; but she went in the' back room, which was
their bedroom.
"Dr. Kendrick, wasn't it ?" asked Mr. Second, flashing

'I

4
tI~
11
4

AMY DIrNDI~0 OK.             215

215


AMY DEiNI3I~OOK

u
T
r
-4

such a glance of displeasure upon Amy, as she had never
expected to see.
"It looked like him !" she returned.
"Yes !" was his brief comment; his countenance assum-
ed for an instant an expression of deterniluation and will
that made Amy feel as if she should be perfectly helpless
were she his wife, and were he disposed to exert his power.
He cleared his brow, and relaxed his firm lips, putting his
arm around her once more. "The evening is very clear 1',
he remarked in his usual tone.
"Yes !" she faltered, feeling still as if a shock had struck her.
"You didn't know where JsabJ was, you said ?" he look-
ed down at her.
"No! I have been with Diana to-day. She is going to
Cape May, to-morrow !"
"Is Isabel in the habit of riding out at all hours with
young gentlemen ?"
"No, of course not !" This is her first ride with Dr.
Kendrick.
"She is young and thoughtless: it is not exactly proper
for her to ride alone with geutlemen-.--with mere acquaint-
ances
"1 think they must have been accidentally detain~.d 1"
"Probably! shall I go on. reading to you, Amy ?"
"If you please !" tltey sat down by the ~marble table,
Mr. Second reading from the book which he had' laid
down at the sound .of carriage wheels stopping before the
house~ and Amy resuming her sewing; she did not hear, or

understand a word he read-his angry look was daguerreo-
typing itself constantly upon her heart: he seemed perfect-
iy tranquil; his mind was evidently upon the book-she
suspected what this ~neant: she suspected from long ohserv-
ance of him that all things were to go on peacefully until
they were married
He laughed out suddenly and heartily.
"0, read that over again !" said Amy, "I happened to
be thinking of something else."
"You did! well, pay better attention, or you shall read
yourself; you careless child."
She contrived to smile as the amusing passage was re-
peated, and then as he went on, she fell into thought about
him. Did he so speedily get over his anger, because it was
of no comparative importance to him, if Bel and Dr. Ken-
drick liked each other? did he get over it, because on reflec-
tion he saw that she was not to blame for the ride, and that
it was no usual performance Z or did he rely upon his pow-
er to stop the intimacy at a future time? He had not been
frank with her.
He ceased reading. "I should think those little fingers
had worked long enough !" he said, putting her sewing ox~
the table, and turflil)g her chair around beside his. "What
were    thinking about when II was reading?"'
"I was wondering ~Vhat kind of a man you were! I was
wishin~ I could look right into your soul F'. she lifted I~er
lustrous hazel eyes to his almost imploringly, although a
smile was on her lips. Her manner was usually sportive.

AMY DENI3I~O0K.                 217

I
L
~1
j{ji


218

AMY DEN13R001C,

"What put that into your hea%1 ?" he said, good naturedly.
"You have some strange ideas in this little cranium !" he
rolled a ringlet over his finger, and flattered her with abai~-
don. It made her heart impatient, for she knew that she
was not charming to him when she lifted the veil! from her
best thoughts.
"Shall, I tell you what I have been thinking about,
Amy?"
"Yes I" she spoke slowly and hesitatingly.
"1 have been thinking that *we must be married before
October! What do you say to such thoughts ?"
"I say nay I" she softly answered.
"I gave up my cherished idea of living in the house I
have built," he said, "and consented to board a year to
please you, can't you consent to be married in a month
from this time t~ please me. Hey? you don't need to go
to school any more? You and Bel and I will travel several
months, wouldn't you like that ?"
"Oh no! Please not speak about it! I cannot think of
it! I cannot think of it! Let the time be later, rather than
earlier! I don't want to assume any new dignities." She
sat partly turned from him as she spoke; her passionate
heart had almost given forth its struggles into words.
"You are very perverse, Amy. Turn around, and don't
get in a passion." He laid his hand on her arm: he was hurt,
bL4t he strove to hide it.
She arose and went to the window; the young moon and
stars were full of strength.~' 0, God! that I were as
a

AMY DENBRO OK.

219

strong! that I were as free! that I knew whether it were
right to break this iron chain !" she mentally uttered, as she
'looked up to the tlrma~ment. "Almighty God! wilt Thou
leave me in doubt forever? wilt Thou never teach me
whether it will be a greater sin to forsake him, or to marry
him when I know that we are not one before Thee ?"
She went to him, and took the seat which she had left;
he looked pale aijd did not notice her: she rested her
forehead on his shoulder, and said in a trembling voice,
"Justin! I have not learned to love you well enough yet;
don't urge me! I don't wantto be perverse. I cannot keep
my heart in keeping with my position! I cannot control
it! I wish it were dumb, for its beats are alipainful."
"Amy, do you love another better ?" he asked huskily.
"I love no one now. I am as cold as death; the very
capacity for love has died within me." He sat motionless
for a long time: he would not give her up, but saw that he
must seen~ t~. Do you wish to break our engagement,
Amy?"
She quickly covered her face with her two hands, and
broke into a passion of weeping: he did not seek to console
her; after a few moments, he repeated in a deep, sad voice,
"Do you wish our engagement broken, Amy ?"
"0, forgive the wish !" she sobbed, bowing her face still
lower.
"You are free; I will, not hesitate to sacrifice my hap1jfl-
ness to yours !"
Her tears were suddenly stayed, and a dead silence fell
10

1 1
i
A
iJ;k
*1
4:1
111
i~I


220               AMY DENBROOK.
over them. At length she said, "You are good." "S~ie
did not dare to look at him or she ~would have seen the
slight raising of his head at this, and the hopeful light that
gleamed across the pale disquietude of his face: both were
long silent again; his mind SQOfl seized upon a course of
action.
He said, "Before ~ve part, Amy, let me say that you and
Isabel must remain wards of mine, let me be a friend ~till !"
Her thoughts were in a wild chaos; they pressed upon
her too confusedly to permit any clearness of purpose or
speech, but at his words there surged through them the
feeling that she was in his power, and that she could never
get away from hhm; this feeling was swept aside by an op-
posite one !-he had risen! he stool before her wounded,
yet with no hard words fQr her strange unthankfulness.
"Farewell, Amy !" he held forth one hand hesitatingly,
and then laid it gently upon her head: "I forgive you free-
ly, my child: remember me only as one who loved too
deeply tor his own peace; henceforth look upon me as your
guardian and faithful friend."
She looked up with a grateful, agonized, affectionate ex-
pression: she lifted her small hand, and pressed his upon
her head as if she needed his blessing, then she faltered
"Good bye !"
The words struck like eQid iron upon his heart; his lips
grew a shade paler; he touched them to her brow, and then
turned from her. When he reached the door, he gave her
one long look of regret. As~soon as she was alone a sense

AMY DnNBItOQK.

221

of freedom exhilerated her: it alternated with fiery suffer-
ing: she felt that her stay in life was gone; she f5lt that
she had given up a devoted love, and she trembled to brave
the great, careless world, for the thought of still living up~
on his bounty was impossible to her. She sank upon the
floor, and buryftig her face in her arms upon a chair, yield-
ed to all the pictures that floated before her.
*                           '*
With emotions hardly less miserable, Mr. Scored left
the house: he was almost stunned by the turn which the
evening? befoi'e had taken; lie paced the streets a long time
ere his plans rose before him clearly; the little summer
moon had disappeared; the July heat had passed away, and
freshening breezes blew from the bay, as he unconsciously
strode down the great thoroughfare toward the Battery: he
entered its cool precincts, and walked backward and for-
ward in view of the water; lights gleamed from Castle
Garden, and the sound of music was heard; many. poor
strollers lingered near the melody, and enjoying it perhaps
better than the people within; then the crowd caine out, but
'Mr. Second pursued his walk unmindful of all this.
"'Twas a mistake to have spoken of a change in the
time !" he mused. "I thought I might venture upon it,
and now I have got all my winning to do over. Give
her up? Never! There was no other way for me to act-
No other course would have gone so far toward winning
her kind feeling! Her love! Why should it be so hard
for ~me to gain it'? I must have it-I will have it !-.-this
might discourage some men, b~~t it fires me with r~ew

I

A
'4
11'

220


222

AMY D1~I3R0'OK.

energy. She loves no one else-the way may be long, bu t
it must be run. Give her up'? that is simply impossible!
she cannot do without me; if sh~ try, she will find herself
surrounded by anxieties, and she will at last be glad to find
shelter in my faithful affection-she may bear up with a
seeming of courage for awhile, but she will find the world
hard and cruel, and poverty will have a thousand stings
that it had not before. has she not a latent love for that
Coleman? I have seen hauteur in her glorious eyes at his
approach. ~-ive her up? No! her very coldness has rivet.
ed my Io e, by keeping before me the possibility of losing
her. I have long been considered an eligible match by
young ladies-their repressed eagerness to get my wealth
disgusts A~e. It will not be easy for Amy to resign her
flattering ~ osition in prospect, hut 8he can do it, and one~
who ~an ~ibandon riches, is capable of such unselfish de-
votion as 1 desire, She wondered what kind of a man I
was! I have more reason to wonder at her-she is full of
caprices, wilful to excess one moment, and then as gentle as
she can be. I can't understand her [-when I have con-
cluded that she is only a careless, nonsensical child, an4 can
be led by a look or word, she startles me by a passionate
and determined opposition to me. Women are never gov-
ern~~d by reason: you never know where ~ find them-
can't live with them; or without them. Sh~'will get over
this impulse: she is yielding in the main, and I am strong
and patient when it i~ iweessary? she has ~he habit of look-
ing up to me; she will find that she loves me. She ~cornes

U

223

toward me, and then retreats-there seems to be no con-
stancy in her regard, but after we are married it will be
different. I wish it were well over. I could find it in my
heart to punish her a little for the torment she occasions
me: wheti the knot is ti~d, she will discover that however
extravagantly 1 may love her, I will be the master, and not
the slave. Nothing could give me happiness without her:
if she angers me, her look of distress drives the feeling
away. I must keep away from her a fe~4 weeks, or I must
encounter her accidentally; if she sees me grave and dis-
tant, she will be anxious to establish the old cordial friend-
ship of long ago: I will not return to it speedily; Lwill be
brief in words and visits; she shall not suspect a possi-
bility of a renewed offer until I have drawn her safely to-
ward me~. Ah! I have a bright thought! ' I will call on
her occasionally with Mrs. Collins-that will make her
jealous !"
*       *      *,      *      *
Amy arose 'from the floor with a sudden thought of Isa-
bel; with a wonder, about the ride! She lighted a small
alabaster lamp, and went into her bedroom; to her sur-
prise the pale rays fell upon her sister, who was seated on
the bed, with her bQnnet still' on, and her hands clasped as
if she had' been lost in a world of thought. Slowly unfold-
ing her hands, she looked u~ at Amy with a face whose ra-
diance ~vas wonderful; warm tears seemed half sleeping in
her violet eyes, but the smile that dimpled hex' cheek, and

9

I
I

AMY DENBILOOK.

4


e

2

224

AMY DENBROOK.

softly trembled on her mouth was burdened with tender,
blissful emotion,
"0, Bel, tell me of it all !" said Amy, with an instant
perception of the beautiful change th at had passed over her'
young sister.
Isabel laid aside her bonnet ere she tr-usted herself to
speak, then she put both arms around Amy's neck, and
resting her face on her shoulder, said, "I couldn't be hap-
pier than I am !-you said one day that you would live a
year of common-life, to taste but five minutes of such joy
as angels must feel. I do not envy any angel in heaven,
Amy ; I would not part from my life for any other. Can
you ever guess the cause of this ?"
" Yes, dear Bel ! I know it all-vyou have learned that
Dr. Kendrick loves your" there swept a wild. tide through
Aiy's breast to feel the difference of their lot-her whole
inward life seemed meagre, she saw that; her sister loved as
she could have loved, but had not.
" Did you suspect it, Amy~ ?" Bel lifted her head with a
glad smile, for it was a delight to know that another~ had
recognized the love that shad been undreamedof by her.
" I saw it; it went to my heart many a time like exqui-
site music, awakening only sadness-I knewy that you 1oved
him too, Bel !"
"' 1 never thought of it-I ever thought that he could be
my husban i, or :that any one could love rhe so ! I always
felt as if I could go anywhere that he could take me-that
he could protect me, if all the world rose against me-I al-

AMY.DEN13ROOK.

I

225

ways felt at home with him, as if he were so good, and as if
he smiled over my heart, and translated its follies into
something beautiful. lie said I should be transplanted in-
to the garden of his life-I believe I have lived in that gar-
den almost from the first, without knowing it !"
They sat down on the low French bedstead. " Why did
it make you sad, Amy ?" Isabel drew her arm around her,
and gently pressed Amy's head to a resting place :on her
shoulder ; she passed her hand over her flushed cheeks.
"Why, dear ?"
"It was so pitiful to contrast the love of Mr. Secord with
it; and to be forcing myself to feel what I could not. I
saw that Dr. Kendrick loved you for what was deepest, and
sweetest, and holiest within you-that he drew nearer to you
when- you revealed yourself most truthfully. And I-when
my most real self flashed out, it made Mr. Secord ill at
ease !" the tears rolled unheeded down her face. "lie
wanted me to be perfect, but it annoyed him if I ventured
to talk about any spiritual experiences, so I never did but
once,-he said he didn't want mp any better ! I .know I suit
him when I conceal my real feelings under a lively manner.
lie thinks I am beautiful, Bel~ and it is the casket that
pleases him. 0, when he has praised me, by the hour for
my looks alone, I have -so wished he loved me for my
thoughts and feelings instead, f r these will be mine eternal-
ly, and I shall throw off the shell that he admires, as food
for worms. I have feared that he would cease to take pleas-
ure in me, when this bright garment of flesh fades: he some-

i~t


tines speaks lightly and scornfully of old maids: he never
seems to realize thiit they may be more beautiful within
than many young girls. If one could be married without
caring for a husband's affection or approbation, I could have
him. If I could sit in my room, and see him enter, without
centering any feelings save indifference upon him, I could
get along: if I couid live an independent life, and have my
hooks and work arid pleasures to in yself; I could get along
-but I could not live with him without identifying myself
with him-i could not help clinging to him, and yearning
for such love as he could not give. His smiles would b~
necessary to me-i should be wretched if he were displeased
with me. He might get tired of me when I was fairly
caught and caged, and our life might tend to a gradual de-
cline of affections, as As the case in the majority of instances."
Amy sighed as if it relieved her to unburden her mind.
* "What do you niean, Amy'? You speak as if you con-
templated parting with Urn !"
"I ha~~e! our engagement is broken, hut I feel as if still
bound. He has not resigned me permanently-he cannot
give u~ a thing which he has once undertaken: he said once
in a moment of confidence, that if I had not accepted him,
he should have persevered to the end of his life. I fear his
strength. and determination in connection with myself-I am
so meek and impulsive that patience may triumph over me.
And then to go 4rth into the world and work !-to meet
hare poverty, and ~a he wounded in a thousand ways: to be
shut up in a narrow compass, fluctuating between the hope

226

AMY DENBROOK.

226             A1~IY DENBROOK.                                                                                    227

of winning daily bread, and the fear of its being taken away.
I am more afraid of people than I used to be--I have learn-
ed lessons in the selfishness of human beings within the
last year or two-what hard gossip have we heard about
others and ourselves'? I do not wonder that young girls of-
ten marry for money, and for a home. You may think I.
am very bad, dear Bel, but it has been a teinpation with me
-I have discovered it since I have been hesitating what to
do, and I have hesitated for many months-I have ~seen
that if Mr. Second had not in his wealth everything to grati-
fy my' tastes, it would be far easier to break away from him.
I have no rich love to protect me from desiring the lesser
pleasures which money can buy-I want to travel all over
the world, and gain some beauty and romance to embellish
my life. I con Id lay all such delights down smilingly for a
love like Dr. Kendrick's---you are rich. Freedom makes me
richer than I was, and y~t when I have thought 'of' breaking
away from Mr. Second, it has been such an anguish to feel
that I 'would make him unhappy-everything seemed strong
against me-everything that is gratifying to my easy and
pleasure-loving nature is appealed to on one hand-I don't
like to depend on myself-I don't like to take the lead in
anything-I want to be irresponsible, and be cared for as
Mr. Second would care for me. But against all this weak-
ness, my conscience is arrayed! my conscience! it stings me
- to rise above what is unworthy! it arms the faith that we
were taught in childhood with a strange power! we have
been taught that for every created soul there is a mate-and
10*

227

p
'1
'41
'.4
A A
a'
'I
4
4
'I
I
If
in
'4
ii~


228

AMY D~BU00X.

Mr. ~ecord is not mine. I feel it with tenfold power when
I see you and Dr. Kendrick together! How often has Mrs.
Collins stabbed me with the sword of truth, and set my
heart bleeding when it would have lulled itself to rest! per-
haps she has nerve me to forsake all this !" she looked
around the room.
"Where shall we go, Amy? what shall we do ?"
"We shall go somewhere: we shall do something! od
knows what it shall be. L~t us kneel down, and ask irn
to take care of us !" They knelt down, and each in si1e~ee
poured out prayers-how different! yet how sincere!
When they arose they sat do\vn~again on the bed, as if they
still could not retire for the excitement of their thoughts.
Isabel said, "I am glad you are not going to marry Mr. Se;
cord, yet I almost dread, Amy, to have you make a change
without consulting any one."
"I shall not consult any one regarding our new manner
of life, if we escape to a new life: if this effort is to end in
submission to my fate, I will sink down conquered, and
never try again, to evade the web of influence that has de-
tained me at Mr. Scored's side. Haven't you noticed that
Agnes and Mrs. Collins have brought their influence to bear
on me for a separation from him whenever we have met,
and yet so subtly on the latter's part that few save myself
would know what her aim was? I think she rather likes
Mr. Second, Bel, else why'should she seem to cast over me
her wonderful power of will, to tear me from him? Hark!
two o'clock is striking !" Amy looked at her watch: Mr.

229

Second had given it to her on her nineteenth birthday which
had just past. "Let us go to bed 1" Ere long they walked
through the land of dreams, and through their confusion,
perchance they journeyed into the land of deep sleep where
angels talk with men while the door of external conscious-
ness is sbut-perehan~ e also the gorgeous imagery of that
land, and the soft inflowings of a diviner life might be re-
cognized, when death should span thespirit-worid, and they
should murmur, "We have been here before."

1I~
I
I

4

vi
44
1~J
~I~i
4-.

AMY DENBR0OK.


230           AMY DJ~NI3ROOK.

CHAPTER XX.

A BaEEZY caress from the ocean stirred the leaves and flow
eras that had languished under the midday heats at Cape
May; the sun had turned from his fiery work, and lingered
upon his banners of purple. and gold, shedding upon the
earth .his beneficent smile, and touching the rippling and
heaving waters with' colors of glory. Diana Blake satin at
the window of her room; the blinds were half closed : she
was lost to all the sounds of hotel life, and avs~ke only to
~out-door views: she was restored to health, and the old life
and impulses were stirring within her; she noticed the idlers
who strolled out to catch the freshened air that came from
the sea-one such was George Coleman ! This was a sur-
prise to Diana, for she had seen but little of him for
months. -He lifted .his straw hat to let the breeze play
through his hair ; the loose rings that curled about his tem-
ples, the peculiarly stately carriage of his head, the hand-
some throat from which the broad collar was laid back, con-
fined by a careless tie of black ribbon--all this was observ-
ed by the brown eyes that peered at him through the hotel
blinds. "He is very handsome certainly," mused the

-t

watcher, "he don't look as though he doated on his clothes
like the rest of them: yes ! I like him bettei- than any one
I have seen yet: I like that careless way of sauntering,
along; it looks as though he was not troubling himself
about the effect he was producing. I wonder why he has
not visited me more lately. He probably took offense the
night Marcus and I parted. Hie ought to know that I'm
here-it's a great loss to him not to know it. Let me see !
there he goes to that clump of trees. H~e11 sit down there.
I ought to walk out, and what place so natural as that, with
a book and my gypsy fiat concealing everything from my
view but the pages before me ! A lions!"- She rose, and
looked complacently in the glass at the smoothness of her
hair, then she glanced 'down upon her white dress: she
opened a drawer, and took froin it a broad pea-green rib-
boni, which she -tied around her waist, leaving the long
streamers loose ; then she set her gypsy coquettishly on
her head, and after tying it under her chin, exclaimed,
" That will do, my dear-very rustic 1" She plucked a few
green myrtle leaves from a carefully arranged bouquet, and
fastened them in her hair, under her bonnet, with a delicate-
ly-tinted rose-bud: a few glistening leaves she also placed
in her belt. " Heroines are always opportunely startled by
admiring gentlemen with an apron full of flowers!" she
thought. "1I can't quite equal that ! Heigho ! I never was
designed for a saint. But its' such a bore not to be interest-
ed in somebody or something. I maya as well strike my
colors first as last-its of no use for me to attempt being

A MY 'D1E N BR0 0 K.

I
ii
I
Ill

231

[

230


232         AMY DENBROOK.                                           AMY DENBROO~C.          233

different from what I am! I must have some fun, or I shall
die! This book will do !" she took a volume of poems
from the table, and after glancing fmm the window again,
turned the blinds close, and went forth; her steps turned to
the grove, and very bewitching she certainly looked, 'vith
her hlebe-like figure robed as freshly as nature itself: as
she retreated from the vicinity of the hoteb she bent her
eyes upon her open book and slowly strolled along until
she approached the spot where Mr. Coleman was seated
upon a rustic bench. As she was reading in, a half whisper,
"My hair is gray, but not with years-
Nor grew it white "-
a "hem" proceeding from the bench, made her look up
with a musical scream. Mr. Col~man was sitting there;
~     she closed her book emphatically, and meeting the smile in
his eye, she laughed with unaffected heartiness, saying in
the next breath, "Do pardon me: poetry will carry me
away so, you know !" The sarcastic mirth in her look and
voice, met Mr. Coleman's mood : he laughed lightly, and
rose, asking her to sit down. She declined, but leaned
against~ a tree in front of him. "When did you come'
here ?" she demanded.
"About two weeks ao'o 1"
0~
"And where have you been this long time ~
"Are you interested to know ?"
"Yes, ~f~ourse. Make up a good story, for I wish to
be amused I"
"I have been away from the city some of the time !"

I

"And the rest of the time im the city I Did you
know I had been sick ?"
"Yes! I heard from you frequently. I should have call-
ed myself, but supposed it would be a matter of indiffer-
ence to you."
"Beautiful thought! why should the calls of my ac-
quaintance be a matter of indifference at one time\ more
than another? Why did you have so little conscience as to
ijiflict your fashionable visits upon me some time ago ?"
"I wanted to be amused !" he returned with a frank
look, and a slight laugh of mischief A little color deepen.
ed 'loon her cheek; she smiled a half-smile that revealed
and concealed a great deal; it was fascinating to George,
and provoked a desire to look into her thoughts, but she
bent down, and pulled some of the airy grass blossoms,
and then sang a snatch &amp;f
"A life in the woods for me."
"Well, good bye !" she said, abruptly, "we wont fatigue
each other: you've interrupted the flow of my poetic feel-
ings, and now I'll go home.~,
"1 must go too I there's the great tea-bell ringing-.-we
shall hear that. hideous gong presently !" They started
away together~
"I heard a little gossip about you some months ago, Miss
Blake I"
her heart gave a distressed leap to her throat, but upon
the instant she replied. "A little! you're quite fortunate

4

233

232


AMY DE~iB1tOOK.

then, I hear an immense deal :-pray tell me how the fiction
ran?"
"That Mr. Leonard was to give you his name !"
She laughed ironically. "That's a very absurd story Mr.
Coleman, as the gentleman is in a state of connubial felicity
with an altogether different person !"
* "Married, is he ?"
"Certainly! haven't you heard of it? the lady is very
beautiful."
"But-" said Mr. Coleman, remembering the evening
when Miss Blake went into the conservatory with Leonard,
and did not return to him.
"But you are thinking of the last time I saw you !" said
she saticily, fluttering her green ribbons upon the breeze.
"I was mad, and wouldn't come back to show you how in-
efflibly charming I can be, when I try~ You received my
*n ote of apology." She spoke so carelessly that the action
took a less serious aspect than it had worn previously.
"But in earnest, Mr. Coleman," she proceeded, "Mr. Leon~
ard and I had a vexation to settle that evening, and we did
settle it effectually." Mr. Coleman had replied to Miss
Blake's note, but she had never received his missive.
From her whole manner, George was led to infer that
Mr. Leonard bad never deeply interested her feelings: they
talked jestingly until they reached Diana's hotel.
"Will you be in the ball-room to night ?" he asked eager-
lyas they were about parting.

284

"I &amp;uppose~ so, if I am in the humour. Mamma won't let
me dance long at a. time."
"And can you find it possible to obey her, and resign
your precious will to any body? asked George, laughing.
"I can yield to her more than to 8ny one else," she sin~l-
ingly answered; but a shade of genuine feeling followed the
gay expression, an cast a softened gr~ity upon her young
face.
lie bowed and ~eft her, but within his heart he carried
the look of feeling, and he spread it as a mantle of loveliness
over her whole nature; he regarded it as an under currenV~
beneath her wildest mirth. In our judgmeXt of other~ we
are usually one-sided ; if we seize upon fair traits, we will
not believe in the existence of propensities that will lead to
the commission of folly. If we are suddenly disappointed,
we feel as if we have been deceived, whereas, we ihave only
judged our friend by half his character--we are then~ often
reluctant to. give him credit for his actual virtues! Deceiv-
ed ! yes! persons of the keenest insight are deceived a
thousand 'times! Why complain? we deceive others in the
same way. Take a dozen friends, and we know that to each
we are different; there be few on earth that know us, and
sometimes those who have lived with us many years are ig-
norant of us: it is well enough perhaps, if we only shoxv the
side that xviii give pleasure to each, but there must be a
rare few or a rare one to whom we can show the protean
shapes of our inward and outward life! the actual and the

I

235

7

AMY DENDROOK.


6

236

AMY DENI3RO0K

artificial !-the agony and the merriment! the evil and the
good ! the heart, and the heartlessness
In the evening Mr. Coleman and Miss Blake met in the
ball-room; she affected not to see him for some time, during
which she industriously danced, laughed, and conversed ; in
due season, she promenaded past him, leaning on the arm of
a gentleman; by some inconceivable chance, her dainty
handkerchief xvent floating to the floor, very near the spot
where he stood, he immediately picked it up, and presented
it to her, when her gay sallies gave him permission to walk
beside her. XVhen she was left alone with him fora mo-
ment~ he asked her hand for one cotillion. She nonchalently
refused, but he could not take offense; he had never been
more tr~dy captivated by her fascinating man nw's; with her
tact ~nd intellect, they did for her more than unparalleled
beauty would have done. She was in her element, casting
her spell over many hearts; she was free from passion her-
1 self, and the chalice of adulatioiv was seized in the vain hope
that it ~might surpass that of love.
"I have a cruel message to bring, Miss Blak~e!" said a
gentleman approaching her, "cruel for the poor wights
assembled here. Your mother sends a request that you
will leave us, on account of your still delicate health."
"Mamma thinks, and always will, that I'm not well yet !"
responded Diana laughing, "wheieas I know that I am!
But au revoir I" she gracefully saluted the little knot of
friends around her, and taking the arm of the gei~tleman,
left the ball room.

AMY DENBI~001~.

237

window, and pushed back her hair; she watched her
When she found herself in her room, she sat down by the
mother, who was preparing for sleep in the adjoining chain.
her.
"Di, do come to bed! are you tired? have you enjoyed
yourself ?"
"Very much !"
"I wonder what father would say to your dancing? He
said you must live a quiet life here, and not get sick again:
he's coming to. stay over Sunday with us
"Is he? poor man, he works hard enough to have a l~tt.le
rest."
Mi's. Blake 'sank among. her pillows, and soon fell asleep.
As Diana sat in the dreamy silence, hearing the distant
waves as they broke in murmurs upon the shore, the
brilliance faded from her spirit, and the fiend came to gnaw
her heart: she called it "the fiend,'~ but it was "the still,
small voice" of the Lord, ~triving to arouse the better
life in which she had for a brief time found some peace:
the anguish preyed upon her so resolutely, that she started
up, and lighting a fresh lamp, drew out her writing ma
trials, to converse with Amy De~brook; she Mt as if
guilty not to show how she had gone back from her ardent
resolves. She commenced-
"I'm in a wayward humor to-night, dear friend. There
come old thoughts across my brain. My bark is out, who
has the helm? where is it driving ~ Amy, mine own

Ii,


238            AMY DIi~NI3UO0K.                                       AMY DEN BROOK.           239

dear friend~ had 'you been at my side from childhood, I
would not now have to say that I am sinking-you opened
my thoughts in a new direction, and once, oh! that the
time is past, I thought I reached up my hands to God-but
life and the world ~re too much for me. I have followed an
igni~ fatuus, and each one palls the very soul-I have rush-
ed with impetuosity over the head sea of life within ea~th-
ly aim or future hope. Do you remember that you once
told me, it was a fearful thing to forget to worship in the
holy of holies? I am forgetting-I have forgotten! I cannot!
Temptati&amp;ns beset me, and I yield. I have already lured
new hearts into my net since I have been here. Do I care
fur them? no! one interests inc a little-he can help inc to
kill time. There is such mockery and hollowness in the
world-there is here-how young I am to find this out! I
cannot but sport with the feelings of others. A man might
sooner wed the ocean, than~Diana Blake. There is a levity
about me that I cannot resist-a new face has for a time
a cijarm that is all absorbing. Gossips of first' notoriety
say that I am to be married soon, but you and I know that
the victim will not be executed at the appointed season. I
- have no prospect of ever being called by. theendearing name
of mother: none of d5ling little expressive faces, and comb-
ing raven locks, and stifling 'little wailings with bread and
sugar. Amy! Your candid words are to me the rarest
gems of earthly love I' hear so much flattery, that truth
comes like water from the wells of salvation! but, plead
with me no morestrive to lift me up no more! I shall but

238

fall again. My hand is on the plough, and I must. follow!
Do I weary you, friend? I will to another theme. I hear
something of spiritualism here: it has roused a tornado of
curiosity in my heart: what do you think of it? I wish to-
night I could be psychologised into rest! rest that is satisfying.
At times I am wildly happy-no, excited, I flirt, .and the
~ moment, I feel almost a repugnance to the deluded
men who seek me. see visions of the "might be," but
I ~hal1 never realize them. 0, I wonder if on God's greeli
earth there exists a being so contradictory as myself-the
fine gold and the clay ~re forever at war, and people appeal
to the clay-at least such people as I am cast with. I will
not tease you longer with my foolish thoughts. Ho~V goes
life with you? shall you soon be anchored h~i the quiet
haven of d domestic peace? You will win the 'vi~to ry what-
ever your lot. Wherever you may be, you will find
Diana's heart turning to you with it~ depest honesty of love
-and oh, be faithful to me!
"YOUR DIANA."
P. S. You have a monstrous fault, Ari~y, and christian
frankness causes me to speak of it. The small sheets you
write on are parsimonious : now invest a quarter in sheets
of decent magnitude!

239

i


4

AMY t~ENBR00K.

AMY D]~NJ3ROOK

CHAPTER XXI.

I
WEEKs had passed away since the evening that Mr. Scored
had parted with Amy Denbrook. lie had been to the home
that he had provided for her, and to his anxious inquiries
for ~the young girls, Mrs. Brooks could only inform hiiit that
they had left the premises, while she was in the country:
upon her return she had found a letter of farewell, and a
request that the key of their rooms should be given to Mr.
Second, with a tiny sealed packet. This she gave i~im, and
with a strange mixture of agitation and anger he hastened
to the deserted apartments. Their, quiet and darkened
aspect fell over him like the~shadow of death; "Never-
m~re" was chanted through his spirit; he felt that he was
growing to be an old ~man; he had passed his meridian-...-he
had~ realized one dream of his boyhood-he had become
rich with an unspotted name. But the other' dream! it had
died perpetually as it arose. The beautiful home, 'vith the
fair wife and innocent children, where were they? it was for
them that the riches were gained through ceaseless toil of
mind and body. Mr. Second never gave himself up will-

in gly to unhappy reflections; he was a man of action rather
than studious thought: he never stopped to say to his ~oul-.
"Work into thy thought intelligence of the kind ~f' pain,
b
that thou mayest never inflict it on another~spirit. Then its
work is done; it will never search thy whole nature again."
ITo gave way to the desolation that came over him but a
short time, then he arose to see if there were a letter from
Amy: he opened the window shutters, and untying his
packet found two small keys; one belonged to the book.
case, and the other to the bureau; he hastily opened the
drawer of the former which had been Amy's: it c6utained
bitt a single article, and that was an epistle directed to him
self. He pressed his lips together firmly as he saw it, and
sat down where the red sunset fell upon the paper as he
tore it open. Each word went to his heart with torture.
It was thus written
"DEAR FRIEND :-I sit ~lown to the hardest task of my
life. How c~n you forgive so much? I am going to leave
your forever !-~as benefactqr, guardian, friend, lover. It is
two days since you laid your 1han~ upon my bead, and told
me I might be free. I hold the Bible to my heart as if it
could strengthen me to say such cruel words as must ex~
plain my act I The experience of a long year has convinc.
ed me that I cannot walk through life beside you, and re~
tam such fervid spiritual aspiration, as I must have,, to
gain the kingdom of God. We are exactly opposite each

240

241

11
I 'I
Q
I

I,


242           AMY DXNI3ROOIC.                                         AMY DENBI~OOK            243

other in opinloix To m~ religion is the Alpha and Omega
of existence. I have not bored you with it, for I have seen
that you had only a light laugh for my deepest religious
feelings-I have seen them die under your influence-I have
long been tempted to pluck th~ f4al apple, and turn from
God. But at this crisis of my fate, I dare n~t hesitate:
either I must always conceal my soul from you, or show
you 'thoughts and feelings that will forever utter a protest
against your own. Views that you approve, I hate. You
say, "Every man for himself!" I pray, "God deliver me
from this propensity within me." You say, "This world is
go6d enough 'for me !~' I pray, "Amid its l~l~ssings, oh
God, keep eternally before me the light that breaks over~
the Dele~table Mountains." I do nbt say this in the belief
that it will draw your heart toward me; it will rob me of
the light in which you have looked at me. It w ~show you
that I am not a little wilful girl, as you esteeii~~ e, but a
woman who would have no fascination for yo1~~atever,
if wholly understood. I desire that you should see that
your own happiness could not be promoted by taking me
into near companionship. The froth of life' is well enough
in its place; it is not happiness, to ignore the true hunger
of the soul. I could not have over you the kind of
influence that would give content with my lot. Your habits
of life, and your Opinions are formed, and alas! they have
always 'turned me away from the green pastures and still
waters. of divine' promise, to bend me to the world. You

have not intentionally won me from the Lord, but the tenor
of every life is for, or against Him.
"Justin! ever kind friend, I would not have said what I
have done, if I did not believe it would make it easier for
you to dismiss me from your heart. It ~vould be dearer to
my vanity and my true friendship for you to be remember-
ed as the affectionate and grateful Amy, rather than as the
cold observer who noted even in mOIflel)tS of abandon,
the cast of every thought and expression. I can make no
return for your candor that I may break the illusion of
your love. 0, if I could make you happy in iome way !-
but I cannot! 'If you grieve to read this, know that I suffer:
But I hear the words sounding as if from heaven. "This is
the way, walk ye in it," and we mu~t part. You' have a
strong will, so have I !-what I should desire, you would
oppose-for example-My sister should never break her
heart to live magnificently with a man not of her own elec-
tion. Even if you said not a word on the n atter, I should
be aware that you could not think with me. To me, un-
spoken opposition in a husband would be oppressive-I
would not ask silence, but accord. There are many' points
where we should diverge-some, where I should deem it
right to act in exact opposition to your wishes, and were I
married to you, I would do it, if the consequences were nev-
er so disastrous to our apparent happiness--I would sacrifice
the peace of the hour, to a satisfied conscience. It is a delicate
thing to touch upon the gratitude I Qwe you; it can never
'cease! Justin! I wish you knew me ?-I would bear
11

'1

11


244          AMY DENBROOK.                                        AMY DENBROOIC.           245

much for years-perchance with some rare outbreaks of ~
* tensest passion! but when the. cup suddenly overflowed-
only a little! I would spring into liberty, and shut back
the gates forever upon past experiences. It is better we do
not come together at all, than to unite with elements of dis-
cord underneath that might eventually drive us asunder. It
* would be wicked for me to ent~r Upon a life that I can see in
advance filled wiith disquietude. I will not, I cannot seem
any longer, I must breathe freely. 0, would to God, we
could be such friends as we were ere you asked me to be
your wife. I shall love you always as friend, brother, father
-dearJustin, even while you hate me as an ingrate, I shall
recall the kind looks you gaye me in the sad "long ago."
When after months or years, your natural anger shall have
softened, remember that poor Amy was driven to this
couj'se, by such necessities of instinct, as she could not re-
sist-ah! remember that God took from her all power and
means to be as kind to you as you have been to her-this
reflection will sting me while life lasts.
"I have dared to keep the golden cross you gave me long
ago; we were happy then, when neither knew the sad dis-
similitudes of nature that were to cloud our coming years.
The other jewels you will find in the upper drawer of the
bureau. I wept over them as I laid them away-it seemed
like laying down some brightness. Isabel is sittii~g on the
floor by her trunk crying as if her heart will break, and
raising her head every other instant to exclaim, '0,
entreat him to forgive us, and tell him how we love him

and always shall!' We shall return to such a humble life,
as you raised us from. I do not believe that I shall ever
again be as happy as I have been; perhaps I shall die a
poor old maid, but I shall carry within my heart your
remembrance with anguish, friendship, and gratitude.
Good-bye, Justin, dear Justin!
"Your miserable,
"AMY."
Mr. Scored finished the letter with contradictory feel-
ings; a fieicc anger burned against Amy: he hated the
rcsolute spirit that had taken possession of her yielding
form--he hated her calm arguments--her scrutiny of him-
self--her cool defiance of his will and sentiments-her pas-
siona~e style of feeling small things, as they seemed to him.
But the spell of beauty was still around her, with youth
and laughing looks, and voice of music, and tears of feeling
pettish words followed by repentant accents-gentle
smiles when he was grave-saucy and defiant flights whea
he presumed upon them. He loved her' as she seemed under
the guiseof her every day manner, bitt not as she was.
With a heavy sigh he went into the back room, and un-
locked the dressing bureau: there lay the bracelets, the
ring, the watch and chain, with many other costly gifts: he
did reverence to Amy's worldly sacrifice-he realized her
honesty of~ purpose, and his tears dropped upon the resign-
ed gifts: he dashed them away with sorrowful impatience,

I

45

U
[


246            AY DE~BR00K.

but his loss sighed through his soul with the same desola-
tion as when he entered the lonely rooms: he bowed above
the open di'aw, as one might bend over a grave, he wept for
her and himself. She said his influence bad turned her
fi~ora things religious, to things temporal--it xvas the tenor
of his life and action that had done this. He felt that there
was uns(iuIldness in his morality if it had thus affected her
-she had ever kept her jioliest feelings from him, to save
them ,from his jesting ridicule, In hi~ misery he even sent
up a prayer to God to make him a better man.; an angel
touched his heart of stone, but only touched it: he rose and
walked the floor; his engagement was known among many
of his ri'iends-bis infatuated fondness had been displayed
almost against his xviii in the presence of others : his pride
rebelled at this remembrance. lie shut the drawer with a
sudden force, and stamping with his foot, rose to his full
height, as he firmly uttered-" I've played the fool long
enough ! I'll quit. P11 leave her to the life she has chosen
her way shall never cross mine again! What's the odds I
Married life is full of annoyances at the best, and her whims
would plant it with thorns-she would act in exact opposi-
tion to my wishes, would she? Incredible boldness! and
yet," he added after a gloomy silence, "this insane yearn-
ing to gain that which will bring me bitterness doe~ not die
because my reason tells me that it ought. S~ c's gone!
irrecoverable; and I hope to heaven, some p0 er, chance
or Providence will keep me from the sight of ~her; idiQt
that I am, I would. rather seek her now than et her go

AMY DENBROOK.          247

after she has turned around and wounded me thus. But I
have stooped my last-and if she d s not repEnt that I
stooped in vain, I am mistaken! She thinks I am not good
enough for her! little ignoramus! s e thinks these pious
people are all they pretend !-the ti e will come when she
will find that Justin Secord is one ~f the few honorable
men so rare in these days. Not one man in a thousand
lo~9es his wife as I would have loved her. I'll fall to
business with new determination ! I'll plunge into it with
might and main! P11 drive her out from her lodgment in
my thoughts." He walked the floor a few times, and then
broke out, "But the business? what is it fdr? why should
I go on amassing mo4 money? must I work only to keep
off misery? must I never work to win happiness? Perhaps
I am learning too late that I should have gratified her in her
way, gnd not in iriThe. I gave her gorgeous presents, but
she might have loved me better if I had made allowances
for her different education, for her plebeian tendencies: I
only thought of getting her, and did not look to see that
she shrank from a wife's~ cares in her day of early youth:.
we men never think of this, when we press our suit with a
'Now or never!' I thought I conferred everything, and
she had but to accept, while she yielded up nothing save her
lowly fortunes for my wealth-she saw all this, and she has
left me! 'There are as good fish in the sea as ever were
caught.' That's a lie! a thing is valuable not so much for
itself as for the happiness it can bring us! But, tush!
rnyriads before me, and at this moment, have lost the little

246


AMY DENBR0OK.         249

248        AMY DENBROOK.

V            one who was more than all the rest together. There is a
soft spot in every man's nature. I must brace up my dis-
coura(Yed heart." Thus reasoning' anoloo'izino' and lament-
ing, Mr. Second met the disappointment of his hopes.
CHAPTER ~
WHEN at the close of her winter
Leonard returned to her own home
the return of Mr. and Mrs Harrin~
Mrs. Collins with her as a guest.
-        and steadily poisoned her pure ii
[
and Mrs. Ashley dropped in to sp
ceased after awhile, for a constra~
ings: Mrs. Ashley's lively plea
Agnes, changed to reserve and cold
found it difficult to keep ~up a con
upon common-places: the delicate
steadily woril from childhood, disa~
she grew silent and abstracted, yet
the thoughts that tossed her mi
y tore up from their fou
which she had been educated: if t
imbibed from Mrs. Collins were ti
as it had lately burst upon her, tha
a mighty afThction, what would the
p
4

:xII.
at Mrs. Ashley'~, Agnes
, which was opened upon
~ton from Cuba, she took
This woman had secretly
aind. Qccasionally Mr.
end an evening, but this
at pervaded these meet-
sure in the society of
ness, and the young girl
versation with her, even
color that Agnes had so
feared from her cheek;
gave only a faint sign of
nd, and distracted her
nations all the views in
he ideas which she had
'ue, and if it were true,
t she was in the toils of
end be? A deep fin.

248


AMY DENDROOK.                                     AMY DENBR00I~         2&amp;1

pulse bade her fly and bury herself in some secluded place,
that she might never again behold Mr. Ashley, who had
gained over her 'a powerful and extraordinary influence;*
'. but this impulse died away2 when she saw him, or listened
to the artful sophistries of the woman who was ever at' her
side. She deceived herself into the l elief that' her intellect
and conscience were the umpires which she appealed to, when
the poison of unlawful love had permeated her whole being,
aiid her prejudiced heart decided every question.
As his wife declined to accompany him, Mr. Ashley fell
into the habit of calling alone at I~Ir. Harrington's-it
vaguely passed through the minds of Agnes' uncle and aunt
that this was a little singular, but their unlimited confidence
in her, set them at ease, and they regarded the visits as
friendly and social, and designed for the whole family.
They did not observe, as Mrs. Collins did, that a 'world of
passionate emotion was kept in cheek, as Agnes uttered a
quiet, "Good evening, Mr.Ashley,~~ when she passed. into
the parlor, and sat down in shaded corner. To Mrs. Col-
lins, Agne~ poured 'out eve~y thought and struggle of her
soul; this ~vas usually listed ed to in silence; sometimes a
few words were spoken, which were calculated to lead the
bewildered girl a little nearer to the brink of ruin. The
two occupied the same chamber, which gave INA~5. Collins
an opportunity to watch every mood that came to her corn
panion. One evening after Mr. Ashley had left, and they
were sitting alone in their apartment, Mrs. Collins exclaim.
ed, abruptly: "Agnes, what are you going to do ?"

"hush! don't startle me with the thought that thereris
aught to do, but to see him once in one or two weeks !" re-
plied Agnes, trembling. "I ask no more-thereiflust be no
change, or I must fly ! Don't tell me that I must separate
him from his wife! my love is of the spirit. I am satisfied
to love him, and to kno~v that he loves me. 0, if' an angel
would point the way, I would follow though I were taken
away from him during all my life 1?' she fell on her knees
before the fcmptress, and her tears dropt as she implored
"teach me what is right teach me the truth,, and I will lay
my heart on burning coals to obey. You are wise !-you
are older then I am. You say you love me, and desire the
development of my highest instincts. I am fainting and
fevered under this passion that has stolen upon me 'as a
thief in the night.' 0, if 1 should be wrong !a0~ if it wei'e
sin ~to love one who is bound by legal ties to another! I
have struggled so long between conflicting views! I have
looked upon t ~e world, and have grown sick at the picture
of' its misery, but is present happiness the first thing that we
must seek? 0, Mrs. Collins, if I should act with the fright-
ful decision that you seem to counsel, what would my
brother say? what would my uncle and aunt feel? Mrs.
Ashley is already jealc~us-she would be ready to tear me
in pieces. I think as you do sometimes, but I have doubts
-terrible doubts! 0, my God, that I should have been
hurled into this wild sea of conflict I"
"Agnes, my poor, poor child !" said Mrs. Collins, in her
gentlest tone, as she stroked with a regular motion her soft,
11~

lit


252            AMY DENB1~0OK.                                               AMY DENI3ao0I~.            253

dark hair, and looked into the eyes so eagerly uplifted to
hers. "I can make your state clear to you, if you are
strong enough to bear it. I can tell you why you are ir~
conflict with your own mind every day !"
"Speak on! I ask foi~ truth though it slay me !" The
whole countenance of Agnes glittered with feeling.
"Then, my friend, you must permit me to tell you that
fear is the controlling power that enslaves you; if you
could be emancipated from this, you would take a wise,
calm view of your duty. You have a grand mission before
you, if you have courage to embrace it. You have intellect
and purity, and you should be a guide to weaker sisters-~
you should help them to break their chains. Do you sum
pose that you are not responsible for the use which you
make of your talents? Do you suppose you can innocent-
ly settle down in the accustomed routine, when you are call-
ed to give light to others? What is preaching worth, if all
men and women are cowards, who shrink from practice?
There are ftindamental principles that you assent to. Do
you not believe that the regeneration of the world will take
place When those who are in affinity come together ?"
Agnes was silent, and Mrs. Collins continued, "our
prisons are filled with those who have been constrained to live
with uncongenial companions : we must come into bar
monious relations with the persons who are fitted to make
us happy. We must have courage to snap false ties. Do
you not see that the millennium will commence when love
dwells in eyery circle? you and Mr. Ashley experience a

/

love that will crown you both With peace and sunshine, but
you are trampling upon it: you will not ultimate it before
the world. You are a hypocrite. You per ut him to be
bound with false legal chains-they are as false to Mrs.
Ashley as to him-they cover a yawning pit of discord. She
is riot able to release herself from the current superstition;
you mub release her, so that she will be free to seek h~er
like. You dare not obey the deepest demands of your
being: a legal restraint, a gossiping world forbid you the
royal exercise of election. You dare not stand forth in your
purity, and live out your convictions in the face of a scornful
multitude 1"
Agi~es shuddered as if an icy wind had penetrated her;
the fevered carnation of her lips faded, the glittering bril-
liancy of her eyes faded into a haggard steadiness: she look-
ed as if turned to stone, but she uttered no words, ~nd still
knelt in her place.
"I have not said much of what you owe to one whose life
is bound ~ip in yours," proceeded Mrs. Collins, after obser-
ving her with the keen coldness of a naturalist. "You, out
of all this vast creation; have power to develop that which
is. deepest and truest in Mr. Ashley's character: you should
strengthen him until he can emancipate himself from the
thra]doxn of years: you can make him happy and good, and
your life belongs to him;, his life belongs to you. You are
in spirit truly married to each other, and it is wicked to be
ashamed of so true a union. Do you wish your good to be
evil spoken of? if it be right to love him, it is right to pro-


254                AMY DENB1~0ok:
claim it, and that ~t is right ~to follow the spontaneous i~m-
pulses of your nature, your whole heart can testify-~y~ou
cannot help loving him. The inner life, and the outer ~x.
press~pn must agree-you must be truthful-you must have
no concealments or hypocrisies. You must indulge no feeling
that you fear to utter, you must be a type of the fearless and
pure woman of a coming day. Y~u are a vestal virgin, but
you have met the one who is to perfect you through his love,
an~l you must take your place at his side, in defiance of all
laws, all ceremonies. You must brave the martyr's doom
for truth's sake, and' then you wiLl Wear the martyr's crown:
not one generation will pass away before our views are
reverenced by the great4. and good."
Agnes spoke in a low voice. "Mrs. Collins, the degraded
and sensual cloak their wickedness under the banner of free
love.. I shall be classed with these. I know and feel that
Mr. Ashley is my true partner, and should I live thousands
of years, no beat of my heart would be given to~ another,
buJ how can I o~itrage the views of those most near to me?
they are sincere; they love me, although they are narrow
and bigoted."
"Therefore would you encourage bigotry? therefore
would you shut back the freer and more expressive life that
men need, to make them better and happier? 0, Agnes,
the sin of this world. lies ~vith women like you, who are
capable of great deeds but do them not. Who was classed
with publicans and sinners before you ?"
"0, press me no farther !" I reel on the brink of doom!

AMY DENBROOK.

255

flush! or I shall leap the precipice! I shall spring to
heavefl or hell! It is heaven, I, believe !" Agnes spoke
like a fanatic, and rose from the floor with her hands
clasped, her countenance kindled, and her whole frame
trembling as her soul swayed in the balances. There was
about her no trace of the calm, collected being of other
days. She quitted the apartment, and entered another
chamber, unmindful of the darkness-she panted for soli-
tude. She opened a window, and looked out upon the
clouded firmament; there w ~s dense blackness alone, no
star stole out from the' hidd ~n sapphire: one or two mid.
night lamps gleamed in the distance, trembling through the
mist. She sat down, and laid her cheek upon the window-
sill, reckless of the damp night winds; she sat there the
livelong night, save when with unslippered' feet she paced
2 the floor. Thiswas one night out of many: she was not
yet prepared to sacrifice her fl~ir fame. Months passed
away, during which time, Mr. Ilarrington's family ~vere~ in
the country she of course accompanied them: these months
~ only served to show her the absoi'bing nature of her affec-
tion; letters came from Mr. Ashley; at first they only ex-
pressed his attachment to her-at the last~ they entr~ated
her to cast her lot with his. Every day, every hour she.
grew stronger in the views that would justify her in yield.
ing to her heart; she came to embrace them at last with an
insane honesty of conviction; the wildness of herb love ren-
dered no sacrifice great, save that of tearing herself from
the object of it. She placed no confldehce in her uncle and

I,

A


256

AMY DBNBROOK

aunt, neither in any one ~vho would have opposed her
course strongly. She was secrefive, during the long
months of indecision and wavering; she blushed to be
frank, until she was wholly eluded; her head was steeped
in fallacies that rose from her heart. Mrs. Collins smiled
to herself to see her zeal and sincerity--she had aroused the
martyr-spirit: she had in the hour of temptation given her
the false ~Christ, and she had no pity. as she saw her pros-
trate in adoration. She was no wonder to this powerful
woman, who intrigued, and enslaved human souls from an
inherent love of dominion, and from a restless mental activi-
ty that found it necessary to expend itself: principles and
systei~s were valued only as means of power; she was
too cold and strong to feel the glow of generous enthusiasm
-she could as easily go from one theory to another, as
change her dress, carrying with her a faculty of convincing
others, where she herself was not convinced.

(
AMY DENBROOIC
CHAPThR XXIII.
WHILE many others had been inhaling country ,,breezes,
Amy and Isabel had been the occupants of a small chamber
in the upper part of the city: from school girls they ha4
become seamstresses-~-the panorama of their past life had
rolled away completely. They saw no one but Dr. Ken-
drick. Agnes and Diana did not even know where they
lived, for their letters were directed to "New-York City,"
at Amy's request. Isabel was happy, because her affection-
ate heart was satisfied , and she had neither fear nor care for
the future. She was often weary and annoyed, but except
at infrequent intervals, she was more proud and joyous in
her very soul than she had ever been. Not so Amy! some
brave elixir, ~oine spiritual strength had lifted her above
herself for a time, but sh~ relapsed, and often found herself
uttering, the inward exclamation: "I must be equal to the
life I have chosen."
She sighed for intercourse with the gifted and refined:
she had by her own act deprived herself of.this privilege.
She found herself everywhere treated with less attention
than when she dressed handsomely; both men and women


258          AMY. DENBROOK                                                                   259

AMY DENBROOK.

seemed to find her of less worth than formerly. At the
store where she obtained her embroidery, and where she
had often been a purchaser, she saw a nice but mean dis-
tinction made between the f~ishionable young lady, and the
dependent girl it seemed difficult to her to confine her
fingers to the shaping of vines and flowers, while her miiid
was receiving no rich material for future use. She could
not obtain books that would encourage and inspire her, or
if she did, she had~ little time to read them. Sometimes
when pressed with, thought she would say? Is there not a
corn mon-sense view to take of every subjec~? I think I
acted according to the highest intuitions of rn~ mind-they
have led me to a path that is tedious. But the step is
taken. I follow my convictions of right."
"0, how ~hot it is! not warm, but hot !" cried Bel, one
day breaking in upon these cogitations; she drew a long
breath, pushed back her hair, and fanned herself a moment
with her work . "I don't think I was cut out for adver~
sity! I declare! one would think it was the last of July
rather than~ September. Do you ~think, Amy, that we fully
realized how we should sit here in this den, and work
and ________"
9
"I don't know anything about it !" returned Amy with a
sharpness that showed l~er unrest.
Isabel Was silent, for she was accustomed to seeing Amy
angelic and 'cross in the same day: nature and grace were
at warfare in her breast. After the fapse of half an hour,
she said: "It seems, B~l, as if everything that is irritable

/

and wicked in my nature has been stirred up lately. I
thought I had almost conquered myself and was quite good,
hut I believe God is determined to show me to myself re-
lentlessly, that I may know a life-time is needed to bring me
into spiritual symmetry. I expected a kind of' divine rest
after I had crossed the Rubicon. Sing to me and charm
away the evil spirit that tyrannizes over me
Isabel obeyed, and sang a chant in a low, touching voice;
she sang from the Scriptures: "Surely lie hath borne
our griefs and carded our sorrows." Perhaps in the whole
domain of the Inspired Word, there was hardly another
chapter so full of moving consolation for Amy: her tears
fell in a soft shower, and when her sister had finished, she
smiled with trembling lips, as she said "You have done roe
so much good Bel. I know now, that I am where I ought
to be. It is my spiritual rather than intellectual nature that
needs cultivation; and these experiences are best for me, or
God would take me away frolA them."
Isabel listened with interest, but at the sound of carriage
wheels, she gave a delighted bound . from her seat, with the
exclamation: "There's the doctor's gig: you roust ride to-.
day, Amy !"
No! I don't want to! I won't !"
"But he said he was coming for you to-day '!"
"Tell him I am going out !" she laughingly pushed Isabel
out of the door, and as she closed it, remarked to herself;
"The idea of my going with him, when he would be wish~
ing every minute that I were Bel! Not 1!"

258

269


260             AMY DENJ3ILOOIC.

The doctor secured his horse, and then ran up stairs with
Isabel, and with such cordial and merry kindliness insisted
on having Amy for a companion, that she promised t~ go
next time; she saw that he had from his heart adopted her
as a sister, and she believed that it would be an actual pleas-
ure tq him to converse with her about one so dear to both.
label equipped herself; and proceeded down stairs with her
lover, looking extremely happy considering~ her anxiety that
Amy should go in her place.
The sun was yet two hours high: Amy speedily dressed
herself with the intention of calling at Mrs. Tlarrington's, in
order to ascertain whethev~Miss Leonard had returned from
the country: the letters of Agnes had grown shorter and
shorter, and the spirit they breathed was unlike that of
old: formerly she had talked of conquering, self; now she
spoke of selfassertion: she wrote with contempt of the
tyranny of custom: she referred to the weakness and nar-
rowness of individuals occasionally, regretting the common
inability of mankind to live true lives. She made no dis-
closures of her private experiehees, and Amy, conscious
that some powerful change had passed over her, was soli-
citous to learn the whole truth; that Agnes had less tender'
charity than she had formerly she could not but perceive:
that she loved her less ardently, she sighed to realize; but
she could not lose her, wjth all the other embellishments
that had passed away, and so she sought her in a mood that
was both sanguine an~ doubtful. She did not so misjudge
her, as to opposee tl~at her present extreme poverty would

260

t

MY t~ENBR00R.                   261
affect her in the sli hest degree. She went to Mrs. Har-
rington's and stood once more upon the great stone porch,
recalling the first t~me that she had passed the house with
her schoolmate at her side. A servant ushered her into the
parlor; the obscurity was so great at first that she could
see no one, but 'after an instant she saw Agnes rise, and
slowly approach her from the farther end of the room. Her
impulse was to run to her wish open arms, but at thisiack
of eagerness in her friend's manner ~she desisted, and waited
her coming wiTh an indefinable sensation of sorrow and re-
proach. They kissed each other, and sat down in silence,
ere either could resolve to speak of common-places; but
they did at length ask after each other's health, and the
health of friends; Amy had partially related in her letters
her mental conflicts relative to her position: she had often
thought how she ~hou1d relate verbally~9o Agnes all the
changes that had passed over her inward world, but there
was no flow of frar~kness to her lips: an intangible barrier
seemed to have risen up between them. Determined that
she would not strengthen it she said, in an agitated voice,
"You are changed, Agnes.! you are going away from me!
You do not love .me as you did 1"
Agnes hastily clasped her to her heart, and kissed Ler,
murmuring, "love you, darling ~ I do love you deeply, but
I am altered as you say-so altered that you may go from
me, rather than I from you. I have that to tell you, which
n~ay cost me your friendship. I have desired to tell you
ever since I have understood myself; and yet, Amy, "-she


AMY DENBI~OOK.                                              AMY DE~13I~00IC.            263

could not go on speaking; she rose. and walked the floor to
regain her calmness. "Come with me to my room !" she
said, after a moment. Amy followed her: when they reached
the luxurious chamber, Agnes locked the door, and passing
h&amp;r arm around her friend, seated herself with her on a
divan. Her resolute will gave her a steady voice. "You
may ~wt agree with me, Amy," she began, "but you will
not judge me as the world will: you know me intimately;
you will give me credit f4r honesty of purpose at least-
you' will believe that I am true to such principles as my
reason approvess"
A~ the utmost, Amy only expected to hear her say that
she had become a complete convert to Mrs. Collins' system
of Free Love; a cloud of regret passed over her counten-
ance, but she pressed 'the hand of Agnes, anti waited.
"I love Mr. Ashley, and I shall proclaim myself his wife.
I am such in the sight of heaven !" was firmly enunciated.
Amy started as if an earthquake had opened at her feet:
then for five 'minutes a dead silence prevailed. "A ~nes,"
she uttered at length, "For' your reputation's sake," for your
friends' sake, for your immortal soul's sake, recover from
this delusion! It will drag you down from every hope of
heaven. It will cast you upon the world a lost woman !"
"' You don't understand me, Amy. I am a truer woman
than I everwas before. I am on higher ground !" returned
Agnes with singular composure; her high color alone be-
tray ing excitement. "The assertion may sound 'arrogant,
but I believe that I have higher truth than you. I shall give

myself up to be burned at the stake of public opinion. I
shall drink every bitter draught the world can offer me, but
I shall not waver. I shall live with Mr. Ashley! Tell me',
now, have .1 your friendship, or not? Know me. as I am,
and choose !"
Without hesitation, Amy laid both hands in those of
Agnes, and then burying her face on her shoulder, wept
with abandonment, "I will cling to you until death,
Agnes! you are sincere, but oh! how terribly wrong !"
"I believe you will think ,as I do, Amy, ere tong. You
must see as I do, for you are liberal in your ~very nature."
"No! you are blinded by passion , and I still have my
reason~ left. I have no confidence in Mr. Ashley-he is
worldly and sensual; he is not an enthusiast like you!
'You are his victim-he is your seducer !".
"Amy! I cannot hear such language !" Agnes spoke With
icy decision. "There is not on~ woman in a thousand, who
is so true a wife as I am. You don't know Mr. Ashley:
he is the noblest being I ever met; he loves me with the
pent-up feeling of years; with perfect purity."
"So all women believe! so they have said for centuries,
going down, to infamy with the words on their lips !"
"Infamy !"
"Yes! what you call virtue, the world calls imfamy.
Agnes! I comprehend how you have, succeeded 'in deceiv-
ing yourself !-you are so' shrouded in the mist of fallacy,
that you seem to believe your seduction will take a different
name from that of others. I will speak truth to you now,


264          AMY DENBROOK.                                     AMY DENBROOK.           26~i

as I expect to meet you at the judgment bar of heaven.
You will simply be Mi; Ashley's mistress to every one
who knows you !"
"No more!" whispered Agnes, with uplifted hand-her
countenance was haughty in its sudden paleness, yet its an-
guish sniote Amy with remorse.
"Take my ci~ue1ty for the motive's sake !" she entreated.
"You have he~4rd Mrs. Collins and Mr. Ashley talk until
you have lost all true ideas of the world's judgmeiit. You
must have youz~ eyes opened! you must be saved from this
error! J cannot live unless you are saved. 0, Agnes!
I have so loved and honored you! I have thought you so
superior to myself. I could brave almost anything rather
than see you prostrate as you are, your fine intellect de-
throned, your once clear perceptions lost, your tender re-
gard for others trampled upon by this evil passion. I have
spoken of the world's judgment, not because I think that
the most important consideration, but because you are in-
fatuated in regard to it, and cannot see' what it will be.
Those who love you will deem you deluded, and those who
do not will deem you fallen."
"I will have patience! it is the first draught! Goon!"
came from Agnes' lips, ~s she sat with her eyes upon her
companion. "You denounce as wrong the deepest aid
holiest feelings of my, soul."
"Would holy feelings condemn 'Mrs. Ashley to torture ?"
"She does not love him !"
"You and he can force her on the rack of torture never

theless. Can God look upon you at this work with
approval ?"
"You have no idea ~of her violent and selfish character,
Amy! She only cares to debar Mr. Ashley his single
happiness, and that is found with me."
" What is more nittural? then she knows it !"
"Yes! she has long suspected it, and one week ago, when
I gave Mr. Ashley my promise to cast my lot with his, he
proposed to leave his sumptuous home in her possession!"
"lie will forsake his children?"
"He will leave them with her; he is so bei/ievolent that
he is willing to grant her every happiness in his power."
"Do your uncle and aunt know that you are going to
live with him ?"
"No! I shall let them know tomorrow. They know
that I love him; Mrs. Ashley came to see them the day
Mr. Aakley left hei~, and she denounced me to them by
every vile name lips can utter. I simply told them that I
loved him, and made no response to other questions."
"Does it not touch your heart to wound so deeply the
relatives who have taken pride in you, Agnes ?"
"I shall explain my views at length to them, and they
will not suffer deeply on my account."
"I cannot believe that; you are driving a sharp knife to
the core of your aunt's heart-she loves you as if you wero
a daughter."
"I don't agree with you, Amy, hi thinking that I should

264


266           A~(Y DE~U3ROoK.                                                AMY DEI~BRQO1t.             2~17

sacrifice Mr. Ashley's happiness to others. You fear the
common judgment of the world regarding me4"
"0, Agnes! I fear the harm you are doing your soul,
t~~ore than I fear the loss of your spotless name. I fear the
A~parture of the Christ-like spirit that you once possessed.
I t~'ear to see you blot the glory of the future that might 'be
yours, for the blind enjoyment of a day. Since you have
yielded to this affection, the happiness of 'others weighs as
nothing against your own. 'He that would save his life
shall lose it' says Holy Writ. You allow Mr. Ashley to
prefer himself in ceasing to cherish the wife whom he wed.
ded at the altar?"
"She is not his wife; he hates her."
"Jesus says, 'Love your enemies.' You 'encourage him
in hating her, rather than in looking mercifully upon' her.
Can your soul be in unison with his, when, he possesses no
religion, no principle, no spii'it of paternal sacrifice? can you
permit yourself to' love a man who can abandon hi~ own
offspring ?-who loves wine and horses and hThdsome
women ?-.who "-~--Amy hesItated, then said, "who has se-
duced one misguided girl before you ?"
A viVid blush passed over the face of Agnes: she did
not reply for many minutes, then she said, steadily:
"What you say is entirely false, Amy., You have been
misinformed: I will no longer hear him aspersed by you.
Speak of some other theme, or we must part now. Yet
tell me huw you heard this base story."
"From one to whom Mrs. Ashley 'told it 1" Amy arose

266

267

as she spoke the' words, 'or we must part flow,' stinging
her to the quick: she went toward the door, but a miser-
able, impotent yearning held her back: she looke~l around
with streaming eyes, s~iying, "I never believed that we
should thus divide? thus take our separate ways of life.
The irrevocable rnu.Tnot, cannot take place between us!
Forgive the 'frankne~ that is born of love! Remember, 1 say
forever! I will be true foi~ever !" she held out her arms.
They were locked in eadi other's embrace. "This is so
bitter! If you understood rjne, A my, I could bear the in is-
apprehension of those on whom 1 have lavished little love."
"Agnes! my good, toy noble Agnes !" besought Amy as
she stroked her hair, and pityingly kissed her brow.
"Wait one mouth hefbre you take the step you contem-
plate. 0, wait, wait at my entreaty ! It is not much
to grant me this! Think and pray! Resolve not to see Mr
Ashley for a month, and come and hide yourself with me
in my boarding house, away from Mrs. Collins. I will de-
vote every hour to you-we will walk tugethei', read to-
gether, write together,, sew together. You are carried away
by a wild enthusiasm of which you are not conscious; you
see nothing clearly. Come ith me for a little while, and
the spell will be broken. I am now in the deepest poverty
-4 have broken my engage t~ient as I hinted I rtxight do but
I am independent. 0, com~! Let me take you away, and
eritbld you in the atmosph ~re of my spirit. Mr. Ashley
and Mrs. Collins have mesn~erized. you with their powerful
influence. Let me go to your aunt and gain her consent."
12


'268          AMY DENI3ROOK.

AMY DEN BROOR.      269

"No! No !" sighed Agnes, tiot releasing herself from
her friend's arms. " To live one year with Mr. Ashley, 1,
would consent that all the rest of my life should be steeped
in wretchedness."
"Poor Agnes! what sane person would make such a
bargain !"
"It is right. I have prayed for hours to see aright, and
the blessed affirmation came at last with startling convic-
tion. It would be a sin for him to live with Mrs. Ashley
sin for me not to devote myself to him."
"When you first accepted his admiration, the enemy en-
tered into yu, Agnes. had you turned away then, when
you had strength,. you would not have grown so infatuated."
You have never loved, Amy; it has elevated my whole
nature: it has 'elevated Mr. Ashley's."
"Agnes! I shall never cease to believe you one of the
most intrinsically 'chaste women I have ever seen. You
cannot believe how much sensualism there is in Mr. Ash-
Icy's att;ichment for you; if you were c6arser, you could
believe it more easily."
"Unju~t ! unjust !"
'~ I give him credit for many noble qualities; he has
great natural benevolence and generosity, but I do not be-
lieve he will be faithful to you, except as Louis Fourteenth
was constant to Madame Maintenon, or Henry Eighth to
Catharine Pair. He is too old to expect devotion like
yours again !"
"It would be easier to forsake his own soul !" Agnes did

268

not look haughty or impatient: she looked eiitirelv fixed in
purpose, and it passed into Amy's thought that no knife-
stroke of hers could cut the chains of her soul-bondage.
She abandoned her arguments-and casting herself upon
the floor, buried her face in the divan ~nd wept over the
broken friendship that could never be riveted, except by
congeniality of sentiment and feeling': the cravina
impulse
of affection would not be silenced-she had so fe~V to love,
and she had loved Agnes so 'well.
Agnes sat down beside her. "Remember our days of
happy sympathy, Agnes !" sh~ said, looking up, "remem~
ber how we used to pace the piazza at school, and dream
out our future! Remember me in love, and do not look at
me through the pain I have given you. I would pluck it alL
out, if it can do no good.. Our lives can nevef' bear the ~'ela.
~ion to each other that they did: you go from me. I cannot
help going from you. how cai~ we meet, without frank-
ness, and that Will distress both. Yet I shall come to see
you sometimes, and my heart and arms will always be
open to you,!" she could not 'bring herself to ask where
Agnes would be found, after she went to live with her lover.
The room was enveloped in darkness; so intently had
the' thoughts of the two been engaged, that they had not
noticed the flight of time. Amy started up ifl amazement,
saying "I must go this instant~ !" After a hasty good bye,
she opened the door and started to go down stairs followed
by her companion.
"Let me send a servant with you, Amy !" said Agnes.

269


270          AMY DEN2BROOK.                                      AMY DIiNBLtOOK          271

* Amy laid her finger on her lip and listened involuntarily,
as a too familiar voice reached her from the parlor. It was
that of Mr. Second. A light laugh from Mrs. Collins ensued,
and then careless fingers ran over the keys of the piano.
"I ~c~h~tely h~we th~ blues to-night, if I do langh!"
said Mrs. Collins' voice. "Shall I play for you, Mr. Sooord,
and thus cheer myself V'
"Yes! play and sing both !"
Then commenced a soft sweet harmony; Mrs. Collins
was a skilful musician. Amy did, not w~iit to hez~r hei' rich,
delicious voice; she waved Agnes back with an imperative
gestu~'e, and then stole swiftly and silently down the stairs,
and through the lighted hall, without attracting the atten-
tion which she deprecated. She went out into the street
alone; ~she felt forsaken, and a jealous anger rose in her
heart against Mrs. Collins: her lip curled scorn fully to
find how soon Mr. Second solaced himself for her ldss, then
she rebuked herself, and tho.~ght how it would console her
to see him look upon her as kindly as of old. It was a
dark, terrible world! Agnes had fallen by the wayside!
she who stood a queen among women. Amy seemed to
herselC as if staggering under the weight of a dream, as she
threaded her way through the lonely streets to her home.
She felt as if~she stood in a slippery place; she trembled
lest in palliating the small beginnings of sin she might so
befog her own mind, as to 'become incapable of distinguish..
ingright and wrong, as Agnes had done: she put forth her
arms unto God as one bewildered, and hesoug'ht his protec..

tion. She thought of her meagre lot, at present uncharted
by one ray of earthly splendor; the passionate love of
Agnes had struck hei with amaze, yet it gave her a pained,
quick consciousness of her own capacities in this direction.
$h~ sighed out: "Almighty Father! let my heart be
folded up for heaven, rather than led into selfishness and, sin
by its affections. Teach me to b~ content with my duties
-with a sister's love. Teach me gratitude that I may still
walk in the path of innocence and truth--.walk onward to
everlasting brightness." She repeated to herself verses
that had often cheered her when she flagged in hope. They
were thesc
"I will hope forever, though pain and blighc
O'er my pathway ceaseless roll,
Fot I know that his name is Love and Light
Who ruleth o'er the whole.
And it seemeth but little, in all the count,
What shadows are on our way,
So the light of our being shall only mount
To the pure and perfect day.
The purer and clearer if all be won,
For the clouds that cradled the carly gun.
Bring pain and sadness with all their thorns,
I will drink the bitter cup,
So the light of my spirit be like the morn s~
Forever ascending up!
Be it hidden by earth-clouds, ~nd donned with tears,
Be its glory paled awhile,
If it only burst from the gloom at last
In the great All-Father's ~rnile!
And come what may of 'woe to me
I will hope throi~gh all that this sh~ll be."


I
I

AMY DENBROOW.~

273

AMY DENBROOK.
She reached home, and as she passed through the hall to her
room, she heard Dr. Kendrick's happy laugh in the parlor
and some playful words that fell from Isabel's lips. Again
she felt forsaken; her pathway seemed lined on either side
by human beings who tasted the poetry of existence. She,
in her strange craving for a perfect destiny, had twice
dashed away an insufficient draught: others were easily
satisfied, why was not she?
Arrived in her room, she tossed her bonuct upon the bed,
and falling upon her knees abandoned herself to the most
ardent grayer: she implored, that it might be her work to
win Agnes back from her error: that she might not weary
although years might elapse ere success came. She entreat-
ed for a charitable judgn~~~t, for her pQwer to see clearly,-
for strength to keep the narrow way herself.
When at eleven o'clock, Isabel came from, the parlor,
Amy had retired, but she had not closed her eyes; for
three hours they talked about Agiies, about Mr. S~~rd and
Mrs. Collins, and about Dr. Kendrick, then Isabel dropped
asleep. Amy's brain was too b~isy with thoughts which
she hoped might weigh with Agi-ies, to grow weary;
thought trooped upon thought, bdpe upon hope, until flush-
ed with eagerness2 she sat up in bed~ and ran over in her
mind such arguments as she believed were perfectly con-
vincing. Poor child! she had not learned that love some-
times annihilates reason, and revolves only around its own
center, ignoring every other. At daybreak she was sleep.
ing prc~Ioundly. Isabel ~hook her gently and bade her get

ready for breakfast: finding this had no effect she dropped
a little water on her forehead.
"Oh, Bel, you 'ye perfectly heartless!" she dreamily said,
covering her face.
"But you know, Aipy, that w~ must get that embroid-
ered band done by twelve o'ci9ck. if we don't keep our
engagCm9nt5~ they wont give us ~ny moi'e work !"
This was sufficient: Amy had entirely forgotten that her
life was that of a seamstress.L ~he arose, and workedd
diligently until the embroidery wa~ finished, then she
dressed herself for the street, and after her errand at the
fancy store was d9ne, she bent her steps to Mrs. IIarring~-
ton's. She dreaded to go, to meet Agnes, and speak words
that were painful to both; but her conscience would not
release her from this duty: she felt that it would eternally
reproach her, if she did hot use every faculty of her mind,
to prevent her friend from taking the plunge from which
no woman nse~. Alas! after she had left Agnes, the night
before, every arrangement had been made for an elope-
ment. Miss Leonard had gone with Mrs. Collins to the
ho~se of a mutual friend, over whom the latter had great
influence. In a back parlor Mr. Ashley waited .to con~mu-
nicate with his victim. As she entered the room, he came
forward, and clasped her to. his heart, wPh passionate
words.
"Is it over ?" she interrogated, looking in his face with
hope and apprehension.
"It is over !" he answered. "I have left. her! I have

*


I

274

AMY D~ fl3ROoR.

g'~~ up rnxr home, m,~ children, for you,. Agnes. Could
1~ iA~
gi~ e up my soul for you: I have given it up, for you are
my soul, my life! The vessel xviii sail to-morrow---the~
(,ur life of joy shall commence ~"
'r To-morrow ?" she repeated, yet not with fLltering. The
fatal morrow came, and wit~j it Mr. Ashley took from her
native land, Agnes Leonard.
Unaware of this, Amy went to Mrs. JIarritigtou's~ A
servant admitted her with the exclaination, "0, Miss Amy,
it's sorry news you'll hear! Miss Agnes has run away
with a married mane! The mistress hinted when she found
it out."
"Where is Mrs. Jlarrington ?" questioned Afr~y faintly.
"She's in bed, the poor lady! oh! if you'd seen the mas-
ter! you know it's a jolly man he is-~---but he looks like a,
ghost. It's little breakfast or dinner that's been eaten to-
day~?'
"jI won't intrude on Mrs. Ilarrington to-day, Mary.
Give her my love if she asks who rang the bell !"
Mr. Harri ngton suddenly appeared from the parlor.
"have you helped to craze that girl w~th this inferi~al Free
Loveism ?" he asked in a ster excited tone. "Mary !" he
painted to the kitchen stairs, t ward which Mary travelled
with p~'ecipitation.
Forgiving his rudeness, Amy~ answered, "I abl~or it fi'om
my soul, Mr. Jlarrington."
"Excuse my savageness, Amy. I believe I'm not in my
senses' to-day. I would rather have seen Agnes fiithom~
4

AMY DKNJ3R0OK

275

deep in the sea, or under the sod." He wMked up and
down rapidly. Amy was turning the knob of the door,
when he stopt before her, saying: "What do you know of
that Mrs. Collins ?"
"Nothing, except that she is an advocate of the views
that have misled Agnes."
"That woman is rotten to the core: to the very core!
that woman is lost to virtue. I believe it as firmly as if I
could prove it !-and I will prove it. I'll track her until I
find out all her anteceAents. Never until I learned it from
Agnes' letter this morning, did I know she was ,disseminat-
ing her poison in my house. I'll find her out, and then I'll
send Agnes a history of the woman whom she has trusted
beyond her own kindred. Agnes never darkens my door
again. She has made her bed, she must lie in it."'
An~y stood in embarrassed silence. Tears of grief and
excitement roIled down her cheeks.
"Go up stairs and comfort my wife 1" he said more
softly. "Your sympathy will do her more good than my
anger." He went into the parlor, and Amy went to Mrs.
Harrington' s room with hesitation: she tapped very lightly
at the door, and a low "Come in !" gave her admission.
At sight of her, Mrs. Harrington burst into a fres~ flood
of tears, for it was :evident from her appearance tl~at she
had been weeping profusely. She sat in an easy chair, care-
lessly clad in a wrapper.
"Mr. Harrington bade me see you," said Amy, taking a
12*

I


2743           AI~Y DEL~BROOK.

AMY DENBROOK.       277

in
dlU
i~I ~
ii
~ji;
p
'Ii
ill
ii
I
I
j1
.14
ip
P

('hair beside her, "or I would not have ventured into youi
bedroom."
"I am restless anywhere, Amy. You know our trouble
of course
"Yes !"
"Did Agnes confide in you ?"
"Not until yesterday afternoon! and then she told me
that you would know all to-day! I had no idea that she
was going to elope so soon."
"Mr. llarrington is so excited that it distressesme to see
him, lie says he would a~k no greater privilege than to
blow Mr. Ashley's brains oi~t. It is well thatMrs. collins
is out of the house !"
"Then she is gone ?" Amy quickly said.
"Yes! the deceitful woman! I supposed that Agnes was
only going to ride a little distance with her, to the house of
other friends in the city: Mrs. Collins, bade rni~ 'good bye'
with the coolest suavity, and told me smilingly that she had
borrowed a large trunk belonging to Agnes, as her ward-
robe had increased of late, but she would return it in a day
or two. I have discovered that she packed up Agnes clothess
in it, and she went with her to the wharf where a pilot boat
lay, that was to take Agnes and Mr~ Ashley to a packet
ship: they have gone to Europe. Here is her fatal letter !"
Mrs. Harrington handed a closely writtenn manuscript to
Amy, who read it eagerly: There was a singular excite-
ment in it~Vhere were no regrets, some affectionate express.
sion, and, a tone of superiority all through: it spoke of free.
C

dom in love and marriage, 6f individual sovereignty, and of
the rapid advances that the world was making toward truth,
whose waters were rising higher and higher; they might be
a little discoloi~ed at present, but they ~yould become clear
until all men should discover a pearly and pure foundation
The letter closed with the expressed conviction that her
aunt would soon sympathize with her.
"Isn't it pitiable ?" asked Mrs. 1larringto1~, as Amy l~iid
it down.
"Too pitiable! but she is so ~adly self-deceived !-~so
fearfully honest that God must lead her to hirn~elf at last:
lie can see why lIe should have mercy, when we can only
see occasion to grieve and tremble. Will you meet her as
a relative if she ever comes back ?"
"1 shall, but my husband says she shall never re-enter
the door she has so heartlessly left. In time I think I can
make him comprehend the sophistries by which she has de-
luded herself. You know it is more difficult for a man to
understand her, than for us. lie classes her with profligate
~ thinks we ha~~e always been deceived in tier,
and that she never was so pure as the majority of young
girls."
"That is a cruel mistake !"
"You see in her letter she says she wishes her friends to
know her view~, and the mode of life which she has calmly
chosen from the deliberate deductions of her reason. Alas!
she believes her judgment never was ~o blinded by affection
and excitement. She says she will do nothing in secret,

276

277


1~

that she is not willing should be proclaimed upo~i the
housetops. Mr. Ilarrington says that is only a bold strike
to appea~ as well as she can, after having plunged~ liersojf as
low as sl~e could reach: while the w~rld could be deceived,
e kept silent, but when she chooses self gratification on
one side, sli e flings defiance to the other, which must con~
demn her."
"I believe she thought of nothing but her love, and that
she seiz~d~anything that seemed to justify it, and turned it
2 over in her mind until she believed it," said Amy.

CHAPTER~ XXIV.
IN a lovely English cottage, situated in the suburbs of
London, Marcus Leonard lived with his fair young wife,
and baby daughter: there was a quit melody flowing
through their simple lives, which alternated with unrest on
the husband's part: his commercial business was not of an
absorbing character, and it left him time to think-to feel
that he was not sufficiently engaged in such labors as his
head, heart and hand fitted him for: his thinking and feel..
ino* brought about some favorable results, but the disparity
between what he could do, and did do, was often great, it
pressed upon him with a heaviness that impelled him toa
sudden start in the field -of benevolence. Sylvia did not
comprehend this style of experience: she never thought it
was a wife's privilege to quicken the heart of her husband
to such schemes as his 'brain could execute. She had a
sweet smile for him when he happened to relate with some
enthusiasm that he had just passed an evening with two or
three gentlemen who desired his co-operation in a benevolent
enterprise: this sweet smile of hers pleased him, but the

278          AMY DENJ3ROOX.                                        A~MY DENBROOK,           279

278

Q79


II
ii
I~ 2
is
~i{ is
5
Ss~i
* 1'
ii
ii
hi
ii,
I

next evening that he went to meet the aforesaid gentlemen,
she would turn her lovely thee regretfully toward him, say~
lug, "0, are you~ going to leave me alone? please hurry
back, Marcus, do !"
It must be confessed that he sometimes closed the door
and his lips in silence at this, and stalked away with a
chafed feeling', wishing that his wife were a help, rather than
a hindrance to hi~ weak virtue. A half hour's reflection
however, never failed to restore the little wife to her proper
position in his mind, as a child who was to be guided safely
by him to heaven: he almost invariably returned to her
with tenderness in his dark eyes, and the gentlest encourage
ment in the stroke of his hand upon her hair. 11e was hasty
in temper, naturally severe in expression when his anger
wa~ excited; the profound grief of Sylvia at a quick tone,
Gr sharp look had in 'a great measure cured him of this
tendency: she grew to love all things that tended heaven.
ward as he did, almost without being aware of the great
change that had been slowly wrought in herself: she leaned
greatly upon those around her) and measurably became
such as their influence made her; realizing this, her husband
sought to strengthen her, until the fibres of her soul should
enclasp as of themselves the divine truths which might sup-
port her. The shock which had seized him upon discover-
ing her unlikene4s to his ideal Sylvia had passed away !~
so had the delicious poetry of his passion, but a fondness'
reniained, taking its hue from the early love; it was cher-
ished, by her deep tenderness~although to him the witchery

of Jove had departed, ~angels perceived in his patient self-
forgetfulness a higher element than entered into his
'ooing: they saw that his mistaken marriage was one of
those providential circumstances which God uses to lead
soulS forward into heavenly places.
One day the lovely babe was brought into the parlor
fresh from her bath: mother and child formed a beautiful
picture as they sat by the open window about which trailed
late autumn vines: the day was warm for the season:
Sylvia pointed out to the baby the loaded wains that pasted
through the meadow and entered upon the winding ro d.
Mr. Leonard took the little one, saying, " i'll carry h~r
about the lawn, and show her. the artemisias."
"0, papa, she'll take cold unless I wrap her up."
"Fie, Sylvia, you never give her fresh air! Here! ill
E
this answer?' be caught up a gossamer handkerchief and
threw it over the child's head.
"Marcus, it is too early in the day to take her out.,
Please mind what I say !"
"I'll compromise! You may wrap her up to your
heart's content. You have ,a mania for preserving May's
life, when it is perfectly secure I"
Sylvia darted to the table exclaiming, "A letter came for
you yesterday afternoon, but I forgot to give it to you !"
lie paid no attention to the document, thinking it a ruse,
but settled his regard~ upon his daughter.
"This is your uncle Harrington's writing! I mean to
read it myself 1" proceeded Sylvia, inserting her delicate

A~1Y ~ENBR00K.

280              ~LMY DENJ3R001~.                                                                                281

0

280

281


282            AMY DENI3ROoK.

283

I
V
lily"
11
11
T
"I
V

forefinger under the envelope, ~nd breaking the red wax,
"I.~ that a letter ~OU little, witch ?" with the words, May
was deposited in her mother's arms, and he received the
letter: he took ~ chair by the window, and unfolding it,
read the following:'
"My DEAR NEPHEW :-lt is my misfortune to communi..
cate most unhappy intelligence. Agnes has eloped with
Mr. Clinton Ashlpy~: they will probably be in France when
this reaches you. I enclose you her address, which she left
in a letter to your aunt. Go to her at once, and tear her
from the villain, if it be possible-but do not return her to
her friends here, as it would be an unhappy situation for
her and them. You will see that her life should henceforth
be passed among strai~ gers. You have m~r profiundest
sympathy. We are ov ~rwhelmed with trouble at this oc-
currence, as you will be God support you, as He has not
supported me under this ~blow! Write as soon as you have
seen her.             I
"Your affectionate uncle,
"JOHN IIARRINUTON."
Marcus Leonard sat dumb and pale for a half hour after
his eye had encotintered this revelation, save that twice he
lifted the letter and' reread it. Once he sThiled a ghastly,
derisive smile, and passed his hand over his brow, pushing
back his hair, as if to find out whether he dreamed, or was

AMY DENBROOK.

S

still a safe man ; he at length arose, and walked the floor
he touched the mantle, and removed a little dirt with his
fingers; ah ! it told him that he was in waking life. He
looked towards his wife and child ; the former had watched
him in vague terror, as she had seen his pallid features
stiffen into fiei'ce severity, as if he were bracing himself for
conflict With deadly suffering; he sat down again, for a con-
fused darkness gathered over his brain, and his heart beat
with a choking pain, as it rose to ,its momentary task,
panting for freedom.
"May I read the ktter ?" timidly questioned the wife,
with whom curiosity was an active trait ; she had not the
tact to know that she should seem unobserving for a little
season; she picked it up from the carpet, where it had
fallen, and turned upon him her steady, anxious look. He
turned away his face restlessly, and then walked to the
window as if unconscious of his movements. After the
lapse of five minutes, Sylvia held out the letter, repeating~
"May I read it, Marcus ?"
He nodded an impatient affirmative, ~nd then entered
his chamber to be, alone ; it chafed him to be spoken to on
the matter before his shaken mind was steadied.
Sylvia read the letter through, and turned pale with the
shock it gave her. She wrung her little hands together,
with the cry "Gracious !" and then sat lost ii~i thought for
several minutes before she continued. "What is the world
coming to ~ 1 always thought she was so much' better and
wiser than 1, and now to think she should have turned out

282


p      ~
41
*1 ~
Ii~iJ

in this way! P.ior Marcus! it will make him so sober, he
wont notice baby and me in ever so long, I wish I could
comfort him, but when he gets b it seems as
thinking'  hard,
if he wanted to put me away until he had finished ; he goes
by himself until he gets all right, and then he comes to me,
as if I had no wise counsel for his hour of greatest need
when I am troubled, if he caresses me, it takes it almost
all away. I suppose he prays when he is alone."
This supposition Was not incorrect, ftr as Mr. Leonard in
his solitude, dropt upon a chair and bowed his head on a,
table, appeals of questioning went up to the throne of God;
they would scarcely be called prayers. lIe had been very
proud of Agnes; he had spoken of her to the English
friends, whom he most valued, and had confidently expected
to present her to~ them some time when she should visit
him. But flQW ! the crimson burned in his emples to
think of this; he did not believe her story co Id be kept
secret, and the sneer and scorn that would awai her, stung
him intolerably, as his imaginatiQ1~ pictured thet ; he ~as
fastidious regarding ~lelicacy in women ; he kn w how his
own censure fell upon such as did not possess it n manner
alone; how then would reputation light upon one who had
discarded it altogether, and had embraced a Ii of open
adultery ! There was a deeper source of misery to him,
and this was the reflection that she had harmed her own
spirit; he had no clue to the sophistries by which she had
travelled to her present position; the stupendous fact alone
stared at him; she was a fallen woman; one light gleamed

through the gloom, and that was the hope that she might be
rescued and restored to her former ~el.f. The thought of
disowning or discarding her never crossed his mind ; her
eternal good lay deepest in his heart, yet a flame of pa~on
blazed in his cheek, to realize that no consideration for her
kindred had held her back. lie was angered that his uncle
refused even to receive her, and yet stayed his reproach'
when he remembered that Mr. Harrington was a type of
many worldly men, and that one in a thousand would.
scarcely have acted differently ; those who make the world
an~ idol, rarely treat the fallen as if God could redeem them.
Mr. Leonard suddenly entered the sitting-room, saying,
"I am going to France to-day, Sylvia. I must leave imme-
diately 1" his grey eyes looked densely black, and the
former paleness of his cheek was supplanted by a fevered
glow. Syhia wa~ kneeling on -the floor as he spoke,
d4r~gling ~ne long ouri within reach of the baby's hand, and
then withdrawing it-she ceased this pantomine, as the
chamber door opened, and rose to her feet, encountering her
husband's look with one as grave.
" When shall you come back, dear ?" she questioned~
"In a ~ay or two! Good 1~ye!" he passed his arm
around her, and kissed her forehead.
"But shan't I put something in your portn-ianteaii?" she
inquired as he lifted his beautiful infant in hIs arms for a
last caress.
"No! No'! I want nothing. I may bring Agnes back
with me to live9 What do you say to that '?"

284             AMY t~1~NBP~OOK~.                                     AMY DENBRQ0K               285

284

285


280        AMY DENBROOg.                                                    287

1'

Her countenance fell, but she i~esponded, "That is just as
you say, Marcus, but-~"
But 'vhat ?"
'~Vhat will people say, if they find out about her ?"
"That is not the question, Sylvia. This is the best home
for her !" ~IIe left the house without an added word, aiid
Sylvia sunk into a chair, and began to cry; the decision and
sternness of his manner pained her; her heart did not leap
at the hope of Agnes' deliverance; it sunk to think she
could never praise or defend her: she felt within herself a
shuddering reserve toward the strange girl: it sprang from
a total incapacity to understand her; the boldness and im-
morality of the step were inexplicable. Letters to Marcus,
which 'revealed so fully the character of Agnes gave no in-
sight into the' nature of the affection which had governed
her. Sylvia r~proaehed her husband in thought, and con-
sidered him unkind in his intention of bringing then-i to-
gether. This was not unnatural, for it is proverbial that
wives are not partial to forming a household with their hus-
band's relatives~ it is more agecable to do as one wishes,
unchecked aiid 4iwatched.
Speedy       brought Mr. Le~nard to an 'old chateau,
not many miles from Paris;, he did not stQp to note the
grey old stone of the building, nor the lacing of a thousand
ivy-vines about the deeply imbedded windows ; the pleasant
paths and grand old trees, arid distant view of river, hill
and field, purpling under the setting sun, had for him no
meaning; the fragrance of vineyards scented the air, and

when he had ascended the sloping lawn, the perfume was
borne to him like tender memories that rolled in upon him,
and then passed away. As he advanced toward the arched
entrance of the dwelling, he lifted his eyes at the sound of
voices above him; they came from a balcony, where Agnes
sat holding a book, and listening '~vith happy smiles to
words from Mr. Ashley, who toyed with br~ids of her hair.
A sudden exclamation' from her brother, called her attention
to him; a rapid change passed over her countenance; almost
at the same instant, she inclined her head, and breathing the
word "Marcus !" she arose. In a moment more she had
met him silently, and he had followed her to a small morn-
ing re~in; they sat down, for their hearts only could be
heard, as they strove for strength and calmness; neither
could immediately over-power feeling~ After a hurried
glance at her brother, Agnes looked out of the open
window by which she sat; she was driving down the wild
tumult that choked her, and serving ~herself for a defence of
her conduct; her graceful figure grew more stately in its
carriage, as she lifted her w hite hand to support her cheek;
she was very simply dressed in a robe of tissue, whose pale
lavender tint gave her an almost ethereal look ;. a rosy
cloud from the western sky threw over her its soft attn os-
pheric glow; she had grown thinner and paler since they
had met, and had her inward nature suffered no change,
Marcus would have said, lovelier in her intellectual beauty.
Upon a small table near her lay a few books, a few minia-
tures, and some embroidery. The volume of excitement

~I
II
ii
Ii    ~,
"'4'
~4i'
It
1    4Z~
'4"
44''
144

ese

287


288              AMY DEN13R0oI~.                                              AMY 'DIiNBROOI~.             289

had seemed to swell with every league that brought the'
brother nearer his sister, and her seducer. At last he said,'
"Agnes I" in a voice low with concentrated feeling.
She turned to him with a mingled look of love and
defiance, answering, "Do not 'you misjudge me, dear
Marcus ii"
"Misjudge you? are you x~ot then the paramour of Mr.
Ashley ?-the mistress of a man of fashion'? Are you not
GodA'orsaken? Are you not devil-possessed ?"
She had not looked for the passion that broke from his
tongue and eyes; he kept some rein upon himself, as was
evident from the not loud intonation of his voice, yet
never had she 'seen all the strong elements of his character
so fiercely aroused; she had relied upon his respect for her
and upon his knowledge of her native purity, and desire for
actual truth4
"Do you know me so imperfectly, Marcus ?" she whis-
pered, "as to suppose I would act contrary to my con-
science? IJow little you compreheiid me !"
"What do you mean? what is there for me to compre-
hend I" he interrogated quickly, as a faint, 'bewildering
hope of some mistake broke into his mind.
"Did you not receive a letter detailing my whole past
history to you, with my present views ?"
"I received no such letter U'
"Marcus! I have heai'd you say that you did not dis-
believe every man's spirit had a counterpart in some woman's
spirit !"

4'
'4
If
f '1

He nodded impatiently; she bowed her face upon the
broad window-seat to gather up her strength, for a tide of
qn(Tujsh shook her as with a chill.
"Do you say, that that man is your counterpart? that
you are mated to one like him ?" he arose, and walked the
floor a moment, and then stopped befoPe her, regarding her
with mournful compassion. Agnes ! your reason is shaI~en,
You could not have acted thus, unless it were so. You are
a dupe! You have been mesmerised! 'Let me take you to
my home, sister? Let me c~irry you in my heart, and
prove your shield against one who has crept in, serpent-like,
and beguiled you of all that is lovely and of good report?"
She looked up with a firm aspect, even with icy rebuke;
her will stilled the trembling of her nerves. "Is it possi-
ble, Marcus, that you can believe me guilty of an act un-
worthy Agnes Leonard? I do not expect the multitude to
understand me, but from you 1 have anticipated sympathy,
patience, respect. I pardon your injustice to Mr. Ashley,
believing you know nothing of his interior life and motives
-to me he is almost god-like !'~
A sharp, scornful laugh rang from her brother's lips-
with 'such a laugh men sometimes receive tidings of misfor-
tune.
Agnes proceeded in a tone that would have cut through
mountains, had it been physically embodied "In living
'with Mr. Ashley, I am living out my highest idea of God's
truth. I may not be his wife in the eyes of men, but I am. in
the sight of my Maker, who created him for me and none

288

289


290           AMY t~N131~0OK.                                         AMY DI~NLUtOOK.            291

other. I should be guilty of treachery to my highest per-
ceptions of truth-I should outrage my holiest womanhood
did I refrain froi~ accepting his love openly and proudly.
Marcus dropt his head between his hands, for his soul
writhed: he felt that if his spiritual sight could be opened,
he should see his once loving sister surrounded by a band
of persuasive demons to whom she was utterly obedient1 !-
their tyranny was absolute; shehad listened to them, and
they came in flocks to justify the love that she had cherish-
ed; at first she had cherished it with a sense of its sin ;at~
last with a sense of her incapacity to part with it-.and then
the demon-crew exerted all their skill to counsel her as dis
sembling angels of light. Not rarely do we meet with men
and women who draw us within the spiritual sphere that en~
compasses them, sometimes for good, and sometimes for
evil; it behooves us to watch whether our natures are ole-
vated or lowered by this contact. Agnes had been drawn
within the influence of Mr. Ashley's nature; it wa~ fused
throughout her own, until her former self was quiescent.
This was also the case with him; her purity tempered his
sensuality, and he uttered sentiments that would have
astounded his *boon companions; yet was self-gratification
his leading object, as it had ever been: it took a different
form only, putting on the "harmonial, affinitive" type to
suit his circumstances.
Believing from her brother's silence and attitude that his
mood was changed, Agnes continued in a less steadfast voice:
"0, Marcus, if you had thought, and wept, and prayed for

I

t~'uth as I have done, Y0N' would believe me to be in a more
exalted state than formerly. I strive to do good-I have
x isit~d the p~1', and Mr. Ashley never refused to succor a
suffering fellow creature; he would spend his thousands to
flake those I love happy: hs cares for tfie least object that
I regard. lie is worthy the esteem of one like you, and the
time must come when you will accord it to him !"
Marcus stifled his impatience at this, and said, "Truth
is it Protean-visaged, Agnes? Is it to you one thing, and to
me another? has the Creator left us to wander and stag-
ger about in a labyrinth, with no rules 'for the conduct of a
blameless life? No! he who runs may read, and wilful
wrong alone on man's part can throw a cloud between him
and his God. I have spoken to you hastily in the sharpness
of my feelings. I am an erring man myself-I have suc-
cumbed to many temptations1-temptations of thought
rather than deed. I desire to have some charity for diversity
of character and education in others. I desire to remember
that all human beings tire looked upon with hopes of amend-
ment by the 'company of heaven.' It would gratify me to
kill Mr. Ashley. But I will judge him from his standpoint
and not mine-I remember that his early training has been
different, and that the seeds which have germinated such sor-
row for your friends, have been dropt into his heart for
many a year. lie has his passable points, no douiht, but
from my standpoint he is-villanous !" he passed his hand
across his forehead, and rising, paced the room.; there was
something in th~ aspect of Agnes that assured him nothing
13

1$
4,4

291

290


292               AMY DE1~J3ROOK.
c~uld be gained by passion or want of justice. "You ~ay
y~u strive to do good-if I convince you that you have
wrought more evil than good by your-your manner of lit,
will you abandon it, and come 'vith me ?" he, looked at her,
not hopelessly, as he paused in his walk, and st6od before
her. "Speak, Agnes! your manner of' ~ife throughout
eternity may hang upon your fidelity at this hour!"
"I do not hesitate to speak from indecision. I will bQw
to the flat of truth aiwa vs. Isay 'YEs.'"
Howhave you done good to.the poor here? you have
been here, ho~v long ?"
"A week. I have fed the hungry, I have done Mr. Ash-
icy good !-he becomes more pure and heavenly through
me !"
~c'~That else have you done ?"
"I have kept my conscience void of offence !"
"You would have cheered the suffering, had the opportu-
nity offered ?"
"Unquestionably, Marcus?"
"You acknowledge that the Saviour was worthy of adora-
tion when he healed the broken-hearted ?"
"Yes !"
"You acknowledge that be was wise when he sent the
young ~man away sorrowful ?"
'~ Yes !"
"You have spoken to me of the happiness you havo
given lately ! Let me lift the curtain and relate the misery!
hi a splendid house, a woman sits alone with devil~ tearing
N

AMY DENI3ROOK.

293

her heart: she is helpless under their fierce onslaught! she
is a forsaken wife, and the world pities her. You have
joined hands with Mr. Ashley to set the devils upon her:
in the same house two young girls strive to hide the sting-
in~ crimson of shame and offering that springs to their
faces at the remembrance of their father's act !~-yot~ joined
with him in burning in the j crimson shame. I have been
told that he was a kind and indulgent father, that they
honored him-you hayc silenced their lips-the lips that
loved to praise hiin-.-they believed that he loved them xveli
enough to hand them down an unspotted name: if he had
committed sin, before, they had not known it-you have
overthrown their reverence !"
"Marcus! tfri~ is not so! his children will honor him all
the more when they understand his motives! neither am I
responsible for Mrs. Ashley's temper of mind !"
"Nay, Agnes, hear me out. I am simply drawing a pic-
ture of consequences. Mr. Ashley has scores of gay friends,
among whom are men of business and men of fashion-few
of these may be too good to sin discreetly, yet among theni-
selves they xviii laugh as they hear his story, and exclaim:
'Devilish weak on his part! Why did he not keep the wife
and the fair frail one also!'"
Agnes paled and reddened under the torture, but her eyes
did not remove their steady fiery gaze-lie went on.
"Other acquaintances he has--men of high moral princi-
ples, who had known little of him, but from his generous
bearing when called upon to perform a kindly deed; they

A
I

0
8


294              AMY DENBRO0K.
had deemed that he was better than he has~ been proved:
he has lost the esteem of these men, and you have aided
him to lose it."
"Marcus! when his love was mine, would you have seen
him retain Mrs. Ashley? would you have had the world's
opinion all powerful with him ~? I honor him because he
could resign it !"
"He would have deserved honor had he resisted tempta-
tion as an act of justice to his wedded companion. As he
did not-I despise him: less perhaps than I should have
done, had he sought to retain his position before men. In
his infatuation, he has fallen with yOU in public Opinion : he
has taken a stand from which he can never rise. I believe
his passion at first cOntemplated only your downfall, but it
has wrought his own. But to the picture. In another
house, a tender natural heart laments as Rachel lamented,
but far more bitterly-the ewe-lamb that she loved is gone
-has willingly forsaken ~her, flinging 'back to her wounds~
and bruises with every step of her clandestine flight. The
fugitive went forth in her foreign home to do good: doubt-
less Christ himself and his holy angels came down to heal
the heart that she had bruised: her ears were deaf to its
pain. Beside this suffering woman sits a man who has no
God to go to-almost he has been persuaded to be a Chris
Pan by the virtues of his wife and adopted child, but now
the doubts of a former' time rise with tempting vigor in his
sot~il-he has long and carefully watched church-goers, per-
haps hoping to find among them the 'balm of Gilead,' the

AMY DKNBROOK.        29~i

strength of salvation, the grace of unselfishness. ~She to
whom he looked for the verification of his hope has stung
him with a smart so 'intense, that faith both in religion, and'
4
in woman is assaulted: she might have ministered to his
good until his silvered head sunk in the grave, but he waves
her off as a polluted thing that has don~ him deadly: harm:
he stipulates to be delivered hence-forth from her ~res-
ence."
"Uncle Harrington stipulates for, this ?" faltered Agnes.
"Aye! it is so, and the influence upon him is not unlike
the effect of your conduct upon the many friends who have
respected you. It is idle to tell you that you have given
me the cruelest pain of my life, Agnes! this strange meet-
ing, and stranger speech are witnesses of it. Beloved, de-
luded one, will you not retr~kce your steps? has not the evil
over balanced the good? Will you come with me?" he laid
his band upon hers, as he bent ovei' her : his low, thrilling
cadence moved her, alas! deeply, but she responded'.
"No, Marcus !"
"Would to God that light from heaven codld reveal you
to yourself, Agnes !" he uttered. As he was about to speak
again, she said, "I have listened to you, my brother! no~v
listen to me. There is' one central truth in my soul that
sweeps all you have said away, and reveals to me my duty~
Mr. Ashley is my true, spiritual husband, and to cleave to
hjm is my paramount obligation: 1~ could fulfil no part of
my destiny truly, did I nQt fulfil th'e highest part first:
nothing can shake me; you can make me suffer as you have

4

1
i


296            AMY DENBEOOR.                                      AMY 1~J~NBROOJ~          297

done, but my marriage is of an indissoluble character. I
am sorry that my friends grieve on my account, but 1 can-
not come down to a lower level to gratify them. I can only
hope that they will soon see as I do. I find my recompense
for all the wrongs I stiffer, in my husband's love: I lean up-
on principles, that can support me through the bitterest
persecution."
"Your principles would become rottenif~ss, Agnes, should
Mr. Ashley's love fail you. You lean Upon passion, not
principle. No man of true nobility would have degraded
you for his gratification."
"1 must be permitt6d to judge of Mr. Ashley's character
for myself; I know him far better than those who condemn
him."
A' I judge him by his deeds !-hi~ good and evil deeds: he
comprehends far better than you the depths to which you have
fallen. You have taken ~ a mad theory-you crazed your
brain with it, after your heart was crazed by illicit love.
was this not so? Did your embrace the Free Love prin-
ciples you avow, before he told you of his love 2"
She preserved ~ cold silence~ foi' she could not dent the
truth of this: he proceeded "Agnes, when you first wil-
lingly listened to seducing tones from. that man, the serpent
went hissing through the garden of your soul-the aspect of
all former truths was- changed: you were persuaded to eat
from the-tree of death. Principles, to be of worth, must be
embraced when the reason is calm and deliberate-the hour
of temptation is no time to seize upon new theories

such hours we have enough to do, to cling to the landmarks
that we trusted, when judgment and no~ feeling was om nipo-
tent. I pity you from my soul, Agnes, for you ar~ in a
feai ful case. A more simple girl would have bemoaned her
love-but~yOu tax every faculty to justify it-you glory in
your misfortune, and would say to others, 'Eat! ye shall
be as gods, knowing good and evil! Ye shall not surely
die!' The passion has struck into your marrow, my poor
sister: if it ever be extracted, you will cry out, 'The ar-
rows of the Almighty are within me, and His hand presseth
in~ sore!' Oh! come with me now! awake from your soph-
istries now, and it will spare you a portion of the advancing
woe! You will see the pitiable error into which you have
fallen !-the pitiable sin ! I cannot be elected to heaven, and
not you, my sister! my sister! my sister! 0, think how we
walked the ~vay of childhood together! think how we talk-
ed in the twilight !"
She rose and cast herself upon his breast, weeping wildly.
"I mind me of all our love, Marcus !" she sobbed, as soon
as she could speak, "Because you love me, I would not
ypu          1 am   o'ood as I ever was!  I love all
cause,   sorrow,       as b
that is noble and pure; a fullness of love has opened the in-
terior chambers of my being. I was created to love-Mr.
Ashley is the high priest of my spirit. I am in truest
order-in far truer order than are you." She released her-
self, and stood a little way from him, then as her limbs
trembled, she sank on her chair.

A


298        AMY DENPAO0K.                                AMY DENI3UOOK.        29~

"What do you mean, Agnes ?" he questioned, resuming~
his own seat.
"You are living with one who can never understand or
appreciate you. 1 judge from Sylvia's letters that she. is
childish and 'superficial. God never mated you to her; she
can nqver enter the sanctuary of your soul; she can never
satisfy the cravings of your heart. I believe yet that you
will cut the Thise tie that binds you to her !"
"Qood Heavens, Agnes! would yo'u bring about the
wickedness of the French revolution, by throwing disrepute
on the marriage-coven afit? Would you let loose upon society
the blackest dregs of the human soul? Would you have me
break my sweet wife's heart? Would you have me go in
search of some other woman to love? Would you have my
tender Sylvia given over to any scoundrel who might pretend
to love her? Would you have her left dying by the way side
panting out her heart at desertion? Would you have
child separated from one of her natural protectors ?"
"You draw an extravagant picture, Marcus! Both you
and Sylvia will fail in developing the highest elements with-
in you, irntil you are each mated to your own !"
"Thou shalt not commit adultery" is a mandate I can
violate only at peril of my soul. We shall developed
angeltically only as w~ give heed to the Bible. The fhncy
often glorifies an actu~d being into the desired ideal; ~'our
fanny has done this; ~the fancy of many another has done
'the same; when the i fusion is dissolved, the rev~dsion of
feeling is so great, that the most explicit commands of God

are sometimes necessary to keep the tempted in the path of
right. I agree with you, that 'the Divin.e Being whose
wisdom and love are infinite, has created His creatures with
wonderful capacitics~of attachment; but lie has hedged our'
way with preeept~ that will guard us from falling into sin.
Agnes you are in the school where errors may be amended
-you have not yet entered' upon the endless Hereafter! con
over, though it be with breaking heart, the pages which the
Divine Teacher has opened; learn y9ur lesson of life right
and you will retrace your steps, and leave Clinton Ashley
forever."
She strove to speak, but only shook her head dissentingly.
"Once," he continued, "you were ready to embark all
the energies of your soul in doing gQod: you went into
society with a deep purpose 1-you mingled with the world,
and yet you were not of the world! -you sat beside the
weak woman of fashion, and strove 'thro~~gh the crevices of
chance conversation to drop some seed that might spring up
hi beauty !-you soothed the paiw.strieken, and gave no
wounds yourself. Now hox~ stupendous the change !-y ou
have bartered a wide-spread 'influence for self gratification
--you have buried yourself in obscurity that you might
feast upoi~ your happiness alone !-you have ceased to be a
support to others, and have become a stumbling-block 1-
you have given yourself to the service of one whose love is
selfishness-already it has narrowed and degraded you, un~
til you are scarcely recognizable 'as the spirit I knew once!
0! if you were otherwise !"
13*

ii
A
I

299


300               AMY DENBROOR.
I
"0! if you were just !" she answered. "As you are not,
I must say, forbear! I will hear no more on this subject'
from you: you. might as ea~i1y attempt to turn the stars
from their courses, as to turn me from n~y destiny. My
love is immutable as the everlasting rocks, and the pure
love of my husband will perish only with his annihilation.
Call me sister, or a fallen woman, i't is all one. I know that
I am worthy of the place I once held in your heart, but I do
not ~sk for it! I only desire it as a free, spontaneous gift.
I love you, Marcus! T'always shall!"
Seeing that nothing could change her mental position, ex-
cept the revelations of experience in the path she had chosen,
Mr. Leonard ,said after long reflection: "We part then,
Agnes! I forbear to urge entreaty or argument upon you,
but we do not separate without my uttered warning. Most
brothers would take you from that man by force: Mr. Ash-
ky's love for you may last as long as he lives-I do not be-
lieve that it will, in its fres~i ness. In yen world that we are
going to t~r judgment, I b ~lieve that the veil will fill from
your eyes, if it does not here: if you refuse to be con-
trolled by aught but your selfish passion, you will awake
upon the shore of eternity, and be restored to clearer vision
by terrific shocks of sumering. I believe the broken hollow-
ness, of your theory only will emancipate you :' I leave you to
its proof I believe that you would fain live a christian life,
but you ar~ seeking. to do it with your sin hugged to your
breast: I believe that you will never enter heaven in com-
pany with ~this sin, as you seem to hope you will! divine

AMY DI~XBR0OK.         301

laws do 'not clash with the well being of society, as your
phil phy does: they forbid your iniquity! Farewell,
Agnes, farew~lI, only sister! shoi4d you change-come to
me !" he held forth his hand as he arose* she rose also,
swaying backward and forward a~ she did so: she put forth
her hand apparently without seeing his ; he supported her
wi~th his arm, and saw that her eyes had a vacant sorrow in
them, but no clear intelligence; ~ier white lips' were thrown
gaspingly apart. lie sprinkled ~vater on her face from a
glass pitcher that stood on the table near, and she partially
revived, repeating " Farewell !" in a whisper: he gently
~laced her in, the easy chair, 'which she had occupied, and
~hen left her without once turning his head. lie was a man
who looked into the arcana of mental and spiritual action,
and placed it above transitory effects, therefore he did not
wrench her away from her lover, fearing such a co~xrse
would make her a public advocate of the views he hated;
her will was indomitable.
He had no sooner gone, than Mr. Ashley, who had watched
his departure from an upper window, sought Agnes: hex
head wqs drooped low: her pale hands were still and
strengthless: ~he was insensible: he raised the head, and laid
it upon his heart, he rubbed the cold hands, and looked to
see the breath return. When consciousness was restoi'ed
she was borne to her chamber, where she languished in ill-
ness and mental suffering for many days; a passionate
heart watched over her. When she xva~ able to read, Mr.
Ashley placed in her hands "Abelard and Heloise,"

I

'I
I
4


302       AMY DEXBROOK.

AMY IJENI3ROOIC.            303

"I~aphaeI" and similar works tending to stimulate the pas-
sions, rather than the judgment.
Marcus Leonard hastened to his home: when he met the
meek and glad caress of his wit'e, arid hissed her brow and
lips, it seemed to her that his benediction fell upon her; his
soul uttered with ~Jeepening fervor the words of a former
r
time, "i will be faithful uhtil death, my gentle Sylvia !"                           CHAPTER XXV.
AFTER leaving Cape May, Mrs. Blake and Dia
time among the mountains of New llampsl~
was late in November ere they returned to
New-York. One rainy day, the two sat alon
parlor, endeavoring to amuse themselves; th
pied a fauteuil, and negligently looked over
the daughter reclined upon a sofa near the
turned over the pages of a novel. Finally
and threw it on a chair, exclaiiping: "Moth4
any mysterious murders, steamboat explosions
in real life'in that paper, do read them to
is not interesting."
"1 have just been reading 'an incident ffi
I do believe it refers to that affair of Ag
"0 let me see !" cried Diana, springing
aild taking the paper; she ran her eyes over
to that of Agnes, and ~then threw the p~ape
saying, "That incident may describe a do

na spent some
tire, so that it
their home in
e in the front
e mother occu-
a newspaper;
window, and
she = closed it
~r, if there are
~, or 'romances
ne! this book
high life,' and
nes'. Shall I
from the sofa
a story similar
on the' floor,
zen tragedies.
41
ii


204              AMY DE~BflOOK
I'nt sick of the v~ odd, mother ! there's nothing but sin in it.
There's Agnes I always thought her the saint, and myself
the sinner. J trusted In her, and s~e bow she has justified
the trust! I believe I am wise to appear heartless~ !-4 shall
disappoint no one! It is so hard tobe disappointed in one
you have reverenced !" she went to the window and looked
out upon the gloomy sky; and falling rain. "Mother !" she
said, turning round, and speaking with deep feeling.
"Nothing seems to me so desolate as 'the belief that there
is hardly in the world a heart large enough for me to trust.
If I should lose the power of pleasing; If I should lose
health and money, how many would cleave to me? would
not even you grow weai'y in my service ?"
Tears of wounded feeling rose in Mrs. Blake's eyes at the
suspicion; she answered, '~ You should know mc by this
time, my child !"
"And I do !" responded Diana, with her whole heart in
the words. "Dear mother !" and she took an ottoman at
her another'~ feet, and laid her cheek upon her knee. "My
useless life is devoted td a throng of mere acquaintances:
they know nothing of me, though I seem to live for them.
But when I ask for faithfulness, I turn to you."
"What h~is come over you, Diana? You have no spirits.
at all to day !"
"I've been thinking! I hate to' think! We've been in
town a week, mother, and" Amy Denbrook has not come
iear us. If I knew where she lived, I should go to het' at
once, but she has not given me the number of her new resi..

AMY DENBROO~        305

deuce. Ileigho! I won't like her better than she likes
rue' 1"
"0, Di! how forgetful I am! Amy and Isabel called
here three days ago, and as you were away, they left their
number with Biddy. The card is on the table 1"
"Is it ?~' exclaimed Diana with a brightening countenapce
she went to the table, and found the card. "Goodness,
mother, they live on C- street! What does it meaw?
such a poor neighborhoo~iI! I thought the girls were Mr.
Scored's adopted children, and that even if Amy did not
marry him, it would not change their relation to him in that
respect. It w~s provoking in her not to tell me why the
contract was broken: she nearlyy announced the fact !"
"Perhaps he broke it, Diana !"
"No!" was the decided response. "I'm going to see her
this instant, though it rain a deluge, and I float there in an
ark."
"Yan can't go today, my dear. The carriage was broken
yesterday !"
"N'importe! where there's a will, tl~ere' s a way. I'll
walk! l'm not anxious to have Jerry curl up his aristocratic
nose, when he deposits me at the door."
"They made a great many acquaintances in our set last
year, Di! When pover~Y comes in at the door, love~ flies
out at the window."
"Of that fact, Airiy has a bitter conscipusnesS, mamma,
She was always fully sensible that half ~be attention she re*
ceived was on Mr. Second's account, and not her own. She

a


306           AMY DE~BROOi~.

307

AMY DENBR0OI~.

classes me among her friends; I look upon it as complimen-
tary !"
CC J wish you could be persuaded not to venture out in
the rain !" Mi's. Blake looked after Diana as she proceeded
'to the door.
"Sois tranquille, ma chere mere! it won't hurt me !"
"If you will go, give my love to the girls !"
In a very few minutes, Diana was equipped for her walk.
or rather ride in the omnibus; for, after she started, she dis~
covered one that bore her within a block of her destination.
She found the house without difficulty, and being directed to
the room occupied by her friends, she tapped at the dool',
and was admitted by Amy, who exclaimed, "Diana Blake !"
and then embraced and kissed her heartily, adding as she
offered the chair from which she had risen, "Did you rain
down ?"
"Yes, I did that very thing. Where's Bel ?"
"She's ironing muslins in the dining room below! she
~i'ill be in presently."
"iDid you ever see such weather? is'nt it scandalous? its
enough to spoil one's disposition !" Diana tried to smil?,
but the change in her school-mates' circumstances was so
great, that she broke down, and fairly cried: Amy's patient
face touched her deeply: the little chamber seemed like a
prison. Amy more than half guessed the cause of Diana's
tears: her courage rose exultant, yet so affecting is it to be
ge~iuinely pitied and to contemplate ourselves through corn-

passionate eyes, that she came near dropping a tear over
herself as she asked, "What is the mattel', Diana ?"
"The juiriping toothache, I guess; or something like iii !"
responded the gay girl, brushing away her tears, and try-
ing to keep them back.
Amy laughed; one drop fell over her cheek as she did so,
but the disposition to pity herself fled as if by magic.
"Are you sorry for Bel and me ?" she asked.
Diana nodded, not yet quite restored to herself.
"Well, my dear, you know that imagination is powerful
in making us happy or miserable." Amy philosophically
replied: "To be sure, this room is slightly contracted, but
then Bel and I have. been used to poverty, and that makes a
great difference. Now if we gain a real good by living as
we do, we are richer than if we lived handsomely. We are
copying the character of Diogenes, and it has benefited us
already. I confess, Diana, that I am not as candid by
nature as I hope to become. I want to call things by their
right names; I want, to cease to be ashamed of the lot that
is, and has been mine. I am trying to be and not to seem;
it is ' a daring effort, and I often fail, but to you I will be
frank."
"Then tell me if you found it easy to take your present
position! eli me, if you 'stood in no dread of unfriendly
gossip ?"
" I did! the littleiiess of my nature seemed all-prevail-
ing."

V.

306


803            AMY DENBnooK.                                           AMY DENBRO01~.            309

"Did you ~ break your engagement on the impulse of the
momeKit, or after much reflection ?"
"I did it from impulse and reflection both !"
"Why ?"
"1 did not love Mr. Second as a wife ought to love a
husband !"
"Was he repugnant to you ?"
"No! I had, and have a strong friendship for him !"
"Have you seen him lately, Amy ?"
"No, he does not know where we live. I have not spoken
with him since we parte~."
" I saw him at the ope ~a last evening with Mrs. C~Alins !"
Diana hoped to ascei.tain\ the depth of Amy's friendship for
her lover, else she would ~not have told this fact. A painful
blush overswept Amy's face. Feeling that her friend's
searching lonk was upon h6r~ she somewhat bitterly said,
"The old proverb is true." Men have died, but not for
love.
Diana smiled at the adage, but responded with eager-
ness: There was a vast difference in his manner to Mrs
Collins, and that he formerly used to yow,: he loves you
still, and I believe that you love him better than any one,
Amy."
"I understand myself! I am glad to be free !"
"But let him know where you live! let hint see you
I'll give a party and invite you both. You shan't have such
a ~iard life as this !-~you an.d he would beth be happier to-
gether. You have grown thin and pale, and you won't live

long in this way. As his wife, think wh~t your position
would be! we would go to watering places together, read
together ride together shop and have such
together,             high
times! You could go to Europe with him! remember
what a desire you have always had to travel! Now, Amy,
I wouldn't say this, if you loved any one else better. You
are as fond of pleasure as myself, and this life of drudgery
is dreadful: it is slavery. You are burying your talents,
and toiling like a servant, when you might be an ornament
to society : think of the poor that you could minister to, if
you had plenty of money. I like Mr. Second: I always
did."
"Diana! the deed is done, and if I were to live a
thousand years, 1 would not recall it. I could not so de-
mean myself as to act from motives that I condemn. I see
now that I might never have 1)rOken the en~agemen tif a
temporary excitement had not nerved me to it: this excite-
ment of thought was cunmunicated to me by Mrs. Collins:
her views developed slumbering fears that had often~stirred
my heart. I think 1 am a better woman for having acted as
I did: I. may occasionally crouch in weaknesss under the
present results of my work: to others I may seem to have*
acted unwisely, but I believe that a wonderful Providence
has led me on ray way, and that it even turned Mrs. Col-
lins to m.y use. To Agnes she has been a spirit of evil,
but I saw her seldom, and she gave me ideas that
strengthened, though they distressed inc."
"Well, well, dear Amy 1, of all others would not have


AMY DENBROOK         311

210        AMY DENBROOK.

you act against your feelings. You are right, but "-Diana
fell into thought, and twisted the fringe of her velvet man-
tilla, at the risk of destroying its be.auty.
"But what ?" demanded Amy, taking her hand from its
employment.
"I do say you have not used what we call practical, com-
mon sens~ in your late proceedings !-2You and Bel can't
get along by yourselves. I know more of the World than
you do."
"0, nonsense, Diana!"
At this moment, Isabel entered carrYing in her arms a
quantity of newly.ironed collars and laces." Why, Diana,
I am so glad to see you !" she cried cordially. "Don't we
live in a nutshell? wait until I put my i~uslins on the bed,
and I'll kiss you!"
Diana noticed how great was the cohtra~t in the appear-
ance of the sisters. BA looked joyous and fresh an~ smiles
came readily to her lips; hard thoughts evidently had not
pressed upon her, nor did it seem to tax her heavily to beai~
her lot. Amy might utter the strongest and most cheerful
words, but they were coined from faith, rather then sen-
~ation.
"Did I write you of Bel's engagement ?" asked Amy-,
pleased to see that Diana looked upon the by ely girl with
satisfaction.
"0 don't !" pleaded Bel, " or I shall go down stairs
again !"
"You told me, Amy, and Bel is happy, I. know! I am

glad of this, Bel !" Diana clasped her hand cordially, bu~
teasingly ~tdded, "Just think of the making, mending, and
tl~dng, before you, Miss." Seeing that she did not design to
tease hey very much, Isabel ~rniled her thanks for the con-
gyatulation, atid sat down on the bed. " I wish I were more
like you, Bel !" continued Diana, "1 wish one person could
satisfy me. Diana is Diana, and always will be !"
"Tell us about yourself !" said Rd, who loved to hear
Diana talk.
"Ask me to describe the origin of the pyramids of
Egypt, and P11 tell you all about it, but as to myself I know
nothing, except that I am one thing one day, and another,
the next. Wait until I become a grandmother, and I'll tell
what a saii~t I used ~o be! We are weak vessels! Lovers
are en durL4de, a husband would be tedious. Do you agree
to this 13(el ~" Diaba had relapsed into her u~ual lively
manner q/f speech; she looked with interested inquiry at~ the
young betrothed, to se~ how she would take her nonsense;
she liked to study hearts.
Isabel laughed, and then shook her head; a sort of pity
diffused itself over her countenance, after her smile died
away.
"You \vould not exchange your fate for mine, Isabel?'
Again the fair girl shook her head with a grave smile,
which was reflected upon the countenance of her questioner.
"Aye! you ~perhaps are wise, for an idiot is happier than
I am! 'The hour of excitement is the hour in which I trul~r
live 4-"

itL


312             AMY DENI3ROOK.                                        AMY DE~I3ROOK.              3]jJ

"What are you making, 'Amy? this is a beautiful pat-
tern ?" she said, taking up Atiiy's work.
"That is a child's pantalet: our pi'ofession is to em-
broider.
Diana rapped a light tattoo on the window sill with her
gloved fingers, and then suddenly exclaimed, "There comes
- old Sol himselft; breaking through the clouds. When I
have the 'blues,' they disappear as briskly as those bleak
masses yondei~. Come, Amy, pi~t on your bonnet and
walk with me
"It is so desperately wet, Diana. Stay until after dinner
and the pavements will be dry."
"Impossible! I expect the most beautiful of my beaux
to bring me a bbok, this morning, and I must see him, of
course. Come !" she rose, a~nd stamped her pretty, arched
foot imperiously.
"Amy obeyed, and that her walk might not be altogether
useless, she rolled up a little parcel of embroidery to take
with her. The two started away together: it was pleasant
to Amy again to walk at Diana's side, as she had so often
done before.
"Do hold up your dress a little when you co~ne to the
lakelets !" she exclaimed as they circumnavigated a puddle
of water.
"What's the difference? returned Diana, looking down.
As she spoke George Coleman passed them; he was not
observed by her, although he bestowed uppw her such a
glance. of interest as had formerly belonged to another ;t he

did not even look to see who might be the companion of the
lively belle. Simply noting the fact that she was not walk-
ing alone. Did not the heart of the little sewing girl cry
out against being forgotten? Did not his love seem more
beautiful to her when she saw it reflected upon another?
Aye! this was so; it seemed to her as if a sob sounded
through every chamber of her spirit; she clung to Isabel as
to the only one left to her upon earth.
"Amy, darling, I seem to develop into a different being
under your spiritual touches 1" said Diana affectionately.
"I do not deceive you as I do the rest of tiw world. I wish
you and Bel would spend the winter with me !-I believe I
should grow quite good by spring: you see how changeful I
am, you only can steady me in better purposes !"
"Ah! there is your error, dear: you would lean on the
human, rather than the Divine. I thank you from my heart
for your invitation, but the impossible is written against it.
The little chamber we have left, is less humbling to me,
than would be one in your house, because I have alright to
it. I shall be a self-supporting friend t9 those who love
rue! Your invitation is more generous than ~ny acceptance
would be."
"Amy, I can't get through the winter unless I have com-
pany. Sacrifice y~ir inclination for my benefit. I am
purely selfish-I thought of this during all my ride to see
You.
Amy persisted in her refusal, and turned the conversation.
"Who is the beau you expect this morning, Diana ?"


314           AMY 1~ENflR0 OR.

,815

A~IY DENB ROOK

"Mr~ Coleman !"
"I think you said once that he interested you ?"
"Yes, he does! I believe he could be my master !"
"And he-?"
"He's not in the unfathomable ocean yet, but he will be:
he fancies me: I can't love yet, Amy, but if my heart ever
should arouse perhaps he would be the awakened."
"If he w&amp;re, would you marry him, or would you repeat
the old experience ?"
"Je ne sais pas! I don't Want to marry, Amy. I like the
life I lead in many respects. If I could retain my good
looks I should live and die a maiJen;as Queen Elizabeth
did. If Marcus had been more patient with me, I should
have been his wife to-day perhaps, but I am changed: 1 am
not so pure and single-hearted as I was."
"One woman like you Diana can do far more harm than
another conscientious woman can counteract: you make
men cease to reverence our sex. Don't coquette any more!'
"I wcn't for a week! there's my hand on it !" Diana
stretched out her hand with a frank smile, which was follow.
ed by a sigh. "Shill, love me, Amy, though I ani not what
you would like to see me !" Those who envied and con-
demned Diana as proud and utterly heartless, would hardly
have iecognised the witty, imperious girl, had they list~~ed
then to the humble sweetness of her voice. ".1 don't care
about defending myself; Amy, still these men that you pity
are unworthy of it: they are, most of them, fashionable
loungers, who have an original idea once in a score of years'

I'

they affect to despise the tender passion. I only disperse
their ennui by genuine feeling !-~they are doubtless sur-
prised in themselves when they find they love me, yes, love
me, for some poor fellows do; but the majority !.-4hey
prove themselves my enemies when they lose the hope of
possessing me. You know, Amy, that there are men in our
clique, who win the attachment of por, simple girls, an4
then jilt them! I 'avenge girls like these! I ~elect such men
as have acted ungenerously toward woman, and bestow par-
ticular care upon the cultivation of their affections: when [
have raised them to an ii~flammable condition , I permit then~
to ignite, that they may 'suffer and 'be strong.' It's my
mission !"
"0, don't make yourself out a benefactor !" interposed
Amy, "you would act as you do, if there were no poor
girls to avenge.~~
"Yes 1"
"You would not like to have your rule work both ways.
Others, have as good a right to ~punish you !"
"Yes! it is the smart of punishment upon myself; that
makes me apply the lash. There are so many lies told me,
Amy! men' invariably say that the woman they are add ress-
ing 'is their first love! many men have told me this, when
I have known it to be untrue! do' they absolutely forget
the past? If a woman trudy loves, she desires to give a
truthful history of her heart. I wonder if Mr. Coleman
will tell the old story."
14


316              AMY DENBI~OOJ~.
"Perhaps so! I used to know him very well once,
Diana !"
"You did! I thought you never saw him before you met
him at our house !"
"I never said so! he had a boyish fancy for me once. I
suppose it seems so trifling to him; that he will never recall
it as la grande ~passion." Diana might some day lear~i it
from George; present silence might then betray to Miss
Blake's keen insight the interest she had felt in him. Amy
told this circumstance, thinking that; then clearing a cloud
from her brow, a brief pause ensued, Diana saId, "you once
told me, Amy, when I was teasing you, that you had re-
ceived but one offer of marriage, except from Mr. Leonard.
Was the offer from this gentleman ?"
Amy flushed, but answered, "Yes !"
"Why didn't you accept him ~"
"1 didn't want him !"
Why 9" persisted Diana, looking searchingly in her
companion's face.
"Didn't want him !" returned Amy laughing to see h6w
determined Diana was to obtain the root of the matters.
"Do you suppose I shall let you go without finding this.
out ? Mother Eve herself never had such a curiosity!
Here we are coming into Broadway! I'll hop an~l skip to
the Battery, if you don't tell me this minute !" Diana ac-
tually laid one hand on Amy's shoulder, under pretence of
beginning to hop.
"0, Diana, stop, for mercy's sake, and I'll be as confiden-

AMY DENJ3ROOK.

I.

317

tial as I can !" entreated Amy laughing as she glanced
around to see whether Diana's ridiculous movement had
been observed by any one. No one noticed them; Miss
Blake subsided into propriety, and said "Well ~"
Amy told the story, giving it a light, careless cast, such
as it had never ~vorn in her girlish heart. She closed up
with saying, "He and I had known each 'other from child-
hood !-one don't want to marry a brother, you know. I
wanted to sec somebody new. lie had had i~o opportunity
of seeing young ladies in general !"
"It is a wonder to me, that you did not love him,
Amy U'
"0, 1 liked him very much but I should have been
restive under his yoke!"
"I thought you were as meek as a kitten!"
"I am sornetilneS !"
"Amy, that imperiousness of his, is just what I like!
Don't you believe you could have loved him ~"
"I might! in any case, he would not have been fray ideal
of one to whom I could surrender myself."
"You are going to wait until you meet your ideal, are
you ~"
"I begin to think people rarely meet their ideals on this
side of heaven !"
"Have you ever seen a person that would suit you
exactly ~"
"I don't know! one can only find this out by intimate
assOciation, and I have only exchanged careless words with


318

AMY DE~I3ROOK.

the gentlemen F have b~en in the habit of meeting. We
may brush by people in the street who are more suited to
us, than many whom we love, but circumstance and Prov-
idence keep us apart, and I yield cheerfully to the mandate,
not because it pleased me, but because it is best so
"Faith! faith! you possess it, Amy! how happy it
makes you! You think everything is right !"
"Not just so, Diana! I think everything is right for us
only 'vhile we are striving to walk by the light we have
I think when we cleave to God we are shielded from every
harm in reality: it is as though we were enclosed by a crys-
tal wall, with missiles of war flying thick and fast about
us. It is one thing to suffer, and another to receive harm:
we can feel that we are growing rich while we suffer: I
have felt this. I have suffem~d much, but life never seemed
to me more sublime than at present : and yet," she added
with a smile, "many may be exclaiming, 'Poor thinol'
I may sometimes wince under my lot, but there is strength
lying far back in my soul! I can walk the path, even if I
sometimes hesitate, and* pray for a different one." While
the young girl talked, she saw a light upon her pathway,.
and she believed that always thus the Mer~iful Father
would vouchsafe his consolations: she dreamed not, that at,
the moment many human hearts were crying out "They will
tear rile in pieces, and none c~vn deliver." Aye'! hearts
that had trusted in the shadow of the Almighty, hearts that
would trust again, ahd taste of everlasting peace.
The two friends parted. Amy obtained fresh work from

AMY D~ENBROOJ~                 3~9
the fancy store, and then rl~turned to her boarding-house.
Diana went to her sumptuous home. Mindful of her
promise to Amy, she attempted rn fascinations, and exer-
cised no little bewitching arts, of which she could compute
the exact value. Her impulsive nature seemed for the time
permeated by the spirit of her friend. She actually sat by"
the window demurely sewing, when George Coleman was
ushered into her presence. True., she pricked her fingers
frequently, owing to her rare use of the needle, and her
velocity was not great enough to make her head swim, yet
she felt a childlike pleasure in thinking that she was
behaving well, ~.nd she ventured to violate custom ,sut~-
ciently to take a stitch in her work now and then, during
the call. She hastily shut every crevice in conversat~Ofl,
which could open an arena to flirtation. This did not disap-
point her guest on the coiltrary, it seemed to invest her
with a peculiar and graceful womanliness: it is always
pleasant to see a woman, whose intellectual gifts have been
highly cultivated, busied in the sweet, small field of domes-
tic industry. Diana talked of politics and of books, and
upon these subjects she discoursed so readily and eloquent-
ly, that George found his own fine intellect glowing health-
fully from contact with hers. Yet, so small a thing will in-
fluence in a serious matter, that, had not her dimpled hands
held her sewing, he would have pronounced her too strong-
minded a woman to make a ~0me.loving~wife. Amy's lover
had not greatly changed ~since their parting; weak wo-
men were annoying to him, gifted women a delight; ho


820         AMIY Di~NBRooK.                                   AMY DENBROOR.           321

would have a wife who hid stop the river of thought ~w
desire at his command. He did not realize that it was de-
grading to an honorable wife, to substitute her husband's
Will for her cdnscieiice, that tribunal where "the Lord God
Omnipotent reigneth :" he did not realize that a good
woman finds her sweetest happiness in pleasing the company~
ion of her choice, and her heaviest sacrifice in braving his
censure. Both wilful husbands and wilful wives can be
best tamed by magnanimity. Yet Was George a frank and
noble ~'ellow, capable of~ being changed into the gentJestof
men, by a woman-who united the guilelessness of the dove,
with a subtle wisdom. We believe that our Lord has
dowered woman with peculiar insight, that she might influ-
ence the stronger sex wisely. A selfish woman does not
use this insight as a divine light; men wonder at the artful-
ness that gains her object, when they have endeavored to
circumvent her.
When George left Diana, he began to think of her as a
wife.

CHAPTER XXVI.
AMY had parted from Diana with smiling lips and affection~.
ate feelings, but no sooner was she left to herself than she
found it necessary to clasp closely, still more closely to her
breast, the sweet and solemn faith that upheld her; it was to
her, as if the firmament of her spirit were studded with stars
of clearest justre; the stars were truths of God: she looked
up to them, and they gave her assurance, but when she bent
her eyes down upon her daily walk so sorrowful a pain
caine to her that she was driven to lift her drooping head,
and utter, "Thy Providence! Thy Providence is over me,
oh God !'~
She had thought herself brave, and self-sustaining: she
had dared with haughty hand to put away from her the of-
fering of affection, saying, "It is not sufficient for, me
Now that the love seemed lost to her, a longing to sleep on
a faithful heart for the moment seized her she recalled
George's idolizing eyes, his cordial laugh, his merry repartee,
his protecting care! her heart yearned for such dew and
sunshine as had fallen upon her in her days of innocent ar-
rogance: she recalled the fond, earnest look with which Mr.


~3Q2            AMY DENB1~0OK.
Second. had sometimes i'egarded her. Oh! were no~ that
better than to be isolated as she was? it seemed to her that
d~y that it would be easy, nay, blessed, to forget and forgive
all dissirnilitudes of character, so that tender arms should
enclasp her. and lips should sometimes say, "Thou art the
world to me
When she sat down in her I ttle chamber, and took out a
new piece of muslin from he reticule to embr idei', after
her walk, Isabel exclaimed: 'how mean our 'oom must
have looked to Diana! What an original girl he is! she
don't care for conventionalities at all !"
"Yes, she does, and she care for high life. T ese things
have a great value with her, but they are not o primary
iniportance, as with many: she would not ~sacri ce friend-
ship to them; with her, the individual has the k'st place,
and his surroundings the second, yet a commonplace rich
person would have for her a greater attraction than a coin-
i~~onplace poor person, though each had precisely the same
degree of education and refinement. There is a subtle aura
about the heads of the wealthy, at sight of which, the real
inan seems to undergo a change, and become more than I~e
is.",
"The rich man professes a kind of 'power out of himself
that can. affect others !" said Bel. " He can write a few
words, that will make another happy or miserable: he can
make little hungry children laugh and shout for joy: he
can clear from the brow of his debtor a cloud oFauxiety, or
fasten upon his heart a devouring uneasiness: he can he of

A~[Y DEN13ROO'~.

service by his very look and smile, and hearty shake of the
hand."
"I've thought about all this a great de~il, Bel, and with
such a scornful bitterness against human nature; there has
seemed such injustice everywhere. Why should the honest,
ragged laborer receive a cufi; a jeer, an impudent threat, ~f
his soiled shoe leaves a mark upon a Wilton carpet as he
toils in a fine house, when if the rich man's boot has made
an ugly impress in the house of an acquaintanCe, and he re-
grets it politely, the sweetest smiles await him?. Why
should the dry goods' clerk bow obsequiouSly to the rich
lady, and speak gri~ffly to the meek) pove~ty~stricken woman
whom he next waits upon? I understand the difference that
wealth and position make, far better than I used to do. I
see that these give great actual advantages, but with this
knowledge, a truer ~nderstandiflg of myself has come also.
I did not know in old times that affection was s~ necessary
to my happiness: now I know that I would choose it with
the deepest poverty, and let all the glory of the world go by,
if it could not give it to me. George is interested in Diana,
Bel! Ii saw it in his look; we met him.
"0, people are so different frorA what one would think !"
said Bel. "He used to look and act as if you were the
most delicious, bewitching little angel on the f~~tst~ol I I
used to think he adored you~ just like Lord Mortimer adored
Amanda, in 'The Children of the Abbey,' and I thought he
always would.
"so did II" returned Amy with a smile that was half

4


224              AxMy D1~NBI~O0I~

AMY DENBROOK.       3~5

pity for herself; half derision. "I thought so frequently, yet
when I l~qkcd around, and observed how men and women
conducted in real life, I believed he would soon recover from
his attachment for me. It is two years since he used to
cometo our dear little sanctum. Two years !" She looked
dreamily out of the window, bu.t her hands were clasped.
"I wouldn't care a straw for him, Amy. lie isn't worthy
of you, if he can be so fickle !"
"Doii't be irrational, Bel !" returned Amy, looking
around with an attempt at a smile. "What right have I to
expect constancy from him? I sent him away! I am not
heart-broken; I wa~ a little taken ~
ysulp~lse to see that he
gave Diana the very looks that I had thought sacred to my..
self. My heart is empty, that is all that ails me: I happen.
ed to look back upon the dream that filled it. Perhaps
George only taught me that I could love, and he left me
pecting the magician !-but the magician does not Come, and
I look back to him who~\threw open the doors ~f my heart."
She was again looking out of the window as she spoke the
last words.
Isabel's silence; and a stealthy journey of her pocket..
handkerchief to her eyes~, (the pantomime flitted sideways
past Amy,) caused her to look around. Bel was trying to
sew, while the fast dropping tears made her vision dim.
"Now,. Be], you dear little Be], don't imagine that lam
miserable! Ddn't you know that people's moods change
with every sun'? my feelings are not very deep."
"But, dearest I am so happy! I have such affection as

4

you would barter the glory of the world for. It gives me
such a pahi in my heart, to know that you are lonely, and
that your inner temple is not lighted up with such radiance
as mine is !"
"But it will be some bright day! I know that! I feel it.
If I do not rejoice on earth, I shall in heaven, if I cheerfully
make the best of everything. It always does me good to
feel downright unhappy. for a little while: it seems as if some
sweet spiritual sunshine is distilled from the tears that lie iii
my heart; so just think that the Lord is preparing me for
g~cat happiness when I am a little disturbed-it makes me
go to Him so entreatingly. it is delightful to me to look
upon your happiness and the doctor's; it smiles upon me,
as if it ~vere a prophecy for myself. You and he are so
frank with me, that I can enter into your feelings. I do
sometimes feel like a 'little forlornity' when I hear your
happy laughter, but be assumed, my darling, your engage-
ment has embellished my own lot more than I can express.
110w many anxious thoughts should I have had about you,
if he had not been your anticipated protector! .I1ow~ could
I see you prisoned here at work by rue, if I did not know
that you had it talisman against suffering ?"
The afternoon was wiled away in such conversation as
cheered and elevated the hearts of the two girls. In the
evening, Isabel went down into the pri~iate parlor to meet
her lover. Amy was left alone ;she weptalittle as she
thought of the past, and of the weak heart that God had
given her, to struggle through the world with-a heart that


326            ~MY DENI3Rooi~.                                             AJ~IY ~ENBROOl~.            327

she had not known, and never should know perhaps, so
chan~ ful was it mG its arrogance an d its humility. But angels
caine down to talk with her as she wept, and they bade her
look u
p, and gaze With them out of God's beautiful Eden
upon her clouded way. Lot everytJ~ing grew light and
clear! the glorious ones took her willing hand, and pointed
out to her a thousand causes for rejoicing. her sadness
passed away, and it was no longer a night of stars with her;
the morning broke, and.the sun of promise arose, flushing the
heavens with delicate splendor, and revealing the earth
lying beneath, filled with forms of wondrous power, whose
tinting came fron-i the very home of God. She raised her
head, and with a happy smile brushed away her tears, pene-
trated to the soul with grati~ide that she existed, and held
within herself the 'image of od' which ~ould reflect beauty
upon all things: she turned to look upon her fellow-creatures
with a tender joy, knowing that this image dwelt within
each one; beautiful did it seem to her that good men were
laboring everywhere, to remove the dust which had conceal-
ed this shapelier self. What work could be so blessed, as
that which would restore to the Father's hand his children,
robbed of some of their spiritual deformities? iDid lie not
knock at the door of every heart, and bid it receive his
divine truth, that this labor might be performed?
Amy arose, and taking from a trunk her diary, sat down
to write upon the window sill; she carefully closed the
blinds, lighted a small lamp, and then with a sense of happi-
ness gave to the blank Volume, all, the beautiful thoughts

that came to her. She flr~t noted in detail all the reasons
why she should be grateful, and so wonderfully cheering did
she make her situation appear, that she could not forbear
writing, "Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty God hath
shined." Tier youth, her health, her education, her loving
sister, her faithful friends, her love of the beautiful, her
ability to make others happy; her power to work rather
than 'to sit idle -all these seemed bT~sings of great
m~.gnitudC. But above all this, she gave thanks for the faith
that her parents had taught her: she SaW almost every-body
looking upon the present world as the oply real world,
while that beyond was fair only to christi ans; to the
majority of' these, it was' shadowy and awful; to her, it was
as real, and as joyously looked forward to, as a journey to
Europe would have been by an enthusiast. She did not' for-
get the solemn injunction, "By thy works thou shalt be
iustifi~d, and by thy works thou shalt be condemned,"
but even a around this trath. lingered an inspiring halo:
there was something to work for, to suffer for, to hope
for: she could stretch out her arms to receive all bliss
and glory, if her soul were immortal, then it could
never lose one hun~ian trait; it must be bent into some ac-
cord with the Divine Soul, else heaven itself would be unin-
viting to her :-but this accord! God has promised it to' alP
who seek it!'
11cr cheeks were glowing as she bent over her writing;
the door of her room softly opened, and turning around, she
saw 'Isabel standing there: the child looked encha'~ting~


A~[Y DEN13ROO1~.                                                AIAIY PBNI3ROOR,.                329

Huntington himself would have delighted to have painted
Ler golden curls, her ey~s of blue, so tender in expression,
her complexion which wa~ as delicate as a rose-tinted se~m
shell, an~~i her sweet, ruobde mouth.
"0, Del! I'm full of new' thoughts and plans !" cried
Amy. "How delicious it is that I can do as I please! [am
going to teach in a school! I khow that I can d'o far more
practical good in such, a position, than if I were married.
Think how many, many young spirits I can influence."
"Yes!' but I think after all, that a wife and mother
stands at the head of all philanthropy, if she fulfil her
dutxr !" answered Isabel, coming forward, and laying her
soft hand upon Amy's chestnut hair.
"Yes, I give up! I only thought of the husband, and not
the children !"
"Ralph is full of new thoughts and plans to-night, Amy!
He sent me for you,!"
"I thought he had gone !" Amy gathered up her writing
materials, and after putting them away, accompanied her
sister to the back parlor below stairs, where she found Dr.
Rendrick 'eagerly looking for their appearance.
"Amy, if you are ~ot all ~nthiXsiasm~n at my plans, I shall
never forgive you !" he exclaimed, smiling, as he took her
hand, and led her to a seat on the sofa. Isabel sat down
upon a little bench at her feet, and resting her arm upon
her knees, looked up into the faces of the two.
The doctor continued. "I have been collecting my bills
lately, and, so niuch has my business increased, I think

it will warrant me in taking this little child under my
care !" hp laid his hand fondly upon the head of his be-
trothed. "May I take her within a few weeks 3"
It seemed to Amy that her darling was to be transplanted
from her garden to his: she bent forward, and impulsively
kissed her. "This may be as you wish !"~ she answered,
looking from one to the other. "Bel is so young, if I did
not have the utmost trust in you, doctor; I should never oc
willing that she should leave her girlhood so soon 1"
"Shall I be less tender of her than you, Amy 3" he ques-
tioned. "Shall I ever place my own happiness before hers,
think you 3 She is to me both child and angel-I shall pro-
tect and reverence her. If you trust me, you do mc wrong
to think I would lay upon her sunny head one burden that
she would hesitate to bear. She is to me, the gift of God 1"
he looked upon her with a thoughtful, tremulous smile.
"Your destinies should be joined! I see it 1" responded
Amy. "Some untoward fate might part you 1" she strove
to smile, then rallying herself, she asked with her usual ani-
mated manner, "And what are we going to do 3 how are
we going to live 3"
"That is what we have been talking about 1" eagerly ex-
claimed Isabel. "We are going to board all together in
some pleasant house up town. We have concluded to get
pretty near the sky, because we can have larger rooms at the
same price in the third. story. What do you think of it 3
your room is to be next ours, 'ar~d we shall be like a prince
and two princesses! and the doctor thinks that we might


330          AMY D]~BROOK.                                  AMY DJ~NBROOJ~          331

start on an exploring expedition as soon as to-morrow', if
you like the plan. He can't go with us, but then-----"
Dr. Kendrick laughingly placed his hand over BeVs lips,
saying, "Not so fast, little one! let Amy say whether we
have been talking nonsense, before you go farther !"
I
Bel bit his hand with her pearly teeth, and then relapsed
into silence, with a smile flitting about her mouth. Amy
caught the glow of their innocent enthusiasm, and exclaim-
ed. "0, 1 like the plan! But can it be executed? There
are a good many et ceteras, doctor, that you may not have
thought of! We might be stranded upon a financial crisis
in the midst of our rejoicing ! Even if we board, ~ve should
want various items to make our home comfortable, and this
little lady may prove an expensive luxury even, to a prince
like you 1"
The doctor laughed,. and fell into thought. The three
were habitually candid in regard to their circumstances.
Bel started with, "Why, Amy, I--"
Amy laid her fmn~er upon the child's parted lips, for she
knew very well that she was going to say, "I could work
as I do now !" It was not in accordance with Dr. Kendrick's
wishes that his wife should labor for the bread which it was
his place to earn. Amy knew if this were hinted at, that
he would defer the' marriage, so strong wasimis pride, and so
greatly did he pret~r that hi~ own right arm should support
as well as shield his wife.. It should be after necessity, not
forethought, that would compel a tn~n to consent to his wife's
toiling out of her home-sphere.

I

"Amy, tell me how much it will cost weekly, for Bel and
m~e to live as we design? Count all the magnificent robes
that this child must have V' Dr. Keudrick looked half
regretfully upon his affianced: he would fain have cast at her
feet, a wealth 'of pallid pearls, aud rubies red as blood.'
Amy named a small but sufficient sum; her experience
in this line of calculation h~1 been more ample than her
wishes; necessity and skill h~i6l taught her the art of embel-
lishing out of a little.
"I can come up to that mark !" said the doctor. "liar-
ra, Bel! we shall live in our enchanted palace yet."
"Now listen to me, and don't suppose everything interest-
ing centres in you !" said Amy, playfully, taking Isabel's
hand, and tapping the doctor's. " I intend to teach in a
large, flourishing ~ in this city, where I shall have an
opportunity of handing down my airs and graces to the
rising generation. I shall leave my new apartment near
the sky, at half-past eight every morning, and shall return
at four in the afternoon, when Mrs. Kendrick will so be en-
raptured to see me, that she will forget her husband ever ex-
isted 1"
"Exactly! that is very interesting so far, to me !" re-
sponded the doctor, gaily. "When did you learn about this
school ?"
" This evening! I have concluded to discover just such
an: one
"Ha! it is in the land of chimeras, is it?"
"Yes! but won't it be nice? you see I shall be so much

4
S
2


832             AMY DE~13I~O0~(.,                                         AMY DENBROOK.                333

happier to have my mind healthfully and us9fuhly employed.
I like to teach! I was always delighted in school if my
teacher gave me a class to hear! I like to see young eyes
open wide in wonder at a new thought, or fact. I am going
to the dining-room now, Th see if I am called for by the
newspapers !" she arose but Bel held her dress, saying,
" Let us talk more ~
"You can tell me all you say! particularly all the noli-
sense !" replied Amy, releasing herself~ and extending her
hand to Dr. Kendrick with a cordial "Good night !"
She had no sooner gone thati the young physician took his
~1 eparture; the gradual increase of his business had not in-
duced him to give up copying. One hour at least was de-
voted to it every day; though the hour was midnight, unless
extraordinary occupation or fatigue prevented. This little
source of revenue was the only constant one that he could
rely upon : if he were weary at his task, the thought of
Isabel inspired him. There was method in all that he did;
though his time was broken in upon, as a physician's must
be, he would not allow a week to pass without having ful-
filled his prescribed task of medical reading; thus even
Isabel found sometimes an hour, or a half hour taken from
his visits to her. She and Amy marvelled at his syste-
matic firmness, and often tried to imitate him; they would
be beautifully rigid in the disposal of their time for ~ week
or two, theti one would relapse, and the other would delight-
edly follow the pernicious example. Yet in many things
they were steadfast.

CHAPTER XXVII.
TuE next morning the two girls started in search of a new
home, and a school for Amy: she had seen two advertise-
ments in the paper of the day before. After they had ar-
rayed themselves neatly, they went forth talking earnestly.
"You look so young !" said Isabel, remarking her sister'&amp;
fhce attentively when they were a ~block from their boarding-
house. "That is such an objection in a teacher 1"
"I fear it will be in my case U' returned Amy, stopping
in her walk. "I'll put on a solid expression I rfhere I don't
I look as if I could awe ~i regiment of young people !"
"No !" laughed Isabel, "you won't do. that way I"
"Well, I thought last night of getting out mother's gold
spectacles. You always said I looked about forty in them
when I didn't laugh! Let us go back I"
"flow ridiculous I" cried Isabel, taking a step forward.
Amy went laughing back, and Bel joined her. In a few
minutes, the spectacles were adjusted to their place, and
gave to the beautiful young countenance a different expres-
'sion, by concealing Amy's bright eyes. She did not wear
them to walk in, but when they reached the house to which
the advertisement had directed them, she put them on, and

33g

333


834          AMY ~I~n'~oo~.

AMY DJ3NBnOO~'              335

rang the bell; her companion shrank partially behind her,
for she was laughing, and if she bad not been, she was timid
in regard 'to the new enterprise. In due time, a gaudily
dressed lady opened the loor, and asked with a scowl and
an overwhelming aspect, what was wanted.
"I came to see about ~the situation as teacher that was ad~
vertised!" returned Am ~r, with dignity.
"We want a gentle n~ an !" retorted the overwhelming
Woman, closing the dooP without ceremony in the girl's
faces.
"Did you ever ?" exclaimed Amy, looking at Isabel with
unaffected seriousness. "Why didn't she stay long enough
for me to ask her if the pupil's 'manners were to be formed
after her style? I am astonished, yerily ! Well! let U's go
to the iiext place !" she took off her glasses, and put theTh
in her reticule with a spiteful dab, then seeing that Jsal el
was nearly convulsed with laughter, she was struck with
the ludicrous side of the afThir, and laughed with her whole
heart: in fact, every step of their way to the next place
4as devoted to' such exquisite nonsense and jesting as
young people give way to, when they are in the vein.
When they reached their second destination in the crowd-
ed part of the city, they found that they must mount a dark
flight of stairs, and search in the upper hall among a dozen
small signs, for the hame they desired; their hearts fluttered
uneasily, as they penetrated into this business den, where
gentlemen were passing to and fro. At length they dis..
covered the lawyers office that they sought; several gentle~

men were gathered around a table, but they Were all unob-
served, though they looked up at the entrance of the new
corners: one came forward, and bowing pohtely, asked if
they came upon' ~ch~~l business. Amy inclikled her head
with a blush of embarrassment, for she felt out of place.
Seeing, this, the lawyer led the way to a recess, and entered
upon the matter in hand so easily and urbanely, that her
usual self~posSC5Sion returned, He stated the salary that
she would receive, after having questioned her upon her ac
quirements, and said he had 'no doubt that she would obtain
the situation, if the prificipal of the school were as favor
bly impressed as he had been. lie penned a brief note to
him, and handed it to Amy with his address upon the
envelope. While h~ was writing, she cast a look at the
table tosee what lawyers did in their offices: all the heads
;vere bent over papers but one; that was partially turned
aside, and the face was concealed by a supporting hand; as
if her look had a magnetism in it, the hand was taken away
and Mr. Second looked ~full at her an instant, and then re-
suited the perusal of the paper he held, without the
slightest token 'of recognition. It was the first time they
had met since their parting. her cheeks, which had been,
flushed with excitement, grew quite pale, 'and then her color
returned. Isabel, who s~t next the window, had hardly once
taken her eyes from the street, and was therefore unaware
of Mr. Seconds presence. Amy believed that her former
lover triumphed in her present circumStances; her heart
was filled with sudden pride and anger, and she took her


338          AMY DENRi~O OK.

leave of the polite lawyer, as if she had been ,a queen, who
could confer great thin's, but should never find herself re-.
ceivino' them.
"I think it is perf'~ctly insulting to require la dies to call
at a place where there are so many gpntlernen !" she cx-
claimed, as soon as they had~emerged int~ the street.
"It is too bad !" responded Isabel, "~ ut how fortunate
that you have the prospect of getting tl~ e situation. Two
hundred dollars is not much, but how much more pleasant a
way to earn it, than to s~w for it."
"Mr. Second was there, Bel !"
" Where'? at the table'?"
"Yes! and he never even bowed, lie must be dreadful-
ly angry with me; he must think very hardly of me. I
don't care. I shall not trouble myself with pitying him, if
.he is enraged, rather than grieved !"
"You are unfair now, Amy. I should think he would be
angry: you have said so yourself. I suppJse he didn't
speak, because he didn't wish to attract attention to us. He
was always jealous about having gentlemen rn3tice you;, he
wa~ always taking you oUt of their way !"
"Have we taken the right direction'?" Amy looked at
her note, and said, "yes !"
Here Mr. Second, who had left the office a moment after
their departure, overtook them. He lifted his hat, with a
courteous "good morning," but did not offer his hand.
"You have been well, I suppose'?" he questioned.
They answered in the affirmative. There was an indefina-

AMY DE rBI~OOK.             337

I

ble something which assured Amy that her power over him
xvus not gone: his cold looks were heavy upon her heart;
she desired to remove them. He had not addressed her,
though he walked beside her, as ~he was nearest th~ curb-
stone. She lifted her face and looked in his! she saw his
stern e~pressiOU relax almost instantly. "You haven't
shaken hands with me !" she said with a faint smile.
"You don't deserve it !" he returned with a smile still
more faint thaa her own, yet he put forth hi~ hand and took
within his own the little one, which had been all the world
to him.
"Can you remember our friendship if I do not deserve it'?"
she asked with a shake in her low voice: she set her lips
though her chin trembled.
"Yes I" he replied aftei~ an instant's pause: the forgive-
ness was not full and free. Who could expect that it should.
be, with a man like him'? What had he not offered her'?
all that seemed of most worth to himn-.all ! and how terri-
bly she had injured him. Yet when he saw her friendless
and seeking to win her bread, it took away much of his
bitterness: it gave him a little triumph.
"You are~ braving the world to-day," he said, addressing
both, "how do you like it'?"
Bel did not reply, feeling that he was watching for Amy's
answer.
"Very well !" answered that maiden, brushing a little
dust from her reticule, and perceiving the latent triumph.
"We shall succeed as we have done heretofore."

V


AMY Dfl~I3ROoi~.

AMY DIU~BRO

"Experieiice has made you wise and strong probably !"
he returned, then said to Isabel:
"Is she as wicked as ever ?"
"I don't know indeed! she is wise and wicked by turns."
Isabel looked down as she spoke, remarking on Mr. Scored's
part a disposition to sting Amy, mingled with an attraction
toward her: the elder sister did indeed look peculiarly love..
ly, as changeflul emotions overswept her face; she strove to
render her mobile mouth firm, to drive back the lustrous
tears that did i~ ot overflow, to keep smooth the sweet brow
that knit with ~n instant's pain: the morning air had given
her cheeks a rosy tint. She did not resent her former lover's
probing words: she was glad that he had come to speak
with them: she wished ~that she might sun herself in the old
kind looks-that she might make herself charming to him,,
might provoke his hearty laugh, his eager, happy glance.
But the matter might not have ended t}iere: she was
heartily gratified at the amount of friendliness bestowed
upon her: she had expected more angei\ She involuntarily
turned upon him a soft, thankful look, when they paused at
a corner to take an omnibus. Mr. Second touched her arm
to remove her from contact with the passers~bv: she went
the other side of Bel, and he saw that the slight familiarity
wa~ not to be repeated. After handing them into a stage,
he walked away muttering, "I was a fool to start after them,
when they left Stebbins' office! i'll visit the widow ~Collins
this evening! she'll make me forget the foolish girl."
Amy and Isabel alighted from the stage when the

reached the street which they desired, and this was in the
upper part of the city. Without any difficulty they found
a large doublehollsewith the words ~" Young Ladies' Scm
mary," over the door, cut in brown sth ne. Upon the silver
door-plate, was engraved, "Mr. and Mrs. Alonzo Hawks."
"Don't you dread to go in ~" asked Isabel. "Suppose,
they should not accept you ~"
"There are other schools in the world beside this 1" re-
plied Amy, affecting more composure than she really ex-
perienced. They rang the bell, and inquired for Mrs. Alon.
zo Hawks: Mr. Hawks they held in greatest awe, and had
no desire to see. A servant ushered them up stairs into a
large parlor: in the adjoining room, some new beginner
was running over the scales, upon a piano whose tone was
not perfectly exquisite. A small lady apparently in a con-
sumption, entered the parlor, and greeted them gently and
smilingly. Amy gave her, her letter of introdiw4Aon.
After a little conversation, Mrs. Hawks went down stairs
after her husband. She returned with a gigantic man
~vhose black eyes, bushy hair, resolute mouth, and heavy
bass voipe alarmed the applicants. He merely nodded, and
then bade Amy perform a difficult problem in Algebra: he
handed her a slate and pencil. She tried her best, but so
bewildered was she, that she could xiot succeed at all.
"The young lady is a little embarrassed dear !" said Mrs.
Hawks. "I remember that I once failed at an examination,
when a young girl, who was far more ignorant than. I, got
the certificate that should have been mine.~~
15

F
I

II

339

4


340         AMY DENBR0oK.                                 AMY DENI3ROOIC.         341

Amy smiled gratefully, and said, "If I x~ere alone, that
would not trouble me !"
"We want a teacher who always has her mind at her
4
command !" answered Mr. Hawks in his terrifying bass.
Amy colored with distress, but determined to triumph
*       over her bashfulness, if possible. "Perhaps you inspire me
with more awe than many persons would, sir !" she answer-
ed with a half ironical, half timid smile.
lie looked at her quickly, smiled, and said, "Try this!
Parse this sentence !" she found no trouble in' mastering the
grammar, nor in any other studies in which he was pleased
to examine her. He had an inscrutable face, yet Amy be-
lieved that he was pretty well ~atisfled. "Thkt Algebra !'
hQ said, shaking his head, that is the only trouble !"
"I'll try again !" she said, taking the slate and pencil to a
window. Mrs. Hawks talked to Isabel; in a short time
Amy, returned to the preceptor, and gave him the elate.
He nodded approvingly. "Do you suppos~c you can keep
young ladies in order, some of whom are taller than your-
self? Is there any snap about you? This is a very
necessary quality, Miss Denbrook!"
"I can't tell how I shall succeed, sir !" she answered, not
well pleased at the style of his address. " I think I can ac-
complish the part I have oflhred lo undertake !"
"Well, it's a bargain 1" he exclaimed, striking the gram-
mar which he held upon a table, "if you are satisfied with
our terms. We shall expect punctt~ality.-punctuality to
the minute. You must be here at ten minutes ~of nine, ~nd

you can leave at four o'clock precisely. Th~ papers are
drawn. Sgn this 1"
She obeyed, a little chafed at his arbitrary manner. "Can
you come to-rnorrOXV '~" he demanded, "we have been wiih-
oUt the teacher who occupied your intended position a week.
My wife is not really able to teach another day."
"I can come, sir 1"
Come down in the school room
They left the parlor. Isabel remained in the hall, but
Amy went through the trying ordeal of an introduction to
the assembled scholars. There was a buzzing to be heard
before they entered the room, bu~ as Mr. hawks struck his
grammar upo:~ a desk, and looked around, one could have
heard a pin drop. Amy 9nly inclined her head, as x~ith much
formality she was presented to the young ladies: every eye
was fixed upon her. After this was over, she was introduced
to several teachers. Then she was permitted to escape, and
join Isabel.
"I am perfectly quenched !" she exclaimed, "leb us hurry
out of the houseor Mr. hawks will seize me, and make~
me go through something else I" They emerged upon the
street.
"1 feel sorry for you, Amy, for I should be frightened to
death, if I were going to be under the superintendency of
such an imperious man. Look at your hand how it
trembles U' Be1 smilingly pointed to the hand that carried
~he retioule.

340

341


842            AMY DE1~BROOK.                                                                    343

"I am very, Very grateful f~r my good fortune, Bel! I
shall get along !"
The young girls now proceeded in search of a new home.
They. had several directions written down, which they had
copied from the newspapers. After a very tiresome and cx
haunting day, they finally suited themselves. Perhaps they
Were not exactly suited, yet they determined upon resignation.
Their rooms were in the fourth story, of a five stoi'y house; a
large front chamber with a grate in it was for Del :-thi~ shc
said should be called the "family room." here Amy
should come in from school on wintry days, and should find
their mother's little rocking chair next the fire' for her.
Amy's apartment was a long, narrow room over, the hall; it
joined the "fam~1y room," and what she prized most of all,
it was moderately heated by a large pipe that ran through
the floor from the hall-stove below: she should thus be able
to hie to a retreat of her Own, and read, write, and study,
when the happy wedded pair would naturally desire to be
by themselves.
*         *        *        *         *
A few weeks after this, a small group was gathered in the
parlor of a clergyman: a soft light fell upon a golden.liairtj~d
girl who stood beside her lover: they pronounced holy VOWS.
After the ceremony was over, the wife looked in her
husband's Countenance an instant, as if to see that her
innocent soul was n~iri~ored in his, and then she turned
timidly away. As' Amy saw the brief look of each, a

strange yearning broke up from the deep heart within her
shu knew that ~he had flever so loved.
Kid the next day began the new life in the five story
house, for which all preparations had been previously made.
Often when Amy returned from school, she found Isabel sit-
ting at a table, carefully imitating the bold, even chirography
of her husband: she often visited him at his office; upon
one of these visits, she stole the papers which he intended
to copy, and taking them hoffie, did this work for him.
she looked so delighted a
Upon his return,                      , nd laughed so
charmingly at his surprise, when she showed him what she
had done, that he found this occupation must be handed
over to her, in order to keep peace in the family.
Diana's residence was directly in Amy's way, as she went
to school: she thus frequently stopt in to make a call, when
she would not have had the time, had a long distance been
before her. One afternoon she ~topt to spend two or three
h(urs. When the servant admitted her, she said, "I will
go up to Miss Blake's room
She did so, but no one replied to her familiar tap; she
therefore descended to the parlors, and finding them un-
occupied, she sat down by a window; untying her bonnet
strings and taking off her gloves she bestowed her attention
upon a book which she had with her. It was a clear, glorious
day in early winter: she had not waited long, when her at-
tention was attracted by a lady and gentleman a clieval, they
cantered up to the sidewalk where a servant stood waiting
to receive the lady's reins. had Amy seen the pair any-
where else, she would have recognized Diana at once from

AMY DENflROOK,

343


344          AMY DENI3RO0~.                                        AMY DENBROOIC,           345

her peculiarly graceful carriage, and the careless abandon
with which she threw the reins from her hand. She wore
a black velvet riding habit, and a plume in her velvet hat
her hair hung h~ brown ringlets, which waved in profusion
against her dark robe. There was in her whole figure and
air a superb and regal joyousness. The countenance of her
companion, which was that of George Coleman, did not lack
in animation : they made indeed a splendid picture, as their
brilliant eyes and white teeth shone in laughter, contrasting
with the rich blood that glowed upvn their cheeks. Mr.
Coleman dismounted and made a slight pretence of bending
his knee before Diana, then with a laugh and shake of his
head, he received her, standing at his full height, an ci placed
her upon the ground : she gathered up her habit, displaying
a richly embroidered skirt, and her daintily arched fbot, that
looked as if made to tread upon willing slaves. Amy
caught his admiring e~pres~ion as it fell uponi the fair equcs.
trien1~e; he was leading h~r to the stone steps of the~ house;
ere they mounted them, Amy sprang to the piano and
hastily seating herself began to' play a lively waltz: she felt
conscious that she should appear more unembarassed if she
were employed: she wished she were in Ethiopia-in the
Great Desert of Sahara, or in any place where she should
not be obliged to meet her quondam lover. There is a
melancholy charm, "pleasant yet mournful to the soul," in
meeting an old lover, if he seem a little dejected; but it is
provoking to encounter him in a happy frame of mind, look-
ing into another lady's eyes with the identical expression
that convinced you he would go into a decline, if you re-

fused him. Fortunately, Amy was spared this trial, for
Diana entered the parlor alone, having parted with her com-
panion at the door.
"Why, Amy, this is you at the piano, is it ?" she cried,
kissing her heartily, and taking off her hat at the same in-
stant. "Come to my room while I take off my habit!
Come, you blessed little child! I am so happy, happy at
last !" she threw her arms around her, and kissed her again.
"You'll be surprised at what I have to tell you ~"' She led
h~r friend from the room, with her arm around her.
When they had entered her chamber, she threw off her
habit with impetuous has~e, and donned an elegant dressing
gown: without waiting to fasten it with her brooch, she
swept back her curls, and cast herself at Amy's feet, who was
sitting upon an ottoman: she buried her face a moment in
her fair arms, for her flowing sleeves fell back and revealed
them, and then lifted her radiant countenance with the ex-
clamation, "I am a queer girl, am I not ?"
"Yes, rather; and yet you are not queer to me! You've
been riding, I see by your habit !"
"With whom?"
Amy guessed three or four of her admirers, placing Mr.
Coleman~s name in the middle; she spoke with a careless
accent.
"Not so fast," exclaimed Diana, "Mr. Coleman is the
one. He is in the unftithomable ocean-he loves me, Amy!
be un~lerstands me, and-look !" she held out her dimpled
fingers, and upon one gleamed a new ring.


340           AMY DE~BROoK.

AMY DE~I3R00I~.             347

"And you are happy, you say !" murmured Amy, bend..
lug her cheek until it touched Diana's.
"Yes! Yes! I love bun better than my soul ! better
than I ever loved Marcus. I thought I could never love
again, and I could follow him to the ends of the earth with
a mad devotion. My other affection was a mere- "
"Nay, stop th6re!" said 'Amy, laying her finger upon
Diana's lip, with a half incredulous smile. "It has been
my happy fortune to be the repository of some heart;
histories !-some women who are twice my age, have un
locked their experiences t'o me; I have learned that when a
person loves the second time, he or she invariably pronoun-
ces the first love a mere-a mere something; as you were
going to designate you&amp;"
"Now, Amy, you have no idea-"
"Now Diana," interrupted Amy, who wished to drive
away the narration of George's ~ew love," don't you re-
member that you accused gentlemen of telling you un-
truths, when they declared that they had 'never been in~
fluenced by any woman save you? and here you are acting
in precisely the same way. Haven't I seen you turn pale
and red, when Mr. Leonard came upon you suddenly.?
And didn't you say one day that your heart throbbed as if
it would burst through your side, when he passed your
window 'I"
"0, Pshaw !" I wish your memory were as short as
mine! I was young !"
"It is a stiipendous mystery to me how you have re-

covered from being young so soon! It seems to me if I had
ever been in such a case as you
"Stop!" cried Diana. "it's all nonsense about first
love's being everlasting, and I won't be called to account
for getting over it. Listen to this story !" she related in
her graphic, heart-thrilling style all the tides of feeling that
had swept over her of late-afld~ she told of George's love
-of its eager a iid yet proud manner of expression. She
closed with saying, "I am going to be so good and con-
siderate! I am not going to coqu7et at all. I haven't now
that bitter thirst to do so! I shall make hun happy !"
15'~


848            AMY DENflI~0oK.                                      AMY I)ENBROOK.             849

CHAPTER XXVIII.
AND the deserted wife! how fared she while others were
moving on in the world? S.ome tranquilly, some wearily,
some blissfully, some patiently, and some staggering~y, un-
der the tremendous magnitude of aroused passions ! A few
days after the enlope~ment of Agnes, Mrs. Ilarrington
sought the house of Mrs. Ashley; she suffered so acutely
herself; that she could think of no relief; save that of trying
to sympathize with one more wretched. She was refijsed
admittance at first, but she insisted up0n being sh owr~ to
the chamber Occupied- by Mrs. Ashley~ When the door
was opened, the unhappy woman glared upon her ~almost
fiercely, saluting her with, "It is my desire to be left alone!
Why must you come to look upon my misery ?"
"I have known what misery is! my heart turned to you
so strongly that I could not resist its impulse !" Mrs, lIar-
rington answered.
"Take a chair !" said Mrs. Ashley~a little softened; after
a moment she uttered, "0, God! it seems as if I shall go
mad! mad! but I will not-he would rejoice ~at it !"
"It is so sorrowful I am terrified to believe it," returned

her companion, for the first time looking steadfastly at her:
her black hair was thickly bestrexvn with white, her haughty
mouth was drooped, and many lines seemed to have gather-
ed about it-her pale, hollowed cheek loQked as if ages of
suffering had passed over her.
"Do you see this ?" pointing to her hair. "Do you
believe that God will forget to smite that girl with a curse?
'With what iricasure ye mete, it shall be measured to you
again!'"
Mrs. Ilarrington shuddered, but made no answer. Mrs.
Ashley went on, "For years I have had dreadful days
sprinkled through my life-I knew that Mr. Ashley was not
faithful to me years ago, and I have hated him insatiably
since then. I smiled, and smiled on; there wasapit in my
heart; it seemed covered over with flowers, when I looked
into the pit I groaned. Lately I have foreseen all this! I
have been frenzied at my impotence. Do you believe that
God will forget to visit them for the scorching fires they
have lighted in my brain and heart? Will lie forget that
they have ushered me into a living hell ?"
"It was a guilty deed !" Mrs. llarrington tremblingly
said, feeling new horror at it, as she saw its effects upon the
miserable wife.
"I have read His anathema~ against the unmerciful! I
feast upon them !"
"0, remember the words which you just now quoted'
'With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you
again,"' returned Mrs. llarrington.


"I would be willing to be roasted in Ilades,, for the sake
of seeing their writings !" her eyes had the wildness of
insanity. I
"You did not love Mr. Ashley! it would have been more
terrihie if you had," suggested her friend.
"No! but you are a wife, Mrs. ilarrington, and can
understand a wife's pride, and agoi~y and humiliation, ~at see~
ing herself scorned and deserted !"
"No man can give a more mortal stroke."
"I hear that she thinks Mr. Ashley pure 1" the excited
woman laughed wildly. "I am as much, surprised at that
old fool as at her; he has always been a slave to gentility
and conventionalisi~s. She must have bewitched him
strangely to make l~iin willing to be the laughing stock of
his acquaintances.
"They have sadly erred, but I fear we shall err if we do
not cherish a right spirit toward them. They are in the
hands of God."
"It is vain to talk to me in this style; Agnes once prated
piously to me-I hate the very sound that reminds me of
the hypocrite."
"She was a true and fervent christian once," replied Mrs.
llarrington. "Religion is the same in itself; though the
lives of its professors may fall short of its demands; If
you would only turn to~ it now, Mrs. Ashley, it would
afford you the only solace you can experience."
Mrs. Ashley suddenly gave way to a flood of tears; she
rocked backward and forward, with sighs and groans, break~

350          AMY DENBROOK.

350

AMY DENBROOK.                    351
ing forth, "0, Mrs. Jlarrington,. I am so miserable! so
miserable !"
Mi's. Jlarrington took a scat next her, and laying her face
upon thp arm of het' chair, wept also. Mrs. Ashley's tears
flowed more and more quietly. "how gbQd you are 1"
she whispered. "Some hearts will sympathize with me-
some poor aching hearts that understand the blow 1"
After many soothing words, Mrs. Ilarrington rose to
depart, as the afternoon was waning.
"0, come again," entreated Mrs. Ashley. "Come and
help me to bear up. The thought of meeting my dear five
hundred friends is worse than death."


AMY DENBROOK.

ChAPTER XXIX.
SEVERAL months had passed ~ince Mr. Leonard's unsuccessful
visit to his sister; months i 4 which he had heard nothing
from her. The husband and wife sat together. Sylvia was
recovering from ~ long and dangerous attack of fever: the
daylight was ~t last admitted to her room-once more her
fair head lay back against he~favorite easy chair-.-her little
girl was now permitted to toddle about the room: the face
of the invalid was yet pale and thin; her rich hair loosely
floated about her, for she could not bear its weight when
fastened with a comb; neither friends nor physician had
been willing to sacrifice such a wealth of wavy gold. 'As
Mr. Leonard held her hand, he bent the little emaciated
fingers, ~nd called her attention to them, saying, "This will
never do, Sylvia, I must take you to France, to Germany,
perhaps to Italy, and we will see if your worn figure ~vil1
not fill up with a softer outliiib: it will do you good to see
something new."
"how sadly I have altered, Marcus," sighed the wife, "it
made me feel so badly when I looked in the glass a few days
ago. You will not call me beautiful any more. Do you
love me as well ?"

A kiss upon her forehead accompanied the answ~r. "Do
t judge inc so unworthily, sweet wife. I loved you for
your beauty first, but now I love you and judge you by the
temper of your spirit; this has always been most gentle to
me. You will be the same to me in old age that you were
in youth."
"I thank you, Marcus !" murmured Sylvia, as tears roll-
ea down her pale cheeks. "If J am a better woman than
I was once, it is because y6u have been so patient in teach-
ing me how to be good. God was very wise and merciful
in giving me a husband like you."
"Our lives are arranged according to a divine and perfect
plan,~ and our marriage is one of the heaven-ordained inci-
dents of the scheme. God forbid thatwe should not grow
better for it: only after we enter upon eternity shall we be
able to see the strange and subtle effects God designs to
produce."
A look of satisfaction passed over the wife's face: after a
moment, she said thoughtfully, "Marcus, some lives are
not arranged pErfectly, it seems to me. I have a cousin
who is intemperate and cruel: he breaks his mother's
heart."
"Wickedness is not an element of perfection, certainly,
but each life is filled with opportunities to overcome it, and
this conquest constitutes the "exceeding and eternal weight
of glory." Your cousin's mother will doubtless become
eventually capable of larger happiness through the suffer-
ing her son causes, her: if he should not repent in this

353

352          AMY DENBILOOK.

852


f

AMY DE~I3KOOK.

world, I more than half think God will in the next, pursue
him with such nicety of discipline arid punishment, that his
sins will weake~ before the strength of his Maker. And
then-niay not some higher light come? some more cheer-
ful warmth ?" Mr. Leonard was talking half to himself; half
to Sylvia in the last sentences: his mind was borne ofl
upon the deep sea Qf meditation: the child-like creature
who leaned upon his breast did not like his problems when
they took his thoughts from her. Would the fibres of her
surface-love untwine from him, when yonder supernal
light should break revealingly upon them.? It might be
that one who was hers from the beginning, one to whom her
soul was wedded when it was created, would find in her
every want of his nature satisfied. It was enough that in
the crude childhood of h~r being, she had fallen to the e~re
of one who could make her lovelier, by the very dissimili-
tude that was rooted in his nature. Occasionally a circum-
stance transpired when Mr. Leonard keenly felt how little
his wife was fitted for the society that was most congenial
to him.: his discomfort was transitory; he grew- more great-
hearted for bending down to study her good and her
happiness.
*    *    *    *     *    *    *    *    *
* After a week or two, Sylvia wa~ duly enveloped in
shawls and wrappings, by her, nurse, and with her husband
and little May, was conveyed on board a vessel bound for~
the continent. When the party arrived at Pari~ she en-

treated to stay and see some of the sights there. Mr.
Leonard consented, although it haJ been his intention to
leave immediately, and travel slowly along the banks of the
Rhine. Sylvia was somewhat pleased with pictures and
works of aPt, but she was truly in her element when she
was shopping: an ambient sense of importance diffused
itself within her bosom, when she was examining a "love of
silk," or a piece of embroidery. Every day her wan face
looked out of her carriage upon the busy streets and shops:
little May's joyous countenance pressed beside hers, its
English bloom contrasting with the mother's pallor.
'While Sylvia was thus regaining a little of her former
strength, Mr. Leonard received business letters that re-
quired his immediate presence at Marseilles. lie left his
wife in charge of May's nurse, for she had to take care of
Mrs. Leonard during her illness, and set out upon his
journey, expecting to be gone about a week. 'Released from
her husband's watchfulness, Sylvia could not resist a long
and thorough shopping expedition. Feeling unusually well,
she started out the very day he left her, and went from
street to street, and from store to store in search of a bon-
net, a pair of gloves, and a pair of gaiters which would
suit a rich silk dress lately purchased: at home or abroad,
she liked new~ toilette; not one of the new articles would
she put on, even in an emergency, before she could wear all
together. Impressed with the importance of her mission,
she battled with an extreme sensation of fatigue, and en-
tered one more shop~ resolved that it should be the last for

AMY DRNI3ROOK.

354

355

4

4


I

the day, whether she could be suited or not. A faintness
overcame her as she reached the counter; she looked up at
her maid imploringly, and sank upon a seat; she would
have fallen ~to the ground, had not the women supported
her. A grisette hastened for water, and after a little flutter
among the customers, and a great flutter at Mrs. Leonard's
heart, she was sumciently revived to be carried to her
caleche: the poor child closed her eyes, consciouss only that,
her head was whirring strangely she did not know any-
thing properly until she found herself lying upon her bed,
very ill. The nurse was especially alarmed, as Mr.
Leonard had charged her to permit no imprudence; he
thought his wife would be tis docile to her nurse, as to him-
self; but this was a mistakefor Sylvia sometimes enjoyed
having a little authority. She desired to do just right, but
her child-like nature led her to be too intimate with her
servants, and then to repair this defect, she resorted to an
air of command that was uncalled for. She had been in a
dignified frame of mind upon this day, henec the expostula-
tions of her nurse had not availed in the slightest degree to
curtail her movements. Now in ~ weakness, she sighed
out, "0, Giles, I wish I had~ done as yoti wanted me to
-Mr. Leonard will say I haven't a bit of judgment, when~ he
is away! Send for the doctor, and perhaps he will cure ~-n e
by the time my husband comes back; he was so kind ~to
take this journey on my account. ' Take May from the
room A her voice rings thro~igh and through my head !"
A physician was balled, but his skill could not avert the de-

lirium that came on at midnight: for th~'ee days Sylvia
raved incessantly; upon the third night she lay perfectly,
silent and motionless, and the weary nurse suffered herself
to fall into a profound sleep; her head rested upon the cot-
bed where little May slept. When the sick woman heard
her heavy breathing, she lifted her head, and contemplated
her a moment with dilated eyes, as if she had 'been a Gor-
gon, then she murmured almost inaudibly, "I'll get away
from her ! I'll go to Marcus !"
* ~'She stole from her bed, and with the cunning of ir~s~nity
robed herself in 'the nurse's coarse clothes, which hung in a
closet hard by: as she did this, she kept her terror-stricken
eyes upon the nurse, apparently driven to energy by the fear
of her awaking: she took from a table the woman's bonnet,
and then wrapping an old shawl about her, she softly
advanced to the ,door in her bare, unslippered feet; she
glided down the stairs, and through the dimly-lighted hall
the heavy key of the front door baffled her, a moment, but
with a desperate effort she turned it, closed the door
noiselessly behind her, and then she found herself out upon
the street: the night was damp and misty. Supernatural
strength seemed to bear her on, as she glided like a spirit
along the quiet ways, striving only to find darkness in which
she might be concealed; her busy brain wa~ confounded,
her sight was bewildered, yet she flew onward.
It was broad daylight when the nurse awoke at the sound
of May's exclamations. The chld sat up in the bed, look-

.4

858       AMY DENBROOK.                              AMY DENBROOK.       857

V

356

357


it~
~ ,ii
1

ing toward the vacant one which had so recently been
occupied by h~r mother.
"Mamma! where's mamma ?" she uttered in a grieved
tone.
Mrs. Giles looked toward the bed, and gave a cry of
alarm: it was indeed empty. She sprang from her chair
and looked under it, lifting the valence; then she threw
open the door of the closet, but she found no little thin
figure crouched there ~ she searched her own chamber, her
cheek growing whiter and whiter as she searched in vain:
she felt like one accused of crime as she thought of Mr.
Leonard's return. Overcome by the sudden fright, she sank
fainting upon the floor. When she recovered, she commit-
ted May to the care of the landlord's wife, and beginning at
the garret, examined every room in the hotel: it was filled
by strangers, yet many of them eagerly asked a description
of the missing lady, and turned out to hunt for her. Mrs.
Giles dressed May, and leaving her at the hotel she roved
through the streets, and toward the river: she wandered
out into the country, sitting down only to give way to a
burst of tears. At nightfall, ~he returned to the hotel faint-
ly hoping for good news. The landlord had dispatched men
in various directions: he had caused handbills to be printed,
d'eseribing h~r as a delicate English lady, who had driven
through the streets every day for two weeks in a calech
usually accompanied by her husband: latterly by a nurse
and child: some few remembered her, but that was all.

When Mrs. Giles asked, "Has she been found V' as she
entered the dbor, the landlord replied;
"Perhaps so! Mon Dieu, perhaps so
"Where is she ?"
"We don't know that! last night a policeman saw a
woman running wildly toward the river, with her hair
streaming loose. He could not follow her, foil he had a
man under arrest !"
"0, my heaven! my soul !" moaned the nurse. "And
Mr. Leonard! has he come
"No! I did not send a dispatch to him until ten
Q'Cl0Ck !"
Wringing her hands, the woman turned away, and mount-
ed the stairs, meeting at the landing her foster-child, whose
unpracticed feet were hastening to her: she carried the little
one to her mother's chamber, and sat holding her in her
arms during the whole night. Ere the dawn quite brdke,
she heard sounding along the passage, her master's step: he
opened the door of the room, and entered without any
salutation; he looked eagerly around as if; against the
assurances of his landlord, he might find that his wife had
stolen to her chamber. his face was very pale, and his lips
were shut hard together. ~ Is the child well '?" he asked,
going to Mrs. Giles, and looking upon the face of the infant.
The woman nodded, unable to speak: he questioned her
rapidly of every minute circumstance connected with Sylvia
-'he particularly inquired how her thoughts ran while she

358             AMY T)I~NI3i~OoK.                                               AMY DENBRO OK.                  359

I
11 1'

358

359


360          AMY DENJ3ROOK.

was under the influence of fever; after having remained but
five minutes, he turned t ward the door to depart.
4               "0, Mr. Leonard !" b oke out the nurse. "Shewas a~
quiet as-I n~ver thought
" I do not reproach ~ou !" he interrupted with an
impatient wave of the hand. "' The deed is don !" lie
left her, and without taking food or rest, set abou making
preparations to have the river dragged: everything~ seemed
to point to the supposition that Sylvia had cast her elf into
H            its silent waves: a boy, whom illness bad made restless,
K
was peering from an upper window not far from t e hotel,
and had seen a slIght, small woman flying from that
direction toward the wharf. One of the lodgers at t e hotel,
testified that he heard some one unlock the door, as the city~
clocks tolled three; it was but a moment after this, that the
*       boy saw the flying figure: the policeman also testified that
he had arrested the burglar a few minutes before three,
hence when he saw the woman, it could have been but a
short time after; he had had a short but desperate struggle
with his captive, ere he had maimed him sufficiently to make
him submit to his authority.
During two days, the vicinity o the river was searched;
a great lart of this time wa~ s ent by Mr. Leonard, in
company with several men, upon he river; their boat was
moored in a hundred different pl ces. At last, as the sun
was settir~g upon the second day, swollen body was hook- ~
ed, and dragged into the boat: m uch of the slight clothing
had burst its fastenings, and had been swept away by the

AMY DENI3R00I~.               361

current: the sight was revolth~g-most revolting. Only
the long ~vaves of hair retained any trace, of human attract-
iveness; this wastangled about the disfigured and discolor.
ed face; its golden tint was changed to brown by being
saturated with the water. The figure was Sylvia's
height: it was the face and form upon which the husband
looked with a groan of horror: he turned away in deadly
faintness; the tension of his nerves was gone; he sank
upon a seat in the boat, and covered his face with his hands
shudderingly. A human corpse is the most fearful sight
~under heaven, nor are its ghastly terrors wholly lessened,
when there is no fear of meeting death itself. Nearly all of
life, and love, and glory that we know is shriried within a
temple of flesh; the Almighty himself is apprehended by
what we learn through man when the fire that He has
enkindled retreats from its o~iter tenement inward, the
dismantled habitation i~ terrific in its rum, it is left upon
the face of the earth the briefest time, to tell its strange
myth, and then it is buried from sight: what the corpse is
without its informing spirit, man would he without God.
Marcus, Leonard, carefully, yet with horrible emotions,
examined the length of the hair, ahd the beautifully shaped
teeth: other marks of identification were impossible.. He
felt as if it were cruel to confound his wife with the
loathsome mass of corruption before him: a blanket ~vas
thrown over the remains: as the men pulled toward the
shore, the waves were flecked with vermilion patches from
the sunset sky. The pale American. kept his abstracted

360


362              AMY DENi31~0oK.

gaze upon the water: his spirit wandered far away to the
everlasting scenes upon which Sylvia had entered. Were
the angels so tender that she did not turn and sigh for him?
Had the "serene of peace" come to her? or would she, as
upon earth, though with far greater helps, still grow in
symmetry through every variety of daily experience? Days
of earth are God-given, as well as days of. heaven.
At midnight, a small funeral train Tollowed the body to
its last resting place. Mr.~ Leonard returned to England
with his little daughter, and took up his residence with Mr.
Storehouse, at his earnest request: he expected to remain
abroad a year.

I ~

362

If

AMY DENJ3UO01~.
CHAPTER XXX.
Mo~ than a year had passed since the marriage of Dr.
Kendrick and Isabel Deubrook. Few changes had fallen
upon the little home which was i~hen instituted by the
married p~1ir. They had left the five story house to occupy
a small one in which they began housekeeping: moderate
prosperity had attended them; Dr. Kendriek's steadily
increasing practice, and Isabel's industry in copying law
papers had enabled them to live in greater comfort than
fok'merly. They had just moved into their new residence;
two or three upper rooms were rented to lodgers ;Amy
had her apartment upon the second floor; it was a pleasant
room, into which the afternoon sunshine glimmered in
scattering patches, as it broke through the rifts of a grape-
vine; this thrifty vine was the glory of the house; the
trellis had been built higher from year to year, until it over-
topped the roof of the piazza, and even reached as high as
the third story window~. It was about the middle of May,
and Amy had just give~ the last adjusting touches to her
room; its appointtnents~ were of the simplest description, for
although she had been promoted in Mr. Hawks' school, and
16


364  MY ENBROK.A MY D E NBROoK-                          36

4.
Ii

consequently received a larger salary than formerly, it
would by no means -cover the purchase of any elegancies.
Tngrain carp ting, new maple chairs, a small wash staind,
looking glass and bedstead, with a cheap table containing a
drawer, com41eted the furniture-of her apartment. She was
well satisfied with this, for the room was her home, arid her
soul lived as rich a 'life in it, as it could have done in a
palace. She dreamed, and thought, and read, and sang
within its limits : when she was exultant, she opened her
table drawer, and wrote down the light poetry that over-
flowed her heart: when she was- annoyed and discouraged,
she wrote also, until she won to herself a sort of brightness
that she could gain in no other way. Her time had passed
cheerfully in the main, since she had become a teacher ; her
heart was unoccupied by strong passions, and sometimes
yearned for less quiet- experiences, yet she was too busy
every day to be unhappy ; she had become ardently attach-
ed to several of her pupils, and she delighted uto form their
minds and hearts, and to be to them such a friend as they
needed. .Mrs. Hawks had died about nine months after
Amy entered the school; contrary to her expectation,
she was called upon to till her place as principal; this
position she had supposed would be given to a teacher .ho
was older than herself, but Mr. Hawks thought otherwise-.
Amy did not like to -govern, but she was able to do it, and
she did it well, more to please Mr. Hawks than herself, for
had it been her own school, she would have allowed far
more freedom to the pupils ; the other female teacher laugh-

A

41
if

ed out heartily at amusing incidents, and could be coaxed
into anything, so that the school under her governance was
often most disorderly. Partly on this account, and partly
sethogher o reproof from Mr. Hawks, Amy taxed her-
sel todo erbest: and thus she became the chief teacher
under the great law-giver himself; even after she had
ascended this dizzy height of fortune, she did not lose her
awe of her superior ; if he spoke a little sharply to her, she
was confounded, and explained the matter :he never rebuk-
ed her enough to arouse her spIrit ; for some unexplain-
able reason she could never be her free and careless self in
his presence; if she wer'e tiptoeing around the room after
school, humming a tune, and laughing to herself as she read
a ludicrous conversation upon a slate which she had picked
up, the entrance of Mr. Hawks gave a marked sobriety to
her step, and she could no more hum on, than she could fly.
She knew that lhe thought her a nice, prudent, quiet girl, and
she could only display these virtues in his presence.
*   *     *        **
"I wish I were well out of it ! aye ! I wish I were well
out of it !"~ sighedl Mfr. Secord as he leaned back in his
chair ; he sat alone in his counting-room. "The woman
does not suit m~e ; I never intended to marry her, and by
what cajolery she has drawn me in, I can't understand.
There was a sort of fascination about -her for a spell, but
that has gone. S e is heartless; she wants my money, and
she likes other njten as well as she likes me, though I be-
lieved to the contrary for awhile. But the wedding day is

364

365


366         AMY DENBUooK:                                     AMY DENBROOK.          367

set, and I shall go to it, God knows, unwil tingly. A woman
,can break an engagement, and no 6ne blames her, but let a
man do the same thing, and he is branded as dishonorable.
I shall get to hating her; she will attempt to hold the reins,
but she does not know Justin Secord, if she imagines that
she will be successful.
A knock at the door of his office, aroused Mr. Second
from his unpleasant reverie: it was late in the evening, and
his clerks had all left, oP retired ; the knock sounded upon a
door that communicated with the street: he arose and
opened it, and as the light~ fell upon tue stranger, he ex-
claimed, " Why, I~arri~1gt9~~, is it possible ?"
"It is possible, my good fellow !" returned Mr. ilarring-
ton, entering and taking an office chair, "and the worst of it
is, that I come on a graceless errand !"
"Ah! hard up?"
"No! nothing of that sort! I come to do you a kind-
ness, and to be heai~tilv cursed for it !?'
"Disinterested !" observed Mr. Second with a short
laugh, and an uneasy expression of countenance. "Well,
disclose the business ! the sooner the better !"
"You expect to be married next week to Mrs. Collins !"
"That is the arrangement, sir !"
"When I tell you what I know about her, you will break
with her !"
"Hey ?" was the quick rejoinder, with an eager look,
that was not all despair.
Mr. Harrington looked infinitely relieved, and shaking

[
H

hands with his companion a very long time, proceeded,
"Now I can go on with a will! Y6u don't take it as hardly
as I feared you would !"
" Go on, sir! I want the ~vhole truth !" Mr. Second's
countenance fell a little; after the first hope of breaking
his engagement passed through his mind, he began to dread
being coi~nected with public scandal.
"You think Mrs. Collins is a widow, sir ?"
Isn't she ?"
"She is a divorced wife, and has no right ~to marry ac-
cording to the laws of this state. Her husband is living in
Georgia: he is married to a second wife, and has a family
of children !"
"Hu~ph !"
"4 always rnarvel~d at you, Secord, that you would bave
anything to do with her, when she advocated the doctrine
of Free Love, and had so fatal an influence in leading
Agnes astray !"
"Is that so? She is then deceitful beyond the average
of women! I understood from her that she lamented most
profoundly the step which Miss Leonard thought best to
take; she stated that the whole thing burst upon her like a
thunderbolt from a clear sky! You know I have been r&amp;
served upon the subject with Mrs. Ashley."
"The hag! it was her work, and she gloried in it I"
muttered Mr. Harrington.
"Good heavens! I am confounded !" cried Mr. Second,

I

367

360

t &amp;


AMY DENBROOK.        3q39

868            AMY DJ~NBnO0K.

rising to walk the floor. " Why did I not know this
before ~"
"I supposed you had heard it mentioned, or hinted at, at
least. I have beei on that woman's track from the time she
left my house, nearly two years ag% and although various
rumors reached me, it was not until this week that I ttaincd
incontrovertible evidence of her infamous, most infamous
character. Look at these statements !" Mr. Ilarrington
drew from his pockets several letters and affidavits coming
from different parts of the country, mostly from Southern
cities, showing Mrs. Collins to be a woman whose career
had been one of vice and shamelessness; a breath was
stronger than her virtue; and yet so transcendent was her
intellectual power that she was enthroned in hundreds of
unsuspecting hearts as a very apostle of goodness and
purity. The details of vice are always disgusting, and we
will throw them into the shade as much as possible. Mr.
HarPington had a last story for his companion's ear: the
woman was even then cherishing a passion for a n~an of
congenial character; a man whom she had won from a
wicked paramour.
These disclosures ocep pied hours, and the two men sat hi
the counting-room until da~ break. XV hen Mr. Ilarri n gton
rose to take his leave, Mr. Scored exclaimed, grasping
his hand : "Ilarringtoi~, if I believed in special Provi.
dances, I should say that such an one had directed you
to come to me to-night. When you knocked at the door, I
was saying to myself; that I would cheerfully part with two-

ft

thirds of my fortune to berid of that intriguing woman,
yet 1 saw no honorable path out of my difficulty. I was
entrapped into the engagement, although I seemed to form
it of my own free-will: we were to have sailed for Europe,
as you know : that was against my wishes also; her art in
committing me to the plan was so subtle and powerful, I
could scarcely say that the idea arose with her. I can
manage men, and carry my point, but this woman is beyond
inc. Thank God, I am a free man again! Keep this matter
as quiet as possible."
When Mr. Second was again left alone, scorn and indig-
nation against Mrs. Collins took possession of him: yet with
these sensations a glow of satisfied revenge mingled. lie
took up a pen, and wrote to her as follows:
"MADAM :-Having learned your history from authentic
sources, permit mc to say that our engagement is at an end.
"JusTIN SEcOnD."
4
When Mrs. Collins received this brief note, she was as
usual stopping at the house of an acquaintance, whom she
affectionately styled friend, so long as she needed. her
hospitality. She was in her chamber, an elegantly furnished
apartment, when a servant handed her the billet. She sat
down miugligently upon a sofa to read it; the moment she
had mastered its contents she sprang to her feet, and throw-
ing it upon the floor, stamped upon it, muttering, "This is
a cursed world, and everybody in it! I'll hunt my adver

~1

368


370       AMY DENBROOK.

sary to the death! I'll blacken his or her name, and push
the traitor to extremity; they shall swear my fame is tin-
spotted as snow. But who has lone the work ?" she stood
like a wild beast at~ bay, calling upon ~all the diabolism
within her, to set in motion her mental powers. After
thinking, with locked hands, and eyes upon the floor, for half
an hoi~, she nodded to herself approbatively, and went to
her secretary to pen a letter to Mr. Second. It was a
singular letter, and conveyed no idea of the fierce passions
that were wild within her. She asked as a simple act of
justice that she should know her accusers: she spoke of
one enemy who had done her harm, and she could conceive
of no other person who bore her malice. her letter was
brief; firm, temperate mid lady-like. When Mr. Second re-
ceived it, he read it with a contemptuous smile, and threw
it in the fire. She waited a few days in fiery impa-
tience to receive an answer from him she that might
know the extent of her power over him, and also the
magnitude of the reports against ~er. She found that she
must xvork alone, and in the dark, and she set herself to
watching the people about her with cat-like slyness. She
went into society perseveringly, and weighed every p~rsin
with whom she came in contact, in the balances, tO ascer-
tam, if possible who had betrayed her to the rich lover
whom she had ~o nearly wedded. As often as the family
carriage of her hostess was at leisure late in the afternoon,
she rode out in it, with the blinds drawn closely; invaria-
bly' she directed the coachman to drive slowly through the

AMY DENBR001~.

371

business streets: she never failed to pass the tall stone
I)LtIIding where Mr. Scored passed his days as a merchant
prince; it was a week before she saw him emerge from it,
and was able to follow him, that she mightlearn where he
spent his evenings. 11cr suspicions turned toward Amy
Denbroo k; judging her by her own character, she believed
that revengeful feelings must slumber in her breast; she
thought it natural that the toiling girl should weary of her
homely lot, and sigh for the splendors which she had once
rejected. Contrary to his usual custom upon leaving his
store, Mr. ~ecord did' not proceed to his hotel; he went to
Mr. Ilarrington's counting-room, to ask some questions
about Mrs Collins which had occupied his mind for several
days not finding~ him there, he ~vent to his house up town.
Mrs. Collins' carriage fell behind the omnibus which h&amp; en-
tered; she saw' him go into the house of Mr. Harrington;
driving around the block, she rode by the door again, and.
this time, as fortune would have it, a light young figure trip-
ped quickly along the sidewalk; a fair face looked casually
toward the carriage; the cheeks ~vere softly flushed with
earnest thoughts, and the whole brilliant expression of
countenance night have been mistaken for joy and triumph,
rather than interest and eagerness. Amy Denbrook (for it
was she, and Mrs. Collins recognized her) mounted the
steps that had been trodden a moment before by Mr. Se-
cord, and was admitted by the san~ servant. Believing
that she had found her most active eaemy in 8 rival, Mrs.
Collins bit her lips, and felt her powerlessness: she cried
16*


A1~EY DENBROOK.                 373

372           AMY DEN'I3ROOlt

out in her evil soul, "0, to be as a God 'that I might
destroy them."
Unconscious of the two who were iii her vicinity, Amy
inquired for Mrs. Harriigton, and wa~ shown into her sit-
ting-room, an ample apartment that connected with the
parlor by folding-doors: these were closed, but the hum of
masculine voices could be distinguished through them,
although distance prcyented the recognition of pee ulkir
tones.
"See! I have a letter from Agnes !" exclaimed Amy, as
soon as she had saluted Mrs. Jlarrington, whom she found
alone; and she 'held out a white missiye.
"Ah! is there any hope? tell me before I read it 3" en-
treated Mrs. Jlarrington. "Will shc~~~~!'
Amy shook her head, saying, "The letter is kind, and
sounds, in some respects like her former self. Read it, if
you wish, or shall 13"
"Read it tq me, Amy, if you please !"
It must be premised that a broken correspondence had
been carried on between Amy and Agnes; the latter had
written after the lapse of .a few months, inquiring about her
aunt's family. Mr. llarrington had forbidden his wife to
communicate with her niece, hence she only learned about
her through Amy. * As Miss Leonard wrotexyith freedom
regarding her happiness, it placed Amy in a position that
had two alternatives: eitiiers she must write freely, or not
at all. She followed theirnpulse of her heart, and penned
every thought that can~ to her-her first epistle was irn-

passioned, severe, tender, beseeching: it elicited a cold and
haughty answer, albeit it was an elaborate defence of the
system of free love. Several letters passed between the two
that brought about no change of opinion on either side, then
Amy said, "God is aboVe us both: we each think that we
are right! Let us only love one another! Let us wait 1"
It was a reply to this that Amy held in her hand:
the greater part of the letter was filled with sight-seeing
descriptions, but at the close, Agnes said, "There are many
things in my life, which I could wish had not been, but of
the events of the last two years, I can say, 'Allis well.'
All my friends must feel upon reflection that I have been
true to my convictions of right, and what else can they ask
for me 3 Would that you, Amy, could understand the fi4-
*      ness of rest and love that my spirit enjoys. You can never
judge me truly, until you have been elevated by an equally
pure and absorbing affection. I must say that contrary to
your predictions, I still reverence Mr. Ashley as one of' the
*     noblest of men. I feel sorry for you, dear friend, for with
your understanding of my position, it must seem a guilty
one. You have said many hard and cruel things to me, but
I forgive you freely, because you have deemed it a duty to
say them. .1 love you! I trust you! sweet old memories
gather about me in the dim twilight, and I oft en put forth
the arms of my spirit to fold, you to my heart. There is a
deep tenacity in my affections, and Though shadows may
,temporarily fall between me and those whom I have loved,
there are times when I feel that they are still a part of me..

373

372


374        AMY DENDROOK.                                AMY DENBUOON,         375

My uncle Harrington will not at least forbid that you
should tell m'y aunt that I remember her with fond and
gr~~teful affection, flow willingly would I be the solace of'
her declining years, if his prejudices did not keep me aloof!
Your last letter gave me no pain: it gave me sincere hap.
pines. I shall always be glad to rec&amp;ve such letters. If
yoi~ do not object, address your letters to 'Mrs. Ashley,' as
I am called here by my husband's name.
Yours faithfully,
"AGNES ASHLEY."
While Amy was reading. this letter in a low voice, Mr.
Harrington and Mr. Second left the house, the latterlittle
dreaming he had been so near the Once loved-maiden~; the
sound of her voice would have aroused a strange sadness in
his breast; the sight of her face would have been welcome
as a vision of happiness: it would have responded to the
cry of longing? that sometimes broke up from the soul of the
business man, when labor and care were temporarily for-
gotten. *Many there be who with tranquil countenance pace
familiar pathways, while the heart is going forth in entreaty
to meet 6y chance one banished face; it would so light up a
dreary life, that one who tri~sts God's mercy can scarcely
believe he will ~5Ieny the boon; and yet, every countenance
is that of a stranger, and the pilgrim goes on his way,
famishing; five minutes after, his footprints are touched by
the desired one, and he never knows it. But Providence re~
Lused the prayer, and threw in the moments that kept the

two apart; years after, some sweet beseeching strain of
music may recall that insatiate yearning, and in quiet grati-
tude, the soul may murmur, "It was wise that the prayer
was denied." If this acknowledgement never come on
earth, it xviii break forth from the souls of the good, when
the books are opened in heaven; the books of the past, and
those of the future.
While Mrs. Harrington and Amy were conversing upon
Agnes, some fashionable callers were announced, and the
younger lady arose to take her leave; the elder passed into
the parlor through the folding doors.
As Amy was passing through the hall, a sweet, childish
voice called "Lady ?" she looked, around, and sitting upon
the stairs, saw a little creature of three years old; she was
an enchanting picture as she peered at the stranger a
rnornen t, and then covered her eyes shyly with one little
hand ; her attitude and looks were full of grace and' intellect.
Amy paused, and looking through the banister, whispered
smilingly, "0, what is your name? Araminta, R~xabella,
or Cherubina ?"
The child shook her head with an observing look at her
questioner.
"Say ?" continued Amy in the same confidential whisper,
putting her hand through the railing, and touching the
dimpled hand of the little one, with her forefinger: this the
child appropriated, and with her two little hands pinched to
the last degree of her strength, keeping her glance mean-
while upon the countenance before her, and smiling as she


376             AMY flE~flROOK.'

began a fresh pressure. Amy at length closed her eyes, as
if endurance had gix~en way, and withdrawing her hand,
seized the banister, for a pretended support: when she ~igaiu
looked at 'the cherub, her face was overspread with the
deepest pity and concern: Amy smiled faintly and forgiving-
ly, and this' was slowly repeated in the eyes, and upon the
lips of the beautiful little girl.
".Pince mine !" she asked, holding out her finger: her
request 'was complied with. "P~nce harder !" she was
again obeyed,. and w h.~en the little member was flattened a
trifle to appease her sense of justice, she made, a motion to
release it, with a i'ad hint and sati~fled expression.
"Now if you'll kiss me, Ar~ininta, and put your arms
around my neck, I may find myself able to walk home with
this !" holding LI~ her finger, Amy went to 'the foot of the,
stairs, and kneeling upon the second step, upturned her love-
ly face for the kiss which she received: there was a window
at the head of the stairway, and through i~ a sun-ray pour-
ed) glinting across a little golden head, and illumining the
aspect of the maiden: a step and 'hem!' With the xvord,
"May !" uttered in a half remembered, half forgotten' voice
from above, together with a moving shadow on the stairway
wall, convinced Amy that her colloquy had been ovei'heard:
she retreated toward the front door, while the child answer-
e~i, "Yes, dear papa !" but followed after hem~ catching ~mer
dress with the exclamation, "I'm May-May Leonard !"
The young girl looked at her with a new interest, and
thought th~t her father's spirit beamed through the softer

AMY DENBRO0l~.                   377
beauty of her eyes, and gave to h~r the peculiar air of'
intellect that prevaded her ~hi1dish bearing; the little arms
were uplifted for a second caress, but Amy bent, and only
kissed one sweet hand, with a smile that made compensation
fur more elaborate endearments. Then she went out upon
the street, and remembered that she had heard the voice of
Marcus Leonard for the fir~t time in four years: she felt a~
if she understood him sufficiently to know, that those years
of his manhood were filled with rich treasure. Circumstan-
ces had prevented her from regarding kim in any light that
interested her feelings, yet there had always attached to him
the charm that surrounds a person whom we can compre-
hend. lie had never known her except as a rather shy,
pretty, round-faced girl, who moved dimly in the baekgroui~d
of a picture, whose foreground held Diana. Four years
'had changed Amy's manners and countenance; the former
were simple and unrestrained, as if she did not think about
them: consequently she expressed herself in them more
truthfully than when shyness held her a prisoner; formerly
her physical beauty struck the observer, and in noticing her
bright eyes and richly tinted cheek, with its full, soft out-
line, few felt compelled to go beyond; but now the rose
was a shade paler, and the soft outline less fuji~ it was as if
her soul,. in living its own life, and gathering its own
harvests, had stepped out from :its deep seem sion, and had -
impressed itself upon her countenance, so that with the
recognition of her beauty, came somewhat more of a per-
ception of 'her character. This change is more frequently


A~IY 'DENBRO0~                                AMY DENI3ROOK.          879'

observable in men, than women: a good and gifted man
will at fifty possess a sort of refln~d, spiritual grace of
counteijance, which is utterly unattainable in earlier life; the
aura of his spirit penetrates even through the clay, and his
face beams like a, blessiiig~ upon the tempted.
ChAPTER XXXI.
WHEN Amy reached home, the fading sunshine was meltir
into the spring twilight. Diana Blake, who was now ti
wife of George Coleman, gave a party upon this evening
and as the sisters were to attend it, Isabel watched xvi
some eagerness for Amy's 'eturn: ~he met her at the do
with the exclamation, "Why Amy, there is hardly day hg
enough to arrange our hair ! I've been expecting you eve~
irUnute for an hour, and see what a figure 1 am !" Vexed b
smiling, Bel pointed to the loose ringlets of bright h~
that floated around her, waiting for Amy's skillful adjui
ment. The two i'an up stairs fo Bel's chamber, and in
few minutes the curls were incomparably settled to th
position, combining in their twist and fall, the dignity 4
the matron, with the gracefulness of the maiden, as An
averred with a little flourish of her hand, while contempt
ing them. 1-ler owil turn came next, and then, after the I
terlude of tea, they left the doctor in the parlor, to fini
the rest of their toilette. Amy wore white, as she mc
frequently did, and Isabel was robed in a delicate pink mu

0'
th
or
'lit
at
dr
a
it-
Ii'
sh
45t
LS-


880

AMY Dhi~NBROO1~.

un. After lo king at herself in the glass, she turned
around wi9i a happy smile, to say, "isn't it pleasant, Amy,
to know th~t I can never go to any l)lace with Ralph, whei~e
he will see a human being who seems su fliir to him as I?
You know this is not vanity, because I know that I am not
thus viewed by others ; how easy it is to be good, when
one is always judged indulgently; perhaps I should say,
seem good."
Amy smiled, and thought how easy it was to seem fasci-
natin~ also to idolizin~ hearts: there Was often in Bel's
manner to her husbaxid a pretty, winning archness that- was
seductive even to Amy the very capacity for this pretti-
ness is killed in woman's heart, by the loss of her husband's
devotion, and she is upbraided, for the dimness that has
fallen over her, by his acts.
"It is not vanity ! I understand, Bel. I see ~o little of
true conjugal affection, that I never tire of being convinced
of its existence by you: this love is a poem that is sung by
the few, not the many; it does not often bear the test of
daily association, and xise higher and higher in the breast.
When you sang in the choir la~t sunday, I noticed that
Ralph looked at you from below, and then sent ~a gaze of
scrutiny over all the female faces in the church; the quiet
look that returned to your face an instant, and then dropped
to the floor, was such an one, as many a neglected wife
would have bartered a year of life for."
Isabel blushed, and the thrill at her heart sent a tear to
her eyes~

I

I

AMY DBNJ3ROOK.

881

At this moment, Dr. Kendijek called out from the foot
of the stairs. "Girls! are you never corning down'? how
can I read to you, if you won't come and hear me'?"
"Yes! Yes !" they respondeQ remembering that they
were to enjoy "Hypatia" for an hour or two before they
went to the party. They hurried down stairs, where they
fou~id the doctor walking up and down the parlor~ with the
book in his hand.
"One at a time !" he exclaimed, shading his &amp;es from
the dazzling vision, as they entered the room sid~ by side:
his look rested longest upon his girlish wife, whose dress
set off bewitchingly her fresh roses and, blonde ringlets.
Arriy's eyes followed his, and when their smiles met, she
asked, "She looks a little shabby, don't she'?"
Very !" he answered with his light laugh, which was full
of music. "I never saw you look better, Amy !"
"Didn't you'? 0, I'm delighted 1" The ladies took ota a
little sewing from a work-basket, and busied themselves
with it while Dr. Kendrick read aloud to them.
*      *       *      *      *       *
While this domestic scene was transpiring, another quiet
one was passing in the more elegant sitting-room of Mrs.
Ilarrington: she sat beside her nephew, Marcus Leonard,
in party dress also. Laying her hand upon hkl shoulder,
she remarked affectionately, "You have been h~ re a week,
Marcus, and this is the first quiet talk we have l~ ad ! You
return to your fatherland satisfied, do you'? you x~tr ill be con-
tent to make it your home?"


I

382

AMY DENBROOK.

"Yes, most certainly! I have no household hearth of
my own now, and yours, Aunt, seems most near to me. I
have often looked back to it with a kind of longing, as if it
could restore x~y childhood once more; with~ maturity,
comes the heat and burden of the day !"
"1 have often wished I could have seen your wife,
Marcus! Does May look like her ?"
"Yes! May is more beautiful than Sylvia was, and yet
less so: her features are less perfect !" he took from his
vest pocket, a small miniature~ and handed it to his aunt.
"She looks like an angel !" said Mrs. Iiarrin~ton with a
smile of pleased surprise.
"Don't she? when I first saw her, she looked as if she
had come down from heaven itself. She ~vas the gentlest,
the most devoted of wives."
Mrs. Harrington sighed, and then inquired, "have you
seen or heard from Agnes since your first visit to her?"
"I have received several letters from her, and written a
number of times; we write mainly of common-places.
There is no change in her."
"I know. that, for I heard a letter from her read to-daly!"
"Ah! who corresponds with her ?"
"You recollect Amy Denbi'ook !"
"Yes, and I saw her this afternoon, I think. Was she
here ?"
"Yes !"
"Then it was she, I heard a sweet-voiced woman talking
to May, as I went from my room to call her. I never

383

thought Miss Denbrook so beautiful as she seemed to-day,
when she knelt on the stairs and looked in May's face with
~e light falling around her from the bay window above.
She married Secord, I believe !"
"No! she is not married: she teaches in a seminary !"
"How's that ?" questioned Leonard, abruptly.
"I hardly know, but I suppose the match was broken ~ff
from want of congeniality !"
"Which of the two discovered this want ?"
"Amy, I suppose. She and her sister left the home
which he had provided for them clandestinely. This must
have been so, fo~' Mr. Second's manner of asking me if I
saw the Misses Denbrook frequently, assured me that he did
not know their whereabouts."
"Strange! Why should they run away? Women have
a curious way of doing things. He was their legal guar-
dian, was he not ?"
"No! he was their self-constituded friend; he sent them
to school; and bestowed iPany benefits ~upon them, for which
Amy's hand was to be the guerdon: she promised it, but
as she grew older, more mature in character, she probably
found that her whole heart could not accompany it, so she
recalled it."
"Aye! aye! It was a sad predicament for both. She
loved another, did she ?"
"No, but she evidently did not love him. I think the
circumstance had a great effect upon her. I suspect that the
person to whom Mr. Second has since been engaged, used

AMY DENI3ROOK.

I
1 1
ii
t, I
:1
I i::
I
17
~1
~    I
~ A


384        AMY DE~BROOK.

AMY DENI3ROOK.          385

some 'influence that determined Amy's course: the poor
child heard a great deal about the sin of not seeking
spiritual affinities."
God only knows whether it be a sin or virtue to think
too much4' of these things !" broke out Mr. Leonard, rising,
and walking the floor, as was his habit when his mind was
active. "There is a bound to such reflections: a solemn
promise should lead one to deep questioning ere it be
broken; it may be the finger of God pointing out the path
of present self-renunciation; it may be a door opened
toward well-doing, rather than happiness. But each honest
spirit must judge of its own circumstances. Scored is very
wealthy ~
"Yes!"
"It was well in him to choose a poor young girl: it ~as
well in her to put away the prospect of riches. Heigho !" after
a f~w turns across the room, Marcus stopt before the mantle,
and looked at a small picture of 'Beatrice and, ~ante.' lie
turned to his aunt- with a sad smile, saying, "She looks like
Agnes I"
"That is the reason I bought it!'
"This person to whom Secord was recently engaged is
the woman whom Agnes trusted so fatally, aunt ?"
"Mrs. Collins-yes !?'
"Is Miss Denbrook infatuated with the same views?"
"0 no ! quite the contrary !"
"But she writes to Agnes, and you have said that Mrs.
Collins had influence over her.

"Doubtless she had, but she could have none now. 0, 1
must not~orget to hand Amy her letter to-night; she diopt
~ it as she went out of the room
"She might drop it again at the party. Send it to her;
it would be more safe, would it not? I should not like a
letter from Agnes to be found; she has created too, much
gosSip already !'~ after a libtie silence, he continued, "Amy
had a sister ?"
"She is married to the Dr. Kendrick whoni you fancied
so much !"
"tia! he was able to marry, was he?" Marcus smiled
cordially. "And Diana, aunt? is she happily married?
he blushed a little.
"It was a true love-match, but; she will flirt a little
A look of disapprobation passed over the countenance of
Marcus. The hour fur going to Mi-s. Coleman's had arrived,
and the sound of carriage wheels stepping before the house
could be heard. Mrs. Harrington wrapped her shawl around
her, and threw a veil over her head, then with her nephew,
sought the street. The full moon was rising through clouds;
broken masses touched with silver, went scudding across the
heavens: a light wind blew hurry ingly: thQ scene awoke in
the breast of Marcus a thought of vigor, of romance; a
thought of something rich and new in destiny.
Wifehood had made little change in the' gay manners of
Diana: she was devoted to society as she had ever been.
When Mr. Leonard entered the rooms~ and saw' her stand-

'4'4'
.~ i
I;.
4/
1;
r
f44~
44
I,
I


386                    D1~NBROOIc.
ing a moment In sileri he,. he wondered that he had ever
thought her very pretty but when she smiled, he recog-
nized the old attractiveness; she wore a dress of heavxr
brocade, that exposed her beautiful neck and arms; she was
more stately and polished than of old, save when her ring..
ing, gleesome laugh broke out, and yet as Mr. Leonard
observed her at a distance, he read 6n her brow and lip a
change that set them far 4art; it reached him in the sound
of her voice; he recognized the alteration for the better
Which he had undergone himself; as he watched her, arid re-
mernbered the sympathy that existed once between them : a
coquettish style had become habitual to her; she ht~d grown
superficial while his spiritual life had deepened, until he was
no longer the gay young man whose heart ran over with
gladness to catch her merry words he believed that the
Divine fountain in her soul was hidden, and imperfectly re-
flected the. light from above. When he looked within him-
self; the words of insjiration arose in his thought. "All
my fresh springs, are in Thee !" the path of life which had
brought him to this acknowledgement seemed to him good:
it saddened him to think of the wasted years that had goi~e
over Diana's head. Not thus did his hostess muse regard-
ing 1dm; there came to her heart an instant desire to
awaken the old interest; she loved her husband passionatQ-
ly, yet she sometimes looked back with a sigh to the days
of her queenly power. Seeming accident threw the former
lovers together; Diana's undisguised and laughing coquetry
was responded to in a light vein, but it went very far toward

AMY DENBROOK.

387

divesting her of the charm that had clothed her, when Mr.
Leonard had sometimes looked back upon the dream of his
first love. As they talked, Mr. Coleman occasionally sent
a look of anxiety toward them; Am y, who could not keep
from noticing the three, understood George's character.
sufficiently, to divine the uneasy current of his thoughts: he
at length approached his wife, and joined in the conversation,
which immediately turned upon Mr. Leonard's residence
abroad; in due time he led Diana to a lady, who ~ad
expressed a wish to s~e her; the brief; sudden compression
of her lip showed that she understood his motive: with
characteristic perversity, she said, after she had gone a few
steps with him, "I'll take another direction, if you please,
sir !" and quietly threading the crowd, she sought Amy,
instead of the person who had asked for her: there was an
excited flash in her eyes, as she talked of the weather and
the company, while she almost unconsciously followed her
husband's movements. Amy spoke of the beauty of a
young bride who was present.
"Yes! how long will it be before her husband turns Blue
Beard, I wonder !" exclaimed Diana. '%M~~ chains are of
gold, but still I sometimes remember that they are chains!"
Amy who had only heard her friend speak in joyful
strains of her wedded life before, was a little surprised at
the bitter accent that fell upon 'her ear, kit she answered in
a whisper: '"Sh! be a g6od child to-night, and to-morrow
you will 'remember how happy your lot is !"
"~eorge wants to govern me !" returned Diana, "and
IJI

i~i
'C]
~4i
~ I
I
r~I
~11
~1I


388               AMY DENJ3RO0JL                                                     AMY t~IU'831tOOK.               389

" she did not finish the sentence, for as she strove to
smile, her lip quivered with the real anger that trembled at
her he4rt. This same species of anger had lived in Amy's
breast in the old times, although arising from a somewhat
different cause. She feared to see it sway Diana, whose
impetuous will could brook control. with little patience.
This was proved in a short time,~ for leaving the corner
where she had been for a moment secluded, Mrs. Coleman
called to her aid all the enchantments of her wit, and made
herself the centre of such a circle as she had not gathered
about her~ since her marriage. She forgot he~' sacred wife-
hood in thus endeavoring to show her husband that she
would resign adulation only at her pleasure, and not at his
bidding. Amy's eyes were fixed upon her regretfully;
there was a pain at her, heart, as she realized how weak Was
her personal influence :-Diana had said but the week
before that it was strong over her.
"Miss Denbrook, have you forgotten me '1" asked Mr.
Leonard, who stood unexpectedly at her side; he had been
observing her, and in his mind had pronounced her the white
rose of the collection: her simple history had interested
him more deeply than his manner had shown.
"Not entirely, sir !" she answered, turning toward him,
and extending her hand with a smile. "Old acquaintances.
are not so easily forgotten."
It was not exactly pleasant to him that she said "ac-
quaintances" rather than friends, but he continued: "Time
has touched all people with his alchemy in' four years; there

a~e twenty people here whom I knew before I went to
England, it is strange to see care-~vorn countenances where
so short a time ago, we saw smiles but one can get over
this arid see the old familiar face breaking through: it is
less' agreeable to read a growing hardness in some of the
~young faces that promised better."
"Yes!" responded Amy, "for in the first case we can
hope that there is genuine youth within, which will appear
-" she hesitated, smiling, and added "up there !" ~vith a
slight lifting of her finger.
Mr. Leonard bowed, with his thoughtful smile which said
more than words, and sometimes took the place of them.
Amy had hesitated, because sometimes when she had as it
were, involuntarily giyen expression to her thoughts she
had discovered a sudden loss of sympathy on the part of
her companion: thus she had learned to keep tiiany of her
sweetest thoughts. tp herself, when she met others. It was
not so now, for as she talked she~ realized that she was corn-
prehended; Mr. L&amp;onard had flung around her lisad a rain~
bow of light-his imagination had pictured the hour when
she should stand among the angels,'in the upper world. A
little confused and startled by his earnest, admiring look ,she
dropt her eyes and opened her fan, that most delightful re-
source in embarrass ~nt; in another moment, they were
discussing some antique trifles that ornamented the table by
which they stood: and then, they danced together once;
after this Mr. Leonard conversed with old friends; he took
an early leave with his aunt, and Amy' knew the exact

388

389

I
1~~*
I'


390          AMY DE~BROOK.                                                                   391

moment of his departure, although she did not look toward
the door, but continued a lively chat with a portly old
;gentleman who seemed delighted with his own happy style
of wit.
Arrived at home, Mr. Leonard immediately sought his
room; the old roam where he had slept and studied in the
"long ago." He sat down by the same escritoire, and after
a long, wistful look upon the floor, where he of course saw
nothing but the past and present, he began to write, and to
wonder 'why his eyes had been sealed when a vision of "The
unknown woman" had passed before them years befQre:
when he had first seen Sylvia Stonehouse, he had believed
that his counterpart stood before him; n ow, he again
believed that he had seen his embodied ideal: hisprevious
error suggested monitions of prudence, lest he should
repeat a similar mistake: it wa~ this prudence that had re-
moved him from Amy's side, and that restrained him from
bidding her "good night," least his eager dreams 'should flash
into her consciousness: he marvelled that her rare presence
had not riveted his spirit before; having known her
imperfectly, he did not see that she was more worthy than
she had been; her whole being was now tinged with' a
golden warmth from God; to the superficial, she was
perhaps less charming than she had been, but with the good,
her'soul bloomed out in all its frLinkness, and innocePee, and
enthusiasm.
And Amy ! she sat alone in her chamber that night, with
a smile upon her lips, and a tremulous beating at her heart;

with a half fearful look upward, she prayed, "0, deliver
me not to uncontrollable passion, Almighty Father, if
renunciation must, be required of me !" She felt as if she
stood upon the brink of some tremendous change; a vision
of her awakened spirit passed in review before her, and she
cowered under the tyranny of such love, as seemed now
possible to her for the first time: she cowered to see what
her helplessness might be; yet she thanked God that he had
endowed her thus'= though at the' risk of suffering. In
former days, all that she had ever understood of love, had
been revealed to her by George Ooleman; even when
engaged to Mr. Second, her fettered heart had turned to him,
as to the only one who had unlocked its chambers vet he
had but the key to the outer courts; she had some~mes felt
a kind of arrogant pride in knowing that she could be the
conqueror of herself-that judgment could triumph over
feeling. The calm 'and solitary places within her vibrated
no longer to the' past; she had never upon intimate
acquaintance, seen a man who had not some point of
character that seenied better fitted to another woman than
herself; pretty and intelligent, she could not be without
admirers at any time, but they remained such, or turned to
others, without assuming the character of suitors; in fact, she
'had' interested no one whom she had~ liked and respected as
heartily as Mr. Second or Mr. Colemam Her youthful
belief that "the right one" existed, and would come to her,
was still in her heart. When after absence, she and Mr.
Leonard met, they had each entered upon a new~ phase of

AMY DENBROOK.

390

391

4
{j1
I
4 '
'I
4 =
~ I
4"
I"
p
4'
P
Ii


392             AMXT DENBROO1~.                                            ALMY DENBI~OOK.              ~393

I!
Pp
jI~
Ij
Ii

lifc: they clung to no fancied idols; they looked at each other
attentively and untrammelled for the first time, as it were;
each had somewhat of a clue to the other's c~ist of A~honght,
and to the effect which the experiences of life had prod uced.
He had asked "Is it she? the unknown woman ~" as a
peculiar, spiritual loveliness invested her, and set her apart
from other women. If Amy had obeyed her impulse,
which she did not, she would have dashed upon paper a
thousand thoughts and feelings that night; she looked forth
upon the future which lay before hei' like a shoeless sea-a
beauteous sea; she reached upward through the splendor
unto God~ But she hushed the poetry. that sprang unbidden
from h~r heart, and after an hour had gone in dreaming,
started up in bashful self-reproof: she unbound her hair
and resolutely took out her breast-pin, saying, so that ~he
oould l~ear the chiding, "Amy! Amy! because he is-so
different from other men, his look appears a' different, and
seer~s to convey-" here she came near getting into
another vision; she broke, it oil; by taking off her belt with
unusual dispatch, and continuing: "It is so incredibly fool-
ish in a person to' become interested in another, when that
person may never have dreamed of such a thing; particular-
l~ foolish in a woman-I do despise it so heartily! yes! so
heartily !" now this last " so heartily " was a mechanical
repetition of thei former, and as she said it, she slowly
unclasped a bracelet of ~ hair, and looked at it, and
then fastened and unfastened it; and then she laid it down,
and folded her hands together, and smiled as she mentally

repeated some words which Mr. Leonard had spoken; thus
was she again borne out in fancy upon the scoreless sea, and
who shall say how long ~he dreamed, and how sweet were
the dreams~
She remembered that she must have left her letter at Mrs.
Ilarrington's, as she had not folded it when~ she had finished
reading it, and must have dropped it in her hasty exit from
the apartment, when a fresh call was announced to Mrs.
Harrington: consequently it seemed to her certain that Mr.
Leonard would soon bring it to her, or that he would call to
renew his acquaintance with Dr. Kendrick.
The next day, every duty seemed linked with a gracious
presence; she knelt at her bedside, and her morning prayer
was rather a smile of love and trust to God, than a
petition; 'she felt as if another prayer winged its way to
the same throne, and as if she were not forgotten in it. She
sought for songs of joy and triumph when she turned to the
saCred page. She added several slight graceful touches to
her dress, and gave to her soft ringlets a thoughtful pare,. as
if there were happiness in bestowing upon her persQn some-
thing that might reflect the new harmony within. Perhaps
all this care had not so poetical an origin; perhaps she
.should not wish to ornament herself when she returned
from school, as if she expected a guest. The day passed
away unlike all other days, and the eVening came; the
young teacher sought her room after tea, and sat down to~~
write a letter; leaving it unfinished, she busied herself with
hemming a ruffle; har~lly had she taken a dozen stitches

392

293

i A
1'
F'
t
a'
~p.'ii
4
it
~t1
I'
lb
I:
(I
I,


AMY DEN I3UOOK.

AMY DENBRO0K.

when through her open door came the tones of voice which
had sounded in her heart all day; she heard the light,
cordial laugh with which Mr. Leonard said, "Doctor, I have
come to see you in. your own home! How is the little wife
to-night? tired of dissipation ?"
"No, sir, not at all !" said Isabel's voice at the parlor
door; it closed in a moment, and Amy hemmed serenely -
for a quarter of an hour oi~ her ruffle; at the expiration of
this period, the door below opened; and Bel's footsteps were
beard mounting the stairs. We do n~t always feel equal to
disclQsing the current of our reflections, even to the dear~t
friend on earth, and Amy would have blushed to have
given any sign of hers to a human being, so she hastily re-
sumed her pen and bent over her discarded letter.
"Come down in the parlor, A~ny !" exclaimed Isabel,
entering the room. "Mr. Leonard has called to see the
doctor !"
"0, has he ?" was the reply. "1 thought I heard some
person come in !'~
"Come down, will you ?"
"After awhile! I haven't finished this letter yet! Look!
I've sewed all this beside-.-havn't I been quite industrious ?"
she held up the ruffle.
"Yes, but let the writing go now !"
"Well! I'll be down in a few minutes !"
And so she went down; the conversation was for a
moment interrupted between Dr. Kendrick and Mr.
L~onard, as the latter arose and shook hands with her; she

took a seat by a little stand where Bel sat with some netting
ifl her haifd, which she only occasionally consulted: Amy
occupied herself with similar work, and frequently threw in
a general remark, while Isabel joined with animation in the
discussion, which related to the condition of the lower class-
es in Europe. There was nothing in the manner or conver-
sation of Mr. Leonard to indicate that Amy had any con-
nection with his visit, save that when she spoke he looked
toward her with a more listening attitude than before. lie
took an early departure, saying as he arose, "Mrs. ilarring-
ton sent you this letter by me, Miss Deubrook! I believe
it has your address upon it !" and he gave her the docu-
ment.
"Thank you! I was careless to leave it !" she returned.
"I am very glad that it was safe !"
p1*

394

395

UIL
Iii'
Ilil
dl

{*4~
LII
4
It


396          AMY DI~1BR00K.                                 AMY DENBROOK.

397

CHAPTER XXXII.

"UPON leaving Dr. Kendrick's house, Mr. Leonard went
to the city Post Office, where he expected to find letters
* from abroad. lie was not disappointed; among the nuni-
ber was one from Agnes: this he did not read until he had
returned home. A part of it ran thus:
"We shall leave in the next steamer for New-York; un-
expected and rather unfortunate business will require Mr.
Ashley's immediate attention there. Marcus? shall I meet
* you? I do not expect to occupy my former position among
my friends, but I thinI~ there are two or three, who will not
be afraid to clasp my hand once more for the sake of
earlier days. I shall not go to aunt's, nor I fear will she
come to see me, against uncle's will. There is but one
thing that I would like to obtain from home, and that is a
box of papers: it would be of trifling import to any one
else, and perhaps its contents have been thrown in the fire.
ere this. There were old school compositions in it; some
of them were mine, and some of them I begged from the
dearest of my school-mates. There were a doz9n of your
letters; you wrote them to me from Yale, when we thought

no change of opinion could ever estrange us. It may be
that. you will care enough for the past, to read these records
which were freighted with affection and hope; it may be
that some lonely evening y~u will bend above them, and
perusing the story of your brotherly tenderness, xviii, find
it revivified for me! 0, Marcus! Marcus! do not be unjust
still! do not forget that I am Agnes! that the same father
and mother left us orphans! that when we returned home
from the last grave, you folded your arms around me, and
said 'Death itself shall not loosen our love, Agnes!'
"Your letters now do not upbraid me, but you are stern
and severe; you do not always feel for me a Christ-like
charity. I am a Magdalen to you! This is not so in
truth; it is the unloving wife who is the Magdalen, n otJ,
who am a genuine consort, legalized by the most sacred
affection."
With a sigh, Marcus laid down the epistle; he unlocked
a deep drawer in his escritoire where the well-known box
had heen deposited by Mrs. Harrington, when Agnes' room
had been turned into a guest chamber. He drew forth hfs
own letters, hardly recognizing his once beautiful chiro-
graphy which had undergone the change consequent upon
much and rapid writing; this change in his style of pen-
manship symbolized the alteration which had taken place
in himself; he thought now much more of an idea than of
its vesture-.---much more of spirit than matter, hence his pen
no longer betrayed in its careless ease, the nice grace of'
old. He sat until past midnight reading the letters: ~iot

396

liii
*1~


39S          AMY DENBROOK.                                       AMY DENJ3ILOOK.          399

~unfrequently did he pass his hand across his eyes to make
the words clear; he opened one of his sister's compositions,
and pressed his lips upon the writing ere he gave up his
task, and retired. When he awoke in the morning his first
thought was of Amy :---perhaps some of her com positions
were in the package. Knowing how ho had inve ted one
beautiful woman with the intellect 'which he had de ired her
to possess,' he was most anxious that the attract n which
drew him to Amy, should have its foundation ii herself,
rather than in his own imagination: hence a recor of her
simple thoughts acquired importance.
He found a compositAon which had been written 'when she
and Agnes were about seventeen: it was a spirited satire
against superficiality and foppery in man and woman: Mr.
Leonard smiled at its witty, girlish scorn, and then with
dreamy eyes upon the floor, smiled more softly to recall the
mellowed, spiritual sweetness that exhaled from her every
look and thoughtful word now: her light words were light
as ever, but they carried no sting as they sometimes did
aforetitne: he tore himself from his reverie to read with
graver interest the burst of indignation that closed her
essay, and the wide soaring belief in humanity's best possi-
bilities. 'The unformed style of her composition had to his'
partial heart a charm: he was not critical as to manner, for
he sought only to find indications of character, and these he
found: Amy would have shed almost tears of vexation,
had she known of his inspection into her crude, saucy
pages: he saw the deepening, etherializing glow that had

come to her since. As he folded the document, and once
more in fancy gazed within her eyes, he said of her, "Most
human most heavenly." He found in the box letters
from the schoolfriends of Agnes :-there were several,
directed in Amy's handwriting. An eager curiosity to de-
vour them, seized him, but he put them out of his sight,
pervaded by. a new sense that was delicious: henceforth
every gate of his soul's temple should be thrown open to
the white feet of his priestess: every thought, every act of
his 'nature should be laved in waves of purity that she
might hear and see the motion of the life that was, asby a
mii'aele attracted to her it surrounded her as the sky
bends to the sea: as the sunshiny air drinks deeply of the
rose's heart, and wins its perfume: he listened as if spell-
bound to the entrancing poem that had come to him so sud-
denly. Where indeed had the splendor been kept by God
so long ~ this deepest spring of hope. had broken from its
fathomless deeps at sound of the electrical voice: at sight
of the spiritual face: aye, the very motion of her gliding
form, moved him as if she were walking through all the
rarest gardens of his being: he thought he had loved deep-
* ' ly, but such 'love he had never dreamed of': it thrilled
all the sleeping world within him, as Eden moved musically
when the foot of Adam entered its precincts.' He wonder-
ed if this spring were now unsealed in Amy's nature.
With singular faith, he felt that he was the magician; that
he should unlock the mysterious kingdom all flushed With

~i1


400             ~AAfY DEN1~I~OOI~.

tropical splendors, that lay per~1u so long. Perhaps she
heard his approach. Aye, she heard the step of her king!
Though possessed of poetic tendencies Marcus Leonard
was not a poet: he dreamed sweet idyls, but he usually
awoke to the, requirements of common sense, and lowered
his visor when he went into action. lie emerged from his
warm dreams to look at facts: he recalled with disquiet the
incident that had shadowed his heart a little the night be-
fore. Amy had not hastened int~ the parlor, when it seemed
to hini that she ought to have had a presence of ~iis
coming: she had been somewhat reserved, and had appe~ir-
ed to show more, interest in Dr. Kendriek's remarks than
his own. her vis9r was down to conceal the thrillings of
her heart: she was ashamed of them : she had no right to
thrill, when she had iiot been asked to. .Yes, she had been
wooed with subtlest, spiritual asking, and the voiceful
presence was ever taking possession of her thoughts, her
feelings, her heart-beats: she had no need to blush, and
to strive to put away the image: methinks it was true;
it was a strong man's spirit praying to her in yearning;
methinks it was not her fancy that she contended with, but
the resolute will of Marcus Leonard.
While he was scheming for an excuse that evening to call
at Dr. Kendrick's, his aunt requested hi&amp; company for the
opera, which she anticipated attending': he of course could
not decline. When he was on his way there, Amy sat at
home, endeavoring to solve a. mathematical problem, which

AMY DENBROOI~.

401

would benefit a certain pupil, and herself also. Dr. Ken.
drick came into the room, exclaiming, "Upon my word,
Bel, if your head did not ache so, I should stay all night
with the Bryne's: that woman's gloomy face goes straight
to my heart: she can only live a few days and her husband
is prostrate with a fever !"
"Is there no one to take care of them ?" inquired Isabel.
"You are called up so much nights, Ralph, you ought not
to go !"
"If the man were not there, I ~would stay tonight with
the woman !" said Amy. "Is. he in the same room
"No! he is in a little room adjoining. I wish you would
go, sister; he needs attention also. I believe you could
make the death-exit of Mrs. Bryne less dreary if you would
talk to her !"
"I'll go !" answered Amy, closing her book. "Shall I get
ready now
"Yes! I am going there immediately. I'll be back in a
short time, dear !" The doctor stroked his wife's hair, ask-
ing, "No better yet ?"
"Not much !"
Twenty minutes after this conversation, the doctor and
Amy, stood within the lowly tenement of Michael Bryne.
lTpon a small cot in the larger room lay the wife, in the
last stages of consumption; as the young girl approached her,
she exclaimed, "0! Miss Amy !" with a look of surpi~ise.
"Do you know me ~ Why Mary, is it you '~ returned
her visitor, as the wan face broke over her recollection. I

iF
*1
II
Ii

I~i1

400


402              AMY DEI~BR00K.
thought you were still at service in Mrs. Harrington's
family. I have been there so seldom for a year or two.
How long have you been married ?"
"Almost a year !"
"Does Mrs. Ilarrington know of your sickness ?"
"0, yes, she often visits me; but she has not been here
since N~Iichael was taken down."
"I am going to ~ta~ with you to-night," said Amy unty~
ing her bonnet a~ d sitting down by the bed-side. The
doctor, gave several simple directions relative to both his
patients, and then the young watcher was left alone to her
task: it seemed a grateful one, since she ~had discovered in
the woman a servant of Mrs. Harrington's, who had
fancied her in times past.
A worn bible lay upon the stand. "You are a protestant
Mary !"' said the young girl taking it up; she observed that
a deep melancholy settled upon the sunken countenance
after the surprise of meeting was olYe2r.
"Yes ma'am !" was the quiet reply.
"Shall I read the chapter that begins, "Let not your
heart be troubled ?"-~-or would you like to be quiet ?"
"I'd like to hear the chapter 1"
Amy shaded the woman's eyes from the light with a fan,
and' read in a low voice a part of the chapter. "Did you
ever t~ink Mary what a beautiful Providence it is," ~he
said, "~hat as soon as these frail bodies, become useless we
can thr~w them aside and, enter another world where we
shall not need them ?"

The invalid turned upon her the eyes which sickness had
made so large, and answered with pathos, "I don't want to
die! I can't leave Michael! I don't want to be laid in the
cold ground !"
"You will never be laid in the cold ground !" replied
Amy-" God did not create you for that !"
"I'm dying." She held forth her skeleton hand and
whispered, "this will soon be under the sod. I thought I
was a christian, but I don't love the Lord's will."
"You don't understand it~, dear. You think the Lord is
less good than 'he is. 'There is a natural body, and there'
is a spiritual body.' 'Do you see this glove?' she lifted
the article from her lap and drew it on, continuing, "~Can
you see any thing of my hand now ?"
"No, ma'am !"
"And yet I can do a thousand things through this glove;
you know that my hand is within it; when the leather be-
comes worn from constant use I can throw it aside; it will
be worthless, like the poor earthly body that yoI4 regret to
part with. Immortality does not resume corruption; the
spiritual body spoken of 'by St. P~ul, first begins to act
without its material covering in the next world: it does not
resume its shell; it is compared to ~rain the seed of which
springs from the earth leaving behind its outer covering."
An expression of ~eagerness and hope answered the
speaker, but th~ cloud returned, and 'Mary Bryne said,
"The Bible says that at the last day the dead shall be calL.
ed from their graves. It is a long time from this to the

I

AMY D1~NBI~OOK.

403


404          AMY DENI3UOOK.

judgment-day~---.the dead must wait until then to be
awakened !"
"Th~ dead in trespasses a~d sins, shall be called to judg-
ment, as was shown in th story of the rich man and
Lazarus; we are taught that the rich man went immediate-
ly to judgment; Lazarus w~eiit to his reward ~ Dives is
represented as talking with Abraham, and crying for water
to cool his tongue. This shows that he was in a spiritual
body, while his natural body lay uselessly embalmed in his
sepulchre. When Moses and Elias appeared beautiful ~ind
glorious, talking with Jesus upon the mount of transfigura-
tion, could they have talked and listened unless they had
possessed organs of speech and hearing? When you die,
Mary, you will, not have need of your material body as
they had not of theirs. 'There are also celestial bodies,
and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of th&amp; celestial is one,
and the glory of the terrestrial is another.'"
"I see It! I see it !" cried the sick woman with a look
of rapture. "0, where has been my faith? how could I be-
lieve that God would imprison my body, and leave my
soul to float about like wind, until it was joined to it. I
used to think about playing upon a golden harp in heaven,
but for a few days I have kept saying to myself, 'Though
worms des troy this body,'~-it seemed as if I could not
finish the text. I bless God that you caine to rne~ I shall
see God in the spiritual body that Paul spoke of."'
"That is it," said Amy with a delighted smile.

AMY DENI3ROOK.                 405
"Do you think the Lord will place me on the right hand,
Miss Amy'?"
~TT.
nave yOU tried to obey His commandments ?"
"I have sinned a great deed, but I have tried to follow my
Saviour."
"Then He will take you to His kingdom."
A beautiful light passed over Mary's countenance: she
smiled, and folded her hands in still and rapt devotion n.
Amy moved her chair to the table, and took out her sew-
ing7 after having looked into the chamber occupied by Mr.
Bryne; he looked fixedly at her from under his bushy brow;
she retreated, 'a little frightened, without putting fresh ice
upon his head as she had intended to do; after a moment
she arose and put down~ her work to wait upon him,
ashah~ed of her weakness. Ere she could reach him he
called impatiently, "Woman !"
She was not reassured by this, but went to him, saying,
"I am going to put fresh ice upon your head as the doctor
told me." She took the napkin which was nearly dry
from the intensity of the fever, and filling it with ice placed
it upon his head again; she then asked him if he would
have anything, but he only glared at her without reply.
She would have questioned Mary about him, but on return-
ing to her, found that she had dropt asleep. Re-seating her-
self upon the little wooden chair frofri which she had risen,
she began involuntarily to think of a delirious patient of Dr.
Keudrick's who had required four men to hold him.

I

L

I

4


i

AMY DE~BRO OK.

AMY DE~{BROOK.

"Pere, you strange woman ! Water ! Give me water,
or I'll kill- ye !"
Her heart leaped into her throat at the low fierce
whisper, but seeing no alternative, or escape from her duty
as an attendant, she obeyed his call, and hastily pouring- out
a cup of water, would have given it to him ; with a sudden
spring. he raised, himself in the bed, and taking it from her,
drained it. "Colder ! Give me mnor&amp; !"
I'll get some ice from the hall and .put in the pitcher,"
she articulated, leaving the chamber and passing through
Mary's room 'to the entry, where she discovered a large
quantity of the desired article. JJpon returning to Mr.
Bryne she found him resting on one elbow, waiting for her ;
she handed him arsecond cup of water.
"Sit down ori that chair !" he said, taking it from her,
and nodding his head toward ghe seat designated.
"1I am your nurse, and you must do as I say," she falter-
ed, leaning against .the wall.
"I want to look at you," he persisted more wildly.
"Sit down there !"
She took -the seat, looking at him the while as' if he had
been a, wild animal- who bright make a second spring: he
put the water to his lips. At this moment the knocker of
the street~door sounded. .Amy started to her feet gasping,
" Oh !" she was so thoroughly frightened that the sound
connected itself with something terrible and undefined
about to happen.

" There was a knock at the: door, please," said Mary's
quiet voice. "Such a beautiful dream I had !"
The wvatcher proceeded down stairs and opened the
front door.
"Good heavens, Amy !" exclaimed the voice of Mrs.
Harrington. "'Are you here ? What is the matter ? is
she dead ?'
The candle that lighted Amy's pallid face wavered in her
hand;- she stept back and sank upon the stairs, uttering,
It's nothing !"
Mrs. Harr'ington took the light from her, saying to a
gentleman who accompanied her, "She is going to faint,
and-?'
" No she isn't going to faint," replied AMny, taking hold
of her friend's dress~ with one trembling hand to assist her
in rising. ".Please go up stairs, I will follow in a moment."
" But what has frightened you ?"
" Mr. Bryner is delirious ; I'm so glad you've come !"
Amy looked up into Mr.- llarrington's face as she supposed,
but it was Mr. Leonard's. Seeing that he hesitated to go
and leave her, she continued, "Il come now !"
" Lean on my arm, Miss Denbrook."
.She accepted the offer, and -they ascended the stairs to-
gether, preceded by Mrs. H~arrington.
" Who's that woman ? Come here !" came from the
little bedroom the moment they ha~d all entered Mary's
apartment.
Mr. Leonard smiled with a sudden appreciation of

406

407

I

'I

F
I.


408            AMY DEI~BRO0K.                                          AMY DENB1~00K.              409

Amy's terror, and went to the sick man; the pale nurse sat
down quietly by Mary's bed.
"I mean't to have called here many hours ago, Mary,"
said Mi's. Harrington bending over her, "but company de-
tained m&amp;; we are on our return from the opera! I have
something for you in the carriage. Here comes Ben with
the basket now !"
The coachman entered a~d deposited his burden upon the
floor. "I am surprised to find Michael sick," observed
Mrs. llarrington. After a kind conversation with her for-
nier servant, sha turned to Amy and said, "Marcus will
stay I suppose, and take care of one of your patients."
"I devoutly hope so !" answered Amy, looking toward
Mr. Leonard, who approached from the other apartment.
"Indeed is it Mr. Marcus got home !" exclaimed Mary,
who' had not observed him before; she held out her hand
with a look of welcome.
"Yes, Mary, it's pleasant ~o see you once more, although
I am sorry to see you so ill."
"I am very happy, Mr. Marcus! I'll not hold back wjien
the Lord calls."
Mrs. Harrington rose, and bade Mary good night.
"You won't object to my sharing your~ watch, Miss
Denbrook ?" said Mr. Leonard with a smile.
" No, sir ?" was the ready answer.
"You must make a cup of tea for yourself; for you are
still pale as a lily," exclaimed Mrs. Harrington, patting
Amy's head, and then stooping to kiss her. "You will find

I

what you want in the basket." After she had gone, Amy
endeavoured to tempt the invalid woman's appetite with the
various delicacies, which had been brought in; in this she
did nOli succeed very well; she yielded herself to Mary's
eager solicitations to put upon the table some refreshments
for herself and Mr. Marcus: the latter personage kind ledal
fire in the little cooking stove, and filling an ancient tea..
kettle, placed it upon it.
"I shall consider this supper an admirable~ feature, if my
patient will allow me t~ partake of it with you, Miss Amy"
observed Mr. Leonard as the voice of Mr. Bryne summon-
ed him to his place in his room.
Steam went up in' wreaths from the kettle, and the Hyson
steeped many minutes in the little brown tea-pot ere the
continued silence in the adjoining apartment induced Amy to
call out softly, "Mr. Leonard ?"
He came out, and they, sat down to the table ivhich was
furnished from Mrs. Harrington's larder; the cups ar.d
saucers were bedecked with flowers of blue, red, and green.
Under any other circumstances, neither o( the watchers
would have thought it possible to have enjoyed such a mid-
night repast. As it was, Amy looked toward the bed,
before pouring out the first cup of tea, saying, "Isn't this
nice, Mary?"
Mrs. Bryne smiled in, reply, but shook her head when
Amy offered her some of the fragrant beverage. A church
clock very near at hand struck the hour of one with a deep
reverberating sound.


410            AMY D1C~B1LOO1~.

CC It is the cathedral bell !" said Amy.
"I halt' imagine I am a friar, and you are a sister of
charity, Miss Amy !"
"It seems so," she responded, laughing, "I wonder if
friars and nuns have little suppers like this ?"
"Not like this," he answered with an emphasis that sent
the color to her cheek, hitherto so pale.
"Mr. Bryne is asleep, I suppose," she said, passing a.
saucer of jelly. "I believe it is my fault that his fever ra.ri
so high; I was talking with Mary and forgot to renew the
cooling applications."
When the meal was concluded, Mr. Leonard returned t~
his patient. Amy washed the dishes as noiselessly as
possible, atid then sat down by Mary.
"Rest your head down here, and go to sleep now, Miss
Amy. 1' shall not need any care until morning; if I do I
xviii waken you."
Believing that Mary would feel more at ease if she follow-
ed her suggestion, the fair nurse laid her cheek upon the
bed, and apparently composed herself to slumber: sleep
was far from her, although the burden of her care had fallen
away. An hour elapsed and then Mr. Leonard passed
through the room to get some ice from the hall; Amy did
not move, but in a moment she felt that her light shawl
which hung upon a chair, had been carefully wrapped
around her: the fire had gone down, and the night had be~
come a little cool.
At the earliest break of day the watchers were startled

AMY DEI~13R001~.

411

by a summons to the street door; it was Dr. Kendriek,
who had come 'to relieye his sisteriri-law.
"how are they? and how did you happen here, sir," he
asked, surprised at meeting Mr. Leonard, who admitted him.
The incidents of the night were related~
"Mr. Bryne is conscious now, is he? said the doctor~
after he had listened to the story; he wouldn't l~ave been
delirious if my directions had been followed, Amy, you
deserve to be- "
"Revered ?" she suggested, stepping back as if to shield
herself front his rebuke. "I ant very sorry, Ralph."
He smiled, and replied, "you've done very ~vell; put on
your bonnet and run home now-the neighbors can take. care
of Mrs. Bryne duPing the day. I'll relieve you also, Mr.
Leonard. Tell me which medicine you gave last I" The
two gentlemen went into Mr. Bryne's room.
Amy, who was putting on her bonnet, kissed the brow of
her whose days were numbered, and calhin~ "Good
morning, Mr. Leonard ! I thank you for helping me
disappeared from the scene of her late vigils. Mr.'
Leonard's heart suddenly fell at' her abrupt departure; he
had half expected ~to walk home with her in the morning
twilio'ht
18

410


412         AMY DENI3ROOK.                              AMY DENBROOK.

413

CHAPTER XXXIII.
MRS. COLLINS was pacing the floor of the handsome apart-
ment in which we have seen her; her intriguing brain was
laying stratagems upon false premises. It had been forced
upon her mind from Mr. Second's stern silence, that he was
~lost to her; she was considering whether it would pay to
persecute him, and her scipposed rival: this would have
been an interesting pursuit,. if it did not involve the proba-
bility of, her own more public exposure. Her condition
was nearly desperate, for the coldness of her host and
hostess increased daily, and she had contracted many debts
which were to have been discharged from Mr. Second's
revenues. She ran over in her mind every eligible bache-
br, widower, or young man whom she had the faintest hope
of charming; but time and study 'were needed to storm
rind capture the fortress of their affections and weaknesses,
and time she had not. She cast herself upon a sofa, and
buried her forehead in her hands; her heart was full of irn-
potent, revengeful misery. The voice of the postman in
the hall below, aroused her; she hastened down, to inquire
if any letters had come for her;, she was rarely away from

the house; whefl the letter-carrier arrived, for she had much
correspondence that she preferred to keep secret: her trust
in others did not permit her to believe that a seal was a
safeguard to a letter under a~l circumstances. She found
what she expected and more, for she looked with curiosity
and apprehension upon a package of papers, which were
directed to her in a strange hand. Upon returning to her
room, she locked the door, that she might be free from in~
terruption, and broke the red wax that fastened the enve-
lope: several sheets of foolscap were sewed together, and
upon them followed a dozen letters i.rm succession; turning
to the first page; the bewildered Wo'mnan read:
"MADAM
"The enclOsed letters have been copied from
originals which I have in my possession. I send them for
your careful inspection: if. hfter reading them you deem it
best to haunt respectable society, I shall make it a point to
present the prdof of your character, which is herein
contained, td each and all of the persons who have harbored
you, or countenanced you under mis-apprehension. I shall
not hesitate to say what I know of you, at any time
occasion may demand.
"Yours &amp;c.
"JouN HARRINGTON."
It would be vain to attempt a description of the malig-
nant anguish 'that devoured the betrayed woman; she saw


414            A1~[Y DE~13I~OOK.                                            A1~tY DENBROOK,              415

appended to the several letters the names of gentlemen who
had known her for a term of' years; they were men of
principle and standing in their separate communities : they
had learned that she was a serpent by the poisoned sting
which she had left upon her victims. Never before had sh~
operated upon so large a field as New York had afforded
her, and never before had so rich a matrimonial prize seem-
ed within her reach. One of the 1e~ters was from her hus-
band, whom she had infamously wronged. Perfect as was
Mrs. Collins' self-control before others, it gave way complete
ly when she met misfortune in solitude: she flung her hair
down, as if' its weight distracted her, and wrubg her hands,
while her lips hissed words of profanity and shame. After
her passion had spent itself; her keen intellect began to
make the best of circumstances; she sat down, and pushing
from her white face, her disordered hair, bent her eyes,
flaming with infernal suffering, upon the cai'pet. If one
could have looked in upon her spirit, could have read its
history and retribution, he would have recoiled from sin,
knowing that it carried its punishment within its bosom,
and was heaping up its burning coals even in momentsof
triumph: the present suffering of the unfortunate woman,
scarcely shadowed forth the tremendous wrong which she
had for years been doing hersoli'; the temple of'her spirit
was burned and charred by unholy fires; though its deso-
lations could be partially concealed by blandishments oii
this side of death, a time was hastening when all should
* yield to expositions of character. "For there is nothing

covered, that shall not be revealed: and hid, that shall not
be known."
She had but one course open before her~and that was to
fly to some strange place; she fixed upon a southern city
where she had never been; she was reduced to the
humiliating necessity of' asking her host to lend her the
means of transportation: this he did with actual cheerful-
ness ,glad to be relieve&amp; of her at so light a price.
Within twenty-four hours of the receipt of Mr. Harriug-
ton~ s message, Mrs. Collins was on board a train of cars for
the South; she spoke freely of the. place where she intended
t9 go, but it was not of course the place, that was to receive
her.


416          AUY DEINBnOOIC.                                     A~EYDENBRO0K.            417

CHAPTER xxxiv.
A WE~H or two after the watch at Mrs. Bryne's, Amy Was
going to school as usual; as she passed Mrs. Coleman's
windows, she glapeed up at them, and saw Diana. who
nodded imperatively, and tapped upon a pane of gla~s, ore
she disappeared, and then re-appeared at the front door~
exclaim in~, 0, come in a moment! I want to talk to
you !"
"Can't !" responded Amy, laconically, as she hesitated,
smiling. " It is almost nine o'clock ?"
"Agnes has com~! I saw Mrs. Harrington last night,
who told me. I'm going to see her; will you go with me ?"
"Yes! with pleasure! When ?"
"This afternoon !"
"I'll go? where is she ?"
"$he is keeping house in a little suburban cottage, near
harlem. I'll have the carriage ready at four o'clock, when
you will be returning from school !"
"Will you drive past hozine, so that I can stop. a
moment ?"
"Ceitainly! don't fail !"

"George is willing, I suppose !"
0, 1 presume so! I can mollify him, if he isn't I"
Dia~ia smiled contentedly, from which Amy judged that all
was smooth between the pair.
"I'll be here in time! Good bye !" and the teacher
hastened on.
Amy was true to her word, and appeared at Mrs. Cole-
man's door at four o'clock. In a few moments they were
seated in the carriage; after a brief call at Dr. Kendrick's,
they proceeded to their place of destination.
"have you seen Mr. Leonard lately ?" asked Diana.
"lie called to have a chat with the doctor a few evenings
ago; I saw him but a moment in the hall, for I was just
going out with Mr. Hawks to buy some drawing books for
the pupils."
"With M. Hawks? a widower I believe ?"
"Yes, a few weeks ago I heard that he offered himself to
a very wealthy widow, who refused to be borne off in his
matrimonial talons; I'm not afraid of him any more-he
has fallen to the ordinary level."
There was something in Diana's appearance that led Amy
to believe she had been deeply disturbed; after trying to
keep up conversation, she said:
"'What is the matter, Diana i?"
"I hate men 1" was the passionate answer. "I said
sum thing at dinner about the return of Agnes, whereupon
George exclaimed, Your connection with her is forever
ended; of course.'"

4


41S              AMY DENBROO~
"Why !" cried. Amy, surprised. "Did be ~nall'y
consent to your calling on her ?"
"No! he don't know I am going! I thought I would
take a little latitud~ behind the scenes."
Her companion looked out of the carriage window
thoughtfully, and then replied:
"Diana, I think you are not doing exactly right. Pcr
haps if you had talked to him quietly when he was in the
proper mood, he might have consented. Don't go if he is
opposed to it."
Diana's lip curled scornfully. "Tell me why he should
dictate to me! give me a just reason for it! I have brain,
and will, and predilections, a&amp;well as he! so long as I am a
docile toy, George is pleased with me; when I act upon my
own God-given instincts he ceases to love me~ unless they
accord with his own. Agnes is as pure as a l4ly in spirit
although worse Women whom I associate with regard her
with disdain. What is the difference betwixt her and me?
She would sacrifice herself to Mr. Ashley's happiness far
more than I would to George's. I love the world too well
to have courage for such a step as she has taken. But I will
not cast a stone at her. Men rebuke us for our coldness to
fallen women, but if we stretch out a h~nd to help lifL theni
up, our fathers, husbands, and brothers, forbid our (dlaritv."
~1*
But in this case, said ~-~my, half smiling, your
charity can lift no one up, and Agnes would lie the last one
to raise dissensions between you and your husband. Let

AMY DEN BR0OI~.                  419
me go to her alone, and I will tell her that you still feel
the deepest interest in her."
"No !" was the determined response.
"But we gain so much by seeming to yield I" Amy laid
her hand upon her ~ generous man is always
overcome by an affectionate self-sacrifice."
"l've yielded and yielded, Pm tired of it."
"And I'll warrant George has yielded and yielded; I
know you well enough for that. You and he have each an
extraordinary amount of self-will. You used to say you
liked his lordly ways."
"lie is too arbitrary."
"You should remember that this fault of arbitrariness is
his heritage; he has a thousand noble qualities beside it;
help him to overcome it !-tell him of it lovingly some
time after you have given up your will to his. Begin
to-day to do him good by not acting contrary to his wishes.
Stop the carriage, and 1 ct me go to Agnes alone; we are
nearly there, and I dan return home by the cars!"
A soft shadow came over Diana~ s countenance~ She
meditated a moment hnd then shook her head slowly, say-
ing, "George requires too much of me. I would have told
him wherein Agnes differed from the unfortunates ~vith
whom he classed her, but ho forbade my uttering a word
about her; he said the subject ~vas hateful ~o him. I will
not bend my neck before such injustice." The carriage
rolled on, and sh~e fell into silence. She ~oon resumed,
18* 1

I


420           AMY DENJIROOX.                                        AMY DENBROOIC.          421

'~You know me thoroughly, Amy; you know I am a
coquette by nature. When I married George I wanted to
be a faithful and devoted wife; I cared for no man's admi-
ration save his for a long time, but the novelty of our
union wore off a little, and I missed the stimulus of
flattery to which I had been accustomed. I remember the
very day when I thought it would be pleasant to be a belle
again as I had been; I fled before this thought, knowing
that if cherished, it would destroy my domestic happiness.
I never was created fbr a mere housewife. I cast about for
something to engage my intellect, and divert my feelings;
suddenly I thought I would write for publication under a
nom de plume; .1 wrote a story, and i'ead it to George;
he praised it, but said he disliked literary women, and he
hoped that my ambition would never reach in that direc-
tion. A few days afterward I told him I thought I would
be happier if my time were occupied in literary pursuits:
I told him there w~s a restless craving 'in my heart. and
that I should care less for society if I could dr6am out my
tl~oughts on paper. lie only answered, 'Diana, I shall
never consent to your beco~ning a blue-stocking!'
"dne link in the chain of my affection broke at his
words. I should have been a better wife had he consulted
my l~appiness in this respect ."
" I think you are mistaken, Diana, in giving to circuit~
stances such power to make you good or bad. You c~n
still 1e the faithful and devoted wife you intended to be,

notwithstanding what has happened. If we really try to be
come what we wish to be, all incidents will help, and not
retard ~
"I can't forever remember to check my impulses; I
hate this compulsory process of amendment."
"Angels are never made in any other way. We are not
always borne on pinions to right states of feeling."
"If I should gall George beyond just such a point, woe
is me. He would be desperate when thoroughly aroused.
I cannot be humble because he thinks I should be."
"I think you are perilling your happiness and his love by
flirting as you do."
"You misjudge me, Amy ;. I rarely ask any thing but the
light of his smiles: I only flirt a little when he vexes me."
"Perhaps you do not realize how such conduct burns into
George's very heart; he does not revenge himself by a like
course, hut doubtless he ponders these things, and sometime
you may be terrified to find what you havc done."
"When I am with you, Amy, I s~e and feel as you do,
but I am like the house whose foundation was of sand, my
purposes are swept away by the first flood of temptation.
0 that I had been circled about from childhood by influences
like yours." She sighed heavily, as the carriage drove up
before a pretty cottage with a flower garden in front.
Upon inquiry it was ascertained that Mr. Ashley lived
there. The ladies were ab\ ut to descend upon the sidewalk,
when it occurred to Diana o send her own card with Amy's
wune upon it, to the door, to ascertain if Agnes were ulj

421

429


422            4MY D]~NnR0oK.                                                A1~[Y D~ENBROOK.              423

home. She was not; this was a relief to Amy, who thought
Diana was in no mood to listen to the sophistries of Agnes.
When they were on their way home, Diana exclaimed,
"I am glad we didn't find her! I don't feel as wicked as I
did; I'll please George. lie is a magnificent fellow, isn't
he ~ The other day he was in the basement when a feeble
old woman came' to the door to sell thread and needles; he
gave her ten dollars, and spoke so kindly to her, I thought I
never should be angry with him again as lqng as I lived."
Diana's spirits eVidently rose as she contemplated the
bright side of her husband's character. She showed Amy
with childlike pleasure a costly diamond cross which he had
given her on her birthday. When they parted her face
beamed with sunny affectionate smiles.
Ere Mrs. Coleman reached home she saw 'her husband
upon the pavement; he called to ~he driver, and entered the
vehicle, fqr as soon as he looked toward it, Diana leaned
forward with a friendly nod of, invitation. She intimated
no remembrance of her displeased manner at the dinner
table but laying her hand in his, said archly, "I am glad to
see you !"
He smiled and lifted the hand to his lips. After a little
chat upon the fineness of the weather, he asked, "Where
have you been ?"
"I have been taking a drive with Amy; we went on the
Harlem road."
He looked at her quickly and suspiciously. "I think you
told me Miss Leonard lived in that direction ?"

"She does !" dreading his anger, she added, "I haven't
been near her." This was literal truth, but it was not can-
dor, and Diana blushed. Her husband observed that she
rather averted her eyes from him.
Not many days after, a little note was laid upoW Mrs.
Coleman's table* it was from Agnes, and expressed a
simple and affectionate regret that she had not been at home
the day she called; she hoped for the pleasure of meeting
her soon. When George entered the room at twilight, he
saw the billet; supposing it a mere note of invitation he
carelessly opened it; after reading it, he thrust it angrily in
his pocket, with the intention of presenting it to his wife,
who was out upon a shc)pping expedition. A friend
accompanied her home to tea, so that nothing cottld be said
upon the subject. It was about eight o'clock when they
'~ crc left alone. Diana's first exclamation was, "Now I
must dress for the party in hot haste. Will you be ready,
George ~"
"No !" was the brief answer.
"Why ?" she quickly asked.
"I prefer to stay at home." his cold peremptory man-
ncr, which Diana thought entirely uncalled for, aroused all
her haughtiness. " I don't 1" she rejoined, going toward the
door.
"1 shall not consent to your going alone."
"I did not ask your consent." She regarded him de-

C


424             AMY DEN]3ft00K.                                          AMY DE~BR00K.               425

"You will retain my love and respect QUly by obedience,
Diana."
"I have no wish to retain the love of a despot." She left
the room and closed the door after her in haste.. Swift
thoughts ran in this wise through her mind as she ascended
to her dressing-room: "lie linows that I must have some-
thing to pursue, or I shall die. I'll fling all his restraints a
thousand leagues away. I'll go to parties whenever I
choose. I'll visit Agnes to-morrow. I'll write for publica-
tion. I'll flirt to the end of my days. I wont be dictated
to. I wfll have my freedom. My own father and mother
studied my happiness, and never thwarted me; George
promised a thousand times more love when he lured me into
this matrimonial trap. I was a credulous fool to pass under
the yoke." Arrived in her room she rang the bell vehe-
mently, and ordered the carriage to be ready in half an hour.
When she was dressed she went down into the parlor under
the pretext of getting her fan, but in reality to show her
husband that she was going, so that he might j~in her if he
ch )se.
"Diana !" he sternly called,' handing her Agnes' note.
A bright scarlet flew to her cheeks, but she looked di-
rectly at him, saying, "'Very well r'
"J thought you told rue you 'had n~t been to see her."
"I said I had not l5een near her, which was perfectly
true, because she was not at home."
"You deceived me

"Perhaps so~ Tyranny is an effectual agent in making a
wife secretive, and injustice is the best means of keeping
her so. You sealed my lips, 'and treated me like a child.
I have the right to be listened to as an equal. You forbid
mc to amuse myself at home as I wish; you object tomy
going abPoad; you forbid my approach to a dear friend."
"My wife must permit me to judge of the safety of h~r
reputation. If she associate with a married man's para-
mour, she must disconnect her name from mine."
The hint contained in these last words, struck deeply into
Diana's proud spirit. "We can discuss this matter when I
have more time," she said with forced calmness.
lie gave her a look that bade her be silent; as she
turned toward the door, he menaced in a voice deep with
passion, "If you go out to-night, Diana, you go against my
express request."
"Very probable !" ' Her voice was low, distinct, and
defiant, although her heart shook and seemed to send
through her limbs a tremulous chill; she left him and went
to the party. "Come for me at eleven, Tom," she said,
looking back from the doorstep of a brilliantly lighted
house.


426       AMY DENDROOK.

426

CHAPTER XXXV.

IT was a sunny June afternoon when Amy made her second
attempt to see Agnes Leonard. As she went up the path
that led to her door, her friend saw her from the window,
and hurried to meet her; in a moment they were in each
other's arms, exchanging tenderest greetings. The little
home into which the visitor was ushered, was tasteful and
modest. After Amy had laid her bonnet upon a chair, the
two entered into conversation. Agnes seemed the gentle
one of yore: the feverish enthusiasm of the past was not
visible in her manner or conversation.
"Do you ititeud to associate with those who advocate
your views publicly ?" Amy inquired, after they had con-
versed with the utmost freedom upon the alienation of
friends and acquaintances.
"No, not much. I shall seek my happiness at home. I
find there are not many who could safely take the step that
we have taken; there are a few however."
"Then you cannot think as you did, that the world is in
a state to act upon your principles?"
"I have changed in this respect: there is so much yile-

AMY DJ3llqnROOI~.                427

427

ness in the world, liberty cannot be granted to all to follow
out their impulses. I rejoice every day that Mi'. Ashley
and I came together; I think he has grown a better man
under my influence.
"It may be." Amy dropped her eyes musingly to the
floor; lifting them, she added, " I think you must morally
have retrograde to be able to meet him on his own ground;
you will let me say so, Agnes, I can't help thinking it."
Yes, I can bear to hear your sincere thoughts, however
much they may wound me."
Amy's eyes filled with tears, and she forbore further
remark, save that she said, "I think that you will have
courage to forsake Mr. Ashley, if you ever realize that~ your
course is sinful." Each seemed anxious to be forbearing,
and to avoid useless arguments. It was a sad, sweet after-
noon ; Amy had something to tell of the little grey years
that had glided into eternity each looked back yearningly
tox~rard the season when their affection glowed in its primal
warmth.
About five o'clock Mr. Ashley came home. Amy was a
little embarrassed a~ the meeting; the last time she beheld
him, he was surrounded by his family. lie entered into an
elaborate conversation on the pleasures of school-teaching;
upon which subject his visitor was happily at home., The
worshipping love of Agnes was visible in every look 4nd
tone ; the manner of Mr. Ashley was also unrestrainedly
affectionate, yet, it seemed as if he exulted iii showing
his unlimited power over the gifted woman who had


42S           AMY DENBIIOOX.                                        AMY DEXBR0OIC.          429

sacrificed so much for him. / She passed by him as he stood
leaning on the mantel ; he clasped his arm around her
cn~ressingly ; the soul Qf Amy recoiled at th6 sight of this,
for she felt that ther~ never had sounded through the
depths of his nature a voice that said, "Be pure, as God
is pure !"
The arrival of an upholsterer called Agnes from the room.
"Don't go until I come back," she said to Amy, seeing that
she laid her hand upon her bonnet.
When they were alone, Mr. Ashley immediately threw
aside his formal manner, and said. " Amy, doubtless it
seems strange to you that Agnes and I live as we do; ~ve en-
countered many persons in Europe who were living in the
same way. . I have enjoyed more rest and happiness in the
last two years than in the previous twenty. I have made
up my mind that I will not sacrifice my peace and comfort
to, the world's opinions I did that too long. You can have
no, idea of the intolerable life I led with Mrs. Ashley."
A feeling of kindness touched his listener's heart, for she
knew too w~ell that his married life had been miserable. She
answered, "I do not care much -for the world's opin ion
in this matter, but I think you are not acting rightly."
Mr. Ashley bowed gravely, without arguing the point at
large he proceeded, "This attachment has elevated my
spiritual nature."
"It seems, to me,1' returned Amy, "that our spiritual
natures become elevated when we overcome an affection
which is not legitimate; if we do so, we shall fiud ourselves

largely capable of loving when we enter the future life, for
we shall be more akin to God.
Again Mr. Ashley bowed. "Very few people love with
all their capabilities. Those who do, know that the affection
is God-given, and they feel that it should triumph over
all other considerations."
Amy believed that this deification of individual desire
wa~ opposed to the spirit of him who taught self-sacrifice in
his life on earth; but she made no answer. Mi'. Ashley
went on. " If I had not lived with Agnes, J should have
separated from Mrs. Ashley. I should have taken up my
residence abroad, where I should probably have entered it~to
some dissipation, for you know a man cannot live alone."
This was the man whom Agnes thought noble, god-like,
and pure the man who cared for no woman~s ministry
save her's; the m~in who held higher views of woman than
any other whom she had ever met. Any thought of the
pale horror that would have over spread her countenance
had she. heard the remark ; she distinctly recalled words on
the part of Agnes, which proved that Mr. Ashley had built
up her reverence for him by telling untruths. Verily, Love,
thou art terrible in thy deceits ; Amy had no more to say;
it had been made plain to her, that little actual improvement
had accrued to Mr. Ashley from his association with her
friend. She did not care to repeat to her the observation
that would have touched her so deeply ; she knew that in a
few hours she would convince herself that there had been
some misapprehension. She was docile to her lover's

428

429


420 -

AMY I~E~BROOK.

influence, which permeated her whole spirit. As soon as
Agnes returned to the apartment, Amy took her leave.
After partaking of tea, Mr. Ashley and Agnes returned to
their little parlor. Twilight had slowly dropt down from
the day; Agnes sat down by the window; her companion
joined her.
"hay e you received no answer from Mrs. Ashley yet,
Clinton ?" she questioned.
" No! she torments me purposely with suspense."
"Will it embarrass you very much if she will not consent
to selling the lots r'
"Desperately! and she suspects it."
"I' wish it were SO that my property could be transferred
to you."
"1 wish it were, so that I could prove to, your proud rela-
tives that I would meet pecuniary ruin, rather than lay my
hand upon it"
".1 met MIrs. Ashley on the ~ti'eet, this morning, Clinton."
"Ha! how did she appear?"
"Sh&amp;~l~ anced at me with scorn and hate; she looked as
if she feared contamination from the rustle of my dress."
"Of course! of course !"
As they talked, a note was handed in to Mr. Ashley,
which ran as follows
"SIR :-.--I shall be accessible to no requests from you, until
you have separated from the woman whom you live with.
"AMABEL ASHLEY."

431

"Then I am ruined! Then my honorable name as a mer-
chant is stained beyond redemption I" sighed Mr. Ashley.
"Mv note wilt be protested in two weeks: it will be im-
possible for me to raise the money I require except by the
sale of those lots." Tie laid the letter upon Agnes' knee,
and buried his face in his hands; the deepening twilight
scarcely permitted her to read the words, yet she distinguish-
ed them; the same twilight concealed the pallor that over-
spread her countenance; she needed not a moment's thoi~ght
to mature her purpose. "Clinton," she said tremulously,
laying her hand upon his bowed head, "We must separate-
you have received unmerited opprobrium on account of
your affection fot~me. I will not stand in the way of your
mercantile credit."
"Oh hush, darling," he passionately uttered, folding her
t@ his heart. "I cannot live without you. That inflexible
woman must. relent-the property is wholly mine; I ask
only h~r signature to the deed of sale. It will require hut
half its amount to relieve me from all embarrassment; I will
give her the rest if she will consent." He started to his feet
with some animation saying, " I'll write to her this moment,
and make her the offer." After the communication was dis-
patched, the writer took his fori~er seat, aud pillowed his fair
companion's head upon his breast. She did not give utter-
ance to the woe that was breaking over her spirit-she saw
the dread handwriting on the wall, and it prophesied evil to
come. Her lover murmured, "You are the noblest of wo-
men, Agnes."

it
it

AMY DIUIIiROOK.


432          AMY DENBR.O OK.

~C Do you think she will consent ?" she painfully breathed.
"0, 1 think so," he replied, soothingly. "You must re-
member, my (lear, that all people are actuated by selfish
motives; she is extravagant, and her revenge will probably
yield to her pecuniary interest. Would to heaven we could
fly to some sweet Paradise, where her power over us would
be at an end."
"0, that we could !" she moaned. "If she accept your
offer, Clinton, shall we not bury ourselves in a foreign coun-
try, after yoiAr business is settled ?"
"There are two sides to this case, love. When I meet
coolness from old friends, or when anything occurs to make
~xie regret that our union is not sanctioned by law, I would
fain live in seclusion: but I have found that a man must be
engaged in active pursuits to be happy: after a while a
little Paradise would become a bore, if I could not* work
like other men."
"You are not as well as you used to be, Clinton. If we
were to go to some island of the Mediterranean, you could
go to Paris and transact business sometimes, as you did
when we were in Europe before."
"We'll think about it," he returned caressingly.
*       *       *       *      *       *
When Mrs. Ashley returned from the walk in which she
had encountered her husband's favoi'ite, all the worst pas-
sions of her soul were stirring: with eager step she sought
the seclusion of her room: throwing her bonnet upon the

I

AMY DENBROO~.          483

bed, she sat down by it, and hid her face for a moment in the
white counterpane. "Oh !" she ejaculated, "I could serve
Satan many years, if he ~rould give me power to trample
~ their hateful heads in the dust. The wretch! she looked
at me with her eternal calmness and self-possession, as if s~e
bore herself above me still." She raised her hand. "My
signature! it shall cost him a price! I will harass him with
care! I will make him repudiate her! if the scratch of my
pen will save him from ruin, I will not make it unless he
sends her from the country, and return to this house. He
will receive my note this evening; I shall know hi a day or
two how severe his strait is, and how heavy the rod thatl can
hold over him. Wealth and luxury I prize, but I prize re-
venge more. They have not cared for me, they have shown
me no mercy~; the deyil they have made shall rend them.
0, my God! am I the trusting girl that stood beside him
twenty years ago? he vowed to love me! we had not jeen
wedded two years before he looked flatteringly upon every
young female face, and thought it fairer than mine." The
memory of the unhappy woman went back to the summer
morning of her youth; she had then looked forth with laugh-
ing heart upon the future.
The evening came, and Icirought with it her husband's
reply to her communication. A look of gratification passed
over her face after she had read it. She had sent back an an-
swer containing the precise words of her former letter. For
days Mr. Ashley strove to gain his object, but without sue-
c~ss.; his aiixiety of mind told upon his health: seeing this,


434           AMY~DEN13fl0oK.                                          AMY DI4~NBR0OK.

435

Agnes strove to conceal the unutterable anguish that preyed
upon hei', and insisted that they should part for a time, at
least, until the disquietudes of business had passed away,
and fortune iwas more propitious. "We can write to each
other," she said, "and perhaps we can see each other occa-
sional ly."
Mrs. Ashley sat in the back parlor, reading, late one after.
noon: there was a ring at the do6r-bell, and suddenly her
husband stood before her; she grew perfectly white with
agitation, although she was not, gi~eatly surprised: she had
thought that by a personal interview he might seek to change
her purpose. He stated th~tt their children would be ~eft
nearly penniless, if she persisted in her present course, 4d
uro~ed her for their sakes to listen to reason.
She answered, "It depends upon you, sir, to see that they
are not penniless. I have nothing to do with it. You have
cast upon them the shame with which you have covered
yourself; bring them to poverty if you will ; it will be a
lighter wrong."
Yielding to extremity, he reined his anger, and said, mild-
ly, "Sign the paper, Amabel1 and I will separate from
her."
"That is not all," she coldly said. "The ocean must roll
between her and me. You must return to your family, and
appear as my husband before the world-before the world
only, mark you! You and I will exchange few words
thoughwe live under the same roof."
He was hardly prepared for this. After some converse.

tion, he answered, smoothly, "I agree to your proposition,
A mabel."
"These things must be done ere I sign the paper. My
brother will go on board the vessel to bring me proof that
the woman sets sail. You will come here to reside, and
appear with me at the opera, and at church: after this is
done I will sign The deed."
11cr husband bowed, replying, "~ All this shall take place
within one week."
*      *      *       *      *
And within one week all this was don~ Agnes Leonard
was on her lonely way to Europe. Mr. Ashley was within his
old home, showing that upon emergency the spirituality of
his love did not prevent his returning to the " false life"
which he and Agnes had pronounced so culpable. Two years
before she had condemned in unmeasured terms unhappy
pairs who "lived a lie" in remaining together. He did not
cease to be her derni-god though he had proved recreant
in this respect to his free-love principles ; he had resigned
spontaneity of action for a life o~' outward deception and
Coere oil. She had pronounced herself a martyr to God's
truth when she had ultimate before men her belief that she
was Mr. Ashley's true, ~nd only wife; she had braced her-
self in her position, by asserting that it would be wrong
and criminal in him to bear the legal character of Mrs.
Ashley's husband. It was in the mind of the lovers to
10

I I
Ii
I'1

I


43~              AM~ DENBROOK.
deceive Mrs. Ashley, and come together again as
possible. Whether Agnes's sense &amp;f right had
so perverted that candor and artifice alike seemed jus
we cannot determine ; certain it is, that her love g
her at all times; her principles only when they su
it.

OOYL ~
)CCOfl2
~ifiabl
vern(
~port(

C,

437

AMY KENBROOK.

ChAPTER XXXV1.
A SMALL group was gathered at the hour of sunset in the
drawing room of Mrs. Tlarriugton; it consisted of Mrs.
Harrington, Mrs. Kendrick, and Amy Denbrook: the~ ]at-
ter had just entered.
"I feared you were not corning !" cried the elder lady,
as she assisted in divesting her of her m~ntilla. " Mrs
Kendrick and I have been talking as fast as we could for
two hours."
"I was obliged to go home," said Amy. "An unfortunate
young lady spilled some blue pailTit on my dress; I could
not come directly from school, as you bade me."
"You have not heard the news, Amy ?" said Mrs.
Ilarrington, as soon as they were quietly seated.
No"
"Agnes and ~ Ashley have separated. He has re~
turned to his family, and she has gone abroad."
Gone?" repeated Amy, with a sensation of surprise
and thankfulness "I believed she was capable of sacri-
ficing her happiness to 'a~ sense of right." Ere she had
finished pronouncing the words, an infinite, compassk~nate
tenderness swept away her thanksgiving.


438              AMY DENBROOK.
You mistake, dear. From the little J can leari~, it
seems to be only an ar~ifi~e resorted to, to obtain Mrs.
Ashley's signature to some important papers. Poor
Agnes ! I never saw such woe depicted on a human
countenance."
"Then yQU have seen her ?"
"Yes ! When Marcus told me she was going, I
persuaded my husband to let me visit her. When I
entered the room where she wa , she laid her anguish-~
stricken face upon my~breast, and ept as if her heart were
breaking. She said but little, m king no complaint, and'
seeking only to vindicate and exal M~'. Ashley's character
in my eyes. She said that it wa she who insisted upon
a temporary separation."
Certainly !" returned Amy xvi h glowing cheeks, " what
woman of delicacy would not suggest ~a separation, if it
were shown her that she were a stumbling block in the
path of the man she loved? He was her world, her sun,
her single joy, for which she bartered all things else, and
he has banished her. This is man's love !" The young
girl's tremulous lip ~urled. A slight inclination of Mrs.
Harrington's head toward the door, caused her to look that
way. Mr. Leonard was about entering, and had overheard
her words. Ah ! it seemed to hei' as if his love fell over
her in a sudden shower of glory: the curve of her lip gave
place to a smile of greeting, an&amp; the bitter thoughts that
were moving within her, fled as if before the dawn of a new
day. Mrs. Hari~ington beckoned him to her side after he

~.M.r DENI3RO OK.               429
had spoken with Isabel that lady had caught sight of her
husband's approach from the window a moment previous.
'It ~Tas a perverse satisfaction to Amy, to rise up and walk
to the window, at the exact moment that Mr. Leonard sat
down near his aunt. She had in times past received many
a wound, on account of the disparity between her social
position and that of Mr. Second ; she had heard it insinuated
in her very presence, that she had entrapped him thi~
experience was remembered, and perhaps colored her
d~ineanor toward Mr. Leonard.
"Please give me a little sewing from your reticule, Bel !"
she said, then turning to Mrs. Ilarrington, "Isabel always
cuts out, and arranges my work, so that I need not trouble
my tired brain with it When I come home from school."
"I oive her my own work to do, half the time !" return-
ed Bel, laughing.
The party was joined by Mr. Ilarrington, ai~d Dr. Ken.
drick.
"You have heard of' Mary l3ryne's death, of course, sir ?"
Miss Deubrook said, taking a seat not very distant from
Mr. Leonard.
"I have," he, responded. "I am glad to find Dr. Ken..
rick's skill has restored her husband to health."
Little May came running into the room with light, noise-
less footfalls; either really, or pretendedl~ abashed, she hid
her face upon her father's knee in profound silence for three
minutes: he quietly stroked her hair without making any


e440

AMY DENEROORI.

reference to her. She raised her head at length, and looked
around observantly upon every face in the room.
"I know you !" she whispered, pointing her finger toward
Amy. "I hurt you, one day, but I was in fun."
"Ask the lady if she ~s in earnest when she hurts
people ?" her father said, looking at Amy with a half smile.
"Are you ?" propounded May, going to her, and leaning
upon her knee with one elbow.
"I can't remember," was the response.
"Did you ever see this ~" asked the little girl, holding up
a locket, which was suspended by a fine gold chain around
her neck,.
"No. Can you open it?'
"Yes 'in, i can open it 4i11 myself. See 1" With her
tiny thumb nail she pressed the spring, and it flew open
revealing Sylvia, in the hour of her sweetest bloom: tend or,
timid trust beamed from her eyes and smiled upon her lips:
it 'was a face that asked protection and fondness. The one
who gazed upon, it thought of the love it had inspired; in
its dazzle of loveliness she forgot to study its traits of
d~aracter. A sense of inferiority passed through her soul;
who could ever compare with her in his mind.
"She is very beautiful." she said, resigning it to May,
who seemed impatient to receive it.
"Now let me show you my papa on the other side !"
Mr. Leonard's miniature was immediately displayed its
spirited, almost eager look of intellectuality seemed athirst

4

AMY DEN BROOK.

441

for a gaze into all mysteries: deep, strong passions slum-
bered in it, but the lips and brow showed that they were
atteinpered by conscience and j udginent. After a brief
examination, Amy hastily .glanced at Sylvia again ,and
closed the locket: no sense of inferiority oppressed her
now; she saw by contrast, that the beautiful wife could
nevei' have satisfied the highest demands of her husband's
nature ; she could not have ascended his spirit's throne like
a queen. It had not been unobserved by Mr. Leonard, that
the rich carnation deepened in Amy's cheek as she looked at
the likenesses, nor that as her glance fell upon his picture, a
bashful mist passed over her eyes, as if she were afraid to
regard it attentively. Prom this hour the position of the
two changed; fear~ and doubt no longer invaded Mr.
Leonard's mind, see ~n ing to change the mai~Iy frankness
which was natural tK him into edward ice: suddenly, and
that quite unexpectedly, Amy found she could not assume a
light, itulimereiit, or independent manner; her little wand
of power had been transferred to him, silently, but positive-
ly. As lie furtively regarded her, she seemed his, his alone
-he, believed that God himself had reserved this lovely
giUt until chastening and disappointment had diverted his sel-
fish ambition into nobler channels: perhaps this flower, ah!
how far lovelier than the last, would be given to his keep-
ing to become his inspiration: hope winged with all exult-
ant glories shone down upon him-a strange thanksgiving
broke up to heaven; the greatest joy of his life lay hef~re
him-his affections were arousing in their fullest strength.


442          AMY DENi~ROOK.                                        AMY DENI3ROOK.           443

Not caring to draw observation upon himself; he went to
Mrs. Kendrick, and asked her if she had read a new work
which had been lately issued from the press; they felL into
a quiet conversation, yet sometimes the voice of Arnxr
reached his ear, thrilling along sweet chords of his life. As
she talked to little May, half unconscious of her words, an
inf1i~ite attraction drew all her thoughts to him-these
thoughts were tinted from the present, and taxed no antici-
pated future. The visit ended as all happy things end,
spreading over life a farmerr lustre.
When Amy returned from school the next afternoon, she
found that Isabel had gone to visit an old schoolmate with
whom she had kept up a friendship: the half weary teacher
went to the bookcase for a volume of poems, that she might
read how other hearts sang the hymn of love: A ring at the
door bell summoned Mrs. Kendrick's little maid from the
kitchen to answer it; supposing it a call for the doctor,
Amy looked around, when a person entered the room, clos-
ing the door behind him. Mr. Leonard was there! She
read all in his countenance; she saw his pale lips that
seemed to motion for a smile in vain ; he inclined his head,
regarding her with an expression, which burned away all
disguise and conventionality: she met it like a startled
gazelle, overcome of force; her fair hands, slightly clasped,
fell before her; an unsteady rose flitted to her cheek, and a
soft, sweet fire appeared in her alarmed eyes, which were
mao'netized to his as he approached her: then her lids slow-
ly shut down, as if ufider his look. She turned toward the

bookcase and laid her hand upon a volume, as if it might
protect her from hearing that which must sluke hei~ heart:
her hand was captured with a light, reverent touch..
Amy !"
1-Ici' head drooped a little forward. "Not now," she
breathed, within att&amp;~npt to leave him.
"Aye, now !" he answered, "noW! my life swings On
the n6w."
lATith swift impulse she looked up, to read on his counten~
ance the deep passion that broke upon her in his voice; she
covered her eyes ~with her unfettered hand; impassioned
tears rolled down beneath it. "And you love me ~" she
faltered, sinking her chesnut curls upon his shoulder.
life made no answer, save that he pressed his arm around
her with a thrilling, tender movement, and touched with his
lips her hair.
She withdrew -herself; and he permitted it.
"I dare not that you should come so near," trembled
from her lips, "until you know my faults and weakness!
Do not exalt me beyond the promise of my nature."
"N on are human, I know," he took her hand, "but a
balsam has dropped upon my eyes, and will translate all the
motion of your life to sweetness." He led her to a lounge,
where they sat down. Broken thoughts and still more
V
broken words fell from their tongues, ere the great deep of
feeling sunk from tumult into a tren~lous hush; then utter
frankiiess seemed open on the part of each to the other;
past experiences poured out as simply as if they had been
19*

I
I
I
"1

442

443


444                AMY DE~B1~,O0K.
angels of heaven. Amy listened to the story of Sylvia's
life, and character, as she might have listened to the story of
a gentle sister, lifting her head from his shoulder sometimes,
to look with soul-lit eyes and half parted lip into his face.
She told how hcr life had gone, with solemn fervor, but
when she had finished, quick smiles afternated ~vith blushes,
as he kissed her lips, and murmured, "The never~n ore is set
upon such a past." They looked back with thankfulness to
the paths which they had traveled, but when they looked
forward, they gazed far on, until they saw the earthly, melt-
big into the heavenly life; they were glad that they had not
met in knowledge of each other until God's hand had touch-
ed them with chastenir~gs, and had opened within them a
perception of spiritual truth and beauty.
The deepest twilight had fallen over the room, when Amy
heard the click of Dr. L{endrick's night key in the door, and
in a moment his voice and Bel's sounded in the hall.
"Amy must be up in her room," said Bel. "'Tis dark as
Egypt here."
"No, Amy is getting a light," returned the young girl.
"And has company," followed Mr. Leonard. The next
instant the lamp rays fell over the four. It was easy to
read the brilliant truth that looked out from the faces of the
lovers. Isabel dropped her eyes confusedly, smilingly Dr.
Kendrick looked straight at the two with his clear hazel
eyes.
"Do you give her to me, brother and sister '?~' asked Mr.
Leonard with deep irgonation, leading his affianced to the

AMY DENBROOK.                   445
pair. Precisely as was to have been expected, the sister~,
fell into each others' arms and broke down in sudden weep
in g; their stronger companions shook hands silently, aiA
bowed perhaps a little low, to conceal the feeling in their
faces.

0

it
-I


446~           AMY DENI3ROOK.

AMY DEN I3I'~OOR.                447

CHAPTER XXX Vi I.
AFTER Diana had gone to the party with her husband's
Words rankling in her heart, he sat with his forehead ci
ped hard upon his palm; the other band was clenched. She
defied him to the utmost: she smote upon a propensity that
would not bear it; so perchance had he dealt with her-of
this he did not think so much : he could not be just while
his breast was blistered~ with the memory of her flirtations.
The freedom of her manners made him acutely anxious that
no gossip should connect itself with her name; he could 'not
bear that it should be linked with that of Agnes Leonard.
She had let loose upon him all the evil and darkness of his
natiwe: entreaty and compromise were not a part of his
char\rcter. It was his theory that a wife should be govern~
ed b4~ her husband's judgment: he did not in his present
mood believe in the melting and moulding process which wo~
men use with success when there is a little love, and good
material: he thought that the stature of his wife should be
made to fit the iron bedstead of his opinions, lie resolved
to subdue 'her will completely, once for all; the indignity
with which she had treated his wishes, hissed like a hot iron
upon his bare soul. The tender flower of conjugal love was

rent from his breast and lay at his feet;. perhaps he might
choose to pick it up again, but no airs that blow on this side
of heaven, could brush the dust from its leaves.
When Diana returned home, her heart ~beat to hear his
rapid strides across the room; h~ halted~ and leaned upon the
mantel when she entered..
" Diana !" he said with compelled quietness, "I think you
and I havettied the experiment of living together amicably
long enough as husband and wife. You may be assured
that I will be master in my own house. I will not have my
wishes outraged by you, and still forgive. Henceforth, we
will meet only at table."
Dana bowed her haughty head, and lifted her hand as if
to loosen the veil which was tied under her chin. Alas!
she could not play out her r6le of indifference: with a wild
shriek her hand let go its hold; she fell, as if shot by her
executioner. George lifted her and carried her to a sofa;
he even pressed his lips with sudden passion to her pale
unmoving ones. After he had restored her to full conscious*
ness, he left her without any words: perhaps her insensible
face prevented him from plunging more deeply into cold re~
sentments,* but it did not change ~his purpose: he sought ~au
unoccupied room.
She sat stricken, gazin~ around upon the ruin of, her
idols, but sh~ sat not long .1 her own nature was forgiving-
she could not believe he would carry out his cruel purpose,
ani banish her front his heart: She rose and went to her
chamber, hoping to find him there: with a burst of bitter

.1
'Ii
4
'4'
.6


448            AMY DIiU~BRooIC.

'AMY DEN J3ROOK.            449

disappointment, she flung herself in her rich robes upon
the bed. For the first time in h~r life, she craved that
oruameut of Woman, a "meek' and quiet spirit," not that
she might have submitted easily! to tyranny, but that gentle-
ness might have made her great in warding off the ills that
encompassed her-through her faults her husband's. had
sprung hydra-headed into action-~with her self-reproaches'
alternated a sense of being unmercifully treated; she felt a
mad desire that he should see herein he was cruel and un-
generous-she could riot go to him and show him this, for
he would not listen. He did not ask reason, or clear-sight-
edness from her, only submission such as dumb beasts
yield; she had influenced him much, and in many ways,
but now his mind was set to attain one point-her unques-
tioning fealty. hiei' high spirit chafed at this, as a prairie-
horse springs from th~e bit. All night her mind went up
~nd down, amid the theories of Woman's Rights and Free-
Luvoism. But she loved him; else, with reckless impetuos-
ity she would have left his home that starless night, and
sought her father's roof: she said to herself that she dread-.
ed the scandal of a gossiping world, but she could not go
out with the door of his love shut upon her. Acknowledge-
ment she would not make, but she wbuld no~t widen the
reach. If he would but lay his hand upon her head, and
say, "Diana !" in the voice she loved, she could yet learn
the. ways that pleased 'him, and find her home dearer than
all the world beside.
When at dawn, the miserable sunshine crept into her

*4

chamber, she was sitting on the bed holding her temples-
she had fitinted under the blow of the night b fore, ~he
must be stronger now, so she arose, and with unsteady hand
commenced laying off her costly garments: she meant to
receive with calmness, the anguish which his once fond hand
c&amp;uld inflict. When the business ~f her morning toilette~
was over, and she stood alone in the center of hem~ desolate
chamber, her transient fortitude gave Way, 'and ~he burst
into an agony of sobs, flinging away all efforts at restraint
-~---forsAkeu she stood, and lifted her eyes to God for corn-'
passion. When th&amp; breakfast hour arrived, her face was so
ghostly pale and her eyelids so red with weeping, that she
did not appear. Mr. Coleman did not usually come home
to dinner. At tea time Diana was, aroused from a fitful
slumber by a servant; she' hastily smoothed her hair, and
donned a little fanciful apron of green 'silk, for she 'was still
in her morning wrapper, and went down stairs: with every
step her pride increased; sleep had lent a fevered bright-.
ness to' her cheek; there were no traces upon her face of
the tears she had shed. She ordered the bell to be rung,
and waited at a window for her husband. He ca e down,
and they seated themselves at the table in silen e: when
Diana poured the tea, her husband looked at her with
furtive eagerness; he was evi~lently disappoint d in the
smooth proud face before him, and set his lip mo e sternly
than before. He would have loved her more, ha he seen
his power to make her suffer in her aspect. After the
evening meal, acquaintances called in. Diana met thorn

'F

d

'ii


with lively courtesy, and while they remained, never flinch-
ed from wearing smiles, and speaking word~ of jest and
commonplace. Gorge xVas gravely polite, lie did not
possess this faIlit~ at disguising his feelings, and it angered
him that Diana ~vas so light in her g~'ief.
When they were left together, she went from the room,
quietly, without looking at him. Her chamber was 'dark:
she sank down by the window, as if the Supreme could be
better found through its pale light, and moaned, " 0, m~r
God! how can I live through this ~~retched farce ?"
Morning and evening passed away-no word of meekness
escaped the wife's lips, no word of concession the husband's.
The two were congenial in character, but congeniality will
not secure happiness unless a man "leadeth an uncorrupted
life, and doeth the thing which is right."
*       *       *      *       *       *
Two weeks had passed away since Mr. and Mrs. Coleman
had ceased their friendly manner of living-it has been a
singular two weeks to Diana; never had sh~ been so calm,
and cold, an~1 stately, so unutterably unlike her former self:
this outward seeming was like snow upon the mountain top,
giving no sign 'of fires that raged beneath. Every day a
fierce conflict~ went or~ within hei', and every day it grew
more possible to her to contemplate the idea of separating
from her husband, and seeking freedom and loving smiles in
hey' fathers house. Sometimes the thought of appealing to
George rolled over the fiery ocean of her spirit, ~nd stayed

453

45)          AMY DENJ3i~0oK.                                          AMY DENBflO0IC.           451

its mad hearings with a hush. The world had called her
self-sustained, heartless, but her heart cried out with all its
strer~gth, for the love that was departing; it drooped, wound-
ed and panting, under his averted look : it listened to his
voice when he conversed with friends, and groaned to know
that the treasure of his thought would not be open to her,
after they had gone. 'When invitations came, she handed'
them to him, saying, with slightly scornful accent, "Shall
we go, or stay at home ?" His answers were, "Perhaps we
had better," or, " I think n&amp;t." She followed out these hints
without c minent. They entered brilliant rooms to-
gether, she leaning upon his arm: there, she was the wom-
an of 'society, but a little distant and haughty when fine
speeches were tendered her. Sometimes she caught a look
of interest in her husband's eves that recalled happier days:
then her heart beat with a joy as sweet and sudden as
when she was a bride. As soon as they were alone each
shut the gates of gentle courtesy upon the other, though
each had found it pleasant a moment before, to give, and
meet a smile. Sometimes, as if to learn whetherr the old
kindness had come baek, the ~vife made a remark in a nQt
unfriendJy tone. The monosyllable that replied to her,
drove her back into a sea of temptation.
But a change came, and her really loving heart sprang up
with the cry, "Get thee behind me, Satan." Mr. Coleman
was seized With a sudden and dangerous fever~: his life
swayed to and fro, between. the days; then it was that
'she laid aside the proud demeanor which had steeled him to

I
'I
./~
I -~

451


persevere in his coldness toward her-she bent low to hear
his feeble words, and answered, in tones that seemed oblivious
of his past severity, and melted away all ~the hardness
between them. Night and day she ministered to hi r~i,
like some sweet saint: often he watched her, as she moved
noiselessly about the room, and brightened it with her
touches, more quiet than a hireling's; he puzzled hi~ br4ia
to comprehend how pity could change a faulty woman into
an an~e1 of devotion, lie loved womanlincss, and she was
most womanly in her quiet service. One afternoon when
he was getting better, she arranged his pillows so that he
could sit up: he had not conversed any during his illness.
A tender sounding "Diana ?" "I thank you," had been the
limit of his talk. She sat beside him and leaned her head
upon his pillow, for she was weak and tired.
"Poor chiLd !" he said, stroking her hair. "Poor child!
You have broken my strong pride-will you forgive inc
She hid her face with a quick movement,    With his
returning health and former kindness, came the memory of
his injustice. His hand lay upon her hand caressingly. But
between it and her heart, there rolled two fearful weeks:
now that the '~anguish of "hope deferred" and wrestling
passion were over-now, that the coveted tenderness was
gained, it was not quite the same to her as before; she was
not quite willing to glide over the business of the past
with a simple, "I forgive." She lifted her head, and said,
~n.ana~itated voice," I do forgive, and I crave your forgive-
ness; .1 know that I am weak, but I have.reached woman's

452

452          AMY DENBI~OOK.                                          A~tY DJ3NBR0OIC..

estate, and henceforth your finger must not be laid upon inc
in restraint. God never placed an erring creature like my-
self ov~r me in judgment. You plunge me into an abyss,
and I rise from it a different woman. I have sounded the
height and depth, the length and breadth of my forbearance:
if you were to draw me before you through the eternities,
you would never conquer me. If you cease coercing me,
and will use with me only such gentle reasoning and per-
suasive arguments as dear friends use with one another, I
will stay, and be your wife and companion, but if y~ou set
your foot upon my liberty, I will go tG my father's house
and leave you. George! I love you still, but I was never
made for a captive."
lie covered his eyes with his hand as if he had received
a blinding blow. " I will think of it," he said. He saw
that he had slain some of the sweetness of her love : he had
thought that it would all blosomn again for himnif he
carressed her and forgave her. A drear dtirkness came
about him. Diana comprehended it, and laid her flushed
cheek upon the palm that had stroked her hair; her warm
tears fell upon it one after another. "I have greatly erred,
Diana~ Be patient with inc." This concession from his
pale lips went straight to her generous heart ; she knew
how much it cost him.
"Let us each begin anew," she sobbed.
Mr. Coleman returned to health a somewhat altered man;
he sincerelymeant to act and feel aright; convinced that
his despotic tendencies wrought only harm, he turned the

453

jl
I

A
V
-I


AMY. DEINBROOK.

AM DENBROOK.

strength of his will against himself. Perhaps there had
long slumbered in his heart religi ous aspirations - the
seed of the -world h d choked them, he had stood upon, the
brimk of death's awful river, and there he had seen himself
in a, new light. He- made little reference to the solemn
purposes which he formed, but leaning upon God, he held
fast to them. His. friends still called him a moral man,
-as before: they saw not the new principles which had struck
mnto the soul of' his nature. - His wife walked well beside
him for a while, but the world was too much for her,
and~ she was borne out upon its waves almost imperceptibly.
George had been more religiously trained :from -childhood
it had not been an unusual thing for him to seek. Divine
assistance ; he was one to profit by an exposition of his
faults. Wi h returning prosperity angels leaned over him-,
and said, " Good cometh out of things evil." Less per-
sistent in nature, the idle arid perilous traits of Diana's-
character started into full play when affection was removed ;
perceiving this in her thoughtful hours, she threw the blame
upon circumstances, sighing, "1 might have been different if
George's hardness during that fatal two weeks had not
changed my love into a fitful flame, and laid me open to a
desire for others' interest." When in 'her husband's coun-
tenance she read a sudden uneasiness, marked the self-
control that withheld his former severity, a tide of self-re--
proach rushed over her, and for days she was all tenderness.
'To a man of his peculiar disposition she was an acute trial;
her faults struck bare across his proud quivering heart. He

often wondered, as all tempted souls wonder, why
disquietudes which his manlinless e-ould better bear had not
been given himi-, but God saw more wisely than he, and
knew that a meek saintly woman would. have: fastened his
prime fault by her unquestioning allegiance. Such an one
would have ensured him a more easy life on earth, but the
wounds that Diana gave him, like the strokes of a sculptor's
chisel, fashioned him into a more symmetrical man for the
life to come. She who had ever been so sweet and genial to
the female friends she loved, and to little children, had ever
held out a crown of thorns to men who had settled their
best hopes upon her.

454

I

455

ii

I

I
I


4560

AMY DENDROOK.

CJIAPT~R XXXVIII.
BALMY October gales 'vere blowing over city and country.
Amy sat down by her chamber window, and threw up the
sash that she might better catch the air, and see the purple
grapes that nestled in green and gold upon the autumn vine.
She looked np with a soft slow smile, into the heaven
that arched itself SO t~ndei.lxr above her. She smiled to
think how sweet it was to find her heaven on earth-she
smiled to think that an infant angel had lately come from
God, to live in the house after shie should have gone to
travel in storied lands with her husband. Isabel lay in the
room below, with her pale hands clasped, though she slept;
two weeks before, her baby ha~ been laid upon her breast
since then it had seemed holy ground, arid involuntarily, her
hands had folded themselves over it in prayer ere she
slept.
Amy had named the first morning of the year as her
marriage day. When she came from school every day she
loved to busy her fingers with something that she should
wear as L eo~rard'~ wife: A linen travelling collar which

AMY DENI3RO01~.

457

she was embroidering lay upon her lap ; she did not heed
it now; one han~1 was tangled amid the ringlets which she
pushed back from her snowy temple, as she leaned forward
and looked into the blue above: some few, fair pictures of
the earth she had seen, but they had not touched her heart
as did the simple sky : this was not strange, for now, no
unsatisfied cry broke up to God : the walls of her spirit
were hung with pictures that could answer back to outward
nature. intelligently: the beauty of wooded shore, deep
river, and ethereal hills had saluted her with varying
force-they had even seemed like semblances of an inner
world to which she had no key. She had said to herself,
Patience, patience, I slicdl find the key, and the glory."
Ihe time had come, and she extracted hope from everything.
The sapphire of the spiritual heaven seemed to gleam
through the material, and shine round about her. Her
most passionate dreams of love were more than fulfilled.
She sometimes put forth her hand to clasp with faith the
duties of actual life, lest God might leave her, ~in her
worship of the human her life so thrilled under the
prodigal and extraordinary affection which flowed to he~
from her lover, that she sometimes wondered if she listened
to the speaking of others as she used to do.
At five o'clock Mr. Leonai'd WetS to call and take her
riding; the time had not arrived, but she suddenly heard
his impatient ring at the street door: going down, she met
him in the hall, and they turned into the parlor.
"No ride to day, little Amy !" he said, bending down,~

I-

F


453       AM~ DEXBROOK.

AMY DE~J1ROOK.           45th

and kissing her, as he stood before h'er holding her two
hands.
She saw that he smiled, and a light smile born of his,
rippled across her lips. '~You must go ?" she asked, ~ee~
lug that he did no~ sit down.
"Yes, some news awaits me."
She looked up appi~ehensively. "What ~"
"That I do not know myself. I was preparing letters
for England an hour ago, (one told ~f our apProaching mar-
riage,) when I received a note from uncle bidding me hasten
home, as business of serious, and exceeding importance
might require my presence in Euglan~d immediately."
A pale shadow swept over Amy's face, but her eyes
were riveted Lo his.
"Nay," he said, hiding their j;ainful expression upon his
breast, "no ocean shall pass between us two. Will you
go with me? In three days ?"
"If they say so," she answered, pointing to the next room
where Bel lay.
"And they will."
"It can't ~be about Aghes ?"
"0 no, I think not. You ladies always suppose that a
serious business 1~s something to do with the affections. I
fear a commercial disaster.'7
"That would be very bad," she spoke as if she did not
appreciate how bad it xvould be; as one might speak of a
tire in a distant city. She raised her head, as if an antici-
pated storm had passed by.

Seeing this, he said, "Amy, Marcus 'Leonard thought
himself a rich man this morning; he may find himself a
poor one to~~nio'ht To4norrow he may be wrestling with
0
anxieties."
"I may go with hin~ ?" she sank her head upon his
shoulder.
"And while he has this sweetest mouth to speak to Idtn
he can find no anxieties. The heaven of providence is
over us; we can give up some pleasures, if it be God's will."
"0 yes !" after a moment she added, "I can hardly be
sorry if we must resign our plan of visiting the fairest
Edens of the earth; it would he too beautiful for realization.
It' we have some cares, I shall not feet that the vision which
has dawned over us, will dissolve away in mist." She
smiled radiantly-securely.
"The days of my. life," he said "blow out like roses upon
the tree: they fall away as the petals fall to the earth, filling
the air with fragrance; each new day that opens, is drunk
with the perfume of the yesterdays. Through all the tu..
mult of business, a subtler life of joy penetrates. But I must
leave you now. I will be back before ten o'clock, and will
then tell you how this news effects us." He left her ~nd
went home. As the spell of her blessed presence passed
away, he sent out his thought in search of the news that await-
ed him: he could think of nothing save that a friend who had
engaged in an important enterprise with him, had proved Un-
faithful, and sunk the greater part of his fortune. He was
no~t living so far above the world that this supposition did not
20

I

458

A59


AMY DE~NBRO0K.                                   AMY DEiWJ3RO0K,

annoy him exceed ingly~: he had taken especial pleasure in
thinking how entirely he and Amy would agree in their use
of wealth.
Mr. Leonard had not gone ten paces from the house~, when
his betrothed entered her sister's chamber with noiseless
hasty step; the young mother was awake.
"Why are you not riding ?" she asked.
"Possibly business may take Marcus to England very
soon," was the t'esponse; she took Bel's hand and stroked
it.
"Will he be back by the first of January to be married
"Perhaps, not. What would you say if I were to go wi ~h
him now
A surprised verrniilioi~ struck into Isabel's pale cheeks.
"I don't know," she murmured. "The day of parting must
come some time."
The nurse entered the room, and Amy left it, after kissing
her sister, and turning down the coverlet to look at the ba-
by. She hastened, to her chamber; her whole being was
astir with changeful thoughts; hope hovered above her, and
then a ghostly shadow took its place, and breathed, "Think
not to outrun fate by i~xaking preparations for this journey."
'She opened her trunk and took out of it such articles as she
should not require, but suddenly her resolute hand was stray-
ed; a darkness overwhelmed her, and the splendors of her
life went down in it. She turned partially around like one
blind, and groaned," 0, Marcus! ifarcus! the bolt has fal-
len !" she lay with her face upon the trunk; her heart was

stunned in the waves that surged over her; her breath caine
suflbcatinolv. Was it true that her spirit stood so near to
his, that she caught the blow which fell upon him !-the
iron blow? It was true. A dumb agony seized her. She
had received the intimation of woe: the manner of it was
nothing Men calL such things presentiments. She remain-
ed in her room until nearly ten o'clock; then sh~ went down
into the silent parlor to await her iovpr.
his thoughts struck her when her hand had faltered in
its work of arranging her trunk at that moment he had
reached his room, had torn open a letter and had gathered its
contents. It was from his father-in-law, and was worded
"My DEAR SON :-" The intelligence which I have to
communicate is of the most gratifying and astounding charac-
ter: the lost is found, the dead is restored to life. Sylvia
still lives-she is under her father's roof once more: the
poor suffering lamb has been th~'ough strange scenes. You
will apprehend that the body which you supposed to be your
wife's when it was drawn from the water, was not hers-
when she left the hotel, she wandered through the streets
of Pa~is, as we must suppose: she has no distinct recollec~
f on of anything that took place after her second attack of
fevei'. Her memory has been restored within a month.
As she wandered about with tottering step, and disordered
intellect Cladi in the cor~e garments of her nurse, she was


402.

AMY DENB1~OOK.

picked up by a sister of charity, and conveyed to a hos-
pital. A few weeks ago, the superior of the hospit~U
wrote to me, asking if her story were true. I flew
with Margaret instantly to Paris, and we bore away the
child; she is improving daily, and expresses the most earnest
desire to meet her husband and little May. Come to us
immediately, dear son, and, the tarrying roses will blossom
on Sylvia's cheek again. There are many happy years
in store for you! Hasten to 'ifs!
"Your father,
JAMES STONEHOUsE."
In Sylvia's delicate chirography, words were traced-
"0, Marcus, my beloved husband, come to me, that I
m~iy rest my tired head on your heart.
"SYLVIA.~
Verily men are not angels. Was he glad that the dead
was restored to life? No. It was the hour of night: drops
of sweat started upon his forehead: and no angels came and
mii~istered unto him. Ah! the difference between Christ!
and man. Jesus sweat great drops of blood, because sin
shut out his light from his creature. Man groans because
his individual joy retreats. Satan took the christian man to
the mountain, and tempted him-selfish passions like wild
beasts, set upon him. There was no doubt about the right
way; he saw it all clearly, but his life clung to his newly

A

risen star! his love! 0, to bear her away from human
eyes with him, as if the letter had not come! Did the
fierce onslaught of the foe triumph? Did he' who had
preached so wisely, turn aside from the narrow way when
the flames of temptation went into his Gethsemane, and.
scorched him? He fell upon his face, and strove to say,
"Thy will be done," but it was midnight in his soul: he
went f~rth to bear his cross.
She who waited for him, breathed through the hours until
he came: the 'hand of the clock pointed five minutes after
twelve when her strained ear caught his step upon the side-
walk. She admitted him, and they stood fhce to face.
"'Tis so," she said reading his countenance, and laying
her quivering palms in his. "'Tis so! I knew it."
"How ?"
"Sot~ciething has parted us." She laid her white face
upon his breast, as if for dying there. "I have prayed,"
she said.
"There is need," he answered, taking her to the lounge,
and holding her face against his heart as he did so. They
sat quiet-quiet, through an hour. His mute cheek touched
hers.
"Little Amy !" he softly, slowly uttered, "God has part..
ed us."
"Sylvia lives."
She started back, while a flame ran over her cheek, and
glea mied upon her lips in scarlet; *the fire awoke in her dull
eyes: it awoke with devouring energy inher dulled heart,

463

AMY DJJNBROOIt,


4434       AMY DENBROOK.

to goad it to swift, unflinching sacrifice, she remembered
Agnes. Martyrs i~uh to the stake, lest dallying, and look-
ing back, with fainting limbs, their souls drop out of heaven.
She comprehended her woman's mission-she was his
vestal, to give him inspiration, that he might scale celestial
heights-not hi~ Circe, to drown his courage by her sed tic-
tions. She looked (lown with folded hands. At length,
"2Beloved! " she said, with heavenly tenderness. "lie that
hath clean hands and a pure heart shall enter there," point-
ing upward. " Clean hands and a pure heart."
"Aye, clean hands and a pure heart," he repeat6'd.
She did not contend with her fate; she heard the voice of
the living God within her, and knew that lie could bear her
through the hour. She took from her finger the ring which
he had given her. "We shall meet in heaven," she said.
A spasm passed over his countenance. "Keep it! wear
it."
She looked on him with her tender, pitying eyes. "A.
pure heart," she murmured. "H&amp;~ceforth no signs
betWeen us! Henceforth, God and silence."
"Keep it! 'tis little !" he moved her hand away steadily,
persuasively.
"'Tis too much !" she could not say more; his tone so
thrilled her, she drooped over the abyss of temptation: she
longed to wear the once sacred emblem: she felt that her
love for Marcus Leonard sto6d between her and heaven; it
occurred to her that Agnes would have been saved from
sophistries, if she had repudiated the first temptation: with

a wild voiceless appeal to God to save her and Marcus from
the very shadow of evil, she withdrew the hand which her
lover still held toward her, and flung the ring from the open
window: he understood her wholly-her agony of aspire.
t~on was translated ~y h~r upraised eyes: it passed into his
spirit: he closed the window gently, trei~nbling all the
while, and then, drew her head once more to his breast.
An exaltation breathed over her. ~" You said, Marcus, that
Sylvia told you yQU taught her God was love. She too
may meet hours of. self-abnegation. Still teach her! we
only faintly apprehend now that God is love, but it is so:
tell her so! she is our sister, our little one."
"Aye, I hear !"
The story of Sylvia's restoration was brokenly told: the
clock struck four. Leonard arose: Amy faintly arose also:
he kissed her forehead: he reverently kissed her hair; with
speechless lips they parted. Then her exaltation left her:
her heart seemed withered, at the root: the well of tears
was dry: no scanty drops moistened' the fiery desert upon
which she had fallen. "0 Christ! 0 God I" panted
through her beseeching lips. It were sad to tell how she
staggered under the days, combating with consuming pain-
sinking, rising-perishing, reviving. It were almost sad to
tell how in the hushes of suffering, a spiritual light trembled
through, and then-oh despair! was lost. It were not
altogether sad to speak of more quiet hours that came
when the spirit dared look back, seeing' that God shone

AMY DENI3ROOK.          44~5

465

464


466        AMY DENHROOK.                                    AMY DENI3ROOX.       467

down out of his heaven; He had meant well by His
descipline--na~, more! He had meant munificently.
Six months after the parting, Amy sat again in the
parlor; the twilight came down duskily. She x~as no longer
a teacher at Mr. Hawks' schol; he had asked the gift of
her poor hand, sand she had left him. A week or two after
Mr. Leonard's 'departure, Dr. Kendrick had taxed his small
means tO rent a piano for Amy, he hoped it would cheer
her; it had suggested to her the idea of giving lessons upon
it, and now she was a music teacher. It was too late to
read; the booK she held was closed upon her finger; it had
played thrillingly along the chords of. her heart, working up
an irrepressible yearning: its tone mingled with a song
which she had heard that day from the lips of a sweet.
voiced girl. She went to the piano, and the song flowed in
pathos from her tongue:
"Oh, that we two were Maying
Down the stream of the soft spring breeze,
Like children with violets ~playing,
In the shade of the whispering trees.
Oh, that we two we~'e Maying
On the sward of some sheep-trimmed down,
Watering the white masts streaming,
Over river, and mead, and towa.
Oh, that we two lay sleeping
In our nest in the ohuroh~yard sod,
With our limbs at rust in the quiet earth's breast,
And our souls gone home to God."
Her hands lay silent on the keys; her soul was drowned

9

466

~1

in memories. The laughter of Isabel's babe in the next
room aroused her. "The babe !" she said. "The babe! he
xviii rescue me from these sad dreaming. I will hold him
against my breast, and he shall be my protecting angel."
She left her seat, a~d was going from the room, when the
door opened, and Mr. Second stood before her.
"Amy !" His voice had the old kindness. She was so
startled by his unexpected appearance, tl~at she made no
show of courses~ She reached out her hand in silence;
sorrow had made~ her tender to every living thing.
He held her hand. "Amy, has not the world proved
hard ~"
"So hard."
"Will you reject me now, dear child ?"
"Oh, Justin, I must." She dropt her forehead humbly up-
on the hand which detained her own. "I am not arrogant
any mor~ dear Justin. You are too good-too merciful to
rue: but my way lies where yours does not. I could not
make you happy." She raised her head, and stood apart.
He pleaded as men plead for a great boon. She was still
and pale-she was immovable. Two months after thi~, she
heard that he had wedded a young fair wife,

9

I

20*

467


468      AMY DENBRIOOK-

CHAPTER. XXXIX. .
WHEN Marcus Leonard sailed for England, he did not ask,
" Why is this ? Why do I suffer ?" lie knew that his
human schemes did not accord with the Divine : he had
faith in the Creator. Yet a tempest rocked his ship of life
until its timbers were strained ; it threatened to go down
when it made shocks of advance. How quiet and clear-
headed we can seem when we speak to the little ones
though within us we see complaints tossed from other
passengers, up to heaven. At nightfall, Mr. Leonard sat
apart from other~ passengers, and-held his little daughter up-
on his Isnee. " We are livig in a fairy .land," he said to
~her, "and our Lord is the 'Great Enchanter. If' we keep
the rules of his Sacred Book, son'ie day you and I, sweet
child, shall be like Cinderella: we shall" feel the touch of
the fairy's wand? and shall find ourselves in a world more
beautiful- than this." Then little May would look up and
ask many, questions: the pure commands, the sweetest
balms of Scripture would be dropped into her childish
heart-and so they helped each other, the father and child
-and she saw not that the hours passed him with their

I

469

solemn torture. lHe put on hits wedding ring with an
appeal that cleaved1 the heavens, and fell at the Father's
feet. It was an amulet of power, for upon it, .he saw
written his vow to devote himself to Sylvia. When his
thoughts turned in anguish upon the drooping blossom he
had left behind, he looked upon the circlet, and angels
strengthened him. -One can almost at will open the gate
of he'aven, and be baptized into a higher life.
When Mr. Leonard arrived in England, Mr. Stonehouse
mnet him at the wharf. They journeyed to the old man's
home together, and he little dreamed that the strong, cheer-
full voice to which he listened, the old .kindness of manner,
hid a sacrificing, not a happy spirit. They reached their
destination: May was radiant with delight. Two women
stood upon the piazza, as the carriage rolled up the avenue
that led to the house: the younger bounded down the walk
to) meet them: her childlike, joyous grace was not to be
mistaken. A tender pity moved her husband's heart ; he
sprang from the carriage and caught her in his outstretched
arms, murmuring, "Mf innocentt lamb!, my 'innocent
lamb !" He. felt as if he were wronging her, though he
could not help it, when he saw the passion of her love. He
lifted her small, slight form in his strong arms, and carried
her to the house;- she clung about his neck with both arms.
Poor child ! she felt as if all vigor and power were his to
give her. Her tears fell in torrents over the sweet face of
her child. That evening the husband and wife spent inwtheir
room together : she sat upon his knee, and laid the golden

( ]

I

U

AMY ,DEN'B1NOOK.

468


470           AMY DENBI~00K.

ripples of her hair agair~st his brave, good heart. It was
seldom absent' from his thought, that he was passing through
a spiritual crisis which prayer could turn to victory. Sylvia
told her story briefly.
"0 Marcus, did you ever think your little Sylvia would
languish so long in a public hospital, with her memory
gone, and. with her eyes and ears half dulled to outward
things by disease? My bed was by a window that opened
in the garden. I remember how one morning I heard a
thrush singing in a tree, as I lay with my eyes closed. I
thought I must be in our home; I put out my arm to feel
if you and little May were with me: then I opened my
eyes and saw fifty 'narrow whit9 beds ranged side by side in
a long room. I raised my head and looked around frighb
ened. The doctor and nurse came to me; they spoke
in Freiich. He said the same thing over three times,~ or I
should not have understood him, "The new treatment has
succeeded ! she knows ! she remembers !" 0, 1 did remem-
ber, and was bewildered. I told them all about~ myself:
they said that they would write to you and father; they
said that you would come for me. It seemed a year before
my father came.    *    *    *    And you are with
me now, dear Marcus, and I shall go no more out of you
heart foreVer."
'He answered by a tender pressure.
They returned to thek former mode 6f life. Fortunately,
Mr. Leonard was called upon almost immediately upon his
arrival in 'England, by some gentlemen with whom he

470

471

had formerly been associated, to give lectures among the
laboring classes. He bent himself to the work with ardor:
it was such work as he needed : he inspired the discouraged
and weary, with heroic zeal: he experienced' the blessed
power that lies in man to help his fellows.
Sylvia often languished in a morbid melancholy that
sprang from physical causes. his supporting words seemed
to come to her when she would 'have died without them ; he
was more patient than of old: when writing or reading, he
never stopped her talk by an abrupt word, or imperious
gesture sometimes when he looked up and saw her wan
face, he pushed back his writing materials and held out
his hand: a soft light would strike into her face at this, and
she would go to him, like the child-wife that she was, and lay
her head where she best loved to lay it. The little tender
starling! she never knew that he had seen the unknown wom-
an of his dreams, and that her lips had said, of her-" She
is our sister-~our little one." And ~o the year went by.
ChAPTER XL.
Ma. ASHLEY lived a second time in his married home; he
sat opposite his wife at the table;' he appeared with her at
the opera, and at church; he was the suave husband, the
patient father. When sometimes Mrs. Ashley saw him
leaVe the house, a smile of bitter triumph would curl her
lip as she' said

I

U

AMY DENBROQK.


AMY DENBX~0OK.           473

472              ~MYt~EN13R0OK.

"I have succeeded-I have separated them!"
lie obtained his ends from her: he escaped the quick-
sands of commercial disaster, and saw his business om~e
n~ore in 'a prosperous state. Anxiety and disquiet threw him
upon a bed of illness after this ; when he rose from it, the
cough which had occasionally startled Agnes, had not left
him. He had entered his home from selfish motives, and,
the desired advantages gained, he did not hesitate to leave
it: it was a little thing ~'to him that, he had cajoled his wife.
As we have said, he was not an unfeeling, or a cruel man:
he was simply weak and unprincipled. Seven weeks after he
entered his family, he deserted it again, and sailed for
Europe to meet Agnes LeOnard. When she received him
did\ she still hold fast the words with which she had begun
her career of sophistry ?-" We do nothing in secret which
we would not have proclaimed upon the house-tops." Alas!
her love ran like fire through her intellect, and gave to her
perceptions of false hue. She did not think of her lover's
actions except hi the light in which ~he saw them. She
deemed it but another proof of the spirituality of their love,
that he had found himself unable to live apart from her.
She had forgot that ~he had said it was a sin for him to live
xvith Mrs.' Ashley.

*

*      *

Two years later, thesunset poured a golden flood over the
Mediterranean; the delicately clear waves caught every
variation of the sky-its~ dreamy blue, its warm ethereal

clouds, that seemed to woo the sopl to glorious hopes. A
young woman, robed in white, stood upon the shore of a fair
island; she looked through the atmosphere toward an
opposite shore, where the distant hills died at last into the
glory overhead; beneath them a vermilion glow rested up-
on a line of feathery tree-tops; light and shade played over
upland slopes, and broke with united. force upon a 'chapel
which was set down amid a clump of orange-trees and
tropical verdure: the silver chime of bells swayed clearly'
over the water, and fell upon the woman s ear.
"No vespei~ bells! no vespers bells !" she breathed, un~
locking her' hands, and covering her ears, to shut out the
sweetness of their voice. She turned around toward her
home; this was a cottage and villa united: a trellis partially
hid the piazza; over this clambered 'a vine which ran in
luxuriance upon the roof' of the house; its gorgeous scarlet
flowers drooped in profusion everywhere. Between t~e
slender columns of the portico, a man could be seen re-
dining upon an easy chair the sunset struck upon one or
two marble statues in the harden-the man looked, beyond
these, upon the fairy isles that lay upon the sea; 'they were
purpling in the departing day, and their shores were mist-
like as the clouds above. As the white-robed figure slowly
advanced up the path, a nightin~ale poured out a hymn of
joy; she looked up, and knitted her sad brow, as if it
wounded her.
"This 'sunset scene revives me, Agnes," the pale man
said, as she approached him.

I'


474

AMY DENBiIOOK.

"It's glorious' beauty is a fading flower," her heart an
swerved. She sank at his. feet, and hid her mute lips upon
his knee. He laid his hand upon her jetty hair.
"You did not stray far, love," he said.
Far enough, my master ~ my idol !"
" Are you weeping, dearest ?"
"It does me good."
"I am better, dear."
Weary with the c~are of the irwalid, soothed by her weep-
ing and his words, she fell asleep; his hand slipped from
her hair~. With hei' great burden upon her. she could not
sleep long, and she awoke, dreaming that evening dews
touched the forehead of her beloved. She looked up. if is
head had fallen back; his chin ha&amp; dropped; the spirit
had flown. A screarn---~a gasp-a motion of her fainting
arms toward him, and she sank glidingly to the floor. The
sea-breeze played over her prostrate form, and blew with
lightsome touch the dead man's hair: the vines waved their
shadows to and fro; the nightingale pealed loud, then soft,
his rapturous flute. A female domestic came upon the
silent figures: the woman caine back to life.
*          ,   *      *       *      *
She stayed in her European home, and her heart moaned:
"How shall I live through the dreadful y~ars? how
shall I stagger on under the ban of the world without him ?~'
'/
Her brother flew to her when he heard the tidings; she
Wept upon his breast; she thanked him, but she sti~yed in
her island home.

AMY DE TB1~00K.

475

CHAPTER XLl.
JT was morning! It was morning! Amy paced her room
with quiet steps. Pale an~I spiritual she had grow n;as the
thoughts that broke over her stayed her in her walk, sh~
was a beautiful sight. She trusted Almighty God rejoicing~
ly~ She had stood in the shadows of the years, with her
sense of youth depressed, and her buoyant nature in abey-
ance. Not so now! she had deemed all jubilance go ne for-
ever, but a clear, still spring, had burst up from the fiery
desert upon which she fell; it taught her a way that led to
the uplands of her soul; she found among them the dew of
the morning ; a freshness lay upon the heaven within her.
Five years had passed away since the parting, and no mes-
sage had come from Marcus, nor had any been sent, from
her. It gives a cruel heart~wrench to pluck from off the
brows the crown of youth, saying, "Not yet." An agony
thrills along the years, ere the lips can peacefully say, "The
joy ~s but postponed! the dreams, the golden dreams, were
true. I stand upon the threshold of my life, waiting-pre-
paring. I see' the elysium." Something 'of this had begun
to arise within Amy, ere eighteen anguished months of
separation had been told into eternity. After that she am
pear6d much like her former self. Later, her tweet laugh
had tinkled out at little things. She lived at her brothers
house a simple music teacher. They who put their glory in
fine trappings, turned away from her, for she walked with
toil and poverty as she httd done aforetimne. No fashionable

I

I
{
*
4'
ii

a


476

AMY DENI3IU)OJC.

"I;

ladies touched her hand in greeting, save Diana Coleman
and Mrs. Harrington. Dr. ICendrick could never have con~
tinted a rich man, had a fortune been left him. As it was,
various little disasters had kept him poor, though he was
prosperous in his profession; one unfortunate day, hq en-
clorsed a large note . for a worthy friend; upon another, he
lent several, hundred dollars which he did not immediately
require, to a worthless one. Still his life was a pure suc-
cess: his chief aim had not been temporal wealth. And so
poverty and economy reigned in the house. But it was a
happy home nevertheless, for the sweet wife appreciated her
husband's motives heartily, and when he was a trifle indis-
creet with his money, for he was indiscreet with nothing
else, she said of the consequent annoyance, "Providence
permits it, dear."
Four years after he had left New York, Marcus Leonard
had sent to his aunt a paper containing a notice of Sylvia's
death. Poor lamb! she was harvested among the angels
at last, where she. stood in no one~ s way. her spoken
~rords had not been strong, her personal influence had been
faint, but the Great Disposer had appointed her her work
though she was unconscious of it. 11 r small, slight form
stood between two stronger souls, and ade them glorious
with sacrifice ; she had given them a enedict~on, andthey
receive~ it reverently, as of God.
Amy had given hei' last lesson one ay. ~he closed the
door of a. stately, graceful dwelling, and stept upon its
corniced balcony. It was a country h use that commanded

AMY DENI3ROOK.

477

ofle of the most beautiful views which Staten Island affords..
She paused upon a terraced slope, and overlooked the bay,
with its lighthouse, the distant city, the New Jersey hills,
and the landscape at her feet, that was gorgeous in autumnal.
glory. A September sun was still high in heaven. Et~er
to spend a part of an afternoon in~ reading to Isabel, she
descended the steps near which she stood, and pursued
a broad, winding path that led to the gate, that she might
hasten tothe ferry. In a bosky place, where the~summer-
house cast its shadow, -and spring~ bushes and the sweet
scented shrub grew thick under an elm, a man stood,,
as if waiting for her-expecting her. The sun shone in her
face, and she caught but an imperfect glimpse of the figure.
Supposing him to be a gentleman of the family who had'
frequently paid her compliments in a tone which she did
not like, she dropped her glance in involuntary embarrass-
rnent, while an unwilling blush hurried to her cheek
almost instantly, th~ lifting of her hazel eyes was queenly,
and her proud lip set itself against presumption. She did
not notice the man.
"Amy !" said a low voice.
She started, but did not look; she stepped on falteringly-
then turning, the swift truth overtook her.
She sought to utter "Marcus !,' but the word died fro~n
her parted lips, and she swayed like a sapling before a
heavy wind, lie reached her, and bore her to the syringa
shade, placing her upon a rustic seat: consciousnessleft her
for a moment wholly: when it returned., I~is tears were


478              AMY DENBROOK
falling upon her forehead hke rain: his blessed face bent
above her. He pressed her to his heart with transport,
kissing lips and brow and cheek and hair.
"Not here!" she at length besought, pushing him gently
ba ~k, and striving to rise.
"Nay, here!" he ansWered, drawing her down beside.
him.
"The ground not panteth so for summer rain,
As I for one 'soft look of thine."
Waking and sleeping I have dreamed of this ecstacy, since
~-.-since it ceased to be sin to look toward you: my will
was strong, and I stayed in England a year after I was free,
that no kind friend should-say, "His baste showed little
respect to the memory of Sylvia." But now, n~ow, the
prisoning doors are opened.! I ~ee ~y beautiful one, I
breathe her life! I have entered my Eden !" his voice fell,
and he added, clinging to the soft hand, "I seem to have
come forth from my sepulchre by contrast: this world, with
you in it, is so warm, so divinely allu}Ang, so fresh! it was
a daily miracle that kept me in the path of duty. Next to
God, the remembrance of your saintly strength kept me
still and steadfast." With tender, tremulous hand, he
touched her silken hair.
"l'm fading!", she said, looking into his deep eyes sho
smiled trustfully, reading in them that an aureole of joy
surrounded her.
He looked as angels do, who know that "Love is its own
great loveliness always." He read her countenance over
and over again, as if to gather there the history which her
soul had written since the parting; then, shaken with the
passion Which swept through him, he rested his forehead on
her shoulder.' He, who had seemed - so calm through the

AMY D1~NBROQK.           479

years) found the flood.oates dashed asunder when his stroivv
b                 7             0
hand had loosened its hold against them.
She stroked his hair, unused to see men so moved.
"Coihe !" she said, "come where the woods are deep and
still."
They passed behind a hedge of - osage orange, and went
down into a dell, where the trees kept silence, and the birds
twittered low, "shivering for very joy ;" the uneven
hillocks, the mossy roots, sweeps of greensward, the tiny
brooklet's edge, were jubilant with flowers.
"1 have been here before !" said Amy, pointing to a
wreath of withered fern leaves that lay on the ground. "I
never dared stay long."
"Why?"
"Nature was too sweet and powerful; it set my heart to
aching for the summer that~ was lost. I could bear the
woodlands' in the spring season, but not in the autumn. I
mind me of the first April morning when I came to this
spot, after having given a music lesson in yonder house; I
came with a little child, and plucked the pure hepaticas with
sudden tears that seer~ied to wash away my spiritual blind.
iress. I knelt in the Lord's beautiful sunlight, and thanked
him !-I thanked Him that He parted us I-I saw that
heaven could come nearer to us for the anguish! I saw
thit Sylvia was being perfected for the one who was created
for her. I saw that all was well: that I should yet rejoice
and bless my Creator for the gift of being: I realized that
there was boundless light and love to come."
"It has come, love, ere -we expected it !" They sat
beneath a tree, and talked until the setting sun flung its
gorgeous banners on the sky. . Smiling as they observed it
through a vista in the trees, they arose to return hoime:
they ar&amp;se to return to the everyday life which had become
glorified as it had once been.

.4
1"-
I,
-I
I.
1~


480           AMY DENBRO~OK.                                            AMY DE~BR00K.

"When did you come? and how did you find me
asked Amy.
"I landed this morning, and Isabel directed me to you."
*      *      *.      *      *      *
A few months ,. pair were wedded with a new
ring. Twenty-seven years lay upon the head of the bride;
rich years ha4 been the last ten, through which we have
seen her traveling; weaknesses and faults she had laid down
beside the road-weaknesses and faults clung to her still.
The deepest wealth of her nature gushed forth, when God
had struck the rock-for this she smiled up to him, and
gave herself childlike into his arms. He had borne her
through the wilderness, and looking back, she saw that it
blossomed as the rose.
The husband and wife set o.ut upon their course of foreign
travel; they visited first the island home of;Agnes, and won
her willing consent to join them. She cast her lot with
them, when after a year, they reared a home of their own.
Into her deepest heart, only~ G~d looked. She never
sought to guide tremulous feet into the path which her own
had taken, in the morning of her youth.
Q'e afternoon, when Amy and Agnes sat upon the porti-
Co of their Hudson river house, a letter was handed to the
former. It was from Diana, whom Mrs. Leonard had not
seen since her return from abroad. It read thus
"My DEAR AMY: "You say that you want to learn if I am
the veritable lady that I used.to be? You are impatient to
hear from me. Tleigho! and again I say, height! Where
shall I begin? Permit me to say with my usual abandon
and courtesy, that I am flourishing in the vicinity of the
Mammoth Cave at present. If I could hide~ a way in said
cave, and meet nobody wicked, I should be a most exem~

plary person. Behold me installed in a hotel, with a ~gay
dashing set of friends around me !-wftlftime weighing~ like
an incubus Ppon me. George leaves the hotel early every
morning, with gun and hunting pouch, and usually returns
the same evening. In the interim, I am to be amused. I
watch the maid as she tidys my parlor, yawn, go in the pub-
lic parlor and impose myself on whomsoever I fin4 there! if
it be an interesting young gentleman, I am compelled to do
the agreeable-fearing I may forget how. I return to my
room; read, dress for luncheon--take a ramble, and then
go home to meet my husband. lie lilies to be alone in our
room evenings: but I never was made for that, so he reads
while I go where I can be edified by somebody. There,
Amy, is a true picture of my life. The winters at home are
of the same cast. As for George, I know that I have a
treasure: he is wonderfully c~ianged : he never attempts to
control me except by reasonable argument. I am making
an angel of him very fast, but not by being one myself.
lie don't expect much from me; he would be disappointed
if he did. He looks monstrous grave sometimes, but when
I try to behave he smiles with the dear old smile. I'm go-
ing to be intellectual-if much learning makes me mad,
believe me, there will be method in the madfess.
"Dear friend, my thoughts often embrace the past-the
early time when girlhood sat so pure upon my soul, ere I
had taken the world to be my God, its atmosphere my
home. I shudder as I look inward, and see what the furnace
of society has left of me? What was I when I viewed the
world at a distance! Could I have conquered, think you?
Alas! Write me soon, dear Amy. Remember me
affectionately to Agnes.
"Adieu.

481

480


48~              AMY DE~B1LOO~.
As to Mrs CollIns, she lived in a Southern city for awhile
under an~ assumed name; in this place she made' the
acquaintance of a wealthly elderly gentlernsii of' the Roman
Catholic faith; she abjured all her former opinions, and
one Sabbath day ~when the old gentleman was present,
she was solemnly baptised into the Rornish Church. Not
long after, she perjured herself at the same altar, by
naming nuptial vows, and giving her hand 'to the man
whom she had deceived by a show of zeal and goodness.
She was untracked and undiscovered, and lived a life of
outward luxury. Did the law of~ retribution fail in her
case? Nay! God holds the law in His Almighty hand,
and it rules His creation, whether or not human eyes can
receive its workings.
If over these pages a weary, suffering, spirit bend, let
such an one toil on, and compensation will come. Let the
anguished eyes take in the sweep of all-dll. Let this life
perform its discipline! let the sword strike to the marrow!
there is meaning in it for the aspiring. Patience ~ the story
of every life can swell to notes of triumph and success. The
liosanna can begin on earth, through an atmosphere of
trial. It matters little whether the splendor of reward be
fully received here, or yonder: it matters to us, that we
earn it-that we know it is coming!
TUE END.


  
             
         
       
   
