
    ----CITATION----
        White, Richard Grant, (1821-1885). The New Gospel of Peace According to St. Benjamin, Vol. 3 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8285
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The new gospel of peace according to St. Benjamin, vol. 3 
            
                 THE NEW GOSPEL OF. PEACE ACCORDING TO  ST. BENJAMIN. BOOK THRD, NEW YORK: THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY 119 & 121 NASSAU STREET.    Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, BY THE AMERICAN NEWS AGENCY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for thv Southern District of New York.    THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE A0CORDING TO ST. BENJAMN. BOOK THRD. CHAPTER I. 1 Pshawdee. 6 The generations of Pshawdee. 7 Psnawh. 10 Ped- dulla&. 12 Rheet Aylah. 16 Jobbah. 19 Holz Ayl t 20 Kaudphyssh. 22 The greatness of Kaudphyssh. 35 His riches vanish away . 1. In the days when Abraham ruled the land of Uncul- psalm, there came a man into the city of Gotham whose name was Pshawdee. 2. And Pshawdee was of the noble army of the Counter- actors which did continually praise Abraham. 3. But in the days of Phranklinn and of James whose sur. name was Facing-both-ways, he was of the sect of Smalphri among the Dimmichrats. 4. And it came to pass that in the third year of the war in the land of Unculpsalm Pshawdee was a rich man like unto Dives for richness; because that in the days of James who faced both ways, he had joined himself unto the Schynnurs who go to and fro in Ouahl-streate, and afterwards he had gone down the river of the debtors, even the Oh-I-owe, which leadeth unto the country of the Repudiators. 5. For he would neither pay the debts that he owed nor acknowledge them, and   ask them to be forgiven him. Wherefore it was that he went unto the country of the Repudiators, and afterward became a rich man like unto Dives in the city of Gotham. (3)   4       THE NEW GOSPEL OP PEACE. 6. Now these are the generations of Pshawdee. 7. There came a man from the land of Jonbool into the land of Unculpsalm whose name was Psnawh. And he was- a Phlunkee. 8. And he dwelt in the northern part of the land, and so- journed in a town which was by the sea-side, and which the people thereof thought was the centre of the earth, and the chief city in the land of Unculpsalm. Wherefore they called it Boss-town; for boss, being interpreted, is master. The same is that which by the scribes among them was called the new Athens. 9. And Psnawh took to wife a woman of the Pahdees (for there were Pahdees in Boss-town), even a Billdee. And shhe was fru'itfu], after the manner of the Bihdees, and bore him sons and daughters. 10. But the pnames of none of themare written,except the name of his first-born, Peddullah. And Peddullah was the father of all them that went to and fro in the land of Uncul- psalm, from the country of the Iangkies even unto the country of the Tshivulree, carrying merchandise and getting gain. ". And Peddullah took unto himself a wife of the Meen ouites which dwelt in the country of the Tshivulree, but which were poor, and had no niggahs, and were scorned of the Tshivulree. And when he had brought her north- ward into the land of the Iangkies she conceived and bare him a son, and she called his name Rheet Aylah; for, she said, he shall not go to and fro like his father, but shall dwell in one place, and he shall increase in substance. 12. And Rheet Aylah went and dwelt in Gotham. But in the beginning he did not prosper; and he looked and said, Behold, "it is because I am a stranger, and without friends and acquaintance.    . 13. So he went unto one of the wise men of -Gotham, and asked him, saying, How shall I make unto myself friends and acquaintances among the Gothamites? And the wise man answered him and said, "Join thyself either unto the Pharisees or unto the Phyarmen.!   THEE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.       5 ". And Rheet Aylah considered the matter, and when he saw that the Phyarmen were bold, and that they toiled and slept not, and were familiar with danger, he joined himself unto the Pharisees.                 15. And he took unto himself a wife of the women of Gotham, whose father was a Pharisee. And straightway he began to prosper and increase in substance. And Rheet Aylah's wife conceived and bare a son, and call his name Jobbah. 16. And Jobbah sold merchandise unto the sons of Ped- dullah, his grandfather. But he despised them, although they were his near kinsmen. And he despised his father also. For he said within himself, They are Peddullahs and the sons of a Peddullah, and am I not Jobbah?- 17. And Jobbah also sold merchandisq'e unto merchants in the land of Tshivulree, and some of them often paid him not for a long season. And hle went southward into their country, even the country which lieth southward of the border of Masunandicsun, to ask of them the money which they owed him.- 18. And While he was in the country of the Tshivulree he took to wife a daughter of one of the Meenouites who had gathered a little substance, and had bought unto himself some Niggahs. For in the land of Tshivulree when a Meen- ouite became rich, he went straightway and bought a Nig- gah, saying, Thus shall I no longer be a Meenouite, but Tshivulree. And it was so that when a   Meenouite had bought many Niggahs, he was Tshivulree. 19. And Jobbah's wife Conceived and bare a son, and she called his name Holz Ayl. For, she said, he shall be greater than his father. 20. And Holz Ayl dwelt in Gotham and waxed rich year by year. And he took to wife a  Gothamite woman; and s  he bore him a son, and called his name Kaudphyssh. And Kaudphyssh dwelt in Gotham, and did merchandise there, and became exceeding rich; but after a little while he ceased making merchandise, and became a money-changer.   THE :NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. 21. And Kaudphyssh went southward, and took to wife a daughter of one of the Tshivulree, and her brother took to wife Kaudphyssh's sister. Then Kaudphyssh said within himself, Lo, am Tshivulree; and he worshipped the Great Covenant, and watched day and night over the everlasting Niggah. 22. And Kaudphyssh said, Behold, I am as a prince in this country; for could not I buy a house full of princes such as there be among the Tytchmen?  Therefore wh I live like unto a prince. Then Kaudphyssh builded him a great house like unto a palace, and the ceilings thereof were covered with gold and with many colors, and it was adorned with curious ood within and without; and he fared sump- tuously every day, and had men servants and women ser- vants, and horses and chariots; and his wives and his daugh. ters were clothed in silken raiment of- many colors, and in fine twined linen, like unto the spider's web, and in jewels and precious stones. And they went oftentimes and sat in a pulpit in the great hall of the men-singers and women- singers of Gotham; and when these sang the music that they comprehended not in a language that they understood not, they clapped their hands and shouted with exceeding joy. 23. And Kaudphyssh made great feasts and suppers, with music and dancing, and when he made the feasts, he bade not only his friends and acquaintance, but strangers, that his house might be full; so that it seemed as if he had sent out : into the streets and the lanes and had called in all except the hungry, the halt, and the blind. 24. (For in Gotham no rich man gave a feast with music and dancing, unless he bade so many guests that they could neither talk, nor eat, nor hear music, nor dance comfortably. And because every man, if he was not rich, would be thought rich, this was always the manner of feasting in Gotham.) 25. And Kaudphyssh went, he and his sons and his daugh- ters, beyond the sea, to the land of Jonbool, and the land of the Pahvoos and they lived in the chief city of the Pahbli    voos two years, and gave feasts unto the prin6es and the nobles of the Pahvoos, who ate their feasts, and laughed within themselves. . And they went to the court of the king of the Pahvoos, and were so filled with the glory of that land when they returned to their own land, even to the land of Unculpsalm, there was not an end of their Pahvooing. 26. Now, the wife of Kaudphyssh had a hand-maiden which was a Bihdee, yet was she fair to look upon. And Kaudphyssh saw that she was comely; and he said within himself, O that this land were a patriarchal land, even like unto the land of the Ephephvees, and the country round about Tshawlstn! for then would my wife own this hand- maiden, and she would give her- unto Ine to be my concu- bine, even as Rachel and Leah gave their hand-maidens unto Jacob. But this land is fallen away from the faith of the patriarchs, in that we own not our servants, and Our wives give us not their hand-maidens to be our concubines. 27. But as to this woman, mayhap I can persuade her. And he persuaded her. And she bore him a son; and she called his name Pshawdee; for she said, He is not the true thing, yet is he like unto it. 28. These therefore are the generations of Pshawdee. 29. Psnawh, who came from the land of Jonbool, begat Peddullah; e  30. And Peddullah begat Rheet Aylah; 31. And Rheet Aylah begat Jobbah; 32. And Jobbah begat Hola Ayl; 33. And Holz Ayl begat Kaudphyssh; 34. And Kaudphyssh begat Pshawdee, of the Pahdee woman, which was his concubine. 35. And after these things the riches of Kaudphyssh van- ished away, and he became poor, and was no more counted among the great men of Gotham. But he hid some money from his creditors, and went down the river of the debtors, the Oh-I-owe, unto the country of the Repudiators; and they welcomed him.   - 36. And he bought there- some Niggahs with the money   THE NiW GOSPEL OF PEACE.  that he had' hidden, and he lived upon the wages that were paid to him for their labor; and so at the last he was Tshiv- ulh'ee. CHAPTER   II. 1 Pughtammug. 8 Pshawdee serveth in Pughtammug. 8 He set- teth up a pour-the-rows. 15 Maketh a Covenant with Phernandi. wud. 16 Becometh a Councillor of Gotham. 20 Ouahl-streate. 22 Pshawdee prepareth akkawnah. 29 Becometh a Counteractor. 31 And is exceeding rich. 33 Tiphphunnee. 1. Now Pshawdee -vas twelve years old when his father went down the river Oh-I-owe. And he saw him no more. 2. And Pshawdee's mother's brother was a servant in the house called Pughtammug, wherein the men of the sect of Smalphri among the Dimmichrats poured out drink-offerings unto Tammunee. 3. And she said unto her brother, Cause, now, my son Pshawdee to be taken with thee into the house called Pugh- tammug, that he may serve there. And he did so. And Pshawdee served there day and night for eight years. 4. And there came there daily Pahdees which were rulers in the city of Gotham. And Pshawdee served them as they poured out their drink-offerings; and he hearkened unto them as they talked one with another. 5. And as he hearkened he considered what they said, and he saw that the way to become a ruler in Gotham was to be a Pahdee, and to set up a house wherein men might tour out drink-offerings unto, Tammunee. And these houses were the synagogues of the sect of Smalphri among the Dimmichrats, and they were called of the Pahdees pour- the-rowses. 6. But they called the drink-offering which was chiefly poured out in them, jinnanshugger. 7. And Pshawdee said within himself, Behold, now may I not be a -ruler in Gothain. For am not I almost as good as a   Pahdee? For my mother was a woman of the' Pahdees, and I should have been not almost1 but altogether a Pahdee if she had not come into this country. Is it my fault that I was born in the land of 'TUnculpsalm, and in the city of Gotham? 8. So Pshawdee saved the greater part of his wages, and set himself diligently to learn the art and mystery of making and pouring out drink-offerings; and when he was twenty- one year's old, he took the money that he had saved, and other money that he borrowed, and he set up a pour-the- rows, and himself he set up to be a teacher of the doctrines of the Dimmichrats. 9. And the Pahdees frequented the pour-the-rows of Pshawdee. And Pshawdee sold unto them drink-offerings, and preached unto them the doctrines of the Dimmichrats accord- ing to the sect of Smalphri in Gotham; and he taught them day and night, mingling his ministrations of doctrine and jinnanshugger, so that in the end they to whom he minis tered could not tell the one from the other. 10. So Pshawdee began to increase in substance and to have disciples among the Pahcdees.; and he himself was one of the disciples of Phernandiwud. ". And it came to pass that a little time before Phernan- diwud was made chief ruler of Gotham, even before the voices of the people were numbered, that Phernandiwud said unto Pshawdee, how many men follow thee and will give their voices as thou biddest? And Pshawdee said, Five hundred. And Phernandiwud said, What shall I promise thee that they may give their voices for me to be chief ruler of the city. 12. And Pshawdee said, Thou shalt write my name upon the roll of them that are to be chosen with thee, that I may be made one of the councillors of Gotham. 13. And Phernandiwud answered and said, What are five hundred men, that I should do this great thing for thee? But Pshawdee said, Behold, now these men be fighting men, Pahdees, which love schyndees, and if thou will put 1*  thy servant's name upon thy roll, thy servant will give unto these five hundred men fifty pieces of silver worth of the drink-offering, called jinnanshugger, and also a convenient portion of doctrine so mingled that they shall not only give  thee their own voices, but shall break the heads of any who give not their voices for thee and for me; and, moreover, if thy servant is chosen with thee, he will pay unto thee tithes of the offerings, even the lobbeepheze, and the pursentojobbz that he receives that he may learn righteousness and do justice. - ". For so it was, when the councillors of Gotham doubted whether it was right that they should spend the money of the people, that they who were to receive the money placed offerings, called lobbeepheze, before the eyes of the council- lors, and touched their hands with other offerings called pursentojobbz; and straightway the eyes of the councillors were opened and their hands likewise, and they saw that for the good of the people it was needful that the money should be spent; and they did righteously, and spent it. 15. And the matter pleased Phernandiwud; and he said unto Pshawdee, Let it be a covenant between us. 16. So when Phernandiwud was made chief ruler of Gotham Pshawdee was made councillor; and he fed at the public crib, and waxed fat, and increased in substance. And he was a just councillor, and an upright; for never would he give his voice for spending the people's money, unless lobbeepheze were placed before his eyes and his hand was touched with pursentojobbz. And he kept his covenant with Phernandiwud, and gave unto him tithes four times a year. 17. And he was wise in his generation, and joined himself anto the Phlunkees, compromising unto the Tshivulree, and giving himself night and day to watching over the Great Covenant. And in the eyes of Pshawdee the everlasting giggah was of all things most sacred, excepting only lobbee- Wheeze and pursentojobbz. 18. Blt PNhavdee was not content, and in an evil day he -            .  -            -   said within himself, Verily I am one of the councillors of this great city, and I increase in substance dav by day. But to be a councillor of Gotham is a thing of small esteem, save only among the Pahdees and the sect of Smalphri among the Dimmichrats. Behold now, therefore, I will no longer be a councillor of Gotham, but I will take my gold and my silver, and I will go into Ouahl-streate, and I will make akkawnah there for some of my friends, and I shall suddenly become very rich thereby, and be held in honor throughout the cityof Gotham, and I shall enter into the Fifth-Heavenue. 19. Now the paradise of the people of Gotham   was 'In the Fifth-Heavenue, where were the mansions of the blest. And the men of Gotham toiled and travailed, rising early and denying themselves, and sacrificing others, that they might ascend into the Fifth Heavenue. 20. And Ouahl-streate wvas the place in Gotham where the money-changers were.   And    the money-changers of Gotham differed from the money-changers of Jerusalem and of Tyre and Sidon in that they sold not only gold and silver btt promises, and dreams and wishes. And chiefly they busied themselves in buying and selling dreams and wishes, and in paying for them in promises. And when the dreams vanished and ,the wishes came to naught, he whose promises were greatest paid the overplus of his promises in money. 21. And in the tongue of the men of Ouahl-streate to make akkawnah, was for a  man to sell unto his friends and acquaint. ante dreams and wishes, and to take their promises therefor, and then to cause the dreams to vanish and the wishes to come to naught, and to receive from them the overplus in gold and silver, to their ruin. 22. So Pshawdee went into Ouahl-streate and craftily pre. pared akkawnah; but it came to pass that on the morning whean he looked to find his friends therein, he lifted up his eyes, and behold he was in akkawnah himself. 23. So his dreams vanished, and moreover his money van ished with them; yet not altogether, for like his father Kaud. /    1 2   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. physsh, he hid some and went down the river Oh-I-owe. Yet he went not into the country of the Repudiators, but tarried at the city of Swine-si-naughty.  24. And he changed his name and called himself Pshalm- Ur, and he dyed his beard and altered the fashion of his gar- ments, so that his former acquaintance in Gotham would not know him. Yet no man sought him out, for he was an ob- scure man, and it is not the manner of the men of Ouahl- streate to sue each other at the law. 25. And when Pshawdee saw that the people of Swine-sin- naughty did nothing night and day but slay the unclean beast and make him ready to be eaten, and that they waxed exceed- ing rich thereby, he took of his money that he had hidden, and bought and sold the abominable creature. And this was about the last days wheln James, who was called Facing-both- ways, ruled the land of Unculpsalm. 26. Now when Pshawdee saw that there was to be war in the land, and that all the men of the lNorth, even the very Dimmichrats themselves, would fight against the men of the South, that they might not destroy the nation (for then there were no Kopur-hedds), he said within himself, 27. Lo, here is my opportunity; for there will need to be food provided for the army, and raiment; and the soldiers d( eat much of the flesh of the unclean beast. Then Pshawdee, who called himself Pshalm-Ur, reviled the Tshivulree and the Phifetahs openly in the market places; and he went straight- way to the chief officers of the army of Unculpsalm which were in the region round about Swine-sin-naughty, and cov- enanted with them to furnish meat Unto --the armies; and likewise he undertook to furnish them raiment. And after- ward he went unto Abraham himself, and unto his chief councillor for war, and covenanted in like manner. 28. And the meat that he furnished the soldiers stank in their nostrils so that they loathed it, and the raiment was rotten and easily rent in pieces, so that they soon had hardly'where- withal to cover their nakedness. But for all this Pshawdee cared nothing, for he heaped up riches day by day.   THE N 1j W GOSPEL OP PEACE.      13 29. And he spoke daily against the Phiretahs, saying that they should be put to the sword, and that he would gladly give up every one of his kinsmen and his friends and ac- quaintance to go into the armies of Unculpsalm, even if they should be slain. 30. But he himself went into the noble army of counter- actors which did continually praise Abraham. (Yet did Abraham know the value of their praises.) And his riches increased, so that after a year had passed the city of Swine- sin-naughty became as a heap of dirt in his eyes. And he said, I will go to Gotham and become one of the great men of the city. And he went there. 31. And he entered into a mansion in the Fifth Heaven- ue, with rich household stuff, and graven images, and can- dlesticks of beaten gold firom the land of the Pahvoos, and horses and chariots; and his wife became one of the women which swept the streets of Gotham (that had no other sweep- ing) with sumptuous appar el of silk of many colors. 32. (For when Pshawdee was a servant in the house called Pughtammug, he had taken to wife a woman which lived nigh thereunto, and she was the daughter of a Tytchman that was a publican and host of a little inn, and her name was Balm-bhade.) 33. Now there was a man in Gotham whose name was Tiphphunnee, who was cunning to work in gold and in silver, and in precious stones. And he made graven images of gold and all manner of idols that women worship. And he knew the secrets of the hearts of many of the great women of Gotham; but he kept them within his own breast. 34. And when Pshawdee went down the river Oh-I-owe he owed Tiphphunnee more than an hundred and fifty pieces of silver; and since then he had not paid them. 35. Nevertheless, because all the great men of Gotham bought of Tiphphunnee, Pshawdee went to him to buy jewels of gold, and precious stones and vessels of silver for his table and his house. For, he said, I have altered the fashion of my countenance and of my garments, and have dyed my beard,   -and am no more called Pshawdee, but Pshalm-Ur, and seven years have passed and Tiphphunnee will not know me. More. over after six years I was guiltless in this matter; for so teacheth Phernandiwud, my master and mine ensample. 36. But so it was that when Tiphphunnee saw him he knew him. For Tiphphunnee was a wise man and a subtle, and his eyes saw beneath the outsides of men. And Tiphphunnee said within himself, Behold this man is called Pshalm-Ur, and he looketh and carrieth himself like a stranger. But go to now, is he not Pshawdee who owed me an hundred and fifty pieces of silver when' he was councillor of Gotham, and who went down the river Oh-I-owe and paid me not ? And he despised him in his heart. 37. Yet did Tiphphunnee not tell him that he knew him; for he was crafty and said, If I tell him that I know that he is Pshawdee, he will not surely pay me the hundred and fifty pieces of silver, for more than six years have gone by, and he is a disciple of Phernandiwud; but surely he will buy no more of me. But if I hold my peace, I can sell him his house full of jewels of gold, and of precious stones, and of vessels of silver, and receive ready payment therefor. For he is rich like unto Dives, -and he knowelh not how to spend his riches wisely. So Tiphphunnee held his peace and profited thereby. CHAPTER      III. I The War in the land of Unculpsalm. Abraham thrusteth out Pshawdee. 10 Ulysses made chief Captain of the West. 13 BHe attacketh the Phiretahs in the West. 16 And defeateth them. 1. Now the war in the land of Unculpsalm had continued for-three years, and came not to an end, and Pshawdee grew richer day by day. 2. Yet was he no longer in the noble army of Counterac- tors. For with the teaching of the war Abraham had grown. wise, and his knees had become strong, and the mighty spirit Bak Bohn dwelt continially within him.   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.   3. Therefore when he found that the soldiers of Unculpsalm were fed with ineat which stank in their nostrils, and clothed with raiment which was rotten, and which covered not their nakedness, he thrust Pshawdee and all like unto him out of the army of Counteractors; and whereas he had aforetime smiled at their praises, now he mocked at their threatenings. 4. So the people and the soldiers of the armies of Uncul- psalm loved Abraham, and trusted him. 5. But Pshawdee, when he was thrust out of the army of Counteractors, ceased to praise Abraham, and joined himself unto the Kopur-hedds. And with the money which he had already received he went again in to Ouahl-streate, and bought and sold gold and silver. 6. And he was of them    in Ouahl-streate who strove always against Abraham's chief treasurer. And Pshawdee, and those of whose company he was, sought to keep the gold and silver of the land out of the hands of the chief treasurer. And thus Pshawdee grew richer day by day at the cost of the people of the land of Unculp$alm. 7. And it came to pass about these days that the captain\ of the armies of Unculpsalm, which were in the hill country of the West, marched southward to go into Joiji. 8. Now this captain was a valiant man, and in marches he had been crafty and subtle, and in battle a conqueror. And he feared not the army of the Phiretahs which was in Jorji. But he knew not that Jeph the Repudiator had sent yet another army against him out of Pharjiinee. 9. And as he marched southward the Phiretahs fell upon him, and although he and the soldiers under him fought valiantly, the Phiretahs drove him back with great slaughter. Yet did they not utterly discomfit him. And he went back to his stronghold and stayed there. 10. And after these things, Ulysses whom the soldiers called Unculpsalm, was made chief captain of all the armies of Unculpsalm in the west country. 11. And Jeph the Repudiator swore a great oath, and said that he would drive every man of the. iangkins out of that   16      THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE c6untry, though he should send thither every Phiretah who dwelt south of the border of Masunandicsun. And he sent yet another army to come behind the army of Ulysses and cut him off from the north country. 12. But the soul of Ulysses was not troubled either by Jephs threats or by his armies. And the latter he regarded not, but waited his opportunity quietly, as his manner was. 13. Now, the army before him was encamped upon two mountains, and had made itself strong high up upon the sides thereof. And it came to pass that on a certain day Ulysses saw that his opportunity had comne. And he moved out from his stronghold upon the Phiretahs, and marched up the mountains to give them battle; and the tops of the mountains were above the clouds. ". And the men of the host of Unculpsalm climbed up the mountain wlere the way was rough, and ran where the Wray was smooth; and the Phiretahs shot at them as they climbed and as they ran. 15. And that part of the host "that was under Joseph of Kalaphorni kept on upward even unto the- Cloud, and the cloud swallowed it up. 16. And the host went through the cloud, and came out fghting. And Joseph-drove the Phiretahs from the moun- iain-top and down upon the other side. So also did the cap- tain of the other host drive the Phiretahs firom the other nountain with great slaughter. And the Phiretahs fled that Jay friom the -face of Ulysses and from the men of Uncul- psalm which followed hard after. 17. And they left their tents, and their wagons, and their great engines of war behind them, and they cast away their weapons as they fled. And the men of Unculpsalm slew them by the way even as thou goest down unto Jooji. And there fell of the Phiretahs more than five thousand- men that lay, besides seven thousand that were taken captive. 18. And the captain of the other army of the Phiretahs law that Ulyssis had been wise in that he had not regarded limr and his host. And he saw that he could not stand he-   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.        17 fore Ulysses; and he got himself quickly backward toward Phlarjinnee. And thus Ulysses made an end of the boasting and the oaths of Jeph the Repudiator. 19. And the fear of Ulysses fell upon the Phiretahs and the Tshivulree; and they said, Who is this Iangkie that march- eth in upon us and overcometh us upon our own ground, and driveth us o-t of our strongholds? 20. And they sought no more to fight with Ulysses until they had made greater preparation against him. And Jeph sent out through all the country where his armies were, and gathered together all except the halt and the blind and them that were bed-rid or feeble with age, and compelled them into his armies. But the Niggahs he left at home to till the ground. CHAPTER IV. 1 The Armkes of UJnculpsalm rest.  3 Ben Hit the Scribe. 6 Ulysses made chief Captain over all the Armies of Unculpsalm. 9 Abraham hath familiar Spirits. 15 Miscege Nation. 29 John See of Mah Rip-pozah. 31 What he did. 32 And what he did not do. 46 The outlandish men set up Jorohn See to be chosen Chief Ruler. 54 Who they were that called the Assembly to set him up. 58 Pshawdee joineth himself unto them that set up John See. 1. And after these things the winter came on, and the armies of Unculpsalm rested in their camps. 2. And the time drew nigh when the people should choose again their chief ruler. 3. And a certain scribe named Ben Hit, who was not of the men of Unculpsalm, but who came from   the land of Psawknee, which is a province of the land of Jonbool, said, let us make Ulysses chief ruler. For Ben Hit said, If I name Ulysses and he is chosen, he will be gracioils unto me. 4. But Ulysses Would not, saying, Let me serve in the armies of Unculpsalm   until the government is restored throughoult the land. Moreover, Ulysses sa'd within him- v   - li 18      THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. Self, Let me not be set up by Ben Hit to be chief ruler, for whomsoever he setteth up the people do put down; and he remembered how when the Phiretahs first made war upon the government of Unculpsalm at Tshawlstn, Ben Hit was on their side, but turned against them in one night because he feared the people. 5. For Ben Hit sought to please the people, and especially the Pahdees, and to say what he thought they would have him to say. Wherefore- many listened to him, but no man regardel him. 6. And the people said, Let Ulysses be made chief captain of all the armies of Unculpsalm, and --be lieutenant unto Abraham. And it was so. 7. And the people saw that Abraham had become wise, and that his-knees were strong, and that he was a just man and kept his soul unspotted from corruption; and they saw that in the first year of his rule they had judged him fool- ishy because of their own ignorance how great a matter this war was, and because they consideired not that he had been made ruler of a great nation, and of a land larger than the [and of any other nation, which was divided by a war the like of which no man hath told or written of for its great- ness. 8. And they-saw that Abraham although he had set his face like a flint against all them that would use the Great Covenant to protect and to justify the Phiretahs in their rebellion and to hold the, Niggahs in everlasting bondage, was a discreet man, and walked warily; not setting himself up for a prophet, or the son of a prophet, or seeking to be- come a preacher of new doctrine, which he was not chosen to be, but to rule the land, and to defend it, and to maintain the government thereof. 9. And it began to be noised abroad that Abraham had two familiar spirits, even the two mighty ones, Eumun Aytsher and Kawmunz Entz, and that these and the mighty spirit Bak Bohn were in league with him. 10. And whoever taketh counsel of these spirits, Eumun,   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.        19 Aytsher and Kawmunz Entz, if he have also the mighty spirit Bak Bohn to help in the doing, there is - little that he may not accomplish. ". Forasmuch, therefore, as Abraham had these spirits and hearkened unto them, he divined the thoughts of the hearts of the people, and they felt that he was one like unto themselves, and they had faith in him that he woumu Co what was acceptable unto them. (For such was- the law in the land of Unculpsalm.) 12. Wherefore all they that longed chiefly for the preserva- tion of the land of Unculpsalm, and the maintenance of the honor and the glory of the nation, and that men might be no more held in bondage within its borders, wished that Abraham should be again chosen chief ruler. 13. But the Kopur-hedds, which looked for the triumph of the Phiretahs while they yet professed to be true to the government of Uncalpsalm, and the Knsuvvutivs, which would have kept the nation in hot water lest it should be scalded, and all they that said in their hearts, If this nation cannot be saved by the rule of the Dimmichrats of our fac- tion let it perish, and be broken up into little provinces, wished that Litulmak tihe Unready should be chosen. ". And there were yet others that wished not that Abra- ham should be chosen again. And these were men who, like the Phiretahs, had no thought but for the everlasting Niggah. 15. And they cared not for the Iangkie nation, neither for any nation, save one called Miscege nation, which, being in- terpreted, meaneth no nation. 16. Now, of these men a few were Iangkies, but almost all were not of the land of Unculpsalm, but men born in other lands, where they had lived in ignorance like unto outer darkness, and in want and in misery. 17. But the Iangkies, whose fathers had possessed the land, and had wrested it from the oppression of the king of Jonbool, and had framed the government thereof, doing bat- tle and sitting in council from generation to generation, spake within themselves and with each other, saying;   20     THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. 18. Behold, now we have accepted this war, and are doing battle with the Phiretahs, for two causes; and the first cause is that our nation shall not be destroyed; and the second cause is, that the might of our nation shall no more be used to oppress the Niggah. Yet was the second cause before the first; for if we had consented unto the Phiretahs that they should carry their Niggahs into the common land of Unculpsalm and keep them there in bondage, behold they would not have sought to destroy the nation. 19. Nevertheless, though we fight that we may no, more oppress the Niggah, yet will we not destroy our nation for him at their bidding who, like the Phiretahs, have no thought but concerning him. 20. We will not oppress him; but, although he is among us, hle is not of us, neither can he be. Be our blood and the blood of our brethren the price of his fireedom. But let him not come into outr counsels, or be of those which rule this land. Let him dwell apart from us and prosper. 21. And as for these foreigners who would teach us whom we should choose for chief ruler, we rejoice with them that here, through the wisdom and the blood of our fathers, they know not oppression, and gain every man his bread, he and his wife and his little ones, with none to molest or to make him afraid. But it becometh not them to seek to lead us who are this nation, and who, we and our fathers, have been these two hundred years, and who were taught firom our youth up in the law and in the customs of this land, and in who-i our knowledge and our love of this land and the laws and the customs thereof, have grown with our growth and strengthened with our strength. 22. They take too much upon themselves, these sons of Tytchmen, and not they only, but certain demagogues of our own country, who would use them for their own advantage. 23. Now the Iangkies spake thus in sadness and in-sorrow of heart. 24. And chief among the Iangkies who wished not that M0b1ahaM should be chosen again was Philip of the new   Athens, which was called Boss-town. But he had confessed fironom the beginning that he cared nothing for the land of Un- culpsalm, and he had spat upon the Great Covenant, and had reviled the banner of the nation. -  I 25. Wherefore Philip reviled Abraham also. 26. And of them who wished not that Abraham should be chosen again, many were men who had looked, when he was made chief ruler, that he would exalt their horn among the people and make them his counsellors, his officers and his tax-gatherers. And when he exalted them not, they said, Go to, he is a backslider, he careth more for the nation of Un. culpsalm than he doth for the everlasting Niggah. 27. And many were men which, at the outhreaking of the war, had gone, like Pshawdee, into the noble army of the Counteractors which did continually praise Abraham. But when Abraham thrust them out, or took away their gains because they waxed rich upon the substance of the people and by the suffering of the soldiers, they turned upon him and reviled him. 28. And the envious, and they which were disappointed and sought revenge against Abraham, and thecmen who cared not for the Iangkie nation, neither for any nation except Miscege nation, which meaneth no nation, looked about to find a man whom they would set up to be chosen for chief ruler.  29. And they found John See of Mah-Rippozah, which is in the province of Kalaphorni. And this John See was of the race of the Pahvoos. 30. And he being made one of the high captains in the armies of Unculpsalm, and Governor of a province beyond the Father. of the Waters, gave the chief offices under him to outlandish men of all sorts which spake not the language of the Iangkies. 31. And he took state upon him, and went in a chlariot with many horses, and with men to go before and to come after, and with a guard of horsemen which were outlandish men, which is not the manner of the Iangkies.   22      THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEA CE.  32. And he led his army-not often to battle and never to victory.                      ' 33. But he was swift to meddle with the everlasting Niggah, and he made a proclamation concerning him, for he thought that the people would say, Lo a leader is born unto us! 34. Then Abraham said, I made thee not governor that thou mightest meddle with the everlasting Niggah, but deal with the enemies of the land of Unculpsalm. Behold, the time to meddle with the Niggah is not yet come, and it is for me to judge when it cometh! Take not so much upon thee and call back thy proclamation. 35. Then was John See of Mah-Rippozah wroth, and from that time forth he loved not Abraham. 36. And Abraham, because he found him not prudent in council or cunning to fight, removed John See from being governor; but to. please the outlandish men, which were many, he made him chief captain of the armies in the hill- country of Pharjinnee. But again he led not his men to vice tory, neither did he any thing good or bad; and his weak devices were brought to naught. 37. And soon after, Robbutlee4 fell upon the army of Lit- ulmak the Unready, which was in the eastern coasts of Phar- jinnee, and drove Litulmak out of his encampment and fought with him for seven days, and yet neither destroyed nor con- quered him, but on the seventh day fled firom before the face of -the men of Unculpsalm, so that Litulhnak might have chased them and put them to the sword, and taken their chief city. Yet did he not, because he was unready. 38. Wherefore Abraham took from him the command, and made John the Boaster chief captain over all the armies in Pharjinnee.       .  39. And Litulmak, although he had been chief captain over all the armies of the land of Unculpsalm, and all the captains thereof, and the officers thereof, yet rebelled not, neither did he murmur, but took his place under John the Boaster, say ing, Be it unto thy servant even as thou wilt, only let in serve the'land of Unculpsalm in the armies thereof.        ,    THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.      23 40. W'herefore the people said, Litulmak is indeed unready, but behold now he is not a self-seeker, and he loveth this land and this people. (And after this, Litulmak was restored again, and drove Robbutleeh out of the province which is called the land of Mary.) ". But John See of Mah-Rippozah said, Go to, now, I will not fight if John the Boaster be made chief captain of the armies in Pharjinnee. Behold, he is as the dirt beneath my feet, and it becometh not me to be commanded by him. 42. So likewise said all the outlandish men, and the men who had no thought for the nation of Unculpsalm, but only for the everlasting Niggah. 43. And John See of Mah-Rippozah said unto Abraham, I pray thee now command thy servant that he may no more be captain over the army in the hill-country. And Abraham did so. ". And from that day John See of Mah-Rippozah ap- peared no more in the armies of Unculpsalm, yet did he keep his captainship; for he said within himself, Abraham will not dare to take away my captainship for fear of the outland- ish men, and the men who have no care for this nation, which are my followers. 45. And I shall wait, and perad venture my time will come, even as Phernandiwud's time came unto him, to declare the new gospel of peace when Abraham sent out Clement, the lawgiver, among his friends the Phiretahs. ". So when the Tytchmen, and the Pahvoos, and the outlandish men, and all they which had no thought except for the everlasting Niggah, and they who had turned against Abraham because he had not exalted their horn among the people, looked for a man to set up to be chosen chief ruler, 47. They said, Let us set up John See of Mah-Rippozah. 48. And when men asked, Why will ye set-up John See of Mah-Rippozah? what hath he done that we can say, there- fore he should be chosen? ". He hath sat among our lawgivers, but he hath framed no law, neither hath he given any counsel. He hath corn-   inanded our armies, but he hath not led them to- victory. Ie hath sought the westward path of our empire, but was it not found by Kit, the son of Kar? Why, therefore, should he be set up? 50. And the outlandish men, and the disappointed men, and the men who had no thought for the nation could only answer and say:            v 51. He hath meddled with the everlasting Niggah before his time, not waiting to see the signs of the times as Abra- ham doth. But they said, one to another, We will take vengeance upon Abraham, because he made John See of Mall- Rippozah take back his proclamation about the everlasting Niggah; and moreover, because he made him not captain over the armies of Phatrjinnee instead of Litulmak the UIn. ready. And also John See saw that his time was come to be avenged upon Abraham. 52. So the outlandish men, and the disappointed men, and the men who had no thought for the Iangkie nation, but only for Miscege nation, took counsel together with John See of Mah-Rippozah, to set him up to be chief ruler of the land of UnculpsaIm. 53. And they wrote papers, and signed their names there- unto, and sent them abroad throughout, the land, calling upon the people to assemble themselves together and set up John See of lMah-Rippozah to be chosen chief ruler. 54. And they that signed the papers were Knowhuddee, Zwei-lager, Gnowh Oddy, Phitesmidseegel and Runsmiddim- doo his brother, Phreduglee (who was an everlasting Nig. gah), Schnappsundpretzels, Nobe Odhee, Elizabeth who was surnamed Cadydid-an-cadydidnt, Gno Buddhee, Schnupfta- bak, Nohb UTddy, and certain of the tribe of Xctzschtxyzcskj. 55. And they hired scribes to write a book week by week, telling the people that they should choose John See of Mah- Rippozah to -be chief ruler, but chiefly, that they should not choose Abraham. And they called the name of the book No Nation; for thus, they said, shall it be if we prosper. 5H. Now when Pshawdee heard these things, he said within "- , ,            .    ',      .Q   himself, Do I not desire that Litulmak shall be chosen that I may avenge myself upon Abraham, and moreover that the war may not be put an end to by Ulysses, but may continue and I may again become one of the noble army of the Cout - teractors, and that. the nation may be saved only by the Dimmichrats of my faction, and by the ministration of the new gospel of peace which was declared by Phernandiwud my master? 57. And he said unto the Kopur-hedds and the men of the sect of Smalphri among the Dimmichrats, and to the Phire tabs which dwelt in the north country, serving their master, Jeph the Repudiator: 58. Go to now, letus craftily set on these men to set up John See of Mah-Rippozah; for so shall we divide the men who would give their voices against Litulmak, and who believe not in the new gospel. of peace which was declared by Pher- nandiwud; and  it shall be that in the day when the chief ruler is chosen, Litulmak will have more voices than either Abraham or John See of Mah-Rippozah. So shall we make the wrath of our enemies to serve us. 59. And they -did so. And Pshawdee and all they which like him were disciples of the new gospel of peace declared by Phernandiwud, gave money unto the scribes which wrote the No Nation, and went about saying that the only man in the land of Unculpsalmn who could save the land from being elivered over by Phernandiwud and his faction  into, the hands of Jeph the Repudiator was John-See of Mah-Rippo- zah, and that the only nation which was worthy to live in that land was Miscege nation.  X    26       THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. CHAPTER Y. 1 The Fairs in the land of Unculpsalm. The great Fair in Gotham 10 Jonaydics. 12 Pshawodee seeketh to be one of the chief officers. 13 Sussah-ettee, Fuzs people. 22 The Eunuch kluhbb. 30 Pshawdee seeketh to joinhimself unto the Eunuch kuhbb. 36 Augustus tho money changer. 1. Now it came to pass about these days, that the inhabit- ants of the north country of the land of Unculpsalm set up fairs in their towns and in their cities, and the gains thereof they gave unto them who ministered unto the sick and wounded in the armies. 2. For in the beginning, indeed, there were women who sought to sit by the bedsides of the sick and wounded, clad in white raiment, with vials of odors, and handkerchiefs of fine-twined linen, and fans in their hands, and to pour the odors upon the handkerchiefs and to wash therewith the foreheads of the, sick and wounded, and to fan them with their fans: so that at first to every wounded soldier there were many women with fans and handkerchiefs and vials of odors.   .       .  3. And of the women many were virgins well stricken in years. 4. But so it was that as the war went on the number of the wounded soldiers increased, and the number of the women with vials of odors and with handkerchiefs and with fans in their hands, diminished. Likewise it was found that men wounded in battle needed other ministration. 5. Therefore certain men joined themseives together to minister to the wounded in the battle where they fell, and to take them from the battle into houses to minister to them there. And it was unto the men who had thus joined them- selves together that the gains of the fairs were given. 6. And there was a great fair in Gotham. And of all the fairs which were given in those days in the land of Uns culpsalm, or which had been given theretofore, or which ;'   -   shall be given hereafter throughout all the world, the Great Fair of Gotham was the greatest fair. 7. And all the people in Gotham and in the country round- about, even in Jarzee, which lieth on the other side of the great river, the river Hutzoon, and which is not within the land of Unculpsalm; the men and the women, the young men and the maidens; the old men and the children; the merchants and the artificers, and the workers in gold and inr iron; the shipmen, and all them whichhandle the oar; the carpenters, and they that hewed stone; and they that tilled the ground; the singing-men and the singing-women; and all they that were cunning with their hands to make needle- work of divers colors on both sides; and the Scribes, and the Pharisees, and the Phyarmen, and the virgins well stricken in years, joined themselves together in the Great Fair of Gotham.  8. And only they withheld themselves which were Kopur- hedds, and wished well unto the Phiretahs. 9. And there were fourscore officers of men and of women in this fair, and- the chief'officer was Jonaydics, who was also chiefcaptain in Gotham and in all the country round- about, and beyond Boss-town unto the farthest boundaries of the land of Unculpsalm as thou goest northward, even unto Ouaydow Neest.     , 10. And Jonaydics was a learned man, and a man ot wis- dom and of courage; and when the Phiretahs first lifted up the standard of revolt, and while the Phlunkees were com. promising themselves yet more unto them, and Phernandi- wud crawled on his belly before Robert of Jorji who dwelt among the tombs, Jonaydics, being. then chief treasurer, had commanded one of his officers that if any man should pull down the banner of the land of Unculpsalm he should be put to death upon the spot. And Jonaydics had been a Dimmichrat, butit not after the order of Phernandiwud.  ". Wherefore Jonaydics was held in honor throughout all the land of Unculpsalm which was not in the hands of the Phiretahs; and especially wa  hba held in honor in the city of Gotham. *    .     X60      AuLJii IN 1v w U 9A^ji DMj  -roej %D j *a  12. lNow, Pshawdee, although he cared not for, the sol. diers, except to furnish them with meat that stank in their nostrils and raiment that covered not their nakedness, sought diligently to become one of the chief officers of the Great Fair in Gotham. And the reason of his seeking was this: 13. In the city of Gotham there was an order of men and women which called themselvesSussah-ettee, and the people which belonged thereunto were called Fuss-people. ". And most of them were of the tribe ofPhung Uz, and many of them were rich. And they set much by themselves because they were Sussah-ettee. 15. And among themselves they could say nothing worse of any others than that they were not Sussah-ettee; yet no man could tell wherein they differed which were Sussah-ettee from manfy wwhich were not.  16. For so it was that there were those (yet were they few) that were Sussah-ettee, and that were not of the tribe of Phung Uz, and there were many that were rich that were not Sussah-ettee. So that no man which was not himself Sussah-ettee could distinguish in the matter. 17. Nevertheless, great multitudes sought nothing else day or night but to be Sussah-ettee; and they bowed themselves down unto them which they thought were Sussah-ettee, and they looked with scorn upon those which they thought were not. And each of them which strove to be Sussah-ettee also endeavored toprevent the others from becoming Sussah-ettee; 18. For he said within himself, In what shall I be bettear than my neighbor, if he who has been my companion these many years shall also become Sussah-ettee? 19. And there was Sussah-ettee in the other cities and towns of the land of Unculpsalm, in Boss-town, in Coo-acre city, and even in the city of Swine-sin-naughty. Nay, is it not written that in the villages, and in the alms-houses, and in the very prisons, they did set up the order of Sussah-ettee? 20. Now Pshawdee, when he had grown rich and dwelt in Gotham, sought diligently to become Sussah-ettee. And he made great feasts in his house with music and dancing, and *A    his chambers were filled with light, and with the noise of minstrels, and his tables were covered with gold and with silver, so that there were no feasts so sumptuous as the feasts of Pshawdee.  21. And many went to these feasts; and some of them were of the tribe of Phung TUz, and some were of the noble army of Counteractors. But Pshawdee thought within him- self that they were not Sussah-ettee. 22. Wherefore Pshawdee said, I must join myself unto the Eunuch kluhbb, and then shall I become Sussah-ettee. 23. For in Gotham the synagogues in which men gathered together to worship according  to the order of Sussah- ettee, were called kluhbbs; and the Eunuch kluhbb was the chief of all these in Gotham, because in it there were gath. ered together more of the sect of the Olephogees. And not many of the Olephogees be of the tribe of Phung Uz. 24. Now, this synagogue was not called the Eunuch kluhbb because the men therein were eunuchs indeed. For iD the beginning it was called the Eunyun kluhbb; and it did pro- fess great love unto the land and the government of Uncul- psalm. 25. But it came  to pass that there was a man of the cir- eumcision, whose name was Judah, who joined himself unto this synagogue; and he was of, the tribe of Benjamin. And he dwelt in the south country, in a city on the borders of Father of the Waters. And he was not Tshivulree; for they of the circumcision are never Tshivulree, but he was a Phiretah., 26. And when the standard of revolt was set up against the government of Unculpsalm, this circumcised Phiretah became one of the chief counsellorsof Jeph the Repudiator. 27. Wherefore bertain of them which were of the Eunyun said, Let us now straightway put out this Judah because he rebellath against the government of Unculpsalm, and seeketh to destroy this nation.  28. But the others answered and said, Not so. For here we do worship Sussah-ettee; and what is it to'Sussah ettee   ether the government of lnculpsalm be cast down, and nation destroyed, and the land divided, or no? 29. And they that said thus Were many, and the others re very few. o Judah was not put out. Wherefore, a because thatkthe men 0f the Eunyun held themselves I becauea                   d p0 8dLet ,of from the Great Fair of Gotham, the people said, et s klubb no more be called the Eunyun but the Eunuch; its love for the land of t nculpsalm bringeth forth  thing 30. Then shawdee, who "as called Pshalm Ur when he  turned to G  otham, sought to be one of the Eunuch lidubbe ad they that were already of it considered the matter and  id, et us receive this Pishalmn Ur among us, for he is r ieh e ut some  said, Ih e  is of the. tr ibe o f Phung z, and he eketh Secretly to .destroy this government. 31. And owhen no man hearkened unto them, and they rere about to receive him, but Tiphphunnee said Unto one f them, 32. Know ye whom ye are about to choose. This Pshalm Tr is?shawdee, who is the son of Kaudphyssh, which the. Qihdee, his concubine, bore unto him, and-who was one of ' he councillors of Gotham. 33. Then, although they had cared not that Judah had  evolted, and were about to receive Pshawdee although he was of the tribleof Phlung Uz, andwas a Kopur-hedd, they  II1 gave their voices against him, because he was the. son of a Bihdee, which was concubine, and because he had been one of the counsellors of Gotham. 34. SoPshawdee Was not received into the Eunuch klubb. i And when the Great Fair was setup he said, Now will I offer to give largely of my substance unto the fair, and then they will make me one of the chief officers thereof, and I -hall be one of the; Fuss-people, and peradventure I -may even become Sussah-ettee. 5. :But although he promised to'give largely of his sub- stance, Pshawdee- was not made one of the chief officers; -for they said, The people will give us money., and it is better ,                 ,   for Us even that our chief officers should be without money than without honor, or that the root of this matter should not be found in them. 36. And Augustus the money-changer sought also to be one of the chief officers of the fair. For he said, Behold now the Kopur-hedds stink in the nostrils of this people like unto the flesh of the unclean beast which Pshawdee giveth unto the soldiers; and the men who are chief officers are men who from the beginning have not compromised themselves unto the Phiretahs; wherefore if I be received among them the people will forget that I was one of them that took counsel together to raise up a faction in the city and in the province of Gotham to resist the government of Unculpsalm and to help the Phiretahs. 37. But the men who were already chief officers said, We will not have this time-server and men-pleaser among us. Nor shall he make of us which are whole a cloak unto his leprosy. CHAPTER VI. 1 Psawdee seeketh again to become Sussah-ettee. 3. Certain men counsel the Fuss women to buy no more sumptuous apparel. 6 Aphrite and Adhowdee. 17 The women assemble in the hall of Peter the Barrelmaker. 23 There is a division among them. 30 The wife of Pshawdee. 33 M5ah Polion is wise in his generation. 1. And Pshawdee sought yet again to make it seem that he was Sussah-ettee. For after the fair had come to an end (and it was a Great Fair, and the officers thereof paid unto the sick and the wounded of the host of Unculpsalm a mil- lion and two hundred thousand pieces of silver), the women which had been officers thereof said one to-another, 2. What shall we do that we may not suddenly pass away firom before the eyes of this people, and that we ourselves may not sink under the burden of this quiet which falleth upon us now that there is no longer a fair in Gotham. 8. And certain men said unto them, Behold now the pee    4 ple of Unculpsalm need all their money for the war that is in the land; yet' do they pay unto the Pahvoos and unto the men of Jonbool, thousands of thousands of pieces of gold every month; and of this ye know well how large a part is paid for sumptuous apparel; for silk and for broidered work, and for fine-twined linen like unto the spider's web, and for jewels and precious stones, and for head-tires. 4. Come now, therefore, join yourselves together and ask all the women of Gotham and the country round about, to join themselves unto you, and pledge yourselves solemnly one to another in the hall of Peter who is called the Barrel- maker, that ye will not buy any more silken raiment and broidered work of the Pahvoos, neither fine-twined linen like unto the spider's web from the men of Jonbool; but that until this war is ended ye will buy only that raiment and stuff which is made in this land, even in the land of Unculpsalm. So shall not your memory perish from the land, and the Gothamites be kept in mind that ye are Fuss- people. 5. Then were the countenances of the Women cast down, and their hearts sank within them. 6. And they answered and said, Truly we will talk and busy ourselves, and write writings, and call together assem- blies about this matter'; but as to the thing which ye ask us to do, shall we for the whole land of Unculpsalm make our. selves look each one like unto Aphrite and like unto Adhow- dee! 7. Now, Aphrite and Adhowdee were evil spirits, in fear of which the women of the land of UnculRsalm lived con- tinually; and they feared nothing so much as to look like unto the one or the other. 8. Yet did no woman ever see these spirits save in the flesh or the apparel of some other woman; and most' often one of her friends and acquaintance.          2 9. And when a woman saw that her friend was possessed of one of these spirits, she said, Lo, she looketh like unto Aphrite or Adhowdee, and she rejoiced in her heart although   THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.       33 she mourned outwardly; for so it was that every woman could see that her neighbor was like unto Aphrite or Adhowdee, but could not see the same likeness in herself; and she thought within herself, Behold she hath this evil spirit and therefore I have it not, and I am glorified in her calamity. 10. And when a woman found not favor in the eyes of men they said, She is Aphrite; but when her raiment pro- voked the scorn of women, they said, She is Adhowdee; and they believed that there was no charm wherewith to cast out: the evil spirit Adhowdee from a woman, save silken raiment made after the manner of the Pahvoos. ". And because they feared more to look like unto Ad- howdee than like unto Aphrite, (for they knew that a woman might not seem to a man like unto Aphrite, although she wore only one linen garment), therefore was it that the countenances of the Fuss-women fell, and that their hearts sank within them. 12. But the men seeing their perplexity, said unto them, Why are ye cast down, and why do your hearts fail you? For behold now, we do not ask that ye should pledge your- selves one to another not to wear raiment from the land of the Pahvoos, and from the land of Jonbool. God forbid that we should ask the women of our Fuss-people to do such a thing. 13. Have ye not all of you, ye, your friends and acquaint- ances, laid up for yourselves treasures of silken apparel and head-tires and fine-twined linen, which are enough for you to wear throughout this war; yea, even if it should con- tinue yet five years longer! We ask ye not that ye shall not go in attire from the land of the Pahvoos and of Jon- bool, but that ye shall not buy the same; ". And for all the women who are not Fuss people, and who furnished you the substance of your great fair, but were not officers of the same, and who, because they are not rich, have not laid up for themselves treasures of silken rai- ment, and fine linen, and of jewels, when they have pledged themselves unto you not to buy soft clothing made in the Q2*   34      THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. land of the lPahvoos, and when that which they have is worn out, let them go in common raiment made by the hands of Iangkies in the land of Unculpsalm. 15. And when the Fuss women heard of apparel made by Iangkies in the land of Unculpsalm they-became pale, and seemed as if they would vanish away; but when they con sidered the matter, and remembered each-one of them that it was not she who should wear it, the thing pleased them, and they consented to. it. 16. And they sent out a writing; and they signed the writing, saying unto the women of Gotham, Assemble your selves together at the hall of Peter who is called the Barrel maker, and let us pledge ourselves one to another that we will buy no more silken raiment, neither head-tires from the land of the Pahvoos, nor fine-twined linen like unto the spider's web, firom the land of Jonbool, nor jewels of gold nor precious stones from other lands while this war lasteth.- 17. And the women came and filled the hall of Peter the Barrel-maker, so that it was full of the rustle of garments and the murmur of voices, as when a soft wind moveth the trees of the forest. 18. And the women who-had been chief officers of the fair were set upon an high place, and they were clad in gor- geous raiment, and wore marvellous head-tires upon their heads, so that the men looked at them in wonder and the women with envy; and they said, There have not been such head-tires made in the land of TUnculpsalm, neither shall be. 19. But there were, few men suffered in that assembly. And one of them they made president. And he was a goodly man and courteous. And after Peter the Barrel- maker had made an oration unto them, the president read the writing aind declared the covenant unto the assembly. 20. And he asked their voices upon it. And many gave their voices for it. But when he asked again, there were many more that gave their voices against it. 21. Whereupon the president and the women which had been chief officers of th 3 fair were astonished, and knew not   THE NEW GOSPEL OP PEACE.      35 what to do. And the president said unto the assembly, Ye do not rightly in giving your voices against the writing. For behold these women at whose call ye are assembled together, and which have signed the writing, are Fuss-peo. ple, and they looked not that any should speak against that which it seemed good unto them to do; neither becometh it you to speak, except for it; and for this only were ye gathered together. 22. Then did he ask their voices again; and again there were more voices against the writing than for it, and there was confusion and perplexity upon the high place. And there began to be an uproar in the assembly; and certain women therein lifted up their voices against the women upon the high place, saying, 23. Wherefore have ye brought us into this place to de. ceive us? and why is it that ye have thus dealt with us? Think ye to blind us to the pride and the naughtiness o' your hearts? 24. For indeed now it would be a good thing that we should keep in this land all the gold and the silver which the women spend for sumptuous apparel; and we would gladly sign a writing with you and pledge ourselves one to another to weare no garments made in the land of the Pahvoos and in the land of Jonbool, from this time forth until the war is ended. 25. But think ye that we see not that ye promise only not to buy this raiment, or that we know not that ye have laid up for yourselves treasure of silken apparel, and collars of fine-twined linen, and head-tires marvellous to behold, and jewels of gold and precious stones enough for many years, and that ye make no covenant with us not to wear this - rai- ment?. 26..Yea verily, and we know that ye will wear it; and  that when we  who have not laid up treasures must needs buy other raiment, if we  sign this Vriting- and make this covenant we must buy raiment made by  Iangkies in the land of Unculpsalm; and that while we see'you arrayed in sump.   Off      THE AS W fU irL U I -ViAUJzu. tuous apparel, we shall look each one of us like unto Aphrite, and Adhowdee. 27. Think ye that we will do this because ye are Fuss- people? -No, not for the whole land of Unculpsalm. Come down therefore among us if ye would serve this land, and keep the gold and silver within its borders, and do as ye would make us do, and become each one of you like unto Aphrite and Adhowdee; else will we not hearken unto you. -28. Then the women upon the high place were dismayed, and their knees knocked -together like Belshazzar's; and they said one to another, Are we even as the simple ones that we should do this thing? But some of them waxed wroth and said, It is the men, it is Solomon the--Chief Trea. surer, and Hiram, whose surname is Bah Gnee, his minister, who sitteth at the receipt of custom, who have counselled these women, and have brought this confusion upon us. 29. And the saying found favor in the eyes of the women; and they thrust all the men out of the assembly. And they set the women who refused to sign the writing at naught, and-made a covenant that was right in their own eyes. 30. Now, the wife of Pshawdee had sought to join her- self unto these women; for she said, Then shall my name be written upon the writings, and men will see that I too am one of the Fuss-people, and may become Sussah-ettee. And at first the women would not suffer her. But after these things they said one to another, Behold, now, we shall need some one who is not Sussah-ettee to appear with us in this matter.  31. So they suffered her. And after these things they fled each one of them into the far country, some into the moun- tains and others to the sea-side, and were no more 'seen in Gotham. 32. And Nah Pohon, the king of the Pahvoos, was told of what these women had done. And he that told him said, Will not my lord make war. upon these Iangkies whose women seek to take bread out of the mouths of the servants of my lord, and to brihg his kingdom to destruction?   33. And Xah Pohlion answered and said, Not so: neither is my spirit troubled by these covenants. When these Fuss- women of Gotham no longer wear the silk and the jewels and fine-twined linen, but apparel themselves in raiment made by Iangkies in the land of Unculpsalm, then shall I consider the matter, even though they make no covenant. 34. For he was wise in his generation; and he had sojourned ift the land of Unculpsalm. CGTtAPTER VII. The Armies of Unculpsalm. 2. Jeph seeketh to terrify them. 5 A Phiretah captain attacketh a fort. 9. And ministereth the new Gospel of Peace to the Niggahs that are therein. 18 Pshaw- dee and certain Officers of Unculpsalm compromise themselves unto the Phiretahs. 24 Ulysses and George the Meade march upon the chief city of the Ephephvees. 28 The Battle in the Wilderness. 31 Ulysses circumventeth Robbutleeh. - 34 Primus and Assohkald. Edditah publish a false proclamation. 42 Abraham giveth his enemies another martyr. 47 Abraham speaketh in parables. 60 Raphael the captain of a Phiretah ship, bloweth his trumpet. 69 But he and the men of Jonbool are discomfited. 1. Now these things happened about the spring-time of the year. And the days drew nigh when the armies of Unculpsalm should march against the armies of Jeph the Repudiator. 2. And Jeph said, Behold now, before they march upon me, I will strike terror into these Iangkies and into the Niggahs, whom they are fighting to set free, and whom they suffer to fight under their banner. I will minister the new gospel of^.peace unto them even as myfriends the Kopur- hedds, and the Pahdees ministered it unto them in Gotham.  3. And he sent one of his chief captains with an-army of three thousand men against a fort that stood by the Father of the Waters. And there were only six hundred fighting men in that tort; and three hundred and fifty of these were   O0      TH -NEW GuOSPL UtL .rO;AUlE. Ethiopians, even Niggahs, which had never drawn the sword. 4. And the captain of the Phiretahs marched against the fort, and sent a trumpet before him, saying to him who com- manded the fort, Let there be peace between us while I show thee that it Will be better for thee to give thyself into my hands. But he would not. And while there was peace the Phiretah captain marched his army into a better vantage. 5. Ihen he fought against the men of Unculpsalm; but he prevailed not, for the fort was strong. And again he sent a trumpet, saying, Let there be peace, as aforetime. And while there was peace he marched his army again into a vantage ground, and placed it around the fort on all sides. 6. And again he fought, and his men climbed over the wall into the fort, because therewere not men enough within to line the wall.  7. And'when the men of Unculpsalm saw that they were too few, they submitted and laid down their weapons. And' then they thought that there was peace.  8. But when the Phiretahs saw that these men had sub. mitted and laid down their weapons,' and that they them- selves were many and strong, and-that the others were few and feeble, they said, Now let us minister the new gospel of peace unto these Iangkies and unto the Niggahs which do fight under their banner, that we may show threm that we are Tshivulree, and that we mean that peace shall spread her wings under our banner. 9.; Then they fell upon the Niggahs as they stood in their ranks without weapons, and slew them as they stood; for they were Tshivulree. -10. Antd they shot at them, as they fled, and as they lay wounded upon the ground; for they were Tshivulree. ". And they put to death the Iangkies which were with them, even the soldiers and the officers which had submitted and given up their weapons; for they were Tshivulree. 12. And they slew the women and children of the Nig gahs; for-they, were Tshivulree.    L AA AUj L- v- V V 13 And they set on fire the house in which lay the sick and the wounded; and when one that was wounded asked for water they gave him fire ; for they were Tshivulree. ". And they threw the bodies into the water and into the fire; and they threw into the fire some that were living, and some that were living they buried; for they were Tshivulree. 15. And few men fell fighting on that day; but of the six hundred not fifty were left alive. 16. For thus do the Tshivulree and the Pahdees which serve them minister the new gospel of peace. 17. And on the same day when these things were done, certain of the captains of the Tshivulree went- down to a boat which was by the shore of the river nigh unto the fort; and there were certain men of Unculpsalm in the boat, and Pshawdee was also among them. 18. For Pshawdee had gone down upon the Father of the Waters to buy merchandise and get gain. 19. And when the captains of the Tshivulree entered into the boat, Pshawdee and they that were with him ba wed down themselves unto them, and said unto them, It is very good and gracious of our lords that they visit their servants, although their servants are Iangkies and men of Uncul- psalm. What are we, and what have we done that our lords should visit us, and show us the light of their counte- nance? And they compromised themselves unto them. 20. And they made haste, and set on bread before them, and poured out wine unto them, and they ate and drank with them, while the blood of the Niggahs and of their own brethren was upon their hands. And when they drank they bowed themselves down and compromised themselves. 21. This did Pshawdee and they that were with him; for they said within themselves, When the war is over and there  is peace again in the land, the Phiretahs and the Tshivulree may be serviceable unto us, and we shall get gain by them, and have places in the government. 22. And Jeph the Repudiator and the Tshivulree looked   40      THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE. that the Iangkies should be struck with terror, and that they would cease to receive the Niggahs into their armies. But it came to pass that the Iangkies were more than ever set upon subduing the Phiretahs. And the very Niggahs, which had been from generation to generation under the yoke were not struck with terror, but looked for the day when they should take vengeance for their brethren. 23. Now Robbutleeh had gathered together a mighty host in Pharjinnee, and he had filled that country with forts and with strong places, and- had cast up mounds upon the roads, and he laid in wait for Ulysses and George the Meade, and for the army of Unculpsalm. 24. And in the spring-time, even in the month when the men and the women of Gotham were used to Seize their household stuff and flee, each one of them out of the house in which he was into- another; Ulysses who was called Unculpsalm and George the Meade marched southward. And they crossed the rapid river which is called after the name of Anna, the queen of the land of Jonbool. 25. And when they reached the wilderness of Pharjinnee which lieth south of that river, Robbutleeh came out of his stronghold and marched to meet them. 26. For that wilderness was a howling wilderness, and full of snares, and thickets, and marshes, and quagmires so that horsemen might not fight therein, neither any engine of war be used therein.. And there were hills behind which Robbutleeh could march, and only he and his officers knew the way through the snares, and the thickets, and the quag- m1ires. 27. Wherefore Robbutleeh said, I shall drive Ulysses and George the Meade back straightway, even as I drove out Josephe of alaphorni, and put them to the sword; for in this place one man can do more to keep back than five to make way, - 28. And he fell upon the army of Unculpsalm furiously, mand the armies fought together all that day, and neither pre- vailed. And the next day, or ere the sun had risen, Ulysses   THE NEW - GOSPEL OF PEACEi.      9A and George the Meade fell upon Robbutleeh. And the battle lasted all the second day. And thrice did Robbutleeh gather his army together in one place to break through the ranks of Unculpsalm; but he prevailed not. And they fought again in the evening of this day; and when the battle was over, the armies of Unculpsalm had not gone one foot backward, but still faced the Phiretahs, and pressed forward against them. 29. And the armies fought hand to hand, and neither the great engines of war nor the horsemen could come into the battle. And there. fell in those three days of the men of Unculpsalm, fifteen thousand men, and of the Phiretahs there fell twelve thousand.  36. And when Robbutleeh saw this, and that the men of Unculpsalmo still pressed forward, and that of his men which were fallen more were killed than wounded, he saw that he could not destroy Ulysses in the wilderness, but that he might be destroyed there himself, and he marched backward in the night time, and entered into one of his strong places. And in the morning Ulysses marched after him. And he attacked Robbutleeh in his strong place, and prevailed against him, and took captive two thousand soldiers, and two of his - great officers, and many engines of war, and many-banners. Yet was Robbutleeh not utterly discomfited; for he was in a strong place. And he drew his army closer together to make himself stronger. 31. Then did Ulysses feign that he would attack Robbut- leeh in his strong place, but he marched past him craftily in the night, and in the morning when Robbutleeh looked, lo there was peril that Ulysses would fall upon him firom behind. So he made haste and marched backward by a shorter road. And as Ulysses was crossing another river called after Anna, Robbutleeh fought against him on the banks of the river; but Ulysses crossed the river in the  face of Robbutleeh; and Robbutleeh went backward before him, and crossed yet a- third river calfed after Anna, and encamped in another strong place.        . /    82. And Ulysses, waiting craftily until he saw that Rob- butleeh was well encamped in his strong place on the south side of the third river, marched backward in the night over the second river, and downward along its banks swiftly, until he was over against the chief city of the Phiretahs. 33.- And again Robbutleeh looked, and behold he was in peril of Ulysses coming in behind him, and between himn and his chief city, and cutting him off from food for his men and provender for his horses. And he marched back- ward yet a third time, and went into the city. And when Ulysses had shut him up within the city, the Phiretahs said that Robbutleeh had put Ulysses just where he wished him to be. 34. And in these days two scribes, which were apostles of the new gospel of peace, Primus who dwelt among the mer- chants, and Assohkald Eddittah, who to gain the World had lost his own soul, published a proclamation, signed with the name of Abraham and of his chief counsellor, saying, 35. That the warfare of Ulysses had come to naught, and that the people should fast in sack-cloth and ashes, and that there was need for four hundred thousand more men for the armies of Unculpsalm.           / 86. -Now the proclamation was a false proclamation, and nevertheless were the people much cast down by it, for they knew not that it was false; and the money-changers got great gains thereby. 37. And Abraham saw that the matter was weighty; and he said unto Jonaydics, Go now and seize, these men and their houses, and their writings, that it may b0 known who hath done this wickedness. And afterwards because he was com- passionate, and- because the mnen were of small account, he said, Let the scribes go free, but keep their houses and their writings that no evidence may be destroyed. 38. But it was found that the proclamation was written by another scribe to deceive all the scribes in Gotham, but that all of them were careful not to publish it, except only Primus andAssohkald Eddittah. And when this was sliown , ) }   unto Abraham, he said, Ye are guilty in that ye were not more careful; but take your houses, and your books, and your writings again. I know that hereafter as heretofore ye will revile me daily; but what is that to me? Go in peace. But for that which ye have already suffered, it is no more than ye ought to suffer because that by your carelessness ye did so mislead and afflict the people. 39. Then the other scribes that they might magnify their office, and that their craft'might not be in danger and set at naught, wrote in their books against Abraham, saying that he ought not to have seized upon Primus and Assohkald Eddittah, and their houses, and their writings. 40. But, except the Kopur-hedds and the followers of John See of Mah Rippozah, all the people said, Amen. ". And straightway Primus and Assohkald Eddittah began again to revile Abraham, saying daily that he was a traitor, and a tyrant, and one that sought to grind the people to powder, and defy the Great Covenant, and destroy the nation; but chiefly they did declare that he was an oppressor, because that he would suffer no man to speak or to write evil of him. 42. And again Abraham ministered occasion unto his ene- mies. For there came a man from Kewhah Who had sold an hundred and fifty niggahs that were free into bondage, for his own profit, although he was an officer appointed by the queen of that country, to prevent the bringing of nig- gahs to be sold there. And after he had received the money he fled to the land of Unculpsalm. 42. And the Queen of Kewhah sent an ambassador unto Abraham, saying, Give me this man that he may be judged according to the law of his own country. And Abraham sent officers and took the man, and gave him to the queen. ". And thereupon the Kopur-hedds, and the disappointed men, and Pshawdee, and all of his sort, yea verily, and even the men which cared only for the everlasting lNiggah, said, Behold, Abraham h:ath given us another martyr. - Four had we before, and, now a fifth is vouchsafed unto us. For to   Clement the lawgiver, Abraham hath added Primus and Assohkald Eddittah the scribes, John See of Mah Rippozah i~    and this negro-stealer from Kewbah. 45. And they sought to stir up the people, saying, Hath not this land hitherto been a refuge for the oppressed and an asylum for them which were persecuted by the kings of the earth ? And now this man of Kewbah hath only stolen one hundred and fifty negroes and sold them into slavery, and the queen of that land seeketh to oppress and to perse. cute him by bringing him before judges to be tried by the law; and Abraham giveth him a prisoner into her hands. Alas! who shall comfort us! for now have we seen the day of our humiliation. 46. But the people said, How are we humiliated ? And as for this man, is ,it not rather he which is an oppressor? Yea verily, and by the laws of all lands is he an outcast and worse than a murderer. And shall our. banner be a refuge and our land an asylum--for such as these ? 47. And it was told unto Abrahanm that the Kopur-hedds and the outlandish men, and the men that thought only of the everlasting Niggah, had joined themselves together to judge him in this matter. And Abraham    said, Behold now this remindeth me of a parable.   (For he often spake in parables; and the people said, He learheth these parables of Eumun Aytsher and Kawmunz Entz, his familiar spirits.) 48. A   certain man had a large household which was at strife within itself. And some of the members said, We will no longer be of this household; but we will depart, and we will destroy the house and the barns and the buildings, and will divide the household stuff and carry off our part thereof so that there shall no longer be the same household. 49. Now, these were of one mind.     But the remainder were at strife among themselves; and it was chiefly about the mariner of serving and the payment and receipt of money, and the treatment of strangers; and some    said one thing and some another. 50. Then the master of that household said, What shall I     ldo ? I will withstand them that would destroy the house- hold, but I must also reconcile the remainder one with an. other, else I cannot do the former thing, and we shall all perish. 51. And he did so; and he withstood the destroyers, and day by day he reconciled some of the remainder one with another; and- these held up his hands. But the others said, Not so; for we will not have this household recon- ciled, except the serving and the money and the treatment of strangers, be as it seems good unto us; and these hated each other day by day more and more, and feared more and more that they should be reconciled. And they each sought to cast out the master of the household; but they could not. 52. But it came to pass that on a certain day they said one to another, Come, let us forget our enmity for a certain time that we may join together to cast out the master of the household, that when he is cast out we may contend without let or hindrance, and that this household may be no more afflicted with reconciliation. 53. Which now, therefore, think ye most loved that house- hold, the master thereof and they that were reconciled, or they that would not be reconciled, and that sought to cast out him that would reconcile them ? And which think ye would prevail against the other, they that were of one mind, or the remainder that were at strife among themselves ? 54. And Ulysses, after he had threatened to take the chief city of the Ephephvees from the north side thereof, marched suddenly to the river called Djeemz, and attacked the city upon the south side. 55. Then said all the men who would have had Litulmak the Unready made chief ruler, Lo, Ulysses doeth that which Litulmak hath done before him.     (For Litulmak had also marched to the Djeemrz, with Robbutleeh hard after him.) And they glorified the wisdom of Litulmak.  56. And it was told unto Abraham that the Kunsuvvutlvs and the Ko]ur.hedds said thus. And Abraham answered     , and said, They speak truly; for both Litulmak and Ulysses did go from the north side of the city of the Ephephvees unto the river Djeenz. And this remindeth me of another little parable. 57. Two men entered into an house; but they entered it not together. And both of these then went oat of that house; but they also went not out together. 58. And the first was thrust out by the neck and shoulders, and was beaten until he was half dead. But the last went out because he would go, and they that were in the house were not able either to stay him or to follow him. 59. Judge ye now, therefore, which of these men was like unto Litulmak, and which was like unto Ulysses. 60. Now certain of the men of Jonbool, shipmen, had builded great ships for Jeph the Repudiator, ships of war. And they had put on them great engines of war made in the land of Jonbool; and the sailors and the fighting men therein were men of Jonbool. ". And to be captain of the chiefest of these ships Jeph sent one named Raphael (not the angel.)  62. Yet like the angel Gabriel did he blow a trumpet; but it was his own trumpet. For after the manner of the Tshivulree and the Phiretahs he was a boaster. 63. And sailing over the seas to the four corners of the earth, this Raphael did nothing but seize the ships belong- ing to the merchants of the land of Unculpsalm, and blow his own trumpet in the land of Jonbool and in the land of the Pahvoos.  ". But he fled from the ships which Abraham sent out over the seas to search for him; and as he fled. he burned and destroyed them which could not fight with him, and blew his trumpet, and the echoes thereof were heard in the land of Jonbool and of the Pahvoos. 65. And at the last one of the ships of Unculpsalm which had searched for him a long time and found him not, over- took him in a haven in the land of the Pahvoos over against the land of Jonbol, as thou goest down to the great sea. ,           And the captain of the ship laid in wait for Raphael to do battle with him.  ". And Raphael saw that he could no longer flee. Then he blew his trumpet, and said, Go to, I will no longer suffer this Iangliie to hang out his banner before my face and to defy me. And he wrote a letter to the Iangkie captain saying, 67. Tarry but two days; flee not away; and I will come out to fight with thee, and I will give thy flesh to the fish of the sea. Who art thou that thou shouldst stand before me? For such was the manner of speech among the Phiretahs. 68. And the captain of the ship of Unculpsalm answered him nothing; but awaited his coming silently, after the man- ner of the Iangkies. 69. So he went out; and the ships fought together. And the ship of Unculpsalm quickly had the mastery over the other and destroyed it, that it sank into the deep, and the wiaters closed over it forever. 70. And the men of Unculpsalm, and chiefly the merchants and the shipmen, when they heard of these things, rejoiced and took courage. But when the men of Jonbool saw the ship which they had builded, and the engines of war which they had made, and the sailors which were of their land thus brought to naught, they were filled with wonder, and their hearts were troubled; for they thought that the day of reckoning drew nigh. 71. And all of the wonderful acts that were done in the land of Unculpsalm after these things, of the battles of Ulysses, and the government of Abraham, of the end of Pshawdee and of John See of Mah Rippozah, until peace was restored unto that land, are they not written in the book of the vision of Benjamin, the brother of Phernandiwud?     
         
       
   
