
    ----CITATION----
        Whitaker, Mary Scrimzeour Furman, (1820-1906). Albert Hastings .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8267
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Albert Hastings 
            
                
                 ALBERT Ho'rINGS  BY  AY SCRTTVT,7jOUR VHO -K Vt jt "I'm thinkring of the sunny land, Wit]h blazing sies of .b2ue and gold, Where ripened fields extended stand, Savannahs green and mountainsa bold f NEW  YORK: PUBLISHED BY BLELOOK & Oo., 453 BROOME PT., coB. MERCER. 1868.-    Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by DANIEL K. WHTAKEa, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States in and for the Eastern District of Louisiana.  Stereotyped by SMITH & McDOGAL, 82 & 84 Beekman St, N. Y.   PREFACE . THE following work embraces a period an- terior to the late war. In it, political dis- cussion, consonant neither with the char- acter nor the vocation of woman, has been avoided. -It has been the aim of the author, while abjuring.. pedantic display, simulated sentimentality and transcendental ambiguity, to give a truthful por-- traiture of scenery in the Southern portion of our- beautiful country, and of character and manners drawn- from her own observation. The work is confided to an indulgent public, in- the hope that though it may not possess the clas- sic elegance of Goldsmith, the commanding power of Bulwer, nor the unequalled interest of Scott, yet no doubtful morality will be found to sully, and no impossible dogma to obscure, its pages.    CONTENTS* CHAPTER I.        pAnB THEm PIN BAm REN...' ................ ... .. ........ 18 , \   CHAPTER II. THE ELLERTON FAMY......          16 CHAPTER III. THECAMP MEET2N........................................ 24 CHAPTER IV.  MR. ALAIC LO L.... ....... ..... . ... . - . .....' 28 CHAPTER V., CHANGES................ ........ ............................ 81 ,CHAPTER VI. ALBERT  HASTNGS.... ...............*........................ 85 , ICHAPTER VII. eIE       eNDSH IPe e. . e e ................... 43 CHAPTER VIII. ALARIC  LOVEL AT HOME. ............. ................... ' 48 CHAPTER  X,. DE  MAR  HALL.. ............... .....  - 54 CHAPTER -X. MR. OLDHAM'S "YOUNG CIERK"'............... 61   via          CONTENTO CFTAPTEL  XI.        PAGE MYBAA  .  . '................ . . ..      67 CHAPTER XII. OC rA..... ......A...... ...:....................... N... . . . 71 CAPTERI  X11l. WEST INDIES .     ....             76 CHAPrEHt XIV. W  aC ,     - ... .....1.. .... ........... . ................ 81 CH!APTElR XV. HASTINGS HALL .. . ... ...             87 CHATI-'ER XVI. TEa POND IN THE PINE BARR$EN...... ..- .......... 95 CHAPTER' XViI.' TiE LAST VISITx.   * .....................   100 CFTATITrER- XVII. GRAYBSON  F BM. .. .soa . ..a................. ..*...... . 107 THE PEDAGOOGCUE .............-...        115 CHAPTER XX, CVtISt'MAs AT HASTINGS ATT .....................* 123 CHAPrEKt XXI. THE PICTURE GOAT TRY ..... ...........      131 CH-APTER ' XXTT. TECE I REm C E. .......I \- . ..... ... ...... S1 T  BBRIL. .................... ............ ........ 158 ..e   el-ee, e e . 1ee -,l.,ee e.ee e  '   !           C  N  .   -  = CHTA EO XXTV. -    PA MB. OLDHAN AND MR. CALLOWAY..... t......6. ........... Ia0 MB u. BADGEBMS VISI................... CHAPTER- XXVI- CONTRAST. ..... a * . . .  .. . .... 178 CHfAPlEEKH -XX Vil. THE MNISTE'S Sr EN ES...................... 18 CHAPIagM :2.xvm. HGH  HLLS OF CA ROLN .. ... A .. ........aI al ........  CHA PTKie XXT CHA I tNu X!XT. Tim  Mvum SwAMP. . . a    I.... .... 20 COTIA r1tKu XxXl. "ADY MARY ABU EI . ..............Afi. ... .... ... 3*****216 CHAAIJrlK XXXII. THE CADET. ........... ........ ... . * 33 * *  -224 CHTAPTER , XXX: j I.  MSS JULIET SUCCUMBS.....  OCHA Pjf JXX XIV. THE STOBM ............... . 2   n. *!* toy ? I  RATHeBOUReB e HOUSE e...oii....... .. ...... . . l. .... . . j i.- RATIsovHAmm oV1 AM-,IicA O0ATOAS AXD POETS.    ,O1 ^... , -. i - - S   --X        aON=1NTS. CTA-rt ER XXX VAL.       PAOB ROXANNA AND. F#T,TE.. O O e  e e e ...  e  OE, .. . ........ e .. *  2864 CITATITER XXXVIllI OERBALDNE RATRBOURNE. ................... .... * ............ 274 ', -   CHA rER XXX X. TaHE STXUDENT. .......' '...2.* ....... ..   * : 279 CTTAP'1'fiJR XL. :CASTLE CRGLA 2ND.......85 CTTAPEttE XLI. -THE ARTIBT AND THE CADET............ .......... 293 CHAPTE'r  XL TT. -THE ELOWEm'OGIRL . ................................ 806 'FOgMR SCENS. ................... ... ...... ....... ... 319 CTIA PTER XLTV. BETROTHAL. . ........................................ 328 CHAP'LTEIt XLV. THE CaONiSPiACY. O.....................    338 CHAPTrlER XLVI. PALsINE . i..... -... ...... ..... .I. ..... ....... ......... 350 C T T A 'P- .VEI  X. - ' EROME          ..    *   * -  368 CHAyfTER XLV111. T Em T uIAL O8aO.... OaO a. a..O......... . - 3 , . 71 CHAPTER, XLTX. rACBER T'$ PROGORESS.. ,............t. ' ..*..............' 384   CONTENTS.          3  CTAPTAPiK L.         PA. VIOTOR DE MAR  ............ ...................... 90.....  CHAPTEIK   LI. THE VOYAGE  ........ .  ................... .. ^ 894 CHAPTER LII. ROME.     40a.............. ......... ....' ,  540 CHAP1fl   T, TT. COUNT CAVALLO'S GUES'................................. 417 CTTAPTE'R LIV. AuT4mT i .................. ............... .............. .. .  428 -CHAPMT  LV. "ORD BiURLINGTON..... '........... ......................... 49 CHAPTER LVL TO E .. ............................ *.......... ...... ...... 446    AL:BERT' HASTI-N:GS.  CTTAPTEBI.  The sziurnne Winds low musio mla e,. As they gently, warble on; - T7t Girdoing tesmlet seeks the hake, -* ,' And glitters,i fte zsun, '   " SUNLIGHT on hill-top and va lley Clear deepblu^ ,nd esen s the vovarhi ingM $kYiall that splendorof orom g e peculiar to a southern clime;. when *emaygaze into its ethereal depths, and muse .on the far beyon til forget of surrounding objects,. we traverse, viewless realm  and vaiy a strive to grasp the unknown.. But,. addressing our- obsrvtiont tat w h - tangible, we are struck by a- sene .whose featurea have never. Ibeen reproduced by the artistnor comjnem rated b  e poet, louh not wanting, perhaps, in some of those adornments scattered by naturo's lavish hand every where. .   :  This is a pine barren; so denominated byits ihabitnts, and con- trasts, in a remarkable manner, with the rich and fertile. cotry which it intersects, and the'exbaustlem river land. in it initys: . ooang of somber brown is spread around-on-all aides, as fars the eye can .ach, here -and there enlivened. by the golden rod, which shakes its ellow flowers in sunshine, and wild digon nlatin, in color,.the erulern  heaven above, Here, too, butterfly weeds gowin ow riiuetle  plants, honeysuckle, prince's feather and: dogoo at interval look gailyout, amid the pJlared aisles ofstatsly pines whichs iea: j9 and towering to a vast hight, Their, tufteda waveo llg de varnished with green, casting trembling tshadowsoni the;dsppe ; which becomes varied as it move to andr s ingantem    "          ALBERT HASTINGS. This ru-shing and mournful sound strangely resembles old ocean's dirge- E like moan, as, Bfolus sweeps, with gentle hand, his forest harp in their midst, There they stand, like a well-appointed army, in unbroken ranks, a wilderness of themselves, with scarcely a stray oak, or any other tree, to vary the monotony and uniformity of the scene. A small lake, here and there, lies still and glittering, with a verdant bank of deergrass and rushes, and half overspread with star-shaped water- lilies, where a crane occasionally alights, and where the frog and moccasin harbor in security. Amid this pine barren, a slender slip of  lowland, dividing two small hills, is frequently seen, where gushing springs andoclear rivulets flow beneath bay trees and sassafras, gum, hickory and oak trees. Pleasant, there, is the song of the wood-spar- row and lark, and clear-throated mocking-bird. "Sweet the hum of the wild bee, as it circles through the shade, and, in concert with grasshop- per and. locust, sings its summer song of glee. Wherever cleared, this land is sandy and bare. It has been cleared here, and here is a poor log hut, composed of the trunks of pine trees, and covered by shingles split from them. A fewlords of the wilderness have been laid low for the purpose of furnishing materials with which toJuild this habitation, and, hence, the small open space around it, which looks isolated and comfortless as the rude dwelling itself. G-laring - and white, beneath a sun of insufferable brightness, that small, gleaming yard dazzles the eye of the beholder, pained by the intenseness of its reflected glare. -,A water-pail and gourd, overshadowed by a projecting shed, and placed on a shelf beside the door, invite the beholder to taste of that pure element which is supplied from a branch, above described. Under shelter of this shed stand, also, a spinning-wheel, a bench, a reel and broken rake, reposing in useless decrepitude. This is, evidently, the abode of poverty--hopeless, despairing poverty. 'A woman sitsopposite the' open door, in scant homespun garments, bronzed by the sun, meagre from lack of sufficient and nourishing food. Calmn stoical, patient, with great black eyes, and hair, which would be black too, only that constant- exposure to the sun has reddened it into a brickdust hue, and features which, clearly cut, seem to lack the animation of life, in order that their expression should be developed. This woman is not old, but premature age has given its stoop to her shoulders, and its careful lines to her open forehead and once symmet- rical mouth; -now warped and changed from dimples and smiles, to compression and hardness. - Her hands are employed with knitting, and as the thread glides over her nimble fingers, her eyes, unconfined to the'work, glance around with a quick startling look. There is a   ALBERT HASTINGS.            15 subtle power in those eyes, which, when emanating from orbs so dark is like lightning, as it shoots from inky clouds at night. She is-not young, nor beautiful, nor becomingly clad, yet there is a weird and in- definable charm about this lonely denizen of the bare, pine barren. She is erect, and treads with the step of a queen, while Euterpe and the Graces seem to have educated her steps, and taught her attitudes; so gracefully does she glide through vistas-of pillared-trees, over the white sand of her leafless yard, and through the low portals of 'her rude and humble .dwelling-place.  Her countenance, though sallow and sun- burned, is fascinating, and haunts the beholder when no longer seen, like some dream; which lingers, with its preternatural associations, after sleep is dispelled. She is companionless, save that A child, a little girl, is her constant attendant, whether seated, as now, in her lowly cabin, or threading the woods in search of nuts and wild fruit. The child resembles her with beauty of a more finished style, but with the same wonderful eyes and fawnlike gait. It is evening now; the low breeze sighs along the forest, and slanting sunbeams are imperceptibly withdrawn till the queen of the silver bow mounts her nightly throne, with her attendant stars, as crimson clouds die out in the western heaven. Loud hoots the owl frim the obscure dingle, when shadows deepen; katydids cryin shrill concert, and grass- hoppers fold their wings, clinging to the long and bending leaves of the elastic wiregrass. That lone woman and child gather to their cheerless hearth, which is piled with pine knots ignited,; furnishing a stro/ng cear light, but, at the same time, heat almost insupportable, for it:iS midsum- mer. Use renders most thingsendurable, and the pair do-not seem discomposed by the torrid atmosphere of the room, and converse} as though on some interesting topic, to each other, but what this topic, or whence its interest, the observer would be at a loss to'conjecture.   CAPTER IIn. 'Tuwas hres -to see fond h6pes decay, And joy'a sweet sun deoline ;. As faintrr sinks the, orb of dqy, As droops he, dying vine.  \^ ' ^E had not yet roused the -ancient woods with its terrific roar., Nodeafening artillery had scared the song-bird from  her spray, or sent the prowling beast to his lair, in the midst o .i'uppenet ble thickes... Still, sqrrel leaped from bough to bough; sill, the unmolestedhare bounded over the grassy meadow, and . even the timid der lookednfodr fearless, from his leafyrshelter. And this s   the great house of a Southern planter How grandly it looms up, with it: ;t'ple piaZz,:rxed cumnsnd numerous windows, amid might  e  d extended felds, wh promise a golden harvest Before it sweeps a rier, pn[Whose abak  i'weepi g willows rain down their drooping :folige, and clustenn yines, interwoven, form a tapestry rich and fancifu e/oughto ad  e fabed.. bower pf fides, when ;decked out for. moonlight dance: and. revel... Higher up the' sloping shore rise laurel trees, Wth broad varnished leaves and immense white flowers, whose odors float around on the sunlit and balmy air; while gigantic live oaks, covered with long grey moss, swaying gently in the breeze, impart a venerable and solemn air to the blooming and variegated river swamps, where woodbine and foqxglove, mingled with* gold- colored and bell-shaped jasmine, delight the eye with strong contrasts of blood-red: and scarlet, yellow and. crimson. A skiffshot down .the river, guided by hands which, though young, seeed vigorous and skillful, for the boat. moved steadily on, gallantly breasting a current which swept forward to the distant ocean, and it required both experience and physical power to regulate her motion, following the windings of-the stream, and avoiding certain projections of oe oaional bluffs which protruded into the water. The boy, who fowers, w\ie dr la rudo   h  ultadhlyar      hl   ATBJiRT HASTINGS.          17 so cleverly, navigated the boat and thundering river, was a mere child, but evidently fearless and self-reliant. His frame was athletic and symmetrical, and the beauty of Hercules, rather than 'that of Apollo, was its attribute, while an indefinable grace, at every strokeof -his oar, discovered itself. Our young voyager may be more definitely de- scribed. A fair and ruddy complexion was set off to great advantage by hair of that'peculiar and niameless hue which the invidious call red, and the Romans called golden-which melts into threads of liglit in sun- shine, but deepens into rich brown in theshade. There was a bland- ness, an openness, and an intelligence in the whole countenance, which, if seldom seen is not, on that account less admirable. A world of meaning centred in his eyes; - hazel at one 'moment, anon blue, but always rare eyes,' on which the gazer loes to look, for they snd some of their own gladness into his soul, and ispire him with confidence and trust. His-chin was somewhat full, and, taken in conjunction with projecting brows;, indicated force of intellect and character. His mouth was delicate as a woman's, chiseled, and' perfect in repose, and,- when relaxing into a smile, it waw an exquisite mouth, for the eyes always laughed too, and the face became radiant, But he was evidentlsyin haste, and having moored his tiny barge at- some -little'distiace from the house,    walked rapidly toward iying, as he reached the verandah "I have not outstaid my time,       I am sure."   . . . Then, throi wing wde the door of a drawing-room, whichhe entered from a wide corridor, he rushed up to a lady, somewhat advanced it life; and saluting her with warmth, exclaimed: "Here I am, mamma,"--for it was by tfis endearing appellation that he always addressed his aunt--" after 'all not drowned, you Bee. ; e sport was fine, fiShing good, and the wild ducksiabundant, but 1 promised and have kept my word." v         -.        ...  "Always, my dear boy, act thus, and your :wordwill:be respected. I felt assured that you would allow no temptation, however strong, to delay you, and had you not returned at the stipulated tihme I should have indeed feared an accident."-     -      . . .. -At this remark, a dark, saturnine man, smewhat past middle age, suddenly looked up from a table, over whic he bentwith cont ed forehead, as if in deep study, and glanced at both mother anid adopted son with eyes whose precise expression it was impossible to determine. This man was undeniably handsome, though in another style entirely from the boy, at whom  he glanced, again recurring ito the absorbing papers before him. The mostnoticeable characteristics of his -feW e first, rare and classical symmetry, blent with hauteur ;and a nameless 's                       ,    . -    18-   :       AIBERT HASTmGS. inscrutableness and coldness, which froze and awed all in his presence, and might arise, either from respect mingled with conscious inferiority, or from fear coupled with deference. , -The apartment was one of modern elegance, with tall mirrors, reach- ing from- ceiling to floor, in richly gilded, frames. Wide glass doors, opening on an extensive verandah, windows curtained with embroidered lace over rose-colored damask, and a cornice curiously stuccoed, were only a part of its adornments. Pictures, traced by -artist hands, in a far clime, but reproducing nature in all her wealth of beauty in Italia's enchanted land,--where mouldering pillar, ruined temple and broken arch stand sad monuments of decayed splendor amid olive groves-where myrtle and citron breathe perfumes on the voluptuous air, and skies of glory overhang the deserted haunts .of muse and dryad, of water. nymph and goddess-reposed upon its wide walls. A carpet, fit for a Sultan's tread, displayed its curious mosaic of many tinted flowers; and, moveless in its appropriate niche, a cold white statue, with foot ad- vanced, and Roman toga, proclaimed thesculptor's art. Here, too, were musical. imstruments-an open piano, with one of Rossini's most won- derful and entrancing compositions unfolded on its upturned front; and, a harp, so suggestive-of minstrelsy by its very form, that the silent apartment seemed to breathe of song, were there. And amid all this, like a dark- thought, sat that abstracted man, who, as a statue, would have been grand and perfect, -but, as a living being, was repulsive and chilling, He rose and left the room with measured step, and soon his tall figure might be seen stalking slowly through pleasure grounds in a state of perfect cultivation, toward the wood which intervened between the river and the house. His departure was the signal for unchecked gaiety, it would seem; for a little girl, rushing into the apartment, 'seated herself laughingly at the piano, and shaking back her clustering curls, ran her slender fingers over the keys, and commenced practising in, an offhand and not inartistic manner. This she, continued for some time, till suddenly turning, as though recollecting an important matter, she exclaimed, fixing her earnest eyes on the boy: "Cousin Albert, where is my mocking-bird? -Did you not promise me one? And there stands his -cage ready, but no bird in it yet, because you will not perform that same promise." 'NowI, returned Albert, so addressed, approaching- the animated- speaker, "now, Emeline, listen to me, I will get' you the bird, if you insist on:my doing so; but let me argue with you first, and tell you what has occurred to me this morning, when I was in the act of taking a young bird from its nest. It can never be so happy in a cage, as it   AI;BEBT BHeASpTIN           19 would be in the forest, for it would ,not be fiee; and though I know you would take great care of it, still it might die. Mooking-birds are difficult to rear. Come now," added he, persuasively, " would you not rather hear this bird sing in the grove yonder, that contains many more songsters all full of glee, coming and going as pleases them best." Emeline reflected for an instant. It was clear that Albert's view of the matter had touched her, and that she held his opinions and advice in great respect. At length she said, emphatically: "I will not have the bird, Albert, and I will send the cage away." In the intercourse of these children it was ever thus. 'Emeline saw only with Albert's eyes. His counsels guided her actions, and it was amusing -to see his deportment as guardian and director of his little cousin, and her docility under his teachings. Mrs. Lovel, the mother of Emeline, was a widow, reported to be very wealthy, and Albert, the orphan son of an only sister, long since deceased, had, equally with Emeline, shared her maternal love and care. Since the demise of her late husband, Mr. Alaric Lovel, his brother, had assumed the management of her property, and though residing in a town some distance off, was frequently at Ellerton, exer- cising the supervision of a master. Mrs. Lovel felt grateful for the obligations which, she believed, her brother-in-law's kindness imposed on- her, and being of a gentle and dependent nature, never interfered with his orders, or doubted the wisdom of his action. Alas, it is too often thus; the strong devour the weak; and little did this amiable woman suspect that, by a slow and certain process, fixed as fate, the goodly lands of Ellerton were passing into other hands. That the grave and irreproachable Mr. Alaric Lovel, a man of prudence and judgment, and of capital so large that no one ventured to- say what its amount was, meant to own that fair domain: .thathis plans for doing so had been long matured, even before her husband's death, and -that the consummation was at hand which: would beggar her child, and throw Albert on the world with no resource, and Without a friend, save herself, in the bleak, wide world-that worldSo full of proffered pleasure to the rich, so callous and unrelenting and oppressive to-the poor.3 God help the poor I for their's is indeed the bitterness-of-life. To their gaze is bared the unutterable meanness of avarice; for them is reserved the most scornful frown of pride :- There- is no mask: worn before them. The pariahs of society, mankind and want, trample them down and down forever with remorseless heel. What pitiful plead- ings come from the thin and time-worn garment, from the pale and sunken cheek, the hollow and mournful eye, pitiful but unheeded 1,   20          ATBPRT HASTINGS, Men avoid the plague spot of poverty. 'T is a leprosy which conveys ithe infectedifrom companionship and sympathy. Ah iniward piercing / wound, which every passer-by- irritates r The name of its stings are legion. On too the grave'it travels in fear and woe. It -lies there in a coarse coffin, and no marble rises to commemorate its resting place, At that, point, is poverty annihilated by a power still mightier.-- And death, the great leveller, alone, with skeleton arm, strikes, without distinction, rich and poor. Dinner was announced at Ellerton, when Mrs. Lovel, seated at the head of her- own table, presided with urbanity and grace. Albert talked of his ramble and sail down the river. -:Emeline wished to transplantsome:wild flowers into- the garden; he volunteered to assist her in their removal, and Mrs' Lovel indicated a spot in which she thought they-would flourish best. "Had we better put them there, Uncle Alafic?" asked Emeline, modestly, with one of her sweetest smiles; but the evil genius of the family, with a heavy frown on -his brow-, did not hear the question, being busily engaged in dispatching a plate of soup- and she repeated the query. "I-"I don't care-you had better not interfere with the centre beds in-the parterre, nor with the borders." - a Then, where can we place them, uncle? Mamma has justtold us we could lhave a    portion of the border ne xti the gate where sy ringa and lilac bushes cast so nice a shade, Our, wild roses grow in- a part of the- ground that--: is screened from too much sun-can we planit' them as mamma- suggested?"  I  H would rather not. Jacob, an upper joint of that turkey. A word with -you, after:dinner, if you please, aisten;  - Soft summerl zephyrs- dallied with: bouquets of gardeniai heliotrope, sweet. myrtle, and roses of Provence, in their alabaster vases, as they waved aside gossamer curtains, and fanned the. delicate cheek of Mrs. Lovel, seated 'in a soft crimson chair, whose -downy luxuriance was perhaps better: ited- .to6 a: colder atmosphere; but she was the child of luxu,:reareed. in: its indulgent lap, ands nurtured by its soothing blandishmentsr0  No rude :speech had ever assailed her ear; no un- graious implichatin hadiever marred the security of her belief that tiinsbeau-tifutl ld as kind to her; and it had- been" kind hitherto, for-she;-hadf'( het hands the-power wherewith to command such kindness-andd .  that tathe- hour was come demanding. strengthdand courage, where were, -they to- be found?- Little dreaming of that wiich :awaited her, the lady sat fanning herself with feathers, Albert's   AT RERT HASTINGS.           21 gift, and by him first redeemed from the wing of the waterfowl, and then strung ingeniously into a lady's implement for freshening: and agitating the summer air. She looked inquiringly toward Mr. Alarie Lovel, who was deep in thought as usual, and said: "WWell- brother, you wished to speak with me; what have you-to say?  "Things are going on rather extravagantly here, A mand, You do not know how your affairs-stand, I think. My brother-was deeply indebted to me at the time of -his death.. I hadadvanced largelyfor him previous to -that event. You did not know it? Well, I se'e-how that was: he never told. you his affairs, as regards business, - mean, 'of course. The bank calls for money. I -am one of its .fficer- It was through my means that he obtained money to meet his engage- menta, and through me, being now, as I am, his reprsentaive, must the money be refunded.  The mortgage- which covered his slave property has been removed, and I, at much sacrifice of my own in- terest, have released your negroes from any claim which the bank has had, but you are to understgad that I am now-their proprietor, In respect to this house, for the present you may continue its occupant A manda, but after a time, perhaps, you will be willing-in accombto- dation to your altered circumstances - to reside At a place not far distant; Imean the summer house, which, fitted up,will answer all purposes for your present place of abode. What;youwill now want is shelter over your head, -id the summer house furnises that shelter. I wil aid you all I can, but this place must-be giveniup, landyou must accommodate yow ideasto your new circumstances. Thereis nothing like submission to-what is right-submission, nadsm- you -e now poorl It is to me that you will be -indbted for. even thepinelmand house to which you -formert rsorte-d in. snmler for, health.- ::This you must have, nd I -assure- you, Amanda that the necessaries of -life shall not -be war-ting, though providing them puts: me to more iacon- venience than youmay, in your io  e, imorangine." = - - This was h long speech for the :tacit ur, Mr. A lric -to make,*butit fell on ears. little heeding Anything savve:he act that-, bad bare ti-e tution stared the once powerful -lady of Ellertonin the-faoeiind that impotent she stood, not knowing in -her urprise and Owte 0oa m what. to do or whatt think. l'At las summoning a the!.strength-she could -ommand, Mrs. .Loel said faintly, '"I was notprepar edfor he intelligence you .now give me, brother - It is a shinningh:,?.andI1 must have time to recover before I cauanswer. what. you state,? -.:; ^ "nswer what Ti tate?" reaneanted  Mr i Lovoel, wia wn a  n smile, " there is no answer demanded from you -you can make none. \            o   22          ALRTERT HASTINGS. Your best response will be accommodation to your new but unavoida- ble circumstances. What do- you, a'widow, advanced in years too, want'wiRiti a fine house and ,extensive garden? They would only en- -cumber you. Some quiet retreat, like the pine land lodge, suits your altered prospects and bereaved condition, much better than a residence here would.'! A "nd who, then, is to occupy this house?" asked Mrs. Lovel, in a tremulous voice, and with- as much composure as she could command. "H--  don't lakow- that is to- say, no one just yet. But the question is of no import to you, Mrs. Lovel. You cannot live here after next January, though, till then, you may remain, with the stipu- lation that a new year will call for pew arrangements at Ellerton." "Ellerton, Ellerton,"' returned Mrs. Lovel, weeping passionately, "alas I that I should live- to hear this I What will become of me and my dear, dear children? To give up all, so unexpectedly, and without warningl Brother " and she fixed her tear-dimmed eyes on her enemy, "tell me how I andmine are to live, and who is to take possession of my home, given me by my dead father? The bank is an irresponsible, unpitying monster; tell me, then, who controls its acts?  The bank cannot think; who thinks for it? Have you no voice there? or are you, indeed, the bank of which you speak?"Here the voice of the speaker fairly deserted her, and amazed at the utterance of sentiments which seemed to come unbidden to her lips, she sank back exhausted.] But the hard man with whom she had to deal little heed- ed her emotion, and looked from the window indifferently at some objectover the river, apparently engaging his attention.- - The sun was now (sinking in the western horizon, while, clustering around his de- parting dik, floated deep dun clouds, lined with silver, and dotted by great fragments, representing broken rocks of agate, topaz, emerald and ruby. His "last rays reddened the windows of the tall country house, and danced tremblingly on the restless waters of the undulating river. Deeper fell the evening shades, and star after star came- out in the deep profound of heaven. ;Calm looked night's empress over grove, plain and dwelling, as she silently wrapped them in her saffron mantle, and supplied with mellow lustre day's extinguished light.' Mr. Alaric left his-placelat the window as Mrs. Level concluded her remarks with the unexpeated hint above. mentioned, -and, in doing so, cast on her a look-of concentrated fury so demoniac, that the poor defenceless woman cowered as:though she had committed some guilty deed, while in re- ality the truths uttered by her came home to him who heard them-   ALBEIIT BASTINGS.            23 not to touch his heart, 'tis true, for nothing can soften a bosom steeled by avarice--but to rouse the angry demons of revenge and hate. Is it not common for men to hate those whom they injure?  The reason is obvious, since remorse is felt always in the presence of one so injured, that presence cannot be agreeable. Early next morning Mr. Alaric took his way to    ,-and left behind such despair and anxiety as mark the footsteps of those who "make haste to be rich." After her outhurst of indignant feeling, Mrs. Leovel retired early to her apartment, without betraying to the innocent children that any- thing unusual had transpired; but she wept herself to Sleep, after offer- ing an earnest prayer to Him in whose hands are the hearts of all men.           I   I:       I             : I          :  7 caled . .: , . . ..      c,  Zree a n o  e   t ndkw u....thy-an Th6 t:;      t - :::.- -' . ."':' :,',: E  , - ..... . . . ...... . d file tt-- -.  - . I 'tihnfr eg- irLthe noonpatid .y  ....And . peodaot rom the pdan, -  rie (ior: g:r/ mtoDs waves moo rnee y. Light o'er --th wood8 of' 47rh own O Th2west wetdwrsvthsd the.,hoveri g smoke. ' ,Wet . - -m       ery. BeoUT -an- acre:of cleared :grad, surrqured bye tents, built -  of-pieO . loatr te mannoer of a Swiss ottage, or of aw m X  her fai..e ., covered with canva, designatns the spot where as co  . oationof reigtopeople assemble, yearly, at what is called'a camp meeting.   olhe prefrationsr this occasion are on a s  "al'e of mn which e would.-iosurprise achaoee visitor to whom :scaoe:o,i            : tsnj tt. o f ther tie sec ue d aw,  Xp, filledwi provions of all sortF turkeys, d; l7s a geese,: pentt : their respective oops, and qlled with -                   ajean taeir strange a w em n d incom - ipr a  zsok peep i ciwioue out Eo -eir prisons I Huge -I . :.-.rounds .of -beef, .pile .of mutton, veal and ,.vg ve I Te le contain also retables of evarlety. sold                    a th Vihl-;mrenjl: eas,.t, pei-tZ i; brtthad ies, pies, ot,0 mlnmditii8.B! tth Boiling. bougut Ot r Wd"d at this ,ofering tposeho ome -uD, into the -  wdernes -to w In- 1e c  fthe cleared spaoe, above menfj'I, p 'Or an d4d Iiae  byn axi'Awnua '--':.-.!.. =  ;- harangues the "- . ',      ..,        ' b h 1'g, 60*6red , - - "-- - - --pe r;.: roho - aut :n .ech: -eme U-oteygronp 8oieB:shos,e hand anI iareizidt fa,,;oon appo men   A BEBT HASTINGS.           2  All are welcome now. Artificial ranks and grades are most incon- gruously mingled at this gala time of social worship.   - Thzre is no speculation offered'on the meeting, or its moral utility; it is only described as it was, or asit may be -yet though we doubt that Sambo would now, with eqcual- diigence and propriety, perform his suitable avocations ascook and hostler,.and -whether Quanda wouldW so merrily and dexterously dress heor: misiress'hi h -,seve at table,-and make -herself useful in various ways,- as well-trained servants do. But Sambo and Quanda are now ladygand:genflem*an The camp meeting is only described as it was.' Elegant equipages, drawn  by richly caparisoned steeds,with- necks proudly arched; environed tents.-whose: luxurious tables,set out with the' inviting adornments of snowy linen, finely gilt china and: lucid ^-t- sug- gest anything but the idea inculcated in one of t0bh-osongscdhantd with enthusiasm by those who -compose its advocates-;nd t- d righ whose means it becomes the wonders, If the "'bai bodis, " th^iS- umph of disinterested piety:-  "No -footof land do I posse,- .. No ottage in the wtldernesa, -" -Nor auglt of earthly joy."  Ladie' whose gossamer robes would, as far as dress is concamrne, aait them unquestioned to the -bowers of -Terpsichore or the hall of a levee,. promenade the- paths of the inner court, filling ti ;spat e el tween/the tentai before named. Attendant, beaux,::- with deboin i" manner, unexceptionable 'boots, anid cravats Brummel would nhdt n -:- disdained to tie, march by their side. Orator after orator mounts the rostrum, till exausted by vocifer- ous declamation and a prolonged fst, these indefatigable bpreachers seek such mundane sustenation- as   u the uriotefford. Tn did Mr.' Callowy return: to his labors a' new' man.: 'For-mnisy and many a day his fare had been -plain and!primitive]is ;d ?ar from the spring j even then:his'voice was loud and hisappefo b' but now, when regaled by dli3io^leedlto.         :m instruct so great an assembly, his heartgo'ed;I-de/i  ed. with a most overmastering-eloquence., : 'Thee app-'--.' peeih e .h: er was patriarchal- A enerable .and impr v :im:oixiNde!t at tenti,.as, rising amidst the glare of torchet (for i!l"waoW' h^t) and -the solemn harping of evening wipds, he li&fted '-p:I ^i O herald Of' tiat sublime faith whi.4h addres itself B"e ; toNl;i tered backwoodsman and: the educated- proprietor Sof:' awide: doi' to all men in all ages -of the world          -   26     -     ATBfRT HASTINGS. ,  Mr. Callowy 'had seen many revolving. years- roll around, with their bleak and frosty winters, and. their summers of Southern luxu, riance,. Hip hair was -white, and his strongly marked features were large, indicating determination and enthusiasm. Deep wrinkles and lines of care marred a face stern and solemn. His figure was spare, and would, have been tall but for an habitual stoop; and when he raised himself to his fith height, in the midst of an animated sermon, his as- pect was: majestic and striking.. The audience listened in rapt silence to an -address which,opening in a-low, guttural voice, soon swelled into tones of deafeningg loudness ..- Then a portion of his auditors, negroes particularly, groaned, or vociferated. ",Amen," at every pause. Some, rocked themselves backwards and forwards, in fiull enjoyment of- an eloquence which rolled on, like a mountain -torrent; for, though his language was often incorrect, his pronounciation execrable, and he set at, naught the-rules of rhetoric at will, yet h& was eloquent at times, amid cries of (Ipry," and "'Yes, my brot'er." : The former exla- mation followed some vivid description of. the happiness of heaven, or of the blessing attendant on a religious life the latter was an assent given audibly to some indispuestablished by terse argument, 0f forcible and pertient fiilustration. i:Mr: ;jin WinsA was-a preachert of another stamp. He usually followed some BQanerges amongst his- colleages, probably Mr. Calloway him- self;; + r.:.i!'i(ad^ wisn th a -sweet and engaging smile, -sang alone a hymn, --tX hae,: f .which was plaintive, as. the words were-quaint, like the fol-  . ho is this fair one in distress, , That wanders through the wilderness? A ' - 'Oppressed with sorrowsiandtlwith imns, On her beloVed Lerd she leans!", M. Jenkibs, after stating,-his- text: "hDTke heed to the things-which ye have ,heard,lest at any..time you should let them ilip," 'spoke thus: ",My beloved: brethren, I'am. not going to preach a sermon, though I hae :takies &a- text.. Noy my friends,-;you- have heard preaching enough -this day: the Lord be praised! and: good preaching, too, as you: yourselves wiUlste tify.: [I' men/ from the congregation.] Take heed that :yo do. not: let; it slip. Ah I dear i hearers, you know how to':k holdof:wwordly treasure 1 You' are wise and, carefdlto guard the[i gCods ;which- pertain to this present life; but you donot ot seek' to laynpru?o-ufor rselvevstre asuressiu n heaven, 'where moths do not cor- rupt, :n3or: thieves brepak:though, and steal.' - My brother has addressed to you words of warning, of-entreaty, of soul-stirring eloquence. Do- not let them slip--give them earnest' heed.. I am but a plain man.   AT R'RT HSlfTf.            27 I cannot bring learning and beautifu language to convince you of the truth; but s, srs this truth is so simple that he who runs may read. Seek for it in the Scriptures--seek for it there. :Be diigent, that your calling and election -may be sure.' There are sins of 6iniasion as well aS sins of commission. - Yes, and it will be a sin of the former class if you do not ponder andkeep:ew words ofmy brother who preceded me. tie has cried aloud and spared not, Eis skirts will be clear of your condemnation, if you n continue carele'ssand unconcerned Again, I say, treasure his words; make themthe 'mtan of your coun- sel  Take heed lest at any timeyou let them slip. That you may be 'enabled to do this is my prayer. Amen.": - t  Speaker after speaker sccessively exhortedthe crowd, till excitement became uncontrolled, and scenes were:enacted of grett extravagane. A moving mass of hman beings surroundni , the elevation -filled--4e ministe torchght on eveyrl de. casztin: : r-ed glareov4, e  -i. m  illuminated from within, and through'iheir wdepassage ' di every desirable -accommodation; while tosing aloRfthe'r giant 'g' anudst the revels of thenght ind, gnd oItees keptime itsmsi produed a panorama  e effect ofwhich was une :uUas     - Outside the- encampment,-'and ii'thdrawn. from oberation et-near enough to ea to th e p rrb' high',pithedvoice,seeh :an oa which cast a deep .shade around and screened dher froih e worshipped'within, Wasa womanwho, ata gl ance,- i de  of thepine barren ,hut.- She- is wholly aborbed in '   .  . wild, dark eyes rest on the preacher with" a cncentrated loo  . and interest.- B  her side is' theichiid and -she ,t-ga:zes w .'e ' at the impassioned old man,; who, wit     ::;i and Countenance of dignified solemnity, urges Mhp'athetic 'appefls ith ' all the force of a strong, thoauagh uncuItured leet -'t "  There they sit, an,d an' enemy is: Abesid: hem-b i: e daneed deadly"the enemy of their race.:   y ad Sil  tly gitdig 0ehhay leaf-sl ewn earth, he keeps hs-fting eye' ot neoi:  'fU tiul, havmg -wound himsef int ;' a oi e th:t-.'. e e;e -ghoo: , ' nmg sflah-of rage,; he shakes the murderous t iofiE elevates his headi and- s abouto preiateh faf ofthe .cil. lAt -that 'sound. sowedtti -k.:: O :.-cen,   th forest, as though 'eIeclefied , :and instantlyindued-i'-th u: -ra: agility and strength, the m other 'se:zd: her' :hild t-anttrti/ n agonized shriek of alarm .-and' horror/ rushed with-heir int: d : Nd one heard thecry,'or heeded the'ecape :ad:sht  ed on:'to'h--- , isolated' habitation where therewee ' one -to weome her .save-'?- boding owl, and the melancholy whippoorwill. *  1      ds,   - -HAPTER IV. XHs eyebrow da7rk, and eye of fire, Showed spirit proudlcdnd prompfo ire: Y T; lines of thought :pon hoecheek Zd, deep design and ooUnae, speae.-Soott.  -R, RJ ALAR!O ,LOVEl-who    ever. named him without resp ect? UJndoubtedly, his origin -had been humble-that is, to say, he had beenpoor, but thiswas a fact nevers in the most distant manner, alluded to by himself, and, if mentioned byhis admiring friends, was only done so in a whisper. He had obliged many people ; he had awed more than he had obliged, and yet there were somerbold enough to distrust him, but-only in whispers, as has been:said. . He had contributed to public charities liberally--was always ,q* committees selected from prominent men, and composed of those supposel' tobe most efficient and disinterested where the public weal was-concerned. He did- not love display. He was plain in his attire, veryindustrious, very economical in regard to his individual expenditure; yet he would, upon. occasion, treat his friends to a hand- some entertainment, and press his hospitalities on them as though he had a heart that was genial and generous; but when it was done, there was always some end in view, and io being .done was intended to further that end,. Ordinarily he was cold -and repulsive, wearing a countenance of reserve and meditative austerity. He was emphatically a slow man, and.-though looking ahead, he looked very far; so far, indeed, that none, save himsel. could discern his distant objecs or guess at his ,inscrtable designs. The .way to. their accomplishment was circuitou and known only to his owncalculating and plodding mind. He had amassed a fortune, and his speculations, always fortunate, were - conductedwith secrecy and prudence. Mr. Alaric Lovel was esteemed a safe adviser, had charge of many estates, that wielded an influence so great that, especially inhis own family who regarded him as an oracle of wisdom, his word was law, his sovereign will absolute.   ,    ATBRT HAS TINGS.         29 The late Mr. Lovel, his brother, the owner of Ellerton, had been a man of letters, full of generous impulses; and having always lived at his / ease, did not value wealth as those are apt to do, who, early acquainted with poverty, eschew its evils, and mae ma mmon their god. Diffident of his own abilities, though endowed with the rare accomplishments of cultivated taste, and profound erudition, it was his habit to defer to others even in the department of letters,'while far their superior; but in business matters he distrusted his own capabilities wholly, and there, unfortunately, Alaric was his superior, as he finally became his master and tyrant. Some complications havingarisen in the transaction of affairs between the two, Alaric threw his toils around his victim, while he, " good easy man," only said, " it will all be right. I know Alaric, and am content that he shall settle things to his mind. I prefer that he should have the entire control of my property. I have not managed it profitably, but he will be more, successful, and restore to me, in- the end, that which he undoubtedly can claim according to law. I confide wholly in Alaric." And how that confidence was justified, we have seen. Some anxiety, on the part of Mrs. Leovel, since her husband's death, in regard to her own prospects, and those of Emeline and Albert, (for she regarded the latter entirely in the light of a son,) had been evinced by inquiries altogether distasteful to Mr. Alaric. He took the alarm, well:knowing that his conduct could not bear scrutiny, and at eonce determined: to close openly his transactions with the widow, sending-her adrift on the world for a very good reason-she had nothing more -to lose-and he cared no longer about keeping up appearances. It was sad to see gentle Mrs. Lovel, with resigned aspect, and irreso- lute step, walking, like-one in a troubled dream, and gazing, with lingering fondness, on familiar objects, endeared by lobng assooiation, hers no longer. She had striven, since her great affliCtion,- to take an interest in those things. For her children's sake, she had resolved to give her time and attention to improvements never thought on before. She meant now to economize her means in order bthat Albert might receive the benefit of a collegiate education, and Emeline be provided with a governess, who, under her own eye, should perfect her daughter in accomplishments, which she herself would direct and supervise. Poor, unselfish woman, knowing that the sun of her earthly happiness had gone down forever in the grave of him she loved, her- care, now was to guard and increase the happiness of others by every exertion in her power,  Where now-was she to look? - Her own' health was feeble; she more than ever required the comforts and indulgence of   30          ALBFRT HASTINGS. which she was about to be deprived.: A sickening sense of desolation and misery came over- her, and her overburdened heart found relief in tears. Mr. Alaric Level was at this moment seated in his town house, with a formidable assemblage of accounts, mortgages, etc., spread out before ghm; an expression of unusual satisfaction illuminated his visage, and his black eyes glowed like living coals as, gathering them together, he carefully labelled and tied them up. The joy of pos- session alone filled his mind-that sordid and worldly mind, all the powers of whichwere dedicated to his master passion, love of gain. What were the widow's tears to him? He would have rejoiced to see them, for revenge is sweet to natures like his. -She had dared to suspect him, and ventured so far as to tell him so. He would see her crushed and humbled; not one step would he take for her relief-why should he? -Her responsibilities were her own. He had no fancy for poor relations, more especially did he eschew those by whose downfall he had risen. He buttoned up his coat with an air of deliberation and dignity, (he was generally called a dignified man,) placed his hat'on his head, rather more drawn over his brows than was necessary, drew on his gloves, and walked forth among men of capital, his daily associates, and- charity would hope that, in their ranks, no darker, more designing or merciless spirit moved. He smiled upon them blandly, and greeted them with stately courtesy. -There was something about the/ man which repelledintimacy. His own reserve beinggreat, few approached him with familiarity, none with affection. It was the curse of this hard man that he shared not that blessed boon which sheds its rosy light in palace and hovel--without -which life is indeed a cheerless waste, and splendor but gilded mockery. Perhaps he - felt this, and it may be that, in its place, he exalted the Moloch of wealth. How could he, after trampling down every flower which sprang beside his path, and betraying to ruin those who trusted him, expect love?   OA ,APTEV.  M I Wat is the hope that mortals truat? A gildetd palace crumbling soon-; A painted Rower that dies at noon - A dream ofbliss-a passing ray That chees the pilgrim's onward way ;  A meteor gleaming on the sight; A star soon hid in clouds of night;  A proud ship sinking in the sea; A bird of beauty soon to ies ; - A rainbow o'er the arching heaven ; A green tree by keen lightning riven; A world ofjoy that may not Zast : A fraggrant zephyr foating past : A sunny wave-a joyous smile, Short lived and living to beguile. (  N a small house, once occupied as a schoolroom, the family of Ellerton have located  themselves. Mrs. Level was her own cook, and those White and  taper fingers, hitherto employed in sweeping harmonious harp strings, or wandering over the keys of her rich-toned piano,i or in tracing delicate embroidery, must now perform manual labor. That form, which in costly robes, had often -been seen in social circles, the most elevated, was now only visible in a deserted school. house, part of which, converted into a kitchen, was the scene of her daily work.  Smarting under a sense of injustice, unable to devise any plan by which to alter or ameliorate her condition, racked by anxiety for the children of her love, with the great world closed against her, she stood indeed alone. True  friends and former associates might have been consulted, but something of the old pride forbade that she should bare to them a  history, which while it might, or might not, call forth sympathy and- assistance, would injure the honor of a  relative, and seem to seek aid from those on whom she had no claim. 'Her small stock of provisions, purchased from the sale of jewels disposed of at a ruinous sacrifice, and once destined for Emeline, was nearly exhausted.   32          AILBERT HASTINGS. Winter, with its cold winds and nipping frosts, was likely to find her still more destitute, though the fields of Ellerton waved with golden grain, and its pastures were 'roamed over by numerous herds. All communication with the premises had been interdicted, and the slaves, once obsequious and deferential, were seldom seen, yet their deport- ment on those rare occasions, was such as to offend her sensibilities. They did not differ fromthe rest of the world., And now it was that the character of Albert, child though he was, exhibited itself, for, though at first struck with surprise and sorrow, he had vented his grief and vexation in strong terms, he soon checked himself, and, by a-determined effort, regained his equanimity. Cheerful and hopeful seemed the boy, tasking himself in every way to assist his mother-never complaining of his-privations or regretting indulgences necessarily denied him. His manliness of temper, untiring industry, and affectionate sympathy were almost the only consolation of the unhappy lady, while the hand of affliction smote her so sorely that she turned- from life as from a burden too grievous to be borne. He explored the woods in pursuit of game, entrapped the finny inhabitants of the river with nets, cultivavted and enriched the meagre spot of ground called a garden,. which he had managed to enclose with a rude fence of broken branches, and still found time to read to his com- panions, whenever their engagements gave them leisure to listen. Mrs. Lovel,. on quitting Ellerton, had addressed a note to Alaric, stating that her books, she presumed, were not included in the long inventory of effects claimed by him, they having been presented to her by a deceased friend, and being also distinct from the Ellerton library. In case, she said, of receiving no answer to her note, she would take the books with her. No reply came, and, accordingly, they were still in her pos- sion. This was a great blessing to the children and herself, as they were thus furnished with all the entertainment their circumscribed con- dition allowed. One morning, late in August Albert took his gun and went out, as he frequently did. Mrs. Lovel, Emeline by her side, was making pre- parations for their next frugal meal. It was excessively warm, and she stood almost fainting by an open window. Suddenly a vivid flash of lightning darted athwart the heated atmosphere, followed by, a low rumble of distant thunder; then all -was calm again; but, slowly rising in heavy blackmasses, tinged with lurid hue, cloud after cloud mounted toward the cenitre of Heaven's vast concave. Darkness came down-at noonday.  Then a mighty wind arose, rushing, with demon howl, through the bending forest, and rain in great drops descended. Now,   AtLiBERT  ASTNGS.           33 in rapid succession, quivered and glanced the,red artillery of the storm, and deeper and louder was its thunder crash; now, in sheeted columns, water literally poured like a cataract fiiom the sky. Between the pauses of that tremendous elemental war, the fall of trees, some distant and some near, was distinctly audible. Hour after hour, with terrific fury, did the Southern tempest traverse. and devastate field and forest,:hill and plain. Trembling with fear, yet striving to overcome her appre- hensions, tortured lest Albert should' be lost to them forever, MDs. Lovel clasped her hands in mute anguish, till Emeline, looking wistfully into her face, said, in an undertone:- "Oh, mamma, where is cousin Albert? Have the great trees-fallen on him, with none to help him, and he dying, dying in the wild wood? I can go out and look for him-indeed, I am not afraid." Emeline spoke truly, for none who looked on the mild, loving eyes of that gen- tle yet heroic child, dreamed of the rare element which formed her character. Love, truth, simplicity, courage, were indigenous -to her nature. A pure pearl in its ocean shell, though buried beneath the chill waters of adversity, doomed by the wrath of man to penury and obscurity, her fate was yet in the keeping of, One, beneficent and just, who carries the lambs in his arms, and whose delight is with the pure in heart. "No, my angel child," said the stricken mother, '-' no, you cannot do that, but we will kneel here, and join our prayers for him, whom, alas, we can not aid." And there they knelt in silent devotion, when sud- denly, drenched with rain, his countenance pale, and his hair falling in wet folds about his head, the wanderer stood before them. "Albert, Albert, is it indeed you, my dear son? and we had almost given you up, too, as all else has gone. See, Emeline, he is here safe after the perils of the storm. Hear, how it roars yet I Now, indeed, it behooves us to be grateful." And Emeline, with sudden revulsion of feeling, was speechless, as she smiled, and quietly took her cousin's hand in hers, as though to assure herself of his actual presence. The scene which appeared next day, was one not unprecedented in an almost tropical latitude. Earth was strewn with limbs of trees, and leaves fresh and verdant. - Magnificent pines, torn up by the root,  stretched out in all their pride of luxuriance. Tough oaks, the growth of a century, shattered and denuded of many a stately bough; vines, trailing with their autumnal garlands in the dust; prostrate fences, and pliant shrubs bending in one direction, as they yielded to the over- mastering storm which had borne destruction on its wings, High in air * torch gleamed, lit by the fire of heaven, where a tree still burned, iaving caught the lightning's forked flash.   34          fALBERT HASTINGS. Sweetly smiled the world-vivifying sun, glorious and unrivalled on his golden car, whose shining wheels rolled up the blue expanse, clouds and storm and night retiring before his august and celestial face. Rain drops glittered like diamonds on leaf and spray, swollen torrents threw up hillocks of snowy foam, as they went moaning along their densely shaded forest pathway. The blood-red bay with its spots of yellow and brown, canary-colored sassifras, purple elder, and many hued hickory, showered down deciduous leaves, and spread their gorgeous carpet beneath the ardent gaze of the day-king; while a clear and illimitable sky gleamed above, as though peace and serenity, instead of recent confusion and terror, brooded over the world.   CHAPTER VI. I saw his brow so high'and fair, His eye so brightly mild; And Zovely was the Saxon hair Of that heroic child. " ^)  Y dear mother," said Albert to his aunt, a day or two after f 1ht [l the storm, (for by that endearing name he always called A I],1i her,) " my dear mother, I can stay here no longer. I must go out into the world, and seek my fortune. Here I can only burden you, and this must not be; besides, I cannot bear to see you and Emeline living in this way. No, I must, for your sakes, still more than for my own, be up and doing. I am young, you will say, to encounter all that I have to combat; but this is the best time to meet my struggles, since they must come. Do not forbid me, my dear mother. I am but a child, 'tis true, yet children can begin the work before them, and I shall gain experience early enough to profit by it." "Where will you go, Albert?" "Oh, to-  , of course.  I shall write to you when I get there, and tell you what offers, and how I am employed," said the boy, hopefully, -and his whole bearming face indicated the earnestness and strength of maturer years. In a small and mean apartment, which scarcely deserved the name, containing only a hard, coarsely equipped, narrow bed, with scant cov- ering, a rickety chair of that most comfortless description  Ed Windsor, a broken ewer and cracked basin, an old, faded mirrori of small size, which reflected the face disfigured by innumerable spotsand yellow- tints, a curtain, which once boasted bright. colors and a firm fabric, now, alas I fallen into holes at the centre of each pictured flower, and holding together with feeble tenacity of woof, like age clinging to life,--sat a boy reading, with' difficulty, by the uncertain flicker of a tal- 19w candle burned almost into the socket. With eager enthusiasm he' devoured the contents of an open volume, and, as page after page he   36          ALBERT HASTINGS. perused it, an air of abstraction and absorbed enthralment was con- veyed by the declining head, bent brow, and moveless form, which in- dicate the student. And this was a boy, a mere child, with none to care for or direct his conduct, in a city, that name for -congregated hu- manity, where there is so much to allure youth to idleness, and betray inexperience into folly; where human beings, like superabundant fruit o on a laden branch, decay and fall, and die-unheeded; where bloated ease and ghastly poverty, grouped together, contrast so dismally I A harde day's-wo work w over; a trie had rewarded assiduous labor, and still that young spirit, undepressed, sought food for the inquiring mind, regardless of bodily fatigue, aid tthe ehalf-satisfied cravings for hunger, And as his eye brightened, and his form dilated, there seemed an eleva- tion about him, which sordid penury could not debase, nor corporeal weakness lessen.  This was Albert lastings--reared in luxury, whose advent into life had -been hailed with joy by a beautiful and loving mother, and an aristocratic and high-bor father; but they were among the mute sleepers of the grave, and though one had no burial, save chill waters of the restless deep, yet was he, equally with the loving mother, obliv- ious of life, and it stern conflict, regards Albert, with her who slept in the church-yarddat Ellerton, where wild tangling roses bloomed over her tomb, and marble commemorated her virtues and early death. :Eudora de Vere, the younger: ister of Mrs. Lovel, and: the mother of Albert had married a foreigner. The hospitalities of Ellerton (then in possessian,of Mrs. 1ovel's father) and REud ra's charms, detained the young traveller at Ellerton for many months, and it- was during this so- journ that the beauty, intelligence and refined elegance of the fair Eu- dora had captivated the gay and fastidious Hastings; one-who had known courts, and been accustomed: to the attractions of courtly dames. But this wild flower of the rich and sunny South, in his estimation, outshone them :all; and Eudora became his bride. A brief interval elapsedv after :their?umon, and Albert was an infant when- letters from abroad reached Mr.:Hastings, -of such a naturel as- to discompose his mind, and re nder him anxious .to revisit' once -more-his ;native land. His father.:haid; died his mother enteated :hisreturn, and Eiudra, with the-unsefish love off a true wife, urged his departure. .t was agreed thatt sh:she sould remain at Ellerton till his return, and then, as it might be neceSry, in the event of his establishing clims supposed to be ex- isting i- the or d-ounty, she would be ready to accompany him abroad, and,:pe h aps-mke her : home in-the land to rhich herhusband owed his birth, and of which she had so often heard him speak: in terms of   AT lP ERI HASTOQS.          37 glowing eulogy and warm affection. -He went, with fair skies; and in a vessel accustomed to battle with old Neptune in his most stormyrtem- per. Long had the gallant ship, with flying sail and rich argo, navi- gated the mighty waters of the world-encircling ocean  She had borne, in her ample hold, commodities from India's spicy clime, from the land of the Gaul, and from frozen realms. The storm-ge i had done battle with her in his own peculiar domain-the mighty deep; yet had she- labored through all, and though scarred by the- tempest, and sometimes riven by the shock, held her place among the most dignified and exwpe- rienced of those who make undulating waters their home, and traverse viewless paths with successfil enterprise, But her time was come, and never more, from the: hour when, with lheer and. song, -her crew saw her fairly launched on the mysterious world of .waters, was she seen by mortal man. Months elapsed, and Ahe hapless Eudora, clasp- ing her infant son to her bosom, felt- that his father's fate must remain a secret till the deep gives up her dead; and that the pale, coldd-hands, now folded over his mother's bosom, would soon mrinister no more to his want. She felt that she was dying,- and summoning her Sister to her side, said:  "Amanda, I shall not live to rear my child. Oh, take him, so doubly orphaned, to your breast, and never ilet him -feel how desolate he is. Remember, my dear - sister, our early love, and, by every laim which your heart will best suggest, be a mother to my child." I will, Eudora, so help me:God'" -  Thus was the solemn ratification made, which constituted-Mrs- 'Lovel the mother of a son, scarce ess :loved than:VEmeline-. Poor, oppressed Amanda-of al her griefs perhaps /the heaviest-to be borne was this severance-from-the adopted son of her love;.  But-we digress, and, returning to Albert,-will givesome-accoum t of his first day in - . Late in an autumnal evening, when pride :of India trees had shed a golden shower on the already litferedi :andi somewhat crowded, pavement, he had reached' the city, satchel in hahd,;-for his small wardrobe was comptised in its nairbw .i.:its,- .adatin .i self on a bale of goods by -the door of -a shop;- h looked-ii . / Therfeel- ing which he experienced was at -once':homeless andhop le^.:bt- he shook it off, and said to one of the clerks, -abut: obsir- shop win- dow   *            i -    -  "Is there any work:here for a boy?"     . "Yes, oh yes/'responded the gentleman clerk,; weiwant an ei d boy-to take- parcels to Our-customers. I am ms'tmioedt proc ure:sh a person, but the difficulty- i, none but an honest lad will do, iand te- r1* none0but- an   38          ALBERT HASTINGS. fore- unless we' know who you are, we cannot employ you on this mission.   - . "Here," said Albert, while a flush mantled his cheek, " here is all my worldly store in this satchel; keep it till I return; I will go on your errand -try me." 1  'tWell, I will at my own risk," replied the clerk; "mind, if you prove me false, Ishall have topay roundly for my indiscretion. There is th9 numbers now speed away, and bring me a receipt on your return. I shall await for yotu here."  Albert: took the direction, and in, spite of tired limbs, and faintness firom long abstinence, ffound the address, delivered his charge, and, re- ceipt in, hand, returned to the 'indolent clerk, who, after giving him a small- ouceur, said:      , "Come here to-morrow, boy. We shall have business for you all day, which will demand Bleet limbs, and all your activity,-mind you come early,"  Albert took his released satchel, a few half-pence, the clerk's promise, and his own indomitable resolution, and went his way to the poor lodg- ing where we found him. The book, over which he pored with all his soul's energies, aand a pasionate devotion known only to youth and genius, was a beloved volume selected from his adopted mother's library, rescued by her fom Mr. Alaric Lovel's merciless and undisputed ap- propriation of all her worldly goods. IBut this book was now the world to him; and that total deprivation of his lot, which left him companion- less-and -comfortles, served only to concentrate his faculties on its pic- tured- scenes and moral lessons. What had this brave boy to fear with the treasured precepts of[ his-excellent aunt stored in hismemory, and Shakespeare the companion- of his solitude? The noble sentiment of Pope, in language so beautiful, illustrated by the great essayist Bulwer, "Act well thy part, there all the honor lies," was about to be illus- trated also in the-career of thia-'oy, who, bending to ciroumstances, yet rose superior to them by the conquering power of resolve, so aptly named: byYoung, "That column of true majesty in. man." It is vain to deny that natureis -not impartial in her endowments. To one she intrusts -five talents, to another ten, while to each or either, she:may deny- the requisite force of will for the full development of powers, great or small; -and yet we sometimes see a mind so justly balanced, that it moves steadily on in the attainment of knowledge, till all comrn petitors being left far behind in the race, a great genius isdiscovered There was that in :this young student's aspect which could not fail to arrest attention, and that entirely apart from personal beauty-mere   ALBERT 'HASTINGS.           39 regularity and harmony of outline-something in the turn of the-head, the Roman massiveness of throat, the delicate curve of-the upper lip, and the strength of brow, never met save at the outward revelation of intellect and sensibility.  Albert pursued his calling of errand boy for some days, and continued- to live on its-scanty emoluments, though in a style which, in his better days, he had not even dreamed of. - The weather Was still hot% and he suffered intensely from constant exposure. One day, coming intothe shop after having discharged his commission, he observed- a gentleman regarding him with interest, as he thought, and rather shrinking from recognition, he walked towards the door, as iffto- secure:more air. The gentleman, however, was not so easily balked of his curiosity, jand, call- ing one of his clerks, (for he was the owner of the esthshment,) demanded: "Who is that .boy? I should know his countenance. He has a look of the De Veres,"  The young man so interrogated replied:  "His name, sir, is Albert Hastings. -He:came here one 'evening, and offered his services in the capacity of a -carrier from thisplace. We have found him prompt and steady-; do you wish to speak withhim ?" "Where does he lodge?" inquired the merchant.  "I will soon- let you know, sir," and the clerk-walked up to Albert, whom he, having obtained the desired information, lef, puzzled to con- jecture why any one should be concerned in regard to his affairs. Mr.- Oldham had long been known in --, not only as a- large capi- talist, but as a benevolent man. Struck with -astonishment at seeing Albert; whose copnections he knew, in what he considered so strange a position, he determined to ascertain, in his own way, why it was that he found him there. Accordingly, the same evening, the portly form of Mr. Oldham was seen going towards the lodging of Albert.- A squalid woman of shrewish appearance, untidy, with a complaining drawl, answered his summons at the door., "Does a youth-a child, I mean-reside here, called Hastings?" de- manded Mr. Oldham, buttoning up his .coat, and feeling -how: far he, Mr. Oldham, of the firm of Oldham &Brothers, was removedfrom Mrs. Goggle, the hostess of that most appalling satire on inn-keepinga fourth- rate boarding house. The woman smoothed her- coarse apron, drew her. hand across her heavy and deeply seamed brow, and answered, without even courtsey -or bow: W' Well, I reckon he be - here, for all times he be homer o' nights, and ain't much account no ways, only he be quiet like, and- don't make no stir in the house."   -C40^        AT W T  nH asnn . ' Aye, aye, Mrs. Goggle; show:me to his room.'- And- forward went Mrs. Goggle, -her heavy-soled shoes resounding along the dilapidated gallery, as she led the way to her young lodger's room. On reaching his door, this representative of Hecate thundered A with her hard knuckles, calling out, at the same time, in a cracked, shrill voice.       .  i Open here Mister Albert, I say, and don't -keep the likes of Mr. Oldham waiting at your door." .          . Albert was, at- this instant, deep in Macheth, and the voice of the woman sounded to him, like an incantation of the witches, as they con- coot the draught so vivily described by him who " dipped his pen in the human ;heart;" but,; closing his book, and resisting all impressions save from the actual world, which it is the province of high natures to do, he rose, opened his creaking door, and stood in the presence of his visitor ,    . Mr. Oldham.--"Young sir, I know your family, and am- surprised to see you in so sordid a lodging, and carrying bundles, as you were, from my place of business-(Mr. Oldham did not: like to say store, that was an Americanism he eschewed, and shop did not sound so welD--from my plaee of business to my customers Now, tell me plainly, why are you here? Is it some-vagary of youith, or are you indeed deserted by those who should keep and educate your mother's son, that I see you -here? Answer me like a boy of truth, and itwill be better for all con- cerned."       '  Mr. Oldham looked full in Albert's face, and waited his reply. The pride of the boy took alarm. He had no master-no one was entitled to so address him. He would respond in terms becoming his own and his family's-consequence in the social circle, from which he considered himself only temporarily banished ^neither would he reveal the dishonor of one whom, though remotely allied to him by ties of consanguinity only, he wOuld not criminate-no 1 he would speak in no terms of dis- paragement in respect to Mr, Alarie Lovel. Was not his beloved aunt a Lovel, too? ' Did not (Emeline, that one being in the wide universe who concentrated all his -ideas of human perfection-bear the name of Level?.- Was it not a hallowed name? Would he not rather bear re- proach, misery, death, than soil the escutcheon of Emeline's house? It was a question of honor. He would betray nothing of which he was cognizant, which could, in the slightest degree, detract from the honor of the name of Lovel. He knew Alaric was a swindler. There was no use- in disgising terms. He lkew that, despite the banker's repu- tation for probity and public spirit, there was wanting the private spirit pro I                    r   pr   ALTBRRT HASTINGS.          -41 of benevolence which seeks no return but in the healing of broken hearts, and the secret beneficence which looks to no reward, save the opening of the Eternal Book, wherein it is-written, ".Inasmuch as ye did it to the least of these, ye did- it to me also." He could not reveal his aunt's history. Without doing this, he must stand accused of that foolish love of adventure and recklessness of the future, which only the ungrateful and the profligate are willing to brave. Why should he answer Mr. Oldham's queries at all? He had no right to question him. The few pence received at that gentleman's shop had been paid by the sweat of his brow. He was a child; but he would act with manhood's honor, at least. Drawing himself up to his full height, which was not very towering after all,* Albert said: "Sir, that, knowing my family as you do, you are surprised to find me here, and in the capacity of carrier from your house, is very natural. I feel that my situation would. require explanation to any one entitled to call for it; but, sir, allow me to say that, in your'case, the creden- tials seem wanting which would constitute you the proper querist. As to your last question, whether I am abandoned by those to whom nat- ural ties should endear me, can only say, my beloved aunt and mother (for I know no other) gave me her free permission to come hither. If -you know  my mother-Mrs. Lovel I mean-you can have no further questions to ask me?" "None but such as are prompted by a wish for your own good, my boy, . Are you skilled in figures?" At this, Albert blushed, for, measuring his own attainments by those of others, he accounted his skill nothing. But Mr. Oldham'had his own way of doing business, and submitted some problems to be worked out by Albert, which being done with accuracy, convinced practical Mr. Oldham that the boy not only possessed talent, but was no mean scholar. He looked hard at Albert, and said: "I see you will not confide in me. That is as you please :never- theless, I will aid you if I can; and I propose that you fill the6 desk of a clerk in my establishment. I did intend this place for another, but I must not see your mother's son following so vagrant a life, if I can pre- vent it."  All the nature of the ]astings' and De Veres' rose to Albert's brow, as he replied: "Mr. Oldham, I  ought to thank ydu for your kind offer to one, on his own part, wholly unknown to you. Yes, I think I ought to thank you; yet, at the same time, my pride is wounded, I confess it. Talk not, generous sir, of my 'vagrant life.'  Sir, your years fit you to \1   ATLBERT HASTINGS.  counsel me, yet I scruple not, in defence of my own honor, while at the same time I venture to remove a wrong impression, which your years and experience have not prevented your entertaining and ex- pressing-I scruple not to say to you, sir, I am no vagrant. No idle spirit of adventure .has led me to abandon those whose friendship is more to me than life  If you are content to take me as I am-to rate me, by the test of my own diligence and industry, which you yourself shal apply-if you let me come unquestioned into your service, and when there, judge me only by my own conduct, I;gladly embrace your offer; otherwise, I remain as I am, with thanks for your proffered patronage;" and the boy bowed with courteous dignity. Mr. Oldham was fairy puzxed, and fooking fidgetty, replied: Come to me to-morrow. You will be a young clerk, but that is a fault time soon mends. Come to me." I think we shall be friends." So kind Mr. Oldham shook our hero by the hand warmly, and look- ing the other way to avoid Mrs. Goggle's impressive adieux, returned to his home, acknowledging that though his benevolent feelings were gratified, his-curiosity was not. He consoled himself with the reflec- tion that, at some future period, he would be better able to comprehend the character and history of hisprotge   CTHAP':'JEI VII. Twas hers to bide the crueZ g2ance Of friendship'8 altered eye, And fold her hands in bitter trance .            .,4~ At love's cold mockery. T is said that trials seldom come alone. Singly they had -not come to the wan invalid, now laid on abed of sickness, from which it seemed but too probable she would never recover; and there she was with none to minister to her, save the cild it broke her heart to look on. One or two of her former acquaintances had in- deed called to see her, and, with a patronizng air, made offers of service, provided she would intimate any way in which they might be useful. Their visits had been short, and were not repeate d. Mrs. Delmar remarked to Mrs. Clinton, on leaving M. Lovel's poor house: " I wonder, my dear, how it came to pass that our friend is so much reduced? There must be somethng quitewrong somewhere. I little thought ever to see Amanda de Vere almost a pauper. Did you notice the gown she wore? and such miserable bed clothes.  Amanda used to be so fastidious-haughty at times, I thought." "Well," responded her companion, elevating her brows, and shrug- ging her shoulders, while she drew her elegant lace shawl more closely about her-" well, there is no room for fastidiousness or haughtiness in her position now. When people's own relations Cast them off, we must conclude it is not without reason. I never heard aght against Mrs. Lovel; truth compels me to say;, yet Mr. A.laric is higly ste emed -he is even reportedto be wealthy and charitable, too , Wh  heistand aloof, I cannot urmise. I have been told-but this  only harsa that there was some dispute between them nregarding property in which Amnanda charged him with fraud. That wasshocking- soin- lady-like; but, asI said before, we cannot comprehendfamily misan- derstandings, and one does not like to interfere withthem. Amand  4a4          ATBERRT HASTINGS. confides in none of her friends. She is, you say, proud, and perhaps 'tis quite as well that she should not. There is nothing more disagree-. able than being compelled to take sides in a family quarrel. . I detest quarrelling-it is decidedlyYvulgar." Much -to this effect was further said by these ladies, as, seated in a handsome carriage, drawn by sleek steeds, they rolled on to their respective dwellings, having, as they thought, done enough to evince proper feeling towards their friend in adversity., It was a great consolation to Mrs. Lovel, about this time, to receive a letter from Albert, stating his prospects, and what he called "the unmerited goodness" of Mr. Oldham, with whom he had become established, as, that-gentleman facetiously said, his " boy-clerk." ' May heaven's -blessing attend him for this good deed," said Mrs. Lovel, -with a tremulous voice, as her thin hands refolded the letter she had just read, and, placing it beheath her pillow, she fell into a doze. Then the fevered dreams of the invalid bore her to days- long past, when youth's springtime robed the world in charms which after years can. never: restore, save as the copy restores the work of some great master; with' dimmer hues, and lacking the touch of genius to kindle it intoife She wandered by a glassy stream  over her were radiant skies, an!: beneath was verdure, spotted by wild flowers and' enriched by varying shades, where -;it sloped toward translucent waters, which sang in deep symphony to umbrageous woods.: An aroma of fresh perfume, fom beds of thyme and violets, lulled her senses and charmed her to repose. Tle lost were with her there-the husband whom she deplored, in all the glory of manhood, arrayed in white gar- ments, with strange beauty on his manly brow. Eudora, even more lovely'than when in'life, regarded her with a pitying smile, and the long yellow hair of her departed sister seemed: bound with golden fillets, as she-trod lightly over yielding-waves, and lifted Hastings, pale and cold, from his watery tomb. Then, atall, dark woman, with wonderful eyes, looked-into'her soul, and there" was pity, also, and deep love in her -look;. The sleeper started, and beheldi by her bedside, in the same attitude, with /the same eyes, form, countenance, standingserect and gazing on her, the dream-image, which, unlike the rest, had not van- ish-idon -her waking1-.,- Th, Womanm stodstatde like, and, hand in hand with her, a-child unmiktaiably her own-for there were the spiritual eyes, tihe agile frame, the -calm co6untenance, so like, yet so dissimilar; one-was theihalf .opened rose- the other the parent flower almost hue- less, andwaiting but an atitumn gust of wind to -hurl its-withering leaves over the forest. In her right band, she held a small, coarse   BUI ALBEITHAStl             45 basket, fabricated from long slender pine tufts, bound together with cotton yarn, and inlaid with fresh green leaves; the basket contained purple figs, ripe and carefully selected; peaches which blushed like Aurora, and a small white basin of milk, covered with a bit of net, old and rent, 'but pure and white as the sand of the pine-barren. "Lady, I have brought you these; I wish I had something better to offer," were all the words, said in a low tone so musical that after being spoken, it lingered on the ear with haunting melody, and quickly, ere Mrs. Lovel could recover from her surprise, or Emeline find lan- guage in which to express her gratitude, the strange visitors had departed. Emeline's eyes followed the retreating forms of the mother and child with a wistful gaze, -as they disappeared amidst the shadows of wide spreading trees, and turning to her parent, over whose features a ghastly pallor, lately much increased, spread in .yet more alarming degree, said quietly,i "Dear mother,. sec these- are our friends-he wild woman .of the wilderness and her little child." "Alas," replied the feeble sufferer, "alas, that in the days of my prosperity, I fear I forgot the obscure poor. Remember, Emeline, if ever fortune should smile on you, as once it did on me--remember, my darling, the exemplification which you have this day seen -of the lov- ing charity of the poor,(so undeserved by us, yet given spontaneously, with a delicacy which courts could never have taught.) Asit is, my child, I do not anticipate for you a high place in life. I speak to you as I would do to one more advanced in years, for sorrow has made you older than time has; but even if it be decreed, by the All-wise Disposer off events, that you walk through the world with no countenance save His who said,            .           - Blessed are the poor,'    oh I even then, dear child, remember the example set you this day Il For truly this is the widow's mite." And now, as Mrs. Lovel drew near the waters of the figurative Jor- dan, as Azrael overshadowed her with his black wings andTime receded, she was enabled to confide her fair young daughter into His hands, who is the Lord not only of death,:but of'life-iife here and hereafter-the fleeting, shadowy life of this world, and the glorious, illimitab]e life which is to come. It was beautiful to see resignation so perfect, trust so entire, ass she lingered on these shores of mortality, , and, directing her vision beyond, saw fields decked with liing verdure, flowers which knew no- blight, and celestial fruit, blushing on immortal trees, in the gardens of Paradise. She had come out from the furnace   A46 TLBRRT HASTINGS of affliction, like pure gold from refining fire, arid the time- was at hand when her released spirit, casting off its mortal coil, would repose in amaranthine bowers of bliss,!' where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest."- .. Among the earlier-acquaintances of Mrs. Lbvel-was one with whom she hiad' never- been particularly intimate-a single lady, Miss Juliet Graysoi :by iname, though generally, only designated as -Miss Juliet. Her peculiarities were' sucht as frequently exposed her to ridicule, which- she felt herself-entirely above; and never deigned to notice. Plaini, almost toMineanness, in= dress, she regarded with a severe eye- those whose tastes led them to be more liberal in personal adornment. Silent and-staid-in deportment, she could not endure talkative people, and had little charity for thosewho were unreserved and cheerful in manner. . Miss-Julietwas known to possess great integrity, and yet no- body confided in her. Cold and repellent, though commanding esteem, she did not win love, and it was only in times of adversity that the ice of her exterior, melting awayt discovered, to the recipients of her be- nevolence, the genial warmth of a kind and womanly heart. In health and gaiety, her prtesence was a shadow; in sickness and sorrow, it was a sunbeam. Friendship was treasured in: her bosom so silently that it seemed dead capital, but was bestowed with liberal hand when neces- sity demiaided:it, and the capital did not diminish. Those in prosperity did not see her often, neither did they seek her; -she had other work to do. What were fashionable calls and fashionable gossip to her? There: had been, in her early history,-- romance, and love, and woe; therefore was she prone to pity; therefore was she solitary. Perhaps ,it was because certain scenes recalled too vividly days when hopes, destined never to be realized, beamed for her, that she avoided them. There was in memory's hauited cell a voice which sang mournfully of the past. How could her sympathies respond to the happy present of others? , -But the time had come when Miss Juliet felt that she was needed in the sick chamber, humble as it was, of the-lady of Ellerton. She accord- ingly walked' stiffly in, one morning, arrayed in a faded calico dress, with buckiram collar closing it high about -the throat, a broad striped check apron, thick, dark-colored gloves, seal-skin shoes, a faded silk bonnet, and a Shawl which had indisputably seen better days. She glanced at Mrs. Lovel, and there came a; look into her eyes, which made her cold rigid face seem human and gentle; while blandness spread be- nignly over her usually repellent visage. She did not evince curiosity, butcher attention was evidently drawn towards the squalid surroundings O   ATBF3ERT HABTINGS.          47 of the once opulent lady, and unspoken commiseration stamped itself on her face. She made no offers of service. She didnot say, "Can I aid you " That would not have been like Miss Juliet. She only, after a cursory survey of objects before her, determined in her own mind that she would aid the sufferer, and was now considering how she might most effectually do so. After conversing with- wonderful volubility for her, she left, saying, "I will return this evening, and 'stay all night." Miss Juliet was a friend. I \!      .    OHAPTEB V. - Out on the noisy braggcart! Arms without He hath indeed, well burnished and well plumed: ' But thelpoor soul within is plucked and bars Likce any homely thing!"-JOANNA BAILU. $SN a dim lighted apartment of wide dimensions, sat Alaric Lovel. There were a sofa of ample size, somewhat worn, but still of solid mahogany, elaborately carved; a sideboard with marble plates as shelves; half-defaced mahogany chairs; branches of bronze on the mantle; a Brussels carpet, sad-colored, and nothing the better for wear; there were a centre-table, massive with its old-fash- ioned lion-claws of brass, and its needless amplitude of circumference; a book-case with its glass doors, which inclosed volumes of classic learning, and, in its secret drawers, contained mysterious papers, into which none might pry save the master of the mansion. A fire burned faintly on the hearth, which, though unswept, was of marble, roughen- ed by long use. Everything grouped around the room, and the room itself, had an air of solidity, respectability and- usefulness, though indif- ferently kept, and belonging to the fashion of an earlier day. It was, in short, a bachelor's apartment, who was rich, without affecting modern elegance, and looked more to the accumulations of his ledger, than the fidiness of his abode. There sat Alaric, that same ledger before him, contemplating its open page with knit brow, and eyes flaming, like burning coals, with concen- trated eagerness and quick intuition. The man was now in his element; gain was the object of his life-accumulation his master passion. How artistically he surveyed his workl Withwhat compelling power he bent his mind to its requirementsl Heart, eioul, intellect, all were centred there, and apparently the progression of his schemes comported with his wishes. A  single gas light fellover his table. Five shades encompassed as many burners, but only one of them was ignited, and that onewas so adjusted as to bear directly on the work over which he pored. The rest of the room stood dimly revealed.   AMRiP AAASNiTGSO            49 But suddenly a tall, weird form stood beforehim. No bell had been rung-noiseless had been the foot-fall of the intruder,-and there she stood, contemplating the master -of the dwelling with eyes as black, and searching, and fearless as his own. Suddenly-for there is a fasci- nation in the human eye which acts with mesmeric force, and rouses consciousness when bestowed evenaon the most absorbed he felt its strange influence, and looking quickly np, :started as though the sheeted dead stood before him, while the figure, with undainted mien and dig- nified composure, said, sternly-: "Alaric Lovel, is there to be no limit to your evil deeds? Tempt me not to betray you to the hangman's cord. What, have you forgot- ten the still lake in the lonely pine barren? There was blood upon the waters. You did not shed it. No t man of craft, you 'did not; but whom did you instigate to dip his coward hand in blood?" "Myra, Myra, for the love of heaven," exclaimed the startled manv ' would your with your false allegations, implicate me in-that foul mur- der? You know not what you say. What has brought you here-? Do   you want money?   There is my purse.. I ought long, ago to have remembered your claims; only the vexations andl- toils of business have caused my seeming forgetfulness of you. .-There, I:say, is my purse. Take it, and leaven me. How did you gain admittance here? Myra, by all the love you ever bore me, go-go instantly. I will come to you. I will explain all I will take your child to my bosom, but you, oh, forbear I for her sake, hear me." The wild woman of the wood, so addressed, said, while she trod the offered purse beneath her feet, and stood, like aspythoness: "I take your moneyl . Hyou forget,who I am, and that the blood of the red warrior, whose hunting -grounds are-now your: cultured fields, flows in my veins. I take your money, and hide your crimes l Have I not always and steadily refused your base coin?: Can thiat restore my abused generosity? Can that make valid the false vow which you plighted me? Cam that render lawful the tie: withwhich a demon, false as yourself, pretended to bind us? Talk 'not to me of gold. That is your god. I value it not-but I tell you, Alaric. Lovel, you shall do no more work for the dark master you serve. i tel- I ou once for all-weave the meshes of your toils as yQou ill, at a time when you least expect it, the avenger will stand beforeydu.- Look on this rng1 who placed it on the finger- of Myra, the forest gir"  "I will'have you arrested," said Alaric, with assumed dignity.!" will consign you to an' asylum for lunacy, if Tow do not instantly quit this house, and make ygur way, as you ca e, to your home"- . -    60          ALBTERT HASTINGS. - Myra strode with swift steps to the opposite side of the room, and, possessing herself of a walking cane, drew out the dagger which it sheathed, and as- the keen, bright blade glittered against the feeble gas- light, said, scornfully: - "Call your police now;- but, before yoursummons shall be answeredt they will have other work-to do than that for which you design them. Dare but so much as lift your finger, and I will end your inicuities in death, though I perish for the deed." Cold drops stood on the brow of Alaric Lovel during this strange address; but, with all the courage he could command, and assuming a gentle tone, he replied: - yra, I love - you ; I have -always - loved you; and it is only your own pride which hasseparated us. Did I not brave the anger of my mother, when she drove you from her protection? Did .you not hear me declare to her, that- the daughter of Cosato was every way her  equal, though dowerless? Did I not leave her house for weeks, and find, with you, the-consolation my own home denied me? - You loved me then, and your love was the world to me. You are the only woman, in?earth's wide limits, whom I have ever loved, and you know it. What more canI say V' "Prove that love, Alaric, prove it by the only act of justice you can yet render, me; prove it, I say, for -the sake of my child, who .is so wonderfully like you, that I am forced to hide her from the eyes of mankind. Prove it for her sake. As for me, the tree whl not revive which .the lightning stroke has riven. You need care little for me: be- sides," (and here the speaker paused and shuddered), "- I have knowl- edge of that which would sever .me from your side, even were our union consecrated by every bond which you once taught me to believe hallowed it. N-1o - Alaric, I am your victim, not your accomplice, and when I asked, you to remember how holy was the bond, which you said made our -fates one, I forgot, theno,:what I now remember, but only- for an instant; since I tell you now, it haunts me forever and forever! In the midnight hoot of the owl, I hear it; in the morning song of the lark, lit is -repeated. Treachery, blood, deathi I will nrot ask you to claim your child, as I did but now; for, as surely as I stand before you, that deed -will yet astonish the world--the world, you, Alaico Lovel, have- sold your immortal soul to- make your admirer. Your admirer, forsoothl You are its slave-its guilty, trembling slave --despite all youha/ve done to win its favor. Look at me I The world despises me, and I despise the world-; yet I am no criminal, only so-far as you made me go unwittingly. My hands are unstained by slaughter;   AJ TRfiT HASTINGS.         51 my lips have spoken no guile, and yet, were you even to give me the name, which but now asked for, and which of right is mine, I would shrink from it as from a polluted thing. Ared spot seems to darken the sun, if I look upon it; the moon floats in a sea of gore, and all this I bear for no deed of mine. I once worshipped Pour' image, as the blind idolater does the golden stars of night. Not a hair- upon your, head but was of more value to me than the gems of Golconda; and I. could so have loved you yet, despite my wrongs, but for one dark page in your history. You know it well l" And the woman looked on him, to whom she spokes with such a mixture of tenderness and abhorrence, of love and hate, that it was fearful to contemplate her. "Alaric Lovel, for the last time I speak to you, face toface; for the last time, unless indeed, you be summoned to your great account, and, having donewith the world, you have need of me. Then, and only then, can you have confidence in one who, never encouraging your vices, told you plain truths, and though she might not share your pros- perity-in life, was willing to forgive you when passing through the dark valley of death-for then, methinks, all your sins will confront :you and a fleshess skeleton, with unburied bones, will affrightyour pari ing soul, as it rattles before your dying eyes!" "Depart, woman, depart!" almost shriekedAlaric, as he writhed and groaned under the influence of-her words. "Depart, or stay till dawn, and I will announce to the world-even that world which you say has made me   its slave-that you are mywedded wife-that Roxanna is mychild and heiress. Will this not satisfyyou-? Surely itwilL Do you not love her?  I ask you then,. by that love, to do as I say, and I promise that; you'will never find me wanting in :love to you nor to the child, whom  equally with you, I love. Will you. not believe me?" "I have believed you already to my ruin," said the woman, res- olutely. "What would you have me do? Bring my   innocent child here--here, to sit at the table, and eat the bread of one dogged by a -vengeful ghost? I tell you, Alaric, were it not for that child, you would long ago have met your- deserts. I could- bear the obloquy -of your infamous name. I   could lie down by the grave of all I ionCe loved,'and die there, misery and disgrace ending withmrwel -But when, I  think of her, your lease of life islengthened, at the peril ofmy soul; for I  know-too surely I know-that while I conceal your crimes, I am myself, in some degree, answerable for their continuance, as well as for the implication of ianqcent persons, whom you will cally se4   ATBERRT HASTINGSS. die under charge of acts which you know, and I know, are your own I Two years ago, when the disappearance of.--"  "Speak no more-speak no more," whispered Alaric. "I know what you will say. I am innocent, Myra; innocent as your own child."  " Hush, hush I heart of stone, and remember to whom you are speak- ing. Me you cannot deceive. Though the world may yet acceptyour disguise, you wear none to me." "Oh, Alaric I" and here the mysterious dweller of the forest, burst into tears.  Oh, Alario I loved of my youth, father of my child, why must I be your enemy?   Blood-guiltiness-any, thing short of that, and none would ever have loved you like me  'Tis past," she said, "and I must now to my business, which brooks no delay. Mrs. Lovel is dying, dying in poverty and sorrow. You are the owner of her es- tates; she feels that wrong has been done'; she has not the cour- age to contend with you, but I havel She does not know of the 'forged papers-I do!  Right her, or, as surely as that pitiful and meagre lamp lightens this apartment, I will instruct her how she, may regain her inheritance. Nay, look not on me with such baleful hatred. You have heard my resolve. Did I ever forfeit my word ?" Alaric rose from his seat, folded his arms, and stood confronting his accuser with determination the most dogged. Like a statue of stone carved by some great artist, who had made his work the embodiment of rage, terror and resolve, sternly he regarded the woman; but she quailed not,- and both were for a short space mute, There was a blow, a heavy fall, and, shortly after, a loud ring of the bell in Alaric's sitting room. His servant, on entering, found his mas- ter binding up a wound on his arm, which bled profusely, and a strange woman lying insensible on the floor. "Raymond,"' said he, with great calmness, "how has this happened ? A raving maniac has, by some means, obtained entrance to my apart- ment. I am at a loss to think who she is, or whence she comes. You should better guard my premises. My life has been attempted, as you see; and I have been forced to knock her down. Poor creature She must be suitably cared for, and I will see to-morrow, that she is con- veyed to the asylum." "Are you much hurt, sir?" said the man, with concern and alarm de- picted in his face., " No, I think not; only a scratch. See, the woman revives; aid me in taking her to the chamber above. She seems quiet now. -That is well."    Myra was borne passively to a room up a flight of steps, and there laid on a sofa. Alaric returned to the parlor, and wrote a short .note to his physician, stating what had happened, and requesting his pres- ence. This missive he dispatched, desiring Raymond to say there was no hurry. The doctor could call any time during the evening. The man had scarcely left his presence, when he rapidly ascended to the room above, and said, in a deep whisper, to the occupant of the sofa: " If you are not off before the return of my servant, I declare to you, most solemnly, you shall never see your child again! I will es- tablish the fact of your insanity so. firmly, that all you utter will but confirm it." Scarce were the words spoken, when Myra, light as a spirit, glided down the stairs. -He had struck the right chord. The mention of her child gave wings to her speed; while Mr. Alaric again seated himself quietly in his parlor, and waited the arrival of his friend, the doctor. In due time a loud rap announced that professional gentleman. "Bless me, Mr. Lovel, what is all this ?" Really, Dr. Harland, I cannot inform you, being as much mystified as you are. Except my consciousness of suddenly receiving a blow from the maddest woman I ever saw out of Bedlam, and, in necessary defence of my person, using some force, by which she was thrown down, I know nothing of the matter. My hand, you see, testifies to the violence with which I was assailed." "Mad woman, you say? That must be looked to. We will see your hand first. A severe cut-not dangerous, however. Why, sir, do you know what the strength of mad people is ? -I wonder you es- caped so well. There we are, all bound up now." " I must trouble you further, doctor, to step up stairs, and see this intruder. I gave her a stunning blow, I fear."  "Aye, aye," responded the Doctor, "show me the way, Raymond. Did you lock her in ?'                      . "Yes, sir, but what is this ?-the door is open;" said Raymond, peer* ing in, and looking round with close scrutiny. "Dr. Harland, she has gone." " Oh, that is exactly like a deranged person. It is wonderful what faculties insanity calls into action," muttered the doctor as-he joined his host, who immediately ordereld dhampagne, and the gentlemen were soon discussing the politics of the day, as though nothing at all-had happened.  CHAPTER IX. Pleasant a fountain swept along.- Its fragi-ant bank of flowers A nd summer bir;ds beguiled with song The sunlit springZlice hours. f    SCENE of splendor opens before ue while contemplating the -grand abode of the De Mars. This wasa Southern mansion, in comparison with which Ellerton was a cottage, and its wide fields, decorated pleasure grounds, and smiling gardens were insignificant. The hall itself was built of brick, with solid walls and elevated observatory. The main building was square, and no court- yard established its claim to be considered a copy of feudal grandeur. It was, as we have said, square, four stories high, and towered, amidst the vast old oaks by which it was surrounded, like some gigantic rock, which defies tempest and time, while it sees generations swept away, and the verdure of successive springs mature into the richness of sum- mer, fade with autumn's sickly hues, and shrivel beneath the cold breath of winter.  Lofty and wide were its halls, gorgeous its antique land costly furniture. Gilded moldings enriched its walls, which breathed of life and nature, and embellished its princely drawing-rooms. White marble statues rose, in classic elegance, amid its embowered lawns, and fountains played, falling into marble basins beneath the shade of its laurels. Everything about this domain struck the visitor at once with an idea of magnificence, and seemed to elevate the mind out of common life. Approaching it, first,its wide avenue, opened, guarded on either side, by majestic live oaks, from which depended mournful banners of long gray moss, gracefully contrasting with the exuberant and glossy green of the many-leaved trees,, Beneath nthese trees, in regular suc- cession, wAath intertwining wreath, Cerokee roses, multiflora and woodbine wove their drapery of white, pink, and ruby colored flowers. On the right of this avenue, almost as far as the eye could reach, spread an emerald lawn, with, here and there, a grove of cedar or myrtle   ATJERT HASTINGS.             55   trees, and far away, at its terminus, a river rolled grandly on, though seeming, in the distance, like a thread of silver, winding its 'serpentine course ii the blue haze of the remote prospect. On its left, waved a level rice field, where lowing kine exulted in the rich pasture it afforded, (though the golden grain had been gathered into the garneri) andwhinh,- while in front it was bounded by a vast and variegated forest, Shoied, at its back ground, other fieldsl Qo higher land, where Indiaan cor- aud cotton of most luxuriant growth, gladdenedthe eye :ofthe agriculturist. Passing through this avenu, the whole establishment, withits group- ings of fine out-buildings, garden houses of trellis-work,- stables, shrub- beries, and terraced gardens, combined 'to make the scene one which no other country save the sunny South, can present. The De Mar family consisted- of two soins and one:daughter. Mr. De Mar was now advanced in life; his sonS -were abroad, and Mrs. De Mar and' himself found, in the absence of their .other children,n aver failing delight in the goodness, beauty, and loving character of their daughter. Valerie De Mar was indeed fitted to be the nymph of a realm as beautiful as the one she graced. -Tallin stature, slender and-lithe as a willow wand, majesty and delicacy were beautifully united in her form; while her fair face, lightened by the soft dark ieyes of the South, and faultless in every feature; was shaded by exuberant Saxon hair, falling in tresses of wavy gold, and descending over a necka.nd shoulders so-marble-like that scarcely could the blue veins which wan- dered over them, faintly discernible establish their identity asflesh and blood. Mere personal beauty, let us argue aswe will, ean.never be-  come valueless. As long as the opening rose, With its celestial tints, shall continue to delight us; as long as we find pleasure, pe and :re- fined, in the contemplation of, the sky-colored harebell, or the st'rnless japonica; so long will we turn an admiring eye on the still. more attractive loveliness of girlish beauty. But when this is beheld inmom- bination with the higher attributes of the human face divine, then, in- deed, we own amaster spell-then is an enchantment felt which the  most stoical cannot resist.                          .  Alaric Lovel was a man hardened by crime, victoriousin his combats with a world which des^nds strength, courage and ability ton battle successfully with the obstacles ioh it oppose to the posession of its high places. He had fought a       anwon all he desired, by what means we will not say; yet, . hlbAtawere attained; and, so fao, the means weire known onlyto hisown bosom, and to thosewhom he had the power of controlling. Heirried on, as he had been 'by his -own-dark passions and still, in each instance, finding-himself more advanced by  M56         AT PTwURT HANGS. every step, right or wrong, which he had taken to procure that ad- vancement, he began to feel blind security in: his, own powers, and in the stability of his own good fortune. Strange as it may seem, there was in the elements of this man's nature, contradiction so absolute, that what he was, at one- time, seemed wholly adverse to his clearly-de- veloped character at another. What were the secret influences which bent his soul to crime we cannot explaini since the man had a love for the beautiful strongly implanted in his "constitution, and seemingly, a love for honesty and truth} too. He would not-crush a flower by the waysiae; he never encouraged vice, and many were living who could testify to his generosity in rendering aid to talent and virtue. His ar- rogance amounted to this; "I shall be my owns providence. I will carve my own way. lNothing shall retard me in following out my own plans; and nothing in life, not life iSelf,' my own or that of another, shall-hinder my resolves, which, once taken, shall be carried out to the letter." Atthis time he was, perhaps, the most esteemed of all the in. habitants within his own Congressional district. Mr. Alaric Lovel was now-an aspirant to the political honors of that section of his State. -Mr. De Mar had long admired him. He, would have him win at all costs; and Mr; Lovel did, win, and he was now the member elect, and as became him, Mr. De Mar, -having advocated his claims, gave him (Mr. Alaric) a great party. Lights were suspended in the scented boughs of the orange trees; a band played down the broad avenue; negroes danced the savage jigs of Congo; (for they were slaves then, and did -not aspire to:- the polka or schottisch,) and in the drawing- room of De- Mar- hall, a delicately robed and aristocratic troupe of dancers tripped through the merry maze, witti flying feet. But whom did he-the lord of the ascendant, the- member elect,-honor with his regards? Few indeed I He was a man seemingly buried in the science of political% economy. What were youth and beauty, or even love, to him? - No I he was another Webster, or Calhoun, who, looking only to the good of hiscquntryi , dared all opposition, and defied all censure, so that the end was secured. Truly, Mr. Alaric Lovel was a great man; his cotemiporaies called him great, his succe0rS would no less call him so. .Butk [ latrioLovel was a coldMabglion. )u Man did not de- ligiht ]ii oman heither., Bi   uh   t Mbaze on the aro- matic  Off lhstf illiminated limnie trees at, j s ghglitter in. the blue profound above; - while the- voices of; f ibi 'wiltmen hailed himj the man of theitchoice, and Mrs;. De Hrt an d -:aereherself mights-mile approvingly on lim;--yet could he not descetJ;fEoi his lofty eleva- ion topartake-of rejoicings made f&orfim. So ti, e world said. /                           b ,                     .     .   ALBERT HASTINGS.            57 But we will look into his own heart, and commune with him for a brief space, apart from other confidence, in the sanctum of his-own room, at the superb home of the De Mars. Then anda there, how bit- terly did he realize the futility of those vain sophisms,'which, ireconcil ing him to crime, only sloped the way to ruin. Not in the eye of tie world, 'tis true. The hour had:not yet arrived, perhaps, he gloomily thought, never would arrive, to place him: in an attitude of defected villainy before his fellow-men. But his own remorseful and accusing heart assured him that deliberately he had himself sealed a doom, irre- versible by all the power he could command, irreversible by his own repentance, and not the less grievous to be borne because he-must share it alone. What was hllnan love or sympathy to 1him? The wild and passionate dream of his boyhood aid youth--his love for- poor Myra--he had with ruthless hand- destroyedd, by making iher, as she truly said, his victim.' And though not guilty to the full extent of her allegation, he had instigated the- destruction of a'rival;though he had not deceived her with a pretended 'marriage; and-now, when his riper judgment approved another choice, and when he saw that the glorious creature who fascinated his mind, and captivated his iheart did not regard him with indifference--now, indeed, he dtnk -the bitter W a ters of unavailing regret. Sitting there, alone with hismisery whilea silver lamp shed its pure rays over his bowed head, and gusts of evening air, perfumed from shrubs below, stirred the drapery of his lace cur- tained couch, and bent the flame of the richly chased- lminary which' lightened his apartment, he was scarce recogmzable 'as the haughty and self-sufficient Alaric Lovel.  Desolation the most absoluter hopeless- ness the most dreary, and woe, the most deep-seated aid overwhelming were expressed in the face, the attitude, the very form of the great man.  And even at this moment, there was one in this house, its heiress and-its idol, (herself a vision of loveliness) who would have given the whole lordly domain for one smile from thosei stem lips, or one approving glance from: those mournful eyes.-- trhe had been sought, since the first dawn of her womanhood, by aspirants otvery grade of merit, but she had Steadily refused offers, smetimed by her parents, sometimes almost seconded by h r own pr the impressive figure, calm dignity, and ma;rked features Sofiacrh most reserved and noble 1oDking man, closed her heart .agait :ill ad- miration save that which:already possessed her youthfailfaIney  Alaric Lovel was undeniably a handsome man, Wfhoa grand a-, uai somewhat in his presence which repelled levity, and cowmre respect. He was just the person to attract a girl like Valerie De Mar, *     t   58          ALBERT HASTINGS. who could not brook flattery, detested pedantry, and hated dandyism. -In proportion as men rise above the frivolities of the sex, and are appa- rently too lofty to become sensible to their charms, just in that proportion are they objects of interest to women.. Valerie had long ago set- up an ideal of her own, and, in her secret soul, her father's guest was the Lara of her dreams, loved for his mystery, adored for his ambition, and that command over others which she daily saw exercised by him. This, the hushed secret of her soul, scarce acknowledged to herself, he, with a penetration which enabled him to read the charac- ters and feelings of those around him, knew, and, villain as he was, did not rejoice to know. This very evening, while sitting in one of the vine-embowered verandahs, which extended in front of De Mar Hall, he had marked her heightened color, and the tremulous accents ia which his name had been pronounced when they casually met. And that fair and noble face and figure could not be banished, though asso- ciated with memories which told him that she was far removed from his sphere as were the stars in their mysterious vault above. What then? If she loved him, she would be unhappy. That, at least, was no fault of his, and, sighing heavily, he rose arid walked with measured strides back- wards and forwards through the wide apartment. The struggle in his mind was fearful, and great drops stood on his brow. Long did he meditate, and still the struggle went on, till a loud bell announced sup- per, and then Alaric, with cold aspect, and his usual easy and lofty man- ner, went to join the company, and receive, as was his wont, on every hand, respectful greetings and deferential salutations. Moonlight oiill and grove, on the far-off fields of silvered green, on the polished surface of the glittering river, on deep dun woods, on the massive old hall, on the sparkling fountains, and white statues of its extended pleasure-grounds. Robed in the saffron garb of a milder day, they stood revealed, while high above, the pale lady of the night heightened their charms and softened their outline, as they be- came invested with her serene lustre. A moss-house stood beside a clump. of willows, in the midst of which a marble fountain played, -and Diana, with her bended bow, presided over that particular grove. With foot advanced, andshining quiver, the goddess, in cold, passion- less beauty, stood ready to wing the fatal shaft.-a form of grace which would have compelled the adoring Ephesian to his knees, and was not without its effect an any beholder, though no mythologist, in a scene like -that now presented. '  Beside the fountain waspa seat composed of branches rudely sev- ered, and partly covered with lichen, forming a rustic chair, on which   AT,)BTRT HASTINGS.          59 reclined a form no less lovely than that of the fabled goddess of the wood. With downcast eyes, and in an attitude of unutterable depres- sion, Valerie De Mar, leaving the crowded hall and thronged pleasure- -ground, found refuge here, nor was she long alone. A rustle -amongst fallen leaves, a tall figure passing athwart the moonlight, and, Alaric stood beside her. Such, however, had been her abstraction that he remained for some moments unheeded, and when the discovery was made that he was the intruder, she became pale as death, and rose to depart, in such confusion and disorder, that Alaric strove to quiet and reassure her, saying: "Valerie--Miss De Mar, pray forgive me, I did not dream any one was here." "No," stammered Valerie, "I could never have thought that my being here would have attracted you to this spot; on the contrary, you would have avoided it, of course, and I beg that you will now pass on, thinking nothing of having met me--I assure 'you that I shall not need any one's protection. All the grounds here are inclosed-- pray leave me l" Valerie spoke bitterly, and she felt unbidden tears ready to over- flow her eyes. Why had he been so forward to disclaim the wish to 1 see her, as if to disabuse her mind of the idea that he had sought her?? Her pride took the alarm. What if he guessed the truth, and knew indeed how dear he was to her? It was while these thoughts passed through her mind, and the varying color came and went in her cheek, distinguishable even in the moonlight, that Alaric, contemplating her, felt a new and overpowering interest steal over him. She, the beauti- ful, the idolized, the gifted, could he cast this pearl of tare price away,' and have none to love-to trust him-in the world? No, he could not. "Valerie," said he, this evening, for the first time in his life, had-he unwittingly addressed her thus,-"Valerie, why do you say that I should have avoided the spot in which you were? Is it because you think I ought so to have done? You are right, for your presence is a danger- ous snare. You do not know, beloved Valerie, what a world-hardened and unworthy man I am. You would shrink from me if you -did. You, in the bloom of your innocent and glorious womanhood, what can you have in common with one like me? I could not- so wrong you as to seek your affections. I should hate myself if I did; and yet, were I deserving the boon, heaven knows how gladly I would resign  ery dream of worldly distinction, honor, fame, wealth, to obtain it." Alaric drew himself up to his full height, looked on her with eyes so **   60           ALBERT HASTINGS. full of tenderness and truth, (for once in his life he did speak sincerely,) while his form dilated with emotion, and his deep-toned voice faltered with excess of feeling, while the cold moonbeams fell on his colder brow, and he looked more like the Antinous which, gleamed from an adjacent: -pedestal, than like an animated form of- breathing life. She raised her face to his, and all the -wealth of her hidden love spoke from that resplendent visage. A mighty joy shot through her frame, so overpowering-that faintness seized her for an instant, but she was caught to the bosom she most loved; and as the pair retraced their steps towards the hall, vows were plighted, and a solemn engagement made in presence of the gleanming moon and attesting stars. Alaric Lovel was an envied man. , .*   "AP 'r    X. And, eagle'eyed, will genius'look F'arinto, futre days ;' Bright pages hath hope'd golden book On which he bends hid gaze. jt 'LBBERT   IASTINGS grew    rapidly in :the esteem of his rt, employer, and' it was with that pride and protecting conse- Y,  quence, with which patrons are ever disposed to consider those dependent on, or promoted by'them, that he regarded the manly and intelligent boy whose services:-were really valuable, and of whom he was often heard to say, in his elliptical but expressive manner: "Fine youth, belongs to my establishment-my young clerk, sir." :Mrs. Goggles' fourth-rate boarding-house was abandoned, and Albert installed in a handsome room at the "Planters'," with a standing invi- tation to Mr. Oldbam's house, and a wardrobe which the satchel, distend it as you might, could not contain. His beloved studies were still pur- sued with avidity. The boy had set up a standard of his own-vhigh, indeed, but for that very reason, demanding the concentration of his mental powers, and an untiring diligence, which, while it consolidates the erratic talent of youth, in after years produces an abundant harvest of wisdom.- Knowledge of books -he was now acquiring; knowledge of men would be forced on him in time, to- combine practicalore with jtheQetherisespr.,ils ,lore of the,schools,. It is thie mbination of worldly, living experience, with the' information acquir4ed by reading, ) hich, after all; makes the great man.- Like Dicken  we:mnaybthegreat, ;yet coarse. Like Thackeray, one may be powerful, yet unjustthutto resemble Homer or Goldsmith, experience of the world, as well as extended acquaintance with the writings of learned men, must unite. The boy was happy now.   His days were devoted to the discharge of Mr. Oldham's business; his evenings and nights to the cultivation of   62           ALBERT HASINGTS. a mind richly endowed by nature. From principle, he gave to his master's affairs the energies of his body; from inclination and an inward impulse, known only to the children of genius, he gave to his own pursuits the energies of his mind and soul. And so he toiled on, for a brief space. Entering Mr. Oldham's house one evening, about this time, Albert,. with his usual off-hand and heartfelt warmth, walked up to the easy chair which that gentleman, at home, filled, and offered him his greetings. Mr. Oldham, buttoning his coat, as was his wont, when he felt his dig- nity assailed, whether in-doors or out, looked hard at Albert, and said : "Young man, I have this day, heard such an account of you as surprises, and, I will add, grieves me. I would not, on light evidence, withdraw my friendship from you, but I feel myself compelled, how- ever reluctantly, to say that, from this time, your connection with me ends. I am sorry, very sorry to' dismiss you, and, though I feel that the advice will be thrown away, yet I recommend you to return to your aunt, whom you have so ungratefully and shamefully abandoned, and whose anxiety for you is destroying her." "May I ask, Mr. Oldham, who has told you this?" said the boy, highly excited. "My beloved mother would disprove it herself, were she here to answer for me. Tell me, at least, who is my accuser. It surely cannot be Mr. Alaric Love]. He, of all living, should be silent when my aunt's wrongs are discussedl I I tell, you, Mr. Oldham, that he has been her bitter, unrelenting persecutor. I tell you, sir, that he has robbed her of her home, spoiled her of her fortune, left her with- out the means of subsistence, ground her down to the most extreme poverty. :He my accuser, forsooth I I might long since have been his, but from motives, of delicacy. Yes, sir, you may look incredUlous to hear a child talk in this way, but, sir, I have, I hope, some delicacy. The tutorage of Mrs. Level, would. indeed have been wasted, h'ad it not taught me to respect the feelings of others. Sir, the time has come when I can declare, without fear, and in the face of the whole world, that Alario Leovel is a base slanderer, a false friend, a knavish adviser, and Heaven grant he be no worse l" "Young man--child, I say, take care how you speak of such men as Mki Lovell Why, boy, he has made my house advances in the bank for years-years, boy--and our business, his and mine, must come to a close if you stay any longer here. It would ruin me to fall out with Mr. Alaric. Don't you see I -can't fall out with him? He is a man of known honor, the world says, but if once offended, they tell me, he would sooner see his brother starve than relent. They say he --  *  . .        ,   n           .   ALBERT HASTINGS.           63 prides himself on his own infallibility, and, once turning his back on any one, will never face such an individual again tillthat dread day when all shall meet at the-summons of the archangel's trumpet. Do you see, Albert, what it is to fall out with such a man? The whole world is on his side I Ah, my poor boy, you may be hardly used; I wil not say that you are not, but reflect for a moment. You stay here- to- morrow the bank calls for instant payment of the, funds now invested in my mercantile transactions. The cash is not forthcoming; my notes are protested; I am ruined. There is no choice between offending this man, and being reduced to beggary. Leave me, boy  He has said that you must go, and his word, in my circumstances, is fate. Had I my own will in this matter, it would not be so; but I am old-I could "not contend with a man like him--I should be crushed in the struggle. Now, Albert, hear what I have to propose. There is a ship in which I am largely concerned, going to the Bahamas immediately. I can put you on board, as a passenger you understand, and. so convey you to the West Indies; once arrived in the port of Nassau, you will find yourself in possession of papers, which may further my interest and your own. I will prove you; boy, I will prove you; but he must not know it. No I secrecy and dispatch are the words." "Mr. Oldham, you have been taught to disfrustu -me. If any sus- picion yet lingers in your mind, I will not undertake this mission.- If not, and you are willing to confide your affairs to my hands-I under- take them; but, sir, it will be with fear and trembling. I shall do my best, and, oh, sir, I beg as a last boon to one whom you may see no more, that you will break off all connection with'that fraudfnl man, whose friendship is ruin, whose aid is, in its results, despair. This I ask for your own sake, satisfied that time will assure you on what good grounds I rest my assertions."  Mr. Oldham held his hand out to Albert, and there was moisture in his eyes, as-he said: "I more than half believe you, and it will be by your acts in the future, Albert, that I shall judge you. Forget what I have said, and give your attention to the business confided to you." - One word, sir-shall I see my aunt before I leave?" 'CYes," returned Mr. Oldham, " but nothing to her of our ipnver- sation respecting Mr. Alaric Lovel." "As you will, sir," and Albert left the house of his patron. The broad-faced autumnal moon had cast her yelldw mantle over field and dell, as Albert Hastings rode towards the secluded abode ot his aunt. Tall gloves with variegated hues, loomed up in, silent repose,   "          ALIBERT HASBTINGS. only:the song of the-whip-poor-will, and the occasional scream of the idghtiawk broke a: pervading stillness, which seemed to hallow the familiar scenes through which he passed, and which he felt he might be contemplating for the last time. There-were the snowy cotton- fietlds With th-'eir coveted product hanging from open pods, and inviting, the hand of the gatherer. There were long files of Indian 'corn, with abundant sleaves turned down upon their stalks. There were open plains with their young forests of old field pines and bending willows, all sleeping in pale moonlight, as the solitary equestrian, looking around with earnest eyes, pursued his way through a half obscure pathway, yet well known to him, which led to'the cottage he sought. WIhat does the word cottage imply? The wealthy use it as a desig- nation for some suburban resort, where an unostentatious house, low- roofed and vine-draped, yet gathers in its well-furnished rooms, com- fort of every kind, sofas and easy chairs and cabinets and pictures, in- struments of music, paintings and mirrors. But what does the word cottage import to the poor? Bare -walls-hard fare-dim light and un- compromising poverty in all its skeleton details. But Albert rode on, and as he neared the lowly abode of those most dear to- his heart, the aspect of the country changed. He ceased to hear the rush of the saw-mill, as it whirled and roared amidst the sweep of foaming waters. He left behind him the broad expanse of the moon-silvered mill-pond-the wealthy fields of cotton and corn-- the moveless grandeur of shaded wood and picturesque grove-he struck out' into the pine barren, where no undergrowth broke the umber tint of one wide carpet, where only gigantic trees with tufted crests, like grim and war-hardened warriors, stood sentinels in solitude arid night--sleepless and undaunted, while wild winds sang amid their plimes, and moonlight flickered upon, their tall trunks.: Here and there. a sqcuare portion of bark was cut out from a tree, indicating the -path, and this was called a blazed road, known only to the initiated in forest travel; but Albert was one of these, and soon the flicker of a feeble light shone from the poor habitation of the once opulent lady of Ellerton. He dismounted and rapped at the door. Emeline, like a spirit of light, opened it, and he 'fomil' -hiself in the arms of his be- loved'aunt. "Oh, Albert,--:isit:it'deed .you? Why this sudden visit? I hoped you were so well: ogf. as to thinki-o more of this poor place, but I .wrong you, my: son I .. cou       so soor ' Let me look at you more carefully Yes i 'F see tl stamp of a strug- gling life on your young fea-tr es Tell m'e all, :.dear child-conceal 4               .      .  .   AI^IERT HASTINGS.    ,     -.  65 nothing--you know that in me you have a friend never to:bechanged --yet, I would fain know how the world fares with -you i" .- . -"I am doing well, dear aunt, better than my most sanguine hopes ever taught me to expect. Mr. Oldham has been, and is, a good  friend to me, but I am going out of the country, mother; and 'tis: M Oldham who sends me on business of high trust,^which I shafi be proud to discharge in a proper manner. I could not go:-ithout-seeing. you and Emeline; so I obtained/his -permission to come and:bid y. firewell. I am going to the West Indies, dear mother, and you must bless me before I start." "Ah, dear child! and will you, too, tempt the faithless-sea, as your father did, never to return? Is your going unavoidable, Albert?- '- "I fear it is, dear mother, but let us look on the :bright side. I. shall come back and find you better. I shall have earned something  by which your comfort may be promoted, and then we will all rejoice, our separation over, that it ever took place. 'Is it not so, Ermeline?" Emeline had always been accustomed to look up to Albert as one endowed with superhuman wisdom, and this appeal from him to her- self confusing her, she replied: "You say all will be right, Albert, and you know better than I do. Only-only, I am so sorry you are going away." "Look here, Emeline," said the boy, passionately, "'this is the great- est trial I ever had in my life, and I want you to help me to bear it. I  know your noble nature-I know your power over met  Now, Emeline, say you wish me to go--say I shall be right in obeying ]Mr. Oldham's wishes, and the trial is over." "Yes, dear Albert, think I have said all you wish me to say-and, though I  am left behind, my thoughts- will be with you till the happy day of your return."                   - Mrs. Lovel wept during this discourse, and calling Albert to- her bed: side, laid her hands on his head, and said:      :  "  "My   son, in this life I shall never see you more. I feel that my days are numbered. I  am assured that your life, if spared, will be one i- of usefulness and honor. I  feel that if you live, my child will never want a  friend, and should it be otherwise, there is yet a Friend above who will not forsake her.. Cheerfully, my dear son, do I confide you to . the care of the world's great Governor. Prop after prop has fallen away from me as I  near the  viewless sh're-:ie aftertie has been sunderedi . till the final struggle has lost much of :its terror.- And I should 'be - grateful for thislI Emeline is now almost'all that binds me Qto life.   "          ATBRRT HASTINGS. Farewell, my son, child of. my Eudora, who waits me in the better land--farewell forever, Albert!" Mrs. Level was exhausted, and said no more; while Emeline threw her arms round Albert's neck and wept without restraint, till he tore himself away, and the solemn old woods seemed bidding him mute farewell as the chick-will-willow sent her resounding song through the wild, and the swamp-sparrow twittered on her lowly nest, amidst long grass and, tangling weeds. Go forth, young adventurer, outcast from the world and from friends I Go forth, but sorrow shall yet bear for thee peaceful fruits. Thy bold and self-reliant spirit shall do battle bravely with storm and tempest, and, like the tannen. on its Alpine height, rugged nurture will but harden thee to bear unshrinking that Which a weaker nature might not endure I f          '  -     '      ' "   CRAPTER X But there is one, a stately one, I Zoued as none beside have done, Wh0o talked of Zoe, but scorn instead Heaped on my lowly bended head, And after hope Zong, long delayed Mooked at the rMin he had made. T was on this very evening that Myra, the wild woman of the , wood, sat in her log cabin before a bright blaze of pine knots. tShe was alone, the child Roxanna having fallen asleep, and there was no   sound save that peculiar and sea-lile dirge which evening winds create amidst the tossing branches of feathery pine boughs. Myra looked earnestly and long into the fluctuating and lurid flame, as though contemplating it curiously; but a close observer would have noted that her eyes, though fixed, were meaningless, and that her thoughts were evidently wholly disconnectedfrom any object around. She sat long and wearily, never withdrawing her gaze from the bright flame till footsteps were heard on the'threshoId, and in th e next instant an old and haggard woman, without salutation, drew near and stood before her ew near "Sit down, Mother Amy, sit down   and rest yourself. Youlook worn and thin, 'alas, good mother I 'tis a sorrowfu I world , and none know it better than I do." The old woman so addressed bore on her features other traces than those of time. Some  heavy woe evidently bowed her to the earth and her poor, mean garments, stooping gure and w an,wrinkled visage, were calculated to awaken sym  pathy. H er voicewas plaintive and broken, as: she replied to Myra 's invitation :  "Ah, Myra, y ou do no t k now what it is to lose a son, an only child, on  e that your heart w as set on, and who, though he might be wild and frolioksomrne, alwa ys loved you and promise d to med and:had'loving ways with him . J oh n, my p oor boy, left me so stra ngely I could   68          ATARF,RT HASThUGS. not think he had gone forever, and I don't know it yet. Sometimes I almost fancy his footsteps draw near, and I start up with joy. I cannot give over hoping he will come back, and this makes me restless of nights, Myra. This evening there was a horn sounded down the wood away towards the river, and I said, 'What if it should be!e come home from his wanderings! what if I should clasp him in my arms before I die, and he a living man?' Oh I Myra, I have prayed and waited and watched so long-surely he will come to me yet." "Think it not, mother," said Myra, solemnly-" think it notl Give up your son into His hands who gave him to you for a time. He will never return, and you wear yourself out with vain expectation, as I have told you before. It grieves me, good mother, to see you torture yourself so vainly,' Do not think me unkind, but I tell you the certain conviction of my mind, and you must not consider me harsh, or that I do not feel for you. Ah I you don't know how much I do feel when I'say this."             - "You should feel for me, Myra, and for him, too, poor lad, since he loved you above the whole world; and never held up his head after the day you Bed with Alaric Lovel. Don't look so fearfully at me when I call that- name. They tell me 'tis a great name now; but there was no love between him and my John, and there is none between him and me,} either. '-I can't tell what thoughts I have sometimes about that man. -I dreamed one night that John came and told me Alaric Lovel was his mortal foe; but that indeed I knew before, and my mind gets darker and darker about it all, till I am well nigh mad. In that dream I saw him by the side of a pond, and he looked wistfully into its waters. I go there often, why, I -don't know; but something draws me-to it. Myra, why do you stare and look so wild?" "Oh, mother, your words are fearful!" said Myra, shuddering and clasping her hands; a I am a lone woman; don't -tell me such terrible things, Hark I' how the night wind sings through the forest, and there was a sharp cry, as of a wolf or fox-did you not hear it?" "I heard nought, Myra, but I feel the strong throbs of my heart. Oh, did I know that John Austin came -to his end by unfair dealing, I tell-you, woman, I would compass land and sea to discover who wronged him. I would renew my youth. I would forget to be weary. I would not 'give sleep to my eyes, nor slumber to my eye-lids,' till the villain 1were dragged to justice, that the dead might rest in peace. I care not how great or grand his destroyer might be, if he is indeed de- stroyed. I would revenge him, I say, aged and feeble and sorrow-  stricken as I am." And the old woman clenched her attenuated hand,   ALB   HASTIN.           69 while her eyes flashed with a cold, siM-ister glitter. "Thatpond haunts me, continued she. "As I came past it this evening, a great white crane stoodamongst the rushes on its sedgy bank, and, stretching forthI its long neck, caught up small fishes, joyfully rioting m the doze and turbid waters; then another bird,- of a dark, slate colorr came and at tempted to snatch from the first angler his prey, and they struggled upon the wave, but the intrudbr, with his- sharp talons and cruel beak, beat off his antagonist, who fled .shrieking from Ithe scene of conten- tion; and the first was last-might was right. Hist I the wounded crane lay, as if mortally stricken, upon the waters and my soul was moved with pity. I drew him towards the green bank of water-lies and wild indigo, but, as he trailed over he yielding element, Itell you woman, there floated a hnuman skull inhis wake. Yes] There itwas, eyeless and ghastly; a nimble green frog leaped from is forehead;  grinning teeth held slippery vegetation between their regular files It rose and sank, and bobbed and danced before me.  What mightthis mean? I fled from  the scene, and the wailt of .the dying birdrang upon my ear.   Other wails may have been heard at that fatal spot They may have been the death-cries of my child I But why do I -seek comfort from you?  Why do I seek knowledge of you? I knownot. Myra, you are apquainted with grief. I know your history better than you yourself know  it, and I once hoped to call you my daughter. I would have s called  you, but the coil of the serpent wasaround you. You had felt the fascination of his baleful eye. None ever escaped his snare--how could you, innocent child, escape it? It was fory-ur sake that he hated my   boy. It was for your sake, perhaps, that he slew him;  and yet I blame you not. We can, at least, feel, for each- other, but you must aid me. I know your ready wit I   know your fearless temper-will you help me to discover the murderer of my son --answer me?-"a The old woman, during this address, had kept her eyes steadily fixed on Myra, who blanched not beneath their gaze, and whose features, were calm as she replied: "What would  you have me do, mother? W hat know I  of the acts of Alaric Lovel, save only as they concern me? Look at my   child sleeping yonder. I   tell you nothing which you do not already know when I   say he is her father. Would you have me seek his life, or be- tray it were he in my power?" "Myra, hear me," cried the old woman, erecting herself to her full height. If you conceal a   crime, you partake it. Alaric Lovel will never do you or your child justice. Are there not rejoicings and prep.   70     \     ATLE :RT HABGi. arations for a wedding at De Mar Hall? Is not Alaric Lovel to lead to the altar fair Valerie De Mar, and-does she not doat on him as you, foolish womani once did? Aha? you turn pale now. This is news, is it nott?" The blood had indeed forsaken Myra's face. H er lips were white; her breath came fast; her arms drooped heavily by her side, and a per- ceptlbie tremor pervaded her frame. She seemed about to fall, when old Amy filled a gourd from the water pail, and tendering it to her, said:    . "Take this, child; I guessed how it would be-ah, woful world! I will go now, though 'tis late, but I shall not pass by way of the pond, no Hdown yonder through the shades will II go. It matters not that- mrywalk is long." : And as she had come without a word of greeting, the old woman, aiding her steps with :a walking-cane, departed. Myra heeded her not, but'seemed like one'turned to stone. Long she sat thus, till some over-mastering feeling swept over her, and bursting into a passionate flood of tears, she. spoke aloud, well knowing that there were none to hear her words: i"It shall never be-no, never I --7What, drag another victim to ruin, and she so fair and good? It shall neverbe! Let it cost what it may, he shall stoup short of that. Ingrate, monsterl He knows my just claim-he knows-bat words are :vain--I will save her--my resolve is taken . ; twas a sad scene which the; night, with its unrevealing eyes looked on. The: unconscious -child reposing on her hard, coarse cot-the ago- nized mother, torn by conflicting feelings, alone, utterly alone-the fitful glare of the pine-wood fire, exposing bare want-the slanting rays of the setting moon casting, long shadows from tall trees, branchless to a I. ;,- great' elevation; the hush of nature without, the storm of human passion,within, demonstrated by rapid' steps and the burning light of an eye which was terrible in-its wrath and resolve. There the solitary Myra took counsel of none but her own dark spirit, and whatever was decided on in circumstances like these, there -could be no doubt but that she would carry -it out to the letter.   -   CHABPTER,ZIIL Oa   'th 4ight! waere oe:ounding wepr o L08ft Up 0is awufl oide, - lo fbarn-cro'.n e-bitowronwwh aep  A ZOtld the wind8 7r ad 8Wee OONLI3-P onthe idewaters of the- World-sw01-illk Atlantic - Alanticl ' erril-speeds :the bold.-bri' owerm deeps,' nfathomed yet: by m, where morienfalpeaa aud wedge 90d.-reeksg ; wedges' of gold--wrecks!and sea-weed,.coral branches,?and wealth undreamed of, line th caver of he gr  t dpe scaly monsters tossands'reelamdst the, gardensofthe s;   throughthe .rystal element, floral wonders floatheuwknorld to thepar terreedge of- ofn ea'wed            Wr thne'h terres -of earrth All this beneath, while like one: ,eet ofpoisheld glass, now green, :now blue as heaven's own tint, - now wasapi'e snow, and, anon, dark as despair, the ever-heavingwate rollto: ad fro; while phosphorescent: sparks like 'world of di-ern.;:tars, shoot up before the prow of theadven turous bark,.and-to:th :ieyeiof ignorance are suggestive of instant death by:fire.    YFea, rpofie tml-laxurioiWYmidst-th'e myriad.     - .tumble suxurioilyamidst the mpald eaweedsof the nighty.(-ul Stream.  "Mother Carey!s hicks" ,kimmngly,. ght, and . qettsh- ly-rise fronm the unstable element which is- their home, whose strms they do not dread, and. w-hose thunders bring no:ter rs, tr them., The flying-fish dart upward: and return, with a .lightp la,.n -h4i ' great world of waters, Stars tremble on ocean's wide fied, s .:bounded. ba. distant-haze of faint blue, where :receding land m elts, son into ar -where  groves and plain merged ileel  siindil-c ei*dfsioU:/-n te horzon  and- are lost. M eTrly-dances the bg4iighfly. er:sails flutter in the wind as it comes freshy across its ce;piain-- Passe gers stand on the- declr of .the bold craft which,an i tration of man's adventurous spirit and the achievem entsof fhis skildares oldNeptune to combat in his ow n domain, and successflly contends w ith the: S n gods of the majestic deep. Like a troop of plumed; horsemen , on dash *  9        en-o-aX   72          AT   HSP T EASTNG. ' myriads of foaming billows in regular succession; and now evening winds pipe amidst the shrouds, as, bearing gallantly before the breeze, forth fares the wanderer, seemingly without purpose, yet steering di- rect for those summer islands which, to the visitant from colder climes, appear like enchanted lands- of romance--the realm of a new world indeed.       ^ J.  - G- Sunrise in mid-ocean Il which gleamsie molten gold, where morn's rosy tints bhlsh upon its surface. Merrily rides the bark over a sea of glass which no wave ruffles; but soon appears a towering rock, shoot- ing up in naked nmajesty toward the sky. There is concern on the faces of the seamen as they eye it, and more slowhecomes the advance of-the vessel as- he nearm a dangerous pass. Orders are given and obeyed with speed, and after a time a voice is heard proclaiming-"All safe I Up with the mainsail, and ho I for Bahamas 1" Anad :now like the bird of Jove,with :broad wings. expanded, and sweeping through fields of air, the good-brig CQaroline cleaves her way through - crystyal -waters with ease and rapidity. Emerging from, the- boundless;waste, and dotting its-unvaried-face, little islets covered with verdure -of:intense green, resemble; hillocks of emerald velvet. On a nearer approach -they discover low pines, fan palmetto and a matted growth of: canes,/together with a vast variety of interwoven shrubbery. Conchs and tiny sea-shells, beautiful, and of hues so v rious as to beg- gar description -pebbles :and- shining sand line the shore,: which is hov- ered over by birds of most gorgeous plumage:; among which blood-red flamingoes m flocks present a novel and grand spectacle to the eye of the curious stranger. But these glide by, or are-lete behind, and now indeed a siblime panorama bursts upon the scene,     f fe Y'onderi rise- tall, chalkyr rocks,-gleaming ;white beneath the fervid rays of a tropical un. - There the iguana basks in burning, sunlight; there sleepy turtles repose amidst fissures of granite; there bending cocoas, like a long-fileof disabled-soldiers from Palestine, stand guard upon the beetling cliffs, White dweligs, contrastingwith vivid green, known only-to the tropics, rise proudly with verandahs and jalousies and airy iigtness of building unknown elsewhere, save in classic Italy, where palazzo and archedtrellis-workcourt scentedgales and avoid the closeiand heavy architecture which, inm northern realms excludes, instead of wooig,-free ago -- -But we near the port ofNassau. Opposite, lies Silver Key, and as  the Caroline, exultant from her successful voyage, advances, let us scan more particularly that which addresses itself tangibly to our senses. Look at thoebananana trees clad with vast leaves drooping and shivered   ^ ALBEBT HASTINGeS.           73 by winds, which often rush with uncontrolled energy over this now still and sun-governed land. Look at the gigantic aloes, blooming once in a hundred years, and towering over the heads of a forest growth which no-other land can emulate. Yes, there, far away between earth and heaven, waves one of those centennial flowers which marks the lapse of ten decades How musical. the never-ending rustle of tam- arind trees, with their long dark fringes of hanging fruit in-immense podsl  What odors exhale from pimento and lime trees, while groves of orange and sago vary and enrich this tropical landscapel What giant flowers I Who ever beheld before aught like the brilliant kalmia or fully-developed laurel, with its waxen blooms of wide circumference and luscious fragrance? where guavas and plantains and zapotes, mam- mee and papaw, star-apples and huge melons of every description, as- tound the northern traveller? It must be confessed that the buildings after landing, strike one as low and insignificant, at Nassau ,except tho Government House, which is palatial in its proportions and splendid in its equipments. Situated on a commanding elevation; built :ofstone, with its grand verandah supported by massive pillars, it isafit token - of the great dynasty whose delegated power is represented by the Governor who occupies it. Frequent hurricanes deter:the inhabitants of the town from erecting tall dwellings, so that the cottage still pre- dominates. But cottages here re arelittle less than summer bowers over- grown with sheltering trees and curtained with densely-wovendrapery of Indian creeper and other parasitical vines. The most desirable abodes here are thosewhich, away from  the town, are placed, beneath cocoa or tamarind grovesi on some elevated point above the ocean, where fresh winds have free passage,.and bear away on their strong pinions whole hosts of nimble and. complaining mosquitoes, which sting and sing, and sing and sting, till oneis well nigh distracted. , Albert stepped on shore at Nassau with misgivings and a sense of exhaustion. His first object was to procure a lodging in/the;town, and this, fortunately, he could not obtain; but, at the recommendation of the merchant to whom  Mr. Oldham had 'given him letteritook up his abode at the house of a native West Indian residents where every breath of air which had traversed the-main on that side of-theisland, necessarily passed before reaching land, imbibingmaliar from decaying vegetation and stagnant water. Well was it for Albert that- his new found friend had so located him; for that most direful, resistless and insidious of mortal maladies, yellow fever, madeitS appearance about the time of his arrival, and day after day did the mournl hearse con-  hereo   7C4          ATR'PERT HASTINGS. vey before his eyes some hapless stranger like himself to. the hasty burial which follows sudden death in these beautiful but fatal realms. Strange infatuation I - - With all this before their eyes, having year after year seen interred on their deathful- coast, the young, the adventurous, the gifted, the noble and the. brave, still a visitor, is assured by the in- habitants, with- seeming sincerity, that. perfect health pervades the West Indian Islands.   But it is not peculiar to West Indians that people will believe, or say, if they do not believe it, that their own home is salubrious-indeed, the most remarkable spot on earth for tho longevity and -uniform- exemption from disease which its favored in- habitants enjoy; -while their populous church-yards and less conse- -crated spots attest the countless throngs who have atoned with their lives for their reckless credulity. It was evening as Albert walked from the town of Nassau to his more elevated residence-the evening of the gorgeous tropics I Away over heaving billow and far off islet, the great western sun sank to his watery couch in the main; but his departing grandeur exhibited a scene,- which, to be appreciated, must be witnessed.' Where could heavens glow like these? Even Italia's poetic skies, where."parting day," the great- bard of nature says, " dies like the dolphin," are nought in emulation-of those above him. But no hues, however vivid, can compare with the living scarlet, burning crimson, purple, pale pink, gol- den yellow,: emerald green, and numberless shades of this overarching vault, now strongly contrasted, now softly harmonized, here a rich mosaic, the/re :blended- so delicately that- they' seem inwoven of tissue and gauze, and sprinkled with precious stones, the like of which no mine has yet yielded to the light of day. There, in the bending concave, are shapeless rocks, piles of porphyryand agate and opal, of4 diamonds and garnets and sapphires. Let none deem this the language of exaggera- tion. Let the skeptic gaze but once On the evening heavens of the en- chanted Antilles in- autumn, and then- let him declare whether any hu- man language can describe a glory anda aresplendence lighted by His hand, who, at his own omnipotent pleasure, can lend to earth the rav- ishing beautty of the eternal heavens, and bestow on man a fleeting glimpse of paradise. i Larger and larger grew the setting sun, powerful even in the- dying out of his daily sovereignty. Aslant, his beams glittered on the waters; lightly they shimmered on drooping cocoa trees; imperceptibly they glided away- from precipitous cliff and sloping bank. Then came the refreshing ocean wind. Then wilted bananas and languishing kalmias revived, awaiting the evening moisture of pearly dew.   n4SERBT  ASTINGs.          75 Albert owned the reviving effect of the hour, but his heart was sad. He had but now quitted the bedside of one who, ere the morrow's sun should enlighten earth and sea with beams of terrible and blinding light, would have exchanged the scenes of this life for that other and viewless. existence, of which no disembodied spirit has returned to tell us these- crets, and where faith and hope alone remain to guide our conjectures. :Yes, on a bamboo couch, away from friends and home, smitten by the mortal malady of yellow fever, he left one whom he had beheld with admiration. ' Young, highlyiendowed, a very Apollo for beauty, the heir, in other lands, of wealth and honor, but led by that spirit of ad- venture which characterizes the sons of heroic Britain, he had seen this scion of a noble stock withering amidst the skeleton victims of that re- lentless plague, which, beneath skies of oriental splendor, and develop- ments of natural beauty calculated to delight the heart of: man, smites him down without warning, and consigns to darkness and -oblivion those who, with-a newly-awakened sense of the unearthly loveliness of the breathing world, find themselves called away almost befre they can fully note its enchantments. And Albert- felt, as he waali nsilly on, and listened to the mournful wail of the ocean anteiim as it:e- sounded on the shore, that the fixed stare, the cold sweat/and G;tnus black vomit which he had Witnessed in the: case" of the interesting stranger, too surely indicated that this night would bring to a close the career of one human life, rich in promise. And so it wasl --                          .-  " ' -   CHAPT EI    Xi1i. 'Enohantng the beauties' of this tropi clime, W"nere the bergamot grows with the citron and lime; Where the ora ng-flower wafts its soft breath of perfume, A- nd rioh'tcaZmi,'s f-uZ blossoms wave gorgeous in bloom; Where tall palm trees and pantains their broad Zeaves unfold, ' -'Neath the bright Southern sky of deep azure and gold. -.LBERT, at early dawn, sought the sick chamber which, the A   " ,-^evening before, he had reluctantly left. There -was no call for - m  :^ , 'him there then. Already the mahogany coffin rested on a - chair in the verandah; already the corpse had been dressed out in those dreary habiliments which would never be changed. Al- ready were there hurrying footsteps, and an emulative zeal, amongst the heartless officials of a stranger's fuheral, whio, regardless of him who 'had, passed away, thought only of-what they could secure of that which he had left behind, and which might be beneficial to themselves. But there the dead lay, like some marble carving of ineffable beauty.' How pamid and pure the brow I how chiselled the lips, indicating sensibility and fastidious taste I how white and classically oval the cold cheek, fiow set in eternal repose I Scarce twenty summers had passed over the noble head, crowned with a wealth of Saxon hair; bhut the eyes were closed--the bright, soulspeaking eyes I and Albert, spell-bound, stood beside the bier, when a diplomatic-looking clerk, pen on ear, -came bustling up to him, and said: - Were you known, sir,to the--the-a-young gentleman who died last nightl " "No- indeedl II was only with him some hours, day before yester- day. H:e was quite well then, and in the course of our conversation, he said my;family name was not wholly unknown to him, and that, in the event of my going to England, which I told him I hoped I would, he intended giving -me letters to persons unnamed,-which he thought   AAT RT HASTINGS.            " might promote my inquiries after my father's relatives. ]My father was lost at sea." "Just so, just so," replied the alert querist; "he told me all that, and here are the letters. A promise to a dead -man, you see, is sacred. I make nothing by this, but here is what he gave me, and a letter addi- tional, which he dictated and I wrote. If you like to pay me for- my trouble-and you see it was frightful, writing down the words of the dying, and a handsome face, death-struck, staring at me while I did it--why I don't object to some remuneration. I have a purse here, too, and this, he said, should bie given you when the funeral. ex- penses were paid. It, was really sad to hear him talk after that fashion. 'But I have done all as he wished, and here are the purse, papers,every-  thing." Albert reverently placed the deposit in his pocket, and giving the young man a fee, without opening the packet received from him, walked silently up to the uncovered face of the corpse, and looking stenderly, in mute sorrow, on the manlyfeatures of the dead, exclaimed: "How soon may my fate be like thine I but thou wast more- worthy, and wilt be more deeply deplored. Would I could have died foir thee, beautiful, generous stranger 1" The boy was fairly overcome, and while a variety of thoughts and emotions swept over him, added involuntarily:- "Who shall understand thy Providence, Almighty Rulerl Such men as Alaric Lovel live and prosper, and the world honors them; such as thou, pale sleeper, die and are forgotten." But the end was not yet, and the present seemed indeed inex- plicable. Red gleamed ardent skies-no breath stirred the immense declining leaves of West Indian forest trees.  Ocean smoothed his wrinkled front., and lay in placid quietude.- Earth reflected, with in- tolerable heat, the vertical rays of a blazing-sun. The shriek of the macaw, and mocking tone of the parrot,: fell in discordant notes on the ear. Now and then the tall, slender: form of a- quadroon, with broad- brimmed hat and long gold ear-rings, stepped quickly byi shaded with a palm-leaf umbrella. Boatmen sang along the coast, as their oars kept time to the wild melodies they chanted. - I ags hung idly. fromtower- ing masts in the harbor. There was Spain's half-unfolded banner. There were "the Stars and Stripes," and there the Lioin banner of England, which, for so many centuries, has braved tempest and- battle on land and sea. Hurriedly were the stranger's obsequies performed. They scooped for him a grave: in the spot allotted to strangers; and   780           ATiRRT HASTINGS. 9 Albert Hastings, sick at heart, came home, half fainting, from the in- terment.* Albert sat alone in the alcove which was his chamber, after having partaken of a slight refreshment of turtle steak, iguana, claret, and fruit. A lamp burned beside him, and he drew forth the packet confided to his care. It consisted of a letter, addressed to "Lady Livia Hastings-- Hastings Hall, England." This letter was sealed, and he did not open it; but turned to that written by the clerk at the dictation of one who now seemed speaking from the grave. It ran thjs: "Feeling that my time is short, I have requested the bearer of this I to write down what I shall -dictate. I am convinced from our conver- sation yesterday, that you, Albert Hastings, ar e the grandson of my aunt, to whom I have given you a letter, written immediately after our interview in the verandah yesterday. It is of my own mother, her sis- ter, that I would now speak. Break gently to her the news of my death, for 'I feel that I shall die here. Tell her I am resigned to the will oft God, and regret nothing in life, save leaving her. She will un- derstand this. Glive her myblessing, and say my steadfast hope is that we shall meet in a better world. There is a lock of my hair in the purse which is to be given to you; and the funds it contains, also, -are sufficient to convey you to England. (et out of this country as soon as you can. I would have sent for you to witness my last moments, but wished you rather to avoid the danger. Your kinsman, "GEOFFREY ARUNDEL." "Oh I that I had resisted all entreaties and commands, and stayed with him to the last," cried Albert, wringing his hands. "My heart prompted me to do it, but I was overruled, and now it is too late.' The next morning early, while seated at breakfast, the lady of the house remarked: "Mr. Stanley died last night. I fear we shall have our feelings tried by many sad scenes this month. There isa great number of new cases of fever at the barracks, and most of them already hopeless, I am told." However the lady's feelings might be, as she said, tried, she sipped her chocolate with great nonchalance, and adjusted the flowing sleeves of her white muslin gown with an air of self-satisfied security, saying, in the next breath  "We shall have a lovely evening for the ball at Mrs. Opie's, and Clara Opie intends filling the puffs of her gauze dress with fire-flies; they re- semble diamonds at night; and, in their struggle to escape, only glitter the more. I declare I am glad we shall have something to cheer us-   ATLBRRT HABSTGS.-           79 these poor strangers are dying at such a fearful rate I Some of them people of n6te, too. It is only for them' that there is danger; I am sure for naties no-country could be-more healthy; but if strangers will venture it they must take the consequences; I am sorry." And the!delicately featured ,Creole, good, natured, but void of deep feeling, cut another slice from her nectarious pine-apple, and shrugged her shoulders in agreeable anticipation of evening parties and prolonged dances. As Albert rose from table he was sensible of weariness, a slight pain in his knees and back, a confusion of ideas, as though the breakfast room, with its India matting, bamboo chairs, and-canopied seats draped with mosquito nets, were moving in panoramic change before him; now it was the hall, quiet and well arranged: now it sh6t forth great branches of luxurious vegetation-from its bare walls; and anon it be- came a garden, sported through by water nymphs and mermaids, crowned with pearls and shells, strung with silver wire. They offered him fruit-such prodigious and Eden seeming fruit-but his hands were cold, and amidst shudderings. for which he could not account, he-mo- tioned them away, and now the wide hall seemed draped in mourning. A bier stood in. the midst, covered with a black velvet pall, which bore, in embroidered letters, the name. of ' Geoffrey Arundel." He H ak back upon the ottoman which he occupied, and said: "I believe I am -ill."                 .   - The lady, regarding him pityingly for an instant, said,- addressing her husband: .  "'Ah I fever, you see. Send for a nurse directly. I couldc not miss Mrs. Opie's ball. All the English residents will be there." "Aye," responded the copper-colored :West Indian," I am away to town now, and will send' the doctor and the nurse. Put him to bed, Celeste,. close the blinds, and keep--all quiet till- r send, assistance-I can't come back, of course, till dinner-time. Don Armado dines with-us to-day. Don't say anything about sickness in the house.- Mind this I Your sex are great talkers-the Don is new from the' old country, and does not wish to hear the word fever, I assure you."   * But Albert lay on a bed placed between open jalousies, listless, and with a dreamy consciousness that he was in the grasp of that fell plague which reaps for death so ruthlessly, in regions which are his appointed field of operation. The nurse, in due time, arrived. A sallow quad- roon, with great black'eyes, thin features, and-a not unpleasant expres- sion of countenance. She bathed' the temples of her patient, retiring; Frequently to the verandah, in order that she might indulge herself with   80           ATRFBRT HAS9RIGS. a cigarette. She crossed herself occasionally, and carried in her bosom a sort of charm, which she applied frequently to her nose, and which was strongly impregnated with camphor. -She held some parley with the doctor, and took from his hands certain nostrums; which, from time to time, after his departure, she administered to her patient, whom she would arouse, and, after the draught had been swallowed, waved over him a tuft of flamingo feathers, which gently stirred the air, and drove away flies and mosquitoes. Then, as he seemed inclined to sleep, she would herself fall away into a doze, but was always wakeful at the slightest movement of the- sufferer. The first night passed heavily away. Albert looked very ghastly. The doctor shook his-head, as though there was little hope. The com- plexion of- the boy had changed from clear red and white to an olive tint; his eyes were sunken, and life seemed only not quite gone. The leaden stupor of disease was heavy upon hm--and his thoughts were far away, now at Ellerton, which he loved and knew so well; now, in England, with new found friends. His short life passed in review before him, and the dark form of Alaric Lovel stalked through his fever dreams,: with the same blighting effect it had ever produced in bis waking hours. Butr-even amidst his distempered visions, was there fhe? bending form of a child- angel, with the soft cerulean eyes, and sun- tinted hair, with the alabaster-fairness and roseate blush of sweet Eme- line Lovel, and the hovering above him of this creature of air and light seemed to bind his spirit to the confines of life, and woo him back from the dark gulf of death and despair. At last, the crisis was over. His, native vigor of constitution, perhaps hiis Southern birth and partial ac- climation to warm latitudes, had modified a disorder always fearful, and which had been, at the present season, particularly virulent and fatal. So it was, however, that he recovered; Madame Celeste, who, though unfeeling was good-natured, rejoiced in his convalesence--fed him on cocoa-milk, took him but to drive in her 'caleche, and petted him in her ight-hearted way.    oFTAPTE     XIV. High on an icy throne the frostkking stands,  And, 'mar shaZled -und, behold his grizzly bands! Keen-sworded champion-hear the North-wind roar, Whistling and howling o'er the frozen moor!J " O  LD   blow freezing, blasts over leafless ;groves, which, with t[  skeleton bough, and denuded twigs, rustle sharply iti the frost- -  king's breath. .At Ellerton, -De Mar Hall, aiid-even at :the humble abode of Mrs. Lovel, winter asserts his dominion -over a cheerless world.  Long icicles hang from tree and house-top;. birds come flocking to the habitations of man, and barn, yard andgaden resound  to their ceaseless twitter. Robins perch on pride-of-India stems, and devour its shrivelled firuit, till6 its intoxicating effect causes feasters to fall to the ground, and ,become a prey to idle boys^ who: re- joice in their capture. Now, grand old live oaks, heedless of winter's severity, clad in their summer garniture of rich green leaves, and grey, mournful moss, become more than ever conspicuous amid their wildwood brethren.   Now, fadeless cedar,with blue buncheslof frostedtherries amidst its delicately-cut foliage-holly,:with serrated and-shini'g leaves, dotted with scarlet fruit, and, more numerous than all,/thegreen topped and hardy pine, alike laugh at sldet and snow,- and-bravely retain their hues, when all beside have' blanched and withered and shrunk away from biting blasts and congealing frigidity. But yonder rises the glorious kdug of day,i and so vivifyrig are even his winter beams, that frost-work lightens in -hisSmilend' -ike mol- ten silver sprinkled with diamonds, sparkles and glitter thefre- the prese ence of God's great vicegerent   on the earth, : the lifegiving Siim. Without the revelation afforded by- Scripture, is it'wonderful thatf Wte Persian adored, on hill-tops and in majestic groves, the .world's;supe b   82          ATlBERT HASTNGS. luminary, the monarch Sun, as a deity present to their senses, and far ' above all terrestial objects, claiming homage, and ;Sserting supremacy? Coldly fall his slanting beams, now on frozen lake, and now on in- durated land. His light glitters but warms not, and ever the long howl of bleak December's blast resounds along the forest, and pierces the traveller with shuddering coldness. Forth from their lair of dried grass and leaves bound the nimble hare and agile squirrel, seeking fallen nuts and such sustentation as nature yields in her most unproductive season. But the fire burns faintly on, one cottage hearth, where sickness and poverty dwell together hand in hand-mournful sisters who preside over the fallen fortune of one accustomed to luxurious ease, and the comforts of a liberal and well-ordered establishment. Miss Juliet Grayson sat by a window in the sick chamber of Mrs. Level, which she had'herself caused to be, glazed (for there were only shutters to the small casements of the house, except this one) and as she plied her knitting-needles, talked cheerfully on such subjects as sug- gested themselves to her mind. Emeline held in her hand an open volume, and, glancing from its pages. to her mother, seemed to divine her-wants, and was ready to supply them itl an instant. Mrs. Lovel was sadly changed. . Years might have passed over her since her re- moval from Ellerton. There was a sharpness inher features, an unnatural light in her eye, and an unearthly transparency in her com- plexion, which too surely betokened the fact that she would soon join that viewless band who have exchanged this breathing world for the land of shades, Mrs. Lovel, though -gentle and kind, had never been endowed with extraordinary abilities. She was one of those women whose copse- quence-is derivative, leaning- always on others, and shining by reflected light. Thereis - no great virtue, -it must be confessed, in amiable de- portment, -when little occurs to try the t emper.- There is not much ! that is heroic- in preserving equanimity and: decorous quietness, whe n nothing adverse chafes the spirit-and life's bark floats over waveless o waters. It is to those only who have borne up under severe trial, who Ihave known what it is to quake lest daily bread be denied them, or those whom they love better than -themselves-it is to such, who, 3 without any prospect of a brighter future, see misfortune after misfor- tune render :powerless every prop on which they leaned, till, sick of the injustice of eafth, they cast an-eye of faith upward, iand yet have resolu- tion and strength to perform the duties of life, and keep their equanimity when, that heroism belongs May Heaveq avert that those untried be so tested, for it is a cruel ordeal, and never fails to separate gold from   ATLBIRT HASTINGS.           83 dross. Alas, we fear, were it applied, much that -glitters would be found but tinsel after all.    ' Sweet had been the uses of adversity to the lady of Ellerton.. She had not borne bravely up under the struggle with altered circum- stances; (and let none misjudge her who do not, know what, it is to come down from  social elevation to the humble walks of life,) but. let this be her praise, she had striven, so to do; and, in that very effort, there was virtue of no mean. grade, She had wearied of the mantle of life, as something too heavy to be borne, and -now; in consonance with -her wishes, the angel of death spread his dark wings over her couch, and the faith of her soul waxed strong-a two- fold faith, whichconsigned-her immortal spirit fearlessly. into the hands of her Creator, believing that, in what inexplicable way, and by what spiritual agencies, she knew not, and did not seek to know-her soul would be translated -to a deathless world, after quitting -its-worn-out tenement of clay-a faith which, with equal confidence, committed'her darling Emeline, her strongest tie to the world, into His hands, whose sceptre is a sceptre of righteousness, and who, she doubted not, would restore to her the child of her love, at some future period, unknown in the annals of time. Chastened, she had been enabled to exercise a sublime confidence, which strengthened and consoled her -now, that the sands of' existence ran low, and would soon glide away forever from the hour-glass which transmitted them.'. It is no-disparagement to this lady, when we say, that it was needful for her future weal, that she should find the emptiness of earthly solaces, and so be prepared to cast anchor where there are no rending storms, and where in an eternal haven, truth and peace prevail forever. But why linger we over this scene? Threatened death came at last when least expected, and as Miss Juliet knitted on, -casting at times an apprehensive look towards the couch occupied by Mrs. I vel thefilm gathered slowly, obscuring her eyes, and coldness crept overt her'ex- tremities. Emeline stole to the couch of her mother,- and Chafingg the clay-cold hands of her who was passing away, said softly: / . " '"Mamma, dear, dear mamma, answer rme-el Oh speak to meia01te morel   The world will be so dreary without you-take Ini a mother, away with you."  But the dull, cold ear of death was not quickened by. the child's des- perate pleadings, and Miss Juliet, taking her by the hand, said, with :a voice-tremulous with deep emotion: ,.   .         . '- Come with me, my child,. Eaily-or late-we all-pass underr .therod; !but He who inflicts it is a kind-Father, for we are told that 'whom He *            '  *   ATLBERT HASTINGS. loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom He receiveth. Come with me, poor child. 'Tis little I can offer ~you ; but safety and a shelter you may find with me; come- at once; I will see all done as it should be, and your mother, who is now a saint in Paradise, though her mortal body lies here, will be with you in spirit. Yes, my dear girl, for years and years, have I sought no companionship on earth. Those, one I may say, who shared my dearest love, went down to the grave in youth. But,: Emeline, he is not lost; those who call me cold, and shrink at my presence, as though I were not made of human mould, little know of the secret communings of a soul like mine with those not lost, but gone before." And Miss Juliet soothed, persuaded, and finally commanded Emeline, so that she was forced to submit, and allowed herself to be driven to the home of Miss Juliet Grayson, where she was ushered into a room which seemedspecially prepared-for-her. She noted nothing of this at the period of her arrival; but afterwards, when time had lessened 'the fervor of her grief,; she called to mind the considerate kindness of one, whom, in the-days of her prosperity, she was accustomed to hear called cold, :and selfish, and unsympathizing. The world little wots of those whom   it condemns, and still less of those whom it praises; and he is a fool (however worldly wise in other respects), -who rates the character of a fellow-being by the judgment of others. No! let every candid man for himself prove the principles and motives of action of those with whom he is brought in contact, and when he himself discovers their unworthiness, let him  avoid and cast them from him, as he would dangerous and subtile reptiles, but till he ascertainsfor himself that they deserve' nothing but loathing-let him close his ears and steel his heart against the slanderous whisper, the groundless insinuation, which is ready to Stain angelic robeswith foul spots, and dim a snow-white soul with clouds and darkness. Miss Juliet, contrary to her usual habits of modest and undemon- strative humility, wrote a letter to Mr.- Alaric Level, advising him of the death of his sister-in-law, and containing this remarkable passage, :Wich, coming from Miss Juliet, certainly meant much. It ran thus: 'You, I presume, Mr. Lovel, will .come here to see my lamented friend decently interred.  The funeral, of course, I infer, will take place atEllerton.  Decency demands that thus much of respect be paid to the remains of your brother's widow.  As for Emeline, you shall not take her out of my hands, unless you: do so by: a process of la'w' and this, -it may be, will involve you in troublesome, and perhaps >-dangerous, .investigations. I am a single woman, but Itrust -.  0   ALBERT HASTINGS.               5   I shall never be afraid, knowing that I am right, to confront any mortal, however influential, or to state, duties which humanity, and a- proper regard to the just claims of others, call for. I shall 'be relieved to hear from you forthwith.    " With due respect,   JULIET GRAYSON."   Alaric Lovel, when this billet was handed him by a boy, the son of an old dependent of Mr. Level, tossed it from him with a scornful jeer, and said: "Let the old maid manage it as she will. I declare I am pounced upon by all the oddities in the community for a contribution of some kind. Now, this Miss Juliet Grayson-the abomination of. every circle where I have ever heard her- named-requires me to defray- the funeral expenses with which she has charged herself without any authority. What is this woman, now dead, to me ? She bears my family name, it is true, or rather has borne it-but she has no name now; and the wife of my yolng nephew, Oliphant Lovel,: deserves it better. Oliphant is a tool of my own, which her husband, silly man I never was; and Oliphants wife, simple body, reverences no great connexions, which, fortunately, she has not; but while she Wears fine dresses, sports a diamond-set watch, and has money enpugh to spend, thinks of nothing but how well Oliphant sails under my flag." Heartless wretch and it was thus that he ignored thememory-of his mother's son, and took to- his protecting care one who was his instrument, and who would, in the end, share his fortune, whatever that might be. Miss Juliet, getting no response to her note, set about the- duties of the funeral in' earnest.  It was not conducted in a way which would have been congenial to the feelings of onewho thought properly, but it was the best Miss Juliet, unaided, could accomplish; andi while they were lowering the plain pine coffin of Mrs. Lovel rnt   its last rest- ing place,'a curricle, driven by' Mr. Oliphant Loyel, hia lady seated within, with waving plumes, Mr.'Alaric by her side, drove toward De Mar Hall, and, as on they passed,; the funeral hymn given out' by Mr. Calloway, the eloquent Methodist, and chantedby those who worship- ed at the meeting-house near thieir -camp ground, rose otiimfii lly-bV6r her mortal remains, who had so long been the patroness of the whole district, and who, had she died one year before, would not have gone down to the grave without chaplets and bouquets, and a long proces- sion of seeming mourners at least. But what do these avail ? and who will ask,-at the great resurrection, whether those resuscitated from the   86          ALBIERT HASTINGS. tomb had burial honors or not. So thought Miss Juliet G-rayson, as with funeral anthem:, and sincere tears, the corpse was lowered to its receptacle, and the solemn words, " dust to dust, ashes to ashes," pre- ceded the closing of an unnoted tomb, only to be moved by the blast of the archangel's trumpet. The cold-icicles- hung drearily on bare limbs of winter-smitten trees, and dim colored lines of worm fence, some - times snapping in- the crisp air, sometimes melting, drop by drop, in feeble sunshine, as the mourners returned from the grave-yard of Ellerton, having consigned to its caverns one who, not many years before, bore the palm of beauty from its maidens, and was applauded as the selected love of its lord-the queen of its holidays, and thJ undis- puted -mistress of revel and gala time. Adieu, faded flower of Ellerton I Oh that, on this fleeting stage of life, a better humanity may prevail than that which, ignoring thy just claims to supremacy, could not afford thee, with thy broken heart and ruined fortunes, even the sacred rite of respectable burial I Mr. Alaric Lovel, for the time being, was or had constituted himself, the providence of the county. "But let him not rejoice, who put- teth on his armor, as he who casteth it off." Let victory first be planted on the standard of the conqueror ere he exult that all is won,  Coldly set the great western sun, curtained with fleecy and crimson skies, and his last rays fell on a new-made gravel How many more did his lustrous eye rest on, over the vast circumference of earth- on this very evening I What is life but a journey to the tomb? And though that dark and inevitable inn awaits us all, yet are our, thoughts seldom turned towards the contemplation of the last "home, where poor humanity crumbles to its original elements. Per- haps 'tis well that silence, oblivion, and the grave, revolt as they do, since, with undoubting faith, we -believe that the soul springs into a better and a nobler life, as its useless tenement, weakened by time, or de- molished by disease, is given back to the embrace of its mother earth. -There, in due time, will the wild-flower bloom, and in default of this even, there will the long grass wave, while a stray songster, from :the depth of shaded woods, will chant an unpremeditated lay over the lowly grave of that which was once loved and fattered in the world--aye, the cruel, time-serving world I            -   CTAPTER XV. - t  ta  t#' 9    LX. "O / harTk thee, my baby, thy sire is a knight, Thy mother a lady so lovely and bright; Yon towers and yon castles from far that I see, They aZZ shall belong, my sweet baby, to thee."--Old Ballad. GRAND old structure rose amidst a park only to be seen in England, where antlered deer bound over shaven lawns, and art, emulating nature combines with the unfettered charms of the wilderness culture in its most artistic refinement. It is this amalgamation of the wild and the civilized, which imparts its own   :J indefinable charm to the palace homes of England, and weaves en-  chanted spells about the children of the forest, -once inducted into the refined civilization of English home life. Let us with commendable sincerity, abandoning prejudice, that bane of truth, visit the HaIL Let us come down from the stilted strata of American society, and look  on thing as they are, unawed by the swagger of the ignorant, unintim- idated by the jeers of the vulgar. Casting these aside, let us Stand pre- pared to admire all that is admirable in that nation whence we derive our origin, glorious as it is. Let us, feel like children who revisit the home of their ancestors, not like strangers, who, in order to appear qlever, must cavil at all they see, and only make themselves ridiculous by striving to animadvert successfully on a civilization- which ages have combined to mature, and which, before they can hope to meet in their ' own boasted land, they must be content to wait -the lapse of ages. This, of course, does not suit their ideas of modem railroad progress, md it is therefore idle to argue with them-a task for whichi wehave neither time nor patience. While. fully aware of our own advantages, let us in candor admit those of others, thus avoiding the-imputation of narrow prejudice and illiberal opinions.    A But we were speaking of the proud old hall with its deep bay windows, wainscoted apartments, picture-galleries, great drawing-room, ibrary and boudoirs. The house- had been built gradually of solid stone,   88          ALBERT HASTINGS. and each addition to the pile was consonant with the architectural style which pervaded popular taste at the time of its erection. But the effect of the whole combined was magnificent. Stern and time-defy- ing it stood, though wild-flowers laughed amidst its parterres, and its hot-houses were redolent of Persian and Indian perfumes. There the anana with prickly leaves, and deep green verdure, grew amidst an ungenial climate, where frost and snow flakes chilled and darkened the exterior air. There even the aloe, child of the sun, rearing his monarch crest only beneath the equator, grew in pigmy pride, giant still, amidst stimulating heat and cold-excluding barriers. Cactus and 'various tropical plants, influenced by -artificial warmth, took nourishment from earth, and forgot, in their. glass-encased home, that they were denizens g of a sun-lightened realm, and only accustomed to blossom beneath his beams. There, the graceful fuchsia hung her dependent flowers; there the aromatic gardenia with polished leaves of deepest emerald, and pearl-white flowers, disdained not to bloom, and even sago, with sturdy stalk andsbudding fruit, declared the power of art when emulat- ing nature. Hot-houses, however, must, not detain usy though attrac- tive, while there is so much beside demanding attention. There are lights burning in the hall, for it is evening, and, through the great corridor, streams clear radiance from suspended lamps, which are,accustomed to drive away nightly shades, and give token of Eng- lish hospitality and comfort, even though storms and darkness should overshadow surrounding nature. Well was their light bestowed on this fated evening, and cheerily was it greeted by the young American, aye, the young Carolinian, who, a mere child, unskilled ink the ways of the world, with only his brave heart: and Southern. fire to sustain him, sought the home of his fathers, where he might be rejected as an in- truder, or scoffed at as an adventurer, even while treading the threshold of which he was the undoubted proprietor, and soliciting hospitality where he should be master. [Butlit is the glory of law-abiding Britain, that all just claims are with her omnipotent, and even those of alien birth claim and receive justice at her hands, when bat claim is prop- erly presented, Albert hurrying over paths often trod by his father, ascended a flight of stone steps, at either extremity of which reposed a granite lion, couchant, grimly facing those who passed. Arabian jasmine clung to the stately pillars, which supported a porch classic in design anid built of solid masonry. At the great front entrance of the Hall, Albert paused with palpitating heart, and nerving himself to, the task, seized the shining bell-handle and rang. Loud were the echoes amidst numerous apartments, and soon a venerable man, with white ".!** , --' '*   ALBERT HASTINGS.            89 hair, dressed in a full suit of black,- with' dignified tread advanced to the door, throwing it courteously open, and invitifig the stranger into the library, while he (the major-domo) should announce him to Lady Hastings.                                                      . " My name," said the visitor, " is Albert Hastings. I will thank you to hand these letters to Lady Livia, and, in tl e meantime, allow me to rest here, for I am weary." The servant, so addressed, placed them on a silver salver, rang a bell in the corridor, and presenting them to Lady Livia's maid, returned to the servants' hall. The maid, with her missives,-proceeded to her mis- tress' bed-room, which we will survey, at the times of her entrance, as well as its occupants. Lady Livia Hastings had been a beauty, and there were marks of this clearly discernible on her features still. She was finely formed, erect and stately, but the pallor of ill-health blanched her cheek, and the lines of her Grecian face indicated sorrow and vale- tudinarian habits. Her eyes were black as death, herl short upper-lip delicately curved, and her hair and brows emulated the night hues of her eyes. She was draped in black velvet, and its richness harmonized well with her high-born aspect, and the pomp of her sumptuous apart- ment, where all that luxury seeks was6 assembled, and so curiously arranged by art, that it seemed the home of some fairy queen.- The floor was covered with a carpet so rich that its mimic roses and lilies appeared as though freshly gathered and woven into wreaths without being crushed. Its marble vases and statuette, its capacious mirrors and satin-covered chairs were of the most gorgeous description, and her toilette could only.be appreciated by those versed in its exquisite details. Her couch was covered with crimson damask, canopied with the same superb material, finished with a deep fringe of gold lace, and looped with tassels of gold, mingled with the vivid hue of its drapery. A fauteuil drawn towards the polished fireplace of porcelain and steel, embellished with richly gilded carvings, was oceCupied by the slight, graceful figure of Lady Livia, and opposite, on a lounge, also drawn across the room, reclined her sister, Lady Arundel, of Arundel Pak. They were conversing in an animated manner when Hie door was opened} and we will, for a few moments, previous to that time, note their dis- course. Lady Arundel was in many respects the reverse of her sister, and this difference in persons, so nearly related, strikes us atevery turn, in our observation of life. Lady Arundel was a woman of excellent sense, though reserved and undemonstrative in her nature. There was much sweetness in her face, a womanly simplicity in her manners, a modest retiringness min her disposition, which, avoiding notoriety, sought ever   90           ALBERT HASTINGS. the shelter of home, as the congenial sphere where an exercise of her modest virtues shone brightest, and where she was fully appreciated. Her eyes, the most remarkable feature of her face, were hazel, and a world of love slumbered in their calm depths. She was fair, too, and we confess to a love of the lily hue in woman, fully agreeing with artist delineators of the sex, who, when they represent angels, give them always a white aspect, indicating purity and etherealism which t brooks no shade, however slight, on their unsoiled features. Lady Mary Arundel was prized by her superb and ambitious sister, as those placid and reliable spirits are, who minister to other in seasons of trial,  and, with their timely warnings, would fain ward off danger were they heeded. Alas! the one, with her adventurous and intrepid soul-the other with her meek spirit andi household virtues, had been alike called a on to mourn over the children of their love-the cherished son of one lost beyond hope of recovery-the son of the others in a West -India clime, and surrounded by danger which a mother's love, powerful in    its -intenseness, could not avert.. -Lady Livia spoke:         I! ,Mary,' said she, fixing her dark, solemn eyes on the carved cor- nice of her grand apartment, "this is the difference between us. I mourn my son as one dead. He was the sole inheritor of -my estates, and, in default of his issue, they revert to a distant branch of the fam- ily, in whom -I have no interest. Think, my sister, of this Hall, with the flowers planted by my own hand, devolving on Theodore Hastings, a cheese-monger in Berwick, forsooth I But you, ;your noble boy, Geoffrey Arundel, still lives, though in an Indian clime. Autumn will restore him to your arms, Mary. ' Why do you weep? Leave tears to me,- There is no scion of the House of Hastings none to fill the place of the: lost. Oh I Mary, could I but be assured of the return of- Geof- frey. Dearly, I loved the boy, with hjs fine impulses his generosity, and all the ennobling greatness-of his lineage, which shone so con- spicuously in him. I tell you, could he but once set foot on British soil,- the arms of his aunt, aye, and of-a loving kindred, would welcome him as seldom prodigal is welcomed to his fatherland." "Call him not prodigal, Lady Livia l-that he never was. No, it was only his own independent spirit which drove him away to the far isles of the West. King William himself was a sailor. Among hardy tars he learned to obey, and was therefore fitted to command! I com- mend the spirit of my boy, though I parted from him with tears. He was the light of my eyes; brave as De Argentine, flower f chivalry ; determined as Scrimzeour, who bore a hereditary badge of distinction, the royal flag of our valorous neighbors, the Scots-in olden time.   ,-ALB IRT HASTINGS.          91 Yet did I know all the gentleness and'generosity of his nature. He will never return to my arms, Livia I I have seen him in my dreams. He wore the-white robe of angels. His cheek was flushed with, im- mortal bloom. He too will die in a strange land, and none will tell his fate." Here Lady Arundel betrayed extraordinary emotion, and, covering her face with her hands, remained silent. Cleophine entered. " A billet for my lady."' " Oh I Mary," shrieked Lady Hastings, springing from her seat, " oh ]Mary, look at this I - Do you know Geoffrey's holograph ? Read this, my sister, and may the Lord have mercy on youl IBut where," added she, wildly, " where is the boy who brought this?. Oh, Cleo- phine, bring him to me. My heart assures me of his identity. - Merciful Heaven I the deep waters of ocean have swallowed up my only child, but here is his son, dear -to me as the beloved scion -of glorious old Hastings-the scion itself-son of my son-Albert, named for his lost father, Albert of Hastings-bring him to my arms I-throw wide the doors of these halls 1 Haste, I say, and bring him to the home of his fathers 1" Albert was ushered in by the venerable major domo, and Lady Livia, grasping his shoulders with her delicate, yet nervous hands con- tinued her exclamation: "Aye I let me gaze at you, fair boy. I know you without a spoken word. Look at the eagle-brow, which never, shrank on the battlefield or in danger I Do I not know those features, moulded after the noble pattern of our ancestral physique? There' are the sunny looks'of his father; there the bold chest of Clifford De HIastings, his renowned grandsire. Come, my child, to my arms! Never was water in the desert, amidst burning sand and deceital mirage, more welcome to - dying traveler, than thou art to these arms I" Here she covered him with kisses, and wept and strained him to her heart, till Cleophine, touching her lady gently: " Madam, the- Lady Mary is in a dead faint; with an open letterf before her in the ball."- " Ah I cruel that I am. I have forgotten poor Mary. Tell me, my son, know you ought of Geoffrey Arundel, who wrote me :the letter which you handed me but now, penned in those dreadful imes where England's dead lie unnoted and unknown ?" " Alas, madam 1" replied Albert, with deep emotion, "my noble cousin sleeps in a stranger's grave. r followed his manly corpse to the hasty excavation and rapid piling of damp earth, which they call burial in that beautiful but mournful realm."   92          ALBERT HASTINGS. Here the boy's tears overflowed his eyes, and he added: "Oh, Lady Livia, comfort his mother I He -Was a dear friend to me, even in his death hour. His last act on earth was one of kindness to me. I would have given my own 'life to save his Oh let me speak to his mother."  "Yes, my child, I too will strive to comfort her, as she has done me under-a like calamity.. But let me, for a moment longer, gaze on the face of my grandson. Let me, for a brief space, look up adoringly to that Power, which, after sorely smiting, has granted me this consola- tion."          * iere her ladyship fell on her knees, and waved her hand to Albert, saying: a Tell her all--she is a far better Christian than I am. I will see her anon." And Albert repaired to the presence of Lady Arundel, who, partially recovered, was sitting deadly pale and tearless. She held out her hand to him, and said firmly:' -"My-child is dead.- Ah I tell me-all you know of him; for never was a mother bereaved of a more affectionate son, and you will not wonder, deprived as I am of the sad satisfaction, which has. been denied me, of witnessing his last moments, that I seek all the information attainable under the circumstances.:' - Lady Arundel-spoke firmly, but her aspect was death-like, and Albert, bending lowly before her, took her-hand} which he kissed with fervor, and while tears stole down his face, replied: It' is little, alas I my dear madam, which I can impart, additional to what you already know, in regard to your beloved son. My acquaint- ance with him was casual, but short as it was, proved to me his admirable and unselfish character. I felt strangely drawn to him. We conversed freely during our short interview, and I was inexpressibly shocked at his sudden seizure by illness, and the rapid and fatal termi- nation of his disorder. The letters intrusted to me, I have delivered, and I have nothing to add but that I attended his remains to their final resting-place, and mourned for him as one mourns for a brother. I have been extremely ill myself, and hurried out- of the country, feeling that there I could not abide and live. Oh, madam I let it lessen your grief when you remember the virtues of your son,-and reflect how calmly, and with what resignation and Christian hope he left the world. Think he is with th e good and just. He cannot come to you, but you will, ere long, go to bim." Albert spoke eloquently, while his expressive eye denoted an emotion   ATUBRRT HASTINGS-.          93 which he strove, to master. Lady Arundel pressed his hand, and look- ing at him with her lovely and loving eyes, said faintly: "Providence, dear child, has 'indeed sent you to us, for we are- bereaved women, I and my sister. In the depths of my great agony, I welcome you to your home and our hearts.   Retire, for you are weary, dear child. I shall be better able to converse with you, when I shall have done battle with my sorrow alone--not in mmy own strength-I must look to a higher Power. Leave me with my anguish, without companionship, save the highest -and best. Leave me with the Almighty one, who pitieth us as a father pitieth Ihis dhildren--yet with a higher and holier pity than any earthly parent can know. Good night, Albert l" The lady's soft voice fell on his ear with melting sweetness--as only woman's can-as recalling Mrs Lovel's gentle tone, and, for an, instant, bringing back bright memories of his childhood, of EUllerton and sweet Emreline Lovel    . But his thoughts were in a whirl, so varied had been his late expe- rience of life; through so many changing scenes had he rapidly passed, that he felt like one in a dream, and bewildering confusion of ideas induced dizziness. There was a sound as of surging waters in his ears, and his usually firm tread was unsteady, as he ascended a broadfight of steps to his own apartment, and reclined with weary limbs on a couch of down, while the august portraits of his almost regal ancestry looked down at him from gilded walls. He reposed long and soundly, though the accustomed roll of the vessel, in which he had slept for weeks, gave an undulating motion to all about him, and he felt scarce assured' that he was really on terra firma, and not in old Neptune's unquiet realm. Morning came. He arose, dressed himself, and, throwing open the wide casement, realized the beauties of an English home. There wide lawns and sloping dells, cottages, each of which seemed a separate para- dise, with its vine-clad porch and flower-decked garden. Far off in the distance rose the spire of a church amidst clustering trees; the milk- maid sang, as she tripped on with her snowy. face, the rose of England glowing on her blooming cheek; children, healthy and robust, were out enjoying their morning sports, and sturdy laborers were taking their way to daily tasks, with countenances of independent pride and manly energy.  There was softness in the landscape, mildness in the air, and he involuntarily said, "Happy country, happy people I I shall love this land for my father's sake and its own." Lady Livia was in the breakfast-room, a thing unusual with her, and,   94          ALBERT HASTINGS. as he entered, rose to meet him with open arms. State and .form were forgotten, and she again clasped him to her breast with fond affection, and devoured him with her eyes. Never had Albert, though accus- tomed to elegance, imagined a breakfast like that. Everything went off with such ease, that he was forced to be easy, and even were affection wanting, (which was not,) still that nameless refinement, bc- longing to genuine high life, would have gratified his taste, and caused him to realize a new and delightful position. Lady Hastings was plainly attired in a morning robe' of- light lilac, trimmed with black. Her face- was pale, and her intellectual counte- nance calm, though suffused with a quiet satisfaction, and this apparently was shared by every domestic, for they were old family servants, not above their station, and completely-identified with the interest of the household, though this was shown in a modest way-for their etiquette was perfect-according to their position-the best evidence of a well- ordered establishment. Lady Arundel sent her love and begged to be excused for the present. Her feelings were readily understood, and Lady Livia could not hide the tears which overflowed her eyes on receiving her sister's message. Albert requested permission, as soon as breakfast was concluded, to write some letters to his friends in America, and, --betaking himself to the library, entered on the fulfilment of this labor df love, where for the present we will leave him. '          , " ' s ^ *'    ' ' i   COIAPTEI9 XVI. Alas! these aged eyes have seen The strong of soul, the bold of mien, Depart Tfore earth as sunbeams go, Whie I yet linger with my woe, Nor gain my last release. HE vertical sun came down with      power only known in regions remote from the poles. - His blinding effulgence danced- on the tall tops of towering trees, which met and greeted his noontide rays with fearless pride, while small plants looked o them for shter, and only caught, as they luxuriated in the ,shade, an occasional beam  of the all-potent lord of day, beneath whose withering power, without the kind interposition of intermediate boughs, they would have wilted and died.- Thus in nature the strong protected the weakl as     they always shouldhough human beings, less chat'itable, it would seem than trees, seldom d o A blinding radiance pervaded the atmosphere, through which floated myriads of insects, darting and shining in golden light. Although the pine barren was, as we have described it, monotonous, yet on the banks of the pond, other develop- menti of vegetation met the eye. There wild grapevines clustered, embracing weeping willows, the long sweeping branches of which hung over the tranquil face of the waters; moveless in their declining atti- tude, and aiding, with their ornate and poetic shades on its burface, the perfect calm of the picture; On these vines hung branches of dark grapes, almost black in color, and twining with them were crowherries and gorgeous trumpet flowers, amidst which the thrush built her nest, and the shrill-voiced red bird ccasionally fluttered. Gum trees, With silvery stalks, and veined leaves resembling those of the fig, but less in size, imparted refreshing odor to the wood. Hickory and bay, sassa- fras and catalpa, rose over an undergrowth of myrtle and whortleberry bushes. The ground was sedgy, save at one point, where a great oak spread its wide shade over a slight eminence, which sloped gently to spread, it wid shd ovrasih mnne wi soe  etyt   96          - ATLBERT HAGTINGS.  the water's edge, and was covered by velvet mosses and tufts of wild thyme and violets. , Beneath this tree, stood a woman advanced in years, with haggard and woe-fraught visage.   The bonnet, cast back from  the brow, revealed eyes intently fixed on the lake with eager and soul-speaking earnestness. Her lips were firmly set, and the lines about them told of torture, which never fails to stamp its impress there. A broken rake was in her withered hand, which might easily be identified as the one before seen, resting under the shed of Myra's hut. The oldwoman looked around, as though wishing to escape obser-      'vation, and then commenced casting forward her implement into the pond, and drawing it carefully toward the shore. Long she toiled, first at one point, then at another, as far as the shade of the oak tree ex-  ! tended on either side. Whatever she sought to obtain, seemed to elude her grasp; yet, perseveringly, with patient labor, she plied her   s task, while the absorbed look of interest and exhaustless zeal, which sat upon her features, indicated by what powerful motive her acts were directed, and how unconquerable was the resolution which dictated her work.  She rested occasionally on the handle of her rake, planting its extremity in the mud, till fairly overcome with heat and exertions, prolonged beyond her strength, she sat her down in- the shade, and wiping the toil drops from her brow, gasped for breath. She muttered some inaudible- words, and after rocking herself in an excited, half distracted manner,' fell to singing a strange weird song In a soft melan- choly manner:                        * All day long by light of the sun, All night by the ray of the moon, -I seek the still waters for one, Who claims of me eyer a boon. "Rest, rest for the weary I crave- :The waters move cheerlessly on; My skeleton howls for a grave-- Deny not the slaughtered this boon I  "The waves which were stained with my gore Gleambright in the rich summer air; But peace wilt thou know neverimore, - :  Till prayers shall be said o'er my bier." ii She rose, after a brief period, and again fell to dragging the pond With her rake, repeating snatches of her song: I seek the still waters for one Who claims of me ever a boon.   ATmFJitT BASNG  S, IX  While pronouncing this couplet, something white shone between the teeth of her implement, and, as she drew it forth, she burst into a flood of tears, exclaiming  " My skeleton howls for a grave, Deny not the slaughtered this boon." For this, in truth, wa s a hirpan bone, and looking T at it' with that wordless agony which can, rend only a motheir's heart she wiped it carefully with a colored handkerchief, which she took from her neck, and proceded to an old tree, standing near, hollow, and of great height. It had been partially blasted by lightning, and, half  way up its im- mense trunk, clung a speckled woodpecker, which, with horny beak and indefatigable perseverance,. repeated stroke after stroke: against decaying bark, and carefully seized every  insect there imbedded, swal- lowing one after. the other voraciously.  Into the cavity:disclosed on the outerside of this tree, Mother Amy, for she it was, deposited :beside the skull of which she had spoken to Myra, this: additional proof that some dark and appalling crime had been committed in the midst of a scene, which, wild and lonely, was perhaps for-that very reason seleoted as one unlikely to be explored, and well calculated to -foster oblivion. Aye I let the murderer, as he may, wrap himself in secrecy, the cuise :of Cain still darkens his -brow, and the unerring finger of Almighty God yet points to his detection. Here was the mysterious instinct of a mother's love, slowly, and by means dictated, as' was supposed, by insanity, working out a final denouement, which would 'reveaIl the secrets of the uninhabitable pine barren, chosen as a safe repository for crime, and regarded by Mr. Alaric Lovel as a "haunt for-the vulgar, and out of the precincts of court or law." As westering sunbeams: fell on the now  animated woodland-for evening winds had stirred the motionless -arms of great, trees, and set drooping willows and moss-clad oaks moving-as those evening winds; with their musical harpings, sang along the wild, Mother Amy' still tin- gered on the confines of the lake, and still was her voice heaid chaunting the dismal ditty, extracts of which have been -givens above. :-But when night asserted her domain, and even dwellers of the forest sought repose-the squirrel in his aerial nest, the hare -m her eexcavated stump, the song bird on her spray-even then did this woman, animated by an instinct not to be controlled, - remain-watchinghy/the :waters which concealed part of her unrecovered tre-ure-kthe skeleton of her unburied' son; and ever, as star afr star trembled on the face of the lake, her song echoed amidst its quietness:   ALBERT HASTINGS.  All day long by light of the sun, All night by the rays of the moon, I seek the still waters for one, Who claims of me ever a boon! When morning came, there was a sleeper found on the moss-clad earth. Her gray locks were wet with dew, and' scant were the gar- ments which had shielded her attenuatedigure from the chills of night; but she arose with the lark, whose matin song resounded through dawn-lighted glades, and still her care was to stir the sleeping waters, and win from their slimy depths the missing bones, which, as she declared, called on her for Christian burial. A light step pressed the velvet turf, a delicate form cast its shadow upon the waters, and Myra stood before the ancient watcher of the lake. "Mother, mother, come with me! Ere many days depart you will be found sleeping and never to wake. Mother, you are faint and worn--come home with me, and do not refuse that which is necessary to sustain life, and give thee some comfort which thou dost sore lack." Mother -Amy gave a keen, penetrating glance toward the speaker, grasped her tool more firmly, and replied, in a quivering voice: "Woman, you have a child, I have none F Roxanna sleeps in your cabin at night, and when morning comes, and you see the flush of youth and health on her cheek, you feel that a rose yet blooms for you in the garden of life. But hist I Myra, had God ever given you a son, you could have better known the-pride of love which glows in wo- man's heart, when she marks the lofty port and stern strength belong- ing only to manhood-when she sees these, I say, in her sole offspring. You would break your heart, if Roxanna, a puling girl, were torn from your arms in a way most- mysterious, and think you that I, knowing what I do, and suspecting much that I do not know, will spare any la- bor which will gather the bones of John Austin into a grave? Out on you  Why would you have me desist from my task? Go, woman, go in peace, tempt me not;" "Well, mother," persisted Myra, " at least take this food, which I will leave here for you." Myra deposited a small bundle, when she had said this, at the foot of the tree, and turned to depart, but she had not gone many steps when a resounding plash in the water informed her that her well-meant charity had been tossed indignantly into the pond. Then the scared crane spread hig broad wings, arising from the bank over which he had been stalking, and, after slowly floating for a time in the air, lighted on   the blasted tree which contained Mother Amy's hoarded treasure, while she again went to her work. As this methodically progressed, nature smiled around. Dew drops, like spangles, dotted fallen leaves and un- ambitious shrubbery, here and there adorned with wild flowers. High up, at points first reached by the sun, they resembled oriental pearls, unstrung and scattered on bough and leaf. There came a solemn whis- pering from ancient pines, and bay trees gave their white wax-like flowers to opening day. But one was there for whom-nature's charms had long been dead-the octogenarian and resolute mother, who, 'ith- out food, alone and unwearied, recollected only her self-imposed duty, which, terrible as it was, seemed to give her strange animation. An undoubting faith possessed her over-wrought mind, that, when she had collected the remains of her son (for such she believed them) there would be a clue by which she might ascertain who his murderer had been, and thus procure vengeance on the assassin. Like all those who ponder long and deeply on a subject of engrossing interdt, her percep- tions had become unnaturally sharpened, There was a - spiritual illu- mination in her eyes, and a tension in every nerve, which indicated ex- treme excitement. Enthusiasm possessed her, and she would rother have died on the spot than relinquish the hope by which-she wase- tuated.  OHAPTER XVn. - New neasures adds to -evry air she awakses, Varying and gracing it with a Ziquid sweetness, Likabthe ewid modulation of the r ark, . Now leaving, now retuhning to the strairn ; To listen to her is to seem to wander  In sorrme enhantecd Zabyrinth7 of romance, - '   "Where nothmig bfut thO lovely?airies' will, '  - - ' -. ho bwoe the sspell, can i'er'icate ,the, wcanderelr.'-.faidon Hill. : T De M]ar :iHalL Alaric Lovel was lord Of -the ascendant. "Valerie, its:confessed mistress and most worshipped represen- tative, had given her heart-,that pure and lofty heart-with all its costly treasures, to him. Of all the gain which he had schemed for her, and secured by efforts the most untiring and means the most-reprehensible, this was the noblest, and this had been secured without exertion on his part. Strange did it seem to the worldly and unprincipled man, that this young girl should select him from amongst men younger, more devoted to her sex, every way more worthy. But he wore, morally, the veil of Mokannra, and his exterior would have become a real hero, as far as personal beauty and dignified re- serve might comport with that character. Alaric had one virtue, he never flattered; and this was a potent reason why his admiration had been coveted by the young heiress, who had so long drank of that poisonous and illusive stream, that its sweet waters revolted and disgusted her. She regarded the stately and 9 cynical' Alaric Lovel, with his grand reputation and reserved manner, as one removed from the common fri- volities and follies of mankind. To win approval from him, to be loved by him -he so great and noble-was this not something to be proud of? Something for which she ought to be grateful? And she was grateful, and loved him as only high natures love-with deep, over- mastering affectiotr. Poor, guileless girl I She trod the earth with elastic step. Nature wove richer robes in her eyes; the earth laughed   A-RFtRT HSTINGS.           101 with gladness, and even night, with -all its blackness and mystery, smiled on her frolm the grand arch of its bending concave, with looks of sympathy and hope. She lived in a glorious world of her own crea- tion now, presided over by the genius of love, whose roseatetints in- J vested every object, who ruled her waking hours, and visited her slum- bers Withl Elysian dreams. Ah, happy season of youth and-love, who can estimate thy felicity, who can portray thy death hour?-the desola- tion, the agony, which wrap their icy mantle about the shivering and .  smitten spirit which lives on after the -deathl of its youthful affections I i In the grave there is rest, and 'happy those who, having outlived this / morning dream, find shelter there. Yet many live on, bearinga blight  within, which, while it gives no outward token, like hidden fire, con- sumes, and none, save the victim, are scorched by its steady, slow, de vouring torture.-  Valerie sat at her harp. How well her muse-like form harmonized with its suggestive chords, and the gilded cherubims: which, closing their wings, met together at an' upper angle of the instrument! Her mellifluous and .rich-toned voice, now floating through the lofty apart- ment with loud, clear swell, now sinking in soft cadence, like .the dying out of an autumn blast, swept along with majestic sweetness,-nd iin-i gered in plaintive melody on the ;ear, which drank in those delicius . strains so grand and melancholy, If Valerie-had been beautiful before, for some inexplicable reason her beauty was, at:this time,:greatly en- hanced. iFair as alabaste,: the rose (that everlasting symxbol ofbeauty, which cannot be vulgarized,) scarce lent its faintest tingeto her oval cheek, drooped over by lashes of brown - and gold, between which, in their -dark and liquid- loveliness, looked out her modest but -vnfathom- able eyes, whose: sun-bright luistre was mingld with intenas blackness. Her robe was white, falling in unstudied elegance about :hier- slender but symmetrical figure. A pale rose, colorless as the:;arian ne*, clung. lovingly amidst her half- dishevelled hair, -of the same nameless hue as were the rich eyelashes and arched brows. Hermouth was--inexpres- sibly beautiful, and the half- developed, smile, which circled: round, it occasionally deepening itsidimples, seemed borrowed from an angel's face. White and : faultlessly moiildod were -te expert and: graceful fin- gers, straying,-as it appeared,.iat random' aiongst tfhe, stfings-,of? her, an- ciently renowned instrument,/yet, at every stroke; by- the:-rsk-ilof-the performer, were, new: and various sounds elicited, and a combination; strange .and plaintive, was produced. She-paused for an instant' and advancing with light and rapid steps towards the centre:of the draw. ing-room threw herself on :asofat, saing audi'blyg : r - . - ,-'- :( . *  ' IMY   102          ABTMRRT -HASTINGS "I know his footstep amongst a thousand--yes, 'tis he." Alaric at this instant entered, and Valerie cast herself into his arms, as he stood with that imperturbable mien which had aided in making him great man. He was indeed a grim bridegroom, for the next week was the marriage to be consummated, and this the last visit he should pay in the capacity of a suitor, or even of an accepted lover. He looked down, with troubled eyes, on the fair head which drooped upon his shoulder, with its exuberance of wandering locks straying over his arm. Valerie's face he could not see; she had hidden her blushes, and the wild joy she felt, on his bosom. Alas I that aught so fair and pure should shelter on that guilty and treacherous breast i Dream on, child of simplicity, of trust and love-dream on I Sweet be thy visions- sweet indeedl Take thy all of felicity-take it quickly-for quickly will the dream end, and, for the roseate bower of bliss will be ex- changed a gloomy and tempestuous sea, where jutting rocks, raging waves, and threatening skies will appall and dismay thee. Alaric stood still without words: but his heart heaved, and he stroked,} with unutterable fondness, the long tresses which enveloped the bowed head of his promised bride. How dared he claim her? The question stared him in the face, and there he stood in his false po- sition, upborne by that dissimulation which had aided him through life, supporting him still- Yet, in his heart, he was the veriest coward. oe     i4h is a great purifie had mastered his spirit too late. With- out religion and -right prinnciple to govern him-to a great extent the slave of avarice, of a revengeful and unforgiving temper, hardened in the indulgence-of his base and criminal passions-he ;was yet en- thralle-S!, (despite his hardihood and indomitable wilD by profound and passio:nte love for this beautiful and gifted girl. While in her pres- ence, he was hfImself astonished at the power which she exercised over him. He confessed to his own heart that power, and felt that it was irresistible. a:He, accustomed tq,govern men-how was it that, of all living beings encountered by him, this fair girl alone swayed him to her will even by-a looko? But he did not reflect on all this now: he only led her to a seatj and-placing himself beside -her,; gave way to those better feelings which always possessed him in her immediate presence. And they talked as lovers talked, while black fate impended and des- tiny came on with the winged hours. Alaric was to dine and spend the -evening at -the Hall - It was a lovpely .day-the happiest ever know-by Valerie. Company was :assembled at dinne Mr.  De Mar in high spirits, and -Mrs. De Mar only a little thoughtful, as, was 'natural i: under the circumstances. The :evening was oneof those peculiar to   ALBERT HASING            103 the climate and the season. Solemn, slow rolling clouds, crimsoned by the setting sun, assumed fantastic shapes in the evening sky, but, as they gathered around the departing monarch of day, caught vivid and ,ever changing lustre from his refulgent face, while a calm expanse of illimit- able blue covered the rest of heaven's high arch.  . , They sat long at table-Alaric much abstracted. Tea succeeded, and then the guests departed. Alaric and Valerie were left alone, and, tempted by the softness of the air and the almost tropical grandeur -of the evening, walked out arm in arm. Moonlight fell on the tall groves and stately hall, covering them with a serene halo. Alaric paused at the foot of the wide avenue, before described as leading'to- De Mar Hall, and Valerie exclaimed at the same instant:  "Some one passed-a woman of tall stature; did you not see her?" "The shades are thick here," replied he; " we- will go into the grounds, and sit in that alcove where I first confessed my love." And on they went, the steps of one at least lifted by the buoyancy- of an exultant and happy heart. They rested themselves on the rustic seat, and over and around them were flung the rich tracery of foliage reflected by moonlight, which undulated on the green carpet and white marble fountain before them, varying with every gust of agitated air which stirred the branches and set the trembling leaves at play. 5There was a holiness in the hour and the scene which wrought powerfullynoa the sensitive mind of the devoted girl. .It seemed to her imaginative spirit that moonbeams were softer, and shades more clearly defined, than'ever before in this her favorite resort, and she gave herself to sen- sations strangely glad. Alaric spoke: "Valerie," said he, and his voict was softer than men. were wont to hear it-"Valerie, suppose that I were, at this, instanta'con- demned criminal, outlawed by my country, abandoned-by my friends-- poor, desolate, doomed-would you love me still? Could I rely on you, were the world to forsake me? ; Would your love stand the test, though I were obnoxious to every living thing -beside?" -^Oh! Alaric, why do you talk thus? Were you a homeless wan- derer, with a price set on your head-did every human being you ever called friend rise up against you, think you this would move me?, Do I not know your'honor, your integrity, your vast superiority to any, or all amongst those honored by your friendship'? The world] why the world is a great word to'speak, and yet you are the world to me. It ' does not exist without you-at least for me,- How strangely you talk I And why"' said she fervently, shaking back her rich locks, and fining  her dark, loving eyes upon him, " why do you question me thus? You -   104          AATMERT HASTINGS.          . should trust me as I do you. , But you will learn to do this when you know me longdr--better, Alaric." -   - "Know him!"A shrieked a voice from the clump of firs near the foun- tain, "know him I he is my husband: before the high Lord of heaven-- he knows-that he is 1" The stately form of Myra emerged from the shade, drawn up to her fill: height She- stood, anolther: Medea.  "He -won me withk wordseof lover in early girlhood. He is the fa- ther of wmy child. /-He brought witnesses :to prove our nuptials, but, God save his.: soul! one of -them will witness -in no earthly court. He must be soughtuin .the waters of the lake which has no voice."- /  "I tell you, young lady," said Myra, advancing in the clear moon- j light, and confronting Alaric boldly, ".' I tell you that the man before you is perjured by every law human and divine. If I am not his wife, the crime is his, not mine. If the hangman's rope has not encircled his- throat ,'tis because hem has had art to elude his deserts, and not because' he is undeserving the- doom, You cannot love him in the autumn of  his life as I loved- -him in: its spring time. Oh I lady, see, I confront  him, face to face. Avoid him as you would all the pests of- that world  which we fear to hear named I Link, your lot with his, and you will  hawedone a deed never. to be expiated. 'I tell you this for your own  sak-e^;Heed, me now, or I will compel that public attention to the truth: which, for:-all' our sakes, had better be, avoided. Yes, look on this;.girl 1" -!tHereshe dragged 'Roxanna from beneath a sheltering tree into the clear moonlight. 4' Look on her, and say if- these- are not the' features of the great Alaric Lovel?- Could you ever hope to have a child more. like him?"                    - Valerie::stood spell-bound, and a cold shiver went through her frame. She Wchuld:not- fully weigh the swords which she heard, though they were written in burning characters on heart and brainwhile the wild woman of the wood stalked majesticallyH ay, leading Roxanna by the hand. Alaric stood- petrified, tilltthe stately .orm of Myra disappeared amongst the, shades, when, recollecting himself, as was h wont min situations of emergency, he drew nearer Valerie, and, speaking with perfect calmness, ,addressed hers thus*: .        ' -"Valerie-De Mar, do you wonder now that I should have asked you the questions which I did a short time since? Do you wonder that I asked -your' faith in me against t:he- allegations of the world? Yout promised to resist them, if, they should ;come; but these ravings of a * maniac 'call for'far less trustl in: me to refute them, idleh and ridiculous as they are. Surely, Valerie, I do not see you discomposed by aughtso      ALBE'T ASTINGS.           36  groundless I Listen to me, me only, who love you with a love of which even you have no conception. I solemnly declare, and .cal heaven to witness the declaration, that no woman, save yourself, has-ever: held dominion over my heart, judgment, and reason.- I have. never truly loved but -you. ' I did not know, before I met yob, that such-feelings could exist in the heart of man towards woman. Hear me. once;r=for all! Will you make my fate yours? :Will you spurn the slanderer and the malignant? - Will you be my friend or theirs ? Decide, be- loved Valerie, for my fate, even the- date of my'mortal life, is in your hands. I cannot now explain -my history to you, but the time may come when I shall. All I ask of you now is, to fulfill yourtpromise of confiding in me. Look up, sweet Valerie l The good angelof my life have you been appointed, but if you fail me, despairi-and death I--aye, death by this hand, for I should detest life-without .the: solace of your love. Having given that boon) adored Valerie, do, not. lightly with- draw it.'                              .... Alario had recovered his self-command:during this address, and now stood boldly before his affianced -with a look- of injured honor and proud disdain. He seemed -fearless-of the world, but deferential to her. Defiance he cast on all save herself, and without her love, he-told her plainly he would not live.  Valerie hesitated forman instant' She thought soihe explanation due to her, but there ws:a demand made on her love and trust.  She would not disappoint her, gh-souled Alaric; no, she would convince him, at once, that nothing on earth was capable of shaking her faith in him. She wa glad and proud to be so proved and lifting her angelic eyes to his, she whispered in tremr- bling accents: '  "lNo I Alaric, I do not doubt you. What would, there be left me m life, if I did ? I will- never doubt you, though the whole world forsake yop. I have said it. These are not idle words ... Then the hard heart of the man was melted, and down his iron cheek fell hot showers of tears. His eyes hte dared not raise to heaven, but fixing them on the girlish but resolute form beside him, said with-fiull earnestness of spirit:                 -  "How have I deserved this unselfish devotion ? Valerie- whatever may happen, remember, sainted virgin -that my-heart wasalwys true to you. How true, i]call on allgood angels to witmes.'  . :g ; - The night bird gave a boding cry, -as he ceased sapeakig, - eh rang ominously through grove and !dell, while the r iver vmoaned.o*.with:ito accustomed sound, and tossing pine boughs shook- aloft- their plumy crests. Valerie felt the first shadow creep over herm But she clungfo    106          ALRFRT HASTINGS. the arm of Alaric. Her election had been made. She would abide by a fiat which was prompted by love--first love-, and established by all fthose ingenious arguments which, in the mind of woman, come by in- stinct, but are acquired by men in the slow sequence of logical deduc- tion. Perhaps the conclusion in both cases is, after all, swayed by the \ affections. I But there is this difference:? Woman judges by intuition; man by \ reason: and the chances are, after all, (she being a more dependent creature, and guided by the promptings of her heart, while he looks to the world for approval,) that her impulses are the most reliable and / truthful. Woman looks to man-he looks to expediency, and the de- i cision of that varying and Janus-faced thing, called popular opinion. This false deity had been so long the god of Alaric Lovers adoration, that he knew no higher tribunal till he knew Valerie De Mar. Then, for the first time, had hle experienced feelings of which self was not wholly the object, and a strange light dawned on his benighted soul. He saw that his whole life had been one egregious mistake. His crimes stared him appallingly in the face, and those dreadful words, "too late," smote upon his soul with irremediable horror. Of all this, however, Valerie De Mar knew nothing; and the gloom and despond- ency, which could not be restrained in her presence, only won from her deeper sympathy and more unshaken .trust As on they walked  from the alcove toward De Mar Hall, few words were spoken, but they were kind, confiding words on the part of Valerie, anid passionate, but sad bursts of pent-up despair and all conquering love, on his. "bnd now, beloved Valerie," said Alaric, in his deep musical voice, "now, as we- near the portals of your father's house, and I press this delicate hand, dearer to me than anything in life save its angel owner, I leave you for a brief space. When next we meet, there shall be no parting between us, till the hand of death, which none may stay, en- forces our separation. Farewell, till then, lone star of my life!" He took her to his heart for an instant, and raising his eyes up, aye, even to the reproachless skies, continued:. "I thank thee, O great and merciful 'Lord, for this one gleam of comfort in the wide, bleak world-I thank thee for the blessing, brief - as- my heart assures me that it must be." Wonderful, inexplicable change I The hard 'heart was melted, the :stubborn will was broken ; but soon habitual and presuming self-reliance returned, and the evil genius, of Alaric Lovel jeered at his momentary return to right human feeling, whispering, with fiendish malice, " too late Il forever too late 1" ;   CAPiTEI X-Vil. "Methinrks Zow voices from the ground Break mournfzul on my ear, And through those empty chambers sound, So dismaZ and so drear.  "The ghost of som'e departed frtiend Doth in my sorrow share, Or is it but the rushing wind That mocketh my despair?"    , WMiE)TMLTNE LOVEL-had gone home with Miss Juliet Grayson, who, with all her good qualities, was not fitted, it must be confessed, for companionship with one like Emeline. She, so tender that a rude blasts chilled her; so lovingly nurtured, that only loving and beautiful things could attract her, (for she was yet too young to argue and compare facts in order to correct impressions;) how could she separate the sterling virtues of admirable Miss Juliet Grayson from her repellent, and puritanical dress and address? Mrs. Lovel had been soft, gentle and confiding; Miss Juliet was hard, un-- bending and reserved; and these, her worst faults, were unfortunately regarded by her as cardinal virtues. She would have made aard Lady Abbess in some Romish dynasty, where the convent should be the kingdom, and penitent pale-faced nuns the subjects. Vigil, fast and prayer, were her sternly imposed duties; and it was only when awakened from her world-avoiding seclusion, and roused to the exercise of inherent virtue, that Miss Juliet Glraysoi, eschewing the anchorite, became the active Christian. Grayqan Farm was a small old-fashioned house, very stiff and up- right, with dormer windows, a red roof, projecting gables, high narrow casements on the lower story, and steps which led straight into the- house, without intervening portico or landing place.: The Ifurniture was old, sad colored it had always been, and the chairs had a proper, dignified aspect, which forbade you to lounge or lean back on one of them.- The pictures were faded, and not remarkable for artistic execu- \   108         .AT BERT HASTINGS. tion; but one of them, representing a handsome male figure, in the first glow of manhood and hope, was carefully,screened from light; over it hung a dark pall of crape, which no profane hand durst remove. An ancient clock told the hours, with undeviating correctness, from the wooden mantle, painted to resemble black marble, and the fire screens were (one of A. B. C.) wrought by Miss Juliet in her early school days--(who could now fancy her ever to have been- a child?) The other was-embroidered by the same hands, at a more advanced period, and better accorded with Miss Juliet as she then was. It rep- resented a tombstone, drooped over by a weeping willow, and a female form sat despondingly by the marble slab, with long flowing hair, and features -screened by the intervention of a handkerchief, applied to the face, and held by the fair hand of the inconsolable mourner. Something, in the form of a garden, environed the house. But not a flower lifted its garish head there amidst herbs, medicinal plants, and unnoted grass.' A fir tree shaded one of the beds, but it looked like an intruder, and its melancholy suggestiveness had doubtless preserved it, since Miss Juliet loved sad things-; and this was, assuredly, a sad looking tree. At some distance from the house, were the cabins of her negro operatives, and the neatness and comfort of these bore testimony to Miss Juliet's benevolence. Further on 'still, in the precincts of her domain, were a school-house, a rude place of worship, and a smith's. shop, all under the direction and supervision of the lady of the man- sion.- The-teacher of the school was also the preacher of the church, to which it stood in close proximity. An excellent man was Mr. Dexter and one enjoying the full support and confidence of Miss Juliet, for whom Mr. Dexter entertained sentiments of profoundest respect, admi- ration, and, w were going to say love; but such a -statement would have 'thrown Miss Juliet into a condition of great. alarm, and it may be of unappeasable resentment; so, for the sake of others, we forbear, and dare breathe nothing in regard to Mr., Dexter which he himself would not presume to do.- But the clergyman was a regular visitor at the farm, where courtesy, the most stately, was invariably extended to him, and, on Sabbaths, when refreshed by his doctrines and eloquence, Miss Juliet was wont to invite him to dinner, in company with some male relatives of her own, who came with, and escorted the preacher from her house.  Emeline had wept the day out on her first arrival, and Miss Juliet, judging perhaps wisely, left her to herself. The room appointed for her was the best in the house, except Miss Juliet's own apartment. It looked out on a field of maize, flanked by low grounds, which were em- ,.   ATBFT HASTI NGS           109 ployed to pasture cattle and sheep, and this again joined swamp land, with great towering trees of a growth and character elsewhere de- scribed. - meline's couch was neatly covered with white dimity ; cur- tains of the same sheltered her windows, and these, in correspondence, with a gray carpet, white toilette-stand, and marble-topped bureau, two cane-bottomed chairs, and a small writing table and desk, were " the apartment contained, save a Bible and hymn-book on the table be- fore mentioned. No prayer-book there. Miss Juliet eschewed printed prayers as she did written sermons, or fine dress, or mosquitoes, and regarded each of these things as annoyances which ought to be dis- carded and got rid of by, sensible people. On the second day of Emi- 'line's residence with her, Miss Juliet produced Rollins' Ancient His- tory, and called on the little blue-eyed, pale-faced mourner .to read aloud, for her own delectation and Emeline's improvement, that excel- lent work, which, though appreciated by the advanced student, is, even to him, insufferably prolix and unpardonably digressive. The weary child, sick and, sad, read on, but her heart was in her mother's grave, and all the interest she felt in any human being was with Albert Has- tings, wherever he might be. But Miss Juliet could not look into the mind of her young companion; so the hours wore -on till dinner time. That meal went off, like everything else in the establishment, with cold formality, and, in the evening, Miss Juliet proposed a walk. The child mechanically tied on her bonnet, and Miss Juliet taking her hands they were as much alike as the pine burr which lay on the ground and the purple violet which grew near it. Miss Juliet was never a woman of many words, and they wandered on in silence, till, at a sudden turn in the path, Mr. Dexter's tall, ungainly form stood before1 them. Mr. Dexter h9ld an open volupie in his hand, and was apparently much interested in its contents. This was, doubtless, one of those won- derful tomes, in the Latin or Greek language, which struck terror into the pupils, and overawed the neighbors of the learned pedagogue; even Miss Juliet gave it a respectful glance, since she had a reverence for learning, as well as for the twofold calling of good Mr. Dexter,: who looked gaunt and stern, though he strove to -smile, on meeting Miss Juliet and her companion. A smile did not become Mr. Dexter. He was one of thoe unfortunate, people, who employ the same muscles when they grin nd wen they laugh, and who are equally frightful when they, d either the one or the other. His head was square, his fore- head and soulders were. square, histchi :was squaw also, ;- ia eyes were large, and called by courtesy, gray; they were in reality-green. He wore square-toed shoes; the skirts of his coat were: square.: There   "O          ATtFRT HASTINGS. was a wonderful correspondence of squareness about him altogether. His most remarkable peculiarity, physically, was his ears, which, lit- erally perched, like bats, on either side of his head, seemed fanning, with their extended wings, his iron gray hair, which, to all appearance, endowed with great vigor and determination, sought only ungratefully to escape from the head which had nurtured its growth, and to which it owed its origin. Mr. Dexter was unhappy in this; the things and the people he loved best showed him the least consideration in return. His hair was duly and daily brushed, but it hourly and instantly re- belled against his plainly indicated desire that it would come down and remain, like. ordinary- hair, in its proper place. Now, this same pertinacious and unconquerable hair resembled Miss Juliet Grayson. She, of all living women in the world, he strove to conciliate, and render properly sensible of his great mental and moral worth; and she alone of all his spinster congregation, treated him with a respect too cold and distant to warrant the hope that she could ever respond to feelings which, in his secret soul, he cherished. Moreover. to add to his dis- tress, he knew himself particularly awkward and unprepossessing in her presence, where, of all places, he strove to be most engagng and attractive.  A  few words were exchanged, and Miss Juliet passed on, leaving her spiritual teacher, as usual, perturbed and irresolute, forgetful of his Latin, and assailed by conflicting emotions. There was an air of quietude about everything which pertained to the farm, which, though at first soothing, soon became monotonous and wearisome. The order, the exact routine, were never varied, and Er- eline thought ofEllerton as fairy-land, when, in her own mind,kdrawing a comparison between the two places. Ah I how the butterflies sported there, wandering from flower to flower; how glorious was the garden, with its artificialla;ke and gray old moss-house; how blithely bees -hummed and birds sang, in multiflora hedges, and amidst innumerable Cherokee roses.! hat was the enchanted land of sweet memories and this, oh, this was dreary and cold and comfortless! Where was the beloved mother, whose every look was one of love, whose every act was one of kindness? Where the playmate, wise and loving, on whom she was accpstomed to rely in every emergency? Whose bright face ands gentle deportment, whose ready sympathy with all her enjoy- ments, and manly support in every case of childish trouble, made hin- dearer -than a  brother? Lost, 'gone all she loved, all she coveted. Mother,=Albert, Ellerton, where were they? The sorrow and despon dency which she daily experienced bowed the elastic spirit, and sen-   ALBERT HASTINGS.           " sibly affected her health. The waxen complexion became yellow the lovely heaven-hued eyes dim, and the Hebe form frail and drooping. All this Miss Juliet did not see. She knew that the physical wants of her young charge were supplied, that she herself regarded the or- phan with a certain kind of interest which would not allow her to need anything material to her comfort. -This was kind, and Miss Juliet was, in the main, a noble woman. It was no fault of hers that,-under the chilling blight of one great calamity, like the forest denizen of an- equatorial realm smitten by frost, every green leaf wilted. There was life in the trunk,-vital sap yet ascended in its appointed channels, like blood through arteries and veinS, sustaining the corporeal frame of man. But the tree, though it did not die, was gnarled and withered. No song-bird nestled in its boughs, and it would never flourish more. Emeline had an instinctive idea that she owed Miss Juliet much, but how was the young rose to embrace the-bleak rock? Delicacy and fragrance and bloom had nought to do on its cold and granite bosom but droop and die I Miss Juliet felt that something was wrong. In her single-hearted rectitude, (we can give no sweeter name to her virtue, since warm, human affection was wanting there,) she perceived that more -must be done; and what should this be? Had Miss Juliet been: at woman of higher capacity, there would, without a moment's reflection, have occurred to her the desideratum. But, Miss Juliet, without perceptions the most enlightened, grasped the truth at last. This child,!' she-said-in conference with Mr. Dexter, who, on this occasion, was honored with a private and confidential interview- "this child, young as she is, has experienced cruel -changes: first, her mother lost a great property--no one knows how; then :she died in poverty, leaving the orphan quite friendless, as you see, Mr. Dexter, Then her young cousin, near her own age, Albert Hastings, went away  under circumstances strange and trying. She is a niece, as you know, perhaps, of the great 'Mr. Alaric LoveD our member of Congress from this district. I wish to be in charity with all mankind, Mr. Dexter, but I tell you the course. of this same Mr.- Lovel in regard to the Ellerton family, I cannot understand. If I do wrong, I hope to be for- given. Remember, Mr. Dexter, I speak to you in confidence as a man of religion, and .one fitted to enlighten a weak woman, like me, on dark and doubtful questions. Mr. Alaric Lovel I would not traduce, mindful as I am of many scriptural injunctions establishing charity, as aa cardinal virtue. I pass him over; my concern is with his abandoned and orphan niece. The child's education must not be neglected, and I   "2          A TBFRT HASTINGS. wish, Mr. Dexter, to place her in your hands for instruction. The school-house is but a short distance from my residence. The walk will be serviceable to her health, and I fear she leads too sedentary a life. I trust, Mr. Dexter, that you will give needful attention to all which her case demands. This you are:better prepared than I am, to do." Mr. Dexter, at the conclusion of Miss Juliet's harangue, settled him- self squarely in his chair, and looked, more square than ever, while his protruding ears seemed literally alive, and -more inclined than ever to fly away. ile was fairly astonished, and knew not how to express his sense of flattered pride and increased consequence. He cleared his throat, preparatory to a suitable response; but the words stuck fast, and his impeded utterance caused a strange gurgling sound, as that of chafed waters, amidst a rushing stream. At last he stammered forth: "I, with much diffidence, assume the task, Miss Grayson. My scholars are, for the most part, poor pine barren people, as you know-rough  and rude. The young lady from Ellerton will find a great change, I fear, in her assdciates; but I will do my-best." The next rmorning, poor Emeline, looking delicate as a white rose on the fourth day of its full expansion, left Grayson Farm in company with; a sallow girl of nearly twice her age, who looked like a choked pine sapling grown up in a dense forest where there was neither space nor air to develop its trunk, but where, slenderly supported, it had attained height without corresponding amplitude of circumference. This young woman's attire did not number crinoline amongst its re- quirements, arnd the bonnet covering her head was stiffened With strips of. split white oak; (why should not this be as orthodox as whalebone or wire?); her gown, of striped homespun, fitted, we (being no mo- diste) can'scarcely say how. It very parsimoniously covered her form, that is all we dare aver., With an indescribable sense of loneliness ant degradation-yes, degradation-we do not fear to speak the word, though it may be philosophically. argued that externals are nothing. We: look at facts. Externals, while we live in this breathing and beau- tiful world, are letters of recommendation, the. wedding garment of good society and refinement. - Emeline was the nursling of both,'and how could she cast off, their influence? She: could not, and looked oh / her compaign  withea sickening sense of uneonggenial association. She felt humbled, lonely, fallen-how could she do otherwise? On reaching the-pine-log school-house, she was placed before a slanting desk, with geography, history, arithmetic, condensed in certain compends, con- densed for purposes of sale and: emolument by ignorant pretenders, who must needs, impelled by the progressive spirit of the New World, ,j   ALBERT HASTINGS.           113- become authors, though at other people's expense, and much to the- detriment of the youthful student. aut we maintain the opinion that a book must be a bad book, indeed, from which no information is to be obtained.) They were better than nothing-these imperfect books- which, as they treated on subjects involving no moral or religious truth, were not injurious to the heart, though sadly confounding to thehead. Emeline's tasks were pointed out-by Mr. Dexter in a manner, for him, most kind. She took them to her seat, and, closin, her ear against the senseless and most disgusting hum of a promiscuous school-room, bent her mind to study. This was n'o easy achievement, for the child lived in her own separate world, with which her present surroundings had nothing to do. By a strong mental effort, she -gave reluctant heed to Mr. Dexter's pencil-marked chapters. These being correctly recited, the schoolmaster was delighted, and- gave Eameline the least repulsive grin, and nearest approach to a genuine smile, ever known to illuminate his face. "Ah," said he, "did my pupils attend, as- you are doing, to their duties, Miss Lovel, I should, with little trouble to myself, preside over a splendid school"--yes, " splendid" -was the word he used-one seldom, employed by him, unless describing the glories of the eternal world. Mr. Dexter was carried beyond himself while pronouncing this eulogy, and really looked like a pleasant man, despite-his squareness and his bat ears and green eyes. Among the scholars, in this heterogenous ill-assorted school, Jeannette, the girl who accompanied Emeline, was, perhaps, the most, intelligent, though a fair representative-ofhe, inhabitants of the pinme woods, who are a race distinct, from cultured Southerners. Like their own sandy soil, meagrene$s seems their distinguishing characteristic. Their frames are attenuated, their minds dwarfed by isolation .and igorance. Of the great world they know nothing, and are as tenacious of their back-  woods conventionalities, as the fishing communities of Scotland,or the  -Gipsy caravans which wander over Europe, of their social rule and. order. Jeannette spoke in a sing-song tone, and her phrases were compounded of English with a barbarous adulteration of pine woods idioms.       ' It is curious to observe that while a refining process goes on, in one part of the world, regarding language% in another place it suffers from deteriorating and vulgar admixture. P'ew England slang, and back- woods' slang alike illustrate the fact.) But we leave Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe to render the former cassic and the latter savage. :. We wish only to deal with facts. Jeannette spoke, we are free to confess, with a most disgusting twang, *  * ' .  .  .  *      "   "4          ALBERT HASTINGS. and Emeline turned from her with the same degree of repulsion which assails us in the presence of a newly emancipated slave, vainly inflated with the transcendental and unscriptural idea that the social fabric is composed of precisely the same elements; that races are alike, minds alike, characters alike; that the white matn, the red man, the negro, and perhaps the ourang:outang, are creatures precisely on the same level, mentallyi morally and religiously. The experiment is being made to place them so. There is no opposition. We shall see I But Emeline Lovel had obtained the- stimulus which her case re- quired. Thoughts too deeply given to sorrow and the past, her sensitive organization could not brook; they were wearing her away, and this diversion of mental aliment from things painful' to tlings profitable, saved her from an early grave, or a- listless, unimproved, indolent life. She went home from the school-room to her own prim but perfectly neat apartment, with a sense of interest in the present, wholly unknown since the time which had made her an orphan, and reft from her love Albert Hastings, the brother of her heart--mourned whenever she heard the thrill of the mocking-bird from its wind-shaken spray, when-- ever a chance butterfly glanced athwart the narrow school-path,- or a fragrant bay flower smiled at her from the branch they crossed on prostrate pine-tree trunks, when there was none to gather it for her, and none to remember with her, Ellerton, and,its world of many-tinted flowers, as well as its wealth of love and happiness. Jeannette, who liyed about a mile from Miss Juliet's residence, on the borders of the, pine barren, called regularly every morning for Emeline, and returned with her every afternoon to:the steps of Miss Juliet's door, and so the time wore on with better prospects for the orphan than we could, perhaps, have first anticipated.   CHAPTER XIX. gut    tfie ovaag u F "For Z, confined in gloomy school, Must own the pedant's iron rule, And far f from sylvan shade' and bowers, *In durance vile rust pass the hours." H. . White. TALLOW  candle burns dimly in the socket of a brass candle- stick, on a small wooden table in a low-roofed chamber, the walls of which were composed of unhewn logs, piled ono upon the other, and built up in the style of a pen; the rafters above were bare, and, between them, the rough pegged shingles of the pointed shed, which sheltered the whole domicil, were distinctly visible. The bed was made of moss, enveloped in striped homespun, and laid on a sort of scaffold, supported by four posts, unpainted, and terminating- about a foot from the couch they sustained, curtly cut off, without attempt at finish-squarely cut and defiantly remaining square. A cov- erlet, of brown and green, overspread the primitive resting-place, and pillows encased in coarse woven homespun, very narrow, and very tightly stuffed With undressed feathers, emitting a stifling odor, were placed at the bed's head. There were no sashes to the window, nor blinds of any kind,- only a plank shutter on rough iron hinges, to close in and fasten when needed. A chair of white oak, and a bench of like material, completed the furniture of the room, where sat our new acquaintance, Mr. Dexter, carefully conning a volume of ancient lore, and pausing occasionally, as he looked up to the shingled roof above, and again turned his eyes on the work before him. It was now ten o'clock; his tallow candle had burned quite down, and only flickered in the brass stand. - Mr. Dexter was about preparing to retire, and drew off his coat, hanging it on a projecting peg on one of the logs. A knock at the low door of his domicil arrested his further preparations, and, with feelings of surprise at the unwonted interruption, he drew, on his outer garment, and, slowly unbolting the entrance,stood aside,   "6        .  ATAMT   HASTINGS. while a woman, apparently less a human being than a wanderer from the shades, tall, and with eyes which seemed to scorch all they -rested on, confronted him boldly, and regarding him with fixed attention, said, while. her features writhed with intense emotion, and her breath came in quick gasps:  , "You are, indeed, the man I seek I Look at me closely-search me with those merciless, cold eyes of yours.- Tears have passed since we - met; sorrow has ploughed my visage, and tears have wasted me. I know all this. You, too, feel the weight of time, or of false deeds. But, hist I man, I cannot be deceived. Once I was-twice I shall be never I Are you not the real or pretended clergyman who bound me, aye, Myra, the homeless, nameless, portionless daughter of poverty, to the great Alaric Lovel, in the holy bonds of matrimony? Minister of God, or demon of despair, tell me this. Do you confess or deny? Base coward as you are, you fear the fate of John Austin, perhaps. Why have you not gone- out of the country, as you were hired to do long since?" "I hired l" stammered Mr. Dexter; "no one has yet informed me of the fact.. I was not hired. Mr. Lovel was instrumental in obtain- ing for me offers of a school elsewhere, of greater emolument, but I preferred remaining where I am, and, as for hire, I know nothing of it. You mistake me entirely. If you have not lived with Mr. Lovel, that is no fault of mine. I have never thought on the matter since we met on the occasion you -name, and though I believe there - was needless mystery in- the case, yet that -was your affair and his, not mine," Mr. Dexter spokewith apparent sincerity, and Myra stood irresolute before-him for some moments. Then she gathered herself up with great dignity, and spoke in a voice of soft:and winning tenderness : "-Mr, Dexter, if I have done you wrong, I ask forgiveness; but there has been so much wrong done me that I am, perhaps, prone to sus- picion. The means are in your own hands by which you can at once discharge a solemn duty, and remove even the shadow of misinterpre- tation from your own acts. You- tell me you remember the marriage rite, performed by you, where I was one of the parties. You confess that, anterior to,this, you were solicited to leave the country. One more question,.andI ihave done. Is not Alarie Lovel now under the ?: impression that you abide in ao foreign land, or are dead?" ' I heard;" responded- lMr. Dexter, in a half frightened voice, ' I heard that .he supposed me gone to Liberia to instruct the benighted Africans, and,? indeed, I once proposed going: there; but after reflection, and weighing; the,-case of our own poor people in the pine barren, I re- -solved to stay here, and do my work with patience. I am established   ALBER  HASTIGS.           7 -I with full functions of a priest, or, -as you say,; minister. What I have done, is done--I connive at no plot-I shelter no iniquity. I am but a poor man and obscure. I married Mr. Alaric Lovel to you- in due form of law. Some reports reached me, after, of disagreements between you. That was no affair -of mine. My avocation lay with instruction to the young. I have been unambitiouis -in ^lmyaim:- I have never had the wish to injure any o He. -Deeds of lawlessnessand violence sometimes reach my ears. I heard of, John Austin's violent death. -- -He witnessed your marriage, and, woman : there were reports connected with that event which did not leave you free of blame. Jealousy, on the part of your husband, I have heard, hurried the doom of the murdered man, but this is out of my line. I only wish to inform you, since it seems I am suspected by you, that you yourself do .not escape the evil judgment of the world."  At the conclusion of -this speech, ]Myra fixed her great searching eyes full, on Dexter, and' raising her voice to an, unusual .elevation, said in clear, decided tones: "Now I know, villain, that you lie with cool determined hypocrisy. What tongue can say aught of Myrai save that she lives the life of a wild beast, making her home in the wilderness, -her food of wild; fruits and nuts? You yourself can bear me witness, false:man that John Austin was my foster-brother, and no more, though he loved me. truly, and would not give me'up till he witnessed my vows atthe altar;. Oh I dear was the price he paid for devotion to me. I tell you, faint-hearted priest, that price was his blood I - How shed, when and where, it behooves not me to say. You kniow his doom, you would avoid the like. M'Tis well But miserable apology as you are for man, christian or priesti tamper with me no more 1 my patience :is well nigh. exhausted. I am isick of earth, sick of deceitful hope, of treacherous men, sick of a world which blooms, but not for me, of hopes which cheer and -are crowned with fruition for some, though not for me. I am weary of life, but I tell you, craven, wearing a robe of spotless significance, which should assimilate you to angels, I tell you, Arnold Dexter, that you arm your- self with the panoply of righteousness, but, unstable as water,y you shall not excel. To-day you flatter the world, or-worldly men; to-morrow, you bow to the sacred instincts of religion. - You are a plague spot on the face of genuine piety;; you shelter yourself beneath its purity, and oppose but a feeble barrier to its exterminating foes. Now, my advice to you is this--quit your miserable home i'mmediately; a;--bandon- jall insane notions of captivating Miss Juliet Grayson, whose heart :is in the grave of-her first love, and who, were -she even:of lowlier birth :could X.   "8          AT;BINIR HASTINGS. never look on you with favoring eyes-no, never. My circumstances call on me for impartial truth. I will have proof of my marriage. If you deny me this, I am prepared to compel you, weak as I seem. But my-advice is, give- me the proofs which you have no right to deny, and then leave a country which cannot protect you. Might is right, poor man 1- Have you lived so long with philosophers, ancient and modern, and has your own experience not yet informed you. without their teachings, that this mundane sphere owns no active, operative law but that of force? I speak plainly, as becomes those who plead single- handed for their rights, and yet in obedience to justice, claimed for my child, if not for myself. I declare to you, Arnold Dexter, that you shall, this instant, give me my marriage certificate, duly witnessed, or it shall be wrung from you by means which I do not like to contem- plate, and you would still less likM to encounter!" '"But why this bhaste? Why this rapid onslaught, after so many years of silent acquiescence?" persisted Dexter, With one of his most insinuating grins, intended for a smile. "Mr. Lovel will yet do you justice--you should wait--ait and see." "Know you not, painted semblance of an earthly saint, that there is no time to wait longer? That this same Alaric Lovel is about to lead to -the altar an innocent victim, caught in the hellish snares which it is not in the power of woman to resist? Have I not waited patiently for-years, and you ask me to wait now, when hurrying events call for instant "action I Have I not seen Valerie De Mar face to face? have I not told her all? And a word from the lips of her lover scattered suspicion to the winds. -I tell, you that her faith in him cannot be shaken by aught but the most resistless and tangible proof." Here Myra advanced to the table before which Mr.: Dexter sat, and seizing a pen, placed it in his hand, while she sought vainly for a scrap of paper. Finding none, she grasped the volume which he held, and tearing out a fly-leaf, said: "Write IO Dexter gazed at her in great perplexity. His hair stood up with strong tokens of resistance; his ears looked wonderfully intelligent and heiedful. He was almost persuaded, but irresolution did not suit the wild woman of the wood, who glared at him like a bereaved tigress on the murderer of her -cub. He could not .abide the portentous Ilanguage of her basilisk eye,- and deliberately wrote a clear statement, importing that he, Arnold Dexter, did, on a certain day of the year specified, at a certain hour of the day, legally perform the ceremony of marriage between Myra Gray and Alaric Lovel. The ink was scarcely   AT4II   HiASTANGS.         119 dried, when Myra, conveying the paper into her bosoma, pressed it there with convulsive energy. A smile, for an instant,- lightened her features, like the vivid resplendence which leaps from storm clouds, and momentarily touches with glory the panorama of sleeping earth., Any one who saw that fleeting smile, could easily conceive the bewitching character of beauty once possessed by this child of sorrows beforesthe hand of the spoiler came, reducing loveliness to blanksinanition, wither- ing its dewy roses and quenching its lustrous light Now, in the language of one, who drew woman's character with greater skill thian any other living man ever did: "Fierce and unfeminine were there, Frenzy for joy, for grief, despair." But Mr. Dexter was in no humor to speculate on poor Myra's wrongs or changed nature; he was intent on escaping from his own difficulties, and saw plainly that her advice was good; but how was it to be followed? So occupied and- interested was he on this point, that he did not notice the sudden departure of Myra, who, without salutation, in her usual abrupt manner, stepped from Mr. Dexter's door into an obscure path, half overgrown by dwarf oak, prickly blackberry vines, and trailing convolvulus. Swiftly she threaded the lonely, narrow walk, only here and there made distinct by slender vistas of white sand. Thus, without pause, as though her finely knit frame was proof against weariness, she strode on till a more luxuriant growth, taller and more densely clad trees, a square of uninhabited canvas-walled tents revealed the camp ground, which, though now unoccupied, was to her mind a  sacred place: where the voices of worshippers still seemed mingling with the night wind's anthem, and a lingering sanctity was inwoven with every object which presented itself. Here Mfra paused, and remained for some moments overcome with inexplicable emotion. She fell on her knees, and prayed fervently; tlen, rising, wiped away, with her scant coarse sleeve, the tears which never flowed in presence of any living being: Y"Yes," said she aloud, "I will go to him; he will not refuse to hear me now, since I bring a voucher for my truth which even he must admit." After this soliloquy, Myra, with accelerated steps, proceeded, and grey dawn had scarcely invested a rich grove which lay before her, , when, pausing, she sent her quick apprehensive eyes around the pros- pect, and selecting a low-built house, with a large well-cultivated garden, in the rear, and a wide piazza in front, went straight forward. The house she soon reached, and seating herself on its steps, watched. the rising sun. Saffron clouds rolled away from the East, dappling a soft   120          SATWsRT BASTIGS. lilac sky, as creation's great luminary gradually unfolded his royal face. Animation and life awoke at his bidding. j The woodland choir wel- comed him with joyful strains. Dew-gemmed flowers and vines looked up,-as their moisture became exhaled, and shook their verdant tresses in the cool morning air. Even the -poor wanderer, with her heavy load of grief, felt the m'ild influence of the hour, and drew a long breath, as though she would gather some of Nature's freshness into her withered heartl1 But it might not be I The canker was wasting -there, and no verdure would ever smile onD the -scorched desert of her life. Unnoticed she sat, while a small bell was rung for family worship- in the house, and soon Myra distinguished the sonorous voice of Mr. Calloway at morning prayers. These over, the good man walked out into the piazza, and started on seeing Myra seated on the steps. The appearance of this divine was not calculated to inspire confidence or awaken love.   His figure 'was huge, athletic and angular. A face which impressed the beholder with the idea that' its wearer had dwelt amongst the tombsi yet developed mind in every stern line and majestic feature. His forehead was broad and high, surmounted by an immense growth of black, curly hair, visibly streaked with gray, which fell ominously over a horizontal and perpendicular fretwork of deeply drawn wrinkles. ]H:is mouth was large, with a severe expression and strong indentations ran- parallel with it on either side, from nostril to chin. The chin itself bespoke lion-like courage and indomitable will. It-required considerable nerve to; face Mr. Calloway as a religious dis- puvfanti As a judge and reprover, his aspect was appalling, and even as a counsellor or religious adviser, men, and women too, approached with involuntary misgivings.  But she shared, to some extent, his brave spirit, and her- vdice was firm, and her eye calm, while she addressed him thus: "I come to you, once more, as a man of God-one with whom the pomps and vanities of this world weigh: not a feather. I know your integrity; I know also that you are a hard man, with little human sympathy; but I know your sincerity, and therefore your words shall direct my weaker judgment. Once more I wish to take your opinion of a course which I purpose pursuing." a' "Daughter, you lack food; partake first of the goods with which Providence has blessed-me, and I will speak to you anon. Yet I warn you that- I love- not to hear you protest that the man, Alaric Lovel, stands in any other relation to you than that of a betrayer, whom you should blush to name. Alas I I feat that the unsanctified wanderings of your affections still tend towards him.' You should repent of the of               .l rEp   A TRTI HASTINGS           121 sin and shame of which he has made you the sharer--but resolve, at the same time, to cast him forever from your thoughts, and this I have told you before I " "And I have told you that neither sin nor shame attaches to me. You refused me credence--now read that paper." Mr. Calloway read over carefully Mr. Dexter's confession, and his brow darkened when- he did so. Then, refolding, he handed the. paper to Myra, saying' "This must be looked to. -A weak and erring -brother is Arnold Dexter. He hath fallen from grace, and basely yielded to the fear of man. Why, woman, have you so long borne the scourge of slander- ous tongues, and failed to right yourself before- me and before the world? In this you are blameworthy, and I see not what could be your motive." Myra clasped her hands, looked appealingly into the minister's face, and said, this time, with a faltering voice: "Alas I sir, you know not all; but I will confide to you a dreadful secret, which I have concealed at the peril of my soul-which built up a wall of ice between me and the father of my child." "Stopl woman, I am no Romish priest, tampering with the con- sciences of men. How dare I take into my hands the keeping of secrets when justice may demand that facts be known?  Ahal I mind me of John Austin's strange death, and I charge you, that if aught: pertaining to his murder presses on your mind, give the same without scra le up to the lawful authorities, bearing witness faithfully, and acceptiag, as a cross, a task which duty imposes on you. For fiery trials lilie this, there is a reward above the stars. Think on that and be strongl" "You mistake me wholly," said Myra, shuddering. "I could not if I would, on my own evidence as an eyewitness, aid in condemning any one for the murder of John Austin. But I wished you to-know the cause- of my estrangement from Alaric Level.- I suspected him Oof complicity in that cruel deed. Why I have so long remained, with- out claiming my child's rights and my own, is easily explained-I was threatened-I dared not. You do not know Alaric Lovell   The motive which moves me now to face every danger, is this: You may hear it without any pledge of secrecy. He is about to marry Valerie De Mar, thinking himself safe from detection." Mr. Calloway held up his hands in speechless horror, and letting them drop slowly by his side, an inflexible look came over his face, nay, his very form. He looked resolved as the Roman judge who   122          ATX,B RA. HASTINGS. condemned his own son, and represented, in his aspect, both judge and executioner. Myra shrank from him instinctively. -But Mr. Cal- loway took no note of her, while speaking in a suppressed, hoarse voice to himself  : "Execrable villain -'black deceiverl I will unmask thee before high heaven, and this iniquity shall not be done. Oh, merciful Lordl " cried he, elevating his tones, and looking upward, " why sleep thy thunders, and the sword of thy wrath?, Because great -is thy com- passion towards the children of men. But 'this rebellious and deceit- ful ingrate hath reached, at last, his appointed bounds. Thou hast said unto him: 'Thus far and no farther shalt thou go ' and I, even I, will stand forth as did Gideon of old, in the face of the foe. Depart, Wtoman; thy errand is sped, and I condemn thee not."    \ CTTAPER- X.- "Once more the gate behind me faZls, Once more, before my face, I see the .anoient, stately walls That stand within the chade."'--Tennyson. from London, graduated with distinction at Oxford, was install- ed his instructor. Mr. Stuart was in frail health, the son of a clergyman who held his living through the Hastings' influence, and was glad to see his son, after the severe and exhausting studies to which he had applied himself unremittingly for several years, settled at Hastings Hall with its young heir in charge as pupil. A more' judicious selection could scarcely have been made. Mr. Stuart, jr., combined,with great moral worth, vigorous powers of mind, and ex- tensive classical lore; besides, his refinement of manners and feeling} was such that none, even the most fastidious, could detect anything wanting to his perfect character as a gentleman as well as scholar. It is not often that we see the two characters so harmoniously united. 'Even the great Dr. Johnson, leviathan as he was mentally, helped himself boorishy, with his forefinger and thumb, to loaf sugar, shock- ing Mrs. Piozzi and his other lady acquantanices, though such was their awe of the giant, that, by no outward sign, did they venture to evince their disgust. He did not stoop, like the immortal translator of Homer, nor devour his meals -with voracity, like the- author of the Deserted Village, but was courteous, manly and condescending. And now it was that Albert, with the solid foundation of correct principles, and the undoubted possession of remarkable powers, grew daily in knowledge as he drank ini, with avidity, -the golden streams of learning which he had thirsted for in poverty, isolation and un- friended destitution; He lived but partially in the present, though that was brighter than his dreams had ever pictured earthly felicity. But he would not allow his mind to be withdrawn from that glorious   124        . ATBERT  HASTINGS.  old past, with its grand array of heroes, philosophers and poets. The Egyptian empire, with its profound, though idolatrous lore; the won- drous Zoroaster, with his theories, half pagan, half divine, who has, for so-many ages, ruled the mind, and swayed the religious sentiment of the East; Persia, with gorgeous luxury, and Persepolisi the city of the sun; Greece, with immortal works of art, and a courage sublime in its unselfish devotion; Rome, with her world-conquering power and - death-defying patriotism, lived again in the awakened sympathies of the young student. And yet, amid -the glories of the past, no less than the allurements of the present, did one child eye, on the far trans- Atlantic coast, beam on him lovingly in his dreams, reminding him of crystal streams singing through the wild, of a love which, with its early dew of angel trust and guileless devotion, smiled on him from his native clime, the Western world. Thither his unoccupied thoughts wandered, and the golden locks of poor Emeline Lovel floated before his eyes, like tissues of sunbeams as they dance on summer air. Yes l this early affection was inwoven with his being, and often, amid the glare of beauty, no less than when absorbed by the wonders of the past, did he yearn for one glance of those sweet blue'eyes, and one liquid tone of the seraph voice, which whispered, "Cousin Albert, yo;u are right-I will do as you say." Oh, the winning softness, the child- like meek dependence of those subduing wordsl  'What were the matronly, though loving demonstrations of Lady Livia herself, to that mystic tie which bound him to the earliest developments of his open- ing life I It was like the ," morning glory," which, though surpassed by more splended flowers, is yet, in its association With sunrise and day's resplendent dawn, not to be displaced by the contemplation of later, and, perchance, more dazzling bloom. - Christmas was drawing near, and Lady Livia, though having, for a long period, led the life of a recluse, was disposed on the return of this anniversary (there being now an heir' to her ifamily); to celebrate its festivities after the good old models of by-gone life in the palace homes of England. Accordingly, a company ;was invited. from Lon- don, my lady's city; and, from their seats, her country friends. Here was a motley assemblage from stiff dowager to slender belle -from the star of a London season to the pretty fresh girl in her teens. The great dining room was placed under the direction of renovators. Lady Livia would, on no account, consent to desecrate that apartment by the introduction of that walking horror, a painter, within its pre- cimets, but the gray-haired gentleman butler, who first ushered her be- * loved Albert into :the hall was allowed to employ those, Whom he '                 3,*   ATIERT HASTINGS.           125 deemed sufficiently reverential in their regard to ancient relics, that he, -with their assistance, might polish the oak wainscot, renew, the faded tapestry, and refill the dim, cracked panes with plate glass. Every part of the spacious hall underwent improvement, and Bulwer himself could scarcely be more difficult in regard to articles of j'ertu than was Lady Livia. Abandoning a seclusion imposed on her by sorrow, and a distaste for that society in which she had once exercised n'o common influence, Lady Livia was no tyro, no adventurer into the great world;  where she had shone so conspicuously, and where she was fully pre- pared to shine, whenever she should take the trouble, or feel the incli- nation so to do. The time had now arrived when she did determine to live, as she had lived, a member of the elevated social circle to which her birth, accomplishments and associations entitled her, and this not for her own sake. No I the unselfish love\ of woman was the spring of her resolve and corresponding action. It was for Albert's sake, sole scion of her house, that she embraced a change which, in her isolation, she had not contemplated. Her guests were, as we have said, numerous. Some of ie gentlemen were sportsmen: some scholars, and some men of leisure, visitors at great houses, and fashipnists of the first water. The hall, which was a fine specimen of the architecture two centuries ago prevalent in England, combined, with traces of its original antiquity, many modem additions and improvements; so that it was an irregular pile, equally interesting to the antiquarian, and pleasing to the admirer of a later style of building. Yet were there not, in any part of the edifice, a newness and glare which plainly denote the parvenu. Every thing was solid, sober in hue, and well established by-use. The drawing rooms were spacious and richly furnished, but, at the same time, had X an air of being tenanted, a homelike, grand, hospitable look, which  seemed to question nobody's gentility, while at the same time fearing no discomposure. Lady Mary Arundel was in deep mourning, and though a guest at the hall, was seldom seen save by intimate friends in her own apart- ment; where she was visited every morning by Lady Livia, and, even more frequently by Albert, who felt mournful pleasure in hearing her re- count the virtues of his cousin, her ever-deplored son:Geoffrey Arundel. His aunt would listen, with her soul in her eyes, while Albert, in his turn, spoke of those summer islands forever hallowed to her heart, where reposed the mortal remains of her idolized and only child. There was a  strict friendship cemented between the boy and his aunt, each feeling bound to the other, not only by-ties of consanguinity, but by cherished memories of the loved and loat.   '126             ATVRRT  HASTINGS. "Albert," said Lady Mary, one morning, as our, hero was about leaving her, "I know     that much of your time is claimed by Lady Livia's guests, but, I am about to prefer a request with which you will, I know, at your leisure, comply. Write me something descriptive of West Indian scenery.   Your language is often poetical, when we speak of that- region where frost is never known, and I should like, to see something, in verse, from your pen on that subject." Albert bowed, blushing deeply, and the next day handed Lady Mary the followingqlines: - EVENING IN THE WEST. I remember a clime where mild evening's sky Commingles with gold its dark purple dye, The hues of the topaz and sapphire are seen With pearl tints translucent, and orange and green, When, careering o'er ocean a wide trackless way, Cool winds murmur gently at close of the day. How pure is their breath I reviving and sweet, The withering branches, late drooping from heat, Look up with new vigor, and, through the tall grove The gay birds are flying wherelists them to rove; Low billows are laving the silvery strand; * And ocean's wild music resounds on the land. Short twilight is passed: large and lustrous on high: The broad western moon looks forth from the sky; Sole empress she reigns, and, glancing below, Sees her radiance reflected from dark waters glow, Her wide saffron mantle falls light on the hills, And robes in mild splendor the silver-voiced rills.  How twipkle the stars, from their blue vaulted height, In countless array round the queen of the night I As gossamer clouds float past like a veil, And-render her visage a moment more pale: They roll slowly by-intensely she gleams, Distinct grows the scene by her magical beams. There stand lofty trees in'luxuriant pride, And rich tropic fruits their dark branches hide; There, wreathed in thick masses, the flower-deck'd vine, Round their rough trunks colossal, its tendrils doth twino. There white rocks, fantastic fiown downward severe, And smooth plains and fountains are glittering there. How gallantly stems yon vessel the -wave, Her bearing is noble, she carries the brave I Her bold prow is dashing the white foam away, Her deck is besprinkled with salt ocean spray; Be cautious, ye mariners! skilfully steer, Death lurks on yon rocks, and destruction is near I    ATsUTT HASTSNG.             127 Ah, shroudless beneath theshitmmering sea, Lie many as brave, as fearless and free;  Cold waters enwrap theme-their funeral wail Is sung in loud tones by the hollorw-voiced gale, But theyheed not the sound, for deaf is the ear That the death-slumber steels on. its old pillow there. ,And under yon palm-trees' wavering shade, -Where verdure is richest, -the stranger is lad, Far,. far from the land of his' love and his birth, What boots it?- heHlies-on the bosom of earth.  Till the last trump resounds, their rest will be deep, Who repose on the land-in ocean who sleep, Albert had withdrawn, on handing this effusion to his aunt, who still held the paper open before her, when Lady Livia entered, in whose hands she placed it, saying, "Read that, and tell me what you think of your grandson, a mere boy. I confess I am surprised at his attain- ments. Then his heart is loving and truthful." "There is nothing you can say of' Albert, Mary," returned Ladyj.. Livia, " to which my heart and judgment do not respond. He is a true Hastings, but do 'you know, my dear sister, that I fear his birth-place  has a strong influence on-him. Its associations shadow his whole being, and color all his thoughts. Of his aunt, Mrs. Lovel, he speaks often enthusiastically. You know, Mary, how   the boy can talk with that beaming face, and those matchless eyes of his.   Then there is some woodland fairy, nymph or goddess, it would be difficult to infer which, from the terms he employs, when she is the theme, who haunts his memory still more vividly.  Now, Mary, knowing- your discretion and lively interest in our dear boy, I will tell you frankly, in sisterly confi- dence "-here Lady Livia, throwing off herusual stateliness of-manner, and clasping thl soft, fair, delicate hand of Lady Arundel warmly in her own, looked only the careful, loving mother, not the representative of vast wealth, the haughty and fastidious mistress of Hastings Hall and its magnificent dependencies.  Lady Hastings had, in reality, a noble  heart and fine impulses.  Why should we blame her for family pride, / which, religion apart, is shared by' many, her inferiors, in humbler walks of life?  We commend the sentiment as becoming and proper, when 0 displayed by people in the middle classes of lif:; let us bq just; why condemn it when seen in those of superior rank-?  'Tis but the same  j feeling modified  by circumstances, and, once for all, we declare our aversion to the wholesale levelling principle, which would abolish -rule and order from the ant hill and bee hive up to the throne of the auto- i crat.  What can agrarianism, in -the end, produce but radical abuse,  ; misnamed reform?   Call the democratic process, which seeks to mako     128          ATLBFRT HASTINGS all men equal, *hat. you will, levelling up, or levelling down-it is little to the purpose. We believe in the law whichil Scriptureinculcates, and ask not the teachings: of men: "Render to CVesar the things that are i esar's." Rob fiot the rich to aggrandize the poor; that is God's pre- i rogative, who gave to Abraham and Job servants. Should He will that wealth, intelligence, power and social equality beshared by every man inthe same ratio, He, not man, will order and establish the arrange- ment. In the meantime let us not, with rude hand, snatch- the seep- tre from his grasp, or impotently attempt so to do, lest the fate of those who entered unprepared into the Holy of Holies be ours, and the blast- ing thunders of the Almighty smite us while attempting to assume his prerogative, "to set up and to cast down." But we digress. "I will tell you frankly, in sisterly confidence," said Lady Livia, "I fear some boyishaffection for this oread, or naiad, or whatever we must call her,-yclept Emeline Lovel, will win-my grandson fron my arms, at some future day, and perhaps give the old lordly domain of-Hastings to the hands of a stranger. Albert has not the instincts of English birth to bind him to his inheritance. Even these, you know, failed in the case of his father, who, attracted by beauty and that mystic mag- netismof novelty offered in other lands, died a martyr to his love of the new and unknown." ' "I think, ady Livia," said Lady Mary, with great composure, I I think you judge your own lost son wit too much severity. He did hot forget the home of his fathers; nay, we are assured that he left his young bride, the mother of our Albert, in the early days of their love'and devotion, to seek England.' The ship in which he embarked has never been heard of, and, if he perished at' sea, as we must now believe he did, that was by the appointment of Providence, not by his own will. We dare not arraign the decrees of Omnipotence. No I my sister, were Ito indulge a rebellious spirit, now, whence would my comfort be derived?   My son went, as he conceived, in accordance with right principle, to the West- Indies, hoping, by manly enterprise, and careful attention to those affairs which took him there, that the  estates of Arundel might be free from claims, which, whether justly or unjustly preferred against me, you imow, my noble Geoffrey undertook to cancel. He died in the vain4 endeavor to do his duty. Gods will be donel And now, Lady Livia, in regard to Albert, let me say this, since you have done me the honor(to consult me, if there is any tie of the kind you suspect, though Albert is a mere boy (but genius like his is early developed as well as feeling),( e must not judge uncommon Batures by the same rule as we do everyday people.) If this, I say, be   ATRFRTT HASaTES S.          129 the case, bind himn here by those very attractions which you- suppose woo him across the Atlantic. Bring his woodland nymph, goddess, or what you will, to Hastinigs all, rather, thanlet him go: in pursuit of her. There are certain things, beloved sister, which man cannot control."    . a You are an angel, Mary, an angel of wisdom and love,"' cried-Lady Livia, springing up with a genuine gush .f feeling. "I will do as you say, or at least I will command Albert to do it. We must have a governess for the young girl, apartments for Mrs. Lovel, and everything ordered as you, Mary, will suggest." F i Lady Livia returned to her drawing-rooms in high spirits, and, en- countering-Lord Rathbourne on her entrance, said to him gaily: "My Lord, you are addicted to antiquarian pursuits. How I wish to ask of your lordship the special favor that you will conduct those of' our guests, so disposed, to visit the picture gallery of Hastings, this afternoon or evening, as may suit your pleasure. a I beg, however, that you will include my grandson, Albert De Hastings, among those who will share your antiquarian and legendary expositions on this dccasion. Allow me to inform you that my grandson, now sole representative of our ancient line, though young in years, exhibits a wonderful develop- ment of mental power,: and saying this, I do not wish to draw -on myself any charge of vanity. Converse with the boy if you ;will, and see whether any encomiums of mine could enhance his claims to your lordship's consideration." Lord Rathbourne bowed low, but determined, at the same time, to ascertain for himself the-status, mentally considered, which LadyLivia's grandson should occupy. Dinner was over-a superb English dinner, where course after course came on and went off with elegance and precision. Soup, fish, meats, side-dishes, dessert were unexceptionable. -The wines, from her lady- ship's cellar, had long reposed and ripened with their cobweb label, and the ices and jellies were strictly a a mnode. Lord Rathbourne now proposed to a lion near him, Monsieur Cuvier by name, that those of the company disengaged&should adjourn to the library which opened on the picture gallery. . Monsieur Cuvier was himself at the service of 'my- lord," and would ascertain who among the guests chose to visit the picture galler Mrs. Danvers and Miss Lucy Somerville were to ride with Colonel Beverly and Sir Charles. Ashand. All the rest would accompany Lord athhboumrne in his very interesting researches. Yet Monmieur Cuvier begged leave to say, the    130         ALTM= HASTImaS. major part of the company were already on the lawn, and could not be "I ,am glad of it," replied his lordship, with a sardonic smile. "Very glad of itl for were they all here, we should be interrupted with impertinent criticism, and diverted from our main object, which is pleasure and profit, derived through our contemplation with .the eye of taste of: that which they, in their idle presumption, would decry and assume to'criticise. No I let them go their way, and we will go our"  , v-   -^     u .t     t 6' .'r * ' z CHAPTLEfR SaXr, Picatures which mirrored Uife, and'vasea rich ! Of olassic monzuld. /^4R  IMLY smiled ancient portraits in extended files along the np5jib vista of the gallery. From William the Conqueror, down to Al P[- Elizabeth of England-from the reign of King Henry's mas- culine-minded maiden daughter, to William the Fourth, a martial line of noble ancestors graced the pedigree of the house of Hastings, and, strange to say, in no one of them did predominant traits of the mere physique appear with greater distinctness, than in. Albert himself. The clear, varying, luminous eye; the fearless, -truthfil brow; the beau- tifully cut mouth, and incomparable turn of-head, were his. Lord Rathbourne was in ecstasy. "-Hal" cried he, advWancing to a picture set in its curiously carved and richly gilded frame, " ha I this is the work ' of Joshua Reynolds-who can doubt it? Come here, -sir knight of Hastings," added he, drawing Albert forward, and placing him: beside the. speaking semblance of' the dead. ".Now, friends, one and all, more especially you, Monsieur COuvier, saw you ever aught like that? Why 'tis more the portrait of the .boy himself, than of my ancient and beloved friend, Gifford de Hastings, than whom a nobler gentleman or braver soldier never set foot in England. Here are Sir Gifford's form, his bearing, his -features, his warrior glance, full of valor and gentle- ness.. This, of a verity, is the true- representative of that matchless race.- ..           . One by one, the companions of Lord Rathbournme haddropped away, as he scrutinized picture after. picture, till Albert 'alone .remained, and the shades of evening were gathering around the stately old IhaU, aand falling gradually less brightly on the- tall pinted' w'inmd wswh: trins- mitted light to the gallery, traversed by Lord Rathboume, and his young, but deeply interested auditor. The connoisseur, with his nice discrimination and real love of art, was delighted with an associate who     .            .      '   132          ALBERT HASTINGS. never argued against his statements, drank in with avidity his infoepra- tion, and looked to him with perfect reliance, as though his lordship were an embodiment of antiquarian lore, and the best judge of painting in England. "Now Albert," said he, " now we are getting far back to a remote date in the annals of your house. This is the face of Bertoldo Vargrave, who fell in Palestine, an old picture, some say a cop'y, though I doubt that. - This :Bertoldo was the hero of a grand romance, and nephew of that Vargrave who dwelt in Castle Cluna, and, it was said, was borne away by a woman-phantom on a spectral steed. There is a record of the legend somewhere in the hall." "Do show it me ' exclaimed Albert; "nothing charms my fancy like those reminiscences of departed time, whether originating in, fact or in the imagination of our ancestors." "This ghost of Cluna," returned -his lordship, {"as jt is called, no reasonable man can fully believe, but I doubt not the incidents, bating supernatural agency, are correct; at all events 'tis a curious specimen of legendary lore, and adds to the interest of this noble picture." On assembling, at' tea time, with the scattered guests of the ball, Lord Rathbourne declared -that Albert, though a mere boy, and an American to boot, was more mature in judgment, had a finer eye for the arts, and was, in. short, more of an Englishman, than any person present, -himself included.  At this Sir Charles Ashand bit his lip, and Colonel Beverly hummed the-last opera air with-a nonchalance very provoking -to his lordship, who called for cards, and the tables were accordingly set out.' But my lord was not thus to be balked of his determination to lionize the young heir, and, at every pausein -the game, he addressed complimentary remarks, applying to our hero, to Miss Lucy Somerville, his partner- an aristocratic spinster who always endorsed his opinions, andi in com- pliance with a suggestion from him*, proposed that the "Ghost of Cluna" should be read aloud to the company-by Lord Rathbourne himself, on the following day, as an agreeable change to their usual routine of amusements. The proposition met -with general approval. And Mr. Stuart, aided by Albert in his search, found the legend after some exploration amongst the dusty tomes of the library. Lord 1athbourne, after a, few preliminary remarks. on the interesting character of the document,-proceeded to read aloud the   "BUET HASTINGS.           '133 -GEHOST OF MLUNA-A LEGEND. SECTION  I\ The castle Cluna stood on a rocky eminence, and was surrounded by vast forests. A river rolled near, and, through breaks in the/woods, its waters might occasionally be perceived, now shining in the sun, and anon turbid, as it chafed the dark shore, and murmured past jutting rocks. Age imparted a solemn aspect to the tall towers of Cluna, and- moss and ivy clung to its massive walls. Gray, huge, and time-defying it stood-the memorial of past days, and of the grandeur which per- tained to Vargrave's warlike lords. In thie vast hall, they looked grimly down from canvas, and many a banner, once proudly borne by them, hung mouldering in their ancient armory, Strange -whispers were -abroad regarding the mansion, and not a peasant on the land would willingly dwell near it. ; The present'lord was yet young, and such was said to, be his pride, ind so sedentary were his habits, that few cared to intrude on his studied privacy. Hubert Vargrave was, in truth, one, if seen, to be remembered. he blood of a hundred heroes flowed in his veins. He was noblygifted byrnature and fortune, but there rested a sort of plaintive melancholy on his-classic features, which resembled a kingly Romani, in the days -when Rome's sons ruled the earth. Those who knew him best, declared that he was generous and unsuspecting, but would brook no familiarityy r His days were devoted ;to- study and meditation, aye, and his :night too-for, often when morning's herald blew his "shrill clarion," Hubert Vrrave's chamber could, be seen lighted, and his tall, majestic figure passing to and fro, like one who, occupied with thought alone, takes little heed - of time. It was whispered that Hubert loved a peasant girl-Lucy of Lindale -the-fairest maiden of the valley; but-how should the lion woo trie dove, and how was he, the last scion of departed greatness, to crown the lily of the valley queen of the castle I Never might one of obscure birth take the place of great ladies, sprung from houses rendered august by noble deeds/and abounding in wealth, which so -awes the vulgar, and wise: men too, that, spealing truly, gold rules:the: world, True, Mammon is a cruel god, and often arms parents aginst the children of their love, and brothers against those nursed at the same--bosom, and reared by the same fireside. Nevertheless is he sovereign. How could the old baroness, Edith, welcome, as her son's bride, one like Lucy- /                S    A     '   134;   -       ATo aRT HASTINGS. fair, indeed, but simple as the uncultured violet-ignorant of worldly policy, and, in her singleness of mind, only alive to pleasures scorned by loftier dames, and alone adorning the children of the hamlet? It might not be, and rather than stain the escutcheon of his house, Hubert Vargrave lived a lonely man, the victim of pride unconquerable, and of love not to be controlled. -- The Lady Edith marked his gloom, and strove, by all a mother's loving arts, to withdraw him from his chosen seclusion, and banish from his mind all cause of disquiet. She little knew how strong are those soft links around the heart, woven by love, and strengthened by time. Hubert had long known Lucy. Memory could recall no time to him when- she was not the embodiment of sweet dreams, and the spirit-love of his life. When a boy, he twined the hill primrose in her hair, and dreamed of her amidst angel bands, like one too pure and ethereal for earth's grosser dwelling-place, whilst her realm was the home of happy spirits among kindred natures. He never saw her now.  A very coward was he;' and he shunned the power of those charms alike cap. tivating to all beholders, but to him the desire of life-the glory of the world. One evening, Hubert looked forth on that grand old wood, before mentioned as surrounding his wide domain. Unusual sounds stirred the forest.-. The river, at a distance, moaned, as waters are wont to do when the heavens gather; darkness,and. the- genius of storms is aboutto traverse earth with his fierce accompaniments of wind and lightning and deep-voiced thunder. Low rolled the clouds in blackened masses. Earth seemed groaning to her centre, and the mild moon retired, like one affrighted, from the tremendous scene. He stood at an open case- ment. -Fear was not in his nature, and he gazed forth, as though animated by the scene; and enjoying its terrific aspect. Suddenly there was a deep hush. The moon rode forth in her wonted brightness, and an unnnatural calm succeeded those pighty throes of nature, when her conflicting elements meet in awful strife, and man stands mute amidst their warfare.          . -  A loud shriek now reached his ear. The voice was woman's wailing, agonized cry of despair. pale white steed rushed from the wood; his eye was wild and glaring; foam hung upon his lips; his ears stood erect; every limi) seemed strained to Its utmost power;- he bounded, and reared, and ran, as though furies were on his track, and death witC skeleton wand, followed in his rear. - Seated on the fierce courser, cain, and with a look of hopeless grief on her beautiful features, was a young maiden, robed in -snowy vestments, Whose long wet tresses floated on   ATF RT HASTINGS.          135 the air, while her pallid fingers were clasped and strained over her breast, as though she would keep down some feelings too potent to be repressed, and still the throbbings of a heart that could not be restrained. She sat erect, and seemed void of timidity--her ashen lips apart, and her eyes reflecting only a burning light from within, seeing not, but telling of woe too mighty for words.. On sped the spectral horse and his death-like rider. He neared the castle. He crossed the draw- bridge with a swift bound, and stood panting before the open casement. Loudly he neighed, as the lady reined him up, and sat confronting the  lord of the castle. "Who, and what art thou, pale spirit of the storm?" demanded he, "and why dost thou pause here, and look upon me with those unearth- ly eyes of thine, as though thou wert the bearer of some behest from the world of shades? I have never injured thee, and yet thou seemest one deeply and fearfully wronged, and -thine eyes tell of mighty woe and mightier love. Speak I I cojure thee. HubertVargrave knows not the name of intimidation, and wert thou one bearing sword and helm, he might defy thee; but arrayed, as thou art, in woman's flow- ing robes, and adorned with her tender loveliness, I can but entreat speech of thee, and declare that if thy bidding transcends not the pow- ers of a soldier, not unskilled in arms, it shall be done. Is there any deed of thine to be atoned--I will be thy substitute. To whom: hast thou dealt unjustly, that thus thou shouldst come, in storm' and in darkness, to amend the ill springing from mortal weakness? Again, I say, I will do thy bidding, though hosts of armed men withstood my progress. By the dauntless soul of every Vargrave, whose victolious sword ever flashed in the foremost ranks of bloody war, thbuShalt be obeyed. Speak I for the descendant of Adolphus, the unconquered, hears thee, and will fulfill thy command." "My bidding," returned the phantom, ,transcends not the power of a soldier skilled in arms. I but entreat thee to be warned, and Consign not the' maiden of thy love to a fate like mine. -I have done no deed to be atoned. Thou canst be my substitute for none. Irhave dealt no injustice to any in the days of my mortal weakness. Not for-this, do I come in storm-and darkness. I am -here to narrate a history in the records of thy house, which, if not registered on--earth, is yet kept in - the eternal book, of Divine justice.' "Dearly I loved a youth of thy princely line, and he swore constanoy to one who never dreamed off doubting Conrad the brave. My father's cottage stood in yonder dell, but its traces are lost, and ruin has covered our name and dwelling. Son of heroes I I was the affianced bride of   136               AsRT HASTINGS. thy father, who loved me passing well. Mary of Elworth owned no stately mansion. No serfs followed the banner of my sire. My birth- place was lowly; lowly were my companions, till the castle's lord taught me loftier aspirations. Then all grew distasteful to me. The wild bee hummed unheeded on the hilLs; the rose of the forest bloomed unnoted by me.  My heart lived in the' vows of his love. The world was dim without him. I have tasted the pangs of death. Cold waters have long since swept over my decaying form, but, even now, I remember how dear was COluna's young eagle, Conrad Vargrave, to Mary Elworth. "My bridal robes were ready for the hour of his coming. I surveyed them with exultation, and a feeling too glad for earth. The days flowed on like silver-toned music. I knew my truth. Hiow could I doubt his? - He came. A bride hung on his arm He was wedded to another. Edith, the high-born daughter of a powerful earl, had taken my place. Beautiful was she, but one glimpse of her cancelled my ties to earth. In losing Conrad, I lost life itself. I looked on the lady Edith, and thought on all he was to her, on all he had been to me,- for long ago, in my heart of hearts, I was bound indissolubly to Con- rad. Insanity fired my brain. I wandered long in these woods, wast- ing day after day, till the night that ushered thee into being. "It was a night like this, and bonfires, were lighted for the birth of a son and heir to Vargrave's honors. I rushed madly to the castle. Conrad sat alone. What was poor-Mary of Elworth to him then? I  marked him well. His brow was furrowed with lines of bitter thought. I felt that I was remembered, and almost avenged. What burning words fell from- me, I know not. But I hear the voice of agony now, with which thy father commanded his menials to take me away. The order, given by one whose accents to me had ever been bland, and breathing a lover's devoted fondness, roused me to consciousness. I forbade the approach of any. How should they, of whom I was once the destined mistress, touch me with rude hands? 'Avaunt false man, I shrieked; (and ever since, on nights of storm like that, the "   rsame shriek rings through the haunted wilds,) 'I depart, but not long shalt thou linger-behind me. Bring hither, vassals, your lord's fleetest horse. He shall bear me forth.' "I mounted and fled like the wind till y6n dark, rolling river, inter- posed to stay my course. HWe plunged headlong in, and the noble charger groaned dismally, as foaming waves, with mighty sweep, rolled over us.   ATBEBT HASTIn GS.          137 "'Tis granted me to revisit at will the scene of my earthly sufferings, and the phantom horse, with his airy rider, is no superstitibus fancy of coward peasants. Lo! we are here, once more to entreat,-to warn. Beware, proud son of a heartless and perjured sire I Thy next meeting with Mary of Elworth, and her ghostly steed, will seal thy destruction. Tell me, son of my rival, are the daughters of the people to be trodden on like weeds, or crushed like serpents? Go, ask thy desolate mother, why Conrad Vargrave fills an early grave-why the infant charms of her idolized boy failed to soothe him? Tell her," shouted the retreating spirit, "Conrad loved, and loves only me. I have won him back in that viewless :world where spirits meet. There is no rank, nor power, nor wealth to sever us there. Tell her, I am willing to save the son for the father's sake, of whom I have spoken bitterly only to deter thee, stern representative of a line whose arrogance cries to heaven for rebuke-only to deter thee, I say, from trifling with a ten- der maiden's happiness, nay life. Adieul" And the-fair, beautiful virgin waved her hand in the soft moonlight, and departed. Lightly rang the retreating steps of her fleet charger as, with agile motion, he swiftly vanished, and still her milk-white hand waved courteously, as, with head declined, and far-streaming tresses, she disappeared amid the gloom of the forest.          ' e SECTION II. The Lady Edith Vargrave was an only child. Nursed in the lap of luxury, she was the heiress of wealth and hereditary distinction. Un- common beauty, and other attractions, won her many lovers, but coldly she regarded them till Conrad Vargrave appeared in her presence. He did so by mere accident, and the eclat her undisglised; preference con- ferred on himr flattered his vanity, and for a time banished from his heart Mary Elworth, to whom he was plighted, and once designed in good faith to elevate to the station his lady must have taken in society. Circumstances "occurred by which, it would seem, almost unwittingly, he found himself betrothed to the lovely lady Edith. Onreflection, remorse haunted him, but Lady Edith could not with the same impu- nity be cast off as his early love, Mary Elhorth. The wrong fell, as it always does, on the defenceless-for Lady Edith, as has been seen, became his bride, and the real object of his love was deserted. Lady Edith was haughty, and knew no equal out of that aristocratic circle in which she had long been a star of the first magnitude. Since herlord's demise, to whom she had-been passionately attached, HUbert, sole representative of his father's house and her own, became her only stay, and the object of her most ambitious hopes. He would emulate   138          ALBERT HASTINGS. the glory of Conrad's ancestors and her own.. True, he was moody, but a bride, his equal in rank, would teach him better views of life, and rouse him to a career worthy his name and endowments. Lady Edith seemed born to command, and her masculine strength of mind was evinced in the authority she exercised overall subject to her in- fluence. - From her sovereign will there was no appeal. Hubert, in whom dwelt the characteristic firmness of the Vargrave temper, never dreamed of opposing his mother's wishes, ,when those wishes were once distinctly avowed. tEHe loved Lucy of Lindale. In a hundred ways he had told her so, without uttering the words, and often as they rose to his lips, the form of his mother stood before him in offended- dignity and reproof. Vain, utterly vain, he felt, was any attempt to overcome her prejudices. They were now a part of her nature, and she would as soon have imagined the most impossible thing as to suppose that her son entertained sentiments of affection towards one like Lucy. Lady Vargrave had already made a selection for him, and so far-from seeing any impediment to- the consummation she desired, regarded the matter as settled whenever she should acquaint him with her resolve. -She sat, one morning, in her chamber, alone -in state, surrounded by the splendor she loved." Her dress was of purple velvet, fastened at the throat with a diamond of great value. Long cuffs of point lace adorned the tight-fitting sleeves of her magnificent dress, which fell in ample folds to the floor, and rested on a carpet of rich material and gorgeous hues. Before her was a small table, exquisitely carved and of antique form. Heavy crimson curtains, partly withdrawn, let in the subdued light of day, which revealed all that luxury can bestow, and refined taste, with its magic touch, render attractive. The lady herself seemed an appropriate occupant of the lofty apartment, coldas one of its marble statues, and grand as its gilded mouldings. Her black eyes, arching brows and thick hair of the same color, contrasted well with a complexion, fair even to paleness. tHer features were of that cast denominated aquiline, and while remarkable for their exact symmetry, lacked woman's softness. - The short upper lip was slightly curled---the chin was full, and the forehead high. Her figure was erect, inclining to tallness, and her -feet, and hands were small, and beautifully propor- tioned. Lady wargrave wore no ornament on her head, so that its classic mould struck the eye at once-simple braids of raven hair en- circling it in the form of a crown--indeed, she wore no ornament at all save the sparkling diamond 'on her bosom-a sovereign's gift to Hilde- bert, her grandsire--awarded as the meed of loyalty and brave actions.   ALBERT  HTASTINS.          139 She had been reading, and a volume open, with its clasps of gold, lay. on- her knee, when her son was announced. She instantly laid aside her book, and it was beautiful to see a mother's fondness come over those aristocratic features and animate -their repose, as Hubert, the son of her love and pride, stood before her. She smiled (CThere is something very winning in the smile of a face habitually composed and stern. Like the thawing of ice beneath sweet sunshine, which at once illuminates and scatters its chill masses, was the smile of welcome to her son on that high, calm face. , "Vargrave," said she, "thou art too lonely. Why do I behold thee seldom, and why is thy cheek paled by nightly vigil and daily devotion to literary pursuits? True, I would have thee a scholar. It becomes thee to be so; but there are- other avocations besides, to which thy ancestors gave due attention, and the chase, the tournament and the revel saw ever a Vargrave in their assemblies. And now, I bethink - me, my son, it is time thou: hadst given, a daughter to our house and, d to my arms. There is one I would name, who will bear our honors : nobly, and is thy peer in rank-but why that look? It is surely not ^ 'distasteful to thee to learn that, studious as I have always been of thy welfare and happiness, an arrangement every way desirable has long since existed between the father of the lady and me, for thy behoof. What Il haost thou no curiosity to be informed further respecting that C which so nearly concerns thee?"          -   - And Lady Vargrave fixed her-great black eyes steadfastly on Hubert's J face. She read something there he fain would have concealed' and receiving no answer, continued thus, rising from her chair and walking hastily, as was her wont when in any manner vexed or displeased :'  "Am I to understand, sir, by this ominous silence that my word, plighted to a gentleman of honor, and a Dobleman, is to be falsified, and his daughter insulted through me? When was it said before that Edith Vargrave promised and could not Iperform? I must demand a full explanation of thy conduct, and know what possible reason can be offered for slighting a contract held sacred by all, and which thou art bound to esteem so, for thy own sake and mine. I know thee thoroughly, Hubert Vargrave, and downright denial ii written legibly on a counte- -nance I am accustomed to decipher." I       . It was a fearful spectacle, that mother, so long clothed with a father's authority, and endowed with strength of purpose seldom possessed by woman, confronting her son in the pride of manhood, and requiring . an obedience which he found it impossible to' yield.. "That your word, madam, should be falsified, is no fault of mine," t   "O .         ALBER A T HASTINGS. returned he with great calmness-'since I never consented to marry a ladry whom I know not, and do not care- t know. I regret that what your ladyship denominates insult is offered to any. My explana- tion is soon made. Hlove another,- whose beauty and excellence place her on a level with the loftiest in name or birth. Yes I madam, I, the lord of broad lands and the sole, inheritor of unblemished fame, have dared to choose for myself in a matter most nearly affecting me. None but Lucy of Lindale, a peasant girl, shall ever wear the coronet which has graced a king's daughter in days of yore." Hubert retreated, like one conscious of guilt, and menials bore the Lady Edith to her bed-chamber, senseless, and wearing the very hue of death. She lay for many hours bereft of consciousness,- and, at intervals, incoherent words denoted the wandering of her mind. Her fine intellect seemed wholly overthrown, and yet there was eloquence in her wild speech: "Hubert," said she, "child of my youth--image of the dearly loved and early lost-what had thy mother done, that thou shouldst slay her at one blow and strip the gloryfrom her brow? Alas! I alas I am I to be allied to my own serfs, and he, my pride[ is he to be the link that connects abjectness with Lady Edith Vargrave? I am weary of life. Take me to the ancestral vault of my kindred. I will not live to see the sun of Cluna set. Lucy of Lindale, the offspring of a base churl I Never shall she tread these halls, her master's equall Never shall Hubert Vargrave say, to me, 'Behiold your daughter l' My daughter should be one he knows not how to prize.  Sweet * Margaret, I have done thee foul injustice, but my punishment is more than I can bear." The bell of the old castle tolled the hour of five. Lady Edith seemed hovering on life's confines, and all was bustle and anxiety in -that great house,'when Hubert walked forth, seeking refreshment in the open air. His heart was heavy, 'and it cheered him not. Love and duty struggled in his bosom. The great contest had come. -Must he lose his mother, to whom he owed so much, or Lucy, the still dearer object of his love?  Then, that phantom form, yestereven, riding forth amidst the storm-was her warning to be held lightly? An evil spirit she might be; confessedlyshe had been his mother's rival; and yet he was, in some degree, swayed by her counsels. These were his -thoughts when Lucy .herself stood before. him, arrayed in innocence, unsuspecting, totally ignorant of all that had within a few hours transpired. Lucy was dressed in the modest habiliments of her class, but nothing    ALBERT HASTINGS.           141 could conceal her wonderful beauty. She looked like a spirit of light, descending the mountain path. There was that about this young girl's aspect which painters have endeavored to embody in their de- lineations of angelic forms. Her eyes were soft, deep blue. Her hair was flaxen, and her complexion spotless and pure as the expanded leaf of a white rose. Her form was perfect, and rounded to matchless symmetry; but her smile was lovelier than all, and thb dimpling sweetness of ther lovely lips cannot be conceived of by mere descrip- tion.' Delicate lines, scarcely seen, indicated her eyebrows, and her forehead was ffair and open.' Her face was full of infantiei joby and simplicity. There was a look of ingenuousness and truthful love about her, peculiar to moral excellence, while her very gait was characteristic, being light aj the leap of a fawn, and graceful as human motion can be. Hubert gazed on her with' a concentrated look of admiration, and the love of a whole life centred in his gaze. "Beautiful, beloved Lucy," exclaimed he, " why, oh, why does fate sever us? Why did I ever behold the gloty of thy loveliness-at once my torment and my felicity? Who shall separate us," continued he, wildly clasping her to his bosom for the first, and, perhaps, the last time, " let me hold thee thus?" Lucy, amazed at his violence, strove to release herself, which she- soon succeeded in doing, and then it was that he poured forth the long cherishedfeelings of his heart, telling a tale of passion, one even less interested could not have heard unmoved. Lucy hung her head and blushed; and yet she was happy, oh, how happy I Mary of Ellworth was never more blessed in the days of her joyful anticipations. How great and generous Hubert seemed to her then She fully appreciated the difference in their respective positions.- She knew thathe was far above her in the, world's esteem. She felt- that the inherent nobleness of his nature elevated him yet higher than fortune had done, and still he loved her, Sand offered to share all with a: dependent of his-own. Lucy was humble. Thoughts of greatness never troubled her, and even now she valued it not. But Hubert himself-in him were com- bined goodness and- grandeur inconceivable. The secret of her heart, scarcely owned to herself before-it seemed so presumptuous, so daring -was now confessed to him, and he had drawn that :confession from her by arguments too powerful to be resisted, when a voice from within confirmed them. Scarce had they separated when a servant from the castle rode rapidly toward the spot where Hubert Vargrave stood. Lady Edith had broken a blood-vessel and was supposed to be dying. She desired   "2          ,ALBERT HASTINGS. an interview with her son as speedily as might be, and the man added, respectfully, that her ladyship was perfectly quiet and rational. Hu-r bert hastened to her bed-side with emotions not to be described. :EHe was hurled at once from a height of happiness to a depth of misery. He entered the magnificent room where, beneath a rich canopy, looped with tassels of gold, lay that mother to whom he owed so much, and whom he was about to lose. Lady Vargrave was the very image of death, and her features seemed already set in eternal repose. By her side stood a venerable priest, with-his long, white hair, and a golden crucifix rested on her bosom. She was evidently expecting some one, and turned her eyes toward him eagerly, as she spoke in a voice, whose hollow and unearthly sound fell on his ear like a knell. "Hubert Vargrave, art thou prepared to live with the dying curse of the mother that bore thee, and whom thou hast slain, on thy head-?" "Curse him not, daughter," interrupted the priest; ,.other thoughts befit thee now." "On one condition only will I forgive and bless thee," continued she, speaking hoarsely, and with difficulty, and still addressing her son. "I command thee, Hubert, to swear, by -the memory of thy father, by all the love I have lavished on thee, by everything sacred, that I cannot name, for my time is short, that .thou wilt never again see the peasant girl, called Lucy of Lindale; that thou wilt fulfil my contract and marry, lKargaret St. Clair, thy betrothed bride." "Promise, young man," solemnly ejaculated the priest. "Thou- darest not hesitate to obey thyi mother. Let no idle vow to another, if such has been spoken, stand in the way of thy obedience. Circum- stanced as thou art, such a vow-cannot bind thee." Events of deep and stirring interest had transpired in such rapid suc- cession, since six o'clock the preceding evening, that Hubert felt bewildered, like one in a frightful dream. So various and intense were the feelings by which he had been, and was agitated, that his reason well nigh forsook him; but now in the presence of death, solicited and commanded by one about to leave the world, and that one his mother, there, could be no deliberation. All things, for the moment, faded from his mind, sav6 the dread reality-before his eyes. It'was now, that, grown desperate, he gave the' required promise, and received, on his knees, .his mother's benediction;--after-whieh Lady Vargrave sighed heavily, closed her eyes, and desired to be left alone. She was tran- quil, but exhausted. At day-break, next morning, as gray dawn stole gradually over the tall-castle- of Cluna, and revealed its massive proportions,-while early   A  TBERT HASTIA GS.          143 birds woke in the dewy forest, and saffron sides heralded the day-king's , coming, it became clearly evident that Lady Edith was passing away. She had re-called. Hubert to her bed-side,- and clasping his hand with her death-cold fingers, seemed to lose the fear of ddath in the satisfac- tion his promise gave her. Ambition, pride, indomitable will,-these were the attributes of her character, and they were evinced to the last. When, as her attendants supposed, the power of speech had forever deserted her, by an extraordinary effort, she sat almost erect, and said: "Varorave, remember my last wordsl  Spurn disgrace in the form of Lu-Lu--"             ^  The sentence was unfinished-the hated name but half pronounced- when Lady Vargrave fell back and expired 1 What a mockery, then, appeared the pomp that surrounded her lifeless clay; the fringe of gold that waved over her, and the yielding carpet beneath, with its curiously blended -flowers, never again to be trod upon by her stately step; the spacious mirror, which could no more reflect her queenly features; the luxurious sofa, on which her delicate form was accustomed to repose, now void of an occupant-what said they all? They asserted, without words, yet most affectingly, the truth, that these things, mutable as they are, outlive man, their fabricator, and woman, for whom thiey were more especially designed and perfected. O, how desola;te was that room I how cheerless its splendor, as a stray sunbeam crept through the open casement, and glittered sadly upon the decorated walll What had ssinshine and day to do with death and despair? The mortal remains of the once-powerful Lady Vargrave were com- mitted to their final resting-place, with all the- magnificence. and solemnity belonging to a great funeral. The black hearse, with its sable plumes and slow-stepping steedsa was followed by hundreds of peasants, and none so poor but that some badge of mourning was added to their usual dress. Father Olin, the priest above alluded to, and who, indeed, was chaplain to the house of Vargrave, was there in the long robe of his office, with a face full of meaning sorrow; and there, as chief mourner, was Hubert Vargrave himself, whose appearance could not fail to- arrest attention. The coffined dead, wrapped in her winding-sheet, was not more pale than he. His proud head declined on his bosom, and those dark eyes, so like hers, from which light had forever faded, were'bent gloomily on earth. He looked more like, ono moving mechanically, without thought or design, than as a living man, in possession of sentient powers. There was blank hopelessness and   -144 .         AIBERT HASTINGS. utter despondency in his very form, spoiled as it was of its manly bearing, and w  ringing at everystep. Slowly the procession moved onward to the tomb of the Vargraves, and silent, amongst its princely occupants, was Lady Edith placed. "Oh! fading honors of the dead, Oh I high ambition, lowly laid!" SECTION III. Hubert Vargrave was now emphatically a lonely man. Preyed upon by the vulture, remorse, the love that should have been life's blessing, was converted into its bitterest curse. That love still existed but it seemed sacrilege even to think of Lucy after all that had passed. He suffered from the cruel consciousness, that, like an enemy, he had been forced to betray and injure one, for whom he would gladly have ren- dered up life itself. [ But his resolve was taken. His oath to the dead bound him with fetters of iron, and nothing remained now but the performance of his mother's wish to the letter. He must henceforth regard sweet Lucy of Lindale as one dead, tool This was not all. Stricken to the soul--void of any interest in the matter, personally, he must -lead to the altar Margaret St. Clair, while his heart wandered to I the valley of Lindale and its peerless lily. A superstitious horror, at times, stole over him, when his thoughts reverted to the spectral horse and its wan rider, but this he strove to banish, and vainly attempted to resolve that terrible vision into the effects of distempered fancy, and an overwrought imagination. But no I Too palpably was that scene stamped on his memory--it could be no delusion. '"Whyl" said he, mentally, for his dark secrets were shared with none, "why -should the ruin of so many be involved in my destiny? Why should the living and the dead conspire to hasten that ruin, and I, the sport of fortune, be urged on by events not under my control, to complete a most miserable catastrophe?" Months had rolled away since lady Edith's demise, and where was Lucy of Lindale? In the. valley cottage, full of happy thoughts. How  beautifully did her confiding and loving disposition manifest itself! True, she had not seen Hubert for a long time; but he surely had some good reason for keeping away. His mother was dead. Ahl  she could understand what his grief for such a loss must be, and she grieved for his affliction. What was poor Lucy that he should think of her, when smarting under such a calamity as the death of lady Edith?   ABERT HArTINGS g. She longed ardently for his presence, and sometimes wondered what could detain,him from her. At these moments, her angelic, child-like face assumed a resigned, though troubled expression, while large tears hung on the long, golden-hued lashes of her soft eyes. This could not last. By degrees the fearful truth broke upon hert that, be the cause what it might, Hubert Vargrave was lost to her. Such trust did she repose in him,and so perfect was her conviction of his nobleness and honor, that even then he stood acquitted in her view of falsehood or inconstancy, and she but did him justice. He was a martyr to prejudice,-the prejudice of his mother. It was hard thus to suffer for perverted feelings- of another. But this is the worst feature of the hydra-headed monster. His judgment is un- just,-his resentment -is pitiless. Age does but strengthen his giant limbs, and, like a prodigious excrescence of foul deformity, he fastens on the human mind, influencing its acts, and prompting it to the exe- cution of unrelenting, deeds. In the prejudiced man, we. always see the tyrant. Lucy was frail naturally, and the extreme delicacy of her aspect was in part attributable to that cause. Now, the worm being at the core, this tender flower bowed its beauteous head, and silently withered. the beauty of Lucy seemed every day to grow brighter, while its character became totally changed. There was often a flash- ing fire in her cerulean eyes, before unknown. The color deepened on her roseate lips, and mounted vividly to her crimson cheek. Her courn- tenance wore, at one time, an aspect of unutterable melancholy, and again grew animathd with the; expiring hope not yet dead in her bo-. som. What hadst thou done, poor Lucy, that the direful blight of Lady Edith's prejudice should fall on thee too? Alas Il alasl I the fatal fangs of that demon are often buried in the flesh of angel infancy, when -the child is imagined to inherit the parent's fault-that fault itself grow- ing only out of the fiend's one-sided and arbitrary views of right and wrong. Lucy of Lindale was doomed I H]rs was the not uncommon, though mysterious, malady of a broken heart. No complaint or murmur fell from her lips. She followed her usual avocations with increased dili- gence, and none knew that ,in her fair form was lighted a fire. that would consume even unto- death.   Nature had- gifted. her, among other rare endowments, with a voice of wonderful compass and touch- ing pathos. It seemed now that all her love and all her sorrow were breathed out in those witching strains, and her peasant associates would pause and listen, and eye the songstress with delight and sur-e prise.   AT BJT  HASTINGS1. Where was Hubert Vargrave .then? At St. Clair Hall, wooing the bride of his mother's choice. And how was this done. Coldly and haughtily. "I am here, my lord," said he, addressing her father, " to make good my late-noble mother's engagement with your lordship; at any time and in any manner, agreeable to yourself, the preliminaries of her-our nuptials, shall be concluded. I am willing to endow the lady with my whole fortune, without reserve." (That was well said, Hubert Vargrave, because thy heart was reserved, belonging exclusively, as it did, to Lucy of Lindale.)  His lordship, highly gratified, named. an -early day for the wedding; and rejoiced in the prospect of beholding his already powerful family connexion .strengthened and extended by an alliance with the Var- graves of old renown, now alone represented in the handsome person of his intended son-in-law. Margaret St. Clair was just the woman Lady Edith had been, and it was this affinity in the characters of the two, that had induced the former to select Margaret for her future com- panion and daughter. The cold abstraction and dignified reserve of Hubert was-highly agreeable to her. -In short, it was settled that Hu- bert should pass the brief period of preparation at the castle Cluna, and on his return to the Hall, Margaret should become Lady Vargrave. The St. Clairs designed to make the affair one of great pomp and mag- nificence. The golden sunset of an autumn evening fell sweetly on Cluna's ancient woods, and tipped with soft splendor the bold battlements of the gray old castle.. Hubert walked incessantly.  Such was the fear and anguish of his mind that a state of repose was not per- mitted to his body, and' this evening, without design-for he cared little where -his steps wandered-he- suddenly found himself in the vicinity of that cottage which held the dearest object of his love.  He turned like one struck, with sudden pain, and was walk- ing back toward the castle, when he encountered the tall form of Father Olin. " Has thou seen her, my son ?" demanded the priest. - Hubert shook his head, and replied bitterly : "No 1- my oath forbids." "Noble young man," said the priest, "thy oath does not forbid. She, who exacted -it from thee, feared that an interview with the maiden would lead to the renewal of a former engagement. That may not be. Lucy of Lindale is dying, and if it would console thee, my son, thou mayest, even at this time, go with me, for her hour is at hand; and if thou tarriest, it will, perchance, be too late."   I AiiTtlflt  HASTINTGs.   47   Hubert Vargrave pressed his hand tightly on his foreheadi- an:d a deep groan-escaped him. 'Not a word was spoken, till he and his com- panion entered the cottage. Lucy herself was the first- object that struck the sight of Hubert. By-an instant impulse, he' rushed-to her, 'and they were locked in each other's arms. "Come at last I" said she, in a low, mournful voice; "I knew-I felt it would be so. I. could not die without blessing thee, beloved and sorely tried Hubertl"  " Bless me not I Forgive me not I murdered angel," he exclaimed. " I am thy base undoer. Lucy,--Lucy,--idol of my life 1 do I behold thee thus?"  "Talk more calmly, my own love. Do not accuse thyself. This man of God, in pity to my yearning weakness, has told all. Thou hast done nothing that needs forgiveness. Thou art great' and generous. Thy Lucy will bless thee, and die."                     -  By an effort almost superhuman, Hubert Vargrave :mastered his emotion. He felt the slight form of Lucy grow heavier in his arm, as- her head reclined lovingly on his shoulder, and her long golden tresses fell sadly over his arm. She smiled sweetly,-.-pronounced his name in a faint voice, and expired1 Hubert Vargrave received on his lilps her last breath, and, laying the beautiful corpse softly down, folded.his arms and gazed on her like one converted to stone. And how passe ing fair she was 1 It seemed as though the parting smile, given to Hubert Vargrave, loved to linger on her small, attenuated, butstill beautiful features. She was taken from the evil t -come. Enough evil had she known to give her over to the skeleton arms of death in youth's spring-time. And there she layt Not even prejudiceeould touch-her more. Rest in peace, sweet maidenl Hubert, the-beloved ofthy soul, gave thee his love. Amidst thy many sorrows, rich was the boon-a love which Margaret St. Clair, with;all her.grandeur, shall live to covet vainly.  He would have made thee mistress of broad lands, and a haughty name. Thou will acceptnothing from-the wealth of Cluna, but a grave on the green hill-side, underneath whispering trees, where the far-off roll of waters hall be thy dirge; and theforest song-bird's lay shall flow in melancholy sweetness aroind thy -humble resting place. '  '                ;.  -  Father Olin arose, and,: 1king Hubert's hand, said:-  "Thle lamb is gatered to 8the ofold t -  She departed in peace. -Her home' is with the good aid just. -May ourend be like her's ! Submit my son, to His will, Who cannot err.'"                  -    i Hubert allowed 'himself to be led like a child by the priestb  "8          AL-BVRT BASTINGS3-, and entered the desolate halls of Cluna, himself more desolate than they. It was evening once more, when Hubert Vargrave, with arms folded across his breast, and a countenance of intense thought and deep feeling, slowly strode up and down the wide corridor. The atmos- phere was oppressive, and soon appearances foretold one of those mountain tempests, peculiar to the region in which the castle Cluna stood like a warrior in green old age. Its towering heights became invested in gloom. Darkness enveloped the surrounding wood, and rested on the leaden-hued waters. Heavily rolled distant thunder with a threatening, portentous sound and frequent flashes of lightning shot athwart the glistening air. Blackness and livid light were blent in the sky. Nearer and nearer resounded the roar of heaven's loud artil- lery. , Earth groaned, and seemed shaken to her centre. At intervals, in the pauses of that mighty storm, might be heard the-fall of lofty trees, prostrated by its power. Dismally howled the wind, swelling, 'and dying, and lashing into fury the waves of the river, ordinarily flowing. on in stately grace, -at the base' of that eminence, of which castle Oluna was the crowning glory. Hail descended with destroying force, and rattled fearfully against the stubborn walls of that lordly old mansion, which held only Hubert Vargrave and his woe. At first un- heeded was the war without, but now an earthquake- shook the majestic edifice, and its instant overthrow, strong and compact as itwas, seemed inevitabl6e.  Hubert paused. 'His attention was at length arrested, and he stood, as formerly, before an open window. He saw, then, a cloud of vast magnitude roll towards the castle. Strange brightness was around it, and 'revealed -its jagged form, which rudely represented a hideous dragon. Then rose the same shrill shriek, once heard before, on -an occasion never :to be forgotten. Another, and another, each more agonized and piercing than the last, smote on his amazed'ear. The cloud approached. It slowly divided, and lot a pale white horse leaped upon the- ground, bestrode by a woman, clad in snowy vest- ments. The phantom figure of Mary of Elworth looked upon him in demoniac wrath. Her beauty vanished, and was lost in ghastly de- formity, as she drew near. Red flames shot forth from her dreadful and avenging eyes. Terrific was the death-like aspect of the phantom now, and, the nearer he advanced, the more revolting was her. awful presence. Her hair no longer streamed in graceful curls; while writh- ing and twisting and hissing horribly, with open mouths and forked tongues, serpents depended from her fleshess skull. Instead of the   ATR ,RT HABSINGS,          149 beautiful lips, which had formerly spoken, and won from him the promise to obey her bidding, he now beheld teeth set together in rage. The nimble steed, like its superhuman rider, as they drew nigh, pre- sented an appalling appearance. His mane stood erect on his shrunken neck; his grim eyes rolled fiercely; his breath was hot, and pestilential; his ears were pointed, as though he- labored under mortal alarm; his open mouth gave forth a tremendous yell, resembling a human death- cry; his iron hoofs pawed the earth with impatient fury, and there was only emptiness- between his gaping ribs. Hubert Vargrave was a reckless and brave man, but unwonted terror seized him now, and like the bird that quivers beneath the deadly thrall of the snake, he stood spell-bound, while the fiendish Ghost of Cluna, in hollow accents, addressed him thus: "Come with me I traitor and assassin, come I I am here to summon thee, in the name of slaughtered innocence. Lucy of Lindale, lying a sheeted corpse, in yon cottage, has need of thee. How hast thou dared to disobey a warning sent thee from the spirit land? Was nothing found sufficient to quell the murderous pride of thy house? Come with me."  "Hence, execrable shape IT returned he, "I fear thee not. Hubert Vargrave despises thy warning, and flings defiance in thy foul face. Thus does he repel thy audacious attack." So saying, with the unsheathed sword of Adolphus, his warlike grandsire, he aimed a vain blow at the bold spirit, who laughed loudly and scornfully,.,as the sword fell shivered to its hilt. "Presumptuous, impotent mortal I  What wound canst thou make -in. the bosom of death? Come with me!" shouted she, grasping him in her sinewless arms, and straining him to her wasted breast. ^             - Resistance was useless. - Again the spectre steed neighed loudly, and turning swiftly round, fled, with the rapidity of lightning, down the hill, while his feet struck fire from the earth at every bound. r On t on I they sped-and nevermore did mortal eye behold the noble, but unfor- tunate Hubert Vargrave, the victim of prejudice, and the last lord of Cluna. There were vain preparations for a glorious bridal in the grand abode of the St. Clairs-but the promised bridegroom   came not. His fate was wrapped in impenetrable mystery. Castle Cluna became a mouldering ruin, within whose unhallowed   precincts none dared venture.  Its wide halls were occupied by owls and bates Moths consumed its' gorgeous hangings. The spider cast her   15U0         ATWWtJT HASmS. web undisturbed over its carved and gilded cornices. Bust gathered on the onceproud helm  of the warrior, and dimmed the shine of his i conquering sword. The sombre portraits of the lords :of Var- grave faded arid decayed in unmolested Silence, But even yet, on nights of -storm, are those ancient woo&b roused at midnight by a fearful shriek, as the Ghost of Oluna revisits the scene of her earthly sufferings.    . .. - ,  -  -  '-      -  {   '       . .  . A..   On thy fai, bosom, silver Zaco, The barge expands her snowy sail, Her prow the, rippling-waters beoak As on she sweeps before the gal.  iT the conclusion of this legend, Mrs. Danvers professed herself 'K * highly delighted, and wished his lordship would engage a London artist to come straight to: the Hall and illustrate the story by drawings o f the skeleton s'eed,:its wan rider and Castle Oluna itself, in gray magnificence. Miss Somerville:protested against this.                   -    ; "I declare," said she, earnestly, " if I hear any more of that story, and those old portraits in the gallery, I shall be :forced however um-i- willingly, to bid Lady Hastings farewel and quit the Hall I amA quito nervous now. Pray,'Mrs. Danvers, give us some music f That delight-e -fl song--ah me, I forget wa--t,-what is it, my lord l"  , Really, Miss Somerville, I ama:'not the repositoraof yolu'r chosen. song, nor capable of recalling-anything in accoidane'with your musical taste, whichyou youirself forget. EXcuse me,: madami I remember no: new songs of, any merit- I love'l1d music; Defend me from- the, modern affectation of eccentric variations andrid opeiatic nonsense. I am free to confess t hat o I love old songs, with a very simple acdompwimernt; Give me the voice, natural; and unaffected; save bme, from trills and quavers, I beseech you." Here his lordship made a queer Igimac and placed his fingers' bihis ears in a very:comical way. -,  "Oh, Lord Rathbourne, how-odd youitaan te!" lisped MiCS yomerviHe completely overawd- by his acted 'sarcasm-i which is' always: better acted than: spoken, if people only Understo6id -the differnce between doing and saying. MrsI Danuvers, in a subdYed; and,'for herm uiiraftedt m"nner, sang:"Roy's Wife of AldivallochA"   152          ATLERTC HASTINGS. "I declare," said Lord Rathbourne, at the, conclusion of Mrs. Danvers' song, "I declare I never knew before that she (Mrs. Danvers) could sing. Now, that is what I like. It is something like a return to what England was, before French monsieurs and Italian signors invaded our nationality. If they could not do it' in politics, they did it in music. Shame to us that I admit so much. But the afternoon is delightful," continued the speaker. "What if we all adjourn to the lake-a thing seldom done at Christmas, but which the mildness of the season invites us to venture. Mrs. Danvers and Miss Somerville, I will escort in my own barouche.. Let each of the gentle- men take care of a lady, and we shall all be accommodated. Sir Albert of Hastings, will you accompany me, with the ladies under my escort, on that Splendid hunter-of yours? Mr. Stuart will be safer, I fancy, on Jerome, lof Whom the inexhaustible Sir Walter would say: "A matchless steed, though somewhat old, Prompt to his paces, cool and bold." "Come, Mrs. Danvers, you are good at things of this kind, arrange the party immediately, since we are not likely to have another oppor- tunity like this." Mrs Danvers, so solicited, settled preliminaries, and the company were soon on their way to the lake. Passing a- lawn of deepest green, which spread refreshingly -before the eye, lighted by yellow sunshine, with an ancestral oak occasionally casting its broad arms aloft, they traversed a collonade of poplars, which, though denuded of their sum- mer honors, stood :like guardsmen of the wood, and added to its pictu- resque effect. They crossed a rustic bridge, under which the water went foaming and gushing, as it rippled and leaped in sunshine. The lake lay before them, wide, placid, blue as heaven itself, with that inde- scribable look of serene repose which dignifies sleeping waters, and hushes the beholder into silence, imparting a portion of its calmness to his breast. A margin of deep green marked the limits of-the lake in irregular lines, and picturesque swans, with their attendant shadows, glided gracefully over its glass-like surface. A pleasure boat was moored at the landing, and, with idle air, seemed to invite a sail. Col. Beverly contemplated the scene for a few moments, admiring a group of hills, which rose across the lake, and said: . "We must circumnavigate this lake; I fancy the view changes at every turn, and though we miss the adornment of summer verdure, when those, willows would sweep so entrancingly above the banks, yet we gain a more extended perspective, and need not lament the absence     ATBR7p T HASNGS.           153 Iof flora, sinco we can substitute sublimity for beauty. Am I not right, Miss Somerville?" "Indeed, I will not pretend to determine, Col. Beverly. If you mean to query whether I like flowers better than rocks, Ilsay, decidedly, yes. A summer, winter, or autumnal prospect, here, has-each its separate and characteristic beauty. I have decided though, that we should like a sail, during which we can discuss scenery and enjoy it at the same time." Lord Rathbourne and Albert were engaged in conversation, at a lit- tle distance, when the rest of the company entered the boat. "Stop," cried Miss Somerville, '- let us wait for his Lordship and- Sir Albert, who speaks so enthusiastically of American forests,- aud lakes, and river swamps, that I declare 'tis like reading a romance to hear him; let us wait till they join us."  "Only listen to her," said Sir Charles Ashand, in an under-tone to Mrs. Danvers, " only listen to her. She really wishes- Lord Rathbourne to be of the- party, and pretends that the -young American hei is the object of her attraction. i declare, Mrs. Danvers, women are so full of art and subtle intrigue, that-well to cut the matter short-I wish I were a woman. Wgmen scheme, and plot, and persevere, con- cealing disappointment and even disgust, if they feel it, --till the end is secured." "I suspect," said Mrs. Danvers, with greatgood sense, "that you wish nothing of the kind. What you mean to say is this, that you, with all the lordlier attributes of man's nature, posscssmd. woman's tact,-a wonderful endowment, I confess, but which man must lose much of his grandeur to possess. .We are weak, Sir Charles I Do not grudge us the advantage of managing small affairs, which, perhaps, turn out great in the end. Your sex, by bold strides, reaches the object de- sired-ours, by circuitous paths and uncertain means, attain our wishes, if ever they are attained, by the agency of others." Sir Charles bowed, and addressing Miss Somerville, continued: ' We have waited long enough for our two missing companions, who are no doubt deep in the' mysteries -of the picture gallery, Castle Clinai and all that. They will be here anon, and we can take them in, after our first circuit round this magic lake." There was no- resisting Sir Charles, who hurried them into the barge, and spreading its tiny sail, away they floatedon the yielding bosom-of the silver lake, which, at? every plash of their oars, sentfripples far and wide, of increasing circumference, over its gently agitated bosom. The snow-white swans, like pioneers, preceded the skiff, till,'weaied of its tireless progress, they landed, and leaving their poetial aspect with 7   -154      AM5BRERT HABTNOS. the element they abandoned,- stalked, like vulgar geesej with protruded necks and splay feet away up the rush-grown banks of the lake. Mrs Danvers aid .Sir Charles werefengrosse d pursuing the :conversation, part of which has been detailed. The boat" was gallantly marching over the deeps, when Geraldine Rathbourne, only-daughter of the peer, and :permitted -to be -of the party under especial care of Mrs. Danvers, spied; a stray water flower, unseasonably blooming at this unpropitious period, and smitten with a strange and uncon trollable desire to possess it, reached.,forth her- tiny hand, and, losing her balance, fell into the rsDjpanvers uttered a piercingk shriek, -and clasping her hands, was hardly withheld from plunging after the child.: Onward floated the boat; her crew aghast and dismayed I The white garmentsof Geral- dine Rathbourne, borne -up for a few seconds, sank, and her long brown hair, mingled with water -Weeds, went down, down to the mystic mid- world of caverned waters. Again; she rose l-her white arms were ex- tended piteously- her:snowy eyelids were closed, and she rocked, for an instant-, like a valueless' log, on the cold, cruel blue waters. :Lord Rathbourne had, a few moments after the 'departure of his associates, come- up to the bank,anrid, smiling at the trick which, he said, they had facetiously played, both Sir Albert and himself beheld, with feelings of agony :an-d horror, which we will- not attempt to"describe, -his daugh- ter's misfortune.'- "Great heaven," cried he, ",the last of my race I I will rescue her or die, though I have never learned to swim n Ahl why was I born with so great a horr of -detp watersI TI go, Albert, to save-my child--help me;to disrobe."'  -   -  ;  "Nof-so, y lord-l" cried Sir Albert, eagerly throwing off his outer garmient. f1Mr. Stuart, take care of Lord Rathbourne; I am; at home in water. Take care of him, I say ; and the heroic boy, after a spring and a:plunge, which rendered :him viewless for:some moments r;ose at a distant point, and struck out in-the wake of the boat.- He sustained himself by powerful art on the water; -he floated, and ,cast his eyes heedfiiully taround. Three times- must the hu-man body rise, ere it: sink forever; thrice must the pale face, the body writhing inmo0rtal terror and inortal peril, inbhae, .in troubled :gasps, vital air,- befortitseinks, at onces and forever, amidst the undiscovered -mysteries of :the- watery world, :Q/Oneemore,-%and lfobthe laste timet GOeraldine Rathbourue's robes swepthe: clear surfacew ofthe slake, but succr-w as pneat 1: Si Albert :had seized: herfliowing.-hair, missing thergarments which. hbe strophe' tgrmsp, and clutching it with convulsive energy in one hand, with -the other, bhe   AT  IRT HATSTBNfS.          155 strove to gain the shore. It was a perilous experiment, but nobly was it donel He scrambled up a declivity, dragging his senseless incum- brane after him, and laying- her gently on the soft slope, shouted for Mr. Stuart. .The tutor soon appeared, and, withhim, Lord Rathbourne, with horrent eyes and gestures of frantic despair.- - seied the white motionless form uttering every exclamation .of endearment prompted by his love nd id   smay. Albert, meantim j requesting M r Stuart to calm his lordship, as- far as practicable, astened to the nearestor t- tage, but a few steps off,; anda came ; back, acompanied by its mIistress; a warm-hearted English peasant, one of his own tenants, who Caried on her arm blankets white as snow, abottle-of:wine, aromaticsalts, and camphor.  "Aye; my lord," said the woman, emboldened by the presence of calamity and sorrow, which are great levelers. - Aye, now, -m 10r just leave Sir Albert and me to bring her round, We willtake her to my cottage down in the dingle, ti she is fit to go 'ome."  .  "Go homel what do you mean, woman? Is it the   grave, the Hall, which you call home? Oh, tell me, Albert, for:thelove ofheaven, what does this ignorant person mean?" ... I . . ",Compose yourself :my lord," said Albert *With great -rlmn'n; "Mrs. Sefton is a kind woman. You had better leave the-LadyGer- aldine to her care, till mygrandmother's coLach can be procured:from theHall. See I your daughter slowly revives, and the good-womaUn pouring a few drops of wine down herthroat, and applyinigresto^atves to her face and brow. Do not agitate the patient, Ipray you; :but if you must have action, mount Saladin, whose spirit yousomuoh admre ride to the Har, and request myv aunt,Ldyt  hither in the, family coach. I know your lordship's auxiety,an:sug- gest that you returnwith her. The Lady Geraldiae IMasureu will, by that time. be sufficiently recovered to bear removal; . andtlet 'mbeg that Lady Livia be not alarmed or discomposed: by anying whichhas occurred;" Order me, boy, order me as- you:wnl; llshanh oey   Ah, I see old Sir Gifford in your smile I Lady Livia shall not be alarmed;-trBt merfor that; but I do not promiseto concet thefet/thatherg/aridcon is a hero; As true a s' asting as ever wore garteror branie oswrd I Do not-look sO reprovinglyon O me,?:Alb,; Ilnow tewhe n jI: see it,: these eyes must be-blind, aaiid this to sti, when Begi- nald Rathbourne fails to speak truth." And gentl, onde to bed, was 4eridine Rathourne 'ladid on, uterpa n ewm  nemaumd   156          ALBERT IASTINGS. the glaciers for whiteness--a pillow beneath her head, of swansdown -wrapped in linen. Geraldine was a perfect specimen of :English beauty, than which nothing lovelier breathes on this earthly sphere. - Her complexion was lily white, just- tinted, by la -rose de MAngleterre. She had the clearly defined, brow, curved lip, harmonious contour, and black curling locks of her Norman ancestry; but the love-imparting eye, with its Saxon blue, smiled away the haughtiness of that race led by William the Conqueror, of which she was, on one side at least, the representative, and -spoke of Christianized England, the angel gentleness of its pure daughters, and a mil virtie unknown to the autocrats of the sword. There were loftiness, and humility so curiously blended in her childish form, that one scarcely knew whether she claimed pity or reverence. Mrs Sefton bent over her, and Albert stood near the door with anxiety on his features, though he forbore speaking, but at last signed to the faithful nurse that he wished information in regard to the condition of her patient.       . . Mrs. Sefton, in reply,--spoke aloud. "She is doing well, Sir Halbert, and you 'ave a good right to come near and comfort 'er, though she may be my-Lord Rathboume's great 'eir, Yes, come, and tell 'er that you 'ave-saved 'er from the -lake." Geraldine,- at these words, opened her large,- loving blue eyes, and feebly raised her hand, with a gesture of invitation, to which mute appeal, Albert, at once consenting, approached her resting-place timidly, and stood before her in all his matchless boy-beauty, hallowed by the self-immolating heroism of the - afternoon's adventure, and robed in the eyes of Geraldine Rathbourne with a power, and a- glory to be reached by no-mortal save himself. "Are, you quite recovered?' said Sir Albert, in a voice which, though calm,- spoke deep interest, and was not devoid of emotion. "Are you quite recovered, dear Lady Geraldine?" The young girl so addressed raised her liquid blue eyes, first to heaven, and then settling them} with all their wealth of mind and heart, on Sir Albert's face, replied:- "Thanks to Almighty God, and your courage, I yet livel And now, Sir Albert Hastings, to whom I have never spoken before, but of whom I :have heard so much, consider me your- debtor for life  But thiis apartment rocks strangely. I believe I yet linger between life and death." i- ;    - , Not 'so, not so, dear Lady Geraldine," cried Sir Albert, in great   AnUBET  HASTINGS.          157 alarm. "More camphor, Mrs. Seftonl ah, take charge of her-how pale, how deadly pale she is 1"  s It is all weakness," said good Mrs. Sefton, " and there is my Lady Hastings' carriage, with Lady Arundel and Lord Rathbourne. I -am glad they come -at last, and save me from further responsibility. Though, for my part, I would be glad to do anything for my dear, quiet patient." Lady Arundel now came in, with\ that undemonstrative- manner, covering her devoted zeal and'Christian charities, so well known to her associates, and said, in a low, sweet voice, while she pressed the hand of Mrs. Sefton warmly: "How much we all thank you-for your timely attention to this young lady i Perhaps, at some future time, we shall be able to recip- rocate our obligations; though they can never be discharged or for- gotten."  "Now, I think fresh air and the gentle exercise of driving, wi I be of service to Geraldine." And Lady Arundel wrapped a soft enmine cloak about her delicate patient, and, with the assistance ofr Lrd Rathbourne and Sir Albert, placed her in: the coach, which moved slowly on to Hastings Hall, follwed by the gentlemen.                  .b   CHA PTR      xTTT*  , o           e. "'God grantsthat, o punish thy fasehoo d, and pride,  . - y,g48a, 14t tXTy, armage, * sha -stand by hy id -.. ; ^Shallta*theotwit hpor y,' clai-rwhhpe m bride, An dbeairthee a way to *e graKve. Ib : Alt . , , Of sackcloth was thy wedding garment made. -Byron.- HRE are hurrying steps, faces of anxiety, and eager ex- ectation rn W axtito nC s of those-woho  ere slaves, t:ough no 'more ,attaclted, orderly and happy people of the "worfing:a1s :cotilthe fgiihd in: any republi, kingdom or empire, where t ei: 'an i-mof'Averyd nofexist" 'Slavery: exist, m fact, everyhere--the slavery imposed by poverty and necessity. The fact remains unchanged after argument has exhausted its resources and'ingenuity-after fanaticism has set the world a blaze with its de- / stroying fires--after the name of slavery has been washed out by  waters of blood-still does it, in effect, exist all over the world. But I our business is with individuals, not political questions; and we abandon that field to demagogues and strong-minded women, whose avocation is not to our taste, and whose laurels we, desire nbt to wear. Yes, there was commotion and excitement of a pleasurable kind at De Mar Hell on this evening, enlivened bycloudless skies above, where shone summer sunbeams in soft d eparting glory; where earthiselow, enriched with summer hues, spread over her carpet of green a variegat- ed garniture of flowers, mosses and' velvet turf, Whier  her more. aspring- productions, in the form of tree%, too various to be described, exulted in the gienial season, and stood robed in inimitable atd diversi- fiect vestments obfall shades, from the delicate tint of spring's first budding foliage to the rich, dark, emerald color of a mid-summer laurel leaL As evening drew on, lights were huing in the moss-house, an( all the grovesscattered over the lawn. Trellissed bowers and summer houses were a blaze of illumination, and the, Hall resembled some enchanted palace,' which overawes the mind of childhood with its * \  *estments' o s iudgflaet   h  ih ak  meadclro     i-umrlue clatAsevnngdrw    nlghs  er  un i te   oshustn   -   -Mis4            159 gorgeous illusions. Carriage aftr, carriage -rllod ;Idown 9rthe long -avenue with its princely;array of live oaks,.( spporting me!ancholy  gray curtai' s of moss. Muic: resiiddd- abo-ut the; grounds, and-fir away down to the forest confines, did tlight winds bear the harmnonious sounds. O-i this evening was the beautiful Valerie De Mar to become a bride,. and never was lovelier bride :arrayed-fw'rthe ;altar. nNothing could enhance the power off haras so remarkable:-hat'th-e eye ofP astranger never failed to contemplate :themeye n prioiiy p without involuntary admiration and'a pleasing sensatoi;, which: it is the prerogative of all things lovely in nature, and in art,. to awaken.). tIer faultless and Juno- like figure was robed in white- lace, of- atexture soight^and -fine that the satin undergatrent, falling if giitetig foldIklk-s' molfen silver, was: distinctly 'seen t - A pearl 'zone bound hei t$iny waist,- and pearls loosely encircled her matchless and parian throat., The "abounding wealth of her gold-brown hair, escaping .from :thedsignfi t garland of orange blossoms -which--partly bond her bromw flowed; cladsily over her white shoulders, and -formed a gorgeous framework fobri  perfect face,-with- its'dark' flashing-eyes,- and lot, drooping lashe- : Valerie stobd opposite an immense mirr;, W^hiclimflected a figure  and face seldom seenin thisiwork-day world I her motherbeside her, contemplating the idolized daughter of her hobsewith eyes which were moistened with tears, and that yearning at$ er heartf known only to a mother's 'love.     -  -.  ':    - j  "Be composed, my child, 'twill soon be over; :I have n'yself pased through thesame  ordeal. You: must keep your Courage upl Iplead hard for the private ceremony youi desired, but: your papa-would-not have it' so.". -- , ' '         t   ' "I am calm, mamma, very calm;- but, atV inter0vli something like - sharp pain strikes me here," andtishe laid her snowy handboh'-her heart "I can not call it pain either, but a kind of trembling sound, like the tol of abell, to be felt, :ndtdeseribed. Seel Ishivet ow--w;: th6e itiisag'ain -what can: it -ean-??'"   . ; ;   :  - \   ;: ). .. "It means only thi, my ,dear- chfd-you;are .ov0erote witi ekx citement, and qfiit ' hervous--sitl down- Wei:ill await, tte summon. of the-bishop, wo has,: lby this time, 1 doubt notiived' Mrsm .e Mar ra'ng ^-be:'i d seatedtd:herself beside ier daigfitetr: - Anhd' down 'tht: wide aedWithi ih-iowS uflay in  i :*under the spreading treie , a the a'-mI iimron iose slowly abbvethe -horiSn, and the evening star juistVtrildeediat:hesideji:ode styere -fi i alone, mouiited -moii a'tspeindid + steed.: Alarc breoel, defying evelyim-   160          AI&BERT HASTINGS. pediment, believing that all obstacles had been dissipated by his iron will, and deep-laid plans, dared to comethus alone, thus boldly, to claim a prize, which virtue of the most exalted character might have been happy in securing. He had walked so often in slippery places, and maintained an erect port, that now he feared no fall. So often had he navigated dangerous and tempestuous seas, always guiding his bark safely to the desired haven by the strength of -his own right arm, that he forgot the caverns of the great deep from which there is no re. demption. And yet, we cannot analyze his thoughts, as on he rode, his head bowed, and occasionally pressing his hand to his left side, as if to assure himself that some treasure reposed there, which he would not allow - to - escape..- Slowly' he alighted, delivering his horse to a groom who stood in waiting, and, with his ordinarily proud step and collected port, met the bride's father, and disappeared with him in an ante-room. But there were others who passed beneath the live oaks of the avenue, bent on a far different errand, and with feelings widely divergent from those of the late horseman, who chose to come to his lordly bridal unaccompanied;- and these were people whom he esteemed lowly-- poor people. Ahl how Mr. Alaric Lovel eschewed poverty. That was the? one evil whichhis life-long endeavor had been to avoid, And yet, in the hands of the poor, was his fate at this instant, held by- a law which he had ,never, acknowledged, even by the fiat of Him who hath said, "He that humbleth, himself shall be exalted ; "Blessed are the poor in spirit." Thetrestood Myra, the wild woman of the wood, with all her love and al -her woe; there -was- Amy Austin, with her bag of human- bones which rattled fearfully as she set them downo upon the grass, and cast her heedful, half distracted, restless eyes towards the hall, there. as Mr. Calloway, under whose orders the women acted, upheld by his known. rectitude and sacred functions as a leader and teachbr '; -- *" *"-  . *' ^ ' .! 1b s f .ffi  ac cr- But the bishop, arrayed in his robes of office, passed them in a car- t riage'. That was the signal which they all awaited, each one influenced by different but equally powerful motives. Poor Mi a was most to be pitied of the trio. She had borne contempt, desertion, intimidation, menace. She would have borne all to the bitter nd, but for thislast stroke. No love -had ever warmed her heart of equal powerto that which'she -bore!to Alario Loel, the: adored of her youth, and, his child, Roxanna, so like him. -. Not even suspected crimer on the part of -Alaric could lead her to betriay him, or to aid in his betrayal; but now--ohl now-he   as about to stamp her brow with shame forever,   ATRlKH  J P)AsT=nGS..        161 and entail on her child, and on his -child, a name too detestable to be mentioned. Nol the mother's heart rose to right the child, and one glance at Myra would serve to show that her choice had been irrevocably ," He loves Valerie De Mar. I love my child. God defend the right!" Amy Austin, half insane with grief and uncertainty, but convinced that Alaric Lovel had procured the murder of her son, if he had not himself accomplished it by his own hand, had now-but one motive in life--to bring her enemy to justice, and inter the remains of her son, gathered by exertions of her own from the dismal and fated pond. Mr. Calloway was sustained by a loftier' enthusiasm, and more noble incentive, than ruled either of his associates. He stood forth the judge and the avenger, with a delegated authority and-a prestige which none might gainsay. He would rescue Valerie De Mar from ruin; he would' restore to Myra her fair fame; he would give the abandoned Roxawnf  a name and patrimony, justly her own. He would set, thet authorities on the qui wive for the discovery of John Austin's murderer, and so  place the heart of Mother Amy at rest, whose importunities could not be quieted, and whom he regarded as the messenger of a Power notto be resisted. And now, amidst a glittering group of the high-born and the lovely, Valerie, descending the stairs, looked like some-fair spirit viitingg for a brief space, the grosser earth for which she was an inhabitant Itoo celestial and -refined. We do meet, perhapsoftener-than in our unob- serving egotism we are disposed to admit, some people andsome things  which have less of earth in them, than heaven; and ye how prone-are \ we to talk of this bad- world, closing our eyes to the good which, at i intervals, gives us glimpses of paradise, and should i.0Et ,hearts from i the contemplation of moral obliquity, too often striking home to them, / and cankering there. But Valerie De Mar was an angelof gdness, as well as beauty. Her nature was enthusiastic, andnone t he: iess ' tender, modest and enduring, because a cultivated das-te strong oiginal powers of mind, and accomplishments of the: highest orderwere hers. She was[as great in small things,-as- she was superior in.;matters of moment.) And there'she was;, ready to devote herrglorious woran- a hood, her love, the love of genius, which is ncom mon-giito one over whom she knew were han/ging clouds and darkness but twho^, fr that very reason, seconded by a free choice of thie heart, she was deter- mined to, make lord of her destiny. --A flush, like Aurora's fiat blush, as she unfolds the gates of dawn, went vaying over brow, ohe ek-';and r18                  .   -       * bosom, as she gave her hand .to the lordly. bridegroomi ad, wit a firmer step, trod- by his side, who would, henceforth, guide her through lifetandt under whose direction she was proad to be, .  Alaric Lovel was undoubtedly the handsomest man in that.-great assembly-of weidding guests. -?He resembled sOme renowned warrior; or so Valerie at least thought, covered al over with glory, fresh from victory-sobftminded ato :b above vanity; and-so-self-conscious of Alerit asipdespise popular praise . : i  They iWere. anoble oing couplei, and oher sofrtness. delicay -and eleganc shone wifth greatert'esplendene ,be side Ihisl dignified, almost ttt maned id:bbd^ bultregul!aiand masculine beautyr/... . a- tld now the pg^roed biiOdfparrayid in clerieal vestments,-a man a  eed ;  --;h-m'y8ears.. oi 'o whose [head ,the "snows of time restedi giving increasedeffet to' a veneralble: apeelt pro-ceeded, with great soletnity, thjes pdrbrman-- of that impresve ceremony whiCi is ny .urp ased inatef   andm ': portAnce bybthe -Ist rites :whi sOpatetic ally and- s,-bl isomrmttciduste:to dus  t, ashes:  and, the boulsto -God ! g   ?.t i- hiere --was ^:sth;at kthe :lower end of ;the apartment, eidayfiltedliitfhe.:gest '.^A -miir u rose,: and the, ,god -bihop pa'edas/thnt assousgh'reprovng theg teriUp   i 'hich incased instead of diminijshing; -and Mr. Calloway, totally regardlessi-of. the gpiag. ahd g .tamffaZedspile,/gaing. boehimi, ,fri  everye-Sdel -walked. up toh-.Lt ovex3H dxr iegdighin OMiform ,a:instant With-,n awithering and Ste ad"gaze, poker inthatstentoria'tvoice which wazalwaymsheard o- .te' -ost^ei nde-: eampgro:and whehwas :neverl werted,-,m the:-pisenmeekfmort a mai-.:tisb f;ce&-glowed with-,pow rfdlem .tion tts.,fra shook   [-h e:,stood:ti e impired, .Rising hiszight aTOmwide i gesture oficommand, ;a -glaribg.,*w bisopi bridep parents and Sassemghy hesaid, inr -deep, emphati o ae, likee those.,of a prelude gnd&Tissinbln-a1446id ;d    at tonek R6 those t .one  tqi: -ooquent disous;    . .L : ... I& r ,  *:.fo. fi'd: thiseeremony." My-bat ed.-'.br-er, the:bishophas asked if :am:esre, pra eathow causefwhy tis marriage?should not, pro- ceed;.[^ a]: ow4n1,pro6vcause - enou'gh, - ; * : .   ,..11nof:nerim-'-.iil:he,: turnfW,.,fiedrelly p oa. A larie-ove,.:-" how hoih6ou'da-ed-4o iido'i tfi- g, etingthm, at lige geye of Mim who -neither. sgtumbe t t-io l!eepeti i-upon:hee:!wiose servaat-I:. m, afd whoo-mmandshee, e for                 -l  the defvils- who tlead the& on, ra..thee . .fi nly toperditiounl prish -foverl ;: Is notfthisJ wromant hy wfe?, Yes I atjt   b garmeni ihave" brought herladMsh eshal n0of be harmed'./ I:.i . Mr De: athere attempted to leaai- hisidaugh ter, fom r 'the"t: u   r .Rr,- kbl HB'$vf 168 Valerie stood like some fi-oe formof:!;ife, hard,:c ld.,imm fbTablde. From the moment her eye rested on Myr consciouYne^ seemed to have deserted her : and she:was- iterally oanie- froma the-rom:: t. TCallowt agiving " littl heed to her'departure,-proceeded togive the biShopMr. Dexter's: timonh and-continuedthis :address-it: a- lod0e and more animated.:voice .- . : : - "Of a Terity, this- man, movh e;m 80:1-wi th wrath; ye;ae tad',my voice shall be heard in -high :plaeses becaau of.:hi :oppresionsw,.ho devoureth Widow, houses,whosm th epoor an ad-gettethncrease from the humble, who isfull o-eait..anigilei:who betrayeth-it his tongue and .speaketh deceitfully, whoso mouth is a: :opefnirechre, whose garment are-efle -With.,blood, and who reignethelike aprince feet of ric Lovei Skull, arm ribs, and skeleton.? .,robuledq the flowered coarpet. - Aa4ie, :om the mome behetlde . .^ ad become deadly-paletand-r-'tsfll .k*ept. --hand- presseds:: d-/:mfi*, masner before d ernbed. -iWhen-^n'e.!ea:i-te1h .mom awarey ghstr lllh isproud Beautj8ered to-go wtiwhbr. af g was seen to-glitter ^ i'hz s-graspi and:ai dl yyefor .raae-amq'ha awed spetators' coUld mterfe, herew, theref a qiek:Sy^,.eOt ii!";^hi cosnten :of a .pito, applied ,.to ::hieSre/r a -s . anA. g^ d1ad gt straight to'his;hears a9 he:mean ,fieya shoul& * I,.e91.r ee:.,:fe.': oAustin^ and: dimegd thbe huesof- thOeto .ufrpe t on?a. stood a bridegroom but;o inent E :.f ; ' - . '.. i; :,5 , , t f, The bishop held: p pi hands .ill horrr.. .: rC,ayfell W ba l dismayed, and bitter words of yIet, a u poken, rept n. ed, Wo' Then rose a crIy so. p-iermDga jagow^}.^/^S^ Ut - *be^tat I despair, that those who heard it started afresh 'wi: the .:.tg of the dyig mg before1ewFeya cdra rpe gt .^ ^ild  womeando iet--QeqlO, Pedt-i . . ^s7P.^et wsaspasng awsay at iShook)he^avh Wer. a,,aand eating herself:with franticge ue,6p!a ed;it :fo. ,- hso m r.--;;: ... - . "OAltiol Ahis lfw,we . abeaur YdlO]t*^,ati- *tofthyvdaestroywor Seeow hen bleedb... bruoel:,anao u hwI; done it. I went to thee for counsel i andh'h :i , 1 forgive . b,. y, .,W I nottala n Bg, .ehis a e .': ,.- , , . , . cIA, InCh   164          ATJ04  HASTINGS. Mr. Calloway advanced, and would have spoken, but she waved him away:       ,  "Take hence thy revengeful face, thou terrible man I The thunders of thy anathemas are idle now. Seest thou not that eternal stupor has gathered about him? He is deaf alike to thy obloquy and to my love. Ah, woeful sightl His great heart is broken at last-broken and pierced with a wound which has sped his soul. Away all of you I He is mine at last, and-none shall rend him from these arms." 'Myra's head drooped, her eyes fixed -with a cold glittering light on the features:of him whoi throned in her heart of hearts, had been her one idea since the days of girlish romancel What was -even Roxanna to her now? There, cold, speechless, dead, lay the love of her youth-- marred by crime, leaving no hallowed memories behind him, smitten by his own hand. He was yet the world to her. Death had cancelled his faults; he belonged to her, and with her claim even Valerie De Mar dared not interfere. The Hall -was soon deserted. People who go dressed to attend a wedding, desire not that a funeral be substituted in its place. ' And Alaric Leovel lay robed for the grave in that same apartment, at Ellerton, where we first met him, when Mrs. Level, Albert and Emeline were his companions. The first was dead, the second in a foreign land, the third cared for by a benevolent stranger, and he, lord of all- once possessed by themre, but under what awful and appalling circumstances I Yes, there he was, one lone watcher by his side. She, whom of all living beings, he had most injured, could not, as she had truly said, be divorced from him now. Her great, soul- speaking, wonderful eyes, were fastened on that pallid, but finely cut face, with a gaze so pathetic, so full of unutterable and undying love, that the dead man did not seem' alone, but rather a portion of- the liv- ing woman, whose existence was clearly merged in his, and from whom life was slowly but certainly depArting, while she vainly sought to ani- mate his clay by that'pleading, pitying gaze, never withdrawn, and \ deepening hour by hour. Three days and nights she sat thus, and all efforts to arouse her were ineffectual. Even forceful attempts to remove her from the side of him she loved, proved unavailing. Once, she had been borne away, but immediately she returned to her post, and at last she was allowed to have her own way., Itnow became necessary the funeral rite should be performed, and, during the ceremony, she seemed so wholly occupied as to take no note of it. When the corpse was being removed, she stood meekly aside, and   AT,s  B HASTINGSE.         165 walked by the coffin to the churchyard. The grave was covered with - fresh turf, and Myra, leaning against a linden tree, looked wistfully on. The good bishop approached her after the burial, and with much kind- "Come home with me, Myra, you and your child, (for she held Roxanna by the hand,) I will care for you and for her." -" ot now," said Myra- with .perfect calmness, and in a strangely subdued voice, "not now; take her when I am gone. Relietantly the bishop left the mournful scene, and Myra, ,seating herself by the grave, bent that same concentrated look of anguish and love on the insensate mound which she had riveted, for three consecu- tive days and nights, on the idolized features of her adored Alaric. Evening came on, with soft moonlight, watchful and mysterious stars, with chilling dews and mournfil-voiced winds. The owl hooted in dismal cadence from the oval apex of a weeping-willow which swept its fragile and declining branches over graves and tombstones. White gleamed marble monuments in the elfin light, but no marble - ^e, commemorated woe like that which- consumed- even to death, fielW, ill-clad form of poor Myra, dying by the resting-place of him, -who had devoted her to despair in life, and, dying, had sealed- her doom to die -also.             .   . As morning's earliest streak lay level along the horizon--ere yet the mocking-bird tuned her varied notes to welcome the returning day-- the watcher of the tombs closed her eyes, and was-no morel -Then garish sunbeams revelled over earth. Rorna:dslept .asachildhood sleeps, but, for that worn mother, who had sunk overpowered beside her, there was no waking, nor morn, nor even,or noontide. She was gonel 'Isplorapacel    - x.   aram    aa   Ir. tI4autaag X me Wiere are ye with aom in Zife sIathd 2 , X ear companions of my golden days t;;o  ,    d"e are ea sraned from me, or7parfed, E1gown71, like moring olaudo, a thouqsardwaya , ( ISS JULIET GRAkYSON was astonished while seated at     X her quiet breakfasttable, the: morning after r. Dexter's, -ffightj,when Jeanette, with a look of wonder in her eyes, t  . .and unusual boldness of address, informed her that the school was suspended, the master was not, there. This Jeanette had  learned from some scholars of her acquaintance who had been tothe school-house,and were :told that the master could no where be found. - V rel;, Jeanette,"lreplied AMiss Juliet; "perhaps--e has been . called away, by the-ilfuessof friends, or some of his parishioners my new-, iser-vies Ar the -dying or -the dead. I thank you-for your  - oreanett departedon he r return home, and Emeline- almost regretting her school,'repulsive as its operations were to her- gat,4own to, her  books, Miss Juliet knitting perseveringly, and casting an eye towards Emeline as she read on, striving to give her thoughts to a vivid descrip- tion f Htottentot villages in some far land, she did not distinctly remember where. The prim Ne   ngland clock struck boldly the hour of twelve.  Miss Juliet, with that precision which marked her char- acter in all things, rose and went to give orders for lunch, leaving her companion alone. There was a  loud rap at the door0 and Emeline, ,without waiting for the appearance of a servant, rose and opened the door.- An elderlygentleman, of robust form and kindly aspect entered without etremony, and grasping her hand with warmth, said: Ahl you are little Emmy Lovel  I should have known   that, without having heard that you were here. There are the soft blue eyes of Eudora Hastings, and the De Vere cast of-countenance. Ah, -   A Ti'BRT . H  GSTMOSS.       t167  nust have a kiss from those lips ;-they remind me of my youth,-  happier days, when the bluff, commonplace old gentleman, you see, d an eye for beauty -and a heart -for love. Dreams, all dreamsiand iugs of the past " added Mr. - Oldham (for he it wes) pathetically.  am an old friend of your family, young lady; and I -bring you re letters from England, -written by my young clerk, -that Was, bert Hastings."  At the mention of this name, Emeline uttered a faint cry, and sank o her chair., The great blue eyes became dilated, and the impassive e literally glowed with eagerness and expectation. -  ' Oh, Mr. Oldham, what of him? My cousiri- Albert, allI have lef,  the-wide, wide world, to love. Tell me quickly, before Miss Juliet' urns. I would rather- hear it all alone. - Miss Juliet is kind -very Id, as kind as one like her can be, but she keeps my- heart down. , tell me all you have to say about my cousin Albert, before she n e s .t - -  .      . - - .  *  ' . ' - \  'My dear child I compose yourself - There is nothing in these lett6s . ich Miss Juliet, -an excellent woman,Wi]l not be delighted tohear. )ert Hastings, a boy after my own- heart;-let me tell y-u, weitt on errand of, mine to the West Indies,-discehrgqed my miissioith at credit to himself, and met -a relative there, whom, hoW*ev,' he I the misfortune to lose, (almost before folly. klioing-hnr yb[  n whom he obtained certain :documentswhich restored him to- hs ndmother, 'ady Hastings, and to a great fortune-, I concludem in old country, Seel here is his letter, with: its foreign : postmar : ,cted to my care. -Ah, the boy knew he could trust me, thoubghtI am  , at all times, my own master,-that is, I mean to say,: 1am oca-    i lally forced to yield to expediency, as who of us are not? but the - knows my heart is in the right place, -after all."  Albert in England? then he is lost foreverl" cried :Enmeline, burst  into tears. "I care not for the letter or, all his -great- fotune. I it to see him I Nobody else cares for me,-or can :eo Afort--me:for  r Mama but cousin Albert;;" and the-poor child wepton, unheeding Oldham's attempt at consolation, who was engaged im- the task of thing her, when Miss Juliet, followed by Binah, a sooty attendant, a ring a plentiful salveriwith lunch sufficientto tsatisfyan^alerman,  le their appearance,: with bread, butter, eold -'chieken, preserve-  pernong wineithe product-of Miss-Juliet's own vinery cheete6iind - - Is. Mr. Oldham rose respectfully,' greeting this- vertyexempla Ie lady, who had a good heart; if onet only knew how- a t- a it. i Oldhbm, w ith involuntary deference, adjusted his: ciltwar, aid aWsid    TV  16$8         BAI ET  AsHGs  . his cane, and spreading the profered napkin, offered by Binah, over his knees, (after having exchanged greetings with his hostess,) proceeded to inform her also of his errand, while -Emeline sat, pale- and almost breathless, her thoughts far away at Ellerton in the garden among its flowers. !"Miss Grayson," pursued tht gentleman with much dignity, "I am appointed agent of a young gentleman, who was, very lately; clerk in my establishment in --- . You see our positions are changed. I was the patron then ;. nw, I confess, he orders and I obey, eaning to be as faithful to his interests as he has been to mine. -He did not forget, Miss Juliet, when a malarious atmosphere sickened his heart, to fillfil my injunctions. God be praised I his life was spared, and I, Miss Juliet, will, with equal fidelity, discharge the commissions with which I am honored by him, and the noble Lady Hastings. Here is a letter of credit on a banker, endorsed by her ladyship's man of business, for the benefit of Mrs. Amanda Lovel, and her daughter Emeline, entreat- ing their presence at Hastings Hall, England, but, in any event author- izing the draught, which, you see, is munificent-five hundred pounds sterling, to be drawn on a London house." Miss Juliet, without the slightest discomposure, replied: : Mr, Oldham, Mrs. lovel, as you well know, can answer nothing td plans and arrangements like this. I stand in'the place of a mother to Emeline, and shall-reflect on what you have told me. - She is scarcely of an age to judge for herself; but what noise is that .I hear? Why, mylgpod Mr. Calloway,.is it you?" added she, rising, and hastening to the door, "*,what procures us the visit of our minister?-Mr. Oldham, the Rev. Mr. C0alloway." Mr. Oldham bowed. Mr. Calloway made but a slight salutation in response, and wore on his face even a more sombre and repulsive look than was his wont.. He refused partaking of offered refreshments, and drawing a deep sigh, leaned his head upon his hand, with vacant eyes. Every body was awed into silence, and, after a timei Miss Juliet ven. tured an inqui concerning his health, to which he responded: " Verily, the judgment of the Lord is abroad in the land. Mine eyes have looked on the downfall of the mighty, even by his own hand, yea, and by a death of his own procuring. Trustnoqt inriches, for they are snares of the Prince of Darkness. Practice no wrong doing, for on thine own head shall it be visited -yea, with tenfold fury, for thine iniquity, and with a sharp sword for thy sin. I am well, well in the body, but of that I cre not to speak or think. My mind is tossed on a se of trouble, and I am bowed down with inward reproaches :lest I Ie of truladIa    -AIIBERTB? HlASING8-,    -   169 have delivered counsel unwisely, and spoken more conformably to the wrath of man, than to the fear of God." Here Mr. Calloway paused, drew a long breath, anid added, in a-dedp, mournful voice: "Iaric Lovel is dead I Slain at the false altar of a pretended nr- riage,-slain by his-own act, in defiance of the canons which prohibit self-murder. I see itall now-Tthe great bridal-the throng-the light-- the music--her that should have been a true bride, not the vain mockery of one H-I de the'angry man I .On me was cast 'his terrible eye, till, closed in death, it lost its power. Yes I I saw him glare on me with an unforgiving look of hate, as the spirit forsook his bleeding form. I heard the las twail of Myra, as her heart broke with the cry, and I am here to tell a tale which no romancer could fabricate, or paint with- a tithe of its real horrors." Mr. Calloway again sank into silence, and as his massive features, with strong indications of suppressed feeling, deeply marked, saturnine, bold, and decided, became overspread with unwonted paleness, framed with the outline of iron-gray hair, which formed-an appropriate back- ground to their facial limning, he resembled the portraits which come down to us of "the sagest-of usurpers,'}-the fanatical, great-minded, puritanical Cromwell,-politically,; a mistaken radical,-'religiously, a zealot of the first water,--but a great gen th doomed to bttle, in the end, vainly, withEnglandestshed  law and order. Miss Juliet was only betrayed on extraordinary occasions into any- thing like discomposure or surprise; but she started at Mr. Calloway's information, and was visibly affected /-Mr. Oldham, however, whose g character and temperament were wholly different from  that: lady's, sprang to his feet like a released prisoner, exclaiming, (and we fear, that there was more of gratulation than grief in the exclamation):: i- "Sir, reverend sir, you shock me I Alaric Lovel dead I Why, this news will shake our town of -- like an- earthquake. The monetary affairs of half our business men will be discomposed, sir. He was a great man, great in worldly wisdom, -a skillful financier, a very popular citizen. You shock me, indeed." Mr. Calloway, drawn from his abstraction by the vehemenceof the merchant, turned his face towards him with a -half-pitying, h af-dis- dainful ekxpression, and said:  . "Little will he, whom you call Alaric Lovel, care now for what you, the town of-- , or the whole world, think of him finapcially, politi- cally, or otherwise, He has, before this time,y tried the awful realities of another world, and -you, as well as tht communitvyof whom you   170  '       ATRFRT HASTINGS. speak, had better lay to heart the end of your admired but guilty citizen. Were they all here, I would lift up my voice as a trumpet, and rouse their hearts as with the sound of a clarion. Assuredly, I would command them to I cease from man whose breath is in his nos- trils,' to take warning by the fate of the great banker, that they may make clean their paths, and follow not the maxims and example of bloody and treacherous men, whose fate is foreshadowed by prophecy, and exemplified in- the tragical death of your fellow-citizen. Your hairs, sir, like mine, are whitening for the grave, and in W*e absence ot others, I address myself to you. Behold lthe evil days draw nigh, when you shall say of worldly things, 'I have no pleasure in them;' and, now, even at -the eleventh hour, I call on you to consider your ways, and give your mind and energies to a contemplation of the great hereafter." Mr. Oldham, much confused at this personal and convicting address} took his departure hastily, saying to Emeline, in an under tone: "I will call again soon, my childl; read the letters I leave with you. I will be your friend. Never mind Miss Juliet or Mr. Calloway, both good people,-excellent people,-not in my line, child--.good-bye " And the warm, hearty shake of good Mr. Oldham's rotund hand sent some of its practical humanity into the half-withered i eart oI E mieline, as she let fall on- it a tear, anid, with bewildered consciousness, replied:    .  . "Ah, dear sir, this is dreadful about my uncle Alaric. I used to love him so dearly, once. He looked like my own papa; but he would not let me love him after papa died. He never came near mama. He did not love Albert nor me; but I loved him for all that-and he is 'dead I feel more lonely for this. Yes, sir, I will be glad to see you; you were Albert's friend; his letters say so. Ah, be my friend, too. I am a poor, forsaken child--uly a child, you see, and I cannot act." - ":No,w may heaven desert' me at my need, if I be not a father to thee, ;sweet child,; said Mr. Oldham, as he led Emeline out of the parlor, where Miss Juliet remained with Mr. Calloway, who only bowed an adieu to him without rising. "I see how all stands, but I will right it, my child. Do not cry;" and kissing her affectionately, he departed. Now, it may seem strange that the heart-of this child leaped forward to meet the benevolence of Mr. Oldham, while coldly receiving the kindness of Miss Juliet Grayson; but so it was, the kindness of the - former, a genuine outhurst of humanity, won her instantly; that of the latter, a sort of necessity, arising from considerations of duty, the   A4ti' HmASIm NGS.           171 independent spirit of the girl, with its fine instincts, rejected.. What the first rendered as a love-offering, unsolicited, was yielded by the latter in obedience to principle. Miss Juliet would have done the same for a South-Sea savage, under like circumstances. But Mr. Oldham loved her because she was the child of Amanda De Vere; because he loved Albert Hastings, and was, in the old, by-gone time, a friend of her friends. Dear, dear Mr. Oldham, Emeline did indeed love him-' only wrong when he was forced to be so, and always right, when fol- lowing the impulses of his own sound heart. Child as she was, Emeline Lovel possessed wonderful discrimination, an instinct- of the womanly organizationch rhenrature, sharpened by sorrow, and prematurely developed by slitude,a andreflection. The virtues of Miss Juliet Gray- son she fully acknowledged, and would have sacrificed anything short of life, to acquit herself of obligations to her. She intended, at some future time, to do this-in what way she knew not-but she would do it, that was all. As for loving Miss Juliet, as she loved dear mama, as she still loved Albert Hastings, or even as she could love kind, frank Mr. Oldham, that was a thing impossible. Miss Juliet must have all things done by rule-she could not love by rule, and there was an end of the matter. But now she was alone, and with a trembling hand, opened the let- ters left by Mr. Oldbam. One was addressed to her mother-alas, that sweet mother, knew nought of worldly things now, or, if she did, re- garded them only with an angel's pitying eyes. No response could come to them from her. When Emeline, as though invested with her mother's participation in worldly affairs, by a proxy which she defer- entially assumed, opened the first letter addressed to Mrs. Amanda Lovel. - It ran thus: "My beloved Mother and Aunt: "I am now in England, at the home of my father, Hastings Hall. I will not pause to tell you of adventures, dear mother, because I hope we shall have time enough to recount these at some future period; but I come, at once, to the purpose of my letter, which is this: My dear grandmother, Lady IOivia Hastings, commissions me to beg that you will immediately come to England-you and dear Emeline. She knows that I will not stay here without you. I am rich, dear, loving mother. A"I have is your's, and darling-Rammy's. If you do not come to me, I will go to you, though that might, perhaps, involve us all in trouble. I know your gentle yet considerate mind. I know all, which I have not time to spedify, but which needs no explanation to you, dearest !   172   A- BERT HBTMGIS. mother. I enclose a minissive from Lady Livia, and will add no more. Only tell Emeline, she must be my advocate, and plead with you to come home, far from Mr. Alaric Lovel, from adverse fortune, to the arms and heart of your affectionate son, "ALBRT HASTINGS." Emeline wept over this letter. "Alas," said she, "could my beloved mother have' seen this, it would have smoothed her pathway to the tomb; but here I am in her place-yes, in her place, and what shall I say?   Albert has invited mama-not me. Well, dear mama is gone-lost forever l-but I am here, and 1heri I will stay. . The great Lady Livia Hastings has no need of me.-Albert-what of him? He is lost, lost on the ocean of this wide, friendless world I It would blight his prospects for one like me to intrude in the stately hall of the Hastings. No, no. I will beg dear Mr. Oldham to write, and say my mother is dead, I am cared for; that is all he need know. Dear, dear Albert, let, his mind -be but once freed from care of us,-and he will rise, as he ought to do, a star in the galaxy of England's glory. I would not dim one ray of his beams. I shall stay where I am. Mean- time, Mr. Oldham shall answer his letters, and nothing shall intervene to lessen Lady Livia's good feelings toward him, or respect for the rela- tives of whom he has spoken so affectionately and reverentially to her, and to his new found friends." Thus reasoning, she sat pensively in her small neat room. The child was prematurely maturing into the woman, and a sort of plaintive sad- ness rested on her brow and sweet infantine mouth. The little snowy night robe was at length assumed; the tiny cap tied beneath her chin, and she kneeled in her loneliness, offering the devotion of a guileless heart; but an unseen visitant from that viewless and celestial realm,' where the hopes of the good repose, waved its white wings about her, redolent of paradise, and wafted the prayers of the child up to that au- gust throne, before the glories of which earthly magnificence fades into ,obscurity-which alone, while empires fall and worlds dissolve, remains forever just, immutable, o nipotent, from everlasting to everlasting  A ,   -O^APTIIE PIXV. r"Iszaw thee young and beautiful,-- I saw thee rich ancd gay,- In the first blush of womanhood, Upon thy wedding day. I saw thee lone and desolate, I saw thee fade away, In broken-hearted loneliness, Before thy Zocks were gray.-Montgomery. LEMAR Hall had been robed in gloom since -the fatal night when its lovely and admired heiress, smitten at the altar by the. crimes and tragical death of him she had so fondly loved, in an instant beheld life and all it promised, chanced from Eden into a-barren wilderness, haunted by the melancholy ghosts of departed joys. He,  whom she had so bravely and confidently trusted, who was so inwoven with her youthful dreams of bliss as to have been their whole inspira- tion, he had. proved false, hollow, deceptive. . She had been forced re- luctantly to admit that such was the fact, and yet her soul clung to his memory as to some beautiful thing which even crime could not debase. Reason had no power over her at this stage of grief. All she recalled was his devoted love to herself, yielded, she well remembered, with -a seeming reluctance, and after the discovery, by him, of her: preference. He had offered a dreadful atonement for all, and, in doing this, had;in- curred the guilt of suicide; yet, strange inconsistency- of. hnmnlIove! her heart lived alone in the memory of what she-once believed him, and casting  aside the humiliating fact of what he! was, she only dwelt  on what she had thought him,--and, round this shadowy,-unreal idol of her girlish fancy, still clung all she felt of interest on this side of the grave-a   most mournful and harrowing interest it was, but there it' - lived, never to be extinguished--nay, to deepen forever- and foreverl! Her parents, sorely grieved, shocked and mortified, trembled for the effect which this great sorrow and disappointment must necessarily pro- duce on their beloved child, and were thankful to note hercalm deport- ment, not realizing the fact, that our, deepest feelings are those most   74      ALBT;RERT HASTINGS. )closely pent in the prison-house of the heart, where they writhe, and !torture, and devour, making no outward sien. Valerie had obtained from her indulgent mother the promise that she should not have her privacy invaded in- her own room, nor be called on to appear in society till she felt a desire to do so.. Valerie ,having been the most attractive object at the Hall, and, her former visitors not meeting her as usual (perhaps offended that their curiosity could not be gratified by a sight of her marble-like face) slowly dropped off, one by one, and the grand old dwelling seemed falling into unwonted obscurity and neglect. The gardener trained his vines at will, without reference to direction, which had heretofore- planned, while he executed. The shutters of the great drawing-rooms, seldom opened, were spun over by gossamer meshes of the -industrious spider. "^:/:There was moss about the basins of every fountain, and Valerie's hand -'ws withdrawn from every object, which she had touched only to adorn. ;^he uncaged birds; her former companions, seemed alone to dwell more c onstaitlyi than before in the enchanted bowers of lawn and garden, ' andtsang with wooing sweetness, as -if to tempt her again to share their rejoicing choirs. It might not be I Their music was discordant iM her ears, and even moon-silvered evening tempted her no more to scenes once loved, but now too suggestive of h6r late calamity to be endured. She: was sitting, one, morning, robed in a loose gown--white, and simply bound, around -the waist with a flowing sash-worn in happier days, and now only assumed in obedience to custom, which had always exacted from the heiress of- De Mar Hall more or less attention to per- sonal adornment. ,Her beautiful hair, seeking vainly to escape, was gathered into -a knot at the back of her head, leavingits expressive and noble form fully developed. She leaned on her hand, thinner than when we last saw it sweeping the strings of her harp., The eye, always like a richly tinted flower, shaded by foliage, as its slumbering fire was drooped over with fringe lashes, seemed scarce a revealer of the soul now, so passionless and stony was its gaze. A book lay open before her, but its unnoted page had been very partially corned. There was another, and a mightier volume, expanded in her mind's eye, revealing with more power than all the written memorials which the world con- tains, or ever will: contain-a story of love, and Wrong, and grief. 4'IMy dear, dear Valere," said Mrs. De Mar, entering her-daughter's I     chamber, and looking on her withthe vain, powerless yearnings of ma- ternal,;affection, which would do all, while compelled to do nothing. "My deardaughter, there -is a professional looking gentleman below, who desires to see you. I told him plainly that you would decline the   ALBERT HASTINGS.           175 honor of his company, and offered to convey any message, which he might deem necessary, to you. But he would hear of nothing of the kind, assuring me that should you persist in refusing to see him, others would be appointed to manage the special and important business which brought him here, and to the- accomplishment of which your presence is absolutely requisite. The man is quite gentlemanly, my dear, and I think you had better learn his errand, and dismiss him." "I care not, mamma. I will go down, certainly, as you wish it, though assured that no living being can have aught to unfold of a busi- ness character to me. No, indeed, you and my kind, dear father have left me free) from business all my short life. I am ready, mamma, we will go!" She placed her hand in that of her mother, and together they de- scended to the parlor, where sat a young man of spare frame, who looked decidedly as though accustomed to hard work--head and hanid labor; that is to say, he resembled one who thought and wrote much. The woodman's axe he could not wield, [but his was a smaller, more subtle and agile implement, fitted for industry and activity, equally with the unwieldly axe, demanding at the same time a draught on the brain, from which the mere manual laborer is exempt. But this geqntemtn was of the clerkly fraternity, as became evident While he produced a- large document, duly drawn out, covered by a bold, large holograph on each alternate page. After a slight salutation, on the part of Valerie, and a profound obeisance on the part of the lawyer, the latter cleared his throat, and began thus: "I beg pardon, madam, but it has become my duty to inform you, that on the opening of this paper, written and sealed before witnesses, (your humble servant being one of the three then present)--having, indeed, indited the same according to the command of the donor-on the opening of this paper, I say, it: was discovered that -you, Valerie De Mar, are sole heiress to the estates of Ellerin, Cedar Grove,:and Dunleath, property of the late Alaric Lovel, by him, given and be- queathed to you and your heirs forever; also, of sundry stocks, bonds and specie, and all his remaining personal property."  Mrs. De Mar started, looking apprehensively at Valerie, who sat in her usually impassive manner, and testified no agitation; only, at the mention, by the lawyer, of that name which had so lately held vole mastery over her, the pale face became ,blanched to a deadlier white- ness--her proud head was held erectly as before-the breaking heart made no sign, and, like some inimitable form from the -hand of Apelles, ! she sat in her queenly beauty. Mrs.'De Mar waved her hand - to the ,  .         a.^   176          ALBERT HASTINGS. lawyer, and pointed to the door. He bowed himself out, and that lady-left alone with her daughter, endeavored to rouse and soothe hecr. 'Valerie," said she, "you are young, too young to give uplife as, I see, you are doing., No blame, my beloved child, attaches to you as connected with late events. You are innocent, and the world so re- gards you. For the sake of us who love you, endeavor to forget the past. If you desire it, we will go with you to someforeign country, and there, amidst new scenes, with nothing to awaken bitter recollec- tions, we will commence life afresh. You used to speak with enthu- siasm of Italian and Swiss scenery, of romantic Scotland, historic ' England. Let us abandon this place and go abroad." "Not So, my mother," lifting her soft, mournful eyesto her parent's face, with an, expression so resolved, yet meek, that the question was  settled forever between them: "not so, my mother. You see I am mistress now of a large fortune, given by one, who, whatever his faults were, loved and confided in me. -This last proof of his trust I accept, and deem it my duty to apply as he, with repentant spirit, would have applied his wealth himself. :This I will do in his place. That task ended, I have done with earthly things, and nothing can move me more." ,'As you will, my child, said Mrs. De Mar, tearfully, I amrn thank- ful that, you find an interest in anything, I care not what. If I can but see you aroused from the insensibility which has so long possessed you,: you shall surely be happy in your own way." At these words .Valerie looked at her mother with such an appalling blankness and hopelessness of countenance, that Mrs. De Mar, unable to restrain her feelings, said, weeping:  Alas! my beloved daughter, little did I anticipate, when watching over your childhood, and rejoicing with a mother's pride and affection, in your dawning loveliness, that I Should live to see'this day. Would that the wolf had never entered my fold l--would that the serpent had not insinuated itself Ei my paradisel But I am justly wounded for my overweening attachment to the things of this life, and my punish- ment has come where I least expected it."  A pained expression passed over the features of Valerie while her mother spoke thus, and s&e passed:through the drawing-room, along the broad corridor, and up the stairs, to her own apartment, light as a spirit, and beautiful in form as some fabled goddess. Time wore on. The great, fortune of Alaric Lovel was, withoout dis- pute,' surrendered into the hands of Valerie, and she was one day sitting, as usual,alone in that, fairy bower called her room, with its fragrant vases redolent of Arabian jessamine, tuberose and heliotrope,   ALBERT HASTINGS.           1" when her man of business was announced-the same care-wo&  Wiry, astute lawyer, before mentioned as having visited her. Mr. Badger wore, this morning, a face of animation; was unusually smiling and restless. He, however, composed his features to a look of gravity and becoming deference when Valerie, in obedience to his urgent, but very humble request, appeared. Without preface, he immediately spoke: "I have, Miss De Mar, after employing several agents and scouring the country myself, discovered where the child Roxanna is. She was found ti the church-yard at Ellerton, one evening, by a poor woman, who lives, as her mother had lived, in the pine woods, and, by her, taken home to a miserable cot; but the child is much emaciated, and insists on wandering about in search of her, mother, whom she left, she says, sleeping by a grave there." A shudder passed over Valerie's frame at this, and she bowed her head on her bosom, inquiring in a faint voice: "What of Emeline Lovel?"  "She is, madam, at Grayson Farm, in charge of Miss Juliet Gray- son. I saw that lady, and she seems disinclined to confer with me in regard to her proteg' declaring that she would very cheerfully (could she discover that individvaD give her views to the-inheritor of the late Mr. Lovel's estate. But she declines my interference, and Miss Juliet Grayson is not a woman to yield lightly any opinion which she once forms. I do not like to contend with her." Valerie bowed,/and the lawyer would have departed, but she re- quested him to remain a few moments, and left the room. "What a splended, angelic woman that is I " muttered ,Mr. Badger to himself, on Valerie's exit. "I believe, at this moment;, she is devising means to rid herself of one of the most valuable estates in the whole country. Well, I only wish Mr. Level had given it to me," -and he shrugged his shoulders, his soliloquy being interrupted - by a servant, who delivered to him a billet, written in Valerie's peculiar characteristic chirography, and addressed to Miss Juliet G(rayson! With this missive the man of business departed. -And there satValerie De Mar, her heart a cold unm of buried joy, heedless of her magnificent surroundings, heedlessof the, golden- sun- shine which touched and glorified, by itspresence, the garden around, with its fountains, songsters, and rejoicing flowers. A pallof darkrniess invested all, and the language of that master bard-, so drear in its-pro- found significance, dwelt in her memory like haunting and melancholy music: "Nevermore-oh, nevermore on me, -the freshness of the heart shallallll like dew."   CHAPTER XX V. Sthe was a phantom of delight, - When first she burst upon rmy sight, A glorious apparition sent To be a moment's ornament." )T was one of those anomalies which we frequently see, and for which we cannot account, that Miss Juliet Grayson, constitu- tionally, and by force of habit, the opposite of Emeline, in all her modes of thinking and acting, took strange pleasure in her society, and formed a strong attachment for her. "Perhaps the constant watchfulness which she felt herself called-on to exercise over the child, gave her-employment not quite so barreri as that of knitting. She felt a pride and responsibility in- training a pupil after her own model. Doing so, in a manner identified with herself another mind, and this abstracted her from lonelinessa Miss Juliet, as we have: seen, had great peculiarities, which strengthening with her years, were obstinate and ineradicable. Many recreations, deemed innocent and even desirable by others, she eschewed with pious horror. She approved only of a pertain manner of walking, speaking, sitting and dressing. :-Emeline yielded to her in everything, as she had been accustomed to yield to cousin Albert of yore. It was a beautiful feature in her character, that- pliability, which ever sought support from one beloved and re- spected, She had been governed by Albert, because she loved him, and. -was now tractable under Miss Juliet's sway, because she knew that lady's good qualities, and felt it to be her duty to submit. Poor child, she presented the appearance of a little Quakeress at this time; her beautiful curling hair drawn back from her open forehead, with its placid expression of innocence and trust; her gentle blue eyes-almost always cast down, and a look of repose about her once smiling mouth, which:,was, perhaps, the most attractive feature of -a face not more dis- tinguished for Kperfection of outline, than for that mysterious language of the soul, which we sometimes see visibly imprinted on the human   ATLBERT HASTINGS.           179 countenance, and which can only be understood when placed palpably before us. Not even the puritanical- costume, which, by Miss Juliet's order she now assumed, could alter a certain high born carriage and look of dignity, which were natural to her. Yet she was meek withal, though, did occasion call for energy and determination, any judge of physiognomy would decide that their elements would not be wanting A - in that slight, fragile girl. It must be confessed that she was not happy. The total change in i her manner of living, her isolation, the -loss of her mother, and '  Albert, and Ellerton, caused ceaseless regret, which she knew was un- Gi availing, but could not banish. She was like some fragrant and sun- loving exotic, transplanted to a bleak and chilling region, where it  grew, indeed, but with slender and attenuated development, unlike the freshness and exuberance by which, in its native clime, it had delighted do the eye. Nevertheless, thought had deepened on her brow, and the .: exterior life, being cheerless and vpid, her spirit was thrown back -on  that inner existence, which is a thing apart from, and above, the housek-. we dwell in, our companions, dress, or style of living. None, of these 9 were, in her present situation, agreeable to the taste of Emeline, and so she lived in those cherished memories from which nothing could dis- sociate her mind. There were books, too. Ahl they had become the world to her' now; and while outwardly she would have passed muster- in the days ^ of Roundhead supremacy in England, or Puritanical tyranny in  America, her heart revelled in undisturbed enjoyment of written life, j- Miss Juliet preserved in her library the British classics, once owned by '-' her mother, and therefore venerated. Now, though Miss Juliet never opened these volumes, because they did not particularly attract hier,. ; yet, if Emeline chose to read them, she interposed no objection, to her  doing so. The school was broken up. Mr. Dexter had vinisli6d-and, ' in the absence of a professed instructor, it was well that she should- boe - employed, so argued Miss Juliet. Blessed change from Mr. Dexter and his mongrel school, to the companionship of Pope, Shakspeare, Addison, ' j and Milton, So the girl grew in intellect, with a healthy development ^  of mental power, free from the pernicious infiuence of trashy literature, - which, at the present day, unfortunately debases, where it should ; elevate, and vulgarizes, where it should refine.  -.  It is curious to observe how isolation, and even poverty andlsickness,  always grievous afflictions, especially to childhood, are sometimes blessings in disguise. Cuvier, the great naturalist, neglected and penu- rious, ill and lonely, roaming the hills: of Normandy, discovered and ,    .   180          AT,1BERT HASTINGtS. revealed secrets, before hidden mysteries in scientific lore. Scott, that wonderful necromancer, whose diversified and resistless powers have awed and astonished mankind for more than half a century, was, in early years, cut off from the sports of children, and, for that very reason, embraced, or rather revived, the pursuits of men during the chivalric age, and has left a mighty monument to commemorate what childhood's studies, combined with intellect, may produce. But we do not intend to endow poor Emeline Lovel with the palm of sovereign fame, (for the world of letters has its- crown and sceptre, more regal than those of purple-robed kings,) but wish only to indicate how, in the midst of narrow, yet well meaniing bigotry-a mild term to apply in such a connection-she preserved a mind free from its taint, at the same time filled with reverence for the good and gifted on earth, and above all, with adoring homage to one Supernal Power, the great Lord of Life. . Miss Juliet Grayson, having received Valerie's summons, forthwith repaired to the hall, and communed with herself thus, as the droskey, in which the was borne forward by an ancient gray pony, slow and staid in his gait, as beseemed any member of his mistress' prim estab- lishment, moved leisurely on. "I am about to call on a woman whom I do not like. True, I have never seenValerie De Mar, but the fact of her having been trained amongst fashionable people, -and, young as she was, engaging herself to Alaric Lovel, (a married man it seems,-well, she did not know that-I excuse her there,) when he was much too old for her, and doubtless all his great property was secured, as he leaves a will, con- stituting her his sole heiress, is against her. It was evidently to have been a marriage of convenience. Why, even when Alaric was a young man, I never saw anything in him to admire, always frowning, arro- gant, and unapproachable. What can Valerie De Mar seek in wishing an interview with me? Emeline I. suppose, but the great lady will find that humble ladies sometimes think and act too, without reference to thelr will. Give up Emeline, indeed--we shall see l" and Miss Juliet, slightly rising, reseated herselfwith that quick jerk that seemed to say petulantly,.-' I am resolved, move me who can 1" The droskey had, by this time, turned into the wide avenue, and was rollinghriskly down its shaded vista, while, on either side, the brave old live oaks rustled their myriad leaves, and shook their gray tresses of moss. Miss Juliet gazed at the pompous and beautiful 'scene before her, unmoved, only glancing at a statue which shone white under a spreading plane tree. She sighed: "Ah I what has luxury expended \   - ALBERT HAS IGS.,           181 here, with its heathenish devices of gods and nymphs? I wish the same had bekn bestowed for the behoof of the suffeking poor." And now, the equipage being drawn up before the portal of the magnificent dwelling, Miss Juliet alighted, and was ushered into the same parlor where Mr. Badger so lately received his commands. Who does not love to have the eye gratified? Is there not, in every human heart, a longing after the beautiful, and an appreciation of the pleasing and agreeable? There is, though Miss Juliet Graysoh called such feel- ings a sinful and worldly love of luxury, and Mr. Alaric Lovel despised them as a profligate waste of means. Yet we have known people quite as good as Miss Juliet, and far better than Mr. Alaric, who- do love and cultivate the graces both of art and nature in their grounds and houses. But Miss Juliet felt her virtue tried in the contemplation of the richly furnished drawing-room.   There was something, in the purity of its alabaster vases, and the cunning workmanship of its gilded carvings, which almost won her approval, but she resisted and despised them.          .                      , The door opened, and Valerie De Mar entered,' looking purer and more noble than any of those attractive objects which Miss Juliet had fortified herself in abjuring, spiritualized in 'form by the fiey ordeal which she had undergone, adorned by nature with surpassing beauty, the etherial character of which had been heightened by sorrow, yet wearing the impress of resolve, which so well becomes meekness in a good cause.  Valerie, Wvith light, firm steps, advanced towards the -guest, who rose stiffly to meet her, and very coldly' took her white hand, only touching it with the tips of her fingers. As these two women stood opposite to each other, an artist-woild have beheld a picture for the exercise of his powers seldom seen. -Miss Juliet, with faded silk bonnet of an antique shape, angular figure, scant dress and long apron, a collar of absurd amplitude surrounding hqr'throat, thick white gloves, knit on the farm, a bunch of keys and knitting- sheath at her side, and a face warped by care, and burdened by the self-control which she was at that instant exercising over her feelings. Valerie, matchless in loveliness, white as unearthed marble, robed in a light-blue gabrielle,- which set off admirably her singular fairness of  aspect-the dark eye, the long golden eye-.lash, the delicately cut nose, and superb mouth, the urbanity, even humility of her attitude. Con- fronting her, Miss Juliet almost gave way, awed by the majesty of mortal beauty;  but she was made of-stern stuff, and her gray eye remained inflexible, as, reseating herself, she said, in no very gentle tone:   182      ATB RT HASTINGS. {u I should like to know, Miss De Mar, why you have given me the trouble of coming hither." "Because, Miss G-rayson, pardon me," returned Valerie, in a perfectly unmoved manner,A" because I understand that the daughter of the late Mrs. Amanda Lovel. is now in your charge, and I wish to relieve you of the care and expense of keeping her.. I will say to you further, that I am deeply indebted to you for your kindness and charity toward a poor orphan. It is my intention to provide for her in a suitable manner, and- to see that she receives proper instruction. I trust Miss Grayson, you will offer no objection to this." "You had better let Emeline stay where she is, out of reach of those worldly vanities from-which I strive to shield her. As for your pro- viding her with means, I tell you frankly--it is the opinion of many that, if equitable arrangements were made, she, not you, would own EUllerton this instant.: It was unjustly taken from her mother, and un- justly given to you." A slight color rose to Valerie's cheek, but instantly passing daway, left her pale-as before, while Miss Juliet continued: "I wish no concern in any matter regarding property. I am quite indepenelent, Miss De Mar.. If H keep Emeline, as I intend to, you may retain her estate, or give it to her, if yoll will, appointing trustees. It is for her spiritual welfare, that I am- concerned. Little suffices for our wants in thii life, and for Emeline's necessities, I shall myself pro- vide. I believe our business is ended, and will*wish you good day." Valerie sawi in an instant, the character of Miss Juliet, and com- misserating the case of the party whom she wished to benefit, replied : "I think, Miss Juliet, that Emeline Lovel should choose between- us. Now, if she prefers remaining where she is, after an interview which I intend shall take place between us, I freely consent that she shall do so; if, on the contrary, she desires a change, I tell you plainly, you have no right to detain her-no, not for an instant. I have heard such accounts of her as interest me deeply, and I venture, further, to say, that, with your many virtues, you have -yourself convinced me this morning that a sensitive nature would bleed with many wounds under ,your discipline. I have known sorrow myself, madam, and I must say v that the rotgh tenting which you administer to a wounded spirit, does- not heal, but rather irritate. I do not mean to speak nnkindly, but I wish to speak sincerely, -and it is the result of my observations, whiop are not over sage, I confess, (for I am yet young, though a long liio has been crowded into -my bitter experience,) I, have arrived at a con- clusion, I say--the result of that experience--that bitterness is no proof   ATRT --HASINGS.            183 of goodness, that harshness and intolerance are not component parts of true piety. Pardon me, my dear lady, you have spoken freely-allow me to follow your example."       .. The features of Valerie, while making this response to Miss Juliet's coarse assault, quivered with emotion. Something of the old spirit- light flashed from her dark eye, and the inferior soul quailed before a higher and nobler nature. Miss Juliet was stunned and abashed. She had come to play the Mentor of the scene. She intended to correct and admonish, but was herself justly reproved; indeed, vulgarly speaking, she found herself fairly floored, and, with muchess of assump- tion than she had lately exhibited, replied: "Well, perhaps what you say, young lady, in regard:'to Emeline's choosing for herself, in this matter, is right. She shall choose. You may come and see her, I only wish to do what is right." Stately was the march of Miss Juliet to her waiting vehicle, and Valerie, looking after her with pity and affection, rather than anger or triumph, saw her depart-then, turning away, covered her face with her hands, as if to shut out the world and all it contained from her eyes-those lovely, dark eyes whose glance was more pathetic than a wailing cry. And this was the fashionist, the light-mindbd butterfly, so obnoxious to the censure of bigotry and intolerance.  Miss Juliet made some wholesome reflections on her own status inMthe religious and benevolent world, as she returned to Grayson Farm; :but they were evanescent- old habits, cherished theories, indorsed by Mr. Dexter, and seconded by the effects of her own early trials; which had warped her mind, returned in full force, ere the modest outline of Grayson Farm revealed- itself. But when she alighted at her own door, consigning her equipage into the hands of Jimbo, her African groom  of the stables, "Richard was himself again," and Miss Juliet regretted the momentary weakness which had given a puling girl an advantage not to be withdrawn. Now, Miss Juliet, in the penitence of her reassured- heart, saw plainly that she should not have consented to a meeting between Emeline and Valerie, and, having no companion to whom she might unburden her spirit, soliloquized, as-was her wont: - "Shame on me for being dazzled by the superhnman beauty- of that bewitching Valerie- De Mar! I If she could- melt the heart of Alaric Lovel, there is nothing which she cannot do.   Why, she will sway Emeline to and fro, like a reed. Well, I did what I thought best-at the time.  I wish Mr. Dexter were here. He is an ungainly man, but his advice was always good." ,               v s.   184           AB4THRT HEASGS. Ah, could the affrighted and exiled Dexter have only heard these words, -the -thunders of Mr. Calloway, himself would not have scared him away from Grayson Farm and the abandoned school-house, where he had often quoted, by way of a lesson, in oratory to his pupils, (though with flattering application to, himself, at the same time), Cow- per's happily expressed soliloquy-of Alexander Selkirk: "I am monarch of all I survey, My right there is none to dispute." But Mr. Dexter could not hear, and therefore did not come; so Miss Juliet stood alone, being forced to wait the course of events; nor was she long held in suspense.        .    ^ The next morning, a splendid carriage, with high-stepping steeds, scarce restrained by the practiced driver, who, wearing the De Mar livery, sat erect, and managed them with skill and ease, drove to Miss Juliet's door, and the footman hurried up the steps with a message to that lady., "Miss De Mar would be obliged if Miss Grayson would allow Miss Emeline Lovel to,be driven over, to the Hall." . There was no help for it. Miss Juliet had given her word. Emeline must go.       . The very plainly-dressed, delicate-looking child, seated in a large family coach, gazed out on the prospect, which changed at every turn, with eager eyes, and inhaled the fresh forest-scented atmosphere with unwonted pleasure., "Oh," she exclaimed, as 'a-spreading cedar, with blue clusters of berries, rose in a majesty which has rendered Lebanon poetic in its associations, -"oh, that reminds -me of Ellerton. I The odor of the fir trees, and jessamines too, what can be sweeter?" Far differently did she contemplate sparkling fountains which glittered in the sunshine-bowers: curtained with. a drapery of vines, and even mute statues, in ever unchanging' attitude, surrounded with classic charms -to -hich the mind of Miss Juliet Grayson was not alive. Educatioln:t h. education of reading, without which no study' can liberalize and expand the intellect^-was yielding its first golden fruit, when-she gazed on the sculpturedform of Diana, where Alaric Lovel had first declared his, love, and the hapless Valerie had confessed hers in return. "How lovelyl" ejaculated Emeline, as gorgeous plats of verbena, from pale pink to Tyrian purple and blood-red scarlet, met her eye; "and the butterflies-what quantities of them hover over the dazzling   ALBERT HASTINGS.           185 v-a beds I There is the sweet myrtle with its starry flowers, and poplmacks  and violets! Can anything be. more delicious?" v         - But Emeline sat silent, when -the bold front of De Mar Hall, rlsing in towering magnificence, stood loftily out amidst sycamores, blossom- covered catalpas, and broad-leaved laurel trees. She was soon ushered -  into the grand apartment, lately visited by Miss Juliet, and sank into 7: one of its crimson chairs, contemplating all around her with far different sentiments from those entertained by that lady on a like occasion. Her a senses were soothed, and she waited the appearance of Valerie as one , in a dream.                            ; '  At last, the door swung back on its noiseless hinges, and a vision of loveliness broke on her eyes like opening dawn,.when dappled skies fold back their luminous curtains to admit the soft and mellow rays of the, -. , coming sun. Thereiis wonderful power in first imressi  d Valerie  won her heart before a word had been spoken. She was so classically beautiful (and Emeline had been living with classics lately). There was a subdued mournfulness, blent with the richness of her charms, which harmonized with the tone of her own mind.   -A sublimated spirit of pitying love seemed to hover about her, and Emeline involun- tarily extended her arms, as she would have done to embrace an angel. Valerie took her to her bosom, and -hile holding her there, a warmer life flowed through her own veins. Tears started to her eyes and she felt that, though denied the blessing of a life's master passion, she might, in. a humble degree, yet share hiuman affection, apart from the natural bonds of relationship.     . "Well, dear child," said she, in those JEolian tones seldom vouchsafed: to the utterance of sinful' mortality, "I am glad, to see'.you here.- I wish to remove you to another sphere of life, different. from the one -you now occupy. I know that Miss Juliet Grayson- has been a friend to you in your own and your mother's extremity.: This -demands gratitude on your part; but, at the same time, you-must remember that what Miss Juliet now wishes, is your entire subservience -to her pecu- liar modes of thinking. Besides, I will say this to you, that, at:some. future day, Ellerton will be yours. I wish to educate you as aJlady, and should you abide with Miss Juliet, certain illiberal and exploded ideas, insensibly instilled. into your mind, will separate you from thke society to which you are entitled both by birth and fortune. Under- stand me, Emeline, you are young, but your mind has outgrown its frail tenement. There is no contention between Miss Grayson and me. I only suggest that which my judgment assures me is for your good. It will make no difference in your prospects as regards fortune, whether   186          AL;FRT HASTINGS. you stay with her or come to me; but I fear you are subjected to trials which must increase as you grow older, and I give you your choice. Emeline looked earnestly into the face of Valerie, while the latter spoke, and when she ceased, remained sometime silent, then, with modest timidity, replied: "Dear Miss De Mar, I infer from all you have said, that I am most deeply indebted to both Miss Juliet Grayson and yourself. She gave me a home when I had none, and you are going to endow me with a fortune which is at your own- disposal. What shall I say? If my obligations were only discharged to Miss Juliet, how gladly would I come to you I But you see, sweet lady, I cannot quit myself of them. Money she despises, -had I that to give. Oh, I wish you had taken me when mamma died." Here Emeline's voice failed, and she was silent, while Valerie regarded her with eyes in which pity and admiration were blended. After a time, the child, regained composure, and continued: "If Miss Juliet would give me up, then I should feel free, indeed I Perhaps," added she, thoughtfully, " some -minister of her own persua- sion might induce her to do so., -There, is Mr. Calloway, who, since Mr. -Dexter's departure, she always consults. Now, were he to advise my coming to you, Miss Juliet would consent." - V-ery well, dear child, it so happens that I know this man, who, though a stern enthsiast, is one who'dares do all he thinks right. You can return to Mis Juliet for the present. I Mr. Calloway comes here on another business to-morrow. I advise you to let him settle the affair, and now, adieu." Emeline felt as though bidding farewell to a better and more beautiful world, as shea pressed the soft hand of .Valerie, imprinting on it a kiss which she could not repress, took a parting glance at that face which none could behold without involuntary admiration, and seating herself in the ample coach, was rapidly driven to Grayson Farm. She could not help it, but a- sense of desolation swept over her, and iFroisture gathered inuher eyes as she entered the dwelling. It was not home to her.  i^ i'- .  .   OCAP'TE     XXVII. Precept, example, won the crowd, Whose p raZise was felt though never loud, He oared not for the world's applause,  But feared the Lord, and 7kept his laws. L   HE day after Emeline's visit to De Mar Hall rose cloudy and threatening. For a brief space, the sun bad " glinted" over Ho  forest and fell, but soon withdrawing his beams, retired behind a vast bank of. clouds, leaving the skiey concave one leaden-hued vault, over which growling thunder rolled- at intervals, and, ever and anon, lightning, the quick pulse of electricity, quivered and danced along the horizon, or shot athwart the-mid-arch of heaven. A solitary horseman rode down that avenue, which we have so often of late had occasion to- mention. The vsitant was one never before seen to enter- the' domain in open day. Mr, Calloway, with broad- brimmed hat, sombre brow, and entire outfit of domestic manufacture,/ rode, very leisurely along a way which once before her had trod with the unfortunate Myra, and scarce less'miserable, half-crazed Amy, his companions.  The former was dead.  Of the latter he now knew little, and had not time, to consider. Nothing about the premises attracted his attention. It was the same to Mr. Calloway whether he sojourned in naked pine woods, or was surrounded by the nhageful beauty of undulating hills, with' their, palatial dwellings and cultured gardens. Valerie awaited him in the library of the hall. With that nice tact pertaining toher sex, she conceived that the unusual splendor of t establishment would strike this severe teacher less- there than e where, though the blind old bard of Greece, whose throne is unap- proachable, was placed, an " animated bust," beneati the outspread right wing of a golden eagle, grasping, in his talons, the star-studded banner of America, while beneath the left wming of that aspiring bird, Miltont                     188    '      ATERT HASTINGS. blind, too, with flowing locks, and that beauty so celebrated in his day, surmounted the apex of a book case on one side of the apartment. Huge tomes rose in regular file round the library. In its centre, was a marble table, with-comfortable, but clumsy, chairs, intended for use and not for show. These could, on occasion, be converted into lounges, and, by the employment of spring, in their adjustment, became either chairs, lounges, or couches, as the occupant desired. A large vase, after the Etruscan model, filled the bentre of the table, and, about it, drooped fuchsias, intertwined with heather and rose geranium, in full flower. Mr. Calloway's heavy boots resounded along the corridor, and the servant, as he had& been directed to do, ushered him into the library. i It has been sai d that there is something in beauty and purity which will (awe a wild beast. However that may be, Mr. Calloway, who would tot lower his crest to the whole bench of bishops, did remove his broad- brimmed hat, with very sufficient demonstrations of respectful courtesy, to Valerie, (who was, till this instant, totally ignorant that he bad, with his/ anathemas, interrupted the ceremony on that fatal night, when death- took the place of the promised bridegroom.) She experienced a great shock on making this discovery, but mastered her emotion. The spirit, shrined in that fair and noble form, seemed to gain strength by every:new trial to which it was subjected, and though the harsh, deter- mined- face of Mr. Calloway chilled her, lik'e the storm wind of a Nor- wegian clime, she bowed to him with a politeness, naturally and educa- tionally habitual ,requesting him to be seated. Mr. Calloway sank into the aample morocco chair, deposited his hat on the table before him, drew -out 'his handkerchief, kyiped -his, forehead, cleared his throat, and spoke as follows: - Of a verity, I perceive, young lady, that your heart is inditing aE good - matter; that you are moved with pity for the poor, yea, and for the destitute and lonely, who live even like a pelican in the wilderness, and a. sparrow alone upon the house-top. Mr. Badger has told me that yout desire to: see my face, and to -take counsel of me. I have obeyed and come, albeit I desire not entrance to high places in this waste, ho wling-wilderness, seeking rather to raise the fallen. and sustain the He, of whom I spoke but now, is a worldly man, being of that ' tilent fraternity who tirge on strife between brethren, that they may obtain for themselves filthy lucre. This man, a lawyer, full of his shifts, and 'quips, and jibes, yea, abounding in craft and -crooked policy, did entteat of me knowledge concerning the child Roxanna, offering to bujry f me such information as I might give, whereat, bring sorely in-   ATFR3T HASTINS.;          189 censed at the insult offered to my holy calling, through me, I drove him forth from- my presence, yea, and would not consort with him, fearing lest his designs should prove wicked, as his words were insulting. But in this, I see, my judgment erred, as I have since learned on good au- thority, which I may not gainsay, that the man Badger was set on to this task by you, in order that you might get the poor child into your hands,- to rescue her from want, which intention proveth a good heart, and will procure blessings on your bright young head. I commanded the woman, who had her in charge, to give her up, for theyq ere well nigh all starving together, though the compassion of her soul was great, and she shared all she had with the child." "You have seen Roxanna, then?" returned Valerie. ;'I was told that she is in a pitiable condition." "Aye, madam, with a wild look: in her eyes, and always calling for her who cannot hear. But she will come to you. I have talked with her; and she, heeds counsel of me-"  "Mr. Calloway," said Valerie, in a low, sweet voice, "I thank you for this. There is another favor I must ask of you. Emeline Lovel, now at Grayson Farm, I have determined to take in charge, also, for reasons which will, in due time, appear. Now, Miss Juliet (whose virtue I very well know) is not disposed to relinquish Emrine, and the child, feeling very properly grateful, will not come without Mis Juliet's con- sent. I think that lady, should you so advise, would relinquish the child. I assure you, my object is to promote the happiness of the latter, and that I am influenced by a sense of duty in what I propose doing." "I doubt it not, I doubt it not," responded Mr. Calloway, as an ex- pression shot over his rugged features, which, for an instant, softened their asperity; and he broke forth in his usual strain when animated: a Thou dost not sojoourn ii Mesech, thou dost not dwell-in the tents of Kedar,? Thy soul inclineth to charity; yea, and thou shalt:bej:blessed with the blessing of her-who was ready to perish. Miss Juliet abound- eth not overmuch in worldly store, and there be those who -need her charity yet more than the young lady,! Emeline Lovel. Seeing that you are her friend, I will forthwith advise, yea, urge, that she deliver into your. hands, as into the keeping of-one appointed, her present pupil, Peradventure she will rebel, nevertheless have I two orphans, latel@* without a mother or father, on whom she can expend of her charges: and reap equal reward, though not in this world, yet in the world to come."                            " The obliging manner in which this man, reputed amongst his own adherents, a saint and with the rest of the world, an uncompromnising   -190  -ATl wRT HASTINGS. bigot, had met her wishes, soothed Valerie, and she gave her hand, at, parting, with a feeling of cordiality, to Mr. Calloway, which, under the- circumstances, could scarcely have been expected of her. But she was a new pupil in a Btern school, and her first lessons were fearfully im- pressive. Disappointment and wounded pride-love and death I She was rising superior to all in spirit,' but the visible," mutable dwelling of the soul waxed paler day by day, and that immortal inhabitant seemed ready to plume its wings for flight, leaving behind a beautiful, but need- less, mansion to moulder in the earth whence it rose. Mr. 'Calloway kept his word. A day or two after Roxanna was brought to the Hall. Her appearance would have moved pity in the heart of a savage. She was so emaciated that the bones seemed only not to come through the strained and shining skin covering them. Those black, quick-glancing eyes, with Myra's own apprehensive look, wandered round as if vainly seeking that which they could not find; then, suddenly sinking to the floor, became suffused with tears, which, unheeded by the child, slowly overflowed and finally rolled down in great drops over her thin and sunken cheek. Nothing seemed to move her, though she, once or twice, stared round the parlor, as Sinbad might have done in the Valley of Diamonds. Valerie took her into the gar- den, andt- she seemed pleased with the flowers for a time, till, casting her eyes away over the forest, she saw plumy pine crests swaying in the breeze, and pressing her hands over her eyes, uttered a-wild wail- ing cry of "Mother, mother, take me home," AlasI what had that poor lost home contained, that it should be thus remembered and de- plored? It had been- sanctified(y the presence of love, that great refiner and glorifier of life, which can, by its magic wand, convert a hovel into a palace, and, without which,- wealth and splendor pall on the sight, and even the sparkling cup of fame brings no refreshment to lips long thirst- ing for a draught of its charmed waters. But Roxanna was like some untamed creature, whose savage instincts -ever craved the wilderness, and, regarding its captors as foes, sought only to escape. Valerie feared for her reason; there-was something so wandering in the glance of her vivid eye, so spirit-like in her motions,-she ate so little, and seemed so :wholly involved in her own griefs and longings. Taking her hand kindly, while they walked in the garden, that little meagre, sunburnt hand, she said, in her-softest tone: ' "Roxanna, listen to me. I am going to take you to live with me, or wherever I am, and I will love you, Roxanna, and give you all -you may desire. You shall learn to read, and have a pony to ride, and I   AT.;W RT BSG   S.          191 will bring another little girl to be with you, so that you shall not be lonely any more. Do you hear, child?" and the poor creature, with beating heart, and trembling frame, lifted her wondering eyes to those of Valerie, and, pointing with her forefinger, said, in a very low, humble voice: "There! see how far it seems. I used to walk with her there. Let me go again. I will come back to you, if you let me go." Valerie possessed considerable insight into human nature, without arrogating- any such prescience herself, (had she done this, w*e would have doubted the fact.) Her convictions came suddenly, and were al- most always-consonant with truth. An impression fixed itself on her mind, at this instant, that she ought to trust the child, and let her have her own'way. She, therefore, without dictating any terms, said:em- phatically: "Certainly, dear Roxanna, you can go when and where you will You are no prisoner here, only my little girl, now, I shall miss you while you are away, just as your mother did. I am sure you will not keep me watching and wearying for you too long a time." "No, no!" exclaimed Roxanna, "I did not keep her waiting ever, and I will not keep you. I will come back." Like a fawn, the singular child bounded away, and disappeared down the avenue, then striking out into the aisles of the forest, made her way through to the pine barren. Once there, she seemed to breathe with -greater freedom, threw herself on a russet couch of pine leaves, and wept in loud and unrestrained sorrow, calling on Myra to return from the churchyard, and wake from  her long sleep. It so chanced, that, while she indulged in unrestrained lamentation, and her weak, child- J like voice broke the stillnessof the eternal wood, Mr. Calloway, ret-urn- ing from an interview he had just had with Miss Juliet at Grayson farm, was attracted by the cries which resounded amidst a silence, otherwise unbroken, save by the untaught minstrelsy of the feathered tribe. Ho paused, tethered his pony to a scruboak, and walked: to the spot whence the voice came. There he beheld the little figure- of Roxanna writhing in agony on an earthly bed of dried leaves, and wholly heedless of his presence. -Walking up, he raised her from the ground, causing her to be seated on a fallen tree, and placing himself beside her, said: '  "What brings you here, child? Did Hnot command you to abide with-the lady who sent for you?  Have you deserted her,'and come here to perish in the woods? This is sinful, Roxanna, and you will never meet your mother up there, (pointing to the sky,) if you- are dis- obedient and wilful; yea," continued Mr. Calloway, lapsing into his   192          ATRi'RT HASTINGS. peculiar and often effective mode of expression, "yea, thou shouldst be grateful, seeing that those who are,mighty in the land behold thee with pity-even as Joseph was received by Pharoah in the land of Egypt- hast thou found favor with the great. Joseph wailed not for his father, albeit the best-beloved son of the patriarch. No I but he did his duty to his idolatrous master, and thereby obtained, in due time, the bless- ing of heaven. Go thou, foolish child, and do likewise. Let it comfort thee that thou are not in the hands of an Egyptian woman, but of one who speaketh reverently, and seeketh counsel of elders in Israel. Rise, daughter, give me thy hand, and I will convey thee to her of whom I speak." Roxanna comprehended but a little of Mr. Calloway's allegories, but she did understand that, were she to return with him to De Mar Hall, it would seem as though she were- constrained against her will to go back. She, therefore, resolutely declined his attendance, but added: "If you think I do not mean to go back, you can wait at the top of the hill they call -Oak Mount, and see me go down the avenue. Miss De Mar gave me leave to come here; I told her I would go back, and so I will/?" Appeased at this declaration, and something of Myra's self-depend- ence and self-respect, in the words and manner of the -child, Mr. Callo- way, bidding her adieu, rode slowly-on, nevertheless he did pause on Oak Mount, till he saw her elfin form, with springing step and easy grace, flit down the avenue, and enter a small gate which opened on the lawn. There she disappeared, and Mr. GCalloway, having satisfied himself of her. return home, proceeded on his journey. Early this morning, he had risen and rode over the same road, part of the way*, which Myra, in her agony of jealousy and determined will to break off the intended wedding at De Mar"Hall, had traversed, when she, came to him with-the information, that it was about to take place, and his thoughts had been sad- and solemn. Hie looked: like one from among the tombs when he entered Miss Juliet's prim, neat, 'and com- fortablk breakfast room; but, disdaining that lady's urgent request that he would be seated. and partake of the meal about making its appear- ance, he said, in-reply to her solicitations: s "My spirit is troubled within me, sister," (Miss Juliet, being a mem-, ber, of his church, was always thus addressed, in common with its other"' numerous, adherents,) - yes, and I desire of thee that we commune together for a space, alone." He was- accordingly led by his hostess into her parlor, and Miss Juliet, closing the door, sat -deferentially waiting till her minister saw fit to   AT RRT HASTINGS.           193 open the impending discourse. Mr. Calloway did not take long to consider how this should be done, but quickly addressed himself, with wonted fervor, to the task: 'Sister, I know thy works, and how thou dost labor in the vineyard of thy Master, not as a teacher, for that beseemeth not thy gex, nor thy modesty, which all appreciate right well. Though thou be as Dorcas, who fainted not in her work, yet, if I may be allowed, I would bestow on thee a word, of advice not out of season, I trust, and which I would not adventure to utter, save that I know thy meekness, and the godly temper of thy soul. Have I liberty to advise with thee, sister? Not as a wicked Romanist, who, with his priestcraft, would delude thee by a false and pretended delegated power of absolution-no, nor even as he would do, am I seeking any discovery of thee which would giye me, through thy means, power over others. I have more to tell, than to hear. Now, in the first place, I would have thee consider the pitiable case of poor Jenny Robson's two children-one of them three years' old, the other five. Jenny died on Thursday, and, last Saturday, did I see her laid in her humble tomb. Though,she died the death of the righteous, yet was there a longing, lingering look cast behind, even in her departing hour, to these babes. I took on me to assure her that among my flock were those who would 'care for her children, and, peradventure, I spoke with overmuch zeal, yet my mmnd rested on you, sister, as on a sure prop which would not fail in the day of trial. Will you take charge of these nurslings in Israel, at least for the present, while they ate yet feeble and there is none to hear their cry?"  X Miss Juliet remained silent a moment or two; then, with that promptness which always distinguished her, answered: "I have with me, at this time,/reverend sir, the daughter of Mrs. Lovel, of Ellerton, who died in great poverty, at the lodge in the pine barren.  I am attached to this child. She is docile, and I confess I feel repugnant to the idea of giving her ip. I am- solicited to do so by the young heiress at De Mar Hall, and have consented to abide by the child's own decision in the matter) but it seems, as she tells me, that she has again referred the case to me, saying that I shall decide whether  she goes to Valerie De Mar, or remains where she is. Now, should I decide on keeping Emeline Level, which I am stronglyr iclined to do, I could not, you see, take these children;-my means would not allow' of my doing so. But I am sure anything which I can contribute to their support shall not be wanting. What do you think oight to be my course in this cas;e, considering the circumstances I havejust mentioned?" Mr. Calloway lost no time in replying: ;\   194          ATSrRBT HASTINGS. "I think--yea, and assuredly know-that you ought to deliver up young Mistress Lovel into the hands of one who seeketh, with full purpose of heart, to make restitution, and to return fourfold that which the greed of the "spoiler withdrew; but was forced, by death, to drop from his grasp. Seest thou not the hand of Omnipotence in this thing, my'sister?  Yea, thou wilt see and submit, as is-thy wont, I --am assured, when thou hast well considered the case. And I furthermore advise thee-(not-with any pretense of superior wisdom, for I am but a weak mortal, and liable myself to err, as thou well knowest,) I advise thee, I say, with the unction of a strong desire impelling me thereto, that Emeline Lovel be sent to Valerie De Mar forthwith, and that the young children, who have no home, be brought hither. As I declared before, I will admonish the brethren, lest they be left entirely on your hands; but even now they may be suffering. I should rejoice to hear your mandate, at this hour, that they come to you, and tarry not." -Miss Juliet was convinced. She gave the required permission. Mr. Calloway breakfasted with her, and Emeline was told to get her things in readiness for a change of abode. The affectionate heart of the young girl was saddened; although rejoicing in-a change which she desired. Miss Juliet, with all her com- mon-place notions and absurd observances, really meant well, and Emeline knew it. .She -felt as though acting with ingratitude, because she could not repress the W*ish to change her residence, and yet she had not -done so by her own act, and therefore could not ask Miss Juliet to forgive her that it was done. At parting, she threw her arms about the neck of her protectress, and-said: ",Oh, Miss Juliet, do not think me ungrateful. I am sensible of all you have done for me. I shall never forget it. Will you let me come sometimes to see you and always remember, if I can be of any use, to call on me?" "Yes, child, yes," said Miss Juliet, in her usual manner, ".once a month, I shall expect to see you here. Good bye l" and so they separated, I $*   C RAPTER XXVIM. "Lo! on the eastern summit, clad in gray, Morn, like a horseman girt for travel, comes,. And from his brow of mist, Night's watchman hurries own. "--I7. . White. A LTERIE had risen early on the day after Emeline's transfer to De Mar Hall, and walked around the base of Oak Mount, the point whence Mr. Calloway had watched Roxanna's return. She was very thoughtful, unobservant of blue-eyed violets smiling at her feet, or of yet more delicate daisies, scarce discernible amidst thick springing grass and intrusive weeds. This was a region of country, which, if visited by tourists, would challenge comparison with those established by reported beauty as the most attractive in the world. Every variety of landscape was here combined. Select one of the residences on these hills as a specimen, dimly seen in the distance, but which we take the liberty of approaching, and contemplating more narrowly. It is two stories high, with wings on both sides projecting from the main build- ing, lit by circular windows, and connected by a piazzai surmounted with a parapet, extending the entire length of the house and wings, whose bold sweep gives definite outline, amidst embowering trees, to the classic architecture of the mansion. Between the projecting wings, rise stately columns, supporting the parapet above named, and sur- mounting an arched - foundation of brick, which sustains the house at a considerable elevation from the ground, and behind which is an immense dining-room, the whole extent of the building, excluding those apartments, at either extremity, which we have designated -wings. We will not enter into particular details of the various arrangements and appliances of the'dwelling, as doing so would perhaps incur a charge of tedious description; but the outward scenery of the estab- lishment we cannot pass so lightly over. There spreads, in gentle declivity, before its front, a greenly sloping plain, exhibiting the softness of English scenery, where, at one point, a purple shade from close matted field-flowers, mingles with the refresh- ing verdure of woven grass; at another, A half-embedded rock, with *           r    196          AT4BE ,RT HASTINGS. emerald crown and sparry glitter, gives token of a mountain region, Look at the glorious development of trees I This is the sunny South indeed, where cedars shake like Lebanon, and century-living oaks, expanding their sturdy arms, wave their world of leafy honors, defying sun and storm, while, with gnarled and rugged trunks, declaring stub- born strength and vigor. Contrast with these, shapely sycamores, tall and silver-stemmed, serrated leaves, ever rustling amidst round green balls, suspended by long stems, as delicate as- those which bind the lucious grape cluster to its parent vine. There is the symmetrical walnut, with its peculiar fresh shade of color and finely cut foliage, intermingled with fruit. There stands the bending catalpa, enveloped in a robe of flowers, wandered over by wild bees, and humming birds, which, dipping their long taper bills into the heart of purple-dotted blooms, revel at will. Pride of western realms, there, too, the laurel, "never serp," with dark vivid investure of broad silver-lined leaves, expands its queenly, snow-white flowers, breathing odors of Araby, and shaming, with its magnificent expansion, the tiny floral products of -less genial climes. But we have spoken only of the front prospect of this dwelling on the hills. Let us, for a brief space, look elsewhere. , Behind, all the wild grandeur of Swiss scenery bursts on our vision. At the foot of an abrupt declivity, bubbles a clear rill of water, welling from rocks in the hill-side, so cold that, in midsummer, ice would be expletive when mingled with its. translucent stream. About the gushing source of this rivulet, several hills abruptly rise, leaving a pellucid fountain sing- ing along a cool valley at their base, beneath dense shades of: hickory, sassafrass, fringe-tree, dogwood and wild locust, where squirrels leap from bough to bough, and shrill-voiced red birds send loud whistles along the wild.  Surveying an extended panorama from the back verandah of the dwelling, this dingle is only a slight feature in the prospect. Away in the distance, variegated and gorgeously colored, lays river 'swamp-land, -which demands separate description; but, only glancing at this, the eye is attracted to a silver-stream wandering in sunlight, apparently a meandering, brook, but, in reality, the mighty and dark Watereer rolling where Indian hunters, before the white man's advent, bent their savage bows, wooed their dusky brides-chaunted the war-song, and trod the war-dance--where heaped up mounds and broken arrows tell of a vanished race. No feudal tower frowns darkly by The swelling murmur of thy wave, But there is heardthe fox's cry, And there is seen the Indian's grave.   ALBERT HASTIN(G.           197 looking, away over the dimly distinguished Wateree, a- blue haze intervenes between the horizon and earth, closing in etherial mist that long, extended area,-across which the eye wanders, lost in wonder and delight at its expansion. On the right hand, is a primeval forest, dense towering and dark, presenting only tree-tops, in undulating rows; on the left spreads a field of waving maize, the long, declining leaves of which rustle as though composed of heavy silk, while tufts innumer- able, at the had of theirslender stalks, resemble tassels of golden bullion. Ah, how pure, healthful and refreshing sweeps the mountain breeze over this enchanted region I To inhale it, is a draught from Paradise and its breath revives the soul like dews of Hermon. Valerie paused and carried away, at last, by her sweet surroundings of ineffable beauty, drew a long breath. A light step trod near; a small, wild, weirdform stood beside her, but so altered by enthusiasm, and ennobled by the contemplation of nature's beauties, that she scarcely recognized Rox- anna, who, accustomed to pine barren scenery, was delighted and astonished by the new world in which she found herself. It seemed to the imaginative spirit of the child, that the mother's soul now dwelt in this realm.  She had explored the pine barren, search ed the hut, wan- dered round the pond, examined the camp ground. Myra was in none of these places, and she pleased herself with the belief that Valerie's motive, in taking her to this delightful place, was, that she might be near her mother whom  she could not see.  She walked with that exquisite motion, often before described, straight ap to Valerie, and givin her a  quick glance of recogniton and affection,-spoke thus  "Since the sun rose, lady,I have been out on the hills-not in the pine barren. No  I no I she is not there. I will never go again. But look!  there was a shaking amongst the fringe-trees down in the valley yonder, and she passed by, white, white like the moon. I will go to her anon in the beautiful woods."  Valerie was pained at what she heard, and not knowing how to \ answer, stood-irresolute. At last she responded: '"Roxanna, will you come home with me now, child? You have been out a  long time-as you say, since daylight-and now I am sure you must need some   refreshment.- Besides, there is a companion for you at the Hall, whom you will love very much, Emeline Lovel." The child drew her hand over heir face as though striving to recollect something, and said, as if to herself: "Yes, I   remember; we took her fruit,-- she carried it'-Emeline Lovel, her mother is deadl   Yes, I want .to see her; let us go," and   198          ATLBFIRT HASTINGS. she trod swiftly on, so that Valerie could scarcely keep pace with her. They entered the Hall together, and found Emeline in an anteroom where breakfast was prepared.- It was a pleasant sight. The pearl- white, spiritual Valerie-she whom an admiring world lamented, and- would fain win back to adorn the sphere now void by her absence, and, those two desolate children, one endowed with the passionate, dark, rich beauty of Sappho, the other with a mild and angelic type of loveliness, the distinctive attribute of Southern charms. Roxanna scarce tasted her food, and her glittering eye, ever through the open casement, sought its home in far-off woods, unheeding comforts -and elegancies new to her; while Emeline, with gratitude and love, speak- ing softly from her delicate and expressive face, as an effect of good breeding, as well as from the promptings of her own noble heart, strove to let Valerie see how fully her kindness was appreciated, and how gratefully she accepted it. Breakfast over, Valerie told the children they might amuse themselves in the garden, and thither-they repaired, while she sought her:mother's room. Mrs. De Mar rose from an otto- man on which she reclined, and, throwing her arms around her daughter's neck,. said:  "Oh Valerie, I am so glad to see you interest yourself with these children.- Victor and Charles will soon be at home, and, with the addi- tion of these new members to our family, I trust we shall be able to make De Mar Hall once more cheerful, while, forgetting the past, we give our energies to the object of making it agreeable in the future. Your brothers will expect society when they come home, and, for their sake, no less than my own, I beg that you will yourself consent to receive company, which will make De-Mar Hall, what it was in for- mer times, the abode of hospitality, and the gathering point of agreeable reunions. Will you consent, Valerie?" l Mama," returned Valerie, "I know t]at what you say is true. I thank you and my dear -father for-all your love and all your indulgence. But, could you fathom the depths of my spirit, could you only see the struggle which I am making for -life--cheerless though it be-you would allow me to choose -my own way. I -know that Victor and Charles will soon be here, and it is my intention, with your approval, to remove to Ellerton with the children of my adoption. I couldnot, in consonance with my feelings, enjoy the society which my brothers will naturally draw about them. Let me retire to Ellerton, the prop- erty of Emeline Level, as I intend it shall be, but, for the present, my refuge, where I can care for these poor children, and, at the same time, share a--quietude called for by my own wishes."   bT BTERT HAS TrNS.           199 "Certainly, my dear daughter, do what you will. Ellerton is notfar, and we will come daily to you. I trust that, after a time, when this mood passes away, we shall have you at home again,-the lightof our eyes,-the most potent charm of our dwelling which will be dreary enough without you."           - Then Mrs. De Mar bowed her head, and wept for that which no regrets could recall, and Valerie, with singular brightness in her eye, and a manner so far removed from her deportment usually, that her mother, regarding her with deepest interest, yet unable to comprehend her feelings, only repeated the permission before accorded, and changed their discourse to other and less interesting subjects. Valerie soon returned to look after her charges, and the unmoved serenityof her aspect gave no token of the bleeding, broken heart within. She found the two girls seated in an arbor near the moss-house, before adverted to. Emeline had in her hand a volume of Mr.-He- man's works, but Roxanna -held a small bouquet of flowers, which she admired and contemplated, ever and anon casting her eyes far over' the hills, and away-to distant woods, which her Indian instincts taught her to value far more than any nearer objects. The idea which she had imbibed respecting her mother's present abode no doubt originated in the Indian superstitions of the race from which she remotely sprang. Myra had been herself deeply tinctured with the poetical and affecting legendary lore of her grandsire's tribe. She had talked to Roxanna of golden-fruited hunting-grounds, where deathless warriors, bearing the badges of their bravery and renown Won ere they entered the fields of eternal sunshine, drew their unerring bows, and feared neither age nor death. She had heard, too, of a silver fountain, the waters of which could obliterate bitter memories, and wash away grief.* Rox- anna desired to find this fountain, and having been told that it gushed on a small green island, -every day explored the country, especially river banks, the small inland lakes (or ponds) of the pine region, anl those sea-like expanses of water, which usually lay enclosed by earthen embankments, or dams, about the mills of the neighborhood. On see- ing Valerie, Roxanna  rose with eager haste and holding forth her bouquet of tuberose and carnation pinks, said, while her dark eyes flashed, and  a rose hue dyed her cheek for an instant,- "Take them, lady, she used to love them. Ah, they are sweet, like those on the glorious island, where none die, and sorrow does not come. I  am going to seek her there. May I go now?" Valerie was puzzled, not comprehending the references or allusions of poor  Roxanna. She had, however, decided in her own mind, that   200          ALBERT HASTINGS. the untamed spirit of the child would brook no bonds; that the only means of controlling her would be through her affections, and herein she was right. Had Valerie desired her to remain, like Niobe weep- ing over a neighboring urn, stationary for an entire day, she would have so remained, without change of attitude, but had the direction been given as an order, the next instant would have seen her over the bills and away, most likely never to be traced. But Roxanna's petition had been preferred, and Valerie replied, very kindly, "Yes,: Roxanna, but you know your promise, and will not be long absent." "No," said Roxanna--"I never will stay after sunset-you have told me already. I remember." Then, holding forth her flowers once more, she added entreatingly: "If you will- not take these, lady, may I leave them for her in the wood? She will come after me, and take them where they can never fade. Ah, let me take them to her?". "You can do with them as you will, Roxanna," said Valerie, -much affected. ' They are yours, and as many more as you wish. Take them whenever you feel inclined to do so." Roxanna gave-a bright glance towards Valerie, which conveyed, in vivid terms, her unspoken thanks, and hastened away, leaving Emeline alone with her patroness. Valerie took the volume from Emeline's hand, and, turning over its leaves, remarked: "Mrs. Hemans was a noble writer. Do you often read her works.? I should like you to say what you think of them." Emeline was excessively modest, and changed color at this question; but, seeing Valerie await her reply she said timidly: "Mrs. Hemans is indeed a noble writer, as you say, madam, but I do not read her writings for hours together,- as perhaps I ought to do, in justice to their beauty. I cannot tell how it is, but, after perusing them for some length of time, I find a kind of surfeit as though through repletion. It is my own fault, I dare say, but I like  Mrs: Hemans a little at a time, like rich confectionary."  "Why, what nice statements of facts, which I know are such, you do make, child. My own opinion accords precisely with yours, and yet I should, doubtless, have taken a much more circuitous way of express- ing it, and probably would not have been half so intelligible in the end. We are perfectly agreed in reference to Mrs. Hemans, and now tell me -what think you of Roxanna?" Emeline reflected a moment. "' Roxanna is a child of fine feelings and good powers of mind, dear   ALBERT HASTINGS.           201 lady, but she is fearfully superstitious, and notes even the fall of a leaf with heedful care.. She has been taught strange things, and I believe that nothing in the world will ever enlighten or govern her but love." "There we agree again,'" said Valerie, with one-of those smiles of the olden time, so seldom now seen on her visage;  "there we most entirely agree, and I have to ask your aid, Emeline, in striving to wean Roxanna from her wild fancies. I have set my heart on reclaim- ing her to civilization and reason. In doing this, I count on your. assistance, Emeline. Have I asked too much of you, my dear girl?" "Oh no, indeed, dear Miss De Mar, my greatest desire is to do all you direct, and, in this case, my wishes fully accord with your own. I, too, love and pity Roxanna. We are alike orphaned, and both in your kind hands, lady!" "I shall take you both to Ellerton; your old home, soon, Emeline, and I trust that you, at least, will enjoy a residence there, while our  united endeavor will be to train the mind of poor Roxanna into more civilized and Christian ideas." "Oh, to Ellerton did you say, beloved lady?" Emeline's whole appearance was altered in an instant, her counte- nance being one of those miraculously affected by the fluctuations within.  "To Ellerton, dear Ellerton, where every tree is painted on my memory, every rosebush and vine are old familiar friends, every walk consecrated I Shall we indeed live there? Ah, but I forget," and blankness overspread her visage, A' mamma will not be there-- Albert is lost, too! But I love Ellerton still, and you," added she, looking affectionately at her companion, " you, who are so tender and kind, like my own sweet mother, you will be there also." A friendship of the most delicate and lasting kind was rapidly being formed between the lovely Valerie and gentle Emeline Lovel. There was some indistinct impression on the mind of Emeline that old claims of her mother's -influenced Valerie in the course which she was now taking, and so her independent spirit was spared the pangs of those who, bowed down under a sense of receiving charity, meanly cower, accepting, in their humiliation, the gifts decreed to God's most forsaken creatures. [Bitter humiliation to a noble soul, which in its days of adversity would rather crack stones for the macadamized streets of a European city, or sweep the offal from a less refined western town, than eat the hard and life-withering bread of dependencel She knew, too, that through Albert-dear, noble, lost Albert-a large sum had been transmitted from England to defray her own, expenses, and     202          ALBERT HASTINGS. those of her ever-deplored mother, across the Atlantic. In her igno- rance, she concluded that this money was now in Valerie's hands, and that, instead of being a pensioner on that charming friend's kindness, she was only receiving from her, in a judicious manner, -the investiture made by "cousin Albert" for her benefit. She was willing to be in- debted to himn, but not' to Lady Hastings, to Miss Juliet Grayson, nor even to Valerie herself. With Roxanna, the case was wholly different. She never thought of obligations to any one. ' Her heart, mind and soul were devoted to other considerations. What did she know or care about little heaps of yellow dust-? What was gold or fortune to her? The everlasting woods, the sun-lighted fields of the spirit land filled her imagination. Emeline was the type of refined civilization, with its delicate scruples and fine-spun sentimentalities-Roxanna, the child of nature, with a great law of love at her heart, and unwounded by scruples of delicacy- simply because she could not comprehend them-had never heard of them. The different conduct of these girls (resulting from totally different constitution and training) was hourly evinced, and though Valerie loved them both-for she, had decided to love them, even had they been less attractive-yet her interest was drawn more earnestly to that one whom she could not comprehend, and whose condition seemed, in her judgment, calling most loudly for watchful love. There was some- thing in the wild romance of poor Roxanna, which demanded not only tireless vigilance on the part of those in whose care she was, but acute sensitiveness to the powerful idiosyncracies of a child's mind and character. Emeline was a finely-chiseled statue, almost perfected in' the hands of the artist-Roxanna an earth-clouded gem, not sufficiently polished to declare its relative value amongst precious stones, yet gleaming with a lustre which broke through its cerement of encrusted earth.            '  '  '  '( - ,   CHAPTER XXIX. 3t Ihj^N gttttjmaowe "I believe a cerstain fondness, A child-Zike drawing fo thee land that gave himr birth, Chains him like fate. "         Lamb. THE position in which Sir Albert Hastings found himself at this time was, perhaps, more dangerous as respects its influ- ence on character, than any, in which he had formerly stood. Lady Livia saw no fault in him. Lord Rathbourne extolled him as a hero.  olonel Beverly and Sir-Charles Ashand assented to his lordship's dictums. The ladies adored him en masse; and the pale tutor (who wonderfully resembled Henry Kirke White) was far too modest to assume   such dictation  as Minerva, in guise of Mentor, bestowed on Telemachus. Deference met our hero everywhere. Even while galloping over his wide domain, young children would salute him from cottage portals, and shout welcome to the young heir- closing their greetings with compliments to his birth-place-'-America forever 1"This finale was always sure to call down a shower of coin from the exultant young horseman, who, on such occasions, uncon- sciously vaulted in his saddle, and, touching the sleek sides of the fiery Saladin with his golden spur, was borne away with lightning speed, Mr. Stuart trotting after, as best he might, on Jerome, so aptly -com- pared by Lord Rathbourne to'Marmion's sinewy but staid war charger. Despite all this, Sir Albert Hlastings was not spoiled. He seemed to bear about with him some talisman, which neutralized even the poison of flattery, and resisted the syren song which allures to the castle of Indolence, as manfully as he had braved the gorgon form of ghastly poverty. H Iis energies were given to the pursuit of knowledge, and his leisure moments to an inward view of a far-offland, which held treasures wealth and greatness could not buy. There he wandered with fair Emeline Lovel amidst Ellerton's flower-scented:gardens, or fearlessly navigated the dark rolling river, as it swept forward between banks so diversified that, as Emory restored their features, one after another, he would sink    204          ALBERT HASTINGS. into silence. When rallied on his abstraction, with a sudden start, his faculties restored to the contemplation of the present, he would descant, with eloquence, on scenes inseparable from his early and happy recol- lections of life. - Mr. Stuart declared to Lady Livia that Sir Albert would educate himself, even without instruction, and in this the honest tutor spoke truly. But Sir Albert was at this time suffering from anxiety on account of the feeble health and straitened circumstances, in which he had left his mother. One morning as he sat with Mr. Stuart- in the library, that gentle- man, deep in explorations and comparisons respecting the systems of Greek philosophers, (Mr.' Stuart obstinately refused to allow the Germans a place beside them, detesting the whole batch, from Kant down) while listening to the scholar's nice analysis of Plato and Pytha- goras, the post-bag was brought in. A large letter, with heavy black seal, and deep black border, smote on his vision. With white lips, and trembling hands, he tore away the envelope. Mr. Oldham's hand- writing. He ran his eye rapidly over the first page, and uttering a deep groan, rose and left the room. On reaching his own apartment, he gave- way to a flood of grief, and the unfortunate Amanda was de- plored as her virtues deserved. It was sometime before Sir Albert was able to revert to his letter which he had only partially read. Mr. Old- ham stated that "Emeline had been taken home by Miss Juliet Gray- son, who refused to receive) the funds sent over from England by Lady Livia. Those funds were now in his, Mr. Oldham's, hands, subject to Sir Albert's orders. -Mr Alaric Lovel was dead. - Miss Valerie De Mar inherited the property of the deceased. Emeline had, by her own desire, and the earnest solicitations of that young lady, since gone to reside with her at Ellerton. Mr. Oldham had not seen Emeline ante- rior to her change of abode, but he did see her at-Grayson Farm, and she expressed a wish to remain in America, saying that, although she dearly loved her cousin Alberta, yet ashe would not stand in the way of his prospects at his new home. "Dear Emeline I that is so like her," said Sir Albert, " always thinking more of others than of herselfl And am I to rest on this meagre in- formation? My mother, her mother, dead; her only companion, seemingly recreant to duty and right feeling, abandoning her to her fate. This may not be. What are. Hastings Hall, England, the world to me, if evil befalls Emeline Lovel? But Lady Livia-what will she say to the present aspect of things? I am well aware that my going out of the country would afflict her grievously. I owe the duty of a son to her, and dare not disobey her wishes."'        i   AT'RViT HASTN.           205' It occurred to Sir Albert that his most reliable -adviser in this matter would be Lady Mary Arundel, to whom he had become strongly at- tached, and in whose judgment he fully confided. Lady Livia was much concerned at Sir Albert's affliction, and an- nounced, at dinner, the sad news which had come from Ame'ica, thus explaining his absence from table.  Lord Rathbourne sympathized deeply. with his young frilend, and decided that the party should break up for the present. "He would," he said, " have the honor of seeing Sir Albert in the spring, he hoped, at his castle in the north, and should Lady Livia consent to accompany her grandson, he was sure that change of air and scene would be of infinite service to her health." Lady Livia was not inclined to bind herself by any promise, but it was possible that she might avail herself of his lordship's flattering invitation. - Sir Charles Ashand and, Col. Beverly left for London. Mrs. Sum- merville and Mrs. Danvers, also, took their departure. Lord Rathbourne and his daughter would bid adidu to their friends at the Hall on the day following. Late that afternoon, Sir Albert walked in the direction of the lake, alone, and- full of sorrowful reflections. - A - clear, frosty atmosphere floated over the scene, at all times beautiful, while a soft haze rested on the water, and interposed its gauze-like veil between the spectator and distant hills, rising now in soft gradation, now in rugged masses, on the opposite side of the broad and waveless sheet of water. Just here and there a purple. or rosy dash of color tinged its level bosom, as a passing cloud was momentarily reflected. Sir Albert paused, seat- ing himself on a shelving declivity, which, not far below, broke abrupt- ly away, leaving a perpendicular descent into. the water. So fully was he occupied with the haunting dreams of Ellerton and distant friends, that he did not hear approaching wheels, as Lord Rathbonrne's equi- page dashed rapidly up to the spot, and would have passed, but Geral- dine cried out: ." Oh, papa, there is Sir Albert, and I have not seen him since he saved me out of that dreadful lake I I am so glad we came this way for a drive. We can alight and walk back to the Hall. i Let the carriage go ahead. If I am tired before we come to the col- lonade, you can make a sign to the driver- to wait. Oh, that will be delightful  . : "Stop, my child, not quite so fast. You must know that our friend, Sir Albert, has just heard of the loss of a near relative, and he may prefer to be alone." "Has he," interrupted Geraldine. "Oh, that is another reason'why ,*O                      ,/   206           ATBRTZ HASTINGS. Imust speak to him. I want to let him know how grieved I am for his loss. Indeed, indeed, papa,- it would be very ungrateful in me to go away without making my acknowledgments to him. Just look at that water, and think where I should be now, but for his bravery. I tell you, papa, if I had a brother, I could never love him better than I do Sir Albert Hastings; and does he not look like a prince, now, with those fine eyes, and that poetical hair of his, curling and floating away on the breeze?" Lord Rathbourne was a lawgiver in society. Nobody ever disputed his decisions in matters of conventional usage; but he, deferring to -no one else, never contended with Geraldine.  So the check-rein was drawn, the restive horses restrained, and my lord and his daughter de- scended to the ground, while Sir Albert, starting from his meditations, walked slowly forward to meet his friends. Geraldine, with heightened color,- dark violet eyes, and Norman no- bility of aspect, with that peculiar grace and ease, the result of birth and breeding, seldom seen but in thy noble and refined, extended her small, .soft, hand., and grasping that of Sir Albert, conveyed it to her beautifully formed and proud mouth without ceremony, saying, with bland intonation, (her voice at all times sweet): "This rescued me from those deceitful waters. Ah, do you mind how they sang in our ears? Look you now, Sir Albert, we are going away, but I tell you, I never will forget this lake or you; how can I?" Sir Albert bowed. He felt grateful for the child's kind remembrance of what he had done. She looked very lovely; she was very attract- ive. He knew not what to reply, and hesitated; but Geraldine took no heed of this, and proceeded: "Now I am under such deep obligations to you that I cannot hope ever to repay them; in spite of which I am going to ask you a favor; tell me, before I go one step farther, that you will grant me my boons" "You are quite unreasonable," said Lord Rathbourne, laughing. "I would promise nothing of the kind, Sir Albett Hastings. She is like the rest of her sex, wily, very wily," and his lordship was quite di- verted. But Sir Albert took a different view of the matter. "My Lord," said he, "I quite understand Lady Geraldine's feelings, though I must say she overrates the service which I have done her. Were she the poorest peasant in all the domain of Hastings, I would have been equally anxious to rescue her from the nortal peril of her situation, after falling into the water. I am, at this instant, most anx- ious to free myself from those obligations which she is pleased to say she liesunder to me."   ALBERT HASTINGS.           207 "Is it so?" returned his lordship, with great hauteur. "Then we can, Geraldine, at once release our friend from any bonds which he may deem irksome. You may say, endorsing my assertion, that since Sir Albert Hastings is oppressed by our gratitude, we will no more be grateful;-we will forget the lake, Hastings Hall, and our visit, at one and the same time. He is too proud, it seems, to own that he has done us (me, I mean) a favor, and I here acquit him of--the honor of having done so."        - "Father, dear father, what do you say? what do you mean? You have the same look on your face as you had when the baron fell in that awful duel; and though every one else mourned for him, you would not. Oh, dear father, were you to call out Sir Albert (when he be- comes a man--I know he is only a boy now), were you to call him out then, as you did Baron Montressor-I tell you what I would do- and you know I never deceive you-I would come right between the passing of your shots, and I would die before either of you were slain. You gave me life,-Sir Albert-Hastings saved that life-and you two shall be dear, loving friends so long as I live; do you hear me, Lord' Rathbourne? Do you hear me, Sir Albert Hastings? Why, I am too young and too worthless to cause misunderstandings." And Geraldine-shook away her wealth of raven hair, and looked, as indeed she was, an angel of beauty and goodness. Lord Rathbourne was stunned. He meant to discountenance what he esteemed boorish and callous indifference to his young daughter's condescension. True, Sir Albert Hastings was nobly born; but what was the house of Hast- ings to that of Rathbourne? The Lady Maud, his late consort, was allied to royalty, and Geraldine would, one day, inherit one of the finest fortunes in England. Was she to stand there, child as she was, begging the friendship of a boy, American-born too? In his younger days he had always^ heard Americans called "rebels," (sad misnomer for heroism, patriotism, and pure love- of country and liberty!) Let that pass.: Sir Albert was English after all, but not for that reason, potent as it was, should he undervalue Lady Geraldine Rathbourne. No I not even in her childish days, should any of mortal birth do that. He loved Sir Albert Hastings; he admired and appreciated his noble parts, his uncommon beauty, his bravery, his rectitude and modesty, but the Czar of Russia should not repel his child-heiress. The Prince Regent should not do it, and as for any lord in England, or citizen in America  His lordship would not pursue any further this strain of reflection.  In the mean time, Sir Albert and Geraldine had settled the matter   208          ALBERT HASTINGS. after their own fashion. The former had promised to visit the castle, early in summer, and Geraldine had engaged to make his lordship un. derstand that Sir Albert Hastings was a friend of hers, and that she would not go to, the castle unless her special friend was welcome there also. Lord Rathbourne -was half vexed, and half entertained by all this, and said to Lady Livia at parting: "I tell you what, madam, that boy hero of yours has quite bewitched Geraldine. What strange things happen in this worldl She asked me, when we were coming hither, if Sir Hastings could read, and whether he was not black, like an African, or an ourang-outang. Where, my dear Lady Livia, does the boy get that proud, independent spirit?" "If not from the sun-gilded realms of the South, my lord," returned she, with great dignity, " he may inherit it from your old friend and commander, Sir Gifford Hastings." "Aye, aye, you are right after all, Mhy dear lady; and I beg, once more, that you will-remember your promise of visiting-us next season." Lady Hastings bowed.   CHAPTER XXX. "By thirty hills I hurry down, Or slip between the ridges, By twenty thorps, a little town, And half a hundred bridges. - "I chatter, chatter, as I ow, To join the brimming river, or07 men may come and men may go, Buzt I go on forever."-Ten;nyson  T 'HE scene before us is one well known to the inhabitants of the Southern or Gulf States, as they are sometimes called. Broad, (I   deep and turbid, a mighty river rolls majestically on. 'From far hills and numerous valleys, rivulet after rivulet, with com- mingling waters, has contributed to swell its abounding and resistless waves, as gurgling and murmuring in graceful succession, they journey on to their mysterious destination, and are finally lost in the vast, fathomless Atlantic. On either side this river lie rich and inexhaustible lands. A superb forest growth covers them--and trees, here, attain a height and circumference seen nowhere else in the country. Immense sycamores, giant pines, oaks, hickory trees, mournful cypress, and many others too numerous to mention, away overhead unite their multitudi- nous leaves, and form a vast canopy. Here are nature's: grand cathe- drals, with extended aisles and dim vistas. A gorgeous drapery of many flowered curtains, festooned from tree to tree, enriches the sequestered scene. Lpng banners of bell-shaped jessamines, brilliant as virgin gold, wave and tremble in each passing breeze. Trumpet flowers, of deep scarlet, overgrow trunks of dead trees wherever found, and convert. them into emerald pillars, dotted over by vivid blooms ;-here and there a glossy bay or shining laurel expands its fragrant and virgin blossoms, where wild bees hum, and bright-eyed birds twitter, or send their melodious voices along these vast forest halls. An impenetrable undergrowth covers the earth, broken at intervals   210          ALRFIt T  HASTINGS.   , , by still lagoons or prostrate logs. Here lazy turtles repose, and the huge and deadly rattlesnake may be seen to wind his sinuous way, with head protruded and glittering eye, the dun color -of his skin scarce distinguishable from decayed leaves over which he glides. : Quick- glancing lizards shoot up the stems of leafy trees, or clamber over fallen limbs. The great swamp-frog, lurking amidst ooze and reeds, occasion- ally gives out a harsh. cry from his, unmusical throat. Minks cower beneath- impenetrable umbrage, and harmless squirrels shell their nuts at ease, leaping from tree to tree. High amidst almost naked boughs of funeral cypress, sits Minerva's wisdom bird, blinking against the sun- light, and dozing out glorious noonday, till evening shades restore his vision, and send him to deserted mansions and moon-lighted grave- yards. Light-winged as Eros, and sporting rainbow colors, the flimsy children of summer, milk-white and variegated butterflies, flit from pale yellow elder flowers to purple wild thyme, from ruddy woodbine to' scented pink sweet briar. Amidst weeds and vines of various descriptions, the fan palmetto shoots out its pointed leaves, easily distinguishable from, and- contrasting with, various plants of different-conformation; while the thick-leaved and luxuriant prickly pear unfolds its heavy and luscious form amidst a rank and undistinguished brotherhood of the swamp. , Amidst them all, the river roars and foams, sometimes touching declining willow branches, which lean from tall cliffs, and dip their trailing tresses in the wave, sometimes washing level and sandy shores, which slope toward it with alternate strata of yelloW earth, snowy gravel and glittering pebbles. The subtle and grateful odor of nature's mingled sweets comes wafted amidst these gorgeous and enchanted shades. But we pause. Directing our vision toward a winding road, which, traversing the river swamp, comes straight down to the river itself, is seen a flathoat, moored by a chain wrapped around a stump. A horse- man advances, young, with a bold port, distinguished by personal beauty, and wearing a cadet's uniform. He alights, throwing his rein over his bridle arm, and sends a long, clear shout along the waters. A sooty representative of Charon soon emerges from a small loghut, just visible on a' rising ground near, bearing a long grappling pole. This is Dembo, the ferryman, believed to bear a charmed lifte-an am- phibious creature, who, when freshets had converted the whole ground, as far as the eye could reach, into a sea-like expanse of water, clung, like a sloth, to the topmost branches of a live oak, and sustained life by a few roasted potatoes and guber nuts, with which his pockets were sup- plied,in anticipation of the flood. .   t, ALBERT HASTINGS.        2" "Ah, Dembo, how are you," said the stranger, in a kind manner, "and how are all our people on the other side the river?" "Berry well, massa-all right." "And how stands -old Congaree, Dembo?  I feared, from what I heard in Columbia, that I should find some difficulty in crossing. You have had a swell lately here, I think. Is the water very high?" "Middlin' high, sir, but we shall do." During the progression of this brief dialogue, two arrivals had trans- pired.- A buggy, containing a severe-looking, venerable man, and a prim, staid damsel, whom the old gentleman addressed as "Miriam," had driven up, and was ready to embark. A laden wagon, with piled up bales of cotton-that great Southern commodity (as it was then)-- was also waiting the ferryman's movements, who drew his flat around, by casting a few more rings of his chain about the stump. The -buggy drove forward; the horseman followed, and rode to the front of the boat. After them, came the ponderous wagon.  Demba seemed" reflecting a moment, and then spoke out: !"Hoa, Mr. Wagoner I you had better wait. De river is berry high. I will take you ober at next turn." The wagoner was an inhabitant of the pine barren (though driving the team of a gentleman planter), and several slaves were iin attendance. He was one of the equal-rights school; and-would not consent to fgive way to a lady, to one of the military, or even the swollen river. Ac- cordingly, he replied, with an oath, that he " would stand back for nothing," and maintained his post. Dembo slowly disengaged his chain, and planting his grappling pole in the sand, the flat leisurely swung round, trembling and swaying back, as a mighty current bore her away. "We hab too much load," said Dembo, as the flat struggled on, deeply imbedded in water.. "We hab too much to tote; it- be dan- gerous, :"'Won't you trow some of dat cotton in the river, Mr. Wagoner? may be two, tree bales? We would be safer den, mssa.." "You are a crazy darkey, arn't you?" returned the teamster, dog- gedly. "Why don't you ax the old man, there to shove his buggy overboard? It aint worth a bale of cotton, I am sure." Mr. Calloway (for he it was) at this personal reference, turned a face of wrath and reproval on the speaker, and, with a loud voice, com- menced, in his accustomed manner-: "Thou art a wicked and godless man; yea, and hast no respect to elders in the land.. Take heed 11st sudden destruction come upon thee, and thou perish without mercy I Remove hence, Dembo, my own  "          4,    ova   212  -       ALBERT HASTINGS. poor conveyance, and hurl it- into deep waters, for what are cotton bales, or even the carriages whereon heralds of the cross may journey, to the life of man-yea, even the life of such as he, who would rather encounter suddenjudgment, than sacrifice the worldly store which may soon avail him nothing." "Oh, massa," shouted Dembo, " don't talk to him any more? We be sinking, and ebery man must look to hisself." Dembo's warning came too late. The slight craft, overladen, bowed forward, and rapidly filled. A -gurgling sound, a wild sweep of hissing waters, and down, down went all on its surface. The cadet, at Dembo's first intimation of danger, mounted his English hunter, and plunged into the dark, rolling river. The charger, ere taking the awful leap, poised himself on the side of the sinking boat. His face was thin and sharp,. his ears were pointed in mortal fright, he gave forth a yell of almost human agony, and, bounded into the angry 'and roaring torrent. Mr. Calloway, with a full tide of eloquence yet unexhausted, fell un- heeding into the water. But our business is not with him at this critical juncture. We will follow the fate of the horseman, who fairly launched on the bold bosom of the kingly river, encouraged his steed, keeping, by a steady hand, his head above the angry waters,' and urging him on by words of encouragement.  But a strong tide bore him onward, and scarce could he, urged by bit and spur, at last win a footing where shelving shores sloped softly into the channel of the wild Congaree. He planted his fore feet into the sand. It gave way. Again was he swept, like a feather, on howling waters; once more, and for the last time, did his gallant- rider cheer him on. A mighty strain-a wild groan, and the exhausted steed had won his goal I They were safe. On, on, the upland was won! and Victor De Mar shook himself from the waters, caressing the bold brute, who, with instinct, in place of reason, had defied one of those powerful inland"seas, in comparison with which European rivers are but rills. Victor De Mar shook himself from the waters, tethered his noble steed to a great catalpa tree, and addressed his consideration toward the rescue of his companions in misfortune. There was a look of Valerie's sweet deep eyes in his face, while he so reflected, and (for he was not one of those with whom reasoning takes the place of actiQn) he looked forward into a field where happy contented slaves - were tending the young plants of Indian corn, spreading away as far as the eye could contemplate that vast vista in the forest, caused by its having been cleared, and devoted to cultivation. He spied several sturdy black   ATIBERT HASTINGS.          213 men, employed in their congenial and appropriate avocation of tilling the ground. He called aloud: "The flat is sunk in the river, help l" Jacob, an intelligent and respectable operative on a large plantation, instantly responded:  "Yes, massie we be down there directly." Jacob soon made his appearance, carrying a bateau and paddles, also a great coil of rope, and warm blankets. ' Down, down to the river," shouiited Victor. "Mr. Calloway and his daughter were in the flat when it sank. You are a good Methodist, "  Jacob I save your parson, as you-hope to be saved yourself in a worse extremity."  "Ob, ho, Massa Victor De Mar, I knows your voice and your goodly face. Mingo, Jimbo, Sancho, come on, I say I You, Tony, tell the oberseer we has gone to :pick up drownin' people. Here goes," and Jacob ran nimbly to the river side, where a melancholy spectacle awaited him.  Mr. Calloway, pale as 'the shrouded dead, lying stark upon the sedgy bank; -Miriam, his young daughter, scarce breathing, but, like a shower o'erladen lily, bent, and unable to move or think.        . "Good gracious!" exclaimed Jacob. "Roll him ober, Sancho; rub as hard as you grubs up cane grass, Mingo I 'Tis blessed old Broder Calloway, the great rewisal preacher, and if he lives to come to hisself again, we shall be prayed for till Satan-(ugly spirit)-will fly away. Roll him, I say, Sancho I Mingo, rub as if you was planin' de boards for De Mar Hall piazza 1 Ah I see I he fetches his breath, and dq won- derful reprovin' eyes of him is opened I Master Calloway, speak to me, I's a Christian broder of your own blessed" church. Oh, I has heard you at the camp meetin'; massa, let me shake your hand." "Of a verity," responded Mr. Calloway, "-of a verity, my soul hath stfiggled in cruel waters.. I have been nigh unto death, and the damsel also. Art 'thou here, Miriam? Yea, I behold her yet in life." And good Mr. Calloway, turning his face to the wilderness, prayed, and returned -thanks aloud, while Jacob, falling on his knees, loudly responded "Amen," at every concluding sentence of the clergyman's devotional exercise. It was now a difficult thing to determine how Mr. Calloway and his daughter should be carried through the swamp, which was, where the path lay, a perfect quagmire. Indeed, there were dangerous- passes to cross, now that the river overflowed its banks, and muqch of-the low-      ' -,   214         ALBERT HASTINGS. land was submerged. The good man, being deeply concerned at his predicament, Jacob again came to the rescue, offering to bring a cart, with permission of the overseer. Mr. Calloway might stay where he was, and he, Jacob, would go to procure the desired vehicle. The forlorn old gentleman, though grateful for having been preserved along with his daughter, yet thought regretfully of his lost pony and venerable buggy. Long had Mr. Calloway been associated with- them, till they seemed a part of himself, and. now, in an instant, to be de- prived of both was, as he expressed it, a " great cross." Miriam sat shivering on a log,-surrounded by fringe bushes, blackberry vines and myrtle. The minister walked backwards and forwards on the batik, looking wistfully at the pitiless river, which, with accustomed majesty and ease of motion, rolled on.            - While] he was thus engaged, Dembo walked leisurely up the bluff, wiping his streaming visage with a cotton hankerchief. He, too, was sorely troubled at the accident of the morning. Mr. Calloway started, as though an apparition had risen amidst the shades. "Truly," exclaimed he, "my soul rejoiceth to see you yet alive and well, Dembo. Peradventure we had sunk, yea, given up the ghost, yet was the fault not yours, Dembo, but his who, perchance, hath paid a heavy price for his wicked presumption." "-I so glad, massa, if he is drowned." "Be thou not vengeful in thine ,anger, benighted son of Congo- neither grin with thy teeth, as thou dost, as though it were a light thing to suffer strangulation amongst scaly fishes in the deep. No I rather weep and lament that souls are snatched away without warn- ing. I am sorry, Dembo, that a more suitable frame of mind is not made evident by your words. Yet myself being mindful that you acted with becoming prudence and forbearance towards that unhappy man, who peradventure rocks now amidst wild waves, and will know no burial, I am reminded, while returning you my thanks, to administer a word of counsel in respect to your implacable temper of mind.", "Yes, massa, yes," responded Dembo, "you "will preach powerful about all dis next Sunday. But now, massa," and he looked beseech- ingly on his wet garments, " now, I is so drippin' wet, and afeared ob de chilll Good bye, nassa," added he, with resolute firmness, "I come hear de discourse, on Sunday, wid a tankful mind." And Dembo strode away, leaving Mr. Calloway' to mature his thoughts, as the ferryman acutely said, for " next-Sunday." Mr. Calloway was soon seated disconsolately in the jogging cart,   ALBERT HASTINGS.          215 Miriam beside him, enveloped in one of Jacob's blankets, and, after a most uncomfortable drive, found himself at the door of his own house, where poor Myra, in her great despair, had sat on the morning of her visit.  "Who can tell what an hour may bring forth?" said he, solemnly "I went hence with a goodly conveyance, and come back in a homely cart. Nevertheless, do I return thanks to thee, Jacob; yea, and will reward thy service."     ORAPTER XXXT "O when sh7zall I visit the land, of my birth! The, loveliest land on the face of the earth! When shall I those scenes of affection explore,- Our forests, our fountains, Ou7r hamolets, our mountairns, fWith the pride of our mountains-the maid I adore?" Montgomery. R"HE fine old Hall accorded better with Sir Albert's feelings after the departure of its guests, than it had done when every hour brought social recreations, and demanded mental exer- cise. True, he, as a, mere youth, was not expected to en- tertain, or give tone to, the society there assembled. That was the allotted duty of his seniors, with which his modesty gladly acquiesced; for, with all his strength of intellect- and knowledge of life, (his expe- riences had, to some extent, early given him that knowledge,) he never exhibited the precocity of "t Young America," which, like forced fruit, soon ripened, soon decayed, never fully matured, shrinks away, ere the touch of time, by a graduating and mellowing process, has imparted to it nectarious flavor, or has fully flushed with elysian bloom its round proportions. Sir Albert Hastings never presumed, was always ready to defer to the opinions of others, when reason was shown to sustain those opin- ions, or when he respected the character of their author; but, in order to insure obedience on his part, one or both these requisitions must exist. He had the most graceful virtue of youth-a teachable nature; yet was he, as we have said, not blindly yielding. To his lamented aunt, the gentle and right-minded Mrs. Lovel, he had always without hesitation submitted, because she had his esteem as well as love. Lady Livia now stood in her place, with yet higher claims, and .to Lady Livia he also rendered the respectful duty of a son. He had noticed, however, that his grandmother, with all her great qualities, often sought counsel of Lady Arundel, and was in a   ATHBERlT HASTINGS.       -  217 manner influenced by her, though silently to unobservant eyes. This decided him to make Lady Arundel the confidant of his anxiety re- garding Emeline, and of his grief at the separation from her, which circumstances now rendered necessary. Accordingly, one day, when alone with her, as he frequently was, Sir Albert spoke thus: "iy dear aunt, I am often troubled in mind about my cousin. The sweetest, most loving and sensitive creature you ever saw. We were always together, and, I may say, had but one mind, even while her mother lived, and now, that she is gone, poor Emeline must be sadly lonely. She will not cspQplain-I know her; but she will pine in secret. I am informed by Mr. Oldham that she is placed above want-- but it is for her happiness and health that I am solicitous. I never had a sister or brother, but this young cousin of mine stands in the place of sisterhood and brotherhood to me. I cannot be happy away from her, and I feel that she, though refusing to come hither, shares my sentiments .on this point. I do not wish to leave Lady Livia or you, or my English home, but how can I give up Emeline?" Sir Albert's eyes, while he spoke, were moistened by tears, which he strove hard to repress, and finally dashed hurriedly away, but his voice was tremulous, and his whole manner unlike its usual modest self-possession. Lady Arundel, with a look of love and sympathy, which soothed and reassured him, answered thus: ' I have, my dear Albert, been reflecting on this matter before you did me the honor of placing it before me-and I confess, my dear boy, I respect you much more for all you have told me, than I should have done, had you (here surrounded by all that would tempt a facile nature to forgetfulness) ceased to think of one so deservedly dear to you as this charming Emeline Lovel, your playmate of yore, seems to be. But, my dear Albert, if she is comfortable, and desires no change,-if her education receives due attention, and she communicates with' you by writing-for the present, it seems to mei that you should strive to reconcile yourself to the separation. You are a large landholder in this country. Your grandmother, who has seen many bereavements, could not sustain your loss, nor even your absence. There are people here who will, in future, depend on y6u for much of their happines, and you should now strive diligently to prepare yourself for the duties which await you. I have observed those traits in you, my dear boy, which belong of right to the House of Hastings, and I know, that when you once decide on a certain course of conduct, that course you will pursue, be it never so contrary to inclination."   218          ATARsIT HASTINGS. Sir Albert bowed his head in acknowledgment of his aunt's counsel, shortly afterward leaving her with a cheerful countenance. Lady Arundel felt that she had not spoken in vain; and as her nephew strode, with graceful carriage, down the lime walk, which led from her apartments into the conservatory, she said; ' The very gait of my lost Geoffrey I Pray heaven I have advised him as I ought. Dear Albert! formed to win all hearts, I do not wonder at Emeline Lovel's affection, on which he so confidently relies. His American relatives must have been people above the ordinary standard in that country or in this; his attachment to them is such as could only be induced by their own merits, and his training evinces discretidn on the part of those who stood in the relation of superiors, and had the delicate, yet responsible, j duty of governing childhood devolving upon them. Fearful responsi- / bilityl where the best intentioned often fail, and discover, too late, wherein their error lay--perhaps in too much tenderness-sometimes, in uncompromising hardness and harshness ;-yet I would sooner for- give the ungrateful child (though his duty, in all circumstances, remains the same) who rebelled against a stern and unjust censor, than him, who, casting aside the bonds of love, forgot years of indulgence, and basely rewarded undisguised love with open rebellion and ingratitude. y Albert has been guided with a firm, but gentle hand-that is plain. He seems perfectly free from prejudice of every kind, and that, I think, must be attributed to the kindly influence of good Mrs. Lovel, who, without that pride of intellect which culminates in skepticism or bigotry, was left free to charitable impressions, and taught Albert, as she herself had been taught, by her own gentle 'and unbiased heart, to love and emulate good, wherever seen, to avoid and eschew bigotry and intoler- ance, wherever exhibited." v  Such were Lady Arundel's thoughts, and they were indicative of that lovely woman's character and mind. Reflective by nature, the truths at which she arrived were taught by none of the schools, and were reached by a far more infallible process, the intuitions of her own kind heart, independent, and not to be reversed bythe judgment of others. Sir Albert now returned to his studies with avidity, under the super- vision of Mr. Stuart, and found, in the wide field of knowledge opened before him, his long-coveted desire. In the quiet evenings (for it was still winter), with drawn curtains, a blazing hearth, and illuminated walls, the tutor and his pupil, admitted to the society of Lady Livia and Lady Arundel, would sit in the time-honored and gorgeously adorned parlor at Hastings Hall, (where nothing new called for admira-   ATLBRT H1ASTINGS.          219 tion, but costly representations of that which was old, and, for that  very reason, esteemed most valuable, met the eye)--at Hastings Hall, where bold innovation wasaeschewed, and things of " eld " revered.  On these occasions, instead of disgusting details of the beau monde, -' and flippant comments on new litterateurs, the circle was content to re- ceive wisdom at the hands of(hose who had, long ago, bythe universal  consent of mankind, become established as master minds, and whose  i throne can never be shaken by a pigmy and self-sufficient tribe of ad- venturers, but, like the rocks of their native isle, will resist each passing  wave, and remain the same after a lapse of centuries.  Mr. Stuart,-on one of these occasions, remarked:  "We have been studying Gray, this morning, Lady Livia, and would like to have your opinion of him--if'the request be not too bold."  - "In regard to Gray," returned the lady, "I can only say that his appears to me a mighty mind. Sum up all the puling nonsense which we see labelled 'poems,' of such and such a son of genius,and tell me - : whether, with their diluted beverage, the rich wine of Gray ought  p'h justly to be compared? Not only his immortal 'Elegy in the Church-. yard,' which time cannot stale, but every line from his pan has its dis- tinctive attribute of power. True, he wrote comparatively little, but then the little comprises so much. With many authors we are com- pelled to admit that our patience is wearied, yet on they toil, and force us to share their ennui. Of Gray. we always think, 'I wish he had written more.' Yet the impression of his strength and sublimity remains with us, and, after perusal, we never forget either poem or author." "Your views aremy own, clearly stated," said Mr. Stuart, his eyes kindling, and a certain expression of satisfaction stealing over his  features, which made him momentarily quite handsome. He bowed, and Lady Livia continued:   (  "Now" tell me, frankly, Mr. Stuart, what do think of Alexander Pope?" '"Pope, my dear lady, has always been, not only in my opinion which is scarce worth considering, but in that of our greatest intellects,' regarded as the poet, par excellence, of this British Isle. Dryden first taught the art of versification on artistic principles. What I mean to  say is this, that he, amidst barbaric rhymers, (poets fully imbued with the genius and spirit of poetry, it is true, but yet, sadly deficient in metre and harmony,) first cultivated the graces of language, and ren- dered harmonious a tongue peculiarly adapted to the uses of poetry. Pope, his great disciple, pursued the work, so happily begun by   220-         ATTIT HASTNGS     . Dryden, and gave to his native tongue that stable monument of his matchless powers, the Iliad of Homer, a perfect work, wonderfully combining both nature and art-lofty, yet simple-grand, but lucid, blending the majesty and force of a northwestern river with the trans- - parency ofa. mountain rill- -He, madam, was born a true poet; he lisped in numbers, Poetry was the study and aim of his life, and he attained an excellency in the art, which has not been reached by any of his successors, in this branch of literature. Campbell and- Gold- smith make, perhaps, the nearest approaches to this unequalled bard." "Whatlf" exclaimed Lady Hastings, " do- you omit Scott and Byron in the category? Remember, your assertion is very sweep- ing." "I know it, madam; and yet I adhere to the opinion in which Lord Byron himself agrees, if I am not mistaken. His lordship's vast and varied powers none can doubt; yet he never attained the art of versi- fication in the same degree as Pope did. In his works, there are- passages of' unequalled sublimity and beauty. His soaring intellect seemed to compass all nature in its grasp, and because of its magnifi- cence we are blinded to his faults. He had a defiant spirit, and, conscious of his glorious powers, took pleasure in setting at nought the rules of Just criticism, borne out by his gigantic strength. He did it successfully, and in so. doing, set a vicious example, which minor brethren of the tuneful choir have not been slow in imitating; hence, the abundance of meaningless verses which we see daily--strict copies of his lordship's faults, without a gleam of his genius. "Sott is so universally, and deservedly loved and admired as a poet, that I utter anything like censure on his splendid poems with great diffidence-and I could descant on their, beauties without exhausting the subject longer than you would be willing to hear me; but truth compels me to declare that Pope's faultless elegance does not alwa4ys mark his productions. There is not a single inharmonious line to be found in. any composition of the Bard of Twickenham We cannot say as much for our beloved Sir Walter.". - "I declarer said LadyLivia, laughing, "you are a bold censor, Mr. Stuart, though, candidly speaking, I am of your opinion. What says my sister, Lady Arundely and how far does our young poet here agree with you  Lady Arunlel replied, inher usual quiet manner, that she believed her temperament was not poetical-neither was she prepared to offer a just opinion on so recondite a -subject, though she thought it highly probable that the tutor was right. 'She desired Sir Albert would reply to her sister's query. ;   AT RlRTIT HASTINGS.         221 "Ah I my dear aunt," returned Sir Albert, " you, whose reading has been I know so extensive, decline the responsibility of criticism; how, then, shall I, a mere tyro, inexperienced, and to a great extent uninformed, assume it? Yet, encouraged by the expressed and implied agreement of both Lady Livia and yourself, with what Mr. Stuart has advanced, I feel emboldened to say, that his sentiments were mine, in advance of their present declaration."  "That is just the answer I expected from you," said Lady Livia, looking affectionately at her grandson; " but I warn you, Albert, that in any future discussions which may ensue, after this evening, you will have to speak out, and not shelter yourself behind :a veil of modesty, which robs us of the light your fresh, independent thoughts would otherwise bestows I excuse you this evening, my son, but, remember, 'tis the last time. Hist " continued she, "there is a ring at the bell." At this, the drawing-room doors were thrown open, and the major- domo ushered in Colonel Beverly, who was courteously saluted by the ladies, and directing his eyes towards Lady Arundel, while he addressed Lady Livia, that gentleman spoke thus: "I fear, indeed, my lady, that I intrude, but, being called by busin ness unexpectedly to this part of the country, when I had but just left it, I found myself in the immediate vicinity of the Hall, and eschewing the loneliness and discomfort of the 'Hastings Arms' at the village below, I made bold to ride straight to the Hall, hoping that your ladyship had not yet retired. In the event of your having done so, I should have returned, disappointed I confess, to my inn." "Pray, make no apologies," returned the lady, with great ufanity; "if Col. Beverly can, reconcile himself to our quiet life here, we will gladly accord him the hospitalities of the Hall. What news do you * bring of our late guests?"                 . "Ah I that reminds me of a commission with which I am entrusted from my Lord Rathbourne. Here is his missive, and the gallant Colonel drew forth a three-cornered billet, sealed with the Rathbourne device, a lion, rampant, grasping a spear. This, with military erectness-and ease, he delivered, bowing in courtly style to the mistress of the mansion.  Lady Hastings read as follows: ':DEAR LADY LImVA: With great sorrow, I inform you of an accident which has befallen Geraldine, while out riding, day before yesterday. (She is an excellent horse-woman, and 3ld two grooms in attendance.) Unaccountably, "'  ,' .       ,   222 A'TURRT            HASTINGS. the gentle animal, on which she was mounted, dashed off, throwing, and, I fear, very seriously injuring- my sweet child. Ah I Lady Livia, what will you say, whens I tell you that she may be lamed for life I She talks incessantly of her friends at the Hall, and prays for the pres- ence of Lady Arundel, to, whom she is devotedly attached. Is it asking too much of Lady Arundel, if I pray her to come to us? Dear Lady Hastings, did you ever know any one so unfortunate as I am? Only a short time since, I should have been childless, but for the timely aid of your noble grandson, and now poor- Geraldine has experienced another casuality, likely to be far more disastrous in its results than her immersion in the lake. Col. Beverly will escort Lady Arundel, if, as I venture to hope, she will come to us-orI will go to Hastings for her in person, should she grant my prayer. "Yours, faithfully, RATHBOURNE." Lady Livia handed the note to Lady Arundel, who carefully perused it, while a shade of perplexity passed over her- face. She then returned it without comment, and saying she should have the honor of seeing Col. Beverly at breakfast, withdrew to her own apartment. Lady ^rundel was one of those who considered others always before herself. :She was not inclined to leave the Hall, but she loved Geraldine, who, though flattered and indulged by her father, possessed many fine qualities. The poor child was motherless, too, and while surrounded by splendor, felt the want of a mother's care., Her little French governess had more art than knowledge, and was in reality, ill calculated to direct a high-spirited girl like Geraldine. Ma'amselle, though seemingly pliant, and very plausible, was, at heart, a tyrant; humoring and caressing her pupil when she should have restrained, and contradicting and opposing her, when there was no necessity: for doing so. In person, the governess was small, and though with an indifferent figure, contrived, by arts of dress, to appear advantageously in that respect. Every natural defect was carefully concealed in regard to form.   But her brown, dun-shaded com- plexion; small, gray eyes; peculiar nose, of that queer stamp, neither hawkish, nor snub, which was meant to be straight, but by some freak of nature, seemed to have received a jerk at the end, which dragged it downward-a most inharmonious nose-these defects nothing could amend. Her hair was black, and there was considerable length be- tween her mouth and nose.- The mouth itself, with its long upper lip, was thin and protruding. Her eyebrows were heavy, her chin small- and, in short, she had a face which would fairly puzzle Lavater him-   ALBERT HASTINGS.      -     223 self. How,' with all these disadvantages, Ma'am'selle contrived to consider herself pretty, and even to induce others to think so, re- mains a mystery.  She was, in a small Way, a great diplomatist, ever seeking to place herself at the head of affairs, when such a thing was possible, and once there, she ruled determinately. There was scarce an act of her life, which did not tend immediately, or remotely, to some ulterior object, which she, and no one else, knew. Her influence over young people was great. She accommodated herself to their tastes-was very particular in references to her own youth, as something which gave her the advantageXof ladies more advanced in years. (Her assertions on this point there were no means of estab- lishing, however, since ;she was one of those who never look very young or very old,) having, at no time,: possessed the bloom or in- genuousness of early life. The character of this woman was very well known to lady Arun- del, and a knowledge of it was one -main cause of the resolve which she now took to comply with Lord Rathbourne's solicitation. Accord- ingly, the next morning, she announced to the gallant Colonel that she accompanied by her nephew Sir Albert Hastings, would, the day after, be in London. She could not, she said, detain Colonel Beverly, as: there was no necessity so to do. Sir'Albert would return to the Hall, and she would remain with Lady Geraldine Rathbourne. ,    CHAPTER XXXTT. Zeola sat in bher forest bower, AZZ under the oaken tree, And over her bloomed the woodbine fower, And round her flew .the bee. ^   ICTOR De Mar, as he rode leisurely on from the river swamp, where -the hapless wagoner had paid, with his life, the penalty ) v - of his daring and hardihood, amidst old scenes and associations, was assailed by emotions; which are perhaps common in the experience of us all at some period of life; for who does not recognize, in mute and inanimate objects, a nameless charm, when these are blent. in-memory's mellowing glass with other days, when life was new, and! the freshness of childhood robed all things in light-?     F Along the umbrageous road, which led to the uplands through muddy lakes of yellow clay color, over leaf-strewn, sedgy ground, he slowly advanced; for his noble charger, somewhat over-strained, by powerful exertion in the water, and while ascending the precipitous banks of the swelling river, moved somewhat stiffly, and Victor, nothing loth, during his slow progress, allowed his eye to roam over the changing scene. Through this path had he often, in boyhood, attended by sooty satel.- lites, proud to carry his net and fishing-rods, no less than to partake the sport -of fishing in the river, ridden. Every venerable tree was a friend, every nook an old, familiar haunt;-even the whirr of partrid- ges, as they started from the tall grass, and the occasional glimpse of a frightened hare, reminded him of the olden time. But the swamp, with turbid waters; waving vines, and great o'er- arching trees, -was left behind. He ceased to hear the hiss and roar of its waters, as, riding up a hill of blood-red clay, he felt the pine-scented mountain,breeze wave his dark locks about his eyes, and inhaled the pure, light air of the hills. There they were, rising in all that grace of undulation and beauty of outline, so well known and appreciated by their inhabitants, and which make other portions of country, less favored,   aLBERT HASTINGS.            225 seem so bare and uninteresting to the eye accustomed to roam over them. To a great extent the country was cleared here, except where some towering oak, or stately cedar, was spared beside the road, which offered a grateful shade to the traveller, and stood a fair representative of its southern brethren. Ellerton- now loomed up in the distance, and, at that elevated point near it, of which we have before spoken, called "Oak Mount," he paused, admiring, after a. lapse of years, the Arcadian scenery by which he was surrounded. "It is new," he exclaimed, "new, and yet oldI Was there ever a country like this?" and, unconsciously, he spurre on his weary horse, in the excitement of his feelings. There was, on the side of this hill, a sort of woven bower, where wild grape vines clung lovingly to huge trunks of} red oak, and cedars, with shapely form, elfin leaves, and blue frosted berries, ranged themselves in close phalanx around. A diamond rill, with luminous and flashing waters, came singing down the declivity, and, all along its green path- way, were blue-eyed   violets and verdant rushes. On the hill-side, where gnarled roots afforded a footing, he beheld a young girl, in a sim- ple white dress, her black hair flowing over her shoulders, engaged in tying up forest flowers with garden roses. Her face was turned in an opposite direction. She evidently did not see him, and he had leisure to note the regular outline of her features, the agile grace of her form, and her' elegance of attitude, before she turned her face toward him, and, with her wild, midnight eyes, seemed to ask why he tarried. But as she proceeded with her task, not a word was spoken, till Vic- tor, impelled by curiosity, asked, in a kind tone: "What are you doing, child, here alone? and who are you? "I am   making up these flowers for her-she will come for them when I  go. There are sweeter roses over there, (and she pointed to a hill-top, yellow in sunlight,) but she likes these, because I bring them."                    ' "Of whom do you speak?" said Victor, much interested. "Of her," returned Roxanna, while the exceeding delicacy and spir- :itual beauty of her face seemed to'deepen, "of her; you do not know her; no matter--  am her child." At  this she took up her finished wreath, and, with Myra's own step, walked away, leaving the young cadet, in no ordinary degree, mysti- fied and interested, as he pursued his way toward the HalL. The-re it rose, in white majesty, with all its well remembered features, and, as Victor wheeled his horse into the avenue, a glad sense of being at home sent its jyous thrill through his heart  He forgot the case of hbis gen   226  .       ALBERT HASTINGS. erous courser, and advanced at full gallop, when, almost at the door of his own noble residence, out rushed Ponto, after a great bark, which he had set up before recognizing his master. Victor dismounted at once, and was welcomed by the affectionate demonstrations of his dog, who invited himself to be his companion, even into the'parlor, claiming 61d indulgences. Butler, housemaid, gardener, and coachman, soon, by some strange instincts akin to that of Ponto, surrounded their young master, and Mrs. De Mar, who was in her ownroom, became aware of great coufusion below, nor was she long left to conjecture its cause. Clarissa, the maid, rushed up stairs, shouting "M ass' Victor, Miss,- here he is, safe and sound, and a-lookin' so beautiful." Victor bounded after the girl, and was soon clasped in the arms of his mother. Mrs. De Mar burst into tears. Surprise and joy overcame her, for recent events had rendered her nervous and easily'agitated. "Where is Valerie, mamma? "At Ellerton. She is well," (the mother,'for, obvious reasons, did not wish to speak much of Valerie, -at this time,)!' and your father has gone to his lower plantation, down on the Santee. I expect him at home to-morrow. Are you not fatiguLed, my son; had you not better refresh yourself, and I will order lunch in the dining-room. You look travel-soiled, and heated." 'Oh, mother, you forget that I am a soldier," returned the cadet, gaily. "The fatigue is nothing at all, but I must make myself more fit for your society, by removing the mud and dust with which I am'dis- figured."  Mrs. De Mar and her son sat alone, having kindly dismissedathe family servants, who crowded round in honor of "Master Victor's" advent. She spoke on indifferent matters, for some time avoiding the dreaded subject, as women are apt to do. At last she said: "My dear son, you are unaware, I know, of many things which have transpired in this neighborhood, since we last met, and I have foreborne to mention them in my letters, because writing, you know, is quite -different from speaking,-we cannot always know into whose hands letters may, fall, and there are events of which we wish to make no record."  "I do not understand you, my dear mother." "Have patience, and I shall shortly explain all I wish to say. You remember Alaric Lovel? (and Mrs. De Mar drew a long breath.) He addressed your sister, won het affections, was engaged to her, would have married her, but,-but we discovered-in short, he had previously married another woman."   ALBERT  HASTINGS.          227 Here Victor rose suddenly to his feet,'and, while a deadly pallor overspread his features, exclaimed: "What do you tell me, mother?  Detested villain! did he dare--" "Stop, my sonl   He dared that which he was not permitted to accomplish, for here, in this house, he was confronted at the altar, your sister at his side, with accusers, whose allegations not being able to refute, he drew forth a pistol and shot himself on the spot. His per- fidy was tragically punished by. his own hand. There is nothing left which you can do, my son, but this; and I beg you to note what I say with due care. Never, in the most remote manner, allude to what I have told you in the presence of your sister. She cannot bear it, and walks amongst us like some purified spirit of light, ready to wing its way from  this gross earth.  To you, who know Valerie De Mar, I need not speak of the delicacy and depth of her feelings. She loved ethis man, but will never love mortal more. The crushing stroke, which dissipated her youthful dreams and hopes, has left her, alike heedless of the world, and indifferent to fate. Never probe the wound she bears; --nature would not endure it." Victor had walked, with rapid strides, while Mrs. De Mar spoke, but, seating himself, as she concluded, he leaned his head on his hand, and a mournful expression stole over his fine face. Both remained silent for some time, when the young soldier, making an attempt to shake off his gloom, narrated the adventure on the river, and added: "As I rode past Ellerton, and was opposite Oak Mount, pausing to admire the beauty of the spot, I saw perched on the hill-side a young girl of very remarkable appearance. She sat weaving flowers, wholly un- conscious of observation, and, when I questioned her, turned on me the most magnificent eyes I  ever beheld, death-black, intense, yet mild, and full of dignity, as might beseem a queen. In reply to my query, she only said, ' I am making them up for her,'- and, I am her child.' The little maiden must be distraught." "Alas, she is the daughter of Alaric Lovel," responded Mrs. De Mar, compassionately. (Poor Roxanna! and her mother, whom she never mentions by name, died -at the grave of that wonderful man, who, while he deluded the world, did not, in the end, delude himself, but a yielded up his life, Victor, beneath this very roof, in the way I have. told you." "Terrible, indeed; but is the child cared for? I assure you she is very lovely, with all the elegance of contour belonging to the Lovel cast of countenance; black, glossy hair; eyes, as I before said, earnest, and flashingn a wild, fitful light, so sorrowful, yet winning. She was   228  -        ATUERT- HASTINGS. dressed in pure white, and I declare to you, had Venus stepped from her pedestal yonder, wakened into life, she could not have trod the woodland path with more inexpressible grace than did the forsaken girl. "Say not that she, is forsaken, Victor I Valerie has adopted her, and intends to endow her with half the great Lovel estate. The other half, including Ellerton, she 'designs'bestowing on the child of the late Mrs. Lovel, to whom it originally belonged. Alaric Lovel left his entire fortune to your sister." 'Valerie is an angel," said the young man, warmly, "an angel of goodness and truth, as I felt while you alluded to her just now-with that entire-abnegation of self, (as if there were aught in life so charm- ing, so beautiful as she is,) and yet, I always feared for Valerie. Her sensibilities were too fine for this work-day world. She was formed to be the heroine of some high-wrought romance, which commone readers, not understanding, would exclaim, 'the like never lived 1' Is she indeed to be immured at Ellerton, like a convent maid, ,nursing the kindred of her deadly foe'? Alas, my sister, my sweet, doomed sister I How, the langfage of Scott rings in my ears, as I think of her, in con- nection with the noble Isabella, of Scotland, ' Lost to the world, by doom severe, Oh, what a gem lies buried here I " That evening Victor rode over to Ellerton, and, ascending the steps of the verandah, paused to gaze at a scene within, which awakened strong but sad feelings in his bosom. There sat his lovely and beloved sister- like some dream-image of the mind. Her: bloom, which had never been vivid, (for the fair daughters of the South approximate the lily rather than- the rose,) was now altogether gone. Not the faintest tint remained, and the long, golden lashes, which swept her cheeks, seemed faint sunbeams playing over marble. Her posture was half-reclining, as though through weariness, and an ineffable gentleness overshadowed her.' At a table, sat Emeline Lovel, writing. materials before her, with that look of ingenuousness and ififantine, loving trust, which was the most irresistible attraction of her sweet face. - Roxanna occupied a lounge beside the open wi ndow, and, though her eyes were occasionally bent on the -page of a book which she held in her hand, yet, ever and anon, they glancedtoward the forest, and, when this was the case, a subtle fire shot from them, as though there was something in deep, mysterious- woods, with which her soul held sympathy. Victor entered'unannounced. Valerie rose and greeted him affection-   ATBP RT HASTINGS.          229 ately. The pressure of her hand was warm, her heart fluttered, but the bleak, icy paleness of her cheek remained-no roses could flush there now, even to greet 'her darling Victor, She had known a mightier -love than that of kindred, since last folded in his arms. There was a great void at her heart, which could never be filled, and her brother felt all this, yet strove to conceal the fact that he did so, and talked on, in a careless way, to avoid embarrassment. ' "Valerie, what freak of yours is this, to desert the Hall? Why, how do you expect us to get on there at all without you? Ah, I see how it is I! Two nymphs, in the form of these young ladies, have be- guiled you hither. One of them, I think, I saw this morning, the Oread of Oak Mount," added he, bowing to Roxanna, who looked at him with one of her beaming and furtive glances of recognition, but did not comprehend his words; "and the other," continued Victor, "whom I have not had the pleasure of meeting before, yet who, I find, has no less enchanted my sister." Valerie smiled faintly, and said: "You see, Victor, I cannot be lonely with these companions, though I must say, for Roxanna, (whom you met this morning,) that I should be glad if she would give me mnore of her society. As for Emeline, we are never parted, and you may feel assured that I have no, lonely hours while she is my inseparable companion.       n I sometimes Wink, I almost stand in the place of cousin Albert. Am I right, Emeline?" Emeline looked up at Valerie, with deep affection inher soft blue eyes, while moisture suffused them. The color came and went on her placid face, and she answered in a voice of touching sweetness: "I Not quite in his place. I must not say that, and yet"-. she looked the rest. Valerie understood her, and hastened to reply: "I know, dear Emeline, that his throne is unapproachable, but am sensible, at the same time-that I have a larger share of your love than I deserve."  "Oh, no," said Emeline, warmly, "you deserve all-everything," and she stopped, checked in the further expression of feeling, by the eager attention with which Victor listened to her words. "But where is the I Oread?'" cried Victor, starting to his feet with enthusiasm. "Gone, I declare, like some fay or bogle, as the Scotch say. I am going, Valerie, to trace her steps. Do you know I have an idea that, she is half wild, or, as the pine-barren people say ' phrensied I'" "Ob, Victor, don't speak in that strain, my brother I This girl is of Indian descent. She has been taught strange superstitions about mag- ical fountains, which correspond to the heathen Lethe,-and she dreams   230          ALURT HASTINGS. of golden hunting-grounds, where red warriors, graced with the fame of bravery in this life, traverse immortal fields, wing unerring arrows; with spangled feet tread the war-dance; and, adorned with immortal bloom, dread neither the white man, old age, nor death. I wish, indeed, that you could aid me in winning Roxanna from the wild life to which she has been accustomed, and the highly poetical, but purely imagina- tive, superstitions, which exercise so much power over her." Valerie spoke warmly, and-Victor felt that the only way in which he could serve his sister was by complying with her views, whatever they might be., He knew enough of her to be aware, at the same time, that any suggestions, coming from her) would not only be right in-themselves, but beneficial to others, supposing them carried out. "Do you ever ride on horseback now, Valerie? Riding used to be a favorite exercise of yours, Let me persuade you to accompany me, sometimes, in my afternoon excursions about the hills. I am sure there can be horses enough forthcoming, which are gentle, between De Mar Hall and Ellerton, to furnish out our riding-party." Valerie assented, and Victor took his departure. Passing through the garden, with its somewhat old-fashioned flower-beds, laid out by rule in circles, semi-circles, hearts, and diamonds, defined by regular borders of box-wood, and central decorations of shrub-trees, holly, or sweet myrtle, he came to a rustic bridge, which spanned a rivulet. This desert stream had been" diverted by art from its natural bed into the garden, where it fed an artificial fish-pond, about the banks of which were/tiger-lilies, eglantine, a species of wild lotus, redeemed from' the swamp, yellow jessamines, and   purple hyacinths. Stooping 'amongst the flowers, and plucking, with nice discrimination; the freshest and most delicately developed, the airy form of Roxanna was discern- ible. She started on finding herself observed, and a shade of vexa- tion and annoyance rested on her features as she stood erect, her treasures in her hands, her head thrown back, and her wild, black eyes glancing toward the intruder. "Shall I assist you in making up your bouquet?" said Victor, in a gentle voice. "-No, I have flowers enough." "You seem to be very fond of flowers. I once before saw you weaving them onu the hill-side.". ' Yes, I love them,'but I told you, then, theyr were for one whom you could not see, and these are for, her too. She used to love flowers but we had only wild ones in the pine-barren, and she gave me all she    ALBERT HASTINGS.            231 could find;-now, I take them to her, but I never see her;-she is away in the Isle of Founts." "How, then, does she, of whom you speak, receive your offerings? Tell me, I am curious to know by what means your flowers reach her." "Oh," rejoined Roxanna, "I throw them into the stream, at Oak Mount, and they travel on the waves, which widen, till they spread into a great sea of water, and flow round the isle I told you of. She is there, and my flowers float to her feet on golden sands, and she'takes them up and kisses them. They tell her Roxanna does not forget." Victor was affected. "Are you not afraid, and lonely, out there in the wild, at times, with no living thing near, unless it be the inhabit- ants of the forest?" Roxanna smiled with peculiar meaning. "Afraid of what? The blue-jays, and little rabbits, and squirrels, who know me very well? No, indeed, they love me, and I love them," "I will go with you, Roxanna, and help you to place your flowers in the stream." "That you shall not," said, she, proudly. "I need no one's help;- besides, it would break the charm." "Then I will wait for you at the foot of the hill, and see you home . to the outer gate at Ellerton,-will you consent to that?" "No," said Roxanna, firmly, "I have told you there is no fear;" and she waved her hand with exquisite grace, moving away with that rapid step, the very poetry of motion- with which she was -accustomed to traverse field and fell.                       .. Xi   COD APTER xXXlX     . -"He knows a baseness in his blood, At -such strange war with what is good, He'may not do the thing he woould. "-Tennyson.     ILR., DEXTKER had re-appeared at Grayson Farm, much to the annoyance of good-Mr. Calloway,4 who was scandalized at the return of the schoolmaster in no ordinary degree. Emeline 'sat with Miss Juliet, one morning, in her prim parlor, arrayed exactly as before described, excepti that there were vases of geranium flowers and roses-of-Provence diffusing grateful odor, which had been brought by her young visitor from Ellerton. Miss Juliet was, as usual, knitting, and Emeline, with that nice tact, and facility for- accommodating herself to the taste of others. in small things, which mark the true lady-was knitting, too, in compliment of course to Miss Juliet. "Mr. Oldham," observed Miss Juliet, " called here yesterday, and stated his intention to pay his respects at Ellerton. -He wished me to introduce him there, but I declined doing so. Miss De Mar does not belong to the class of persons amongst whom my duties lie. I know of nothing which would take me to her house, unless you, Emeline, were ill or in distress.'  - Dear Miss Juliet, I am sorry to hear you say so; Miss De Mar is true and kind,--you would love her; you could not help doing it, were you only aware of all her good and great qualities." "I believe myself a competent judge of persons, in general, whom I have known much longer than you have," replied Miss Juliet, with con- siderable accession of dignity. Emeline blushed, and said no more. Mr. Calloway was announced, and Miss Juliet rose with unwonted cordialty.   .    AT BERTT HASTINGS.          233 " Mr. Calloway, how glad I am to see you- once more, after that dreadful accident on the Congaree, last week; and all, they say, caused by the presuming impertinence of young De Mar. - A soldier, forsooth I I detest soldiers, and am glad that so shining a light in the church has been spared us, despite the ill conduct of one who ranks amongst the aristocracy in this country, Mr. Calloway,--a class which ought not to be tolerated. Talk of aristocracy in a free land, indeed The vain- glorious assumptions of some people shock me, Mr. Calloway." "Indeed I know not to what point your remarks tend in this con- nection," remarked Mr. Calloway, with great candor. "Verily the young man, Victor De Mar, had nought to do with the disaster, save that he was on board the flat, and strove, as behooved him, to save his own life. Furthermore, I will testify to the praise of his goodness, that he sent Jacob to me and to Miriam in our necessity, for which charitable act I hold him in honorable consideration; yea, and Iwill mention him with commendation, remembering that he did entreat of good Jacob to save my life. / It is not well,-my sister, to hearken to the tongue of the slanderer, which ever waggeth in a wrong cause, seeking' to abate the good and exalt the evil.") Miss Juliet, so-- reproved, was less impressive in manner, and waited the- further disclosure of Mr. Calloway's sentiments. These the worthy gentleman, with his usual straightforwardness, was not slow in delivering, as follows: "I am moved to say this to you, my sister, with deep concern and inquietude-also with surprise, and, -I may say, with-just indignation. The man Dexter, peradventure I be not wrongly'informed, hath again assumed his duties at the schoolhouse, and, for aught I know, may venture to deliver the word- of life from  feigned lips, which is an abomination. I marvel he should venture again to a place where his reputation is not the most savory, thereby bringing reproach on our holy profession; and strengthening the ungodly in unbelief and scorn. Of a verity, my sister, it -hath been told me that this man, who is implicated in some dark deeds, for which he hath (tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Askalon,) received hush-money, yea, that he hath been a visitor at the farm, and claimeth your sympathy, setting me at defiance.. He hath a bold nature, as may be discerned , by'the conformation of his head, which is square and stolid;, likewise I admit his learning, which none may gainsay, but that onlynmakes him more dangerous, even as the venom which lieth at the root of the serpent's -fang, giveth him power of life and death. I have come hither, this day, riding, as is not my custom, on +the back of a mule,   234. A        ALBERT HSTINGS. which conveyance irks me, being accustomed to a buggy, wherein I sat at my ease, lightly guiding my docile steed, who is buried in deep waters,--yea, and my buggy also. But, this business brooks no delay, and if Mr. Dexter be, as I hear, again installed at the schoolhouse, I would fain have speech of him forthwith." Miss Juliet, who was accustomed to regard Mr.- Calloway with reverence, listened to him deferentially till he came to the close of his remarks, and then desiring Emeline to attend to some trifling matter, which would withdraw  her from the room, looked more resolute as she replied: "Mr. Calloway, I am free to inform you, that Mr. Dexter has called on me since his return, and that I was glad to hear from him an explanation of all that concerns this much talked-of secret marriage of Alaric Lovel. Mr. Dexter was sent for, after night, blindfolded, and carried, against his will, by two ruffians into a lonely house, somewhere near Ellerton, and there, under compulsion, he performed a marriage ceremony before witnesses (such as they were) between poor Myra and Alaric Lovel. Mr. Dexter declares that his connection with the affair is summed up in this statement-that he signed a marriage certificate demanded of him by the unfortunate woman, and there, as I before said, ends his complicity in the whole business. It seems to me that poor Mr. Dexter has been more sinned against than sinning, in what has occurred, and I confess I am not in- clined, as you seem to me to be (I speak with deference), to persecute ,Mr. Dexter for having been made instrumental, against his will, in the perpetration of a great and deplorable wrong. You have my opinion I was not willing to drive Mr. Dexter hence, because the popular voice proclaimed him guilty-no, I wished to act with justice and impar- tiality."  I grieve, sister, to undeceive you. Has Dexter been able to per- suade you, that he, built for strength as he is, with his great brawny,. square limbs, could not resist two young men (I know who they were), mere wisps in his hands, did it come to a trial of muscular power? No, he resisted at fitst, and would have left them, but a price was offered, yea, and for filthy lucre, he stood there prostituting his holy authority in aid of wicked men. I tell you he took gold of the deceiver, and held his peace for a reward. This is not' all. He protested to me, saying, ' I know nought of the matter;' for whispers were abroad years ago, and, when -Myra, poor soul, came to me with the tale of her wrongs, I spumed and rebuked her, as one who speaketh falsely. But he, who deals in lies, and caused me to slight and upbraid that most   ATBFRT HASTINGS.          235 unhappy woman, was this Dexter--a wolf in sheep's clothing; verily, a mall without godly principles or human compassion or just action; a coward, yea, a most pitiless villian I but he shall bring no more dis- grace on his brethren. No, and still less shall such as he have under his control the rising generation. I will none of him, seeing he hath wrought sinfully in Israel, with crafty and bloody men for his com- panions."   \ "If such are your convictions, reverend sir, I yield, and request that you will state the case to Mr. Dexter yourself. You perceive at once how very awkward and unpleasant it would be to me, should I be compelled to dismiss him. Besides, I must tell you that- he has partisans, admirers of his own, who will resent any attempt to dis- lodge their favorite. But you will know how to act in the premises." "'Assuredly will I, seeing that you are a lone woman, not given to vain babblings, but discreet, and eschewing strife. Neither are you, sister, cognizant of many things pertaining to the career of this man which I know, and he is aware that I have such knowledge, therefore. he will not resist me. Furthermore, the, less you have to say to him the better for you, since it is well understood that he hath aspired -to the great honor of making you Mrs. Dexter; yea, through your means of establishing himself in this vicinity on ia sure footing. I am one of those whose calling it is to speak truth, and make no concealment, sister. You have my counsel. I have done." Miss Juliet, greatly shocked and confused, assured Mr. Calloway that he had her entire sanction in whatever he might do regarding Mr. Dexter; and 'he minister; bidding her adieu, walked straight to the schoolhouse, where Dexter, installed in his ancient seat of honor, was proceeding with the duties of the day. All who beheld Mr. Calloway, while advancing towards the domain of the pedagogue, knew that a storm was brewipg. His countenance, at all times solemn to the verge of severity, was now wrathful. The lines about his mouth were deep- ened---a lowering frown contracted his gloomy brow, and his eyes were cast upon the ground. Neither did he stoop in his ordinary man- ner, but seemingly upborne by some- inward impulse, walked almost, erect, being sustained by that strong " motive power," of which Bul- wert talks so learnedly. Mr. Dexter had aLatin class in front of him, as Mr. Calloway entered at a door behind, and stood, for an instant, contemplating both teacher and pupils. "Singular, nominative," com- : menced one of the boys, but his recitation was cut short as Mr. Callo- way, confronting the teacher, said, in a calm but authoritative voice: r                 , -    236,        -ATBERT HASTINGS. "Dismiss this school instantly, Mr. Dexter; I would speak with you alone." Mr. Dexter, without a word of reply, did as he was directed, and after the last scholar had departed, Stood, not without trepidation, face to face with his uncompromising visitor. It was a scene to command interest-Mr. Calloway's tall form, resentful and accusing face, with a certain power of eye, which few were able to resist. Mr. Calloway spoke: "I am filled with astonishment, yea, and with most exceeding anger and contempt, to find thee here, with an assurance which appals me. Of a verity, Mr. Dexter, thou art hardened in iniquity, and defiant in sin. Thou hast the bodily conformation of a stubborn man, but yet do I confront and dare thee. Not for spiritual wickedness, in high places, will I hold my peace, still less for thee, who, having proved thyself an instrumentsi for workers of- iniquity, instead of retiring with shame- facedness and confusion, dost brave it out, calculating that the goodly lady, even Miss Juliet Grayson, will uphold thee, and be snared by thy devices and crooked policy. I tell thee, thou art mistaken. I myself have enlightened her concerning thee and thy doings. What I is the blessed- cause of religion to receive a stab at thy ruthless hands, who hast consorted with- atheists and men of Belial? Knowest thou not the end of Alario Lovel, him whom thou didst blindly obey, and aid in his works of darkness? - Mark the close nof his career, I say, and trem- ble I But in this did he deserve honor rather than thou, that he took not on him the -garb of sainthood, neither embraced a religious profes- sion as thou hast done, Arnold Dexter, to the injury of the church- verily to the scandal of the same, since thou, hast had the effrontery to number thyself amongst ministering brethren also,-holy men, whose mission is to prepare souls for eternity I Beware, false and guilty as thou art, lest the curse of the hypocrite cleave unto thee. Repent speedily--tarry not in all the plains, but escape to the mountains, lest the :avenger overtake thee, and thou perish in thine iniquity." Mr. Dexter was overwhelmed, neither did his censor allow him to speak one word, were he so inclined. The man was, as Mr. Calloway had asserted, acoward, and seeing himself fully understood, thought it best to leave in earnest on thisaoccasion, which he accordingly did. Mr., Galloway, at Miss Juliet's request, employed Mr. Jenkins, the orator of the camp-meeting, to supply his place; so that the school went on as usual, after a short suspension; Mr. Dexter's chair and desk being filled much more to the satisfaction of all parties, than during the ad- ministration of its former occupant.   CATPrTRs XXXI    . "Darker-still darker! the wh7i7lwinds bear. The dust of the plains to the middle air; And hark to the orashing, long and loud, Of the chariot of God in the thunder-oZoud.,-Bryant.. R. OLDT  AM, agreeably to the intimation given by himto tJ e] Miss Juliet Grayson, appeared at Ellerton a few days after. /y^  The good merchant had greatly recovered his independence since Alaric Lovel's death. He bore the aspect of a man, who, incarcerated against his will, was set free and trod earth-with a firmer step than was his wont, aS ascending the steps at Ellerton, he inquired of the servant in attendance whether Miss Emeline Lovel could be seen?   The servant, bowing, invited Mr. Oldham into the parlor, and went to seek his young lady. Valerie and Emeline were in the garden, and at the mention of Mr. Oldham's name, Emeline sprang joyfully forward, exclaiming: "My 'sister, my dear Miss De Mar, 'tis good Mr. Oldham, he who was a friend to Albert. Oh yes, and I trust he brings me news of my cousin now. That very tree we were admiring this instant was planted by him, and all those wild roses and mountain pinks beyond the cedar hedge.  Come and see Mr. Oldham--won't you?" Valerie smiled at the enthusiasm of the usually quiet girl, and giving her hand to Emeline, who had extended hers invitingly, they walked together into the house. Mr. Oldham  had installed himself, as was his habit whenever occa- sion offered, in an arm-chair, and seizing a large feather fan which lay. on "a sofa, refreshed himself by waving it- backwards and forwards, contemplating at the same time with much complacency the airy apart- ment, with its lofty ceiling and wide windows, musing on the strange chances which had removed Emeline from  the, respectable but utn- genial nurture of Miss Juliet Grayson to her beloved home, and the   e               i 238         ALBERT HASTINGS. elegant association of Valerie De far, whose history he knew, and for whom he entertained not only admiration, but profound respect. Though prepared to see a beautiful and accomplished wobman, practical Mr. Oldham Rwas startled from his equanimity when the veritable Va- lerie stood before him, with her abounding hair rolling in loosedcurls of wavy gold; her soft, lustrous eyes, blending love and sorrow in their dark glance; her superb fairness, the fully developed grace of her nymph-like form; the unstudied, high-bred ease of her carriage, the urbanity of her manner. Mr. Oldham lost his self-possession, and for an instant became irresolute, as much so, perhaps, though from a different cause, as he would have been in the presence of that dispelled nightmare of his. life, Mr. Alaric Lovel. But this feeling was soon overcome, and turning his, attention to Emeline, he perceived a great improvement in her health and appearance. At a first glance there was-nothing particularly attractive in Emeline Lovel. She was not grand, like Valerie, or dreamlike, as Roxanna, but she was gentle, loving, simple, and when' she smiled, dimples deepened about her ex- quisite mouth, and her cerulean eyes had a winning earnestness in their depths which seemed appealing as a prayer deep down in the heart, with no- voice, only speaking through the mild, violet eyes. The oftener Emeline was beheld the more did one desire to see her. There was an exquisite repose about her which is seldom seen at all, and still more rarely in very young persons. When this composure of manner gave way, however, under sudden emotion, her whole countenance changed, and there was a power and vividness about her which re- deemed her ever after from the charge of inexpressive beauty. Her fine face was lighted with its most lovely and bewitching animation, as she took Mr. Oldham's hand and raised it to her lips, only saying to Valerie as she did so: "My cousin, Albert Hastings, lived with him when he was compelled to go away, band he was kind to poor Albert. Ohl I am glad to see Mr. Oldham." Valerie politely requested the visitor to be seated. Mr. Oldham drew from his pocket a letter, which Emeline thought he held a long time in his hand before delivering, and the presentation of which he prefaced with these remarks: ": This, my youngl]ady, I have been requested by my correspondent, Sir Albert Hastings, to give into your own hands. My wish to do so," added he, turning to -Valerie, " must excuse the liberty which I take, Miss De Mar, of calling on you without introductions" is Any friend of Emeline Lovel is always welcome here," said Va- lerie, in that musical voice which fell so agreeably on the ear.   ALBERT --ASTINGS.          239 Emeline begged leave to retire with' her letter, and had scarcely closed the door, when Victor De- Mar, followed by Mr. Calloway, entered. Mr. Oldham was taken aback. His last encounter with the minister had been in the house of Miss Juliet Grayson, on which occa- sion, it may be remembered, Mr. Calloway's- somewhat personal ad- monitions had caused the merchant to retire in confusion. He therefore buttoned his coat, though the day was warm, and he had not long before found the use of a fan desirable. But the buttoning of Mr. Oldham's coat never had any reference to the state of the atmosphere; it simply indicated that the wearer stood on his dignity-had made- up his mind to a certain course of action-in short, that he did not wish to be interfered with. The action was decisive, and Mr. Oldham took his departure, stating that he would do himself the honor of calling again when the ladies were at leisure. Mr. Calloway scarce deigned a glance at the portly merchant as he withdrew, but, turning to Valerie, and positively smiling-it -was a rare and curious and pleasant thing to see Mr. Calloway smile. His hard and weather-beatens visage gleamed under the influence of that vivifying smile like some dark-fissured roo3k when lightened by a stray sunbeam, momentarily dispelling its shadows, and substituting gloom with a picturesque beauty. But Mr. Calloway smiled, and the lingering influence of that infrequent smile continued as he spoke -thus: "Verily, I was this morning reminded to come hither, and to make acknowledgment of the goodly gift which I received at your bountiful hands; yea, and was enabled to do this through the agency of that timely gift itself;--for, of a truth, the comfortable buggy and well-in- tentioned pony that brought me, I have good reason to know, were bestowed by you, young lady, in consideration of my great misfortune on the bosom of the raging Congaree, when horse and rider, yea, and. the great-flathoat, which had long :navigated that prodigious stream, went down and were seen no more. Of a verity, lady, I yield thee thanks; but that is little, seeing your own good heart hath already as- sured you how much more blessed it is to give than to receive. Per- adventure I speak overmuch, but am impelled thereto by the outpour- ing of a gratitude which I find it not convenient to restrain. Yea, I bless thee with the blessing of an old man, who has toiled-long, in his poor way, for the good of his people. I perceive in thee that virtue which seeketh not the praise of man; yea, I know thy works, and how thy feet are beautiful upon the mountains, seeing that thou walk- est in the way of life. Verily, thy gift shall be' used in a-good cause, and shall not be perverted to any wrong end; peradventure, it prove \               F!"       240          -ATBFRT IHAINTINGS. like bread cast upon the waters, which, after many days, thou shalt find." Victor, in order to change the conversation, and relieve his sister from embarrassment, inquired for Roxanna and Emeline.- Mr. Calloway, at the mention of their names, commenced in the same strain of eulogy, which Valerie finding insupportable, rose, and excused -herself, saying she would depute her brother to exercise the hospitalities of the house; but Mr. Calloway declared that his time was already overspent, certain duties awaiting him which were of paramount importance. Victor, being left alone, strolled into the garden, and coming up to a retired portion of it, where long declining willow branches, with their sorrow- ful aspect, swayed noiseless in the low breeze, beheld Emeline Lovel seated beneath an arbor of Indian creeper and convolvulus, the bril- liant scarlet and royal purple of their respective flowers finely relieved by fresh healthful leaves, quivering in the breeze. She sat in an atti- tude of rapt attention, her ivory neck bent forward, her lily-white features far more expressive than he had ever beheld them, her lips apart, and a brilliant flush on her cheek, her light yellow, hair plainly drawn over andopen forehead with its truthful and innocent impress. He surveyed her for an instant, and, not wishing to disturb her medi- tations, turned-down an opposite walk. There he encountered Roxanna, who was swiftly advancing; She looked like some sultana of an Eastern harem, with her inimitable wdalk, great mournful black eyes, and peculiar but striking features. She passed Victor with a slight acknowledgment, as though pre-occu- pied, but he observed that a book was in her hand. . The young soldier- felt that he was expletive everywhere; even Valerie seemed devoted to her rimusings, and he shortly after left for De Mar Hall, thinking sadly of the wasted youth and blighted hopes of his beautiful and be- loved sister. He rode leisurely on through the shady pathway, now white and sandy, and anon chalky, with an admixture of purple and deep-red clay, indurated by frequent travel, and breaking, on either side, the maln road, into deep fissures, where little rivulets sang a tiny song, passing under piled up heaps of fern-like grass, resembling mounds of down.   Stones, of every size, were half imbedded or wholly revealed at every step, and occasionally struck against the iron- shod hoofs of his courser.    .  But gathering clouds had rolled their heavy masses over the shining face of the resplendent sun. On fthey moved with lurid edges, and deeper blackness, till the earth seemed to catch their storm-like shades. All was still ;--the zephyr forgot. to dally with flower and leaf;--pine X   w  R   ALBERT HASTINGS.          241 boughs, ever easily agitated, maintained perfect stillness, with their slender, needle-like leaves pointing upward, as though in warning to the gloomy sky ;-forth leaped the red lightning, and, passingly, while its angry light shot vivid glory on the still trees and silent forest, blind- ed the eye of the beholder. A low, deep growl was now heard, more appalling than that of the Libyan lion, when, in night and loneliness, the sound -of his awful roar resounds along the desert. Down from the hills rushed maniac winds, shrieking and howling, driving all be- fore them,-now stretching some patriarchal and century-living tree prone on earth, with his honors thick upon him, destined nevermore, upreared by his massive and tall trunk, to dance aloft in exultant pride. The tempest had mastered the warrior-oak, his great heart was rent, and, henceforth, he must moulder under the decree-"A1l that lives shall diel" Smaller trees, yielding to the furious mountain wind, bent as he passed by.                                       1 This was one of those sudden tempests peculiar to a hilly land; and, now hail being blent with huuge drops of rain, Victor looked around for shelter, but there was 'none. He had reached the foot of Oak Mount, and what was his horror when he beheld Roxanna standing on a ledge of rock, forming one of the natural steps composing a declivity on"  steepest side, which was that now in front of him I  She seemed totallunaware of danger, while tall trees reeled around her, shaken and bent and twisted in the strong grasp of furious winds. He reined up his awe-struck horse, who, swaying backward on his haunches for an instant, shuddered and stood still. Victor strove to catch the eye of the girl, who had not as yet seen- him, but, failing to do so, in 'a brief pause of the yelling tempest, he shouted at the top of his voice: "'Come down I-I    will take you home. Your situation is very per- ilous I" Roxanna heard only a word or two of this entreaty, but understood his meaning, and seeming now, for the first time, to com-i prehend her situation, began to descend from her dangerous elevation with speed, dexterity and presence of mind.  Like a  chamois of the rock, she leaped, slid and glided down amidst slippery hail, blinding rain and over-mastering wind. She appeared like one at home in element- al war, and would have passed Victor, but he, springing to the ground, lifted her lightly into the saddle, and, mounting before her, said: . "There, steady  yourself, grasp the  leathern belt which binds my. bunting-horn and powder-flwas about my;it. Fear nothingl-we shall soon be at Ellerton."';L :           .  A tremendous peal of ea    g thun   jidered inaudibe    the concluding words of Victor. :'g}rg through tei- Cimmerian iheaven,   242         AL IBERT HASTINGS. it darted with terrible and stunning effect. The brave horse, with swollen veins, dripping mane, and erected ears, shied away from the base of the hill, where, confined in its deep gully, a rushing stream, augmented by the rushing rain, and now adding its surly gurgle to the 'voices of the storm, chafed and foamed at the bottom of the abyss. Hail smote them sorely, steed and riders. The bold charger, urged to desperate speed], measured his length at every leap. His face sharp-  ened, his eyes glared, his nostrils expanded. Ever as he reared, and fell back,. the spurs of his gallant rider were buried deeply in the sides of the alarmed -and powerful horse. 1No human voice could now be heard amidst the roar and crash of the tempest; and Victor forbore the vain effort to urge him by words, but, drawing his head up till it almost smote against the bosom of the rider, guided him straight for- ward. On they sped  and the noble beast, straining every sinew,. obeyed-bit and spur, till the outer gate of Ellerton park was seen, by a rapid flash of lightning just before him. Victor drew yet more strin- gently his metallic bit; blood, mingled with foam, fell from the mouthn of the forcibly. curbed horse; he trembled and stood still. Roxanna felt the emergency;-like a tercel, loosened from the siken cord of the falconer, she- leaped to earth, threw wide the opposing gate, and while Victor-held tight his reins, bounded again to the- seat behind him. Victor, feeling her firmly seated, gave loose reins to his magnificent horse, who, darting forward, like some winged power of the storm, started for the house in the open -road before him. He well knew his ground now, and having, with race-course speed, reached his destina- tion, drew up of his own accord, at the foot of the'steps, and remained quiet while his riders dismounted. Roxanna, as she ascended to the verandah, cast on Victor a look, after which words would be meaningless! It told, in the mysterious soul-glance of the eye,-that she considered her preserver a hero;- that she was deeply grateful to him;-that he, Victor De Mar, was no longer a stranger to be avoided, but a friend to be loved. , 7   CHAP'ERt    XXXV .'- "Let me move slowly through the street, Pilled with an ever-,shifting train, Amid the sound of steps that beat Th7e murmuring walks like- autumn Prain. "-Bryatf. t  heavy mist hung   over earth-the hazy atmosphere -only, allowed glimpses of that which Sir Albert Hastings, the escort of Lady Arundel to London, desired to see, yet enough met his eye to assure him it was no dream.  iHe neared that populous capital, of which he had read and heard so much. Even on its outskirts, the remote throbbings of its mighty heart were felt and seen.  There was an onward movement toward the vast centre, where congregated thousands, impelled by different motives, meet to struggle and battle with the world, of which it is the focus,-- some in pursuit of gain, some of worldly distinction; some seeking pleasure, and others, like himself, visitors, accidentally moving thither. Mingled with the advancing crowd, were the cockney, the swell, the robber, the cut-throat, the professional man about town, who lived on society,-.got his subsistence nobody knew how, and yet was able to sport jewelry, dress finely, and wear the aspect of a gentleman. And now,'as the rich, dark coach, labelled with the. Hastings arms, rolled leisurely along crowded streets, Sir Albert, with feelings akin to sadness, noted the long vista of gas-lighted avenues, the multifarious and strangely mingling crowd which streamed  along on their side- walks; the curiously contrasted vehicles, which rattled over the stones of their carriage-way; the hum, the bustle, the roar of thronging humanity,--some rolling in gilded coaches with liveried footmen, grace- ful and high-spirited horses, and emblazoned escutcheons; others pale, lonely, on foot, scarce able to take a step further in'their weary quest of charity;--there the mendicant Italian, with olive complexion, and complaining and creaking organ, stood wearily turning'the everlasting   244.         ALBERT HASTINGS. handle, which could only produce an unvaried and oft-repeated series of worn-out tunes, which even street-boys, though they might have nothing else to do, would not pause to note. There he stood patiently, the dank and, penetrating moisture settling on his felt hat, and-dropping, in regular splash, on his voluminous black beard, resting there and shining 'sadly in lamplight, Precocious children,- with sharp physiog- nomies, disclosing ia development of faculties ere fully matured; and bent to crime, before reason could come to regulate impulse; raggoed, defiant, shameless, groped around, ready to investigate and rob the un- guarded pocket, or trip the inattentive pedestrian, and raise a loud laugh over his prostrate condition, after falling, when floundering in'the mud. Weak, sickly-looking girls, bearing to their grinding employers the slow and painfully executed labor of a long, long day of toil, glad to receive the most meager price with which avarice bribes industry, and wastes life to amass coin. There, the prowling and money-loving: Jew, on whose- facial lineaments his origin and propensities are stamped by nature's candid fingers, sending a furtive and penetrating glance around, moves on his own errands, which will remain secret forever, unless, by some complication with crime, the law unexpectedly bares them to the public eye. There, decrepitude hobbles tremblingly on, scarce able to plant, with sufficient firmness, the uncertain staff, on which it relies for guidance and assistance, while navigating this moving sea of hu- manity., On either side glare the richly furnished shop-windows with their salvers and urns of silver; their sparkling, curiously chased chains of gold; their gems and trinkets, and untold wealth of rich commodities. There, china of Dresden anl- Sevresj, with vases, exquisite in form, and commemorating. the immortal genius of Raphael, in transcripts of Ills cartoons--as well as of other matchless minds now departed, who have left a portion of their brightness a legacy behind them. Ah, there, the beauty, the richnesss, the genius of the world tangibly pre- sented- -here, its eager and hungry and hopeless poverty I a How is all this to be mended?" said Sir Albert, drawing his head despondingly into the carriage window. "Of what do you speak?" inquired Lady Arundel. Sir Albert was scarcely aware that he had given expression to thoughts which occupied his mind, till startled by the query of his aunt, and, being suddenly called -on to, explain himself, replied, with that modesty ever present to his language and manner: "Aunt, the great extremes of poverty and -wealth strike me so irre- 'sistibly, that I have, unwittingly, spoken when meditating."   ALBERT HASTINGS.            245 "Let me say to you, Albert, that this state of things is not pecu- liar to London, though, owing to its vast population, a stranger may be disposed to conclude otherwise. Go to any large city on the'continent, or elsewhere, and note its paupers. I think, after such investigation and comparison,- you will endorse the statement which I have just ventured."     , Sir Albert bowed; and now the Hastings equipage drew up before my Lord Rathbourne's town-house, whose tall front, guarded by mimic warriors in stone, broke grandly on the sight. Lord Rathbourne was not at home, but would shortly arrive. He dined to-day with the Earl of Lennox. Lady Arundel, assuming that air which alone commands presuming domestics, merely-said: "I am sorry Lord Rathbourne is not at home;-no matter; conduct me to the Lady Geraldine, and show Sir Albert Hastings, of Hastings Hall, into the drawing-room." Open flew noiseless doors on their artfully-contrived hinges. -Lady Arundel ascended a wide stairway, and Sir Albert was ushered into a regal drawing-room, where, the lights being somewhat lowered, a sort of dim grandeur and elegant repose pervaded the apartment. He heard the lingering notes of some musical instrument, and perceived a small female figure at the open piano. This was Mademoiselle Pauline Salvo,} the governess already mentioned as having charge of Geraldine Rath- bourne, and to whose traits of character some allusion has been made. Mademoiselle, with a strong French accent, turned rather haughtily toward Sir Albert, inquiring what hevished, or whom he desired to see. Her manner seemed to demand explanation, on his part, which he was not disposed to accord, and, with a tact that dissipated at once Made- moiselle's dignity, very coolly replied: "I am a visitor to Lord Rathbourne, and beg that I may not disturb you."   '  Mademoiselle revenged herself on the visitor by awakening the piano to a perfect furor, trilling and quavering, and performing all sorts of ec- centric vagaries on the abused instrument, with most perfect sangfroid, till Sir Albert was fain to close his ears with his forefingers, but for the ill-breeding of the act. At last, having wearied herself at this pastime. she, with airs which- the lady of the mansion never would have as- sumed, abruptly went out of the room.- Sir Albert Jeeling greatly re- lieved at her absence, r6se, and walked to and fro.- There was, in light which exactly suited its development, a splen- didly-framed picture, opposite the entrance door of the apartment which he traversed, and, pausing before it, he discovered the exact likeness   246          ATBERT HASTINGS. of Geraldine, as she lay on the peasant's coulch, after he had rescued her from the lake. But she half reclined, in this beautiful copy of nature, on a purple velvet ottoman, and her loose robe of lace floated round her like a cloud, only bound about the waist with a rich blue sash, cor- responding to the color of her eyes, and harmonizing with the Tyrian purple of the luxurious ottoman. Indeed, the deep violet of her eyes formed an intermediate shade between those two colors, not often seen.        -            - Her eyebrows were jet black, and black, too, was the glossy hair, which, plainly parted over her pure white brow, had still a vein of dark- est purple amidst its folds. But the neck and shoulders were inimitable, disclosing grace which we have sometimes beheld in life, but have never seen described. (There was the delicate ear, so effective with its pecu- liar and subtle beauty. (Few know how to estimate an ear as the ad- junct of refined elegance.) But both ear and foot and hand were here, as indeed they almost always are, indicative of the birth and breeding, to say nothing of the character, of those to whom they pertain.) Geraldine looked, in this picture, that which shewas-beautiful and interesting, with nothing everyday about her. A type of the class from which she sprang. There were devotion, spirituality, heroism, in her calm high features, but there were also strength of will, impatience of restraint, and fastidious delicacy. , She seemed fitted, when a few more years should mature the rich promise of the present, like one who would be me et for the bride of greatness. Sir Albert lingered over this entrancing picture, filled with- adniration, and, while he did so, there seemed hovering about him a pale etherial creatute, so soft in outline as to half resemble mist, and 'this airy form, with yellow tresses, and eyes only beautiful with:the love-light which they shed, was the child- angel of his fever dreams in that poetic but deathful clime, of which his remembrances were so vivid and painful. Lady Arundel, when leaving Sir Albert at the foot of the. great-stair- way, did not call for a'servant to attend her up stairs. 'She had reasons of her own for wishing to-see Geraldine unannounced. She had come, at Lord Rathbourne's request, to act the part of a friend, rather than that of a visitor, and, in doing so, concern for Geraldine alone influenced her.- The late'Lady Rathbourne had been a beloved friend of her own, and my lord had: mainly relied on the affection which he knew Lady Arundel cherished for his wife's memory, when requesting her to come to town, as he had done, and, for a brief space, take charge of his daughter. Lady Arundel had assumed the task and the responsibility; she therefore acted, from the instant of her arrival, as she intended to  , / '- "   ALBERTV HASTINGS.          247 do during her stay. She had, as we before said, never liked Made- moiselle Pauline Salvo, and Lady Artndel was not one to form an opinion lightly, discreditable to others. She had seen the secret, dark, design- ing character of the governess evinced in many ways. Pauline had never been so guarded before Lady Arundel as she was usually in the presence of others. Lady Livia and Mrs. Danvers awed her, but she considered Lady Arundel a quiet, plain sort of person, from whom she had nothing to apprehend. Had mademoiselle possessed that in- sight into the characters of others, which she pleased herself with think- ing she did, this mistake would never have been made, and she would have known that it was easier to deceive Lady Livia, with all her hau- teur, than unobtrusive Lady Arundel, who thought, while others spoke, really felt where they stimulated feeling, and whose intuitions were quick and powerful, where the interest of those whom  she loved was involved. Entering the chamber of Geraldine, where a night-lamp dimly burned, she found no one present, and Geraldine seemingly in a stupor, her head supported ;by a pink silk pillow, covered with lace. There rested a trace of pain or anxiety on her brow, even in sleep. Her counte- nance was very pallid. Not even the roseate hue of the pillow,on which she rested, nor the black hair over her forehead, relieved the intense taleness of her countenahce. Lady Arundel, walking softly up to a small table of exquisite workmanship, which stood beside the bed, took several phials from it, and observing one labellednnm, transferred it into her reticule. She sat contemplating e sleeping girl for some time, unwilling to disturb her, and noting all the while her heavy, ir- regular breathing. Pauline burst into the room, and appeared about to speak, when Lady Arundel met her eyes. She gave a little affected cry of surprise, and then, recovering her self-possession, overwhelmed that lady with protestations of delight at seeing her, expressions of affec- tionate sympathy for Geraldine, and lamentations over the misfortune which had confined her to her bed. Mademoiselle's voluble and highly flattering harangue coming to a close, she said in conclusion: "I do believe, my dear Lady Arundel, that the young gentlemar whom I have just; left in the parlor below, is your nephew, Sir Albert Hastings. - low sorry I am; he must have thought me so rude, but I really did not know him."         . "Make yourself easy'in regard to him," returned Lady Arundel. "If he thought about the matter at all, he may, perhaps; have been surprised at seeing you in the parlor-Lord Rathbourne from home, and Geraldine alone. As for any personal marks of deference to him-   24d8   A     , ALBERT HASTINGS. self, my nephew exacts attention from no one, and is more annoyed than complimented by any unusual display of it." 'Pauline, nothing daunted at -this reproof of her forwardness and ne- glect of duty, proceeded as -though everything at Rathbourne House were under her direction and at her disposal, to arrange for Lady Arun- del's accommodation, and was in the act of seizingr the bell rope, and issuing her orders, when Lady Arundel firmly, but kindly, declined any: interference in the matter on the part of this I irrepressible" woman, who, with most unblushing effrontery, ignoring the fact that she was a dependent, assumed the prerogatives of a mistress. Lady Arundel sasw that the question of being patronized by her must be settled at once, otherwise her visit would be quite useless;. sheb therefore remarked: "I shall stay in this room with Geraldine to-night, and to-morrow -if she does not need my attention during her sleeping hours-Lord Rathbourne will settle where my apartments shall be located. I will myself converse with him on the subject, and beg that you will not, in the most remote manner, be disturbed on my account." ' But you see, Lady Arundel, I am at home. You are only a visitor, and will naturally feel more embarrassment in calling for what you want than I should." ' By no. means," said Lady Arundel, this time almost severely, " by no means! There cannot exist the slightest embarrassment on my part in thehouse of my old friend, Lord Rathbourne; and I beg, -once more, to decline -your offers of service iin the way you suggest. Should they be needed in. attendance on Geraldine, I will inform you. But this is now my place, and you would, perhaps, like to retire." There was no evading Lady Arundel's straightforward dealing, and mademoiselle found it convenient shortly to retire, by no means satis- fied at having been forced so mildly into her own sphere by the good sense and firmness of Lady Arundel. Lord Rathbourne, on returning home, was in a perfect storm of de- light; declaring that of all people in the world, his present guests were those whom he most desired to see under his roof. "It is fitting and right," said his lordship, " that your father's son should spend his first night in London at the old :house, to which he was himself a frequent visitor. And how is Lady Hastings.? Kind of her to spare you. both to me. Ah I Lady Arundel is up stairs, I see. That is like her--a noble woman, Albert. To-morrow, I shall see her, and we must arrange some entertainment-for you." "That, my lord, will be useless, as I only came to escort my aunt hither, and must return in the morning. ^ Lady Livia expects me. I   ALBERT HTINGES. *           249 am very busy preparing for college, and can ill spare any time for pleasure." "That is right, quite right I But I tell you once for all, Sir- Albert Hastings, that you shall not slander my hospitality by leaving Rath bourne house to-morrow. I will send a courier to Lady Livia. We will talk further of it at breakfast. Poor Geraldine!-fine likeness that, is it not-?"                  / "' Irecognized it before your return," said Albert. warmly, "itis indeed beautiful!" "Mind you tell Geraldine that; she will be delighted to hearyou say so," returned Lord Rathbourne, smiling. "But you are fatigued from your journey, and the hour is late. I will myself escort you to your chamber." The tall form of Lord Rathbourne, with stately strides, preceeded his youthfill guest to one of those rooms belonging to a great house in Eng- land-whose very walls are a memory, and where ancient magnificence, rejuvenated by the appliances of modern improvement, lose nothing of their, grandeur, because. rendered - more comfortable by the partially alterative process to0:wNch- they have been subjected. .But grandeur was nothing new to Sir Albert Hastings now, and scarcely noting the splendor of his accommodations, he soon fell asleep beneath the rich drapery of his couch.      ' Lady Arundel sat, meantime, by the bed of Geraldine, ind observ- ing her fitful starts, deep-drawn breathing, and convulsive uneasiness, decided, that either the patient's father had been in fault in selecting a medical adviser, or that the nurse-whoever filled that office--had been tampering with her patient. This was a, serious matter for reflection. Lady Arundel knew that Lord Rathbourne would consult none but the best authority in London regarding his daughter's case. The phial of laudanum, which she had found on the table before mentioned, seemed to furnish a clueto the practices of those who had the sufferer in charge, and Lady Arundel decided, that matter for investigation was now in her own hands, which she would use as occasion might offer. Geraldine still slept, and Lady Arundel, to some extent fatigued with her journey, and the excitement of preparing for it, reclined on a sofa in that half-dreamy state which, superinduced by over-exertion, often leaves its subject dimly conscious of passing events. While lying this, she was' aware of a stealthy footstep, of a slight rattle amongst the glasses of the table,'and of a small figure passing. between )er half closed eyes and the twilight lamp. Mademoiselle Pauline flitted across the room, a frown on her brow, and -a malignant scowl, never seen on   250  *        ALBERT HASTINGS. that lady's features when she was playing the agreeable in open day- light. But Pauline had evidently been searching for something which ,.she could not find, and Lady Arundel did not disturb her retreat, as more impulsive persons would have done, but only felt her own sus- picions confirmed, that this specious and dangerous woman was in reality the worst enemy with whom poor, Geraldine Rathbourne, with her enormous wealth, elevated social position, fine qualities and affec- tionate, high-toned mind, had to contend. She knew that nothing was too high for the grasping ambition of the pretended French woman, whom she suspected of being either Spanish or Italian, and who aspired at nothing less than the hand of my Lord Rathbourne himself. Somewhat of this Mrs. Danvers had hinted at, Hastings' Hall; but Lady Arundel, with very proper disregard of those hints, had placed them in the category of unmeaning gossip;--they now recurred to her mind, and she plainly saw the case as it really stood. Geraldine, whose will was- omnipotent with her father, had repeatedly declared her aver- sion to a step-mother, Report had, sometime previously, connected his -lordship's name with that of Sophia Lennox, a noble lady, at whose brother's house Lord kathbourne had this very day dined. It was with reference to Sophia Lennox, that Geraldine had declared her sentiments; but Pauline knew that any objections to that alliance would apply, with double force, were she, Pauline Salvo, the person selected,- instead of the sister of the Earl of Lennox She knew that whatever her own chances might be; Geraldine would always stand in thaway of their success, and'she determined, in some manner, to rid herself of the - opposition which she was aware would be offered by her.. Since the deplorable accident, .which had reduced her pupil to confinement in her own room, Pauline had persuaded Lord Rathbourne that no one, except herself, could take proper care of his daughter, and of the household at- the same time. She had induced him, by her representations, to discharge his old housekeeper, a tried and faithful servant, and it was wholly unknown to her, that Gteral- dine had prevailed with her father to write, entreating the presence of Lady -Arundel. Hence, the surprise of Pauline at the arrival of both Sir Albert and that lady. - -Lady Arundel saw that -her situation 'was one of peculiar delicacy and responsibilityj, but she did not shrinmk from it, and these things weighed heavily:on her :mind. She decided -to -wait the course of events for a day or two; but)-let what-might happen, to keep careful watch and ward over fair Geraldine Rathbourne, the child;,of her lost friend.- Sothe hours wore on till daylight, and as-the cheerless morn-   ALBERT HASTINGS.          251 ing of smoky'London sent its half-darkened beams through the ample casement-as ai distant roar and hum, like that of gathering armies on the day of some world-renowned battle, came swelling down the streets, with their multitudinous moving masses, Lady Arundel ap- proached the couch of Geraldinei and touched her lightly. Heavy with the dew of heated slumber, the girl's black locks rested on her brow-that marble white brow, which seemed already blanched for the sepulchre. Slowly her long, dark lashes were lifted from the lovely violet eyes, over which their softening curtains had been so long drawn. Wearily she turned on her couch, and only glancing at the tassels which hung above her, elegantly looping the' curtains of her bed, closed her eyes again, as though there were no objects of interest about her. Lady Arundel, stooping, imprinted a kiss on her forehead. It felt cold and clammy; but Geraldine did not open her eyes again, only saying: "Is it you, mademoiselle? I would like to see my father when he rises, but do not disturb him." "Geraldine," -said Lady Arundel, " do you not know me?" The words were magicall Geraldine ralsed her head, threw a thrilling glance ofjoy and love on Lady Arundel, and stretched out her arms to embrace her; then, overcome -with-surprise and delight; burst into a flood of tears.  Ah, my good father! so he sent for you, after all, and you have come, dear, kind Lady Arundel 1 My mother always called you Mary, and I dreamed she was here, and saidj: 'Mary is come.' What a sweet name it isg! Let me look at you, and assure-myself that I am not sleeping still. I am weary of this great city--of all the unceasing noises I hear-of this room--of mademoiselle-of everything.  I want to go away into the quiet, bright country, where all is fresh, and the odor -of woods is so- reviving. I cannot endure the medicine Pauline gives me. Tell me what it is, dear Lady Arundel--and you administer it, will you not?" "Most assuredly, Geraldine, my mission here is to- be your nurse, and while so employed, noone except myself shall attend on you. Are you confined to your room all day?" ' "Oh, yes, Pauline keeps me here. Perhaps -she means - to be kind.; but I don't like her, and she knows-- it. Papa -thinks I could not 'do without her. She has such ways with her, and he credits all she says. Now, I don't half believe her, because I have seen: her deceive papa, though he has the fullest confidence in her." "Do not excite yourself, Geraldine, I will nurse you here till you   252          ALBERT HASTINGS. are strong enough, and then I intend persuading Lord Rathbourne to let you return with me to Hastings' Hall. Lady Livia has sent a re- quest that he will do so by me. So, now,-you see you have only to get better as fast as you can, and we will go back together." "Ah 1 but Pauline, let her go too, or she will never allow my father to accede to our wishes. You cannot dream of the wonderful way she has to compass her ends. Say that she shall go." "Certainly, if you wish it, my dear child; but it appears singular to me that you, who, I know, are-very independent 0p your opinions and character, should dread this Pauline so much. If she is disagreeable to you, why not inform your father at once, and be free from her alto- gether?' "My dear Lady Arundel, as I told you before, you do not know mademoiselle. I could not go with you and leave her here, playing off her pranks on Lord Rathbourne. She would flatter, and wheedle, and coax, and finally terrify him into sending for me. No, indeed, I could -not leave her here. Oh I I am ashamed to tell you, but I must I She, the low-born adventuress, (here Geraldine- raised "herself, and rested her flushed cheek on her hand, while her eyes flashed indig- nantly, and her lips quivered with emotion,) dares to aspire to the hand of Lord Rathbourne., This may seem some wild ima'gination of mine, and yet 'tis true, Mile. Salvo, while -pretending to ignore rank, I tell. you, has fixed her eyes on the coronet of a countess, and would deport herself, were she so honored, as though it were her natural right. She has unbounded ambition."  ' Think no more of her," said Lady Arunmdel, kindly. "There is the breakfast bell, and I must this morning comeoth an understanding with your .kind and indulgent father in respect to-future arrangements. Take nothing,from any hand but mine, and assuredly, my dear child, I will exercise towards you, as you, I hope,.know, a mother's tender care." Lady Arundel had scarcely quitted the room, when Pauline slid to- ward the couch of the girl: L"My darling Geraldine" cried she, folding the person so addressed in her arms; '! my darling GQeraldine, only see howI late it is, and your drops not yet taken. Here they are. Lady Arundel will be pleased to see you brighter on her return from the breakfast-room, and in order to sustain yourself you must swallow this." "Very well," responded the collected, and now resolute Geraldine. "Give me the glass. Now go yourself, mademoiselle, to breakfast." Pauline tripped away, and Geraldine, surveying the mixture just ,.   ALBTRFT HASTINGS.           253 handed her with an eager air of distrust, placed' it, shuddering, .on the table beside her, throwing over it a napkin, so that should Pauline come unexpectedly into the room, she would not perceive that it remained untasted. Pauline did come after a few moments, and looking inquir- ingly at Geraldine, said: "Have you not yet swallowed your drops? Quel est le genre do mesure de ce mnorceau t Late take, ma cheres take them quickly." - Geraldine rolled her deep-blue, resolved eyes on the little, artful, wicked sorceress, and answered in- a slow, distinct voice--: "I will not --do you understand me? Lady Arundel has charge of me till I get well. Now will you, have the kindness to leave me alone?"'  Mademoiselle cast a glance upward, with an appealing look assumed a most injured air, and clasping her hands, exclaimed: "Majestueux how lofty we are I ah, you can do without me now: I see. Lady Arundel and Sir Albert HEastingsl I will explain all -to his lordship." "Pauline Salvo, leave my room immediately, or, ill as I am, I will crawl to that bell and ring such a peal as will bring my friends about me in an instant." Here the governess advanced toward the table, and would have seized the glass containing Geraldine's rejected medicine, but the latter interfered; too late, however, to prevent;-Pauline from. snatching the glass, and casting its contents into the fire-place; which feat having accomplished, the governess stalked out of the room, looking the fury that she was, despite her usual quiet and decorous exterior. But breakfast was over. -My lord had taken chocolate, eggs boiled just three minutes and a half-rolls hot and qualified with flowered butter. He was in excellent spirits, planning all sorts of amusements for Sir Albert, and positively forbidding all thought of his return to Hastings Hall, at least for this day. Sir Albert, however, was firm, and would have left immediately after breakfast, but for an intimation given by Lady Arundel, that she desired he would defer till the next morning, his departure. Lord Rathbourne then decided on taking Sir Albert out during the forenoon, and inviting certain friends to meet at dinner. His lordship remarked: "You come, Albert, from the land of progress, and I am free to confess that your maturity outruns your years. Mind, I do not intro- duce you, as I hope to'do some years hence, but only as the recovered heir to a noble estate in England, who will in time take his place '    254          AT;RWRT HASTINGS. among us. 'Those who have the honor of knowing you now, can easily foresee what that place will be." "I trust, my lord," returned Sir Albert, unmoved by the implied flattery of his lordship's remarks, "you do not over-estimate that which you are pleased to call my 'maturity,' and that any hopes which you are kind enough to indulge, with reference to my future career, may be justified by a proper improvement of my opportunities. In the meantime, my dear lord, do not flatter me, in pity to my youth and inexperience. I tell you frankly, I think my true friends should rather point out my defects than praise me for virtues which their own partiality has created, and which may have no existence in -reality." "Look you, Albert Hastings, my belief is- that you would be as rebellious against blame as you are unapproachable to commendation. Right after all! You are made of stern British stuff-the very counterpart of Sir Gifford himself, who would take no compliment from his king unless deserving it, and even when that was the case, looked so profoundly humble that His Majesty refrained from a full expression of the admiration which the bravery-of the old knight awakened in the hearts of all." Lord Rathbourne's further remarks were brought to a close by V the entrance of the butler, desiring his presence in the library, where Dr. Osgood and Lady Arundel awaited him. His lordship was alarmed, bowed hastily to his young guest, and walked rapidly to the'library. Dr. Osgood was a stout, square-shouldered gentleman, rather blunt and unceremonious, ignoring the epithet of " smooth physician," some- times bestowed on members of his fraternity. ' Lord bless us, sir," said he, " here is something to be looked to I Who is Mademoiselle Pauline? Is it to her Ihands you have con- signed my patient? She has been poisoning the Lady Geraldinel yes I sir-and you would have been childless in the course of another week but- for the sagacity of our friend, Lady Arundel, here. Look at this phial,-labelled-laudanum, which was -found late at night on the table beside your daughter's bed. This murderous phial, -my lord, contains enough active poison to slay half your household " Lord Rathbourne gasped for- breath, and stood confounded before the disciple of Esculapius, who thus proceeded: "I am amazed that you, who have' always: professed such a true English horror/ of adventurers -and foreigners, should have been im- x,    \ *   ALBERT HASTINGS.           255 posed on by this treacherous, presuming young woman. I would have her summoned hither." Here the doctor seized the bell-rope, and a resounding peal sounded along the corridors. A servant' appeared: :Order Mademoiselle Pauline Salvo to repair to the library instantly, and without subter- fuge," thundered Lord Rathbourne, his face livid with rage-" or, if she refuses, drag her forth I Delay not." The frightened servant went in quest of the person designated, but no mademoiselle was to be found.   She had departed, no one knew when. But it was afterwards discovered that family jewels of great value disappeared along with her. *   CTTAPrAt XXXVlI "Knowiedge comes, but wisdom Zingers On the shore, And the individuaZ withers, and the world - Is more and more. "-Tennyson. 6   HE guests were assembled in Lord Rathbourne's parlor, and Sir Alberti; being duly introduced, fell back with that nice sense of propriety which had ever distinguished him, and which had procured, in his case, a verification of the scrip- tural axiom: "He that humbleth himself shall be exalted."   As became his years, he listened with deference to the conversation of others, always reserving to himself the right to approve or dissent from opinions which were advanced by his superiors in age and wisdom, but keeping his mind free from preconceived and obstinately established- decisions. j  The elegance and ease,-the perfect and nameless etiquette of high I life which, (despite all that has been, and will be, said in derogation of \ it,) are still so congenial to a refined nature, that, let blantant vulgarity ^ storm and detract as it will, those potent charms remain intact, and must so remain, unless we degenerate into the rude manners and bar- ; baric discourses, from which centuries of slow advancing civilization have redemed us. But my lord's liveried servant had' thrown wide the immense fold- ing-doors which led from the parlors into the dining-room, and a single glance at that table would have satisfied Epicurus himself, in the ultra refined age of Grecian luxury. Large bouquets of magnificent flowers, emulating those of the tropics, with this -marked difference, that trop- ical flowers are generally scentless, while those of more temperate regions not only delight the eye, but regale the olfactory nerves. These flowers were elevated in silver stands, and gave a voluptuous April fra-   AT RV4RT HASTINGS.          257 grant odor to the air. Every dish was of solid silver. The Bohemian glasses combined rich colors with delicate gilding, and as for enumerat- ing the various courses, their magical combinations, and the grand * result of the whole, we plead inability for the task.' The conversation was well sustained, each contributing his share; and here we venture a remark on what is due from every one, for the time being, a member of any social circle. An effort at least, on thes\ part of such' member should be made for the efitertainment of all. We! have seen people, well-dressed enough, seat themselves perfectly silent,? and gape, round to hear other people talk. .When those benevolent people are good-natured enough to take the responsibility on them- selves, and do talk to the best of, their ability, they are denounced as egotists for theirpains, and scoffed at -as presumptuous for their senti- ments. Our own opinion is, that where people are afraid to hear the sound of their own voices, are too censorious to hear with charity the? speech of others, they had better remain at home, and not cumber the wheels of society with the leaden weight of their stultifying presence. But the conversation at Rathbourne House was genefind ' m--es[t- ing.. The- name of Bulwer bbi'g introduced by the master of the mansion, appealing to a pale, intellectual-looking man, who sat opposite Sir Albert, the gentleman replied with animation: "Bulwer, my lord, is one of the greatest minds which this age, or any other has produced. I do not now speak of him with reference to his learning, which is vast, but only regarding original power of intel- lect. Some have praised him for that wonderful combination ofideas which spring up in his richly furnished- mind from the thoughts of others; but I maintain that the native 'soil is so productive and creative that fruit grows there which the world would nrer have dreamed of without its genial strata. Perhaps I speak metaphorically--too much so to be pardoned--and Yet I feel that' what I say is true. Only look at the man's' conformation of features,;--every lineament tells, from the expansive forehead to the finely-turned ear." Lord Rathbourne laughed. "I knew, Mr. Melville" said he, "that we should find you enthusiastic on the subject of our great novelist; and, indeed, I do not differ very far from you. But I wish our young American friend here to tell us something of our transatlantic brethren. I, for one, do not rely on the partial prints of- that country for learning who their terati really are. N6ow, Sir Albert Hastings, will you do us the favor to indicate some of those whom you (in your private opinion at least,) would rank amongst the first men, intellectually, of your   258           ATAF;RT HASTINGS. native land, or rather, of that land, which, by the accident of birth, youmay claim as your own?" Sir Albert hesitated, but after a few moments' silence, while a vivid flush came to his cheek, and a light flashed from his eyes, replied in low tones: "I do not regret, Lord Rathbourne, that the accident of birth, as you term -it, made me- a son of the Southern United States of America. That is a land favored by iature, and yet further elevated by the char- acter and spirit of its people. They may be impulsive, but no where is honor more regarded. Their cultivation, without boasting, I may say, comports with the advanced literature of the age; and in regard to its statesmen, their record is before the world. Others, more com- petent than myself, have judged, and will judge of them, apart from sectional prejudice and- popular decree. My opportunities have not been such as to enable me to do anything like justice to our great men. I have never been - in Washington, but have, on one or two occasions, enjoyed the privilege of hearing such oratory as thrilled my soul, and not mine only, but- those of tliousatnds. To the great Georgian, of whom you have perhaps heard, if accustomed to note the names of our American orators, it has been my good fortune to listen. "Ah, yes," cried Mr, Melville, "I know to whom you allude, A. H. Stephens. You see I am posted. Tell .us something of him. I have read reports, from time to time, of your Congress. I remember the name very well." -"The ./I would," returned Sir Albert, bowing, " that some of his countrymen were here, more capable of doing honor to his genius, than I am. As- it is, I assume the- task with great diffidence, but to the best of my ability will comply with your request. Mr. Stephens car- ries an impress of earnestness, sincerity, condensed learning, independent, laboriouisly-matured ,thought, and heroic devotion, on every feature of his- spiritual and candid" lface. His eyes, of midnight blackness, gleam with the lightning fire of quick perception, and flash forth the glory of his luminous intellect on his auditors. He. reasons powerfully, estab- lishes-his propositions by clear logical deduction,---is a complete master of the English- tongue, which he never perverts nor misapplies. He detests mysticism, is\ thoroughly practical, both in the application of undeniably- established argument, and in that wise foresight, which makes: him the Ulysses of the council hall. His flute-like- tones charm the ear, Mis beautiful symplicity wins confidence, and his Herculean strength establishes victory. There is a moral grandeur about the man which stamps, as pure ore, his golden words, and their effect can only   AT,..PRT HASTINGS.          259 be lost by closing the ears to their sound, as one does his eyes to escape the glory of sunlight. Listening to him, you must believe him, and, in believing him, you accept truth. Such is the- great Georgian, my lord, of whom you have desired me to speak." The gentlemen had set down their glasses, in mute attention, while Sir Albert spoke, and at the conclusion of his remarks, nodded approv- ingly. But -Lord Rathlbourne was not inclined that Sir Albert's comments on his countrymen should close here; accordingly, he again addressed Mr. Melville, saying: "You, sir, are curious in regard to the oratory of the Western world, and can perhaps suggest the name of some one, from -the native State. of our young friend, (who has just proved himself so skilful a limner of eminent men) with reference to-whom he may further enlighten us?" Mr. Melville rubbed his hands in delight, replying:  "The names of several, my lord; recur to my mind.  There are* Calhoun and Preston,-of either or both of whom I should, speaking for this company, delight to hear." Sir Albert bowed.-  "Of Mr. Calhoun, I can only say this,-that his standard, with many in my country, is unapproachable. I heard him speak once, but was much too young to -appreciate his abilities; In regard to- him, I will remark, that by universal consent, he was a giant in intellect, and owing to a rapid utterance, and vast profundity of thought,- his-hearers, unless familiar with the subjects he -discussed, which, at-that time, I was not, could scarcely keep pace with the cataract might of his eloquence." "Mr. Preston was a speaker of another and totally different stamp. Persuasive and elegant, every intonation -tolds;- every gesture spoke. In the exercise -of oratory, as an art, he excelled any man whom I have ever heard. Like some high-hearted: Roman, draped with the graceful toga, and thundering from the forum, men :listened:to him in hushed- silence, swayed by his -harmonious cadenCes, . patriotic senti- ments and sublime language. He both looked and spoke the hero.' The Earl of Lennox arose, and, grasping Sir: Albert's  hand, ex- claimed:  "Sir, the day will come, when you, I trust, on the floor of owr British Parliament, will illustrate those high characteristics, which, knowing so well how 'to describe them, I believe yyouwill live to emplate.'"  "I propose," said he, turning to the company,." the health of the   260          ALBERT HASTINGS. heir of Hastings, representing, as I find him, the English lion and American eagle." e The toast was drunk with enthusiasm, and the company adjourned to the parlor. Owing to the careful and judicious. treatment of Lady Arundel, Geraldine Rathbourne had rallied wonderfully, and, with the consent of Dr. Osgood, had been brought down into the drawing-room, placed on a down ottoman, sustained by ample pillows of stuffed velvet, arranged in an oblique manner, so that she reclined at her ease, and yet sat sufficiently upright for a lady of fashion who was only interest- ingly ill. Geraldine looked perfectly beautiful. Her happiness was intense. Lady Arundel at her side, mademoiselle gone, Sir Albert about to be ushered into her presence. There was, at all -times, that about this young girl which elicited admiration. Perfectly natural in every act and word, no thought disguised, she yet ever bore herself as became aI. daughter of her father's house. A serene dignity surrounded her, and only the occasional glimpses of lofty spirit and determined will, elicited by circumstances in which such demonstrations were prop- er, ever detracted from her winning debonair manner. She might have ::personated one of the Graces as she appeared now, etherealized by illness, eager with expectation, her perfectly moulded lips apart, and herdeep bluo eyes, black at night, beaming beneath their dark lashes -with love and joy. The Earl of Lennox was greeted with warm courtesy by her, Mr. Melville with respectful urbanity, and the rest of her father's guests in such manner as was suited to the claims and position of each. But the eyes of the young heiress wandered from them all toward the open door, where Sir Albert Hastings with his usual modesty, now stood aside, alloWing his elders to pass out first. At last he appeared, and an instant change passed over the features of Geraldine. On either cheek blushed forth an April rose, and by an almost painful effort, she sat upright, and Waving her slight jewelled hand, as he advanced, took his and pressed- it warmly. Some few words escaped her, but their import did not- transpire, and she motioned him to a- seat. Lady Arundel, who felt for Sir Albert's embarrassment, remarked to Colonel Beverly, who was one of the guests:  "You remember, colonel, my young nephew saved Geraldine's libe when she fell into the lake. Sir Albert, who is a red cross warrior in chivalric ideas, thinks his services overrated; so that I really believe the very natural gratitude of Geraldine oppresses him.- I -never saw him lose his self-possession before." You   ALBERT HASTINGS.           261 "I will say this, Lady Arundel," returned the gallant colonel, much flattered by the address of Lady Arundel, who seldom condescended to him as she did at present, a I will say this, Sir Albert Hastings, for a young gentleman of his years, has the nicest discernment, and the most scholarly knowledge, which I have ever witnessed-then he is brave as Alexander-you remember the lakel  We all anticipate for him a future of eminence, and I, for one, Warmly admire both his per- sonal elegance, and the fine qualities of his mind and heart." But the great hissing tea-urn, with its fragrant beverage, was now set in the centre of the glittering drawing-room, while solid silver and gold baskets, with fruit and cake, composed almost wholly of citron and preserved lemon, were supplied to the guests. Conversation became animated;  Mr. Melville, who was a man of enlarged mind and extensive general information, introduced the- subject of poetry. Here Lord Rathbourne did not find himself as much at hometas he did in the discussion of politics, and did not offerhis -opinion so freely, but the Earl of Lennox, a devotee -of the Muses, was deeply interested. Mr. Melville alluded to Shelley, and, in the course of his comments, said:       ...         ... .  "No one is more ready than I am to admit the genius of that wild, eccentric, and totally undisciplined mind. Poor, unfortunate Shelley I with great natural goodness of heart, no established principle of virtue, and a cold blighting skepticism, which some of his deluded admirers call benevolence,; but more wisely judging censors know to be a vain pride of intellect, seeking to unravel mysteries in this- -transitory world which no human intelligence can solve, and which only the Great Creator, in His own good time, will condescend to elucidate. I pity, with all my- heart} men of his stamp; but, while pIitying, .I must con- demn them," continued Mr'. Melville, looking at Sir Albert, whom he evidently considered one of his most appreciative and important auditors.                            , My Lord Lennox, what have you to say in vindicationof your admired bard?"           .       "    ' '; "I fully endorse that which you have so truthfully advanced, Mr. : Melville," returned the earl, smiling; "I am a true- Englishman- in my sincere, reverence for Scripture, and I reject, with- abhorrence -all attempts to subvert its heaven-derived authority, whether such attempts are made in the dignified hame of philosophy, or the more attractive semblance of heaven-voiced poesy. I confess the description given by our great English bard of Satan, afteri! the fall, sometimes recurs to my *^            ^  *.  -  *z    262           ALBERT  IASTINGS. mind, when contemplating Byron, the greatest genius of modern times; and may not be inapplicable to Shelley, though less forcibly so;: ' He, above the rest, In shape and gesture proudly eminent, Stood like a tower:--hisform had not yet lost All its original brightness, nor appeared Less than archangel ruined, and the excess Of glory obscured.1 "I conceive it the glory of every man of genius, whether intrusted with five talents or ten, that he should seek, by means of those talents or abilities to establish and -confirm revealed truth; and consider him the worst and most dangerous enemy of his race, when he dares invalidate the whole, or a portion, of the sacred scriptures, in order- to sustain any theory of his own, or the pretended illumination of any poet or teacher whom he chooses to constitute a guide in religion. Tell us, Sir Albert Hastings, something about American poetry? There are Bryant, Poe, and others I might name, whose fame is not unknown to us." "Bryant," said Sir Albert, looking brightly up, " is no innovator, and, so far, will please you; for your estimate, in my judgment, is a correct one of the mission of the true poet, which is to elevate-not degrade mankind--to improve the heart, as well as delight the imagination. Some of our poets have been, with good abilities, mere sectional and political rhymers. Bryant, in-the main, has avoided this narrow-minded course, and given himself to the consideration of great themes, which touch the universa-heart of mankind. "For X. G. Whittier, I cannot say as much. His mind was warped to a one-sided view of subjects on-which he wrote. There are, there- fore, exaggeration, misrepresentation, and bitter injustice in his -poems. He was a party-man, and were he a politician we might- tolerate him as such; but, entering the bower of the: Sacred Nine, he should have left his bitter spiritwith demagogues, and felt that his mission was too high to be debased by illiberal and intermeddling officiousness. "Poe, my lord, was a great poet, though many have not the dis- cernment to appreciate his grand, unworldly, suggestive poetry. I have heard a learned gentleman, a great mathematician, declare tIhat Poe's celebrated Raven was wholly incomprehensible. That he belongs to a school which i; faulty, I do not deny; Blut the taste of our day tolerates thevagaries of such authors as I should in deference to modern progress, forbear to name. Allowing that to pass, Edgar A Poe will compete successfully:with any or all of these, and though his works are   AIBERT HASTINGS.           263 less voluminous (for he died young,) yet enough is extant to establish, for their unhappy author, undying fame." "Ah, tell me where can I get his poems?" said Geraldine, inquir-, ' ingly.          ' "I will procure and bring them to you to-morrow," -replied Mr. Melville. "I am sure, my dear young lady, you will find great pleas- ure in their perusal." "Thank you, Mr. Melville, kindly," said Geraldine, smiling sweetly, ' you are ever so indulgent to me." "My dear Lady Arundel, I am faint.", Geraldine was carried to her chamber, and her father's guests soon departed.   HTAPTE' XXXVII.  But dakty b ight one mnaiden was, wotn mien As might beseem Sultana:--whit and soft The other, bent her7 head as valley liZies do. - OGEARS have elapsed since we last saw Valerie De Mar and her A, interesting companions. -Rxanna was tall and stately-a per- feet Juno in form. She bore herself with the majesty of a queen. Her temperament was eminently poetical. She still loved wild woods and musical fountains. Nothing could tame her in- eradicable Indian instincts. She was exceedingly beautiful, after a wild, dark style of beauty, and moved with that hereditary grace which would have elicited the admiration of a court. She was impul- sive, loving, generous,-enthusiastic-of a temper not to be comprehend- ed by people who stand on the slight basis of assumed dignity, and are only of consequence to those who, from policy orgome other motive, choose to be imposed on and strive to elevate: mediocrity, ascribing to it a reticent wisdom which only speaks in curt phrases,. condemning without knowledge, and assuming censorship where pupilage would better become the pigmy autocrat. Emeline Lovel, still retaining those sweet and child-like attributes which made-.her a true woman, in whom feminine dependence and unsuspecting trust were ever predominant, had developed into a beauty rare as it was enchanting. She was medium height, with exquisitely rounded and delicately moulded form, instinct with youth and health. A, 'varying brightness came and went over her features as she spoke, and there was about her a halo of innocence and purity which none could resist. The glance of her love-lighted blue eye was something which, potent in effect, must be seen to be appreciated. Her tlans- parent fairness reminded one of the dew-sprinkled white rose, and-her modesty, of the valley lily, whose beauteous flowers, ever declining towards earth, are meet symbols of grace and unobtrusive elegance.   ALBERT HASTINGS.           265 She loved the memory of "cousin Albert;" he was the one far-off, but living link to the glorious olden -time when "Mamma" had been mistress of Ellerton, and wild roses and mocking-birds were themes of deepest interest between her and her adopted brother.-   Albert's English letters were a world apart from her intercourse with sweet Valerie De Mar-her love for -the wildly enthusiastic and gifted Rox- anna,^ in whom she took great pride and considered far superior to- her- self-apart from the entire routine of her daily life, in which solid ac- quirements blent with social accomplishments were duly cultivated. She possessed a well-balanced and beautiful mind, whose just propor- tions were glorified by a great charity, never seeking to underrate others, and ever studying- the happiness of those with whom she was associated. To impart happiness to others was the highest satisfaction of her life. In the promotion of this god-like instinct she was ready at all times to sacrifice herself, and did not feel while doing so any personal wrong. ,This statement may seem a romantic invention to some, but let those who have (as we are free to declare we have), seen a verification of like virtue, decide whether it is aught but a faithful transcript of those approved by heaven, in whose bosom the love ,of the neighbor predominates over egotistical and selfish affection. But Emeline Lovel regarded Albert as a brother.    She was too young at the time of their separation to consider him in any other light, and always since had she referred to him in -thought and word only fraternally. Victor De Mar, while at the Hall, where he had frequently been since our account of his visit, when the flat boat sank on the Congaree, spent much of his time at Ellerton, and no one could say whether in his intercourse with the two beautiful girls, joint heiresses of the Lovel estate, he had a favorite ;-Roxanna was the companion of his rides; Emeline conversed with, and played and sang to him while visiting his sister, and he bestowed an equal share of attention on both. But there was another member of the De Mar family to whom we have yet only casually alluded, and this was Charles De Mar. For some years he had been in Germany, devoting himself to those philo- sophical studies which have made Gottingen famous as the alma mater of speculative, if not of profound, minds-of scholars, if not of men of genius. Charles De Mar was slight in person, very pale, and the exact opposite of his soldier-like, frank brother. Undoubtedly he pos- sessed far more refinement, was better skilled in the systems of Greek philosophers, and all other founders of sects and systems, whose dogmas are extant. His world was all within. Of the p-actical, every-day life, which calls for action without theory, he knWew but little. Yet the pallid *    ; .   266          ALBERT HASTINGS. student, with his falcon eye, aquiline features and symmetrical form, with his classical head and musical voice, exercised a greater influence in society than did his manly, handsome and not unintellectual brother. Between them a bond of strictest intimacy and love subsisted, unlike as they were, mentally, physically, and, perhaps, morally. Charles De Mari from, the-first moment of his introduction at Eller- ton, had selected Emeline Lovel as his most desired friend, and the bright particular star (to use a hackneyed phrase) which shone on the atmosphere of the realm of Ellerton. Her deference to the opinions of others-her genuine and unselfish devotion to those about her-the pliant character of her mind, which, like some parasitical plant, clings for support to its stay, lending perfume and beauty to masculine strength, her ineffable loveliness, with its soft combination of delicate tts and angelic expression-enthralled the fastidious student, on whom more striking and commanding attractions would have been wasted. Roxanna awed, while Emeline won him. His pride of intellect was alarmed at the independent fearlessness of sentiment evinced by the former, while it was flattered by the graceful condescension of the latter. Then, Emeline realized his ideal. (Every man has a mental model, the living realization of which he invariably identifies at a glance.), She embodied tlis ideal and he loved her, as genius loves, itPh nid passionat- idool yat/. The very paths she trod were hallowed in his eyes-; the books she read, pencilled by her nicely-discriminating hand, were consecrated in his eyes; the simple songs she sang with natural good taste and appropriate cadence and modulation, were to him airs of paradise, -while Roxanna's splendid performance on the harp wearied him. Different as were the brothers, and strange as it may appear, yet on a single point, and that a most important one, they fully agreed.? Vic- tor De Mar admired Roxanna more than 'any woman he had ever seen, yet he loved Emeline better. But Vidtor possessed great noble- ness of nature, and fully aware- of his brother's preference for Emeline, resolved not to stand in the way of his beloved Charles. There was heroism in this; but Victor De Mar was a hero in all the principal acts of his life.                     ^ Charles and Victor were both seated -in the drawing-room at Eller- ton, Roxanria had just finished a magnificent opera, and vibrating notes  of trembling melody were still lingering around, when Mr. Oldham's characteristic rap announced his presence. Emeline rose and preceded the servant to the door. Mr. Oldham, seizing her hand, pressed it warmly:   ATARUT HASTW[GS*          26 7 "News from England? you would ask. I say, in anticipation my dear young lady, yes, and here is a long letter for you. Hastings Hall, you see I But our young friend has, it seems, distinguished himself at college. He tells the tale modestly; that is like Albert Hastings. No human being ever won on me as he did in the time of his trial and my enforced submissio- No matter, I have-told you all that. I trust I do not intrude," continued Mr. Oldham, obering the young gentle- men in the parlor. "I always say, in replying to. Sir Albert Hastings, that I have seen you, and I think, having done so now, I may retire  without disturbing the company." It Dear Mr. Oldham I do not say so. Pray come in. Here are only Victor and Charles De Mar, Roxanna and myself. Let me lead you into the parlor."          . Mr. Oldham was about consenting, and would have acceded to Emo - eline's wishes, but, spying the equipage of Mr. Calloway (that is to say the buggy and pony presented to the minister by Valerie De Mar) the good merchant positively declined, saying:  "Bless my heart, Miss Lovel only see, -that grim man-follows me everywhere I I passed him a few miles hence on his way, as I thought, to Grayson Farm, but it seems he has followed in my wake, and, not being disposed to encounter his very personal admonitions, Hchoose rather to avoid them, and must bid you good day." Mr. Oldhanm went-rapidly down the steps, muttering as he did so: "I wish his reverend worship would let me know his- visiting days, so that I might order mine, and not come in collision with his -indeli- cate and untimely reproofs."      e   , Mr. Calloway, meantime, alighted with a face of unusually deepened solemnity. His brow gloomed like a thunder cloud, his step was meas- ured and firm. Even on the day of Mr. Dexter's dismission, his per- sonal dignity was not more apparent. -He saluted each one present by by a series- of half polite, half troubled bows,.. entered imnmediaty on the object of his visit, and addressing himself to Victor De Mar, said: "Of a verity, young sir, I take on me at this time, to appeal to you in a matter wherein lies much import, and seeing that it behoovesyour private ear to heed my words, I will even petition that you retire with me to separate audience. Moreover, as a -journey lies beforerme I ad- venture to ask you to come with me, till we make pause under the great oak at the head- of the avenue, where I shall feel unembarassed :in delivering needful counsel." Victor nodded, smiling, and looked half reprovingly at Obarles, who, struck by the outre garb and saturnine severity of good Mr Galloway,   268          ATBF3T THASTIENGS. elevated his brows, and drew himself up in unfeigned astonishment, as his brother, attended by the minister, left the room. There was'indeed a strong contrast between Victor and his companion, as distinct -speci- mens of that diversified organism called humanity. One vigorous, hopeful, handsome, well-proportioned, and bright as morning's ray; the; other" stern, hard, time-stricken, and ungaihly, yet. with a certain maj- esty which dignified his mean attire, and breadth of brow, which de- noted strong perception and determined execution of any plan, once deemed right by the granite old man. But they were now under the flickering shade of the designated oak, and Mr. Calloway pausing, said: "There formerly dwelt in this vicinity, a man by name Dexter, of goodly parts and mental gifts-yea, a scholar, and one addicted to ab- struse learning; wherefore I. marvel the more at that which I am com- pelled to add; for verily, his soul is base, his heart deceitful,' and he hath proved himself an A chan in the camp; hath consorted with, and upheld bold, bad men; hath seen the innocent suffer wrongfully, and had no pity for the unfortunate, conniving at treachery, and setting evil example-yea, I could expose his history, but out of regard to innocent persons, forbear. "Some time since, I procured his ejectment from a school, which he held. on the premises of one Miss Juliet Grayson) a charitable and pious sister, who once befriended him, and was fain to honor him as a true disciple; but, by reason 'shown, came afterwards to know him as a hypocrite--yea, a whited wall-and she would none of him. He is a walking pestilence-a true son of Belial, and the truth is not in him. This I say in no .uncharitableness, and will prove if need be, seeing be hath stealthily returned, and is even now seeking to establish himself on the domain of your fair sister, she being ignorantof his presumption, and he hoping, through her abounding charity, to influence her, that he may obtain countenance, for he pretendeth great things, as thoughl seeking to instruct the poor, and likewise aspires to preach the Word, which is a great scandal. Also, he defies me, and will not submit to, reproof. '           . A  ' I advise that he be sent away, lest much evil be revealed, and great confusion ensue,-since assuredly he cannot remain here, and take inno- -cent children into .his charge, while I stand' idly by. Of a verity, my soul abhorreth his wicked ways, and his pretences offend my spirit. Neither am I justified in keeping silence, when the horn of the wicked is exalted, and a wolf abides amongst the lambs of my fold. I have spoken, and will depart, assured that heedful warning will be taken from my words, and the evil remedied."   AT,RFR  HASTINGS.           269 Victor assured the speaker that matters should be investigated, and Dexter once more unseated. This promise gave Mr. Calloway evident satisfaction, and he left a fervent 1 enediction with the young soldier, who stood looking after his retreating form for some time, and then slowly turned his steps toward Ellerton. The quizzical, half-comic expression of Charles De -Mar's face had been noted by Roxanna, at the time of Mr. Calloway's leaving the room, and her generous sympathies for the old man, whomishe reverenced, were elicited by what she conceived to be Charles' improper conduct, on the occasion. Her cheek flushed, and she said in reply to the stu- dent, who had remarked: ' What an oddity  Where did he spring from? I did not know that such a specimen of eccentricity was anywhere extant.", "Odd he, may be, Mr. Charles De Mar. I believe it is odd to be honest, very often. He sprang from the pine-woods, to which some more of us are indebted -for a birth-place, aye, and for nurture too. His eccentricities, whatever they may be, can never make him ridiculous, for despite them all, he is governed by sound sense and rectitude. I confess he has my sincere respect." Charles was amazed at Roxanna's boldness, and the independent-tone of a mind which he had deemed only full of Indian -legends, scraps of Ossian, and wild wood dreams. He looked curiously at her, and was about to reply with some asperity, (for he could never bear to have his opinions called in questionT) when Emeline, knowing the temper of both, and particularly Charles' impatience of contradictionf, hastened to'.ter- pose. Emeline was ever a peace-maker, and appreciating the' wisdom of the scriptural declaration-" a soft answer turneth away wrath," was accustomed to apply it practically -whenever occasion offered. She, therefore, said smilingly: "'My dear Roxanna, perhaps you misapprehend -our - friend Charles, I am sure he intends nothing seriously derogatory to Mr. Calloway in his remarks. But you must confess that your favorite- lhas great pecu- liarities, which you and I being accustomed to, do not very much re- gard, though they might strike a stranger more forcibly, and I fear un- pleasantly."          -  Charles De Mar, still retaining the smile, which he could not repress, replied-  "Mr. Calloway is a happy man, to have secured the advocacyof two' such champions as I find enlisted in his behalf, but truth compels me to say that I cannot now share, nor do I believe that I shall ever be -able :   270          AT,BRtT HASTINGs. to do so, the admiration of which he is the object. I leave the field to you both;" and he rose and went out. "Who could imagine him to be Victor's brother?" exclaimed Rox- anna, turning to Emeline, and casting on her the full power of her great black eyes. It was Myra's own look, which almost caused one to start, by its quivering, concentrated light. Hers was an eye which could never quail in fear, though it often melted in love. So impulsive was she, that concealment was to her impossible. Her thoughts could, un- spoken, be guessed. Joy flitted over her features like a sunbeam, and' sorrow rendered her aspect so desolate and appealing, that the face would haunt you, once seeing it troubled. She inspired one with in- terest at all times, and exerted a powerful influence over those with whom she was brought into contact. What some women attain by art, perseverance and intrigue, was accorded her without effort on her part. She seemed formed to command, and her transparent sincerity obtained for her the most perfect confidence, which schemers of her sex, even though succesful in their aims, never can hope to enjoy. We always 1 look with suspicion on a cold, phlegmatic woman, who, saying little,' acts with reference to a certain end, toiling for its accomplishmentI through sinuous paths, wholly unknown to loftier natures.; But such} x an one often succeeds, where a mind destitute of catlike cunning, wouldc i fail utterly. There is yet another class, who by dint of talking and' plausible representations, attempt to further their sentiments and wishes. These, however, lay themselves more open to detection, and can never ape dignity as reticent, women are apt to do. Now Emeline Lovell though not impulsive like Roxanna, did not belong to either the silent or over-talkative classes, to which we have alluded.. She possessed great candor; but not being over-burdened with self-reliance, was timid of her own opinion. She therefore arrived at her conclusions slowly; but once formed,-there was an adhesiveness, in her nature which did not allow their being readily relinquished. Emeline was, therefore, not given to change. It was perhaps owing to this; and th'e- perfect sweetness of her temper, that an angelic serenity rested on her face, enhanced by the mild blue of her confiding eyes, the light hue of her paly golden locks, and pencilled delicacy of her slightly arched brows. There was playfulness and- innocence kin her smile quite infantile, and over her whole countenance was spread an alternate fairness and bloom, indicative at once, of youth and a sensi- tive heart. There was in her mind, amongst living beings, only one perfect model of himan perfection, and this was bodied forth in the remembered form of Albert Hastings. She never regarded him in   ALBERT HASTINGS.           271 the light of a lover. She never thought of lovers at all; only when at a loss for something present, which would realize her dreams, and give back her childish pleasures, Albert always came unbidden in the well- remembered hunting-dress, gun on shoulder, or equipped as a boat-man with fishing-rods and tackle, felt jerkin, and waterproof garments of every kind. She sometimes sat on a rustic seat in the garden beside an artificial fish-pond, where, hand-in-hand with " cousin Albert," she had stood to watch the darting of finny navigators amidst crystal waters, and hear him talk in his calm, simple way about the habits of fishes, their haunts and the most skillful manner of entrapping them- Then she would cover her eyes with her hands, and feel how unlike the rest of the world was Albert Hatstings.   Victor De Mar she loved with sisterly affection; she would fearlessly have con- fided to him her life, her fortune, everything. She knew Victor to be tile soul of honor,--the very impersonation of chivalry in its noblest devotion; but he was not her early dream. His was not the form (handsome and stately as he was) which had awakened her first per- ceptions of manliness and beauty. No 1-that far off, half etherealized, yet clear-cut profile, which, when she contemplated the mourning Achilles in his Grecian tent, recurred to her memory, was Albert Hastings and no mortal else. She might never see him more;-she often thought such would be the case,-but that did not matter to her; absent or present, he was Albert still, and none could ever fill his place in her heart or mind. There was a dreamy consciousness with her, that she, too, was remembered; and often as she sat beneath the wide- spread willow which dipped the delicate tips of its tender, green and fragile boughs into the small lake,-while slowly rose the great round saffron moon, one star at her side, and the mournful whip-poor-will sent prolonged and plaintive notes along the cedar hedges, while locusts cried in their peculiar and shrill chirp, from china tree to red oak, from catalpa to white-flowering bays ;-often as she sat thus, there seemed to come a voice from  tangled myrtle-grove and matted, palmetto, which spoke as of old: "Come, Emeline, mnamma is wearying for us. Give me your hand. I will lead you over the bridge. There, now, we are all safe, and Ellerton's steps will soon be won; but beware of wet grass, and keep to the middle of the gravelled road." - She would arise, then, and adhere to the oft repeated injunction of Albert, as though he were, -in propriapersona, guiding her steps.  Roxanna, whose penetration was very searching, once declared that she had heard Emeline talking with some (ne in the garden-walk Emeline laughed, saying:   272         ALBERT HASTINGS. "Why, certainly, I was. Do you not know that Albert Hastings and I used to spend our evenings there, and, I go now because it reminds me of the olden time. I seem even to hear his voice, and reply without being aware that I do so. Tlis should not surprise you, my dear Roxanna, who go so often to the forest, and believe in such fanciful things about spirits and golden islands lying in shining clusters, covered with groves of citron and orange, where the grim gorgon, Death, is not allowed to set his skeleton foot, or wave his gloomy banner." "Hush 1" said Roxanna, " do not speak lightly of these things. The white man creates for himself a glorious paradise, where gush waters of life,-where milk and honey flow forever,--where cities rise with gates of pearl and streets of gold,-where white-robed, winged angels strike immortal lyres,-and fruits and flowers blush and bloom amidst undy- ing verdure. Let the red race, humble in their aspirations, hope for the quiet isles, with everlasting peace basking in sunlight, and roamed over by the shades of dead warriors, each bearing the badges of brave and noble acts. Perhaps," continued Roxanna, her dark eye lighting as she threw back her head with a gesture peculiar to her, perhaps each may be indulged with an entrance into the paradise of his own choice. What know we of these things?" "I shall leave Victor to talk with you about your peculiar opinons, dear Roxanna," said Emeline, affectionately. "I know that he appre- ciates all your beautiful thoughts, and loves to hear you speak on subjects which I 'see touch your feelings deeply. How noble Victor is I how intellectual and manly I I admire and love him truly. So much of sweet Valerie De Mar in all he says and does 1" Roxanna looked keenly at Emeline, and drank in with avidity every word she uttered; while the speaker, vrholly unconscious that her words might seem to be prompted by a warmer impulse than that which really inspired them, raised her eyes to the 'face of her young cousin for ap- proval, but saw something there which sent the blood back to her heart, and almost took from her the further power of speech. Roxanna was pale as death; an 'unutterable mournfulness had overspread her features; her countenance was blank and hopeless; the fire had for- saken her eyes; she seemed frozen by an instant process to a beautiful, but soulless form of sculptured art. "Oh, Roxanna, what ails you?" said Emeline; approaching and attempting to take her hand; but Roxanna did not note the words or act. She turned loftily away, and, as though upborne by unseen wings, glided down the avenue. Emeline never fully comprehended Rox-   ALBERT HASTINGS.           273 anna, and did not do so now; only marveling at the oddity of hier ways, she looked lovingly after her, saying: "Roxanna; I, fear, will never conquer these strange, wild habits of hers, but beautiful and inter- esting as she is, we ought not to look for perfection in her. She will be more reasonable, I trust, as she grows older." Could Emeline have suspected the true reason of Roxanna's agita- tion, she would quickly have dispelled it, as she might truthfully have done; for beyond the limits of strict-friendship, Emeline had really no interest in Victor De Mar, neither did she suspect his ever having been attached to herself,--shc was so accustomed to think of him as a familiar member of the famlly, that no fear of misconstruction ever occurred to her in regard to the language she employed while speaking of him. He was Valerie's brother; she loved Valerie, and she loved him, in the same way, only in less degree;-she had, of late, been much more with Charles ;-indeed'ttie attentions of the-studentjwere so assiduous, that it was impossible to mistake them, and Emelrem was, about this time, forced to see that which she would fain -have c osed her eyes against -rthe evident devotion of Charles to herself.   I     , . CTTAPTEER   sXXV Thee was a soft and pensive graoe, A cast of thought upon her face, That suited well the forehead high, The eye-Zlash dark and downcast eye.--Rokeby. /I^SERAJLDINE   RATHBOURNE had rapidly recovered under z- the care of Lady Arundel,-was now able to drive out daily, and would soon leave London for Hastings' Hall. Sir Albert had left the morning after Lord Rathbourne's dinner. As he returned through the cultivated and highly improved country where his path lay, thoughts unbidden disturbed his repose. He was now advancing into manhood., The ties which bound him to his native land were those of honor and love. Interest, ambition, duty held him where he was; and yet, were he free to act now, he would rather be a navigator of the slight skiff, where we first beheld him,-the free breezes of the river sweeping away his redundant hair,-trusting to his own arm for safety, and awaited by the little loving group Who would hail his return to dear old Ellerton, than be, as he was, rolling on in a cumbrous, magnificent coach, from the heir of whom so much was expected, the future cynosure of a circle, which, despite its brilliancy, could not contain the long-loved truthful eyes and dimpling smiles of his early playmate-gentle, confiding Emeline. But life's stern tasks were before him. His grandmother, the nearest living relative who existed, was heart and soul devoted to him. Lady Arundel, on whom he perhaps relied even more in matters where his own judgment did not wholly guide him, he loved with tender affec- tion, and the memory- of her lost son, the gallant but unfortunate Geoffrey, bound him to her with a tie of no common power. She filled the place of that other and lamented aunt, who slept at Ellerton churchyard. But Lady Arundel, with all poor Amanda Lovel's con- scientiousness, had a deeper insight into human nature. - She was not more loving, kind, generous, or self-sacrificing, but she possessed a   ALBERT HASTINGS.           275 more resolute will-a sagacity which was seldom at fault; and a firm- ness, which, though silent, was undaunted. But Sir Albert now gave all his energies to the culture of mental powers, originally strong, expanded by judicious activity, and indurated by healthful moral training. His early lessons, in the chill school of poverty and friendlessness, had taught him to be pitying. No appeal from want ever passed him unheeded, and Lady Livia, while pouring a golden stream into his hands, always said: "In giving you, my so, I know that I am aiding the pooF; and I make you my almoner. It was ever the glory of our house that we did not waste in idle luxury the good gifts of Providence; and Albert Hastings will always remember that a great responsibility rests on the representative of our ancient lineage;-that being strong, we protect the weak; that being rich, we succor and encourage the poor. All this is well; but, at the same time," (and here her- ladyship smiled archly,) " we must remember that in the course of time some fair: lady will appear on the scene, and we must be no niggard in the revenue and appointments of the future Lady Hastings. Nay, do not blush like a girl, Albert. That lady shall be one of your own choosing; and though I may even now have a preference, remember, my son, likeyour father, you shall be free in the choice of a companion in life. But why do I wander to things as yet remote.? I confess, however," (here Lady Livia sighed,) " that I should like to see that matteor decided before I die. You understand me, Albert, so I dismiss the subject. "Are you entirely satisfied with Mr. Stuart? He 'appears to be a man of most scholarly accomplishments, and Lord Rathbloune, who with all his brusqueness, angularity of manner, and plainness of language, really has excellent judgment-tells me he thinks your tutor a real prize. He comes of an honorable, but decayed family, and his deport-. ment is perfect." "Indeed, Lady Livia," returned Albert, (glad to be relieved from the embarrassment induced by the former part of her ladyship's discourse,) "indeed, such a remark does honor to the head and heart of a worldly man like Lord Rathbourne. Mr. Stuart is a gentleman, a scholar, and a Christian; and nothing, which I remember lately, has revolted me more than the assumed superiority of Col. Beverly ovtr this modest, good man. With your ladyship's permissionj I would have resented the wrongs of my tutor on him long since. His biting sarcasm, the cold irony of his needless innuendoes have, I know, galled the spirit of Mr. Stuart over and over again."  "What!" exclaimed Lady Livia, rising with great dignity from her 4, . 1' *   276          ALBERT HASTINGS. rieh chair, covered with Brussels lace, " what I did he presume so far, here? why, the upstart is the son of a petty-fogging attorney, who bought his son a commission -in the army, and who, I verily believe, would sell his soQl for gain. It is like the race I Col. Beverly presume to insult your tutor, Albert Hastings? Deal with him--if he repeat the insult--as your own sense of right shall dictate. I will have no brum- magen aristocracy about me; io, nor about you. Mr. Stuart is a gentle- man by birth, by education, in principle, and in manner. Heaven forbid that we--you and I, my son, in common with the nobility and gentry of grand, old England, should suffer base coin to regulate our estimate of mental and moral worth I Did Mr. Stuart possess the wealth of Col. Beverly, I venture to say, deference on the part of the military autocrat, would not be wanting. ;But not at Hastings Hall shall he flutter in the assumed robes of good- birth' and aristocratic elevation. I tell you, Albert," (and here a frown gathered between -the midnight brows of the emphatic speaker,) "I tell you-this man aspires to the hand of Mary Arundel--my sister--a woman so far above him that I am filled with consternation at the thought l" Sir Albert had expected this before, and was, equally with Lady Livia, indignant at the bold colonel's presumption. He, however, replied calmly: "Dear Lady Livia, my aunt well knows how to guard her own dignity-and perhaps it will be best to let her deal with him in her own way'- The gathered frown passed away from Lady Livia's noble face. She even laughed, and drawing Sir Albert toward her, kissed him on his open brow, saying: -4 "I verily believe, young- sir, the honor of our bouse is quite safe in the ieeping of Lady -Mary Arundel and Sir Albert Hastings." A magnificent coach, during this colloquy, was driving slowly down the circuitous road which led to- Hastings HaII, and where four carriages abreast- could have advanced without inconvenience. Two of Lord ERathbourries -outriders erre in attendance. 'The fleet steeds, which scarcelyg testraine d by the skill of the-coachman, arched their necks, "-^snorted, and -pawed impatiently, (while the entrance gate was being opened by one of the outriders,) as soon as the reins were slackened, dashed forward, while the commodious carriage, of English build, (those accustomed'to driving, in either hemisphere- know the vast superiority of the-true English coach compared to any other,) dashed over the gravelled road, with its green line of regular boxwood, and its mo- mently changing perspective, with a motion so easy and gliding that   AIBERT  AS TING oS.         2" one might fancy they'slid over yielding water in the sea -ar of a Triton, instead f 'the rocky soil and level 'slope of an English gentle- man's private avenue. Lady Arundel sat, with Geraldine'by her side, suppoitiig the inter- esting and beautiful invalid with tender-care. As the-great outer gate clanged, after swinging back on its iron hinges-as the gleaming coach, with its proud armorial bearings, -slowly roinded the obtuse angle- of the road, Geraldine raised -her statly head from the bosom -of Lady Arundel, and became very pale.  Cold dews rested on her polished brow, and striving to, speak, she yet remained'silent. "What ails you, Geraldine, my sweet child?" said Lady Arundel, fondly. "Oh 1: this journey has been too much-for you. I half feared it. We should have tarried another day at least" "Oh no, dear Lady Arundel," said Geraldine, earnmetly, "oh no I but such a variety of feelings assail me, in sight of that dear old house, with its grim battlements, its mimic warriors, and all its fond associa- tionsl I never was so happy inmy life as I have been at Hastings Hall. Then, there is that lake, whre - I struggled with death, and he gave 'me back to life, who cares naught for me. I tell you, Lady Arundel," (and she laid her hand on her heart,) "I tell you I have a feeling here, that I shall die young. I am bon of a haughty house;-- luxury has waited on me at every step in my short life, and yet-I have been exposed to the most terrible and awful casualities:- First, in that lake. I can mark, even here, the deepened green of its circumference, where cold waters hissed in -myears-the buoyant, yet leade:-weighted element engulphed and cast 'me up, only to swallow mpie -agak. in its hungry and remorseless waters. But there came an arm: :to rescue; I see it yet I a kindly voice to cheer; I hear itfeven now--and lways I Scarcely had I been delivered from that awful'terror to an awakening sweet sense of safety and life, when a rampant and unreasoning beast, without warning, rearing and plumging, as though -impelled by-all the furies of that dark world we fear to name, dashed me senseless to the ground. Oh, dear Lady Arundel, how hardly I escaped itithfethen, you can never know; 'but when its returning crrents called back my soul from the viewless world, and H recovered consciousness, then, . most dreaded of all, was there a fell and subtle spirit at my side, cajol- ing, flattering, blinding, destroying me. -ou know to whom I -llude -and yet, this woman,'ugly, hateful, devilish s    ishe wasy wobld-have wrapped me in my winding-sheet, and been complimented for an un- tiring nurse, had you notscome to rend the -veil from her hypocrisy, to defy and overthrow herl Oh, dear Lady Arundel, I am   a-poor, /  '  '  '        /   ,.   278          ATBERT HASTINGS. motherless girl-though the world calls me Lady Geraldine Rathbourne, and 1 could command means, at this instant, to an almost fabulous amount, yet what is wealth to me? I despise it. I long for love I I wish, indeed, that I were poor, -and then, if there s any good in me, I should be sought only for that, were it ever so little." "My dear child,'" id Lady Arundel, warmly, "you cannot suspect the inmates of Hastings Hall of having any designs on your wealth? You come to us, therefore, as a beloved daughter; and we only con- sult our own happiness when we seek to advance yours. Put aside, I beseech you, all these fancies when you come to the abode, of your peers, and do not seek to debase our love by groundless want of con. fidence. Lady Livia is a proud woman. You must not let her hear you speak thus." "Alas," said Geraldine, in deep despondency, "alas, were I only sure- of hoe instead of c/arity there-at Hastings Hall, I mean-the rest of the world would move me little; but I fear you bring me here noW otly through pity. Pity is -a hard word to be endured by some. It is, I confess, so with me. 'Pity' and ' patronage' do not become the House of Rathbourne. My dear, lost mother would have told you SO."    .  "Quiet yourself, sweet child," said Lady Arundel, as she kissed the cold lips of her beautiful charge.- "Do not let your mind wander amidst such: fitcies. Whoi could regard the Lady Geraldine Rath- bourne an object of pity or patronage? But here we are at the door of the old Hall, which you have told me you love, and here is my nephew, your rescuer in the lake, coming -to meet us. Why do you tremble, dear girl? Think. you are at home. Albert," cried Lady Arundel, i' assist Lady Geraldine to alight, -and, Falkas," continued she, addressing the venerable servant, "-inform Lady Livia Hastings that I, with Lord -Rathbourne's daughter, have returned. Send iced negus into the parlor, and tell my waiting-woman, Felice, to be in instant attendance."  Lady Geraldine! gave Sir Albert her hand, icy-cold, and was forced to" lean on him as she advanced into the parlor. Sir Albert was very coUrteous, but no? deeper feeling than that naturally- elicited by the presence of -a young and beautiful girl, feeble and needing support, did he- experience, as, leading her -tinderly towards a favorite lounge of Lady Hastings in the parlor, he fanned her for a brief. space, ordered refreshments, rang the bell, and went to Mr. Stuart, who awaited him in Jt ibrary. Here he was soon immersed in the history of departed ages, and the present seemed the dream-the past, the living reality.    C JAPTE R xXXT  a;Is  Student.         ' "I We have struggled long, and they who strtive tWith fortune win or weary her- at last, So that they find the goal."-- Werne. () IR ALBERT HASTINGS stood high' at college, not only as arml regarded his scholarship and abilities, but in every other light ^^V  He had: that native force of- character which iircumstances unavoidably exemplified in every-day intercourse with young men differing in intelligence, birth, training, and principleVs;:. Various and dissimilar as were the characters of those by whom--he was sur- rounded, he yet commanded the respect of al. There was a rare com- bination of truth, grandeur and simplicity in the constitution, mentally and morally considered, of Sir Albert' Despising no ne, he had yet the judgment and tact to treat every, one -according to his merits, position and deportment. Arrogance he would not tolerate; humble talent he strove, by every effort which he could-command, to elevate; and his eye was dreaded by certain lordlings who, their consequence being based on the possession -of large acres, presumed on -that -conse quence ffith all the disgusting pretensionof-moneyed aristociray.- And here we would remark that an oligarchy, based on, the sordid foundation of capital, is not peculiar to any one government or nation. Its tyranny is, perhaps, more absolute in nations, or republics, where no law regulates rank, andwhere, though ignored*in speech, it is wor- shipped in act. Let the miserable miser, thoughtworn, want-worn, unprincipled, degraded, measre, hhaggard, cruel-let himonly, contrive, by any -abject or doubtful agency, to collect together a shinipgheap of coin-let him go down to the grave laden withL the reproaches of: those crushed beneath the JUggernaut wheels of his merciless ear, -which must advance to wealth over bruised and. crushed- humanity-what matters that? His son, perhaps the counterpart" ofthe miseiable de- funct wretch, who had lived a moral blot on the fair face -of creation   280          ALBERT HASTINGS. -his son, with hereditary traces of a dwarfed and selfish nature, is bowed -down to, flattered, honored, outwardly esteemed.  People seem to think they establish a position for themselves in the world by standing well with him. He is a moneyed aristocrat---a "Tittlebat Titmouse," and universal complaisance awaits him at every turn. But Sir Albert Hastings estimated both wealth and social distinction at their just value. Heiew: that!both have a power which, argue as we will, stares us- in the face daily. He further was aware that he possessed both these :desirable- adcjuiicts to poor humanity, and yet he would cheerfully have relinquished thenm for that' nobler and innate power which is totally independent of exterior'circumstances--which is the special and most glorious gift of heaven-which ennobles its possessor without great lineage, elevates him without wealth, and crowns him  conqueror with a victory, to establish which no bloody streams have flowed. Itwas the empire of mind which he coveted. Over the vast and mysterious realm of -thought he desired to Stretch his, sceptre, and to attain this- end. his masterful spirit put forth its de- termined energies. Like a gallant steed girdedfor the race, with steady, equal, untiring zeal he fixed his keen ;eye on the goal, and won his way, -hour by hour, to that Tfar-off hill, where, with glittering spires and ma- jestic dome, -Fame's proud temple sublimely rose. Neither was he-wanting in any of those graceful courtesies, nor in that delightfuturbanity, which mark: the, true gentleman everywhere. There was no asperity in his speech; his nature was kind and genial, and; prone -to' forgiveness; but once- convinced of the'utter iunworthi- ness of- any one on-whom he had ever, even cautiously and doubtingly, relied, Sir Albett Hastings froze into a man of'marble, fearful to the sycophant abhorred- of the time-server. His nature was confiding and affectionate. There was a girl's softness in the love-glance of his hazel eye, and a woman's tenderness in his accents when addressing the un- fortunate, who never failed to receive from his charity ready aid, coupled with that bettersbenevolence which robs-helpless dependence of its bitterest stingV, and reconciles misfotune to the degradation of seeking a boon.         - Lord?sRathbourne,-having never been blessed- with a son, seemed to regard Sir Albert in the light of one, mnd the! most recherch dinners at Rathboume -House were always, if his lordship could by any means accomplish it, graced with the presence of the heir of Hastings. At thpse reunions the- iterati were, as fully as the peerage, represented, and Lord!Rathbourne himself would start difficult questions in art, letters, and politics, for the express purpose of seeing Sir Albert bear   ALBERT HASTINGS.           281 off the palm and win golden opinions from his intellectual auditors. Mr. Melville had become a devoted admirer of our hero, and declared to Lord Rathbourne privately, that the young man would make his mark on the age-to which observation -the Earl responded with the same smile that enlightened his visage when contemplating his  daughter's representation in "s Children of the, Nobility." Geraldine was still at Hastings Hall. Her health being -feeble, she was-permitted to continue with Lady Arundel and Lady Livia found the presence of both a great consolation in the absence of Sir Albert, to whom she frequently wrote, and whose letters, both to herself and her sister, were eagerly hailed, and perused with deep interest, while Geraldine (perhaps most interested of alD listened with eyes of pro- found attention, and ruby lips apart, drawing a long breath, while they were read, and whispering to Lady Arundel at their conclusion: "No one ever wrote like Sir Albert Hastings. Oh, if I had a brother to pen me-such letters." Mr. Olfiham also corresponded regularly with- Sir Albert, and was the medium through whom he heard from Emeline, and whose sweet epistles, in a fair Itaian hand, his eyes eagerly sought, when tearing away the huge, heavily-sealedo envelope, addressed in the jmerchant's bold, business hand, the little billet would come from its rough chrysalis like a winged messenger of joy, which Sir Al:bert read and re-read, till he became as familiar with its contents as he was with the ancient lore which formed his day's study. Emeline, in her unvarnished way, gave him accounts of all that transpired at Ellerton-drew pictures of Valerie De Mar, Charles Victor, and Roxanna, so that he seemed to be one in the midst-to hear them speak and note their acts. Roxanna interested him exceedingly, and Mr. Calloway was not unknown.   It pleased Emeline to think " cousin Albert" was not ignorant of  r-- fiaends. She even sent him their photographs, with her own, and these were amongst the choicest treasures of the student. He admired the -grand beauty of Roxanna, not to -be' concealed by the rude outline oftihe photographer, which disclosed all :the hovel elegance of featire, blent with a rich, dark character of beauty strangely fascinating, Emeines was-the same soft, sweet, ingenuous ihfid-f4 "i8s?at flydreamis ,and seemed to-bear him across the vast Atlantic; t ie little artificiarlake in the garden, where moonbeams trembled on the water, and stars twinkled from another hdaven beneath itssuface. -  Sir Albert reposed undoubting confidence in the affection;of Emeline Lovel. She seemed some far-off good-a living link to6thrm-iemory of his own glorious Soithern clitfe, where the grave of his early lost -andl   282          ATBERT HASTINGS. beautiful mother was drooped over by sad cypress and whispering willows-where none might come to renew its decaying rosesi or to plant, in mournful tribute to the dead, scented and flowering shrubs above her narrow house. Yes, one I fair as moonlight, would, with lightstep advance, as though gliding, lightly robed, from the westering sunbeams, while, slanting, they silently and imperceptibly retreated to the dark mansion of night. This fair, soft creature, whose presence was identified with dutiful and pious devotion, strewed flowers over the grave of her mother and his own. - She was discharging in his stead a hallowed office. Every association blent her with his best affections, his earliest sympathies. She was not lost, only- distant, and deep down in his heart lay the hope, the belief, that she would yet be restored to him, bringing with her that early freshness which the heart can know but once, and which, once lost, the world can never restore. Lady Livia's letters were all of the present-her interest in his career-affairs regarding his vast property-Lady Arunders kind advice--Lady Geraldine's happiness at the Hall-her improved health-the united wish of all three to see him, and their congratula- tions on his rapid advance to that acknowledged superiority which they were sure awaited him on his graduation. Lordathbourne,:this summer,: proposed to spend some months at his castle- in the North, and Lady LiviN- Ladyk Arundel and Sir Albert, for the brief season which he could spare, were to be. of the party. The time, drew on, and Sir Albert, really 'exhausted by -the intensity and zeal of his efforts in the acquisition of knowledge, was not unwilling, ,when. the time arrived, to -set out and join his friends at my Lord Rathboumre's-half-feudal, half-modernized castle of Craigland. It was a wet, drizzly day, when he started on his journey. Flying clouds obscured the sun, but these soon disappeared, and: every variety of prospect greeted the eye of the young tourist. There were cultivated fields, wheXe industry had done its part in reclaiming waste moor- landsi, where, in place of- whin:andjutting rock the level and produc- tive field-waved with golden grain. There was the waveless lake, like Windermere, reflecting, woods in deep, repose, and the, calm face of a serene -heavemn There wete wild scenery, thebare coast, the deep.  blue of limitless waters, and the bold promontory, with butting cliffs, where wild-fowl screamed, circled in the air, and finally settled in their rocky home. Sir Albert Hastings had been a careful student of history. He could narrate the subjugation of Britain to the world-conquering Roman.   ALBERT HASTINGS.           283 He could designate dates, when the seven-hilled city gave law to queenly Britannia; but he could name no time when brave Caledonia, from her mountain fastness, ever beheld the Roman eagle fly. The hardy Scots, with courage strong as their northern rocks, defied Caesar himself, and it was only when their own rightful sovereign was invested with England's crown, that they consented to union with their richer, but not more heroic, neighbors of fruitful England. The result had been, he knew; peace and concord, but it was no enforced union after all. It was only this-their native-born king, on a united throne-their dynasty, shielded by an-- English crown. Heaven everlastingly cement the amalgamation1- and yet the high- souled Caledonian did not lower his crest to obtain it. Not Con- oeossion came rather from the other side-a proof of English magnanimity, which admonishes the nations of the wisdom which guided the coun- sels of our forefathers, who preferred justice to oppression, and peace to the ravages of war; since a brave people, however- outnumbered, will never sheathe the sword under the domination of brute force and adverse fortune. History's lying page may record events as it will, but truth is powerful, and must in the end prevail. It was a' gloomy evening, when Sir Albert Hastings, travel-worn, weary, and longing for repose, beheld the bold towers of Craigland Castle; but, even then did he with unwonted interest start from -his reclining posture, and gaze admiringly on the noble pile, whose majestic outline stood out in- bold relief against the leaden sky. - Its battlements rose frowning in feudal defiance; its tall. towers blackened and scarred by tempest and time, told of siege and defence, of war without, and death-defying resolution within. Its- ancient chapel, with painted oriel, faded altar, and silent belfry, gave token that once its owner held -rule-a chieftain who bowed to no- power which infringed on his, lordly prerogative.        ; The dark and sullen waters, on one side,: guarded the approach of an enemy; on another, heavy rampartf, with -embrasures and -flag-staffs, were yet visible; and over the moat in front were remntainr of anancient draw-bridge, now converted into a level causeway, across which rolled the wheels of the roomy coach in which Sir Albert half reclined, andfrom which he bounded impatiently up a nobleHfiight of stone steps into a vast hall, where we now leave him for a brief space. As Sir Albert was daily-thrown intothe society of (Geraldmnei, it was impossible that he could avoid being impressed with her extraordinary and finished beauty, the high tone of her thoughts,- the/brillance-and vividness of her imagination. The language employed by her while. ^'i   284'         ATLBERT HASTINGS. speaking, was always so fine a transcript of her sentiments, that Sir Albert could not withhold his admiration of the finely-turned sentence, which would look so beautifully written, and fell on the ear so bewitch- ingly spoken. Geraldine Rathbourne was an original thinker--not only did she excel in the elegancies of life, but now that her mind was being rapidly developed its powers became daily more evident. It seemed destined that Sir Albert Hastings shouti exercise great control over those with whom he daily conversed, and yet he did not seek so to do. Geraldine possessed much independence, had always been indulged and deferred to, and flattered. She had never yielded her opinions to any living being; no one ever thought even of controlling her, and yet she was deferential to a look from Sir Albert. She would sometimes argue with him, but always ended in thinking as he did, or in differing from him so condescendingly that she: appeared more-than half a convert to his-sentiments, whatever they might be. Her health was exceedingly frail, and such was the delicacyof her aspect, combined with her noble style of beauty, that she seemed some waxen form, moulded after a model designed by Apelles, yet which the beholder trembles to think would soon melt -away and be- lost. There was, at times, a vivid bloom on her cheeks, and a glittering brightness in her eyes, which made her resplendent. When this passed away, the most perfect purity of caverned marble scarce emulated the glorious white- ness of her justly proportioned features, with that unmistakable " a/r noblesse," which is so captivating when conjoined with modest assur- ance, oppbsed to arrogant assumption. Geraldine Rathbourne was con- sidered a perfect beauty.: She figured in "Children of the Nobility," dressed in white; her intensely black hair, and loveliest ofeyes, mating in color a newly-opened Caledonian blue-bell; her alabaster throat, and exquisitely turned arms, encircled by pearls, so rare and large as to :pro- duce a magnificent effect. It was, indeed, a grand picture, and Lord Rathbourne exclaimed, with rapture, on beholding it, addressing Lady aastings: "It claim to be a Well-maninered man, but a truthful one at the same time, and if your ladyship will have my honest opinion, why, I think that the most beautiful face in England. Lady, Livia smiled;.. "I can scarcely blame you for- saying so, since I agree with you," returned she, looking affectionately at Geraldine, to whom she was muchh attached, -and :admired most of all living beings, except Sir Albert Hastings himself.  .    CO API'S .i XL. "That castle rise on thhe steep Of the green vate of Tyne; And fair beneathr where slow they creep Prom pool to eddy, darcE and deep, Wher7e alders moist and ow w ei2oW eep You hear her streams repine. l- art.'amt-.-    ASTLE -CRAIGLAND was coeval in erection with many of those mouldering relics which commemorate departed -gran- deur, and survive as memorials of a former age, different in manners and customs, no less than in' religion, from:our own time. Originally, it had been a tower, fitted i o .:withstand the attacks of Highland clans, and marauders who roamed Northern  seas, and was in the, possession of the ancestors of the Lady Maud, late consort of Lord Rathbourne. They had successively added -to its time- abiding structure, hall and corridor, ante-room and stately apartment, so that it had become vast in proportions, and distinguished no less for old associations, than for modem elegance. We confess to a great love for an old house in venerable preservation, over whose gray walls of massive stone, wanders clinging ivy,- like youth embracing and smiling on age; where masses of delicate spring- green shades cover each jutting angle, and architecture of an exploded style recalls the unforgotten past  CastleCraigland was'one of these, arid as ocean winds swept over its tall turrets, from  sheeny -waters on one side, and. sun-lighted meadows in still bea'uty on the other, the ear wrs pleasedd with sea- wave murmurs, and the eye charmed with extended and diversified prospects. -'The effect Was indescribable, Sir Albert exerienced this the morning after his arrival, When, having risen early, he descended a long, narrow fiight of steps, and walked on a path of 'pebbles beside the ever-heaving Bea, beneath the shadow of the edifice, which cast its '- j   286           A-TR BRT HASTINGS. lengthened form over scarce curling waters. The cry of the sea-mew rang along the shore. Tiny skiffs slid over the mighty sea, now slum. bering in treacherous repose, but ready, at the north wind's call, to rouse its gigantic waves and shout with its voice of thunder. Direct. ing his course so as to make a circuit of the lordly old edifice, he was struck by the grand and beautiful features disclosed on every hand. Rising from the sea, a little below the castle, where perpendicular rocks, sometimes cutting sheer into the water, sometimes ascending ledge after ledge, till at the apex of a skyey cliff, some solitary bird of the mountain, plainly daguerreotyped against the sky, sat lonely and serene, safe from the snare of the fowler. Anon, a verdant- meadow, bordered by a far-off belt of woodland, and -dotted by wild flowers and'various plants, delighting in a humid soil, stretched out its enamelled expanse, wandered over by wild bees :and painted bitterflies. This plain sloped imperceptibly into a moor, where the w iilig cry of the bittern sometimes resounded and wild- fowl sheltered in flocks. Its slate-color contrasted with the living- green of the meadow, and Druid oaks, with their anciently worshipped mistletoe, were faintly discernible in the distance. This. was :the land which: Alfed the Great had redeemed from Dan- ish rule. Under those oaks did the poet seer of England, the ancient -warrior Druid, strike his wild harp and sacrifice his human victim. Here had Canute, in the vain pride of kingly presumption, cast chains into the seas commanding it to obey him,--this act of his furnishing a bitter- satre -on the vanity of those who, drunk with power, forget . their own weakness. Here, Harold, last and bravest of the Saxon kingsi slain at. the battle of Hastings, yielded -his crown and life to William of Normandy. Here, the long- line of England's monarchs had swayed, down to the days of the bold enthusiast and sage usurper, Oliver Cromwell, -who, after blood and conquest, left England loyal to her chosen form of governmpnt, best adapted to the character of her people, and whichi Sir Albert felt, would never be subverted, ilnless, indeed, the glory of the land were lost.- Lord Rathbourne's guests were slowly assembling at their morning meal, and as Sir Albert entered the breakfast-room, one. of the first objects which greeted him was the Lady-Geraldine robed in white, with- out any ornament :whatever, so perfectly beautiful and ethereal, with her dark hair, deep-huedrbluest of blue eyes, high and perfect style of loveliness-her matchless form, and gentle, yet aristocratic air. She seemed to make a part of the new and glorious scenes from the con- templation of which he had just returned, and her queenly beauty   A LBERT HATINGS.           287 constituted her a fair representation. of her- glorious and time-honored ancfttry. He bowed with involuntary respect and admiration, as she rose to meet him. But Geraldine, would accept, in her own noble mansion, no cold salutation from the preserver of her life. A slight flush came to her white, pure cheek,--a flashing light quivered in her dream-like eye. She took his hand and greeted him warmly, affec- tionately, simply. No cottage-maiden, in apron blue, spinning-wheel in hand, like Roger's-Lucy, ever welcomed shepherd swain-more truth- fully or lovingly, than did the high-born damsel her father's visitor, assigning to him with diffidence, the seat- of honor, and tendering to him the civilities of Castle Craigland. "Lady Livia," said Geraldine, " breakfasts in her own room, and has commissioned me to say, that Sir Albert Hastings is desired by her to repair thither in an hour. Lady Arundel will meet you. We are indeed rejoiced to see you at Craigland, and trust we n-y be able to contrive recreations which may be useful and agreeable'tAO an emanci- pated student. ' Mr. Stuart and our London friend, Mr. Melville, are with us by special invitation,-and Lord Rathboume is full of shooting on the moor, and sailing, not on a lake; but the veritable' ocean, this'time. I believe he supposes, that, with Sir Hastings in our midst, we need not fear any water-god or old Neptune himself." Sir Albert blushed. He felt the -allusion so gracefully made to -tho service which he had cheerfully rendered, and felt more complimented than if open thanks had been spoken for his 'service, which seemed greatly overrated, and his reply to his lovely hostess was not couched in those unembarrassed terms which usually marked his 'conversation. Mr. Stuart came forward to meet his former pupil with evident satis- faction, and Lord Rathbourne, who had that instant come in from a gallop over themoor, offered -all sorts of felicitations on the advent of his expected and warmly welcomed guest. There was much of the sportsman blent with the noble in Lord Rathbourne's manners. Occa- sionally, the strong gush -of his true English hpospitality would set at naught conventional rules, and he almost took a friend to- iarms, as he came near doing when greeting SirAlbeft Hastings. "I believe," said his lordship, stepping back a foot or two, and con. templating our hero, from head to foot with great co-mlsency, "! I declare, Sir Albert, I shall have to abandon the idea of lioniing-you. You are wonderfully advanced in-stature of late,-almost as tall as Sir Gifford himself; besides, you are too proud to be the star of a-coterie. No I I am well aware -you demand a more extended sphere for the operation of your influence,-first, the House of Commons,- and, after   288          AUIRRT HASTINGS. that, the world, east and west. See., I give you wide latitude. "But," added he, adroitly changing the subject, " there is splendid shooting on the moor, fine drives on the east side of the castle, and as much sailing as mortal cay desire. Have you seen Lady Livia?" "I am aboutto visit her in obedience to an intimation just conveyed to me," said Sir Albert, bowing to Geraldine, who smiled in return, Lord Rathboume regarded both the young people with a well-pleased smile, and waving hs h hand, passed through the breakfast-room. Ge- raldine rang the bell-a servant appeared-and she directed him to conduct Sir Albert to the apartments of Lady Livia. He was surprised at the length of corridors, halls and chambers which he passed, before, on the south side of the great mansion, his conductor paused/ and pointing to a half-open door, said: "My Lady Hastings is within." Sir Albert was- soon folded in the arms of his grand-mother, and Lady Arunder came forward to meet him in her quiet, loving way. He now felt a deep glow of satisfaction, in the midst of beloved rela- tives and kind friends. Now indeed the grim old castle, with all its blended attractions, seemed like home, and taking his seat near a, window which looked out on the shoreless waters of the illimitable ocean, he inhaled its strong breath, and was awed by ,it sublimity. Both ladies, like Geraldine, were robed in white, and their elegance of form,. costume and manner, never struck him more forcibly than it did now, thoroughly in keeping as it was with all their surroundings, and the very atmosphere of the ancient baronial abode of warrior chiefs. "Albert," said Lady Hastings, -'do you not find this place inter- esting? Mary spent much of her time here in former years, with Lady Maud, one of the loveliest women in the world. I have so often heard my sister speak of Craigland that I confess, when it was decided that we should come here during the warm season, on your account as well as my own, I was pleased with the arrangement. Lady Maud was a beauty, as I before said, but in mind and heart I have never known her equal., Geraldine resembles her mother, and when fully developed, I doubt whether the former heiress of Craigland Castle can be. considered to have surpassed her daughter. You should hear Geraldine sing. She is another Annot Lyle, and in the east room, when that vast expanse of water is lit by moonlight-when ocean winds come fresh from its bosom- and seem to keep, time with her music, I am sometimes carried away from the present to that glorious old time when your father stood at my knee, and the world was very bright."   -^     A;LBEBRT 1:NTS .          289 Lady Livia spoke half sorrowfully, and remaining-silent for a few moment, added: i Lady Geraldine has a most bewitching voice, but wfe cannot allow her freedom in its use. She is frail-very -frail-and( when I -note Lord Rathbourne's devotion to her, H-am often pained by the thought that she may die young. - Her- seinstivenesis extre-me, and I beg, Albert, that you at all time. while;here,:wilHrender her/those atten- tions prized by women, and which, should be bestow-ed:witout effort by the other sex. Geraldine regards-you with p-tuliharinteresteas the preserver of her life. She is as -solicitous for your-Sdaceiss as though you were an only brother. Yori understand me; my son., I desire that you will never let Geraldine supposeyou indifferent to her good opinion. - This would wound her deeply, and my Lord llathbourne no less."-  Lady Arundel, when Lady Livia came to the close of her address to Sir Albert, who responded as he always did, agreeably th6the expressed wish of his aunt, inquired:    *  "Have you heard, dear Albert, from America, recently?" . "No, madam, I regretto say that I have not. I tarriedsome days before setting out for Craigland in the vain hope of doig so, but fear-  ing that Lady Livia -and yourself might bhe disappointed 'at any further delay on my part, I resolved to come immediately, and have- directed any letters which may arrive after my departure to be sent hither. I presume there is no difficulty in the transmission of letters to, this point                    .   . "None whatever." And Sir Albert sat long conversing with his relatives, till the-great castle clock -rang out the hour of twelve-when Lady Livia, strting fromr her seat, exclaimed:  "This will never dol I wonder- Lord Rathbourne has. not been thundering at. my door, and calling for his guest long since. :Go, Albert, join your friends and be as -happy as you can." - LadyLinia kissed him affectionately, and as he walked away, said to Lady Arundel:          ' . Iah, -Mar-y, -were it'ihot for that Amerinsan correspondeseeana those trainstlantic memories, all might be- as-I- wish. .Aet settle in  ,ngIand with ,^ noble brde, and I be freedafirm- axiety which weighs heavily enoughgkon, m -atetimnat- es -  r "We must be content,4lady pivia, to awaitthe ecourse of events, and. I advise- you by no' mean.' to seem as though-directing lbert's   290         AInBE RT BASTINGQS, future arrangements too stringently. There is, in every human heart, more' especially in the heart of man, a deeply implanted love of inde- pendence. Above all things else the -affections refuse to be controlled by external :instrumentality. -Remember this, my dear sister I You will-injure the- causwhich I have long since plainly seen that you have io much at, heear if you are not, guarded in the expression of your very natural wishes qon a certain point.' "Right,:Mary, right, as you always are," replied Lady Hastings, clearing her, brows.-:: ' But, tell me, do you think that the practices of that terrible governess have been, such as permanently to endanger the life or health of Geraldine Rathbourne " "Her London physician declared that she would not have survived a week, at the time of my going to her," replied Lady Arundel, with a slight shudder, (" and he stated to me, further, that he doubted whether poor Geraldine, ever would wholly recover from the shock her consti- tution had sustained. 9"Horrible l" exclaimed Lady Livia, clasping her hands. "Geral- dine once spoke of -it to me, and she was much excited. I indeed rejoice that-you were in time to save her. You are always doing some good work, Mary."  Affairs at Elerton, about this time, were involved in doubt and difficulty. Charles De. Mar, devoted passionately to Emeline, was almost, always there, and Victor, who, though admiring her greatly, had, to a considerable extent, conquered his predilection, came two or three times a week to visit: his sister, and enjoy the pleasant society which he met at her house. Rox:nna was very reserved. She came and went like a beautiful dream, seldom pausing longer than to bestow a casual greeting, while her dark eye flashed, her head was proudly thrown back, and, with buoyant, gliding step, she sought her other and dearer home-the companionship of yarbling streams, green woods, and untamed mintrels.: She had grwn tall and the native dignity of her form and carriage, were unequalled. . Roxanna, in her chosen solitude, had other companions than whispering leaves, melodious birds, and moaning fountains., The, dark, misty, and impassioned ssian cast his shadowy spell about her. :3Bryant, in his classic and pure strains, called back the memory of a race from wich she was desaemded; and Longfellow, in his truthful, poetic delineation of the Indian character, won her heart No lews-was she chafmed by the inspiring effusions of that thrilling and heaven-endoweddaughter of the Muses, Felicia Hemans, who sang of the   AIBEBT  HAsT ING.          291 aitections, as man, in his proud majesty of intellect cannot sing. In taste and temperament, she herself belonged to the tuneful choir, and circumstances had contributed to foster and develop the poetic germ in her nature. The wild, sad life of her early years-her familiarity with nature in the beautiful South-the terrible events which preceded her unhappy mother's death-the manner of that death, and last, though -most powerful of all, a romantic, and as she believed, perfectly hopeless love for Victor De Mar, whtomshe regarded as some superior and heroic spirit whom she might worship, at a distance, with all the en- thusiasm and devotion claimed by Sir William Wallace, Thaddeus of Warsaw, or the Roman Rienzi-all these things conspired to rouse high and mournful thoughts, which stamped her features with inde- scribable, pathetic beauty. She had ceased employing her time (as she sat beneath embowering trees on the hill-side at Oak Mount,) in twin- \ ing wreaths, and collecting wild flowers, to be dispatched, floating on the rapid stream, messengers of love to the Isle of Founts. but, with * noble companionship, such as we have named, the hours flew by, while her spirit drank of those enchanted waters, which, sparkling orqm their golden fountain, lift human clay above mortality, and robe the bard with angelic wings. Something of this was apparent in her aspect, so that she was approached with involuntary deference, and men marvelled at the effect of her cold, statue-like beauty. She had long since decided that Victor and Emeline were mutually attached, and only wondered at the indifference of the latter, which, however, she considered assumed, for she could not imagine it possible that Victor should love vainly. Charles De Mar she looked upon with eyes of pity, and scarcely did justice to the student's accurate knowledge, refinement of perception, and cultivated taste. , There was something too womanly about him to please the independent self-reliant Roxanna, and. a touch of sarcasm, at times, tinctured his language, which was wholly repellent to her high-toned character and feelings. - Charles had not, it must. be confessed, the manly port of his brother, nor his graceful Herculean proportions. He looked rather like an Italian troubadour, who, guitar in-hand, would seek his lady's bower by moonlight, and with exquisite skill, charm her wakeful ear. He' was, however, handsome-critically so, and looked quite -Byronic, with his open throat, turned-down collarnd black ribbon. Charles was rather a proud, than a vain-- man, though Roxanna, with her ideas of manhood predicated on the character of Victor, thought otherwise. Charles considered her too self-reliant   292          ALBEBT HASTINS. for a-woman, and, vice versa, she regarded him too refining, and fond ot detail and specialities, for a man-so the two were not agreed, except to disagree. Emeline lopoked upon both Victor and Charles with an equal degree of kindness. They were the brothers of her beloved Valerie De Mar. Her ideal of manly excellence was far away at Craigland Castle. No human being could compete, in her estimation, with her childish play- mate, and tenderly loved cousin of yore, Sir Albert Hastings. de  r,                    x   - 'i.  oH   CHEAPT',ER XLI. ^ o g t   tiot {Il  tut g  a4  t.  "ad I loved and thur been slighted, That I better wozuld have borne: Love i8 quelled, when unrequited, By the rising pulse of asoorn--Byron. SUMMER'S rich, soft breath floated over earth, and dazzling rays illumined the glittering air, amidst which innumerable insects, (some scarce discernible,) revelled in the elastic life- giving element. Now did deep, dark umbrage invest gloriously- arrayed trees, standing forth in all the pomp with which they greet the ardent eyes of radiant summer. Sprink had matured into a more complete development her tender leaves ani buds. Resigning them, then, into the hands of her more powerful sister, they had -been am- plified, vivified, and invigorated, tillf brought to their utmost perfection, without a shade of sickly autumn marring their healthful luxuriance, they stood forth meet representatives of the season which they adornod. Valerie sat in her wide chamber which overlooked the tops of etina- trees covered with purple blooms, and catalpas with huge clusters -of spotted flowers, the unrivalled ball-rooms of industrial bees and spiral- beaked humming-birds. Far off, gently rustling their pointed, reed- like tufts, at a great elevation from earth, bare-trunked pines stood in solid phalanx, offering a bold contrast of intense green to the- cerulean concave above them. There was a perfect - correspondence of purity and simplicity in this apartment, with snow-white lacep curtains-a canopy of the same material, (almost needless, for on those favored and elevated hills the irritating and perseveringannoyaneofmosquitoes is scarcely known,) ottoman 'of white dimity, deeply fringedwith white coverlets, bases and toilet-covers of the same' materiall, procelain of transparent clearness, without gilt or pictured flower, mated the virgin whiteness of all around; and she, whose Parian exterioronly faintly represented the purified spirit within, sat there,;-s weet Valerie De Mar, to whom had been appointed the early death of love,-who   294,         ATMBRT HASTINGS. had walked through the fiery trials of her youth with angel tread, and gathered from her gloomy experiences of life a heavenly wisdom, which taught her to look away from tangible objects, and fix her gaze where no disappoifitment can come,-where death, the spectral gorgon, dares not set his skeleton foot, and where her sister angels were waiting to receive her. But she did. not, like Miss Juliet Grayson, regard a prim and puritanical exterior a portion of that sublime faith which directed her view to another world; neither did she consider innocent mirth at all opposed to the spirit of religion. True, it had no charms for her, as the plaintive, etherealized, but not ascetic cast of her once glorious beauty plainly evinced. She walked the earth half a spirit now, but so loving, charitable, tender and human in her. feelings for others was she, that all felt to her they might safely appeal in hours of doubt and danger, assured that they would win, from her benevolence, all the consolation which' their circumstances, however difficult, might de- mand. Let none deem thee, a myth, sweet Valerie De Mar 1 since in this living, breathing world we have -seen, aye, and known thee I But Valerie sat in her cool summer-chamber, as described,- pale as its white adornments, and serene as the sky, which looked so unfathom- ably calm and blue, over the dense pine-grove. In her hand was a volume, which, though the product of mighty genius, yet lacks human interest, and in which the bard of Britain, though his visual orbs were closed to the light of day, yet illuminated with a more glorious light within, pours his m'ind's radiance on lofty themes. There came a light rap to her door, and Emeline stood before her. There was a slight shadow on the fair face of the maiden; but their greetings-were cordial, and Emeline, taking the book from the hand of Valerie, read aloud as was her custom. The lesson was over, the , book closed, and Valerie said, in a soft, sweet voice, as she took the hand of her young friend: "Emeline Lovel, there is, I fear, something which discomposes you, , resting on your mind. Do not fear, dear child, to confide in me what- everreates to your happiness. Since assuming the relation of guardian and: protectress to both you and Roxanna, I think I may truthfully say, that it -has been mfy- endeavor faithfully to discharge my self-imposed responsibilities to you and to her. If I have failed in this, it has been thr0Ugh ;error of juidgment, not through error of judgment not through -*nt of love or the best inten- tions.:- Can I in- any way promote your wishes? Is there .anything, not dbne; which I can yet dofor you, niy dear Emeline.?" "No, indeed," responded the girl, in a scarce audible voice, a no, in- deed, my dear, dear sister; but I fear," here she raised her confiding   AiBRERT HASTINGS&          295 eyes, half-tearful, to Valerie's face, I fear you will be offended. He seems to love me so truly-- love him too, but not in the way he wishes. Alas 1 you do not understand "me, and I know not how to speak more plainly." "( Yes, Emeline, I believe that-you are fully understood. It is Charles De Mar of whom you speak. I confess that I am aware of his deep attachment toyou, my darling child. He' is my brother, and I dearly love him, not for those manly qualities which-will-carry Victor success- fully through life, but for a sensitiveness and depth of feeling which those not intimately acquainted with him, as I am, do not perhaps comprehend. I fear that it will go hard 'with poor Charles if he is disappointed where the whole strength of his love is concentrated, as I am well aware it is on you. But not for an instant would I seek to advise, far less to control you'in a matter of this kind; and you must never suspect the slightest change in my regard for you, whatever may occur, alas i" and here Valerie raised her, magnificent, but. subdued eyes, as though looking away- from earth., "oalas 1 I know full well that the trusting love of youth, with all itsunselfish devotion, and wild dreams of more than mortal felicity, is a bright and lovely thing, though invested with a-fearful and overmastering power. Had- I fore- seen, in my shortsightedness, how this might -end, I would have tiekon timely precaution, but, in my ignorance, I faneied that I was promot- ing the happiness of both, in allowing unrestrained jnterou-se between my favorite brother and the dearest child of my adoption, I must ask forgiveness of you and of him, my Emeline,. and- stand convicted of weak judgment and- erring ove towards you both;" "Oh, if you speak that way you will break my heart," said Eme. line, passionately. - "I never .itend to marry. There was one,--but he is lost to me forever! I know and feel- it; -etyo llare so ,good, I must tell you all Yes, there was :one, though .he is dead' -to me for- ever-the waters of the broad-Atlantic separate us-one, and one only whom .I could ever love, as Charle De Marl ought ,to-be loved. He is an English noble, far above me now. He writes of a great and beautiful lady, Gferaldine Rathboume-the high-born and theUlovely. He can be nought to me save a memory, and-yet, with that memory even, I dare-not marry another'"  Emeline .seemed awed at fhe meaning conveyed by-her ownwords, and could speak no more, while Valerie,regafdind'g her with newly, awakened and profound interest, said sadly, as though speaking to herself AIs it even so?             , -'  *, "*'Alas, our young affections run to waste, Or water but the desert.' Of  .    .   296          ALBERT HEBTINMS A:'nd now, tEmeline, adopted child of my love, whose gentleness has ever soothed me--from whose obedience and sweet sympathy I have long drawn draughts of comfort and consolation--we under- stand each other. I know how to prize your noble -frankness and will not abuse it. Has Charles spoken to you on this painful subject, my dear child?"  a "He has," said Emeline, in a low voice, "he has done so this very . morning, otherwise I should not have ventured to say what I have said -to you, my dear sister."  "Yes," replied Valerie, "always give me that title, and feel at the same time its sweetest import. Poor Charles would indeed have found a treasure in you, -but it was not to be." And Valerie, kissing the forehead of her companion, rose slowly and walked away into the    ! shrubbery. Here she found the young man himself sitting in an atti- tude of deep dejection. His pride was wounded, his heart crushed, -and he looked the very picture of despair; 'not a vestige of color re- mained on his cheek; whollyabandoned to sorrow, he seemed reck- less and unconscious of surrounding objects, while his eyes were stead- fastly fixed on the ground, heedless of surrounding beauty--of nature in its sunimer splendor-of milk-white, crimson and gold-colored but- terflies, disporting over gorgeous poppy-beds--of the beetle's hum amidst scarlet hollyhock and vivid oleander flowers. He did not note the grasshopper's shrill chirp as it rose from purple thyme and blooming lavender, or the loud, clear, varying -trill of that matchless *southern  warbler, the dulcet-throated mocking-bird. What were skies of orien- tal resplendence-trees laden with luscious and inviting fruit-voluptu- ous airs impregnated with balmy odors-what were they all? Gloom,  and darklne, and winter reigned through creation within that world in which every human being resides, separately and apart from the uni- versal -world without. When the blight hath fallen there, how worse than vain is external pomp or beauty. - Valerie, approaching, laid her transparent hand on the young man's shoulder, and in her own tender way, said: "Charles "              -                He sprang to his feet in an instant, and the color mounted vividly to his face. He seemed making a great effort to assert his manhood, de- spite the sorrow which oppressed him. But the smile was forced and almost ghastly. He took his sister's hand} pressed it to his lips, and,  after doing battle manfully with his agony for an instant, fairly gave way and burst into a flood -of tears. Valerie was deeply moved., No one knew better than she did what terrific desolation supervenes when   B   T HEASTINGS.         297 the alluring god of love mockingly takes his flight, resigning his abused . victory to the fell grasp of Ate. .                  - "Oh, Charles, beloved brother of my soul-for now, indeed, a nearer  ] tie unites us-oh, Charles, exert your manhood, and spurn these weak feelings I Emeline Level (alas, the fatal name) is beautiful, aye, and :X good--I love her truly. But she is not gifted like Roxanne. There are other maidens who would gladly receive the love which she rejects, - and they,could you only see them, disenthralled from the power of  that most magical and potent spell which first love weaves around its- . i devotees, you would find equally capable of making you happy. - Think not that I evince inconsistency while speaking thua . Were you a woman the case might be different, but, as it is,--the world before you, with your cultivated intellect, ripe scholarship and exquisite taste for the fine arts-your ample fortune and once adventurous-spirit, I would say in the language of the immortal Campbell:  ' Shame on the coward thought that e'er betray'd The noon of manhood to a myrtle shade.' - "No, my brother,- this may not bel And- though my words may now seem harsh and unsympathizing, yet the time will come, I fer- vently trust, when you will acknowledge their wisdom and exemplify   i their truth. You are now pasing over the Bridge of Sighs,' into-the collected, reasoning and philosophical era of manhood. You will, per- haps, in after time, look back on this great trial of youth as on some- 1 thing which has contributed to mature your character, to strip life of i its youthful romance, and to make you a stronger and better man. Re-  j member, my brother, (since I know you are well acquainted with classic e lore) remember the faintingsdespondency with which Telermachus re-   j signed the hope of possessing the too seductive nymph, Eucharis, and  i how Minerva in the form of Mentor saved him, even against his will, by K j precipitating him into the sea. Oh, Charles, let me not, amidst my many misfortunes, have to lament that I was the means of introducing this girl to you, and that, through her rejection of my brother's suit, he has thrown away his chances in life I Suffer this not to be, my Charles, as you love your unhappy sister I         .  The sublimated countenance of Valerie, while she pursued this argu- * ment sand entreaty, was so entirely above any conception which the young man had ever entertained of purifiedihumanity, that he instinct- ively bowed his head, and (there was something noblen the fastidious i student) assured his sister, by word and look, that her counsel would be heeded. The next week Charles De Mar was off to Italy.       i r ; :' *it '  ****--     .   .          ^i   3SWO           A  BS1' ttfir JULNO Now it happened by a strange fatality that on this very day, the day of Charles' -departurc for Europe, Mr. Oldham, in an epistle to Sir  Albert Hastings, had stated that common report- assigned the young heiress of Ellerton to be the future bride of Charles- De Mar, younger brother of: her protetress- Mr. Oldham added with his usual bluntness and matter-of-fact acuteness: "Miss De Mar is a lovely woman, so lovely indeed, that awed by her singular beauty and dignified manner, I lost my balance mentally, ajnd I believe stammered like a fool in her presence, Nowi,as I have before hinted, it is universally believed that she intends marrying Charles De Mar (a fine young man, though I con- fess the older brother, Victor, is my favorite) to her ward and adopted daughter, Emeline Lovel.- This is in every regard an eligible match for them both.: Charles is rich, so is the bride, through the liberality oe his sister, One is talented, the other beautiful I see no barrier; it -will doubtless be a suitable and happy match."         - Good-Mr. Oldham supposed,:while communicating this intelligence, that he would be imparting pleasure to his distant and honored corre- spondent. And this leads us to the remark that many'well-intentioned people, while going. out of their way to render what they conceive to be a benefit, really commit the most egregious blunders and do infinite harm where they intended only to promote good"-such is human fal-    libility, and so dangerous is it to intermeddle with the affairs of others, even whenwe suppose in our ignorance that we are rendering them a    ' service.  But Charles De Mar, in. fact, left the Western hemisphere in the very ship which bore to Sir Albert Hastings tidings of his intended marriage with Eameline Lovel. The only difference was this, the letter was bound for England, the discarded lover for Italy, which separate destination each reached in due time. At present we shall leave them on the world- traversed Atlantic.   -      A Poor Emeline,-who dearly lovled-Valerie De Mar, accused herself of ingratitude because she could not respond to the affection of her   1 brother, and felt guilty in Valerie's presence, as though she had corn-  mitted some ungrateful or treacherous act, though her protectress never, by word or sign, in the most remote manner, alluded to the circum- stance which thad induced her brother to leave Ellerton and his own home so abruptly. On going into the parlor after her interview with her protectress as ab6ve stated, she beheld Roxanna standing erect by the :casen]at, holding omthingin her hand, which she contemplated with an- eager, admiring look. Roxanna, wholly occupied witit this small object, which she first examined in one light and then in another,   did not notice the entrance of Emeline, and with that high port and elegance of attitude derived from her mother, but which was in her even more graceful and commanding, the girl; stooad. light flshed from her dark eyeS; she spoke her thoughts aloud forgetting that she was in the parlor at Ellerton insteadofthe hauntedbower on Oak Mount, where sheWas accustomedto dreamM her dreams and give ex- pression to her emotions:without control. She uttered them now, and Emeline, unintentionally au auditor, was forced to hear them. "What a beautiful, exquisite picture this is, and how poetically, yet truthfully, does it represent her features, formed to winbthe love of man I Poor Charles De Mar has, indeed, left-a potent evidence both of artist- -skill and deep love in this transcendent image of one, whom to look upon is to love. But what could he hope for in :return, when he - doubtless knew, as I do, that hisgreater and noblerbrotherhad already won that heart-that mealine Level loves Victor De Mar? Iow could she do otherwise  could she do otaerwise? lHappy Emeline, fair and good I could -almost rejoice---" h e "stop, Reo anna," sai d the person, apostrophized, "stop and hear me. I tell you, truly, that both these brothers are regarded by me with an equal degree of interest--that -I love them both as dear friends and no more--will you believe mel Rexana?" Roxanna cast the deep, soul-searching light of her majestic eyes full on the speaker, and replied with a:ovdeof melting sweetness, yet with a deep under-tone ofsorrow in its response: "Can this be true, Emeline? -Yet I doubt younot. Ah, let inme entreat for him--I mean for Victor He is so good, s noble:' Victor himself, at this instant, eitered the room; and, bowing in his usual manner, Walked up to Roeanna, taking the picture from the speaker, while he: gazed on it admiringly for an instant, and sighing, laid it on a able. Emeline had'escaped from the roomwhile he held it in his hand, and agitated by recent events Sought her w- apartment 4":Do you," said Roxanna, "recognize the original in thatheautiful representation of my Un        of charous Skill which? ' Undoubtedly. i think it the finest spee o f Charles'sski which I have yet seen. Did he leaveit here?" ' He must have done so, for I found itwhere you have just laid it, - and was intent on its contemplatio when you came'm O meline is not more lovely thanu sh e is superior and attractive;' continued BRx- anna,- conquering the secretjealousy whieh ly at herheart, and-giving full utterance to that nobility of sentiment Wichat all events, would: render justice to -others.   300          ALBERT HASTINGS. It was while uttering these words that Roxanna awakened new and delightful interest in him to whom she spoke.- Victor saw, at once, that this'wild, poetic, impassioned girl was regulated by principle, and above the arts attributed to her sex. E He saw that she could do even a rival justice, though her heart rebelled at the generous act, and he turned on her a glance which the half Indian girl would have given years of anguish to secure, while he replied: I "Roxanna, you are no less lovely than you are generous I Erteline Lovel is indeed, beautiful-so is her cousin. Do not turn away from me, Roxanna, I am not wont to speak idly or flatteringly, will you hear from me a -candid confession?? I once admired, above all other women, your sweet cousin, Emeline Loevel-that time has long been passed, and I declare to you- now, that you alone, of living women, meet the aspirations of my soul, and- realize my better ideal of woman's perfectionsl Reoxanna threw back her head-the defiance of Myra was in the act. She looked unblenchingly on him who spoke-Myra's dignity was in the look, she waved her hand, a native majesty guided the motion: "'I am not to be deceived; no, not for an instant. Emeline Leovel you love-me you compassionate. You are willing, through pity, to woo me now when your dearer hopes are disappointed, and you fancy that I shall be :glad to receive your suit 'on any terms. I I tell you, Victor. De Mar, were you twenty times the brother of my beloved pro- tectress; nay, did you wear a royal crown, I would reject you at once and forever on such termsl I would despise your cold offering of love, and spurn it as I do now 1"  Roxanna walked with great dignity towards the door, and Victor offered no objection to her departure, but sat gloomily meditating on the course of events which he feared had robbed him forever of Rox- anna. There had been a time, he well knew; when he might have secured her affections, but that time, seemingly, had passed away-for- ever, and now did he first perceiv6 the true value of the good, which, not rejecting, he had yet failed to secure, the first love of a richly endowed, beautiful and generous-minded girl like Roxanna.- She who might personate a Corinne or any other glorious delineation of the woman-poet. He believed that she was lost to him now forever, and a deep despondency supervoning, he walked listlessly away, and, tak- ing up a book which he found lying open on a window-ledge in the corridor, discovered it to be a volume of Mrs. -Heman's works, pencil- lined in the bold, delicate hand of Roxanna. The "-Indian Woman's Death Song" particularly attracted his attention with the designated'   .    .   ALBERT  HSTINGS.            3 lines, so tuchin g to all; so he'art-thriling to an unfortunate descendant of the scattered and almost exterminated race of-the impersonated woman:    ' A "My warrlor's eye hath looked Upon another's face, And from his soul hath faded mine as fades a moonbeam's trace My spirit comes not near-my memory oer his dream. And I am with the lost. On--on, dark rolling stream ' "' Oh, beautiful, impassioned girl," said Victor, fervently, as he closed the volume'" might I once have been loved by thee even thus, and must I take up the lamentation of those who, having allowed their opportunity to pass unheeded, lament hopelessly. 'But Valerie De Mar, sweet purified spirit, comes to-me now, and not by word or look will I betray to her refined sensibility those pangs which, due -to my ill- judging inexperience, I ought to feel, and, if I suffer, to suffer alone." The westerning sun had by this time reached his evening bourne, and while dappled clouds closed around his departing disk, looked a/ monarch to the last, gathered his glorious beams in a fal blaze of farewell splendor, and laying his luminous head on the- crystaine domain of mysterious and refulgent waters, rested, till Aurora should, with purple fingers, open the gates of dawn, and give the life of another dayto the awakening world. , How like some fair saint looked Valerie with evening's light and varied shades illuminating her mild resigned brow, with her rich and gorgeous development of womanhood so spiritualized and ;rdeemed from the grossness of earth that she looked a wingless angel;  Victor summoned his most cheerful smile, and offering his arm tohis sister, said:  ' "As I leave very soon for West Point, dear Valerie, will you not indulge me with a private interview?' Sppose we walk'down the lane on the right hand from Ellerton. True, thereis little shade there, but that does not matter at this time of the evening. Wej:hallbe -fee from interruption, and as I may not see you again for many months, perhaps years, let us speak together as brother and sister, between whom there should be no reserve. Valerie,-my beloved sister,'why will you waste your life thus? I know all you would sayin -reply. I can very well understand, in .advance, every argument;whi,;ch'you would employ. But they would have no weight with me.' Let me speak out, for- once. What does the house of Lov:-- claim? further at your hands? It has your wasted youth, ydur --best affections. It-hns its proffered wealth restored untouched. Its orphans have been , i f    302  '        ALBERT HASTINGS. rescuedand reared by you. Tou, whom it stabbed to the heart  Forgive me, Valerie, I did not mean to enter on this subject, and yet 'tis, perhaps, well that I have done so. At all events, for once, I will speak out.  Prophetic stars, speaking after the style of the mystic astrologer, are antagonistic, and cannot combine, even in the destiny of one of our race, assoiatd i ith those which guide anopposing family- that of LoveL Nay, imy mister, do not .,start 'and turn paler even than the habitual sorrow of your life has made you already I "Both these girls, enriched by you,'rescued from every snare which lies in wait for the young and inexperienced by you, have successively rejected both your brothers.: And one, the one now addressing you, may say that he has had a separate refusal from both. I confess, since 'tis now past, that, in the first instance, I loved Emeline Level, but, finding Charles devoted to her, withdrew my attentions. Roxanna did not, on a slight acquaintance, interest me so much, though I have since learned to rate her as she deserves; and declare to you, frankly, I do not- believe that girl has her equal in America. She is fully aware of my sentiments, and yet this very day has she, with con- tempt, rejected the hand I offered her. You -are not ignorant how itifared with qhbarlesa. Pity,tool hbe, so proud, so sensitive, so gener- ous and confiding. --Now, my dear sister, dooyou not see that what I have said is true? - There is a fate which forever separates the houses of Lovel':nd De, ar 1  - Yalene wasd very-calm, :while her brother spoke- evidently under ex- citement, and smarting from his recent disappointment She smiled in a half incredulous way, but there were tears in her-beautiful dark eyes, as she replied:.  "Alas, my brother, do not let me hear you, distinguished as you have ever been, for practical-common sense, talk in so wild a way I Had C harles uttered the sentiments whiMc I bear, with unaffected surprise, from you, I, should not have regarded them so very extraordinary. But I see ;how, all this has come to pass. -Emeline Lovel, in the first place, will never marry -an American. , She loves her cousin, Sir Albert Hastings, and I fear: the chance is small of her ever meeting him again. There are, no doubt, lovely women in his sphere of life, who will cause imeline'slehildish charms to beforgotten. Perhaps, had this not been the - case in regard to -Emeline, Ashe -ight have formed other attach- ments. I cannot say, but with -that candor and honesty for which Emeline Leovel has ever been distinguished, she.:hastold me all. It may be quite' as weI, dear Victor, that this early and -strong prepossession occupies her mind, as both my dear brothers appear, in the first in-   AILBET HABIGAS.            303 stance, to have been attracted by her. Any rivalry between you would  have made me exceedingly unhappy, and might have led to the most unpleasant consequences. I had, previous to Charles' departure, a conversation with him on this very matter, and he fully believed that a strong regard for you had induced his rejection. I told-him plainly how it was, and convinced him, at the same time, that thisearly passion of poor Emeline ismnot likely to give way to time or disappointment. She is one of those who, under a calm exterior, conceals high resolve, a constant heart, and silent, though unbending force of will. Emeline will never change. As for me, Victor, hear for the first and last time my settled resolve. I have but one mission in life now-to do all the good which Providence permits. My hopes tend to a better life, though I yield to no superstition which would immure my living bodyin a vain-glorious convent; I believe not in the-telling of beads--in^slavish devotion to the rule of any church; I do believe, however, in an active benevolence in the world, not out of it and this I purpose -to practise so long as I live. Never again, Victor, renew this subject. Doing so is painful and profitless. You could not, perhaps, understand me, were I to say more. "In regard to Roranna, I will add, she is free, unless indeed, as; I strongly suspect, you are not indifferent to her. She is proud, and' full of lofty sentiment. I do not wonder that your addresses- to her, at this particdlar time, have not been successfiil. Your former attachment to Emeline was evident to all Think you that she, with her power- ful and penetrating instincts, 'failed to note it?  I tell you she was aware of the fact long before Emeline herself knew  -it, and I am not without hope that you may yet come to a satisfactory understand-- ing with her." Victor De Mar paused, a deep flush overspread his handsome and manly features, a cold smile curled 'his lip, and a stemrn resolve 'sat on his features, as he replied: i"Were Roxanna more beautiful, more endowed, more elevated than she is,-did she wield the wealth of the Indies,--were I even aware that she repented of her summary and contemptuous answer to me this morning, nevrer will I again humble myself to -solicit her favor I No, my dear Valerie; never, let the consequence be wh'at it masyl . She re- fused credence to my sincere professions, she spumed' my offered love. No living woman shall:doJ so twice."  Valerie bowed her'head in silent-acquiescence. Poor Valerie I after all her struggles, and the sincere wish which she   304:          ATBFRT HAS TNGS. * had tobenefit those she loved, was disappointment to be the meed of her heroic self-sacrifice? The bruised spirit accepted, with beautiful humility, its allotted sorrows, and, sighing deeply, she only said: "When will you leave us, Victor?" "The day after to-morrow, my sister." He kissed her cold brow, and; throwing open the door, bid her adieu, and was gone. It was a bright and cloudless morning, the day of Victor's departure. He had sat for some time, conversing with Emeline and Valerie, and rose to depart. Valerie rang the' bell, which being answered by a ser- vant, she inquired, "Is Roxanna- disengaged? - o to her apartment and inquire, with my love. Say that Lieutenant De Mar has called to bid us farewell, and request her to come down." "Miss Level, madam," said he, respectfully, "is not at home. Her maid says she has walked out-to Oak Mount, she thinks." Victor shook Emeline's hand kindly, and whispered her, "Take care of sweet Valerie." Emeline returned his pressure with warmth, and her blue eyes almost overflowed with unshed tears. She then left the room, and the brother and sister were left alone. Victor strained his sister to his breast, and its strong throbs told a manly but unspoken emotion. Then Valerie lifted her great glorious dark eyes to her bro- ther's face, and said, in a melancholy thrilling tone: "Promise me, Victor, that you will not think too harshy of poor Roxanna, the child of sorrow, the nursling of my isolated but not un- loving life 1" Victor bowed his head in assent, and, mounting his impatient charger, galloped down the avenue. h It so happened that his path lay in the direction of Oak Mount, which he would, have passed rapidly, for he was riding at a great pace, as though to divert thought, when a plaintive sound struck his ear. It was the suppressed woman-voice- of lamentation. On the very spot where he had reined up his steed in the tempest) on the day when, without his knowledge, he had won at once and forever the heart of Myra's daughter, he paused now and listened to words which, though spoken in an under tone, came to his ear distinctly, so clear were the musical intonations, and so intensified by interest was the auditor. He heard his own name, whether pronounced in anger or love he could not say. He heard a passionate appeail, couched in terms of great power and feeling, that the spirit of a lost mother would claim her child; that the petitioner might be conveyed away from the false deceiv- ing world to those bright plains which bask in everlasting sunlight, where none are heard to weep, and where the glorified spirit of her, A- '             '   ALBERT HASTINGS.    i     305 who had died in her last watch of love by the grave of Alanc Love], should take her young daughter by the hand, and lead her to the oblivious fountain whose waters wash out the memory of woe from those who drink. Victor felt that here he dared not'intrude, and rode on. But long did the memory of that plaintive and iAolian voice warble in his ear,-and, dashing away a tear, he drove his spurs rowel- deep in the sides of his horse, riding on without pause till he reached De Mar ,Hall ",     '      CHAIPTER XL. "The night it was still, andc the moon it ehone Serenely on the sea,? And the wdaves at the foot of the ,ifted rook, They mu mur'd pleasantly. '"-H. K. Widte. t  E'  moon was high in heaven, riding through a cloudless -expanse of blue. So clear and softly lustrous were her beams, that scarce a star twinkled in serene fields on high. Below was a vast glittering area of water, ever heaving, though now with gentle motion, and glinting in the soft resplendence of Cynthia's yellow radiance. In the distance loomed a castle, whose tall turrets shot up, and were clearly defined, yet in the picturesque coloring of that milder day which wins its eminpire from the powers of darkness, and has something wild and weird in its subdued developments. A skiff, only one remove from the commonclass of fishing-smacks, denominated a schooner, rounded the bold promontory of rock which, on the north side of the castle, lent' majesty to the scene, and was accustomed to dast back mountainwaves from its immovable base. The craft now glided rapidly on, and landing at a pier leading up a rocky pathway to an inn which boasted the Rathbourne arms, drew dowu her sails, fastened her cable, and was a fixture. A few passengers, quitting her without delay, proceeded to the inn, and it is with one of these only that we have now to do. A young woman, enveloped in a heavy shawl, with only a red carpet-bag in her hand, came last, and insteadof proceeding straight to the house of entertain- ment, as the others did, walked about a quarter of a mile very briskly, and, stopping at a poor-looking cottage, without rapping, opened the door and entered. Apparently she was not unknown, and an old woman with faded eyes and thread-bare garb, rose to 'receire he, with these wordls:  "You are come, though I thought not ever to see you thus"   ALBERT HASTINGS.           307 "Hush t you were ever prone to speak when you should be silent. Now hear me once for all. No one will know of my being here,unless from you, and if through you my presence is discovered, why there will be trouble and danger; - mind, I say, danger for you as -well -as for met, The old woman shrugged her shoulders, lit her pipe, and sat as though musing, while her companion, without ceremony, went into an inner room, laid aside her bonnet and shawl, and proceeded toarrange the contents of her carpet-bag in a bureau which stoog against the wall. It consisted of several smart dresses, fully trimmea, though of rather common material, a box which she carefully stowed away, and various small articles which pertain to the toilette of refined women.- Amongst these were a jewel-case of very handsome manufacture, and, judging of its value by the care with which it was placed in. the only drawer which boasted a lock, and the eager look with which it was regarded before being secured by the turning of a key in this drawer, it must have been highly prized by the owner. The old woman, meanwhile, smoked away in meditative silence, and while she did so, we will more particularly survey her.: She evidently belonged to the fishing-class whose garb is peculiar, and who may also be easily distinguished by a clearness of complexion and roundness of limbs, which they preserve in age, if not very advanced. :Elsie was a fair representative of an aged fisherman's wife. She wore a blue wrapper, red tartan skirt and a white band across her forehead. Her dress was short, her hose Stout, of-a& blue color, and her shoes of the strongest material, by no means deserving notice for the fineness of their make, -Her face was still rotund; though the nose 'thin and .em- phatically hooked, bore a close resemblance to a vutture's beak ;-her chin was of corresponding protuberance, and seemed -iincedto salute the bending nose above., Her eye, we have -said, was-faded, and yet we doubt whether it -ever had a living, humanglance. - Its hue-was that of a boiled oyster, and it was impossible to discover, by any look from it, a single-feeling of the owner. There-it was, set expressionless in the skun-a cold, pale-blue thing, which-onlyypuizled the beholder to contemplate .-            -          -  Elsie smoked-on, till 'the stranger -having acomplished her arrange- mentS inher own room saw-fit to -return, :which she soon didiand seat ing herself on a camp-stool by the old woman's sidei spoke. this: Now tell me:who are at .Oasflet raigland?!'- : -  "And how am I to remember the names of all -the great folks there, even if I had heard them?" returned the hag, taking the pipe from her r               t        /   308          AT BwRT HASIINGS. mouthy and turning her black eyes on the speaker, "you wot well of one up there who can tell you all you seek. The under-groom, a smart lad and of comely; favor, was here speering after you yesterday, and will come in the morning, I doubt not, to see whether you came. up to-night." 'What can you possibly mean, Elsie, by talking to me of' under- grooms,' or groomss at all? Are you losing your senses, woman? If I choose to make use of such people, as I do you, I trust none of you come to the ridiculous conclusion that you are in any way my equals. I -trust you understand things better." "And what am I to understand, I should like to know, about you? Are you- not Bridget McCann, my own brother's daughter? Wasn't the marrying of your mother the ruin of him, and isn't it the putting on of her French airs that makes you so disagreeable? She ran away from your father and broke -his heart, but came here bringing you when the hand of death was on her. We took you for your father's sake, but here you would not stay. No, out into the great world you must go , again. The next I heard of you surprised me; you were at Rathbournme House, governess to Lady Geraldine. How did you ever get there? and why, having been fortunate enough to do so, were you compelled to abandon the situation?"' "Do you think that I am the first girl who, because she is poor and accomplished, has bitter enemies who would slander her and do her every conceivable wrong? Let me tell you, my good aunt, you know little of the world,.and would feel little sympathy in my story were it related. But this, allow me to say, I have been deeply and foully wronged} arid I seek a revenge which becomes one of your kindred. Are we to be trampled -down because our - cradle lullaby has been the roar of ;ocean winds, because in our rude dwelling there is neither ease nor Iuxury, because dur names are humble-our lives obscure? I know; your heart rebels -against these things. I know that revenge belongs to your nature as well as to mine. You cannot condemn me I Do you remember the fisherman's fate?" H"HushI hush-l" interposed Elsie,- drawing her brows together with a knotted frown and raising her forefinger in a warning manner. "Whatever you do, never speak of -flat, girl. I have not slept in peace on my-bed since the time you call to my mind. If revenge was sweet, remorse has- been bitter. The pleasure has been overbalanced a thou- sand times by the pain and horror which followed:in its train." "I do not ask you to participate in my acts. , I know that you have enough to repent of on your own account,-but I tell you this-you   -ATB BT HASTINGS.         309 are in my power, and even though I may chance to be in yours, yet, you dare not- strive to circumvent me. Nol you dare not, and as for the rest, I can give you jewels which will enrich you, and make your grand-daughter, Brenda, sought by every young isherman on the coast." Here a gleam of intelligence flitted from the pale eyes of the old wo- man, and she replied, with language and manner wholly mollfied: "Well, Brenda is a fine girl, I know that, and it would be a proper thing if she had jewels But mind, never talk to her as you have spoken to me. - She would not hear you for an instant. I tell you she would betray you." And the old woman raised her arm, bringing her clenched fist down on the table by which she sat, continuing, You shall not complicate her in your doings. Is that a part of our agree- ment?"              ,  "It is," said her companion, " and I wish it to be so. -Think you that I desire imprudent, soft-hearted children to partake of my designs, or have knowledge of my acts? No, you only express -my judgment on that point, and now we will say no more about it. Look at the Ion- don cloak which I have brought you, with velvet buttons and sleeves trimmed so handsomely. Nay, you need" not look the other way. I am sure if you do not wish it, Mark's wife- will But-there it-is I offer it to you first."              - The old woman got up scowling, and taking the -cloak without a word of acknowledgment, carried it to the further end of the room,and unlocking a huge chest, placed it carefully within, after which, return- ing to her seat, the conversation became general, while the young wo- man, with great tact andadroitness, amused her with an account of her voyage and other indifferent matters. Throwing off-the dark and for- bidding aspect which, during- her previous colloquy with the old woman, had characterized her features, she assumed- a gay and flippant air, mimicking with skill those whom she deseribed, speaking with great volubility and a frequent admixture of French with, pungent Eng- lish. She was abundantly sarcastic, and old Elsie, as from time-to time the speaker paused for approval, nodded her: head, answering with a half mirthful, half;scornful laugh.  BUt the eyes never smiled,-the dead, chill light which they emitted, shone, but warmed not, and-the everlasting nameless inanity which was their predominating attribute, never quite forsook the cold exponents of a sul, if possible yet more frozen and void of human sympathy thanthey were. er  whole being was evidently under the shadow of crime; and that dark veil it is nei- ther our purpose nor inclination to lift. Her sole surviving passion, in itself base,-desire of gain,-was plainly manifested during this inter-   310          ABEBT HAS TINGS. -view. ,Jf she loved any living thing, it was her granddaughter Brenda) alluded to by her companion. From this girl she concealed her evil deeds, neither did she desire for her the association which she herself was that instant sharing; accordingly, when Brenda came in a few momentslater, the- old woman desired her to go over to Mark's cottage, and stay til she should come for her, and not to return home-in the mean time.- This-arrangement was seemingly agreeable to the visitor. Next mornipg, a heavy mist hung- over castle, cottage, and ocean. Sea-fowl might beseen: in flocks beside the shore, and settling on bold promontories above. The storm anthenm, .presaging ocean war, came up Jin deep hoarse murmurs from that mighty element, which, placid. and beautiful in repose, yet, when :lashed into fury by the storm gods of the sea, presents the most grand and appalling spectacle which nature furnishes of magnificence, terror, and sublimity. Waves, crowned with snowy foam, rose and fell like sheeted ghosts, while-ever the awful ocean. hissed and wailed in mocking and mournful sounds. Darkness came down, deeper. and more rayless, till the day-king's location in heaven was lostand One universal pall invested thelsky. Then came the keen sworded flash, with penetrating instant dart, just illuminating portentous clouds/ and:disappearing like a glorious thought which flits ere the mind can frame it into words. Nowlike':the hopeless and agonized :howl of some tortured demon, muttering thunder shook the eternal heavens, and re-bellowed over trembling earth. Then with a sudden and: deafening crash it rolledpeal after peal -- Lord Rathbourne had appointed this morning for a shooting excursion on the moors. Sir Albert was:to have beeneone. of-the party, but being occupiedin his own:apartment onthe north side of the castle, he awaited the summons which would call the sportsmen-to. the great hall below, whence +hey were to start on the day's amusement. Meantime, the storm :rapidly advanced, and clearly perceiving -that no one could leave the castle, he roEse and went to the window, in order that he might en- ioy ascene which ever filled him with emotions of stern pleasure. As far: s human ken might pierce the boundless area, ocean rolled up its mountain wavesiand amidst yelling winds and dismal sea moans, he liStened with a thrill of- wild rapture, as lordly thunder with over- mastering majesty silenced all sounds, less omnipotent thanis -wrld- conquering voice. The blinding lightning, the quick succeedmig rain- drops, the entire storm scene, recalled his birth-place, where both in agitation and repose, nature is exhibited in more vividforms than are presented in northern regions. And Sir Albert himself was a true child of the sun. His emotions were strong, his nature adhesive and   ALEBT   ABW    --. 3" generous; a noble admixture of the Anglo-Saxon and American :ele- ments were combined in him. ,And, as he looked at the storm now, which so fully recalled to his mipd the summer te mpests of dear old Ellerton, his thoughts, by a rapid and natural transition, reverted to the, evening when he had returned to the pine barren domicile where his beloved aunt breathed her last, and where.,meline, speechless with joy, welcomed him. He saw her now, wi'thwhite ips apart and -tearful eyes, looking on' him. There was a rapat his door. Lady Livia-re- quested his presence in the parlor. Unacustomed to atythinglike this satrm of a sea-coast region, she id been greatly excited, and,'with Lady Arundel and GQeraldine, was sitting pale and agitated in lhea wide parlor, whose recessed windows were partially protected by the outer wall of the castle. The storm had, by this time, nearly spent its rage, and as Sir Albert entered, a lighter hue came through the Saxon arches of the casements. .. "Ahl" cried Lady livia, "there he is! our good ange]l chasing away storm aid darkness. Only see how coming light plants its first reflex on his head, Geraldine-l"  The young girl so addressed did not blush nor look -confused,.she only accepted Lady Livia's statement as a ver natural and delightful circumstance. The stormwas abating of coursetihewky would clear, and Ben there must necessarily follow an accessionof lights. Sir Al- bert came into the room the moment this took place, and he seemingly heralded approaching calm; she accordingly-replied, .withoit embar rassment: "Yes, madam, light and Sir Albert do come together," "Well,'t rejoined -Lady-:via,-" we only want musicato complete our satisfaction, and I beg Geraldine, that you, being theonly person pres- ent who can gratify us- in this particular, will do so ow. Na:y you neoed not look appealingly at mee, Neither Lady Arundel nor myself is unaccustomed to .this indulgence at your hands,- and .aS for Albert,- if he has any musical ta!ent I have failed so far to discover it. He can, at least, be no critic. .Besides, Lady, Geraldine Rathboume need fear no criticism. 3Now, my dear, will you gratify us?  The beautiful daughter of this lordly castle: then advanced with modest eae, while a slight. color rose to' brow and cheek,- and :eating herself before the- harp of ebony and, gold, swept her snowy fingersi glittering with dianmods,- across :its, heaven-voiced strings, eliciting a- wild prelude, grand and harmonious. The air selected was one adapt- ed to Campbell's soul-thrilling lines commencing:  "Oh, heard ye yon plbroch sound sad in the gale?"   312          ATsPrr   SINsG. The spirit:of the immortal author seemed fuily to imbue his admir- ing minstrel. Not Valerie herself had ever produced music like this, which -blending all her tenderness with far greater power, bore the listener away to that mysterious height where, fluttering her trembling wings, the goddess ofmusic slowly folds them and returns gently to earth - TheNvoice of Gerildine had that mysterious and liquid majesty, combined with tender sweetness, m ints every tone, which the musi- cally uneducated, no less than the scientific, are won-not forced-to admire, while she, wholly carried away by her own ardor, forgot her auditors, and was alone influenced by the enthusiasm which it is the provinceof genius, while creating, to inspire. The wavering notes arose and fell, With dulcet yet o'eraiastering Opell Till even Sir Albert, with his heart full of Rameline Level, was wholly carried away, and though he said nothing as Geraldine rose from the instrument) paid her the better homage of a a grateful and admiring look. The- frailness of her asiect, her extreme beauty, unpretending elegance and parfectrefinement claimed the homage which it was not in his power towithhold, and-his manner evinced as much. Geraldine had exhausted herself and looked quite pallid. Lady IAvia reproached herself- for having insisted on the .performance, and Lady,--Arundel, with her us ualpractical good sense, led Geraldine from the room, when Lady Li viaremarked in an emphatic manner to her grandson: "You see,;Albert what it has:cost poor Geraldineto oblige me. A thing Which she never rrefuses, at any time, to-do. And yet I never sawfher s oiyercome by singing before. Perhaps the presence of one whom she greatly esteemsniand regards, well, perhaps I ought not to say how gratefilly, how -kindly, affects her. It seems to me, Albert, that you are strpgely indifferent to Geraldine, Rathbourne, one of the nobles t ,most h -higl  gifted and beautiful girls in England. I have never pkeaBto you on this subject before, my -:dear son. I will do so now. :  -iA yYU:ia any tmanner bound by an attachment elsewhere? I know, that ;:yul maintain a regular -correspondence with people in im   ot,^i :of. - I know nothing." Then her ladyship's color became heih    anedid sh added with her habitual delicay, a neither do I sek   ry,: Albert, into your secrets, supposing you have any, only I entreat to be informed whether you are formally engaged t your cousin, Emeline LovelI -This it imports me to know." Sir Albert mused for an instant, and replied promptly, with an open brow and unembarrassed manner:   4LBERT HASTINGS.           313 "You cannot, I trust, my dear madam, for an instant suppose that in a matter of this kind I should proceed a step without your authority and approval. I have loved Enieline as a sister all my life. The hope of one day seeing her again I have never abandoned. I have no wish to enter at this time into engagements with any lady. My aspirations are to render myself worthy the name I' bear and your love., Itwill be quite time enough when this object is accomplished to consider the matter, I mean, to ask your approval--well, I do not know exactl what I meant to say," and Sir Albert hesitated in a manner quite un- usual with him. Lady Livia looked greatly relieved, and holding out her hand, spoke with rapidity and a pleased smile: "This, Albert, is what I expected to hear from you. I wh make no excuse for my maternal solicitude. I have only you left to love, and your aunt shares all my anxiety foryou. I verily believe that, next to her lost Geoffrey, you are nearest her heartindeed I know it. Let us share all your feelings and wishes, Albert. Your happiness is:ours, my beloved child," and Lady Liviadrawing him towards her, imprint- ed a kiss oh his fresh, truthful brow. Lady Arundel, on leaving the drawing-room, continued" to support Geraldine, who, though Smiling, tottered and was faint. -In answer to Lady Arundel's query regarding her health, she said: -  "I  believe, my dear Lady Arundel, that I am well as usual-only discomposed, and, shall I say it, nervous (I dislike the term, it seems to apply to superannuated dowagers, yet I think nervous is the word after alD. I  have several reasons for being disturbed in this way at present -first, the storm;  secondly, my reluctance to sing in the presence of your nephew-you know I    never do so before strangers--I know his taste is so fine in every thing he must be musical" "Is that quite all?" said Lady- Arundel, smiling kindly--" come, Geraldine, no half-confidence between us. Is it not ?"' "I will endeavor to make you comprehend that- which -is not over- clear to my own mind, but I will try. Are not Amerians opposed to our form of government, grades of rank and social distinctions? -Is it not just possible that your nephew feels as his countrymen do othis point--that he' does not like, for instance, to hear his "ndmotie d- dress me as Lady Geraldine, which- she often does;. I %ld -Lather lose  my title than offend the preserver of my life. I cannot endure the idea of shocking his republican ideas. I respect even the preju- dices of Sir Albert Hastings."     . Lady Arundel reflected an instant, and replied: "I think, Geraldine, you may dismiss this fear entirely from your mind. The case stands   314         ABIERT HASTINGS. thus;a Albert would not allow anything American to be traduced here, were it possible for any one in the elevated circle which claims him- forgetful of his or her breeding---to attempt anything- of the kind. In the next place, we English are a formal people (I trust our hearts are none the less kind for that). I often address his grandmother as Lady Livia, even in my most confidential intercourse with her, and this na- turally grows out of my habit of doing so in general society for many years. - Albert has lived Ilong enough in Britain to understand these things, dear child. Give him credit for good sense and a limited ex- perience of European life.' He would never think whether you were called ' Miss' or 'Lad'y,-his mind is too elevated to be affected by such extraneous and valueless things. He considers merit something inherent, and loves and admires it with or without the desirable ad- juncts of fortune, high birth or a noble name, as you do yourself, my sweet Geraldine. But here we are in your own apartment. While speaking lust now I thought I saw, for the day is still dark, a figure move away from 'the bureau unlike that of any servant known to me at CastleCraigland. The glimpse was casual, but yet convinced me that the person was not your own maid, whom I shall now summon." Lady Arundel rang the bell, and Nora having made her appearance, replied, when questioned, that aflower-girl from the coast had come several days to the Castle bringing bouquets-that she, Nora, after purchasing them, had accompanied her to the chamber doors and desired her to place them each in a flower stand. Lady Arundel she added, respectfully courtseying, would find'one in her room also. This was satisfactori , and Nora accordingly dismissed, who returning to the servants' hall below, encountered the flower-girl with a few remaining bouquets stillundisposed of., "Your flowers are," she said, "beautiful. Lady Geraldine loves them, and I wish you to bring me all you can procure. They wl be needed inl:the dining-room every day." "Tes, but they make me wait sometimes and that is tiresome, besides, if yu wish fresh ones in the evening I ought not to tarry long, because I must gather them, and I have a weary way to walk." ,- "Wel,' returned the good-natured Nora, ." you saw the rooms this morning and you know the way to them. If I am not, at hand, which generall-I am, ago and place them where you did then. The ladies are all below about -one o'clock, and if they are not, it makes no difference. 'Tey would treat you politely were they to meet you coming on the errand you do. But, usually, you will find me here by ringing and asking for me." The floweragirl took up her basket and ; gv   ALBFET HASINGS.          315 I    departed, while Nora returned to her work beside the window, remark- ing to Oleophine, Lady Livia's maid:       .  "A, nice girl, and what beautiful flower:. Iv wwonder where they come from?"            '      .  Cleophine, who was a very respectable person of her clda older and wiser than Nora, replied:  u I am surprised that you allow a -stranger to pass -ito t apart- ments above alone. Recollect there are many jewels iup stais and the caskets not always locked. I do notJiketh I oks:ofiOhe g I tell you plainly. Those, small grey eyes of hers are m lseous and she is too flattering inher speech not to have seen foreign: parts. She is no coast girl, trust me. Why, though far prettier, than shejs,tiey have not her air and manner. She has a French accent, and the fit of her dress might be considered equal to -hat of Ldy Geraldine. I do not like her, and what is more I will not. permit:her to go as :e likes into Lady Livia's private apartment. With the rest of course, I have nothing to do. They are in your charge, not mine," Cleophine had, judged wisely. The afternoon was lovely. A sky of that peculiar and faiomes blue which ever succeeds a storm was illuminated .by-thbose;ri rays which, though shorn of southern splendor, are yet radiationsm from the - world'st'great fountain of light and sunbeams stilLi The depth and intenseness of shade assumed by heaving waers, was only a-more vivid reflection of the glorious blue above, while, wfite ;a ;Pyrenean snows, delicate foam formed a coronet to every majesti andslow-rolling wave. The time-stained, war-battered, stern old edifice,/with-i ,proud towers and ivy-draped- gables, loomed.- grandly out in su nshme, and spoke of other days when chivalry was the order of fe n, whn tuhe    broadsword of the chief and the loyalty ofhi' followers defied covereign power, and naintined the castle against the throne,- AoPg: tWeast were fishermens' cots, with nets spread before jthemidryingin t;esun Here and there a light skiff or fishing-bqoat was mored, .and farff on the deep, rolling fearfflly in the aurge which s8ucceefds, 3(:i / t . the great hulk of a mighty ship was discernible^jwith 6efcdi nra, and bare masts, reeling and tossing on the- agitated oceOn p: el ong- hold were the merchant' wealth. Her oaken rib h4ad resisted. ccem. fully the powerful and gloomy tempest she .yet -lived. ip hat. on the element which seemed still yawning to engulph her. Se wa a glorious exemplification of the: power of -'tfat heavenderived gift which had directed and was sth governing her; movements, while like a reasoning creature, in obedience to its dictates, she had borne   316          ATIERT HASTINGS. herselftheroically in the contest, and was, with equal bravery and skill, resisting waves yet unsubsided; It was a gallant sight as her adven- turous prow beat back tumultuous waters, and, struggling on, she was fairly outriding her peril. Occasionally a mountain wave would break over her deck) butzan instant. after she rose from the immersion and was lifted on the apex of its successor. But imperceptibly the waters calmed, and with more equal motion she was finally lost to the view. -Lady Livia:had contemplated her with feelings of absorbed interest. She recollected the fate of Albert's father, and her sympathies with the crew were painfillyintense. She exclaimed audibly, " who shall know the perils of those that go down into the sea in ships, and make their home in deep seas." It was now near sunset, and lengthening shadows lay along the ground, tracing a dark outliqe of Castle Craigland, its towers and abutments.: Lady Livia contemplated fromher casement a group in the court-yard below, and she smiled with satisfaction while doing'so. Lord Rathbourne had led his admiring and devoted Miss Somerville to a drosky where she occupied the front seat by his side. A lady and gentleman (visitors at the castle) were placed behind, and his lordship's outrider held the impatient steed while they were being seated. Sir Albert and Mr. Stuart soon made their appearance (for Sir Albert invariably sought the association of his quondam tutor and was as deferential to Mr. Stuart as toi any noble at, the castle.) The former was a splendid rider, having acquired his horsemanship in the South, where- equestrian skill and grace are, perhaps, unequalled. His steed: curvetted, arched his neck proudlyj and seemed conscious that he bore anhonored representative of the house of Hastings. - Mr. Stuart, who sooth to ssy, better understood Latin and Greek than the management of the!aimest and best trained steed at Craigland, advanced cautiously by the side of the young knight, on. whose right hand Lady Geraldine Rathbourne, on a superb Arabian, sat with her usual ease and natural elegance, A statuary would have contemplated thRgroup with com- placency, andhis eye would have rested -with gratified pleasure on the lady especially. A cap and raven plume adorned her small, beautifully formed :hea-d. Black,c glossy tresses fell over her declining shoulders and slender, nec!k, dubly white- by contrast. Her dark-blue eyes emulated;the skysbove and the:distant ocean. Her dress was of black cloth,-falling in graceful, sweep almost to the ground and fitting her perfect bust with artistic precision. A, deep color mantled over the snow of her cheeks, indented by dimples and rounded with that Grecian oval so attractive in the immortal Venus de Medicis. As they gallopped    j ATr;BJ T GASTINGS.       317 away, Lady Livia, clasping her hands, said: "How well matched they are. I would that it were so -for life. But they are both so young, -my wishes may perhaps never be realized. It pains me to thinkit," and she walked away into the great hall, musingly; there she en- countered a flower girl with numerous bouquets arranged in a manner which proved that they were combined by one who studied effect, and understood the laws of harmony and contrast The. girl courtesyed with becoming modesty and deference, present- ing white roses and carnation pinks: to Lady Hastings and before the latter had time'to offer her any remuneration, wanished down a narrow flight of stone steps and was lost to view. She walked well, was perfectly self-possessed, and it occurred. to Lady Livia thaitthe incident altogether was strange. She silmmoned Cleophine, and desired her when she again saw the girl, to reward her for the flowers she now held in her hand, "And yet," added she, "perhaps I ought to say nothing about it, for they seemed intended as a gift, :and in that case I would on no account wound the feelings of the donor." Cleophine shook her head ominously. "Wound her feelings, my ladyl  You are far too kind. It would not be so easy to do that as you think, I fancy.  With your permission, madam, I shall pay her, and I would be glad should she come here no more." Lady Livia did not pursue the conversation, but descended to the front portico of the castle, awaiting the returi of the equestrians. Here she was soon joined by Lady Arundel, and arm in arm they en- joyed the delicious summer breeze laden with ocean freshness, and bearing on its wings the evening cry of the bittern, as well as the plaintive song of the sleepless sea wave. The company arrived in excellent spirits, and the evening passed away with conversation, mirth and song. It was near the hour for supper when a courier made his appearance with letters for the Castle. Sir Albert's expected missives from the Western world were amongst them, and possessing himself of this treasure, he withdrew to his own room. There was a letter from Emeline.  ie recognized instantly the peculiar character of her handwriting. The missive was, aa usual, kind, loving and gratefully received. -He lingered long over its con- tents, reading and re-reading it with increasing interest. At last he placed it in his bosom, and opened one from Mr. Oldham. He had not read many lines when his hand shook violently, his face blanched to deadly paleness, and the letter dropped on the floor unheeded. Sir Albert Hastings discovered ia an instant what was the nature of the feelings which, growing with his growth and strengthening with his   318           ATBERT HASTINGS. strength, .he had entertained for Emeline Lovel-and now she was lost -lost to him forever. She would soon belong to another, and that golden future which in his heart's core was the aim and hope of his life, vanished in an instant, leaving ,nothing in its place -but a dreary vacuum. He felt wronged and disappointed and miserable. His very heart stood still, and closings his- eyes, he leaned his head upon his hand. The great castle bell sounded heavily on the air, but he did not note it. His seertantt rapped loudly at-his door, having several times done so in a more moderate manner. -Sir Albert Started up with perfect calmness, though very pale, and obeyed the call to supper, where he took his seat as though nothing had occurred to discompose himn His conversation, at all times inter- esting, was unusually brilliant, but the heedful eyes of Lady Arundel -were not -to be deceived, and though not appearing cognizant of the change it her nephew, she felt that some great change had come over him, but resolved, with her usual :circumspection, to say nothing' at present, or at least till Sir Albert himself should. *         . 4  * - .    CHAPTER XLmTTT.  "NowF rings the woodland, loud and long, The distance takes a ovelier hues, And drowned in yonder living blue, The Zar k becomes a sightless song. "'-Tenyeo, -. bit' Np E return to Ellerton, where Emeline, wholly ignorant of Er. H  Oldham's communication to Sir Albert with reference to o at ,.lherself and Charles De Mar, who had been, as a lovei,we have seen, dismissed, was very sad. But poor Emeline, smarting under the wound inflicted on her feeli'ngs, which every sensi- tive woman experiences in like circumstances (for she was no heartless belle, considering conquest the aim of life), deeply regretted Charles' disappointment, and was sorely afficted that he had fixed on, her an affection which she found it impossible to reciprocate.' His having done so, however, established for him an. interest in her remembrance which, could not be shaken. In a delicate and right-minded woman this feeling always exists towards a discarded lover, and friendship es- tablishes itself in place of a warmer -sentiment, though, perhaps, un- shared and unappreciated by the vindictive and disappointed suitor, whose mortified pride rebels against his quondam love. This was the case with Charles De Mar, who from the height of an exaggerated admiration where Emeline had reigned as peerless amongst. her sex, now debased her in his estimation 'to the unenviable position of a woman whose judgment is unjust and whose heart is ungrateful. It was plain that, viewing things in ibis light, he would not long' regret her loss.. Besides, he had fled the 'country and a votary of art, as he was, would find in Italia's haunted realm a realization of his dreams of beauty, bothl in art, and architecture, though Italyj itself could not offer richer delineations of natural beauty than were presented in Car- olina, albeit unsung,--whose streams, lovely,a many of them, as the classic Arno, lacked only the poet's divine enthusiasm to 'render them like the banks of that hallowed river, immortal.    320         TALBnE T HASTINGS. Victor being of another mould, though proud, was of a generous and forgiving nature. He determined to think no more of Roxanna, but, she was not on that account less charming in his eyes. She stood where she had long been enthroned, and his only regret was that she did not- consider him worthy her love. That being the case, however, he would pursue the matter no further. She should not again be - forced to speak words which, disagreeable for her to utter, were dread- ful for him to hear. Strange as;it may. seem, therefore, the fact was, that Charles bhad mastered his disappointment a month after writhing under it, while Victor, who never made &-- demonstration (except to Valerie at parting), thought constantly of Roxanna with increasing though mournful interest. Ah, had Roxanna known this! but she did not know it, and her wounded spit, with self-torturing anguish, sometimes deploring her summary dismissal of him whom -she so dearly loved, and sometimes resentful that he had not in the first instance loved her, knew no rest. The orest, always her refuge in sorrow, was now more than ever sought. 'Again ;she made her home amidst its umbrage; again ,the little tuneful song-birds told her tale of sorrow in their dulcet mel- odies, .the timid hare became her companion as of old, and her eye brightened and the color of her thin cheek deepened as time rolled on. Her figure, cast in a perfectmould, her face more beautiful than lan- guage- can portray, might be daily seen amidst the wild scenery and lonely recessds of Oak Mount. She would pause-over an open volume, and gaze between the interstices of green leaves away into heaven's azure profound, and recur to the pages of the author with a start-- again, after a time, het dark liquid eye "would follow some garish but- terfly with silver and black spotted wings, as it settled on the wild violet or perched amidst a host of yellow sassafras blossoms. There was a weariness in her aspect wholly at variance with her habitual loftiness of port-and an obtrusive tear was sometimes dashed away by the bronzed, delicately-formed little hand. Then she would smile proudly and half indignantly at her own restrained feelings, shake back the midnight locks of abounding hair which shaded her face, and look like -some queen of the wild amidst Indian warriors. While sitting in her usual retreat one morning, she became startled by the sound of footsteps, and suddenly raising her "eyes beheld a square, gaunt figure, with square head and peculiar- ears and sea-green eyes. The man had a defiant, vulgar and unscrupulous look about him, coupled with ferocity and recklessness that struck her very disagree- ably--and were she less brave would have alarmed her.' But rising ,             /,f   AtERT HASTIMGS.            321 with -her wonted easy and agile motion Ahe disengaged; her bonnet from an overhanging spray, placed it on her head and proceeded to leave the spot, as she did not choose to-be interrupted. But Dexter, for he it was, placed himself directly in her way, and allowing his face to relax into that ghastly thing which he believed to be a smile, spoke thus:           .  Look you, Miss, I knew your mother. It was I who married her to your father. My friendship for her was great, and I take deep interest in you for her sake.' My name is Dexter, and I wish to warn you that you are in the midst of your enemies. Roxanna looked on the intruder with unmitigated contempt and in- dignation. -Her eye flashed, her breast heaved; arid the color came and went on her cheek with the rapidity of passing shades in a tempest. "What," exclamed she, in accents of withering contempt, " what can you possibly mean, sir, by addressing me in a manner so bold and:offen- sive; ypur aspect revolts me, your voice affronts my ear. How dare   -you, malformed hypocrite-as you: are) venture into my privatehihaunts? Every one knows that I come daily here. Is it possible' that I can I  have had this lurking evil demon near where I supposed myself alone? You shall be reported and dealt with, audacious intrhder"'-addede Roxanna, as with the dignity of Minerva--she strode rapidly away. Dexter looked after her with eyes--full of malice and hatred, till the angry scowl on his grim features' imperceptibly merged into that shock- ing grimace which -never failed to remind the beholder of a hyena's -.i -  .laugh. He shook his clenched fist after the retreating form of the ex- cited girl, and muttered: "It was her savage mother who wrought my ruin, and the daughter bears her proud spirit. , My accounts with the former are: closed; not so with the latter, and vile worm as they scruple not to'- tell me Ham esteemed, they shall yet discover that, like the serpent of old, vile Arnold Dexter can sting to the death." There is sometimes hope for the bold daring criminal who, defying alike God and man, pursues his reckless career in open disregard of social obloquy and the outraged laws of civil polity, but let him add , hypocrisy to the black catalogue of his crimes, and the Chances of his   ever being reclaimed to the paths of virtue are indeed-small. -Desig- nated in Scripture as a -" whited sepulchre," he is indeed full of dead men's bones, -and nothing short of miraculous power can save him from final association with 'those gloomy and abandoned spirits who, in a world to come, consociate forever with those like themselves given"^over   322          ATMRHT HASTNGS. to the evil whichlcould not be overcome with good, and which makes its own reward. But we turn? with a sensation of relief, from this detestable and. in- scrutable man, to Ellerton's lovely mistress and the adopted children of her love once more. Valerie-was now, perhaps, more beautiful than ever. That tried and exalted spirit which animated its beautiful form had learned to estimate this outward transitory world at its real value, and no more. The scales had fallen from her eyes over the ruined temple of vainly-bestowed -but powerful love. . The temple had proved to be a dream-its broken idol animae of clay I So, as far as this present state of being concerned her, personally, it was a wide waste of tombs, but sweet Valerie De Mar had learned the hard lesson of self- abnegation which dignifies the Christian, the hero, the martyr. She was living now for others, and her, ceaseless care for them formed the strongest tiewhich bound her to time. There was no morbid feeling nuor sickly sentimentality in Valerie's feelingsa She was active and useful,' and her daily life was formed after the perfect pattern set by that exalted and omnipotent Being who, covering His divine perfections ,with:the mantle of humanity, {' went about doing good." Roxanna,in an excited manner, with a deep red spot on her cheek, and- eyes -of Aflame, sought her protectress in that pure white simple chamber where we have before had occasion to note her as sitting. -Valerie wore a long loose robe of white, with that most easy and grace- ful -iont termed "surplice," folded' over, her waxen neck as an angers garb might be supposed- in its spotlessness to be arranged, but it were not whiter than her exquisite face, with those rich full black eyes swept by lashes of: golden-yellow, matching in splendor of hue the plainly-banded wealth of her angelic hair. "-W'hat is it, Roxanna? I note something unusual in your face. Do not fear to speak-to me, child. You know, I believe, that you may do so without reserve or apprehension. I verily think there is an unshed -tefartrembling in your eye, and this I have never seen there before. Do not hesitate to let me know, without delay, what has so disturbed ;you?!! ;: .. .           . Roxanna threw her:arms about Valerie's fair neck, and replied: - Oh,t madam, a wicked, terrible man, with hideous eyes, and hair -bristling over:his egrat Square head, stole upon me as I sat at Oak Mount, reading* orattempting to do so, and boldly addressing me, said, well I :ean scarcely :remember what, about my being in the midst of enemies, :nd:bis having being a friend to her who never had friends. Ah, I shall fear to go there again. I know he never was kind as he   ATRF RT HASTINGS.         323 would have me think. I know, whatever his object in seeking me may be, it is not a good one, for he attempted, in the first place, to poison my mind against all here, telling me that I am in the midst of enemies. Good Mr. Calloway asked you long since to get this terrible creature away from- Ellerton, but I think his warnings have been unheeded and now, in the absence of your brothers, see how bold he has become. I cannot live within doors-my heart stifles away from free air. - The breath of the mountain wind alone gives-me life. Alas I madam, you know not all the misery which -confinement would impose on me. The soft rustle of a pine tuft shaken before my eyes was the first thing in place of silver bells and coral necklace which attracted -the admiring I    and wondering eyes of infancy. I loveit yet. I am, I believe, but i    half-civilized and I never cease regretting the time when I trod with her, dewy, paths of tde forest, before there was blinding light in the sky I    - or the power of day came down on the -world in noontide splendor. Ah how fragrant was the wild shrunib tree then, how delicate and? sweet     green banks with thousands and thousands of pale lilac -and deep blue d    daisies I The wild rose, the sweet-briar, and mountain-pink I I still think there are no garden flowers like them." - "Go on, Roxanna, I love to hear you speak of those- dys, my dear girl, whichprove you-an unaffected admirer of nature; to whose charms I trust-that I am not myself insensible. I uisppose you have at different times traversed every landscape around Ellerton and pro- bably know many hidden nooks of beauty to which I am a stranger. I would like, were it agreeable to you, at some :future time, could we 4I    go together and survey those haunts, which though not hallowed in my mind as in yours, because of their magical blinding with life's opening glances in this variegated and lovely world, yet by their own intrinsic beauty and magnificence compel the admiration of every beholder. Yes, I should enjoy a ramble with you over the hills itearly dawn, and your cultivated and appreciative eye would guid6 mue in esti- i mating those delights spread so luxuriously before the eye by a kindPro- vidence. As for this prowler, who I fancy is-half-witted with- all his pre- tended learning, I shall set myself seriously to work, and willengage Mr. (Calloway in the matter, in order that he: may be employed elsewhere, or got rid of by some means. Think no more of iim, Roxanna.?' '  As though aware that his presence was atlthiS tiime'neded, -M. Cal- loway was reported by a servant asi having just ariVed, aid Valeri descended to the rooms below tomeet him. Mr;C allowayilooke d care worn-the decided and expressive furrows of face and brow were deepening. His massive and dignified features seemed to spea&khim p    3824         AtLBERT HASTINGS* more than even a man of iron. After respectfully saluting Valerie, he reposed his large limbs on a wide sofa, and spoke to the following effect:   . "Truly, madam, the wicked are like the troubled sea. They give not sleep to their eyes nor slumber to their eyelids, and cease not pro- jesting mischief, yea, anid effecting the same, peradventure Providence in its great wisdom and mercy appoint not the means to balk them of their evil intents. The man. Dexter sorely grieveth me, and I know not how to restain his restless and mischievous plots." Here, Valerie, much to Mr. Callowdy's satisfaction, evinced unusual interest in his remarks, and slightly bowing desired him to proceed with what he had to communicate.  The good minister so encouraged launched forth into the following disclosure: "Dexter, most excellent and Christian lady, hath a friend of his own mind, though of a higher class in the world's esteem, and this man is called Oliphant-Lovel; now this Oliphant abetteth his schemes, and useth him at his will even to the overturnings of law and the subversion of justice. - To- come at once to the matter in hand, they have between them fabricated a will of anterior date to the one conveying EIlerton and other estates into your hands. They have also a suborned witness, one Hugh Hieradon, who hath not for years been seen in this vicinity, but who is of evil report as having aided in the murder of poor John Austin. But I distress you, lady, and grieved am I to see the paleness of your countenance: I will forbear and speak no more." Valerie, casting her pathetic and appealing eyes upwards, strove hard to recover strength from the best source, and replied in her gentle firm voice, "Go on,; Mr. Calloway, I see it is necessary that you be heard, and I have full faith in the good intentions which prompt your words. I desire you to proceed." Then came a softened and sympathising look over Mr. Calloway's bronze face at this, which even the hopeless agony of the martyred Myra had never elicited, and he continued- in emphatic, but (for him) gentle terms: "Yes, madam, Dexter durst -not abide openly here, because of evil report; also, he knew my eye was on him in remembrance, that he had proved recreant to a holy profession, slandered by his misdeeds; he therefore took refuge with Oliphant Lovel, and both he and Olipbant are, I find, in league with the miscreant Herndon, before named. They seek to establish a claim put forth by Oliphant as rightful heir to the great Lovel estate. I come as one delegated to forewarn-yea, and   ALBERT HASTINGS.            325 oppressed with fear lest he, in whom you trust, one Badger, a lawyer, be not of their counsel and of their mind, seeing that he is of that fraternity which ever prosper by law-suits, and are often bought by the highest bidder. Mr. Oldham, though a man of the world, and given to' the sinful love of gain, hath yet- n honest mind and striveth to make a stand against their proceedings-yet, with him I dare not confer, having angered him by certain admonitions and words of reprooft which he listed not to hear and resenteth. Nevertheless, I advise that he be taken into your confidence, and empoweredto stay the wicked course of these men of Belial which it behooves me not openly to do." Valerie had fully recovered her composure, and answered Mr. Cal- loway in a firm, but decided manner: t' My respect for you, sir, induces me to reply very frankly to the communication which you have made. The Ellerton property I have always considered myself as holdingin trust for two defenceless orphans. I believe (Valerie shuddered) that it was committed to my keepingwith this purpose by its-its former possessor. So -believing I shal allow neither the cupidity nor the management of others to rend it from them if by any effort of my own, however painful, I can prevent it. That is my fixed resolve and I will trouble you to take a note to my attorney, Mr. Badger, if you will have the kindness to do so. Yet, perhaps, I ought not to trouble you as if I rightlyunderstood you there is-an objection in your mind to seeming interference with matters of this kind. Should you, however, consent; the weight of your character f   may have, I think, its effect in controlling events to some extent. If, however, you object I shall not take it amiss, and shall in any event j    pursue the plain course of duty which lies before me." Mr. Calloway rose from the sofa with features expressive of the lion- I    like courage of his nature, and responded thus: il  "  Of a verity, madam, your bidding 'shall be done, yea, even to the    letter, neither will I, on my own part, scruple to admonish and to 'defy these workers of iniquity who plot in secret places, who arm themselves with law which was meant to protect the feeble, and weave snares for such as are not able to resist them. Like catterpillars they eat up the land; like locusts, they consume it, yea, and desolation fol- lows in their track-their eyes stand out with fatness, and they flourish like a green bay tree, but the cause of the righteous shall yet prevai,- the cry of the oppressed shall rise against them, and verily they shall be discomfited jn the day when justice establisheth itself, and He who ruleth the world in wisdom shall scatter them like chaff before the wind."   326          AUVBRT HASTNG  S. Valerie quickly indited the missive, which Mr. Calloway took cor- dially, and was soon seen seated in hiswell-varnished buggy drawn by a-fast trotting steed, "her much-prized gifts, disappearing down the avenue. Emeline had spent- this, day at Grayson Farm' with Miss Juliet. Mindful of the obligationswhich she .owed that austere but well-inten- tioned lady, it was her cushtom to do this at least once a month, and it was characteristic of-Emeline Lovel :that on those occasions she strove to accommodate herself to Miss Juliet's taste, always dressing with the, utmost plainness and endeavoring while with her 'to shock none of her prejudices, and allowing her extremely puritanical opinions to pass unquestioned. She never argued with Miss Juliet on any subject, though often finding it difficult to restrain an expression of dissent when that lady, in her sweeping denunciations included the beloved Valerie, who, Emeline knew, approximated perfection much more nearly than did her uncompromising censor. There were wisdom and- goodness in all the acts of this young girl, how originating none could say, thoughWe, acquainted with the humble and Christian character of her mother, know whence her early lessons of amiability and virtue were derived. That Christian mother, without any claims to extraordinary powers -of mind or unusual culture, possessed a meek and quiet/spirit, a- deep sense of religion, a large-hearted benevolence and those milder yet active attributes of goodness which are essentially feminine. In addition to this, BEmeline was cast in a fine mould by nature. The softand loving beauty of her 'fair, childish face spoke truly the innocent and grateful affections of her constant heart, as true to virtue as it was to the memory of 'Albert Hastings. Mis$ Juliet was not ignorant of the pending suit regarding the Level estates, and having become attached to Emgeline as far as it was in her frozen nature to love any human being, lo0ked complacently on pro- ceedings which she resolved, however they might terminate, should not leave Emeline without a home, and this resolve, with bher usual disre- gard of tact- or delicacy, she abruptly communicated to her visitor in the following terms: . -II-am to1d,.'Emeline, that Mr. Oliphant Lovel has instituted a claim- to, his late -unciets estate. That he will produce witnesses to a docu- menft constituting :him Mr. Alaric Lovel's heir.: ow, should he suc- ceed, .as some think he will, you may find yourself again reduced to poverty and, perhaps,: the want of a friend. But you will find one in me whatever may happens if you can submit to my way of living after the elegance to which you have been accustomed, but you will find no   ALBERT HASTINGS.            327 idle show with me. No music masters or dancing, or anything that pertains to levity." Emeline was astounded but seeing Miss Juliet's kin;intentions, thanked her warmly, resolving at the same time that nothing should ever separate her from sweet Valerie De Mar,to whom she owed a debt of gratitude never to berepaid, not only for her boundless gener- -osity but for the congveffect of h   if osity but for the consbnge fer eisympathy in its human be- Bi   nevolence, stripped of bigotry and sectarian intolerance. Emeline returned sadly to lEerton, with many misgivings as to her i future destiny while at this very time the one being in the world whom she loved best was bewailing the reported fact that she would soon be the bride of fair Valerie's brother.- Good Mr. Oldham, as we vi    have seen, in his zeal to forward the happiness of his friends, had ;    ignorantly transmitted this unfounded rumor as truth. As truth it had. been received, w th what results will appear in .due time. -Rox- ,    anna met Emeline at he outergate of Elerton and remnared : -  I( "ou arepler, E elie than I ever saw yoU.-re youi?' M T I Indeedi Roxanna, you have' only been a little in advance of me in the remark you rnak elwith referene: tomy apearace. Ineesaw you-look so like a gahowt" ti  .  ..  .  .   I  .K   CHAPTtt       XLIV. tt'r   tJa,  . "0 Memory, thou fond deceiver, Still imporunate and vain, To former joys rscurring ever, And turning all the past ttqpan. "-Robert Noerry. SIR ALBERT -HASTINGS had never felt so lonely in his days of trial at Mr, Oldham's, nor on the ocean in a West Indian clime with disease and death around him, as he did now at my Lord. Rathbourne's great castle, surrounded by admiring friends, the heir of wealth, and a brilliant areer opening before him without impediment. There was a secret disappointment at his heart, where hope had been unconsciously cherished, and the old bright. world seemed passed away forever-that dream-world illuminated by the large, soft blue eyes which had wooed him back to life when the dismal gorgon, yellow fever, struggled with fearful power for the mastery over nature, and was almost victorious, perhaps would have been so altogether but for the mysterious aid of that misty form hover- ing in air,,with love-lit, hopeful glance and looks of encouraging sweet- ness. It seemed to his imaginative mind, since that time, that the same spirit was around him like a guardian angel, and that mystic companion had always borne the etherealized form of Emeline Lovel. Mr. Oldham's letter had dssipated the illusion. That benign influence had been transferred to another. There was no more an Emeline for him. And now it was that in his desolation his heart turned with a new and strange interest to the beautiful Geraldine. He recalled her many acts of kindness, her unbounded gratitude, her unconsciously evinced solicitude in his future career, her exultation in the success which had thus far marked his literary progress, her glory in his fame, her gentle- ness and simplicity--which indulgence and flattery could not mar- her superior intellect and entrancing beauty. She was the companion of his daily walks, rides and drives. As   ALBERT HASTINGS.   329   the superior attributes of her mind and character were thus constantly developed, he became deeply and warmly attached to her. This state of affairs could not long remain unknown to the watchful friends around them. Lady Livia and Lord Rathbourne tacity knew and ap- proved the intimacy; indeed, his lordship was in ecstacy at the thought of one day adopting Sir Albert Hastings intothe tancient and renowned line of Rathbourne-or rather, we should sayi i? blending the Hastings arms with those of his august house.  Lady Arundel was wholly mystified. She had hitherto firmly believed (as we have seen from a detailed conversation with her sister) that-Sir Albert's predilections and already secured affections could not be weaned from early associa- tion and pre-occupied devotion to Emeline Lovel and she was secretly disposed to doubt the constancy of his nature-when she saw, as every one else did, that Geraldine was now loved, nay, almostworshipped., It was a canm evening after sunset. The boundless ocean was hushed to deep repose, and spread out like sheeted silver in clea, bright, mirror-like refulgence. White rocks cast inky shades along the curv- ing shore, as here and there they interrupted its sandy level, and broke the quietude of the scene. .Rippling water, with low, soft plash, and crystal wavelets crept up the pebbly strand and rtreated,-fluctuating like hope. contendiig with fear. Each seemed: .boundwifL  a wreath of frosted silver as its thin, snow-white foam went floating back and was lost in the congregated waters of unfathomed depth.  Mr. Stuart, amongst his other accomplihments,  a an unrivalled performer on' the flute, and this evening, far away might be heard melodious notes warbling along the shoie as he paced beneath the cliffs Bugle strains at a distance lent their peculiar and toutchtig accompani- ment, mellowed by remoteness, and prolonged by their' sweep across the sea.                                  . Sir Albert, arm-inarm with Geraldine, advaWced. He spoke in low and earnest tones; her head was bowed, but she clung lovingly to his arm. And there it was,as glancing waters- smiled around them, as' myriads of stars seemed to pave the bed of old ocean with diamonds, as the great gigantic rocks stood up before them ,in naked majesty, as swift-winge sea-birds flitted over their headsand occasionally uttered shrill cries from their serial height, that Sirt Ibert aings for th first time spoke words of love to the proud heiresRtof ' tbbourne, n. d she listened to them as though the music of -lte sphereshoad come down to charm her-mortal senses. She made no feint of referring him to her father knowing the se:ntiments of the latter as she did. Neither could she speak, for her heart was full-only the little, snow-white hand  ATLBERT HASTINGS. tightened on his arm and great unshed tears hung on the long, dark fringes of her violet eyes. It was enough, and Sir Albert felt the con- solation of being no more alone in the world. The life within life was again his. That spirit-loneliness, so hard to bear since the loss of Emeline, ceased to afflict him. A portion of the old bright world glimmered around hin/ibut alas, there was a bright form there which he dared not contemplate, for it looked reprtoachfully on him, and his heart cowered like a guilty thing. .He smiled bitterly at the illusion, and drew" the happy Geraldiie nearer his bosom. The castle was a blaze of light a- they entered it, and Lady Livia with a smile Welcomed them.  Have you not been out too late, Geraldine ?' said she. "Come, Albert, I must hold you responsible for imprudences of this kind, though they tell me that sea breezes are not unhealthful here on the, coast- even after nightfalL. I trust the information may prove to be correct. :And now, iss Sonterville," continued she, with great urban- ity, "n-w  we wffill have.yur promised song -there is the guitar. Coloniel BeverlyF, Iwil-trouble:you,' 'and- her ladyship pointed to the instrumentffinely inlaid with mother-of-pearl and elaborately finished. The ribbon :was adcjusted about the neck of the lady, who, to do her justice, sangg exqusitely and had a voice adapted to that most trying of instruments as an 'ac-ompanimenit to vocal music, which requires soft- ness and subdued power'in the:voice of the performer. But when it is attained, whichk happens but rarely, there is nothing sweeter than the union of its aerial vibrations with the magic sweetness of feminine tones.                           '.        , -'' .  .. Miss Somerville sang delightfully; even the critical -master of the mansioni could not, withhold Wis admiration. , Geraldine had never looked so beautiful, and as she sat with that nobility of aspect peculiar to her race, and that ineffable delicacy and sweetness so entirely her ownn, no one could resist the impression which female loveliness ac- compaied by goodness always inspires.  She was strikingly like her mother,-the Lady Maud, formerly a beauty of the English court, and no iess admired for her: virtues than for her rare personal endowments. Aid ano6wns it ndeed tihe gala time of thos two young hearts. :In 'irJAbe-rt': ~ef i these haleyon momeitsU were not  attendants on first'love-that syti ting, -which;gathers in one glorious and beauti- ful present the best6ltat lfe can :bestow  of truthful detion, of unsophisticatd trust,-of fresh, pure sentiment, of angel-dreams, and of bliss never :to 'be forgotteni did not 'characterize his feelings for Geraldine. 'Young as he was, he had passed the brightest of life's   ATIRIuT HASIfl{GS.   331   experiences -the bridge of gold which unites youth with manhood. There were profound admiration, a grateful acknowledgment of her preference, gratified pride and the approval of reason to bind him to the Lady Geraldine. There was his grandmother's expressed wish- the fitness of the alliance- and above all, what he considered the deser- tion of Emeline, which conspired to sanction his hoice, and he was in a calm way happy.  But Geraldine Rathbourne lived in a new and glorious world. From the hour when her darkening ees, redeemed from the stupor of death by his brave arm, opened once more on this breathinglivingearth;,and contemplated her delivererj he was throned in her heart.` Apart from and above all of created good did she esteem Sir Albert Hastings. His form embodied all she could conceive of earthly beauty--his bravery matched him with the lion-heated king of her aIid;: and his wisdom and goodness placed him on a pedestal approached by no living being-- there he stood, her one grand idea; and pomp, and splendor, and riches, and fame, Were t neatn and empty thingt when coempaiedwith him. Again the rose of health -deepened on -her cheek-h4er tich and liquid eyes revealed the world of joy that revelled at her heart, while she moved with-am ary grace and buoyancy of step -thatiw.er out- ward tokens of he tSihinse within, from' whose bright and hallowing presence a higher* style of beauty was- produced, yet- so sof and win- ning, that the old dowagers who'remembered her-mother in the days when, graced] y an: acknowledged palm of lovelnes, iLady Maud was the idmiiration0f;a fastidious ourt, deltared that'sh wssturpassed by her daughter:  Every propitious circumstancee smiled on:the betrothal of 'tiose hho seeed fidttneby nre andUtmsan tae t become one. Geraidine was riaaillUydeliacate, and thiugh -now wearing the ap- pearance- of health, iuified oftenf : attacks of sudden illness- Her naturall frail coistitution, sinicei-the 'everia o etl of immersio i nthe lake,; her accidental fall from her horse, ttid the pisoiiinag :ipt. wbich e she had experienedd at the hands of the'itinfamouPs'rPsulmehad -been ^ ito a great extent, shatte ed.  er intense inte reat inlt about her; now that'Sir Albert'wai her father's guest, her'atcepted ler :j med to fortfr 'her against ithei iroads of -ickesl^-appetl ;ithe ibre-tais- man whiicheld disease even in abeyane;iad she 'rble d an April flower :parkin gi:thdew and joiiisg  ai ealy, '. s  .. Lady Arundel had never felt:.fbilly:tiefied wit th . coursesBof events^, though she dearly loved Geraldine bit'br :at 'ery rieasonf   did not like to regard ir Albert wanting in constaney and: constey.-  -She could not bear to think that his was' a facile' nature, this being wholly   ATLBF RT HASTINGS. at yariance with her preconceived impression of his character, but waited silently, as was her wont, and did not communicate her sentiments to her sister.  The reunions at Craigland, Castle at this time were of the most recrhecl e description- Mr. Stuart was endowed.with great conversa- tional excellence. - Lady BLivia- witb extens  iv cultivation, possessed fine taste and exquisite powers of discrimination.- Lord Rathbourne with all' his brusqueness -of -manner wasireally a man of fine feeling, as wellias a strong and originalthinker. Various- other persons, compos- ing the company at the castle, were in different degrees more or less superior. Sir Albert, though no longer permitting himself to be lion- ized by Lord Rathbourne, was yet, the leading vtar amongst his lordship's guests, though he sought in -every way to avoid being so. Having no-vanityhe -eschewed the narrow and fulsome homage of a coterie, than which nothing can be mbre annoying to an elevated mind and capacity. - He -therefore courteously withdrew from flattery, and strove to hold him-elf: in the background when there were others, whom, in his unobtrusiveness, he deemed not only older but wiser than himself.  Neverrid the character of Sir Albert Hastings, confessedly our hero, appear: in -more amiable and lofty light -than t- this period of his his-- tory. J:If it is hard to bear.,poverty with its imeagre train of sorrows, it is even more" diffiult:to encounter, unsoiled by their poisonous influ- ences, the combined, insidious and enervating phalanx -following in the wake of wealth,-luxury, personal reputation and aristocratic position. There is virtue, w-e: repeal, of - no ordinary, ;degree, in youth, thus circumstanced, when modesty, humility, and a just sense of themvalue at which they ought to be estimated, is retained by the happy recipient of fortune's ,favorsr-or, more rationally speaking, of these good gifts of Providence. -Yet.Sir Albert deeply felt the responsibilities' entailed on him inregard to tHie'various trusts about to be committed to his hands. Theseembraced the welfare of a numerous tenantry, the happiness of those more immediately connected with him-- and -bove all, the glory of his fathers country, now ,hisown, whence his honors were derived, and which -he sincerely loved. In spite of all this, Sir Albert fHstings was a :true -A:imerican. He believed that to either country its own peculiar form .of govenment was best adapted. He loved the grand old British banner -withits magnanimous and unconquered-lion sym- bol, and his heart expanded with exultation when the American eagle in its starryWfight spread its broad wings over that flag which floats on every sea.  Abolition was then incipient-secession had not lifted   ATR-,RT -HASTIMN  .                 333 its bold arm, and Sir Albert Hastings loved his whole country, north and south, the North for its hardy perseverance and love of letters, for its aspiring spirit and industrial excellence-the South for its chivalric honor, its impulsive genius, its hospitality and nobility of sentiment. Every distinct star on the emblematic-ensign of the United -States was dear to him, though as a; ative of the glorious 1PalmettoState, he felt, as all her children do, pride in her ancient renown and her jealous love of liberty. Her green hills and sublime forests had- nrsed hisiinfancy, her bright sunshine, blue skies and ruhing rtorms were -ihwoven with childhood's vvivd and loving memorie, there was his mothers grave, and there, though lost to him, was his early love andithe inspiration of his brightest dreams--fair. Emeline.-Lovel.  * Sir Albert sat alone with Lady erunde in the apartment of the lat- ter. This chmber looked out on the sea;which was'now deep blue, clear of the haze which -often rests, on its u-ndlatingw wait,% and im- parts a leaden aspect totheir learnes. Lady Arundel held a portfobio in her hand, and, tirirng to one.of the drawings, said: "Do you recogize this, Alb er't? "  After contemplating the sketch for an instant, he replied: "-Oh, yes, m.tdarn,'tis the; alcove which  h rave often admired on the. shore, a little way from Castle. raieland,-,-those rocks a portrayed to the life, and the sparry excrescences within. We mut have somefine artist at the-castle, but I scarcelyknow all the people Lord Rathbourne collects about him, and cannot imagine who it is." "Then I will inform you," said Lady Arundel, withA her quiet, mean- ing smile, "the artist is no-other than Geraldine herself" Here Sir Albert reconsidered the drawing with more interest, and Lady Arundel continued:              -.  ' The young heiress of Rathboure has many graces and acom- plishments; indeed I know no one of her-years ;at all comparable to her. But how is it, Albert" here Lady Arundel's voice became low, earnest, and affectionate, "how is it, my dear nephew, that after being long, as I though insensible to Geraldine's attciowns you have so suddenly awakened to a sense of them? I have always spoken to you with great plainness, my dear son, and I shall do itnow. So firmly was I persuaded that another :claimed your- heart .years ago, that I even advised Lady Livia to bring the Lovel family to England. I afterwards understood that  rs. Lovel had deceased, and I then hoped, for your sake and the young girl's, that she would come hither. She did not come; but I know, Albert, that your correspondence'has been regularly maintained, and unless I have been greatly deceived,  there must have existed at least a tacit understanding between you. Lady Livia informed me there was not a formal engagement; but you are too honorable, I trust, my dear nephew, to have raised hopes in the bosom-of that poor-girl, which must now, it seems, be left unfulfilled. -Forgives me, Albert,--your honor lies near my heart l"  i Sir-:lbeAt's color: imeand went-during this address of- his excellent aunt ; but at its conclusion he :was very pale and calm, and raising his eloquentayes, which ever mirrored his soul, to his aunt's face, he,.-with- out a wordi drew Mr.. Oldhsam'   letter from his pocket, and placed it in her handi,regarding her while she reed it with a half-sorrowul look of love and admiration.. Lady Arundel read the missive, while tears started to her eyes, and, . unused as she-was-to the betrayal of emotion of any kind, her feelings could- not nowbe -erepresed. -                 *        X " Oh, Albert, my noble -son, why did I ever doubt you ? Alas ! the judgment of poor humanity often err, and you, in reality, claimed tmy pity, while I, in my. self-assured, erroneous blindness, condemned you I And now, will'you forgive me," added the lovely lady, throwing her arms about her nephew's neck, " while I feel free to say that which I have- neter-said into you before, Geraldine is the woman, of all living, whom ,I hould have selected as your lady, to bear the honors of the house of ,-Hastings; zand now, when, I know you free, the joy of my heart is inexpressible in the prospect of-one day- calling JLord Rath- bourne's lovely daughter myniece"    ..  This interview had the happiest effect on Sir Albert, with whom Lady Arunders opmion and approval had ever been paramount: and when, at six' o'o lbo, the, hurrying servants, white gloved and alert, bowed him into the dining-room, Sir Albert Hastings, though no strqnger in native .integritytham he had/ever been,, yet felt himself in-. vigorated by that cordial t6 the mind of virtue-the expressed approval of the good., , While crossing the co:rridor, Sir Albert observed a slight figure recede towards the .servants' .ha..  his was the- flower girl; in her., hands were wreaths:and bouquets. She walked rapidly, and tuirn   g her head for anaimstant/,quicklyVwithdrew her eyes, seemingly to avoid ob servation,/,:Weh howevert she did tot, for Sir Albert was sefible of a sort of dreamy recognhitino, the effect of former acquaintance diagree- able 'in i associations,: pasing rapidly away; one of those mental vo- litions wholly unaountabie, but at some time exprienced by all. A vague impression remained with him that he had met that face before, when or where he could not recall/and on entering the dining-room   soon forgot so trifling a circumstance. The table was, set out in great splendor. Massive silver vases curiously chased, in triple rows, were filled with fragrant and brilliant flowers, arranged with- Grecian ele- |      gance and taste-red roses blushing in their midst, and mountain mosses drooping in dlicate negligence around them.. -.The entire dinner service was. also of. polished .silver, and the Bohemian-gl/ss of .richest ii     color and finest design. The appearance of the company conveyed an impression, at a glance, of high] breeding :and- rEfinement -i ; Sir Albert |I~I  took his seat next Lady Arundel, and -Geraldine sat opposite/ Uever |I   .had the latter appeared so lovely<; her dark hair.braided plainly -over her snow-white brow, the nameless grace of her fino head thus -fily displayed.. She wore a pink dressof great richness and- simplicity, X|:    with a white camelia on her whiter bosom  a: gauzelie fall of gosswa mer lace shaded, without concealing, her failtless arms glerning through it like alabaster. The rose tint of her-. dress lent a sheade of color to her marble, cheek, -and the most consummate skill of the paint- er would fail to portray the beauties of a face which, though exquisite in feature, derived its most witching charm from its chaingg brilliance of expressiomn.  The large, deep-tinted blue  eyes, withtheir mellow, clear light, and rare and magic- shading of inky lashes, would alone have made a face remarkable. But her mouth was one of extraorai- nary beauty. This, perhaps the most important -feature, and so seldom perfect, was inimitable, It was a poetical mouth; with its short, slightly curved upper lip, its - ruby freshness, guarded- by dimples, smaS and always inclining to an angelic smile While speakng it disclosed new beauties, and in repose it harmonized with the noble brow, Gre-, cian nose, and soul-spealdking eye. There was that about Geraldino Rathbourne which never wearied the beholder. No prettiness after the meaningless style of doll beauty  Profound sentimentand.intellectual glory dignified and made lumrinous her- modest~,retiring, g'rlish face- feminine in delicacy, high, and above frivolity in expression.  -, Mr. Stuart was this day particularly brilliant; and always feeling free in the presence or Sir Albert, maintained-a discourse only at times interrupted by necessary ceremonies at a dinner table, toW*hich the company listened with interest: The -subject was one agreeable to all. Scotland-its antiquities, (Mr. Stuart, as his name importe wasof Scottish descent, as had been the Lady-Maud, Geraldine'-s mother)- the grand development of poeti excellence -exemplified -in/-th^match- lesa bards of that renowned land, from the days of her border- min- strels and Highland 'harpers down to Drummond, of Hawthornden--to Robert Burns and Sir Walter Scott.   336     .     BERT HASTINGrS. "Englisman., though I am," said Lord Rathbourne in a pause of Mr. Stuarts. eloquence,  yet the town of Edinburgh-with that im' . pregnable castle, the repository of crown jewels worn by Eobert .Bruce'-with Arthur's Sfeat, so renowned in song and _legend-with Oalton Hill lookingrf'm "its misty height over a prospect to be seen no where .else-with ab-New Town of palaces, with its ancient and historic wynds-.and old ]olyrood abounding in relics of -the hapless Mary/and ithe whole'IStuart dynasty--I say with all these and many more venerabe rassociatiOnS, t declre  I should like to visit Scotland; besides, the lady Maud," here -Lord Rathbourne's voice became husky, and he spoke with .emotion, "the Lady Maud loved Scotland. Her lineage, was derived from that land of chivalry and-song, of old ro- mance anda bravery so heroic that it repelled-the arms of the Cesars." "Aye," responded Mrs. Danvers, " I mind being at  amilton Hall the last season we used :to go on the Caledonian canal to Edinburgh, and as we glided onbetween the locks, blue-bells and other flowers were so near that- it seemed by simply reaching out one's hand they might be plucked. There is vast vairiety in Scottish scenery of which none but an eye-witness can conceive. I, do- not wonder, indeed, that those who.. owe their parentage .to Scotlan  'hod sh love her to the end of life." "They do, madam, they do," responded Mr. Stuart, warmly.  Let even a stranger witness her  gloaming,' the magic blaze of her Nor- thern Lights,' the upward roll of her mists amidst glinting sunbeams-- her wild trosaChs--her thymy plains and undulating hills-her ruined castles and immortal battle fields---let even a stranger, I say, contem- plate these, and say  hether ancient Albyn does not ehchaiti the spirit with a spell unknown in other lands, where never bards ung or heroes bled as in her glorious realm?"   . Miss Somervie usually .ilent in society, unless endorsing Lord Rath- bourne's opinions, now interposed and said, with a genuine gush of feeling: n  Oh,e r. Satuart, did you see th e cottage of Jenny Deans when in Edinburgh?"  yIe have seendit," replied Mr. Stuart, "though not on my last visit ls  have se      e       -Cti"do       on        myt las morethan once.    he interest thrown bymy great countdryman, Sir Walter Scott,e around that cottage, makes it a - point f attraction to every visitor, and, yet its celebrity is far more owing to the genius of the, novelist than'to th e pvirtues of Jenny.h Such, is the life-giving might of genius. Many a romance of equal power and interest has faded away from the records of time, with only this difference, there   ATBTiRT HATINGS.            88337 was no. Sir Walter to commemorate them. This reminds me of some noble lines, which, if not trite, I will repeat for their truth as well as poetic excellence: "' Though the proud wreath of victory round heroes may twine, '- 'Tis the poet who crowns -them with honors divlie, And thy laurels, P^lep I har^ifnete, Did the bard not preserve them immota:l In bloom. - Miss Somerville bowed, lessert was. on the table, and the ladies re- tired to the drawing-roomS, :hre :tisie soorfe unded-and light steps in concert told the fact that flying feet kept pace with sweet sounds-- that the young anid gay held revels in  raigland' ancient haUs, and that the poetry of music w:s sthin unison with the corresponding poetry of motion. But Sir Albert stood apart-he contemplitd ldy Geraldine at a distance. He felt that -she was his, but- sadness mingled with his joy, and there was a shadow at his heart which repelled-mer- riment. He   asthinldng of ElUto'iit th old .-tii  -   : ' ' ' , ," @ ,   - "-. '               'i - i - ,'wild -'.rher habiptstan t.  r,' withwhom h'Br    -the iser deto hoi iy r - . .., -. A lM rhaittovsslo graiouas ends,  ttOf       Thrak M ou h twher pe ofur D exterdid not again di sturb her -* ' *- '  . ',d-' - ,  a 7 .t 0f by Aheredles s"ess of ain pound her..     . nelineas, f pibl    more tdhadn ega iover devotedton. -Vaeri and more !sict w  d in her-habits than ever since the depare of icto inercurse withwhom hr tseffsundrsecttanding seemed to bermer, wholy iwasof hat age when haveseenalerie's fouter harmnlcoolationwith herbooks, and there- treatrding-shool ount where Mrbe Dentevulgar did not atsn dcomparisturb her swith t  he traing she now ared alway like one preoccupied, and something of Mr  .  oa y hadindfrmed rene    ssto compansio n andiv yalher ws lessole of al itaiound he        heposesed Emeline was, if poqible, more than ever devoted to Valerie, and so striet was m  the bod betweenl eues and the latt wer seldom apart This intregarcouse ha nli ts efft on the for  who reas of that age when facileyouth recevery inchdelile impreions of aer aound assentiment Hugnc ensdoy  Thismelane wa-always of a complying eenature, as we wi  hetraining she stance oreceived But thereien onby jealous y and theimportunit ies alloway had info strmed the misth of the ould mansion, and aknowlee  her as his wife, as resolved. to maintai he rights of others She possessed -wealth apart-from -the Lovel bequest, and the latter she had always regarded1 as ony a - tust. Itwas -for this reason that she decided on conesg every- -inch- of groun d assumed by the opposing- party, headed by -r* Oliphant IOvOel, sustained by Mr. Dexter and the caitiff H   iugh Hern-don T-his man-was in reality the murderer of JohnAus- tinjat the instance of .the Sguilty Alaric, who, driven on by jealousy and the importunities of Myra s foster brother that he would openly - aeknowledge her as his wife, was resolved to be rid of him. There   AtiRT?RT  HASTGS.       3-39 -had-for some time existed feelings of-great bitterness  between-the murdered man and Alarie Lovel Hugh -Herndon, a bloody-minded villain, knew this,- and sought occasion to offer his services to Alaric, who, though cautiously receiving the proffer, yet, one day, after an ex- citing conversation- had taken-place with. refeince -to Myra between himself and Austin, in which the latter .tretened. to denounce him before the world, temptation prevailed.: e handed Herndon a sum of money with only this injunction: "Rid me-of that man.'i" -I) was done by the bank of the lone pond in the pine barren,. and both. Dexter and Oliphant were fully cognizant of the affir., Dexter was pasing on to his school-house and sawHerndondragging th-e bIeeding body of his victim towards the water's, edge. - ited his heiad for- an instant, but the gory hand of the assn wavedhim away, as-he shout- ed after him:                  .- ",  "Take care of your precious peron, Mr. Schoolmaster. You had better not embroil yourself iwith; M-B Aie!A vir t 'conerns Mber than you have 'done already. Get out of -theI ay I?s a i ni'd you have seen nothing"'- : /      . ;  - . . -  Dexter hurried on in great trepidation, and -eoncealed- himself more sednously, than ever in the pine woods,--elavn-ig gl toasu-ppo tlat he had left the country. Hemdon took his reward--and re-atyrwasln- visible till the deattof Alaric freed -himifm rnfeasr-ani.-- tlei ti o n ,of an old acquaintanceship with Oliphant suggested th6ide-th- --itthe altered circumstances of that disaptointe d t thireLvelstate, he might in some way be of ':se.: -he plan:f   wa frged i will was-on- coeted' between the two, who then took Dexter into their eounselS of whvom:-Herndon-krema rke d:          .   -  "The'fellow 'is adesperate coward--leave him: tof- me. It can-make him swear anything you like. : He could havehanged me long iagout I tell you fear will marke him deny his own existence.--: HEe :hasseen that which makes me his master."   -           : ' Look you," said Oliphant, in a low voice, "' I did not se'anything, didI?" -                 - - H? -tI :- -' '- ' "No; but you knew," returned-the mffian, witha sa-vage:jeerand Oliphant -feltfthati Dexter was- not' theimurderer' o 0r y sla^ - ;' Itell- you what' Conftinued he, "' you ought to -haveyour tunles r ei ty- draw -outa- wi.  o - You aw- alayerl; . .wi.  . gtt ix Dexter shall do the same, and you will :pay. gfor. e troub at-i s all. You will: not miss a few thousand -ioreoor les-nd:-promi'to go away. The air of:this plaoe is not- over wholsome toianle- d-I- think, if you-give him the means, Dexter will leave also after your busi-   340         ATf RW T HASTINGS. ness, is settled. Get it over as soon- as you can; it will be better for all concerned." "Badger," said Oliphant, " is cunning as a serpent He is the most formidable obstacle in our way, gleaning as he does rich fees unques- tioned from -the great heiress, Miss De Mar." "Buy him," rejoinedlthe man of blood, " buy him. Every man has his price.- Only bid higher than the heiress, and I will answer for Mr. Badger--a pettifogger all his life-why his old mother is starving on corn-meal in the pine barren at this instant, and Mr. Badger gives political dinners-don't talk to me of Badger. I could hire him to impeach the bishop for a consideration. Money is his god as well as mine. Try him, you will find it true." The hideous face of the -speaker with its cunning leer and wolfish ; ferocity here relaxed into a repulsive grin, beside which that of Mr. Dexter became pleasant,- and he slapped his hand on his pocket with a gesture which seemed to say, "This controls me and the world also; do not doubt it, Mr. Oliphant LoveL" Oliphant replied: "You deal with Mr. Dexter while I consult with Badger, and we can meet to-morrow evening at my office. Stay, on reflection, I think we had better consult in the old school-house in the pine barrent."  lM :will not speak to you there," responded Herndn. "No, there are whispering voices in: the wild, - and- Mother Amy traverses its paths, calling down vengeance on my head. I will dome to your office. Dis. miss your clerks. I will none of the pine barren."     ; Oliphant's buggy drove up before the place of business occupied by Mr. Badger. Thategentleman was at first reserved. He had, he said, charge of the Lovel estate. tHe was trusted and would do his duty. He could listen to nothing detrimental to the interests- of its present owner. He had a character to maintain; he must be -faithful to his trust; "All right, Mr.;Badger, all right, and yet you see I1 intend to upset the claims of that owner. My uncle always esteemed me his heir., He has told me as much, but that is little: I have in my possession a will made -by him on the 'day of his -intended marriage, of later date than thaft -to which -you-were witness, and which- I acknowledge to be a legally executed document-1; but mine is of subsequent execution, and must, their6fore , take 'precedence. In, it I am constituted his sole heir, the former bequest beirg wholly cancelled. You cannot expect me to sleep on my -rights while a stranger enjoys the patrimony of my family I   -AT B.RT BASPINGBS.-         341 No, sir, I appeal to you as a man of business. You cannot expect me to do this." Mr. Badger shuffled in his chair, took up one paper, then another, put them together, and finally laid the whole batch on the table with this remark; "It is the duty of lawyers, Mr. Lovel,- and ;the province of the law, to administer justice-only justice--and if- this, be as -you say, I of course can offer no impediment to that which is right. While the re- tained counsel of Miss De Mar, her interests are mine, you see. If, on the other hand, she discards me, as indeed I am induced to think she contemplates doing, why, then, I shall be free to confer with you or any one else regarding this property no less thanany rother. Do. you comprehend, Mr. Leovel? Speaking candidly, I have always- ex- pected some question of this kind to arise. In courtesy to you, as a member of the profession, whose interest is so nearly involved, I beg to say that I will offer any facility in my power, and- consonant with the rights of my present employer for the establishment of your claim. If dismissed by her, and retained by ,you, I need not say that there will be an added motive to actuate me on your behalf." "Then I can inform you," said Olipbhnu, with emphasis, "that such a change is contemplated-nay, that steps for defence hare been taken by Valerie De Ma0,of whose movements you seem strangelyignorant. Mr. Calloway, the Methodist preacher, having advised her in the prem- ises. Now will you act as my attorney?".. Mr. Badger was amazed, indignant, resentful, and after a moment's pause, replied: 9"I will see the lady first, and to-morrow you shall have my answer." "I dare say," added he, quickly, "I dare say all will be as you wih." On the morning after this conversation, Badger- repaired to Ellerton at an early hour after breakfast, and being seated in the hall held coun- sel with himself to this effect. I have never been able to thaw the ice, of this same Valerie De Mar-I would have served her faithfully- indeed I have done it up to this point-I have been well paid, -what of that? She does not give me her confidence, least of all do I desire the supervision of elderly gentlemen-Mr. Calloway, for; example. Now, here is, Oliphant level with his hearty, manner .and, much of Alari -Lovel's acuteness, -I believe he w3il w. in ' -te-end -he has always had what some people call. luck--what I call-no matter.- At all events he gets on in the world - I shl opposeno very strenuous barrier to my dismission should the proud heiress hint it. In all proba- bility I shall do better elsewhere.   342          AT.3ERT HASTINGS. -Here Valerie entered- with that sweetness and self-assured respect which commands -at once regard and deference. But the lawyer, no whit abashed, addressed her, more loftily than was his wont, in the fol- lowing terms: , "I am afraid, madam, there- is likely to be trouble in regard to the property which I had the honor of informing you in the first instance had betna bequeathed toyou Perhaps you would rather consult some more experienced lawyer than I am under the circumstances. If so, I cheerfully recommend that you do. H-" Here Mr, Calloway was announced, and, on seeing Badger, was about to retire, but- Valerie requested that he would remain, though his pres- ence was instantly perceived -by her to be a check on the lawyer, who seemed- inclined to say nothing more while Mr. Calloway eyed him sternly-there was strange power in that old man's eye-its master- spell was on Badger- now, who, resuming, his usually servile manner, which a few moments before - had been for the first time in all his in- tercourse with Valerie abandoned, spoke thus:  If, Miss:DeMar, as I was-saying, you deem more experienced coun- sel necessary, I shall not object, and feel no way slighted.1" -Mr. Calloway, at this, raisedl his head,.with a look of profound con. tempt,;and observingthat-Valerie. remained undecided and did not im- mediately answer' said, wi th deep, olemn intonatiofns:    "ea lady, allow:him to depart, sinoe assuredly he pertaineth to an unholy conclave, devising that-whereuntothey are urged by their mas. ter, even- the father of lies, who partaketh. largely of their counsel, whose slaves they are, and who will, :unless they be snatched as- brands from- the burning, lead them to. his final abode, where there is wailing andg n abin of- ti?             ;  . i . Here- Mr., Oal lway, greatly excitedj addressed himself' evea -more directly to his awed listener: .  '  -":Yea, verily,I -know thy works, how thou didst draw papers, and sign deeds, anddprevaricate 4n thy speech, and wriggle in thy ways even as a serpent- in the mire,-'when aiding some who have come already to a fearful end. I perceive, also, that thou art hardened with Egyptian hardness in .thiy:yays. . . Having ,more -knowledge: of thee :than thou wottest o ;i[ haire:even courselledthis goodly lady: before, to remove thee from-her:;presence :andfrom her employ, Thou art a pestilentihanger- on of the law, one who worketh inr'ighteously"  . :Mr. Badger rose to depart,- responding hurriedly, "Sir, your language is offensive and- personal-actionable, I might almost say." "Aye, threaten," exclaimed Mr. Calloway, with profound contempt, :            t   AT4;BFRT  iASTIGS -    - "I fear no earthly court, seeing that my obedience-is to higher author- ity. . Yea, thy threats move me not, and thou hast my warning deliv- ered to thee openly: see that thou heed it." "You are here quite opportunely, Mr. -Calloway," sAid Valeria very calmly to the minister, on Badger's withdrawal, "and although the request may seem a strange one, yet, as I act for: others, I am emboldenedqto do so fearlessly,- knowing your interest in the helpless, and having had your co-operation in their behalf on a former occasion,\ for whimh you have my thanks as well as their own. - Will you procure for me a member of the legal profession in whom you have-confidenoe, and/to whose hands this affair may be committed; I need not-informyou that I am wholly ignorant of law, or even of the necesswa  steps to be taken." Mr. Calloway gave his- assent without demur, and sooa after dde parted. Towards noon his buggy was, seen opposite the large and ele- gant office of Counsellor Woodward, who was, as'usual,; much occupiecdh There were people comiog and- going, and the venerable minister re- mained for some:time -in the back groundi, feeling out of his 'element, but entirely unembatrassed. The counsellor was a tall, spare manv, ery.. erect, with a countenance indicative of quick wit and benevolence. His forehead was high and broad, and his Anglo-Saxon hair somewhat thin about the crown of his Roman hed:; -, smout1h ther largej-was well-formed, with an expression of facetiousness and? goodness not to be mistaken; -his eye was clear,.varyjng hazel, capable of e6veryexpres- sion, from onerof indignant ;scornm and terrible: repro' to that of: the mildest consideration and most sympathizing -kindness. :-heres- s a moment of unoccupied -time. - Mr-. O:lloway advanced-,andd-the -great lawyer, who was an excellent judge of hba n nature-oexp  mentally so friom his long intercourse with men of -alloclas3cs- immediately. wel- comed Mr. CaHoway, saying pleasantly:      : ... . . . Well, sir, youve coyour sphere to invade mine, I s'e% and if you bringas much. eloqunee-into justiciarty halls As you [areao- customed to -display on the- camp-groun d, IlwiU ev'en yield-you ay. seat here;    , *.  . - ,--'            * * ", To which Mr. Oalloway., telawing his gravity,: replied;:- ; '. Of a verity, rsuch- isa not my. :irtntt; and Hperwivei e-at fyou peak in all kindine., - peradventuire bemg *aeeustoed' I:o jit,:with'  hosewho come here- on' errands, less weighty than myown.; ThPou:-hat..tr y said, sir, that I am not wont to visit those of: thyBcalling, tmy own bet- ter vocation being of the -Gospel rather than of the :aw.^, te- less, I am at this time impelled to seek aid of an honorable member of %             .            ,- ";   x 344         ATMRT- HASTI  GS.- thy more worldly profession, and have selected thee, because of goodly report which :hath reached my ears concerning thy acts and the wis- dom of thy-knowledge. But I will speak at once, heeding that thy time :is precious and my own also. It is known to thee that the late Alaric Lovel gave and bequeathed all his great fortune to a young lady, who, since his demise, ihath adopted his daughter and niece, intending to-bestow the-same:on them."  Cotnsellor Woodward bowed. "I will go further," resumed Mr. Calloway. "I will go further, and ask if certain -rumors of the. disappearance of one John Austin, under suspicious circumstances, is remembered by thee? Now there was a man, Hugh Herndon, strongly suspected of having been his murderer, and this man left the country at the time of which I speak-that is when the murder was committed-but hath recently, since the death of Alaric Lovel, returned, and is one of the parties ready to swear him- self Awitness of Alaric's last will in favor of Oliphant, his nephew." 4 Is there another :witness?" interrupted Counsellor Woodward. "Yea, sir, one Dexter, who hath been bought to conceal truth for gold, and may be suborned to endorse that which -is false, for a like, re- ward; one who loveth gain and feareth for his life, being in the power of: such as scruple at nothing. Now this Hemdon hath been seen :with a -watch knownI to hive pertained to the murdered man; yea, and to have lbeen worn by him when he departed from his house and returned no more. Likewise he was seen, with spots of blood on his garments, fleeing across the pine barren from the direction of a pond where Aus- tin's: mother, a-woeful woman ana halftcrazed with grief, gathered, in her misery, a human skeleton from the still waters. It. behooves me to be nob man's accuser, learned sir, but blood calleth for vengeance, and the strong arm of the wicked unresisted worketh yet more mischief. In obedience, therefore, to solemn duty, wherein I have not considered myself, I deliver these things, and am moreover commissioned by that charitable and well esteemed lady, Miss De Mar, to procure your ser- vices -as counsel for the;defendant in the impending lawsuit." Counsellor Woodward was a short time silent, and then replied: "Herndon shall be arrested for murder in the first degree. I know the man's character. He is capable of any enormity. The murder is the matter in hand. Give me ithe name of the person-who met Hem- don with-bloody clothes, on the dayof John Austin's disappearance- poor fellow, I remember him well." Mr. Calloway gave the name required, and the counsellor said to him at-parting: -   ALBET HASTINGS.           34t "Say to Miss De Mar that I am at her service, if needed. But my impression is that there will be- no suit. Hemdon will meet his deserts, if citizens of this free country are to have their lives protected by law." Mr-. Calloway's countenance at this assumed an expression of awe and solemnity, and preparing to depart, he rejoined,--"Mypainful-duty, learned sir, having been discharged, I cannot do otherwise than express the great sorrow and compunction which assail me, seeing that byamy utterance the sword of justice will in due season overtake the wicked, yea, and that by my words his secret iniquity shall meet its due reward. And yet I am but a humble instrument in His bands who hath said, 'Vengeance is mine and I will repay.'"  "You have only done that which' it was incumbent on you to do, Mr. Calloway," said the lawyer, resolutely, ."and have nothing whatever to reproach yourself with, in the course pursued by you."' "Of a verity do -I so believe, yea and am assured -, and now, sir, I leave, surely with more satisfaction than I entered them, theabodes of those who wrangle in matters of law; nevdtheless, meaing not any implied censure to apply to such as -thou art, for he that- preserveth integrity, as thou dost, in the midst of temptation, eameth great and abounding-praise above those who, walring in private paths of virthe, are -not tried even as gold in the furnace."  This was perhaps the greatest compliment ever paid by Mr.: Cdo- way to any man of whatever -profession, and the lawye -aware of his character, appreciated it. Their parting was cordial, and Mr. Calloway's last words were--"A nation rejoiceth when good men are exalted, yea, and by their hands is justice established. They shall prosper anid never be confounded." The minister drove slowly on in deep thought till entering the bor- ders- of the pine - barren, he spied a skeleton form, with wild, haggard eyes, and garments rapidly falling into rags. This attenuated figure, bent with age and stooping under the ,burden of a coarse bag, he soon recognized as that of Amy Auistin. - She was fearflly lchanged, insanity fired her eye, her language was .incoherent, and she employed no re- spectful terms in her address to Mr. Calloway, though accustomed to do this always formerly. The poor old creature had worn out her last energies in the performance of her self-tppointed, dismal ,task, at the, pine barren pond. Even then her shattered intellect scarce sustained the horror by which she was surrounded, and the consmiing grief-occa- sioned by the mysterious loss of her son. Reason was now almost wholly darkened, but its last rays were concentrated still on one object -the condign punishment of her son's murderer was her sole :aim.   346          AT BRTT  HASTINGS. She had seen the end of Alaric Lovel-the instigator had met his deserts, but the bloody executor of the cruel deed was now the object of. her just hatredi and obnoxious to her revenge. She had not for a long time- seen -Mr. Calloway, and deeming him indifferent to, or ne- glectful of, her former-urgent solicitations to aid her in heri unwearied search, she greeted :him with anger and reproaches, speaking as fol- lows, while setting -her --bag down on. the path covered with dried pine leaves, and folding her attenuated arms, she stood before him: "Woe is me I  i thought you a fearless man, but I have learned to -trust none-no, not him esteemed by me above all others. -John Austin was not your son, old man. He does not come to you at night, and tell over every murderous stroke which aided in releasing his soul from his mangled body.- I tell you, whom men call a -saint, your selfish indifference encourages murderin the -land. I command you, by the bones of John Austin, before -your eyes, by my helpless agony, by your holy repute, by the justice of heaven, by your hopes 'hereaifer, and by every gdbd doctrine delivered by you in the hearing of vast congregations, I command you on pain of my curse, which shall not fall to the ground"--here, she: unfolded her arms, and casting them wildly upward, shrieked, "And by the curse of the God you worship, to find out the murderous -illain whose hands are embued in the- blood of my only child-poor, poor, Johi Austin, who has none but his feeble, distracted mother to deplore him." Overcome by her grief and excitement, the weirdcreature sat down and wept. .Mr. Calloway maintained "a sterm silence, without attempting to interrupt Mother A-my till -she ceased speaking, and then, in authora- tive voice and looks of deep commiseration, repliel: "Thou speakest as -one of the foolish-women. Leave -thy cause in higher hands than min e..... Who am I but a feeble instrument in the hands of Omnipotene6? WNevertheless, it is vouchsafed to me to give thee assurance that punishment even now awaits the guilty, yea, that by a sure process he shall reap the; fruit of his doing, even by yielding up his own life; for the life he unrighteously took away. But heark- en to me, mother -thy spirit;ais revengeful and vindictive, thou shouldst forgive him as thou hopest to:be forgiven.' . - - "Never'" shouted -Amy, starting from the ground, "never I Go your ways ,go. I have:i;nougt to do with you." And -taking up her abag,: she. disappeared? in the ,wild. Mr.- OCalloway rode :thoughtfully on, and.-.said- audiblygiving vent.-to his -cogitations: "She hath indeed bitter cause foisorrow, :and, my wordls are idle--may she be consoled by a Higher Power." , \ *              A\   AT IBRFR- HASTINGS.        37 It was late in the evening. Far away across the, pillared wild, a sea of pine boughs, at great elevation, waved and swayed in the cool, mild breeze which swept refreshing over heated earth and vegetation almost wilted by the prolonged summer day, -whose departing beams lingered in feeble,' yellow radiance on hill-t0ps and the -highest branches of towering trees. Already:the shrill cry of locusts resounded: along pri- meval woods. Butterflies folded their gossamer wings andgrasshoppers nestled in tall grass or close-woven moss. Short twilight gloomed  over regions lately illuminated with- dazlingH brightness,:-while, just above the horizon, a deep-red radiance marked the spot wher wher soon with ample round the summer moon would arise in subdued splendor, when gentler day would invest the now half-darkened prospect. On sped the miserable old woman, and slower were her steps till, overcome with feebleness, and excitement, she laid her ominous bag beside this path and sat her dowa, wearily leaning against a tall pine trunks-and muttering :half-ompleted sentences, the burden of which was -the absorbing idea of her life., Every word shi f uttered was illustrative of the fact that one subject engrossed her. With litiful wailingg and clasped hands, she implored forgiveness of her dead son- that his mur-, derer was yet free, accusing herself of negligence and inefficiency, because as yet there was/no^ atonement made for his- death. While she sat- thus, a man- clad in homespun, with sun-bumrned features, a tall, athletic frame and honest countenance, but blunt manner, paused and, looking at her compassionately, said: "Mother Amy, come home with me.* You must be chilly at night, lying as you do without shelter here, nought above you but tree-tops and the sky, nought around but- darkness and wild beasts. You ex- pose yourself to sickness and danger." "What-care I for sickness?" returned she, gloomily, " thereis so much sickness here," placing her bony hand on her heart, " that I feel it no- where else. As for danger'-she laughed wildly, "do! you see this wallet? Talk to -the woman who carries a- burden like that, of danger, and she Will scorn your words as I do. No. If you would aid mei bring him to light who robbed me of mny son, and left in his stead a bag of rattling bones." "Would it comfort you if I could do this?" Amy sprang to her feet-her eyes 'looked less wild, and she said slowly, with distinct enunciation:  "Do not trifle with me. I know you, Peter Brown, for an honest man, and I see by your fate that, you are not talking idl" '- "Well, then, Mother Amy, listen to me. -I am summoned to go be; * /   348          ATBTp RT mATMNGaS. forea great lawyer, and give testimony concerning one Hugh Her'don, who, men say, slew your son. Keep quiet, mother, don't interrupt -me. I shall tell all I know, and there are-others prepared to speak too.- I let -you knowthis that it may comfort you. Put away that bag. It is not seemly for you to go about in the manner you-do. Folks call you crazy. Let- those bones be decently buried and you will feel more like a Christain mother"  "'- I will never. do, so," returned Amy, fiercely. u"I will never do so till I see the gibbet of my son's, destroyer rise before my eyes, and then the evil. spirit will desert me, my boy's bones shall be interred-- my task will be ended, and one grave will receive his whitened bones and his mother's worn-out body together. Hugh Herndon, did -you say? - Stop, I remember.--yes, yes, I see all now. But he has gone away a great while ago. He left at that time-that dreadful time-I was wild then-I think IX am half wild now. Where is this Hugh Herndon?" shrieked she, clenching her fists, and throwing herself into an- attitude of assault "I am ready to do battle for the dead." Peter -Brown strove vainly to quiet her, and regretted that he had spoken to her at all. He considered her wholly distraught, and afterfa futile effort to soothe-her, he proceeded on his way, lost in reflections on the evil deed which had, long haunted his thoughts, and, the d4noement which was clearly approaching. This interview with Amy determined her auditor to use every means in his power to aid inthe discovery and punishment of her son's murderer. iIe had been long convinced that Herndon was the culprit, andad only kept silence because that indi- vidual was out of reach. , Now that he was advised of the miscreant's return,: and called Upon to give evidence in the case, ,he bethought him of a youth, Philip West, eighteen years of age, a quondam pupil of kMr Dexter's, who had confided to hbimi Peter Brown, the fact that he (Philip West) on returning one evening from the school house in the pine barren, paused by the side of the pond, fishing for minnows, which he caught as bait to be used at a mill a few miles of; and that while there so employed, the boy had heard angry words, and looking across to the: opposite side beheld two men, -whom he recognized as John Austin and Hugh Herndon. The former stood with his back to the ' pond and- was confronted by the latter, who brandished an axe, and gave the first blow while Austin, stood defenceless, and was, overborne in the vain endeavor to evade the cruel strokes of his adversary. All this, distiictly visible to the witness, he related clearly and never varied in the exactitude of his statements. He heard the death-cry of the victim and saw the murderer drag him into the pond. These facts the boy   ALBERT HASTINGS.           349 having communicated to Mr. Dexter was desired by that worthy never to mention. The youth had thus far adhered to the orders of the teacher, but Peter, hearing a rumor of the affair, went to see Philip, and procured from him a statement of the matter, assuring him that he should be protected as a witness. 'All this had transpired since Hern- " dodns return, years after the death of: Alaric- Lovel, as we have seen. The schoolboy had grown into- a stout farmer, but'remembered the in- cidents very well, and never spoke of them without indignation. Dexter had affiliated fully with the party of Oliphant. His wish was to draw Roxanna away from Valerie's influence, so that Oliphant might com- bine her claim, as the daughter of Alaric, with his own, in securing the whole of the inheritance. How he was repulsed we have seen. But Bexter, partly through terror of Hugh Hemdon and partly from cu-  - pidity, went heart and soul into the schemes of the other two -conspira- tors, and having laid aside his first compunctions, was nowas resolved as either of his associates; thus o-nfinrming a fact illustrated by Sbhks- peare, that a coward is the most relentless of villains when- urged on to crime by fear.  Little aware that the powerful and acute mind of Counsellor Woodward was at this instant bent on. their detection-and discomfiture, that agents were at work under his direction who :would fathom their schemes and vindicate the majesty of law, they proceeded cautiously and confidently to their ruin. Peter Brown, accompanied by:Philip W est, had made their state- ments, and were ready to give their testimony-^in open -court. The affair had gone out of Mr. Calloway's hiuds,- and as he remained quiet the two made themselves easy, supposing that the storm h-adblown over, This vain security of the guilty mind, so appalling in its callousness' and. freedom from 'compunction, while still led on- by the gnis- fatuus of hoped-for gain, would seem to indicate judicial. blindness, or, -more properly speking, insanity. UQuem Deus vult perdere. prius demen- tat." r    OT-YAPTlT    XLVI.  What i8s the worZld? a wildering maze 'Where sin hath traockd ten thousand 'ways,  He votims tao enanare." (  T was a wild and stormy evening.    Long howls of gloomy j import rolled along the myriad slow-heaving waves' of the troubled deep. -Petrels swarmed over its unquiet bosom, and a ceaseless under-tone of murmuring wrath filled up the pauses of the storm-gods' awful yells Blackness invested heaven's grand arch, save here and there where a bloo'd-red- border defined the jagged out- line of a vast 'and .inky cloud, only more intense in hue than the aekial and darkened field expanded above, lit at-brief intervals by keen light- ning's rapid flash, and disclosing in those momentary glimpses a tremendous and- threatening picture, combining Tartarean gloom -with a fierceo crimson radiancejso fearful in its blended brilliance and black- ness;:aat those ,accustomed to scan the heavens on ocean's bosom, reefed the sails of the daring vessel, drew on the storm-jacket of 'the hardy tar, prayed a silent prayer, and prepared for the contest as brave men gird them for the-battle, and stand unmoved whea loud artillery roars and death-shots rattle like hail, hurtling through- severed ether-- instant danger ssailing them--death, the fearful contingency-life, the ,hoped-forboon--nevertheless- must that danger be braved; that boon, if attainable by brave efforts, secured, and so man's strong heart resists storm and defies-the battle-field. There is a sublimity in courage which, argue as we will, makes the brave sailor, no less than the un- daunted soldier, a hero. Especially with women are the firm soul, the death-defying Collectedness of both worshipped, and, bravery is the most exalted attribute of the stronger with the weaker sex. The shutters were closed in the fisherman's cot, where we. last saw Mademoiselle Pauline alias Bridget McCann.  Old Elsie smoked per- severingly, and there was a portentous scowl on her brow as she raised her passionless eyes from time to time to the face of the governess, who   ALRIFAT HATING.           351 sat turing over the leaves of a French romance, apparently heedless of her hostess, and so-habitually affected that the position of her head and person were at this instant studied,' and aped a grace denied to their possessor by nature. The. old woman, with her vulture nose, pale eyes, and rotund cheeks, evinced disgust' s she glanced towards the imper- turbable figure before her. She muttered some inaudible words, half- opened the closed shutter, reclosed it, 'and said, addressing her guest: "Look here, Bridget McCann, how long is this to last? Brenda has been away at Mark's cottage for two weeks. I want her at home, and I want you away, that is plain speaking..- Now, tell me what you propose by a longer stay here? - ou are aft the astle every: day. Mind, I do not ask what takes you there-,that. is none of my busi- ness-but I wish you would -get your work done, whatever it is, and go away." ^"My work done,' responded Pauline, sarastically. "Well,- you will see it sooft, and I -warn you to keep quiet. Tu me outif you will. Do you see that?"' and she pointed to a large clasped knife which was stuck into the wall. "It was that or. one like it that ,did good service once in wreaking your revenge on a- sleeping::fiaerman. Don't motion me to silence. I will speak. -Now, I tell you plainly all the hate you ever bore to that man-and I know youhad reason to hate him-is as nothing to the burning wrath and loathing which I feel for my Lord Rathboume's heiress; she who marred my pro- jects, taught his lordship to despise me, and finallys exposed me ;to open shame, so that I was-obliged to flyrfor-my life. f:Why, were it! not for that silly girl, I should now be where: my education, talents, and: taste should. place me. I say, once for all, even if it costs me life itsdel I will have revenge on Geraldine Rathbourne, and- if you attempt to restrain'imeI will: have revenge bnyou also.". While speaking these words the native uglinesa of Pauline stood fully revealed; She had, forgotten her urbaaei graces acquired -in re- fined circles;.- she; had- forgotten the courtesy;of even decent society. The black and deathful, purpose of her cringing, -false, and desperate heart: stood fully revealed, andt she cared not tot conceal it, whle the small gray eyes, cunning sharp mouth, and ill-defined. beetling brow, the incongruous, vulgar nose, and entire agreement iexpresvMely - of each inharmonious feature, yet tended to one- horrible signifiance-- and that was jesuitical c!nning -and tiger-likehferocity. Elsi felt the inexplicable spell Old as she was, and hardened in craft aad miserly habits, the young hyena had mastered the aged tigress, and she quailed before the resolved face of Mademoiselle Pauline. -   352          ATRT   HASmNGS. The storm had by this time reached its utmost pitch of fury. Great ocean wades lashed the resounding shore; thunder rebellowed across , the raging-ocean, and lightning played over the tremendous scene only to reveal its horrors. Pauline sat unmoved. Elsie rocked herself to and fro on her camp stool, somewhat withdrawn from the fire-place, and enveloped in a cloud of smaoke. She was greatly agitated, and after a time said:  "Mark's cottage is near the beech. I wish, indeed, that Brenda were at home. . I am minded to take the lantern and go over on the sands; there may be danger, I say. Yes, I will go." "That you shall not," returned Pauline, laying down her book. "There was no occasion why you should send Brenda away because I was here,"--and she laughed scornfuily--"I will go even now, and bring her to you--stay where you are." Suiting her actions to her words, the governess snatched the un- lighted lantern from the trembling hands of old Elsie, and was, despite lightning, rain, and wind, soon on the way to- Mark's cottage. She did not comeo too soon, Elsie's fears were fully justified by the spectacle before her. Great waves rolled up to the door of the dwell- ing, and its trembling inhabitants were standing under a beetling cliff a few yards higher up the beach. "It's an -awful night," said Mark to Pauline, as she stood revealed by the light she carried. "'It's an awful night, and if you take Brenda home, I will go with my wife to a cottage up yonder, where we may tarry -til morning. Do you hear the minute-gun? Some ship is in fearful distress; and nothing can be done, I fear, to aid her. You are a brave girl, mademoiselle, I see. 'Here is Brenda safe in your hands, I am sure. Good night."  Pauline made no response to the good fisherman's remarks, but with a superior air bowed coldly, and presenting Brenda with a heavy shawl, commenced retracingl her steps to Elsie's cottage. The fisherman's wife, who stood regarding the group without speaking,- as soon as Pau- line; turned - away with Brenda, remarked to her husband, with an onminos shake of the head: "Mark Sinclair, I tell you truly, I am more afraid of that young woman's face than of the storm itself. Why, poor 'Brenda- s-hrank- away, from her, as well she might, for a more forbid- ing creature'I never beheld." "Do not Stalk that way, woman," responded Mark. "It was kind of her to come for Brenda through the storm. -'Women are always so uncharitable to each other." Meantime Pauline,; returning with Brenda, found old Elsie more   ATRFRT HASTINGMa          358 morose than on her departure, she had left her. Elsie, whatever her own delinquencies and crimes might have been, desired to preserve the mind of this young girl free from taint, and she would rather have known that her grandchild was exposed to the-fury of the storm (for she was a denizen of the coast, and accustomed to exposure) than have her domiciled with the unprincipled fase, a and revengeful Pauline, nurtured in dissimulation, with the vices of guilty age and'- cynical experience crowded into her withered youth. With this feeling upper- most in her mind, Elsie only remarked on the entrance of the--young woman:  "A stormy night foreshadows a calm morning, Brenda, and after you bide here some hours, I will. have you return to Mark. Away to bed, my lass, and go to my room!" Brenda obeyed without a word of reply, evidently pleased with the arrangement, and casting' a distrustful glance towarids her late' com- panion. / She evidently understood the implied wish of Elsie, that she should not become intimate, in that quarter, and acquiesced in "the arrangement gladly. - Pauline noted all this, though not seeming to do so at the time. 'Indeed, she cared -little about the matter, being wholly occupied with cogitations of her own, which were of a nature to engross her dark spirit exclusive of all things else. She went to her room carrying a small lamp, set it down on a table, withdrew a- key from her bosom, unlocked a- mahogany iox bound with brass, and containing phials carefully corked and lab1lld. She held first one, then tfie other, placing each between her eye and :the flame of the lamp. A fiendish- expression rested on her face and darkened there, till that visage, stripped of its flattering smile, becamnie a map of horror, whereon was visibly traced the mysterious and aWfiil impress of guilty designs and merciless resolve. ' Noone could hatve beheld-herr at this instance without a start of terror; But thiere iwas no eye to- con- template her nave the selapless eye of Omnipotene ,which, alas, she feared not, as she thus stood; 1loud thunder ,atintervals rolling heavily along the roused deep,: ands keen flashes of lighting dating through the crevices of the fishermat s cot. Tlihen that- godles 'hopeless, abandoned creature, without prayer-or thanksgitingal&si iihe Was not of those who pray-and. how glorious -a creature'wa esevetnh"hUrd-, stilted Miss Juliet Grayson to her H-went to her -restifrest it, might be called, when- her -perverted mind gloated on the agoiy;Of:death- pangs to be felt by another, so great and high that a demioniac atmbi- tion would be gratified by the reflection. - "I did this,' yes,: thede- spised, and denounced, had power to rend princely halls with wailing I   35t;4 ^   .    ALBERT HASTINGS. I was sent forth with obloquy and disgrace,-ha I Ithey felt secure then. I was crushed, but. my time is coming, and I ask not great lords or refined ladies-to aid me. I despise the very name of aristocracy. If I could not be one of them Iwill be .one against them. -- Their glory is an offence to my insignificance. I will prove my might single-handed against Lord Rathbourne. I know where to strike him. Lady Arun- del of Arundel Park and Lady Livia Hastings. Yes, I will, with one stroke, clip: their plumes, and give them for the! white wedding favors of their great alliance the sable-trappings of the hearse and the dismal un- folding of that mildewed vault where the bones of Lady Maud and her warlike ancestrbyrepose. I have that- within me, which, failing to make me great, shall at least endow me with a fearful power-the ability to humble those who circumvent and thwart me." The excited speaker at this laughed--a strange savage laugh-and checked herself, unaware, till now, that in her excitement thought had formed itself un- wittingly into speech.-  --And she lay down and slept; aye, whije His terrors were abroad, of whom the inspired Hebrew iKing sang: "The voice of the Lord is upon the waters: the -God of glory thundereth: the Lord is upon many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful;!the voice of the Lord is fulh;o f majesty.- -The Lord sitteth upon the flood; yea, the Lord sitteth'-King-forever."-  A -ghostly fiend watched her repose. -Reluctantly the guardian angel cf goodnesstookitsflighti and gorgon spirits-who wait on the wicked in- sinuated their deceptive counsel -into the ears of the heavy sleeper who was tempted and fell. blas 1 for that fall ..- * :- - -'",tW hat a lovely morning, GGeraldine,"-said Lady Arundel, as the formertentered her chamber, and 'they were about descending together to the breakfast roo m ;- "and how well you are looking, dear child. -I half agree- with your father that there -i nothing-like sea-airin summer for invalids.. :Lady. Livia -is more :herself- than IS have seen- ,her for years. - H feel almost reuvenated myself-even the pale tutor has caught some color .om mountain breesesi and. Albert reminds me. again of what he was- before college study and seclusion had blanched his cheeks& Did yotU-ever: see anything more lovely?". continued: Lady Arundel^pWusing at-the open casements s " What unfathomable blue in skyBl-nd ocean--bow perfectly transparent the air-how delcions and invigorating :the effect of itsefreshness? The storm: has beautified ex- ternal -nature everywhere.:: I think-I: never beheld opetingday half so beautiful 6 as-this.' -  Geraldine pressed the hand of her beloved friend, and smiled assent, . . .            .   ALTRT HASMN   G'S,        - 3S5 Lord Rathbourne and several -of the gentlemen had breakfasted some- time previous, and the ladies were only joined by Mrs.-- Danvers, Mr. Stuart, and Ladyr Liviap all in excellent spirtita The lattery though, jas usual, somewhat agitated duridg the storm, declared - that she hthought she might, in time, come -to enjoy the wildness and sublimity of-such scenes. Mr. Stuart replied: --   :     ,   -    -- "My dear madam, there is nothing in clm: scenery, however diver- sified or noble, which exalts my feelings like the elemental strife which so awes you- Ossian is-at my side alwaysowith his storm vocabulary, and that elliptical, bold, poetical phraseology which he wields asno poet can beside. I hear the roar of streamy Oona ;--the resounding bfst -of storm-shivered Ardven are reproduced, and the misty chief of: wslike Ouchullin march before me amidst -the roar of thunder,- and the flash of hcaven's artillery."  -        -  '  That ais a -well, ,Mr. Stuart very- well foa;&shol&, responded Lady Arundel. "Yet where shall we look' for such magnificence ,Qof description, for such truly sublime language, as are foundin the saCred Scriptures. Were they consulted only for the objectof acquiriag ele- gance and power of style, their - teachings -would -be -founiddineqimaled; but this is the lowest. and. mtost unimportatt point-of view:in - hich they should be regarded. Their moral effect-is- ofiparamont -impor ance, and herein lie the difference between the study of the iinpired volume: and allk-lothe .-wrintings ithatthe-- fotmer .s h latte as - mere cultivators of good taste and .sublimity; of, .expleion- buti whit outweighsall othe  sier a tioas,;they. edu:iteathe heart:anid- rlate the affections, at: the same ^time' that they refine nd: elevate: the :lam guage. Even Lord Byron,: accusedIb-fear:just1 :E seep;ieism , read the Scriptures daily, and somewhere aeknowledgesiat he di-bso:because of their- nobility of sentiment and 'sublimity of efpression-- .2 is8 not the motive by which Ohris as: are, influenced While perasiag:-Ioly  Writ, --and yet it is the testimony of ,.great :though.-pee-. -genius to the untold value of ithat mighty-.look .the ble, , :..,; .  Mr.-Stuart bowed deferentially, and::rega'dig,:Lady:A-rundel with a look which he:was-not wonmt to bestown;ffiipphin talkewrs-espe W: y. if belonging to the gentler sex, -replied:. : -- . : i' -:- :::- , -::- ,r. "Nowt, ;my; dear Ladyr Armndel, iocould Alioatrsay you-were# apipil of my excellent fathert the:vicar ofiNeedpath,inu the!aating:', dtdoaii Were -he here, I am sure this rhAerchA breakfastof o mo wfaw :ise and chocolate would seem- a. banquet for the gods--: .ButI muskfcirnm gls nothing -pagan with your -ad-mirable Christiahi sentimnents, and-beg .par4 don for myr inadvertence. :   ^.   856          ATBERT HASTINGS. There was a grand dinner this day at Craigland. The resident gentry dined with Lord Rathbourne. Some guests, newly -arrived from Lon- don, graced the hospitable board of his lordship. A long, bright, sum- mer day drew. to its close. Candelabrawere -lighted-the great silver sconces with their pink and ruby wax candles sent clear rays over hall- corridor jnd saloon. The ladies were, in full. dinner, costume. "Lady EIivia appeared in.- blue-black velvet dress with point lace, jet ornaments, a, plume of inky feathers bound- by diamonds, and she looked a- queen. And-heire we would offer a: few remarks on personal adornment Though opposed to --the frivolity which makes dress paramount, we are not of that class-with whom puritanical simplicity makes -a part of godliness- there is no virtue inplain dressing asome maintain; on the contrary, ,the most ostentatious people in the world are sometimes the plainest; and these, perhaps, without that natural elegance 'always enhanced by dress, despise it becauseit is no- improvement to :'them. Fierce is'the outcry of suoh against fashionable costume, dire their anathemas against Parisian modes, and yet were such things only becoming to them.--We wifllsay"no more. - : ^- But,. nthe high aristoeratic beauty-of Lady Livia Hastings was that which U became -robes of -state, and Sir Albert, American as he was, eyei  s:g-rndmlother.-with. admiration, as,-led by :Lord Rathbourne, shee took the-'-seat of' honor at his-right hand, and he saw age honored, i as it is in: noble Englandj -where,. no boarding-school, miss assumes 'the -.i-  et -hosteF, while a worn-out, mother toils with or wighout the help1' w*hich she- dares not address as slave or servant, lest democratic equality-should be shocked by-the epithet, and modern progress scared from ,its% levelling theories by such an outrage on democracy. -Mrs. Danvers:,-a woman of excellent-sense, though spoiledl ;byflattery, was still ,high-bred, .withi good natural instincts -She was dressed. with perfect good tasteand was notso plain in person as to dread rich attire, but,:in a silk, Marie Louise in huet looked lovely; while:Lady Aundel, robed in deep mourning, Mthe most effective and thoroughly respectable dress woman-- an-wear,looked like some sainted Madonna above the passions, ofearth, and ready to quit this grosser mundane sphere when- ever the summons should come releasing her from it. Thel dinner was asuperb, -but that was no: novelty at Craigland, and we, forbear details,: though with many dinner is the most important consideration, in -the -life of a: day. The assertion may seem startling, but is-nevertheless true, not only in England but America. From the tired mechanic-who plodshome to his- twelve o'clock meal of; ham and nice, if a Southerner, or fish and potatoes, if New England be his home, ^  /  ' .'            -   ATVIPT A' sBTo  .         3,57 (should he belong to factory operatives in the latter place, however, the hour must be six P. M.); from this working class to- city merchants, lawyers and planters (when there were planters in our country, though we fear " modern progress " ]-MZ reduced their ranks fearfully) all these and many more, whom it would be'- tedious to mention eari withou(t describing, look to the dinnerhour as a grand climacerid of-the day's enjoyment. Fashionable circles are not free from the uniieisal homage- to dinner; indeed, it is with them, perhaps, more :than:i iwitiththers, a gala time, when rich wines are in free circulationc-nvetsation tmu- lated by argument- and .the desire to appear agreeable, enlivens- -the board, and feasting combines with the- flow of soul to charm passing time. There was no lack of wit or wisdom at Lord: Rathbouirn6^ table this day; aind could we catch the subtle grace of many sagie remark,- with its- witty and sparkling rejoinder, the- tsk were as plea -tandf, perhaps, not unprofitable one, but we' forbear, and; hurry'on totImatter s claiming attention. The flower girl, alias Pauline, while dinneri wir  progress, hurried along the beachb, entered. the, castle, and:mieting -Nora Geraldine's maid, in a portico which opened on a coilrt belotiAccosted her with those insinuating graces of which she was. mistress,: and said, presenting the girl with a small bunch of fragrant pinks: - "Nora, the castle ladies shall not always have-my choicest-flowers. No I there is a knot of them sweeter than all the rest. Pile Them:m your dark hair and hie away to the alcove which these great people-o much admire; they are dining now, and that devoted, lover. ' -- of!whom you have told :me so much, begged me as I came on to tell you he awaits you there."/ '    - -  -Nora, in a flutter of delight, received the message, and, replied : - -"Oh, Pauline, you are so kind, and what beautiful flowers you bring to-day. Well, take the Lady Geraldine's up to heriroonTI outkiow the way, but take care not to discompose anything on -the, btirau- there is a silver flask containing some medicine which :aIdy:Geraldine takes nightly from her great:London physioian, :be'?cefI not tO toouch that, and a small glass beside it. Only place pyour- floer-Sdihe ' marble plate near the window. There -is a vase there rady to rweeeivew them, and close the door when you come but. --I;must; away^' andthe light-hearted! creature only-delaying to adjust the flowers inlier- hiir, ran down the steps) to meet her lover. -':. ..!.. "Silly fool said Pauline, as-- she watched -her retreating:fi'ure.;, "silly fool elated- at the preference of a rude seama4n--!- IlVete i-Whgo With these words she ascended to Geraldine's room,:a. splendid Apart- . ment indeed, where all that luxury can boast was seen, 'and th that the i       , ;. /   858          AT sEIRT HASNGS. love of a fond father could suggest as appropriate concomitants of re- finement and-woman's taste, were gathered with lavish hand. The bed, ,elaborately covered, supported a canopy of rose-colored satin daraski, ichly finged and looped. with tassels of pink and silver. The- pinlow of down were sheathed mn satin of the same colors wand over" each was draywn, a Wa  cover, so fine and thin that its delicate tracery of wMteflo0wes seemed painted on ar ground of pink. A superb -^hina- et. adorned the--toilet, where roses:.blushed amidst leaves of gold- and expandedtheir mimic buds .aid flowers on a pearl-white surfage,: Everytng. was in keeping, costly, delicate,' beautiful, and thee smal! grey;eyes of the stealthy visitor. gleamed-' with deadly hate and malice as she oaet: cursory glance round the splendid apartment. But. quimclyfor, she had that to do which no .witness must behold, she approached the. bureau, seized the. silver flask, drew a small phial from her; reticule,-emptied -its -contents: into the -open- mouth of the tis lkhopk -itconvulsively, replaced it on the stand, and withdrew. She; hUoried back the   she hadcome,and, made- straight for the alcove whither Nora, had been directed, 'Hearing voices within, she called out;, .. .-      -  - Nora."            *  'T;heO -grl MCame -foward,' ".Here," said Pauline, take these flowers. I? didntot like to go..intop your young, lady's room, and you away. Take - them-bacokwith :you when - you go, there will, be qui-time to arrange '  .f- oredinne r 4s over.      ,  - ,?'W ;y,how, frightened you look," responded Nora, "-there -would have been no- harm, I am sile, in your carrying the flowers. in. You have often done sobefore." .   .. Well, yeI have," returned the other, "but Il saw there were many valuble things open, and you away,; I thought I would not en- ter the room in case of- accidents. 'Good night."  :-An -hiourafer .this- Pauline was on her way. to France, in. a, small vessel wMichi aled:At-P night -and. Noray hufrying to the -castle, ar- rangedhyer- ng lady's flowers drew the: vdamak ,'curtains of, her bed, and went downstairsn, happy in having ,had- apleasant interview with the fiAlbermanibher aokniowledged suitor, in the alcove on, the beach. - SIowly t he/o e 'the moon of .evenlmly her silver mantle fell over smooth waters, while -here and- there a star tw*inkled-in ,the: blue profoun&d'. .There'.wa9 .musico in the- great castle, Far along shimmer- ingwaters weriethe- notesi prolonged, buttever the- ominous cry of the bittrn . swpt. -over the, moor, and dim shadows, flickeredabout the ltall trunks of trees which seemed sleeping in soft, brilliant moonlight. At   ATABr T HAQNG[S. 3W9 last all was still, only' .aceaseless - murmur of moanjng sea waves was faintly heard as they, kissed the silvstraad,-rokgefl: ainst jutting roks.- All .about. the, majetstic,.J,saered4 .-oldd=/,se: was mute- with the hush of -mid4hW, Ke414fr a, fs4rinfl9   sent melanoholy-eoho8s over sewa d a inwld ;toe  w:.C .   ave, K But -now;hurytg.: lighta,-.wer,:-,:eeen pat,q:gzithg /,f o..itdors of the castle, then almost ever^ -pacrtmenu seeeslAbut a la fear and giFef -ha4,takeb, th^: .plac. : rjoy .,e L, , joy-. ii s beautiful and beloveds he fir (a   e,,BbGa!uo. , .was Sadd enl-y and alarmingly il. LadyBArundej, whos, ohnamqbows-next ,:t of the young girl, was awakened by5 moni g uwd, And  herself in haste. On entering lOeraldie aprmet .sihe-   - s Is anything amis . my sweet cibild.:, fancod I yheawr orr ryoi co?" There was no answer, and Lady Arund degrtly.'ar ea dear the bed, When a spectacle met her-eyes, whia!os 0^E h-oe power of motion, and rent her heart with a deep thrill:of, pp. reh n and agony, .Geraldine -was White as thet-ine n by .wie . Cpv,- ered. Her long, dark ha, -in- wet Pma ^ trseam .O^er'l e 'i eliWt rose-colored pillow on which, reposed in. moveless, h  ely head. - .Her features were set, and their sculptered b auty emed not of earth, Lady Anmdel took her hand    at lt O -^ exquis'te! moulded, jewelled: ;hand.. It was icyc9l -l She dop p :it;draig the bell .with :energy; then, taking, a- bQtto Dof cwIog &f om he-ytieto i- lette, chafed the- brow.,and hands of the iinnc ous girl r ;BEt:liife seemed gone forever . -            ; . "Gracious heaven, in, mercy direct me," cried Lady Ar del; a nd she applied a phial of sal volatile to. the nose ofer pateni,t;, iAin she rang, and Cleophine, Lady :Lia' 'maid rushed mtia-l-oam,: -'Oh, Cleophine,j tell me :what is this? . Look, at, Geraldine Rathboune Is she indeed dead?"               -    - "Madam," returned Cleophine, I think: not -but let. me cil her father, and there isa learned doctor amongst the s itOs.; . Hisroom is at the, west end of the casfle. tWill -you, -madamt stay hee -:till 1 rouse him, or, shall weUwait (I hear stepsa along,; the .ooridor) tili: some -ne ' "Oh, go Igo instatily, Cleophine, l-implore th e::- nt! , an to come, at. once."  -, ,                , ' : As  soon ;as the servant left- the -roon,^ Geraldiine:tSowy t--penod her eyes; but,.alas I in-.th-em was notlight; ;ttieir u easo st stare appalled her devoted. fiend, who,-with.:-shher fir neSi ,$h k from' their blank, meaningless fixedness. A sense of suffocation op- -        . -  ,    **   \ - 3a^    ATA- Ht1 HASTIGS. pressed- LadyAriundel, and she would -have- fallen, had she not sus- -tained herself-byleaning o on oneof the carved bed-posts. Another in- stanit, 'rni'the--phymiian -a ipproahing, held the ;- ight to the face of the insensible : gM-s obk his :head, felt her pulse, and, motioned Cleophine bt' 'iSt'h9i : ini4 :raising- : her. - ]ii . Raftlwhourne s was, ,iby Althisthe,!n the; wom , and w, biB:g tiy with- a larmm nd-nguish hthatLhe could:not - uttfer ibword- thu ghhihert- heatved-?d .i-. sips were white witk ter- ror..;, The 'viind -              fetre :thr6wn'open -T-a-coo1-'gth of-airt weptacross the 0b:"m.:' GLsertdiie gasp e and withkdifficulty respired. . .. "She revives,' said the medical man, with evident concern.; a Let all be:. qiet.? Has the LadyEhGteraldine been accustomed to attacks of this M-di;a'f added he- addressing Lady Arundel.  -   '0, I thi' nbot;sir, -I. at. least, have never seen her similarly, af fected;';' said:that lady itl, eply. - . -!.- . . . ; . . "I Hasshe--been- accustomed to tlaking medicine of any4dnd," per- sisted the dotor  ....  ..  -i'HeOle6- phite 'came forward, and .holding in .her hand the silver flask which, stodd oa -the bureau, said, with becoming modesty: . TM S coi0taints: medicine prepared by Drn Osgood,- and taken,by my young t'sdy every evening,and; morning, I believe. Excuse me, sir, b it2i Hel; bUto preia..   .. ..   . ,. t: I.. et. - ItE d -it &-me, :sa id the physician, with solemnity. He took the ve'ss!tli-drithet o;:theother end: of the; apartment, laid it there, and returned to4 his patieant; whose breathing had: by this- time become more regular and, though her eyeswere again closed, had. assumed .a more nataral aspect. c; Lord RathbiUnme, speakingg for'the first time since coming. into the room,nOw^'- Mtnf-w ierod tor-.the docr, saying  .  I Tell me, sir, oh, tel -me what think: you of my darling childss con. dition? ' ":-lkrd Rathbournme, said the doctor, withkdeep feeling portrayed on his inttli t:i t ':andt-dlyo;of e ,4Lord. PRth bre,- your daughter, as you See ibs"i: som-i measure- recoverd, butl speak to you, my dear lord, frtnkly;; t le t alInalyze the contents of fthis flaskI can: say withtno certainty: what the result. of her illness may be. Heaven grunt :that my, spiiotii ae6 unfoiunded but I :gratlyfear that- some potent poison is now at work in her system. Of this I shall be better ableto. judge in aiew'   ' ninWi i you1pleaso haveall kept quiet till my xAsn- inationiare--i-- de,.- :The I Zldy Gemaldine; though;, -tfl! insensible, -briathes:freely,; and mi;orN P that I macyknow how to treat her case, I   - AULEBT! HSTIN  S.-        36 must be allowed to investigate instantly this mixture said to have been prepared by Dr. Osgood. Allow me, my lord, a-little time." Lord Rathbourne grasped the physician's hand, "Oh, hasten and let me know, doctor." '- Dr. Claibourne wa -absent a -few minutes. H e en rturaedwth a clouded brow, again felt. the pulse of the insible , (raldineand pursued his investigations;: after which, placing thteflaskca efraside the came. tohis former position by:the bedsideof .ieraldin, and m otion- ing Lady Arundel to him, aid, while 'a sad, sorrowful look beamed from. his eyes :-                 -  ' "Madam, if, following the direction given in the labei of the hflask which I -have just examined, the patient has taken a ,wine-glassp :l of its contents, no humanpower can save;her from death, whi-ch must su- pervene before four o'clock to-morrow, afternoo', - "Oh Doctor Claibourne," cried. L4dy Arundet, with difficultyrepres sing a ory of despair, "Dr.. Claiboume, what can you men?.; This medicine is simply tonic, and has been taken- daily, I know o by Geral- dine, for- weeks." "Aye, madam, that is true, I doubt not :Dr, Osg0od isa aman, of, eminent skill, and' if taken as- it :cme from hishand, mediine- would only accomplish its desired results; :but my deartm"d mi, thi's:preOPa- tion has been addlterated with potent poionp. It has been, Iassert., s foully tampered .with,: at, as-Ia told,-. you -before,: if- 1, pa[et -has swallowed. the usu al qausiiy directed,:^w hio, fear shes: hs.,n9Opowe on earth-can save -her..       ,  Lady Axrundel passed herand over her brow. Great lea"s stole silently down her cheeks , and she id, "O, lord, Thywil be done " "Alas, my  sister-my unhappy .nephew, . Poor Iondl: hahbo raeQ I The ways of Providence,;are indeed-- ysterious." ,Ani i-en it:waR that this noble woman, forgetful of se: 1ad a the sorrow whih bore her down, for. she loved Geraldine intensely, commrnnded heslf)ttoo do al that circumstances would-allow hert o acomplish, ,inviewq ofr te awfl. and impending. catastrophe. Sheclasped the. doctor's hand :silently, and asked in a hquskly voice : "Do you think that reason will return to myr dear, d  tiGeraldine before"--and she could say no more. ' I think, :dear lady," said the doctor, scarce. les ,affeted/ torn s he was, "I think, dear lady, that this may be so. The.,p4tienqt :now insensible to pain, but I greatly fear thatin tho: final suggle, se- may be less-so,  After that, as sometimes happens, a !ucid: inteval may occur before all is over. But I tell you, without disguise, she must   36a2          AT ERT HASTINGS..  die.  Heaeaven knows how I grieve: to make the announcement, madam." Atnd:the doctor walked away to conceal his emotion. .Antd thelhour~ drew -on predicted by ,the anxious physician. There were beloved friends abouit the couch of the dying girl. I;ord Rath- bume,to ithe surrise of aIwho -knewhiwm, had 'cnfor-med to the injuntionO of silene: itmposed by Dootor Claiborme: ;.ady Li'vis, in mute: dismay -sat by :tge ibeds;de :f her i dedughter    Lady ,_nd JX with clasped:aid% ikelt at :thefeetof them suffrer, :and Sir Albert HSi'L , -with folded arms.and ad  face of heart-rending despair, stood like some sculptured monument of woe opposite. :There it was, in the presence of deatb- whithe he skeleton king spreadj his black and gloomy banner over that princely apartment, then and there it was that he realized the frightfil and dismaying fact  She who loved him best-who had always loved,(even:while, his heart had been devoted to another-thati other, who forgot him in absence, and substituted in his place a stranger)--that one, above all whom he had. ever known, in riper years, 'gifted,. beautiful, was passing away.  Oh, never had Geraldine Rathbourne been loved with a vain, repentant love, as she waso. herideath-bed.,- Sir Albeit'tsoul was in his eyes, andthe sur- -passigy beatii  object which; they:.~cont~mplated, even. death, king ofe                    isJaUIs ju:am 44edi didl not   -marN. 16. Thre w:as some- thingieaveiy ?i the white, cold beauty of that dying -girl, and onher une    apledl ,yiaa4 angelic: a^eetiieofexpressiOn, the eyes: of her io ver~ werm  f ned with a late; remorsethat: he had not, earlier and more-fully responded to hert affection--that he ,had not in thie:.brief spae fh;erShort life, responldeA /more fully to that {indised and bamingv, rega  hi had Selected him,, amongst acountless host, for its objet: Oh, ot i haoae -had (glorid 'm his famel how  she Ihad loved eten a forin ountry, ad respeotedit  political creed' for his sake I- none bcouid -iever'love' him' as -d this. nobl: maiden,-th ere was not anoltherGeirFaldine Rathbournmeon either :continent, and he had never vale:hier at' the re-al estimtate:l! .o ;no,- ~hen it wa too late.  here was a slight motion, aS the-wan hand of the unconscious maiden was raised, and pointed with its snowy. forefinge, upwards. A-I werett ,tiatud.itclosing her cold lips, she said distinctly:. " Papa Albert, com- here."  :-      r :-^ ;Lralahbotrne,vwith- ild cry, sprang to her side, and Sir Albert' st od besidae iim  :  -:" Speak to: me, myangel :hild," cried Lorl Rathbomre, "oh, let me near that -voice once mtre, tIhat I -may treasure it forever and forever." .                 .*, '  '  '      ' '   3l&   ATVRtAT FUSEUSQ   The physician laid his hand on the father's arm--" Command -your- self, my lord."              ..                            ' And here the soft voice of her who-was passing away again gently broke the ompnious.silence of the "chamber .of deatl, whileiin accents, destined to 'befoierei remembered, it iaid slowlYi wth dSifitimien.n- ciation and-tender pathos:              -                   . . "My father, to me -you ha  ever been kind, indugent, loving-oh my dear father, prepare to -meet me there," nd :she pointed upward. "Love Albert: Hastings alwagys as yoiu have loved m  e-that. is-my dying request.  Farewell, dear father."  She elasped Lord-  ith- bourne's hand, with one of her own and extended thebthersaI:ng very feebly: ' Sir: Albert Hastings, I camnot seo " .yu -my eyes are dimmer than whenf-you snatched me fiom death' indrear waters (ah death must come, you see; dear'Alb-erit.) lIhae-loveid v ;ydu wth alove that even that dreadfhl thing, de^th.itelf : nnot onquer .. ome near me, Albert Hastings;, and s"sure Wme fbi the lasttime, tha you wii strivre to meet me- where "there is io-more doubt, nor fear, nor -dea-t;; PIOae my head on his bosom-I would breet:lastbfieatheie.&:. S :- tat is how I wish 'to die. Close my eyes, A;bert, withyai-r o'w and.-  Love my fathe   e will.love yourfornmy sake' Si/ifm time' Is'sort, and in vlew of the :mysterious transt from  earth  hean  a  not dismayed; no, sweet friends  ee in: Whom:  I hae.       - t1'he dark paiway before- m6, and. conOfdiently flow   S'ed wholly exhausted, but afer'a ti;agin spoke: My 6;rldiv    d she said, hfeebaly,  I      the'hdo- nmiy'de: d-      iidIent father; my jewels I bequeath tf her Who,' i6fi ~ af t^ ':soie Albert for my' loss. 'I beg' ta she, so ' happy, maywear flem; and ,sOmetimes think of me.- areIweMrsweet'id . - Albe-%pe  hand.upon my heart.- Its :iat thSob is S :Our:t "A  .    ai  d spirit passed avway, while ief before  rerd:   :i    :     ;-u strained over the insensate clay.  Lord Rathboa:: .t : ::fieat "Ohl. .                        d,,::tb Q:r 4.. of lalthbour'e-~a  my Prie ly revenue, I:od no eld Vo oiily child from the- malice  tho e 'ssasse  '"hid, re    e 'sh;"-  seraphic beauty, fashioned after the patter  of tiun' Qeyt":;;i-losf: gone -wife, child? Oh, Lad; Arundel,'saif he, mou nfunyh has done this cruel deed ?" "Alas, my lord l all is irapped-' mystery; but I doubt not, He to whom secret things stand revealed will, inH  own good time, bring the cuprit to justice. In the interim let me entreat you, for a brief   864          ALBERT HASTINGS. space, to trust this precious body to the hands of loving friendsa" While she spoke, the tears fell thick and fast from Lady Arundels eyes, and the broken-hearted, father replied:; . "Aye, my dear madam, to dress her for the tomb-and we were meditating her bridal." He seized his hat and rushed out of the house, followed by one of his visitors with whom he was particularly intimate. Lady Livia rose, with deep grief expressed on every feature. She kissed We icy forehead of the lovely maiden, uttered an irrepressible groan, and was led by Cleophine, on whom she leaned heavily, to her own. room. But Sir Albert stood like one rooted to the spot, till Lady ' Arundel, takinghim by the arm, said: "Albert Hastings, my beloved son, your early life was acquainted with adversity, though this is the heaviest stroke yet experienced by you., Let me, in the first moments of a grief which you yet scarcely realize, direct your mind to the only source whence consolation can be derived. Seek strength from on high, my dear Albert-my heart bleeds for you.'             -  Sir Albert pressed Lady Arundel's hand and turned from her to hide the swelling emotions of his heart. Yes, she was gone; that matchless flower which bloomed for him alone, sprung, in queenly beauty, from the proud old stem of;Rathbourne. Blasted in all its fragrance was this rare and ,precious flover, and the wide garden of earth held not its peer. T:ldelcate^ sympathy of that gifted mind was withdrawn, the unselfish AWle of that generous heart was lost in theeannals of time. There was no more a beautiful Lady Geraldine to smile approval when he spoke-to hong on his lightest word, and follow him wherever he moved with the eloquent love of her dove-like angel eyes. Ah, had death not snatched her away she-- would never, like Emeline Lovel, give his place to another. Now, indeed, was he alone in the world-- the reat dreary world, haunted by the melancholy, .loving remembrance of that murdered girl. And1there was the black pall, invested with funereal gloom, rising ominouslyin the great saloon of the venerable castle, where the-last and loveliest of her race lay like a sleeping infant, with her pearl-white and exquisite features overspread with- a heavenly smile. How clearly and nobly cut, even more than -in life, did that face strike the eye be- cause of its marvellouS perfection. They robed her for the darksome grave, Beauty was round her yet; Her floating hair, in many a wave, Fell like a wreath of jet.   AALBERT HAST1NGS.               365 Her dark-blne eye, the snowy lid And long dark lash concealed;  Its glancing light forever hid, Which once each thought revealed. Stern death had spared the angel smile Her lips were wout to wear, Whose sweetness ever would beguile A father of his care. But now that father could not brook Its pensive, life-like grace, He could not for an instant look Upon his daughter's face;                  \ Nor view the form so much his pride, Wrapped in its marble sleep, When mournfully he turned aside, In heavy woe to weep. And weeping said: "Sweet daughter, rest, Thy crown is early won-    . I know thy home is with the blest, My own beloved one. I miss thy warbling voice, my child! I miss thy cheering eye;  I miss thy converse, wise and mild, ' Fair-angel of the sky  "Farewell, my lost, my beauteous love  Mute is thy melting lyre-- Thou sweep'st a loftier harp above, Amidst the seraph choir. "The blushing flowers around thy'tomb Will early feel decay,  But thou art where the rose's bloom  Shall never fade away. ' I walk my Way in loneliness, Beneath heart-yearning care, Thine is a land of blessedness, No sorrow enters there. I hoped thy lily hand might close- My eyes in their last sleep, - But first thou sinkest to repose, And I am left to weep,  . "Adieu, young bride of death, adieu I - Now severed Is the tie, Which my fond'splrit earthward drew From realms more pure and high."   -36          ATLBFRT -HASTINGS, Slowly, with measured tread, did the black-plumed-hearse, drawn by sable coursers, bear to its final resting-place the beautiful remains of Geraldine Rathbourne, and there, with the brave, the high-born and the lovely, was she laid, amidst armorial bearings, gilded cenotaph and weeping cherubim-amidst mournful vrases and those vain symbols which tell of departed glory, and worth. Then the sepulchre closed its marble jaws--the sound of steps died away, and the inevitable doom was accomplished. The dust returned to whence it rose, beauty faded in the merciless and obliterating arms of death-and she, who so lately delighted all eyes, was consigned to darkness, to silence and decay. Lord Rathbourne was an altered man from that hour. Craigland was deserted, and Sir Albert Hastings, with desolation at his heart, bent him sternly to life's tasks. He was not hardened, as some natures are, by affliction. No, he knew the rod and 1ffi who sent it. The compassion of his soul was greater than it' had ever been for the un- fortunate, and in all the broad lands of which he was proprietor, the voice of the people went up in unison calling down blessings on his head. The glad freshness of his youth was gone-a pale, calm beauty invested him with somewhat of Valerie's sublimated interest. He looked, bthe was, one from whose heart the brightest of youth's hopes were sundered. He lived for others, forgetful of self. In the counsels of his country no more potential voice was heard, breathing a match- less eloquence, and never raised save in the advocacy of truth and justice. Without seeking popular favor, he-was the, idol of the people, and he never rose to speak in public without that silent attention on the part of his hearers which denotes even more than thunders of, ap- plause--the homage of an assembly. Sir Albert Hastings had matured into a great as well as a- good man, and all this excellence morally, under the guidance of Providence, was atributable to the early teach- ings of a woman not over-endowed with mental power, but whose principles were correct, and whose heart, full of gentleness and love for earthly friends, yet reposed its highest trust and gave its dearest affec- ,tions to that Heavenly Friend who sticketh clder-than a brother-in whom is neither variableness nor shadow of turning, and to whom stricken hearts may still appeal when forsaken Or, disregarded by those in whom vain confidence has been reposed.' His intellectual gifts were born with him, and these were cultivated anid enlarged by his own efforts. The precious hours of youth he had diligently improved. His mind, like a well-tended garden, was exact in symmetry and beautiful in development. In outer aspect. the man was still the boy. He had not lost his identity. All those attributes of beauty, intelligence and    ATUR!BRT HASNGS.            367 truthfulness which distinguished him on the roaring river, when with intrepidity and skill we first saw him returning to :Ellerton, mhindful of his promise to good Mrs. Lovel, were still his in a more exalted de- gree. Oh, woman I strong in thy weakness, how divine is the mission which gives to thy early lessons and example a power more potent than the art of the orator, the dogmas of the philosopher, or the world- governing supremacy of-gold.@ 'Tis thine, in privacy, away from the eyes of the hollow world, to fulfil thy appointed task, and truly, a rich reward awaits thee I  * .-*           .      .  ,       *  t l       OFPHAPTR XLVZ Alas . the lofty city! and, alas! Ths trebly 'hundred triumphs?'--COlde Harold. HAkRLES DE   MAR was noar in Rome -the wonderful. Where the magnificent Caesars had deemed themselves gods, and swayed the sceptre over a prostrate world. Though shorn of her ancient glory, the seven-hilled city, still adorned with half-defaced temple, symmetrical arch, and carved-pillar,; established the- truth of historic records, which told her power in the past, and at- tested the fact of her luxurious and refined civilization. Where nature, unchanged amidst the wreck of a fallen empire, was beautiful.'as when her conquering chiefs, drawn in gilded chariots by subdued kings, rolled along- the now grass-grown streets of the renowned city. Where that gigantic structure, monarch of earthly temples, Saint Peter's, rises,--so grand and justly proportioned that, like the great Niagara Falls, it grows on the spectator the longer contemplated, and becomes more admirable the oftener-it is seen. Where mellow-tinted moonlight rests on grace- ful and sublime edifices, commemorative, though half in ruins, of pagan worship. Here and there, amidst groves of citron and olive, when the voluptuous air wafts on its viewless wings exhalations from myrtle and lime and orange ,trees, bathes in glittering dew, the inimitable statuary, giving to lifeless marble the glory imparted7 by Roman conception of beauty and heroism, gleam, white beside some haunted rill, glorified for ever in song, consecrated to the Muses, and invested with a halo not to be dispelled by time. Over him hung those blue and liquid skies, so often sung, so like those of his native south. -Before him lay that ce- rulean and tideless sea, where once rode in undisputed sovereignty Rome's proud: armaments-where Oesar and Antony, and her long line of heroes and warriors, with their eagle banner triumphantly dis- played, floated like sea-gods on the yielding wave. -To a mind like his, full of historic records, the glory of old Rome came back in thronging A Z   ALBERT HASTINGS.           369 memories. A long file of conquerors, poets,- orators, sculptors, and painters rose before him. He heard the measured tread of men, whose kingly appellative was that of Roman soldiers. In fancy's ear the hum and roar of vast multitudes thronging around the forum, sent up shouts of applause, as they were swayed by Roman- eloquence.  He - felt strange delight in the enthusiasm awakened in him by every objeot presented to his eye. More particularly was- his love of art gratified. The Vatican was to him an earthly Paradise, visited constantly, and loved with- artist devotion. The Coliseum, vast in ruin, obelisks in perfect preservation, Trajan's pillar, the ornate temple of Vesta, and above all, the Pantheon, exquisite in design and faultless in execution, spoke eloquently of the olden time, and prevented his mind from dwell- ing on evidences, palpably deplorable and revolting, in closejuxtaposi-. tion to these noble relics of that degeneracy, so sublimely l]r iwedd in a Childe Harold's" gloomy wanderings.  Charles De Mar soon beeame the- pupil of a celebrated-paiaet ke himself a foreigner, but sometime established in Rome. He formed the acquaintance of several Americans, delighted in his- new :ode of life, and wrote Valerie charming accounts of all -he saw anid in which he had become deeply interested. It was not long. before a- Roman dam- sel, with large dark eyes and a full development-ofl Italian beauty, won the heart of the enthusiastic young student. - Julia Cavello now--became his model of womaiuly-perfection, and the soft, pure, unassuming beauty of Emeline Lovel faded from his mind, as- alight cloud of fleecy white- ness is displaced in the sky by a brilliant sucessor, the magie hues of which are woven of crimson and gold.  Valerie, awre that her brother possessed feelings of great enthusiasm and power; :had mistaken their depth and constancy. She- believed that, having formedman at- tachment, nothing could move him, and that once repulbed, histaffec- tiong would seek no new object; she was therefore gratified to find herself mistaken; and, on the reception of a letter ontaining--poetical and glng descriptions of -Rome and of Julia Oava1o,- Die called Emelie into her private apartment, and, placing her brother's letter in the hands of the young girl, said: "You see, dear Emeline, all- our fears for Charles were'ill-founded. I confess I feel greatly relieved, knowing, as I did, his unbounded ad- miration for one I could have dearly 16oved as a sister, but whom I love no less as a friend." "Dear Charles," cried Emeline, with warmth,-  dear, generous Charles! He ought to marry a gifted woman. His first preference was only the effect, I think, of association, and the knowledge that his   370          ALBERT HASTINGS. mental powers and scholarship were appreciated as they deserve byme. His companion should be ambitious, and love him, as I could not do, with a first -and nnchanging -affection." Here Emeline's eyes sought the floor, and she seemed carrying on a secret train of unspoken thought, while Valerie, re'arding her with affectionate interest, waited, expecting that she would continue her re- joinder; but Emeline remained silent, and it was in this brief interval that-Vaelerie- discovered the only secret possessed by this gentle and truthful, creature--her profound love for Sir Albert Hastings. The compassionate heart of the stricken but beautiful Valerie experienced a sharp pang at this discovery. The severe and devastating blight which she had herself experienced, taught her to be pitying. She had garnered up her happiness, all 'that remained of it, in that of her two fair charges, no less than in the -well being of her-own brothers;and in reflecting on many things unnoted before, she arrived at the conclusion that -Emeline, equally with Roxanna, had a hidden cause of grief over which she was unable to exercise the slightest control. Her own health :had visibly declined for some months, though outwardly more attractive than she lhad ever perhaps been. There was a look of sub- lime regignation and pensive sweetness about her which won mys- teriously affection, admiration, and respect. Her lightest word was a law to-ail about her. -In a voice of command she never spoke, and the unselfish love which actuated her, influenced these with whom she 'assoiated, asit swayed her without effort on her part. Of the threatened law-suit there was no more said, for the sufficient reason that one of its projectors was incarcerated on a charge of mur- der, and awaitingr his trial at the next session of court. Oliphant Lpvel, ;obnoxious to the whole community, was now only concerned to save his reputation, as it -was fully understood that both he and Dex- ter: were cognizant of facts which they had, from motives of policy or interest, cncealed. At all events, Oliphant had been heard to de- clare that he ,should relinquish any attempt to contest the: will, pro- fessing, at the same time, that he was greatly shocked at recent de- velopments. No doubt that aspiring gentleman felt, in its full force; the truth of Scott's pithy and poetical couplet : "Oh, what a tangled web we weave, , -When first we practise to deceive,"   OF-APTERi' XljVII. "The offended law Asserts its majesty." HE village of Clinton stood on level ground. It w -cs cmpose d of a court-house, jail, shops, or as Americans sometimes,say, Q   stores, a building approprnated. as a school-house surruunde d by a grove of ancient red oaks, and presenting ural and sequestered aspect -while iow and then some stray pupil might -e seen going to or returning from a spring which gushed amidst .bay:andt gum trees, not many yards from the august temple of the lord of the ferule, who there taught and governed urchins of every age, temper, and character; said autocrat enjoy sin ecure, and f idinghis ad- ministrative abilities daily mad hourly tested by the precocious genius of "young America." Over the village were scattered irreguar cottages of different size, design and finish. Some were handsome, uiltafr a French model, draped with vines, and surrounded by vegetable and flower-gardens, with gravelled walks- and trim rows of boxwood. Others were simply composed of boards over a wooden/ framne and seemed entirely adapted to the requisitions of a warm climate, havin neither window-glasses, lined apartments or solid shutters. The gaol was a gloomy-looking edifice, origially covered with aernow falen off here and there, -revealing red bricks beneath its surface, and where not broken, weather-stained and mildewed. The ta  narrowwin- dows of this fearful place were strongly guarded by mas;rve ion bars, behind which might be seen some-mournml-loQking cr!m]:l;ho, there incarcerated, had time while gazing on outer nature, te4 lage near, the quiet woods beyond, to reflect on hi pas tcareer and delore having pursued that downward path to crime, whichhl d bereft him of freedom, and might end his miserable life on the gibbexL  Th e court- house had some pretensions to architectural beauty , prsenting bold front, with six columns supporting a parapet, and a wide flight of steps   372          ATURRT HASTINGaS. descending to the ground. About the doors of the shops were congre- gated groups of idle men, discussing daily news, politics, market-prices, the weather and crops. Through the streets might be seen, occasion- ally, a village belle, parasol in hand, neatly, sometimes expensively, draped. Yet the whole place had a look of premature decay. It seemed a young city whose progress towards: full development had been suddenly arrested, aS it grew old in place of becoming great. The houses were several of them uninhabited, and having been built of wood were falling to pieces. Choere is: scarcely amore melancholy featurein any scene than that of a dilapidated wooden dwelling with shutterless windows, broken railing, empty panes, and roofless shed. We love an old mansion solid and in good preservation, imparting somewhat of dignity and antiquity to all around, but the village houses, we have said, not f tAisolass, were sadly deforming. But the court-house, of which we have spoken, was this day crowded to overflowing. Citizens of every grade with eager faces, aged men, with gray hair and homely garb, had travelled many miles to witness a trial in which they took almost personal interest. The length of time which had elapsed since the commission of a crime long whispered around, the great distinction of the man slain by his own hand, who was saiddto have instigated that bloody deed, the mummy-like aspect of old ny;, whofre-appeared like a resuscitated ghost, on the scene, with her,:bagof:-bones, her incoherent ravings and wild gesticulation-the evil? repute of thealleged assassin, and many other circumstances of the case merely loal,: which we will not pause to specify, made this an oc- casion of thrilling interest; The village was, therefore, full to overflow- ing. Vehiiles- of -every class, from cart and Jersey wagon to buggy and tandem, "stood in long and diversified file down' the half-paved village street. There, too, were a few splendid equipages, bringing wealthy planters who; in their unostentatious costume of summer-linen, white as snow, stood with a congregated mass of their poorer neighbors, awaiting thg e progress of events. The court-room was filled to suffoca- tion. The jude,- a venerable man, with a somewhat stolid, but reflec- tive, face: was duly seated. Every breath was hushed in expectation, while he, in -solemI tones, called the case of the State against Hugh Hermdob. 'Th sheriff arising announced, in a loud voice: "May it' please' yorr htc nor, the prisoner is in court and at the bar." "he trihal miay/ ow: proceed,' added "the judge, in a measured: voice. Wliereu-pon thesheriff directed the prisoner to stand-and hold up his right hand.  / He then prbceed-ed, saying:   ATRTrT HiASTINGSl.          373 "You, Hugh Herndon, are charged with Ahe whfil murder of John Austin. Are you guilty, or not guilty?"' Here Herndon rose, and the appearance of the man, before uttering a word, impressed all beholders *th an overmastering impression that he who was about to speak was one born with low instincts and hardened in the practice of crime. He was broad-shouldered- and iathletic, with coarse black hair, an immense inky beard, and beetling browS of the same hue. Vis forehead was low, his cheek-bones high, his eyes-small, black and furtive, quick, glancing, and restless, piercing, but with no decided expression unless it might be one of ferocity and brute courage. He stood forth with undaunted boldness, and in a harsh, assured voice responded to the query of the sheriff: "I Not guilty.'-' "How will you be tried?" The prisoner, after a whispered consultation with Badger, replied: "By, God and by my country." "Let the jury be sworn," firmly ejaculated the::judge. --This-was done, the-prisoner offering no objection to the jurors. Thesheriff ten read the indictment setting forth the time, place- and circumstances under which the homicide had been committed. Counsellor Woodward rose and stated the case suecinctly. Argument he said was needless, he being prepared to prove, -by competent wit- nesses, one of the npost cold-blooded and cruel murders which- the records of crime could furnish. The perpetrator:of- this "murder -most foul, as at the best it is, had not even the xcuse of injury or excited passions to extenuate the act; No! deliberately, for base :oin, after cold calculation, and to gratify the resentment of a villain not 8so-repkless as himself, had he coolly contemplated, without compunction resolved on, and with relentless and demoniac cruelty executed, this -fearfl act. Nothing could aggravate the frightful deed. He desiredonly that his witnesses should-be heard.             , Philip West, being brought to the' witness-bbox, declared, that off the 12th of September, between the hours of four and five, he (Philip West) went out of his way on his return from Mr.- Dextera's-chool, in order to fish for minnows at the pond in the pinebarrenm He had-.beei so engaged about a'quarter of an:hour whenhe heard voiceasasin:angry dispute, and looking to -the point whence these sounds proceeded:e saw two men. One was John Austin, whom he very well knew and& who had evidently been engaged, as he himself was,i bi fishing-the imple- ments of his 'craft were beside him -n :the bank.-: Austmstood: with his back; at this time, to the pond and to witness, who was exactly  . *     .                    , S   374          AT5JBRT HASTINGS. opposite on the, other side of the water which intervened, and conse- quently had a full view of the assailant, whom he identified as the prisoner at the bar-whose face and form, standing in front of Austin, he dis. tinctly saw. lHe heard Austin say: 8 "I have no quarrel with youj Herndon, what is the meaning of your dogging my steps hither? tSave you come on the errand of one too cowardly to wreak his own revenge?" "How dare you address such words to me," was the response of Hemrdon. The next instant witness saw the gleam of an axe, and heard a cry as the victim threw up his arms, after which he fell, and one or more blows were given. He left the scene, and meeting Mr. Dexter on his return, told him that which he now related. Mr. Dexter charged him to say nothing of the affair, as by so doing he might involve him- self in difficulty. He had mentioned these facts, however, to Peter. Brown, then present, shortly after. - But next day Hemdon had left the country. Said Brown, ori return of. the .prisoner, had called on him to report the facts -before proper, authority; -this he did, and had now, delivered the whole truth.  Mr. Badger, counsel for the defense, sat in a state of great uneasiness during the progress of West's testimony. 'Oliphant Level was seen to whisper. him occasionally as he sat by his side, and they both seemed to be expecting the 'presence of- some one not in court. The' furtive eye-of the lawyer glanced frequently towards the door, and over the vast:assembly of heads, which in regular rows intervened between him and that entrance. But he was evidently disappointed, and rose to qwstion the- Witness, as follows: "You were, you say, at the pond in the pine barren between the hours', of :four: and five, on the evening of September 12th, 1848. Where were you at the hour of three on the same afternoon?" - "I was then at Mr. Dexter's school-house," responded the witness promptly, " and only paused after leaving it, as I before said, to fish for bait in the pond," . Mr. Badger again queried: "How was it,that you saw so distinctly persons on the opposite side of the water,- and were ,unseen by/ them?  Would a man about to commit murdernoticast his, eyes around to assure himself of privacy, and wpuld not your friend, John Austin, have called on you for help under such circumstances?"  The witness again replied, instantly, and without hesitation: !No one on the other side could see me unless I had been care-   ATBERT HASTINGS,           875 fully searched for. I was in the, midst of a thick undergrowth, stooping down at my employment, when the voices roused me; and, on discovering the fray, in which I desired to take no part, I retreated be- hind a tree, knowing that if discovered!I might share the fate of Austin, since I was like him, unarmed, at the mercy of- a desperate man whose character I very well knew." Mr. Badger, still looking towards the door, asked the indulgence of the court, till a witness, who would shortly appear, should be heard; in the mean time Oliphant Level testified that on the 12th -day of Sep- tember he (Oliphant) had seen Philip West many miles- from the pine barren, at the precise hour when he (West) had declared that he witnessed the murder. While the trial, as we have related, was progressing, and both Badger and Oliphant were expecting. their principal witness, no other than- Dexter himself, Mr. Calloway had encountered that worthy on his way, and confronting him with an -aspect calculated to impress al beholders with awe, but which to the, guilty and cowardly pedagogue was terrific, paused eying him with wrath :and reproach. Dexter cow- ered before the fixed and firm glance of the brave - old man, who, in those deep, sepulchral accents in which his reproofs were always con- veyed, while his brow contracted, and the lines about hismouth seemed to' deepen, said: "Arnold Dexter, I charge and command -that th'ou deliver no false testimony this day before him that sitteth in judgment in an earthly court; seeing that a higher and mightier Judge, who rileth amongst the armies of heaven and the inhabitants of earth, will record thy wicked oath in the book of eternal justice, yea, and; thou shalt-be confronted therewith at the last assize. Repent thee, while it is yet called even this day. 'He that being often reproved, hardeneth his hearti-shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy;'. .Peradventure I fail to influence thy action by such high and important motives: as I have laid before you, yet will I persevere, and I tell thee that no efforts which I perceive thou art minded still to make, can conceal theiniquity wherein thou art thyself in some manner implicated; yea, thy ears may look, heedful, as I perceive of a verity that they do: see that thou heed that which they convey, even my words. which are words-of soberness and truth. Go forth, I charge thee: in presence of thyevil associates, declare the-whole truth, and verily thou :shalt be-protected. I will even go with thee myself, and knowing: thy unstable mind, will uphold thee with my countenance, yea, and with my prayers in secret, till thou hast delivered all. If thou liest at the tribunal this day con- ,               -    376          AT FIRT HASTINGS. vened,I tell thee there is one there of a keen wit, yea, and of an upright heart, even him they call Counsellor Woodward, -who will sift thee as wheat, and verily thy deceitful words shall be made void." Dexterwavered, and Mr, alloway plied his arguments with increas- ing energy, saying: "Thou hast consorted with men of deep villainy'-hast conspired with them in fabricating- a false will. Take heed, for thine own safety; seize this opportunity, and sever thyself from them forever; break the bondage of fear by which thou art enthralled. I tell thee, they have no more power to affright thy timid spirit. If thou disregardest ray words, they may combine against thee to bring thee into danger. Trust not the friendship of the wicked. But above all, and for the last time, I charge thee, as thou art about to be placed in the witness-box, lie not at all, for thine own sake, both here and hereafter. Now, there remaineth but one way whereby thy own security may be ensured, engaged as thou art on the wrong side, where, in the end, a charge of complicity may bring thee into-trouble; nay, their wicked words may hang or incarcerate-thee. Wait till I procure the attention of him with whom thou. wilt have to do, and whom I told thee before, lying words will not deceive." Mr. Dexter signified his assent, and Mr. Calloway, tracing a few lines on a small slip of paper, despatched it to the counsel for the prose- cution. -That eminent lawyer was seated in a small room adjoining the one where we left judge, jurors, and assembled crowd. Mr. Calloway constantly kept his -eye on Dexter, and it was seemingly a spell from which the latter could not escape. Counsellor Woodward looked in- tently; at Dexter, and with that nice intuition derived from nature, and 'aided; by long experience, fathomed him at once. He waved his hand to Mr., Calloway, and demanded of the trembling witness'why he desired to see him. Dexter had been so rapidly hurried forward, in spite of - his own vacillation-so overawed by Mr. Calloway's argu- ments and injunctions, and was so alarmed by the immediate presence of the learned -and distinguished jurist, that yielding, as was his wont, to what he considered the force of circumstances, he made a clear, un- disguised and circumstantial statement of all he knew, after first being assured that by so doing he would free himself from danger, and be reckoned as state's evidence against the offender. He then-proceeded with trembling steps to the witness-box, and to the dismay of the opposing party, fully confirmed the testimony of Philip West.  He established the -fact- that said West had left his school house at four o'clock-'had afterwards informed him of all he saw   ALBERT HASTINGS.           3" at the pond-had been enjoined by him to silence-that he, himself, walking in the same direction, a short time after the dismissal of his school on the same day (Sept. 12th), had seen Hugh Herndon, prisoner at the bar, dragging a mangled and bleeding body to the water's edge. The body he could not identify, but the persoq who was casting it into the pond was the prisoner at the bar; that said prisoner had shouted to him:"Take care of your, precious person, Mr. Schoolmaster. Get out of the way, and mind you have seen nothing."' This -threat, he confessed, had silenced him, and induced his course in silencing Philip West, before the prisoner left the country, which he did soon after. Mr. Badger was thunderstruck, even his self-possession (a thing difficult to affect), gave way before the overwhelming weight of testi- mony on the other side, elicited, too, from the witness on whom he most relied. Dexter's defection had taken him aback, and Jacob Jones, the last person examined, had declared that the man he met fly- ing through the pine barren;,with bloody spots- on hisclothes, and-an axe on his shoulder, was Hugh Hemrdon, there present at the bar. I He had not been prepared for all this, besides, he never liked to encounter Counsellor Woodward at any time; that- gentlemanWs straight forward common sense, unswerving honor, vast legal lore, and withering satire, being things before which the managing and adroit attorney,-with all his cat-like cunning, had often shriveled like a frost-smitten lea At the Scottish bar there are three grades of lawyers, First, the advocates, of whom there are but :four hundred, denominated gentlemen-of the long robe. These arej as their designation of -advocateimports, special pleaders. There -is a second class of the legal fraternity, n1amely, writers to the signet; and- again, a third grade, which is the lowest of the profession, and. these are solicitors. Nows Counsellor Woodward belonged, or would have belonged, werehe in Edinburgh, to the first class, or advocates, and our discomfited friend, Badger, to the tribe of solicitors or pettifoggers, who do the dirty work of, the profession. But rising, be made the most of a bad, or rather hopeless, cause. In his feeble de- ,fence, he laid great stress on the testimony of Mr. Oiphant Lovel, who had seen the witness, West,- many miles distant, at the time whien said West professed to have beheld the murder at the pond. i- Mr. Lovel, he said, was a gentleman, who could have no motive im making this state- ment, save one of humanity. Mr. Lovel was not willing to see an in- nocent man condemned on false evidence; he honored .- Lovers fearless declaration ofjtrutl in the face of all that- opposed it. Mr. Dexter had turned state's evidence, but he (Mr. Dexter) was known to be a cowardly and unreliable person. No doubt it had been made his   378          ATARTIRT HASTINGS. interest to falsify testimony given to. him '(Badger) before the court assembled. This witness had been tampered with--here he directed a meaning look towards r.' Calloway, who in his absorption did not see, or if he saw, did not deign to notice it. Mr. Badger was, he said, sup- porting the weaker cause, but by the help of God. he would do his duty to - his client, whose life was imperilled .by false -acccusation, suborned evidence, and a tide of popular feeling which had condemned him unheard. The, speaker' deeply regretted that there was now no positive testimony to combat that of his:client'S accusers, save the tes- timony of Mr. Oliphant Lovel, but he implored the jury to remember that the life of a fellow-being was at- stake. A poor man, one in the humble walks of life and friendless, threw himself on their mercy, and might God so deal with them, as they now dealt with the prisoner in his-last extremity. Counsellor Woodward's closing speech was a masterpiece of elo- quence. The facetious smile- sometimes playing around his lips, had given place to a stern and uncompromising severity-his eye flashed and his form dilated. He seemed invested with the majesty of out- raged law, and his voice thrilled through the waiting assembly, as he sanid:  "May it please the Court; Gentlemen ofd the Jury :--You have be- fore you a deliberate case of colbblooded murder unsurpassed in the annals of crime cstablished by the most irrefragable testimony. An unoffending man, young,- the only stay of his aged mother, beloved for his integrity, without an--enemy, save the instigator of his untimely death--that -enmity being caused by a determination on the part of the victim to see what he considered justice, (and which was justice,) done to:hii foster-sister and early companion, Myra Gray. A noble motive, but one for which he has paid: dearly; -sent to his accountin a moment of seeming security, 'unhouseledy imanointed;unaneled, with all his imperfections on his head. Without warning, defenceless, had he been launched into eternity by a :sordid wretch, who, after taking the price of bloodin a pitiffu- sum of base coin, and wanderingi none knew where, with; the deadlycurse of Cain on his elon brow, had remappeared, it would seem by ;theorderof- Providence, to meet the doom announced by those-authoritativeowords ofI the Great Lawgiver, ' Whoso sheddeth mat'is blood, by. mat- shall -his bloqd-be shed.", Where has this red- handed, ion-hearted homicide spent the guilty years of his abandoned life, since completing the dark tragedy by the uunhallwed mill-pond? Who -can say, in his cruel thirst for blood and reckless disregard of "uman:life, what deeds: of darkness he may have committed since the *  ,      ;                       ALBEtRT HASTINGS.          379 crimson stain of his hapless victim's blood, mingled ]with unrevealing waters in the lonely. pine barren. "There, gentlemen of the jury, before, your eyes is a fearful living testimony to this man's daring defiance of law. Look at that aged woman-mark the misery, attenuation and pleading moumulnes  of *her aspect--with thin, gray hair, a visage marred by wrinkle, sunken eyes whose light has long ago gone-out in weeping;: with bentframe, bowed by age and mightier woe; in her skeleton hands she grasps a wallet. She is no mendicant, the burden she carries bears no charitable i gift-she never asked a gift of mortal man. That bag, which: accom- panies her-in all her wanderings, contains the poorremains of that-manly form which was once her pride. With vain care had she nursed the tender years of this beloved childl She had trained him in virtue's paths (and he was virtuous)-her only tie to life. Through l- deso- lation of'early widowhood this slaughtered son had been her only hope in life, and all that she could gather from the-oblivious waters of the desecrated pond--his fleshess and-whitened bones-she has. brought here to aid her cause. For weary days and nigh-ts without food or shelter; chanting wild songs uhder burning suns, beneath cold dews, her only companions the dwellersopf the wood; upheld by a mighty in- stinct, had she toiled with tears and agony, till she had :made out and completed the- naked and ghastly skeleton of himfwho hadleft her in ' the full flush of manhood, to return no :more. -Is the:God-given life. of man, created in His likeneds, in this landcof boasted liberty and ecurity, to be thus waritonly andimercilessly destroyed? Where are tie safe guards of law? She, demands from you, gentlenmen, justice on: his coward murderer l". Here Amy, stretching forth her withered and trembling arms, fell on her knees, and. directing hereyesto tlihejudge, gazed at him with a look so wild, and haggard -that he was evidently discomposed, and passed his hand over his brow as;though to conceal the effect of that piercing, woe-fraught :gaze. v That"' continued the eloquent advocate, " is the mother of John Austin-she Igave the- life which was, without provocation, deliberately and with malice fore- thought, destroyed by the ruthless caitiff at the:bar. Behold her dumb. pleadings, she has not liberty to:speak. in this presence, but her wrongs speak for her in a voice of: thunder, calling forxredressat your, bhanda The counsel for the defence,"' ontinued the speaker, Ousting look of withering scorn on Badger, "attempts to invalidate the testimony of Philip West by opposing the evidence of, his-gentleman wtness,' qliphant Lovel-heaven save the mark I This gentleman witness,' by his own account, saw West many: miles from the pond, at the hour P    ATRERT HASTINGS. ,$ when the homicide was committed, but this statement is rebutted by Dexter, who affirms that West passed the day as usual at his school- house, leaving said school-houseat the usual hour. West was also met by Peter Brown immediately after beholding the bloody scene, so that the fanciful theory of^ Mr. West's ubiquity, sought to be established by Mr. Lovel's testimony must necessarily fall to the ground." And, in' conclusion, the learned counsel called on the jury to vindicate the supremacy of their country's laws, to arrest the bold arm of the hired assassin, and with the evidence before them, aided by argument, though none; in .this case was required, to exercise their necessary duty of punishing the guilty, thus affording a guarantee to peaceful citizens that their well-being was the care of the commonwealth; The Judge, with becoming solemnity, his massive features impressed with firm resolve, and not devoid of human regret at the bearing of his words, said: " Gentlemen of the jury, the prisoner at the bar is charged with the highest offence known to the law, which, according to all the authorities, consists in thewilful killing of a reasonable creature in being, with malice aforethought.,- Having stated to: you in what murder consists, I have further to announce to you that jurors are the regularly constituted judges, both of the law and the- facts. -- You are, therefore, in this in- stance, to inquire whether wilfuit murder has been committed by the prisoner at the bar; with this end in view, you are carefully to review the testimonyg which has this day been rendered in your hearing. It is incumbent on me to recall to your minds what that testimony is. The first witness called on the part of the prosecutionis Philip West who testifies that' on:the 12th day of September, between the hours of four and five, he (Philip West) -went out of his way on his return from Mr. Dexter's school, in order to fish for minnows at the pondin the pine banren. He had been so engaged about a quarter of an hour, when he heard voices, as in angry dispute, and looking to the point whence these sounds proceeded, saw two men. One was John Austin, whom he very well knew, and who had evidently been engaged, as he himself was, in fishing. The implements of his craft were beside him on the bank. Austin stood with his back at this time to the pond and to witness, who was exactly opposite, on the other side of the water which intervened, and, consequently, had a full view: of the as- sailant, whom he identified as the prisoner at the bar, whose face and form standing infront of Austin, he distinctly saw. He heard Austin say:  " I have no quarrel with you, Heradon I What is the meaning of   A TAIRVIRT HAMflNGS.   381   your dogging my stepshither? Have you come on the errand of one too cowardly to wreak his own revenge ?" " How dare you address such words to me?' was the responseof Herndon. The next instant witness saw the gleam of an axe, and heard a-cry as the victim threw up his arms; afer which he fell, and one or more blows were given. He left the scene, and- meeting Mr. Dexter on his return, told him that which he now related, ;Mr. Dexter charged him to say nothing of the affair, as by doingjso he wouldin- volve himself in difficulty. He had mentioned these facts, however, to Peter Brown, then present, shortly after. But next day HIerndon had left the country. Said Brown, on return of the prisoner, had called on him to repeat the facts befoie proper authority. This he did, and had now delivered the whole truth,' "This testimony is positive. If the jury believe it, they cannot fail to convict the prisoner of wilful murder. An attempt is, however, made to rebut it by the testimony of Oliphant Lovel, who, upon being placed on the stand, declared that between the hours of four, and five (September 12) he saw West many miles distant. But the attemint'of Oliphant Lovel to prove that the witness West was absent severaldmiles at the time when he, said West, asserts that he saw. the murder-com- mittedk is itself rebutted by the testimony of Arnold Dexterrwho, on  being duly sworn, declares that 'West- had left his school-house at four o'clock; had afterwards informed him of all he saw at the pond; had been enjoined by him to silence; that he himself, wtlking :in the same direction a short time after the dismissal (of his> School .on the same day (September 12), had seen Hugh Herndon, prisonerf at the bar, dragging a mangled and bleeding body to the water's edge The body he could not identify, but the person who was- r sting it into the pond was the prisoner present before him  that said: prisoer had shouted to him, 'Take care of yourself, Mr. Schoolmaster; get out of the way, and mind, you have seen nothing.'   Thii threat Dexter confessed, had silenced him, and induced, his course in silencing Philip West before the prisoner left the country, which he. did soon after.                                  '  "Fiially, we have the corroborative testimony of the last witness, Jacob Jones, who met the prisoner flying through- the piae barrent at' half-past five o'clock, from the direction of the pond,-wih blood-stained clothes. 'uch, gentlemen, is a summary of the testimony irrthis-fear ful case. It is of that direct and positive character wwhieh can leave-lit. tle doubt in your minds that the awful crime of murder chargedin the indictment was actually committed by the prisoner at the bar. Should,   -A^r,'l- HASTINGS. however, any reasonable doubt exist in your minds that Hugh Hern- don was the party who committed the deed, it is your duty to give him the benefit thereof, In reference to this matter, the statement of Oli- phant Lovel stands contradicted by West himself, Dexter, and Peter -Brown, and the inference, therefore, is that said Oliphant Lovel was either deceived himself or intended to deceive others in respect to the fact. Gentlemen, the wholes case is before you. You will now retire and consider your verdict." Bretthless silence prevailed in the assembly. The aspect of the judge was solemn and impressive. Amy, with her eyes still fixed on him, knelt with clasped hands, her ominous bag beside her. Mr. Callo- way cast up his eyes, and was, to all appearance, engaged in secret prayer. Oliphant Lovel was white as a sheet, and trembled in every, limb. Badger was scarce less disconcerted. The jury, after being ab- sent about half an hour, re-appeared and took their seats in the jury- box.- Theshieriff spoke; "Mr. Foreman, have you agreed on your verdict?" The foreman' replied in the affirmative. " Is theprioner guilty or not guilty of the alleged murder?" "Guilty," responded the foreman, in a loud voice.  A- m  urmuof satisfaction rose from 'the assembly, which was in- stantly silenced by the sheriff. Poor old Amy was borne off insensi- ble.i But he, just doomed to a deserved and inominious death, be- trayed 'not the least emotion,' arnd was desired by the sheriff :t stand up and hearithe sentence of the court. Whereupon the judge addressed him-in the following terms: 'TYou, Hugh' Herndon, have been indicted and arraigned for the crime of wilful murder; and, after having received a fair trial by a jury of your countrymen, have been found guilty of the same. Have you anything to say why the sentence of death should not be pro- nounced?"  The prisoner maintaining a dogged silence and unmoved countenance, the court resumed - "Presuming that you have nothing to say, hear then the sentence of the court, which is this: That you be taken hence to the county jail, and be there -cofined atill Friday next; between the hours of ten and eleven, A. -., that you be conveyed thence to the place of public exe- eution, and be thnii hungby the neck till you are dead; and may Gfod havei mery on' your soul."                     , The prisoner, still unmoved, was led out of court by the sheriff. AU eyes followed him, but there could not be detected the slightest emo-   ALBERT HASTINGS.            383   ,ion in his features or manner.       His defiant eye avoided a straight-for- ward glance.      He seemed to seek no sympathy and               fear no conse- quences.    The crowd was slowly dispersing.            Gloom    hung   on every countenance, and groups were collected within and without the court- house, when, on the return of that officer, the attorney-general rose, and in a loud voice ordered        the arrest of Oliphant Lovel and Simon Badger, on a charge of conspiracy to destroy a will.             These worthies were accordingly taken into custody. CtHAPTER XIIX "Moments there are that in their sudden flight, 3ring the slZow mysteries of years to ight. " ARTLTAMENT was now in session. The London season was now at its height. It is not our intention to enter on the arena of British politics. The single member with whom we have to do is Sir Albert Hastings, before whom a brilliant career had opened, and who, dismissing private grief, bent his efforts towards the accomplishment of those public ends which he deemed important. As a, statesman he was incorruptible. No temptations of place or power in the administration were of the slightest moment to him, and:all yielded the deference which his integrity demanded. His oratorical powers were of the highest order. There was a dead silence in the house when he arose to speak, and soon after entering on his subject, which was always stated in lucid terms and enforced by argu- ments of telling power, the young orator, in a voice of thrilling sweet- ness and comnanding volume, addressed himself to the establishment of every separate point in dispute; men hushed their breath to listen, and gray-haired veterans, long employed with honor in the service of -the kingdom, treasured his dictums and lquoted his eloquent words as though they had been given by inspiration. With all this renown, eloquence, and eminence, he remained the Sir Albert Hastings of yore. Nothing could make him other than he had ever been, gentle, compas- sionate, firm, loving, and the very soul of truth and hono. A blaze of beauty surrounded him, but his first love had died when Emeline Lovel became another's; his last passionate dream of earthly felicity was buried beneath the gilded cenotaph of the beautiful, high-born, and un- fortunate G-eraldine Rathbourne. There came a strange and solemn sadness over him when contemplating the young and lovelyof the other sex. 7 Some tone reminded him of Emeline; some fine-cut feature or noble sentiment, of Geraldine. Not one possessed the power to at-   AIBERT HASTINGS.           385 tract, beyond -the passing moment, a heart whose memories were -so sweet but mournful; and, unusual as it may seem, Emeline and Ger- aldine were associated in his' mind, as we combine the -different features of a lovely landscape, where they harmonize ant are mutually sug- gestive of the whole. The winter had been passed, in London. Sir Albert's duties -were of no light character, and he was evidently-ex- hausted mentally -as well as in bodily strength. Lady Livia, who watched him with the fond eyes of affection, noted this; and, taking Lady Arundel, as usual, into her counsel, spoke thus: ' Mary, I am sorely grieved for- Albert. Alas for the miserable catastrophe which took from- us our beloved Geraldine, who would have made his happiness and our -own. Oh, Mary, I can never fathom that terrible mystery. So young, so good, so loving and gentle, what could have induced any human, creature to bear malice againstone-so: unof- fending, affectionate, and charitable as that young girl was-?" Lady Arundel leaned her head on her hand, placing her elbow onlhe small carved stand beside her, and regret mfaked her almtface as she replied:             -       -  "I have never ventured, Lady Livia, to allude to- this subject before;\ but, as you have yourself introduced it, I will frankly tell you that I am at no loss to designate the abandoned woman who administered- the potion causing the death of her we so loved. It was, in my opinion, no other than Pauline Salvo whom you may remember asher-London, governess. This miserable ingrate, had I not gone to:London at the time when sent-for by Lord-Rathbourne, would have done her work there; but it seems she is one of those who persevere im evil at:al :risks, and it is my firm conviction that she, and no other,was the flower. girl of the castle, the murderess of our Geraldine,: and the wicked cause of our sorrow and disappointment. But, my -dear sister, though all this looks dark and inscrutable to us, rest assured that the-hand of Prov- idence is in it. -A full confidence in the- wisdom- and -goodness of an overruling Power is all that sustains me in my great trial-the loss of my cherished son. Let us look to a higher Power for support at all times. This, I trust, Albert- has done; and it would afford me sincere pleas- ure could I be assured that poor Lord Rathbourne was enabled to commit his care where only it -can be sustained--or rather I should say, whence only he can derive ability to sustain it.- Our, Geraldine is not lost, her pure spirit reposes with the good and justi A-ll regarding her has, we know, been ordered by wisdom. - She was of a/frail con- stitution. I never anticipated that she would live long,' and, perhaps, by her sudden death she was spared a few years of suffeiring.- True   386   ,       ATFBRT HASTINGS. grief on such an occasion cannot be at once cast off, but let us not mourn as those who have no hope. I, who knew her best, feel confi- dent that she was not unprepared for the last great change." "The case of- Lord Rathbourne afflicts me deeply,"' replied Lady Livia; " with all his faults he-has a noble heart. Would that we could console him. By the way, I think he is expected at Hastings'this'very morning," Her ladyship drew the silver bell-handle near her, and rang. ' Inquire,",said she to Oleophine, who was instantly in attend- ance, "inquire whether. Sir Albert. Hastings has gone out."  Cleo- phine soon returned. Albert had gone to the Hastings' Arms to meet Lord Rathbourne, nd might be expected in an hour's time. It was now early summer. When we last visited Hastings-Hall, years ago, winter's cold presence had invested nature. Even then there were fair prospects around this sweet spot, though they -were conformable. to the bleak influence of the frost king's power. But now the wide lawns and preserves of Hastings literally blossomed like the rose. Clear sun- light danced over the extended panorama of forest, park, and plain; over the grand old Hall itself, where laughing roses, blood-red in sum- mer luxuriance, hung and blushed over the granite portals, where antlered deer bounded through the sequestered shades of the level and splendidly wooded park, where the song of wild birds, the play of fountains with their classic embellishmnets, and the modest wood flowers, here and there peeping through a redundant carpet of green, rejoiced the eye and delighted the ear. In the distance rose the village spire of Hast- ings'ihapel, reflecting from its glittering apex noonday beams. The dwwell'g ground were comfortable, and bespoke a state of prosperity, pervading theirallotted grounds, where not only comfort but even ele- gance and taste might, be seen in well-preserved cottages, neatly kept gardens, and that nameless evidence of attention to external appear- ances, which indicated that the eye of a competent director had re- gulated its arrangements, and the iberal hand of a beneficent landlord had bestow ed the means by which such results were obtained. Proofs were everywhere seen which established the -fact that Sir Albert Hast- ings did not only shine in hballs of legislation, but that his own tenantry and those mor immediately dependent on him were especially the ob- jects of 'this;f$tering care., This, not only the village, but the -whole domain attestedp and Lady Livia contemplating the scene, as far as her eyes co-uds: each, looked wiA satisfaction and. pride on all she beheld. A p ea4 shEile overspread herfeatures:as, taking the hand of Lady "Aru   e biespoke thus: "g, Hcan never be sufficiently thankful that on recovering my   ATO^,w  1    .Ht AOTM      387 grandson I find in him all that I, that these poor people, that England could desire. Look at the altered aspect of this place, think of Albert's influence inof the        nation--reflect on his private excellence; and tellme whereanother can be found -like him. I trust that Lord Rathbourne, who loves him so devotedly, may be fi- duced by what he sees here, to arouse himself, and give som- attention to the wants of those dependent on him (his lordship has a large tenantry) who, I fear, given over to the manangment ofagents, may suffer without the knowledge of their landlord. Let us make it' our endeavor, while he is here, to call his attention to these things. NQW you, having more' influence with him than any-living- being, in my opinion, should, I think, if possible, direct his mind into this channels You see, dear Mary, that I am assuming your office, that of adviser, this, I confess, is a new avocation for me, yet I have ven-tured on-it. Your -close intimacy with the Lady Maud, your devotion to his beloved daughter, and the high -esteem in which you. are held by hifn, all call on you for some effort in his behalf. Will you not make it?" "Most undoubtedly,:' returned LadyArundel; "I sympathiz deeply with him, and a long acquaintance with his lordship induces a reVpeot for his character perhaps deeper than that which even you entertain. But there is my nephew's equipage, accompanied by Lord: Rithbouzae's, crossing the lawn." Lady Livia rose and went to the casement: 4"Ah, how pale he looks, but there is great dignity about theeiman. HeO seems a carved statue beside Albert- Hastings. Looki, Mary, did you ever see a finer contrast. I think, indeed, allowing for my jlort's riper manhood, and the ravages of grief, they are two .fz the byand- somest -men in England"      .    .  Lady Arundel smiled, knowing how deeply her sister was always affected by external appearances.     ' "At, my dear Lady Livia," said she, " is of little conlequence. We are happy to -know, at least, that they are two of the best in the ranks of our country's aristocracy. Have I said enough to satisfy your maternal pride and disinterested friendship?" . At dinner there was some constraint on the part of Lady Livia, who herself most deeply grieved forthe loss of the peerless Geraldine and feeling her early doom no less a- blight to the house of Hastings tha to that of Rathbourne, yet fearea seeming, in his lordship's eyes, eed- less of their mutual calamity. But this affliction had -:be bJlesedto the noble Earl.' With- Geraldine died his overweenmngoa b itie nd Le was now fully prepared to receive the wise and pious ecu -ls -of Lady Arundel, whose mission had ever been to give a right diection   888          ALBERT HASTINGS. , to the thoughts of others, in a way so unassuming and affectionate, the heart opened to her words, as men, if not depraved, ever re- ceive the voice of love. She knew that the darling attribute of the great Creator was infinite love to all His creatures, and she at a hum- ble distance, full of human imperfection, still endeavored to make its benign law the law, of her life and actions. Simple but sublime phil- osophy I would that its heavenly dictates prevailed in place of senseless dogmas and the torch of the bigot I Lord Rathbourne was very pale, a subdued tenderness quivered in, his usuallyefirm voice, and though often mentally abstracted during dinner, was not insensible to the efforts made by his friends to dis- sipate his gloom, and engage him in conversation. Sir Albert sat by his side, regarding him with the watchful care-of a son, and Mr. Stuart, once more a guest at the Hall, exerted all his powers to obtain his lord- ship's attention on any topic under discussionu The tutor, well aware of Lord Rathbourne's love of art, talked of Italy, and the false represen- tations given of that poetic land by ignorant tourists, who, flying with railroad speed through European cities, without the preparation of edu- cated taste, -family connections in the old world, or even sufficient bestowment of time to appreciate the objects offeredito the considera- tion of a stranger, return stating that they had seen nothing very wonderful after all, and were disappointed. This false and ignorant re- port, Mr.-Stuart, in his quiet way, elucidated with anecdotes of telling significate. Travelled gentlemen, or those seeking to be considered of this class, the tutor handled mercilessly. They were, he said, literary fops, as obnoxious in letters as were their prototypes in good society, mere/incubuses which ought to be shaken off  Good Mr. Stuart,'the enemy of pretension, was really eloquent  Lord Rathbourne and Sir Albert, dinner being over, went. out for a drive. Mr. Stuart was deep in "Spenser," and the ladies sat alone in the great parlor at Hastings, where crimson rays- of sunset fell through tall casements, at this time open. The smell of mown' grass came fra- grant on the air. Every appliance of elegance and luxury was around them, but there was no soft hand to wake the silent implements of music, which :'as though deploring the- ravages of death, stood mute and appealing, -each in its allotted place. Lady Livia wore a face of medi- tation, andseeking,- as-she always did, succor and support from her bosom friend and sisterI expressed her feelings thus: '"My dear Mary, this will never answer. Albert is worn out with the discharge of his duties in London. all last winter. Dear Lord Rath- bourne, though manfully struggling with sorrow, makes incessant de-   ATALBPRT HASTINGS.           389 mands on those With whom he is associated, as what mourner does not? Now, Mary, I think we had better all go to the contingent together. Let us make up a party. Your cousin, Lord Burlington, goes in a few weeks; his sister, Olivia, so informs me. I love Burlington, and- have always done so. You know' what- a delightful and instructive companion he is. Mr. Stuart will not refuse to make one of us--so that altogether the, tour may be pleasant-and I propose that we arrange the preliminaries immediately The rest of the party I will engage to secure, but you must obtain Lord Rathbourne's consent to accompany us." Lady Arundel reflected for an instant, and then replied: "Perhaps, Lady Livia, all things considered, the arrangement would be a wise one. :: This place, Castle Craigland, and even London, are full of mournful memories, both to my Lord and to Albert. Burlington, since the death of Alicia (there is another mournful history), naturally wishes to leav'e England, and, as you request, I will endeavor to pur- suade Lord Rathbourne to accompany us," "Then it is so settled," returned her sister, in a decided voice; and so it was settled. ,    &  Lord Burlington, a near relative of the sisters, was a man of rare powers and amiable character. He had been devotedly attached -to Alicia Somerset, one of the loveliest young maidens inm England; but, alas I With all that life could offer to allure-blest in fortune, position, and happy love-she had fallen a victim to that- insidious: malady, which, while it brightens the eye, robes the cheek if 'evanescent beauty, and flatters to the last, too surely saps- the foundations of life, and closes the mortal career of many a fair daughter of the seagir't isle, when life is bright before her. Consumption marked its victim, and the beloved Alicia was, on the eve of 'her :bridal, consigned to the cold arms of death, that ruthless destroyer, who .numbers- amongst his conquests not only tottering age, but blooming youth and tender in- fancy. This bereavement had rendered him, if possible, more dear to the hearts of his amiable and sympathizing kinswomen, and it was in con- sideration of his grief and isolation, no less than for the. pleasure of his companionship, thatthey now desired to include himin the proposed visit to the continent, or rather to join him in that- isit which they accordingly did.  z     CITA Pl'tEJR Le "The world is seldom what it seems;' To man who dimly sees, Realities appear as dreams, And dreams recalities." VICTOR DE MAR had not been heard from since his departure, and Valerie suffered much anxiety on his account, as she sat one day in her apartment, with both Emeline and Roxanna, her companions, for Roxanna of -late had become more an in- mate of the house, and though more silent than was even her wont, bore an aspect of inquietude which it was painful to witness. Her great dark eyes were often-moist with tears, and the pride of her port was to some extent lost. She read incessantly, and seemed living in a world of her own, starting when suddenly addressed, and noting nothingvto which her attention was not expressly called. This morn. ing she had been more than ordinarily abstracted, and when .the- bell rang with violence, she sprang from her seat, clasping her hands, and exclaimed:  "There, I knew it, 'tis some one come to tell of h  I - Oh, my be- loved siste, kill'me, I have slain him," and she threw her arms around the neck of the amazed Valerie, who strove to calm her, but vainly. "I  tell you," said the excited girl, "I saw him in my dreams last night, and there was that in his eyes which will look on me till I die." Roxanuna rushed out of the room, and Valerie descended to the parlor, where Mr, Oldharm soon made his errand known. "I have come, cmadam," said -the good,:merchant, bowing lowly, "I have come to inform you that 'your brother, Mr. Victor De Mar, Who, sometime since, left. you in health---- Valerie, at this, turned deadlier pale than she even, ordinarily was, and gasped for breath. "Be not alarmed, dear lady," cried Mr. Oldham, in great perplexity,      .                            .   AT, RT  HASTINGS.          891 'i be not alarmed, your brother lives, though he has met with a fearful accident. After crossing the river swamp in safety, and while riding on the public road, his horse took fright. The animal was, as I under- stand, a hired one, his own having been returned by the hands of a groom at the ferry. But the vicious creature, without warning, dashed off with his rider, one of the best horsemen in the country, fled as though pursued by the furies, and after a long race, throwing himself backwards, dislodged his rider, and would have killed him but, for the protecting care of an overruling Providence. My dear young lady, one of your gallant brother's limbs was shattered in the fall, and- he was' otherwise much bruised. He has-lost his left foot and ankle. Mr. Calloway, who is a man with whom I do not assimilate in many things, was on his circuit (so, I think, his profession denominate their yearly field of operations), ascertained the condition of Mr. Victor De Mar, and obtained for him the best surgical assistance. From him I ob- tained the facts, and have sent my carriage to bring the young gentle- man hither. He is very feeble, but let me assure you that the loss of a limb, his worst misfortune, is all you need deplore At six this evening he will reach Ellerton-kind Mr. Calloway accompanying him. I have made bold to come in advance of my carriage, hoping to prepare " you for his arrival, which might otherwise have alarmed and discom- posed you beyond what is necessary." Valerie thanked Mr. Oldham, while the tears stood in her beautiful and appealing eyes. Emeline, meanwhile, had come unbidden into the room, and as soon as the purport' of; Mr. Oldham's communication transpired, went out in haste, seeking Roxanna; she found her cousin and dearly-loved companion by the artificial -lake in the garden, of which we have so often spoken. Roxanna knelt on the bare ground, her black hair streaming round her, her hands were wildly clasped, her lips were apart, and she looked some breathing form of sculptured woe.  . "Oh, Roxannal listen to me once, sad daughter of a doomed house.  Roxanna Lovel, I tell you Victor De Mar is not dead.!ho, he yet lives, my cousin. The loss of a limb is all. I tell you, poor Roxahna, he will be here before the shades of evening close over dear old Eller- ton. Rouse, and come to meet him, I say, child; I tell you the sound of your voice will atone to him for all his sufferings--do you hear me, Roxanna?" The terrified and deeply penitent girl rose like one bewildered, and responded in a low voice: .  "Emeline Lovel, you need not try to deceive me. Victor De Mar   392          ALBERT HASTINGS. is dead. It is his cold corpse that comes to Ellerton. But take me to him. Like her I will die by the grave of him I love," and she bound- ed away down the- avenue, where she. encountered the carriage of Mr. Oldham, in which lay Victorlimself, enfeebled by illness, supported by a mass of pillows. . Mr. Calloway, in the rear, moved slowly down the wide road in his modern buggy and drawn by the sleek steed, Valerie's gift after his misfortune, sometime since narrated. As Victor gazed on the opening landscape, he saw her light form flitting past, of which catching a glimpse, he said; "It were better to go on to De Marhr:all-think you not so, Mr. Calloway?"To this Mr. Calloway responded:  .     . "Thy strength will bear thee no further; moreover, thy sister hath had information through that kindly vender of merchandise, him they call Mr. D1dham, who, but for a sinful love of gain, would walk, I doubt not, in the right path-that thou art on thy way, even at this time, to the dwelling which she adorneth with notable and beseeming, works of charity. Myself will proceed, drawn by the power of this docile: horse, her-own esteemed gift, to De Mar Hall, and summon hither:her'mother and thine. .will do this with all speed, having deposited thee in safety. Therefore let thy mind:rest at ease, giving .thanks always." Victor 5nly, replied by a deep-drawn sigh, as Mr. Oldham's carriage drew up before the door, and he was borne into the chamber appointed to, his use by crowing domestics, all eager togreet him. There sweet Valerie De Mar sat. by his side, and a soothing calmness, inspired by her presence, seemed to come over him. Roxanna had gone, no one knew where; and Emeline sat in the hall, very sadly reflecting on the poor girl's distress. She took up a volume near herb and was turning the leaves carelessly over, when Rox- anna stood suddenly before her, with wild and wandering eyes, and before she had time to address her, said in a low, mournful voice:  "Where have they laid him? I know that he is either dead or dying. My pride is all gone now-I want to see him." "I tell you truly, Roxanna, Victor is ill, but the danger is past. He only needs care,.and will soon, I trust, be well; but," and she hesitated, "he has lost one of his limbs." Roxanna uttered- a wild cry of agony, and fell to the floor insensible. Emeline rose, and closing the door, endeavored to restore her cousin by every means in her power-these failing, she rang the bell in great alarm, and sent for Valerie. That tried and lovely being, pale as monu- mental marble, bent mournfully over her fair young charge, and chafed   ATBERT  HASTINGS.          393 her brow and temples, till returning animation was slowly evincted Roxanna said faintly: "This has been a terrible dream-stay. do I remember?-some one said he was ill, maimed. Ah, you," said she, addressing Valerie, "who have always spoken truly, tell me now--is he not a corpse in yonder chamber?" "You shall come with me, Roxanna, and satisfy yourself of the fact that it is not so. There is no living being in the world whose presence would so delight poor Victor." Roxanna rose quickly. "No," she said, a this is a fated house. It was here," and her black eyes dilated with a fearful expression of de- spair, "It was here, in this room, that she watched three days and nights, but the spirit bad fled, and she went to his grave and died.- Well, I will do likewise, lead me on;'" and she gave her cold hand to Valerie. Victor lay on a sofa between two open windows. He was greatly changed, loss of blood, long illness and: confinement had robbed him of the bloom of youth, and the contrast :between his dark :hair and hite brow was very marked; 'his eyes were closed and his' apect death-,like. Roxanna drew near with her firm, light, step-shpe commanded herself  in a wonderful manner;--there were terror and doubt. inm her looks- she gazed -keenly on him. "Dead,", said she in a thriiing, mournful voice. But Victor, at this instant, slowly unclosed his eyes, and seeing whence the agonized accents came, he strove to rise, but failing tof do so, held out his hands. Roxanna boundedto him -with a passionate exclamation of joy,: and knelt by his side. Valerie turned aside to hide her tears, and never had she, since the hour of her great anguish, when with bleeding heart she had laid aside her bridal robes, experienced the happiness which she now. felt. The dark trial was passing away-; morn- ing dawned over gloomy valleys and black mountains -of threatening gloom. Her meek and saint-like spirit looked up adoringly. Through her means the beautiful, gifted and abandoned child of: poor Myra Grey, the wild woman of the woods, was happy. She bowed her head-and was grateful    CHAPT-iPT H. "A l1 hail io the rooksa pnd the shores, Thou wide rolling ocean, all hailZ  Now' brilliant with sunbeams and cdmpled with oars, Now-dark with th the fresh flowing galo." AT F RIES health, as before stated, had visibly declined during TVictor's confinement, vhjich it was hoped would soon end. Mrs. De Mar land his father had visited him daily, Roxanna being beloved by them both as a daughter. But Valerie's feeble health was now a subject of deep concern to all her friends, and Mrs. De Mar deputed Roxanna to express her wishes to Valerie, which she accordingly did in the following terms, taking Valerie's soft hand in her own, and lookinglbeseechingly into her face: "My dear sister, you must leave us for a while; this will be a great loss to me and to our dear mother, (I call her mother now,) and dearly must I love one who could ever win that nameofrom me--you know I called her so"-t-at this Roxanna paused, affected by emotion which any allusion to Myra always called forth. "But you Iknow, dear sister, that Charles has written, entreating the presence of his family at his intended wedding. Your mamma feels that she'cannot undertake so long a voyage.- Victor will. still require her care and--and mine here, but my cousin Emeline will go with you; you have always been much together and nothing ought to separate you. And now I will appeal to your feelings, knowing that there, if nowhere else, you are rulner- able. Charles is very sensitive, this youknow, and would esteem your presence at his nuptials,beyond the gift of a fortune." "Do you think that Emeline would be quite willing to go 1" queried Valerie, with uncertainty resting on her matchless features. "Emeline has told me," responded Roxanna, " that she would go with you to the ends of the earth-that nothing ever can separate her from you, and that she has nothing left in the whole world to love but   ALBERT HASIM  O.          39 you, and the memory of Albert, Hastings, though he seems to have forgotten her, and is by this time, doubtless, married to some great English lady. Emeline will be only too glad to accompany you, especially as yoa are going with a twofold object, namely, to gratify  Charles, for whom she entertains the warmest friendship, and for the benefit of your health, which is of paramount importance to her and to us all." . Valerie said, after some reflection, that she would take the matter into consideration. "While you reflect," returned the impulsive Roxanna, ':I will act. Your brother, it seems, is about to marry the daughter of an Italian count. Now, though I care little for these things, yet Charles does, / and I am immediately going to work, with the assistance df your own  mantua-maker and Ellen, your mama's at the Hall, to prepare your  . wardrobe."          ,  Valerie smiled, "Why, child," said she, " are you going to do these  things without consent yet positively obtained that We will go?" - Roxanna threw her arms around Valerie's neck. She had amazing powers of persuasion, this impassioned, loving Roxan, r, and won from her a promise, that to please her friends and abate their anxiety, she & would do as requested. -            -'i -  "Stop," cried Roxanna, "you must not go alonetl Oh, H have-it]   . Mr. didham said in my presence, not long since, that he had business), g at Liverpool. Now, that is quite over the ocean, on the other side tdhe  hemisphere. Once in England, you, perhaps, let me seel Why    ' Or Charles might meet you there, or Mr. Oldham might choose to see Rome. I will speak to him myself. He promised to call here to-mor- row, and will bring some medicine fo--for Mr. Victor."  Ronnra t/ blushed deeply. She did not love to bare, her affections to others; ' - there was something of Myra's reserve in her nature. Circumstances had torn a veil from her heart, which, perhaps, but for pressing and un- expected: events, would have remained there forever. But now that her guarded secret, devoted love for Victor, was fairly owned, she at once threw off 'disguise, and imparted a portion of her own enthusiasm to all which she did. It was refreshing to see her bright, young spirit entering with enthusiasm into everything connected with the weal of those she loved. Roxanna was a perfect specimen of beauty, peculiar in type and race-in excellence. All the wild, fearless independence of a race, basely seduced and robbed by encroaching, pale-faced usur- pers, was inherited by her. Their fixedness of attachment, gratitude for service rendered, and ordinary reticence, were hers, no less than the ", '          *   8396          ALBERT HASTINGS strange fascination of full, dark eyes, and the inexpressible agility and elegance of motion, which marks the wild deer of the forest. In com- bination with these, were the keen sensibilities of the Anglo-Saxon race--a mingled tint- of olive and snow, which colored her features with vj velvet, creamy whiteness, rich and soft, whereon a blush, when painted by the healthful coursing of life's vivid current through her veins, was like bloom on the peach, or the roseate touch of early sum- mer's fingers on the lucid plum. She loved Victor De Mar as-some superiors creature. His form was to her the embodiment of manly excellence and beauty. She knew him Ao be generous and brave. But she could- bear -no second place in his heart, Emeline had, she knew, been first his choice, and this she made up her mind never to    forgive. It was not till she saw him stretched on a bed of suffering, marred in form and broken in health, that she discovered how dear he r^a was in reality to her; then it was, as she truly said, that casting away , ^  her pride, she had come humbly to his side, there to abide in life or death. :It was no light thing.-to win the love of Myra's daughter,  which, once given, not all the trials or sorrows of this life could lessen or otfinauish. She was not quiet like Emeline. Some people, being I  of the sober order themselves; see no good in those who are impulsive, and do no conceal their feelings; (for our own part, we do not see ny i   great merit in suppressing emotion, unless there is some special reason for doing so). Now, the supposed elevation of individuals often silent, to some great height of wisdom, is Simply ridiculous. The most that \^  can be said of silent people generally, is comprised in the homely    apophthegm--"If they do no good, they do no harm." As the world goes, they ought to consider that fact sufficiently flattering. But Rox- j   anna's bright, flashing eye, quick, impassioned speech, demonstrative manner, and inexpressibly sunny smiles, now made her presence a joy and gladness in the calm halls of old Ellerton. Nobody was found- to - repress her ingenuous exhibitions of overfowing happiness by saying, perhaps, with ill-concealed sarcasm, i She comes with a rush over one." No I there was none of that spirit in the once-loved home of poor Amanda, whose gentle mind -had ever revolted at dogmatism, and shrunk from puritanical sway, as something even more frightful than extended liberty. But Roxsnna was now the life and soul of all that was being done at Ellerton. Her character the same, her objects of interest were wholly changed; but the same unconquered will which led her to Oak- Mount, in storm as well as sunshine, now led her to discharge those duties, her own appointed tasks at home, which' called for constant effort. *                        \,   ATBRT? HASONGS.         397 She had never been inert or listless. It was the condition of her being to be active, and what a blessed thing, after all, this mental and bodily activity is--what weary hours of ennui and lagging indifference does it spare the young, and scare away from the presence of the middle-aged and old. Give only a -right direction to the active and enterpriing spirit of enthusiasm, and what results may we not expect.- But we return toqRoxanna, who, seeing Mr. Oldham on the day specified, found him willing, and even pleased, to take charge of the ladies, Valerie and Emeline, on the projected visit to Rome. Letters were despatched to Charles announcing them, and they would soon sail. It was a radiant evening at Ellerton. High away, over fleecy banks of clouds, on a faint field of pale lilac. merging into calm blue, the great glittering southern sun bade his adieus to earth, and silently withdrew his golden-shafted beams; glittering to the last, earth's mighty light and life-giving sovereign went out in his glory, but the. blood-red splendor of his departing light fell on a group in the broad, grass-grown avenue at Ellerton, which we pause an instant' to contemplate. There was Valerie, with her seraphic, pure, calm face, her rich, gold-brown, redun- dant hair, knotted at the back of her head after that unstudied fashion in which Greek statues portray the chaste taste of Ionian sculptorsther dark, deep, thoughtful eyes, rendered softer and more loving, if possi- ble, by the magic shading of long, glittering eyelashes. Though slight- er than formerly -her figure, delicately symmetrical, retained all its elegance, as she stood like some Eastern vision of beauty, which, with haunting spell, flits before the entranced eye of the poet. There was Emeline, white as a mountain lily, with those cerulean eyes, that perfect outline and harmony of features, which always attracted and never wearied the beholder. Let her but turn her ge ntle- eyes on one near- her, and a thousand unnoted beauties started into life. There was a world of hidden beauty in those eyes, whose changing glance was now full of light and joy, and anon,- dim with unshed tears. Emeline Lovel was so entirely- feminine in all that makes the character of her sex dis- tinctive and lovely, that this ethereal attribute of womanhood invested her outwardly with a halo -unknown to more striking charms. She seemed formed for dependence-one of those yielding creatures whom it would flatter the pride of a strong man to sustain, assured that:her highest ambition centred in him. She seemed, indeed, the ivy. whose clinging tendrils -wreathe so tenderly around the strong-hearted and towering oak. Roxanna trod with the step of an empress.  Her black eyes, with lightning glances, seemed to impart the joy that revelled at her heart to all on whom they fell, and she moved about like ,     *      *    398         HABRT HASTINGS. some inspired creature. Her early isolation, so fearfully ended by the tragical doom of poor Myra, the after years when her faithful and af. fectionate heart, clinging to that 'lost mother's memory, brought its affecting offerings daily to the bosom of the wood, her best loved home, and consigned them to the waves of the wild brook, her fancied courier to the land of spirits. There were flowers in her hands now, gathered from eglantine and" wood pinks. But -these were for no imagined spirit which wandered unseen amidst woodland haunts, or reposed in the fabled Isle of Founts. No, these were for her beloved Victor. The most- glorious being in earth's wide realm, 'to whom she had been so ungrateful, but to-whom she meant to atone by a life of entire de- votion, now that he was suffering. He was the hero of Oak Mount, who so gallantly defied the overawing majesty of mountain tempests, and'bore her in safety, amidst lightning gleams and the terrific thunder- crash of the autumval tempest. She had been meanly jealous of him. Ah, she would never again- indulge such wicked, presumptuous feel- ings. E e had lost a limb-generous Roxanna, that very loss had endeared him unspeakably to her. It had brought her Grecian Apollo nearer to the heart of love. This noble girl was deeply imbued with ' the devotion of her mother, who once loving, loved forever, and the strength of whose affection misfortune only brought more palpably to light--crime, ingratitude, neglect, cruelty,- could not wean the unhappy Myra from her first and last passion. Roxanna was cast in the same mould; though not destined to .be tried by the same fiery ordeal, for Victor De Mar shared the virtues of his sister, andat this time he even rejoiced in the calamity which had led to la full understanding with the beautiful daughter of the strange but loving woman so recklessly sacri- ficed by- the heartlessness and ambition of Alaric Lovel. - But we were talking of the group composed of these three, Emeline, Roxanna, and the no less lovely Valerie. - ArOund them played the bland breeze of the luxurious South. Like their own cime, they were soft and beauti. ful, with that national air acquired by birth and association, far removed' . from the intermeddling and dictatorial manner-so revolting in busy, stirring women -who make a merit of constant intrusion, and, active as mosquitoes, are equally useless and annoying. The air came scented from plains of broom and- dwarf pines, as it sang melodiously through waving cedars and trembling sprays of glit- tering, wide-spread, live oaks. Already the peculiar cry of the night- hawk occasionally resounded in the neighboring -woods of oak and hickory, while the melancholy whip-poor-will and tireless mocking- bird trilled their evening songs. Valerie, being somewhat fatigued,   ATRFRT HASTINGS.          399 seated herself beneath a holly whose blood-red berries and glossy, pointed leaves overspread a rustic chair, Emeline stood beside her, and Roxanna, stepping to an opposite- bank, was engaged in bending down the upper portion of a scarlet woodbine, in orders to pluck some of its glowing flowers, when the quick,- sharp click of a pistol' was distinctly audible, followed by no report however. This proceeded from a clump of wild orange trees, so dense that no object beyond them could be dis- cerned. - Roxanna, with that fearless devotion belonging to her nature, instantly divining that mischief was intended towards Valerie, sprang from the bank, and stood directly between Valerie and the clumpIof oranges already specified. The next instant there was a loud report, and\the brave girl, as she had intended, shielded her friend by expos- ng her own life. She fell, and was instantly covered with blood. Eme- line, with great self-conmmand, at once ralsed rthe wounded maiden, and saw that her arm fell powerless by her side. Calling out to Valerie, she said         ^       ^ "Be. not alarmed, my dear sister, the wound is in her arm-I will bind it up with my handkerchief, and then hasten to Ellerton for aid. Courage, my dear Roaanna--let me draw this bandage tightly-there. At what do you gaze, my c6usin, so intently?" "Look;" responded Roxanna, -in a faint voice. "Look yonder and \ tell me if that flying' horseman is not Oliphant Lovel?" "Think only of yourself, beloved -Roxanna I I think, indeed, 'tis he." Here Valerie taking Roxanna in her farms, sustained her in a sitting posture, while Emeline flew down the avenue, and meeting the/ gar- dener when nearly at the house, summoned assistance. The servants rushed out, and soon succeeded in conveying Roxanna to the house- who persisted in declaring that she was very slightly injured. Valerie's distress was extreme, but she walked calmly by, regarding with eyes of deep love the heroic girl who had so nobly interposed between the assassin and her own life. Victor being in a feeble state, it was thought necessary that he should remain ignorant of what had transpired. Roxanna seemed disposed to consider -her wound of little or no impor- tance, but the- physician in attendance strictly enjoined quiet, and 'she was forced to submit. The daring attempt at 8assasination gave Valerie no concern, while it served, at the same time, to convict -Oiphant, in the minds of all at Ellerton, of the complicity with which he was suspected, in more instances than one, all bearing, however, on the final ownership of Alaric Lovel's estate. Nephews are apt to be heirs when there is no direct line in which property descends. They are apt, at all times, to obtain the influence and fostering care of uncles, to the exclusion of Okk                          ffi^   400     a     ALBERT HASTINGS. nearer relatives-this fact is universally admitted, why it is so, we know not-neither did Oliphant Lovel; but he resolved to make the most of his chances, which he did during Alaric's life, being in constant consul- tation with him, and seconding his views by every means in his power. Now that Alaric was dead, nothing could disabuse his mind of the con- viction that he was, or ought to be, his uncle's heir. So firmly had this opinion taken root that the master passion of his life, in accordance with it, had been, for years, the recovery of that alienated inheritance. Step after step had he descended in paths of -disingenuous policy, cal- culating craft and dishonest action, so that now he was prepared for anything, and we have seen him deliberately attempt the life of her who he considered stood in the way of his wishes. Roxanna soon went around the house with her wounded arm in a sling, and Victor, inquiring the cause, was answered evasively, in true Catholic style. He was never informed of the events narrated; and now the time drew near when Valerie and Emeline would start on their contemplated voyage. Victor was slowly recovering, but, owing to the loss of his limb and bodily feebleness, he found it necessary to resign his place in the army. This was accordingly done, Ellerton being shut up for the present. Roxanna went to De Mar Hall, and our friends bidding adieu to their native land, embarked on the broad bosom of the deep. This voyage was not made in a steamer, which so quickly traverses old ocean's trackless waste, but in the grand old. conveyance of a sailing-vessel, vast ih proportions, standing high out of the water, her towering masts rising to grand elevation, jolly boats lashed to her sides, her wide deck affording length sufficient for a con- yenient promenade, and her bulk so 'vast that ordinarily she moved with steady motion over her trackless journey. It was, a novel and in- spiring scene, the forests of the Western world becoming momently less distinct--their ocean castle cleaving her unsubstantial and heaving foun- dation of illimitable and unfathomed waters. The Gulf Stream -was passed, and northward travelled the gigantic ship, seemingly straight for the coast of Newfoundland. Cooler breezes crisped the curling roll of gracefully swelling waves, as in regular and harmonious march they came trooping as far as the eye could reach, emerald-green, with a light dash of creamy foam. It was evening, and the mighty orb il- luminating earth and sea had withdrawn -from the august realm of ocean his slantng but still glorious' beams. Amidst a thousand sunsets who shall establish the fact that any two are -alike? To the careless observer they may seem so, but to the eye of nice discrimination, or of poetic taste and observation, every exit of the' day-king, and every f '- .\   ALBERT HASTINGS.          401 advent of his less gorgeous successor, the queen of the tides, is marked by some new phase in the glorious array of clouds, and panoramic adjustment of skyey curtains, which brings not only beauty, but novelty with each succeeding sunset, or m on-rise, especially on the expanded bosom of the earth-encompassing ocean. The moon, on this evening, was full. Her great round disk rose above sheeny waters, of a circum- ference so wide that both-Valerie and Emeline gazed with awe and ad- miration on a scene which, with all their experience of the southern glory of evening, was something new and delicious. A single star at her side, she seemed, indeed, the empress of the main, which with heaving brightness assumed her silver mantle, and grew softly luminous beneath h6r rays. Both ladies were seated on deck, Mr. Oldham at their side, when the captain, a bluff sailor, but full of that deference and consideration -for the fair sex which have ever made sailors the friends and cavaliers of women, approached, in his night-jacket of bear-skin and felt cap.; he bowed to the ladies, but gave Mr. Oldham a significant look, implying that he would like to speak to that gentleman quickly apart. Mr. Old- ham accordingly followed him to the after-deck, where, suddenly paus- ing, the captain said: "Look yonder, sir I That is what we dread in these latitudes.- Be hold yon dark object on the wave, which a practised eye at once dis- covers to be an iceberg, detached from polar climes,' two-thirds im- bedded in the ocean, of-enormous size; it bears full upon us, and should we meet--my ship and that avalanche of rocky ice-down iwe go forever. What were twenty ships opposed to a mountain of frozen water coming with the impetus of accelerated motion, and monarch of the seasz" ' Mr. Oldham had often heard of icebergs. The good merchant stared in perplexity, and knew not what to say; but the captain, naturally courageous and of a hopeful temper, continued: "Say nothing to the ladies of the danger. Going below will not avert it. I will do all that human skill may to lessen that. , What. I wish to say to you is this: there may be loud cries and hagty orders given on deck; the ladies need not heed these, and if theyremain above, they will see the iceberg in passing--a glorious sight, I assure you." Mr. Oldham bowed, perfectly astounded at the captain's sangfroid; but the commander's courage was contagious, and the merchant deter- mined to assert his own manhood. In view of the threatened dapgers, he quickly repaired to his place by the lsadies on. deck, and not many.   402          ATWERT HASTINGS. moments elapsed before, like some vast-proportioned crystal palace, with minarets and domes and spires, coruscating, glittering, and gleams ing with every hue imparted by the frost king to congealed waters, in reckless majesty, on came the terrific, magnificent, and resistless ice- berg. Cold waters hissed and parted before its kingly tread. A blast of keen air heralded its coming. Noiselessly, but in assured might was its southward march continued. Then rose theseaman's cry, as com- mand was given and responded to. The good ship Rolla swerved from her track. The captain's voice was distinctly audible. A slow, side- long motion, a slight recoil, and the great, beautiful, frozen Gorgon of northern seas-the- fate-compelling iceberg-had passed by. Awhile might it float on southern seas, but the day-king's power would soon dissolve its proud battlements and mingle its released waters with those which were temporarily forced to yield to condensation and polar frigidity. It was gone!; and as its mountainous, superb form glided slowly past, a loud shout proclaimed the fact. Mr. Oldham was exult- ant; and both Valerie and 'Fmeline, not aware. of the threatened calamity till passed, wet, with thankful hearts, to their apartments be- low, feeling that a protecting Providence bad indeed shielded them from a great and impending destruction. .Never did Mr. Oldham forget this - night; since, while Valerie and Emeline, wholly unconscious of the im- minent danger in wlhich they were, only enjoyed the scene, he, Mr. Oldham, full of terror and dismay, had cheered his associates, and never allowed them to suspect the peril to- which they were exposed. Eastward the vessel bore, and for days fair weather and propitious breezes wafted her towards the desired haven. It was three o'clock. A calm morning and cloudless noon had passed away; but Valerie, who sat with Emeline under an awning on deck, noticed that one or two seamen, including the first mate of the ship, seemed to be observ- ing the heavens with scrutinizing and anxious eyes; sailors, with agility, were mounting their rope ladders, and sails were being reefed. The captain soon appeared, and Valerie discovered in his face anxiety mingledwith a certain resolve, which the human countenance is apt unwittingly to betray in moments of approaching exigence. -There were hurrying steps, eager -faces, as lurid light became rapidly blended with an ominous slate-like hue on high. This was succeeded by dis- mal blackness and the re-bellowing roar of gloomy thunder. Lightning quivered and darted, first at one point of the horizon, then at another, then over the wild and tempestuous mid-arch of heaven till it seemed wrapped- in sheets of blazing flame. iA low howl swept along the dark waters, as ocean winds, with tremendous force, rushed over them.   ATjRRqT ]HASTINGS.    .      . 403, The mighty ship flew before the swift-winged storm as though she fled pursued by furies, and in flight lay her safety; but now the chafed and enraged deep lifted up its towering waves, moaning and gurgling in frightful-concert with furious winds. The laboring vessel bore on gal- lantly, and still the storm increased, till her steady motion was con- verted into rapid bounds, as she becampe elevated or depressed by wave after wave; her tall masts shook and bowed her; there was a rattling sound amongst her pulleys and shrouds; her strong sides, ribbed and barred, were fearfully strained, as the doubtful conflict went on. A1 that afternoon and night she did-battle with the- terribly combined powers of wind and water. But- now a -thundering crash was heard above, as her riven foremast fell heavily, snapped like a reed, and, but for entangling ropes, would havb floated away from her submerged deck. The condition of the vessel was hourly becoming more perilous, when the wind, having exhausted its force, abated, the far-off roll of thunder grew less deafening, and the play of lightning less vivid and frequent; but old ocean did not abates his fury-resentful waters still rose mountain high with tremendous swell. The sun rose brightly over his troubled face, and a clear, deep blue sky looked blandly on the wild commotion. The men, though scarce able to stand by reason of the tossing and constant submersion, lashed themselves to the mainmast, and as well as they were able to do; directed the motions of the disabled ship. . Slowly the ruffled front of stern old Neptune became smoothed, and the brave ship, with such repairs as could be made in the midst of a long voyage leisurely, and half a wreck made the port of Liver- pool. Valerie, owing to agtation and previous weakness, had suffered much during this sojourn on, the deep; but Emeline's constant attention and untiring devotion were such that to a great extent she was spared the inconveniences incurred by a tedious and alarming journey over the pathless ocean. Oh, the comfort of an English inn to the weary voyager I The calm satisfaction of being once more out of the storm- god's watery domain, away from the invigorating, though repulsive, stimulus of ocean, air, the garden smells of earth, the genialwarmth of the tidy hearth and glowing grate, the solid foundation of a well- built dwelling on terra firma--the rolls, the toast, the gastronomic delights of a well-spread breakfast table, so tempting to the exhausted frame and delicate taste of an invalid thoroughly salted and satiated by a sea voyage. Valerie and Emeline felt that the ordeal to which they had been sub- jected brought a desirable reward. If this was the case with them   404           ATMWRT HASTINGS. what shall Dwe say for Mr. Oldham, who,-though a good merchant, was, as we have seen, only by heroic effort a tolerable sailor? It was pleasant and -amusing to witness his self-gratulation on the morning after his arrival. Even bills of exchange were indifferent matters com- pared with his exuberant satisfaction that there was "'no danger of a storm now."    v Emeline, with a mischievoussmmile playing around her sweet mouth, suggested that a storm might be encountered on the return home. Mr. Oldham grew thoughtful, and his glee, to a great extent abating, responded ruefully;: "Ah, my dear young lady; let us not think of that yet, 'Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. " I   CHAPTER LIEL "The Niobe of nations there she stands Childless and crownless in her voiceless wo, An empty urn within her withered hand., Whose holy dust was scattered long ago. " --ChUde Harotd. t(  OME the wonderful, desolate in ruin. Up her steeps traversed by barbarian conquerors, when the fierce Gtoth and Vandal overthrew her shrines and dealt destruction to her proud temples, now lies the mouldering column and waves, the rank grass. Her olive groves and citron bowers resound no more to the battle march of world-conquering cohorts. No purple-robed emperor fills the throne once occupied by the long line of her illustrious Ceesars. The owl's boding whoop resounds mournfully from funereal cypress. The spider hangs her gauze-like web over her gilded halls, and ruined splendor while attesting the pomp of the past, reveals the darkness of her downfall. Yet nothing impairs the glory of her climel1 Her skies are still as blue, her waving trees as luxuriant, her flowers as fullof odor and freshness as when kings sued to her rulers, and the lordly citizen was more than the equal of subdued monarchs.- Heaps ^of rubbish deform her choked streets. TaTngling mosses and decayed vegetation impede her classic fountains.- Modernm temples, built from the wrecks- of the mighty past, rise on every hand with Corinthian pillars and finest marble, incongruously brought together. Yet, aridst all this waste and wreck rise palaces of surpassing beauty where the old Roman love of elegance and ease are still seen-where marble founts send up glittering spray-in the midst of .halls floored with- rich mosaic-where pictures of inimitable art wake nafire into life-where in white majesty and still beauty the undying statue gleams on its alabaster pedestal. One of these was the abode of Count Cavallo, and the home of the magnificent Julia, in whom was seen that superb de- velopment of womanhood, which has ever marked Italy's -dark-eyed s   406          ATRTor  HASTINGSO daughters. Her proud carriage, her midnight brows and the rich olive of her oval cheek, with the polished black of her wavy and massive hair, the indefinable liquid softness and depth of her magical eyes, were things of which Charles De Mar could discourse forever and become more eloquent the longer he dwelt on the theme. Count Cavallo was like many of his countrymen, an enthusiast in regard to all matters 9f art. His sympathy with Charles De Mar had grown out of this fact. He had casually become acquainted with the young American, and by that latent congeniality, which association with kindred spirits is sure to elicit and establish, the stranger who looked so. admiringly on -obelisks and statues and paintings was soon his friend and visitors It was in her father's palace that Charles first saw Julia, -nd listened to the thrilling tones of her impassioned voice which swept in tides of harmony through its marble halls, musical and wild as the glittering waters of the Arno polling through that classic land.- The Count and his lovely daughter visited the best English society in Rome, and were accustomed to receive and entertain in a princely manner distinguished foreigners. Lady Livia's party were now amongst these. Both"Lord Rathbourne and. the beloved kinsman of Lady Arundel-and herself -Burlington, had, on former visits to Rome, been personally acquainted with 'Count Oavallo, and this intimacy was revived - Sir Albert, on his first arrival, had refused all society. It was enough for him to study the antiquities of this once-famed mistress of theworld. He reviewed her rise, achieved by bravery and heroism, her triumphs adorned by splendor and culminating in excess of luxury and crime; then came'her slow decline, the result of enfeebling vice and overgrown power; finallyt her sad fall, the results of which he hourly contemplated. His mind was fully engrossed by those historic delineations which, ever since the world began, have established the fact that any -earthly empire, kingdom,'or republic, give the government what name soever, after having arrived at a certain point of greatness by its own superabundant weight crumbles to pieces, is dismembered and finally overthrown. Like matured fruit, it decays and drops. The earthly law of mutation by a steady, yet sure, process, operates on them as it does on :all things belonging to this mundane sphere. The thought is a sad one, yet nevertheless true. In a -monarchy, central domination, the king, the court, and ministers apd favorites, are often the foes of the people, and, finally, the indirect causes of the destruction of the dynasty. In a republic or democratic form of government, jealousy of states, popular prejudice, demagogueism, equally oppressive and fatal   ATARVIRT aOs as. ABRTZ  HASTI NGS          407 to true liberty, work more insidiously, but not less infallibly the ruin of the state. All these things he pondered, and had, therefore, little time to bestow on musical' soirees, grand conversaziones or the evening re- unions of Count Cavallo's reeherchU guests. Lady Livia was establised at a palazzo in one of the best portions of the city. Though not partaking the palatial grandeur of the Oavallo re- sidence, this was a select and delightful abode, with its airy piazzas fanciful trellis-work and capacious halls-with its paved walks and orange and lime trees. There the fruitful olive and historic laurel shook their classic boughs in the scented gales of glorious old Italy-- while vines, glowing with purple and neetareous grapes, clung to white pillars which had once adorned the portals of a fane conse- crated to somewpagan goddess. There the gracefuluurn and wondrous though half-defaced statue still adorned acacia bowers, and the golden flowered lablrnum bent in willow-like grace over some' mouldering tomb or quaint obelisk. Lord Burlington, one of the best scholars and most refined gentleman of his day, was Sir Alberts constant companion in peregrinations around the city, and explorations of its works of art, among the finest in the world. Not only was the eultioatin of-his mind agreeable to Sir Albert; but its tone of subdued melancholey, since both had wept over the graves of the loved and lost;.- Were the con- versations and criticisms of these two -gifted minds put on record, Roman antiquities and the science of government would,- perhaps, derive some new and valuable light; but we leave them  to their lucu- brations, and turn our attention for a short time to other friends whom we are not willing tq, forget. Lord Rathbourne was.in constant attendance on the ladi.s, escorted them everywhere and seemed quite lost out of their society. Of the lamented Geraldine he wished always to speak, and     in this Lady Arundel indulged him.   She, too, had.beendeprived by death of an only and devotedly loved child, and though owing to her different~ tempera- ment, she seldom adverted to that great calamity, yet she understood Lord Rathbourne's feelings, and-listened to him with sympathy whilehe often expressed her own    in impassioned terms.  Hoe sought Lady Arunders society because she had been the most intimate friend of Lady Maud, and after her demise a second mother to that fair girl, with whom died so tragically his ambitious hopes and parental pride. He seemed to have nothing left in life (bating his honors and position, and these never satisfy the heart), save the friendship and'delicate considera- tion of these long known   and esteemed friends. Speaking to Lady Livia of Sir Albert, he said:   1  408          AT TBRT HASTINGS. "Poor boy  I should not call him so now, however, since he has become a man of letters, a statesman, and one who, if he chose, could be a leader in the world of fashion. Ah, Lady Hastings, it would have been my pride to call him, equally with yourself, ' my son,' but there is neither son nor daughter to perpetuate my honored house, and Regi- nald Rathbourne will descend to the grave a childless and unloved man, while distant relatives, uncongenial in mind and character, will squan- der my noble estate and debase my ancient name2" "Talk not so gloomily, my lord," responded Lady Livia, her fine, dark-eyes suffused with tears, "talk not so gloomily, your thoughts were my thoughts once, yet Providence sent me our Albert, and now I feel how shortsighted we poor mortals are, when casting our eyes into the mysterious and unknown future, we scan a fate not yet accom- plished, and foredoom ourselves, in accordance with our own short- sighted judgment. -Excuse the freedom of an old friend, Lord Rath- bourne. You are yet in the prime of life. I will not flatter you by any allusions to your personal, mental, or worldly advantages, but I see no reason why you should not form other ties in life, and this, for your own happiness, I would advise you to do. It has been said, that the sister of the Earl of Lennox was greatly admired by you, and that an alliance with your good friend, her brother, would be highly agreeable to all parties concerned. Heav I taken too great a liberty, or presumed too far on our intimate relations in venturing as far as I have done?" "On the contrary, my dear and valued friend," cried Lord Rath- bourne, respectfully kissing the hand, which Lady Livia held out to him, "on the contrary, your candor invites return, and I tell you that lady does not Comport with my ideas of a successor to Lady Maud. There is but one living being, in my estimation, who approaches the standard of your departed friend-my deplored wife; and her I dare not name, since I fully believe that I could not hope for success, were my suit proffered, unless, indeed, aided by your ladyship's influence, I should be more fortunate than my most sanguine hopes leai me to ex- pect. Frankly, madam/that lady is Lady Arundel." -Lady Livia was astounded. In -her projects for his lordship, this one had never been for a moment considered. .She reflected for some moments, bwhile Lord Rathbourne regarded her with dp-pinterest, and -then with that dignity and kindness, which always mark the deport- ment of England's most refined matrons, she replied: "This proposition, my lord, has taken me by surprise. I have so long bee^ in theiabitof considering you as one of the family, in view of a connection which can now never take place, that in introducing   AT3,RT HAS   NGS.        409 the subject of our present discourse, I simply regarded you in that light still. What my sister's sentiments may be, in regard to the matter so unexpectedly broached by you, I am wholly unable to say. Should your lordship discover them to be favorable, my concurrence will not be wanting." Lord Rathbourne bowed very- low, again kissed the hand of the lady, and departed. Sir Albert, meantime, sat with Lord Burlington on a fallen column as the great saffron moon of Italy rose over the seven-hilled city, and' shed- its silver, resplendent rays on the most perfect and -best preserved of her numerous antiquities-the inimitable Pantheon. There'it stood, complete, and, of an architecture so chaste and superb, that it is --a fair exponent of the olden time. Long files of poplars, rustling in evening winds, erect and spiral, harmonized with the lonely-aspect of the scene, while olive trees, with their lighter hue, slumbered calmly in the richb mellow moonlight. Large stars looked out from the dark-blue'concave, and the air was redolent of perfumes. Lord Burlington spoke:-  "I am," said he, -" never less alone, than when with thoughts of the past, I contemplate objects' so suggestive as those now before:us. Gaiety does not befit this city. Her carnivals revolt meo and the want of feeling in: her common people,-their feasts and shows, serve to attest the fact that the virtue of old Rome is indeed dead I A single spirit, sometimes, arises amidst the degradation of her inhabitants. which seems to glow with ancient patriotism, and reminds us of what her heroes were. Her last Tribune, Rienzi, is perhaps the greatest of these. If unconvinced of this, let any one read Bulwer's -noble illus- tration of that disciple of the anciently worshipped goddess of liberty. I declare to you, that now, amidst the memorials.-of Rome's vanished supremacy, the career and fate of Rienzi interest me more than .that of her magnificent and more ancient demigods. They swayed, and were, some of them, imbued with true love of country, when that country commanded armies and ordered fleets, while he, almost single- handed, and alone, influenced by patriotism-the people's friend-de- voted all the energies of a dauntless spirit and resolved mind to one glorious task-the recovery of lost independence, the establishment of ancient Roman virtue."  Lord Burlington was carried away by his-theme. In the intensely pale- moonlight he looked unnaturally white, and Sir Albert eyed Shim with brotherly affection, while he rejoined: "The genius of Bulwer, my dear lord, glorifies' all" that it touches, and this I say, not in derogation of the character you so much'admire,    "O        ALB  ERT HASTINGS. but rather as an admiring tribute to the masterly ability of the author of "RienMi"' and "The Last Days of Pompeii," which works alone should render their author immortal, though-nothing has fallen from his prolific pen but bears the impress of genius and strong original thought. Do you know that you-strongly remind me of him, as regards conformation of feature, and more especially the turn of .the head." Lord Burlington smiled. "Were it not impossible, Hastings," said he, " to accuse a man so candid as yourself of flattery, I should say you were practising on my vanity; that does not comport with your charac- ter, however, and I must conclude there is some foundation for the opinion; though that is unfortunate for me, too:--what are outward appearances,/without that inward correspondence, which does not bear odu the parallel? But look," and he pointed to a group of people at a little distance,--saw you ever aught so lovely?" -The figure, to which he directed Sir Albert's attention, stood a little in the rear of her companions, lightly robed, so'delicate and queenly, that it harmonized with the soft moonlight, no less than with Rome's majestic ruins. A sweep of hair, so rich, that its golden gleams were distinguishable, even in the lunar rays, fell over shoulders of Parian pu- rity, and most graceful mould. The dark, deep, pensive eyes, the lustrous,;eyelashes, the sublime resignation of the exquisiteface, the subduedf dignity of the thoughtful brow, the air, the tout ensemble of the beautiful creature before them, chained the attention of both the young men, and as she, with her party, disappeared, Sir Albert joined his friend in expressions of admiration for the lovely unknown. CountCavallo's palace was illuminated for an evening festival, which had more -the aspect of a levee, than the. private party of a noble. Lady Livia and Lady Arundel were present, Sir Albert and Lord Bur- P lington intending to drop in during the evening. It was a gay and splendid scene. The rich .array of the guests, with diamonds and waving plumes-the contrast of English and Italian dress, manners, and countenance; the airy grace and wide area of the fairy-like;palazzo,-its storied walls and animated busts were calcu- lated to inspire the visitors with novel and delightful emotions, since there is always strange fascination in what is new, and to this charm was added the real beauty and worth of many objects there presented, not onlyi in the ranks of diversified humanity and those indestructible works of genius, which for ages -resist the keen scythe of relentless time, but in those more fleeting and still lovelier treasures, offered by the -bounteous hand of nature-fruits blushing in baskets of silver, chased by Italian art, flowers of rainbow-hues, roses of Samarcand and   ALBERT HASTINGS.           431 jessamines of Arabia. The lights, the music, the silver ring of laugh-, ter, radiant eyes and smiling lips. Italian groups were discoursing in that most musical of languages, their native tongue, and-gesticulating vehemently, as is their wont. Lady Livia sat near an arched door opening on a piazza, which ran around the entire dwelling, and busied herself in noting the groups which, promenading, sitting or standing, glittered around. Amongst i 'these, at the upper end of the lofty apartment, her eye soon rested on two figures in spotless white, simply but elegantly -attired--both of surpassing beauty, in different styles, though they were equallyelegant, graceful and easy. She regarded them for a while with fixed atten- tion, and then remarked to a lady with whom she had been for some time conversing: "Those ladies are very distingue and exceedingly beautiful. -By their dress, they should be English, and yet I know of no new arrivals. The countess has done me the favor to name, I think, all the English. present, and these ladies were not- amongst -them. They: far surpass any in this assembly, not only in personal loveliness, but in that fifnished manner and grace of movement indicative of high breeding arid refiner- ment.' What magnificent hair the taller of the two has, with its genu- ine golden tinge and wavy richness. 'Tis a face and form for a goddess, with such an indefinable expression of purity and goodness.,'The younger has one of the most attractive faces I ever beheld--so harmo- nious, gentle and critically perfect, with wonderful love-beaming eyes and hair like an angel's." "Ah," said the lady so addressed, "here is Colonel Beverly. He knows everybody and everything. Tell us, sir, who are those ladies seated beside Julia Cavallo? Those I mean, very fair, one with dark, Italian eyes, the other with cerulean orbs of vision, both light haired, and creatures of dream-like beauty, like some-poet's vision, rather than forms of flesh and blood."                " "Why, you are enchanted-fairly enchanted, as they tell- me all people are who come into association, or even: proximity, to these syrens-and nowI must believe the, allegation-these ladies, madam, are Americana, from some seuthern State, Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, or one of the Carolinas, I really do -not remember where. That! thiey are wondrously beautiful, there is no denying ; .and as- for the rest, numerous gallants with their tuneful- guitars, in- true :Venetian style, nightly, and without the shadow of encouragement, waste; their vain serenades before the palazzo where they are known to abide. English lovers, it seems, are equally unsuccessful in competing for their favors. VIU (V urrvt lav VYI uccesdul M' compet   Voravrcr   4'12    .    ATALBFRT HASTINGS.         l My friend, Sir Thlomas Tilton of Landsmere, has laid siege to the heart of -the younger nymph for more than three weeks, and gets only cold disdain for all his devotion. Sir Thomas writes verses, too,-has been refining on the lake of Como, and is a devotee of Shelley, wild philos. ophy and all that." Lady Livia-here- interposed, with that urbane grace and perfect polish which .at -once disarms the vulgarian, pompous though he be, -and his less specious, because more openly frivolous compeer, he empty fashionisti in-the following manner, saying:  - ;Colonel Beverly, what you have justf stated in reference to those ladies, raises them an hundredfold in my esteem. - Sir Thomas Tilton, of. Landsmere, ;lost a fine estate at the gaming-table and on the race- course-that settles him. His fortune needs repairing! Well, let him, if possible, re-establish it by honorable means. In that connection I have nothingmore to say. As for moonlight serenades, Ven etian trou- badours and like nonsenseo-the breeding of these foreigners, it seems to me, will prove a -safeguard against such nonsensical trash." Colonel Beverly bowed stiffly, feeling himself rebuked in terms so gentle, but at the same time, just and unanswerable, that even were the, ultterer -of those sentiments other than she was- Lady Livia tHastingsa; woman advanced in years, of most honorable repute, and ackwledged powers of mend, he: would still have quailed beneath re- proofs so opportunely and effectively given. But Lady Livia was merciful. She knew the, gallant colonel, a rejected suitor for her sis ter's hand, was not without his fine points, though, unhiappily, often indulging in sarcastic bitterness. It is well for those obnoxious to the -coionel's -received notion of things, that the master-spell of irony was never reached by him, the outside limits of his powers embracing only Sensorious remarks, pointed by small wit. Were it otherwise, he would have made Voltaire his -model, whose genius culminated in a sneer, and who-having exhausted his venomon man, dared to lift his impious vdice against the Highest-whose unhappy life and miserable end should: appall! the- audacious infidel, and stand forever a frightful gorgon before the eyes of the scoffer. Lord Burlington now joined the party, and Lady Livia, inquiring for Sir Albert, was:informed that he had returned to his palazzo, and would not attend Count Cavallo's reception this evening.  Both, Lady Livia and Lady'Arundel were disappointed on hearing this, and:the former said: - "I presume he has gone to Lord Rathbourne, who finds no pleasure ,mn crowds since his great loss. But we were talking of those ladies in   O-  AlBERT  IASNG S.      -   413 front of us, Lord Burlington, said to be Americans. Did you ever'see more beautiful women?" Lord Burlington cast his eyes towards the strangers, and-an involuhmtary start betrayed his surprise. In the taller of the two--her with golden hair and dark eyes--he recognised the same bewitching creature who. had-arrested his attention, as he sat with Sir Albert amidstithe ruins of the Imperial City, while moonlight- rested on its- glorious-Pantheon and silvered its renowned groves. He gazed like one in a dream, and when rallied by the ladies on his abstraction, started again, leaving them abruptly shortly after. Later in the evening Lady Livia observed him with folded arms, leaning against a tall. pillar, his admiring eyes still directed, at intervals, towards the fair foreigners. Colonel Beverly had secured an introduction, and though rather coldly received, was making a grand display of military grace, and, in his own opinionrlooked every inch a hero. 'But soon the guests were departing, and as they,:left, singly- and in groups, Countess Cavallo beckoning to her intended son-in-law, Charles De Mar, he advanced with a' grace peculiar to -himi and of which none of his family were destitute. His fine classicalihead, with its chivalric American contour, at once struck Lady- Livia. Charles, with all his eccentricities, which grew mainly out of fine sensibilities, and the high-wrought character of- his temperament, which-was emi- nently that of the poet-artis't was exceedingly handsome, after a fine model of beauty, rather elegant than manly, ^harmonizing with what might' be supposed to become the divine sculptor or impassioned min- strel, rather than the lofty statesman or adventurous soldier.  He bowed courteously to Lady Livia on being presented, and she was struck by the name, De Mat, as one which she had before heard. This fact she mentioned to Lady Arundel on their return, saying at the same time : "I feel a strange interest, Mary, in several pQrsons whom, for the first time, I have met this evening. Did you notice Lord Burlington' in- voluntary homage to that superb creature who might represent Vesta or Pallas herself?"                     : ' Lord Burlington only shared a universal feeling, were this the case,' - responded Lady Arundel-, inrher usuaLcalm way. "The:lady-to whom you . allude looks more like the sainted virgin of Raphael to my eye, who, though a mistaken object- -supe!tilious worhip,'is still por- trayed -by that great master with so much womanly humility, and meek, adoring reverence for the Son who was her God, that her very, expres- sion of lowliness rebukes idolatry. Yes, this woman resembles her, v'    "4          AtjB'RT HASTINGS. and, created in my mind the belief that she has somehow been ae. quainted with sorrow and grappled with- grief. There was unfathom- able tenderness and deep, pensive regret in the face of her young com- panion too. I neverl beheld, coupled with the bloom of youth, so much that seemed to belongto an inner life-call it memory, regret, or what you will-in; combination with sweetness and self-abnegation. Most people turned their eyes admiringly on her elder sister, as I con- clude- the other to be, but this young girl haunts me. She is wonder- fullyliike a picture Albert once showed me of his cousin, Emeline Lovel-an American, too. There must be something in the air and naturalsassociations of the New World which impresses itself on the features of its -natives--certainly this young girl remarkably resembles the' likeness of which I have spoken., But'it seems to me, my dear sister, that we are giving undue attention to those no way connected with us, while others claiming regard are forgotten. Neither Lord Rathbourne nor Albert have been of our party this evening. His lordship' - condition moves me deeply. Not only does he mourn the loss of Maudsiom you, as-well as I, know how to estimate, but that darling girl, so mysteriously destroyed, the ever-deplored Gleraldine. Oh, Lady Livia, how impossible is it for you to realize his desolation?' "If I cannot, Mary, pethaps you can,--and here let tme tell you, Lord Rathbourne may yet be? comforted, though not by me. There is, he says, but one living being capable of doing- this. I will go no further;", and 'thle" speaker paused, as though repenting that she had gone so far.  "ady Aruidel threw her arms around her sister's neck, and said, in a voice seldom rendered tremulous by emotion, but which was now al- most inaudible, "I will tell you at once, my sister-Lord Rithbourne shall not go lonely to the grave, if by any-efforts of mine such ja doom may be averted. I promised his sainted daughter thus much on her death-bed. Iwill fulfill that promise. Having long known his lordship, I do not hesitate to trust his honor or his love. Have I your approval in that which/I innd to do?" ,Most heartily, my dear Mary; more especially as I know that your influence has moade hem an aitered man, and I verily believe were he, amidsthis- : fflictionis, left utterly alone, as he must be without your companionship, he would abandon the world- and be, in short, a ruined man. -:Your resolve in his favor makes me happy. I'think, somehow, this visit to Rm-e (only think of my coisenting -to come hither) will be a propitious one. It certainly has been so for poor dear Lord Rath- boumire. How -Albertt will rejoice in this I for it is with the affection of   AT BRF. T HASTINGS.         415 a son that he regards the earl. Oh, Mary; what a blessing you have been to me and mine t What a blessing you will be, in spite of all his sorrows, to the friend whom, though so deeply sympathizing, I have been unable to aid I Let me thank you for your decision; " and Lady Livia kissed the forhead of Lady Arundel with fervor, as she withdrew to her own apartment. Lord Burlington, on returning from Count Cavallo's palace, had walked -into Sir Alberts-room. He found his friend engaged with let- ters to England, the newspapers, and a volume of Byron open before him-this was "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage," the most original poem, perhaps, in the English tongue, full of glowing imagery, sublime thought and matchless eloquence.. But Sir Albert instantly gate his attention to his friend, and withdrawing from the table at which he sat, remarked:      ; -' Lord Rathbourne has some time since retired, and you see, Bur- lington, I -am improving the hours of your absence, though I gladly resign even the magnificent pages of this wonderful workl for .your society. These glorious outpourings belong to the world,- but you, my friend, and your luminous thoughts are waeti present, and these I selfishy prefer to the wild, dark lays of the unapproachable Byron himself." "I know you are the soul of truth, Albert, and will make no other reply to what you say. -But do you know that something has occurred this evening which agitates me strangely? Do you remember that while we sat on a fallen pillar near the Pantheon, a most beautiful and un- earthly figure appeared and vanished, being one of a party which we dimly discerned, and by whom we were probably unobserved?" Sir Albert bowed. "I again encountered, this night, at Count Cavallo's residence, the same remarkable and angelic creature-a countrywoman of yours, I am told-and I learn that her name is De Mar." Sir Albert turned very pale. "There was," he said, " a family of that name near Ellerton, the re- sidence of my aunt, 'Mrs. Lgvel,-and," here he hesitated, " band De Mar was the name of one-a gentleman who sometime since married a young cousin of mine, Emeline Lovel, only daughter of the lady whom I have just named." At this Sir Albert rose and walked hurriedly up and down the apartment, adding, while his manner became hurried and his utterance rapid: :             "It was all a dream, Burlington, but it will haunt me, nevertheless,   "6 .   -      LBERT  ASTINGS. till my dying day. I loved that girl as man loves but once. True, Geraldine Rathbourne was a noble creature," and the fine eyes of the speaker became moist with unshed tears--"had she lived, this early affection might have died-it would have died-but now that she is gone, the light, the glory, the resistless tenderness and flattering devo- tion of her unselfish; love buried in the grave of her matchless beauty and incomparable Superiority-I tell you I have returned to the love of my youth, though' its object, is lost to me forever. I will never marry. There is no living creature shall ever win me froth this resolve. The living ideal which I may not contemplate, the dead who only might have supplied its vacant place, have- left no room in my heart for that love which, having been known, if lost, leaves a void to be filled only by the duties of life and the hopes of another existence. I speak thus openly to you, because I know that with you my feelings Will be under- stood. I have -never bared my heart before to any living," and; Sir Albert sat down, fairly exhausted with his emotions, though to some extent relieved by an expression of them. Lord Burlington did not reply, but listened with that deep attention wiNch more than words, assures us that we are understood. - - . PA*   '.        \   O1APTER LT;r L Pea-)mtt   ^^(9. Va I   gu  stsi .  "It was a lordly hall where trodc The belted cavaZier and, lady br7ight." (I    iR. OLDHAM, agreeably to Roxanna's request, had not-only accompanied Valerie and Emeline to England, but to Rome, and was at this time located with his charges :and Charles De Mar, at no remote distance from the abode of Lady Livia's party. He was not aware of Sir Albert's presence,in .the city, or, with the warm sentiments of friendship which he entertained for our hero, they would, doubtless, have met long since. Good Mr. Oldham, little affected by Roman antiquities, or antiquities of any kind, saw. only decay, misrule and a total neglect of necessary attention to neat- ness, comfort, and even cleanliness in the untidy rubbish,fallen columns and marble slabs which everywhere strewed its once magnificent street. There was much of the true gentleman in Mr. Oldham's natural consti- tution; this having been born with him, even trade could not extin- guish it. Habit made him calculating, impulse made him generous,: and liberality, often bursting through all trammels, vindicated his claim to consideration as a benefactor of his race. Mr. Oldham, the morning after his attendance at the conversazione at Count Cavallo's palace, walked forth into the brilliant sunlight and odorous air of the Italian climate, which so forcibly reminded him of Carolina-aye, South Caro-s lina, where Floridian exuberance of floral beauty is blent with Italian resplendence of skiestere chivalry, scoffed at by the intensely prac- tical spirit of the fishing and shoemaking interest, willU sth impart some- what of her own genial warmth to the bosoms of her seons, even though the fate of ancient Greece be hers, even- though-like Rome, her proud  crest be overborne by the domination of Vandal brute force Yesthere was a glow in the blue sky of ancient Italia, a voluptuous sofne in the flower-perfumed gales, which, even to the matter-of-fact man from   "8   ,       ATLBERT HASTINGS. whom youth's invigorating impulses had fled, who looked on life as a partially faded picture-there was, something in his true heart which whispered of his native south, doomed, perhaps, like this beautiful land, though from a cause wholly different, to bow the knee to power, to waste in hopeless dependence, to die out under the iron heel of op- pression, as other- lands have died; But Mr. Oldham was, as we are, no politician, and, were he such, would have arrived, perhaps, as we do, at the conclusion, namely this, that the fate not only of- men, but of em- pires, is in the hand of One whose counsels are ordered by the wisdom not of man but of deity, who setteth up and casteth down in accordance with a wisdom inscrutable to sons of clay, and to whom truth stands everlastingly revealed in the end as it was at the beginning. But Charles De Mar would soon lead to. the altar Julia Cavallo, a Roman maiden of surpassing beauty, dne exactly the opposite of his first ideal, Emeline Lovel. And here we would remark on the fallacy of that dogmatism which reduces all human beings to some preconceived level. Like Procrustes' bed of steel, this imaginary standard would obliterate distinctive marks of humanity i the tall in intellect as well as person it would curtail, the short elongate, and tyranny, not only of bodily but mental conformation, would- necessarily result from the uncompromising and levelling. system-a system which, in modern times, passes under the name of progress (heaven save the mark,) progress, perhaps, so called--in reality retrogradation. - Charles had once admired Emeline Lovel as the :impersonation of his ideal of womanly perfection, but time- and a little experience of the world had convinced him that there is as much variety in the type of that lovely thing called woman, as there is in floral exemplifications of beauty, in the calibre of aristocrats, or anything else which demands versatility opposed to monotony--in short, ho concluded, as impartial people do, that one woman might be quiet and winning without derogation to another who was her op- posite-impulsive, candid, outspoken, and it may be, after all, more un- selfish and reliable than the cautious, self-contained creature who thought. concealment virtue, and practised it as though it. were so. Not that we would, -by comparison, detract from the mental or moral quali- -ties of fair'Emeline Lovel,- his first love; but we wish only to indicate the fact that taste, temperament, and the original constitution of indi- viduals is to be measured by no particular rule established by either sex, in conformity with early predilection or after experience. Charles now thought Julia Cavallo the acme of perfection, and only remembered his love for Emeline as something which had taught him to estimate at its real value the favor of this Italian girl, who loved him so devotedly     . '   ALBERT HASTINGS.            419 who was so impassioned in all she did and said-a very :orinne.- But that passing fancy for Emeline had not been the early dream of life with him as it had been with Sir Albert Hastings, neither did her nature assimilate with his as it had done with that of -"cousin Albert." Her childish, angel face and self-denying devotion had not for years dwelt in his memory and haunted his heart, or he could not so- readily have cast her aside for a later love. Then she' had never ,reciprocated his affection-ah I that was the point'after all--and now he loved Julia Cavallo, as he was in duty bound to do, with all the fervor demanded by her beauty and devotion to himself, no less than by high qualities of head and heart.  -  There was, again, brilliant illumination at the Count's residence and this time for a bridal. All Lady Livia's partywere there, and Sir Albert said to Lord Burlington, as together they ascended the marble steps of the palace:  "What is the name of the bridegroom elect, whom, though acquainted with the Count, I have never met; indeed, as you know, I am, from my neglect of its civilities,pnot au fait to the society here?" "Charles De-Mar," returned his companion, "brother of thatwonder- ful American beauty, about whom weI have spoken before, and who will, doubtless, grace his nuptials to-night?'  Sir /Albert was confounded. "Charles De Mar," repeated he in slow accents, as one might speak in a dream; "Charles De Mar 1. whyhe, if Valerie's brother, was surely married long since to my fair young cousin, Emeline Level. There is some strange mystery here I Two brothers in one household would scarcely bear the same name. This one, I imagine, is Victor-you have mistaken his first name." - Lord Burlington smiled archly. "I think not" said' he; " visiting at Count Cavallo's much more frequently than yourself, I have often heard the gentleman mentioned as Mr. Charles De Mar, a poet and artist. There can be: no error about this." The gentlemen walked into a grand hal. -By the opening of several folding doors, four apartments had been thrown into one, and the effect was magnificent. - From richly stuccoed ceilings, -where mimic roses and lilies -were developed amidst gilded leaves, depended chan- deliers sustained by chains of porcelain and silver, with their sparkling crystal drops and lambent i lustre. The pure white of lofty wallswaS, at intervals, relieved by some immense painting, in itself a study, amid framed with great richness and taste. Everything looked cool, re- freshing and superb. Orange and myrtle wreaths adorned vase and '     I    "    420          AT PERTT HASTINGS.  statue. .The whole dwelling seemed a paradise of sweets; and beauty  in the pomp of dress, with chbarms enhanced by jewels and splendid robes, burst on the vision with potent effect.- The bride now appeared, and it would be difficult to conceive any- thing more lovely. She was robed in'pure white of gossamer thinness,  ornamented with lace, so richly and delicately flowered, that it seemed. woven by fairies, and designed' by some magical artificer. -Julia was tall; her -it]e form fashioned after a noble type of Roman symmetry  Nothig could exceed the majesty and sweetness of her aspect. :Her head,with its coronet of pale flowers and floating veil, was set with  exquisite grace on a slender neck and shoulders, which a sculptor would gaze on with delight. Her large, liquid eyes were partially hid-  den by the deep, jetty fringe' of drooping eyelids, and she stood, a  picture so perfect, that the most stoical must have confessed, on be-  holding her, the power of beauty.          . Charles looked, as he was, a man of refined taste; and regular,  thougt not over-manly, features were dignified with the inner light of  mind, which description fails to explain, and which can only be under. stood by a contemplation of- the living, breathing man, in whom, though varying in delineation on different countenances, the presence of genius  will inevitably discover itself.  And, the sainted Valerie was there. In her pallid elegance, with that  inimitable hair and those long, golden eyelashes; ;as she leaned against a marble statue of Titania, the pure whiteness of her alabaster com-  plexion was scarce discernible from its spotless back-ground. A Parian  vase, after the Etruscan model, was beside her; from which depended fragile loops and streamers of some parisitical, trailing vine, so fragile : that it was lifted by every zephyr, and when released from the soft j embrace of Zolus, fell in a new, and perhaps, more beautiful form of neglgence about the classic urn from whence its nurture was derived. The vivid green of this wandering, yet clinging vine, brought out more i distinctly that passing fairness, which had always made Valerie De  Mar less a  creature of earth than heaven. And so' she- looked this night. Lord Burlington had been introduced-was standing beside  her, and Sir Albert felt in a manner deserted, .when he saw his dearest  friend so enthralled by he side of one whose name he never endured to .hear mentioned, and never uttered himself without pangs unspeak- able. .Emeline, at this instant, stood just behind Valerie, and but for  ,the interveningcrowd he would have seen her. She was the only wo-  man present who' could at all compare with Valerie in that particular style of beauty, different from the voluptuous Roman, the dark-tinted   ATFRT HASTINGS.           431l Spanish, roseate English, or- piquant French type.  She was strictly American-aye, Carolinian--in feature as well as in mind.' Like, the wild Cherokee rose of her own sunny clime, there was an individuality and singular charm about her,'a distinctive grace whichb because of its solecism and newness, made it a thing separate and alone, which could bloom nowhere else' but in the genial clime of southern lands. The flower of Ellerton, though perhaps<- equalled by others of its- own genus, was the particular: production which assimilated to a taste first awakened in the splendid south-and it may be to that of others also- but certainly-Sir Albert Hastings knew nothing so, lovely in life, as his memories of' this softly-bewitching southern charm of innocence, pu- rity, and confiding trust, -whether symbolized by a white rose of the forest, or without any symbol at all. He cherished in his heart a memory of youth and beauty, with which time and the world, with its varying scenes, ambition, and other engagements of after-life have nothing to do. Surrounded by the tender bloom of youth, there it stands a glorious and priceless thing, with Eden-like fragrance, hidden from the world-- the flower of the heart. But she who was so truthfully and poetically represented by white flowers of-the sunny south, in Sir Albert's-mem:- ory, now stood, as we have said, near him, without his -knowledge of the fact; and at this time he would have traversed the scorching sands of Sahara, braved the life-withering intensity of Lapland frigidity, or sickened in the tainted air of even a yellow fever region, to know that Emeline-,the fair, sweet, unsophisticated Emeline of other days--ex- isted otherwise than as a myth, or, if she did, indeed, live 4and breathe on this moving stage of life, to be assured that she was free as the well-remembered air of his native Carolina, as it swept over those' romantic hills with their wild sweet smells of healthful pine ana aro- matic honeysuckle and eglantine.  Ah, there was the hum of forest -bees, and the thrilling carol of that most dulcet- musician of- the wood- i1nds-the unequalled mocking-bird-haunting him ever in associations with her image.   With that delicate, loving form, was blent his recol- lections of his earliest and happiest time-its lessons of virtue, -its gentle teachings, rendered far more effectivie by the affection which prompted, than by the authority which    enforced  them.  Yes,that congenial and dependent mind, always deferring, to his supposed superiority, had taught him, in its meek way,> the glory of: manhood, the right ti guide. It was through this benign influence, ho less-than the natve 'elevation of his own character,--born as he was, with.-noble instincts that.Sir Albert Hastings, though young in years, -stood as he did now--the in- corruptible statesman, the model of private virtue, the benevolent  422          ATBE RT HASTINGS. landlord, the friend of humanity--whose influence was courted by those in power, and whose countenance was a sure passport to strug- gling worth. The priest, in his flowing robes of office, performed that ceremony, at once so impressive, solemn and binding; the symbol ring was bestowed and received, and those vows were spoken, which, once uttered by mortal lips, can never lose their heaven-sanctioned inviolability, except the skeleton arm of the grim Gorgon Death, with his sharp cold scythe, cuts the Gordian knot, and lays one of the contracting parties in the grave, where life and life's affections wake not the marble slumber of the dead, who was, and is not. But thoughts of the inevitable future did not disturb Count Cavallo's noble coinpany, as perfumed wines, rich confectionery, nectareous fruits, and creamy ices were everywhere circulated,-as fair women and stately men went through the intricate mazes of the dance with light and rapid feet-as the cheek of beauty flushed responsive to whispered adulation-as middle age looked calmly on, fully alive to the excitement of the scene, and the old surveyed it assomething agreeably commem- orative of the past, when life was in its spring-time, and they mused not on the winter which was about them  now. Sir Albert never danced, and was generally to be found, if present, on occasions when others amused themselves with that exercise, in the midst of some group which, conversing apart, improved the time with rational discourse, and, perhaps, moralized about the scene, the assembly, or even more in- teresting themes. But on this night he stood alone. Lord Burlington had deserted him. Lady Livia was fully engaqged with numerous ac- quaintances, and Lord Rathbourne was not present. Avoiding the throng and glare of light, he sought shelter outside the arched door- way, and supported himself against a statue of Antinous, no way in- ferior in personal superiority to the magnificent Roman, with his kingly stature, majestic head and curl-crowned brow. Unseen, he could here contemplate the various forms which passed and repassed before him in glittering panorama. Was it true, or did fancy deceive him, he surely saw the portly form of Mr. Oldham--but what could he seek in a scene like this.?- how could he ever have found entrance here? It must be somedelusion. The figure disappeared, and though startled for the in- etant, his attention was arrested by a vision of far deeper interest. He saw, or was he indeed dreaming? the beloved and unforgotten Eme- line Lovel, beside her who was esteemed a miracle of beauty and grace, Valerie De Mar. There could be no deception in this, too legibly was every feature of that angel face stamped on his heart, to allow of error   ATh^rl BHASTNGS C     X    42 or deception. There were hundreds of elderly men, perhaps, resem- bling Mr. Oldham-there was but one Emeline Lovel'in the wide world. Yes, he had seen her, and at a single glance the glory of his youth re- turned. Early life was again before him-singing folntains, melodious woods, fragrant air-Ellerton-happiness-loveA But now, daredhe in- dulge such feelings? Was he not told expressly by Mr. Oldham: that she was promised to another? He would fly from the place instantly. Its rejoicings and splendor and crowds were pdious,-. and Sir Albert de parted, walking slowly down the grim old highway, where ghosts of  Roman heroes and -demigods seemed marching beside or flitting in front of him. "' What," said he, mentally, " are myprivate sorrows and regrets in the midst of this gloomy grandeur and these broken memo- rials of vanished greatness? Let me remember that I am in Rome, whose very name conjures up a host of overwhelming associations." Lady Livia remarked at breakfast next morning, in her own room, which she took with Sir Albert only: "I have to inform you, my son, that your aunt, Lady Arundel, is now formally plighted to our valued friend Lord Rathbourne.! I know that this information will give you sincere pleasure, since you are equally with me interested in him, and feel, perhaps, more'than I can, the extent of his loss in the one being who was the very light of his eyes, and soul of his earthly felicity. I did not suppose that your aunt would ever form a tie of this kind, but I rejoice that she consents to do so-indeed, had I at all considered the matter, it would have been my earnest wish it should be thus. Mary Arundel is fitted for a wide field of usefulness, and this as Countess of Rathbourne will be open -to her." Sir Albert looked up in unfeigned surprise, and replied; "My dear madam, this is, indeed, a matter of rejoicing to me. However desolate my own doom, I thank heaven if Lord Rathbourne be indeed happy."  "But why, Albert Hastings, do you speak after this fashion? You desolate-no, my son, this may not be. You, already so distinguished, far beyond your years in learning, statesmanship, position, established- by intellectual greatness no less than by natural, or more .properly speaking, adventitious advantages. My dear son, you talk of desola- tion. That I cannot hear or respond to with anything like sympathy, you are too young, too richly endowed by nature, too full-of-glorious promise for this -True, I know full well what you have lost-whait we have all lost in her death-the idolized--the most cherished Geraldine.   424-          ALBERT HASTINGS. But, Albert, she was not your first love after all, and I well remember how I, 'in my vain solicitude for your happiness, rejoiced that Emeline Lovel had made another choice. -Do not look so white, Albert, there are maidens enough in England-or even in America, my dear son, who may supply the place made void by the death of one; and shall I say it4 the desertion of the other. You must not, Albert, if you love me, .(and there was pleading affection in the eyes of the lady), you must not, if you love me, give way to such imaginings." Sir Albert was deeply moved, Lady Livia had looked less herself, while making this: appeal, than he had ever seen her. There were traces of age, and even sorrow, on her queenly features; she seemed to be one mourning over the past, and so he had never before this day beheld her. Rising then,and casting aside the gloom which -had invested him like a black -robe, the handsome, and intellectual face of- Sir Albert gleamed with a sunny and hopeful brilliance.. -Stem training, early self- denial, had long ago made him unselfish; the granite of his nature became, under the influence of love, like wax in the hands of his best and most tned friend, of her who stood to, him now in the vacant place of father, mother, friend and lover. In his beautiful self-abne- gatiol, :he - had given his mortal destiny into the hands of Lady Livia. He was resolved to do .her bidding; to bury- his own predilections, wishes and hopes, in conformity to her will; and verily he had his reward. Lady Arundel walked, unannounced, into the breakfast-room. She looked excited, animated, and flushed, in a manner never seen by either of her companions. "Oh," cried she, "Lady Livia Eastings, is Albert indeed here? I have brought him Emeline Lovel, the idolized of his youth. She is below, and, came to greet' cousin Albert,' of Ellerton, the navigator of the river, her early preceptor. Why, will you both not come with me l" Sir Albert abruptlyleft the room. Lady Livia rose, and following Lady Arundel into the reception-room below, welcomed Valerie De Mar, the most admired woman in Rome;, and her scarce less lovely proeg, : Emeline Lovel. Lady Livia gave a glad, though secret, start of surprise when the beaming young fairy, with her elder sister, as she had supposed Valerie to be, was announced as, "Miss Loyel, of Eller- ton." --Lady Livia looked critically at the young damsel, and her fastid- ious eye-?was fully satisfied with the scrutiny.   ATERT HASTING.           425 This was Valerie's first visit to Lady Livia, who, perfectly charmed with her, had called the day before. Lord Burlington soon made-his appearance, and escorted the- ladies on their return. Emeline's blue eyes filled with tears as, on leaving the room, she said: 'Tell my' cousin Albert, I am here; perhaps he remembers me." Lady Livia almost took the fair girl into her arms, and Lady Arundel, descending to the portico, kissed her young guest at parting. Sir Albert, who ina a moment of excited feeling had left the house, quickly returned, and came face to face with the party at the foot of the steps. His counte- nance was white as that of a sheeted corpse. There was the love of years tangibly before him. A wild thrill of rapture shot through his heart, but only for an instant-the uncertainty whether she were in- deed free, smote him like an ice-bolt, and he extended to her a hand whose touch was marble. Emeline uttered a cry on, seeing him, and could not be repelled. "Cousin Albert," living, before her once again 1 though his hand was cold and there were restraint and suppressed emotion on his features; the beloved eyes, the flowing hair, the, en- hanced but distinctive beauty, which had looked on her all those silent years, in this far land stood beside her 1 Her blue and loving :eyes, trustful- and- truthful, and suffused with irrepressible tears, were- lifted- to his worshipped face ;--and Sir Albert, wholly unmanned,. still sus- tained his assumed calmness, for, as before said, early discipline gave him that masterful control of the inner maan, the storm-tossed spirit, which made him " greater than he who taketh a city." Meantime, Lord Burlington. and Valerie having walked on,: Sir Albert beheld him- self alone with her whose presence since boyhood had been thebwant of all his young life-and now he was speechless before her. There were no words in which he could ask that dreaded question, from the response to which he shrank as though it were some unexplored danger-a hidden vortex in the gloomy deep-a quicksand oqntreacher- ous earth. Who of us hashnot, at times, stood on the fearful brink of a discovery which seemed to us then involving happiness or misery, life or death, as it should prove consonant or otherwise with the flick- ering hope within us? Thus Sir Alber stood and was silent; but Emeline, beholding him with that, measureless love which had been matured by the teaehing of a lifetime, sai d in her simpe, plaintive, half-grieved way: "You do not remember me, then-that is so strange-you used to come to me in dreams; but you did not look then as you do now." . "Remember you' said Sir 'Albert, almost sternly, " remember youl ,    *  .   426         ATB RT HASTINGS. What day or hour of my life were you forgotten, until--" and his heart heaved with painful throbs--" until I had no longer the right to think of you as the Emeline Lovel of Ellerton. Honor, duty, principle, separated my thoughts from you then-and hardly was it done-how hardly, you will never know." "But why," said Emeline, tears now falling fast and thick, for she could no longer restrain. them, "why should you not remember me and love me- fike-a brother, as you used to do? Oh, cousin Albert I it was not with words ikfe' these that I expected you to greet me-if ever we should meet-though of Jat I often had little hope. In what have I offended?" \The perverse curiosity which would and would not be gratified, still prevented his coming to -the dreaded point, and he replied coldly: "In- deed, you have .offended in nothing, even if my fears are true, and yet I would rather-die, if heaven so willed, than see them realized, or hear your voice, ah-that voice so long thirsted for-confirm them." "Oh, cousin Albert, only tell me of what you wish to be informed. We used to understand each other. You know that ' will speak truly, let the question concern me or any living being else." Sir Albert involuntarily clasped her to his bosom. He had been ,low in readiing the truth because fear possessed him. But Emeline's love-lighted .eyes, and that mysterious sympathy which had so long made them one in heart, spoke out so eloquently in the girlish face and silvery voice, that doubt was dispelled. There was that in the subtle, wordless. explanation of eye, voice, and manner, which informed even distrust and a mind falsely prepossessed, that truth, innocence and love (guiltless of even a wandering thought) stood fully revealed. - Then welcome back, -ye halcyon days of youth and hopel Dark days have intervened; the pilot was at- fault; there were murky skies, jutting rocks, and a bleak, frozen shore; but the bark of love has braved the dangers, and stemmed the grim, black tide of adverse fortune. The polar star of constancy rides supreme in the blue' empyrean, and Eme- line Lovel, soft and delicate as the morning convolvulus, has proved herself more re'liable even than the iron ore which made the virtue of Sir Albert Hastings-and why? One was guided by reason and the vainly extolled Judgment of man; the other by that sublime,: heaven- derived instinct, the instinct of affection, which made woman the last at the cross, the earliest at the sepulchre, and which even makes her still, where her nature is unperverted, the last to abandon, the first to forgive. So much are goodness and womari's love superior to the - v           ' *"          - '     '   ATLBE RT HASTINGS.          427 boasted pride of intellect and the carefully digested dogmas of reason. But they were now alone amidst the classic groves of Italy. Emeline and Sir Albert understood as of old. Each the world to the other, and, indeed, a newer and more delicious world was before them, from which was excluded doubt and shadow, where heart spoke to heart, and ,present felicity was rendered more stable by the remembrance of trials nobly borne; and the assurance of a love which, biding the storm, was safe at last in a haven of felicity.   C] ,APITE1    LIV. TW/ith vestment dipped in vrious dyes, And full o'erfiowing urn, See autumn bland 'neath amber sckies, With golden fruits -return. -U) NLIGtHT rested with soft, yellow tints of autumnal resplen- dence on the groves and grounds of De Mar Hall. Here the rich foliage of deciduous trees, preparatory to quitting their aerial elevation, were sowly becoming merged from various shades of vivid summer Dgen into every imaginable hue. The majestic and far-spreading red oak glowed with deep crimson flush,/as his blood- colored crest rose high amidst his compeers of the wild. Hickory and china trees donned golden vestments, occasionally tinged with burnt umbre, and blending with salmon and dark emerald colors. Bay trees were superbly variegated, spotted and striped by the inimitable fingers of autumn; but, unchanged in stately majesty, their tall, columnar trunks covered with scaly brown-bark, their slender, musical tufts emitting ever a sound as of moaning waves, hosts of lordly pines, ver- dant, and defying changing seasons, represented that constancy which they are fancifully supposed to symbolize. But more classical in asso- ciation, more striking in development, with bright green, glittering, 1*  silver-lined leaves, with vigorous limbs and flowers of elysian splendor, odor and expansion, stood the immortal laurel-meet only to weave the victor's crown, or garland the tomb of genius--most honored amongst men as the representative of undying fame-most attractive in the wild because of its rich, dark beauty and unequalled floral glory. We cannot pause to enumerate, far less to describe, the various children of the wild, from towering tree to autumnal flower, now painted in the gorgeous hues .of a season which was passing away, and which would leave the earth bleak and desolate, till delicate and ineffable spring should return with diamond dews, rainbow richness of coloring and gelid airs.    ALBRTRT HASTINGS.9 . Roxanna sat in that same alcove where her guilty, but gifted father, had sat side by side with' the good angel of her life, Valerie De Mar, in front of whch her injured and noble mother had declared her rights, and departed, with' a load of woe, which, in the end, bore her to the grave. Rox-anna's thoughts on this morning were almost sad. The Indian Summer was, with its. mellowing sweetness, throned in amber -skies, and robing hill, valley, and yellow plain; But she-was sitting op- posite the statue of Diana. A gurgling jet of water scattering drizzly spray, came brightly'from the marble fount, over which the mythologic huntress deity presided, her gilded bow- glancing and glittering in Sol's imperial ray. There was a half-mournful plash of falling waters as they welled from the cool, sparkling rock, and rippled --over a gravelly bed strewn with fallen leaves. A blue-jay, ;with its keen, shining eye and azure plumage, sat and carolled amidst purple flowers of the royally- vested sumach, and -grass-sparrows twittered in the waving broom. Black butterflies, their scolloped wings dotted -with - pure white: and intense orange color, -disported over beds of goldenrod, prince's-feather and lotus. Now and then a dismembered and flpatingleaf, dark brown or variegated, came softly to the bosom of earth from: whence it sprang, or gyrating in the clear, soft atmosphere, lit on som otree or shrub, from which the next zephyr would disengage and deposit it where man, like vegetation, finally reposes., Feeble and, fiittingchildren of-the sun, grasshoppers, rose spreading their tiny5 wings, emitting- a small, faint chirp, and sinking in green - mosses by:he.,smd of the stream, while a gray squirrel shot down some fruit-laden walnut, or ran nimbly over the level lawn, orca timid hare, emerging from an excavated stump, bounded with stealthy motion into deep woods over yellow, autumnal grass.  While Roxanna sat contemplating -the charateristic- scene with half mournful thoughts suggested- by it, and her own strange history, she was aware of a step over the crisp leaves,- and .soon a remembered form stood before her, the same which had intruded on her retreat at Oak Mount.  But Dexter, for he it was, showed tokens of a great change sincethen; snot that -he had- ever been, in his best days, pre- possessing, but his aspect now-was haggard, gaunt and albost ghastly, and Roxanna moved with pity, gazed on- Mhim in-silence, which was un- broken, till he himself said: ,    ' : .    ,- "I am hunted like a wild wolf, and there i are. those whor will cease not from persecution,' that dog my steps, and-will not let me rest till, like Hugh Herndon, I swing on a gibbekt.? Younglady, I come-toyou in my great. despair; because I feel and know, that this- bad world-has   430           ATBMRT. HASTINGS. not yet made you like those with whom you daily and hourly asso- ciate. I know your temper is fearless, your heart courageous, and your every impulse noble. Will you not take compassion on an un- fortunate man, friendless, homeless, traduced, condemned without pity; one who might have passed his days in peace, but for a miserable com- plication with-eviI-doers, when he only meant to perform his duty, and who lhas suffered more than time,. inclination, or even remembrance will permit him to disclose. I throw myself on your mercy, young lady- there ared none to pity, -and be6ieve me, the misfortunes of my life com- menced with a duty discharged Qby me, in marrying your father, who. was a noble gentleman, to your mother, a woman none could behold without admiring You see that my case is a hard one, and yet there is in my heart somewhat that reposes on your justice and h lmanity. If deceived im this, I shall seek some cavern -in the wild and die." RoxannA looked around in great perplexity; the appearance of the speaker was abject, squalid and gloomy; his squareness was more than ever noticeable.- -But the humility and frankness of his address was not like Dexter of old, and there was -ableak vacuity, a freezing glit- ter ini h green and wandering eye, which indicated mental aberration. She had despised this cowardly, unstable man, who (yielding all to ex- pediency) gave the' direction of his actions ;ito the -hands of others, was dfi wn into sinuous paths of deception and crime, and found himself at-- last east off by the -good, and abandoned by those who had used him for their own purposes. -His mind was one of singular .idiosyn- crasies. - Balance was wanting, had always been waating, and now there seemed to be a totaltoverthrow of the mental fabric, - This being, once'an object of terror and aversion, now only moved compassion and sympathy in the heart of the generous Roxanna. She forgot all her anger against the weak and erring creature, who, with great know. ledge of books, combined total ignorance of mankind; who, with dim pereeptions of rectitude, lacked the moral force of principle, and had, thefdre nco -character of his, own, but was amongst men what the chameleeon is in a lower rank of animated life. Of such incongruous and jarring elements, the historic character of earth's fellest tyrants has ever: been composed. Nero was -a lover of music, and compas- sionate, eviw-to the. shedding of tears, over the misfortune of others' recitedin song or story; but, armed by fear, cruelty, in his pusillanimous mind, beeame his only protection; a feeling of security atoned to him for shedding bloods, and having once--dyed his Ihands with a purple hue, he imbibed a stranige and terrible love of -slaughter. The same may be said of Robespierte and other murderous autocrats of the great   ATBEBT HASTINGS&        4-1 French Revolution, who were-essentially, though not mentally, yet rmor- ally weak; who, without courage or principle, were in reality swayed by fear, and hesitated not to sacrifice human life in- obedience to that low instinct, till, all compunction being lost, they/m to look on mur- der as something expedient, justifiable, and evenpraisewty hY -Hence, monstrosities in action which have astonished:aiaIawed the world, But poor Dexter had no wide theatre on. which to- 'rstrate his simi- larity in heart with these abominable eexmplificatines ofweakness and fear, opposed to moral sense and principles of humanity,' and was now, as he truly said, abandoned by all, Mr. Calloway, wit his ucom- promising detestation of falsehood and sten horror of hypocrisy hadt eschewed Dexter-forever, public opinion no less condemned him, and with an unmanly timidity,-wholly belied by hi ' stolid conformation of features and frame, the poor schoolmaster was literally ;crazed by hi' misfortunes i neither had he the energy, adventurous -spirit, or selfreli- ance, whichi would have led him to seek a new career.. With curious: instinct he clung to old localities. He loved the school where hehiad been -(ah, happy memory 1 master)--deprived of thingswhich hadI fittered his puny pride, no dethroned monarch ever -more regretted crownor  robe, than he did the ferule and the dogmatismof the govpernors chair in the pine wood schol. house.           - Roxanna saw that his mind was wandering, though he   pr ed himself, while speaking,-in-correct and plausible terms--(alas 1 -the aim of his life had been chiefly to keep up an- outside semblance of-virtue and propriety, while the inner man had been neglected). But it is the pecu- liar evidence of certain kinds of insanity that up to a given point nothing appears in discourse or manner to justify -the belief that reason is unseated, till suddenly some hidden chord vibrates with jaing sound, and then the whole mysterious mental organism, rudely Shaken, becomes discordant and chaotic, Dexter looked wildly round. This-phase of his temble-malady;. had supervened. He clenched his massive fist, gesticulated violently,' and glared like a tiger on the pitying girl, who, endwe4 by natrwe with magnanimity lacked by him, dand with a truly iidian oioragei regarded the maniac with a steady eye, and instead of flying in terror as many would have done, sat perfectly quiet, and seemed in no way insed by his violence. :Dexter, meanwhile, proceeded to vent his burdened conscience in the following terms, while :awful convulsions- distortedhis heavy features, and great drops of sweat hung on his beetling brow: "It was Hyes, Hwho stood within the copse, and told -Olaptint - Leovel where she sat-Valerie De Mar--oh I but in soothi she loiked tsi   a32         AT;, BBT ,HASTINER.          e lovely. Yes, there was a sharp, clear ring amidst the woods, but she was not slain-and I was glad, but I dared not aver so much. She has flown, the white bArd of the forest, and I am sent here to murder you, Roxanna Lovel, lookl" and he bared a keen lance from its scabbard' with which, as a sword-stick, he had guided his steps. "This, aye this. might do the work quickly. What, then? I were a ransomed man-sot free from -the chains of obloquy and want-sent unques- tioned away with gold. Gold is a mighty friend-ask the starving mendicant if- this be not truth, he will say, 'yes;' ask the half-con. demned criminal whom its potency redeemed from the scaffold; will he deny it? -Ask the proscribed man, doomed to seek his fortune in other lands i ask-him, I say, what won his entrance and comfort in a new home-was it not gold? The great leveller, the only power which stems misfortune, establishes intellect, and scares away slander-which conciliates friendship,.casts rags to the winds--commands purple and fine linen-the passport of the world-the master-charm of society-the key to all life's blessings. I will have this gold," shouted the madman, ' and Iwill buy. it with blood I What signifies if a maiden-more or less dwells in the bowers of De Mar Hall? This-Lovel race has"brought me wpe enough, but you shall make atonement for all. I might have lived in peace at Grayson farm but for your mother; girl," and the infuriated speaker; approached nearer to Roxanna, while uttering these words. His weapon- glinted before her eyes in yellow sunlight; she felt its keen cold glare smite on her vision; another step-one more thrust, and it would have been buried deep. in her heart; but Roxanria was agile as a wild antelope and fearless as Osceola;  She bounded away with a sfiftnew s which defied puruit, and after feeling herself at a dis- tanc- which assured her. of security, turned, and looking behind- her saw Dexter infictingvain strokes on the trellis work of the bower and great trees around the fountain. She went sadly to the hall and on entering the parlor saw Mrs; De Mar sitting pensively with several open letters before her. :She had evidently been much agitated, and welcomed -Roxanna, as she always did, with a warm gush of affection. "    here h-ave you been, dear child," said she. The mail-bag before us contains letters from Rome, I am sure this is Valerie's handwriting, and directed to you, :Exanna took the missive, -and wasibusily engaged in its:perusal whetn Victor came into the room. ]is health was still feeble; he moved slowly, and sustained himself by the aid of a walking- stick till opposite: hismother, he rested ona sofa, and looking tenderly at Roxanna, said.-  "I thought, though I may have been mistaken, that I saw you   ATwRRT HASTINGS.          433 coming over the lawn a few minutes since from the direction of the fountain (Diana's as it is called), and I have just heard that a poor crazy mendicant, Dexter by name, has been found there raving and pierectly furious, so as to be wholly unmanageable. Did aught occtr there to annoy or alarm you, Roxanna?" Roxanna, so questioned, threw back her head with great-digniiy, and; replied:                     - "I did see the person of whom you speak, but was not alarmed. 'You forget my birth and nurture when you suppose me capable of being discomposed or affrighted by a creature such as he. No6 indeed, he moves my-pity deeply, but as for fear (and a proud smile cu-d- the lips of Myra's daughter), I think none butguilty pe9ple 6ver oAre aaid of anything." I never knew fear in my life-indeed, :Ir- thiinkthat I never shall know anything of the kind. Ah}' btt hemowed mege-atly- so woeful, so abandoned, so very, very poo and-friendless. Oh; Victor," continued she, throwing her great black, thrilling, -pryerful eyesfll:on the young soldier, {" oh, Victor, sorrowis a sad thing; with Iie aceopipa- niment of guilt or remorse, it must be fearful terrific. What can we do for this- poor man? or rather, what can you do?" 9 'She:i looked earnestly into Victor's face as she spoke, anid though at the might of her impassioned love wast in-that glance, there, too, was the appeal from a heart which, held strong -brotherhood with unfortunate, ithough guilty and suffering, humanity; a heart-which asked of him pity for aneneimy, and sublimely vindicated the abounding compassion'of- woman's gentle nature. - Ah, reflect," continued she, ":the hand of God is on'this man--remorme has driven him to desperation.; Hestands as aiving warning to those (and'I fear they 'are many) who, aban doninig a -regard to their own -reason, :and that heavenly monitor withiin which we call conscience, yield servilely tothe direction ofothers-i'fho mc ircum- stances have given a control over their actions, which virtue and Strength of mind ought to resist. This man, it seems, faied' in thLe striggie' of good -with evil. But he must have had bitter compat!ons, dear Victor, see the frightful result"     -    . - . "Why, what a little philosopher you are," cried Victor, *de'ghiteily. "I see, Roxanna, you have turned your thou'ghts to other 66 than the misty splendors of Ossian. legends of Lethean fountsidiclustered isles in sunlighited beauty, wandered over by-elysian' beezes; anrd trod by braves decked with wampum, and shod w'ith 'embroidered; moc- casins."  - 'f. ' i*    *'ss - . ad *-'- A- ' ; lo There was playful tenderness m the voice and countenanice of Victor ) , * *  -  " '   4:          APLBERT HABINGS. as he spoke these words, but Roxanna only acknowledged them with a faint passing smile, as she replied: "There was more philosophy in my musings on Oak Mount .than you would readily admit, perhaps, but that is little to the purpose now. I am deeply concerned for the helpless, though desperate man of whom we were speaMing.  ow, promise me that you will see him cared for." "Most assuredly, dear Roxanna, but the best way of doing this is what puzzles me.. As for his going about at large, it seems from his  conduct here that were he allowed to follow the wild freaks of his dis- ordered imagination, some dreadful result might ensue. Were he placedjin anasylum, without means, doubtless, he would suffer; and yet, in hislucid intervals, he would, even were arrangements made for his'receiving --all due atteution which money procures, bitterly, and, perhaps not without effect, condemn those who were instrumental in locating him where my judgment assures me that he ought to be. I am -very delicately situated with reference'to this man, and my motives might be liable to misconstruction did I interfere in his case." "Ah, Vitor, but you are not one of those who place public opinion in balance with what the necessities of a fellow-being demand at your, ands," said Roxanna, her noble- face glowing with eagerness and covered by benevolence with a halo which adds new charms to beauty, and touches with indescribable effect that wondrous map of feeling, the- hrmani face.         -s  At 'this point-the conversation was interrupted by visitors; these were Mrs. Delmar and Mrs. linton, whom we may remember as visi- tors to poor Amanda: Level soon after her. banishment from EUerton and the worldly and cringing temper of both whom was so finely elu- cidated by their own selfish and unpityingremarks on leavin that meek but unhappy, lady. The old character: and tendencies of these fair daughters of Eve had--not been improved, but, on the contrary, more fully developed during the years wich .have intervened since we fiUst casually met them, and, sorry-are we to narrate the- fact, which candor compels: us to do, that time, the great revealer of truth, in his slow, steady progess, had revealed no truth to them, corrective of the contemptible traitq then so revoltingly disclosed by their unfeeling dis- course, .afertfhe aforesaid 'Visit. - Mrs. Clinton' w as ual,s extravagantly dressed, not -in gay colors, no, she was well :'aware that gay, -or even lively colors, had never be- come her exceedingly plain Ace and clumsy figure; she was therefore exceedingly solicitous in the matter of dark, sombre shades; but the material--ah, there was a point at which her ostentation found vent    o   AT];RwT HASTNGS.           4S The fabric was of "rare fineness, and the cost-well, what did that mat- ter so long as an orthodox color atoned for it? Mrs. Delmar having been a blonde, though fairness had long gven place to a sickly oream-color, did not forget that blue had once set .off her charms to great perfection, and that straw-color hadlaided m givng effect to her light hair, and still adhered to blue and straw-color much to the annoyance of her fashionable friend. AThese-butterflies of society were in full tide of successful chit-chat, embracing certain admiring references to Mr. and -Mr. Overton, lately from New York; the elegance of the lady's wrappings and bonnet, 'the superb fit of Mr..Overton's Broadway suit, and the-improvenent of both that gentleman and lady since, their sojourn at' Sratoga and Niag- ara, and other on dits of neighborhood interest., The plor door ras again thrown open, and in a full suit of homespun, woven by the" no- table hands of Miriam :Calloway, her father entered with ths usual saturnine and solemn aspect. .           . Mrs. De Mar greeted the :old man courteously, Victor with respect and Roxann with warmth.   There was a me'aing look exchanged between the ladies Delmar and Clinton, which resulted-in a suppred 'titter, as Mr. Galloway, no whit abashed, deposited his broad-brimmed straw-hat on the closed piano, and addressing himself directly to Vic- tor, said in sonorous tones: "Verily, ir, it behooved me to come hither this day seeing that the life of one well esteemed amongst us, is at stake-even- that .of her who, through your sister's kindness, hath-"  Here Victor interposed, requesting Mr. Calloway to walk'with him into the library, which he accordingly did, much to the discomfiture of the two fashionists who, before departing, begged Mrs. aDe Mar to take special care of sweet Roxana' Lovel, so beautiful, :so impulsive, so lonely in the world. Mrs. De Mar s mled meaningly at this injunction .so needlessly be- stowed, and which she well knew would never hav6e been made, but for- the fact very well understood, that Roxa'nna was heiress tq great wealth, an inmate of. her house, and Plighted to kher best-loed son. Mr. Calloway meantime pursued his interruptedcolloquy with Vi6- Stor, in the library, and spoke as follows:            -- "I have :adventured to:come hither, as I before said, in considera- tion of the safety of- her who, triough your Bister's ,kindiiess, hathb escaped both poverty and sorrow ;. yea, and who stndeth -debtedto her for- manifold advantages. But there is,-at this time, roaming around the vicinity, a wicked and abandoned man, one Dexter by *^  -    ALBERT HASTINGS. name, of whom I have aforetime spoken, and even warned you, and this I did in all charity and good will, knowing him of whom I spoke as a graceless man; yea, so cowardly and pliant, that he hath become an easy tool-in the hands of those by whom he is swayed. But I will come at once to the subject matter of my discourse, and not waste words, as the mainer of some is. This man hath sworn a fearful oath, yea, and will with full purpose of mind fulfil the same, unless, indeed, he be balked of his intent,-and this oath of his respects the young lady, 'Roxanna Lovel, now in this house. I had warning of his~intent only this morning, and as he yesterda* departed from his place of abode, I came hither to make such communication as I deemed it in- cumbent on me to do, more especially knowing that the young girl delighteth in lonely places and feareth naught." "I am extremely indebted to you, Mr. Calloway," said Victor, warmly grasping the bony and sun-burnt hand of the sincere old man, "I am extremely indebted to you, and this is not the first obligation of our house to your sagacity and uncompromising efforts to crush evil and promote good. The man of whom you speak entered these grounds yesterday, and has been lingering about the premises, and that fair crea- ture of whom you spoke, but now has been pleading with me to have him cared for, which I am quite willing to do, could I only be assured of the best way in which her charitable intentions, and my own, can be carried out. He has attempted her life. This I know from my domes- tics, and it becomes absolutely necessary Ithat restraint be put upon his freedom." "Aye, sir, the devil that tempted hath betrayed him, yea, and hath full possession of him, soul and body. He bath become more relent- less than the wild beast- of the- forest, cunning Is theserpent which wound 'its way into the garden of paradise, and furiius as the evil spirit which holdeth him in thrall. I have encountered 'him as I jour- neyed towards that temple in the desert where my people are accustomed to worship, and he dealt me heavy strokes with a broken staff that lay by the wayside, yet was I not slain, neither discomfited, but enabled, in despite of his blind fury, to proceed to my appointed task, verily, and to fulfill the same, since I that day delivered the Word, and was comforted by my flock. But, of a surety, there is murder in his mincd. I assuredly believe him possessed by Belial, and given over to the powers of darkness, that he may work their wicked and mur- derous designs. I therefore opine that such safeguards should be set about him as will stay the evil whereunto he is bent. But, of my own authority, being a man of peace, and one who should look to the things   AIBERT HASTINGS.   437   of another life, I care not to meddle in the matter; nevertheless have I advised, yea, and will uphold that he be secured and reasonably cared for.  He hath great bodily vigor, and strength will be demanded in order that he be mastered, and forced to submit. I am moved t say that the sooner this is effected the better, for truly, he roameth abroad, as I said, like a ravening beast, and there be children and women walk- ing fearlessly, as is their wont, about the neighborhood, whom, in his wild ravings, he may destroy." Mr. Calloway's harrangue waa here cut short by the entrance of the butler, who, advancing respectfully, but evidently under the influence of agitation and alarm, said to his young master in an excited voice: "Sir, the murderous man at the fountain has beaten off Joseph, Horace and Samson, even the blacksmith, Tony, cannot disarm him. He waves his sword, or dagger it is, I believe, and has slightly wounded Horace in the face." Mr. Calloway rose to his full height, and casting a look of contempt on the sturdy black, who, as butler at -De Mar Hall, enjoyed a perfect sinecure, was round in proportions, and flourishing as an abbot in the good old time'when monasteries were enriched by tribute money, and the " De profundis" produced" persuasive" gold.  Mr. Calloway, as we have said, regarding this obese butler with severity, added, still ad- dressing Victor: "I will, with your permission, adventure on the scene of action, yea, and will myself, as.I did on the highway, bring into due submission the rampant spirit of Arnold Dexter."  Victor bowed assentingly, and Mr. Calloway, taking up his hat, pre- pared to depart, saying . "Your father being absent, and you, young sir, disabled, I take on me, as need demands, to act in your place. I will endeavor to'do all things discreetly as you would yourself desire." Mr. Galloway now advanced to the scene of action, where, strug- gling, and in a state of demoniac excitement, Dexter kept his would-be captors at bay. These the minister motioned to retire,: aid walking .boldly up to the infuriated man, fixed his eyes steadily on him. There was something in the cool, determined visage of the strong-hearted minister which calmed him. He seemed smitten by sudden fear, and Mr. Galloway, following up his advantage, thundered forth these words: "Put up thy sword, foolish man, and resist the fiend that controlleth thee. Yield into my hand thy weapon Of offence, else will I rend it from thee, seeing that I fear thee not, neither the fiend that urgeth thee on." Dexter remained irresolute, and Mr. Calloway, with a rapid move   %38           TALi RT HEASTINGS. ment, seized the sword-hand of the amazed pedagogue, and wrench. ing the dagger from his grasp, threw it some distance on the ground. Tony hastened to secure it, and Dexter,.sinking exhausted on the green- sward, was taken into custody by the negrres who, as soon as they saw him submissive, were forward in seiuring their, prisoner. Mr. Calloway, surveying them with his resistless look of command and re- proof, indulged himself with the following address: "Give heedful care, benighted sons of Lybia, that ye .d the man no bodily harm, Seeing that a superior color and more Christian confor- mation of features and limbs assert the fact that he is of a different race, and, though debased by; the mortal malady under which he labor- eth, i'still of a different and more sensitive nature. Ye stood backL- whhen thebre 'was :danger, andg now are over forward in oppressing him needleslye. hereby indicating the character of African savages; who are ever meek'under the wholesome yoke of restraint, but Obtaining-power, slay and oppress cruelly their brethren, as the people of Madi and Shoot and all barbarian hordes do, even at this time, where there is no lawful authority to awe and righteously restrain them. See to it that ye, moderate the abounding brutality and heathenish stolidity of your natures, which ever retain an apish: love of imitation that appendeth artificialtails 't the person as an ornament, 'and covereth the arms and ankles,. otherwise naked, with copper rings. Fall back, I say I and treat with becoming huarnity him who is afflicted. Scoff not, thereby revealing those hug- teeth, bearing a close simiitude to the tusks of monsters belonging-to tropical lands." Tonyr Horace and company, so ,corrected, behaved in a more decor- ous manner, and Dexter was conveyed to a plantation house, where attendance from a neighboring surgeon :being procured, he remained some days, and then, as the physician declared him hopelessly deranged, Victor De Mar, acting the part of a friend '(for the p'or creature, as he truly- said, had none), caused him to be provided with every comfort allowed' the, Unhappy inmates of that most dreary abode of tortured humanity: aninsane asylum. ' ; A   "*  ' '.   -** y.   .0    CHAPTER    V. (7 'ADY LIVIA was again-in England, and Yalefie and Emeline (  were her guests. The marriage of-Sir Albert Hastingi with. ,  th'e latter was expected'soon to take place, and the venerable Hall looked more like the, abode-of gaiety than it had done: for many years. Lord Rathboune wasa constant visitant and LordSBur- lington had never left the party since :his!sSjbrawith them at Re, Lady Livia, Lady Ardndel andLord Rathbomrnewere generalylooSt a separate trio; Sir Albert and EmeWineashe y/wereraccu med to do in childhood, chose the -company of each; otier; and Vaide,? beiu g m a manner thrown on her own resources, :was very naturally:t, companion of Lord Burlington, Whose- devotion u:wastoovideut ;t bet mistaken. His many engaging qualities, intellectual elegancef and an indescribable air of suppressed feeling, made him interesting:to: all; neither could Valerie resist the charmof his manner, aonversaton -,and noble sentiments; She regarded him as a valued friendbu no ten- derer-feeling: possessed her heartwhi'h:ad been socruelly ;wro ged in its first, love. Lord Burlington talked munbh of-foreign trel,and before going to Rome had contemplated a visit:to the:reek island to Greece itself, and even Turkey and Arabia; but as we; have-seen,-he had- been so enthralled bythe appearanc6e ands after acquaintanceof Yalerie De Mar, that the fascination of her presenoe oouldot be; over- come. But his lordship was a veryImanlylover, be never-uttered small flatteries, was not over-assiduous in those trifling attentions which, after all, better become the dandy or court pupet thanmen of sense. It was now May, sweetest of seasons, whe :the tiny ffi eryrof:the daisied meadow, no less than. the queenly rose: andvirgi-ke lilyput forth their diversified charms, when .tendrt ight-hued- :leavea-s:b-.US'- from the naked bough, and rejoicing nature, shaking off the icy slum- ber of winter, gives evidence that there is life in the old earth still,   ALBERT HASTINGS. while garlanding with beauty the breast which had enfoldedoand pro. tected for Weary monthszthe germs of endless and wonderfully various shrubs and flowers.      - It-was evening, and over that extended lawn, of which we have before spoken, which now lay in fresh, soft luxuriance round Hastings Hall, floated a clear, balmy atmosphere, through which glittering swarms of scarce visible imects shone like gold, and seemed supported on the buoyant and transparent element. Great oaks had put on their summer mantles and, withall the pride and- dignity won by long life and vast circumference, blended freshness and'youth with the spring- like green of theirlofty crowns. Elms, with erect form and delicate verdure, spread their tender foliage on the breeze, and long lines of poplars, with their associations of Lombardy, stood shapely and of equal height, rustling bravely in full pride of May. Two noble- steeds, with measured pace, high stepping, with arched neck andflowing mane, appeared on the scene. On one a lady was mounted, marble-white, with great, dark, lustrous eyes, a rich sweep of gold-brown hair flling in loose curls around her superb neck and shoulders. The close-fitting riding dress of grey which she wore:was buttonied quite up to the throat, and fully displayed the perfect bust and round waist of the fair equesitrian. A hat, of grey also, with a long plume of the same modest color, floated over her left shoulder, and she  sat With inimitable -grace, forming a beautiful picture amidst the early verdure of coming summer, while the hawthorn was white with blos- soms and roses peeped brightly out from hedge and upporting bower. The lady's companion one could 'be at no loss to identify, from the marked likeness which, as before said, he bore to Bulwer; Lord Burlinigton and Valerie for she was the lady, rode on to that same lake where Sir Albert had rescued Geraidine Rathbourne from a watery -grave. -The' prospec then essentialy a winter one, though ith grand features apd still worthy of note, was now wholly changed. The- sombre rocks which had looked so wild and bleak were nowrobed with lichens, parasitical vines and adhesive mosses, which rounded their- sharp angles, hung frail, sweet flowers on their rugged abutments and waved in pensile loeliness over their bald, towering brows. The water seemed to- smile in glass-like serenity as it mirrored the pictur- esque heights and- declihining shore, where here :and there that most poetical -and moumrfi-of trees, the 'willow, with fragile and swaying brancohes, as thought bent in speechless sorrow, rained down its wealth Lord Burlington drew up his horse, and pointing to the most attracu         .                .  .S   ATFRT HAmTINOS.-          41 tive points of the scenery before them, descanted with judgment and a fine perception on their contrasted beauty, and on the combined effect of the whole. His lordship was very eloquent. Valerie's dark eye lighted; on this congenial theme she could have heard her companion for hours. Never had she been thrown into association with, one of his genius and taste. True, in the morning dream, when she had es teemed Alaric Lovel all that fancy, aided by love, could paint, he had seemed to her that which Lord Burlington really was, nay, he may have seemed even more; but from that glorious vision she had been terribly awakened to a sense of the fact that her idol was but clay. Dagon, with- prostrate form and broken limbs, had long lain before her sorrowing eyes. With the dreadful reckoning which she had paid-for her idolatrous love came a warning fear which scared away Cupid, with all his blandishments, from her disappointed heart. She felt warm admiration for Lord Burlington. There was the most entire consonance of his mind with hers, combined with that deference, on her part, of a true woman to the masculine understanding of the stronger sex, which all delicate women involuntary accord. It would be idle to deny that she did not know herself loved. Who had ever seen the haughty and fastidious earl (except in the case of one lost forever), give the evidences daily and hourly afforded by him now of devotion to any living being?? Yes, Valerie felt that- she was loved as woman seldom is, and she did not rejoice in- that knowledge. It seemed to her sensitive mind that the sad history of her first love was a bar to any future attachment, and, as she had truly told Victor, her' thoughts werp bent only on doing what she might be permitted for the welfare of others. How nobly this wasecarried out we have seen, both in regard. to Roxanna and Emeline. True they were provided for, and their prospects of happiness bright% but the old feeling remained and she did not seek to persuade herself that there mightremain forl her a lot as P bright as for others. HEIercompanion was entirely aware of the feelings entertained by her, and with a sort of proud humility silently acknowl- edged them.     i  Valerie had-dismunted, and was sitting on a ledge of rocks over- hanging a precipice which descended perpendicularly into, the, water. Lord Burlington was standing beside hier, and their horses were being held by a groom at a short distance. His noblp0figure clearly defined against the mellow-tinted sky of spring, seemed;,unatoraly large, and commanding. A breeze from he- lake swept backhis raven hair, and -his eyes grJy, expressive,and varying, now glowed with ervor:now   "2          ATsERT HEASTMGS. relaxed into gentleness, as his language, sometimes elevated as was de- manded by- the sentiments he uttered, sometimes soft as -the tender hue of scenes he described, rang melodiously in the ear of the lady he ad- dressed, Suddenly pausing, the speaker added: "Ah, there is our friend, Albert Hastings, and yourpromtg  Miss Lovel, in the pinnace which rounds: the bluff I pointed out to you. just now.  There is a stiff breeze, but. Albertis a perfect navigator. There the headland is -doubled, and they will soonbe with us." "You do not mean to say," cried Valerie, in alarm, "that there is any danger? Oh, Lord Burlington, do not say that! . This Emeline Leovel is very, very dear to me, -and Albert Hastings I value greatly.'" "There isnot," said Lord- Burlington in a calm and assured tone, "the. remotest danger. My friend Albert is fully competent -to manage one of her Majesty's ships of war on an emergency, and as for this frail craft, he could pilot her through a storm, though no such thingexists, What is: the happiness of those," he- added, sorrowfully, who can awaken such interest and emotion in the breast of Miss De Mar. Oh, were it possible, under any circumstances that -some, or one, of those with whom she is perhaps les intimately acquainted, sand yet who holds her higher than the most beloved'of her friends can-if, it were, I say, possible that suchan' one could share her coveted- regard, how bright the. world, now so dark, would seem to him" There, were impassioned feeling, deep sincerity, and noble candor in Lord Burlington's face atthis instant, but his address was brought to a premature close as the pinnace landed, and Sir Albert and Emeline came up to them'glowing with hope and pleasure. A phaetonwas in attend- ance,: and the equestrians joining their party, all proceeded towards Hastings' Hallt  There was on teir way a rustic bridge whioh spanned a small silver b stream as it went gurgling and foaming on:to the .lake, The. course of this tiny river was sinuous:before reaching the point indicated, where the bridge, somewhat narrow, with a low balustrade on either side was thrown over it. Beyond this bridge itwidened till, with accelerated velocity, and greater appearance of majesty, its redundant waters were- poured into the extended' inland 'sea, A broad carriage road led to this crossing-place from 'the lake, and Was. continued thence to Hasting's. Hal .:As Sir:Abert'equipage drove over, the equestrians fell back. The horse on, whichi^Lordc Burlingtou n w . mounted, being a high-spirited animal, -lnrvetted,ireared. and, became :restive. He was an admirable horseoman,/' but his steed, wholly :-unmanageable, -darted, forward, and   ALBERT HASTINOGS     .  !  4  finding the bridge occupied by the vehicle in fron, with insene'and headlong fury plunged inmx the stream. Down went horse ani d i*rder. Valerie, who had checked the docile animal on wiieh she was mounted, gazed on in mute dismay. A groominm  ttendnce rode befireand securing her courser, held' him' firm. - Meantime the. -Smergediim- furiated steed rose amidst the waves, riderlesslande:ma-e f orb op p ste shore, up which he ascended and dashed into 'thewoods- beyond. ' rd Burlington did not immediatelyappesr, -and Valerie gazedl; eagerly down the river. Atlasthis:'form dimly 'disermible, floated"n' the unstable element, and she felt a gladi7thifof'joy- as he won the shelving bank and stood -ereect:on its greeimargha' - .. -. "Leave me," said she to the, man iwho held-her horse, '" goinstantly to the assistance of Lord Burlington. :' I riln follW: the phae-ton^ - "By no means, madam," said the servant; wlio w eo of his lord- ship's own attendants. "That would not e quite'-safe unless y alow me to aid you in dismounting fis t; I will:then Bobkafter mny Iord: ':He would never forgire tme were I :to do otherwike. : But-see,' lady,"tmy masteriseven now coming toward us,': ad mito  'me:' th retina the noble figure of the earl did, lndeed, advaee- maing the sigal 'of which his groom spoke, and: drenched. as eb'-was, viUlted intO the saddle vacated by the servant." Valeriei tien,::with -pefe:t 'se]f-m- mand, drew tightly her rein, and they proceeded -t6iihehal. ShbetWice essayed tospeak, but; there was a ch6oing senstion :aout :her thioat, - and she uttered no wod;- - Lord Burlingtonr: wassr quite" g ovger vhis misfortune,- and said, smiling: .  - -.. 'I ought to apologize, Miss De Mar 'for::my awlward carelesne-s which has resultedin leaving you a short time without, an esort' I believe that my immersion in the river was morebWiig to heedlesiess on my own. part than to bany vicious. diposition in:Saladin, myfriend Albert's own riding horse.- H must:ask your ::parion for theiowhole affair."  - '     '  ' Indeed, my lord," said Valerie warmly, "I am:- truly thankful that you are safe, and congratulate you on your escape.- It-was a morent of great anxietybto me when---"  - -Here she paused, unable to-proceed.  Lord Burlingtoni turned his-soul-lit eyes, of -hat iagibal hue:which has-become famouls amasi ni g the eyes :of M:y of Sdtintland ian g- land's most renow -ed of poets,'Byron. tieh:grea t hisel 'egy y he then turhed on Valerie with look of pleadMg, earnest;impsioned   4Mt BALBERT HASTINGS. love that seemed to hang on her words in the anxious hope that they might express still warmer interest, but Valerie was dumb, though there came a mantling tide to her cheeks, never seen there since the luckless day when, arrayed as a bride, she - stood with her mother before the mirror at De Mar Hill, and felt the mysterious toll of a death-bell vibrate through her heart. . She could not resist that look. Itseemed a glance from a higher world,stamped with truth, and conquering by its deep love. Feeling the pause an awkward onep she strove hard to rally, but in the vain attempt broke fairly down and wept Lord Burlington was greatly distressed, and again asked her forgiveness for the agitation to which he had subjected her. Valerie slowly regained her self-corm- mand, and at last replied; in a low voice, ever distinguished for its peculiar and unrivalled sweetness: "I will not, my lord, affect to misunderstand the language which you have this, afternoon addressed to me, nor the feelings which prompted it; but you do not know my history. I have loved, though the grave long since closed, over that first unfortunate dream of my since joyless girlhood. My resolve has long been taken. I dare not allow those earthly feelings again to possess my soul, chastened as I have been. Oh, Lord Burlington," cried she, again overcome by her intense emotion, "if you knew all, you would despise me 1" "Depise you 1" returned her companion, no less agitated. "I pray you, lady, use not such language to one who esteems you above any bearing the name of woman. Your history, thrice-beloved Valerie, has long been known to me, aye, in all its detais, and I worship you all theinore devotedly because of that cruel passage in your life, which has made you an angel of resigation and goodness, I, too, have buried in the grave affections which left me so desolate that, till I knew you, my heart was a bleak desert. Oh, Valerie De Mar, i by your early desolation, which perhaps teaches you- to comprehen amine, do not destroy the last, aye, and the brightest, earthly hope he ever knew, of a man who places all he can ever hope of earthly happiness irrevoca- bly at your disposal." Valerie spoke not. Contending emotions struggled at her heart- that tried and sensitive heart. Lord Burlington's generosity overcame her. He, so proud, a peer of the realm, so gifted, mentally and per- sonally, so Irreproachable in character, so beloved by all.: He forget what she haa been accustomed to consider her life-long disgrace I yes, he was not only nobly born, but nobly created! That black page in her history, of which she even- now shuddered to think, so revolting to   ATBERT HASTINGS.           45 her delicacy, so wounding to her heart, had been laid bare to his in spection before she herself, with conscientious candor, revealed it. He had long known all, and yet he loved her; -this was, indeed, great; this, indeed, demanded gratitude; she could not withhold it; and as the two dismounted before the granite portico of Hastings' Hall, guarded by the grim stone lions which Sir Albert Hastings had contemplated so doubtfully on his first visit to his own domain, Lord Burlington felt himself the happiest man in England, f     '  .   REEN waved long grass over the graves of the lovely Eudora (E De Vere and her gentle, suffering sister, poor Amdnda Love? in t he churchyard at Elerton, one of those populous cities of the dead, where rank, and distinction, and wealth, which,' after all, disguise the mortifying fact as we may, rules this sublunary sphere,F 'were lost in 'the commingling process which moulders all to dust. It was a dead level, the green surface of mother earth, only slightly rising here and there, where that which was once breathing humanity in the God-like form  of man, with instincts dividing him from every mortal creature beside, and endowed with the fire of Deity, --an immortal soul-was laid away to rest, aye, rest, as far as the out- ward temple, the frail body-is concerned; but its luminous inmate, the indestructible-soul, nordeath nor cha;ns can bind. And all these souls, whose crumbling vestments of clay are again incorporated with their original dust, are away in the unknown realms of an eternal world where all the struggles, disappointments, and anxieties of this fleeting life become  idl dreams, .and even gold-its god-is forgotten. How serenely may the released spirit then look back on this life (which is the real dream)where it once dwlt, to  toil, and weep, and  wish, a little while." Yet how we adore the world now. How we thirst forits applause, seek its grandeur, and covet its weaith; A contempla- tion ofour last resting-place should unteach us this insane folly. Who remembers the dead? or if affection yet shrines them in the heart, do they not seemlost, as they arein this active, breathing world and therefore, nothing? Two marble slabs, placed by the pious hands of fair Vale'reDe Mao, told the place where/Slept'(for so we are accustomed to speak of the departed) the sisters; a nd'their inoffensive, Virtuous, and charitable lives caused many a'humble sitant from the bare pine barren !pause and contemplate, with mournful interest, their narrow house, in wh/ch   ALB ERT HASTINGS           4 they reposed from earthly sorrow. But, no -marble -marked the couch of lowly sleep, where Alaric Lovel, and, by his side, the hapless Myra, were laid. She, the noble and the true, had that compam'onship- in death which had been sternly denied her in life, and the :mute eloquence of her grave, to those acquainted with her tragial story, did not vainly appeal -to the better feelings of humanity,-which, whiale marvelling at her enduring love, honored her heroism and unsophisticated character. . But there were not wanting mourners of another class-at her sun- . ": lighted tomb this sweet evening-the same on which, in another hemi-  sphere, Sir Albert had sailed with Emeline on Uthe lake, and Valerie'De - Mar, so beneficent, loving and; beloved, had gladdened the. heart of one of England's noblest earls, by plightig him her:troth;-and therewas ]ker poor, forsaken child, endowed: withe her mother's; grand: character and luminous beauty;- nor was she alone. Victor De Mar,bhigh-bomn brother of her magnificentt rival, sat with ERoxahna, and. equally with  her, deplored the melancholy fate, while-he .yielded' homageto- :the truth of the wild woman of the wood. ;"Do you know) deatr :o;afo a'   " said Vi'tor, tenderly, --"do you know that I feared, on our first acquaintance, that you w ere so fully- prepossessed by the poetic fictions of Indian belief, that IL regarded: you quite a little heathen, and feared that your mind had become dis- ordered. I said as much, arid Valerie reproved me for such a suppo- sition. But there. was always something-in the deep eyes of -ny Oread which, with her pride of port and independence of -mindt ought: to have assured me that she would rise superior. to childish--superstition, and be one day what she is now, a better theologian and a far better Christian than I am                : "Indeed," returned his companion, "your -fears -were just There was an old-woman who used to come in the days of :he;r great grief, mymother'a, I mean, and stay with me or take me out walking, while she was away. This was an Indian, with longig: straight, black' hair, a glow on her cheek like that of the pomegranate-she was of a complex- ion peculiar to the red race-her features were decidedly out,- nothing African in her- dark aspect, and her eyes! they literally blazed -with hidden fire. She was the- most perfectly-formed woman: I have ever beheld, and this is saying much, for I have seei ValerieITDeMart: The enthusiasm of this- wild wanderer-I: do not believe any oie arew her here except my beloved  mother.- She :Would come and::go like: a dream, and had a -wonderful -faculty for discovering wen -she-was i the vicinity of those whom she: always desigtiated-as pal4efaees:; Hemr wrath against them was bitter.  She declatedi with an eloquence I   48          ATIERT HASTINGS. could not pretend to convey, that the soil on which we tread was, the ancient hunting-ground of her fathers, won from them by deceit and the encroaching spirit ;of those who, forgetful of justice, seek only aggrandizement. She used to lift up her hand, and declare to me the same sentiment, though not in the language of the poet, which Bryant has so nobly expressed: o        f ,  "' The realms our tribes were crushed to get, May be a barren desert yet - "Oh, what,an eloquent woman she was," said Roxanna, excitedly, "even now her voice, in the sonorous language of her tribe, rings in my ear. Even yet I hear her prophecies and denunciations. She de- clared that al this beautiful South, with its green savannahs, grove- crowned hills, rivers which flowed between banks as rich as those of the Egyptian Nile, would soon ,cower under the iron heel of oppression. This, she said, would happen before she should depart to -the land of shades. But with the ardor and inspiration of a pythoness she always added 'After that time Areouski will light his fires amidst snows and ice. On the cold, bleak heights of Massachusetts will gleam the war torch, and the mouldering bones of my fathers will leap with joy from their silent mounds, when the usurper finds his time is come, and the oppressor bears the yoke he once forged for others.' I wish, dear Victor, you could have seen Tokea, for so was she called, and I confess ' to you now that her words had strange power over me. To her I owe those fanciful legends,- and that firm faith, which once possessed me, about the future abode of the soul, and other things but dimly known, even to the most enlightened amongst men. Tokea could never endure the idea of my: assimilating with the treacherous white race, as she fervently called it, and twice carried me away into the deep, dark wild, whence I was borne back by her who ever loved and tended me, till one overwhelming calamity swept all remembrance from her soul, and she resigned herself to die." RoQ^app's fact e, at this, became viery pallid, and she seemed to feel her present situation in regard to Victor, and all the other circumstances by which she::was encompassed, as things at variance ilth her nation's history, her mother's wrongs, and the powerful-- bias of those early teachings, enforced,.as *she had declared, by a superior mind. One op- pressed and blighted by the prosperity of those who grew great on the ruin of their:fellow-men. How m any such has the world seen since might- became right.? How many more it will- see, God only, in his infinite wisdom, knows. But Roxanna, though loving Victor, as Myra's Q\ 4(    ATAERT   ASTIGSE         449 daughter would love, yet felt the wrongs of her people, and Tokea's lessons had not been vainly bestowed. Victor answered her as best he might.                  I  "You and I, dear Roxanna," said he," had aught to do with these things. Look at the history of thelworld. Show-me; if you can, a single nation which has risen to power, save over the -ruinmof its foes. In times so distant, that scarce reliable records remain to indicate their rise, we always find the sword-sometimes,:in later ages, combined with policy--the means of their elevation. Who shall alter these changes? Are they not decreed above?" "Decreed above," returned Roxanna, with a half-pitying, half-scorn- ful expression; " shall we consent to wrong, and say, as a solace -to our own participation in the act, or the results of that act, 'tis decreed above? What injustice, what untold oppression, should we not then weakly en- dorse I No, Victor, we must ask our own hearts what is right, and receive the answer of a good conscience, before we reap affluence from the destruction of any people." While thus conversing, they walked slowly- on, (Victor being arti- ficially supplied with a limb in place -of the lost one), and were about half-way to the carriage which brought them to the churchyard, when Roxanna, pausing, said:            -   '  "Now, dear Victor, sit down, indeed you are quite pale. This used to be a favorite retreat of mine in former days. i See how the inter- lacing branches meet above. And is not that quite a natural sofa on which you recline? It was at this very spot that Tokea and I u sed toe rest after our walks through, all that forest, where she found wild yams, gathered life'everlasting and angelica, alamus, safras root, and many medicinal plants, the virtues of which she toldme at the time, though the cataloge was too long to mention, even if my memory served, which- it does not. Only lookat the waterfall below, see where the subterranean' stream wells silently from grey rocks, and finding no longer a hidden- bed, leaps boldly down the precipice, and striking on a gravelly valley below, spreads its translucent waters over pebbles and snowy sand. Again gathered into a rivulet as the valley becomes narrower, they speed away through the wild, carrying freshness and beauty: and a low, sweet,- moaning, song, all through lonelywjli Ah that sound recdls Tokea-to me at this - and-look, Victor, (here-Rowan atopkth-ehand of her companion in an excited. nauer,) lookl there she is^ but how changed"' and she sprang forward to meet her friend, but the woman drew back, and stood 'erect as the sycamore under .which slepiused. Her attenuated form was clad in the fanciful costume of her tribe,   450           ALTERT HASTINGS. being fringed with feathers and adorned with shells, strung to resemble beads; ithough faded and worn, this dress was still picturesque. Her fade was painted after the most approved style of Indian decoration, her wrists were encompassed by bracelets, and her ankles with copper rings secured by clasps, from which depended little tinkling bells; her hair was long, black, and flowed in disorder round her, shapely shoul- ders, her eyes emnlated in hue -the clustering sloes which, on their boughs -were dried anid blackened- into- intensity of color, with which they assimilated; her cheek-bones- were high, her chin pointed and ,bold. A fierce and lofty spirit looked from those blackest -of black, Shining, oblong eyers. 'There were marks of time and care on her ex- pansive and deeplymseamed foreheadi her lips, were full, and her straight nose and distended :nostrils, spoke American birth, and the high spirit of her tameless race. As sho stood, wit'e:the immense sycamore shak- ing it serrated leaves in the evening wind above' her, Witha' forbidding scowl one her marked physiognomy, surveying 'Roxana, and seemingly struggling to control some outhurst of feeling, Victor thought he had never beheld a figure so characteristic, at the same time that her pres- ence affected him disagreeably. It was from her influence that Rox- anna had-- been -rescuedi,and now that she re-appeared-on the scene, he felt some misgivings as to the future association of the two. The woman-spoke ra/pidly to Roxanna in her own language, and it rang like sorm savage: sound in his-dear.:; Roxanna- replied, but on her lips the uncouth dialect sounded musically. Their colloquy was not long con- tinned,: and he - observed that -RoxlnneT hardt made an attempt to in tdUce the:'stranger to him, from which she recoiled in a decided iuanner, and after delivering some emphatic injunction, to which Rox- ansna replied wfith-do'ubt and hesitaincy, she turned proudly away and dis'appeared in the wood.'  Victor looked wonderingly after her, and turning to Roxanna, saw that tears were stealing Silently down her cheeks. uWhat, beloved Roxanna, affects you thus?" 'aid he soothingly. ' Ah, she but reminded m e of a promise which my mother extracted from her; that I should return to her tribe in Florida, and poor Tokea has come all this weary way to take me there. It was, she says, my ill-used mother's" lakst wish"'  "Roxanna you tus t not allow such wild talk to discompose you. See you not, dear Roxanna, that I now stand ini the:-place of that mother and all earthly friends to you? Is this not so?"  "Oh, yes," :sobed the girl, "oh, yes, now, you do; but I must re- member the wearjy days and cheerless' nights when she lived only for   ATIWRT HASTNGS.           461 me-when we fed like the birds of the air on berries and wild fruits, on nettle-root and yams. Oh, Victor De Mar, I must not reproach the memory of my father, :but when I think of her, my heart rebels against the-shall I say it? the white race--and you,:Victor, you loved another before you loved me, was ;his not so? Youwould not missmevery long, would you, were I to follow my -mother's tribe, and' prefei the red man's/destiny to the falsehood-of his pale-faced foes?" "Oh, Roxanna, what do .ou mean-how can I understand you?" cried Victor, in gre at agitatidn; 'are all my hopes of happiness to be dashed to the ground. by this untimely' visit of a weird and mendicant woman--half crazed by 'adversity-the votary-of Buperstition? 'Haye-I not told you frankly that though Emeline Lovel won myadmiration on our first acquaintance, it was in the absence of a -stronger- attraction which has since been presented in irresistible beauty tomy rgard; and this was you, BRo0anna. Oh, do not disappoint my-hopes now. they have been disappointed, I own, but not in the same way; or to thesame extentt twhich they would :te now. Oh, no, the case was far different! I tell you franldy,.Rbyxanm; the charmsrof Emeline Iovel are cold and trite compaired with those of her adopted sister, in. myesteem"- "Yes, but they were not always so," -responded- Roitnna,in melan- choly tone. "As you forghtFltmeline, you would; i;tarn, forget me. Ah I but you must not look. so towifauly on :ime - I only Imeant to say, in case anything unforeseen should- oceur'to seiaimte us, a hiope you would not grieve too long: or too bittetly I I::amtj't i O! Emeline, but once I was, during'days of; doubt and l;despaeir. ;Tkea used to meet me here then--she is -the: only lving c eaiwre who ew my heart, and shpaed my sorrows; but' for: her, I1;should have gone wild. Manyand many a -time,'down in the :dingl "yonder, covered with wild strawherries and -a few stray rosei bushes, -here tradition says there was once a garden, and where the gapi -and plum: flowers now smell so sweetly, we used to sit on a falln: log, a1nd:I would lay my head on her bosom, and weep. Everybody thought me companion- less in the wood, but I was noe always:sO. I wish,:Victor; y"ou could hear Tokea discourse in her native- tongue--or :ratier,?I should say, that you understood her la/guage--thie wild eloquenee she utte rs-would amazeyou.  I havye often, sat rapt while :liteni ng t herts that she speaks so much, but what she-says, condensed iand simpile, saggests grand thoughts.: Sthe is eethusi      ofati to :the, 'tnad-e'iii s ahd the lightning-glance of her small but subtle eyes seemsttoiai er;wids: in . informing the -mind ofher awditor. Sharp anddneedl'e; thhe pieroe r the soul, and were I a homceopathist, believing in the doctrine of leasts   452          ALBERT :HsTINGS. I should take her eyes as a- spiritual illustration of their material price tice. But I assure yout, dear Victor, the spell of Tokea over me was an enchanted one for long years, and would never have been broken, perhaps, abut for-for your misfortune ;," and she glanced, pityingly and lovingly, at Victor's dismemberedlimb. "Is it so, belovel:-Roxanna? Then I rejoice in a misfortune which otherwise would have grieved--has grieved me deeply. :And now promise me that you will never see this woman more." Voluntarily, I never will, though I owe her much. But she would consent:to receive no benefit from me. I only wish she would. Her object. simply is to weart me-from friends I cannot forsake, and  this must not be. Yet her presence agitates me strangely. JI would I had never known her." Victor arose, and drawing Roxanna's arm within hiown, they soon reached the waiting equipage, and drove towards De Mar Hall. As they alighted, the gold and purple'sunset shed its last rays on earth, and they sat together in the lofty verandah, whepe evening winds, freighted with odors from shrub trees and flowering myrtle, blew softly--where the i melodiousswhip-poor-will was heard afar off trilling its melancholy lay-" where the ocean-like whispers of the pine forest fell musically on the ear, and deep, down the hill,- amidst its dark haunts, the shrill boding cry of the screech-owJl swept ominously by. Roxanna spoke; 6"Histl" said she, "frommy earliest recollectioh, the piteous wail of that night-,bird, has, for some inexplicable reason, made me afraid. I think I never heard it cry so mournfully as now.;' " Be not so fanciful,: my Roxanna," said Victor, drawing her closer to him. t"Be not-o fancifill. .- There is nothing in your future life (which love may not avert,) but that which is bright and happy.", It was, as,we have said, spring-time--of -all seasons loveliest every- where, but more emphatically so in the flowery South. On the morn- ing succeeding, Roxanpa, as grey dawn gave place to broader light (she was habitually an-early riser) went down the great carriage-road lead- ing to Doe Mar Hall, on the right, hand side, avoiding the direction in which she had been on the previous evening, and also the avenue which led to Oak Mount. She did, not wish .to encounter Tokea. Her promise hadbeen given:to Victor,and she meant to keep it. Musing on her seeming ingatitude tho Tokea, yet resolved to keep faith with her-lover,-s-he-trodrapidly on, .with that spfringing step and elastic gait, hers by iheritance, as purple -onvolvulus threw its slender garlands beside the pathway, and glittered with morning dew, while wild roees, and wreaths-of blackberry vines, in full bloom, draped banks -of deep   ALBERT HASTINGS.          . red clay on either side. This walk led her to a scene different from that described on the opposite side of the hall. -The country hereowas : level as pine barren tracts usually are,/but its growth, wholly different, produced a far more pleasing impression on -the mind.: Oak and' hickory trees interspersed with cedar and walnut, freshenedby the ' - genial influence of the season with cearc h matured leaves waving in new-born verdure, and gemmed by: yet- nexhaled dew, breathed a sweetness- undreamed of by those' who- have never -experienced the balmy refreshing fragrance. of early morning on the salubrous hills of sunny Carolina. We love- horWoodland- scenes-we love to linger on the beauties there disclosed-and as -for describing them, ah,ould -we do it I But our business is now with the American, half-Indian girl, Roxanna, who,i accustomed to exercise in the open airy especially in the 'morning, drew draughts of -refreshment from its invigorating breath which bloated, ease, can never know.           *  Roxanna, according to her old habit, was making up a bouquet of wild-flowers. Now,'thotl, garden- and hot-house plants were at her command--tle natural-in:inct returned.  She :preferred:pond-lilies, their trembling, gold-dusted petals shaking. even when -at rest, wild violets, bay-flowers, and-indigo blooms to the more esteemed favorites of the parterre. Habit,: early associition, made her love those unpre- tending nurslings of the wild better than their more gorgeous and richly developed sisters who had been trained-and forced into a striking - and garish beauty,. Roexanna" loved nature and detested sart. This sentiment had been born with her, and all the experience of her short s life had confirmed her devotion to simplicity. In her view, the mother whom she, deplored had been - the victim of dissimulation, (as indeed. she was), and her father--ah, that false, heartless fether I Tokealhad  told her all'that history, though -poorMyra had; not-:.-But she loved Victor now. Yes,that love stood in the way-of--what she had-pur- posed to do when' she saw him devoted -to ,Emeline Lovel-.the Indian  memory istenacious' she could not forget :that; and. she :had -a theory of her'own about firstlove'. Sh She had never lovedd any but Victor,-she could never love any after him. No,- shecould- not change, and, there-  fore, as he had changed sheb doubted--yes, doubted him. -  It was unfortunate for this-wayward, brilliant, -and- devoted girl,- that at the very time when she had-fully given -up her ihearft to the only being whom  she had really ever loved, 'since.-her wronged .-other lay in stony sleep by the side of her btrer--it wasrnf rtu'nate for; her that, at-this precise juncture, hter old and'vlued first friend)shohld return upon her asfif to awaken former memories and resolves k -But '   45M  .        ALBARERT HASTINGS. Rnowxi Dovigirs to avoid perl --ana ienwe e taq -gqgf^Kggl n, Of 3 -an-usa -asrt H gems- a lfa t MSet G  wat not o te e balkedc and having gone to Oak Mourit half an hour before, and then to the waterfall, she sped warily on to Roxannas present walk, and starting' abruptly before her, looked with reproachful and sinister eyes on the young girli who, feeling that she might appear guilty of in- gratitude, cast down her great lustrous eyes, deeply shaded with "the fringe of raven lashes, and spoke not. Tokea, with a bitter, half-scornful, half reproving glance,- surveyed the girl, and in her own language, which we but imperfectly translate, said: * "Ah, foolish child! was it not enough that you saw her die, so un- pitied, so -wronged; was it not enough that he loved the blue-eyed Emeline, and scoffed at you. You have told me this. 'Was it not enough that fMyra said to me, ' Tokea, take her (Roxanna) away from these people whose faces are white, but their souls are darker than the charred tree of thea forest, when lightning has burned out its heart, and its blackness makes it a sign to pa rs-by.' Think you not, daughter of a proscribed race, that the. words -of Alaric Lovel were sweet to the ears of Myra SGray; aye, sweet as those of Victor De Mar to her daughter? He was a comelier man, he stood erect like a chieftain, but the guile of serpents was under his tongue.  Look at Myra's -grave.  Let that speak for her.  But you, daughter of my tribe, who lie not, where is your oath? Did you not swear to me that you would, when time had released you from the bonds of that sinful woman, Valerie De Mar, who stole the heart of him who first loved Myra-did you not swear that you would go with me, as she in the sunny land, waiting for you even now, commanded. Then come 1" and Tokea stretched out her arms, and fixed her keen, piercing eyes full inthe face of Roxanna. Thebrave girl replied: "You talk,. dear Tokea, of things which transpired when I was a mere child. I am a woman now, and I tell you, tiuly, I have promised to marry Victor De Mar. I love him entirely-I will not forsake him, never, never," and Roxanna looked into the face of the woman with an eye as resolved as her own. "Well, then," subjoined Tokea, in regretful accents, "I see you for the-last time," and drawing a small clay vessel from her girdle, which I she filled from a little rill gurgling and rippling beneath the cedar shade. "Pledge me in this cup that I have discharged my mission, and you, not I, left the wish of the dead unfulfilled.- Is it not so?" Roxanna tremblingly assented, and to gratify the whim of the wild , creature, took the proffered cup, emptied its contents, and returned it \   -    M   ATRBERT HASTINGS.          455 "Rei you back quickly to the proud house yonder, and tel Victor De Mar the race, of Cosato asks not to mingle the blood of palefaces in their tribe. Go -uickly, for ere another sun shall set, Myra will clasp her daughter in the land where sorrow cannot come." "Tell me, Tokea," gasped Roxanna, " is there death in the cup of which I have partaken?" "Aye, death," returned the woman, as she strode rapidly away-- "certain death, but you mnay return, there is time. He cannot betray you now." Roxanna clasped her hands, and cast an appealing look to heaven, then around on the beautiful world in all its spring-time odor and glory; she looked regretfully, but at thought of Victor, a spasm passed across her lovely features, and she paid audibly, "I must spend my last moments with him. Cruel Tokea  She told me there is yet time-I must away," and she walked rapidly towards the hall. The world seemed spinning around her; there-were deafening sounds in her , ears, and a strange tumult at her heart. She reached the front veran- dah of the hall, and meeting old Lisbeth there, (Valerie's nurse, and a person of great consideration in the household,) said faintly: ' Lisbeth, I am very ill, lead me to the hall. No, not to my cham- ber ; that is on the second floor, and I would fain sit down.": "Oh, my dear young lady, what ails you? Have you met Tokea in the wood? She was here inquiring for you this morning at: daybreak, and her looks affrighted me., Has she harmed you?"  Lisbeth, though a dependent, enjoyed the full confidence of the fam- ily, whose interest was identical with her own, and claimed to be herself of Indian descent, though an African mother had left her the hue of a different race. Lisbeth was, therefore, addressed by -Roxanna as a friend, rather than-a servant. "She gave me to drink at the cedar fountain," said Roxanna very faintly, '"and asked me to pledge her, at parting, in a draught of water. You know her wild notions, Lisbeth, and IX did not refuse, little thinking-" "Gracious heaven," shrieked the nurse, "-then she has fulfiiled her threats, which we all thought idle, She has poisoned you; don't be frightened, she has tried to do so, but we shall see, -.Rest you here, Miss Roxanna, I will go to my mistress and to Master Victor, instantly." Roxanna laid herself wearily down on, a lounge in the hall, and began, indeed, to experience strange sensations of bodily pain. Sho   456       .  AJBERT HAS INGS. was aware of a great stir in the house. She heard Victor, in a loud tone, order -his groom to ride instantly, and with speed, to Dr. Har- land's residence, and bring the physician without delay. Then she was conscious of resting on a bosom, the dearest to her in life, while JEBolian lyres seemed warbling in her ears, and in a state of painful, half-dreamy consciousness, she, finally lost all knowledge of ,life. She felt the strange, cool breeze of a dream-world encompass her, and was em- braced in the, loving arms of the departed Myra; afterwards, she lost sensation altogether, and lay as one dead. 'Meantime Dr. Harland had arrived, and, judging from the symptoms that some powerful narcotic had been administered to his patient, im- mediately applied such remedies as his skill suggested, which, in due time, operated favorably, while Victor, the picture of despair, gazed on the sufferer with his soul in his eyes, and occasionally withdrawing them, glanced at the doctor, as though his own life hung on what might ensue. The physician for some time avoided the anxious, searching eye of the young man, and would not be diverted from the case before him, even to satisfy the pleadings of despairing love. One, two, three hours passed thus, and still Dr. Harland pretended that he had no time to spare for an encouraging--glance. At last, throwing his half-tearful, intelligent and hopeful eyes full on Victor, he said, in his usual curt, but decided manner:     -( There is hope -we shall be all right yet; and then my advice is, that you marry the young lady without delay, and scare away all these enemies,'which it seems besiege her family and yours." Victor grasped the physician's hand, ' Oh, sir, only assure me of her life I   ;: "That HcLeannot positively-do. . But am safe in saying that probably she will recover. - It has been a narrow chance, however. Ah,- I see my lovely patient opens her eyes, and -they look quite natural. IFow do you feel, my dear young lady?" Roxanna, without replying,' turned her face toward Victor, and whispered-in a low voice: I have sgen her, beloved, and she sent me back to you. I shall not die, doctor," continued she, throwing the bright intelligence of her always unequ:aled eyes on the pleased, medical man--- no, I feel that I am released awhile from the inevitable doom. She has told me so- in that mystic realm where my soul wandered, while the body, pros- trate under a malignant potion, was indeed, half-numbered with what 2  .                           .   ATLBERT HASTnGS8           4 was once animated creation, the loving and beloved, the passed away, the dead." "Wellj dear young lady," responded Dr. Harland, " well, your return to this breathing world is matter of gratulation to me. I am, by rea- son of my profession, the repository of many family secrets; I wish I were not, but the fact is such, and I often give advice in the character of physician, which I would noat perhaps, venture to do otherwise. I am sure my young friend here 'will pardon me, when I say be had better get you out of the, country -for a while, and wean you, at once,  and forever from all connection with influences, from which your otwn innocence does not protect you. There, I am an old man, I have spo- ken freely, and I don't ask pardon for having done so."' Dr. Harland's advice was followed. Scarce had the. beautiful Rox anna lifted up her head from that couch so nearly her death-bed, scarce had her vision been withdrawn from the inexorable gate which, closing on wthaN we call life, secures any return from that dark valley shadowed by the raven-wing ofAzrael, De Mar Eall wa illminated for another bridal; not with the splendor which had been there dis-; played onk that tragical occasion when the ride'4 father cut short hi own thread of existence, overborne by a tide of circumstances, pro cured by his crimes and duplicity. Great was the exultation of Mr. Oalloway, on being summoned in the bishop's place, to perform the ceremony,- which he did m an im]Vres- sive wd solemn manner, remarking at its conclusion, to a friend there present that he had, on the day previous, bestowed hisbeloved daugh- ter, Miriam, so meroifilly rescued from the Congaree, ophi esteemed brother clergyman, Mr. Jenkins, in whom he had al co adence: and he trusted, that,.like T aae anid Rebecca, they would walk: togeer in paths of rectitude and peace.  The good man wa observed to pgartket with excellent zest, of the bridal feast, and a novel and wonderful retlation of us stem and rug- ged visage, accompanied hi partiig beediction. Now the yellow leaves of autun    whirl,and floa and fi settle around us in patches on the sidewalk, are scattered pver the street, or hang depending by a slight tenure to sickylchels Vhich wax feeble at the approach of the-frost-king's ohi!ling:blatq. Wq are in the Crescent City which sits like a queen st that poit where fthe Father of Waters, after rolling his kipgly waves through alargo po0i0in of Northern America, sweeps away into the great Mexican GEf, -p,'i lost in the vast Atlantic. A'silver-sphered moon of southern bit' ness, mellow and rich, illumines our night, and a sun of dazzlitgh L    o    458           ALBEBT HA6TINGS. effulgence irradiates our noon. The Indian summer, with all its poetic associations and mild glory, surrounds us. The orange and lime are fresh and vigorous as ever; still laurels, children of a sunny realm, wave their greenly-painted, and brightly-varnished foliage; still does the tropical banana, with broad banners of immense, though riven leaves, maintain somewhat of verdure, and shiver at every blast which, with withering effect, teaches the torrid plant, that even here; the burning suns and ardent equatorial atmosphere are wanting to its unim- -peded development. A child of adoption, it languishes for Indian heat. But whither do we wander? Writing of spring and joy, the scenes around us have withdrawn our eye, for a time, from those with whom long association has made us familiar. We turn to the stately park, the ancient hall and its occupants, not strangers to those whose patience has permitted them to follow the pages of this, perhaps too prolonged, history; informing them that our pilgrims' shrine is almost- won, and they need only indulge us while we narrate the close of a record, which had become part of our daily existence, and which we leave reluctantly. If there is any re- sponse to our feeling in this regard, on the part of the discrimfnting reader, we are more than repaid for all which is written. "So mote it be." But Hastings' Hall was grandly decorated on this day. The proud- est names of England's aristocracy, were numbered amongst its guests. The gala time extended far out of that charmed and refined circle, to comfortable, but lowly cottages, of which Sir Albert Hastings was the; good genius; to village -schools, which, without committees or parade, he had made a blessing to the estate. And, start not, reader, on this very day, three brides were given at the altar. First came Sir Albert Hastings and Emeline Lovel. Ah, there was a world of ro- mance and truthful love in their history, which -ur records fail to disclose. He looked, as indeed he was, one, elevated by those mental and moral excellencies which, partly owing to a good and noble nature, were established by early lessons of virtue, and consolidated, in the first place, by trials of adverse fortune, and afterwards by the adulation of a world which he had learn'ed duly to estimate. Flattery was an idle thing tohim, who had, been poor and self-dependent. - Yes, idle; it only strengthened him in that firm, self-reliance which makes great men, with the approval of a good conscience., But he looked nobly now. A calm, bright serenity on his grand- Anglo-Saxon brow, and his head, with its American symmetry, and' that faultless curve of neck   ALBERT  HASTINGS.          459 and shoulders, which Praxiteles emulated in his god-like workts. After all, what is art but a transcript of nature; and the incomparable Greek sculptor would have recognized a fine subject before -him, could he have seen Sir Albert Hastings, as he stood at the altar. Yes, and the fair southern girl, with liquid, blue eyes, the bloom and fresh- ness of an early love which had never wavered or grown cold, playing over her features, as it sought vent from the heart where it had ever reigned, stood by his side. Ah, the-world was to her now- another paradise. Cousin Albert restored-life, happiness, all were restored in him.  The loveliest of soft, blue eyes, were drooped over by those lashes of bright golden hue, more accustomed to weep, in memory of the past, than to rejoice in the present. But there he was, the world to her; and as she took his arm at the altar, a murmur arose, indicative of the admiration excited by her gentle, deep-loving face, her nymph- like slightness and delicacy of form, and the perfect artlessness, and winning character of her whole aspect. Although a fog now enveloped the outer world, through every room, corridor and hall of superb old Hastings, candelabra, and every light of modern invention, gleamed forth, emulating the pride of day; while the atmosphere was redolent of glad perfumes, exhaled from alabaster and china vases, filling every niche, and blooming, and blush- ing, without removal from the rich and delicate urns in which they had been trained. The grim old portraits seemed invested with new life, as over them hung myrtle flowers, the frail, but ever lovely labur- num, the queenly rose, flower and bud, and every child of spring which now lifted its rejoicing eye, to welcome advancing summer.. Our love of flowers still detains us, but on we pass, heedless of the gold and silver, the richly-spread tables, and all luxury demands in furnishing forth an entertainment suited for wedding guests. We pass these by, and come at once to those with whom, no less than with the lord of the mansion, and his beauteous bride, our sympathies connect us. Lord Rathbourne, thongh long bowed by grief, and, like some storm- riven oak, scathed by lightning, beaten by hail and tempest, was still a goodly tree, and the comforter stood by his side. She who had loved and cherished the departed-glory of his life, his sainted Geraldine' now in heavenl-yes, Geraldine had, said, when the chill hand of death was on her-"Dear Lady Arundel, take care of him. He will miss me so sadly, ah, so bitterly-take care of him. I will thank you on the better shore." There was a subdued sadness, and at the same time a complete satisfaction on his lordship's features as he clasped the hand of Mary Arundel, and she became the great Lady Rathbourne, whose   "O          AMLBERT HASTINGS. acts of beneficence would demand more time than we. can devote to the records of virtue. But the great English earl had never fulfilled his destiny, which was that of a princ in the land. We are assured  of his fixture usefuls, for Lady Arundel is his bride and he defers to her, not with the passionate ardor of romantic youth, but with the sober judgmenit of riper years, which faith-that of matured and experienced manhood is worth the trust at least of a true woman's heart. Let these go by, and another couple claim our regard. Ahb there is  my Lord of Burlington, who looks more like the author of Rienzi this day than ever he. did-before. The mtkn's soul is in his speaking grey Byronic eyes, in his ineffable smile, and the proudly humble demeanor  and speech which mark bims. Well may he exult, since on his arm. hangs the beautiful, good, angelic Valerie De Mar-who, abjuring this ,vain world because she had found it so false, yet heeded the deep de- votion of her noble lover, and for his sake consented to return to the active scenes of a life which had proved so utterly false to her. But, m returning good for evil, the sainted Valerie had met her own re- ward. Alari Lovel, the false semblance, the Dagon of her idolatry was gone-lost forever. She could not wish this otherwise, for in his place, and adorned with the virtues which her enthusiasm had once  attributedto-him, stood another who loved her truly; whose nature was  incapable of deception; of whom  even Lady Arundel had sad,  "Burlington is the soul of-honor. I never knew a more truthful and unpretending character." Sweet Valerie De tar I the white bridal veil which enveloped but could -not soften or etherealize her saint-like visage, floated over her chiselled and pure eatures, while, for the secopnd time, she stood at the altar. But no roses ot- d-ndd effect to the unworldly beauty she bore In and of herself were those jewels which my Lord Burlington esteemed more cosftly thi any cabinet in England could produce. ka, but her voice was treous, sand- moisturegathered inn her dark eye, when she gave to a-true lover thdse vows which her great feminine heart would fidl with years of self-denial, sorrow,desolation, and death itself, were the obectworthy. Thanks toan AlmightyProvidence, she--felt that he-the gifted, pitying, noblgenoerus Brlington wa indeed worthy -and after the storms, and danger, andshipwreck ofher early life, this great mariner, this one ,ost reliable of all whomi she had ever known, had come to save her at last The tempest-tossed bark was' anchored Poor Valerie -De Ma thins even true; otherwise, hke loraMcIvor, like Isabella Bruce, or many other characters of fiction, we would learve thee, despite thy virtue,.but yielding to misfortune, a nun or, worse. ,L       v  *          * ^  " r 'r   v       .   ALBERT HASTINGS.           461 even, that cold carping misanthropic thing we call an ancient maiden,; but whom we should rather designate as a doomed woman, freed from a guide, perhaps, but subjected to the bitter loneliness of one (that one, of the weaker sex), who, having none to love, has also none on whom to lean-miserabik visu. And now, as we close, a few parting words will inform our readers of the fate of others whose history is blent with this narration. Hugh Herndon, in accordance with the sentence pronounced by the Judge after his trial, was on the appointed day executed. His demeanor never changed. Hardened by crime, he- died as he had:lived, a bold infidel, a man without remorse or fear. Dexter never recovered the possession of his mental faculties, and was, after a time, released from confinement, when Mr. Calloway took him in charge, and owing to the influence which he had always, even in the wildest delirium, exercised over the pedagogue, was able to command and soothe him. Miss Juliet Grayson lived still at the farm, and in the old way, doing good with an ill grace, and more respected than loved, but yet, despite her asperities! a woman of rectitude and worth.  The wretched Pauline, after a career of vicissitude and vice, was buried from that gloomy receptacle of .miseryand m'isfortune, Lax .  Morgue, which stands as a frightful foil to the gay streets and animated- haunts of Paris.                      '  Albert and Emeline Hastings lived useful and honored lives. Poor A manda Lovel's lessons were not lost; and good Mr. Oldham returned to America with his business sphere greatly enlarged, having formed connections in Liverpool - through his English friends, which' placed him on the list of merchant princes. At Hastings Hall, amidst its flowers and ancient grandeur, there was after a time, seen a beautiful child at play so lovely that the eye rested with delight on her angel-like aspect, and 'as Emeline and Albert walked out to greet-their child on the lawn, -they called her "Geraldine."    
         
       
   
