
    ----CITATION----
        Wright, Julia McNair, (1840-1903). How Could He Escape? .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8383
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               HOW COULD HE ESCAPE? 
               A Temperance Tale. 
             
            By MRS. JULIA McNAIR WRIGHT, Author of "John and the Demijohn," "Jug-or-Not," "Priest and Nun," etc., etc. 
             
                
                  
                     "WHY, I've drunk but one cup to-night, and that was craftily qualified, too; and behold what innovation it makes here!"
                   
                  CASSIO, IN "OTHELLO." 
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               The National Temperance Society and Publication House,  
                     172 WILLIAM STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1870. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by J. N. STEARNS, In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 
          
          
             
            NOTE BY THE AUTHOR. 
            THE principal incidents in the following true story were first presented to me in a sketch by the Rev. B. P. Aydelott, D.D., of Cincinnati. 
            Perhaps the temptations, the struggles, and the ruin of the subject of this tale are far beyond what unaided imagination could depict. Those who read may rest assured that they are not perusing a romance of what alcoholic drinks may do, but a careful narration of what they have done, and may do again in any individual case. The sketch referred to has been preserved in a valuable Tract. 
          
       
      
         
            How could he escape? 
             
             
            HOW COULD HE ESCAPE? 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE WIDOW'S FORTUNE. 
               
                   
                     AN ENEMY ABROAD 
                  
                
               IT was four o'clock on a March afternoon when Mary Davenport, with her only child, came back from the burial of her husband. Mary's small, unpainted, shutterless house, with the few leafless bushes beating against the clapboards, the yard all trampled by the feet of funeral guests, and the bars of the rail-fence let down for the pall-bearers to pass through, had never looked so dismal and forlorn. Mary in her scant, cheap mourning, holding tight to little Guy's hand, entered her own door. A few neighbors came with her. These did not remain long. The new-made widow was not one of those women who find relief in gossiping about their woes. She preferred to be alone with her grief, and to hold counsel with herself. 
               The neighbors were kindly people; they pitied this woman; they were willing to help her in what small way they could; they saw before her only a future of poverty and struggling for mere existence. With a pat upon Guy's head, a nod to his mother, and a word or two about "cheering up" and "taking courage," these friends went away. Matthew Norton and his wife stayed longest. 
               "Is there fodder plenty, Mary?" asked Matthew, moving uneasily about the widow's little room. 
               "Plenty," replied Mary, sitting down and looking absently out of the window. 
               "And fuel? Wood cut?" 
               "Plenty," said Mary again. Perhaps she was thinking how she had come to this now dreary home a bride eight years before, and had looked at the place brightly and hopefully, and believed she should be happy in it. 
               "Well, Ellen, we must be going," said Matthew to his wife. "If you want anything, Mary, at any time, of help or advice, send the boy over to us; we're always ready." 
               "Yes, dear heart," said stout Mrs. Norton, her round face clouded and her blue eyes tearful for Mary's affliction, "send to us. And cheer up, Mary; there's always a way through this world, if we set ourselves to find it. And, Mary, look to the Lord-that's the way." 
               Mrs. Norton hesitated a little over her pious remark, and checked herself suddenly at its close. She was not, like some of her sisters, given to much or public speaking. She realized that she was ventilating her religion, if not in an unfriendly, at least in a chilly, atmosphere; and, rather than blame her for not saying more, we must hail it as eminently heroic to venture to say as much as she did. 
               They were gone. Mary and little Guy were alone at last. Guy, with that carefulness which poverty had inculcated, hung up his new black jacket, and laid by his new shoes. Mary, who could not afford to wear her mourning-dress-albeit it was nothing but a calico-while she was at her household work, folded her frock, and put it in a drawer, with the bonnet Mrs. Norton had dyed and trimmed beside it, and also with the new veil and gloves. 
               "Come, Guy," said Mary, "we will do our work." 
               She put up the bars, brought in wood, fed and watered the two horses, the young steers, and milked her three cows. Then she had supper with Guy. The neighbors had brought in gifts to pantry and cellar, and the meal was a good one. Guy thought so, and he ate heartily. Mary Davenport, sitting by the table with her head resting on her hand, while her child took his supper, was evidently a woman of great possibilities. She was a tall, strong woman-a woman with a sound mind in a sound body. She was not a handsome some woman; her face was worn and sad, her hands labor-hardened; but she was an honest, earnest, reliable woman; you could see that at a glance. She had been a district-school teacher before her marriage, capable of teaching a winter-school of rough, unmannerly lads, and of holding her own in it. Since then she had been a prudent and busy housewife. When her dishes were washed and preparations made for morning, Mary sat down by her front window, and Guy brought a stool to her feet, and laid his head in her lap. What he knew of his loss and orphanage, and the still grief of his mother's face, oppressed the boy's heart. He reached after his mother's hand, held it, and wept softly. This boy of six knew something of death. Two little sisters, younger than himself, had been laid in the grave, and he had cried and been lonesome when they were gone. Now here was a greater loss-one that crushed his mother far more, and darkened all the coming years. Guy apprehended that they were in a desperate case, and cried until he was exhausted and fell asleep. 
               Mary, meanwhile, was too preoccupied to soothe her child. They were in a desperate case, and she was considering it. Her husband had died suddenly, after but a week of illness. There had been no time for advice or consultation concerning her future course. There were no relatives to help them. James Davenport had bought sixty acres of land, but this was not all under cultivation; the fences were tolerably good; the house small and shabbily built, but weather-tight as yet; the stable and barn miserable wrecks; the stock and farming implements insufficient, and a heavy mortgage resting on the whole. 
               If Mary had been childless, as she was widowed, she would doubtless have resigned herself, like many other women, to the life of a seamstress, and have made a scanty support by going among her neighbors as dress-maker and tailoress. She could not do this with a child. She could not take in sewing at her home, nor return to school-teaching; for this would not enable her to pay the interest on the mortgage, to say nothing of raising the debt entirely. Should she sell out, pay the borrowed money, spend in a year or two the small remainder, and then be in a greater strait than ever? She thought no woman ever had so hard a fate; she grew desperate, angry at Providence, envious, bitter; her heart was in a tumult of wild emotions-sorrow and longing for the dead, craving for present aid, terror of the future; all the fierce strength of her nature was roused and misdirected. 
               Little Guy's head moved uneasily on her knees, and Mary bent forward to place him in a more comfortable position. The moonlight was pouring in at the window, and illuminated the sleeper's face. The child was very dear to Mary-all the dearer because she had buried those other babes, and the love that had belonged to them had gathered and centred in Guy. As he slept, she studied his face to see how he was like his father. She recalled that father's life-a long fight with narrow means and with misfortune; a fight that had been un-helped by friends or by a liberal education. Here was little Guy: must he follow in his father's steps, weary and discouraged, always losing, and dying heart-broken before his time? 
                
               Then Mary recalled what had been her husband's desires, what the hopes and plans of his brighter hours. He had meant to pay for and improve this present farm; to buy another farm besides; to build barns and a substantial house; to educate Guy, and let him inherit a competence. But now the father was dead, and all these plans must be abandoned, and Guy must have no education, no farm, no money. 
               And just here the widow suddenly inherited her fortune. Her husband had left her poor possessions, and those encumbered with debt; but he had also left her the child; and from that moment the child was wealth to her. On either hand, want and sorrow seemed reaching out bony fingers to clutch little Guy, and the hidden strength of this mother's being rose up to contend with them and to achieve victory. Her child should not be homeless and destitute, the servant of the neighborhood. She would educate him; she would pay the debts, and add farm to farm, and build up the home, and bring him to man's estate, the equal of the best; she would set him where he should be a power in the community; she would realize all the father's dreams, accomplish all his plans, be father and mother in one; and she and this son, unconscious sleeper now, would one day raise in enduring marbles bles the father's tomb, and make honorable the father's name. 
               Mary's heart swelled with resolution; her eyes dried and grew bright with her strong determination; courage came in the room of despair; the dire exigency had called forth all her native abilities: she knew herself capable of accomplishing the task she set herself. 
               Still in the moonlight she studied the calm face of the only creature she had left to love, and in imagination faced the coming years, and felt herself equal to doing battle with them all. 
               Mary was not a Christian; but she had lived among Christian people; she was no atheist or heathen. While the Gospel had not glorified her heart, her mind was somewhat enlightened; there was something of devotion within her. She had prayed for the lives of her dying babes and husband. God had not heeded her prayer in the form she had rather demanded than asked, and she had been angry even with him. Still, in this hour of new resolutions, of a courage which was roused by being driven at bay, there were fugitive thoughts of prayer, and a consciousness that she must be helped and prospered by supernal power. 
               The room was growing cold. Mary roused Guy to go to bed. As she went about the house to fasten doors and windows, the child pattered after her shoeless, his head hung down, and his little fists sleepily rubbing his eyes. Thus he stumbled after his mother up the bare, narrow stairs to their room, dropped on his knees by the bed, sleepily mumbled the form of prayer she had taught him, and, clambering into bed, soon was beyond the dreams that flit on the border-lands of sleep, and had wandered to the inner regions of complete unconsciousness. 
               But while the object of this mother's cares was thus at rest, Mary herself was wakeful. Her mind took a broader range than the domestic drudgeries which for years had absorbed her, and she planned the labor of her future life. 
                
               Carefully recalling all that her husband had ever told her of his designs about his farm and business, and going beyond these designs that he had considered possible to what had been merely wishes, she, having a bolder and more resolute spirit, determined to accomplish even what he had thought above his reach. 
               Beyond the days of hard toil and heavy cares lay for Mary a horizon of beauty, when the son for whom she was willing to do so much should have reached an honorable manhood, fully provided for all the demands of life, proud of his mother's energy, grateful for her self-sacrifice, and ready and able to repay her long devotion. 
                
               "Guy," said Mary, when they sat down to their early breakfast, "you must not be a baby any longer; you must be a man. You and I must do father's work now. This farm will belong to you one day, and we must try and have it the finest farm in the country." 
               Guy looked up with sparkling eyes. "I heard them telling how we'd have to leave here, and sell out," he said. "I'm glad you ain't going to do it, mother; I don't want to be a beggar-boy, with nothing of my own." 
               "You sha'n't be," said Mary, setting her teeth. "I'll show them what a woman can do." 
               When Mary had made her house neat, and the sun was getting high, she called Guy, from whom she could not endure to be separated a moment, and set out for a walk about her farm. 
               Mary, prepared for this tramp, would, doubtless, have been an object of the lofty contempt of some of her magnificent sisters, and have provoked many masculine sneers. There are those who would have thought her occupying her legitimate sphere if she had bound out her boy to some farmer, and spent her own days going from house to house making gowns and pantaloons. 
               Not so thought Mary. She put on a pair of boots, a brown calico dress that did not reach below her ankles, but which was neither patched nor faded, a small checkered shawl, a black hood, and a pair of buckskin gloves. With little Guy for her only attendant, Mary made the circuit of her estate; she examined all the fences, considered the wood-lot and the pasture, made many notes in a little blank-book which she carried in her pocket, and at noon returned to the house muddy and weary, but hopeful. 
               "Will you build a new barn, mother?" cried Guy, who looked upon his mother as the good fairy who could do all things; "and will you keep sheep?" 
               "We will keep the sheep, but the barn cannot be built this year," replied Mary, pulling off the boots which had done such good service. "Now, Guy, you must work as well as mother. Get us a dinner of bread and milk, and then clean and oil these boots and yours. After that, you must spend the afternoon at your lessons. A man to be successful, Guy, must be wise." 
               Guy had not been brought up to childish idleness. During the brief lives of the two departed babies, he had been called upon to aid his mother in many household duties; and now he got their simple noon meal, and washed the few dishes as well as a girl, and cleaned the boots as thoroughly as a much older boy. He then set himself to his little lessons with a hearty good-will; for to his father's amiable and honest disposition Guy had added his mother's strength, physical and mental. 
               As for Mary, she had decided that the approaching busy seasons would leave her very little time for sewing, and that there would be no money to spare for clothing; so she gathered about her her small resources, and went to work cutting out and mending what garments would be needful. 
               When the moon had risen, Mary and her boy went to visit their nearest neighbor, Matthew Norton. Mrs. Norton had just undressed her baby, Nannie, and Mary took the infant from her as she sat down. Mary was fond of babies-perhaps the more so as her own cradle was made for ever vacant. Guy stood shyly behind his mother's chair, and peeped at wee Nannie over her shoulder. "I came, neighbor," said Mary, "to see if you can tell me where I can get an honest, industrious hired man for my farm." 
               Matthew Norton dropped his week-old newspaper, and looked at Mary as if he thought her crazy. "A hired man, Mary! I should sooner think of your asking for a man to buy or rent your place." 
               "And, pray, what would we do, turned out of our home?" asked Mary sharply. 
               "I know it's hard, very hard," said Matthew, who was kind as he was narrow-minded; "but you'll only get yourself into deeper trouble if you put that farm into a hired man's hands." 
               "I don't mean to do that," said Mary. "I want a man to do the work, or part of it, while I give the orders. I shall manage that farm, and I don't wish you to recommend any man who will not obey me." 
               "But farming is not a woman's work, Mary," said Mrs. Norton anxiously. 
               "It is when it comes to her as it has to me," replied Mary. "Time will justify me, neighbors. It is useless to try and change my mind; I'm one of the farmers of this neighborhood from this day. As to your mortgage, Matthew, I'll pay the interest to the minute, never fear, and the principal, too, before I'm many years older." 
               "I'm not afraid of the mortgage," replied Norton, to whom half the Davenport debt was due; "the farm is always good for it, and land here is rising." 
               "Then why ask me to sell mine?" demanded Mary. 
               "Only because you are a woman." 
               "That is no reason why I should be a fool, and throw away my last chance in life. I'm my husband's executor, and have his boy and his own unfulfilled plans and hopes to take care of, and you shall see I will do it well." 
               "I'll try and find a suitable man for you," said Matthew, "if you will not be persuaded to change your mind." 
               "Mary won't change her mind," said Mrs. Norton, still scrutinizing her neighbor, "and I don't believe she'll fail, either, Matthew. I never knew her to fail in anything yet." 
               Mary looked gratefully to her friend. "I'm glad to find somebody that has faith in me," she said earnestly. 
               "I've faith enough in you," said Matthew; "but a woman to run a rough, new farm, burdened with debt, and with buildings that won't hold out more than two years-why, Mary, it's astonishing!" 
               "There have been other women who were farmers, and successful ones," said Mrs. Davenport. "We will do well, Guy and I." 
               "Yes," said Guy, "mother and I will get on." And, shaking his small fist at Matthew, he added belligerently, "Don't you say anything that my mother won't like!" 
               "I shall not," said Matthew, laughing. "Always stand up for your mother, lad." 
               "He's a brave boy," said Mrs. Norton, looking affectionately at the manly child-"a boy worth working for, Mary. He'll pay you one day for all you do for him." 
               Mary hoped so; yes, more, she believed so. The only burden of the future that she bore was the burden of care and toil, and that her child was amply to repay. With other portents the coming days were black, but Mary saw them not. 
               To her, in her boy's dark eyes, and broad brow, and genial smile, were only promises of love and happiness to come. No omen was written on that child-face of wretchedness and heart-break. 
               During the next few days, Mary was very busy, and busy at new work. Her tidy little kitchen became a workshop. One day she oiled and repaired the harness, on another she mended the farm implements. Her strong hands used deftly the tools from her husband's tool-box; nor was she altogether unaccustomed to such work, for she had always helped her husband, who had been able to hire but little aid; and more than that, she had been her own family carpenter, and could put up a shelf, or mend a chair or table, as well as an apprentice from the village. 
               Mary had determined to do something notable in her vegetable garden, and constructed a hot-bed. The boots, and the tools, and the spade came into play as she worked at this, and she coolly took out the two upper back windows to use for this bed, supplying their place with boards, and leaving the rooms unoccupied. 
               Matthew Norton shrugged his shoulders ders as he laid out two dollars at Mary's command for seeds of plants not usual in farm-gardens. He shrugged them yet more when Mary spent two afternoons in going about among her neighbors getting subscribers for an agricultural journal which she could have free for getting up the club. Matthew subscribed for the journal, however, and Mary had the satisfaction of accomplishing her object. 
               "Are you going to be a book-farmer?" asked Matthew. 
               "I'm going to be a thorough good farmer," said Mary. 
               "I don't know but that woman will make out something," said Norton to his wife. "I saw her and Guy out mending ing the fence of the pasture-lot, today." 
               "Never fear for Mary," said Ellen. "She will succeed." 
               On Sabbath, Mary harnessed her horse to the little wagon, locked her house, and drove with her boy to church. Both were in tidy mourning, and, despite the rough labors of the week, Mary looked good and womanly as she sat in the house of God. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE WIDOW'S HOPE. 
               
                   
                     FOR HEALTH'S SAKE. 
                  
                
               I'VE heard of several hands who want places until winter, Mary," said Matthew Norton, coming into Mary's house, one evening, when she was knitting and hearing Guy's lessons. 
                
               Mary closed the spelling-book, and gave her friend a chair. 
               "There's Sam Venn-" began Matthew. 
               "Haven't I heard that he drinks?" demanded Mary. 
               "Why, yes-he does sometimes; holidays, as Fourth of July and Thanks-giving, for instance. I don't think his habit would crop out to trouble you. But I just mention his name; I wouldn't hire him, if I were you." 
               "I won't have him on Guy's account," said Mrs. Davenport decisively. "What do you suppose I am taking double duty for, doing a man's work out of doors and a woman's in the house, if it is not to set Guy on his feet, and make a man of him? Do you think I will risk spoiling all my plans by bringing in a bad example to him? No, neighbor Norton, I propose to make my Guy a perfectly moral and honorable man." 
               "Well, Mary," said Matthew slowly, "if to all that you had added a thoroughly religious man, I should like to shake hands with you over the resolution." 
               "You can shake hands with me any way," said Mary, smiling. "I respect religion; I have no objections to it; indeed, I believe it a good thing. If Guy gets it, all right; but I believe he can be a perfectly just man and a good citizen without it." 
                
               "May be so," said Matthew with plain earnestness; "but if I were driving the bargain for that boy's future, I'd clinch it with piety." 
               Mary smiled a little over her knitting. She was so perfectly satisfied with her own opinion. 
               "Who are the other men, neighbor," she asked, "as the case of Sam Venn is settled?" 
               "There's Hugh Wood," said Matthew hesitatingly. 
               "I don't expect any one to be perfect," said Mary; "but I want a person who has faults that I can put up with. What's Hugh Wood's failing?" 
               "He has a bad temper-flies in a passion sometimes." 
                
               "Is he the one that knocked your boy over?" asked Mary, referring to a servant-lad of Norton's. 
               "Yes, that's the man." 
               "I won't have him either," said Mary. "My Guy has got to learn to work, and I want a man who will have patience to help teach him. I must get some one who can be kind to Guy, and put up with his awkwardness in learning." 
               Matthew suggested a third name. 
               "He would want to rule things," said Mary. "I shall manage this farm, and the man must take his orders respectfully." 
               We see that Mary was hard to please; but she found a servant who suited her at last-a pleasant, quiet young man accustomed to the farm, who may have thought himself the better judge of farming when he first entered Mary's service, but who soon changed his mind, and had a high respect for his mistress's abilities. 
               Mary had said that she expected to do a man's work, and she soon proved herself as good as her word. She was so methodical and dextrous that house-work was performed as if by magic. 
               She knew how to save labor, and to make Guy's help available. She could do half-a-dozen things at once, and do them all well; she could cook her breakfast, make preparations for dinner, pack up Guy's luncheon for school, set the table, bake her bread, and oversee Guy's churning, all at the same time. She saved the minutes, and made other people save them, and thus she had time for everything. 
               Some of the neighbors were aghast when Mary ploughed her own vegetable garden, and the largest one in the vicinity at that. If they looked at her curiously while she was doing this work, they had occasion to look at the garden with ever-increasing admiration; for, tended by Guy and his mother, and having all Mary's "book knowledge" expended upon it, it became such a garden as had never been seen in the county before. 
               When the vegetables were ready for market, Mary's house-work would vanish out of the way long before the dew had gone, and Mary would depart to town in her light wagon, with butter, eggs, vegetables, pot-cheese, and dressed chickens, and return with a well-replenished purse. 
               Nor was the vegetable-garden Mary's sole care out of doors. She worked in the field for days, she dropped corn and planted potatoes, and saw to it that there were plenty of pumpkins and beans growing. She had two orchards set out; she filled the vacant corners of the barnyard and the fences with corn and sunflowers for her chickens; and she moreover made her front-yard a paradise of flowers. 
                
               All the theories that had slept idly in her brain these many years took shape and became useful practice. 
               Mrs. Norton came over, one evening, with little Nannie in her arms, to see Mary. Mary was outside her back-door, picking half-a-dozen chickens to take to town next day. 
               "I'm glad to see you," she said to her neighbor. "It is a comfort to look at you; but I can't stop work to visit. Will you sit here and talk, while I get ready these fowls?" 
               "Certainly," said Ellen Norton, taking a little wooden rocking-chair from the tidy kitchen, and glancing about. The man was in the barn-yard, and Guy weeding among the vegetables. 
                
               "Your man milks, doesn't he?" said Mrs. Norton. 
               "Yes; and strains the milk, and cuts and carries in wood, and makes fires," replied Mary briskly. "I'm not going to do such work when he can make time for it. I supply the brains for this establishment, and plenty of the work too; but I try to equalize the labor. There is Guy, now; I have taught him to weed as well as I can, and he does nearly all of it." 
               "But you are doing so much, Mary, I am afraid you will wear yourself out." 
               "That would be poor policy," said Mary, laughing. "No, no, I shall not die before my work is done, and my Guy is the richest farmer in this part of the State. Do not fear for me; I was never better in my life. I take care of myself. I give myself plenty of good food and plenty of sleep." 
               "But Matthew told me you and Guy made all that yard for the chickens, that fence and shed, and all those contrivances." 
               "That's nothing," replied Mary. "I like that sort of work, especially when it is for my boy." 
               "And did you make all those frames in your front-yard, and those boxes for the flowers?" 
               "Yes, all of them," said Mary, lighting a twisted paper to singe a chicken, and then tossing it into a pan at her side. 
                
               "I don't see how you can find time for so many flowers," said Mrs. Norton. "I cannot." 
               "I make time," said Mary; "and it does not take so much as you suppose. Guy and I spend half an hour or at most an hour a day in that flower-garden-that is all. Peter, the man, sometimes works there a little in his noon-hour, for pleasure, he says-I never ask him to. You see, Ellen, if I ever want to sell my place, these improvements will help it to bring a good price. Besides all that, I need the flowers to cultivate Guy's taste, and refine him. I want him to be not only a hard worker and well-to-do, but I want him to be a gentleman.
                   Nothing will help more than flowers. I mean to have a picket-fence and a gate to the front-yard, and then the house shall be fixed up by degrees. It is all for Guy, but Guy is worth it; and I'll make him more worth it," added Mary, as she finished her work and began to pack the chickens in a box for market. 
               "I never saw such a woman as you are, Mary," said Ellen Norton. 
               "You would do the same, may be," said Mrs. Davenport, well pleased, "if you were driven to it as I am." 
               "I did not mean just in being able to do," said Ellen Norton honestly; "but you talk as if it all depended on you. You don't look for the Lord's help at all. It makes me think of the story of Nebuchadnezzar. I don't want to hurt your feelings, Mary; but it is necessary for us helpless human beings to look to the Lord, if we are going to come out well in the long run." 
               "I'm not so good as you are," said Mary kindly, still making her various preparations for market-day. "But I cannot see, Ellen, why I may not expect to succeed in my business, if I do it well and faithfully, even if I don't add religion to it." 
               "I can't explain it to you," said Ellen; "but our works need religion to save them, as our food needs salt. I know, for my part, I couldn't rest unless I had the Lord's blessing on whatever I was doing, so I might feel safe about it. Then as to my child, why, Mary, it would never satisfy me to tell what I was going to do for her if I didn't know that the Lord was going to do a great deal more." 
               Ellen Norton hugged little Nannie closely as she spoke. She had been married many years, and this child was a blessing long desired. Mary sighed; for the moment she felt as if she lacked some great aid and security that her good neighbor possessed. 
               "Only think, Mary," continued Ellen, "if, after all your care and hopes, your boy should grow up to go astray! Now, if you and the Lord had only a sure covenant for him to bring him up and make all right in the end, how safe you would feel!" 
               Ellen Norton was surprised at her own fluency, but her conscience prompted her, and maternal hopes were her text. She had thought prayerfully of her self-sufficient friend, and asked the Lord to teach her what to say to her; and now her lips were opened, very likely because it was not Gods will that Mary should be unwarned. 
               "Don't talk that way," said Mary, looking up as she knelt by the tub where she was packing rolls of yellow butter. "My Guy will not, shall not, cannot disappoint my hopes. Is there not Scripture for that? 'Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it.' I am training him up right. He shall have every advantage. I will shield him from temptation. I will make him honest and strong, and a despiser of all vice and meanness. I will have him educated, and, above all, he shall be obedient. Don't tell me he can go wrong after all that: he cannot." 
               Mary's vehemence almost frightened her friend. It seemed a defying of heaven or hell to snatch the boy out of her guiding hand. She was so self-reliant, so passionately devoted to this son, so bound up in his future, that Ellen Norton trembled. 
                
               "I'm sure," she said gently, "I never saw a nicer child than Guy. Every one loves him and praises him. I was only anxious that you should do the very best that can be done for him." 
               "Well," said Mary, with an attempt at lightness, "you and Matthew have promised, if I die, to take my boy to bring up. If that happens, you must bring him up in your own way. I know you will be good to him." 
               In after-years, did Mrs. Norton ever look back, and think that it would have been great mercy if the angel of death had in that very hour come between that mother and son, and taken one or the other of them? 
                
               As for Mary, her faint doubt of the way she had begun died before the stars came out. She had no thought of a change being needed. She went on preaching to her boy the gospel of honest industry, and limiting his attainments and hopes to this small earthly life. 
               Mary thought Matthew Norton a narrow-minded if a well-intentioned man. In matters pertaining to this world, Matthew was narrow. His opinions were cramped and often weak. But there was one direction where Matthew's ideas were wide as eternity and high as heaven; where his mind, fettered in some things, swept out far beyond Mary's limits, as the strong eagle rises sunward and leaves the titmouse or the wren. Beyond mortal strength and mortal life, Matthew and his wife had a hope, and a future, and a vision for themselves and for their child of which Mary had not the faintest dream. 
               Besides preaching to Guy the gospel of industry, Mary became to him also the apostle of morality. 
               As we have said, she was an intelligent woman. She had the teacher's tact of seizing upon current incidents as themes for her lessons; the sins of others made prolific texts wherefrom to preach virtue to her boy. 
               "There is nothing, Guy," said Mary, as she and her boy were hoeing corn together-"nothing so contemptible as profanity. It is most ungentlemanly. A gentleman's word should be sufficient without any oaths. He shows distrust in himself, and an undervaluing of his own veracity, when he feels called upon to swear to make his speech impressive. Never let me hear a profane or vulgar word from you. You must be an example to the neighborhood, to do credit to my teaching." 
               Mary was always talking to Guy as if he were her companion and friend. As they raked hay or bound sheaves, she gave him precepts for his future guidance. 
               "Some of our neighbors may furnish strong beer or whiskey and water for their harvest hands, Guy, but I'll have no such doings on my place. Folks shall never say that I set liquor before you, my boy. If you got a taste for strong drink, all my life would be thrown away. I tell you, Guy, that a drunkard is the vilest thing on the face of the earth. People talk of men making beasts of themselves by drinking whiskey: I say they make themselves worse than beasts. Why, boy, a beast drinks when he is thirsty, and no more than is good for him; but a drunkard fills himself with poison for the mere sake of doing it." 
               Thus it ever was with Mary. She talked morality, but not religion, to her son. He was to do certain things and avoid certain others, not because the various acts were pleasing or displeasing to his Creator, but because they were honorable or contemptible as the case might be. Mary did not seem to think that, when human passions should grow to their full strength, they would need a stronger rein than propriety or expediency to hold them in. 
               To her neighbors Mary often spoke boastingly of the influence she had over Guy. "I can do anything with him, mould him in any fashion; he accepts all my views for his own; I can make him a man after my own heart," she would say. 
               "I wish, instead of training him to what is merely good, you would lead him to what is best," said Matthew Norton. "These days of pliability are the days when you should bring him to the Lord." 
               "You are getting beyond me there," replied Mary. "I can only teach him what I know myself." 
               "O Mary! why don't you learn more?" sighed Ellen. 
               But while there was such an important omission in Mary's moral or spiritual development of her son, there was no flaw in the physical training she bestowed upon him. 
               The boy grew more robust and beautiful every day. Fresh from his morning bath, he went to the labors of garden or field; with an appetite healthful from exercise, he ate the simple and abundant food always upon his mother's table; night and day he breathed pure, wholesome air; and, with a mind sharing in the activity and vigor of his body, he applied himself to his school-tasks, and was praised by his teacher, and half-enviously admired by his companions. 
               Guy's school-days were not limited that he might work at home; he went every term, and cheerfully labored on the farm during his holidays, his mother so stimulating his ambition and his desire for fortune that industry became a pleasure. 
               Guy was regarded as the model boy for miles around. He was petted and held up as an example, and already Mary's success, both with son and farm, was beginning to justify to her neighbors the course she had taken. 
               Privately the Nortons would sometimes shake their heads, anticipating trouble; not that they saw any present signs of evil in Guy, but because they deemed it impossible that Mrs. Davenport could receive a blessing which she never asked of the Ruler of all, and because they believed the unaided human heart was not able to cope with all the allurements of "the world, the flesh, and the devil." 
               For the present, it appeared that all things prospered under Mary's hand. Her crops were early and abundant, and brought her a handsome return. When the work of summer and autumn was over, Mary had new work ready for winter. During the winter days and evenings, she spun her wool and plied her knitting-needles, and sent yarn and knit articles to town for sale. Her husband had known something of shoemaking, and had owned a box of tools for this purpose. Mary, recalling what she had learned by watching him, made shoes for herself and Guy. While she worked, she could talk, and she made her conversation so instructive that Guy learned more from his mother than he did from his schoolmaster. 
                
               As she had promised, Mary paid the interest on her mortgage punctually, and in the course of two years had means to remove part of the debt if she chose; but she did not so choose. Mary argued that she was losing money if her stock was not properly housed, if her buildings were permitted to get out of repair, or if her farming implements were insufficient. She, therefore, laid out her money in improvements; and, though some of her acquaintances said that Mary was "carrying matters too far" and "being too fast," with other slow and cautious remarks, Mary soon proved that she knew quite well what she was about, and was fully capable of managing her worldly affairs. As for Peter, the hired man, he protested that he "had rather work for Mrs. Davenport than for any man in the township; for she was a better manager, and made more improvements; and as for pay, he'd trust her as soon as the bank." 
               Of all the remark and consequent approbation which she excited, Mary was not unaware. She rejoiced in it, for every one likes to be appreciated; and, moreover, she secretly felt that, if she compelled the esteem of strangers, she was sure of the grateful pride of her precious boy, for whose sake all her ability had been exercised and developed. 
               The Nortons, who sincerely loved their neighbor and her child, had invited them to spend at their house the second Thanksgiving Day after Mr. Davenport's death-Thanksgiving Day being the great festival of New England. 
               Mary had not laid aside the plain, deep mourning she had assumed when she became a widow; she chanced to remark that she never meant to do so. A gossipy old woman who was present casually said that a woman who displayed so much energy, and had so good a property, was likely to have offers of marriage. "Those will be nothing to me," said Mary in her sharp, firm manner. "Haven't I said I was living for Guy; and do you think I will let any one come in between him and me? When my farm gets a master, it will be Guy and no other. My husband broke his heart over the place, and I'll not let any man but his son profit by it. No, Guy is all I have in this world." 
               "Mary, Mary, I am afraid you are making an idol of that lad," said Matthew Norton. 
               "What if I am?" asked Mary sharply. 
               "The Lord won't stand idols, Mary," said Matthew. 
               Mary set her lips firmly, but did not reply. 
               As the gossip had suggested, suitors were not lacking to this energetic widow. And the way she treated the first honest bachelor who came with designs on her heart and property was sufficiently amusing. She saw him ride up, and, with a shrewd guess at his errand, went promptly to the door, and took the initiative: 
               "Good-day, neighbor. Have you come on business?" 
               "Well, not exactly that," replied the guest, taking his foot from the stirrup, with a little smirk. 
               "Then you need not get off your horse. I have no time for anything but business," said Mary decidedly. And, retiring within her castle, she emphatically shut the door. 
               This incident got abroad, very possibly through Peter's agency, and Mary's next admirer profited by it This was a well-to-do widower, and he came when the busy Mary was in her corn-field, trim and tidy in clean collar and stout leather gloves, for Mary had a feminine regard for her hands. Guy reported that "a man at the fence wanted to see his mother." Mary went thither, hoe in hand. 
               "Any business, neighbor?" 
               "Yes," returned her guest. 
               "Whose business is it?" asked Mary calmly. 
               "Yours, and mine too," said her admirer. 
               "Mine and Guy's is all I have time for," said Mary, and, with a short, little nod, went back to her corn, the astute Guy grinning as he followed her. 
                
               But while she was thus severe on all those who desired a share in Guy's farm and Guy's devoted mother, Mary was in many respects a very womanly woman; none more kind to the sick than she, none better in housekeeping, none more tidy and respectable in dress. When Mrs. Norton and little Nannie were ill of fever, Mary stayed with them, nursing day and night, for a fortnight, leaving her house and farm to the tender mercies of Peter, who happily was faithful to his trust, and denying herself all this time even a sight of Guy's face. As to Nannie Norton, if Mary loved a being on earth besides Guy, it was that winsome child. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE WIDOW'S SON. 
               
                   
                     THE FESTIVE GLASS. 
                  
                
               BY the time that Guy was fourteen, a great change had passed over the home to which he and his mother had so sorrowfully returned after his father's burial. 
               The house had been painted without and within by Mary herself. It had also been neatly papered. Carpenters had been called to build a wing and a porch, and put blinds to the windows. Behind the house rose large barns and stables; every part of the farm was under thorough cultivation; instead of the rail fences that had bordered on the highway were thick and well-kept hedges, for hedging was one of Mary's pet hobbies; the orchards were in fine order, and yearly loaded with fruit; scarcely a carriage passed that way that did not stop that people might admire the flowers, evergreens, and shrubbery of Mary's front garden. While with her ordinary crops Mary had succeeded even better than the average of farmers, with fruit, market-gardening, fowls, sheep, and the raising of young horses and cattle she had done wonders. She had paid for all her improvements, and had begun to pay off her mortgage. With all this success, however, her ambition was only partially satisfied. "By the time my Guy is twenty-one," she said, "I shall have another farm added to this: this is too small." 
               Where Mary would buy the other farm, or how she would pay for it, was with her neighbors not a matter of question. They had begun to feel that Mary would work out her own will, no matter what obstacles lay in her way. But, while Mary was working ing for her son's future, she had not deprived him of present comfort. There was no boy of their acquaintance better dressed than Guy: this, his mother said, was to help make him gentlemanly and self-respecting. While other lads slept in a plain, uncarpeted room, and ran down to the pump for their morning wash, Guy had a comfortably furnished and carpeted bedroom, of which he was undoubtedly proud. 
               Guy had helped his mother to sew and color the rags that made his carpet, and with a little instruction from her he had made his table, bookshelves, and washstand. 
               He had inherited his mother's ingenuity and industry, and in all their work the mother and son were inseparable. Guy was fond of reading, and his mother supplied him liberally with books and papers. 
               "Your Guy is such a bookworm that he will choose a profession instead of farming," said Matthew Norton to Mary. 
               "Let him, then," said Mary. "I do not care, so long as he succeeds in the world. I would not begrudge selling the farm to start him fairly as a lawyer or a doctor. Still, I think he will prefer to be a farmer." 
               "He will be a smart man, at all events," said Matthew, who loved the boy well. Mr. Norton and Mary were looking up the road as they talked, watching Guy, who was coming home from school, drawing Nannie on his sled. Guy had made a box for his sled, and took Nannie daily to school and home again, seated in state in this vehicle, her round, pretty little face framed in a fur-bound hood and rising above her bright scarlet cloak, and her mittened hands holding Guy's books, while the two small dinner-pails rattled at her feet. 
               "Guy must go to a better school, next year," said Mary. "I will keep him at home during the summer, and send him off to an academy in the fall." 
               "That is a great venture, sending a lad from home," said Matthew. 
               "Why is it?" asked Mary hastily. "It has to be done; the boy must be educated." 
               "There's great temptation for a young person," said Norton in his slow way. "While teachers teach what is good, there are plenty of wicked youth to lead astray." 
               "Who could lead astray a lad like that?" said Mary, looking proudly at Guy. "I have given him the best of training, these fourteen years. He knows right from wrong, and he prefers the right." 
               Mr. Norton had never heard the adage about seeing and approving the right and yet following the wrong, but he understood the fact that it sets forth, and he replied: "Mary, we are all prone to evil, as the sparks fly upwards. As the Apostle says, 'When we would do good, evil is present with us.'" 
               "If that's true," said Mary, "and true of Christians, how can we help it? What is one to do?" 
               "Restraining grace," said Matthew, "can keep us from flagrant sins, and make us humble and repentant. We may, Christians as other men, stumble or fall; but grace puts us on our feet and brings us out right." 
               "And suppose one hasn't that grace?" said Mary, in her tart manner. 
               "I have made up my mind," replied Matthew, "about this child that I have-and, if the Lord had blessed me with a dozen, I believe I should think the same-never to send my child from the care and restraint of my home until that child is converted-furnished with God's grace to resist temptation." 
               "Why, according to that," exclaimed Mary, "some folks must keep their children shut up at home all their lives!" 
               "No," said Matthew, who was wise in matters beyond this present life; "Christian parents have a right to look for the early conversion of their children. Any way, Mary, it is better to keep the children at home always, if need be, than to let them go out to lose, and miss the Father's house at last." 
                
               "Not being what you call a Christian parent, I have no right to look for the early conversion of my child," said Mary testily. 
               "If you seek the Lord for yourself and your son, I make no doubt but you will find him; and, if you had done it years ago, you would have been morally sure of it." 
               One would think that such honest and earnest remarks as these from her neighbor would have touched Mrs. Davenport; but she was so wise in her own conceit, so sure of her own course, and so wrapped up in worldliness, that it seemed impossible to influence her spiritually. Even now at Matthew's words she half-laughed. "I am no infidel, no disrespecter of religion; but, after all, neighbor, I am a good mother and a good business woman without it; my son is a good son without it; my servant Peter is a good servant without it." 
               As Matthew Norton and his wife sat before their blazing wood-fire that night, when Nannie was safely in bed, Matthew repeated this conversation to Ellen. When he had finished, he looked at the coals a long while in silence. Then he shook his head. "I tell you, Ellen, that some hard trouble is in store for Mary. She will be shown how weak we are; how poor our plans without the Lord to hold us up. Her course is a sort of quiet defiance of her Maker and His Word; she means to show that she is well enough off without Him, and it will be necessary to have it proved that she is not." 
               At the town where Mary took her produce to market was a boys' school, and the autumn before Guy was fifteen his mother entered him there as a pupil. He was to walk in to school on Monday morning, and return home with his mother when she came to market on Saturday. 
               On Wednesday, also, Mary could feast her hungry eyes with a sight of her idol, as on that day she was in town with her produce. 
               Now that Guy was away, Sunday was Mary's happy day, as then she had him home again. He went to church generally in the morning, for Mary thought this essential to respectability; it gave her also an opportunity for seeing her friends and displaying her fine son. There was a Bible at home on the table, but it was seldom opened, except to look at the family record or a paper or two put between the leaves for safe keeping. But on Sundays Guy gave his mother a history of the week, what lessons he had learned, what he had done, how he had got to the head of his classes, and excelled in the play-ground, and what boys he had thrashed for making unpleasant remarks about his mother or himself, or for tyrannizing over little fellows. 
               Mary listened to all this with brightening eyes, she spurred Guy's ambition and fostered his pride, and heartily sympathized in all he had to say. On pleasant Sabbath days they walked over the farm, projecting improvements, examining the buildings, visiting the stock, and forecasting of work and profit. They said they were happy-doubtless they were; they had health, a good measure of success; they loved each other well; but theirs, if a cheerful, was a thoroughly godless life, and therefore but the prelude to future misery. 
               When Mary, on a spring Saturday, called for her son at the Academy, she was handed his valise, and told that he was at Mr. Cropper's store, and wanted her to call there for him. 
               "What is he doing there?" demanded Mary, for Cropper's was a liquor store. 
               "He went there with Andy Cropper; they are very intimate, and Andy is going home with him to-day," replied the lad who gave Mrs. Davenport the valise. 
               This answer soothed Mary a little, for the Croppers were wealthy; and, as she drove down the street, she thought that a "wholesale wine and liquor store" was not disreputable like a tavern or a groggery. 
                
               "I suppose there must be some one to sell these things," said Mary; "and the Croppers do it respectably." 
               It is true that Mary did not cordially welcome the proposition that Andy should go home with Guy; she felt that it would deprive her of her idol's society; but Mary checked the feeling as selfish, and told herself that boys must have company of their own age. She therefore spoke very courteously to Andy, and even forced herself to tell him she was glad he was going with them. 
               Andy and Guy were sitting astride some wine-barrels in the store, laughing and talking, and Mr. Cropper, leaning back in his chair and smoking ing, was listening to their nonsense with a smile. 
               "A fine lad that of yours," said Mr. Cropper, coming out of the store as Mary's light wagon drew up in front-"a very fine lad. I only wish mine were half so handsome. I must have him for a clerk, one day, eh, Mrs. Davenport?" 
               "I don't know what line of life Guy will choose for himself," said Mary somewhat coldly. 
               "A fine team, too, Mrs. Davenport," continued Mr. Cropper, patting the sleek horses; "and very few ladies could drive such a span as that. Will you let the boys hold the ribbons as you go home?" 
                
               "Guy is a good driver," said Mary. 
               "Yes, father; and Guy has everything he wants; he has a yoke of steers and three horses, besides colts. I wish I had," said Andy. 
               Guy blushed a little, and looked shyly at his mother, as Andy's words betrayed his recent bragging. Mary only smiled. She liked to see Guy's incipient proprietorship. 
               On Sunday evening, the two boys, weary with a tramp over the farm, were lying on the grass near the front window chatting, while Mary sat just within. Mary had fallen into a reverie, when the voices of the boys discussing wines drifted to her. 
                
               "I don't like port," said Andy; "but Madeira is good, and sherry." 
               "Champagne is the best," said Guy. 
               "Why, my son!" cried Mary, leaning forward suddenly, "what do you know of wine?" 
               "He has only just tasted the kinds, just drops, down at the store when folks were buying," said Andy. 
               "That is dangerous business for boys," said Mary. "Just think what a miserable wretch a drunkard is!" 
               "But people don't become drunkards on wine; that is a gentleman's drink, father says," replied Andy flippantly. "And, besides, it is not a drink; it is just a taste or a relish, like syllabub or macaroons." 
                
               "I should rather my boy would have the syllabub," said Mary shortly. 
               "He will," laughed Andy. "Father says Guy will never make a tippler, he hasn't nerve to stand the least little drop. He makes faces at it, and says it flies to his eyes!" 
               "Hush up, do!" cried Guy. "What are you worrying mother with that folly for? Never mind him, mother. I don't drink his trash; he doctors it with wormy prunes and prussic acid. He's a crafty old Cropper. What a pity he wasn't a sheep!" 
               Andy flung himself at Guy, and began to rub his face with grass, and the boys went rolling and shouting over the sod, until Mary interfered for the safety of her flowers. But, if the boys laughed and were gay, Mary experienced a secret uneasiness. She had confidence in Guy, in her training of him; but she remembered how many mothers' plans had been frustrated, their hearts broken, and their sons ruined. Next morning, she called Guy into the pantry, where she was skimming milk and preparing breakfast, and had a long talk with him. This cheered her. Guy assured her that he did not use wine-would not use it. Andy's talk had been all nonsense about one sip. Guy despised drunkenness as much as his mother did, and felt himself above it. Then he kissed her and bade her never fear; he would be the greatest man in the State yet, and worthy of her care. 
               "Well, don't go to Cropper's store often, my boy; let Andy do the visiting," said Mary. 
               "All right," said Guy; "but the Croppers are about the first people in town, and they are very particular about Andy." 
               "Oh! well," replied Mary, not quite ready to have her son sacrifice a rich acquaintance, "I don't mean you to slight him or drop his society, but only to be careful." 
               What pity that this mother had not religious principle to go straight to the root of this matter, and sedulously keep her young son from walking "in the counsel of the ungodly, standing in the way of enemies, or sitting in the seat of scorners"! With the Bible for her chart, Mary could have steered a happy course safe from breakers of temptation, the headlands of human folly, and the shoals of mortal weakness. 
               Godliness is indeed profitable for the life that now is, and that which is to come. 
               When Guy, full of energy, came home to work during the summer holidays, Mary thought it was time to give him a share of business responsibility, and so bade him hire an extra hand for haying and harvesting. Guy undertook the commission with alacrity rity, and, when his mother asked him whom he had engaged, he replied, "Sam Venn." 
               "Is it possible!" cried Mary. "Why, I refused to take him years ago when I took Peter." 
               "Of course he doesn't begin to come up to Peter for a steady hand, but he will do for a few weeks," replied Guy. 
               "But he drinks," said Mary. 
               "Not regularly, or he would have been dead long ago, and he's hearty and jolly yet," said Guy. 
               "Yes, my son; but consider how inconvenient it would be to have him get on a drinking bout when we are in the hurry of our work." 
                
               "He'll know better than that. If he tries it, I'll thrash him," cried Guy, laughing. 
               "Well, very likely I'm too particular," said this infatuated mother, ignoring the Scripture that "evil communications corrupt good manners." And so Sam Venn came. 
               As Guy had said, Sam was jolly; and here lay the beginning of trouble. Peter was steady, quiet, doggedly industrious-a servant after Mary's own heart, who found his highest happiness in labor. 
               Sam Venn, on the contrary, would work with spirit; but the regular work-hours over, instead of devoting himself to hoe-handles, dahlia-frames, or gate-hinges after Peter's fashion, he gave his energies to what he called larking. He would imitate the neighbors for miles around in the most captivating manner; whistle the notes of all the birds that were known in that latitude; tell the drollest stories, and, like Mr. Sloppy, "do the police reports in two voices," much to Guy's edification. 
               Guy delivered himself over to Sam Venn's society very much more than his mother thought advisable; but she consoled herself with the idea that two months would be the limit of Sam's service, and then he should be hired no more. 
               Half of Sam's time had gone when, one day, as he and Guy were alone, busy in a field some little way from the house, Sam took from his pocket a small bottle of whiskey. "Here's a friend," he said. 
               "Come, now, Sam, I sha'n't have any getting drunk and lying off work on my place," said Guy smartly. 
               "Certainly not," replied Sam. "Don't you know this bottle don't hold enough to make a man drunk? This is only a little touch to keep me from catching the cholera and hearten me up. Try a tip, just on the end of your tongue." 
               Guy, of course, refused; but Sam was so pertinacious, so funny, dared Guy so merrily, and put the matter in such a trivial light, that Guy finally took a swallow, "just to see what it was like." When he had the bottle to his lips, Sam knocked the bottom, and threw several times as much liquor down Guy's throat as the lad had any expectation of taking. In a few minutes, the effects of the potion were visible. Guy's eyes rolled. He first hugged Sam, then pummelled him, and then rolled on the ground. Sam was frightened. At last, Guy lay under a tree, and fell asleep. At noon, Sam went to dinner alone, but said so innocently that Guy had stretched himself out to rest, and so dropped asleep, that Mrs. Davenport suspected nothing. 
                
               "Guy works hard, for a young lad," said Sam; "so I shaded him with a branch, and left him to sleep his sleep out. You do up a good dinner for me to take to him, and he'll be chirk when he wakens up." 
               When Guy woke, and had bathed his head, he ate his dinner in silence; then, walking up to Sam, he said, "Where is that bottle?" 
               "Don't take any more, lad; it raises Ned with you," said Sam. 
               "Give it to me!" cried Guy, so angrily that Sam reluctantly drew it from his pocket. 
               Guy at once flung the bottle into a pile of stones, and, turning to the amazed Sam, said, "If you bring another other drop of that stuff to this farm, I'll choke you!" 
               Yet even this threat did not restore Guy's peace of mind and self-respect. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               SINNING AND SORROWING. 
               
                   
                     SOCIAL CUSTOMS. 
                  
                
               GUY had tasted of the poison, and felt its power. To him the name of the intoxicating cup was Legion, for with it many devils entered into him and possessed him. Recalling the first few moments after he had swallowed the liquor, Guy knew how the mighty potion had risen to his brain, causing great heat and throbbing. Earth had reeled before his aching eyes; his blood had leaped in his veins, a tide of lava; all his kindly impulses had turned to gall; he longed to pour forth upon some one his overflowing venom. This was the insanity of his drunkenness; it passed away, exhausted by its own violence. Then followed the return to reason, to natural feelings: the demoniac was in his right mind. In his right mind, we say; but that mind's peace and self-respect were gone. He loathed himself that he had been so weak; he hated the cause of his excitement; he was afraid-afraid of himself, and of the drink that was his foe. 
                
               Oh! if in this hour of fear, of self-contempt, of remorse, Guy had known the refuge of eternal strength! Such refuge for the feeble sons of earth, Guy had never been shown. All his strength lay in himself, and in his mother's counsels; but to these counsels he could not now appeal. He was ashamed to confess his fall, and, more than this, he could not so grieve and disappoint her. Tossing sleeplessly on his bed, Guy anathematized the rum, Sam, and himself, and made a formal resolution that he would never drink again. This determination helped to calm him, and in a few days the violence of his feelings in a measure abated. 
                
               His mother saw the effects of this mental conflict in his pale, care-worn face and heavy eyes; but she attributed these tokens to another cause. She thought that Guy was working too hard, and in this opinion she was established by the artful Sam, who did not want the true state of the case known. Mary warned her son against overexertion. "O Guy!" she said to him, throwing her arm across his shoulder, as they stood together in the doorway, one evening, "you must be careful of yourself, my boy! All my life has been devoted to you; for you I have toiled and hoped. What would my labors be worth, if I lost you?" 
               "Never fear, mother!" was the reply ply. "I am all right; there is nothing the matter." And in a few days Mary was comforted by seeing Guy himself again. 
               Guy thought that all was well with him; he returned to school, and the autumn passed away and winter came, and Guy's resolution had been kept. About midwinter Andy Cropper gave a party. It was a grand occasion for Guy; he had never been to a party before. It was also a great occasion to Mary, and she determined that her Guy should appear as well as the best. Mary might save with herself, she might toil hard to make money, but she could be lavish for her son. The best suit at the tailor's was bought for Guy. Guy had the finest of kerchiefs and neckties, and not only a pair of fine fancy boots, but a pair of buff kid gloves. Mary remained in town until after tea for the express purpose of seeing her darling dressed for the party, and then drove home in the moonlight; and must needs stop at Matthew Norton's to tell them how well her boy had looked, and how merry he felt over his fineries. 
               "You will make him a dandy," said Norton, smiling. 
               "Not I," said Mary; "he's too manly; he can guide a plough and drive a team of young colts as well as a man or as his mother, and that is saying a good deal for a lad not yet sixteen." 
               All unconsciously, Mary had decked out her child for sacrifice; she had smiled upon him going into a fatal temptation. Wine, that "drink of gentlemen," as Andy called it, was abundant at Mr. Cropper's table. Other boys drank freely, but Guy hesitated and dreaded. He knew how any stimulant such as this flew to his head and tortured him as with scorpion stings. 
               Healths were drunk. "Fill your glass, Guy!" "Guy isn't taking anything!" "Empty your glass, man; don't sit there like a girl!"-these were the cries down the table. 
                
               "Why, lad, it won't hurt you; you must learn to toss off a health like other men," said the paternal Cropper. 
               Oh! if Guy had in this hour had strength-high, spiritual strength-to withstand the fiery darts of the adversary, and, having done all, to stand. 
               This strength was lacking in the bitter hour of need. Guy yielded-his glass was emptied-it was filled again-emptied again-filled this time with another wine. 
               For the first few moments, Guy was in an agony, physical and mental. This passed, and he grew excited; his tongue flew; he was funny and bombastic at first; the other boys thought him voluntarily amusing at first, and they laughed. Guy became silly. Cropper senior raised his eyebrows. Still the poison worked, and Guy grew wild. He was loud, irascible, vituperative. 
               "O dear! what a pity! How strange, how unfortunate!" said Mrs. Cropper. 
               "Our young friend must have no more wine; he makes a nuisance of himself for a trifle," said Mr. Cropper. 
               But Guy had had too much already. He flung his knife and fork to the ceiling, his neighbor's glass across the room, and his plate under the table. Then, dashing from his chair, he struck Andy a violent blow that nearly threw him upon the floor. 
               It was needful to remove this maniac ac; but to do so required Mr. Cropper and two servant-men. They carried him to the third story, and, after a fierce struggle, succeeded in getting him to bed. 
               The mirth and peace of the evening were broken. The harmony and feasting in the supper-room were at an end. The boys discussed the effects of wine in general and the behavior of Guy. Instead of condemning the poison and the hosts who, in violation of morality, decency, and justice, had placed it before them, they condemned Guy's natural physical weakness that must succumb to trifles. 
               Guy was stronger than any of them in everything but a capacity to endure dure alcohol. The least portion of this vile stuff rendered him frantic. 
               Said Mr. Cropper, "As for strength, I never saw so strong a boy in my life; his muscles stand out like whipcord. It took three of us to master him, and I feel as if I had been doing a hard day's work. One of the men got a fine black eye. The lad's a demon." 
               "Only when he's drunk," said Mrs. Cropper. "He is the most perfect gentleman of his age that I ever saw." 
               "Yes; and the best scholar in the school," said Andy. "The teachers think he's 'A I.'" 
               "He is pretty strong any time," said one of the boys; "but it is only the liquor that made him so extraordinary, to-night. I hope he'll never be a drunkard, or he will be the terror of the community." 
               Mr. Cropper had bound Guy to keep him in bed; but when the boy was sound asleep they freed him. 
               Next morning, Guy woke to the intense shame of his position. He had behaved scandalously, disgraced himself publicly, and had been put to bed drunk at Mr. Cropper's; and now, when this affair was known, how could Guy meet any eye-how could he face his wretched mother? Guy fairly cried out in his agony. 
               Andy had been watching outside the door, and, hearing Guy's voice, came in, saying: 
               "Well, old boy, how are you, this morning?" 
               Guy hid his face in the bedclothes for very shame. 
               "Don't take on so," said Andy. "There's no harm done. It was not your fault, Guy; it was the fault of the wine, or of your head. You took no more than the rest of us, and we were all right." 
               To this consolation, Guy made no answer but to plunge still deeper under the quilts, and writhe with the violence of his emotions. 
               "There, now," said Andy, "last night we all agreed to keep mum about you. Neither the teachers nor your mother shall hear a word of the story. So come out of the bedclothes, and polish up for breakfast." 
               Still Guy did not uncover his face, and his friend continued impatiently: 
               "Why, boy, there are plenty of men-the first men in town, too-that get drunk in open day, and everybody knows it; but they don't take on so; they come to, and laugh it off. You've been drunk-that's the whole of it; but what is it to be drunk? There is a difference between getting drunk, like a gentleman among gentlemen, on a few glasses of good wine, and being a drunkard, guzzling in groggeries geries, and keeling into a gutter on the way home. Out of that, Guy-you've been drunk, but-" 
               "But," shouted Guy, leaping out of bed, and beginning to dress with great speed, "I will never be drunk again; never, never! never!! I say. To be drunk is to rouse a devil in me, Andy. If I get drunk again, may I die! May my hand wither that puts the cup to my mouth! May a curse light on me-" 
               Guy could say no more. Andy sprang at him, and covered his mouth with his hand, crying, "Hold there, Guy; hush that nonsense. I won't hear it. If you don't want to drink, don't. Very likely you had better not; but don't curse yourself, whatever you do." 
               When Guy went home on Saturday with his mother, the shadow of his error and remorse was over him. He could not talk blithely about the party, and, when his mother pressed the subject, he cried out: "I don't like parties. I don't think I shall ever go to another. I was cut out for a farmer, a business man, a stock grower, but not for fashion and feasting." 
               "Ah!" said Mrs. Davenport with infinite satisfaction, "didn't I tell Matthew Norton society could never make a dandy of you? But, son," she added anxiously, "I hope they treated you properly-were civil, and did not slight you?" 
               "Oh! they treated me first-rate, as well as they knew how-as well as they did the others. There was no slighting; but, oh! I wish I had been at my room studying, it would have paid me better." 
               Poor Guy! his heart was well-nigh crushed by his shame and woe, and he dared not tell it. 
               Almost a year passed, and Guy's resolution was unbroken. During this time, Guy had studied faithfully at school, and seemed ambitious of preeminence in his classes; but, when his mother offered him a collegiate education, and told him that there was nothing to hinder his choosing a profession, he told her he had fully made up his mind to take the farm, and as many more farms as he could obtain, and pursue wealth and station in a rural life. Still, Guy admitted that he would like another year at school, and he would prefer to spend that year at some distant academy. He had a feeling that his intellectual acquirements would be more highly valued by his neighbors if he obtained them far from home. 
               Mrs. Davenport never for a moment hesitated between her own comfort and wishes and Guy's advantage. 
               While preparations were going on for Guy's departure came an election-day day in November, and Peter must go to election. Peter considered casting his vote as the chief duty which he owed to society. No holiday could beguile Peter from his steady labors on the farm; but, when election came, he proceeded to the polls, handed in his ticket, established himself in some convenient position where he might scrutinize each voter and his proceedings, as if himself were one of the appointed judges, and, with sphinx-like gravity and tirelessness, kept his place all day, and sometimes until late at night, and only returned home when he had some fair idea of which party was in the ascendant. Not that Peter was by any means a politician; but every man must have his pleasure or relaxation of some sort, and elections were Peter's calm and satisfying delight. He treated himself to one a year, and it was for twelve months the goal of his hopes and the joy of his memory. 
               Guy had so often witnessed Peter's sober joy in an election that he resolved to accompany him this November, and observe the slow, taciturn man's proceedings. Alas for Peter, and alas for Guy, that this notion even entered the young man's head! As might be expected, Guy soon wearied of Peter's silent supervision of politics. He roamed about the town, finding acquaintances here and there, and finding not the best acquaintances, nor in the most eligible places. At noon, he found Peter, and proposed that they should go to the hotel to dinner. Peter calmly replied that "he never wasted time and money on dinners at elections. He brought his lunch from home in his pocket. Here it was: slices of bread, with ham and mustard between; a slice of cheese, and a wedge of apple pie. Guy might have half, if he chose to take it, and mount up to Peter's side to eat." 
               Guy laughed. He had no idea of eating a cold dinner, high up in public, beside Peter. He strolled off to the hotel, arm in arm with Andy Cropper. 
               To tell how Guy put himself in the way of temptation, then yielded to the temptation; fell, fell from his self-confidence and good resolution; fell, publicly and miserably; drank, and was drunk, and brawled upon the street; was almost arrested, was in the constable's hands, in fact, when Peter came to the rescue, and succeeded, with the help of some friends, in having him taken to the hotel and shut up in a room. To tell all this is, perhaps, to repeat an often-told tale. 
               Poor Peter! his happy, contemplative election-day was rudely disturbed. When once he had become security for Guy's safe-keeping and had impressed honest and vile-tempered Hugh Wood into the service, there was no more peace for Peter. 
                
               Having no suspicion of Guy's failing, Peter was amazed with an amazement painful to his sluggish temperament. It was not very encouraging to have his hair pulled, his ears bruised, and his coat torn by the lad for whom he was foregoing his dearest enjoyments. It hurt Peter's self-respect to have a drunken youth in charge, and his uneasy thoughts went toward the farm, and the busy, hopeful, devoted mother there, until he felt a sympathy that drew tears from his eyes. 
               "The fellow beats all nature!" cried Hugh Wood, as Guy raged and tore, leaped and shrieked, and could hardly be prevented from destroying the windows and the furniture. 
                
               "I never heard of anything like it," said Andy Cropper, who had pushed into the room after the struggling Guy. "Indeed, Peter, he only took one little glass of brandy-not over a gill-very likely less than that-and see what it does to him. Why, he can't stand a drop of liquor." 
               "He oughtn't to try to stand it," said Hugh gruffly. "To see a seventeen-year-old lad cutting up the fool this way! If he was my son, I'd thrash him." 
               "You'd have a poor time thrashing Guy! Look at his strength. But there, now. When he sleeps off this craziness and comes to himself, you will pity him. He'll groan and curse himself self, and be ready to kill himself, and mourn about his mother enough to break one's heart." 
               "Why, how now," demanded Peter suspiciously, "have you seen him like this before? Does he make a habit of getting drunk? If I thought he did-" 
               "Oh! bless me, no," cried silly Andy, anxious to shield his friend. "I only guess so from what I know of Guy. But, Peter, there's no use of spreading this, and hurting Guy for one accident." 
               When Guy had exhausted himself and slept, Andy, in a long talk wherein he was very plausible and not very truthful, persuaded Peter to keep Guy's secret from Mrs. Davenport. 
                
               Said Andy, "You go home, Peter, and tell his mother he will stop with me to-morrow; and do you see that you keep this outbreak quiet, and I promise you it will never happen again." 
               "It is likely she'll hear of it. Ill news flies fast," said Hugh Wood crossly. 
               "Nobody will have the heart to mention it if we don't," urged Andy. "Let us not discourage Guy by blabbing his misfortunes." 
               Peter, disappointed of his day's enjoyment, and yet more disappointed in Guy, drove home late in the evening, and doggedly did his share in deceiving Guy's unfortunate mother. 
                
               To Andy was left the unwelcome task of beholding Guy's waking anguish. Guy called himself every name of contumely in the English language. He beat his head against the wall, wrung his hands, and even fell weeping to the floor; he hated himself, he was worthy everybody's hatred, he was a beast, an ingrate, a dastard; he could look no man in the eye; he could never look upon his mother. Hope was lost. He would run away. 
               "Come, lad," cried Andy. "If you run away, you only hurry up the misery. What worse can your mother do than lose you? Why, suppose you are counterfeit coin? As long as she thinks you are genuine, you are as good as gold to her. Why talk of breaking her heart? She's all right now, and will never hear of this. I fixed it up with the fellows. All men catch a tumble now and then. A spree isn't the worst thing under the sun. Cheer up, Guy! cheer up!" 
               It was a good while before Guy cheered up; but he recovered himself somewhat, enough to go home as if nothing had happened, though he was shamefaced of meeting Peter. 
               It was not long before Guy went to his new school. He found there new friends and new studies. He was universally liked; and his mother's heart grew gladder and prouder when she received the monthly reports that showed ed her son's high standing, and when she even had a letter from the principal of the school commending Guy in no measured terms. 
               These assurances of her idol's welfare reconciled Mary, in a measure, to her loneliness during his absence. Moreover, she was busy. She had realized what had long been her favorite ambition-the purchase of a good farm adjacent to her own, by which purchase she doubled her property. It is true that Mary had to borrow most of the money which she gave for this place, but no one doubted her ability to make her bargain pay, and to work out of her indebtedness. 
               At Mary's house was often to be found twelve-year-old Nannie Norton, who fully returned the widow's affection for herself, and was a ready listener to all the fond mother's praises of the absent Guy. 
               But with Guy was all fair sailing? Was he fully victor over himself at last? He thought so for a while, for many months; then he yielded to the temptation to drink, he could not tell why; but, urged by some mighty evil genius within, and in his short but fierce delirium, he undid the good of months, had blackened his reputation, and forced his own expulsion from the school. The knowledge of this shocked him into sober thought when he recovered his reason. He had no time now to rage, and rave, and call himself names; he must do something to avert this blow. 
               He waited upon the faculty, with so humble and earnest an acknowledgment of his sins, such entreaties for pardon, such a willingness to make reparation and publicly confess his fault, that the sentence of expulsion was reversed, the report, marred by his wickedness, was not sent home to his mother, and he was permitted to finish his course at the school with honor. 
               Nor was this all. The teachers pitied this young man; they warned him of the danger of his course, and showed him where true safety was to be found. 
                
               Guy professed, and indeed felt, deep contrition. He not only signed the pledge, but he promised to seek help from Heaven. Very likely he meant to do this, but the higher impulse was lost when he returned to his worldly home. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               FOUND GUILTY. 
               
                   
                     REPENTANCE. 
                  
                
               GUY was home at last; home to stay; home to fairly begin the business of his life; home, his mother said, to learn to take the charge of affairs, and to bear the burden of responsibility. There was no man in the county who could have persuaded Mary, by marriage, even to halve her possessions and her duties with him. But Guy-Guy the idol-Guy the dear object of years of labor and of self-denial-was freely welcome to all. Not only was he freely welcome, but Mary believed him fully worthy of everything. 
               At home, Guy did not lack in energy and industry; and while he profited by his mother's experience, and appealed on all occasions to the advice of her who had so successfully managed the property for years, he yet took upon himself many of the tasks which she had performed. 
               Perhaps some young men might have been foolishly ashamed of Mary's agricultural proclivities; but Guy was proud of the mother who could prune and graft her trees and bushes, who could break a young colt, and knew to a dime the value of a pair of steers and a flock of sheep. 
               Mary had never permitted herself to become rough and untidy in rough and untidy work; she wore boots at her farm-work, but they were well-made and well-fitting boots. She had always the neat straw hat, the decent gown, and serviceable buckskin or leather gloves with tops which came halfway up to the elbows. Add to this outfit a close, well-made black cloth jacket for chilly weather, and you may guess how Mary, tall, strong, and straight, looked as she followed her chosen calling. 
               Guy had not been at home many months when he undertook the market business. Using his own good judgment and previous knowledge, and Mary's suggestions, Guy made money on market-days as well as his mother would have done, and Mary was well pleased. 
               For a time all went well, but at last Guy's evil genius triumphed, once and again, and again. 
               Guy failed to return when market-hours were over. He came back the next day, however, and had, as he said, been visiting; and Mary said that young people must have friends and pleasures, and perhaps, though so young, Guy was in love. Andy Cropper had a sister, and, though a Miss Cropper might be a fine match for Guy, surely Guy was worthy any lady in the land. 
               Infatuated mother, it was not love, but wine-wine stronger than woman or the king-which detained Guy. He had opened the strong citadels of heart and brain once to a mighty foe, and ever and anon the demon asserted itself, and wild was the riot that ensued. 
               Guy was one of those young men who make friends. His fine appearance, good mind, pleasing manners, and hearty cordiality, added to frankness and scrupulous honesty, won him the sincere regard of very many. Those who knew his vice deplored it, and helped to conceal or extenuate it. Andy Cropper-soft-hearted, weak-headed Andy-clerk now in his father's store, and somewhat given to drinking, did his utmost to screen Guy. 
               Andy's drinking was very different from Guy's. He took his glass or several glasses a day. He never got wild; a little indulgence made his eyes weak, his hand unsteady, his tongue silly; a greater potion sent him home pursuing a zigzag course to bed and a sound sleep. 
               As we have shown, with Guy drinking was occasional, and whenever he drank came the wild tumult of the madman. This could not occur often without coming to his mother's ears. 
               A rumor reached her that stirred all her heart, roused her suspicions of her son, and a fierce rage against those who told the tale. Proof was not many months in arrears. Guy was twenty when he first came into his mother's house intoxicated. He had drunk on the way home. Already, as he drove up at a furious rate, the wildness was upon him. 
               There was no one on the farm but Peter and Mrs. Davenport; and how in her anguish did Mary feel glad that no stranger's eye could see her shame! 
               Peter approached Guy, who was raving in the back-yard, with a vain idea of forcing him to bed. 
               Much the taller and stronger, and now with every nerve and muscle tense with excitement, Guy resented Peter's interference, and by one blow felled him to the earth, and then rushed to the stock-yard. 
               Mary hurried to her prostrate servitor, and rejoiced to find him only slightly injured. "Go out of sight, Peter," she implored; "you rouse his rage. I will go and govern this unhappy boy." 
               "You cannot do it. He will kill you, now his blood's up." 
                
               "He cannot-will not. Even in this state, he must respect his mother. Go in, Peter." 
               "Not I," said Peter, arming himself with a club. "You go yon, and see what you can do; but I'll stand by, and not let you come to harm without a word from me." 
               Mary, with long, quick steps, approached her crazed son. She grasped his hands in the strong clasp, and fixed on him the steady gaze, which had long subdued unruly beasts. 
               Guy had never before faced his mother in such a condition as the present. He felt the power of the unaccustomed presence and authority, and with small resistance allowed her to lead him to his room. There were signs of an outbreak when Peter came in view; but Peter showed discretion, that better part of valor, and fled from sight. 
               Next morning, however, Peter had something to say to Mrs. Davenport. He came early into the kitchen. "You'll have to hire a hand in my place, ma'am. I'll not stop here to be knocked down like a slave!" 
               "But consider, Peter, Guy was not in his right mind," said Mrs. Davenport excitedly. 
               "And he may be out of his mind a heap of times more, and I can't go bail to bear the brunt of it!" 
               Mary shuddered. "You have been here a long time, Peter, and know all our ways." 
               "And here's knocking-down ways I don't take to," said Peter moodily. 
               "I know it. I deplore it. But how can I get along with a stranger here in such a misfortune as this? Peter, forgive this injury. Do not put yourself in Guy's way if he is in such a state again; but I know that will not be. I cannot have a stranger here now. I can trust you, as I could no one else. If any increase of pay would be an inducement-" 
               "It ain't pay," blurted out Peter; "it's treatment. But I know I always got tip-top treatment here until last night, and that blow riled me tremenjus, Mrs. Davenport." 
               But just as they were speaking, Guy's quick step came down the stairs. He burst into the room, and flung himself on his knees before his mother, crying out: "O mother! do you hate me? Do you despise me? Oh! that I had died before I made such a brute of myself. Mother, pity me!" 
               Mary's strong face worked convulsively. She sat down, and burst into tears. The sight of this firm woman weeping summoned Guy. He clasped his arms about her waist, laid his head against her bosom, and sobbed like a child. 
                
               "O Guy, Guy! some one has deceived you-has taken advantage of you," cried Mary. "But this can never be again?" 
               "Never, mother, never! Heaven be my witness, I promise you. I vow, I swear, never to so disgrace myself!" 
               And not alone to his mother did Guy make confession. To Peter, he apologized so fully and so humbly that Peter forgave the blow that had offended him, shook hands, and declared, "Come what might, he would stand by the Davenports so long as they stood on the earth." 
               Mary had long looked forward with eager interest toward her son's twenty-first birthday. She meant then to formally resign the control of the property into Guy's hands, in the presence of her friends the Nortons, whom she meant to invite to a birthday supper. 
               All before this long-desired day was peace and happiness. Guy, loving, cheerful, industrious, made continual sunshine in the house. He was no longer the doting widow's boy; he was a full-grown man-a man of noble presence. Six feet four in height, but so justly proportioned as not to seem unusually tall except when compared with other men; well-featured, with a rich, deep voice and a gracious mien, Guy was universally beloved; even his worst faults did not deprive him of the meed of praise. 
                
               Guy had chosen on the afternoon of his birthday to go to town to pay off a part of the debt resting on the new farm. He would be back by supper-time, he said. The Nortons came to tea, but Guy did not come. After long waiting, Mary had the meal placed on the table. Those who gathered around the board were all sad and anxious. The rich providings prompted by maternal love and pride seemed mockeries. The gloomy pretence of eating being over, Matthew proposed to return home. Mary said nothing to hinder him. She apprehended trouble when Guy came, and she wished to face it alone. He came, it was almost midnight; far up the road the waiting mother heard him yelling like a caged beast. She turned to Peter, imploring him to go out of the way of Guy's fury: 
               "He will never harm me, but he might you. Do not tempt him; do not put it in his power to commit a great crime." 
               Reluctantly Peter left the house, but still lingered hidden at one side. 
               Guy came tearing in. The horse, weary, sweating, cruelly used, left to itself, wandered to the stable. 
               Mrs. Davenport found that her power over her son was lost. In his ungoverned fury, he raved about. Nothing was safe under his hands. Alas for Mary! She fled, in the cold winter night, to prevent her child from becoming her murderer. As for herself, she believed she had rather die than live; but she would not permit her child to imperil his own life by taking hers. 
               Flying from the house, she would have taken shelter in the barn or one of the outbuildings; but here Peter, who had been lying in wait, interfered, and insisted that she should go to Mr. Norton's. 
               In vain Mary objected. Peter was resolute. If his mistress hid in the barn or lurked forlornly about her home on that cold, wretched night, he would go and call Matthew Norton to aid in reinstating her under her own roof. 
                
               Mary knew it was useless to try and keep this night's misery secret. She refused Peter's doggedly-offered arm, and, resolutely setting her lips together, she took the advance, and tramped through the soft snow to her neighbor's door. 
               When Matthew, roused from sleep, appeared, lamp in hand, Mary had not a word to say. She stalked in, sat by the hearth, and mechanically stirred and uncovered the buried fire. 
               Peter, just behind Mary, told his story in short order. "The young man had come home like a crazy giant. No one man-no two men-could pit their strength against his fury with any hope of conquering him. There was nothing to do but fly, and leave him to return to reason." 
               Matthew and Ellen stood on each side of Mary's chair, searching their hearts for some kindly word of sympathy that might be fitly spoken. But Mary's curt speech checked their condolence: 
               "For pity's sake, leave me alone, neighbors! Go to your beds, and let me sit here by myself. If I feel like sleep, I will lie down in your little spare room, Ellen." 
               They left her alone, to hold communion with her crushed and despairing heart through the long, bleak winter night. 
               This was the birthday to which she had hastened with eager hope in all these years! This was the day when all her toils should have won their full reward in a son arrived at manhood, able to bear the burden and heat of life's day; her pride, her shelter, her comfort, rich meed of all her cares, her glory, and her crown of joy! 
               This day had come. It had begun with an unacknowledged anxiety; it had passed in a slowly augmenting fear; it had ended in a miserable despair-in flight from her house and the unreasoning hostility of a drunken maniac, that maniac the son of her love and hope. 
               Alas! Mary-loving, prayerless, godless, proud, doting, and disappointed mother-is any sorrow like to thine unhealed, unhelped, of Heaven? 
                
               When the Norton family rose early next morning, Mary was gone. The bed in the little spare room was untouched; the helpless mother had held her lonely vigil through the night, and in the gray dawn had stolen back to her home. The house was quiet. Mary visited the barn and stables, and looked after Guy's overdriven horse. She then cautiously entered her house. Guy lay on a lounge in the kitchen asleep, his face flushed and distorted with his recent passion. Mary covered him-covered even the face on which she had so often looked with joy-and then set herself to removing the traces of the late riot. 
               There were many articles of furniture broken and damaged; dishes shattered and books torn out of their covers, tables overturned and window-curtains pulled down. Those things that were irretrievably injured, Mary quickly disposed of; others that could be mended, she conveyed to the sanctuary of her own room. She fastened up the curtains, scrubbed the floors, and set the house as nearly as possible in its usual order, that Peter, or possibly the anxious Norton coming with him, might see little trace of the wild work Guy had been doing. At breakfast-time, Peter came in, glanced about, went to the door, and nodded to the waiting Norton that all was right; and, when Norton was gone, he told Mary he had had something to eat, and would go and attend to his several duties. 
               There is no need to describe Guy's waking. There was the oft-repeated scene of anguish and self-reproach, of penitence, tears, entreaty, and frantic promises. 
               Thereafter, Mary Davenport's life and home were a day of sunshine and of wild tempests. When Guy was himself, by every tenderness and bountifulness, by all love and labor, he strove to atone for his sins. He suffered no care, no cloud, to invade his home. He was beneficent, sunlight in his family, a gentleman, a man of talent and fluent conversation; he was a very fountain of delight. Anon the horrible possession of his life gained the ascendency, his evil spirit carried all his goodness captive, and from the terrors of his savage madness, his unchained delirium, all those who were in the house must flee. For the most part, only Peter and Mrs. Davenport were at the house to be driven out, and Peter no more talked of leaving. He saw how greatly Mary needed the presence of some reliable person whom she well knew, and he remarked to Norton that he "guessed he could stand it as long as the missis could." Nor did Peter lose anything by this course. When Guy was himself, he would shake Peter's hand, with tears in his eyes thank him for his faithfulness, and make him valuable presents. As Guy did not drink frequently, and as he was able to drink but a very small quantity, and, moreover, as Peter and Mary very speedily repaired all damages that were done, his property was not injured by his drunkenness. On the contrary, more and more of the last indebtedness was cancelled, the house and fences improved, the fields were laden with valuable crops, and on Mary's heart rested a double care, for now again she felt herself responsible for all the property, and was never at rest about her son. 
               So frantic were Guy's outbreaks that they were dreaded by the whole community. People looked for some shocking ing tragedy on the Davenport farm. They believed that the lives of Peter, of Mary, and of Guy himself were likely to be sacrificed. 
               By that beautiful provision of the law that grants licenses for the sale of ardent spirits, men were legally empowered to turn this amiable citizen into a demoniac, and put him in a position to commit wholesale murder. It was perfectly lawful for rum-sellers to make Guy drunk, and turn him out on the highway much more rabid and dangerous than a mad dog; it was perfectly lawful for Guy to get drunk on a few swallows of poison, and go raging home to assail the life by which his own life had been kindled! 
                
               There was no commission to condemn the vender of intoxicating liquor to life-long labor on the Dry Tortugas, as has been done when the fate of armies may be decided by a drunken sentry. 
               This man, whom God had made and gifted to be a blessing to his race and a servant of heaven, could be demoralized and debased, and he who made, he who sold, and he who drank the infamous potion were all to be accounted "honorable men." 
               People said they wished they could shut up this periodical monster, and get him out of harm's way. The community would breathe freer if Guy were in safe custody. 
                
               The time came when the law might interpose. When Guy was twenty-five, in a period of frenzy, when his mother and Peter had fled as usual, this monomaniac with a torch set fire to his house, and, in drunken frenzy, leaped and laughed about the climbing flames. Though Mary was watching afar off, and saw the first curling smoke and red tongue of fire, and summoned every one within reach to her aid, they were unable to save the house; but the outbuildings and stacks of hay and grain were preserved from destruction. Mary looked speechlessly upon the ruin of the home her own toil-hardened hands had helped to rear. But what was the loss of her dwelling compared to the complete loss of her only son? 
               Now, though a person may lawfully burn himself up soul and body with strong drink, it is not lawful for him to burn his house. The paternal law winks at the ruin of the citizen, but feels bound to interpose for the benefit of certain stones and timbers that form his habitation. Thus, while Guy had been at liberty to commit slow suicide and to endanger the life of his mother and Peter, he was not at liberty to commit arson. 
               The arrest was not made until Guy was sober, when he was conveyed to town, and locked up in jail to await his trial, himself fully concurring curring in the justice of this proceeding. 
               Mary lay ill at Matthew Norton's with brain-fever; but before the trial she was able to leave her bed, and then insisted upon being taken to see her son. 
               Such a meeting it is impossible to describe. Mary told her son that she should try and have the charge against him withdrawn. 
               "No, mother," said Guy; "you should never try that; you should never consent to such a proposal made by any one else. My condemnation is the best thing that can happen to you or to me. I have no more right than a madman to be at large. I tell you, mother, imprisonment may save me from being a murderer." 
               The day of trial came. The courtroom was crowded; not a heart but sympathized with Guy and his mother; even the prosecuting attorney wisely prepared to inveigh much more strongly against whiskey-sellers and liquor licenses than against the accused. Guy sat within the prisoner's dock; his mother stood just outside, with her hand resting on his shoulder; near by was Peter, his face bowed almost to his knees, and hidden in his hands. 
               When Guy, in a clear voice, pleaded "guilty," one might have expected a short and clear case. 
               The Judge paused a moment, and looked fixedly at Guy. Guy was now quite himself-no trace of his excess left upon him. 
               "Prisoner at the bar," said the Judge, in the earnest, yearning tone of a father speaking to a son, "have you any reasons to offer why I should not pronounce upon you the sentence of this court?" 
               Guy gently laid aside his mother's hand, and rose. "I have not a word to say," he answered clearly. "This sentence is my only salvation-all that will prevent the possibility of my committing yet greater crimes against the state and against my fellow-creatures. But, my friends," he added, looking about, "good citizens might be saved to the state if it were made a crime to deliberately tempt those who are too weak to resist temptation." 
               The trial was over. Guy Davenport, avowed guilty, was sentenced to the penitentiary for ten years. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE PRISONER'S LIFE. 
               
                   
                     ALL RIGHT! 
                  
                
               THE circumstances of Guy's case were such that the usual forms of primitive justice were intermitted. He rendered himself up at the penitentiary, carrying with him the necessary papers and instructions. His mother accompanied panied him. Against this he had remonstrated ineffectually, and it was well that she went, for it relieved many of her anxieties. 
               Mary found the officer in charge of the penitentiary an agreeable and intelligent man, ready to receive her son with sympathy, and give him as far as was possible every gentlemanly courtesy. 
               The moment for parting came. "I go, my son," said Mary, "to take care of your property. I shall visit you twice a year." 
               Guy looked wistfully at the wrinkled face and gray hair of his still vigorous mother. 
               Mary was now fifty. Guy knew whose acts had furrowed her brow and whitened her head. 
               He leaned his face down upon her shoulder, and wept. "O mother! what might we not have been and enjoyed but for me-but for me!" 
               "My son," replied Mary, "ten years look long, but they will pass. Nearly twice ten years have gone since I was left a widow to toil for you alone." 
               Returning home, Mary found Peter waiting for her at the depot with the horse and buggy it had been Guy's last care to buy for her. 
               Mary had now no roof to cover her, and she went to Matthew Norton's. The indefatigable Peter had arranged for himself a sleeping-room over the stable, and was carrying on the farm-work with vigor. 
               No one dared to ask Mary a word about her son. There was a tearless misery in her stern black eyes-a firmness about her unsmiling lips, that silenced the voice of sympathy. 
               Ellen and Matthew welcomed their unfortunate neighbor with earnest cordiality, and set before her the best their house contained. After supper, Peter came over and talked crops and stock until bed-time. 
               It was Tuesday evening. Said Mary, "Peter, you need not trouble Mrs. Norton with the milk any longer. Take it to the spring house, and I shall be over early to make cheese and prepare for market Saturday." 
               It was evident that Mary was going to work with her old spirit. 
               When the family separated, Mrs. Davenport went into the small spare room, and, not feeling like sleep, sat down by the window. It was a brilliant summer night; the moonlight poured into the room with a brightness like a softened day. How long Mary had sat there alone, she did not know. Her door was gently pushed open, and Nannie Norton, in her wrapper and slippers, her light hair falling unbound around her shoulders, entered. She stood irresolute for a moment, then glided up to Mary, and, kneeling down by her, dropped her head on her lap, and burst into bitter tears. Mary clasped the girl in her arms. "Nannie, Nannie, do you love me well enough to cry for my sorrow?" 
               "O Mrs. Davenport!" sobbed Nannie, "it was wicked and cruel in them to condemn Guy. It was not his fault. They should blame those men who made the mischief in the first place. How could that Judge say ten years? I hate him!" 
               Mary was startled. Was she not alone in her suffering and disappointment? Had Guy's one great fault wrecked not only his mother's peace, but the happiness of this beautiful girl of nineteen? In a moment, Mary recalled how Nannie had for a year or two ceased coming to her house except on market morning, when Guy was certainly away. Several pretty books and fancy articles which Guy had brought from town at different times, had mysteriously found their way to Mr. Norton's, and she knew that Guy had hardly cared to speak to any young lady but Nannie. He had told his mother he was too fond of business to be a lady's man. 
               With an emotion new to her, Mary kissed poor Nannie's tear-wet cheek. "Nannie," she said, "is it possible that after all this-this public disgrace, you can feel sorry for my Guy?" 
                
               "It wasn't Guy's fault," reiterated Nannie; "why didn't people let him alone?" 
               Mary was silent awhile; her heart was filled with yet sadder thoughts than before. Mary was a thoroughly honest woman, passably unselfish also. At length she spoke: 
               "Nannie, shall I tell you what I saw, to-day?" 
               "Yes," said Nannie, wearily. 
               "I saw at the station a couple waiting for the cars. The man was drunk, staggering. The young wife was blushing with mortification, and looking uneasily about. Her husband put her on the train, kissed his hand to her, and reeled away. The poor creature put down her face and cried. She was splendidly dressed, but I dare say she would have exchanged places with the poorest woman who had a sober husband. That was Andy Cropper and his wife, and they have been married some six months." 
               "I don't care," sighed Nannie, seeing the intention of these remarks; "Guy was never like Andy. Guy wouldn't do so." 
               Mary softly caressed Nannie, who was still weeping. She looked at the two fair hands clasped above Nannie's golden head. There was no engagement ring on the white finger. Guy's love affair had not gone so far as that. Very likely he remembered his terrible failing, and had hesitated out of pity for the fate that would be joined to his. Nevertheless, Nannie's gentle and entirely feminine heart had gone out of her keeping-and Guy was in the penitentiary for ten long years. 
               "Nannie," said Mary, "when you were a baby, I never saw such a persistent little creature as you were. If you set your mind on anything, you would never give up." 
               "I'm just the same yet," said poor Nannie, with a little hysterical laugh. 
               "Go to bed, child," said Mary gently; "who knows what may happen?" 
               Mary worked hard the next few days, and Saturday drove off with a full market wagon. When she returned, she announced that she had hired men to come on Monday to clear away the ruins of her dwelling, and make preparations for rebuilding. "I shall have the L built as soon as possible, and move into it; but very likely they will be until winter at the rest, for I shall have a much larger and handsomer house than the other. If one is going to build, one might as well do it in good style." It was thus that Mary announced that her indomitable hope and energy were yet in the ascendant. 
               And now Mary resumed all those hardy labors which she had partly relinquished. 
               All the week she toiled with tireless zeal. She superintended the workmen, and examined every stone and timber of her rising house. With Peter, and other hands whom she hired as occasion demanded, she shared the labors of the farm. If she needed money for her building, there were plenty ready to lend to her; she gave her note, and at once began her plans for meeting its maturity. 
               When Sabbath morning came, she drove, as long ago, to church, paced firmly the long aisle, and took the seat where once she had been proud to sit with her son. She did this because she would show that she was not crushed and degraded by her misfortunes, but could still hold her own; not because she felt that she needed heavenly help and religious consolation. The words of God fell coldly on her unheeding ear. When she returned home, Mary devoted the afternoon to writing a long letter to her son. Weekly this letter went, full of accounts of what she was doing, of business progress and success; strong, explicit, cheerful-for she would not grieve Guy by the thought that she was moody and pining; yet every letter carried words of love and tender longing, that he might feel himself as dear and as needful as ever to his mother's heart. 
               By the first of the new year the Davenport mansion was rebuilt, the finest house for miles around. It was unfurnished yet, and Mary shut up all but the small portion which she occupied, but casually assured Ellen Norton that it should yet be fitted up within in suitable style. 
               The first week in January Mary was to devote to a visit to her son. The evening before she left home Nannie came to see her, bringing a small rose-tree in full bloom. 
               "See," said Nannie, her cheeks blushing like the half-open buds on her treasured plant, "I have arranged this in its box so that it can go with you without injury. Take it to Guy." 
               When Mary delivered this gift to her son, he placed it on a little bare table, and stood, with his face turned from his mother, looking at it. 
               "Do you see her often?" he asked presently. 
               "Very often; she is to me like a daughter." 
               Guy looked hastily about. "And a daughter very much better than your son," he said, while his eyes were dim with tears. 
               From the moment that Guy entered the penitentiary, his conduct had placed him in the highest esteem of all in authority. Respect for his fine natural abilities and former honorable position caused him to be treated with the greatest gentleness. He was taken into the office as head clerk, and was made superintendent of several departments of the institution. His mother found him well-dressed and comfortable, busy with his office work, taking his meals with the director's family, a friend of all the officers, and possessing a little room for himself at night, which, though it galled Mary to see her son in an uncarpeted and rudely furnished chamber, was very much better than she had expected. 
               There was a hope, a firm expectation in Mary's heart, which she sedulously concealed, but nourished in secret cret. Whether Guy had such a dream, Mary could not tell. 
               When her short visit was over, Mary went back to her wide, lonely, unfurnished house. She said nothing of Guy to any one but Nannie. She could not help talking to her when the girl, placing herself on a stool at Mary's feet, folded her arms over her lap, and looked up into her face, soliciting confidence without saying a word. To Nannie, Mary told all that she knew herself. 
               Peter watched his mistress's face, and concluded that she was at least not less happy than before she went. 
               Guy was left with only the memory of his mother's visit, the little gifts she had brought him, and Nannie's rose-tree. He pursued his duties with the efficiency which had characterized his life, both at school and in the world. He appeared absorbed in his office work, and for hours bent over his desk without uttering a word. In the evenings, books were freely furnished him by many friends; he had the privilege of a light as long as he chose to keep it burning; and sometimes the evenings were spent with the chaplain and other officers of the institution. 
               These officers sincerely respected Guy Davenport; they regarded his unexpected and crazy craving for drink, and his subsequent fury, as a terrible calamity, for which he was scarcely responsible sponsible. They leaned so far to the side of mercy, won by his many noble characteristics, that they regarded him as unfortunate rather than criminal. 
               A favorite study with Guy, during these months of imprisonment, was whatever he could find on the subject of intoxicating liquor, its effects, the thirst for it, and the cure for it. He read many learned treatises, and had many long conversations with his friend the chaplain. "I tell you, my friend," was the chaplain's invariable conclusion, "that you must look higher than medical aid and human sympathy and help for a cure for this passion. I believe the Spirit of God, and none else, can fitly garrison your often-betrayed trayed soul, and repel the assaults of the foe. You look at your past life and excesses as a sin against yourself, your mother, your fellow-citizens. Look higher, Mr. Davenport, look higher, and regard it as a sin against your Maker. Repent toward Him with a godly sorrow that obtains pardon and strength to help in time to come." 
               To all utterances of the chaplain on other subjects Guy could give a hearty assent-they would be of one mind. But when personal and practical piety became the theme, Guy was as unsympathetic as a stone. In the tender years of childhood, when Guy's spiritual nature was as clay in his mother's hands, she had not shaped it heavenward. The mould of her own hardness and unbelief determined her child's heart to a cold morality and worldliness, and, at the touch of temptation, the morality had become a wreck. 
               Prayer, the reading and application of the Scripture, and the most pungent sermons were nothing to Guy. The Bible was a good book, a well-written book; he looked it over sometimes, especially the historical portions, comparing them with other ancient history; the prophecies he read now and then, and wondered vaguely what they meant; but the Book of books was not to him all glowing and vital with the story of redeeming love. 
                
               Besides these friendships and discussions, Guy devoted some time to writing articles for temperance papers, and also for agricultural journals. He delivered several addresses to the inmates of the penitentiary, and caused, by his suggestions, decided improvements in the discipline and management of the institution. His course was regarded with great interest throughout the state. That a person of his attainments and position in society should be a prisoner in such a place, conducting himself in such a generous and praise-worthy manner, and feeling that this imprisonment was his only safety, seemed strange indeed. 
               There were some minds that reflected flected deeply on the judicial blindness and the suicidal course of the state in legalizing the demoralization of its best citizens, and having those held as prisoners who, if a distinction must be made, had rather suffered wrong than done the wrong; while the makers and venders of the destroying cause were at liberty to thrive upon their most abominable calling. 
               Visits to her son seemed but to increase Mary Davenport's thriftiness and energy. She furnished her house handsomely, hired two maid-servants and Hugh Wood, and took summer boarders at high prices, which the excellence of her accommodations could easily command. In these increased cares, and this more extensive style of housekeeping, Mary yet showed the same economy and rigid superintendence of every part of the work which had formed the beginning of her fortunes. Though her face was wrinkled, and her hair had grown gray, she had a wiry strength of constitution and of muscle that made a mock at toil. No one ever saw her looking ill; no one heard a complaint of weakness nor weariness. The fact that she was paying off the last debts which she had incurred seemed to Mary ample compensation for all her toils. 
               While Guy, at his prison, was within religious influence, Mary was not neglected glected by Christian friends. The lips of the Nortons were never long silent from bearing witness for their Master; the members of the church visited Mrs. Davenport in a friendly way; and the pastor, who had long known the widow and her son, came again and again. 
               Mary received these pastoral calls as her due; she paid what she considered her share toward the expenses of the church, and expected to receive the same attention as other people. Indeed, Mary frequently plumed herself upon the superior regularity of her attendance at service, and the payment of her various subscriptions, and would also remark that "these pious church members were apt to find fault and quarrel with their minister's doctrines, while she, an outsider, never fostered any church troubles, and was quite willing that her pastor should preach whatever seemed his duty." 
               "That may all be, Mary," said Matthew Norton in his plain fashion; "but it makes all the difference in the world whether we are the Lord's children or not." 
               "What difference, so long as I do just as well?" said Mary. 
               "Ah! Mary, our children, our grandchildren, or our adopted children may not be any better in act than other people's, but they are ours. We love them better, we see our images in them, and we feel that they will grow to our likeness. When we go to the door at night, Mary, we call in our own, and we make them happy and teach them, and they are blessed above the wanderers in the street. Now, Mary, it is well for you to be of the Lord's children, that you may have some of His life and image in you, and may promise one day to grow to His likeness, although you are far from it now; that, when He is calling in His own, you may go with them, and not be left forlorn outside of happiness." 
               Words honestly meant, if rudely fashioned, but, like many other words of like import that had fallen on Mary's ear, all unavailing. She was wise in the things pertaining to this narrow world, but a very fool concerning the infinite world to come. 
               At the first of Guy's imprisonment, Mary had had many guests, who called upon her to show their sympathy and respect. She had met them politely, but not cordially, nor had she invited a continuation of these visits. She was glad of the good feeling, but averse to society, and her intercourse with her acquaintances was reduced to the friendly nod and salutation at meeting. The Nortons were nearly the only exception; and Nannie Norton was with Mary frequently. 
               Thus wore six years away with Guy and his mother. Twelve times had Mary visited her son; weekly had she written to him; hourly had she hoped and waited. There was no one who doubted Guy's entire reformation. He had passed six years of total abstinence from all that could intoxicate. He had written and spoken against intemperance, he had discussed the cure of the fatal passion, and believed that he had found it-outside of the supporting power of divine grace. 
               In all these years Guy had experienced no craving for any species of alcoholic or even of fermented drinks. With him, to be removed from the sight or the possibility of this indulgence gence was also to be removed from the desire for it. 
               In these six years, poor Andy Cropper, exposed to the temptations of his father's store and to the allurements that beguiled him from bar-rooms on every street, had hopelessly succumbed to the demon thirst, and-a miserable wreck-was trembling at the door of death. 
               While Andy was destroyed by liberty, Guy seemed to be saved by imprisonment, and it was the universal desire of his friends that he should now be restored to his home. Foremost among those who sought to effect this return were the Judge who had condemned and the pastor who for years had known him. These two called on Mary on a pleasant summer evening. 
               "We are come," they said, "to speak with you about getting the remainder of your son's term remitted. We want him back with us. We believe the place where he is has done him all the good it can, and that he is ready to return and be a comfort to you and a credit to society." 
               This was what Mary had long hoped for, waited for, and had grown to think unduly delayed. Her loving haste would have had them petition for pardon after the first year or two. The delay had been wise and righteous, but in her heart she had called it cold and selfish. Yet, after all delay, the time had come. Mary's eyes, schooled to coldness, her lips to repression, must yet express some of her feelings-a tear sparkled unshed, and there was a quaver in her voice. 
               "My home and my heart are always ready for my son," she said. 
               But as these two gentlemen spoke of Guy with all the earnestness of friendship, Mary's heart was softened. she told feelings long smothered, and, as they parted with a cordial handclasp, they assured her that Guy would soon be home. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               A PUBLIC MEETING. 
               
                   
                     SORE BESET. 
                  
                
               GUY'S friends were determined that the proceedings for getting him home should not be in a corner. It was to be a public interest. They had yet another end in view than the return of their fellow-citizen; they desired to arouse a sympathy pathy with the Temperance movement, to awaken people to the idea that in this movement a mighty principle, and the instant duty of all public-spirited people, were involved. 
               Due notice of a grand meeting at the court-house was given, and the names of the chief speakers of the occasion were announced. The first address was, by request, from the pastor. 
               The appointed afternoon found the court-room thronged. Mary had been there only once before; then at the trial of her son. On that day she had stood prominently forward, sharing his disgrace before the world; now, with the Nortons, she occupied a remote mote corner, with a full heart ready to welcome each kind word, and quick to resent any hint that might be unjust or disrespectful. 
               But no such hint was to be given; the assembly was moved by one gracious impulse; made up of all ranks of society, it displayed but one cordial feeling, and demonstrated how fully Guy had taken possession of the popular heart. 
               "See this," whispered the Judge, upon the platform, to the pastor, as they waited for the time for opening the meeting-"see what a crowd is gathered to petition for this man; what a hold he has upon all minds. I never saw a more general favorite. If he had devoted himself to politics, and left whiskey alone, how he might have controlled an election! He could have risen to the head of the state, and we should have had him Governor Davenport." 
               "Unfortunately," said the minister dryly, "I have never learned that temperance principles are indispensable to the politician. If they were, we should have temperance laws that would work a revolution in the country." 
               The Judge laughed. "I see that you are full to overflowing on this temperance question. Good; so am I. Give it to them with all your might, and I will follow you with more of the same sort." 
                
               The Judge was chairman of the meeting. At his request, it was opened with prayer by a clergyman from a neighboring city. The pastor's address was first in order. His words came warm from his heart, and had the eloquence of sincerity. 
               "It is not needful," he said, "for me to urge you to sign this petition for Guy Davenport's release. You came to this meeting eager to do so; your hearts prompted you to it before my tongue could speak. It is not needful that I should tell you of our friend's many virtues; they are chronicled in your memories. It is not needful for me to indicate the reasons why for him mercy should supersede justice, or rather that in his case mercy becomes justice. Neither shall I repeat to you his misfortunes, they are within your experience; but I will devote myself to considering the cause of these misfortunes. I will show you the enormous iniquity you have suffered to flourish among you, which has robbed the state of a worthy citizen, a mother of her only child, yourselves of a valued friend, and Mr. Davenport himself of the happiness and of the best and most vigorous years of his life." 
               As the speaker proceeded to depict the evils of intemperance, but especially of liquor distilling and selling, his audience applauded, laughed, and wept by turns. A miserable sot who had wandered into the room suddenly cried out, "Give it to 'em, parson, give it to 'em. There's nothing too mean for those dram-sellers to do; they've spoiled me. I used to be somebody once!" 
               The pastor was followed by the Judge-one of the most fluent speakers of the state-who raised the enthusiasm of the audience to a high pitch. 
               When the Judge had concluded, to the surprise of all Mr. Cropper rose, and requested permission to speak for a moment. 
               "You have come together," he said, "to consider upon a petition to the Governor to remit the remaining years of Guy Davenport's sentence. I wish to tell you how heartily I sympathize with this object of your meeting. I have known Guy since he was a young boy. To know has been to admire him. His fault is not that he drinks to excess, but the misfortune of his constitution is such that he cannot endure even a casual dram. When he was a lad, I took wine from him in my own house because it rendered him insane." 
               Mr. Cropper did not add that, though he took the wine away, in the first place he had offered it. 
               "There has been much said,"continued Mr. Cropper, "about liquor-drinking and liquor-selling. I do not consider these remarks personal to myself, for I am a wholesale dealer, and have, as many others, suffered in my family from the business of the retail dealers-the bar-keepers-the dramsellers. Liquor has its good as well as its bad uses; and it is not my part to enquire of my customers for what they design their purchases. 
               "By this meeting, my friends, you cannot revolutionize the country; you cannot obtain an anti-liquor, no-license law; too many of your politicians and state officers like their liquor for that. But for Guy Davenport, when he comes home, you can devise barriers of safety. I feel like saying, Accursed be the hand that offers him strong drink! No penalty of the law is sufficiently severe for that man who could offer him, yes, who could, even on urgent entreaty, agree to give him one taste of intoxicating liquor. If there exists such a man among us, I devoutly hope our community may be made too hot to hold him." 
               Mr. Cropper sat down, and, though some of his sentiments had been far from the spirit of the hour, his words for Guy, and his desire for his safety, had been so earnest that he was heartily applauded. 
               Scarcely was there silence when the keeper of a well-known grog-shop took the floor. 
               "I am a retail dealer," he said. "I do consider the remarks here made personal. I dare say you would like to see my business broken up; in fact, you are all trying to break it up as fast as you can. You would like better to see me sell out or destroy my stock in trade. I can't do that, good people; I must live. Mr. Cropper does not appropriate any of these remarks because he is a wholesale dealer. Does he mean that your speeches have been so feeble that they do not compass the enormities of the wholesale trade, but touch the smaller errors of retail dealers? 
               "Mr. Cropper does a wicked business on a large scale, I do a wicked business on a small scale. Which is the greater enemy of the community, if the business makes a man an enemy? Mr. Cropper does not ask whether his liquors are applied to a good or a bad use. I will tell him without asking. I buy of him, and a good many of his gallons go down drunkard's throats. When I get his liquors, I only adulterate them with a little water. To this you cold-water men will not object. From what I saw of Mr. Cropper's bins and vaults one day, I should say the adulterations he carries on are a more serious matter. 
               "But I did not rise to attack Mr. Cropper; I rose to agree with him. I am a dram-seller, but, if Mr. Guy Davenport ever enters my shop, I'll turn him out instantly! I tell you, friends, he must be a bad man indeed who sells or gives intoxicating liquor after this to Guy Davenport. A man who would so sell or give to Davenport would be a villain, bloodthirsty and cruel beyond expression, in whose hands I would not for one moment trust the keeping of my throat!" 
               When this speaker sat down, the accommodating audience cheered him also uproariously. 
               The Judge rose. "To this last speaker I would say, we should rejoice to see a man who can utter some such honest sentiments and unselfish intentions leave a dishonest and selfish trade. You are, as I have always believed, above your business, my friend, and I think I am speaking for this community when I say to you that you will be heartily supported by us if you devote yourself to some more praiseworthy employment." 
               The meeting continued with unabated enthusiasm for several hours. Reports of it were ordered to be published, and a formal resolution was brought forward in Guy Davenport's favor, running in this wise: "The people of this town, in view of all the circumstances of the case, and especially of the strong testimony of the chaplain and officers of the prison, do hereby respectfully and urgently petition the Governor of the Commonwealth to pardon said prisoner, and restore to him his rights as a citizen." 
               When this resolution was read, and the crowd in the room pressed forward to sign the petition, Mary Davenport's sternness gave way, and, bowing her head, she wept convulsively. 
               Nannie Norton, sitting beside, Mary, had pressed her hand frequently to indicate her sympathy; she dared not, like Mary, give way to tears, and, taking her mother's arm, she hurried out to the carriage, leaving Mrs. Davenport to follow with her father. 
               Mary was not permitted to leave the court-room until very many had shaken hands with her, expressing their confidence in Guy's speedy return, and their own rejoicing in that prospect. 
               When Mary had departed, a number of the gentlemen gathered together to consider what arrangements would be suitable for meeting Guy when he came home. They desired to give him such a welcome as should put him at his ease among them, and cause him to begin his new life in a right manner. 
               There was no doubt that the petition for Guy's release would be granted, for the Governor had expressed himself frequently in the prisoner's favor. When the news of the meeting at home reached the penitentiary, there was much rejoicing among Guy's friends, the officers. As for Guy, he made no remark beyond, "This will make poor mother happy." Despite all his natural fitness for society and for active life, it was only to be expected that he would shrink from the first days of publicity after such a banishment. Even the prisoners in the penitentiary had learned to like Guy, and expressed their pleasure in his expected pardon. 
               "I see before you a path of honor, Davenport," said the chaplain. "There lies but one lion in your way." 
               "Can you think I will yield to the temptation to drink again?" asked Guy reproachfully. 
               "We are such weak creatures, traitors to God and to ourselves, that we can never be sure of fighting the good fight of faith unless we are clad in the whole armor of light," was the answer. 
               "I don't comprehend the fight of faith," said Guy; "but I believe, after all my experience, my defeat and its penalties, I can fight the fight of good works." 
               "Guy Davenport," said the chaplain, laying his hand affectionately on his friend's arm, "I think there was never a man for whose salvation I have so striven as for yours. Again and again I have had an impression of great and terrible ruin impending unless you were immediately saved. I rejoice as men rejoice in your hope of pardon; but I had rather see you shut up here another four years, if then I could bid you good-by, knowing you a converted man." 
               "What!" said Guy, simulating a half-sarcastic smile to cover his emotion. "Is this grace of God only to be found within the walls of a penitentiary?" 
               "My friend," said the chaplain, still tenderly, "if you perish, you perish in spite of many fervent prayers. If they were your prayers for yourself, they would have prevailed long ago. It is not the Lord's willingness that is lacking. While I believe that the prayers of godly parents, striving and pleading God's covenant for their children, must surely prevail, the prayers of other friends can sometimes fail of bringing an answer." 
               For the first time in Guy's life, a thought of blame to his mother flashed into his mind. If she had been a Christian mother, had brought him up in covenant relations to the living God, he would not now know this chilling estrangement from the gracious Father: he would have been kept from his youth up in all His ways. 
               Alas! for Mary, she had thrown away, not only for herself, but for her son, a heritage eternal in the heavens. 
               It was not long before the Governor's pardon arrived, and, within a few hours of it, a despatch from Mary saying that she would come to accompany her son on his homeward journey. 
               Mary had come to the long sadly familiar place. At the grand front entrance was Guy departing like an honored guest. A carriage waited without the gate. There were hearty hand-shakes and good wishes. The chaplain took both Guy's hands in his own, and said earnestly: "Dear friend, beware! Be carefully and prayerfully afraid of the least yielding-the single taste of that forbidden thing." 
               "I will not yield," said Guy firmly. "I promise you that I will die first. Do not fear: I have long ago tasted the last drop of that liquid devil." 
                
               They were gone. The chaplain looked sorrowfully after the carriage as it rolled away. "Too confident-too strong in himself," he said softly. "I fear for him." 
               "Surely he will never come back here?" said the superintendent. 
               "He might do even worse," was the anxious reply. 
               "Do not feel pained at going home, Guy," said Mary. "There is only the kindest feeling toward you." 
               "I do not doubt the kindness," answered Guy. "It is far greater than I have deserved in the past; and yet, mother," he added boldly, "not greater than I shall deserve in the future." 
               Half-way home, the Judge and another other of Guy's town's people came on the cars, evidently to meet and accompany him. At the depot, they found some twenty gentlemen ready with a welcome and congratulations. At the house, Matthew Norton and his wife were waiting for them. No Nannie, though; and not a word was said about her. 
               The next day was devoted by Guy and his mother to a careful examination of the farm, and all that pertained thereto. As for the house, it astonished Guy. "What a house, mother! If you had expected your descendants of the third and fourth generation to occupy it, you could not have done better." 
                
               "And why not?" demanded Mary quickly. 
               Guy was about to reply with a truth about the stain upon his name and life; but he checked himself, only saying, "O mother! what a dreamer you are. But all people cannot judge me with your heart." 
               Mary insisted upon getting out the accounts of all these years, the receipts for money paid, and the various bills, and looking them over with Guy. 
               "Well, mother," said the son, "it is useless for me to tell you that there is not a man in the state who can manage business better than yourself. You know all that. Poor mother! here I am thirty-one years old, and you have been working for me all my useless life." 
               "No such thing," retorted Mary. "Were you not at home seven years, as good a farmer as there was in the county? And suppose I have worked for you, whom else had I to do for? And in these last six years I have lived on work. I should have died without it." 
               'And now," said Guy, "I want you to do just nothing at all." 
               Mary laughed. "Idleness has no charms for me." 
               But the mother and son were not to close the day alone. Ellen Norton came over just as the maids were concluding the evening's work. She beckoned oned Mary into her bedroom. "See here, Mary. I want you to dress up in your best, in honor of Guy's return. Look, I am in all my grandeur," Ellen laughed. 
               "Why should I dress up?" asked Mary. "I am as good to Guy in my ordinary clothes." 
               "Oh! I am going to spend the evening here," said Mrs. Norton, "and I want to see you in your silk gown and lace cap." She began to lay out Mary's nicest array as she spoke. 
               Mary guessed that there might be more in view than Ellen said, so she obeyed her friend. When she had come out of her room in all her finery, and had been duly admired by Guy, Ellen playfully ordered him to follow his mother's example, and change his gray business suit for his best broadcloth. 
               Ellen's motives were soon apparent, for carriages of guests began to arrive with the baskets of luxuries usual to a surprise party, and the house was filled with people. Guy's friends had chosen this way to meet him cheerfully on his return, and scarcely a face of his former companions was absent. One or two had gone out of this world, one or two had changed their homes, and perhaps as many more, like Andy Cropper, had sunk into degradation; drunkenness generally making more victims than ordinary death or change. Mary's dwelling was always ready to be seen, and was now even more tasteful than usual; for, while she had gone to meet Guy, some dainty hand, which was no other than Nannie Norton's, had arranged all the rooms, scattering bouquets and delicate sprays here and there, until all looked fit for such a festal scene as this. Almost last of the guests came Nannie-who, though she was twenty-five, could not stop looking like a little girl-with her fair, sweet face and small, round figure. She spoke less to Guy than did any one, and Guy was equally reticent; he could only see Nannie with a bitter realization that he had thrown her away with all the other chances of his life. 
                
               When the company separated, Guy not only felt fully at home among his old acquaintances, but he was deeply grateful for their treatment of him. As he bade his mother good-night, he remarked: "This assuredly begins a new life for me. Could any one deceive such confidence and be unworthy of such kindness?" 
               "You could not, my son," replied Mary, and lay down, for the first time in ten long years, with a quiet and happy heart. 
               The bright days of her son's early promise seemed to have returned. She had once more a future full of hope. Her reward had come late, yet none the less precious. Again, Mary, untaught taught by experience, was satisfied-satisfied without the love of God. 
               Not many days passed without a visit from the pastor who had been so active in securing Guy's return. 
               "I owe you, as others, many thanks," said Guy. 
               "We do not feel that you owe us anything. We were doing a favor to ourselves. Now, sir, you are among us for good, we trust-good of many kinds. I hope I shall see you always at church." 
               "Certainly," answered Guy. "That is my habit." 
               "And more than that, I want to see you in the church, and of it. Begin now in the love of God, 'so that you come behind in no gift.' Look now to Jesus, 'who shall confirm you unto the end, that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.'" 
               Over Guy's face fell that same chill shadow of reserve which separated his mother from spiritual converse. 
               To him, Christ crucified was both a stumbling-block and foolishness. 
               The pastor sighed: "If you have no present interest in the Son of God, will you not seek one, my friend?" 
               Still that same unbending silence. 
               They were parting. "Is it needful that I give you a warning?" asked the minister gently. 
               And now Guy's lips were opened: "Do not fear for me: I will not touch the accursed thing. I promised my friend the chaplain that I would sooner die than drink. If my hand offers to carry poison to my lips, it shall be cut off." 
               "'If thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee; for it is profitable for thee that one member should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.'" 
               "It is profitable," returned the unyielding Guy, "that one member, ay, or even the whole body, should perish, rather than that I degrade myself by returning to the beastly degradation of drunkenness." 
               What wonder that this minister turned away full of apprehensions, and said, like the chaplain, "Too confident-too strong in himself"? 
               But neither for Guy nor his mother were there any further apprehensions. They took up their reunited lives full of courage. The clouds had rolled down over their past lives, and before them smiled a sunny land of prosperity. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE DAY OF VICTORY. 
               
                   
                     A RACE TO DEATH. 
                  
                
               IN a journey, there are some spots fair above others where we would love to linger. So in life there are bright days which we would re-live again and again. In the lives of Guy and Mary Davenport, we have come to the time of victory-to the grand jubilee, when their hearts rested and sang glad songs, and feasted on the fruits of patience and experience. 
               If Guy Davenport did not find it in his heart to say with David, "It is good for me that I have been afflicted," he certainly in his prosperity had that other utterance of the shepherd king, "I shall never be moved." 
               When the tide of sanguinary war had rolled away from the Low Countries, next year sprang up over all the blood-wet fields a gorgeous sea of flowers, above which millions of butterflies and bees roved jubilant; thus war was succeeded by infinite beauty, and carnage brought forth the daintiest forms of life. So in the history of the Davenports, after poverty, toil, sorrow, reckless insanity, drunken tumult, and long imprisonment, came abundance, ease, happiness, quiet, and a loving home. 
               It was impossible for Guy to be a cipher in a community; his active nature would make itself felt. One of his chief interests when he came home was Temperance. The society in the town received a fresh life when he joined it. At his instance, they engaged prominent speakers to come and deliver addresses for them in the winter. Guy himself was eloquent, and by request spoke twice on his favorite topic. Articles from Guy's pen enlivened the columns of the principal newspapers of the county. Guy was elected one of the school committee; he was the principal examiner of the candidates for positions as teachers. He was anxious for the establishment of a normal school; ready to subscribe liberally for improvements; and, while actively interested in politics, did not sit all day at the polls like Peter, nor devote himself to election dinners and suppers, like certain irrepressible patriots. Indeed, Guy was very careful to keep himself out of temptation; having, perhaps, notwithstanding all his boasting, some secret self-distrust. 
               "I wish," said old Mr. Cropper, meeting Guy on the street, one day, "that you would call and see Andy. It would be a gratification to him, and he is very low now, poor fellow!" 
               Guy had seen his old comrade several times since his return; but Andy usually shunned decent society, and was only to be found in grog-shops and low places where Guy dared not go. 
               Guy made haste to visit his dying friend. Andy, feeble, emaciated, and partially paralyzed, was a fearful contrast to the merry, kind-hearted, heedless school-boy who had thought so lightly of the vice which had now destroyed him. 
               His wife, who had been a silly, showy, affectionate girl, but during sorrowful years had become a sickly, faded woman, sat at the foot of her husband's bed. They had taken refuge, during the last two years, with Mr. Cropper, where they had been kindly entertained, although the old gentleman's property had suffered severely by Andy's hands. 
               When Guy saw Mrs. Andy Cropper's changed appearance and discouraged face, he felt thankful that he had never been permitted to marry a woman to thus break her heart. He felt that his years in the penitentiary would have wrought very much such misery for a wife as Andy's years of excess. There were few women made of such stern stuff for endurance as his mother. 
               "Well, Guy," said Andy, "we seemed to start the same road, but you are coming out better than I. You see you were brought short up, but I was let go on. I wish I'd done something worth being shut up for, then I should not die so soon." 
               "Are you dreading to die, Andy?" asked Guy with a sudden awe. 
               "No; I'm too used up to dread anything. All's one. Do you remember, Guy, how I used to help you keep your scrapes dark?" 
               "Yes; I remember," said Guy. "Andy, have you made any provision for your wife?" 
                
               "No need," replied Andy listlessly; "father will see to her. He'll have my sister to see to soon as well, for her husband is going to the dogs. He cheated father out of ten thousand or so before father dissolved partnership with him. It is all the old man's fault for being in wine and liquor business. Why wasn't he in flour and feed? We wouldn't have learned to get drunk on flour and feed." 
               Andy's mind seemed wandering, and he repeated the last words many times. 
               "He doesn't know what he's saying," remarked young Mrs. Cropper. "He loses himself half the time." 
               "Has the minister been to see him?" asked Guy, with that desperate catching at religious forms at death common to many who neglect religion all their lives. 
               "He won't see a minister," sighed Andy's mother. 
               "If he did, he could not remember what he said five minutes, his mind is so gone," said the wife sadly. 
               "Yes, Guy," said Andy suddenly, coming back from an apparent reverie-"yes, I used to help you keep all dark from the old lady-all dark, Guy, all dark. And it's all dark now-very dark-" 
               And suddenly reaching up his arms, he grasped wildly as if he were falling, and, as his wife and mother sprang toward him, dropped back all lax and lifeless-dropped away, out of reach, and hope, and comfort, into some dark, illimitable space, which may all of us for ever shun! 
               Guy had never before, at least since the unthinking days of childhood, been thus set face to face with death. The mighty problem of that limitless existence that lies beyond the death of the body was forced upon him. 
               When he had given Mr. Cropper's family all the comfort within the power of friendship, he rode slowly home, too preoccupied to guide his horse, which leisurely enjoyed having its own will, while its master's head was bent in profound thought. As Guy drove between bare, newly-reaped fields, where along the fences the blackberry vines clambered reddened by the frosts, the corn looking thrifty and promising an abundant crop, and the trees bent under loads of fruit, Guy was considering what was the fate of that spirit lately speaking to him, looking at him, touching him, through the physical being of his friend; what was the course, what the speed, what the sudden revelation to the disembodied spirit. If there lay any good thing outside of this life reserved for those who complied with Bible conditions, most surely Andy could not claim it. If thus set apart from an infinite gain to an infinite loss, how must that being lately Andy Cropper bewail the folly of its earth-life, that might have secured all, and yet had really secured nothing! 
               Could Guy resolve, even after the lapse of many years, to enter eternity as unprepared, as stupid, or as spasmodically reluctant as this poor Andy? What a different thing was a Christian's death-bed, as Guy had heard and read! 
               What a blessed thing to be sure that, living or dying, all was well! In this assurance, how much of nobility might a man display, honest, fearless, cheerful, brave where all others were cowards, at the instant of death! This was the character of a Christian. Almost persuaded: this was Guy's state on that eventful day. Almost persuaded, and yet there was none to seize the auspicious hour! 
               Mary Davenport was at the gate looking anxiously for her son, who had been gone overlong; she hurried into the house that he might not know that she watched for him. 
               "Poor fellow! he was a pretty boy once." This was Mary's remark when told of Andy's death. But, then, Mary had not, as her son, seen Andy die. 
               "Well, mother," said Guy, "if all that they tell us is true, it is very horrible to think of Andy. If preparation is needed, why, he had none at all." 
               "Of course, Andy had made a mere wreck of himself mentally and physically cally," said Mrs. Davenport. "I don't know who is to be held to blame for it. His parents, very likely." 
               "And wreck as he was, mother, and sinner as men called him-according to the ministers, to what is called orthodox doctrine, every unconverted man or woman, every person out of Christ, is just as badly off, just as unsaved, as Andy." 
               "That is hard doctrine," said Mary. "Some people think one thing, and some another. For my part, it only looks reasonable that, when we do the best we can, we should have the best that can be given." 
               "And what is the best one can do, mother?" 
                
               "Why, morality, industry, patriotism; in short, what you and I are doing, Guy. I remember a passage of Scripture that reads like this: "Pure religion and undefiled is to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep one's self unspotted from the world." Mary did not realize that this religion spoken of is outward, and may be a mere seeming. She presently added another Scripture, for she had a good memory. "And, Guy, here is this text: 'O man, what doth thy God require of thee, but to do justice, to love mercy, and to-to-' Well, I've forgotten the third requisition, but I remember it was something like the other two, and just what we do." 
                
               She had forgotten! It was an important requisition, also: "To walk humbly with thy God." It would have cut the ground from beneath Mary's feet, and left her with no conceit, no self-righteousness, to stand upon. She had forgotten! Had she been discussing the points of a new breed of sheep or hogs, not so would Mary have forgotten, or, forgetting, she wouid have sought diligently until she found the missing knowledge. But she spoke of things concerning the world to come, and for that world she cared little. 
               Not so little did Guy care in this hour of deep feeling: he passed an anxious night. He opened the Bible, but felt that he knew not where to turn in it, and closed it again without looking high for help. He thought of praying, but he told himself he could not pray. He walked out into the garden in the night. Fair and pale hung the hunter's moon; silent and peaceful all the scene; the only tumult was in his own soul. He was one moment impelled to go, untimely as was the hour, to his pastor. Would that he had gone! Alas! for him who trifles with spiritual inclinings. The powers of good and evil were striving for Guy's soul, that November night, the first night of November. 
               When morning came, the conflict was for the most part ended. Guy was sinking into indifference again. 
                
               During the next two days, the thought of his dead schoolmate gave Guy many a pang, but, after all, the sight of Andy's death had failed to benefit him. 
               Worldly people are of all men the most particular about funeral ceremonies. It is the old story of the dead burying their dead. It is for the ungodly that the long procession must form, the funeral sermon be preached, and several ministers be in attendance. Andy Cropper had not been within sound of a minister's voice since his marriage ceremony, but the Croppers must have a sermon over his dead body. Guy and his mother followed close behind the mourners. Amid funeral paraphernalia a sermon cannot be expected to be a means of grace, and it was not such to the Davenports. Whatever might have been Guy's feelings as he turned toward town to be present at this burial, he left the grave indifferent as ever: the dead was hidden out of his sight, and his influence was at an end. 
               Matthew Norton came into Mary's house a few days after, when Guy was busy with his grain. 
               "Poor Sam Venn has come to a sad end," he said. 
               "What's that?" asked Mary. "Dead in a ditch?" 
               "No; but he was helping Hugh Wood do some threshing-drunk as usual, Sam was-and he was caught in the machinery, and horribly cut up. He cannot live many hours." 
               "I sha'n't pity him any," said Mary, her face settling into hardness, and fire blazing in her eyes. "I have to thank him for all the trouble, or the worst trouble, of my life. It was Sam Venn gave Guy his first liquor, and got him intoxicated, innocent boy as Guy was, right here on my place, and deceived me about it. No, no, Matthew; I shouldn't pity Sam Venn if he lay before my eyes in torments!" 
               "O Mary! I did not know you had so hard a heart," cried Matthew. 
               "It is hard to those that injure my son. If Sam had tried to kill me, I could have forgiven him sooner!" 
               "It is well the Lord is more pitiful and forgiving than we are!" exclaimed Matthew. 
               "What!" cried Mary, almost fiercely. "Do you suppose the Lord will forgive Sam Venn, and take him to glory?" 
               "No," said Matthew, "not unless he repents; and I fear it is overlate for that now. But I was thinking with how much sin of ours the Lord has patience." 
               "I pity a drinking man," said Mary. "Once I despised them. Now I have more sorrow than hate for those who are tempted and fall; but I have no forgiveness for those who tempt others, and that is what Sam Venn did. As for temptations, they lie thick enough everywhere. There is hardly a block in town without a whiskey-shop of some kind, and every hotel has its bar. I had rather see a cage of wild beasts opened, and the raging creatures set free on the public streets, or a nest of rattlesnakes; it would be just as right, and not half so dangerous!" 
               Mary's voice rose, and her ordinarily quiet face flushed with the excitement which she felt. 
               Matthew had listened with his head bowed in his usual thoughtful attitude. 
                
               "What you say of these temptations is quite true, Mary. I wish it were different. But you have much cause to be thankful that your son has come to himself. Think of poor Andy and Sam!" 
               "Guy is made of better stuff than those two," said Mary proudly. 
               The winter passed pleasantly away; everything went well, but not quite well enough to suit Mary. One dear wish of her heart was yet unsatisfied She wished to see Guy married. On this point she pressed him several times. At first, he simply shook his head. At last, to Mary's words that she would be happier to see a daughter in the house, Guy spoke: "It is useless to think of that, mother. I can offer no woman a name stained by imprisonment." 
               "You can more than make amends for that," said Mary sadly. "You are honorable, and in good position. That was your misfortune rather than your fault." 
               "It was my very grievous crime," said Guy firmly. 
               "Well, Guy," said Mary, "suppose some woman had loved you before that happened, and loved you through all, and loved you yet, why not marry? It is not an impossible supposition. Have not I loved you so?" 
               "Yes; but you are my mother," said Guy gratefully. 
                
               "That is true. But, son, as I know by experience, there is other than maternal love. There is Nannie." 
               "Don't speak to me of Nannie," said Guy with a deep sigh. "She is a fair little angel-too good for me. She is the Nortons' only child. Can I ask them to tie their name to-? There, mother, I am only grieving you. Don't tempt me further." 
               Mary was wise enough to keep silence for the time being. She was also wise enough to renew her attack on a convenient opportunity. 
               We have said that Mary was a just woman. She would not have desired to urge this marriage if she had not believed that thereby Nannie's happiness as well as Guy's had been secured. 
               Nannie may have been foolish enough to love Guy when she knew that he was given to fits of drinking; it was a folly that made her life sorrowful; yet, once having loved him, in the quiet persistency of her nature, she could not give him up, and, without a word or a look that betrayed her to any but two sharp-eyed mothers, she lived her lonely, peaceful life. Mary saw Nannie's silent faithfulness, and was glad; Ellen Norton saw it, and wept in secret. Had Guy been a Christian man, he would have filled Ellen's highest ambition for her daughter; but, after all the wanderings of his life, Ellen only felt that her girl was loving hopelessly. 
               Not so felt Mary. In her eyes, her son was worthy of any lady in the land. Again and again she addressed Guy on the subject he had forbidden. "Why does Nannie refuse all the offers she has? It is on your account, Guy. I know it is. I never heard her say a word of blame about you. Why not leave the question to Nannie's decision? If she will not take you, why, you are no worse off than now; and, if she will marry you, you will be happy. I know you care for Nannie." 
               "If I cared for her less, I should not hesitate half so much," said Guy. 
                
               "But Nannie is not the only one to be consulted; she has parents-" 
               "They have never refused her anything," said Mary, "and they will not begin now. Besides, they should be glad to get her well married." 
               Who can doubt that the result of Mary's arguments, Guy's own affection, and Nannie's discouragement of all other suitors were to banish Guy's scruples? 
               He came home from Matthew Norton's, one evening, with a happy face. "Behold your obedient son, my mother," he cried gayly, seating himself by Mary. "I spoke to Nannie as you told me to!" 
               "Ah! and Nannie answered as I knew she would!" exclaimed Mary joyously. "Now remains to see what her parents say." 
               "If Nannie herself is willing to take me," said Guy vehemently, "no power on earth shall keep her from me." 
               But Nannie did not wait for Guy to talk next morning with her father. She went to her mother with her story as soon as Guy had bidden good-night. 
               "Nannie," said Ellen, "is this really for your happiness?" 
               "Yes, mother," said Nannie decidedly. "Whom else but Guy could I care for?" 
               Ellen looked so mournfully at her child that Nannie cried impatiently: "Don't look so! don't think so! Others may mind Guy's misfortunes that way, but I do not!" 
               "Nannie dear," said her mother, "I do not so much care for that, though there may be danger lurking from the old habit yet; but Guy is not a Christian, and you are one." 
               "Well, mother," said Nannie, calling up the old fatal delusion, "perhaps I can make him one by marrying him. Don't the Bible say so?" 
               "No, it does not," said Ellen. "It bids the married remain together after one is converted, and gives the hope that God's blessing may follow good example; but it nowhere bids people marry in that expectation; indeed, it says distinctly, 'Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers.'" 
               "Don't tell me it is wrong," said Nannie impatiently, "for I have made up my mind. O mother! why cannot you let me be happy, after all this long time?" 
               "God knows," sighed Ellen, "that I would willingly die to secure your happiness. But, my daughter, how happy would my married life have been if your father had not been a Christian?" 
               "Guy would have been one long ago, if his mother had only influenced him as I shall," said Nannie. 
                
               "Daughter," said Matthew, now taking part in the conversation, "I'm afraid trouble will follow this choice of yours. There's no one likes Guy better than I do. I have no doubt he will rise to high positions; but, my girl, I'd rather have you live single for his sake, as I believe you have done, than tempt the Lord by marrying an unbeliever." 
               Nannie leaned her pretty head on her mother's knee, and sighed wearily: "Oh! how I wish you would not trouble me, and make me miserable." 
               Matthew's heart relented, as fathers' hearts are wont to do toward their daughters; he asked hesitatingly, "Nannie, is your mind made up?" 
                
               "Yes, father," said Nannie; "it is made up for ever!" 
               "Well," said Matthew, "you are old enough to choose for yourself. It is not exactly according to my judgment, but we can't make the same rules for all. May be this is the leading of Providence for you, and it may all come out right in the end." 
               Fallacious reasoning! That is never the leading of Providence which is in opposition to the Word of God. 
               "Well," said Nannie, lifting her head, "am I going to make you unhappy, and will you spoil my joy by looking sadly at me?" 
               "No," said Ellen; "if this must be, we will make you as happy as we can, my child." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE COUNTY FAIR. 
               
                   
                     FREE!! 
                  
                
               WHEN Mr. and Mrs. Norton had given their consent to Nannie's marriage, they endeavored to chase away every cloud of doubt, and make her as happy as was possible. Ellen indeed was oppressed by a vague idea that this was her child's last time of cheerfulness. There was a darkness over the future, and light only hung over those hours at home when wedding preparations were in progress. 
               Matthew Norton had in private spoken plainly to Guy, and stated his secret objections to the match. 
               "If you only oppose us on the ground that I am not a Christian," said Guy, "let that pass. I shall never put a straw in the way of Nannie's religious life, and very likely I shall come over to her way of thinking myself." 
               "As for the other matter," said Matthew, with a kindness in look and tone that rendered offence impossible, "I believe you completely reformed, or I would not trust my child with you." 
               "If I did not know that I am reformed," replied Guy, "I would not trust her with myself." 
               "And," continued Matthew, "I mean no offence when I tell you that, if the old passion got the upper hand of you, even if it were the very day of your wedding, you should not have her." 
               "If I sinned again as of old," said Guy, "I would never do Nannie the injustice of marrying her. She might as well marry a tiger. But why talk of what is impossible? Haven't I said I would die first?" 
                
               The wedding was appointed for Thanksgiving. In the joy of her heart, Mary Davenport made as many preparations for the long-desired event as the Nortons themselves. She made so many purchases for her house that Ellen Norton laughingly told her that she would leave no room for what Nannie would bring. 
               "There will be room for Nannie herself," said the joyous Mary, "and she is the most that I want." 
               "What is this?" asked Guy, one day, pointing to a curious little inlaid chair and table standing in the bow-window of the sitting-room. 
               "I got a chance to buy them," said Mary. "One does not often see anything thing so pretty, and I thought they would be nice for Nannie when she came. No one shall use them until then. In fact, Guy, I made that bow-window for Nannie. I never thought of having one until she said, when I was looking over the plans for building, how great an improvement one would be; and I had it made, hoping that she might come to live with us some day." 
               Over the table swung a cage with a canary, and opposite the cage a wire basket full of trailing vines. Perhaps before both mother and son arose a vision of fair, sweet Nannie, sitting there under birds and blossoms, singing over her work. 
                
               The cordiality which had ever been exhibited toward Guy in all his affairs found new vent when the fact of his engagement to Nannie Norton transpired. Almost every one thought well of it. A few held the same religious scruples as the girl's parents; but most people said it was an "excellent match on both sides, and that Nannie would be a great blessing to Guy." 
               Guy had always been regular in his attendance at church; but now he appeared on Sabbath afternoon at the school-house, where Nannie had a class, and, though he declined becoming permanently a teacher on the ground of unfitness for the work, yet at times he supplied the place of some one who was absent. 
               "There, now," said Mary Davenport to her friend Ellen, of whose doubts she was not ignorant, "didn't I tell you Nannie could do anything with my Guy?" 
               During the summer, Guy and Nannie received many invitations to social gatherings among their friends. At one or two of these, wine was offered to the guests; the wicked habit being so strong that the danger, especially to Guy, was forgotten. This wine was at the houses even of those who professed the greatest friendship and interest for Guy, and would have been loudest in deploring his relapse into drunkenness. 
                
               The question seems hardly to be why there are so many drunkards, but how can any one escape the snares set so plentifully on every side? From the low groggery reeking with filth and filled with the oaths and cries of Bedlam, to the elegant parlor where a fair hand presents the costly poison shrined in crystal, temptations hem in the weak and struggling spirit. Law countenances the accursed traffic; the state encourages the wholesale murderer, and battens on his fees. Is not this a spectacle over which men and angels may weep, and the wrath of God burn unquenchably-the paternal state deliberately taking a bribe, and giving a permit for the slaughter of its sons? Nor is this all. A man's foes are those of his own household. The father sets the wicked example to his sons; the mother gives the babe the fatal taste with its first infant food; friend tempts the friend, on plea of hospitality, of custom, of courtesy; and beauty and womanhood degrade themselves, and become false sirens, witching life's voyagers upon the shoals of utter destruction. 
               But, though tempted, Guy did not fall. His own resolution, his present happiness, and the gracious influence of the dear Nannie at his side kept him firm. 
               A servant placed a glass of wine at Guy's hand: he quietly declined it. It was offered then to Nannie, and also refused. Along comes mine host, chatting with his guests. 
               "What! Miss Norton. No wine with your cake? Have you been neglected?" 
               "Mr. Davenport and I are of the total abstinence party," replied the dovelike Nannie, flashing into such sudden spirit of look and tone that her host felt himself miserably at fault and flushed crimson. 
               "I shall not go to any more of these parties if they must offer us wine," said Nannie to Guy as they drove home. 
               "Do not fear for me; I feel no inclination to take it. I know the 'innovation it would work.' But I think the custom of presenting it is a most pernicious one; and as for the parties, I am sure I care very little for them. I had rather spend an evening talking with you, any time." 
               That was a very happy summer for Nannie, after the silent endurance of so many years. Her parents concealed their doubts and anxieties. Mary was full of hopes and joyous prophecies, and could not sufficiently praise Guy and caress Nannie. Never had there been such a summer for the fruit and grain: the earth brought forth abundantly. Under Guy's care, every department of farm work flourished. His neighbors declared his market-wagons a weekly exhibition worthy. of a county fair. 
                
               As for the county fair, Guy was one of its most interested stockholders and sustainers. He believed it very useful, and a famous method for developing the resources of the county; and he desired his own section to lead the state in agriculture and useful arts. He proclaimed it everybody's duty to send to the fair some contribution of their best, and inspired his friends with his zeal. 
               People laughed, and said it was useless to strive for prizes with Guy Davenport. There was some charm resting over the Davenport place. The family must keep a brownie, whose spells brought such a yield of wheat to the acre; such monster beets and turnips; such snow-white, solid heads of cabbage; such baskets of every variety of northern fruit; and, above all, such horses and cattle. 
               If there were such a good brownie for the fields and stables, surely there was another to bless the flowers that glowed in Mary's garden, making it like some stray corner of Eden; and as for her dairy, she was capable of setting up some sort of professorship, and instructing all the farmers' wives around in the art of making butter, cheese, and preserves such examples of perfection. 
               Out of all this abundance were to go choice specimens for the county fair. 
                
               The fair-grounds enclosed two gentle hills, each crowned with a fine grove of forest-trees. Between these hills a clear flowing stream wound, its beneficent influence displayed in the thick greensward on either side. 
               Why there should always be a horse-race at an agricultural fair, we cannot tell. It is one of the evils of an otherwise passably good institution. Banish the horse-race, and permit no whiskey within a mile of the fairgrounds, and then success to the county fair! 
               Unfortunately, the public, indefinite rulers of everything, and very imperfect custodians of their own peace and derelict conservers of their own morals, ordain that licenses for refreshment-booths and pedlars' stalls may be granted, and refreshments are supposed to consist largely of that liquid fire, alcoholic drink. Even when the liquor is not permitted within the sacred enclosure of the fair-grounds proper, it is brought as close to the gate as the ticket-office, and presents itself in little sheds upon every road leading to that grand centre of attraction, the fair. 
               The agricultural society of Guy's native county had their fair-grounds beautified by nature and art, and a race-course, of which they were as proud as if it were some great public benefaction. 
                
               For weeks before the fair, carpenters were busy erecting platforms, elevated stands for the judges, seats for spectators, and "halls" for the flowers, fancy work, and trophies of kitchen and dairy. 
               Guy was one of the chief superintendents of the work, and, on the evening before the fair, drove over for a last look to see that all was in readiness, Nannie accompanying him. 
               How happy was Nannie! The earth was all golden in October beauty-nature and friendship seemed to smile upon her. Six short weeks more would bring her wedding-day-a day that was not to tear her from friends and kindred, and the home of her youth, but, giving her added happiness, was to leave her still within daily sight of her parents, while placing her in the most luxurious and attractive dwelling for many miles around. But while Nannie rejoiced for Guy's sake in the beauty of his home, he who had been her childhood's idol was to her its crowning glory. 
               "How happy they seem!" said Matthew Norton to his wife as Guy and Nannie drove, laughing, away. 
               "Yes," said Ellen, with a sigh that was almost a groan. "And yet I cannot feel happy or contented about them. I feel as if the whole affair were wrong, and that something would happen. Perhaps Nannie will die," she added wearily, "and may be it would be better so while she is happy than to live for misery." 
               "Why, Ellen," said Matthew, "you used to be a very cheerful woman-what's the matter? The Lord don't give us a knowledge of the future, and it appears to me to be wrong to pretend to presentiments or forebodings." 
               "May be it is," replied Ellen. And she picked up a piece of sewing for Nannie, and tried to drive off her trouble with industry. 
               But while Mrs. Norton was prognosticating evil, Guy and Nannie were troubled with no such expectation. 
               The sun was slowly setting, the groves within the fair-grounds had been tinted brightly by the frosts, and the shafts of departing light falling upon the leaves transmuted them to gold and jewels of every dye. 
               In each grove was a large, hastily constructed house or hall of pine lumber for the display of the smaller wares and flowers, and already shrubs and flowering plants had been brought thither. 
               "Here's for pianos and sewing-machines, Nannie," said Guy, pointing to a room set apart from the rest; "and I'm going to buy you the machine that gets the prize." 
               "You won't feel like doing that, sir," said Nannie, shaking her head at him; "for I'm going to take the prize on bread; yes, sir, right away from your mother; and what will you say then?" 
               "That you ought to have two machines-or stay, a machine and the prize piano. How will that suit?" 
               Guy felt as if he were ready to buy out the whole fair for this delightful Nannie. 
               "You say just what my father does," cried Nannie; "and he has promised to buy me the prize piano." 
               Beyond the race-course, ranged along the high fence, were stalls and pens for the animals that were to be exhibited. 
               "I suppose your prizes will be taken here?" said Nannie. 
                
               "Yes; but not on the race-course," replied Guy. "I think racing is cruel." 
               "What are they building outside?" asked Nannie, peering through the fence. 
               "Booths for what they call refreshments; and a pretty riot they will keep up around here! I do not see why people cannot come together without so much noisy eating and drinking." 
               "O dear!" said Nannie. "I wish I were unlimited sovereign of this country for just lone enough to destroy every morsel of strong drink, and frame laws that would for ever prevent any more being made." 
               "No laws could prevent it, I'm afraid," said Guy; "the appetite for intoxicating drink is very strong indeed. It is like jealousy, 'strong as death, and cruel as the grave.'" 
               "Well," said Nannie, to whom during this period of Guy's reformation liquor had ceased to be a terror, "we will have no jealousy and no strong drink. Will we, Guy?" 
               Among country people, who live widely apart and do not frequently meet, such an opportunity as the fair gives for passing a few hours of leisure with friends is not to be despised. From far and near they come in wagons and carriages, gayly dressed, many of them in their best, and bringing baskets of carefully prepared luncheon cheon, which they share with favorite acquaintances in the shade. Here is a fine chance for the country editor and store-keeper to collect small debts. Here the family record is rehearsed by old cronies long parted. Now does the gossip of each family extend to the distant cousin; now are invitations given and received for remote days, as Thanksgiving and Christmas. 
               While the ruder portion of the young people indulge in such amusements as are afforded by the whirligig, with its swiftly revolving chairs, and dashes around the race-course, with visits to the shows of giants, and dwarfs, and hideous wax images that have been brought from neighboring cities, wiser and more refined attendants upon the fair enjoy themselves in social converse, and in a curious study of the human kaleidoscope that revolves before them. 
               To such a scene as this went the Nortons and the Davenports, especially drawn thither by an interest in the agricultural and home industry of their county. Some of the carriage cushions were placed under two wide-spreading maples. The lunch-baskets of Mary and Ellen were hung high in the branches, and here, on the last day of the fair, our friends might be found greeting their different acquaintances and discussing the scene around them. 
               Looking down the hill, Mary once saw Guy standing near a group of gentlemen who were taking their lunch, when one of them offered Guy a draught from an ominous pocket-flask. No wonder such a one is called a pocket-pistol. Like the pistol proper, it is equal to the destruction of a man's life and brains. 
               Mary felt the old fear; she was ready to cry out-to fly frantically-to her son to save him; but the passionate impulse died as she saw Guy calmly refuse the proffered drink and walk away. Now was Mary's heart full of pride. 
               Again came a dangerous moment. There was an exhibition of homemade wines. The various bottles were uncorked, and the wine poured into little glasses for the judges to pass upon its merits. 
               A sample was held out to Guy, who was one of the umpires of the day; but the friend offering it bethought himself, and withdrew it at once. 
               "Let others pass judgment upon the wine," said Guy. 
               "For my part," said Matthew Norton, "I would pay no man a premium for making poison. Why has not some one brought us a bottle of family strychnine or a domestic rattlesnake?" 
               The day was filled with temptations. Just outside the gates was a highly ornamented stall, where were cold iced cobblers, and punches, and champagne, which, as the day was unusually warm for the season, attracted many purchasers. 
               Beer was on draught in a hemlock bower, and bottled ale and porter were presented at every turn. Through all these fires Guy passed unscathed. He was busy, excited, happy. His friends were near him. He felt that very many eyes watched him curiously. There was Nannie's soft, heavenly influence, and the strong chain of his mother's love. If opportunity for indulgence in his besetting sin created desire, that desire was not recognized. Weaker in its beginning than were the influences that had been gaining strength for months, the master ter passion may have slept, growing unknown in its repose. 
               On the two previous days of the fair, Guy had been upon the grounds but a short time; business called him elsewhere, and he had put the phlegmatic Peter in charge of his property that was upon exhibition. 
               On this last day, Guy and his mother, with the Nortons, were present from morning until evening, but now, as it drew toward sunset, they were preparing to return home. 
               Nannie had won the prize for the best bread, both white and brown, and was merrily triumphing to Mary thereat. The prize piano and machine had been admired by the united families lies, and especially by their prospective possessor. 
               They were in the carriages at last-all but Guy. 
               "I cannot go now, mother," said Guy; "Peter will drive for you. I have some accounts to settle, and these horses and cattle to look after, and there is a purchaser here for our prize steers. He will have to come up to our price, though." 
               "And how soon will you get home?" asked Mary. 
               "I cannot tell; some time after dark, probably. I have the buggy here; the boy just brought it." 
               So, bowing good-by, Guy turned back into the enclosure, while the two carriages drove off. They were all too happy and too weary with the bustle of the day to give themselves uneasiness idly. Moreover, what was there to be uneasy about? Had they not every cause for rejoicing? Fortune smiled brightly upon them. Guy had given proof of his integrity; even Ellen Norton banished care, and Matthew praised his future son-in-law in no measured terms. 
               "I can trust Guy now anywhere," said Norton. 
               "I could trust him long ago," said poor Nannie half-reproachfully. 
               They had drawn up before their gate, and were waiting for Mary Davenport's carriage to pass by that they might bid her good-evening. 
               "I'm coming over in the morning," said Mary, leaning forward. 
               They parted without a cloud between them, these friends who should next meet in as fierce a tempest of human woe and passion as ever destroyed earthly hope and earthly home. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE NIGHT OF DOOM. 
               
                   
                     THE WAY IT ENDED. 
                  
                
               WHEN Guy had bidden his friends good-evening, he re-entered the fair-grounds, and his first care was to deliver to the servants who were waiting the fine animals which he had had on exhibition, and which must now be sent home. He concluded cluded the bargain of which he had spoken to his mother, and spent some time with the other judges of the occasion in looking over the list of prizes and chatting about the success and proceeds of the fair. 
               As one or two of Guy's companions left the gate, they stopped at the stand near by, and took parting drinks of wine or julep. Guy, happening to glance at one of these men as he was tossing off his favorite beverage, felt a sudden fierce craving for a glass of the same. Angry with himself, he put the feeling down and turned away. 
               A lad appealed to him to help him find certain marked glasses of fruit and jellies, and Guy, going to look for them, found several of his acquaintances finishing up the bottles of sample wine. 
               Again that eager thirst. But for very shame, he would have seized a share of the "home-made and harmless drink," as it was called. Again he fled temptation; and, though he felt no thirst except for these special stimulants, he resolved to drink water as an antidote to the desire. He called a boy: "Lad, bring me a glass of ice-water." 
               "Got none, sir! Ice all gone! Fine bottled ale and porter, sir! Have a bottle?" And up rushed the boy, a bottle in either hand. 
               Guy felt angry enough to strike him; indeed, he did push him roughly away. All things seemed against him. The boy was no worse than other people; he had been sent there to sell ale and porter, because such sales were allowed, and there were always purchasers to encourage them. 
               Guy sent another boy to the stall without the gate to get him a pitcher of water, and, when it was brought, he drank freely. He felt better. He laughed at himself; he reproved himself; he sighed. "I wish I had Nannie always by me," he said. 
               He was ready to go home now; but he was detained again. There were orders for some watchmen who were to be left in charge of the grounds until all properties were removed. 
               To his sharpened senses the air seemed full of the odor of liquor. He felt galled and tormented like a lion in chains; he was pursued by temptations like a pack of hounds let loose. His struggling spirit sent wild wishes for the saving presence of his mother or Nannie. 
               How could he escape? He was snared and beguiled on every side; foes without responded to the traitors within. The human fiends who live on their neighbors' ruin, the subtle demon of intoxicating drink, primal child of the pit, the absence of supporting friends, the excitement and weariness of the day-these were Guy Davenport's combined foes. And again we question, How could he escape? 
               You must remember that this man had availed himself of no high spiritual aid. He had not found in Jesus the "cleft of the rock-the secret of the stairs," where he might hide, the strong Tower where he might resort, from the windy storm and tempest. His weakness was not exalted to the eternal strength of Almighty God. Guy had never asked that spiritual panoply that turns aside all the fiery darts of the adversary. His was not the high virtue of the Christian man. He had no friend that never leaves nor forsakes, and sticketh closer than a brother. Oh! the loneliness-the utter loneliness-of the soul apart from God. 
               The business of the day was finished at last, Guy sprang into his buggy, and drove out of the gate. They were taking down the liquor-stand, and sending the poison to the city in a wagon. Again that wild, unconquerable, passionate appetite for brandy rose up in Guy. 
               There is but one explanation of this man's passion for drink-the medical statement that the use of alcohol deteriorates the structure of the brain; opens pores which never again close; deprives man of a portion of his power of resistance, weakens the will, and makes the soul a coward traitor to itself. 
               The Christian's heart waketh even while he sleeps, keeping watch against temptation, and looking for his Lord; and this heaven-born vigilance alone can save the former drunkard. How this can be-how that change of heart, that God-given life, can conquer even material obstacles and deficiencies, we cannot tell. It is one of those spiritual problems above elucidation in this lower life. That these things are so has been the testimony of all accurate and intelligent minds who have studied the subject, and, as physicians and superintendents of asylums for inebriates, have had full opportunity for investigation of all the phenomena of intoxication and its results. 
               The small stalls for the sale of liquors on the roads which led to the fairgrounds were yet full of customers. Before some of these Guy half-stopped, but drove on again more and more slowly. What an imperious master is appetite! How it bows the strong will and the honest heart! 
               There was a small tavern with a bar about a mile along on Guy's homeward road. Here Guy suddenly stopped, threw the reins on his horse's neck, and, leaping to the ground, walked in desperately, and in a harsh, unnatural tone demanded a glass of brandy. 
                
               A number of old topers were sitting about a little table, sipping rum and gin. Most of these knew Guy, and regarded his entrance and his order with amazement and horror. 
               As the boy at the bar turned to get the brandy, these men, drunkards as they were, came forward to protest: 
               "No, Mr. Davenport; leave this. It is no place for you." 
               "No brandy, boy; he doesn't want it." 
               "No man shall give Mr. Davenport whiskey while I am above ground to hinder!" 
               These words made the bar-tender pause, and forced Guy to shiver, tremble, and turn pale. 
                
               One man opened the door, and pushed him, unresisting, out into the gathering night. 
               Guy mechanically stepped into his buggy and took up the reins. In a wild tumult, he felt himself lost already, irretrievably fallen and disgraced, by his attempt to buy liquor. The story must spread. For him now no confidence, no hope, no mother's happiness, no gentle Nannie. 
               He pushed on. Again the open door, the red-curtained windows, the sound of tipsy revelry, the clink of glasses, and the fumes of ardent spirits. Here was his place; with these sots he belonged. Let him prove false to every resolution-traitor to every principle ciple; let him drink and die. Perdition even now raged in his distracted soul. 
               Again he leaped to the door, and entered the fatal bar-room. Here was no friend, no neighbor, no lost man with a faint wish to see others better than himself, to interpose to save him. 
               He asked for brandy in hoarse whispers. There was a hand-a cruel, murdering hand-to give the poison. 
               Out of the bottle gurgled the liquid abomination. The glass was full of the dark-red rum. It was a large potion-fearfully large-for such as Guy. He tossed it off. The second the brandy was swallowed the thirst was gone. There came one overwhelming whelming instant of agony, shame, remorse, despair. He faced the approaching delirium. He knew the horrors that were ready to burst upon him. Before him came the destruction and misery of his home-the heart-break of his mother and of Nannie. For all he knew, the hand that now set down the empty glass would before the morrow be a murderer's hand, wet, perchance, even with a mother's blood. 
               Would the story were not true! Would the compassionate heart might weave the romance to a brighter termination, and give the son of fancy a fairer destiny! Truth shuts us up to the night of woe and doom. 
                
               Almost at once, Guy felt the inevitable madness rising to his brain. The rum insanity swept away all consciousness, all individuality, all pity. He tossed the bank-note in his hand at the grog-seller, who grinned demoniac joy at the acquisition. Joy! It was the price of souls-the price of blood-which God should demand of him at the judgment-day. 
               What but a few hours ago was Guy Davenport, the gentleman and honored friend, strong in good resolutions, was now a crazy wretch, dashing along the road, driving he knew not whither, and it was the sagacity of his horse that carried him home at last. 
                
               Mary was waiting for her son. It was between nine and ten, and some of the old uneasiness stole unawares upon her as she kept her watch. Peter dozed in the kitchen. Mary bade him go to bed, but he remained up to put away the horse. 
               The servant-boy and the dairy-maid had both gone to their rooms. Mary counted the minutes. Suddenly she heard a wild shriek that chilled her heart with its once familiar horrors. She heard the ring of a horse's hoofs gallopping wildly, the rattle of wheels, cries of an infuriated driver. Peter roused, heard the same sounds, and darted into the sitting-room. 
               The first fence had been taken down to give place to a newer one of finer construction. 
               On came the maddened horse, frantic from unaccustomed cruelty, urged on by Guy, not up the carriage-road, but over the beautiful garden, Mary's pride. Peter threw open the outer door of the sitting-room in a dazed way, as if wondering whether sight would confirm sound. 
               On toward the great stone entrance steps drove Guy with unabated speed, as if the house were no obstacle to his mad progress. His terrified horse crashed against the granite, breaking its fore-legs, and struggling in agony. From the shattered vehicle leaped Guy, unhappily safe from injury, and, dashing ing up the steps, struck his appalled mother a fearful blow. Mary fell backward, but her head touched a thick rug which saved her from severe injury. Guy's fury was next turned upon Peter, who escaped with a bruised face and torn garments. As Peter jerked himself from Guy's grasp, Guy's hand slipped upon his own watch-chain, which he pulled with a force that sent the watch flying through a mirror. The crash roused the spirit of destruction; a chair went out the closed bow-window, carrying the bird-cage and the basket of vines, and leaving ruin in its track. The jar of falling chairs and tables followed Guy's every motion. The dairy-maid and farm-boy boy, roused by the uproar, and discovering what was going on, stole down the back-stairs, and made their escape. 
               The light from the lamps, which had not yet been sacrificed to the crazy man's frenzy, showed to Peter poor Mary lying still in the doorway, not insensible, but too much overcome with terror and anguish to move. Guy, too, saw his mother. In his madness, recognizing nothing in her but an object for his rage, he ran at her to leap upon her prostrate body. In his excitement he sprang beyond her, and Peter caught her away into the darkness of the portico before Guy could repeat his attempt. 
                
               Peter placed Mary upon her feet, and dragged her with him some little distance to the safe shadow of a clump of lilac-bushes. 
               "Are you hurt?" demanded Peter. 
               Mary groaned: "My son! my son!" 
               "Can you walk?" 
               "Let me go, Peter; let me go and quiet him," cried Mary. 
               "Let you go and be murdered!" said Peter. "We'll go to Mr. Norton's, or the master'll kill us both. Yes, let us go like we used to; here's the end of it all!" And honest Peter mingled his tears and groans with Mary's over the ruin that had come. 
               "I cannot go to Matthew's. What can I say? And there's Nannie. Let us go in, Peter, and quiet him by force or by kindness." 
               "That can't be," said Peter. "Hark! He's worse now than ever he was. It is as much for his sake as for yours that I get you off. What might he do, ma'am? Come on; I heard the boy and girl go off, and the neighbors will hear of it, any way. God help you, ma'am! Let nobody talk of trouble after what has come to our house!" And Peter, grasping. Mary's arm, drew her unwilling steps toward the road. 
               Not now, as in years gone by, could Mary push Peter back from her, and in her silence press resolutely forward alone. This last blow that had fallen on her so late in her life had made sudden wreck. The strong woman was trembling like a child. The nerves that had endured so much were unstrung; the muscles that had coped with brute force, had trained horses, and broken oxen to the yoke, would be strong no more. 
               They went on with what haste they could. It was half a mile to Matthew's house, and for much of the distance they could hear the uproar of Guy's delirium. 
               "I'm afraid he'll burn the house again," said Peter, looking anxiously back. 
               "Nothing could make the trouble worse," moaned Mary. 
                
               Poor woman! Her cup was not yet drained of its bitterest dregs. 
               The servants had gone to some neighboring laborer's house, and Peter's knock was the first token of disturbance to Matthew's peaceful dwelling. 
               As Norton came, half-dressed, to the door, and held his lamp over his head while he peered out, he started back in horror: "Peter! Mary! What does this mean?" 
               "The same old story!" said Peter, helping Mary into the room, and then letting go her arm, when she fell helpless upon the floor. 
               "Is she hurt?" asked Matthew, hastening to aid in lifting her to the lounge. 
                
               "I reckon her heart's broke," said Peter bluntly; "it ought to be. Mine is; and I ain't his mother-nor yet his lover," he added. 
               Here now was Ellen leaning over Mary, rubbing her hands, and sobbing, "O Peter! is it true?" 
               "It's true; and I reckon this ain't the worst of it. I wish there were two or three of us strong enough to go and conquer him. Such a fit as he's in!" 
               But Matthew was old and infirm, and Peter, as we have seen, no antagonist for mad Guy. Besides, at this most miserable moment poor Nannie came in, and, comprehending all the ruin of her hope, fell into, such a deathlike swoon that for a long time it seemed as if she could never be brought back to life; and her distracted parents, knowing what her wakening would be, were almost as much in dread of her restoration as of her death. 
               When the first gray dawn began to appear, Peter had brought a friend to aid Ellen in the care of Mary and Nannie, and two or three neighbors to go with him to the scene of the night's confusion. Leaving misery behind them, this little company, too anxious and heart-sick to speak, hastened toward the Davenport homestead. 
               It was the early morning of a stormy autumn day; a chill, drizzling rain had begun to fall. All about the house was strangely still. Against the massive sive front steps lay the poor horse-a beautiful brute, Guy's special pride-dead amid the wreck of the buggy. The lawn was strewn with fragments of the shattered windows. Mary's bow-window was a ruin; the lately beautiful garden was tramped and torn where Guy had driven over it; the front door was shut and barred. Peter had heard Guy fastening it in fury just after the escape of himself and Mrs. Davenport. They entered the house by the broken bow-window, stumbling over the cage with its dead bird, and the pieces of the table and chair that had been bought for Nannie. Silence still-silence in the chaos of the once dainty room. Was he asleep, this recent demoniac? Yes, he was asleep. Have you found him now, neighbors? Is this Guy Davenport lying here in the hall, in the uncertain light of the new morning? Is it Guy? But do not call him; do not try to waken him. It is Guy; but yonder in the stiff hand is the razor that took his life. Here is the incurable gash across the white muscular throat that wife or mother may never clasp tenderly; and lo! where the red life has ebbed away in a narrow stream on either side, and lies in an ominous pool, a stain that may never wash out. 
               It is Guy. Here is the face that you loved; the broad brow that templed the thoughts you praised; the mute lips that once were eloquent to you on temperance; the eyes that flashed; the hands that toiled; the limbs that scorned to grow weary. I tell you this is Guy. And who killed him? He died by his own hand, you say. But who armed that hand? Who poisoned the current of his will? Upon whom, upon what distillers, and rumsellers, and unrighteous law-makers, will God lay Guy Davenport's death when the books are opened? He is dead. Need we reckon what is lost to himself, to his neighbors, to the state; to that mother who labored for him as never mother did before; to that tender girl who-Heaven pity her!-loved him all these years, and waited and hoped, and has come to this woeful hour? 
               Here is the beginning of the end. For the rest, this home for which Mary toiled for twenty-five weary years must be sold to others. She cannot live where this stiff, frozen Guy has lain with a red pool on either side. You shall see her a half-paralyzed woman, melancholy, mad, and never speaking, sitting day after day in Matthew Norton's best room, with wide-open eyes that seem for ever filled with this once ghastly sight. Waiting upon her, ever shall you see that pale, unsmiling creature, who was once so fair and joyous, but whose life is expressed in the one word-endurance. 
                
               It is useless to stand here talking, fellow-citizens. The harvest is not to your liking; but did none of you sow the seed? The time to talk was when you might have saved him-when you might have removed the temptations, and made the question of his life, "How could he fall?" rather than "How could he escape?" 
               Take up your dead and bury him. It is no wonder that your pastor cannot speak for weeping over that hopeless and Christless coffin! You may talk of what you will do to the man who sold that "one cup" that wrought this last tragedy; you may execute your threats and drive him from your midst; but that will not bring back Guy Davenport. You must bury him, and, pray you, bury him deep. Throw in the frosty November earth. One year ago, he was almost saved: he stood looking heavenward, and good spirits wooed him to the skies. He tarried so long on that way that he lost it for ever. Bury him deep, deep enough to tomb in his grave that mother heart that had no love, no hope, but in him. Bury up with him Nannie's happiness-Nannie who never did any one harm. Bury up with him the peace of those good people, the Nortons, who have lost all in seeing the suffering of their only child. Bury him deep enough that the memory of the drunkard and the suicide may not come out of the grave to reproach you. 
               Would that in this real grave where they are burying no fictitious Guy, but a real Guy who was once just, this noble, generous, tempted, struggling, finally ruined and lost man, we might bury all those snares and temptations, and wicked laws, and brutal vampire spirits which are writing, in every city and village and quiet country neighborhood of our land, just such life tragedies as this of Guy Davenport-poor Guy who could by no possibility escape. 
             
            THE END. 
            JOHN ROSS & CO., PRINTERS, 27 ROSE ST., NEW YORK. 
         
       
       
          
             
            PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL TEMPERANCE SOCIETY AND PUBLICATION HOUSE, 
            FOR SUNDAY-SCHOOL LIBRARIES. 
            Sent by Mail on receipt of Price. 
             
               
                  The Temperance Doctor. 12mo, 370 pp. By Miss MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, Author of "Deacon Sim's Prayers," etc $1 25 
               
                  The Old Brown Pitcher. 12mo, 222 pp. By the Author of "Susy's Six Birthdays," "The Flower of the Family," etc 1 00 
               
                  Out of the Fire. 12mo, 420 pp. By Miss MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, Author of "Temperance Doctor," "Deacon Sim's Prayers," etc 1 25 
               
                  Our Parish. 18mo, 252 pp. By Mrs. EMILY C. PEARSON 75 
               
                  The Hard Master. 18mo, 278 pp. By Mrs. J. E. MCCONAUGHY 85 
               
                  Echo Bank. 18mo, 269 pp. By ERVIE 85 
               
                  The Red Bridge. 18mo, 321 pp. By THRACE TALMAN 90 
               
                  Rachel Noble's Experience. 18mo, 325 pp. By BRUCE EDWARDS. 90 
               
                  Vow at the Bars. 18mo, 108 pp 40 
               
                  History of a Threepenny Bit. 18mo, 216 pp 75 
               
                  Philip Eckert's Struggles and Triumphs. 18mo, 216 pp. By the Author of "Margaret Clair" 60 
               
                  Gertie's Sacrifice; or, Glimpses at Two Lives. 18mo, 189 pp. By Mrs. F. D. GAGE 50 
               
                  The Broken Rock. 18mo, 139 pp. By KRUNA, Author of "Lift a Little," etc 50 
               
                  Andrew Douglass. 18mo, 232 pp. By the Author of "Madeline," "Harry and his Dog," etc 75 
               
                  Rev. Dr. Willoughby and his Wine. 12mo, 458 pp. By Mrs. MARY SPRING WALKER, Author of "The Family Doctor," etc 1 50 
               
                  Aunt Dinah's Pledge. 12mo, 318 pp. By Miss MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, Author of "Temperance Doctor," "Out of the Fire," etc. 1 25 
               
                  Frank Oldfield; or, Lost and Found. 12mo, 408 pp. By Rev. T. P. WILSON, M. D 1 50 
               
                  Tom Blinn's Temperance Society, and other Stories. 12mo, 320 pp. By T. S. ARTHUR, Author of "Ten Nights in a Bar-Room," etc 1 25 
               
                  The Drinking-Fountain Stories. 192 pp. Illustrated 1 00 
               
                  Jug-Or-Not. By Mrs. J. MCNAIR WRIGHT. Author of "John and the Demijohn," "Almost a Nun," "Priest and Nun," etc 1 25 
               
                  Come Home, Mother. 18mo, 144 pp. By NELSIE BROOK 50 
               
                  Job Tufton's Rest. 12mo, 332 pp. By CLARA LUCAS BALFOUR 1 25 
               
                  The Harker Family. 12mo, 336 pp. By EMILY THOMPSON 1 25 
               
                  Tim's Troubles. 12mo, 350 pp. By M. A. PAULL 1 50 
               
                  Hopedale Tavern. 12mo, 252 pages. By J. W. VAN NAMEE 1 00 
               
                  Roy's Search. 12mo, 264 pp. By HELEN C. PEARSON 1 25 
               
                  How could he Escape? 12mo, 312 pp. By Mrs. MCNAIR WRIGHT. 1 25 
               
                  The Pitcher of Cool Water. 18mo, 180 pages. By T. S. ARTHUR. 50 
               
                  Temperance Anecdotes. 12mo, 288 pp. By GEO. W. BUNGAY 1 00 
               
                  The Temperance Speaker. 18mo, 288 pp. By J. N. STEARNS 75 
             
            
               Address, J. N. STEARNS, Publishing Agent, 172 WILLIAM STREET, NEW YORK. 
          
       
   
