
    ----CITATION----
        Weir, James, (1821-). Simon Kenton, or, The Scout's Revenge .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8248
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Simon Kenton, or, The scout's revenge 
            
               INTERVIEW OF BRYAN ANDO-COM
?4    "

i.
t
t
i
. 3'
1
E,
Y
r
y
.
fi
L'
._
"~

SIMON KENTON:
ORS
THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.
Ln  i0toricalhn1 ul.

BY JAMES

WEIR.

P-lIL ADELPHJI:.
LIPPINCOTT, grRAMBO AND Co
1852.

f
f

I

I

rl ' y+r,   s
,,,  '       \, _ ut ,
-               : ;  .
-__        :     =


SIMON KENTON:
OR,
THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1852, by
LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO, AND CO.,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States in and
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

t

PHILADELPHIA:
'. K. AND P. G. COLLINS, PRINTERS.

CHAPTER        I.
IN the north-western part of the State of North Carolina,
upon the head-waters of the River Yadkin, a stream somewhat
noted in our revolutionary annals for scenes of partisan war-
fare, and, near the little town of Hillsborough, a place of no
great note at the present day, but during the last quarter of
the eighteenth century, when our story commences, rendered
quite famous (at least in the estimation of its inhabitants):
as having been the head-quarters of General Cornwallis for a
short period, just after the celebrated retreat of General Greene
across the Dan into Virginia, was a small, unpretending farm-
house; and around it, what would now be considered a very
unthrifty and badly cultivated farm.
To this farm-house, a little after nightfall, on a raw, chilly
day in the month of March, early in the last phase of the
eighteenth century, and to a little party of five persons
gathered around its ample fireside, we would ixow draw the
attention of the reader.
But, before we enter into 1, more particular and minute
description of this little company at the farn4house, that the
reader may more readily comprehend the thread of our story

!*P rlr                 .. - ar ~  t          .

b    i                     '
"        It
: s    ,y
r         w   .    "                 n   iFb1        .y
A                           '}


SIMON KENTON;

and the peculiar situation of our country, at the time of which
we are speaking, it will be necessary to premise that the pre-
sent narrative commences at a period only a few years subs Y
quent to the- War of the Revolution.
Neglected in their infancy by their mother country, and at
a later day oppressed with unjust taxation, the colonies had,
at length, been unwillingly forced into open rebellion. The
result of this struggle, after many years of weary war, was a
complete triumph on the part of our forefathers. It had been
no emeute, or popular tumult flashing up, and passing away in
an hour, but a fixed and steady resistance upon principle; and
the end was the. acknowledgment of our nationality by all the
civilized nations of the earth !
No period in the history of the world has been more event-
ful than the last quarter of th  ghteenth century; and no
space of time, of the same dura on, more fruitful of wars and
revolutions. The Eastern and Western Continents had alike
been the scene of violent popular agitation; but the results of
the sanguinary conflicts upon the two hemispheres were vastly
different. In the one, as we have already intimated, the result,
was a complete triumph on the part of the colonies, and that
tridinh had ushered into existence a Republic. The dream of
the oet and philosopher had, at length, beedealized. In the
olethere-had .been the same ardent desire to throw off the
galling yoke of tyranny, and the same anxious longing after
freedom., Taking root in France, the spirit of liberty, after
sweeping the Bon of St. Louis from his throne to the grave,
had, with unequalled rapidity, spread thence throughout Eu-
rope, :}convulsing with war and revolutionary agitation all its
nations, from the sunny shores of the Adriatic even to the
wild:steppes of Russia. But the end of this mighty political
throe was'defeat.. The ancient and' moss-covered institutions
of feudalism and kingly prerogative had been violently shaken,
it is true, but they were not destroyed. Those who would be.
free, were bondsmen still.-
Those were sad and bloody times, and times of startlipg

4

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.                5
confusion throughout the kingdoms of the earth. The mind,
when dwelling upon this age of the world, is ever peopled, like
the misty songs of Ossian, with shadowy warriors, and shields,
and banners, and broken spears; and, whilst lingering upon
the tossing panorama, would fain turn away to contemplate
the beneficial effects, if any, of 0so much blood and suffering,
and of such unusual disorder in the affairs of men.
But, happily, our story commences just after the War of
Independence, when the Western World rested from strife, and
our Republic, fully established, and in successful operation,
stood out before the astonished gaze of men the most memora-
ble triumph of this memorable age.
Forgetting the dark days of the Revolution, and enjoying
with increased zest, after so many years of tumult and danger,
the quiet pleasures of peace, our fathers, with smiling faces,
gathered around their warm hearthstones, and dreamed of a
glorious future. But their dreams respecting the future great-
ness of their country, although bright, and beautiful, and flat-
tering in their eyes, never for.a moment reached.that point of
power and glory that we, their children of the present age, are
permitted to enjoy and behold. The boundless valley of the
Mississippi, and the great States now spread over the alluvial
plains of the West, had no place in their pleasant fireside.fan-
cies. The thirteen old States, binding, upon the shores of the
Atlantic, the common offspring of our Puritan andCdatholic
ancestors, and late the scene of war and desolation, alone filled
their teeming minds, and Were alone the subject of their future
hopes and expectations.
At this pleasant epoch, then, in the history of our country,
when America, or, rather, the eastern shores of eur Republic,
rested from war; and when the roll of artillery, the partial
tones of trumpet and drum, the quaking tramp of galloping
squadrons, and light tread of the eager partisan were alike
unknown and unheard, we commence our story.
~The farm upon the Yadkin, as we have already stately, was
~nunpretending one, and greatly out of repair;j and the farm-
1*

-Arl          *              +r

,_
-
;;._

r_          r               1.        .


SIMON KENTON;

house looked very time-worn and dilapidated, although it was
still comfortable and pleasant enough, when compared with the
ordinary run of houses met with at that day, so soon after the
hurry and confusion of a revolution. Luxuries were not so
cheap and abundant then as now, and order and cleanliness not
so much expected as at an age of more ease and leisure. It
had been the home of Sergeant Duffe, this house and farm,
during the entire war, and, indeed, for many years previous;
and to this fact might be ascribed, more than to carelessness,
intentional -neglect, or idleness, its present ruined condition.
But although the Sergeant had been an active patriot from the'
very commencement of our colonial struggles, and Tory depre-
dations had been nowhere more frequent than upon the waters
of the Yadkin, his residence had had the good luck during the
whole of this time to escape untouched, and almost unvisited by
any of their roving bands. Whether he owed his good luck to
chance, or the kindness of his marauding neighbors, or to the
secret and retired situation of the homestead, is a question of
doubt to this day; but the Sergeant himself was in the habit
of ascribing precious little of goodness or charity to the Tories,
and, we doubt not, would have much. rather had it burned
down than believe he owed its safety to any kindness of the
enemy.
Then around the fireside of the Sergeant, on a cold, raw night
in March, were assembled five persons, a female and four males,
three of the latter white, and the remaining one an African.
The female -was the wife of Duffe, the owner of the mansion-
and a hale, hearty dame, one of your buxom, stirring women
was the good wife of the Sergeant-and comely, too, for one of
her age, somewhere between thirty and thirty-five-and at that
moment, "when we introduce her to the reader, she was busily
and faithfully engaged, and apparently with no small under-
standing, from the way she handled her foot, in doing what, in
the times of Homer and Virgil, was considered very respectable
and becoming (believe it, 0 modern belles!): to wit, twirling the
reel, and making most excellent flax thread, such as is generally

6

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.               7
used nowadays, if, we are not mistaken (for we never speak posi-
tively in doubtful cases), in sewing tow linen galligaskins.
Such were the presence and figure of the good dame of the
Sergeant, and such her employment; and, though surrounded by
none of the luxuries and appliances of wealth-and there was
neither piano, lute, nor harp to be seen anywhere in her neigh-
borhood-yet there beat, beneath her coarse homespun dress,
as kind, and gentle, and good a heart as ever throbbed or
fluttered beneath the gaudy folds of the Persian loom.
The Sergeant, a tall, athletic, and rawboned man, was, in
appearance, well worthy of the -lassie he called his good lady,
and seated, as he then was, bolt upright in his chair, as if upon
dress-parade, looked even more gigantic than ,he really was;
showing high above the back of his seat a pair of broad
shoulders, and yet above these a stout determined neck,
surmounted by a well-shaped head, profusely covered with a
heavy shock of hair, auburn we'll call it, though, if speaking
of a passing stranger, and not writing a novel, we should
think it very nigh akin to what is vulgarly called a sandyy
red."  Duffe, or the Sergeant, as we shall indifferently call
him throughout our story, although not very prepossessing
externally-for he would have stood a very bad chance for pre-
ferment at the court of that beauty-loving virgin queen, Eli-
zabeth-was, in every respect, a man, and as brave a one as
ever buckled on harness to fight the enemies of his country;
and, like all truly brave men, was-as generous, and noble, and
kind-hearted as the most chivalrous knight of the crusading
age! In a word, it might be said of him, and we doubt not
. with as much, if not more truth, than was once said of a fa-
mous chevalier, "1he was sans peur et sans reproche;" and, if
his beauty would not have been a passport to the good graces
of Queen Bess, his length would have raised him very high in
the estimation of that lover of tall men, Frederick William, of
Prussia!I
By the side of the Sergeant sat a stout, powerfully framed,
and wild-Ilooking being, whose visage, though none of the

i
:j
,p
.y
Y
1'L
. L
it
i

"


8                    SIMON KENTON;
whitest (for it was very unfashionably sunburnt), betokened
an Anglo-Saxon; whilst his dress and equipments went far to
proclaim him a savage; and, had it not been for his language
(though none of the purest), it would have been somewhat
difficult to settle upon his race ! In a court of justice, espe-
cially in the-South, where color is considered prima face evi-
dence of slavery, we wouldn't'have given much for his chance
of freedom. Simon Kenton, or Sharp-Eye, for such were the
titles given him by his parents, and by his border companions,'
and he answered readily to them both, in his dress and appear-
ance; presented a striking picture of the daring half savage
characters everywhere to be found at that day (and, indeed, at
the present time) upon our extreme western frontier. A con-
temporary of Boone, and one of the most skilful and deter-
mined scouts of Kentucky, or the "Cane-Land," as it was
then sometimes called, Kenton's dress, composed of a flowing
hunting-shirt of tanned buckskin, with pants, or rather leg-
gins, of the same material--a broad belt, buckled tight around
his waist, supporting a tomahawk and hunting-knife--a gay
pair of worked moccasons, with a capacious shot-pouch swung
around his neck and ornamented with long tufts of black hair,
resembling very much, as in truth they were, the scalp-locks
of the western Indian, gave him a decidedly savage appearance,
and declared at once his very recent return from a dangerous
life upon the frontier. He had been a fellow-soldier of Duffe
during the Revolution; but, after the war, being of an adven-
turous and daring disposition, had wandered out West, where
he had already become famous in the many bloody border
frays between the savage and. early settler, and was considered
second, in skill and cool bravery, to no scout of the "Dark and
Bloody Ground." On a visit now to the Old States, as they were
called at that period to distinguish them from the more recent
settlements in the West, Kenton was sojourning, for the time,
with his-old friend and companion in arms, not without a hope
that, by his glowing descriptions of the flowing savannas be-
yond the Blue Ridge, and of the wild freedom of a frontier life,'

' OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.9
he night induce the latter to bear him company upon his re-
turn to Kentucky. Six feet two inches in his moccasons, with
a well-knit sinewy frame to match his great height, and with a
broad, full, and open face, tanned and swarthy, it is true, yet
pleasant and bright, with a quit, good-humored smile; and
lighted up by a deep-blue eye, and with heavy masses of auburn
hair, and whiskers sweeping carelessly around and about his.
countenance, Kenton exhibited in his person, as he sat before
the fire Pf the Sergeant, a splendid specimen of the genuine
borderer, and no wonder the Indian brave trembled at the re-
doubted name of Sharp-Eye, and instinctively shrank from a
contest with so formidable a foe. Although, now surrounded
by friends, and in the house of an old comrade, the Scout, as
was natural with him from long custom, still held grasped in
his ready hand the barrel of his trusty rifle, from which he
never parted, not even when he slept, and, at the same time,
kept his ears wide awake to all suspicious sounds, as if yet in
the land of the enemy, and momentarily expecting the wild
yell of his accustomed foe. Notwithstanding he was well
skilled in every species of woodcraft, an adept at following the
trail of the wild beasts of the forest, and familiar with all the
cunning tricks of the wily savage; yet, strange as it may
appear, he was the most credulous of men, and as simple as a
child in what is generally termed the wayss of the world," or,
in other words, the tortuous winding of policy and hypocrisy,
so often met with under the garb of civilization. Indeed, it
has been said of him "that his confidence in man, and his
credulity were such that the same man might cheat him twenty
times; and, if he professed friendship, he might cheat him
still !" At the feet of the Scout lay the inseparable com-
panion of all his journeyings, his dog; and Bang, for such
was the name of this prime favorite, was 'as rough a specimen
of the canine species as his master's countenance was of the
face divine! But Bang was, nevertheless, a very kAwing dog,
and, ever and anon, now as his 'master became excited in his
descriptions of western scenes and adventures, he woul4, aise

see


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

his headband look intelligently at the narrator, and so wisely
. did he wag his shaggy tail, that more than once the Warm-
hearted hunter, breaking off suddenly in his narrative, would
pat his trusty comrade upon the head, and swear, with a hearty
emphasis, "that Bang knew all about it !"
Eyeing with a suspicious glance, and some degree of super-
stitious fear, this rough companion of the frontiersman, his
uneasiness and private views respecting the genealogy of poor
Bang by no means diminished by the Scout's frequent appeals
to that worthy, the honest African, who rejoiced in the ancient-
and honorable title of Titus, was an earnest, and, to judge by
the staring iensity of his starting orbs, a most curious and
interested listener to the wild stories of the borderer. He was
an Ethiopian of pure blood,-if we take as evidence those very
distinctive marks of color, nose, lips, and woolly head; and the
latter, now slightly covered with gray, told that he was beyond
the meridian of life; and his beauty (if ever blessed with that
rare and much-coveted commodity) was now grievously dis-
figured by a. deep scar, the effect of a sword-cut across his
cheek ! Titus was a character in his way, as much so as the
borderer, and had witnessed many bloody scenes, and passed
through many perils during the Revolution. He had been
the body-servant of a colonel in the Continental line, and had
stood boldly and fearlessly by the side of his master in many
a hard-fought field! The ghastly scar across his cheek was
received on the sad field of Camden, whilst gallantly warding
off a blow intended for .his already wounded master! The
colonel was saved by the devotion of his slave, and Titus never
had cause to regret the blow, : for that livid scar upon his sable
countenance not only insured him the protection and affection
of his grateful master during life, but, since his death, was a
certain passport to the hearts of Kenton, Duffe, and the only
son of the colonel, whom we will presently introduce to the
reatler. Had the Scout been speaking now of regular warfare,
the black, who prided himself upon his military knowledge
and the service he had seen, would have exhibited all the stoic

indifference of a veteran; but, as he was detailing hairbreadth
escapes from the wily savage, and fierce border skirmishes in
the "Dark and Bloody Ground," Titus, much to the delight of
the borderer, had shown a proper degree of interest, and had,
therefore (as all good listeners will), risen immeasurably in the
estimation of the narrator, who promised himself to give the
black an account of still more wonderful adventures, at some
future day, when no one was present to keep him within the
bounds of truth or reason.
Lolling negligently in an arm-chair, a little removed from
the personages we have just described, with his head thrown
carelessly back, and his cap drawn closely over his eyes, re-
clined a graceful youth of some two-and-twenty summers, and,
from his dress and general appearance (the one being of much
finer material, and the other exhibiting the ease and polish of
education and an intimacy with refined society), bearing but
little affinity to through beings with whom he was keeping
company. Thiis youth was Bryan Head, an orphan-the son
of the Sergeant's and Scout's colonel during the Revolution,
and of Titus's - master !-but lately escaped from the control
of his guardian, having received into his own hands the small
patrimony left from the estate of his father, after defraying
the expenses of his education. Bryan had been now for some:
months enjoying his liberty; during that time, hunting in the
neighborhood, and lodging at the humble farm-house of his
foster-father, Duffe! ~The latter regarded Bryan with all the
affection of a real parent, and the young man fully returned
his love, regarding him in the light of a second-father i   And
the good dame, who had nursed him after the death of his own
mother, was not forgotten by.the grateful orphan, for she re-
ceived from him all that love and reverence which would have
been bestowed upon his own parent, had she been alive ! But
the young man seemed but little interested in the bold sketches
of the Scout, or rather appeared to be under some stronger
influence than that excited by the stirring narrative of the bor-
~derer; for, although Simon' s voice was none of the softest, and

N

,
e

10

11

SIMON KENTON;


I ,
1'

SIMON KENTON;

had that deep guttural intonation so common with the western
-savage, it apparently did not reach his ear, since he continued
in the same listless, dreamy state, wrapped in silent reverie,
totally careless and unconscious of the thrilling scenes painted
by the rough, but graphic hand of the sturdy frontiersman,
and which, seemingly, were of such deep interest to the Ser-
geant and Titus.
Such, then, was the occupation and appearance of the- little
group gathered around the fireside of Sergeant Duffe; but
even whilst we have been making this hurried sketch this
hearthside assembly had been thrown ito sudden commotion
by the Scout abruptly breaking off in one of his narratives,
and exclaiming, with ad- energetic gesture, as his watchful ear
caught the hoot of an owl, and answer of its mate-
Hello ! thar they are, the pesky redskins! Blast my etar-.
nal buttons, if them sneakin' Shawanees ain't hootin' to one
another; and thar'll be a liftin' of topknts afore mornin', or
my name ain't Sharp-Eye !"
The Sergeant, Bryan, Madam Duffe, Titus, and even
Bang (who should have known better), all sprang to their feet
at this startling exclamation of the frontiersman; but the dog
..                          g'
after a low growl of surprise, and a knowing look 't his master,
.as if ashamed of him, quietly resumed his place before the fire,
and Duffe, recovering from his momentary alarm, with a laugh
at the expense of himself, and the frightened countenances of.
his companions, said,
"Pshaw, Simon! we are not out in Kentucky that we should
be alarmed at the hoot of a harmless owl. You've been talking
so much of your Indian adventures, that you fancied yourself
back in the forest, and surrounded by yelling redskins.?'
"Guess you're right!" said the- Scout, with some confu-
sion, resuming his seat; "but it ain't so bad for one to keep
his eyes skinned even in this 'ere civilized country: for thar's
no tellin', Sargeant, when you may run foul of an enemy."
There's some truth in that; and you have one much nearer
thian you have any idea," muttered a dark figure, throwing himself

13

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

down, close under the shade of the house, and once more (for
he, too, had been startled by the cry of Kenton) applying his
ear to a crevice, very convenient for eavesdropping.
" We don't 'low animals of that ar' kind to be makin' a
rumpus out in Kaintuck," said the Scout, apologetically-
"do we, Bang.-
"Of course not!" growled Bang; and his master,, satisfied
that "he knew all about it," continued, turning to Duffe-
"I tell you what, Sargeant, when we hear strange noises
'round our cabins out West! sich as animals callin' animals,
and birds speakin' to birds, like them cussed owls jist now,
then we commence gettin' ready, uncommon smart, for the red-
skins ; for we knows they'r'bout, jist as well as if we'd seed
'em  and ain't to be caught nappin', with tow in our ears, by a
blasted sneakin' Ingen !-are we, Bang?'
Another sharp growl of assent satisfied the Scout of Bang's
attention, and patting his dog kindly, the borderer, with a qia-
zical glance at the staring eyeballs of Titus, continued-
"Why, Sargeant, you used to think, yourself a smart one
'bout the tricks of war, and may-be you wer'; but, blast my
coonskins! if you wer' out in Kaintuck, if you wouldn't dis-
kiver yourself particularly and distressingly green!, When we
fought the Britishers, it was -all plain enough, and straight
enough, too, for it was 'forward march! make ready! fire!'
and, blaze away we went, altogether, and away run the red-
coats, or away we run; for one or the tether had to do it, sartain;
and then the thing wer' all over. But, bust my buckskins!"
chucked the Scout, slapping his leather pants sufficiently hard
to show the strength of his oath, and at the same time laugh-
ing at the very idea, "if them ar' kind of tactics would
begin to do with the redskins--would they, Bang?"
Thus appealed to, Bang said "no!" as plain as a dog could,
and with far more politeness than we have known some men
to growl that same little negative, when approached for a
charity; but the Scout, who was in the habit of making such
appeals to his dog, like a great many others we have met with,
2

12

.,
,
._
Yi'
Y'
Y _
'F:

,r-
,
1  Y l
M0
A
r


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.        15

(who lay more claims to politeness), without waiting for, or
noticing his reply, continued-
"I tell you what, Sargeant, skulk are the word with us, and
'taint wrong neither; for, blast them redskins, they won't stand
out like gentlemen, and blaze away by columns, but they jist
lay in the long grass, behind logs, and trees, and sich like, and
the first you knows ofthar whereabouts is a bullet in your
gizzard, a tomahawk through your brain,- and a cussed Ingen
trottin' off to cover, with a nice bloody scalplock dangling from
his belt. You see, Sargeant, 'taint no 'vantage to be an old
soldier, for we jist have to forget all we knows 'bout trainin',
and take to this 'ere murderin' way of doin' the business, jist
like the 'tarnal savages themselves; and it comes darned na-
tural, too, after you've been thar a little while, and the sport's
elegant, much better than the old way, for thar's some fun in
outdodging a Shawanee, nd no mistake ; Bang knows all 'bout
it!"
And Bang would have given his usual assent, had not the
Scout, without waiting to hear from him, or any one else, con-
tinued-
"Now, to show you, Sargeant, what audacious cunning
devils them dratted redskins are, I'll jist relate you a slight
saroumstance that happened to this 'ere individual himself ;
and, darn - me  it didn't come in a grazer of losin' me my
scalp !"
Here the dame stopped her wheel, Titus drew his stool a
little nearer, and Bang, as.if watching to catch his master trip-
ping, raised his head and cocked his ear in expectation; but
the Scout, by no means daunted; commenced his story by
saying-
"It wer' a short time after I got out to Raintuck, and
though I wer' new in the land, I guess I thought myself up
to somethin'. I held myself tolerably high, Sargeant, becase
of the trainin' you'd gin me durin' the war; but I soon found,
asyou'll see, that kind of larnin' wouldn't do, and I wer' as
-gren at a tree-frog in Spring-time. When- this 'ere sarcum-a

stance happened I am going to tell you consarning, I wer'
in one of them forts-not forts like our'n used to be, Sargeant,
for they wer'n't nothin' but stakes drove in the ground, and
sharpened-and I wer' jist sittin' 'long with Bang by a rousin'
great big fire, and not in the all-firedest best humor in the
world, I can tell you; for I'd been out huntin' all day, and
killed nothin', and the boys had laughed .at me. Well, I wer'
jist sittin' thar, thinking' what had 'come of all the buffalo,
and deer, and bear I'd earn tell on, when, what should I
hear but a blasted turkey, for it wer' near daylight, gobblerin'
away, outside the station! Without thinkin' twice, I up with
old Betsy, and callin' Bang, went straight to the gate to get
the sentinel to let me out; and it wer'n't hard to do, for they
don't have any passwords -and army rigulations out thar, but,
to tell the truth, the feller at the gate, who wee a knowin' one,
and an old hunter, seem' I wer' a green chap, did stop me
awhile, and jist cautioned me, sorter laughin' like, sayin' that
the turkeys had a quare way of shootin' sometimes in that ar'
country, and I'd better look out, or the old gobbler might take
the first pop. But thinkin' as how he wer' only pokin' his
fun at me, I passed out, never raindin' his caution, jist tellin'
him I wer'n't as grassy as some 'folks I'd hearn tell on.
Cuss me, Sargeant, if I didn't think, then, I wer' very sharp;
and for knowin' all about war, and sich like, wouldn't have
given back an inch to the best man in the fort, and this 'ere
foolish notion of mine came blamed nigh, as you'll diskiver,
bein' the death of me! Well, on we went, Bang and me, from
the fort; the old gobbler all the time tryin' himself, as if he
knew I wer' comin','and didn't care a cuss; and neither he
didn't, for that wer' jist what he wer' after, as it turned out. I
crept along more cautious-like, when I got near the woods,
for I 'spicioned the gobbler wer'n't far off, and'lidn't want to
scare him, which wer' a fact; for suddenly, by the light of the
moon .and the coming' day, as I wer' sightin' 'bout into the
trees, with old Betsy all ready, what should I see but a rousin'
eold cock on his roost! Jist then, Bang, who wer' selling'

S

, y     xT
Kf       _
"Gr
t"             i
T        {y
K y4gj'' .'
lQ     i
r'w   {
a . h.
kr
y         Y
.      4 A+
4

14

SIMON RENTON '
y


Y
t
t 0
F

16                   SIMON KENTON ;
'bout, gin a sort of low, angry growl, and I know'd, at once,
all wer'n't right; so takin' another quick glance at the gobbler,
cuss me ! if my cap didn't jist riz, all natural-like, on my scalp-
lock; and, by the 'tarnal Moses, Sargeant, it wer'n't no turkey,
but a blasted Ingen !"
"Gorar-mighty !" muttered Titus.
." What, then ?" said Duffe.
"I knew I wer' in for it," resumed the Scout, "but I wer'n't
goin' to let the dratted rascal 'scape; so, raisin' old Betsy, I jist
let the cunnin' thief have the contents; and down he dropped,
while I made a rapid devance, as you soldiers have it, to the
fort. And I wer'n't a minute too soon neither, foras I turned
about, a dozen bullets whistled around me, and one of them
give me a dig in the shoulder. The screechin' devils give me
a darned hot race to the fort, but I wer' a little too fast for 'em,
though I did carry an -ounce of lead in my shoulder; and the
feller at the gate, who had been looking out for a-serimmage,
'ministered a pill to the foremost of 'em, that he received with
a yell, and I guess didn't forgit in a hurry. It wer' a blasted
tight race though wer'n't it, Bang? and we didn't go a gobbler-
ng again for a smart sprinkle of time after that ar' sarcum-
stance."
"I golly, Massa Simon !" exclaimed Titus, who had been
listening with staring eyes to. the narrow escape of the bor-
derer, and could contain himself no longer, "dem Ingens are
a dam sight worse dan de Britishers!"
"A very narrow escape indeed," muttered the Sergeant,
carelessly, and as if but little surprised or interested. Duffe
had a veteran's pride, and had determined to be in no way
astonished at anything pertaining to war; or, in other words, at
anything his old subordiiiate might say. Hence his drowsy
carelessness and quiet remark at the conclusion of the Scout's
story.
"ftNarrow escape !" growled Simon, a little ruffled at the cool
.manner the Sergeant had treated his dangerous adventure;
"that 'pends altogether on what you call narrow. As for my-

s'
e  ,'
}
t
;
i
.5

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE, :           17
self, I thought then, and think now, it wer' a particularly
blamed narrow escape.. Ten steps further towards the tree
whar that cursed Shawanee wer' shammin' a turkey,,and I'd got
a bullet in my gizzard to a sartainty-a hairbreadth closer, and
I'd had a dozen whizzing through my head; and had the fort
been twenty steps more distant, a tomahawk would have tried
the strength of my skull. It wer' only a small sarcumstance,
to be sure, and nothin' strange out in Kaintuck, but blast my
everlastin' buttons, Sargeant, if I don't think it wer' jist about
as all-fired a narrow escape as we ginerally meet with in a
hurry-don't you think it wer',-Bang?"
The dog replied affirmatively, as plain as any dog could that
had not made the English language his study; and Duffe, see-
ing that the Scout was not very well pleased with his indiffer-
ent manner, hastened to mollify him, by expressing a greater
degree of surprise than he had seen proper at first to exhibit.
"It wer' darned ticklish times, and no mistake," replied
Simon, apparently restored to his good-humor, "and I wouldn't
have staked a big pile on winnin'. But that turkey sareum-
stance, Sargeant, wer'n't nothin' to what I've known them cun-
nin' varmints do. I tell you, it stands a feller, when he goes
out to the ' Cane-Land,' to be wide awake and duly sober, if he
don't want to lose his scalp."
"I should think so," said Duffe.
"You'd know it, Sargeant, afore you'd been thar a week.
Why bless me, when we go into the woods, we go with our
ears, mouth, and eyes all wide open; and even then, ten
chances to one if we don't stumble upon some prowlin' redskin,
and have to fight or run to save our bacon. Blast me, if I
didn't once lay behind a log the better part of a long summer
day, with the sun bakin' me like a johnnycake, tryin' all the
time to git the first shot at an Ingen I thought wer' layin' be-
hind a log 'bout twenty yards off."
" And what was the result?" asked Duffe.
"Well, my dander riz so high at last, I couldn't stand it
any longer, so I jist bawled out to him, in good English (for I
N                   2*


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.        19

-didn't know his tribe, or I'd have hailed him in his own gib-
berish), to take his tree, and we'd fight it out like gentle-
men."
"What did he say to this very fair proposition ?" asked
IDuffe, with a smile.
"No sooner had I sung out than I beam  a laugh, and then
the feller from the tother log hailed me in my own lingo; and
what do'you think, Sargeant ?--cuss me, if it wer'n't one of the
boys from the fort, who had taken me for a redskin; and thar
he'd been, jist like myself, waitin' all day for a shot ! It wer'
a mutual mistake; bit you may take my hide if it wer'n't co -
siderable provokin', and I guess we wer'n't in no hurry to tell
how we'd been fooled."
Duffe greeted this story of the borderer with a hearty
laugh ; old Titus, with a broad grin, keeping him' company; and
for -a few moments the little group were silent.
"I say, Sargeant," said the Scout, again breaking silence,
and once more raising his deep voice above the low mellow
hum of Mrs. Duffe's twirling wheel, "it ar' 'bout time you wer'
leavin' this 'ere old tumble-down consarn, for it's a plague
shame for a man to stay here, when it's so easy to move out to
the' canebrakes, whar the lands are rich, and buffalo beef and
venison as plenty as musquitoes here on the Yadkin. I'm jist
out'r that country, and you know I wouldn't lie to an old
comrade; and-I tell you now, it ar', without any bamboozling
'bout the matter, the greatest place this side of sundown."
've been thinking of what you propose," replied Duffe,
"and if you hav'n't scared my good lady with your bloody
stories of the Indians, and Bryan and Titus are willing, then I,
for one,'am ready for the change."
. "Scared the good lady !" laughed Simon, with a quizzical
look at the stout person of Mrs. Duffe; "I'd like to see the fel-
ler, be he Tory or redskin, what would 'undertake that ar'
operation. Why, darn me, if I don't 'spect to see the.day
when Sally will string Ingen scalps like pumpkin-rinds, and
think no 'more of tomnahawkin' a Shawane. than. slicing the

jugular of a turkey. As for old Titus, thar, I knows without
axin' him that lie's in for it, right off; and it will be darned
strange if some redskin don't git that, woolly scalp of his'n.
They've a great liking for nigger topknots, Titus, for they jist
cover thar pouches with all sich beauties, and pass them off in
thar big powwows for bear scalps. What say you, beauty ?"
" Bless de Lord, Massa Simon !" exclaimed Titus, with a
sympathetic move of his hand to his woolly pate, "don't talk
so! Me ready to follow whareber Massa Bryan go1"
"I know'd it !" exclaimed the Scout in high glee, extend-
ing his broad hand to the black. " Thar's my hand, Titus, if
you are a nigger, for we've fought the redcoats together; and
may I be scalped by a bloody Shawanee, if Bang, and you, and
me won't give the tarnal red devils particular goss when we git
out to Kaintucky-won't we, Bang?"
The dog again gave an audible assent to this proposed bloody
alliance, and the borderer, turning his weather-beaten face
towards where Bryan still sat in unconscious reverie, good-
humoredly exclaimed, "I say, Mister Bryan, if you ain't par-
ticularly interested in lookin' into that ar' cap of your'n, I'd
like to know your views 'bout goin' West along with the Sar-
geant and Titus, not forgettin' Sally, and Bang, and me, for
we've all agreed."
Startled from his reverie by this direct inquiry of the bor-
derer, Bryan removed ,his cap, looking, inquiringly at the
speaker, as if not fully comprehending his question, exposing,
as he did so, a strongly marked handsome face, beautified by a
pair of dark flashing eyes, and shaded by heavy masses of long
black hair. Without stopping foran answer, the Scout, see-
ing that he had aroused the att tion of Head, went on to
speak of his own, and the Sergeant's, and -Mrs. Duffe's affec-
tion for him, and their determination to go West; pointing out
the many inducements for the change, and winding up by
promising him, if he would only go with them, to show him
Atbe richest lands upon which to locate, and in additidahn
dwelt upon this point), steal him enough horses from the In-

18

SI ON KENTON;

I


20                SIMON KENTON;

dians to make him as rich as Duffe's nearest neighbor, the
wealthy Squire De. Lacy.
"I need no assurance of your affection," said the young man,
with emotion, when Simon had finished; "and as for my;fos-
ter-father and mother, theirs have ever been the love of a real
parent's to" me. The devotion of you all to the memory of
my father has caused you to show many acts of kindness to
his orphan son, and I can only show my gratitude in return by
assuring you, one and all, that you have my strongest affec-
tion."
" We ain't done nothin'," said the Scout.
"Only our duty," remarked Duffe.
"You are my only child," murmured Mrs. Duffe, a tear
dancing in her eye.
"And my young massa a chip ob de old block," grunted
Titus.                                              .
"I thank you all," said Bryan, hastily brushing his moist
eyes. "But you know, Simon, I am very poor; for a few dol-
lars, and old Ti'us there, whom I consider more as a friend
than a slave, are all that is left me from my father's estate."
" Jist the reason why you should go," insisted the borderer,
"for you can locate a whole league of wild land if you wish,
and of the richest sort, too, for I know jist whar to find it; and
when you have done this, the Sargeant, and Titus, and me, not
forgettin' Sally and Bang, will make an elegant colony ; and
blast my coonskin !" shouted the borderer, throwing down his
cap, as he became excited with the prospect, "how we'll worry
the redskins ! Hoop ! hurrah ! 'tis settled!' Remember, Mis-
ter Bryan, I'll furnish  _Josses, for I know jist whar the
thievin' Shawanees ke.ep 4 critters--don't we, Bang ?"
Aroused by the hoop ! hurrah! of the borderer, and his excited
manner, Bang, instead of his ,usual low growl of assent, gave
forth a loud and lively bark to this query of his master, and
the Scout showed his satisfaction by giving his brute, companion
a hearty slap upon the back, sufficiently forcible to have sent
a majority of the canine tribe howling into the corner. -

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.              21
" As I was going to remark," continued Bryan, with a smile
at the enthusiasm of his semi-savage friend, "when you in-
terrupted me, I am very poor, Simon, and am afraid I would
only be a charge upon the colony, as I am totally unfit for the
heavy labor of a backwoodsman."
" Thar you're out'r it," shouted Simon, again interrupting
him. "We don't labor any out in Kaintuck; everything is
furnished to. order ; and as for charging, there's nothin' of it
'cept charging a rifle and the redskins. Remember, I'll fur-
nish the losses, Mister Bryan; thar's no fear on that score; and
I'll kill the buffalo and venison; Titus will raise all the corn
we want; and thar'll be nothin' for you to do but be colonel of
the militia, and the Sargeant will do the drillin', for he's up to
all such cussed stuff. Hoop ! hurrah ! the thing ar' settled;
give me your hand on it, Mister Bryan."
Seeing that Kenton would take no refusal, Bryan grasped
the extended hand of the borderer, saying, "fI'll think about
it, Simon, but am not yet certain, for I have a matter of deep in-
terest to me first to settle, before I can determine upon any fixed
plan to govern my future motions. But, let my determination
be what it may," he added, in a shaking voice, as if deeply
affected, "you shall know it in a few days, and I will ever re-
member your affection for me, and ever grasp with love, as I
now do, your honest hand."
" Cuss - the water,' grumbled the Scout, brushing with
brawny hand his misty eye; "I couldn't now draw bead on a
buffalo. No more of your kind words, Mister, Bryan, or old
Simon will lose his eyesight, and no longer be called Sharp-
Eye. But what's the great matter on hand? May-be I can be
of sarvice ?"
"I don't think it's in your line, Simon," laughed Duffe,
glancing merrily at his wife, who nodded her head-significantly
in return.
"0 O!" exclaimed the Scout, "if Sally's got any winkin' in
this 'ere matter, the thing's explained, and a gal must be at-the
bottom of it. 'Taint that ar' nice little chick, the daughter of


22                   SIMON KENTON*
Squire Lacy, I met the tother day?   Don't be squeamish,
Mister Bryan," added the borderer; "you are good enough for
any of 'en, I don't care how high they fly. If
yes," continued the Scout, sententiously, and with all the ravays
of a philosopher, " take her; if you say andy
- let' her go; but if you say yes, and she says yes, and the old
'squire (a pesky old 'ristocrat, though he did fight for liberty,
I guess he's at some of his tantrums) says no, then take her
anyhow. That's the way we do up ths thing out in Kaintuck
ain't it, Bang ?"
Not liking, perhaps, to be present when a dog was to be con-
sulted on love-matters, Bryan took advantage of Bang's usual
growl of assent to blushingly beat a hasty retreat.
"He has fled the charge, Simon," said Dufe laughing
" and I guess you were pretty near right, and. that the 'squire'
daughter has something to do in delaying our journey West.
But come, we must break up; Sally has put back ler wheel,
and that, you know, is as strong a hint to retire to quarters, as
the tattoo during the wars."
May I be teetotaciously used up," soliloquized the Scout,
the Sergeant and his wife having retired "if these g   't
bg                            ,      eegals aint
born devils, and no mistake; and they can't help it neither; for
it ar' jist natural for them to do what they please with us men.
But blame me," he added, with a knowing smile, "if sh 'i't
pretty one, and no wonder Mr. Bryan is agin leaving' her.
We'll just have to take her along, too; I see that without spec-
tickles.  Jello, Bang,"- he continued, turning to his dog, who
seee to somewhat uneasy, and had more than once made
known his uneasiness by a low growl of rage, "stop your
rumpus and let's to bed,. we've made a fool of ourselves
once to-night 'bout them blasted owls, and it ar' no use, I tell
you, to notice either sounds or smells in this 'ere civilized
country."
Wrapping himself in a blanket, for he declared the feather-
beds made his bones ache, Simon threw himself down before
the fire, with his rifle by his side, motioning Bang to take his

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.
place close by him; but the dog still continuing uneasy and
restless, he enforced his command by exclaiming, angrily,
"Down with you, I say; it ain't nothin' but Titus snoring , and
that's the way with niggers. But darn me," he added, with -a
low laugh, as Bang crept to his side, a"if he only had a brick-
bat laid on his nose, if he wouldn't jist blow his brains out,
and be committin' a suicide  in his sleep."
A minute later, and the Scout himself, from the way he
snored, was even in more danger than Titus of becoming a
febo de se in his sleep, dying, if not by his own band, his own
nose.
" The young cock flies high, and would mate with the eagle,"
muttered the eavesdropper, as he stole cautiously away; "but
he'll be disappointed. My young master will never marry
Miss Coma, for I'll away now to one who, I guess, will not only
pay me well for my news, but soon clip the goshawk's wing.
Ha ! ha !' laughed the spy, pushing his way through the forest,
and speaking with an unpleasant chuckle of satisfaction, coupled
with an oath : " It was lucky I came over to see what brought
.Simon Kenton into these parts. The great Scout little dreams
that his old enemy, Simon Girty, the renegade and bloody de-
stroyer of the settlements, has been so near him to-night. But
I must be cautious," he continued, in a less confident tone, "for
that infernal dog of his was not so unsuspicious as his master,
and the neighborhood of Sharp-Eye is not the safest place in
the world for me that would not be known. But I won't give
up the game because I've started an enemy," thought the rene-
gfade. "Let me first squeeze a little money out of my old
captain, and have my revenge upon this young fledgling, the
son of my old enemy, and then, Simon Kenton, you may have
a clear field of it, for I'll soon put the Blue Ridge between
you and me."

4.


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.        25

CHAPTER       II.
A FEW miles distant from the unpretending home of Ser-
geant Duffe, and on the same evening of which we have been
speaking, were assembled in the stately parlor of General Jbe
Lacy three persons--the general, his fair daughter Coma, and
Captain Jean Montlack-
The rough, unornamented, and unfurnished room in the hum-
ble farm-house of the Sergeant was not more unlike the grand
and richly decorated drawing-room of the general, than were
the persons now gathered within the precincts of the latter un-
like those discovered around the comfortable but lowly fireside
of the former. In the one was found, if not poverty, barely a
remove above it, simplicity, and we might add, with an excep-
tion, man unpolished and uneducated; but, as a set-off, there
was kindness of heart, unanimity of feeling, bravery, and honesty.
In the other was wealth, polish, and beauty, 'and along with
them, as is nearly always the case, pride, hauteur, coldness,
and deceit. One was a living, unadorned picture of honest,
unsophisticated nature; the other, a striking representation of
nature, remodelled and retouched by the polishing hand of
man, aided by the gilding power of wealth. One, like a fair
old picture of Titian.or Raphael, was deathless, and ever afford-
ing pleasure, because drawn from life, and without spangle or
gloss; the other, a flashy, gaudy child of more modern times,
admired and sought after by many, on account of its fresh and
.brilliant coloring, but without nature. Yet those three persons,
assembled within the sumptuous hall of De Lacy, are destined'
to mingle long and intimately with the more humble guests of
the Sergeant; and the younger and fairer of the three, the beau-
tiful Coma, as may have already been discovered by the reader,

i
t
f
i
6
t
I
R'
r
8
.C
f rl

holds under her control the fate and future destiny of the or-
phan Bryan, the foster-child of Duffe.
General De Lacy, the proprietor of the. splendid mansion
we have just been describing, and of the broad acres stretching
out for many miles around, was a descendant of a noble Hu-
guenot family, driven from France by religious persecution
during the days of the De Medici, and, when we introduce him
to the reader, was about five-and-fifty years of age, and had
been a widower for many years. Much to his secret chagrin,
the general had been blessed with only one child, his beautiful
daughter Coma; and although he treated her with the utmost
kindness, and was, as much as his common pride would per-
mit, a most devoted father, still, he could not but regret, and
sometimes complainingly lament, the want of a son, to transmit
his ancient and time-honored name down to posterity! His
greatest care, now, was to watch over his daughter, and guard
her against any unworthy alliance; and, as he was very proud,
and very punctilious, and very fearful of her making an un-
equal match, we might add that this was the greatest fear and
annoyance of his life; and that poor Coma, if she waited for
his consent and approbation, had the very smallest of numbers
out of which to choose a husband;- and, notwithstanding her
beauty and golden charms, bid fair to become an old maid.
Yet the general, notwithstanding his pride of wealth and family,
had cut quite a conspicuous figure during the War of the Revo-
lution,, not sparing either his blood or money, and was very
highly esteemed and honored by Washington and his compeers
of that stormy period. Whether he was induced to take the
active part he did in the War for Independence, by his love of
freedom and equality, or by the national hatred he bore to all
things English, inherited from his fathers, we are unable to
say; but are disposed to be charitable, and will, therefore,
ascribe his course to patriotism alone! But this much we do
know, that, although the general had subscribed to the Decla-
ration of Independence, declaring ,all men free and equal, he
did so with a proviso, meaning thereby that all men, politically
3

24

SIMON KENTON;


26                   SIMON KENTON;
speaking, were free and equal; but personally, it was quite a
different matter, and be considered very few persons and very
few families equal to himself, or his own. Yet the general,
barring his aristocratic notions, was a very worthy man, noble
and hospitable, kind to his inferiors, urbane to his equals, and
only haughty and forbidding to the presumptuous, or when he
believed the fate of his daughter, Coma, was in any way in-
volved.
Captain Jean Montlack was also a son of sunny France, only
a little more direct, and a little more recent than the general,
to whom he was related, not very near, to be sure, but still the
nearest blood-relation known to De Lacy; and, therefore,
though very unworthily, standing very high in his affection
and estimation.-
Montlack, before he had reached the age of thirty, had dis-
sipated a large fortune, and transferred to his urgent creditors
his entire estate; but, about this time, when on the verge of
utter ruin, hearing of his rich relation in America, and of his
devotion to the cause of the struggling colonies, he cunningly
offered his services to the patriotic and chivalrous young La-
fayette, and was, in a moment, and by this act alone, for he
had done nothing meritorious before, forever fixed in the affec-
tion of De. Lacy.  Upon his arrival in, the States, Captain
Jean immediately made himself known to the general; and,
notwithstanding his former extravagances and irregularities of
life, became, at once, by his cunning and plausible manner, a
prime favorite of his old relation, and, by his apparent devo-.
the Revolution, insured to himself the protection and support
of De Lacy. Montlack, with the polite, fashionable air of a
well-bred Frenchman, was quite a passable personage, and a
very pleasant companions yet, notwithstanding his polished
and gentlemanly exterior, and well-acted sincerity and honorable,
bearing, he was in reality nothing more than a plausible, flat-
tering scoundrel, devoid of, all principle, utterly selfish and
:1       treacherous, and withal, as near as a Frenchman could be, a

OR, THESCOUT'S REVENGE.               27
coward! After the Revolution, by the invitation of his de-
ceived relative, he became an inmate of his house, and a part
of his family; and, from that time onward, bent every energy
of his cunning head and corrupt heart to transfer into his own
pockets the splendid estate of the unsuspecting De Lacy! At
the period of his introduction to the reader, the captain was
somewhere betweenthirty and thirty-five years of age; tall
and graceful, with the dark skin and eyes and hair of his na-
tive land; but his countenance and appearance still showed
evident traces of excess and dissipation; for, notwithstanding
his apparent reformation, he was' yet, in private, and when
beyond the vision of the general and his daughter, as much
devoted as ever to drink, and gaming, and other low vices.
But the cunning captain had dotted dowr in his own mind
his plans for accumulating wealth, and thereby satisfying his
extravagant follies, and was now surely, but cautiouly, deve-
loping his scheme, so as not to startle the general, or alarm
the sensitive fears of his trusting cousin, the destined victim
of his plot. Captain Jean was well skilled in the secret work-
ings of the heart, and knew right fairly what chords to touch,
to move the proud soul of his noble relative to his will, and
the captain thought himself equally well versed in "woman
lore ;" but that fact is yet to be proved, and future chapters
will make known his success or failure.
Coma De Lacy, the only daughter of the general, and future
heiress of all his broad lands, was a fit subject for a villain's
wiles, for she had seen and known but little of the world, and,
secluded in her father's mansion, with no companions but her
governess and teachers, knew but little of the treachery and
deceit of mankind; and what little she did know was obtained
from the light romance% in her frher's ample library, and
which her truthful, unsuspecting hert, and the assurances of
her simple-minded governess (poor woman!) taught her to be-
lieve were altogether ideal and false.
Seeing but few persons at her father's house, and constantly
dependent upon Montlack for amusement and entertainment,


28                   SIMON KENTON;
accomplished as he was, and devoted as he pretended to be,
Coma was in a very fair way to surrender up her trusting
young heart to her unfeeling and treacherous cousin; and the
general was not displeased at all at the evident advance Mont-
lack was making in the affections of his daughter; for the cap-
tam, by his flattery and zeal, had become almost'-absolutely
necessary to the happiness of his relative; and De Lacy, on
account of his relationship and noble family, deemed the plausi-
ble captain a very fit person to assume his name and fortune.
But the fair Coma, inheriting all the warm passions of her
fatherland, had of late met with one who had suddenly changed
all of her preconceived opinions of the perfectibility of Mon-
sieur Jean, and taught her the difference not only between
genuine and feigned nobility of heart, but the very vast dif-
ference between cousinly, unimpassioned affection and impas-
sioned love. Of late, she had been somewhat indifferent and
listless to the usual ceremonious kindness of Montlack; and,
without knowing, herself, what had caused this very great
change in her feelings towards him, continued to dream in
secret of one she had met at a small party at H-.  and fre-
quently, since that time, in her daily walks through the grounds
of her father.
Montlack, with the quick instinct of a suspicious heart, had
already discovered the..change in her feelings toward himself;
and, without knowing, or even suspecting the cause-for who
could be his rival ?-had become vastly uneasy; and, while
racking his very brain to unravel the mystery, redoubled his
exertions to please, and redraw, under his ancient sway, the
truant heart now fluttering to break the silken, but strong
meshes he had thrown around it.
"4Coma, dear," said the captain, in a sweet, low tone, such
as women love, with fraternal affection drawing his chair still
nearer his cousin, and glancing his eye at the general, who
seemed buried in the book he was reading, "have I offended
you in anything, of late ?"
" Why do you think so ?"- replied Coma, listlessly, as she

FL!

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.29
stooped to examine closely some maiden trifle she was engaged
in ornamenting.
" Why, you seem cold and indifferent to my efforts at pleas-
ing, and, not knowing that I have done anything to deserve
your displeasure, I have fancied, dear Coma, and have been
much pained at the fancy, that I must have unwittingly done
something to incur your disfavor ?"
"I know of nothing that you have done, Jean, worthy of
my displeasure; and am not conscious of any coldness, on my
part, towards you," she replied, without intending it, in the
same careless, listless manner.
""There now, Cousin Coma," continued Montlack, with an
effort at gayety, whatt offended queen or displeased beauty
ever answered a suppliant courtier or lover with more frigid
politeness than you have just done your afflicted cousin?
"Psha! Jean!" replied Coma, in a manner throwing off her
listlessness, "why do you make such a bugaboo of nothing?"
" And do you think it nothing, Coma," answered Mont-
lack, skilfully taking advantage of the opportunity offered him,
and throwing all of his soul into his low trembling voice, whilst
he gazed sadly and sorrowfully into her face, "4to be treated
thus by one we love ?--to feel and know that we are treated
coldly, and, when we would learn the cause, so that we might
try and remove it, if' possible, to have our inquiries answered
carelessly and indifferently, and our sorrow almost mocked at?
It was not always thus,, Coma; and I can but feel it!"
"(Why, my dear Jean, what in the world is the matter?"
said Coma, quickly, and looking kindly into his face, for she
had been touched by the sorrowful tones of Montlack. "Your
little Coma feels no coldness towards her kind cousin; and, next
to her father, loves him before all others."
Coma thought, at the time, she was speaking the truth, and
sincerely; but, at the next moment, the memory of another
flitted across her vision, and she unconsciously blushed.
" Would that I could believe what- you have just said was
true, and that your love was more than a cousinly affection!1"

'
,y


SIMON KENTON;
murmured Montlack, sadly; and bending still nearer his cousin,
he continued: "But even now, Coma, it seems to me that your
thoughts are wandering away from him that would fain call
them all his own."
Coma blushed, but said nothing, for this was the first time
that Montlack had ever been so bold in urging his suit, and
the distinction he had made between love and cousinly affec-
tion had thrown a brand into her heart, and set her thoughts
agoing; and she now began to feel that he was right, and that
the love he would fain have was not his, but another's.
waI see it, I see it all, Coma! Your telltale face declares
what my trembling heart has long feared. You donot think
of your cousin Jean as you once did; and some other, more
fortunate than I, has stolen the heart of my little pet."
The captain, although his heart was raging with suspicious
jealousy, and he was scarce able to restrain his fury, spoke in
a sad and melancholy, tone, as if conscious of his. doom, but
ready to submit to his unhappy fate; and so greatly was the
warm-hearted Coma affected by his feigned sorrow, that she
burst into tears, exclaiming,
"0 Jean, you do me wrong! 'pon my soul, you wrong me!
Your Coma thinks of you now, as she has ever done, as the
kindest, and dearest, and most affectionate of cousins."
There !" exclaimed Montlack, no longer able to restrain
his anger.   "It is ever cousin, cousin, cousin! Tell me,
Coma," he added, bitterly, and with the smile of a baffled
fiend, "who is it that has stolen your heart, and made me
wretched?"
"You forget yourself, Jean !" replied Coma, with a flash of
anger at his bold request and peremptory tone; and, rising
hastily from her seat, haughtily added, "I do not permit such
language, not even from a dear cousin."
The captain ground his teeth with rage; but, discovering,
when too kate to remedy what he had spoken, that passion had
got the better of his discretion and politeness, hesitated a mo-
nment how to reply; but the general, aroused by the angry

OR, THE SCOUT'S RtEVENGE.             31
voice of his daughter, saved him, the trouble of an explaation,
b  exclaiming
" Hollo, children! What the deuce has got into you? Are
you quarreling there in downright earnest, or are you nly
layin tragedy for the benefit of puss on the hearth-rug ?"
"Only playing tragedy, sir! and Coma was rehearsing her
part," replied Montlack, with a light laugh; all appearance of
anger or mortification having fled from his countenance.
"Better that than a quarrel, and better folly than anger,"
said the general, sententiously.
"I was just trying to find out whether my fair cousin inhe-
rited any of our old French passion," continued Montlack, in the
same light tone, "and discover she has no lack of it, but is
off like a flash, and woe be to him in reach of the explosion !"
"La belle France forever! -The old blood will never be
washed out, but continue the same through a hundred gene-
rations," replied the general, good-humoredly.
Coma regarded the specious and treacherous captain, whilst
he made this explanation, in utter and silent astonishment; for
she was really at a loss to know, when she beheld his smooth
and smiling face, whether what had just happened was real or
imaginary; and, if real, whether Monsieur Jean had been in
earnest, or merely trifling pith her.
But the general, put ih a good humor by the captain's
jocose manner, and well pleased with his own terse replies, did
not allow her much time for thought; for, throwing down his
book, and advancing towards them, he exclaimed-
" Monsieur Jean dogs not know my little jade'as well as her
father,' or he would have saved himself this experiment. But
come, Coma," he added, with a smiling face, turning towards
his daughter, "we will have no more tragedy to-night; and if
you will only sing us our usual evening song, we'll away
to bed."
Without another thought respecting the falsehood and hypo-
crisy of the captain, at this request of her father, Coma seated
herself by her harp, and sang a sweet, but sad. song, for her

0


32                   SIMON KENTON;
heart was heavy; and Montlack, now that the burning Are
of jealousy had been excited in his bosom, quickly noticed, and
with a bitter smile, that it was a new song-not one of those
they had often sung together and a song of love'
Kissing her father, and bowing more coldly than was her
wont to the captain, Coma glided from the room; and, notwith-
standing the little storm that had just ruffled the quiet of her
heart, was soon buried in sweet memories of the new passion
she had so lately discovered.
Montlack's pillow that night was not one of roses, and, if
he slept at all, it was like the stormy Petrel, rocked and dashed
about upon furious waves. His cunning plans were tottering,
and that, to one of his temperament, was sufficient to turn
hell loose in his bosom.  "Eh ! Master Jean, you have made
many conquests- in your time, but you are now conning the
first lesson in love; and, as strange as it may appear to your
rebellious heart, are in a fair way of becoming the victimized,
instead of the victimizer."
CHAPTER         III.
BREAKFAST was over at the mansion of De Lacy, and with-
out the usual pleasant morning chat, for there was a constraint
upon Montlack and Coma; the first busy with his secret de-
termination to discover the cause of the recent change in the
feelings of his cousin towards himself; and the latter equally
busy with the pleasant imaginings of her teeming brain.
The general had retired to his study, and Montlack, ordering
his horse, had galloped furiously away, when Coma, gliding
from the house, tripped gayly along the path leading to that
part of the grounds where, for the last two or three weeks, she
tilmore than once met the young hunter, and held sweet con-

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.               33
verse with him concerning the birds, and flowers, and beautiful
scenes around.
It was a bright morning, and Coma, although more happy
than she had ever been before, felt that she did not go forth to
the meceting with the young stranger with the same feeling
that she had done even the day previous. Then it was with a
free bounding tread, and a free, gay, unsuspecting heart, glad
to converse with one so gentle, and so eloquent in his descrip-
tions of birds, and flowers, and gurgling waters; brit now it
was with a heart burning with a new passion, one lately dis-
covered, but so bright and glowing as to thrill and dance
through her throbbing heart, like the sweet, low tones of dis-
tant music to the almost slumbering ear, or like the gurgling
sound of glad leaping waters in summer-time, when, weary, you
throw yourself down upon the bank of some murmuring stream.
In a word, it was a strange, but most pleasing timidity, and one
never before experienced by Coma. For the first time, she did
not go straight to the rendezvous, but often stopped in a mus-
ing attitude, as if to dream awhile; or as if fearful the wild,
unusual emotion she then enjoyed might be destroyed by the
meeting. And, then, most strange to her inexperienced heart,
she felt a hesitation and doubt respecting the propriety of the
move she was now making, that had never before crossed her
artless mind in arty of her former meetings with Bryan. She
was fully aware now that she had lost her heart, and uncon-
sciously given her affections to the young stranger, and at
once all her maiden delicacy and reserve came forth to increase
her fast gathering fears and hesitation.
But her fears, and her doubts, and her coyness were alike
soon dispelled by a full, rich voice, carolling an old ditty but
a short distance off, and the next moment, having passed a
small cluster of trees, Bryan stood in full view, and, bounding
forward, soon knelt gracefully at her feet, presenting a tiny
bouquet of early spring flowers.
"I have gathered these little jewels of sunshine dew," he
exclaimed, "hoping that, as they are the first smiles of coming


34-                 SIMON KENTON;
spring, Miss Coma would deign to accept them from the hand
of one that would willingly gather all the jewels of earth, and
bind them around her fair brow."
"Most willingly,- Monsieur Bryan," replied Coma, a bright
smile of pleasure mantlig over her blushing face; "but I fear
me your friendship would burden my poor brow with quite too
heavy a crown, if I am to believe that your will would be in-
consonance with your present flattering wish."
Believe me, fair lady," said Bryan, gallantly, as he led
Coma to a moss-covered seat near the bluff bank of the Yadkin,
my will would only be to give you pleasure; and could gems,
or pearls, or flowers add one charm to that pure brow of yours,
then would I dare all the monsters of the deep and the hot sun
of the tropics to gather and place them there."
"Alas, poor me!" said Coma, with a mock sigh; "now that
you have commenced with flattery, I can believe you no more.
I had thought that my kind teacher of 'wood lore' was all
truth; but, alas! poor deceived maiden that I am, I will now
have to forget all that I have learned; and even that pretty
story you told me of the wounded bird I must believe with
many doubts. Ah me, ah me !"
Had Montlack witnessed the tragic air with which his cou-
sin made known her feigned, sorrow, he would have considered
her anything but a tyro at dramatic representation; but Bryan
was too much in love to fully enjoy her histrionic powers, or
look upon anything she said or did'either as comic or burlesque ;
and when she had concluded, placing his hand upon his heart,
said, "Whenever you find -me guilty of flattery, Miss Coma
then will I willingly submit to be branded as a traitor and
deceiver; but as yet, Iplead 'not guilty' to the charge, and con-
tend that sentence cannot justly be passed upon me"
"Worse and worse, Monsieur Bryan," said Coma, attempt-
ing to conceal her blushes under a merry voice and gay badi-
nage; "for, after what you have just said, I consider this last
speech of yours the grossest flattery, Down upon your knees,

*1
I

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             35
fair sir, and let's hear what you have to say why sentence
shall not be rendered at once."
 "And now, Coma-let me call you by that endearing title,"
murmured the lover, dropping upon his knees at her laughing
command, and speaking in a low, agitated voice-"as I am
arraigned before you, and you are my judge, listen to me
kindly for a moment, and if you think me rash and presump-
tuous, have mercy, and ascribe all to my love; for even here'-
now, as I kneel before you at your own command, and gaze
upon that fair face of yours that I may lose by my rashness
forever, I cannot restrain my bursting heart but must say that
I love you !"
The fair judge could not be unkind to so eloquent a pleader,
and could not look coldly upon the beaming face of the gallant
youth bending so gracefully at her feet; but, whilst blushing
roses, and with one tiny hand vainly striving to still her throb-
bing heart, she extended the other to Bryan, murmuring, "You
are forgiven; your judge is a partial one; and the love you bear
me is-"
"Returned !" exclaimed Bryan, folding her yielding form in
his arms. "Bless you, Coma, for now I will ever call you by
that sweet name. Your decision has made me the happiest of
mortals! But, oh! had it been against me, would I not have
been the most wretched of men !"
"Take care," said Coma, smiling amid her tears; "remem-
ber I have not yet decided as to your first offence ; and if you
are not more careful, sentence may yet go against you."
"You may do with me as you please now, dear Coma; call
me traitor, deceiver, flatterer, or anything else, so that you be-
lieve me always true to you, and never reverse the decision
you have now given, making me so supremely happy."
"0 , you are incorrigible !" murmured Coma, looking kindly
up into the eyes of her lover, "and to make you easy on that
score, now that I am yours, I might as well tell you at once,
so that you may not be too vain of your eloquence, that the
decision I have just given was rendered last night, before you


SIMON KENTON;

were summoned to the dread tribunal, and before you had so
feelingly pleaded your prejudged cause."
" How so, dear Coma ? My heart has long been yours; but,
oh ! had I known last night that you had one thought of return-
ing my burning love, it would have saved me many, very many
fears and doubts. But tell me, dear, how last night, rather
than any other time, did you discover that this precious boon,
so coveted and sought by me, was already mine."
Sittingupon the moss-covered seat to which her lover had
led her, close to the overhanging bank of the bright Yadkin,
Coma gave an artless account of the occurrence of the night
previous, showing that, by Montlack pressing his suit, and
drawing the distinction between love and cousinly affection,
she herself had been'led to think, and had discovered that her
heart belonged to another.
" And think you," said Bryan, by no means satisfied with
Montlack's admiration of Coma, for he was already a victim of
the green-eyed monster, "that this cousin of yours will sur-
render up your hand without a struggle?  I fear he has the
good-will of your father, and, having it, he will yet strive to
tear from my grasp the rich prize I have wooed and won."
"Fear not for my heart and my love, Bryan, for they are
yours, and yours only," murmured Coma, confidingly; "and
as for Cousin Jean, he has ever been kind and good, and I
doubt not, when he discovers that the happiness of his little
Coma, as he calls me, is at stake, that he will submit, and sub-
mit bravely to his loss, if he'considers my poor hand worthy
of a thought; and, moreover, for my sake will love you almost
as much as I do."
" And your father," muttered the lover, still desponding,
" will he so readily give up his long-cherished plan of continu.
ing his name and estate in the family by uniting yourself and
cousin ?"
" Ah, my father!" sighed Coma; almost as desponding as
Bryan, whilst her face, but a moment since blooming with
blushes, lost all its roses; "in my joy I had forgotten him.

36

.1
Vy.-

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             37
But he loves me," she continued, after a minute of agitated
thought, "and he loves his ancient name, too, as much if not
more than his Coma; and I fear we shall meet with opposition
from him. If, perchance, his promise has been given to Jean,
then will all hope of his consent to our union be desperate.
He is proud of his name, very proud, Bryan; and the thought
of my marriage is the principal cart of his life. But why fear
or tremble ?" she addedin a mcgre confident tone, looking
proudly upon the elegant person of her lover, "for I am sure
you are worthy to bear the honors of the proudest family that
ever bore banner under the lilies of France, and can boast,
perhaps, of ancestors as noble as our own."
"I am an orphan, Coma," said Bryan, sadly but proudly,
"and know nothing of my ancestry beyond my father."
"Sure he was noble and good."
" A colonel in the American army ; he was killed at Guil-
ford, battling gloriously for liberty; and for honor, bravery, and
patriotism," said the son feelingly, "I will acknowledge no
man, I care not how ancient his name or family, his superior.
. The memory of his glorious death is the only legacy he was
able to leave his orphan son, and I treasure it more than if he
had transmitted me boundless wealth."
" And I, too I" exclaimed Coma, a tear of sympathy dancing
in her bright eye. "The proudest of the proud, Bryan, cannot
boast of ancestors more noble than thine; and I feel that
my father, proud though he be, will feel honored to grasp by
the hand the son of one of his old companions in arms."
" But I am poor, very poor," said Bryan, still desponding,
though greatly cheered by the rich encomium lavished upon
the moory of his dead father by the sympathizing Coma.
S"Poverty is not considered by my father," replied Coma,
encouragingly. "Remember that Montlack has no estate, and
yet my father seemed pleased with his attention to me."
"True!I" exclaimed Bryan, his face once more brightening,
and speaking now in a cheerful, hopeful voice ; "and if it was,
you know, Coma, that we are both young; and with such a

'
r
,
,'_ ,
t

J
.
R
i
i


SIMON KENTON;

prize held up before me, I could soon hew out a fortune in the
rich valleys of the West, and come back to lay it at your feet,
and claim you as my own. Even now I have some thousand
dollars, the remnant of my father's estate after furnishing me
with an education; and no later than last night, Sergeant
Duffe, my foster-father, and Sharp-Eye, an old follower of my
father aid experienced borderer, but lately returned from Ken-
tucky, were pressing me to go with them West; and I only
delayed my answer until I had had this meeting with you."
"If you love me, Bryan !" exclaimed Coma, with frightened
earnestness, the rich blood deserting her countenance, and flow-
ing back upon her trembling heart, "do not think of going to
that horrid land! Why, it is already called the 'Dark and
Bloody -Ground,' and not without reason, for we hear of nothing,
from there but of blood, and massacre, and Indian deprcdi-
tions! Oh! if you should only go there, then would I put on
my widow weeds at once, and mourn you as dead, for I would
never expect to see you again, and would ever remain in agony
and doubt."
"Calm your fears, dear Coma," murmured the lover, caress-
ing tenderly the weeping girl by his side; "the daughter of a
soldier and son of one should not tremble at danger, or grow
alarmed at imaginary perils. Sharp-Eye praises the country
as the most- lovely one on earth, and speaks of fortunes to be
made there without trouble or labor, and of the Indian depre-
dations as only frequent enough to keep up a proper spirit of
chivalry."
"But promise me, Bryan," said Coma, soothed by his
caresses and cheering words, "that you will not go W-t until
you have seen my father, and heard from his own Ips our
fate."
" Most willingly; for I intend soon to lay my claim to your
hand before your father. I would know my doom at once, be
it to make me the happiest or most miserable of mortals."
"Fearinot; Bryan," murmured Coma, with a cheerful snile
of#&amp;ssurance, " for I am confident that wealth is no object with

38

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             39
my father, and that the honorable station and noble death of
your parent"-
"Will be of d-n little avail in this case," muttered a hoarse
voice from underneath the overhanging bank upon which they
were sitting, interrupting her in the very midst of-her hopeful
anticipations.
A low scream of terror from Coma followed this unexpected
and, in her mind, ominous interruption; but Bryan, gently
removing the hand that in alarm had seized upon his arm,
dashed forward to the extreme verge of the bank, but only in
time to see the burly form of the eavesdropper as he rounded
a point some distance down the river.
His first thought was to pursue the bold spy; but noticing
the extreme- terror of Coma, he gave up this design and re-
turned to her side, attempting to calm her agitation by laugh-
ingly saying that it was some passing fisherman who had fallen
upon this plan to let them know they had a listener.
But Coma had been too much alarmed by this inauspicious
interruption of her hopeful imaginings, seemingly in answer to
her own thoughts, to be thus soothed. She insisted upon re-
turning home at once, and the lover, after receiving her promise
to meet him again, escorted her beyond all fear of danger, and
took his leave.
CHAPTER IV.
CAPTAIN JEAN had, spent a miserable day. In vain had
been all his endeavors to discover the name and abode (for he
was confident he had one) of his rival. Although he had rid-
den over to Hl-..-.-., and in a quiet way made many inquiries,
he had as yet met with ibut poor success;. so much so that he
began to grow encouraged, and thought that perhaps he had

'C
t1
,i
14 K
F,
F i?; 
f


40                  SIMON KENTON;
been too hasty in his suspicions, and, after all, that Coma's
coldness was nothing more than a maidenly whim. Consoled
no little by this conclusion, the sage captain was now on his
return home, and with his mind fully made up to press his suit
vigorously, and know, without delay, the position he held in
the heart of his cousin. -He was fully determined on one thing,
and that was not to give up without a desperate struggle his
brilliant scheme of transferring the immense estate of De Lacy
to himself; and now, as he rode leisurely along the bank of
the Yadkin, filled with this pleasant fancy, he ever and anon
would stop, and, with a smile of secret satisfaction, survey the
broad lands stretching out around him, imagining them, no
doubt, as already his own, and along with them the pretty per-
son of his beautiful cousin.. As if cheered by his imaginary
honors and wealth, the captain touched his horse lightly, and,
galloping forward, forgot, for the time, his jealous fears and
troubles, whilst he hummed, with artistic skill, a sprightly
French air.
But suddenly the pleasant reveries of Captain Jean were in-
terrupted by a low, meaning hiss, and turning his head quickly
to know the cause of challenge, he found himself, and apparently
to his no small surprise, confronted by the burly form of the
spy, the same that had watched at the house of Duffe, and, con-
cealed under the overhanging bank of the Yadkin, had listened
to and interrupted the conversation of the lovers.
"Sacre!" exclaimed Montlack, drawing in his horse with a
sudden jerk, and with evident marks of trepidation about his
face, " Is that you, Girty? Why, I thought the devil had you
long ago !"
" May-be you only hoped so?" muttered the renegade with a
meaning laugh.
"But what brought you back into this neighborhood, Girty ?"
". Call me Brant, for the present," said Girty in a surly tone,
although with an evident attempt at pleasantry, " for there is
one about here, if he does not know my face, has heard the
name of Simon Girty very often of late years, and not always

7,


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.        41

mentioned in the most honorable manner. As for the devil
having me, Captain Jean," he added, with a harsh chuckle, "he
has had many pretty'fair chances of calling me his own; but
thanks to my good luck, as yet I have slipped through his
fingers, and am here now, as you see, and without any ghostly
signs about me, standing in the presence of your honor."
With this speech, Girty, or Brant, raising his ragged,
weather-beaten hat, with a grim, insolent smile, made a, low,
half mocking bow to the captain.
Montlack's countenance showed very plainly that he was by
no means delighted at this renewal of acquaintance with the
renegade; but putting on a bold'-front, he exclaimed, "Holio,
Simon! that rascally countenance of yours does not add much
to the beauty of the landscape, and if I am not greatly mis-
taken, there was once a contract between us (and for a valuable
consideration, which you have received) that I should never
again be troubled with your~ honest company?"
" With Mr. Girty, it is true there was some such contract,"
replied the renegade with a sneer; "but you must remember,
captain, that you are now honored with the presence of Mr.
Joseph Brant, quite a different person altogether, a poor, hard-
working fisherman, but a very honest; respectable man, and one
that can boast many heavy scars, received in the defence of his
country."
As Mr. Brant made this defence of his respectability, and
proved in so conclusive a manner the difference between the
party referred to by Montlack and himself, he once more raised
his ragged hat, and, stepping a few paces nearer the captain,
pointed significantly to a broad scar across his face, saying,'
" This will go a long way, captain, in making an honest face
of one that you have heretofore been in the habit of consider-
ing quite the contrary. . Eh! do you take ?"
" True," said Montlack with more ease, now that he had
caught the drift of the outlaw's remark, and felt the impro-
bability of his being recognized as Simon Girty, "that scar
does make a change in the outlines of your lovely face; and
4*

SIMON GIR TY.

/("

i
4                G           as
kv          tp
}


SIMON KENTON;

now that I examine it more closely, I can see that the sun has
been looking down very freely upon your fair countenance since
last we met, and has given it rather a more dusky hue. I ask
pardon, Mr. Brant," he. continued, with a forced laugh, dis-
mounting from his horse, and extending his hand to the rene-
gade, "for taking you for my old friend Simon Girty."
"Good !" replied the outlaw, with a coarse laugh and oath,
grasping the extended hand of Montlack. "I find, captain,
you can take a hint as readily as ever. But sit down and let's
have a little chat about old times."
At first, MOntlack had been somewhat startled, and no little
annoyed at the unexpected appearance of the outlaw, for on
account of Girty's knowledge of certain events that the captain
would fain have buried, the latter, at the expense of a large
sum, had purchased the departure of that worthy from the coun-
try, and as several years had elapsed since this contract, he
had hoped that he was forever clear of him. But now that
Girty had again turned up, the captain considered it most
politic not to show any great uneasiness or anger, and ,indeed
began to think that the meeting, after all, was rather opportune
than otherwise; for, in his present difficulties, he, the captain,
might need the services of so ready and unscrupulous an ally.
Without more ado, then, the cunning Jean, all traces of vexa-
tion having vanished from his face, at once obeyed the outlaw's
request to be seated, good-humoredly remarking: "Never mind
the past, Monsieur Brant; we have had enough of it; and so let
it, along with all our ancient troubles and rascalities, go to the
devil. From report, Simon--I ask pardon, Mr. Brant-.I was
led to believe that you were a great chief among the redskins ;
but suppose, from your appearance here to-day, that this report,
like most rumors, was false, and that you are thesame reckless,
careless devil that you ever were,' always wanting money, and
never having a cent. Eh, Simon !" continued the captain in-
quiringly, and with some little alarm, for he had been a suf-
ferer, "is it money that you are after now? or what has brought
you back into this, for you, most dangerous country ?"

42

I

I
YI

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.
" Not more dangerous than the one I have left," said the
outlaw, dryly; "but you were not so far wrong, after all, about
my being a leader of the redskins; nor were you so vastly mis-
taken," he added, with a cunning leer at Montlack, "about my
being in want of money; but it was not the want of money
alone that induced me to make this dangerous journey."
" Then what was it ?" asked the captain, not in the most
pleasant mood, for he bad lost his good-humor under the now
certain belief that Girty intended to make another draw upon
his purse, and that too upon a past consideration, already, as
he thought, most amply satisfied.
"What would you think," replied Brant, "if I were to say
that it was a desire to see my old home and the familiar scenes
of my youth ?"
" I would think it a d-d lie !" retorted the captain, sur-
lily.
" "Yet it is so," replied the renegade gloomily; " I am a
dark-souled villain, I admit-steeped in every crime of the-
blackest dye; and have stooped to the lowest and darkest of
sins to satisfy my longing after gold, or glut my ever-burning
and ever-increasing desire for revenge upon my race. Still,
captain, notwithstanding your sneer, with all my crimes and
all my sins, though a chieftain of the bloodthirsty savage, and
covered with the warm gore of the white settler of the West, I
have had my hour of remorse, and my moments, too, of ardent
longing to behold the home of my innocent youth, and mingle
once more with those of my own color and tongue. It is the
only pleasant memory I have," continued Girty, with some
show of emotion, "the memory of my innocent childhood
when, with father, and mother, and brother, I sported in these
very woods, and fished in the bright waters of yonder shining
river! Although you believe it not, captain, and are now
laughing in your sleeve at the very thought of my having any
feeling in common with other men, I tell you that this same
memory of the patst, and longing to see my home, more than


45

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

SIMON KENTON;

any desire or hope of gain, has induced me to make this peril-
ous journey."
I see no reason to doubt your word," said Montlack, half
mockingly; "but, from my past intercourse with you, I had
thought you were not much troubled with love for the white
race."
"Nor am I," growled the outlaw between his clenched
teeth. "Did not one of my accursed race, that stern Colonel
Head, have me publicly whipped, in full view of my regiment,
for a theft, of which I was guilty only under the influence of
liquor?  But I had my revenge! And did not that blood-
thirsty band of wild partisans murder my father and brothers,
even down there, in that very cottage, where I am now hiding
my disgraced head ?  Ay! ay! they did it, captain; but Simon
Girty has had his revenge, if not upon the guilty, upon their
accursed race."
Surely, Simon," said Montlack, shuddering at the fiendish
scowl upon the countenance of his companion, "you are not
staying in that deserted cottage where your kindred were
slain ?"
Why not ?" asked the outlaw - coldly. "Can I not fold
myself in my blanket, and fancy them all there, as they used
to be, and have the pleasure of fancying myself back home
again with my kindred? And when my mood changes, can I
not behold again their gory, bullet-pierced bodies, and dream
of sweet and terrible revenge? - Oh ho! captain," laughed the.
dark-browed murderer, with hellish glee, "you don't know the
luxury of one night's sleep in that ruined cottage ! I have
strange fancies and curious dreams as I lay there, all alone, by
the desolate hearth-stone of my father! But that's neither
here nor there," added Girty, his mood and tone' changing
suddenly; "and you have no interest in it; so we will pass on:
to something that, I doubt not, will excite your honor's atten-
tion."
"What is it ?" said the captain, and, his mind still running
upon the expected demand of the renegade for money, he

added,i"Do you want more money, notwithstanding your con-
ract to let me alone and leave the country forever ?"
"I want money; that's it, captain," replied the outlaw,
smiling at Montlack's quick divination of his wishes; "but,
remember, I am no longer Simon Girty, but Joseph Brant,
an will, therefore, release now and forever all claims for past
services, making my demands only in proportion to services,
now rendered, and to be rendered."
"That's fair !" exclaimed Montlack, at once regaining his
good-humor, "and here's my hand on all future contracts."
c"Have I not always dealt fairly with you?" said the rene-
gade, sulkily.
"I must say, Simon, that I have never found you otherwise;
though, to tell the truth, I feared a little, just now, that you
were going to press me on the old score."
wefirst fears removed by the generous proposal of the re-
negade to drop all claims for past services, the. captain's mind
reverted at once to the subject of his thoughts when interrupted
by the "hist" of Girty, and, without thinking of the advantage
he would give his shrewd companin-by thus showing his in-
terest in the matter of inquiry, he exclaimed:-
"Come, Girty! tell me what's on hand, now?   Is it any-
thing respecting the daughter of General De Lacy ?"
"Exactly !" said Brant (for we will call him by this name,
for the present), a radiant smile gleaming across his swart
countenance, for he saw, and seized at once upon the advantage
given him by the captain's impetuosity, "and a good deal,
too, more than you think, provided my pay is in proportion to
the value of my information."
" Let's have it, then," said Montlack, eagerly; " for you
know I am a good paymaster."
" Better than those we had during the Revolution, when
you can't help yourself !" growled the outlaw. " But we must
come to some understanding, captain, before you get one word
from me."
'" How much do you demand ?" inquired Miontlack, endea-

44

I[0V!
94
4,


46SIMON KENTON;

voring to put on a careless look, and thus, if possible, do away
with the advantage he had given his cunning companion; "I
only feel interested about this cousin of mine, you know, on
account of my uncle, who is anxious to save her from any un-
equal match."
"Ha! ha!" laughed Brant, "it won't do, captain! I'm too
cunning for any such a trick as that ! , I tell you that you
will have to come down on the heavy figures, or this cousin of
yours, in whom you take so little interest, may marry the devil,
for aught I care."
"Then, in the devil's name," exclaimed the irritated cap-
tain, finding that he was fairly caught, "let me hear what you
demand !"
"In the name of the devil, then, as you will lug him into
our agreement," said Brant, with a laugh, " I ask for, and in
consideration of my information, $500, and not one cent less
will I take, and would not receive even that amount, if I could
not, at the same time, revenge myself."
"Ten thousand furies ! Simon, you must be mad, stark,
raving mad!" exclaimed Montlack, " or you would never think
of such a sum as that! 'I can't think of paying anysuch a
price for a little trifling information about the maudlin love of
a puling child !"
" Mad or not," growled Brant, "that is the very lowest cent
I will take; and if you don't see proper to give it, then there's
no harm done, and we might as well part company at once.
But you will rue your mistimed economy, captain; for this de-
termination of yours will lose you the amount demanded a
hundredfold over."
"Then out with it," snarled Montlack; " for, if I must, I
must, and the sooner you tell me all you know, the better.
But, remember, Mr. Simon, I'll have no trifling ; for, if I pay
you well, I must get value received."
"So be it," said Brant, carelessly; ''I know the importance
of my information, and, for this reason, have claimed the

46

I

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.2             47
reward you are pleased to consider so exorbitant. Do you
remember Colonel Head, captain ?"
"D-n Colonel Head !" shouted Montlack, in a furious tone,
at this inquiry of the renegade; "let bygones be bygones, and
don't be troubling me with these old matters. You have been
paid for them."
a You recollect, captain," continued the outlaw, with pro-
voking coolness, "how you used to carry on a nice little cor-
respondence with the English general in the name of our
colonel, and the lots of good English gold we received in re-
turn; and how, after that- disgraceful punishment of mine, I
managed to let one of your sweet epistles fall-into the hands of
General Greene; and how my brave colonel was, if not dis-
graced, very greatly suspected, and) to save his honor, commit-
ted suicide, by rushing madly upon the bayonets of the enemy
at Guilford Court-House-?  Eh I captain, you haven't forgotten
it?"
During this provoking retrospect of the renegade, the cap-
tain stood trembling with rage, and, when he had finished, no
longer able to restrain his anger, exclaimed
H--11 and fury, Simon ! you are pushing your impudence
beyond endurance. What has all. this rigmarole concerning
Colonel Head to do with my cousin Coma, and the matter
now on hand?"
" A good deal, as you will soon learn," replied Brant, with
annoying calmness.
Nontlack made a gesture of impatience, and the outlaw
added-
" A son of that same Colonel Head is in love with your fair
cousin."-
"Damnation1" hissed the captain.
" And what is still better," growled Brant,- enjoying his evi-
dent discomfiture, "your cousin is in love with him."
Montlack stared with amazement.
" And what is better still," added Brant, with marked em-
phasis, " they have plighited to each other their vows of love."

i.                           _.
. +'
4,
t


SIMON KENTON;

Montlack made no reply, merely motioning him to go on.
" And what is a great. deal better," laughed. Brant, with
fiendish glee, "this sweet cousin of yours told her lover that
she knew her kind cousin Jean was in love with her, but that
he was a good, clever fellow, and when he discovered that her
happiness was at stake-remember that, captain-that he
would resign all claim to her hand, and aid them, like a dear,
kind soul that he was, in gaining the consent of her father!
Ha ! ha! how like you that, my dear captain ?"
" Sacr!  You will run me mad," howled the outraged cap-
tain, clasping his brow in agony, and dancing around in the
excess of his fury.
" Come, captain, don't be in a pet," urged the renegade,
badgeringly. " Just walk up, like a good, kind cousin that
you are, and say: ' My much loved and much esteemed uncle,
the happiness of dear Coma is at stake; don't hesitate a mo-
ment, but give her over at once to this agreeable Mr. Head,
and along with her just transfer her these broad lands, for he
has noble blood, and is directly descended (don't forget that)
from the honorable and unimpeachable Colonel Head, so un-
justly suspected of being a spy.' "-
"The $500 is yours, Simon," said Montlack, the cloud roll'-
ing back from his cunning countenance; "and I thank you
for that hint respecting the noble colonel, for with th e general
his being the son of Head is enough, and more than enough,
of itself to play the devil with this. young fellow and his high-
wrought hopes.  But come, Simon, my fury needs no en-
couragement ; so out with how you obtained all this informa-
tion, and then, if you will aid me in taking my revenge, and
in putting a stop to the romantic love of these young fools, I
will make the $500 a $1000."
" Just what I expected," said Brant; and then, without de-
lay, he gave the astonished captain a minute account of all
that he had overheard at the house of Duffe, and under the
bank of the river, not forgetting, in the conclusion of his nar-
rative, poor Coma's eulogy of Montlack, and her expressed hope

48

I'
^, t I

I

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             49
that he would become the friend of her lover, and aid them to
overcome the opposition of her father.
0      t yes!" grinned the furious captain, "I will be his very
dear friend, and aid him in his suit with a vengeance. This
cousin of mine was not mistaken in her estimation of my heart.
Eh, Simon?"
. The renegade laughed, adding, with a sneer-
"To be sure you will; for I was thinking myself, while
listening to their pleasant arrangements to strip you of ypur
uncle's estate, how much you would be delighted, and how well
your cousin knew Captain Jean Montlack. But, joking aside,
what are you going to do ?"
cI haven't made up my mind yet," said Montlack, doubt-
ingly -,"but suppose the best thing I can do will be to inform
the general at once of .the name and family of his iended
son-in-law."
"Not at all," replied Brant, "for I've been thinking over
this matter, and came to the conclusion that it would be fine
fun for you to humor them awhile, and pretend that you are the
kind, good cousin they believe you; and then, when they sup-
pose everything arranged, just give the old general a sly ink-
ling of the honorable parentage of this fine youth, and have
him kicked out of doors, or dragged in the horsepond, for his
presumption."
" Good!1" exclaimed Montlack, with undisguised satisfaction.
"ICan you give me any further advice, my dear Mentor?"
" Of course I can," said the renegade, in the same pleasant
vein; "for I hav'n't thought over this matter for nothing, and
think I know a fine plan to settle this good youth for some time
to come."
"Let's have it. I know in advance that it will do, for you
were always good at scheming, Simon."
"Suppose, then, that, during these loving days, when you
are playing the kind cousin, you manage 'to borrow from this
open-hearted, unsuspecting lover-no very difficult business, I
should think--a thousand dollars; and then, when the general
5


50               SIMON KENTON;

has driven him away in disgrace, this sweet youth, the son of
my old enemy, will have the additional comfort of knowing
that he has not only lost his sweetheart, but for a time his
money, and is a beggar; for I heard him say that this sum and
the proud name of his father," added the renegade, with a
mocking laugh, "was his "only heritage."
" Better and better," responded the cunning captain, catch.
ing at once his companion's fiendish plan. " But when he re-
ceives his dismissal, and calls on me for payment," he added,
looking inquiringly into the eyes of Brant, "what then ?"
"07' replied the outlaw, with a devilish and knowing leer
at Montlack, "'we can manage that. I guessed it wouldn't be
convenient for you to pay over, for I intend 'to take this thou-
sand myself, and have arranged it, therefore, that you shall
never suffer."
" But how, my wise Simon? Have you learned some Indian.
trick to avoid the payment of a just debt ? for, if you have, I
will add another thousand for the grand discovery, and make
my own fortune by retailing out to needy debtors this glorious
panacea for all their troubles."
" What say you to serving him somewhat in the manner we
did his father? Just deny the obligation, and charge him with
forgery. I think it would work admirably," laughed Brant;-
"for you can change your signature when, with honest zeal,
you force him to receive your written bond, all business-like,
you know; and it will be devilish strange if, with your standing
in society,, backed by my evidence if necessary, we cannot
brand the simpleton with forgery; and then, if he will not ,
peaceably give up the hand of Miss Coma,. you can save your-
self all further trouble, so far as he is concerned, by delivering
him over into the power of the law. - Eh, captain? Here's a
dodge worth a thousand-isn't it ?"
"I believe it will answer," said Montlack, musingly. "Yes,
I know it will," he added, in a more satisfied tone, after a mo-
ment of thought; "and I can in this way not only save myself
from all interruption on his part, but, what is still better, in a

Of, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.              51.
case like this, forever damn him in the estimation of Coma her-
self."
"Of course," replied Brant, positively. "And remember,
captain," he added, encouragingly, "you -are working for a noble
stake, for the hand of your lovely cousin is worthy of the strug-
gle, without counting her broad acres."
" May the devil take me if I don't try it!" exclaimed Mont-
lack, springing to his feet;  and if we succeed, Simon, the thou-
sand dollars borrowed from him shall be yours."
"It's a bargain," replied the renegade; "and I am as sure
of that thousand as if I had it here now in my pocket."
" Bon soir, Monsieur Brant!" exclaimed Montlack, mount-
ing his horse. ."I must away, now, to gather up my wits for
the struggle. I suppose, when I need your services, I will
always find you at the old cottage ?"
" Exactly, and always alone; for the good people hereabouts
are too much afraid of ghosts ever to visit my tumbledown re-
treat. But remember, captain, Simon Girty is never at home,
and you must inquire for Mr. Brant, for he will answer just as
well."
"Never fear; I won't forget," returned Montlack, putting
spurs to his horse, and galloping away.
The renegade did not remain long behind; but, after watch-
ing the captain until he was out of sight, turned off from the
road, and walked slowly away in the direction of the deserted
cottage.
He had scarcely gone a minute when Sharp-Eye, raising his
person from behind a rock not more than a hundred paces dis-
tant, muttered to himself, as he followed with his eye the re-
treating form of Girty:-
"Well, blast my eyes if I wouldn't give a hundred beaver-
skins to know what them ar' two scoundrels wer' talkin'
about ! Cuss that feller with the bushy red head and big scar;
I'm always thinkin'. as how I knows him, but can't never
'zactly make him out. But never mind," he continued, shak-
ing his head wisely; " I've trailed that ar' rascal from the


52             ' - SIMON KENTON;

corner of the Sargeant's house to that rum old cabin down by
the river; and blame me if I don't find him out yet, and the
cause of all this spyin', and eavesdroppin', and powwowin', or
my name ain't Sharp-Eye. And this 'ere smooth-tongue
captain, he's worse than a lyin' Mingo, for I know'd him of
old; and blast me if I ever know'd any good of him! He's
-one of them parley-vooin' Frenchmen, and drat me if I ever
thought-much of any of them, nohow, though they did come
over and help us fight the Britishers ! We could have jist
walloped the redcoats anyhow, and without them Frenchmen;
and I'm darned sorry the frog-eating devils ever had any hand
in the scrimmage ! I wouldn't be surprised now, since this
'ternal captain has a finger in the pie, if Mr. Bryan and that
ar' pretty gal of the squire's hadn't somethin' to do with this
'ere big talk. But never mind, Mr. Parley-voo and Mr. Red-
head, you sha'n't have it al your own way. Sharp-Eye is on
the trail; and it will be darnation strange if we don't smell 'em
out yet--won't it, Bang ?"
Bang, as if conscious of being in a dangerous neighborhood,
gave his assent, with a low growl, to this query of the Scout;
and soon after, master and dog, moving off in an opposite
course to that taken by the renegade, were alike lost in the
Woods.
CHAPTER V.
GENERAL DE LACY, the captain, and Coma were again in
the parlor of the former. It was night-the night following
the Meeting of Montlack and Girty.
The'party were occupied in very much the same manner as
when first introduced to the reader, save that Montlack, for
the last half hour, had sat alone by a window, busy with his

OR) THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.              53
own treacherous thoughts; arranging and marshalling his dark
legions to attack and deceive the guileless and artless heart of
his unsuspecting cousin.
The wicked and false frequently deceive and victimize the
truthful and good: but it is not so easy a contest as one would
imagine; and frequently, very frequently, the artless, without
intending it, overthrow the 'most skilful plans of the artful;
leaving then like a general who, in attempting to surprise his
opponent, is himself, without understanding exactly how, sur-
prised and defeated.
Montlack had mingled much with the world, both the good
and the bad of it, was a skilful reader of the heart, and well
knew how to manage it to meet his own purposes; but with all
his wicked cunning and daring, he was at loss now how to
attack the pure heart of the maiden before him, so as to bend
it to his own designs, and, at the same time, conceal his treache-
rous intentions. The way of the wicked is always hard, and
the web of the false and traitorous eyer liable to be broken;
Montlack felt, that it was so, but nerved himself for the con-
test. He was aware of the difficulty of his present position ;
knod+ing that he must be cunning and artful indeed- so to
deceive Coma as to work out his plan of destroying her love
and the character of her lover, and yet remain in her eyes the
same good and kind friend she imagined him.
But he had determined upon the effort; and now, like a
skilful tactician, drew his chair to her side, murmuring, in a
low tone, "(There was a time once, Coma, when you concealed
nothing from your cousin Jean, but laid open to him your
heart, and ever had in him a sympathizing friend. Have you
discovered him less sympathizing of late; or less worthy of
your confidence ?"
The captain's voice was low and melancholy, and he spoke
with 'such a tone of sorrow, and was apparently so deeply
wounded at the very thought of having lost her confidence,
that Coma, affected, replied quickly, and with evident emo-
tion, "You deceive yourself, dear Jean, indeed you do; for I
5*


54                  SIMON KENTON;
have as much confidence in your kindness and affection now as
I ever did; and if I have said or done anything to wound your
feelings, you must forgive me, for it was not so intended."
"Then, why conceal from  me the cause of your recent
abstraction, and, I might add, coldness towards myself?"
Coma blushed, but made no reply.
"You well know, dear Coma," continued Montlack, appa-
rently not noticing her confusion, "my deep affection, and, as
I hinted last night, ardent love for you. But don't start; for
you need not fear my recurring to that painful subject again.
It was a bitter struggle, Coma, to feel that I had loved, loved
so long--but loved in vain; and that that heart I had so long
coveted, and hoped to call my own, was never to be mine, but
was already given to another. But I knew at once, from your
blushes and change of manner, that it was- so; and determined,
though it might break my own heart, that I would suffer in
silence, and never bring a care upon your brow by pressing
my unreciprocated love. Yet, Coma, although this has been,
one of the sorest trials of my life, how my heart bled to-day,
when I accidentally discovered that you had not only given your
love to another, for which I could not blame you, but had con.
cealed it from me--thus proving that you had lost all confi-
dence and trust in a heart that would willingly give its last
drop of blood to insure your happiness-! Was this like you,
Coma? And was it right ?--was it not cruel in you thus to
treat an old friend and cousin ?"
"Forgive me, Jean, that I ever hesitated to tell you all!"
exclaimed the deceived girl, while tears of compassion and'
admiration rolled down her blushing cheeks. "You were ever
good, and noble, and without deceit, Jean; and I know you
i11 believe me when I say that it was not from want of con-
fidence that I remained silent. Remember my maiden modesty,
and I am satisfied you will forgive me."
"I believe you, Coma; for there is neither sin nor deceit in
your pure hear(; and I love you too well not \to forgive."
Montlack, as if to show the sincerity of the pardon granted,

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.        55

took the unresisting hand of his cousin in his own; and, press-
ing it respectfully to his lips, added, in a more cheerful tone,
"There, now, we are friends again. I have kissed your hand
as did the serfs of old-a mark of my bondage; and hence-
forth you may count me your slave, ready to obey all your
behests."
" And my first command is that you be to me, as you have
ever been, my dear cousin, ready to aid me in the hour of
trouble, and sympathize with me in my moments of distress."
"'Try me, Coma; and you will find me ever ready and will-
ing, and, I trust, worthy."
" As a mark, then, of my renewed trust," said Coma, blush-
ing deeply, "1we will talk of him to whom I have given my
love. But, oh ! Jean,-if this subject be at all distasteful or
wounding to your noble and generous heart, say so at once;
and never, never shall one word of mine bring a pang to your
magnanimous heart !
"I have made up my mind, and schooled my heart to the
sacrifice, Coma," replied Montlack, with a desperate effort
smothering his rage, and assuming a sorrowful tone; "and now,
if you hesitate a moment in telling me all your plans, and all
your hopes, and fears, and even your love-for why should I
halt at that little word, so dear to others, although so dreadful
to me?--.I will doubt your promised -confidence in my sin-
cerity, and have but little to sustain me in my sad trial.
Coma," he continued, more cheerfully, " tell me all your plans,
what you design to do, and"what part you wish me to play.
If I cannot be happy.myself, I would make you so."
" I suppose you know his name ?" asked Coma, hesitatingly,
as if in doubt how much he did know.
" The honest fisherman," answered Montlack, evasively,
" who overheard your conversation, and was on his way, in
hopes of a reward for his news, to inform the general, when he
was met by myself, only knew of your love and engagement,
and was entirely ignorant of the name of your lover."
"Oh ho, Captain Jean !" laughed Coma, "in my simpli-


56                  SIMON KENTON;
city -I was about numbering you among the scouts or wizards
of the land; but discover that you have found out my secret in
a very common and simple manner; you must therefore sink
in my estimation, for you have lost all your wonderful powers,
and stand before me like any other of mortal mould. But
I thank you for stopping this water-god, or rather fishy eaves-
dropper, on his way to my father. This story, told too sud-
denly, and without any preparation on our part, might have
raised a very uncomfortable storm about our ears."
" So I thought," said the captain, glancing at the general,
who was sitting in a distant part of the room, intensely inte-
rested (as of late was usual with him) in an account of the
revolutionary movements of Europe.
With many blushes and frequent hesitation, Coma, in a low
voice, with ever and anon an uneasy look in the direction of
her father, narrated to the captain, who listened apparently,
with the greatest attention, the whole history of her love, from
her first meeting with Bryan to their engagement and parting
on the morning previous; to all of which the treacherous
Montlack lent a willing ear, and, when she had. concluded, re-.
marked:--
"I have no doubt, Coma, he is all you believe him, and, for
your sake, trust he is worthy of the invaluable boon you have
given him; but he must not.see the general before I have seen
him, or before I have prepared the way, with your father, for
this meeting.. He may destroy all our plans by too much
haste."
" You can easily see him, Jean," replied Coma, completely
deceived by the kindly interest Montlack seemed to take in the
matter, and falling at once into the snare he had set for her,
" by riding over to Sergeant IDuffe's. I feel," continued the
fair girl, proudly, "that, when you once see and know him,
and learn his goodness and gentleness of heart, you will trans-
fer to him, dear Jean, some of the affection you bear your
cousin."
"No doubt ! no doubt !" muttered MVontlack, hastily, scarcely

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.              57
concealing a sneer, for it was as much as even his hypocritical
heart, ascunning and determined as it was, could now do to
restrain a burst of anger; but, by a mighty effort, he did so,
and with a smile as deceitful as the sunny, alluring dimple
upon the cheek of a heartless coquette, he added:
"I will go early on to-morrow; but you must prepare me a
nice little billet-doux, Coma, with full powers to treat, &amp;c.-a
kind of introduction, you know, as your envoy plenipotentiary
-that he may receive me with full faith and honor."
" Of course," replie Coma, with a sweet smile of thankful-
ness; "and I will tell him how kind and good you have been,
just as I told him you would be. Shall I write it now?
"You need not be in such haste," said the captain, rather
crustily, considering his determination to keep cool and in a
good humor, "for I do not expect to start out on my embassy
to-night."
a Sacrd!" exclaimed the general, throwing down his paper,
and speaking in so loud a tone as to make Coma start with
terror-" sacred! it makes me sick to read how our brethren
are carrying on in la belle France. It won't do, Jean; poor
France is not yet prepared for a republic; a monarchy, or a
military government, will alone restore peace and order. But
what think you of their efforts ?"
"Their attempts will all prove abortive, and their bloody
efforts at making a republic, as they call it," sneered Mont-
lack, '"'will soon result in a monarchy, and then farewell for-
ever to all these mushroom leaders you are eternally reading
about. Your upstart fungi of the Reign of Terror, and of
anarchy and demagoguery, will soon be kicked out of power,
neck and heels, and we'll never hear again of these shining
lights of republicanism."
".Bah !" retorted the general, who, notwithstanding his own -
private views of family, &amp;c., always argued in favor of freedom
and equality, and the rights of man, "you are in a bad humor,
Jean, and determined to sneer down merit because it has strug-
gled up from the canaille."


58                  SIMON KENTON;
'- I am heartily pleased," retorted Montlack, with a mocking
smile, "that you have at length concluded to adopt the level-
Iing notions of this republic, and, for once in your life, believe
that all men are free and equal, and that merit alone makes
the man."
You are familiar with my views in relation to rank and
family," replied the general, sternly, at the same time glancing
somewhat uneasily at his daughter, for he never spoke of the
equality of men in her presence without a condition or proviso
"and you, no doubt, feel as much as I do the necessity of_
eepng up the digmty of ancient names; but this should not
make us opposed to a popular government, or decry merit,
merely because it has sprung from an humble origin."
"01 I1am becoming very democratic myself, of late," laughed
the captain, with a sly glance at Coma, "and have no doubt
my fair cousin will bear me out in my republican views, and
growing carelessness of ancient names and titles."
Coma, in her simplicity, imagined that Montlack was kindly
combating the peculiar-prejudices of her father, in order to
smooth the way for her lover; and, so believing, with a thank-
ful smile and a resolute heart-though her father looked stern
enough to deter many a braver soul--replied to his half-laugh-
ing sally-
"Iadmire a proud name and ancient family as much as any
one can do; and think a long line of ancestry, made noble by
worthy and honorable deeds, well deserving of our praise and
estimation, and a species of guarantee that their descendants
will never swerve from the upright course pursued by their
fathers. Looking at it in this light, I regard family and name
as estimable and admirable; but, for one, I do not consider a
man made worthy alone by the bravery and honesty of his an-
cestors, and think that he should be judged by his own works,
and not by the deeds of those long since filling an honorable
grave. But I will go a step still farther," continued Coma,
gainig courage, " and say that I look upon a man of refine-
muent, and education, and bravery-although he can count a

59

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

name no farther back than his own-as well worthy of praise,
and esteem, and love as the most ancient noble of my father's
ancestral home.
"Tat! .tt Coma !" exclaimed her father, with a shrug of
the shoulders, "you know nothing about these matters. You
were born in this land-where noble blood is not so highly
esteemed as it should be-and have inherited, no, not inherited,
but rather absorbed, the democratic notions of those by whom
you have been surrounded. You say truly, that a man should
be judged by his own works, and that a descendant of an an-
cient family should not be esteemed merely because he has
noble blood in his veins; but suppose, Coma, he has, in addi-
tion to his ancient name and lineage, all the ennobling traits
you mention, is he not more worthy of esteem and love than
one who has merely the noble traits without the ancient
name?"
"Your argument is very plausible, dear father," replied
Coma, with a smile; "but yo must permit me to differ with
you. I consider one struggling from obscurity, and, in spite
of the humbleness of his parentage, building to himself a name
-a proud one, if you please-entirely- upon native worth
and excellence, far more to be admired and esteemed than
one who has a long list of noble ancestry to sustain, cheer, and
force him on, in spite of his own natural wants, to deeds of
chivalry and nobleness. The one is entitled -to all the credit
himself; the other to none-for, raised and nurtured to consider
bravery and noble actions a part of his patent of nobility, he
could scarce be otherwise than noble and brave; and with him
it is more a duty than a merit."
"Why, Coma," laughed her father, " from the heat with
which you defend your peculiar notions, I'm a little afraid
that, in spite of all my endeavors to the contrary, you have at
last lost your heart to some Adonis among our farmers or fish-
ermen. Which is it ?" he added, in a slightly ironical tone.
"Am I to have a plough and reaping-hook added to my leopard


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

SIMON KENTON;

. yuchant, or shall it be a pole erectant, with a string pendant,
and a fish to the end on't?"
Coma laughed; but, in spite of her amusement at the plea-
sant manner of her father, could not help blushing, and made
no answer to his good-humored charge; Montlack, however,
came to her rescue, exclaiming-.
"I don't think, general, you will have added to your leopard
couchant either a plough or fish pendant; but what say you to
a-broken musket, a.tattered banner, and a brave cavalier lying
upon a bloody field ?"
" Ha! does the wind lie in that direction ?" said the old
man, musing.
With an eager and bright look of beaming thankfulness and
intelligence, Coma met the glance of the cunning captain; and
this look was not clouded, as the general, rising from his chair
to retire, said-
"The brave heart and bloody battlefield have been the outset
of All nobility; and he that won his spurs in the fierce combat
wvs ever deemed as noble as the noblest! I fear no stain upon
my escutcheon, Coma," he added, tenderly, to his daughter,
"if to my leopard couchant you add either the broken spear or
tattered banner."
The parlor of De Lacy was once more empty; but it was not
cold or cheerless, for bright glowing coals .still crackled upon
the hearth, and it was a fit place for revelling sprites and
fairies to dance their airy numbers, cheered by the happy song
of the cricket from beneath the huge old hearth-stone.
The general went away contented; Coma hopeful and satis-
fled; and the treacherous Montlack, although burning with
internal fires, confident and exulting.
Time alone will unravel the gathering woof.

CHAPTER VI.

EARLY on the ensuing morning, Montlack, armed with the
loving missive of Coma, went forth in search of his rival; and
he went with heart and head both fully prepared to wind his
slimy coils around the lover, as he had done around his trusting
cousin.
At the same time, Bryan, with bounding heart, left the
humble roof of his foster-father, and went forth to meet his
mistress.
Shortly after, Sharp-Eye, accompanied by Titus and Bang,
followed the footsteps of Bryan, but at such a distance as not
to be discovered.
"Titus," said Sharp-Eye to the black, as he pursued the
fresh trail of the unconscious lover, "it strikes me Mister
Bryan is gettin' himself into some trouble, and if we ain't on
the look-out to lend him a helpin' hand, I rather guess he'll
he wusted, and may-be lose his scalp."
" Miss Coma ?" giggled the negro.
"Worser than her ! for she ain't so bad, I guess; but, then
thar's that frog-eatin' Frenchman !--I believe he's got nigger
blood in his veins-and that ar' red-headed scoundrel I've
caught crawlin' 'bout like a 'tarnal Ingen. I wouldn't be sur-
prised," he added, with a mysterious shake of the head, "if
old Betsy," looking lovingly at his rifle, "would mistake that
ar' same feller for a redskin yet, and jist blaze away all the
same as if I wer' squintin' along them ar' sights at a genuine
Mingo. Would you, Bang ?"
Bang responded with a loud. bark; but no sooner had he
done so than the Scout, turning gravely upon him, and look-
ing him intently in the face, said, sternly-
6

6-

60


62   'SIMON KENTON;
"See here, Mr. Bang; I don't want any of your loud talkin',
now, jist remember; if we are in this darned civilized country,
we are on a trail now, and I want you to answer my questions
like a sensible dog, and all the same as if we wer' upon the
war-path of a scalping Shawanee; do you understand, sir ?"
Bang, looking very much cast down by the reproof of his
master, replied with a low growl, as if fully aware of his cur-
rish forwardness; and Simon, as if satisfied with the Christian
manner of his companion's repentance, added, with an em-
phatic gesture-
"Then take your place; and, mind! don't let me hear a
word from you until you are asked some civil question. That
bark of your'n would have lost us our scalps, had we been upon
the trail of a Shawanee or Wyandotte."
Like a dog when he feels he has been doing some wrong,
Bang drooped his tail, and silently took the lead, followed
closely by the Scout; whilst old Titus, filled with superstitious
terror at this seemingly intelligible conversation between the dog
and his master, brought up the rear.
About half way between the mansion of De Lacy and the
farm of Duffe, and only a short distance from the haunted cot-
tage occupied by Girty, the rivals met. A minute later, and
Bang, cautiously stealing to the top of a little hillock, stopped
suddenly, giving a peculiar growl; and the Scout, as if fully
understanding the warning of his dog, after motioning Titus
to be still, went warily forward.
"Thar they are, sure enough !" he muttered, when once by
the side of Bang; '"and jist as I 'spected; that dratted French-
man shaking 'the hand of Mister Bryan.   Why, bless us,
Titus!" he added, addressing the black, that worthy hav-
ing crept to his feet, "he's no more than a savage, for hecan't
talk nat'ral born English, like an honest man; end when he
first came 'parley-vooin' about, during the wars, he' wasn't as
high larn't in our lingo as Bang.  Ugh! jist look how he
shakes Mister Bryan's hand! H~e 'minds me, with his grins
and jimeracks, of a cussed redskin I once met with."

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.              63
"How do you make out dat ?" asked the black, inquiringly,
for he knew some story was at the end of the Scout's tongue;
and, like some people we know of, couldn't let such an occa-
sion slip.
"Well," replied the borderer, who was just as ready to tell,
as the negro was to hear a story, "it happened somewhat in
this way: I wer' smellin' uip the trail of a prowlin' Shawanee,
and had been beatin' about on it all day, when, the first thing I
know'd-bang went a rifle, and whiz went a bullet most un-
common close to my ear, for I heard it sing as it passed. -It
war'n't no time before I up with old Betsy, and let blaze at
the dodgin' villain in retain; and down he dropped all in a heap
like a 'possum in persimmon time, and away I went to see
how he got along with an ounce-ball in his carcass; and what
do you think the pesky devil did?"
-"Me don't know, Massa Simon! 'spect he sung out for
quarterss" replied Titus, innocently.
" No, he didn't, neither; that ain't the way we do business
out in Kaintuck; he jist thought to throw dirt in my eyes,
cuss him! and poked out his hand, like that jabbering French-
man thar-darn me if I don't believe he's got nigger blood
in him !-and said, 'How de do, broder?"'
" Golly! him be broder after miss fire ?" said Titus, with a
grin.
"Jist so; but I wer'n't goin' to 'knowledge no sich a blamed
redskin rascal; and so gin him a taste of my tomahawk, and
lifted his scalp.  If he wer' a brother of mine," added the
Scout, with a wink, " darn me if I ever seed him before !
and we wer'n't raised by the same mamma, sartain! I took a
lock of his hair to 'member him by, though; and here it .is,
and a very nice one too!"
Titus had often-.before seen, and, perhaps, admired, the
bloody trophies of the Scout; b~t, after hearing the story of
his companion, and his attention being thus drawn to a parti-
cular lock, he again, for a moment, with staring eye, contem-
plated it; then turned his rolling orbs upon the undisturbed


SIMON.KENTON;

countenance of its possessor, then upon old Betsy; and then,
rather hurriedly (for he thought he was watched by that
worthy), upon Bang; and not feeling entirely safe, or at ease,
in such dangerous company, slowly edged himself away from
such neighbors.
Sharp-Eye did not notice this little by-play on the part of
the black, for he had turned his head away, and was once
more gazing eagerly down upon Bryan and Monflack.
The two latter personages had met, and greeted each other,
very much in the manner described by Simon; for Montlack,
upon meeting Bryan, had guessed that he was the object of
his search, and with true French grace and courtesy had made
himself known, and, with the letter of Coma in his hand, had
soon secured the confidence and good-will of the unsuspicious
lover.
For an hour or more, the rivals sat together in earnest con-
versation. There could not have been two individuals' more
unlike than Bryan and Montlack: the one open and excited,
and, by his love, impassioned--the other cool and plausible,
although, from the natural vivacity of his race, he appeared
vehement and impulsive; the one all truth, honor, and confi-
dence-the other all falsehood, faithlessness, and treachery.
During this time, the captain had been busily reading the cha-
racter of his- intended victim; and, finding the task an easy
one, for there was neither coldness to remove, hypocrisy to un-
ravel, nor worldly inning to combat, he at length, seizing an
opportune moment, with a look and voice of well-assumed
sorrow and mortification, exclaimed-.
"You have learned, dear Bryan-for you must allow me
thus to address you, now that you have the love of my cousin,
and will soon, if nothing untoward happens, be still nearer
and dearer to her--that I have long been the devoted admirer
of Coma. My uncle desires our union; and I had cherished a
hope that the heart of my cousin-was not entirely dead to my
devotion ; but I was deceived, for it, was only cousinly affection
she bore me; and since I have discovered my error, although it

64

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.              65
was a sad blow to my golden dreams, I have determined that she
shall not know or see my suffering, and I shall use all my power
with her father to secure her happiness, even though that hap-
piness doom me to a lifetime of wretchedness. For this pur-
pose alone am I here to-day, and nothing but my great love for
her and secret determination to see her happy could ever have
induced me to meet my successful rival, and make the morti-
fying confession I have just made."
"Generous and noble man !" exclaimed Bryan, "how can
I ever repay such great magnanimity ?"
" By giving me your love, and sometimes thinking, you and
Coma, of her absent cousin," said Montlack, turning away his
head to concealtpe smile that, in spite of every effort, would
play around his mouth.
"We can never forget your noble sacrifice," replied Bryan,
seizing the hand of Montlack; "but why will you leave us ?"
"I might regret the sacrifice I have made, were I to remain
here, day by day, witnessing your happiness, and forever
brooding over my own great loss. No, no! when I see all your
hopes consummated, and behold the face of Coma beaming with
joy, I must away at once to some distant land, and there pray
for your continued felicity. But, alas !" he continued, cover-
ing his face with his hands, as if ashamed to acknowledge his
poverty, "why do I talk so? for I am without means, and
even this poor boon, of dissipating my cares and sorrows in a
distant country, and amid new scenes, is denied me."
"Not while I have a cent to share with you !" exclaimed
the duped lover, with generous emotion, his heart bounding
with sympathy, and his whole soul filled with admiration at
what he considered the nobleness of his rival. "Here!" he
continued, extending his pocket-book; "Ihave not much; but
what I have is yours; take it all; and would that I had it in
my power to make it a hundredfold greater!-for, even then,
it would not express my admiration and gratitude at your un-
heard-of generosity and nobleness."
"I cannot accept your noble and generous offer," said the
6*


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

-aptain, with assumed backwardness, at the same time gently
pushing away the extended hand of Bryan. "I thank you-for
your kindness, but must decline receiving so large a sum
from a stranger."-
"A stranger !" murmured Head, in a deep and feeling tone,
for he was grieved at the refusal of his offer. "Did you not,
but a moment since, call me dear Bryan ? and has not your
kindness and the letter of Coma made us as old friends ? and
will you still refuse my poor gift merely because I have not
known you for years? Come, you must not treat me so! You,
who have given so much to me, must not, and, by Heaven !
shall not, thus turn away from my humble offering!"
"I cannot,!" persisted Montlack, again refusing the ex-
tended gift; "I must even await the pleasure of my good uncle;
for he is generous and liberal, and, had I not been so extrava-
gant, I would now have, from the allowance last made me, a
sufficient sum to bear me back to France, where, amid the
tumult of revolution and wild raging of war, I might have for-
gotten, for a time at least, the heavy sorrow of my disappointed
heart."
"I swear to you !" exclaimed Bryan, greatly excited by the
assumed tone and manner of the captain, and the continued
refusal of his offer, " if you do not receive it, I will cast the
yellow dross into the Yadkin; and there may it remain for.
ever, for I will never touch it again."
"Young men are ever thoughtless and rash," said the cap-
tain, not wishing to risk the loss of the money by persisting
too long in his feigned diffidence; "and rather than permit
you to be guilty of so foolish an act, I will receive it-but, re-
member, only as a loan."'
" Thank you! thank you!" exclaimed Bryan, again attempt-
ing to push the money upon his companion; but Montlack,
still refusing to receive it, replied-
"Not now, or in this manner; for when I receive it, Bryan,
it must be done in a business, legal way, before a witness, and
you must take my bond in return."

66

SIMON I ENTON

67

'r
q T
^
k              ;
dt
} ,
at

"tHave it done as you see proper, so you receive it," said
Bryan; "I care not what forms you go through, for it is of
little consequence; but let it be done at once, and settled, for
I will not rest satisfied until you have the money in your pos-
session."
"I see very clc-rly, Mr. Bryan," replied, Montlack, with a
laugh, for he was well pleased with the success of his scheme
thus far, "that you know nothing of the use of money. I can
but smile to think what a figure you would cut.in the hands of
-some I know of.  Sacre ! what a partner you would make for
some close-fisted Jew ! and how it would set on fire his swine-
hating heart to hear you talk thus of giving away thousands,
and without so much as a bond in return!"
"Such a course might not answer with money-loving Jews,"
laughed Bryan; "but with gentlemen, captain, I consider bonds
unnecessary."
" But I do -not," said Montlack, dryly; "for who knows how
long I may call this head my own, once I am well mingled- in
the tumults and conspiracies of Paris?-and, my head gone,
where will be the tongue to acknowledge my indebtedness?
No, no; my bond is not worth much just at present; but it is
worth more than my word; and the thing must be done all
straight and legally, or I will not take the loan. To do so, as
you seem in haste-a most unusual thing with a lender of
money," added Montlack, with a smile-" we will step down
to the cottage below there, where, if I am not mistaken, we
will find a witness, and in the person of the honest fisherman
who gave me the first intelligence of your love for Coma."
" The rascal that gave us such an alarm on yesterday?" said
Head.
" The same," responded Montlack, "and a very honest fel-
low."
"I forgive him the momentary fright he caused me," said
Bryan, feelingly, "since his eavesdropping has been the cause
of my introduction to one so noble and generous as I have found
you.~"


68

SIMON KENTON;

4None of your flattery, Bryan, or I will begin to think you.
have some of the Frenchman about you. But come, let us
finish this matter of the loan, and then you may away to see
Coma, and I will go try my power upon this stiffnecked uncle
of mine."
Montlack and Bryan, arm in arm, as if the oldest and dear-
est of friends, walked slowly away in the direction of Girty's
desolate cabin, and Sharp-Eye, after following their retreating
persons with his eye until they had passed out of sight, sprang
to his feet, muttering, in a puzzled tone:-.
"Well, blast my buttons if this don't rather beat me ! But
up with you, Titus; the game is off; and now that we are in for
it, jist let's see it out. It will be dratted.strange if we don't
get at the bottom of this 'ere matter, somehow or other, before
we are done with it. Won't it, Bang?",
Bang, growling his usual assent, once more took the trail;
and, followed by his puzzled master and the wondering black,
slowly pursued the footsteps of the retreating rivals.
That lonely cottage, with its dreary, moss-covered roof, its
tumbling chimney, its glassless windows, its half-gone porch,;
its broken-down fences, and its weedy, briery, yard, was a strik-
ing picture of gloomy desolation, and decay, and death; and
no wonder the simple rustics believed it the home of ghosts and
spirits, and never entered within its haunted precincts. To me,
no object is more sad and chilling to the heart than a deserted
house, lonely and silent, with its neglected garden and yard, its
rooms garlanded with cobwebs, and the dusty floor echoing back
solemnly the footstep of the intruder. I knew such a house in
my boyhood, haunted, of course, for it had not been inhabited
for many years; and I can well remember how my hair used to
stand on end, and my heart thump audibly, when, with my
playfellows, made brave by numbers, we dared to enter within
its silent and ghost-tenanted walls.
But Montlack and Bryan had no such fancies upon approach-
ing the retreat of Girty, for their thoughts were otherwise en-

I

I

69

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE,

gaged; and without note or remark, they stooped beneath its
timeworn lintel, and entered.
"I know'd it!1" exclaimed the Scout. - "That big redheaded
feller, with the scar, has something to do in this 'ere matter,
and whar he makes his mark, Titus, you may jist look out for
blood and xascality, or I'm no judge of human natur'. Down
on your marrowbones, old fellow," said Simon, turning to the
black, " and try your hand at skulking. Jist throw yourself
behind that broken piece of fence; then make a dodge for yon
tree; then another for that stump thar; and then a bold
move will take you to the house. Once thar, mind, old fellow,
and use your peepers, for I want to know what's going on in
that dratted old graveyard."
"0 massa!I" ejaculated the negro, in reply to these hurried
commands and instructions of the Scout, "dis old boy can't do
dat; him be 'fraid of the ghosts, for dat house be haunted dis
long time."
a4Haunted, you old white-liver!" exclaimed Sharp-Eye.
"Just do as I tell you, or cuss me if I don't lift that woolly
scalp of your'n, and then we'll have the ghost of a nigger to
keep company with old Girty and his crew. Blame me, if I
think they wer' far wrong, after all, in killing the old rascal for
a Tory, for he must have been a precious old villain ever to have
such a scoundrelly son as this renegade, murdering Simon of
his. Come, be brisk, Titus," added the Scout, cheeringly, as
he noticed the hesitation of the negro; "1who knows what good
you may do Mister. Bryan by this little private observation?
And the ghosts, you know, don't travel by daylight, for they've
got eyes like owls, all them I've seen, and can't see 'cept at
night. That's it! go ahead, my old brave, for I'll keep watch
over this 'ere establishment, and if Mr. Redhead but shows his
muzzle, like as if he intended any harm, then we'll jist blaze
away, and leave him thar to keep company with the tother
ghosties."
"You say de ghosts don't trabel by daylight ?" inquired
Titus, throwing off his coat.


70

'SIMON KENTON;

"It's agin natur' for them to be out 'cept at nights,"replied
the 'Scout, with a wink of intelligence at Bang.
"Den me be off; for I ain't 'fear'd of nothin' but ghosts and
de devil," was the brave reply of the black, his love for his
young master, with the assurances of Kenton on the score of
spirits, at last overcoming his reluctance to intrude upon
haunted ground.
Following the directions of his more experienced companion,
Titus was soon snugly ensconced in the rear of the old cottage,
and staring in through a convenient crevice at its inmates.
It was not long before Bryan came forth from the cabin,
and with a light heart and foot moved off at a rapid pace. He
was so intent upon getting away that he scarce glanced at the
desolate building he was leaving, and it left no impression upon
his mind. His thoughts were preoccupied, and with a more
pleasant subject, for he was on his way to meet Coma. A few
moments after, and the captain also came forth and, chuckling
to himself as he crossed the threshold, moved out through the
weed-covered yard, pursuing, at a slow, deliberate pace the
same path taken by his deceived rival. Titus did not remain
long behind,' but, after a rapid and intense scrutiny of the dark
visage of the ruffian deft alone in the cabin, crept noiselessly
away, and rejoined the impatient Scout..
" By golly ! Massa Simon," he exclaimed, with a puzzled look,
as soon as he got in speaking distance of Kenton, "dis is not
de first time dis boy eber saw dat feller down dar in de cabin."
"Very like," muttered Sharp-Eye. "I thought the same
the first time I saw him. But who the devil is he, Titus?"'
"Dar you be too hard for me, Massa Simon," replied the
black, scratching his head, as if to stir up his memory, and
bring back the features of the scarred and disguised Girty.
" Well, blast him! let him pass," put in the Scout, impa-
tient at the negro's delay. "We'll find him out soon enough.
But tell me, Titus, what wer' going on down thar ?"
" When dis child seed dem fust," replied Titus assuming
an air of importance that would have been vastly amusing to

I

7-

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

the borderer at any other time; "dat is, Massa Simon, when
I fust clapped my wisionaries on Massa Bryan, de captain, and
dat tother feller-drat his red read," he added, parenthetically,
"I knows him, but can't 'zactly call his name-de captain wer
scribing on a piece of paper, and den he got up, and dat big
feller just sot down and put his fist to de paper too, and den
Massa Bryan took it up and put it in his pocket, sort of .care-
less-like, as if he wer'n't consarned much about it, and, push-
in' a pocket-book to de captain, walked out; and dat wer' de
last I seed of him."
"What then?" asked Sharp-Eye.
"De captain and Redhead-I golly! I knows him-jist give
a laugh when Massa Bryan wer' gone, not like when you or
Massa Dufie laugh, but a kind of laugh dat covered a feller all
over wid chills, and den dey fell to countin' de money in de
book; and I tell you now, Massa Simon, dar was a lot of it,
and none of dem old continentals we wer' used to hab in de
war, but real yaller gold, and nice bills, 'nuff to make your
mouth water."
" Never mind; what did they do then ?" said Simon, impa-
tiently, for he was annoyed by the negro's garrulity, and wished
to. know all at once.
" When dey had counted it over and over, to see wedder
him be all right, I s'pose, de captain jist pushed it all to Red-
head, sayin', 'That's your'n.'"
"Did he call no name ?" asked the Scout, with a puz7zlpd
look.
" De captain called Redhead Mr. Brant--if dis indiwidual
am not mistaken; but him's name am not dat, and I'll swar it-
and told him, when he gib him all de money, dat him mout
a go as soon as conwenient, for he wouldn't need him any more,
and him mout spile all by stayin' in de neighborhood. Dem
wer' de captain's very words."
" And what did Redhead say ?" asked Sharp-Eye.
"Him jist put de money in him's pocket, and laughed one
of dem same kind of laughs; and de captain telling him, now


72

SIMON KENTON;

I
z
ti
t
u
t
yy
t
P
e
Y
R
4
6
t:
v
a
E
t
T
a
r
f
T
C
s
h
C
r
i
y
C
SSB
I   I

I

I

73

OR, TILE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

dat he had de money, him better be off a once, took up his
hat and left."---,                               u ~
"What then?"
" Gorror-mighty! de big feller jist laughed again; and, slap-
ping hims d---d pocket, showed him's teeth, and I  olly! di
child's Wision wer' obflusticated; him felt his wool riz, and his
gizzard go pit and pat; and 'spect him didn't wait to see any
more, for he 'blieve dat feller de debil, and no mistake."
Sharp-Eye gave a muttered "Humphs !" to this satanic con-
clusion of the negro's story, but made no farther inquiry.
Shouldering his rifle, he looked with a longin eye towards
cabin,as ifundetermined, but half inclined to pay its occupant
a v, hanging his mind, he muttered, in a dissatisfied
tone.-.
"No, no ! it won't do. If I wer' only out in Kaintuck, I'd
rouse him in his den; but, in this 'ere civilized  country I
reckon they wouldn't think it elite an
perit, ad maybe Mister Bryan
mightn't like it.""
As if totally at-a loss what to do or think, the Scout stood
a moment longer, looking vacantly around; then, as if struck
with some new thought, for his countenance brightened up,
he hurried-away at .a rapid pace, followed by his companions;
nor did he halt or speak a word until he had reached the pre-
imises .of Duffe, when, beckoning that worthy with his hand,
the two retired tto a secret place; and, from the length of their
conversation, must have held a long council of war.
The result of their grave deliberation was not made known
either to Bang, Titus, or the world; and so we will have to
leave it to time, that.most ancient and successful of grandames,
to discover, and a safe delivery make of the offspring of that
portentous confab.

CHAPTER         VII-
As we have made up our mind, in the language of the law,
to stick closely to the record, and never wander in pais, we
will not now stop to consume your valuable time (0 Jupiter!)
with a description of the general when he learned from Mont
lack the love of Coma, and her engagement; or of the blush-
ing daughter when called into the presence of her angry father,
to hear his matter-of-fact, and, we have no doubt, very un-
interesting discourse concerning filial duties, obedience, and
many other very proper subjects of discussion on any other
occasion than when love is concerned. To tell the truth,'and
this is a duty enjoined upon us all--although, I fear, one most
woefully neglected, if we are to believe one-half we read of in
novels-this thing called Love is a terrible leveller, as much so
as sans ulottism in Paris, and cares about as little for locks, or
bars, or paternal commands; and, as we do not wish to have
anything to do with a matter or thing governed and ruled by
no fixed law, we will now, like unto some politicians we wot
of, just give it the go-by, and dive, with furious zeal, into
something else.
It is enough for us to say, so that you .may get fully into
the thread of our story, that the general, persuaded by Mont-
lack (for the captain had his scheme to play out, wishing as
yet to stand fair in the eyes of his cousin), and softened a lit-
tle by fhe tears and entreaties of his daughter, had made up
his mind, like many good fathers both before and since his
time (now that he couldn't help himself), to submit with as
rauch grace as possible, and, that he might not yield too readily,
had agreed to meet his intended son-in-law; and if the latter-
he was very positive on this point-could show proper creden-
7

i
7


OR., TIE scoUT'S REVENGE.

tials of his standing in society, and of the respectable name of
his family, not to object to him on account of his poverty.
This determination of the general fully satisfied Coma, and
she went on her way rejoicing; nor did it dissatisfy Montlack,
for he well knew that, in the course of the intended examina-
tion, the relationship of Bryan to Colonel Head, the suspected
traitor and spy, would very naturally turn up; and that alone,
the cunning captain was confident, would be a sufficient reason
in itself to destroy all the hopes of the lover, and raise an un-
governable storm of opposition in the bosom of his very proud
and punctilious relation.
It was early evening, and twilight was still lingering in the
west, as if struggling for supremacy, or, like some young
widow, loath to put on the sable robes of night, when Bryan,
with fluttering heart, sat in the grand parlor of De Lacy, under-
going that most terrible of all ordeals to a young lover, his
first or last meeting with an intended father-in-law.
So far, the general had been all urbanity and politeness;
and, if ever a man can feel entirely easy upon such occasions,
Bryan had begun to enjoy some such feeling, when the for-
mer, with some-abruptness, remarked-..
"You are about, Mr. Head, to become a very near relation
of mine, and as you ,are almost an entire stranger to me, I
would be gratified to learn something of your father and of
his station in society; for, you must know, my dear sir, that
although I put very little value upon wealth, I am somewhat
particular concerning family,' especially in the connection we
are about forming, and place a very high estimate upon a pure
and honorable genealogy."
Bryan was unconscious that any stain had ever rested upon
the escutcheon of his father, and to this direct inquiry of the
general, which he had been expecting, answered quickly, and
with a proud beating heart----
"I am very poor, as you are aware, and can only say for
myself thatI am an orphan, with a fair education, and with
the emotions of a son descended from a gentleman, and claim-

74

'11
ft
It

IL

SIMON KENTON _

75

a
M
e,
t'
, f 4
K,
J -
.

ing, as the only legacy left me by my father, the memory of
his unspotted name. I do not consider your inquiry at a
unreasonable; nor do I blame or undervalue the estimate you
place upon a fair name and family, for, I feel satisfied that I
will not incur either your contempt or reproach when I tell .
u I am the only child of Colonel Robert Head, of the Con-
tinental Army."
tW hat! do you mean the Colonel Head that fell at Gul-
ford Court-OUSe ?" exclaimed De Lacy, his face, first turning
h     ale and then livid with rage.
as  The same," replied Bryan, quietly; for he did not see, or
if he did, was unaware of any reason for, the great change that
'had come* so suddenly over the face of his questioner.
Without another word to Bryan, the general sprang quickly
to a bell, and ringing it furiously, bade the servant, answering
his summons, to send, to him at once the captain and Miss
Coma. During~ this time, Bryan sat filled with amazement,
totally at a loss to understand the hurried movements and great
excitement now evident upon the features of De Lacy.  ad
he was not allowed to remain long in doubt, for no sooner
lied blushingly into the room, and the captain, with a
quick glance at his relation, presented his smiling face, than
e   neural turned the astonishment of the lover quickly and
at once to anger, by exclaiming, in a furious, contemptuous.
voice, at the same time pointing deridingly with his finger-
"And that is the noble son-in-law you doting fools would
ive me I Listen, Coma-and you, too, captain---for, if you
did not know it before, I will inform you now that that low
fellow-he who would join his ignoble name with that of De
Lacy-is the son of a base spy and traitor; the wretched off-
rin of a disgraced and perjured man!f"
Springing to his feet-while a flash of indignant fury gleamed
from his sparkling eye-Bryan, with a flush of anger, man-
tling his handsome face, haughtily confronted the stern-visaged
old general, replying to his infamous charge i a proud, e-
fiant tone.

r:
f


SIMON KENTON;

"Were you not the father of that fair girl, and were not your
head'bleached with the frosting tread of Time, here, and now,
would I prove upon your person the foul falsehood of your in-
famous and groundless slander against the honored name of
my dead father."
"Oh, Bryan," murmured Coma, throwing herself between
her lover and her parent, "remember that you are speaking
to my father !"
"And in defence of one," said the lover, sternly.
"My father is proud and stern,".continued Coma; "but he
is just. He may be mistaken, Bryan, but he would not will-
ingly or groundlessly defame the character of the living, much
less the dead."
"You say truly, Coma," replied the old man, looking kindly,
and with some degree of sorrow, into the face of his weeping
daughter; "I would be the last man living to defame the cha-
racter of any one, much less that of a dead companion in arms.
But, young man," he added, turning once more to where Bryan
stood, as yet thunderstruck by this unexpected blow, "what I
have said is true; and if you-and I hope it is so-are ignorant
of the disgrace of your father, then you are ignorant of a fact
well known to thousands."
"You may truly believe what you now say, general," replied
Bryan, firmly; "but you must be laboring under some grievous
mistake. My father could not have been the degraded charac-
ter you would have me believe. The son could not have re-
mained so long ignorant of so terrible a charge against the fair
name of his parent. The world is not so charitable as to allow
him to live on in forgetfulness."
"Captain Montlack belonged to the army, and knows what
I have just said is true," answered the general, appealing to
that worthy..
Montlack, who had only been waiting a fit opportunity to
turn against his rival, replied to this appeal of the general, with
a look of hypocritical sorrow: "Alas ! if this young man be

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             77
the son of Colonel Robert Head, then the charge made by you
against his father--I am grieved to say-is but too true.
"Now, by the blood of my gallant parent, shed in the de-
fence of his country," exclaimed Bryan, with angry quickness,
striding towards the shrinking captain, "I, his son, here and
now, take it upon myself to declare you, Captain Montlack, an
infamous and wilful slanderer. Your uncle, here, may, within
these proud walls he calls his own, attempt to cast odium
upon my character, by attacking and defaming the fair name of
my departed parent; and his age, and relationship to yon weep-
ing girl, will protect him. But you, Captain Montlack, have
no such protection; and I will make you, base slanderer that
you are, acknowledge what you have just spoken a groundless
falsehood."
"You forget yourself, young sir!" exclaimed the general,
angrily, as he stepped between the enraged son and retreating
captain. "This is no place for strife; and, if you were the
gentleman you claim to be, you would never thus have per-
initted your passions to make you forget the courtesy you owe
to the presence of a lady."
Bryan stood abashed at this cutting reproof of the general;
and, turning, with a look of poignant grief, to the weeping
Coma, as if to beseech her forgiveness and mercy, muttered-
"You say right, sir. This is no place for such scenes. But
I trust that a son's deep feeling for the character of his defamed
father will, in some manner, atone for and lessen my offence.
"Oh! yes, father," said Coma, eagerly. " I know that you
will forgive him what he has said, for this, your own proud
soul will tell you, has been a most terrible and trying moment
to him, and may well justify his passion."
"For your sake, Coma, I forgive him," replied the old man,
"and will take no umbrage at any language he may use in his
mad anger."
Bryan bowed haughtily, and Coma whispered her thanks.
But Montlack-finidinlg that all danger of personal chastisement
had passed away, and believing this an opportune moment to
7*.

1n

fk
-h
S
"4
t,
it

I

14
is ,


I

SIMON KENTON;
throw off his hypocritical assumption of esteem and affection
for his rival, and insure his disgrace and dismissal forever-.
exclaimed.--.
"By heavens! this young son of a traitor carries himself
loftily! He presumes upon: the presence of a lady, and that
presence has protected him, or he would have long since been
driven, like a base hound, from the house polluted by his per-
son, and disgraced by his insulting and presumptuous demeanor.
I acknowledge my error, and cry your mercy, general, for being
so deceived by a cunning mercenary fellow like this. But you
must pardon me, for it was my love for Coma alone that blinded
me to his true character, and induced me to plead with you in
his behalf. But, now that he has exhibited himself in his true
colors, I would recommend that the beggarly knave-he that
would so cunningly creep into an honorable house, and join his
traitorous name to the proud escutcheon of the De Lacys-be
driven forth with ignominy and scorn; and,.if ever he has the
.hardihood to show himself here again, that he be treated like
a common knave and beggar, that he is, and dragged through
the horsepond."
During this insulting tirade, Bryan stood panting with sup-
pressed rage, his white teeth closing so tightly upon his com-
pressed lips as to start from the livid flesh drops of blood.
Coma, beholding his terrible agony, would fain have driven it
away by sympathizing words; but the stern dark eye of her
father forbade all interference on her part, and she sat in silence,
looking mournfully upon the agitated features of her .lover.
With a mighty effort to restrain his anger and be calm, Bryan,
after glaring a moment in silence upon the person of the cap-
tain, at length hissed between his clinched teeth-
"You are a base, plotting scoundrel, Captain Montlack, and
only brave in words, when you know that the presence of your
cousin protects you from personal chastisement. You have
deceived me well, captain, and have laid your toils quite skil-
fully. But, remember, the hour of reckoning will yet come,
and heavy, heavy will be my vengeance."

r:"
,
E ,:
F_
rN,
e
rF
5
,k
,;

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.
"So," sneered Montlack, "you would add assassination to
your already sufficiently disgraced name, would you ?"
"Begone, sir !" said the general, once more interposing, and
angrily addressing Bryan. "After what has just occurred,
you must feel that your company is no longer acceptable; and
I will add that it is my desire that you never again cross my
threshold."
"As you will, sir," replied Bryan, haughtily.
"Ay, begone, my doughty beggar !" added Montlack,
mockingly; "and, if you need a few dollars to aid you in
leaving the country, don't be too proud to call on me, for I will
give them willingly, if for nothing else than the manner in,
which you have played your part this evening."
"You are cruel and ungenerous, Jean," murmured Coma.
"Say no more, Montlack, and let the fellow go. He has
been punished sufficiently," remarked the general.
But the treacherous captain had a part to play, dark and
deceitful-and for a particular purpose-and was but now
throwing one of his strongest webs to entangle and destroy for-
ever the struggling and almost hopeless lover.. He knew that,
so far as the general was concerned, all chance of his consent
to the union of Bryan and Coma was now forever gone; but
he was not satisfied that Coma had given up her love, or lost
confidence in her lover. On the contrary, he judged from her
emotion--and judged very correctly-that, notwithstanding the
disgrace of her lover, he still held a very prominent place in
her heart; and it was his intention now to lower him, if possi-
ble, in her estimation, and to do. so by a grave and infamous
charge, which he designed making, if he could only induce
Bryan to mention the money transaction that had taken place
between them on the day previous. With this secret design,
to insure success, he had, in the manner we have already de-
scribed, taunted Bryan with beggary, and mockingly offered to
loan him money; and the scheme of the plotting captain was
crowned with complete success, for, to his taunts and sneers,


80

SIMON KENTON;

his charge of poverty, and deriding offer of a loan Head stung
to the quick, and goaded to desperation, sternly replied----..
"I am a beggar, it is true, so far as wealth is concerned ;
but who, Captain Montlack, under the garb of friendship, made
me a beggar, and stripped me of my last little means? To
leave this country, as you say, I will need money ; and that
money I will demand of you-not as you would fain make
those present believe---as a recipient of your charity, or as a
gift from your dastardly hand; but as a right, and as a debt
you honestly owe me !"
I am ignorant of my indebtedness to you," sneered the
captain, "other than a dragging through the horsepond for
your present impudence; but I will give a few pennies at any
time to clear the country of a traitor's son."
"What !" exclaimed Bryan, gazing with blank astonishment
at the cool and mocking face of Montlack, "are you so for-
getful of past events ? or have you become so abandoned as to
deny your indebtedness, and .thus add the crime of deliberate
falsehood to those of hypocrisy and-deceit ?"
"I most certainly deny any indebtedness to you other than
- that I have just- mentioned," boldly replied Montlack.
"Thanks!1 thanks for this boldfaced depravity !" exclaimed
Bryan, with flashing eye, as he drew from his pocket the bond
of the captain, "for I will now convict yod in the eyes .of your
uncle and cousin of the blackest and most degrading of false-
hoods. Is not that piece of paper," he added scornfully, hold-
ng towards Montlack the bond he had executed, "your obliga-
tion, acknowledging indebtedness to me in the sum of one
thousand dollars ?"
Coolly receiving the paper, the captain, with an unruffled
countenance, gave it a close scrutiny; then, turning boldly to
Bryan, he replied--
"You have presumed a little too much upon my patience in
this matter,,sir. This paper is, as you say, an obligation in
my name for a thousand dollars; but I now pronounce it a
base forgery--evident upon the very face of it--for it is not in

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.              81
my handwriting; and the witness you have to it is a rene-
gade and murderer; and, I have no doubt, one of your accom-
plices in this cunning attempt to extort money."
Overcome by his conflicting emotions, and by the dark vil-
lany of the man in whom he had so confidently trusted, Bryan
stood transfixed; and for the moment was unable to make any
reply. Taking advantage of his silence, the captain handed
the bond that he still retained in his possession to the general,
remarking, "4Look for yourself; and you, too, Coma, if you
are not already satisfied of the unworthiness of this man, look
at that same paper he has had the hardihood to present as my
bond; and you will be convinced in a moment of his utter
depravity."
" It is a base forgery, as you say," replied the general, as
soon as he had glanced his eye over the paper; "and not one
word written in your usual hand."
" Alas!I' murmured Coma, as she looked anxiously and
doubtingly upon the face of her lover, "it is too true. Oh!
who would have believed that that glorious person and that
broad, noble brow covered a heart so black and so utterly
deceitful?"
Bryan could have braved the eye, and returned scorn for
scorn with the general and. captain, for he knew that he was
innocent; and although astonished and thunderstruck at the
grievous charge thus made against him, would have treated it
with proud contempt; but when he heard the low desponding
voice of Coma, and felt that he had lost her supporting sympa-
thy and love, it was more than his struggling heart could bear,
and, covering his face with his hands, the strong man's whole
frame trembled with terrible and uncontrollable agitation--
and he wept,
" It is well, young man," said iDe Lacy, noticing his emo-
tion, which he falsely ascribed to shame and guilt, "that you
have at least a sufficient amount of honorable feeling left i
your bosom to feel some remorse~for what you have done. But
go now, and let me see you no more; else my duty as a magis-

1
i


82

trate may make me forget my pity as a man, and compel me to
place you under the unforgiving and unpitying power of the
law."
"Ay ! go now and hunt up this renegade leader of savages,
this murderer of women and children, this excellent witness
and beautiful- accomplice of yours, the immaculate Simon
Girty, and tell him for me," said Montlack, with a fiendish,
smile of triumph, " that such tricks as this may answer with
children, but not with men of the world, and that he had bet-
ter back to the camp-fires of his redskin friends, if he would
escape the'country with a whole skin.";
" To you, Coma, I will now speak !" exclaimed Bryan, with
sorrowful earnestness; "for it is worse than useless for me to
bandy further words with such heartless judges as these. I
now swear to you, by the memory of my father and mother, and
by the memory of those blissful hours we have spent together,
that I am guiltless of the dark charges made against me by this
treacherous man; and that I will prove my father's name inno-
cent of the heartless slander with which it stands defamed.
And to you, Coma, I will also say, believe nothing that that
cringing coward and soulless hypocrite, your cousin Jean, may
tell you; for I pledge my honor--"
"A poor pledge !" laughed Montlack, interrupting him.
"Ay! I pledge you my sacred honor," continued Bryan,
with a look of scorn at his rival, "that I will yet convince you
of his utter depravity and meanness, and yet show him forth
in his true character-the wolf stripped of his sheep's cloth-
ing !".
" Do !" exclaimed Montlack, mockingly. "Go, and hunt
up this Simon Girty; for he was an accomplice of your father's
treachery, and will not only prove his innocence, but, as he
stands in the same relation to yourself, may do you the like
favor. -I do not consider my character in much danger when
the renegade Girty and the son of a spy and traitor are my
defamers.",
" Cursed scoundrel !" hissed Bryan, furious with rage at his

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

83

SIMON KENTON;

A

t

a
;
l
i
1y

but the time will yet cone, and
ants, arou are safe nonot have an awful reckoning."
my nmy arm wither, 1f 'do 'ot- " re lied the captain, with
"I cry your mercy, my fair sir, rep
provoking          "but you had better remember that
ovouimygpower, and if you remain long in this country,
that little affair of the bond may become andonles  I have
known smaller offense furnish wristbands and anklets of iron
and if you have not a fancy for such ornaments, you had better
beware."
"Give me the treacherous bond of this treacherous scoun-tillheld
drel1" exclaimed Head, approaching the general,- whottin s
the        inhishand, "for I see through his viper plo g
tepaper i   sa                   t  einiss and con-
now, and will yet find means to prove its genunenes,
vict him of base dishonesty."'d Montlac"for
"tYou  will do no such  a thig, general,  a  a on youk now,
I have proclaimed that bond a forgery, and call upon you now,
as a magistrate, to hold it in your possession.wards one of our
ing, on account of hs ren   ose the country unpunished;
family, to permit the knave to leave     ty u    se
yet, if he does not embrace the opportunity hs  givetor
deprt t oceand I find him lingering in this neighborhood,
dpratonce, antelwadmke himn suffer
then I am determined to enforce the law, and ma
the full penalty of his crime."
heaful pnaykof is  omthe poisonous tongue of an adder,
DBryan rapidly scanned first the stern visage of De Lacy, then
the exulting countenance of his enemy, and then the sad ando
tearfl do nog ow," added in a louder tone, as if address-
I will do nothing now,
ing the company-
"=Well, be it so; I care nothing for  e yellow dress of which
I have been stripped, for it would be of no use to  e now, and
there are other matters of settlement between us offar greater
impo   doubt," sneered Montlack; " but when I hand you over
,%-Pro nur ni,1il find this bond cut -quite a
to the officers of the law, you willfn  thi  bodct.ut
conspicuous figure; as much so as your worthy witness, could

Y
_'L
t
i
L,  ,:
r
i

6
7
P
jp
f
G

Y,


he be found, and would venture his honest person within the
reach of justice."
"Farewell, Coma !" whispered the lover, springing to the
side of the weeping girl before her astonished father could
interfere to prevent him ; "believe me innocent until I see you
again, and then shall all, now seemingly so dark, be as clear as
your own spotless conscience."
"God grant it may be so !" sighed Coma, "for I know not
what to think."
The general hastened to the side of his daughter, and Bryan,
drawing back at .his approach, looked the old man so calmly
and proudly in the face, and so honest and open was his manly
countenance, and so steady the gleam of his flashing black eye,
that even the haughty De Lacy quailed beneath' his glance,
and, instead of the reproaches and insults he had intended to
heap upon the head of the unfortunate lover, instinctively
bowed, without uttering a word. To this silent and unintended
mark of respect, Bryan returned a grave nod, and, with a
marked and threatening gesture of the hand at his exulting
rival, turned upon his heel and was gone.
So far, duplicity had carried the day, and hypocrisy and
falsehood were victorious over honesty and truth.
"Honesty is the best policy," there is no doubt; yet, in this
world of ours, rascality is so often successful as to be a great
encouragement to knavery..
Hypocrisy is odious to every one. Yet who, in all this wide
earth, will cast the first stone!

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

84

81 ' ON KENTON;

ry
f
q
,

iAi .

85

CHAPTER        VIII.
DUFFE, Simon Kenton, and Titus--a rather singular trium-
virate in a love affair-sat gloomily by the fireside of the for-
mer, anxiously awaiting the return of Bryan. They knew
where he had gone, and had been now for some time moment-
arily expecting his appearance. It was getting late, and more
than once the foster-father had peered out wistfully in the
gathering gloom of night to catch the approaching tread of his
returning son. The wind sighed sadly through the moaning
boughs of the swaying forest, filling the heart with desolate
sadness. All nature seemed preparing for a storm; for now
and then a gust of wind came howling along, accompanied by
frequent flashes of lightning, followed by low rumbling thun-
der; and Duffe, after one of his anxious visits to the door,
returning with a troubled brow to his seat by the fireside,
muttered-half in soliloquy, and half for the ears of his com-
panions-
"I don't like the appearance of the night. The signs all
declare a coming storm; and presently we will have it, sweep-
ing down through the forest like a troop of cavalry to -the
charge. What can detain the boy ?" he added, anxiously,
after a moment's pause, and, once more rising from his seat,
strided to the door.
"Don't be oneasy, Sargeant," said Simon, following him,
"for it tain't no use, and the boy will turn up presently. You
know how a youpg chap feels when he gets 'long side of his
sweetheart. Bless me ! if he don't jist forgit whether it ar'
day or night, and don't care no more 'bout darkness or storms
than he would for a hint 'bout bedtime. I used to feel that
ar' way myself, Sargeant, 'fore that lubberly rascal married
8

K
r
t
f
t
R


SIMON KENTON;

my gal. Cuss him ! I gin him a good lickin', anyhow, and
that wer' some satisfaction. But, blame me, Sargeant, if I
weren't proper glad when I hearn he wasn't dead after all. You
don't know how this 'ere thing troubled me, for I left him for
dead; and them   ar' lawyer chaps--blast 'em!!-called it
murder, and I had to leave the country. Although I wer' a
killing' them darned Ingens every day, and didn't care a cuss
about it, this 'ere lubberly scamp's big round face--as I saw it
when I thought him dead from the thrashin' I had gin him--
wer' always peeping at me from behind the trees, when I wer'
lookin' out for Ingens, and sittin' by me at the camp-fires, tho'
nobody ever wanted his comany or axed him. Whoop! how
I danced when I hearn he war'n't dead, but alive and kickin',
and had lots of little papooses; and I sot out at once, and come
all the way back to the old State, jist to shake his hand, and
thank him for not dyin'. I tell you what, Sargeant," con-
tinued the hunter, addressing the inattentive ears of his com-
panion, "it ar' one thing to kill an Ingen, and another to kill
a white man. It ar' all nat'ral and right enough to scalp a,
Mingo or Shawanee, but, blast me ! if you'll ever catch Simon
Kenton killin' another white man, 'less it be that ar' murderin'
renegade, Simon Girty, or sich like varmin."
"list !" exclaimed Duffe, his face brightening. "I hearua
step."..
"Yes," replied the borderer, putting his hand to his ear,
and catching the step with all the quickness 'acquired by a
frontier life; "and coming' on with as measured a tread as -an
Ingen chief goin' to the council-fire of' his nation."
"Let's set down," said Duffe, returning to his seat, "for
Mister Bryan might not like so much looking after."
"That's a fact, as  true as preachin'," muttered Kenton,. re-
suming his place by the fire, "for these 'ere young fellers,
once they've got hair on their chins, are pesky toucliious 'bout
being' watched. over, and advice, and sich like."
Scarcely had the Scout and Sergeant, moved by a feeling of
delicacy tbat would not have been expected of them, resumed

86

..I

9I

i-}

~t
U
7
7

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             87
their seats, and put on an air of indifference, before Bryan,
pale and haggard, staggered into the room, and, falling heavily
into the first vacant seat within his reach, covered his face with
his hands, his entire frame shaking with the intensity of his
agitation.
Duffe, who, notwithstanding his awkward and stiff appear-
ance, was, both by heart and education, a gentleman, suspect-
ing at once that the strong emotion exhibited by his foster-child
was produced by some disappointment in his love-affair, and,
may-be, a rejection of his suit, sprang quickly to his side, say-
ing, in a low undertone-
"Never mind, my boy; the cloud will soon pass away, and
all will be sunshine again."
"Hello, Mister Bryan !" shouted Sharp-Eye, in a more bois-
terous voice-for he had his own notions about such matters,
but spoke now with as much anxiety as his more refined com-
panion--wishing to arouse and console the lover, and at the
same time conceal his own emotion, "1you hain't seen any
ghosts lately, have you? Cuss it, boy ! don't be a shakin' in
that ar' way; it makes me feel bad-"-dev'lish bad, I can tell
you-for it 'minds me of them 'tarnal agers I used to have.
Here, jist take a swig of this'ere whiskey, and all will be right
in five minutes, by the Sargeant's turnip over the mantle, or I
never killed an Ingen."
Bryan, aroused by the loud voice of the Scout, removed his
hands from his face, and fastened his burning orbs, for a mo-
ment upon the countenance of the rough but sympathizing
borderer. Then, motioning away the proffered bottle with his
hand, shook his head despondingly, and once more resumed
his dejected position.
"Gorror-mighty !" exclaimed Titus, who had been looking
on in blank amazement, " I 'spect Massa Bryan am clean gone
crazy, or he been seen old Girty's ghost."
"What of Girty? and where is he ?" inquired Bryan, raising
his head quickly, and speaking with eager anxiety.
"Cuss me, if I know !'' responded Kenton,. with a doubting

''1

,


88                   SIMON KENTON;.
look, as if he thought -old Titus was not so far wrong in his
suspicions, "'less he be prowlin' 'round the settlements with
some of his murderin' red-devils."
"Come, Bryan, arouse yourself and tell us the cause of your
strange agitation," exclaimed the Sergeant, at the same time
laying his hand upon the arm of his foster-child.
Awakened by the touch of iDuffe, Bryan struck his hand
sharply upon his brow, seemingly to concentrate his wandering
thoughts; then, looking around sadly at the anxious counte-
nances of his friends, murmured--
"Your hand, Duffe ; and yours, Simon; and yours, 'too,
Titus; for I need now the sympathy of you all-even the
humblest."
" And you have it," replied Duffe, in a trembling voice, for
he was deeply moved by the sad tone of his foster-child, and
could scarce restrain his tears.
"And-here's my paw," added Sharp-Eye, with eager zeal;
"and may I be roasted to a cinder, Mister Bryan, by the
darned Shawanees, if it ain't your'n, now and forever, as long as
thar's blood enough in it, to feed a musquito."
"I know itI I know it !" exclaimed Bryan, grasping with
warm affection the brawny hands of his two friends; "and with
you will I willingly trust my honor and my life."
" And woe be to those that would attempt to-deprive you of
either!" exclaimed the sturdy Sergeant.'
Ay!.a woe and-a cuss on them all !" added Kenton, draw-
ing up his stalwart person, whilst a gleam of deadly bright-
ness flashed from his keen blue eye.
" And tho' I be black, Massa Bryan," muttered the honest
negro, "my heart' be white, and in de right place. Say de
word, and old Titus die."
"Thanks! thanks to you all !" exclaimed Bryan, a tear
gushing from his eye at the generous devotion aof his friends.
" With you I fear no guile or deceit,-'and to you will I declare
my disgrace, and the dreadful tortures T have suffered this
night."

fit

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             89
"Tell us all, my boy," replied Duffe, with kindly interest.
" It will relieve your heart-and, although we are but humble
in rank or fortune, you know, you will have our sympathy-
and our advice may be of some advantage."
" Before I make known to you my own wretched situation,"
said Bryan, firmly, and looking intently into the open and ex-
cited countenance of the Sergeant, "I would have you, Duffe,
tell me honestly and candidly, and without hesitation, whether
or not my father was a tractor to his country, and a spy?"
Had a bombshell bursted at the feet of the listening Ser-
geant, he would not have bpen more utterly amazed than he was
at this unexpected question of Bryan. For a moment, he stood
in speechless astonishment, when Bryan, interpreting it as
a desire to evade an answer, and as proof positive of the dread-
ful charge 'made by De Lacy, exclaimed with bitter agony-
"Oh, my God ! is this, my last hope, gone? and is it true
that I am but the dishonored son of a miserable and disgraced
spy?"
"And he that says so is a base liar 1"' howled the Sergeant.
"Be he the highest of all the land, I will here now, and tp
his teeth, pronounce him an infamous slanderer."
"And I! and I!" shouted both Kenton and the black.
" God bless you for what you have said," exclaimed Bryan,
wringing the hand of iDuffe; "free my father's name from this
dark charge, and you will make h Lis orphan son happy in spite
of all his other woes."
" Your gallant father's fame has no stain resting upon it,"
replied the Sergeant, with eager haste; "1for he lived and died
a true patriot, enjoying the love and esteem of his general, and
of all those whose esteem was worth having."
"But how comes it," inquired Bryan, "that General De
Lacy and Montlack have branded his memory with this griev-
ous charge, and that, too, to his son? Were there no grounds
for -this base slander?"
" A miserable and petty foundation, believed by none but

r
{
a '
f
.lam
_  ,
' _
!+ ft
t
s.
i
i'
.i '
k

frt


SIMON KENTON;

the -envious and malicious," replied Duffe, contemptuously,
and as if the charge scarcely required a refutation.
"But what was it?" asked Bryan, anxiously.
"A  letter was found, directed to the British general, and
signed with the name of your father," replied Duffe; " but it
was not in his handwriting, was not believed for a moment by
any one that knew him to have been written by him, and was
considered, by all, the base machination of some enemy (a
fellow by the name of Girty was suspected) to injure him.
Your father stood as high after that, in the estimation of the
army and of General Greene, as he ever did at afiy period of
the war."
" And have you told me all, and held back nothing?"
" All, so help me Heaven ! I have not concealed one jot or
tittle; and willingly would I now fill his bloody grave, were I
entitled to his honored name."
"Now do I breathe again," said Bryan, his countenance
radiant with heartfelt joy; " and once more can I look the
world in the face without fear and without disgrace. Forgive
me, father! that I ever doubted for a moment your honor or
patriotism--for never will I doubt again, though all the world
cry traitor, and spit poison upon your grave !"
" By the Eternal! I would like to hear any one, of this
world, brand the name of my old friend and commander with
treachery!1" hissed the excited Sergeant. "I would grind him
beneath my heel as I would the head of a poison-spitting
adder !"
" Or ,a woman-scalpin' Ingen," added. the Scout, ominously,
feeling the handle of his hunting-knife.
Bryan could only look his thanks for the honest devotion of
the two old soldiers for their colonel; and then, in a more cheer-
ful voice, although his brow was still clouded with gloom and
care, gave them a rapid account of his interview with .De Lacy,
and the subsequent charge made by Montlack against himself ;
adding, in conclusion---
"But I care-nothing about this groundless slander against

i
.
'
,
,_
r
:w_.

90

r
k
c

OR, TIHE SCOUT'S REVENGE.
myself; for now that my father's fame has been purified, con-
scious of my own innocence, I feel confident of soon freeing
my name from all stain, and of' convicting this dark hypocrite
of falsehood and treachery."
IDuffe made no reply to this hopeful conclusion of Bryan;
for he saw at a glance that he was in the power of a cunning
villain, and one that would not hesitate to push matters to
extremes, if he could thereby further his own interests. See-
ing the situation of his foster-child in this light, the Sergeant's
head sank despondingly upon his bosom, and he gave utterance
only to a deep smothered groan.
But Sharp-Eye, seeing the matter in an entirely different
pase-for he believed the testimony of Titus and himself
would amply prove the innocence of Bryan, and the guilt o
iVNontlack--exclaimed, with eager haste-
" I know'd it! blast my buttons, when I saw that ar' red-
headed rascal and plotting Frenchman powwowing together, if
I didn't know jist as well some devilment wer' hatching as if
I'd seen an Ingen track prowlin' 'round the settlements. But
never fear, Mister Bryan, for may the Shawanees roast meif
I can't settle that ar' little affair 'bout the money as straight-
forward and slick as the best lawyer in the country. Can't we,
Bang?"
The assistant counsellor, Bang, receiving new life from the
cheery voice of his master, assented to his query with an ani-
mated growl; but Bryan, by no means satisfied with this addi-
tional affirmation of the Scout's power of proving his innocence,
eagerly sought an explanation.
"Nothing plainer," replied the bordered, with a mysterious
wink at the grinning black, at the same time deliberately set-
tling himself and crossing his legs, thinking, "Now I will have
it all my own way, will take my time, and all in due season
will let the cat out of the bag, and enjoy my honors; but, in
the m an time, I will just ask a few questions for dignity's sake,
to show off my shrewdness, and make believe that it was a
very knotty case to unravel.'" There was a great lawyer lost

k


92

SIMON KENTO1

to the country when Simon became a scout, and, acting up to
these secret thoughts of his, looking gravely at Bryan, he
asked--.
But who the devil was that ar' fewer with the red head ?
I mean the scamp that signed the paper 'long with the cussed
parley-vooin'.Frenchman ?"
"But how know you that, he had a red head ?" exclaimed
Bryan, with surprise.
"May-be I dreamed it-..=and may-be I didn't," replied Simon,
with another knowing wink at Titus, the black returning his
wink with interest, by shutting both eyes, and showing all of
his teeth. "But it ain't got nothin' to do with this 'ere case,
Mister Bryan, how I lamed that ar' fact6  So jist answer a
civil question, and don't be axing me any."
"He was introduced to me as a poor fisherman, by the name
of Brant," replied Bryan; "but, when Iscame to examine the
bond, I found that he had signed his name Simon Girty."
Had Kenton sat down upon the head of a rattlesnake, or the
back ofa porcupine, he could not have sprung up more rapidly
than he did wheu he heard the name of the renegade; and his
first exclamation, after a loud whistle of astonishment, was--
"Bring out your cradle, Sargeant---if you've got any sich a
thing 'ere. Put me'to bed at once, and feed me upon warm
milk, for I'm a poor baby, as blind as a bat in daytime, and as
dull as a donkey with his ears cut off. Sharp-Eye, indeed I"
he added, bitterly. "I've no more right to that name than the,
most lubberly greenhorn that ever crossed the mountains.
Blast ie! if I don't wish them yellin' Shawanees, when they
had me tied to their cussed toastin'-stick, had put an end to
mne before this 'ere disgrace. Who would have thought it?
Siton Kenton--the -Sharp-Eye of Kentuck'--to be fooled!
and fooled, too, by that thievin' rascal Girty! and right here
in the States, and under his own nose ! May the devil take
me'if I don't be the laughin'-stock of all the boys in the set-
tlements ! Sharp-Eye, indeedT! Come, Bang, let's be off.
This 'ere civilized country won't suit us. If we stay here much

93

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

a
e !

.  9,lo

longer, we won't b able to follow a buffalo train But thar's
one thing we can do, Bang. We'll     t g ft  t   o that
haunted house, and, blast me! if we
bloody villain, if the ghosts of t e Girtys pile themselves up
before us as high as the Blue  idge-.        radwe  "
here any longer, for the Sargeanti hain't got no cradle." i
"Stop, Simon; it will be no use to go there now ," exclaimed
Bryan. "I came by the old cabin, and this Brant, or Gir
was gone, and the cottage. as silent and lonely as if it had
been occupied."
"Well, Mister Bryan, it does go again my nat, an       a
mistake," replied Simon, resuming his seat, bt   nd by a
very satisfied look, "to be fooled so uncommon  aB a 's
cussl critter what's neither Ingen nor white man. But that's
neither 'ere nor thar, now, so wel js ,go ohen that ar''taral
bisness, if you'll tell me whar we wer'w
name so obflusticated me."-
"You were on the point of informing me how to prove my
innocence respecting the bond given to me but have my eternal
if you can do so, you will not only deserve,
gratitude.".dDenton
"This 'ere life will, do, Mister Bryan," responder, efon,
once more resuminghis careless   kgin g m uane ,  but
to eternity, that's a thing I don't know much about, but
rather guess it ar' a plaguy long time for any man's gratitude
to lst."?tlessl
"But the proof of my innocence ?" said Bryanresle y.
"Thar's nothing' easier; for your own says will beenough
for any honest white man-I won't say Frenchman; and, if
that won'do them law fellers--for they are so up to lyin'  so -
selves they won't b'lieve anybody else-then I'll jist say so
myself, and, cuss me! if I wo n' st like to see any of them
big wigs dispute my. word."  -1" relied Bran, sadly,
"Neither of these will do in law,  replied       n
"and, if this is my only dependence for safety, I fear my enemy
holds me completely at his mercy."


94

SIMON KENTON;

"Mercy! the devil!" exclaimed Sharp-Eye. "Who talks.
'bout mercy ?  And do you 'spect it from sich a lyin', thievin'
rascal as that? I'd as soon 'spect mercy from a bloody Ingen,
when'he had my topknot in his hand, ad his knife all ready'
for sarvice, as to 'spect it of that darned Frenchman. But
s pose Titus and myself--'specting some rascality, when we dis-
kivered this Frenchman and Girty (blast his red wig!) parley-
voomn' together-had followed up your trail, and seen you all
in company, and had been peepin' in that 'tarnal old haunted
house, when the'cussed rascals signed that a/ paper?  What
would you say to that, Mister Bryan?  And do you kalkulate
that would be enough to satisfy them ar' speechifyi' lawyers ?'
"If what you say be true," exclaimed Bryan, rasping the
hand of the joyful Simon, thenn can this troublesome matter
be settled at once, the hypocrisy of that treache. ous captain
fully exposed, and my own name freed from the dishonoring
charge of forgery."
"h 'Well, Mister Bryan, don't be cast down any longer, for
that ar' supposin' case of mine ar' as true as the Gospel; be-
kase Titus and me did follow up your trail, and, when them
tarnation villains wer' foolin' you outer your money, old Titus
wer' close by, lookin' in at you, while I wer' standin' off, at
good shootin' distance, waitin' for that ar' redheaded rascal to
show his scalp; and, blast me ! if I don't wish he had, now I
have diskivered it wer' that bloody thief, Girty."
Bryan had listened with intense interest to this account of
Kenton's; but, to the great surprise of the latter, who expected
a sudden outburst of joy, the former not only showed no sign
of exultation, but-still more astonishing to the honest bor-
derer--with a look and groan of despair, sank back in his seat,
covering his face with his hands. And Duffe, 'too, to whom
the Scout looked for an explanation, met his gaze with a ges-
ture of impatience, muttering something very near akin to an
oath.
"Well, blast my eyes if you aren't a strange couple !" grum-
bled Sinon, not a little piqued 'at the manner' in which his

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.               95
very important news had been received; "for hereaniu ar
like a pair of old women at a campmeet, noaerin' andu
' jist when I wer spectin' to see you capern
groanin  wepsIfrcsspeo                       rn n.uu
for joy) like a herd of young bucks ona frsty morning. Buts me if I
what's to play now? Jist sing it out; 'or, cussoaif a
wouldn't like to know the cause of all this 'ere groaning , and
cussin', and sich like I
csi', ndsihnik!" said Bryan, sorrowfully ;
"It is no fault of yours, Simon, h when    srrowfully;
" but I could not restrain myhanguish when I learned that it
was Titus, and not you, who had been a witness to what oc-
curred in Girty's cabin."
"IWhat's the difference?  a   Titus see and tell the truth
as well as anybody else ?"
S His evidence will not be received n a court, and hercan-
not be a witness when a white man is on trial, not even where
his testimony would'save the life of the criminal.
hiWhat's that you say    exclaimed the borderer, with a
whistle of aston ishment.  "Why, Id take Titus's word as soon
as any manstn',and a blamed sight sooner than many who
assan man s hym ,aanyou've got in this ere
pass for white men! If that's the awhance ot in the settle-
civilized country, I'd sooner take my chance out in
ments, whar thar's no law."
"Yti' i re" relied Bryan.     "cA slave cannot give tes-
"cyet it is true,' replidByn
timony either for or against a freeman."I'lljistgdo itmyself,
" Well, if Titus can't give tetmnIl itd      tmsl,
replied the Scout, with honest simplicity.eond and deliver ito
"But you did not .see them sign tebn,andeiritt
me," said Bryan.
e"Whad materyn didn't? Titus did-and. it's all the
" htmatter if I dintam,
same."
"But you can't swear it."    hS     t   aW   a' ope
"Can't swear it !" exclaimed the Scout. iIwhat's to pre-
vent me?   Titus saw it all; and, cuss me! . if I don't swear to
it on every Bible n Jerusalem!  W    s    .  i   y t
I wouldn't swear to anything Titus told me wehaar' w?'ll
swear it in all the courtoftecmowahitatr'il


6SIMON KENTON;

satisfy you; and, what's more, will lift the scalp of any rascal
doubtin' my word."
"It won't do, Simon," said Bryan, sadly; "for, although I
would believe Titus as soon as any man living, still, the law
will not permit him to give testimony, nor will. it allow you to
testify upon the strength of what he has related to you."
" Then let the law and the courts gd to the devil !" exlaimed
the Scout; "and, if this 'ere plottin' Frenchman--for I believe
he's got nigger blood in him..-.goes to trying' any of his traps
on us, we'll jist gin him a taste of backwoods law, for it art a
blamed sight better for sich fellers than any you've got here."
There's some reason in what Sharp-Eye says," remarked
the Sergeant, who had been silently turning the matter over in
his own mind, "for there is no use in puzzling our brain about
testimony, since this matter has not yet been brought before
the courts, and we have every reason to believe that it will not
be. If it does come to that point, then we will make the best
defence in our power, and I am confident that innocence will
triumph over guilt. For the present, the testimony of Sharp-
Eye and Titus will be sufficient to convince Miss Coma; and,
if I am not/mistaken, Bryan cared more for her good opinion-'
than of all the balance of the world."
" Jist the thing, Sargeant," exclaimed the Scout, glad of any
way to get around the present difficulty. "And, blast me ! if I
don't have you electedd judge of the first court we have out in
-Kentuck'! But, at present, cuss all courts ! say I, and may we
never be troubled with any of the pryin' botheratious consarns
out in the 'Cane Land;' I can't 'zactly see the use, nohow, of
them judges, and 'squires, and constables, and sich like, both-
erin a gentleman with thar rules, and laws, and other devil-
tries."-
"I thank you, Duffe, for your kind suggestion," added
Bryan, when Kenton had finished his philippic against the
law, "and will seize the first opportunity of proving my inno-
cence to Miss De Lacy. She, like ourselves, will give full
weight to the evidence of Titus, and, if I but convince her of

96 -

.
. ,
}
!,
; .,

'   VEt E.97
OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.
the guilt and treachery of her cousin, and of my own innocence,
then will I care very little about the law. I can face
the terrors of a legal tribunal with a bold front, sustained asI
will be by e sympathy, and a consciousness of my own free-
dom from all by her ilt. But what of this Captain Montlack? I
promised to have a settlement with him, and can't pass over
the indignities he has offered me  silence.saidthe
Scou rather guess itandmyonly wonder is that you didn't settle him at
oxs right thar, before the old man and his darter. I knows it
tantrghtobbli' away when the women-folks are about;
tain'rih to be blazin ayveOtm        feelers..off that yaller
but blame me if I could have kept my
Frenchman, nohow."
-"Gorror.'mightyt! I wish you had to been thar, Massa
Simon," blubbered Titus.
"ou," blubbrght, my " remarked Duffe, calmly, in reply
to theusa     r  ynm  "forhis slander of your father's me-
oryquestion of Bryan,its offered yourself, must be atoned for,
nre is only one course left you as a gentleman, and I will
and there ionyoecne                  uevrstfaction."
see that all proper steps be taken to insure you every satisfaction."
('Whoop! hurrah ! now you are -t and jist say to the
shouted Sharp-Eye, throwing up his cap;dfor Mister Bryan, for
yaller devil, Sargeant, when you eehi fr'stceran  for
he   has a right to the first pop, that thar's a certain Capting
hSimn K      to  forget the capting, for I've been a cap-
tin enton-gn'swforged like most astonishingly to send
ango bain theIngens-w r      g   rd always giving him
an chnce, baloug rsa to return the compliment. Don't
a chance, you understand, to e Bryan don't settle him, I will,
forgete berenfor bya ta tanal thief, Girty-fooled myself
otman foTitus a witness; but may I be eternally and
forever obflusticated, if I'm wine to be fooled outer that ya-
ler Fenchman's scalp. Wil werahe Bang n,?"hi     kse'
.Bang howled a negative, or rtheasethe o hi ater'ed
.bloody determination; and now   ta h e  e  elard
for war, we will hold our peace.
9     '    -


98

SIlbN KENTON;

CHAPTER IX.
"THAT ain't so bad, Mister Bryan; and s'posin' that yeller
rascal had been tbar, you'd have spiled his appetite to a sar-
tainty."                                             41
Such was the remark of Kenton, as, with great gravity, he
examined the mark of Bryan's bullet upon the target at which
he was firing, and which Titus held up for his inspection.
"But," added the Scout, as he made preparation for again
loading the pistol, "though you shoot darned well for a green
one, and this here popgun makes a blasted sight of fuss and a
big hole for sich a small consarn, 'I ain't 'zactly satisfied with
this 'ere way of doing up the business; for, s'posin' it wer' to
happen that this 'ere Frenchman, after doing you all the harm
he can, wer' to jist accidentally pink you, and get off himself
without begin' hurt, that ar''wouldn't be so darned funny; and
I guess it would be tarnation little satisfaction to be first in-
sulted and then killed. Did you ever think of it in that ar'
way, Mister Bryan ?"
"(The chances are equal," said Bryan, "and there is no
other way for a gentleman to wipe out an insult received."
"Darn poor way, if he should happen to be wiped out him-
self," grunted the Scout. "But here's the pistol; try your
h&amp;d again, and if you can shoot as well with the tother feller
before you as you do now, he won't 'scape with a whole skin,
and that ar' some consolation, anyhow."
It had been a busy morning at the Sergeantk; for, whilst-
Simon was trying the "narves of Mr. Bryan," as  called it,
Duffe, with much zeal albd care, had been dragging from its
sacred place of deposit his seedy suit of regimentals, and pre-
paring it for immediate use. His wife lent a willing hand

99

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

p.

in furbishing up the blackened buttons and tarnished lace of
this ancient suit, and she did so without question or remark,
for she was one of those wise women who thought her husband
knew best what he was about; and then she had no idea of the
solemn occasion of its present disentombment, for the Sergeant
never disturbed these sacred relics of the past, save on high
days and militia musters, and the poor woman, not being overly
curious (a rather remarkable trait for one of her sex), took it
for granted that a training day had come, and so worked dili-
gently on at the resurrected paraphernalia, and without one
thought of seeking the cause of its resurrection. But in due
time, this furbishing up, and polishing off, and brushing down,
came to an end, and the tall, sinewy person of the Sergeant,
encased in his regimentals, made its appearance at the door,
followed to the threshold by the admiring eyes of his wife.
Walking with the stiff, measured tread of a veteran, his fine
athletic person showing off to much advantage in his worn
and time-beaten uniform, 'Duffe slowly approached Bryan and
Kenton; but he did not halt, or, if he did, it was only for a
moment to make them a military salute, and then, without a
word to either, passed on, marching with proud and precise
step, in the direction of the De Lacy mansion.
" Jist as natural as eatin'," exclaimed the Scout, admiringly,
touching his cap in return to the salute of Duffe ; "and the
very sight of that ar' old uniform makes-me ache with the
thought of them cussed drillin's we used to go through in old -
times. Halloo !" he added, as the Sergeant stalked away,
" don't be forgettin' that ar' message I sent the Frenchman."
Then turning to Bryan, with a last look at the vanishing form
of Duffe, he remarked, with a well satisfied air, " He's one of
'em, Mister Bryan, and we'll do up this 'ere business of. our'n
to a sqar', so blaze away agin' at the 'tarnal rascal, and let's
see the state of your narves."
Sergeant Duffe, although not particularly blessed with the
goods of this world, was very favorably known throughout the
country, and on account of his honesty, and patriotism, and


SIMON KENTON;

tried bravery, was, if not cordially and upon intimate terms,
at least politely received and welcomed by the most aristocratic
of his neighbors, so that he found no difficulty in obtaining
entrance to the house of General De Lacy, and no sooner had
he- presented his sterns visage at the door, and inquired for
Captain Montlack, than the bowing servant led him at once to
the parlor, announcing with negro pomp and ceremony his
name. There was no one in the room but the captain himself
who, raising his head at the announcement of Duffe, with all
the politeness -of his nation, arose quickly from his seat, x-
claiming----
"tra   truly glad to see you, Mr. Duffe. You look very
natu~raand familiar in your uniform, and remind me very
much of old times. But take a seat. Suppose you wish to
see =the, general? He is out now, but will be back in a few
minutes."
" My business, this morning, is with you, captain," replied
Duffe, returning the warm greeting of-Montlack with a stiff bow
and military touch of the cap,. "and is such as to brook no
delay and very little ceremony."
Montlack had guessed the cause of the Sergeant's appearance
so soon as he hadcaught'sight of his face and uniform; but, not-
withstanding, chose to be very ignorant, and to this stiff reply
to his warm welcome said, in the same pleasant voice, as if to-
tally unconscious of his visitor's purpose :--
" Eh, Sergeant, are you out giving notice to attend a train-
ing? We captains of the war have- had a fall since peace
was- declared, and are not only common soldiers now, but mi-
litia at that, and commanded by our subalterns. Ha! ha !
it would be a good joke if you had a notice for the general,
and I would like right well to see you serve it on him."
"I'm not on that business now," said Duffe, with freezing
politeness.
" Then to what may I ascribe the pleasure of your com-
pany ?" inquired Montlack. -
"I come, at the request of my friend Mr. Bryan Head, to .

100

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

100                                                                                           -10

lI

'101

ask of Captain Montlack the satisfaction usually given by one
gentleman to another for an insult offered," replied Duffe,
promptly, and again politely touching his cap.
Although Montlack had been fully confident, from the first
appearance of Duffe, of the intent of his visit, yet when he
had thus clearly and unmistakably delivered his hostile nes-
sage, in spite of every effort to the contrary he could not con-
ceal his emotion, and, whilst his face turned deadly pale, stam-
mnered forth-
" My good sir, I am somewhat surprised at your language,
and am not certain that I yet exactly understand the purport
of -your message."
"(Nothing plainer," replied Duffe, bluntly. "Did you not,
last night, in the presence of General De Lacy and his daughter,
grossly insult Mr. Head? and did he not then tell you he would
require satisfaction at your hands? I come now, on his behalf,
to know when you will give him the pleasure of a meeting, and
to arrange everything necessary on such occasions with your
friend, if you will be so good as to name him."
Sacre! You speak plainly enough now," said Montlack,
with a sneer, "and I am very sorry that I cannot gratify the
young gentleman."
"Captain Montlack certainly does not refuse to give Mr.
Head the satisfaction he demands ?" said Duffe, with a look of
surprise.
" That is my determination," replied Montlack.
"You will not refuse to give me the reason for this unex-
pected conclusion of yours ?" said Duffe, struggling to be calm.
"Certainly not, if you insist."
" I do," said Duffe, sternly.  -
"1Myreasons for declining a hostile meeting with your friend
can soon be given," replied the captain; "and when you have
heard them, Monsieur Duffe, I doubt not but you, like myself,
will consider them amply sufficient."
"I await your pleasure, for, if you continue to decline giving
my friend the satisfaction he claims of you as a gentleman,


,r

103

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

102                  SIMON KENTON;
then, of course  I claim itas but due to myself to know the
ground of your refusal."
"I most certain do decline this meeting," said Montlack,
but with some hesitation, as he noticed the contracting brow
of his visitor; "and as you insist upon my reason for so doing,
it is simply because this Mr. Head is not only not my equal,
but is the son of a spy, and himself a felon."
It was a dreadful struggle for Duffe to restrain his anger;
but with a mighty effort he did so; and to this insulting reply
of the captaj, touching his cap with punctilious politeness, he
remarked
S"I trust, Captain Montlack, that you can have no such ob-
jection to myself; and as you have positively refused to meet
my principal, I now claim at your hands that honor."
"Surely you are not serious ?" exclaimed Montlack, stepping
back in astonishment.
"Never more so," replied Duffe.
"Why, really, Mr. Duffe," continued Montlack, "I am as-
tonished at your. demand, and if you seriously seek a hostile .
meeting with me, then I must decline, since I have no cause of
enmity towards you, but, on the contrary, have for you tle
very highest respect."
"Which I am sorry to say I cannot reciprocate," replied the
Sergeant, with some heat.  "'But, once for all, Captain Mont-
lack, will you fight Mr. Head ?"
"No. I have given a sufficient reason for refusing."
"Then, will you fight me?"
"I must also reply no; and I cannot understand why you
make so strange a demand, since, in refusing your principal, I
make no charge against you, but, on the contrary, acknowledge
the very highest respect for you."
"Will you permit me, captain," said Duffe, after a moment
of silence, "to make a few remarks, not exactly pertaining to
my present mission, but suggested by what has just occurred ?"
"Most certainly," replied Montlack, with his wonted smile,
"for I can assure you, Mr. Duffe, that I regret very much

what has taken place, and trust that, although I do not con-
sider myself bound to give this Mr. Head the satisfaction he
has, I must say, rather impudently demanded of me, you will
see the'propriety of my course, and attach no blame, to any
one but the gentleman himself. As for the demand made by
you, I look upon it in no other light than a punctilious fulfil-
ment of the code of honor; for you surely have no grounds
of ill-will against me, or for the hostile meeting you have
sought."
"I have grounds, and the very best of grounds, for the
demand I have made," thundered the Sergeant, no longer able
to control his anger, "for you have slandered, basely slandered,
not only my foster-child, but. the memory of my old com-
mander; and I here now brand you, Captain Montlack, and to
your, very face, not only as an infamous hypocrite and defamer
of the living, but as a malicious and wilful slanderer of the
dead ; to which I will also add the merited titles of liar,
scoundrel, and coward! Now, will you fight me?"
"I have already answered you," sneered Montlack, "and
think, as you have more than executed your mission, that you
had now better take your departure. I might be tempted to
have you thrown out by the servants."
.  "Not before I have placed my seal to what I have said, and
given you the coward's portion," retorted the Sergeant, at the
same time administering to the captain's visage a buffet which
sent him reeling to the extremity of the room.,-
Stopping only long enough to meet the furious face of. Mont-
lack and listen to his smothered oaths of vengeance, with a
smile of scornful contempt the Sergeant turned upon his heel
and left the room, not sufficiently ruffled, by this passage at
arms, to make him forget to acknowledge, with military exact-
ness, the bow of General de Lacy, whom he met upon the
steps.
. Ongmore at home, Duffe, with great apparent indifference,
gave Bryan and Kenton the result of his mission, adding, in
conclusion, that it was no use to make any further attempt,


OR) THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

for the captain, in addition to-being a knave, was in his opin-
ion a most arrant coward.
"Then, what is to be done ?" asked Bryan.
"Horsewhip him ! horsewhip him !" exclaimed Duffe, in a
pet; "that's the next step !"
"No it tain't, either," said Kenton, "for such rascals don't
care for a horsewhippin', and the next thing would be one of
them darnation suits for damages. Jist bear a hand here, Sar-
geant, and let me go, and I'll give you my scalp if I din't
make this 'tarnal Frenchman toe the mark."
Before either Bryan or Duffe had time to think, or raise any
objection to this proposal, the Scout had whistled Bang, and
was gone.-
Fortune favored the borderer; for Montlack, after the visit and
?departure of Duffe, thinking that he would be troubled with no
more such visitors for that day at least, had, with the double
purpose of preventing a meeting between the lovers and sooth-
ing his own ruffled feelings, gone out to walk in the grounds;
but scarcely had he strolled a half a milefwhen, at a short
turn in the path he was leisurely pursuing, he came suddenly
upon Kenton. Having never before seen the frontiersman, or
at least for some years, Montlack did not recognize him, and had
no suspicion of his being in any way connected either with Bryan
or Duffe. He, therefore, without being disturbed at his pre-
sence, went boldly on, and was about passing the Scout with a
slight nod, when the latter, touching his cap, exclaimed--
"Halloo, Mr. Capting, if you ain't in too all-fired a great
hurry, I would jist like to have a word with you !"
"You are very familiar, my good fellow, for one of your'
cloth," replied Montlack, with a rather contemptuous stare at
the uncouth dress of Simon.
" That's me, 'zactly, capting; I always wer' familiar on a short
acquaintance, 'specially with Ingen scalps, bears, rascals, and
sich like--war'n't I, Bang ?"
Bang having fully endorsed the impudence of his master,

the captain, after another long stare at the odd couple before
him, said angrily-
"Your impudence places me in rather a difficult category,
for I must either be an Indian, bear, or rascal; and as I do not
lay claim to either of these honorable titles, I beg that you
will exercise your familiarity with some other person."
"As to that ar' Category you speak consarning of," replied
Sharp-Eye, with a provoking laugh, a1I guess I don't know
nothin' at all about him; but as to Ingens, or bears, capting,
I don't stand back for any man alive. You ain't an Ingen,
capting, for I rather think you are a leetle too black; nor are
you a bear, though, tb tell the truth and shame the devil, you
have got some of the ways of that ar' varmint. 'But, if you
mightn't consider it too bold or too presumptions-like in a
feller of my cloth, capting, I would jist like to ask, to satisfy
my curiosity, if you ain't got some nigger blood in you?"
" Sacred! you low-flung rascal! do you mean to insult me?"
shouted Montlack, becoming furious at the cool effrontery of
his questioner.
"Sacre, the devil !" grinned Sharp-Eye, for he was enjoying
the fury of his victim; " who wer' sayin' anything 'bout sacre?
I wer' jist axing you a civil question 'bout your nigger rela-
tions, and blame me if I don't b'lieve you are gittin' mad."
."See here, fellow," said Montlack, becoming cool from the
very excess of his fury, "stand aside at once, and let me pass,
for I wish to hear no more of your impudence."
"Impudence, Mr. Capting," replied the Scout, with a quiet
wink of the eye, "you war'n't never more mistaken in all your
life-not even when you thought yourself a beauty or a gen-
tleman. Why,-I wer' always considered the modestest kind of
a man, and wer' never thought impudent but once, and that
wer' at Squire Boone's great quiltin', when I kissed all the
gals, not even 'cepting the niggers. I tell you, capting, that
wer' aswonderful mistake of your'n; worse than that ar' Cate-
gory, or when I'lowed myself to be gobbled up by a darned
Ingen."

SIMON KENTON;

104

105


106

SIMON KENTON;

"Stand off, blathering fool !" exclaimed Montlack, with a
fierce gesture of impatience; "I have no further desire for
your company, and the sooner you leave me, the better."
" That's jist what I said to a dratted grisly bear once;
but he wouldn't go away himself, nor would he let me go."
"I will not be bothered with you longer," shouted Mont-
lack, "and if you do not let me pass, will turn upon my path
and leave you."
"That's jist whar we differ, capting," replied the Scout, with
a slight "shrug of his shoulders, "for though that 'tarnal yallei"
face of your'n ain't sweet enough to turn the stomach of a bum-
blebee, still I have a great desire for your company jist now,
and wouldn't like to part without a lock of your hair, 'specially
as I've come. a good way to see you, and on particular busi-
ness."
"Who are you? and what's your business with me ?" ex-
claimed Montlack, haughtily.
"First tell me, capting," inquired Kenton, with apparent
earnestness, "if you ain't got some nigger blood in your veins,
for I'm particularly anxious to know, and have a reason for
axing the question."
"No !" thundered Montlack, fairly badgered into a reply;
"and now, as I have answered your impudent question, maybe
you. will be good enough to let me know your name and busi-
ness?  Speak at once, or I leave you."
"Not till I say so, capting," replied Kenton, changing his
tone, and touching his rifle significantly; "and I can't spare
you jist now. Here's what I call my. persuader, and Betsy is
a talkin' old gal, I tell you, 'specially when a feller won't listen
to a perlite request. Do you take ?"
"I understand you, sir," said Montlack, haughtily; "you
mean to threaten me unless I remain until I receive jour per-
mission to depart." -
"'Zactly, casting, as plain as if I had said it myself; and
when you diskiver who I am, I guess you'll conclude 1 wouldn't
be darned slow to carry out my threats."

I

1 07

OR, TIlE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

I

*.

"lion Dieu! if you do not wish to run me mad, say at once
what you want," exclaimed Montlack.
"That's jist what I'm after," replied Simon, with impertur-
hable gravity, "and am darned glad your dander is on the riz.
But I don't want any of your African lingo, capting, for you
might be a cussin' me in that ar' oncivilized tongue, which I
won't stand nohow. Jist mind your eye, and don't be 'mon
oon' me any more; for if you do, tarnation take me if I don't
knock that black face of your'n into the middle of next week."
Montlack grasped the barrel of his rifle, as if he would fain
use it over the head of his tormentor; but, catching-the steady
gleam of Kenton's eye, he quickly smothered his desire ; and
the Scout, who had watched every motion of his hand and eye,
seeing that his heart had failed him, said with a laugh-
'"Well, now, capting, since you've got no nigger blood in
you-though cuss me if I can see 'zactly how you come to be
so blamed black without it-I'll jist come to the pint right off.
Do you knowMr. Bryan ?"
"Are you here, too, about that Mr. Head ?" exclaimed
Montlack, with a groan.                                 -
"'Zactly," replied Kenton, drawling it out; "that's jist my
business, and I left Mr. Bryan over at the Sargeant's, tryin' his
nerves at a little spot 'bout the size of one of them ar' buttons
on your coat; and I do say, capting, he shoots beautifully;
none of your accidental shots, but always plumb up to the mark.
If he don't spile that, ar' coat of your'n, then burst me if I
don't 'knowledge I'm no judge of narves or shootin'."
"What does all this jargon mean.?" exclaimed Montlack,
impatiently.
" You are darned hard of hearin', capting; but I s'pose you
ain't had your ears bored for the hollow horn lately ?"
"For mercy's sake stop your blathering, and.tell me what
all this means," shouted Montlack, striking his forehead-with
his hand.
"It jist means nd more nor less than you must go over with
me and toe the mark with Mister Bryan? He wants a chance


108                 SIMON KENTON;
of boring a hole through you for them ar' insults you offered
him the tother night, when he couldn't thrash you because the
gal wer' present. -I guess I would have took your scalp if it
had been me; but its agin Mr. Bryan's politeness to fight when
women-folks are 'bout. He wer'n't fotched up right, capting."
"Did he send you with this message?" said Montlack, be-
coming more cool, now that he had discovered the business.of
his strange interrogator.
" That's neither here nor thar, capting; the question is,
will you fight?"
"I have already declined a meeting with your Mr. Bryan,
and do not wish to hear anything more from him," said Mont-
lack, in his usual sneering tone.
"But you must and-shall fight him," replied Kenton, dog-
gedly; "for I've promised - it, and ain't going to break my
promise for sich a feller as you."   -   -      .     ,
"But I will not !" exclaimed Montlack, angrily; "and you
arewwasting your time, if such be your purpose.'*
" Now  see here, capting," -said Kenton, examining the
priming 'of his rifle; "I never killed but one white man,
and he gotewell, and I swore I'd never kill another; but blast
me if I hadn't jist made up my mind to take your scalp-for I
ain't half satisfied of your being white--if you don't go along
with me and fight Mr. Bryan."
"But this will be downright murder," exclaimed Montlack,
with some alarm, "and you dare not execute your threat."
I dare do anything," said Kenton, with solemn firmness.
You may jist call it downright murder, or downright what
you please; but I calls it downrightscalping, which ar' pretty
much the same thing. Did you ever hear tell of one Simon
Butler, or Simon Kenton, or Sharp-Eye ?"
"That savage outlaw of Kentucky ?" inquired Montlack.
"The same."
" Often ; and he must be a bloody wild devil, indeed, from
what I have heard of himn," replied Montlack.
H'le only kills the savage enemies of his people," said Ken-

5
LL
.1
y
{ t
1-

34
t-
f
,r       i
r
kt
S
.  i   w
k
t
'
? .
rt'
r

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             109
ton, proudly, "and in- a fair hand to hand fight, riskin' scalp
agin' scalp. But he's no hypocrite, no false friend, no slan-
derer, and no coward, Captain Montlack ; and if you hadn't
never enjoyed that ar' pleasure, you can now look upon Simon
Kenton the outlaw, as you call him, for he's standin' before you."
" You Simon Kenton1" exclaimed Montlack, starting back
in surprise; "1I can scarce believe you."
" I've no doubt you are surprised," replied Kenton, with a
slight sneer of contempt at the astonishment depicted upon the
face of Montlack; " but still, surprise or no surprise, I'm Cap-
ting Simon Kenton of the Kaintuck Rangers, at your sarvice.
And now, capting, as you know me, I'll just state another one
of them categories-you must either fight Mr. Bryan, fight me,
or be scalped without fightin'; so make your choice, for I ain't
goin' to stay here all day tryin' to persuade you to be a gentle-
man."
Finding himself in a very bad "category" indeed, worse
than the firsehe had so much complained of, the captain stood
a moment, as if in deep thought,then stammered forth:
" I have refused to fight with Mr. Head, because I consider
him beneath my notice; but as to you, captain, I have no such
grounds for declining, since I acknowledge you my equal, and
if I had any cause of enmity"-
" Whit do you call a cause ?" exclaimed. Kenton, interrupt-
ing him. " I've cause enough myself, and if you'll only jist
tell me how I can give you a cause-which, darned if I ain't
been tryin' to do all this time-then cuss me if don't give you
all the cause of enmity you desire, for fight you must, either
with these here little babies," holding out a couple of enormous
horse pistols, "or with rifles; or, if you don't like these, then
take to a. tree like a 'tarnal Ingen, for I tell you now, capting,
5nce for all, that you are an 'imphemious scoundrel;' and as
you've insulted Mr. Bryan, and won't fight him, then you must
.fight me; so take your choice, and be darned quick about it,
for my Ingen's gettin' up, and I can't wait."
Seeing that. Kenton was 'determined upon a fight, and that
10


OR, THE SCOUT'11REVENGE.

SIMON KENTON;

in the borderer he had one to deal with that would not be easily
shaken off, Montlack, with a treacherous smile-for he had
made up his inind to sacrifice his straightforward, unsuspicious
enemy--replied :-
SWell, Captain Kenton, as you will force me into a fight,
it shall be with pistols, and the sooner this unfortunate affair
is over, the better."
"Give us your paw, capping," exclaimed the Scout, joyfully.
"Blast my eyes if you ain't a white man after all said and done,
and I guess ain't such a darned bad feller but what we could
find a worser. Here, take your choice of the little children,"
he continued, presenting the pistols, "and say how we are to
fire."
Montlack, with a sinister smile, received the proffered weapon,
and to the'request of the borderer replied:
" This is rather a novel duel, captain; but as neither of us
has a second, I propose that we stand back to back, and,
at a signal to be given by you, that we each walk ten paces,
and wheel, and fire."
Kenton, having no suspicion of treachery on the part of
Montlack, assented without hesitation to his proposal, and the
next moment the bold frontier man and wily Frenchman had
taken their places.-
"Now!" exclaimed Kenton; but scarcely had he gone five
paces before the ball of Montlack, who had not moved whistled
close by his ear.'
Turning quickly around, the blue eye of Kenton flashed for
a noent with deadly lustre upon the treacherous Frenchman;
buttrontlack, exclaiming with eager haste that it was an acci-
dent, and expressing a hope that he was unhurt, the Scout's
anger passed away at once, and with a countenance again-un-
clouded he replied:--
" It would have been darned unlucky tohave been killed by
accident, capting, and just when you were about to do it in a
genteel way. Cuss me if I wouldn't "rather die ten times in-
ten tionally than once accidentally, for P can't see the sense of

110

1II

dyin' when nobody wants you, and you ain't 'spectin' it your-
self. Thar's jist no use or satisfaction inan accidental death,
and I'm tetotaciously obliged that you didn't accidentally
shoot an inch or more to the right; for if you had, capting,
you'd have spiled as nice a scalp as wer' ever stuck on a man's
head. But never mind, capting, accidents will happen in the
best regulated families, they say; and as this 'ere wer' an acci-
dent, then let it go as one, though cuss me if I can 'zactly see
how it happened."
"'Pon my honor, it was purely an accident," exclaimed
Montlack, hastening to wipe away all suspicion from.the breast
of his opponent.
"I guess it wer' an accident that I wer'n't killed," said the
Scout, dryly ; " but that's neither here nor thar now, and as
you've let off one of them ar' 'little children,' capting, why it
only follows that we must jist try the full-grown roarers. How
shall it be?--forty steps and blaze away, or behind trees, in the
Ingen fashion ?"
" I would prefer that it should be neither," replied Montlack,
"for, as I came very near shooting you accidentally, I would hate
to do so now intentionally."
" Thar's jist whar we differ, capting; for if you had killed
me accidentally, I'd never forgiven you; but if you do so inten-
tionally, you have my full permission. Fight we must, for
that 'ere 'category' we were speakin' consarnin' of, I guess
wer'n't blown away by that ar' little accident of your'n, but ar
still somewhere about."
" If such be your settled determination," said Montlack, a
brilliant thought at this moment flashing across his plotting
mind, for he had no idea of fighting if he could get clear of it,
"then I'll fight you in your own way, each of us taking a tree,
and- firing when we see proper."
" Whoop! hurrah!" shouted Kenton, throwing up his cap;
" now we'll have fun, capting. 'Tis jist the thing, and I par-
don you that ar' little accident, since it has fotched about this
~'ere 'kind of fightin'. It will 'mind me of old times out in


SIMON 1RENTON;

Kaintuck, and thatsyaller face .of your'n dodgin' around the
trees will look as na~t-al as life. Take your tree; here's mine."
"Since I have agreed to fight you in your own way, with
which I am not at all acquainted, you must pledge me your word
of honor, Captain Kenton," said Montlack, preparing to execute
his ruse, "that you will take no advantage of me, and will not
look out from behind your tree until I have chosen mine and
given the word."
4 You have it," replied Kenton, "and.needn't fear any acci-
dents on my part."
"Then mind your promise," remarked Montlack, with a
smile of cunning, as he walked quickly away, and on the op-
posite side of the tree chosen by the Scout.
Five-ten--fifteen minutes had gassed, and Kenton was
growing restless and anxious for the signal of the captain; but
mindful of:his promise not to look out, he manfully kept his
post, though, to tell the truth, he did begin to think the captain.
very particular in his choice of a tree.
Five minutes more had passed, and the waiting borderer, no
longer able- to restrain his eagerness for the fight, shouted out--
"Hello, capting, darnation take me, can't you find a tree to
suit you ?"
The captain made no answer, and the Scout, after waiting
five minutes longer, his suspicions in the mean time becoming
somewhat excited, muttered impatiently---
"Wall,, drat me if this don't beat all! May-be the ras-
eal ar' waitgpg for me to show my scalp, that he may try one
of them ar accidents agin ? I'll hold on a little longer,
though cuss me if I couldn't have -laid an ambush, and killed
a half dozen Ingens by this time."
A fe* moments rolled by, and the impatient borderer,
becoming still more restless, once more muttered to himself-.
"Wall, I did-promise not to look out till he had found
his tree and gin me the word-and I won't break my promise;
but I'll jist go round this confounded piece of timber, with
my back front forward, and let him blaze away if he please;

112

r
'
i
,
Ij
.;

14

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.            113
for ,blast my coonskin if I can stand this 'ere any longer, no-
how and way it can be fixed !"
Suiting the action to the word, Sharp-Eye slowly backed
around the tree, momentarily expecting the bullet of his oppo-
nent; but when once fairly on the opposite side, turning his
face quickly in the direction Montlack had taken, to his very
great astonishment he beheld that worthy some half a mile
distant, hurrying, at a rapid pace, towards the mansion of
General De Lacy !
"Whew !" whistled Kenton, shaking his fist at the vanish-
ing person of his foe, "fooled agin by the eternal Moses! but
won't I make him smoke for this yet? Ingen, Frenchman, or
nigger-and tarnation blame me if I don't believe he's got
nigger blood in bim-he's thrown dust into my peepers this
time. Come, Bang, this 'ere civerlized country don't suit us;
let's be off at once, or we'll forget all we ever know'd. We
were thought some, out in Kaintuck; but here we are jist no-
thing, and laughed at by every greenhorn in the country ! That
bloody thief Girty first made a, fool on us; but that wer'n't
so bad; then we made fools of ourselves, 'specting old Titus
could be a witness; and now, worse than all, that skulkin' yal-
ler devil of a Frenchman has played us round his finger,
laughed at us, and left us. Blasted ninnies that we were,
standing like fools behind a tree,. while he walked away!
Sharp-Eye! Sharp-Eye! you that have so often outdodged
the dodgin' Ingen, to be dodged in this 'ere way, and by a
cussed nigger, it ar' too bad ! Come, Bang ! let's _lodge away
from this, or we'll have all the darkies in the country laughin'
at us!' Whew! it makes me sick, and darned if I'll ever look
out from behind a tree agin without a wrench at the stomachi"
Tricked and defeated, Kenton walked away crestfallen and
grumbling, and Bang, if you judged him by his drooping
head and tail, fully sympathized with the discomfiture of his
master.
1o*i

r
,92
ti
"V


114              SIMON KENTON;

CHAPTER X.
"HE's a 'tarnal coward, as sure as shoot'n', and of the foxy
specie; and what's more, has got nigger blood in him !" ex-
claimed the Scout, in conclusion of the graphic account of
the meeting between himself and Montlack.
" He was rather too much -for an unsophisticated backwoods-
man!" said Duffe, smiling. 4
"Un--un--un what?     But never mind; I reckon you
don't mean anything wrong by that ar' jaw-breakin' word of
your'n, Sargeant; and I 'knowledge the corn that I wer' done
for by the yaller rascal; and so does Bang, and :so does all on
us, I guess; but thar's no use cryin' over spilt milk: and it will
be dratted strange if our time don't come round afore he gets
to be an honest man !"
The Scout had finished his narrative, and Bryan, smiling at
the mortification he exhibited, both in his words and looks, at
being 'outwitted by Montlack, left him to the tender mercy of
the Sergeant, and strolled listlessly off into the woods.
In leaving his companions, Bryan had no particular intent
or purpose in view, although, without knowing why, he went
in the direction of General De Lacy's. At any rate, he had
no hope or expectation of meeting his enemy the captain; but
perhaps,-unconsciously, had a faint notion or presentiment that,
somehow or other (what lover has not experienced the same?),
though the chances were, against him, he would get to see
Coma, and, may-be, meet with an opportunity of making
known to her his own innocence-and love, and the deep plot of
his treacherous rival.
And this mission of love'was destined to be far more suc-
cessful than the warlike embassies of the Sergeant and Ken-

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.            115
ton; for Coma, impelled by hopes very iear akin to those of
her lover, discovering that Captain Jean had sullenly deter-
mined to remain in doors for the remainder of the day, took
advantage of this domestic freak of his, to steal cautiously from
her room, and hurry to the usual trysting-place of herself and
Bryan. But she did not go joyfully forth to the anticipated
meeting with her lover; for, in truth, there was no gladness in
poor Coma's heart, and as yet nothing but darkness, gloom, and
doubt. Still, he had whispered her to believe him innocent
until they had .met again, and she was determined to do so,
though it was love and heart struggling faintly against reason
and conviction. Yet, although desponding, she had that last
refuge of the miserable and despairing-a lingering hope; and
that hope, the brightest child of Mercy, even though small and
weak, and almost pulseless now, was sufficient to bear her up,
and with a sunshine smile led her on and on, till, with a cry of
renewed confidence, she had once more fallen trustingly upon
the throbbing bosom of- her lover !
"And you will doubt no longer ?" exclaimed Bryan, with
rapturous emotion, pressing to his heart her shrinking form.
"Never more," she whispered.
"Let that cunning cousin of yours say what he may ?" added
the lover.
"False once,-false always. I will believe him no more,"
was her trusting reply.
"And your father ?" muttered the lover, doubtingly.
"Can never lessen my love, or shake my confidence in you
now," murmured Coma, looking up confidingly into his face.
"Then, let what will happen," he-melaimed, with proud
energy, "let sorrow, and shame, and poverty fall upon me, I
will ever be to thee, Coma, as I am now. Is it so?"
"Ever," was her firm, but lute-toned reply.
"Now I am happy !" exclaimed the~ satisfied lover, "and
defy the world, with all its dark cares, and sorrows, and sins,
ever again to cast a gloom cloud across my heart, sustained, as
it now is and will be, by your unwavering love !"

i$
F4
i.
rl
nP

t


116

SIMON KENTON;

For a moment, the lover sat in silence, as if afraid to break
the charmed spell: fully enjoying that mingling together. of
soul with soul; that secret mesmeric communing of spirit with
spirit; that total forgetfulness of past sorrows and present
dangers in the sunny shadowing of the glorious future-that
unseen, intangible, indescribable ethereal; that sweet low
vibration of the pulsating heart, bringing along with it music,
and song, and genius; governing all, and governed by none;
and known in man's vocabulary. as. Love! Fully,' and freely,
and gushingly, now that all doubts had been removed, did this
fairy spirit, like the bright waters of an ever bubbling spring,
overflow and infuse itself throughout their hearts; and for the
time, Bryan and Coma were supremely happy, forgetful alike
of the Past, the Present, and the Future, and knowing naught
else but that they were in each other's arms, loving and loved.
Their souls were cloudless now; but dark shadows were creep-
ing on and around them, and'though they knew it not, and
felt it not, Coma, even then, as if gifted with the spirit of
divination, with a low sigh, that charmed spell giving place to'
prophetic imaginings of coming evil, murmured-
"Oh! Bryan! who would have thought the soul of man so
dark and treacherous? And who can I trust, now that Cousin'
Jean, seemingly so kind, and generous, and noble, has proved
so wicked and faithless ?"
"Trust on me, dear one," exclaimed the lover, his face beam-
ing with honesty and sympathy; "and if ever I prove-false to
thee, even in word, thought, or deed, then may my soul g'o
down to the grave in sorrow and gloom, without a pleasant
memory of the pas4 or hope of the future!. But how came
you, Coma, at this moment of indescribable happiness, to think
of that heartless villain ?"y
"I know" not, Bryan; for, like the wind we see moving the
leaves of the tree, and feel. kissing with cool lips our fevered
cheek, it has come and gone; but where from, and where to, and
for what reason; I am unable to say. But may-be," she con-
tinued in a sad voice, "that the thought of him, at such a

I

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

117

moment as this, is a shadowing forth of approaching evil; and
O Bryan! I do fear him,-and tremble when I think of his dark
hypocrisy and treachery."
"I fear him not!" exclaimed Bryan, "now that you know
his falsehood, and can brush from your guileless heart the
poison of his adder tongue; and believe me all the more inno-
cent, as he would make you think me dark and sinful! I feared
him once, but only feared him because I knew that you were
ignorant of his cunning treachery; but now that you know all,
I feel towards him as I would to a hideous poisonous spider'!
If he keeps within his web, I'll pass him by with contempt;
but, if ever his loathsome form shall number my path, I'll
grind him to atoms beneath my feet!"
"Promise me, Bryan," said Coma, alarmed at his fierce look,
"that you will seek no difficulty with this plotting cousin of
mine; for he is base and treacherous, and'I fear his aroused
malice."
"No fear of him," said Bryan, contemptuously, "for with
all his other faults, he has not the redeeming trait of bravery;
but has shown himself as cowardly as knavish ! Already have
I sought at his hands the only reparation he could make me
for the insults and injuries offered me in your presence; but
like a base coward that he is, the felon and slanderer refused,
and upon the ground thatI was beneath him, and a criminal!
I would be base and low indeed if beneath or more criminal
than the traitorous plotting Captain Jean!-"
"I do not fear that he will do you corporeal injury," said
Coma, with a proud glance at the active and graceful form of
her lover, "but 0! I do fear his secret, crawling malice! My
God!"' she continued, with ;more agitation, as if suddenly
struck with the dreadful thought, "what if he should attempt
to execute that horrid threat he made of giving you over into
the power of the law?   Tell me! 0 tell me, Bryan, is' it
more than one of his wicked threats, or are you really in dan-
ger from his malice and treachery ?"
"I am innocent, Coma," replied Bryan firmly, but sadly;.

f7
1


118

SIMON KENTON;

"and have a confidence that God will not permit falsehood and
wickedness to triumph over truth and innocence. Yet I will
not conceal from you that, if this depraved cousin of yours shall
press this charge, as he threatens to do, and will swear to his
present false and groundless statement, then I would be in very
great danger of falling a victim to his enmity; and the chances
are. against me."
"0 Bryan, what shall we do? what shall we do to soften
the hatred of this wicked man ?" exclaimed Coma, clasping her
hands in agony, and gazing with sorrowful eagerness into the
eyes of her lover.
"Nothing!" was his short, stern reply; "nothing, dear
Coma-for sooner would I moulder in a dungeon, and have
my name forever blackened with infamy and disgrace, than
take. one step towards seeking the mercy or pity of this infa-
mous hypocrite. iHe may go on with his hatred and treachery;
but'I will meet him with a bold front, as a guiltless man, and
can look down upon him and scorn him, though he succeed ip
his malicious undertaking, and incarcerate me in a prison.
But cheer up, dear one;, for he has not yet executed his threat,
and may repent, or fear to take this bold leap beyond the con-
fines of truth and honesty."
"No! no! believe it not; Bryan,",said Coma, weeping; "for
he that would be guilty of the treachery of which Jean has
already been guilty would tremble at no other guilt, would
draw back at no other crime, and would hesitate at no other
sin. - No! no! you are lost! lost! and the wicked and false will
triumph, unless God comes to the rescue, or you find some
means of proving your.innocence."
"Give not away to, your fears, Coma," said Bryan, cheer-
ingly, "for all is not yet lost. The law is terrible, very terri-
ble to theguilty; but remember,,it is also the safeguard and pro-
tection of the innocent. I have great confidence, once this
matter is placed under the cognizance and control of the courts,
that the truth will be sifted out, and the innocent go forth
without a stain; whilst the guilty one, caught in his own* toils,

I.

119

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

will receive the merited scorn and contempt of every honest
man. Then cheer up, ear one, and smile again. Do not
weep and despair before t e storm cometh, for it may never be
here; and the raging winds have not yet given even a token of
its approach."
"But it will come," returned Coma, sadly, although slightly
cheered by the firm voice of her lover; " for it only sleepeth,
Bryan, and will burst upon us when we least expect it, tearing
and rending all before it; and 0! if you, the strong man, are
prostrated by the tempest, what will become of your poor
Coma ?"
"Never fear! this false-tongued hypocrite has not my.fate
so entirely under his control. Remember! I have witnesses to
prove his intimacy with the renegade- Girty, and that they
were in company on the very day the bond was given. This
evidence will go a great way to show his treachery, and will,
at least, prove to your father that our enemy spoke falsely
when he finished his knavery by denying his signature and
all knowledge of his base accomplice."
"True !" exclaimed Coma, with a hopeful smile. "You are
right, Bryan, and we will not bow to 'this arch traitor. God
will lay open the cunning devices of my malevolent cousin; and
all honest men will see at once his trickery and wickedness.
Sin may triumph for a season, and hypocrisy get the better of
truth; but the vail will be rent asunder at last, and the hideous
monster will be able no longer to conceal his deformity."
" And in due time," said the lover, in the same confident
tone, " whether our enemy shall attempt to execute his threat
or not, I will show to your father his baseness and deceit ; and
I will also prove to him that he unwittingly defamed the cha-
racter of my gallant parent, and that there is no foundation for
the 'heavy charge against his fame."
" Bless you for these consoling. words," murmured Coma,
hope and joy once more taking the place of despair and sorrow.
"We will be happy yet, in spite of the malice and hatred of

:
.
i'
1


:
z   ,
,
_1
S
,
.
., a
S
.y .
,?       -
{     _
,a
t
" I
-..
_         1
}  }
9        .
'
_  d
r'
-
y
f     V;
'        i
t    i


120

SIMON KENTON;

this man. I feel that it will be so, and will, therefore, no
longer doubt and fear; but like the daughter of a soldier--"
"And sweetheart of a soldier's son," exclaimed Bryan,
gayly.-
" Ay, and sweetheart of a soldier's son," added Coma,
blushing, "meet all dangers that may arise with a bold heart,
confiding fully in your innocence-"
"And love," said Bryan, again interrupting.her.,
e And love," she whispered--"ay, your love, Bryan, and
my devotion."
"list !" exclaimed Sharp-Eye, as, bounding over a little
knoll, he stood in the presence of the lovers, "the inimy are
on the trail, and I guess you ain't particklar anxious to meet
them jist now."
Kenton, thinking that Bryan had gone forth in search of
Montlack, without more ado had followed his footsteps, intend-
ing to be in at the rencounter, and see that the captain did all
things fairly, and was guilty of no more accidents; but finding
that the meeting was likely to be more loving than hostile, the
Scout quickly retired beyond sight of the lovers, placing him-
self, however, at a convenient distance between them- and the
mansion of De Lacy, where he remained upon watch, guarding
their, privacy, until he beheld the general, in company with
iMontlack, approaching, when he immediately, as we have,
already shown, bounded over the concealing knoll and gave the
alarm.
" Why are you here, and what do you mean, and what ene-
mies are you speaking about ?" exclaimed Bryan, sharply, for
he was in no humor to be thus interrupted, and suspected
the Scout of being an intentional eye-witness of the meeting
between himself and Coma.
"I 'spected you wer' after the captain, Mister Bryan; but
when I saw how it wer', I thought it mightn't be far wrong
jist to step over the hill thar and keep a lookout for interlopers,
till you had had your talk. So Bang and me jist kept up a
particklar sharp squintin' towards the big house, for we 'spected

I

I

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

121

the inimy wer' thar, till we cotched a sight of the gineral and
that yaller rascal, what fooled me so this mornin', coming' this
'ere way, when we thought it wer' 'bout time to draw in the
outposts and give the alarm."
" Thank you, Simon, for your care and kindness," exclaimed
Bryan, extending his hand to the Scout; "and you, too, Coma,
must know this brave and generous man, for he loves me as a
father, and you see how he watches over my safety."
"I had often heard of you, captain," replied Coma, with a
smile, "even before Bryan had told me of your love and care
for him ; and now," she added, placing her soft, tiny hand in
the rough [rasp of the borderer, "I want you still to. love and
guard him, and also find, if you can, a little place in your heart
for me."
"A little place, my blossom of the forest ?" said Kenton,
with native-born gallantry; " why, it ar' all your'n- for the
axing; and if it wer' as big as a camp-meetin', it wer' all the
same, for you should have it for one of them sweet smiles.
Cuss me if Mr. Bryan hadn't better look out, or he'll have
Capting Kenton for a rival, instead of that darned Frenchman.
I wouldn't be surprised if you jist took the whole on my heart,
and drove Mr. Bryan clean out altogether; would you, Bang ?"
Bang, as he was in a lady's company (unlike some puppies
that we have seen), modulated his usual assent into a very low
growl; but still sufficiently loud to attract the attention of
Coma, who, patting him upon his shaggy head, by this simple
act alone (so much does kindness influence both man and beast)
not only insured the devotion of Sharp-Eye, but of Bang him-
self, which was no trivial acqiirement, and which the brave
dog, in after days, fully exhibited by his unwavering faithful-
ness.
"The yaller-skins are drawing near," exclaimed Kenton,
peeping cautiously over the top of the little hillock; "and I
guess you'd better be making tracks, Mister Bryan, if you-ain't
got no notion of tryin' that 'tarnal rascal a blaze."
" Remember ! Bryan," said Coma; "you have promised me
11

(.

j
4w

i

Y
,r\
G
@-
_
3


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.        123

4y(to seek a meeting with Jean. Go, now, and whenever I
have an opportunity, I will meet you here again." .
"Farewell!" murmured Bryan, holding her hand (the Scout
intentionally turning his back upon them); and, unpardonable
sin, except on like occasions, he smothered her answering fare-
well with a kiss.
Touching his cap, Sharp-Eye bounded away, followed i by
Bryan; and Coma was left to meet the suspicious glances of
Montlack and lowering brow of her father.
But she did it nobly; for love is equal in strategy, any day,
to hatred and malice; and the quick, piercing rays of the cun-
ning captain's burning orbs could read nothing in her smiling,
face but a slight shade of sadness, mingled with a little natural
surprise at the honor of their unexpected company.
'Bah ! you life-long deceitful hypocrites, pride not your-
selves upon your cunning! You are often made the victims of
the most artless simplicity. The artful witness, priding him-
self upon his shrewdness, with.- a well-conned story at his
tongue's end, falls an easy victim to the skilful attorney; but
save us from one of your say-nothing, simple fellows, is the
prayer of all'the devout of the profession, for y.u often mark
him down as a fool, when, in truth, he is doing that same honor
for yourself.
CHAPTER XI.
HoPE, some one has beautifully remarked,
"Shall sit upon the tossing waves of thought,
As broods the halcyon on the troubled deep."
And so it was now with Coma!
With a little pardonable simplicity, or deceit if you will have it.
so, for if the two are xo1 one and the same thing, they very fre-

quently, in this rare old world of ours, go hand in hand together;
then, I say, with a little pardonable simplicity or deceit (for all
stratagems are fair, you know, in love, or war, or horse-swopping),
Coma had completely (to use a common and very feeling expres-
sion when literally executed) thrown dirt in the eyes of her
father and Montlack, and concealed her recent meeting with
her lover. But she was not so successful on the night following,
when she again sat in the parlor at home along with her father
and cousin; for the latter, believing, with the poet Eschylus,
"when the heart conceives
Thoughts of deep vengeance on a foe, what means
To achieve the deed more certain, than to wear
The form of Friendship ?"
had, with smiles and' soft sighs, been fluttering around her;
more than once hinting at his devotion, and hoping that she
would look upon him now as she had done in olden times, and
again call him her dear cousin Jean, as she was wont to do
before the unlucky events of the last few days; and, perhaps
-o what joy it would be to him!---might yet return his ardent
affection.
Coma for a long time bore his unceasing and deceitful mur-
murings with a praiseworthy and martyr-like patience, and
without saying anything that would reveal her late conversation
with Bryan, and the discoveries she had ,made; and merely
brushed from her thoughts, by unmeaning and indifferent re-
plies, his unwished-for buzzing, as she had often done, with a
careless brush of the hand, the melancholy, troublesome hum
of the mosquito, which forever (and his conversation was very
similar) seemed to .the annoyed ear, as if about to make an
attack, but never exactly bringing its determination to a point;
or rather, if you will allow us a legal pun, " filing its bill."
But Captain Jean was not to be put off so, and like the
Irishman's little bird, to which we have likened him, at last
passed beyond the limits even of her indifference ; and after no
inconsiderable amount of treacherous abuse (done by innuendo)
upon the head of the absent Bryan, filed his bill with due

122                SIMON KENTON;


124                  SIMON KENTON;
ceremony by remarking ,that he had the commands of. her
father to press his suit, and trusted that she would receive this
offer of himself (the most valuable gift he had in the world)
with a kindly sympathy
"Yes !" exclaimed Coma, tortured almost to madness, and
her whole soul burning with indignation at his continued hypo-
crisy, "I will receive this valuable offer as it deserves, with
scorn and contempt ! I know you now, base hypocrite and
heartless villain that you are, and you can no longer deceive
my simple heart with your honeyed words and pretended affec-
tion ! He, that you would make me believe base and unde-
serving, and upon whom you have been pouring your slanderous
poison, is immeasurably above you in all that is honorable and
praiseworthy; as much so, cunning plotter, as the heavens are
above the earth !"
If Montlack had placed his band in his bosom to draw forth
the locket of his sweetheart, and instead thereof had grasped a
slimy coiling snake, he could not have been more astounded
than he was at this unexpected and bitter outburst of Coma.
But recovering himself, after a quick glance at the general,
wh9 sat in a distant part of the room looking forth from a win-
dow, and finding that he had not noticed the excited voice of
his daughter,. Montlack hissed from  between his compressed
teeth-
"Ha! does the wind lie in that direction, fair cousin ?  I
had=believed you too noble ever again to have even a lingering
thought of that base hound, now that he had proved himself
so unworthy and so degraded !"
" The Jews called Christ Beelzebub!" retort9d Coma,
coldly.
"What do you mean by that ?" asked Montlack, with a scowl
of intense malice.
"That the base and wicked were ever ready to decry the
good, and vilify the characters of their betters I" replied Comah
"Now, by heavens ! I have always heard that love was blind

COMA.


but this is infatuation beyond my very dream
lack.
"1 am not at all surprised that my hones
hibit so much astonishment at a simple truth
with cutting irony.
" Have I said aught but the truth respecting
asked Montlack.
"You have said naught that was true !"
terly. " Falsehood is branded upon your v
that you have spoken is as false as your ow
you would not dare thus to speak were you i
unprotected by the company of a female
" Is he not the son of a degraded traitor?
And has he not made himself a felon by co
And did I not brand him with these dark cr
ever resented the infamy thus heaped upon h
" No! no! no!   I answer all of your qu
claimed Coma, giving way to anger; "he is
traitor ; my father was mistaken, and will soo
error; he is not a felon, as you well know, an
your insults," laughed Coma, scornfully,
too great a coward to give him an opportune
swered now, Monsieur Montlack?"
"I am !" muttered the discomfited capta
sneer; "but when and where did you mak
discoveries? Has this very truthful and ho
been giving you these veracious accounts of]
" Not at all acknowledging your right thus
replied Coma, "I am not ashamed to say th
my informant, and I wish no better evidence
your baseness than his simfe word."
"As I expected," retorted Montlack, mocki2
K                                                            natbrougbt forward to prove his own innocent
do not let your senseless infatuation thus
WNhy, if we' placed any confidence in their ~
11*

*          -  r**-.                          .-r

125
s !" retorted Mont-
t cousin should ex-
!" remarked Coma,
g this low fellow ?"
replied Coma, bit-
very brow, and all
n base heart; and
s his presence, and
Answer me that.
emitting forgery?
imes ? and has he
irn?"
iestions, no !" ex-
not the son of a
n acknowledge his
d has not resented
because you were
ty ! Are you an-
in, attempting a
e these wonderful
norable Mr. Head
himself ?"
to catechize me,"
at Mr. Head was
of his purity and
ngly; " the crimi-
c~e. Bah! Coma,
lead you astray !
wordIs, -the veriest

.; ~I


26                  SIMON KENTON;
scoundrel and cutthroat'in all the land would be as pure and
innocent as an angel."
"I have other proof of his innocence," said Coma, coldly,
" if that will be more satisfactory to my justice-loving cousin."
"Who? What !" exclaimed Montlack, eagerly, his coun-
tenance, in spite of all his efforts, growing pale and anxious.
" Old Titus saw you when you signed that bond which you
now pronounce a forgery; and was looking in upon you and
your trusty friend Girty when you were preparing your hellish
net to destroy an innocent man," replied Coma, exultingly.
"Any one else ?" asked Montlack, drawing a long breath, as
if greatly relieved, and speaking in a light, disparaging tone,
for he wished not only to deceive Coma, but conceal his own
uneasiness.
"tHis word is sufficient," replied Coma.
" Ha! ha! 'tis too good," laughed Montlack, with forced
gayety; "almost equal to a comedy-a criminal proving inno-
cence by his own words, backed by the testimony of a negro,
and that negro his slave, and what is still better, convincing a
silly girl by such indubitable proofs. Ha ! ha!, Excuse me,
cousin, but I must laugh."-
" Your mirth is very unseasonable, Monsieur Montlack,"
replied Coma, haughtily, for she was Dot deceived, but greatly
annoyed by his feigned amusement. "If, however, you feel
disposed to be merry, I will no longer be a check upon your-
mirth, but retire at once to my room."
"Stay, stay, Coma !" exclaimed Montlack, checking quickly
his merriment as he beheld his cousin preparing to leave him;
";this trifling has lasted long enough, and we must now treat
this affair seriously, and with the importance it deserves."
" I await your wishes, sir," replied Coma, with chilling po-
liteness.-
"I have a right, Coma, as your relation, the nearest of blood
to your father, and as -a suitor for your hand, accepted and
acknowledged by your parent," said Montlack, gravely, and
even sternly, dwelling with emphasis upon the words " accepted

r
k
i
1

i
f'
k
t
1
p
f
J'_S

r

r

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             4T
and acknowledged," "to watch over and protect you from the
snares of a cunning fortune-hunter, and I intend to enforce
that fight, for your happiness, if nothing else, and at all
hazards, though I may thereby increase your hatred and aver-
sion to myself."
" I acknowledge no such right as you" claim," said Coma,
proudly and firmly, "and think, Monsieur Montlack, that you
are transgressing the strict rules of politeness and courtesy, or,
in other words, to be plain with you,- are becoming unbearably
presumptuous.. When I wish advice or counsel, I will seek it
ofl my father, and you must excuse me if I now leave you and
join him."
" Stop, Coma, or your pride may meet with a fall," muttered
the captain. "I have a proposition to make you, and if that
fails," he added, sneeringly, " I will join you in your short
journey across the room."
"I am ready to hear you, sir," replied Coma, halting, " pro-
vided you do not remind me so presumptuously of your self-
constituted rights."
" If it is your good pleasure," retorted Montlack, unable to
resist a sneer, "I will say nothing more of my rights, but
state at once, and as plainly as I am able, my wishes, and leave
it with you to say yea or nay."
"Go on; Iam all attention," wfas the impatient reply of
Coma.
" Notwithstanding your indignant denial of the guilt of this
fellow Head," remarked Montlack, looking steadily into the
face of his cousin, "I am fully able to prove him a felon, and
hold his ,fate in my hands. Even your infatuation cannot
blind you to this fact. Your sanguine hopes are all groundless,
for his word, or the evidence of his slave, will not be admitted
in a court of justice, and my oath, the handwriting of the bond,
the witness to it, and the improbability of my borrowing money
from him, an almost entire stranger, will all go to pi-ove the
forgery and his guilt."


128

li
a

SIMON KENTON;

" To what does all this tend ?" asked Coma, trembling with
agitation.,
"-Why, so far I have, from respect for your feelings, neg-
lected to treat this felony in the manner it deserves, hoping
that the criminal might leave the country, and, once gone, that
you would forget that such a being, so unworthy of your esteem
or notice, had ever been in existence; but since it has riot so
happened, I have but one course left me. You must either
pledge me your word and honor that you will never meet or'
correspond with him again, or I will take measures immediately
-for longer delay would compromise me in the estimation of the
community-to secure him as acriminal, and see that he receive
the punishment merited by his crimes. You have now my de-
termination, and I swear that I will execute it, for it is not a
silly threat; so weigh well your answer, for upon it depends
the future fate of this unworthy man."
Coma was fully aware of the danger hanging over the he'ad
of her lover, and trembled with the excess 'of her agitation as
she listened to the cool villany of her unworthy suitor; but
remembering ,her own recent promises to Bryan, never to doubt
again, and his noble determination to meet boldly the ground-
less charge made against him, she did not hesitate long, but,
rising from her seat, said firmly-.
"Your false tongue can never again lower him in my esti-
mation; he is innocent, and fears not your malice. As to
your threats, I regard them not !-and to your request, un-
hesitatingly say nay ! I will now join my father."
"And I bear you company," said Montlack, with a smile
of devilish meaning, adding, in a lower tone to himself, "for
your father must know all this, and shall aid me in netting the
bold rascal!"     ,
Aroused by the approaching tread of Montlack and his
daughter, the general turned quickly in his chair, exclaiming-
"'Have you tired of each other's company, children, and
come to join me in looking out upon this beautiful moonlight
scene? I have been dreaming of the past and future, and have

'

I

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

129

enjoyed myself passing well, though communing with myself,
and chewing the cud both of bitter and sweet fancies.".
Coma sat down by the side of her father, but made no
reply.
Montlack, with a glance at his cousin, as if to give her a
last chance of agreeing to his request, but which met with
no answering look, with an air of deep sorrow replied to his
uncle's exclamation-
" The conversation of Coma and myself has been anything
but .a pleasant one; and I am truly sorry to add to your bitter
thoughts by saying that I have been struggling in vain to
convince my cousin of the unworthiness of this Mr. Head,
with whom she is so much infatuated, and have in return for
my kindness only received unmerited abuse, and the informa-
tion that she had met him to-day, and that he was innocent
both of being the son of a traitor, and of forgery; and in spite
of all my entreaties to the contrary, and all the evidence I
have brought forward to prove his guilt, so much has she
fallen under his blighting influence that she still regards him
with favor,,and says she will meet him again. This is truly.
distressing, general; and I know of no way to destroy his in-
fluence, and get clear of the presumptuous fellow, 1ut to seize
him at once for the forgery he has committed, and send him
to keep company with his equals in a prison. I had hoped
to persuade Coma to see him no more, and treat him with the
contempt he deserves; but failing in my endeavors, I have
concluded that it was my duty, although a painful one, first to
let you know all, and then take immediate steps to have this
fellow arrested and punished. In so doing, I trust that I have
not presumed too far, and that my relationship, and the lively
interest I feel for the happiness of my cousin, and in the fair
name of our house, will excuse this seeming interference in so
delicate a matter."
The general, although greatly astounded and enraged at the
information so abruptly given him by Montlack,. managed to
smother his anger sufficiently to hear him to the end; but


1 R                 SIMON-KENTON;
when the cunning captain had concluded his plausible story,
exclaimed--
" I not only pardon you, Jean, but thank you-and thank
you warmly-for the honest zeal you have shown in protecting
the fair name of our house. But you, Coma, what shall I say
to you ?" he added, turning with flashing eye upon his shrink-
ing daughter; " and is it possible that you, the child of a
De Lacy, have degraded yourself so much as to again hold
communion with this miserable wretch ?"
"He is not -miserable, father, on account of any crime,"
murmured Coma, bravely determining, now the storm had
come, to meet it with a bold heart, " for he is innocent, as he
will prove to you, if you will only permit him; but he is
miserable, father, because he has been slandered and judged,
unjustly, and has not an opportunity of proving his innocence."
Wishing to destroy all the influence of Coma, and strengthen,
if possible, the prejudice of his uncle, Montlack, in a half
mocking, half serious tone, as if amused at the ridiculousness
of the charge, and at the same time somewhat hurt, hurriedly
remarked--,
" Ay! I had forgotten to inform  you, general, that this
very cunning Mr. Head has already proved his innocence- to
the entire satisfaction of my cousin, and'has done it by his own
veracious statement, confirmed by the testimony of a negro;
and what is still more amusing, though ,I must confess some-
what galling to my self-esteem, has convinced her that I am a
great scoundrel, and was engaged in a conspiracy with the rene-
gade Girty to strip him of his money, and then ruin his cha.
racerr! I expect he had about as much of the one as the other
to lose, and it wouldn't bankrupt the nation to purchase out his
stock in trade. Had it been anybody else but my cousin, I
would have resented this silly and odious charge in a manner,
it deserved; but ascribing it not so much to her ill-will for
myself as strange -infatuation for this man, I have thought
best to consider it the mere idle offspring of a diseased heart.
I1 wouldn't be at all surprised," added the captain, with a light

I

131

S
C
r
f
h
c'
5
S
L
rq
r s
f
t
!_
5
G
j{tk1
{t
;,.
C.r.

W

7

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

f
,i
z
1
4

laugh, "if General De Lacy became one of the conspirators
against the welfare of this unfortunate young gentleman, before
we are well done with this annoying affair."
"Shame, shame, Coma !" said her father, angrily; adding,
in a more sorrowful tone, "Is it true that my daughter has
sunk so low as still to retain a sentiment of affection for one so
totally unworthy, and to allow that feeling, with silly infatua-
tion, to destroy and wipe out from her heart all respect for her
father, and all remembrance of past kindness'and- friendship on
the part of her cousin ?  Shame on you, Coma! If any other
than Jean had told me this, old as I am, I would have driven
the shameful slander down his dishonored throat, and laughed
him to scorn!"
" He hears but half that hears one party only," said Coma,
sadly.
" She would have us, general," remarked Montlack, "listen
to the denial of the criminal himself, or, forsooth, take the tes-
timony of his tutored and trembling slave ! A brave way, this,
to get at the truth."
"Is it so, Coma ?" asked her father.
"It is," replied the daughter, firmly; " for Mr. Head, him-
self, is noble, and brave, and truthful; and the black, though
belonging to a despised race, has, ever been noted for his
honesty and veracity."
" This is folly, Coma !-.the very extreme !of folly," said the
general; "and do you for a moment suppose that I would take
the word of a criminal, and of his slave, against the statement
of an honorable man, and that man my own blood relation ?"
Montlack turned a triumphant look upon Coma; but she,
undaunted, returned it with a flash- of contempt, and, nerving
herself for another and last struggle, exclaimed, in reply to her
father--
"But this is not all, for he will prove to you, by the testi-
mony of Captain Kenton, thatMonsieur Montlack was in com-
pany with this renegade Girty, as he calls him, on the day
previous, and at the time this bond was executed; and he will


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.       183

also prove, by the testimony of Sergeant Duffe and others, that
his father stood as fair and unsuspected after this slander of
his being a spy had been whispered against him as any officer
in the army ; and he will go still further, and prove that nny
brave cousin here cowardly refused him the satisfaction given
by every gentleman for insults offered, and not only refused
to meet him, but to meet the Sergeant, even after the latter
had disgraced him with a blow; and yet more than that, he will
convince you tpat our most chivalrous relation,' who holds the
honor of our house so much at heart, after being forced to agree
to a hostile meeting with Captain Kenton, cowardly and basely
attempted his murder, and when he had failed in his bloody
attempt excused himself under the pitiful plea of accident.
All this, 'and more, will be prove, if you will only give him an
opportunity ; and I pray you, father, for the sake of your
daughter, and of justice, that you will do so, and be no longer
influenced by the false, but plausible stories of your base and
treacherous nephew."
Captain Jean had determined in his own mind to show no
astonishment at anything Coma might say, but to meet all
her charges against himself with indifference,.or with the air
of an injured man; and no doubt he would have done so, for
he had perfect control over his own emotions and features, had
he but had an inkling of what she knew, and of what she
was about to say; but, as he had not, in spite of all his en-
deavors, he could not entirely conceal his uneasiness, and as
Coma spoke, exhibited marked symptoms both of fear and
guilt, sufficiently so to convince her of the truth of what she,
had heard, and to raise some doubt even in the rind of the
general.a
" Can this be true, Jean ?" inquired the father, turning his
stern eye full upon the face of the abashed captain.
"Ha! ha !" laughed Montlack, recovering himself, and
attempting to conceal his fears under the appearance of merri--
ment-" and- has my wise uncle caught the madness and infa-
tuation of his daughter, that he asks, if it was not so supreme-

"; .
.;
_
r
}
"ti
{ ,
r
6,
b
r$
}
s
T
1
G
T
i

1.42              SIMON KENTON;

ly silly, such an insulting question?  Why, my dear sir," he
continued, noticing his uncle look uneasy under the fear of
ridicule, " do not these wonderful stories bear falsehood plainly
written upon them, and staring forth at every turn?  I must
confess that I was greatly astonished to see the folly even of
Coma make her so credulous; but to hear you ask whether
these charges were true or false has increased my -surprise
tenfold."
"Pardon, me, Jean," said De Lacy, reddening under the
ridicule of Montlack; "if I had thought a moment, I would
have never asked so silly a question. I see my folly now, and
the ridiculousness of'-these wild stories."
"I acknowledge," continued Montlack, "that Sergeant Duffe
called upon me in behalf of this young fellow, and that I re-
fused to give him the satisfaction he demanded, simply because
he was not my equal, and was the son of a traitor, and himself
a felon."
"And very properly," remarked the general.
"As to Duffe striking me, and I refusing to resent the blow,
that story is but on a par with the others," continued Mont-
lack, "and without one atom of foundation; for the Sergeant,
who is a man of honor, seeing at once that my reasons for de-
clining a meeting with his principal were valid and good,
quietly took his leave, and, if I am not mistaken, was met by
you, general, upon the stairway, exhibiting in .his appearance,
I suppose, no mark either of anger or violence."
"None at all; -I never saw him more polite," replied the
general.
"As for this Mr. Renton," said Montlack, "that my de-
ranged little cousin mentions so frequently, I know nothing
of him more than he fled the country some years ago for mur-
der, and since that time has been a wild and reckless outlaw
upon our western frontier.,, If he can be found, I have no
doubt he will swear to all Coma has said, and even more, if
this cunning Mr, Head will make the consideration sufficiently
large. Why," added the captain, "I would want no better
12

1
f
F
-
f
J
f
3'
1
}
1

\  i


I
F i
t

SIMON KENTON;

evidence of the guilt of this man than the witnesses he intro-
duces to prove his innocence. First of all comes himself, the
son, as you well know, of a traitor and spy; then a negro, his
own slave; then a reckless murderer and outlaw; and who
next, unless it be the veritable Girty himself, I am at a loss to
say. Bah! Coma, don't you see how ridiculous these - stories.
are?  What inducement had I to tmcrime and treachery you
have charged against me?  Was I not his strong and fast
friend ?, and did I not plead his cause with ybur father until I
found him unworthy of your love? And why should I go to
him, a stranger, for money, when my uncle has never refused
ne any sum I have asked ?"
"True," muttered the general.
"Besides," continued Montlack, "we have every reason to
believe that -this fellow never had such a sum; for none of
these worthy witnesses- of his, not even his foster-father, the
Sergeant, has ever mentioned his having any money.-I
"I can prove that!" exclaimed Coma, her face brightening,
"for he told me so, and before the date of that bond."
"Ha, ha!" laughed Montlack, " and here is his other wit-
ness. You will be highly honored, uncle, when your daughter
shall be brought into a court, along with' a negro, renegade, and
outlaw, to prove the character of her lover, the forger."
De Lacy became livid with rage at the very thought of such
a disgrace, and,.in reply to the captain's galling picture of his
daughter's appearance in court as a witness for Bryan, ex-
claimed, in furious rage--
"Begone, Coma! and let me hear no more of this low
scoundrel. I would sooner see you in your grave than under-
going the stare of a grinning crowd in a court of justice."
"'But, father," said Coma, "you would not have an inno-
cent man convicted of a crime, and disgraced forever, when my
evidence might be of advantage, and perhaps saveohim ?"
"Innocent!" shouted the general, giving way to his fury.
" Why he is as black, and base, and guilty as hell itself, and
none but a maudlin love-sick fool could think otherwise. .I

OR) THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

135

J   y
i;
A
r
1

134

{

tell you, Jean, our leniency has made this young scoundrel
bold and daring, and it will be criminal in us to let him escape
longer."
" To-morrow, I will see that he be placed in the hands of
justice," replied Montlack, glancing at Coma, "and then he
will have an opportunity, as he so much desiresit, of proving
all the fine stories he habeen telling my very credulous cou-
sin. Depend'upon me, it will not be my fault, sir, if I do not
soon free you of his troublesome presence, and send him to herd
with his fellows in guilt in the p itentiary."
l Ie is innocent, father, in eed he is !" exclaimed Coma,
weeping, "and you have been deceived by Jean. You will
find out at last that this cousi of mine, who is nothing more
than a base, plotting hypocrite has been using you as a tool to
cover up his own wickedness and treachery, and insure success
to his villanous schemes."
Poor Coma_!, she was veiy unfortunate in using the expres.
sion "tool;" for, although nothing is more common than for
one man to be made a tool of by another, still there is no ex-
pression in the English language. so loathed and hated as this.
And so it was now with the general, and he shouted with fury-
" A tool! Things are coming to a pretty pass indeed when a
silly girl has hardihood enough to brand her father with the
odious title of tool. Begone, shameless girl, to your room, and
consider yourself a prisoner until you have my permission to
leave it. Rememberr" he added threateningly, as she arose to
obey his harsh command, "that if you ever meet or correspond
with this man again,, I will disown you, and drive you forth a
beggar, never more to return. Go, now; you'have my com-
mands and my determination; and by the eternal heaven if
you break the first, you shall suffer the latter, though I crush
my own heart, and destroy my name forever, by enforcing the
penalty"

u
ctn.
i
3
J
K{ _
41-
3 .
3 r
t
r
,r 4
'vy
z
J
i


186              SIMON KENTON;

CHAPTER        XII.
"NOTHIN' more sartain," repliedaJenton, in answer to an
inquiry of Bryan respecting Simon Girty; "he's worse than an
Ingen; and I'm as sartain this wer' him as my name's Simon
Kenton. I've trailed him and his murdering' redskins many
a day through the woods of Kaintuck, and would have known
him at first sight out thar, notwithstandin' his red wig and
ragged dress; but cuss me if, I 'spected him here in the old
settlements, and he fooled me, sure enough."
" You will have your revenge some of these days," said
Bryan, consolingly.
"As for that, Mr. Bryan, I guess J'm already even with
him; for I fooled hi= once," chuckled the borderer, " to the
loss of 'bout thirty of his yellin' devils."'
"How was that?" asked the Sergeant.
"Why, you must know, Sargeant, I wer' at the time I'm
speakin' of in one of them stockade forts, out in Kaintuck,
called Bryant's Station, and had been thar for a considerable
spell, as hunter and spy for the settlement, when one mornin',
jist as we wer'. all gittin' ready to leave the fort for a grand
hunt, we wer' suddenly pretty considerably dumfoundered by
the 'pearance of a band of Ingens, yellin' like devils, and pep-
perin' away at us, from the east side of the station. At first
the youngsters, 'for we had 'bout forty men in the fort, began
to grow sorter pale, but after a short spell, findin' they wer'n't
all dead, and that the- redskins only numbered 'bout thirty,
they wer' for rushin' out at once and takin' it rough and tum-
ble with the inimy. But I know'd it wer' agin the natur' of
an Ingen to risk anything, and weren't going' to be fooled by
the 'tarnal rascals in that ar' way, and told the boys that wer'
jist what the red devils wer' after; and, in my opinion, they

i
r.
' kMk
y
i
i
7
[y
4'
LQ
f   4{
ii:
_i
nj
= Y,

had ai ambuscade on the west side 'round the spring-which
wer' about two hundred yards outside the picket fence-and
they wer' only waitin' for us to sally out by the east gate, to
make a rush on the west side, and carry it when none of us
wer' thar to make any show of a fight. The capting, who
know'd all about Ingen Ways, wer' jist of my notion, and the
boys, too, when they had hearn me out; and so we all fell to
thinkin' how we'd turn the tables on the blasted critters.
First of all, the captain said, we must git a supply of water
from the spring, for if the Ingens wer' in force, which wer'
pretty sartain to all on us, then they would lie around the
station for days,. and we'd all die for the want of somethin' to
drink. But how to git it wer' the question, and a darned
tough one, too, and troubled us 'mazingly; for we wer' jist as
sartain the Ingens wer' in ambush round the spring as if we
had seed 'em. At last, when we couldn't do anything else,
we all come to the conclusion-though itedid go a little agin
the grain-that it wer' best for the women-folks jist to take
thar pails and go to the spring as usual, as if nothin' wer'
'spected."
"And more shame to you !" exclaimed Mrs. Duffe, bridling
up, "to send the women where you were afraid to go yourselves !"
"We wer'n't 'zactly 'shamed," replied the borderer, with a
roguish wink, "but felt sorter ticklish-like. We know'd they
wouldn't be in much danger, and-wer'n't afeared of the Ingens
doin' them any harm, for we knew, if they wer' in ambuscade,
as we 'spected, they wouldn't show themselves for a few wo-
men scalps, when, by lyin' still, they might surprise the fort,.
and scalp the whole on us."
"And did they go?" asked the Sergeant's wife, becoming
impatient.
"Sarta inly," replied Kenton ; "but it took a~ pretty con-
siderable quantity of coaxin', I can tell you, as much so as to
make one of 'em marry a fellow. lHowsomever, at last, when
we had pretty nigh gin up the idea, they all 'greed to make
the trial, and the capting's wife takin' the lead, the rest all
12*

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

187


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.       139

follered her. When they wer' all once well outer the fort,
blast me if we didn't begin to repent, and feel like chargin'
out on the red rascals; but thar wer' no help for it then; so
we jist kept a -close watch, holdin' on .to the gate, and if one
Ingen had showed his head, cuss me if we wouldn't have been
down on 'em, if they had been a thousand to one. But they.
didn't make any noise, and, jist as we 'spected, kept low, with-
out diskiverin' themselves; and the women went on slowly to
the spring, and by turns filled their pails and returned to the
fort, all in due order, till they got safe back to the gate, when
they begun to crowd some; but we didn't say anything, and
made no complaint, though they did spill a sight of the water.
It wer' a ticklish manouvre that, Sargeant, but 'twas the best
we could do, and our only chance, and I reckon we didn't
breathe more nor once from the time the women left the gate
till they all got back again "
"What did you do, then ?" asked Duffe.
"0, we felt safe enough !" laughed Kenton. "Once we
had the water inside of the fort, we didn't care a dratted bit for
all the Ingens in creation. We know'd the most of them wer'
down around the spring, so we jist sent out ten of the most
active of the boys to brush with them fellers on the east side,
and the balance of us got ready on the west side, to wait thar
main attack. Sure enough," continued the Scout, warming
up with the recollection of the fight, "so soon as the boys
commenced pepperin' away at them ar' devils on the east side,
and the Ingens gradually retreated 'cordin' to thar plan, and
the boys follered slowly, 'cordin' to our'n, up jumps that ar'
same Simon Girty, with more than five hundred of his red-
skins, and made straight for the west gate. But we wer' all
thar waitin'; and when they had got in good shootin' distance,
may-be we didn't let 'em have it !-and blast me if we didn't
jist cover the ground with thar painted bodies, and in a minute
not one of them wer' to be seen! They got back to cover a
little faster than they got outer it, cussin' and howlin' at how
they wer' took in; and at the same time our boys came runnin'

,
h
K
a
i
.5
Y
1
T
!,v
R'
R  "
i
i%
' .
l f
+Y
f
K
,3
r
E   .  '

,;
$
.
.,
.
i
+r
e,
. .'
't
f l i
^\jaR
'

, : n
i
.. ,-
,
: +'
,

13 8             SIMON KENTON;

ti  .
c
kf

in at the east gate, laughin' and shoutin' at how we had fooled
the tarnation critters."
"Pretty well done !" exclaimed Duffe, with a soldier's.admi-
ration of a well-played stratagem; "you outtricked Girty that
time very handsomely !"
"I guess he wer' proper mad at his defeat!" laughed Ken-
ton, "for I hearn him cussin' away like all wrath, and jist
called out to him, in a good-humored way, to try it agin; but
he only cussed the louder, and swore he'd have our scalps be-
fore he wer' done with us."
"And did he get them ?" asked Sally, with great simplicity.
"Not 'zactly," said the Scout, rubbing the top of his head,
and glancing with his laughing blue eye at the earnest face of
the questioner, "for we wer'n't perlite enough to go out and
give 'em to him, and he wer'n't able to get in and take 'em--
and so we jist 'mused ourselves for a day or so shootin' at each
other, and when he found nothin' wer' to be made at that
ar' game, he quietly broke up the siege and left. We didn't
insist on his stayin' any longer, and wer'n't uncommon sorry
when he left; for, to tell the truth, our water began to run
very low, and with it went our fine spirits, and one and all we
wer' gittin' pretty considerably tired of constant watchin' and
fightin'."
"A very fair brush," muttered the Sergeant. "But did
you permit him and his savages to leave the country without
interruption ?"
" A cuss on it-no!" shouted Kenton, his eye gleaming
with fury, and his half jocular tone giving place to one of deep
passion. " But it wer' a sad day for us that we didn't."
" How so ?" inquired the Sergeant.
"The cunning villain went away, leavin' a broad trail be-
hind him, as if to invite pursuit," said Kenton; "and we, hav
in' received a reinforcement, makin' our number some two
hundred men, wer' fools enough to fall into the snare-and fol-
lerin' on, like blind dogs on a fresh trail, stumbled into an
ambuscade, wer' defeated, and lost half our number. Blast
him! he wer' more than even with us at the Blue Licks."


140

SIMON KENTON;

"Gorror-'mighty ! what's dat ?" shouted Titus, springing to
his feet, as a little packet thrown through a broken window-
pane fell lightly upon his woolly pate.
"After him, Bang!" exclaimed Kenton, springing to the
door, rifle in halid.
"Stop, Simon, for Heaven's sake !" shouted Bryan, who,
seizing the packet, had recognized the address; " whoever it
is, he is a friend---let him go."
"Jist as you please, Mr. Bryan," replied the Scout, calling
off Bang, and turning back.  "I thought, may-be, it might be
my old friend Girty agin, and wouldn't have been darnation
sorry if it wer', for I'd like most cussedly to take a blaze at him
jist now. Blast me, if it wouldn't be some satisfaction to lift
his scalp, after thinkin' 'bout that ar' bloody defeat of our'n !"
By the ruddy light of the blazing pine fire, Bryan quickly
deciphered the hurried note of Coma-for the packet received.
so mysteriously was from her-and through it he was informed
of all that had taken place at the mansion, of the rage of her
father, the continued treachery of the captain, and of the final
determination of the latter t  have him arrested. She also
made known that she herself was a prisoner, but if, upon the
approaching trial, it would be of benefit to show that he had
told any one of his being in possession of money, then to have
her brought before the court, and not to hesitate a moment on
account-of her sex or diffidence; for it was a duty he owed
both to himself and her to make the very best defence in his
power, and she would never forgive him if he neglected any
means of proving his own innocence through a mistaken re-
gard for her feelings."       -   .
"Generous girl,!" muttered Bryan, dropping his head upon
his hand, "I fear that my love will only bring heavy sorrow
to thee, and disgrace and disappointment to myself."
"None but the brave deserve the fair," said Duffe, with
kindly interest, wishing to arouse his desponding foster-child.
" True !" exclaimed Bryan, his gloom giving way a little,
and speaking now in a firmer and .more cheerful tone; "we

,_ ,
f
i t'
,; T '
[  'lti
s
' i
F
.
b
,;
;5
ate;
P'
}
f
/.
a
K
.'
,  r
.'A,
R ,
2 ,'
';
rn
t
7
4s'


OR, THE S60OUT'S REVENGE.            141
must not despond, but bend all our energies to defeat the vil-
lanous schemes of our enemy !"
"Blast the yaller rascal!" chimed in Kenton. "Is he at his
tricks agin ?"
" Coma informs me," replied Bryan, divining the wish of his
companions, thatt the captain has -completely deceived her
father, caused her to be confined to her room as a prisoner,
and intends to-morrow to have me arrested on the charge of
forgery."
"Ugh! what a tarnation scoundrel!-why, he could deceive
the devil himself with his blasted smiles and soft lying tongue !
But come, Mr. Bryan," said the frontiersman, with his accus-
tomed promptness, "let's go at once, and set the gal free; tie
up the old gineral if he makes a rumpus; and give this 'ere
blasted Frenchman, as he won't fight, and has got nigger blood
in him anyhow, 'bout five hundred lashes to 'member us by !"
."And what would we do then?" said Duffe, wishing to con-
vince the rough but honest hunter of the folly of such a course.
"Do?" replied Kenton, somewhat at a loss for an answer-
" why, jist do what we please, and leave this 'ere cussed coun-
try, with its laws, and gammon, and trumpery, and sich like,
and make our way to Kaintuck, whar' the only court-house is
the broad heavens-the only law, the heart-the only defence
against sich villains as these, a strong arm and a brave soul-
and the only punishment, the bullet and tomahawk! Them's
my laws; and what's the use, jist tell me, of courts, and law-
yers, and judges, when they all work for money, and for the
rich agin the poor, and won't break one of them ar' confounded
rules of thar's, not even to save an honest man, and punish a
black-hearted traitor ?-whar's the sense, I say, in lettin' a yal-
ler lying Frenchman swar away the liberty of Mr. Bryan, and
refusin' to permit old Titus, who's jist worth a thousand sich
as him, to prove his innocence?  No"! no! Mr. Bryan; jist
fowler an old Ingen hunter's advice for once, and don't trust
yourself in them ar' courts-for blast me, if you do, if they
don't tumble you, like a nigger, into one of them dark dun-


.1

142
.0

143

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

SIMON KENTON;

geons they've got, and you'll never see the blessed daylight
agin. It's no use, I tell you, to try to make yourself out inno-
cent in them ar' courts; for that's not thar business, and they'll
jist make you out as black as. the very devil himself, in spite
of all on us ! No! no !-take my advice; let's go and free
Miss Coma, thrash the Frenchman, and then make a bold push
for the ' Cane Land,' leavin' a dark trails behind us!  Them's
my sentiments."
" Your plan will not do, Simon," replied Bryan, shaking his
head at this earnest appeal of the Scout, "for my name and,4
character are at stake, and I must remain and defend them,
though, as you say, the chances are against me, and more than
probable I will be consigned to a dungeon."
'l When we're hemmed in by Ingens," said the Scout, sen-
tentiously, "and can't run, then we jist make up our minds,
as die we must, to fight it out, and take the chances!--but
when thar's no hope for victory, and the path ar' still open,
we don't, like plaguy fools, jist hand over our scalps to the
blasted redskins, but turn our backs at once, and make tracks,
hopin' for better success at some other time."
"But matters are not so desperate with me as you imagine,"
said Bryan, "fortI am, as you know, innocent of any crime,
and have strong hopes of making it so appear to the court,
and of confounding the cunningcaptain."
'Thar's jist about as much hope of your proving' your inno-
cence," replied the Scout, sullenly, " as I would have, if bound
to the stake by the Shawanees, of moving' them to pity ! If you
ever git into them ar' courts, and into the hands of them oily-
tongued lawyers, if you ain't lost to a sartainty, then my name
ain't Simon. Ain't he, Bang ?"
Bang growled his assent as plain as a politician when
making known his principles, and the Scout, as if fully satisfied
with being endorsed by his dog, in whom he had great confi-
dence, especially as he always agreed with himself, after a
rather triumphant look at Bryan and the Sergeant, resumed
his seat, to await in silence their determination.

e
4
F
1
t
_   E.
/_'.x
tF- '
:
;t
~ (
_   $
5   1.3
t
r
il
" r
^n
!'
tiS
# 3
CP  ,+t
Y  F   '
Vyrt
'T2)
5f
i ,}
E
C
Zif
i , .
:,:
} " }
i
'
.;%
r?'"
,?
,
:l
,
u
r h' i,
b'Y l,

"Bryan is right," remarked Duffe, with a good-natured
smile at the excited borderer, "for this is a land of laws, and
by the laws must this matter be settled, and to the laws must
we all, as good citizens, submit."
"A darn'd poor recommendation to encourage immigration
into any country," growled Kenton, for he had as great a
hatred as terror of the laws; and a judge and court were far
more terrible in his eyes than a band of yelling savages.
" Don't give up so, Simon," said Bryan, cheeringly, " for
the battle is yet to be fought, and they won't find us so-easy
to corner, after all."
"o ! if you are for fightin'," exclaimed the Scout, his face
brightening, "then I'm in. Darnation take me if the Sergeant,
and you, and Titus, and myself, not forgettin' Bang, can't lick
out the whole 'posse come at us,' with that ar' dratted French-
man and the lawyers flung in for good count. Now you are
talking' somethin' like, Mr. Bryan, and I hain't got a word to
say agin it."
"You are entirely mistaken in-my meaning, Simon," replied
Bryan, smiling at the borderer's simplicity; "I did not intend
that we would fight them in the manner that you suppose, but
with the law and in a legal manner
" Cuss-the law !" exclaimed Kenton, passionately; "I wish
I were whar I'd never hear of it again ! Blast me if I don't
feel, all the time you talk so much about it, as if I wer' in one
of them darned jails, with 'bout a hundred pounds of iron on
my wrists and ankles. I thought you had some sense, Sar-
geant, but you hain't got a dratted bit, or you wouldn't be
encouraging Mister Bryan in any sich blasted foolishness .
"You have been wandering so long upon the frontiers, Si-
mon," replied Duffe, good-humoredly, "that you have taken
up a very mistaken notion of the law, and of the manner of
righting wrongs in older settled and more civilized countries.
The courts are not such terrible bugaboos as you think, and dis-
pense justice far more frequently than they have the credit of
doing ;and are intended to right wrongs, punish the guilty, and


SIMON KENTON;

protect the innocent ! Don't fear; I am confident Mr. Bryan
will have justice done him, or I would be very far from coun-
selling his present course !"
"Fear !" said Kenton, with a grim smile; "that ain't one
of my words !   Drat me if I. fear anything or anybody, if
they'll only sing out and give me warnin'! Let them cuss, or
yell, or make a fuss, darn me if I care how, so they raise a rum-
pus, and I'M thar and no mistake! But them courts ! blame
me if they ain't so still and quiet, and all so rigular-like, with
them fellers forever writin' away as if life wer' at stake, and
them cold-lookin' old chaps sittin' behind them great big books,
and sendin' a poor devil off to them darned jails, which ain't
fittin'even for an Ingen, and jist doin' it too as if it weren't no-
thin', and all rigular and right, and without any fuss or even
a loud word ! blast me, when I sees them a doin' everything so
still and quiet-like, and smilin' and laughin' all the time as if
it weren't nothin' to be lockin' up a feller-mortal away from
the blessed light of the sun, if I don't feel kind of chilly all
over, and fancy I've got in among the dead, and look round for
the graves and ones! It tain't nat'ral;'Sargeant, I tell you
taint, for, if a feller ls done wrong, why don't they cuss and
make a fuss, and sorter 'rouse him up a little; and not jist be
axin' a few civil questions, as if thar wer' nothin' outer the
way, and then sendin' him off to jail as good-humoredly as if
they wer' tellin' him to go home to his wife and little ones!
No ! no! Mr. Bryan, keep clear of them courts, for they hain't
got no feelin' for a poor feller, and don't care no more for his
prayers and distress, and promises to do better, than I do for a
dead Mingo !"'
Kenton spoke so earnestly, and described, in his simple way,
so accurately and forcibly the noiseless unfeeling minute of a
criminal court, that it was not without its influence upon his
hearers; and Bryan's pale and agitated countenance told too
plainly for concealment the emotion excited in his bosom.
"Faith, Simon !" exclaimed Duffe, with a laugh, for he saw
the effect of Kenton's chilling description' upon~ Bryan, and

144

, ;
. 3
-,
s
r'
a
'+4
.ry
.'
Y
_   1
)

i
.
i
f t    j
4
R
a
i
t,
L
f:
h
}
f'
1-{.
:,o
.i
r:T.
h-a'#
:1)t
rti
sy.'i
t'
'A'i
t
s
tt.
,

OR, THE SCOUT' S REVENGE.            145
wished, if possible, to remove it; "you have a most holy horror
of legal proceedings, and, to judge from your earnest and graphic
sketch, must have been more than a spectator of one of these
scenes !"
"I never wer' in a court but once," said Kenton, a shade of
sadness flitting across his bronzed and weather-beaten counte-
nance, " and I wer' then but a boy; but I've never forgotten
the sad sights I then witnessed, and never will; and many a
night have I been haunted by the memory of that smilin'-faced
and, in my imagination, stony-hearted old judge ! and you know,
Sergeant, I've been a fugitive from j ustices myself, thinkin' I
wer' guilty of a great crime when I wer' not ! and this kept
alive all my horror and terror of the law; and blast me if I've
'zactly got over it yet!"
Bryan walked restlessly across the floor, for the memories of
Kenton were anything but soothing to him in his present per-
plexed, and, in spite of all his hopes, dangerous situation. He
felt, and acknowledged in his own heart, that, with the influence
of Montlack and General De Lacy against him, his chance of
having an impartial hearing and strict justice was anything but
flattering. At one time he almost caie to the conclusion of
taking the.advice of Kenton; but t en came thoughts of Coma,
his own declarations of innocence, and the unfavorable impres-
sion his flight would leave ; and once more he braced himself
for the trial, and determined, in his own mind, notwith-
standing. the chances were against him, to quietly wait and
bravely meet the insidious attack of his foe.
Mrs. Duffe had never felt a mother's love, for she was one
of those whom God, in his wise Providence, had seen proper
never to bless with offspring. Yet she had not become soured
with the world as some people are, because not blessed with
young flowerets of her own to watch over and protect, and fill
her kiid heart with the warm gushings of a mother's love.
She neither sighed nor complained, nor grew sad, as some people
do, because she was not thus blessed, for she felt that, although
she would be happy, too happy, to clasp to her bosom a bright
13


SIMON KENTON;

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

146

bonny child, and listen to its low laugh and infantile prattle,
still, as God had not seen proper so to bless her, she had no right
to murmur ; and it might be best after all, for, if she had been
denied some joy, she had alsotbeen spared much care and per-
haps sorrow. In truth, her simple trusting heart, although
ignorant of poetry and untouched by the wild and thrilling
emotions of more refined and sensitive minds, was the seat of
some such a thought as that so beautifully described by 2Eschy-
lus, where he says--
"With joy we see our offspring rise,
And'happy who notechildless'dies;
But Fortune, when her flowerets blow,
Oft bears the bitter fruit of woe."
As we have said, Mrs. Duffe had never known a mother's
love, but she had experienced a feeling very near akin to it
for her foster-child Bryan; and now, as she beheld his agony,
her heart yearned to throw her arms around him and assure him
of her constant affection. She saw his distress, and knew full
well, from the workings of his pale face and contracted brow,
the terrible battle going on in his heart, and with a woman's
sympathy she would hge brought consolation if she only knew
how; but not knowing what to do she had remained silent until
she saw him shudder at Kenton's description of the heartless
ceremony of a court, then springing to her feet she approached
him, kindly laying her hand upon his shoulder, as she said--
"Come, Bryan, my boy, it pains me to see you so'distressed!
The excitement of this day has been too much for you, and you
have suffered enough already without dwelling any longer upon
the gloomy ceremonials of the approaching trial! Cheer up!
and remember, my boy, that we who love you best know that
you are innocent, and will love you all the more for your sor-
rows, and, let them do what they may, they can't destroy or.take
from you our affection ! Come, now, and lay down, and sleep
like one that is guiltless of all crime, and. confident in the pro-
tecting power of God ! You will be all the better, and all the
more able to meet your foes, after a sound sleep !" .

'rs
,a
All
y
a
2.
{      r'.}
-jF

t
3
t
F yy
L1
f
RZv d
i t(
t
I
f
2

I

CHAPTER         XIII.
MONTLACK, finding that his cousin's confidence in and affec-
tion for Bryan had been in no way impaired by his defamation,
did not hesitate, now that he was sustained and urged on by his
uncle, to execute his ulterior plan.
He had a twofold inducement to urge him on in his villany:
one to free himself from all fear of personal chastisement, and
the other to take away all chance of any future meeting between
the lovers.. Either of these inducements would have been suf-
ficient to fully excite his malicious passions and confirm him in
his treacherous designs; but with them both, he made no delay
in loudly publishing the charge of forgery against his rival,
and proceeded immediately to have a warrant issued for his
arrest.
Bryan, although aware of his intention, made no attempt to
escape, but, on the contrary, quietly took his way to the village,
and there suffered the officer, without any resistance on his part
or apparent surprise, to take him into custody and carry him
at once before the examining court.

147

" I feel that you are kight, dear mother-for I will still call
you mother, as you are the only mother I have ever known,"
said Bryan, a tear of affection welling up in his dark eye-" and
like a son will obey your wish now as I have often done when
a boy; and may He who governs all things not forget her that
has ever had a kindly heart for a motherless boy !"
As Bryan leftthe room, the honest Sergeant clasped to his
bosom his weeping wife, and the stern, uncouth, unlettered
frontiersman, wiping from his glistening eye a falling tear, ex.
claimed, with the wildyvehemence of his unrestrained nature-
" May Heaven desert me when I desert that boy !"

1

I
4


SIMON KENTON;

We will follow him into the presence of the two justices, and
along with theeager crowd.take a look at these awful function-
aries, and hear the result of the trial, of such great importance
to our hero, and of so little interest or consequence to his judges
or any of the pressing listeners,-with the exception of the Ser-
geant and his companions, Kenton and Titus.
The justices were rough and unpolished, and almost unlet.-
tered men ; having great pride in their office, and eager, judg-
ing by their actions, to appear upon intimate terms with the
general .and Montlack, who were considered the most wealthy,
and therefore, as we have no titles in 'this 'country, the most
aristocratic citizens of ,the neighborhood ; and for whom the
honest dispensers of the law had, with praiseworthy politeness,
made room upon the bench, and with whom they were now en-
gaged in earnest conversation.
Kenton, armed as if for battle, with rifle, tomahawk, and
knife, stood like a gigantic statue, leaning against one of the
pillars of the court-room, gazing silently and gloomily upon the
crowd; ever and anon turning a flashing eye upon the justices,
who were still conversing with Montlack, and breaking forth
momentarily in heartless laughter, as if totally ignorant or
careless of the grave nature of their present duty. The heart
of the simple backwoodsman, as he looked, recoiled with secret
terror; and when he witnessed the apparent intimacy of the
prosecutor and judges of.Bryan, he lost all hope, and internally
cursed the folly of Duffe and Bryan, and blamed himself that
he had not been more urgent in pressing flight.
And what hope of acquittal or justice had Bryan from the
two judges chosen and prejudiced against him by his foe, and
upon such intimate terms with his enemy, the impeaching of
whose evidence was the only chance of safety?
None! and Kenton was right, all the poets and lauders of
the law to-the contrary notwithstanding; for what prospect has
a poor, unknown, and humble man of obtaining justice, when
opposed by the rich and the powerful, and whose word has to -
be weighed in the balances against the haughty denial of his

'3

148

u r -.
sr
r
L-**
F
t
7 4a
m  r
t
F
r

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.=            149
wealthy opponent? Rags have ever been considered primafacia
evidence of knavery, and poverty of dishonesty; while, on the
other hand, the gilding and tinsel of wealth have ever been
considered, by the mass at least as 'proof positive of truth and
honesty. Let a pocket be picked in a crowd, and the-shabbiest-
looking man in the company will be seized upon as the criminal.
Let a house be broken open and robbed, and ten to one the
poorest man in the neighborhood will be immediately sus-
pected. Let two men be walking along a street, the one well
dressed, and the other in shabby apparel; and let the former
dash a stone in at a window, and he may pass on unsuspected,
whilst his companion will be hurried at once to the police-office.
It is the same with the world as in courts; and dress, appear-
ance, and station have an equal influence in both. A poet of
antiquity has most beautifully described what a court should be,
but what, I am sorry to say, it very frequently is not: where
he says,
" But justice bids her ray divine
Even on the low-roof'd cottage shine,
And beams her glories on the life
That knows not fraud or ruffian strife;
The gorgeous glare of gold, obtained
By foul, polluted hands, disdained
She leaves, and with averted eyes
To humbler, holier mansions flies;
Andlooking through the times to come,
Assigns each deed its righteous doom."
But we will now return to the trial of our hero.
Montlack came down from his seat by the judges, and after
whispering his groundless proof of the guilt of the prisoner into
the willing ear of the prosecuting attorney, and hinting a dou-
ceur in case of success, the latter proceeded without delay to
make known the crime of Bryan to the court, and prove it by
the artful prosecutor and prejudiced general.
Conscious of innocence,.Bryan sat in the prisoner's box, sup-
ported by his friend and foster-father, the Sergeant; and so
13*


s

150

SIMON KENTONj

calm and unruffled did he appear, now that he had made up
his mind to submit to his fate, and trust his defence to the
justice and righteousness of his cause, that the wily captain
actually trembled when he looked upon his open, unflinching
countenance, fearing (for who is ever confident in a .dishonest
act?) that there was something still behind and unknown to
him, which might yet destroy his well-concocted plot, and cover
himself with richly merited opprobrium and disgrace. But the
captain, had he only glanced at the desponding face of the art-
less and honest Sergeant, would have been assured at once, and
rested easy, if a wicked, plotting, treacherous soul like his could
be satisfied with anything less than positive conviction.
With the proud consciousness of integrity, Bryan refused to
employ any counsel, as he said, either to distort or conceal, and
determined, greatly against the wish of the more practical Duffe,
to make his own defence, believing, in the simplicity of his
heart, that his .own straightforward story, told with the earnest-
ness of truth, would be believed by all, and convince the court
at once of his innocence.
We must acknowledge that this was a very silly determina-
tion on the part of our hero; for, being a lawyer ourself, it will
not do to encourage any snel contempt of the profession; and
we will just here take occasion to advise all persons who get at
loggerheads with the law. never to think of getting through
without the service of a lawyer; for, although we do sometimes
get them into a difficulty, it is equally true that; when they fall
into difficulties themselves, we are the only persons who can get
them out. It takes a lawyer to meet a lawyer, and no one is
so ready to unravel rascality as our profession; for, although
the old saying, "set a thief," &amp;c., will not apply to us, still we
have so much to do with rascality and rascals that we soon
begin to know all their beats, and can stumble upon their
lurking-places, when less practised persons, although well
skilled in the. world and worldly affairs, would be totally at
fault. But we will not wander from the trial, especially when
we ai'e fully aware that our episode on lawyers ir useless, and

151

a
P
t
r
r
't S
a

the world already pretty well satisfied of our shrewdness upon
all things connected with villany.
The prosecuting attorney, having fully proved by the captain
that the bond exhibited in court was a forgery, and never given
by him to the prisoner; and also by General De Lacy, and
several other respectable witnesses, that it was not in the usual
handwriting of Montlack, with an exulting smile at the justices
(which was acknowledged by a significant nod), and a con-
temptuous look at Bryan, rested the case.4
Being asked by the court in a rather careless manner, as of
course he had not, if he had any defence to make, or any wit-
nesses to examine, Bryan arose from his seat, and gave a simple,
unvarnished account of all that had taken place between 'him-
self and the captain ; and, in conclusion, called upon the Ser-
geant to prove his respectability and honesty; and upon Ken-
ton, to show his intercourse with Montlack, and the intimacy
between the latter and Simon Girty, the witness to the bond.
The truthful earnestness of Bryan, and his manly, open face
and frankness, made a decided impression in his favor upon
the crowd, but none at all upon his judges; for they had heard
nothing but what had been explained to them by Montlack;
and their unmeaning, stolid countenances wore no ,expression
of doubt or sympathy.
When the Sergeant, in giving his testimony, had proudly
alluded to the goodness .of heart and honesty of the prisoner,
and.to tlge patriotism and bloody death of his father, atd, in
conclusion, had, with a look and tone of honest indignation and
scora, made known the cowardice and hypocrisy of Montlack,
 there was a murmur of approbation from the crowd, and for the
moment Bryan and even Kenton had a hope. But this tran-
sient, flash of sympathy from the fickle mob was as quickly dis-
pelled as excited, by the prosecuting attorney asking, in a
sneering voice-
"The prisoner is a foster-son of yours, I believe, sir; is he
not ?"

OR, THE ,SCOUT'S REVENGE.


0

r

SIMON KENTONj

He is, sir,"calmly replied Duffe  "and I am proud of
ehim.
"0! no doubt of that-....-none in the world !" laughed the
lawyer; "and I don't wonder at all that you give him such a
goo character; my only surprise is that you hadn't made him
out a saint at once, while you were at it. You can stand back,
sir.d Whenever we haveup any more of your children, we will
send for you; for we have no doubt they are all honest fellows,
just like this one."
Thus, with a light laugh and pointless sally, had the adroit-s
attrney destroyed the favorable impression made by Bryan's
story, and the Sergeant's straightforward, honest evidence; and
once more the crowd, careless and uninterested, relapsed into
iirence, while the judges smiled approvingly upon the
cunning counsel.p
A cloud gathered upon the brow of Duffe, for he saw through
the design of the lawyer, and knew that he had succeeded; but,
hopeless, he made no reply; and retiring from the witness-stand,
again took his seat by the side of Bryan.
The dark portals of the dungeon, concealed for a moment by
the bright wings of Hope, were again in view-
Kenton was next called to the stand; and, as the bordered
removed his cap, exposing his broad bronzed forehead, and
grasping    his inewy hand his trusty rifle, stood proudly
erect, glancing around with fearless eye upon the eager multi-
tude., A slight murmur of applause greeted his appearance.
But this mark of approbation caused a frown to gather upon
he brow of Montlack, which one of the sycophantic justices
observing, hurried to remove, by exclaiming, in a harsh, per"mp-
ory voice--.
"See here, sir witness? do you consider us cutthroats, that
you come thus armed into court ?"
I don't consider you any better; and if you want my gin..
nine opinion, and no concealment, blast me if I don't believe
you are a darned sight worse," was the cool reply.
"We do not permit such language as thatt" retorted the

153

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

152

'r
x
;Al
I Al
r 4
.y
f
t
K
r
s
t
.i Y .
f
L

judge, angrily; "and if you are not careful, Mr. Kenton, I
believe that is your name, you will get yourself into a diffi-
culty."
" May-be you don't, and may-be you do," said Kenton, care-
lessly  "but if it are difficulty you want to begettin' into,
you've said enough, and I'm your man."
The crowd laughed at the borderer's contempt of the court;
and the justices, not liking his formidable appearance, and the
cool maniier he received their threats, took another tack to gain
their point, by ordering him to lay aside his rifle.
" It's agin my principles," replied the Scout, "ever to part
with old Betsy. She 'companies me by day, and sleeps with
me. at night; and I couldn't begin to feel easy without her.
Ay, Bang," he added, stooping to pat his, dog-that worthy
having, at length, managed to creep through the dense crowd
to his feet-" you've got yourself into darned bad company,
and many a dog has been killed for bein' in no worse."
Another laugh from the crowd greeted this rather equivo-
cal speech of Kenton; but the justices being in no way amused
at a joke at their expense, one of them exclaimed-
" This is insufferable, sir; and if we thought you intentionally
impudent in your remarks, would not hesitate to commit you
for contempt."
"I wer' talkin' of dogs," replied Kenton, with -a smile of
cunning simplicity, "and had no idea your honors would take
it as personal."
Another burst of merriment greeted this sally, and the law-
yer, wishing to curry favor with the court, by coming to their'
rescue, remarked in a cool, sneering tone-
"We have had quite enough of your would-be 'wit, sir, and
want you now to tell all you know; and it may be well enough
to add, before we go further, that we expect you to tell the
truth."
a1 reckon you've the advantage of me thar, Mr. Lawyer,
for that ar' more than anybody ever 'spected of you," was
the cool rejoinder of the Scout.


154                  SIMON KENTON;
A roar of laughter met this keen retort of the backwoods-
man, and the justices r p themselves, enjoying- the discomfiture of
e     a    or put in a better humor by finding another in the
togo onain av themselves, good-humoredly bid the witness
t o ,andgive in his evidence in his own way.
Lef tohimelfandpermitted to go on as he sawpre,
Simon gave a minute account of all that he knewnot sparing
the captain as he went alo;      m   he kned, ntrparing
to the repeated comn     n;wo        ecnme(contrary
te recatd "commands    of the court) to call the "'tarnal
yaller rascal," surmising, every now and then, that "he. had
nigger blood in him," and wer'n' a leal  te, appe   as
usual (mch toathegal witness, appealing as
usual (much to the amusement of the bystanders) to Ba
who, without mea         -       teb-tadr-      t    ang,
awready wit, eating any indignity to the court, always gave
already assent, believing, as all dogs and hangers-on should do
that the master knew -best.
On one of these occasions, the l-
laugh against the imperturbable witnessremarked....e
"Tatk dog of yours must be the devil, or the devil's repre-
sentative, for you seem to counsel with him altogether!"
"Not as I  know on," replied Simon, coolly, "though he ar'
th d     to trail Ingens. But I always hearn say," he added,
onwith a slighttwinkleof the eye, "that the lawyers wer' .the
oy rrenate t           kept on this arth, and' I b'lieved
pern conselledaes of rascality, they seemed to be the first
persons counselled with, and wer' most generally on the side of
the villains; I reckon he's darned well represented, and won't
soon change his servants, mister t"
Thismisime th.
This time 'the crowd were nearly convulsed with laughter,}
court jong heartily; ,and even Bryan and Duffe could
not restrain a- smile;- while old Titus  o havn  h  ero
meslawbefore his eyes, and instigated by some wicked devil,
made known his delight by giving explosion to. a tremendous
guffaw...
"nGaorror-'mighty !" exclaimed the black, speaking generally,
anrtd dressing no one in particular, the scar on hischeek, dis-
tored  y aughter, rendering his face hideous, "dat ar' 'turney

OR, HE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             155
am totaciously used up. Dis nigger speck he let Massa Simon
'lone, next time."
Finding the lawyer not disposed to make any further remark,
Kenton continued his evidence,' winding up by saying "that
Montlack and Girty signed the bond in the old haunted cabin,
and received the money from Bryan."
"How do you know that Captain Montlack signed this
bond ?" said the lawyer, sharply, after counselling a moment
with the prosecutor, and holding the paper up to Kenton; "did
you see him do it?  Remember! I ask you, did you see him,
with your own eyes, either sign this paper. or receive the
money ?"
"Not 'zactly with my own eyes," said Simon, with great
simplicity, "for I wer'n't thar, but Titus wer', and saw him,
and he's as white as that yaller rascal, and told me so; and
blame me if I don't swar to it!"
" 0! I have no doubt of that!" sneered the lawyer, "or to
anything else this negro or the prisoner would tell you. You
can stand back, sir, for we don't wish to cross-examine a man
so reckless of the truth as you are."
"A joke are a joke, mister," replied Simon, his eye burn-
ing with gathering fury, "but by the Etarnal, if you pretend
to charge me with falsehood, if I don't cut out your lying tongue
right here, in spite of the court and all this 'ere crowd, or my
name ain't Simon 15pnton !"
"Go it, old bruiser !" shouted some one of the crowd;
" cuss me if we don't see you fair play and a free fight !"
"Silence in court !" shouted one of the justices; "we'll fine
and imprison the first man that creates a disturbance."
The lawyer saw that he had gone.too far, and trembled for
his life when he beheld the frontiersman significantly place
his hand upon the handle of his knife; but having mind enough
left to know that discretion was the better part of valor, espe-
cially in a case like the present, he quickly exclaimed-
"It was merely a joke, sir; I only wished to pay you up for
some of the hard licks you have given me..

1: '

n5
i
Jts
Y
,r +
Y
4,
n
+  Y
f
Ste'
.   .y,
r
s

.


SIMON KENTON;

"If that's all," said Simon, falling back to his place, "Im
done, and hain't got nothin';more to say. But darn me, Mr.
Lawyer, if it didn't look to me surprisin'ly like you meant jist
what you said; though I've always hearn it remarked, you
lawyers never mean what you say."
The evidence concluded, the prosecuting attorney, as is usual
with lawyers, made a very few remarks, scarcely unfolding in
his. opening address a single point that'he intended to press in
his last speech, merely expressing in general terms his confi-
d nce of the guilt of the prisoner; and pointing out the strength
of the testimony against him, and quietly taking his seat, left
Bryan to make the best defence in his power, without any par-
ticular argument or point of evidence to combat or rebut!
Well aware of his critical situation, and gifted with a shrewd
and quick mind, well cultivated, and not altogether ignorant of
the law, Bryan proceeded to make his defence. For more than
an hour he poured forth his rapid and teeming thoughts with
impassioned eloquence and energy; convincing, if not the court,
at least the audience of his innocence. And the lucid manner
in which he exposed- the treachery of Montlack was not with-
out its effect even upon the prejudiced mind of De Lacy, who
began to look uneasily, if not suspiciously upon the ever-smiling
face of his nephew, and a doubt sprang up within his heart:
But the trial was not yet over. The attorney for the com-
monwealth, by the rules of the court, had the right to reply,
and when Bryan had taken his seat, lost no time in availing
himself of this right. With a ,regret that one so gifted as the
prisoner had shown himself to be was so criminal, he launched
forth with his invective.-treated the statements of Bryan with
ridicule-scoffed at the evidence of Duffe and Kenton-laughed.
at the idea of the prisoner having money to loan, and of the
wealthy captain becoming a' borrower from a stranger, when he
had an uncle ever ready to supply his demands-scorned and
treated with contempt the idea of impeaching the testimony of
Montlack and De Lacy with the evidence of such a man as
Kenton, founded upon' the story of a negro, and 'that negro

,
,
{t
'a+
,
t
'   :
v ;y
v
M1 4
Y
,ry+
c.
- ,;
{
'' z
-
, T  ti
i
x
r  ,
,i
s  ,
t
t
f
5
;1.
z
i
i '    y
4
Fti

".F
L
[I
I

156

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.            157
the slave of the prisoner-taunted him with being the son of
a traitor and spy, and the companion of the renegade Girty-
sneered, with hellish glee, at his hypocritical air of innocence-
and concluded with an appeal to the judges (which was quite
unnecessary) to enforce the laws of the country, and see that
the punishment, well merited by his crime, be inflicted upon
the prisoner.
When he had finished, and with a smile of exultation and
triumph taken his seat, Bryan was conscious that every sym-
pathy excited in his favor was gone. The impression he had
made upon the audience and General De Lacy had been
brushed away by the cunning and plausible taunts and sneers
of the attorney; and now they were all alike convinced of his
guilt, and only wondered how they could have ever believed
him innocent.
'Tis strange! but in ninety-nine cases in a hundred a sneer
or laugh will have more influence upon the minds of men
than truth or eloquence ! I have no doubt, myself, but that
the devil is as much the father of sneerers as he is of liars, and
would be willing to take odds that he tempted mother Eve
herself with a light laugh.
Thestices whispered a moment together; then nodding to
each othd, as if both were-satisfied, one of them briefly de-
clared the court convinced of the prisoner's guilt, and directed
the sheriff to convey him to prison, there to await the sitting
of the criminal court.
Although nerving himself for the worst, and scarce hoping
for acquittal at the hands of the justices, Bryan was visibly
agitated .wien he heard their verdict dooming him to a
dungeon, and only regained his . self-control by catching a
glimpse of the triumphant face of his rival, which steeled his
heart at once, and rendered him able to meet the judgment
with a quiet look of indifference. This apparent indifference
sent a chill through the bosom of the uneasy Montlack; for,
although victorious over his rival, he could not conceive the
cause of his seeming resignation, unless there was something
14

i


158                  SIMON KENTON;
still behind and untold, that would eventually prove his inno-
cence and insure acquittal.
Duffe, having no hope, and no feeling of pride to sustain him,
was overwhelmed with the terrible certainty of his foster-child's
conviction and punishment; but Simon, who had been moved
even to tears during Bryan's speech, and who could with diffi-
culty restrain his anger during the address, of the prosecuting
attorney, when he heard the decision of the justices delivered
in so careless and heartless a manner, cold restrain his fury
no longer, but, springing to his feet, shouted with a voice of
thunder.--.
"May I be burned at the stake by the bloody Shawanees if
you cold-hearted knaves don't talk as quietly 'bout sendin' a
feller cretur to your cussed jail as if you wer' inviting' him
home'to dinner ! Blast me if I wouldn't rather be tomahawked,
and scalped, and burned than stay one night in your darned
dungeon; and if Mr. Bryan will jist say the word, darn the
step shall he ever take toward your infernal old block-house!
Come, boy," added the Scout, turning to Bryan, "you've
given the 'tarnal rascals a chance of sayin' you wer' innocent,
and they won't do it; and now thar's nothin' left us bht to
pitch into 'en, and thrash the whole consarn!. Never' fear;
we can do it; and blame me, if you'll jist say the~tird if I
don't commence with that ar' yaller-rascal, and the lyin' law-
yer, and end with them beauties up thar behind the books
then my name ain't Simon ! Hello, Sargeant! rouse up! for
thar's a 'tarnal good chance of scrimmage jist at present; and
you, Titus-.-whar's the black rascal ?--may take a hand, so you
don't touch any of my chaps. What say you, Mr. Bryan? We've
tried them at thar all-fired law, and they've got us jist as I
spected; now let's try 'em Kaintuck style, and seewho'll take
the most scalps."
"'No, no, Simon! I thank you for your zeal in my cause,"
said Bryan, " but this is a land of laws, and although I have
been condemned unjustly, I will submit, and trust that I will
yet be able to establish my innocence !"

ILT

S
t2
R
Z 4w
'S
' ;
t
i
,
.t
t'
c
f    ^r
7
i
.
.R
W
'1
'

On, THE SCOUT'S 'REVENGE.           159
SSubmit, hell !" vociferated Simon; "whar's the sense of
ubmittinf'? and drat the law, and lawyers, and judges, and
everything else what condemns an innocent man to a blasted
dungeon !"-the
"Go it, old roarer!" shouted a wild young fellow from
crowd; -"athem's my sentiments !"
" Hold your tongue, sir !" exclaimed one of the justices, re-
covering from his surprise, addressing Kenton; "another word,
and I will send you to prison !"
a Now, blast me," replied Simon, with a look of defiance,
"if I wouldn't- jist like to see you tryin' that ar' experiment .
Mr. Bryan can do as he pleases; but when you come to talk
'bout this 'ere individual, that ar' another thing altogether.
S'pose you jist try your hand at sendin' me to jail,! Won't we
walk into thar affections, Bang, like a streak of greased light-
nin' ?"      .f.o,
" Seize upon him, sheriff!" shouted the justice; summon a
posse and take him to jail"
" Now you're talkin' to my fancy, old chap!" exclaimed Si-
mnon, with a smile of derision, at the same time tightening his
belt and loosening his knife; "I'm jis-ready now to give you
an elegant specimen of Kaintuck fightin', if any of you will
come up to the brush 1"
. But none of the audience were at all interested in punishing
the stalwart frontiersman, and the sheriff, h ving no desire to
be his first victim, kept at a respectable distance ; while the
justices, thinking they had done quite enough to sustain the
dignity of the bench by ordering the arrest, whether it was done
or not, quietly adjourned, leaving Bryan under the control of
the sheriff, and Simon in undisputed possession ofd the court-
room.
Seeing that his betters had retired, the officer politely re-
quested Bryan to accompany him to the prison, which, after a
sad parting with Dufe and Simon (the latter still insisting on
an appeal to force), he quietly did, waving his last adieu as the


160

SIMON KENTON;

heavy doors of the dungeon closed upon him; shutting out, for
the time, light, liberty, and hope.
The wily captain had succeeded, and his designs were now
n a fair way of being consummated. The lover Was in prison,
the father deceived, and Coma would be the reward of his
cessful villany.
Rejoicing in hissuccess, Montlack hurried the ust  and
attorney away to a rich dinner and wine.
Prostrated, hopeless, and crushed in spirit B
about in his dreary dungeon.
Overwhelmed with sorrow, the honest Sergeant moved slowly
and silently on his path homeward.
Striding along in company came the gigantic borderer, his
eye still red with fury, and his tongue still pouring forth tor-
rents of abuse upon all law, and lawyers and judges, and more
particularly those with whom he had just parted.
At his feet, but now unnoticed by his angry master, trotted
the faithful Bang.               '   agymsetotd
The honest slave Titus, with his heart weary and heavy with
grief for his young master, came slowly on behind v
They had met with defeat, and were returning now:
"No buoyancy
Is in their steps, no song upon their lips,
No triumph on their brows."
At the splendid mansion of De Lacy, Coma wept in silence;
hoping, yet dreading, to hear the result of the trial and fate of
her lover.
At the lowly hearthstone of the Sergeant, the foster-mother
borrowed for her child; and, in the loneliness of her solitary
abode, anxiously awaited the footsteps of athe absent, and sup-
plicated the throne of the- great Ruler of all our destinies.
Such is life, and such the every-day occurrences of this
strange world of ours.

S'
_J
i
t"
5
y
Y
ej
t
X
u
;y
r

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.            161
0 CHAPTER XIV.
To no one does time travel so slowly as the prisoner; and
when I say prisoner, I mean one confined either by sickness or
power; and yet, even with him, does the old veteran move glibly
enough when he remembers that each day passed brings him
one nearer the grave.
But with Bryan, the days and nights had been wearily long.
More than a week had rolled by since he became the tenant
of a dungeon, and although a week is but a moment in an ordi-
nary lifetime, his face and appearance already exhibited the
effects of confinement. Yet he had not been immured, as some
we have read of, in a dark unwholesome dungeon, far away from
the genial warmth of, the sun, and totally cut off from the blessed
light of day. His jailer had not been a cruel one, nor were
the rules of the prison very rigid, or the confinement very close,
for around the prison, which had once been the head-quarters
of Cornwallis, was a broad sloping lawn, surrounded by a wall
some nine feet high, and in this were the prisoners, guarded
only by one of the keepers, permitted to spend most of the
although Bryan had availed himself of this privilege, he had
no intercourse with his fellow-prisoners, and kept aloof from
their sports and amusements.
They were generally rough, uneducated, and wicked nien,
having no associations in common with him; and for whom,
and with whom, he had no sympathy.
At first they were disposed to be very gracious, and wished
to be upon boon terms with their new companion; but Bryan
not meeting their advances in a proper spirit, their friendship
was soon turned to hatred, and their malevolence began to show
14*


162                 SIMON KENTON;
itself in numerous petty annoyances and practical jokes, which
our hero meeting promptly in the very outset by coolly knock-
ing down the leaders of his annoyers, since that period, for
it was a striking argument,-and one that could be easily com-
prehended by even the dullest mind, he had been left to him-
self and -his own bitter and desponding thoughts.
But the very privilege of enjoying daily the sun and light,
and the pure atmosphere, instead of making his confinement
more bearable, only made his dungeon more horrible and tor-
menting, and caused him to sigh the more for liberty. The
very birds that floated in the pure clear heavens above him, or
glided with rapid and sinewy stroke across his vision, reminded
him of all that he. had lost, and made him long with aching
heart to get once more into the green woods, and wander unre-
strained by bar, or bolt, or wall.
At such times he would sit and gaze far away up into the
blue firmament, and wonder if his father and mother were look-
ing down upon him, and knew of the sad and hopeless fate oft
their son. Then he would dream of the past, and bring back
to memory all the glad days of his youth, and wander in fancy'
along the bright sunny streams where in happier hours he had
strayed; and, forgetting the present, he would sometimes even
dive into the future, and gathergay flowers and weave garlands
as rich and brilliant as if no shadow had fallen across his path ;
and then again he would be by the side of Coma, upon the
shady banks- of the Yadkin, listening to the murmuring notes
of the tumbling waters, or the still softer and sweeter tones of
her rich and loving voice; and then back once more to the
hearthstone of the kind Sergeant would his careering fancy
carry him, and again would he look upon the face of his foster-
mother, and hear the manly tones of the brave and simple-
hearted Kenton, and mingle with him in his wild adventures,
and hairbreadth escapes.    -
But then would burst upon his ear the loud blasphemy of
his wicked companions, and the harsh voice of his jailer; and, in
a moment, all of his gay dreams and beautiful fancies, like the -.

=,r
;z
'.r
F4
J

03)-THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.            163
famous apple of Sodom when crushed in the hand of the curio
traveller, were gone and dissipated; and once more heswould
find himself a prisoner, sad, and lonely, and desponding,
dark and dreary cell.
Imagination can do much towards lightening  th  ad  -
dens, and cares of life, but it cannot do awayhwith a reality;
and though we may sleep and drea he same reality which for
awakening will come, and, wi  ,           e y th   for
the moment had been covered up and concealed by the wing
ofdreaming fancy.b                            n
The prisoner will always find it so; for  e, a  hains,
and walls are stubborn things, and the law, the key, the pick.
axe, and labor are necessary for their removal.
But Bryan had his visitors, for the Sergeant, his fostenmo-
ther, and Titus came daily to see him ; nor had the Scout en-
tirely deserted him; for, although shy ofthe prison,and shun-
ning with horror the dark dungeon, he had managed to meet
Bryan more than once in the outward court, and had pressed
him again and again to make his escape, and fly withs o
Kentucky. Kenton could not compehe      Bryan'm  ress
against Ilight, and continued, whenever he met him, to press
his poiht,hopingtha   e a nd con finement would change his
this point, hoping that time ahnd h  orerrs dissatisfaction,
determination. As yet, much to the bordered's dissatisfaction,
he had always steadily refused.          lover. Shehad
Nor had Coma forgotten her unfortunately      S   ad
managed, in spite of the constantespionage of montlack andlove,
her father, to send him a long *'iherl  ma answered with
and which, by the kindness of the a1  he tuswas hismessenger,
one equally loving and impassioned Titus waswe is m the
~nd  ad  romsedfaithfully to deliver his answer intoth
hands of Coma, and Comaalone, and, in return, bring back
her reply.th
her reply.his narrow cell, waitingth
He was now anxiously pacing                 a     the
coming of the black, when a heavy step was heard alongdoor
.passage, the bolts of his dungeon wrte firawst ck timed oorghi
swung open with a creak, and o   h   is  iedrn       i


164
SIMON KENTON;
imprisonment, Kenton stood within the contracted walls of hi
cheerless cell.
A slight shadefofdisappointmenth(lovers are always selfish!)'
flitted across the face of Bryan at the appearance of the Scout.
liehad aswe have said, been expecting Tiutus, and, what was
still more important to him, a letter from Coma; and when he
heard the step along the passage, his mind, directed by the in-
.nation of the heart, jumped at once to the conclusion that it
was his returning messenger; and he could not but feel i
spite of his joy at beholding his old frend ad monotar emi
tion of discontent.ryeo-
But no sooner did he behold, through the loom of
geon, the countenance Knoeg               mo his dun..
geo, thi cotonan sofKenton, pale and haggard with the
foc  fhis emotion; and sa* a tear of sympathy glistening in
his clear blue eye, than all discontent e  a  g    an
with a cry of pleasure he sprang forward  rasi
the bordered, exclaiming, with an attempt t a r nteshando
"Never mind, Simon; it is not so bad as you imagine. you'll
soon get used to this darkness and itas  be ighte;nouh.
Don't you see I have 'a window here to give me light and air?"
Kenton shuddered as he strained his eyes to pierce the gloom
around him; for, although Bryan could see well  heg, h
coming immediately from the light, could behold nothingdis-
tinctly---not even the person of his greegtdfr-d
"Come, sit down, Simon," repeated Bryaen        g
borderer to his truckle-bed, speaking in  an,  aing  the
"for you will soon find it light enough anencouragingvvoicen
is very comfortable."g, an see that e
"My God! Mr. Bryan," ejaculated Kenton     ,     as i
for breath, "is this 'ere the place they've  ut, gpng, as if
couldn't live 'in this hole an hour; I feel lik yo.  w .
Where do you get any fresh air ?"
"0," said Bryan, cheeringly, and dragging him to a narrow
ir onyaoue loole a don't    feel  te nice fresh air coming
in o  yo no? ad dn'tit eelsweet, and cool, and refresh-

165

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

ing? and wouldn't it almost induce you to become a prisoner,
just to enjoy it ?"
Keton groaned, as he looked sharply into the face of his
friend; for the simple wanderer of the forest could not ima-
ine why Bryan praised the warm and fetid atmosphere of that
dreary place, unless, as he feared, he had, from horrid suffering,
become deranged.
"Don't you find it more pleasant now ?" asked Bryan.
"Pleasant !" exclaimed Kenton, with astonishment; "why
I would as soon be buried alive! Blast me," he added, his
sorrow and surprise giving place to anger, "if I'll ever agin
call the redskins cruel! All thar cruelty, sich as runnin the
gauntlet, scalping , burnin', and torturin', is jist nothin' when
compared with this cussed dungeon, filled with darkness and-
suffocatin' air !"
"It goes harder with you, Simon, than it does with me and
most other persons," replied Bryan, encouragingly,; "you have
been so long accustomed to sleeping out under the broad hea-
vens, and wandering by day and night through the boundless
forests of Kentucky, that you feel cramped for room and air
even when you come into the largest houses, let alone a nar-
row cell like this."
" It may be so, Mr. Bryan; but I don't think I could ever
get used to a place like this; for it ain't nat'ral, and feels jist
like a grave'! But drat the cussed hole; we won't say anything
more 'bout it, for I guess, Mr. Bryan," continued the Scout,
his face brightening, "you won't stay here long, for I bring
you news that will jist make you walk outer this trap in a
hurry; and blast me if you sha'n't lift an Ingen scalp yet,
in spite of all of these looks and bars !"
"Have you seen Coma ?" inquired Bryan, eagerly.
" I hain't done nothin' else," replied Kenton, triumphantly;
"   Ibut it took old dodgin', and trailin', and scoutin' to come
across the gal; and what's more, when I did start the white
doe, I jist up and told her all 'bout the rascality of them
(      darned judges and of the gineral; but we won't say anything


166                 SIMON KENTON;
'bout him, for the gal says the old 'ristocrat's her daddy, though
b dn' 'zactly b'ieve it, and I told her so; and I told her all
bout that 'tarnal caller Frenchman; and cuss me if I didn't
give him pertiklar goss, for I b'lieve he's got nigger blood in
him-though the gal did laugh when I said so. And I didn't
stop here, Mr. Bryan," added the Scout with breathless haste,
"o Ijist made a clean bosom of it while my hand wer' in,
and told her- you wer' carrying' on like a darned squaw, lying'
up here in this blamed old jail, waitin' for justice, when you
know'd, as well as I did, that you weren't goin' to get it; and
you needn't be gittin' mad, either, for the gal ar' a sensible
critter, and 'greed with me 'zactly, sayin' you wer' a 'tarnal
fool, sure enough ! She didn't precisely use them ar' words,
Mr. Bryan, but I did, and it wer' all the same for she didn't
say anything again it; and what's more, shS told me to say to
you, if you could get outer this place (and I told her you could,
if you weren't sich a squaw), to get out, and she would' jist go
wi   you to Kaintuck, or any other country, for that cussed
devil of a Frenchman wer' pesterin' the life outer her, and she
couldn't stand it any longer. That's the kind of a gal for a
hunter's wife, Mr. Bryan; and darn me, if she don't make the
Ingeis stand outer the way when we git .to Kaintuck, Simon
Kenton ain't no judge of a spunky woman! If you are ready
to leave this 'ere sink-hole, come on; for I'm prepared to take
you outside of the gate, and the Sargeant and Titus are close
about, to give us a helpin' hand in case of a scrimmage."
Bryan was so much astonished'at the unexpected message
sent him by the Scout that he never once interrupted his
rambling speech; and indeed we don't know that he could have
succeeded, had he made the attempt; for the borderer was one
of those men (very frequently met with nowadays) who will
never hear a reply until quite through with all he has got to
say himself; and not even then, if not entirely satisfied he has
floored you in the argument. But now that he had halted for
breath, Bryan took advantage of the lull to say--

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             167
aI thank you, Simon, for your zeal; but did not Coma send
me some written message ?"
Wall, darnation, take me if I didn't jist- forget all about
it, though I promised the gal to hand it over the first thing I
done" replied Kenton,\ drawing from his shot-poucha letter;
"cbut here's what she gin ,me, Mister Bryan, though drat me
if I precisely see the use on it, for it taint nothin' more than.
a little scrap of paper, with some wee black marks on it."
And there, sure enough, was a letter from Coma, in her own
loved hand, which Bryan, seizing with more zeal than polite-
ness, much to the amusement of the borderer, kissed over and
over again as he hurried to the little loophole to decipher its
contents. Nor did the ecstasy of the lover, or his devotion to
the mute messenger sent him by Simon, seem to abate-one jot
or tittle as he perused it; for more than once did he stop to
kiss some dear word, and give utterance to some broken ex-
clamation of rapture and enthusiasm,! And well might he be
satisfied, for he had before him traced, by the hand of her he
loved so well, assurances of unwavering devotion and affection,
which fell like a soothing balm upon his sorrows and fears;
coming to his doubting heart like the "Be not afraid-it is I "
of Christ to his trembling apostles.
In addition to the assurance of her continued affection, Coma
made known her unhappy situation; the unceasing pressing of
his hateful suit by Montlack; and the harsh commands of her
father to prepare for immediate marriage with her detested
cousin. But she assured her lover that death would be pre-
ferable to such a union; and die she would rather than call
Montlack by the sacred name of husband I "My father calls
my opposition to a marriage with my treacherous cousin," she
continued, ast  bborn infatuation, and swears (0 Bryan ! 'tis
terrible to hear a father swear !) that, willing or not, I shall
become his wife ! But he does not yet know his Coma, for die
I can, and will, ere I consummate this unholy connection!I"
" There ist only one course left us, Bryan," she added, in ano-
thcr part of her letter, "and Captain Kenton presses me to


168                 SIMON KENTON*
pursue it; and though my face burns at the thought of mention-
ing it, still, as my father harshly refuses to listen to my pray-
ers and entreaties, I will declare it : and it is to fly, and fly at
once, and together (for Kenton assures me you can escape with-
out danger) to the beautiful lands beyond the mountains !"
During the time consumed by Bryan in reading the letter
from Coma, Kenton,-in better-spirits than he had been since
he entered the dungeon, sat with praiseworthy silence upon the
bed of the lover, minutely examining the furniture of the room,
as if a civil officer making out an inventory of movables for a
levy; but he was not so intent in his occupation as to forget
Bryan, for, ever and anon, as the latter muttered some excla-
mation of pleasure, would he turn his eye with a knowing
smile at thg reader, and chuckle to himself, as if well satisfied
with the influence of the silent messenger, But when Bryan
had finished, and with impassioned vehemence had again and
again pressed his lips upon the signature of Coma, the bor-
derer, no longer able to control his impatience, interrupted this
loving pantomime by quietly saying--
"Well, now, Mr. Bryan, I s'pose you are ready to go?"
"Ay!1" replied Bryan, his countenance glowing with plea-
sure; "and to go with you, my brave Simon, to the broad val-
leys' of the mighty Mississippi-the glorious pastures of the
countless buffalo,"
"Hurrah, boy! that's the way. to talk it !" shouted the
Scout, grasping Bryan's hand. "We'll have glorious times
yet, and you shall lift the scalp-lock of a dodgin' Wyandotte
before another moon, or my name ain't. Sharp-Eye. But let's
leave this 'ere cussed place, and go out at once into the woods,
for I don't feel easy and nat'ral-like with them ar' doors and
walls atween me and daylight."
" But how are we to go ?" said Bryan..
"Nothin' easier," replied Kenton, examining the prining
of his rifle. " When this 'ere lock-up feller opens the door for
me, you jist walk out."]
" The keeper will not allow it."

i
i
i
_.      _    .    '                                                                       ,


rIC

F

I

SIMON KENTON.

9I guess he won't have much to say in the matter; for if
he opens his mouth, I'll knock. him down; and if that ar'n't
satisfactory, old Betsy and me will stand atween you and all
danger till beyond the walls."
" That will never do," said Bryan, shaking his head. "I
will not endanger the lives either of the jailers or yourself by
attempting so open and rash an undertaking."
"Never mind 'bout me or the jailer. If he kills me, or I
him, that's our look-out, and none of your'n," said the Scout,
stubbornly.
"It can't be, Simon. I love you too well to put your life
in jeopardy," said Bryan; "nor would I willingly injure one
of my jailers; for they are but doing their duty, and, more than
that, have been very kind, and have allowed me many privi-
leges."
"Blasted kind, indeed !" exclaed Kenton,,in, a sneering
voice, glancing quickly around at the cheerless, unfurnished
cell; "and they desarve a powerful chance of gratitude for this
'ere precious comfortable lodgin' they've given you."
"My keepers have nothing to do with the making or fuirnish-
ing of these cells, Simon; but they might have:'made my im-
prisonment far less endurable, if they had been .so disposed ;
ad Ii owe them some gratitude, at least, for the many little
favors they have granted me."
" Well, darn me if you ain't thankful for small favors !"
said Kenton, with increased bitterness.  I'd think toma-
hawkin' a darned sight too good for sich treatment as you've
had. But come, Mr. Bryan, don't be takin' the squeamy, and
losin' all chance of escape by your'tarnal nonsense. You know
jist as well as I do that it's all right and proper to kill our
enemies, and 'scape outer thar bands; and I look on these
blasted jailers as so many Ingens."
"But the law ?"
" Blame the law I" shouted Simon, interrupting him ; "don't
talk to me 'bout the law; for it has kept me inthot water ever
15

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

169

4

I

,
-
T
F(
tt
t
3

t


170                  SIMON KENTON;
since I've, been in the States. I'll never feel easy agin till I
forget thar's any sich a thing."
"Hold, Simon !" exclaimed Bryan; "I hear the step of the
jailer coming to lead me out into the prison yard. I cannot
agree to your plan of escape, for it might result in death either
to you or one of my keepers; but I have one of my own,
equally certain, less dangerous; and, to accomplish it, I will-
need no assistance."
"What is it ?" said Kenton, discontentedly.
I have not time to explain now," replied Bryan; "and if
I had, I fear, when you heard my scheme, you would not ap-
prove of it; but be you on the south side of the prison inclo-
sure to-morrow about this time, and if I do not'}then make my
escape, I promise you, on the day succeeding, to attempt your
plan, which, from its boldness and unexpected daring, I have
no doubt will prove success"
"I'l go my scalp on it," said Kenton, in a little better
humor, now that he had the promise-of Bryan. "They won't
be specting sich a piece of impudene, aid will neither be ready
to prevent our escape, nor do us an injury. But remember,
you've given me your word, and I'll 'spect you to try my plan,
if you don't give them the dodge to-morrow."
"I will; for I have made up my mind to remain here no
longer," replied Bryan, grasping the hand of the Scout as a
pledge of his determination.
The entrance of the jailer put an end to further conversation.
&amp;imon shook the hand of his friend, and, after a secret look
of intelligence and encouragement, turned upon his heel and
stalked boldly along the corridor, and down through the gate,
neither turning his head to the right nor left; but with a quick
roll of the eye making an accurate map in his own mind of ge
entire plan of the prison. His face, when he rejoined the Ser-
geant and Titus, wore a mingled expression of satisfaction and
discontent, and so intimately combined and balanced were these
two feelings, that Duffe, although a shrewd reader of faces, was
totally unable to unravel the result of his meeting with Bryan,

n
"Y
M,

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.            171
or say which of these emotions preponderated. Nor did the
stubborn borderer seem inclined to be very communicative; for
he stalked along with the dogged determination of an Indian
warrior undergoing torture, and made no reply to the inquiries
of his companion, or, if any, only in muttered monosyllables.
With a light heart and bright face, Bryan followed the jailer
to the prison yard. When there, contrary to his usual reserved
course, he drew near to a little knot of prisoners engaged in the
athletic sport of leaping the rope, and, for the first time during
his confinement, exhibited an interest in their amusement.
The prison yard, or rather outer court, sloped gradually from
the buildings to the wall, inclosing the prison area, leaving the
jail standing on the highest point of a conical hill, with a broad
green belt between it and the wall encircling its base; thus
furnishing a most admirable place for the sport in which the
prisoners were now engaged.
One of them, noticing the approach of our hero, and the seem-
ing interest with which, for the first time, he regarded their
amusement, exclaimed, with a mocking laugh--
"Heyday, boys! here's our- fine jay.  I wonder if he
wouldn't like to risk his valuable neck over a three foot rope?
Come! give him a trial! hold it up there, boys-that's it.
Now try your activity, my young blood. Who'll take a bet
that he don't get a tumble ?"
This sally was greeted with a loud laugh ; but Bryan, con-
trary to their expectation, met it with a good-humored smile,
saying, pleasantly-
"I'll take your bet; but put the rope to five feet."
I"Ha ! ha !" laughed the first speaker; "let him have it so,
boys; for he'll get a fine tumble to a certainty."
Those holding the rope hoisted it to the required height;
and Bryan, without delay or any apparent struggle, leaped lightly,
down the hill and sprang over it.
"Lost !" exclaimed the same speaker, with an oath; but
struck with Bryan's graceful carriage and activity, he added, in


17~2                SIMON KENTON;
a more pleasant tone: "The boy is better stuff than I thought
him."
"tPut up the rope to six feet !" exclaimed Bryan, returning
to the, stand.g
"Better stop, boy, at what you've done," said one.
"lie wants to get a tumble," said another.
SBg,                  e rope was placed at the required
height; and again, with great ease, he cleared it, amidst the
loud acclamations of his surprised companions.
i"Try it at seven !" shouted a fellow dressed In a shooting
jacket, and who seemed to     he sg
- "A t' enjoy the sprt amazingly',
hi rsyou please," replied Bryan, coolly; " for I have jumped
higher."I
While the wondering rope-holders were adjusting it to the
proper height, Bryan threw off his coat and shoes, and no sooner
had they called out "all ready !" thn like a bounding stag, he
again went safely over it   .
t"May old Nick take me if that can be beat !" exclaimed he
that. had first bantered Bryan to jump.
"Ill bet you a five he can o a foot high   "     .a
shooting-jacket, springing to his feet.
"Done !" replied the other.
Bryan expressing his Willingness to make the trial, the jockey
g                              aete rateand his opponent hurried to make an accurate measurement.
Borrowing a belt from  one of the bysaersasure  ro
buckled it 'tightly around his waist andysoner  had he
betters shouted "all fair and ready !" than bo non rad,
with a terrible effort, he again cleared the rope.
"Lostagain!, why, damn the fellow, I believe he can fly !"
beiv                                ecnfysaid the loser.y'
"Not fly," said Bryan, panting with the severe exercise he
had taken; "but to-morrow I'l l  owyou what I can do."
'You have done enough," said the other, "and there's no
use of your bragging, for you can't do better."anthrano
uI'llet nyou another five of that," said the elated sportsman.
must jump over the wall, and no liing mortal can do that."he

173

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

%
:
4; .
'.
:.  _
F_ .
i.';
,Y
,f:. .
,, ,
':.,
La:
r,
jr  .
z'
_ ;:.
;' :';
4"
ty'
S i
) "
}

"I'm not so certain of that," said his opponent, as he quietly
measuredithe wall with his eye; "and if I win this last bet,
blast me if I don't go you a five on the wall."
Bryan smiled.
"There's no danger of your being called on to stand up to
this offer," growled the loser; "for you'll never win the wager
we have just made."
Again Bryan smiled.
"We'll see," said the jockey, with the confident look and tone
of a veteran sportsman.
"Ay, we'll see !" muttered Bryan, as he walked away.
CHAPTER XV.
To-MoRaOW had come, and Bryan had paced his narrow dun-
geon with uneasy rapidity, dreaming of escape.
Suddenly his attention was drawn to a footstep along the
passage, the door of his cell was thrown open, and Montlack
stood before him.
A flush of anger mantled the prisoner's brow as he beheld
the person of his treacherous rival; but when the door had
again closed, leaving them together, with a quick gesture of
surprise and impatience, Bryan exclaimed-
"IHow now, sir ! to what freak do I owe this unwelcome and
unlooked-for visit ?"{
"To no' freak !" replied Montlack, "but to an earnest hope
and desire that this meeting would result in your liberty and
my happiness."
"Iahave already had convincing proof of the honor and good-
will of Captain Montlack !" said Bryan, bitterly.
"You have also had some cause to know my power and de-
termination" sneered the captain; "but I would now in a man-
ner atone for my harshness and want of faith by set ng you at


174                  SIMON. KENTON;
liberty, did you but have a graib of reason or common sense
about you !"
"I acknowledge Captain Montlack greatly my superior in
treachery and duplicity " remarked Bryan, coldly; "but still
must flatter myself. enough to believer that I have yet some
reason left, at least a sufficient amount to know that Captain
Montlack does not expect to give liberty unless for a valuable
consideration."
"The most sensible remark I've heard from you yet, and it
proves to me that you have still some brains left!" sneered
ontlack, with a slight attempt at good-humor.
Your company is not the most agreeable, and your remarks
far from being pleasant," replied Bryan, haughtily; "1and if
Captain Montlack has no other design than to exult over the
victim of his treachery, I would gladly be freed both from his
presence and conversation !"
" No more of such nonsense, Mr. Head, I pray you!" replied
Montlack, assuming a patronizing and familiar tone; "I came
not here to boast of my superior cunning, or to exult over your
present unfortunate condition, but purely on a matter of busi-
ness; hoping that a little plain straightforward talk would set
all things right between us, and result in your being freed from
captivity, and myself from all fear of your presence in this part
of the country. Eh ! do you take ?"
By assuming an air of cold politeness, Bryan had so far been
able to restrain his anger and contempt for the captain; but
the affected tone of patronizing familiarity, or rather community
of baseness and crimiality put on by the latter, was more than
his patience or politeness could bear; and now, with a look and
voice of scorn, he exclaimed--
"I wish you, Captain Montlack, to understand now, and at
once and forever, that I have no feeling in common with you,
and that I consider -you a base, treacherous, and dishonorable
man; and did I not know that you were a coward, and that I
would disgrace myself by striking you, I would now take richly
-merited vengeance both for past and present insults !"

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.        175

"Psha, man !" said Montlack, in his usual mocking voice,
"I understand your feelings exactly, and have come prepared
for all such outbursts ! My visit, as I've already said, is purely
one of business; and as to my bravery or cowardice, that is not
the question; but I am most happy,-I assure you, that you have
determined to be peaceable; for," added the captain, significantly
touching the handle of a pistol in his bosom, "I have come
prepared either for peace or war, but would prefer the first, as
I have no desire to add murder to my other little sins."~
"Do not presume too much upon my patience !" said Bryan,
sternly ; "for by heavens a very little aggravation would make
me dash out your brains in spite of your weapons !"
md I do not wish or intend to presume upon my being armed,"
said Montlack, hurriedly, for he was somewhat alarmed at the
threatening look of his victim; "and only wish to make you a
fair and advantageous offer, which I trust you will accept; but
if you do not, then I will have no more to say, and will go away,
regretting the ill success of my mission !"
"You may go on, sir ! I am willing to hear you; but it may
be well enough to add," replied Bryan, looking him steadily in
the face, "that I place no confidence in anything you may
say or do, for you have already proved yourself a base hypo-
crite and traitor; and, still more, with the design to incarcerate
me in a dungeon, you have added to these the foul .crime of
perjury ! You can no longer deceive me, for I have no faith
either in your word or oath, and am therefore ready to hear,
what you may have to say !
"I have outgeneralled you  I'll acknowledge," said Mont-
lack, attempting to laugh off the heavy charges of Bryan; " but
you know all stratagems are fair in love or war .?
"I don't know or admit any such rule of conduct," remarked
Head, coldly; "for no mean or dishonorable .action is admissi-
ble either in love or war, or at any time, or under any circum-
stance; and there is no trite adage of the world more groundless
or untenable than the one you have just mentioned."
"Well, we won't discuss this matter now," replied Montlack;


176                  SIMON KENTON;
"and as you are not disposed to give me credit for any feeling
other than selfishness, I will at once to the design and intent.
of my present visit."
"Do so, and be as brief as possible," said Head, "for, to tell
you the truth, I am getting weary of your pointless hints and
allusions."
"Then to be candid" (Bryan smiled), "I have come," con-
tinued Montlack, "to liberate you, but upon condition that ou
swear to me to leave the country, and never again meet or cor-
respond with my cousin, Coma De Lacy! Don't start, as if
you thought my proposition a very grievous one; for, if you
will but look at it a moment, you'll see that by accepting my
offer you gain your freedom and lose nothing."
"Do you count the hand of your cousin nothing ?n
"It can be nothing to you, and certainly you have no hope
now of obtaining the hand of my cousin. Why, she looks upon
you, after what has occurred, with the utmost contempt, and
hates you all the more because -she once loved; and, besides,
if she loved you even as she did before she believed you a
base criminal,. the general would never consent to your nup.
trials "
"But'what if she, rebelling against the unjust tyranny'of
her father, say she will be mine without his consent?" said
Bryan.
"No danger of that; she has been too well drilled by the
old general to disobey orders," laughed Montlack. "But everf,
for argument's sake, admitting what you say to be true, still,-if
you remain here in confinement, of which there is but little,
doubt if you do not accept my offer, then there is and can be
no hope of your marriage."
" Hope is gone only with life," said Bryan.
"Bah !" continued Montlack; "a sentiment worthy only of
a lovesick boy. Look at this matter rationally, and you will
see at once that all hope of your success is now gone and for-
ever."

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.-177

' The past is beyond our reach ; but no man can speak for
the future," replied Bryan.
"In this case, the future will not be long," said Montlack,
" for in a week, by the consent of herself, I marry Coma; so
you might as well submit at once, agree to my terms, and hunt
out some other sweetheart, since this one is beyond your
reach."
"Have you anything more to say ?" asked Bryan, calmly.
" Only," replied Montlack, with a well satisfied look-for,
deceived by the calmness of Bryan, he considered success cer-
tain-" as you seem to be reasonable, and willing toedo what is
right, I will repay you the one thousand dollars borrowed, and
which I never intended to retain."
" Nothing more?" asked Head.
" Well! I am disposed to be liberal with you," replied the
captain, misunderstanding the tenor of Bryan's question; "and
as I have been the cause of your imprisonment, won't stand on
a few thousand more to put you all tight with the world
again.
"But my character ?" suggested Bryan. " You know I rest
under the charge of forgery?"
" Psha !" exclaimed Montlack ; u"nobody will ever inquire
respecting your character so long as you have plenty of money.
'Tis the poor devils whose character is always hunted out, and
not the rich."
"But why," asked Bryan, wishing to fathom, if possible,
his enemy's designs, "1are you so interested in my leaving the
country?  Would it not answer your purpose just as well
for me to continue in prison?"
"Just as well, so far as my marriage is concerned," replied
Montlack.
" Then why trouble yourself about my liberation ?"
"Don't you think I have some heart left? and that I would
naturally feel remorse at keeping an innocent man in prison,
when I had gained'my end? Besides," added Montlack, with
a quick glance at. the unmoved countenance of his rival, " Co-


w

SIMON KENTON;

ma has asked me, and I can deny her nothing, to use my
influence in sending you away out of the country, as it would
be very painful to her ever to meet you again."
"By heavens! captain," exclaimed Bryan, "you are indeed
a deep and cunning scoundrel! But you have deceived me
once, and can never do it again. I would be weak and foolish
to insanity to place confidence in the word of a man that had
willingly and intentionally committed perjury, and in every
way proved himself a base and unprincipled traitor ! Besides,
I know all that you have just spoken to be false; and that
Coma, at this very moment, hates and detests you; and, instead
of remembering me with scorn and contempt, has for me the
same esteem and confidence that she had before she had heard
your reckless and groundless slander."
"You had better put some rein upon your tongue," said
Montlack, menacingly, "or my patience may give way, and I
will leave you to die like a miserable dog in this cell ! For
the last time; "I now offer you liberty. Will you accept my
proposition, and go free ? or will you, like a maudlin fool,
refuse it, and remain forever the tenant of a dungeon ?"
"Neither," replied Bryan, emphatically; "I scorn your
offers, and defy your hatred ! I wil yet go forth from this
cell, and will again see Miss De Lacy, and trust, in spite of all
yoir opposition, and in spite of your treachery and defamation
some day to call her my own ! You have my answer and my
-determination; and I beg now to be freed from your loathsome
presence."
Chagrined at the defeat of his plans, and furious at the con-
fident prophecy of his rival, Montlack was 'about to pour forth
a volume of abuse and bitter mockery upon the head of Bryan,
when he was interrupted by the appearance of the jailer, and
compelled to remain silent.
At the command of the keeper, our hero, with his mind
intent upon executing his determined plan of escape, left his
cell and hurried away, scarcely noticing, as he passed out, the

179

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

scowling and malevolent countenance of his defeated and dis-
comfited enemy.
Bryan was received with a shout, and soont surrounded by
his fellow-prisoners, eager to behold another display of his
wonderful activity. "Shooting-Jacket" and his opponent were
clamorous for the immediate decision of their bet. Nothing
loath, our hero gave his ready assent, and immediately te
prison yard became boisterous with yells of applause and en-
couragement.  Bryan quietly stripped himself for the trial;
the jockey, after he had seen the rope placed at eight and a
half feet, lending his assistance.
" Now, my young antelope," said "4Shooting-Jacket," encou-
ragingly, "a bold effort for the rope; and then," he added, in
a lower tone, with a significant look, " a grand struggle for the
wall and liberty!"
Bryan started with terror at this unexpected remark of his
companion, and looked quickly around to see if any other ' d
noticed it; but the jockey, divining his thoughts, soon quieted
his fears by muttering, in a low voice-I        le   u
" Don't be uneasy, for no one suspects you. I smelled out
the game; but jum 's the word, and blast me if I ever'peach."
-Bryan grasped his hand, but said nothing.
A group of citizens, drawn hither by the report of Bryan's
wonderful activity, and of the trial to be made on this morn-
ing, stood inside the prison yard; and along with them, attracted
by the same curiosity, were most of the turnkeys and officers
of the establishment.
On his way out, Montlacl's attention was drawn to this un-
usual group; and when informed by the jailer the cause of their
presence, and of the excitement very apparent throughout the
yard, stopped and joined their company. His only design in
stopping was to exult over his victim, for he hoped that he
would fail in his attempt; or, what would be still more pleas-
ing to him, would break his neck, and thus free him forever of
his hated presence.
But his hopes and wishes were destined alike to meet wit

178


LOSIMON KENTON;
disappointment, for, at the word, Bryan bounded lightly for-
ward, and with a desperate effort cleared the rope!
A wild shout of applause greeted his success.
Montlack muttered an oath.
"Now for the wall!1" whispered the jockey, drawing near to
Bryan.
_ " Ay !now for the wall and liberty," was the low, but firm
reply.
"Don't try it," said one of the prisoners, looking at the rope,
now raised a half foot higher.
Bryan smiled; the jockey looked around knowingly; the
crowd of citizens and keepers drew nearer, and along with them
Montlack, now so confident of his hated rival's failure as to
offer a bet of fifty dollars, which was immediately taken by one
of the bystanders.
The signal given, Bryan raised his cap, and, looking with a
-smile into the scowling countenance of Montlack, shouted, "Au
revoir, Monsieur le Capitaine;" then springing forward, passed
under the rope, and with a mighty effort, to the amazement
of. every one but the jockey, cleared the wall, and was gone!
There was a moment of stupid wonder; then loud cries of
"Catch him !" mingled with the laughter and exultation of the
prisoners, and hurried movements of the keepers in pursuit;
but Montlack, furious at the escape of his hated rival, -had
already sprung upon his horse, and was urging him onward with
whip and spur, hoping to ride down the fugitive before he had
reached the woods.
It was an open, level space, some four hundred yards in
width, between the wall of the prison yard and the forest; and
the spectators, standing near the jail on the top of the cone-
shaped hill, could witness the entire chase--the flight and pur-
suit.
"Go it, my brave fellow !" shouted the jockey, throwing up
his hat; "once in the forest, and you are safe!"
" The captain is gaining on him I" exclaimed one of the
keepers.

V1

OR) THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.             181
It"I hope he'll escape," replied a citizen; a"for he's too gallant
a fellow to be cooped up in a dungeon."
"The captain is within fifty yards of him, and there's a hun-
dred to go yet!" exclaimed the jailer, exultingly.
"Damn that captainI" shouted one of the prisoners; "he
has drawn a pistol, and will fire at the boy."
"I hope not," said the jailer, "for I would rather see him
escape."
"If he does, I'll see that he is punished," exclaimed the
same citizen, in an excited tone, "for it will be a base and
cowardly murder."
But at this moment, when Montlack, with extended arm and
flashing eye, was levelling his pistol, the spectators around the
jail beheld a light puff of smoke sweep up from the skirt of
the forest, followed by the sharp report of a rifle ;' and simul-
taneously with the smoke and report, the gallant steed of the
pursuer dropped lifeless to the ground, hurling the person of
his rider far over his head.
"A good shot, that, by the devils" exclaimed the jockey.
"I'm sorry for the horse, but blast me if I don't hope the
damned captain has got his quietus!i"
"sHurrah !" shouted the prisoners; "he has escaped I"
" And I trust will never find his way back," said the sympa-
thizing citizen, preparing to follow the footsteps of the jailer,
now hurrying to the assistance of the luckless captain.
"Faith ! and -may your honor 'live a thousand years, and
never be without whiskey or praters !" shouted a merry Irish-
man.
"Why not wish him in heaven at once ?" laughed a by-
stander.
"I know all about whiskey and craters," said the Irishman,
good-humoredly, "hbut divil the bit about heaven; so I jist
made for him an Irish prayer; and may he never hear worse 1"
"I'll take that five !" said the jockey, in a quiet tone, as he
turned his eyes from the forest where the person of Bryan had
just vanished, to the countenance of his unlucky opponent.
16


182                 SIMON KENTON;      -
"Just drop me a line if you get it before I do," replied the
other, turning upon his heel and walking away..
"Shooting-Jacket" looked a. little confounded at this unex-
pected reply; but seeing no help for it, like a wise man, joined
in the laugh of his fellow prisoners against himself, and said
nothing more.
CHAPTER XVI,
A WEEK had passed since the escape of Bryan. During this
period, Duffe had been busily engaged preparing to move west.
The jailer, urged on by De Lacy and Montlack, had made some
slight effort to ferret out the fugitive; but, had met with no
success. Satisfied at length that Bryan, along with Kenton,
had fled the country, all parties rested at ease save the discom.
fited captain. The latter, sorely bruised in person, and morti-
fied in spirit, tossed about upon his weary bed, cursing his
rival; warning the general to keep a strict watch over Coma;
and, greatly troubled in mind lest the lovers might meet again,
and perhaps (that was the most galling thought of the schemer!),
without waiting the consent of her father, put an end to all of
his hopes and designs by a clandestine marriage.
But the captain was now so far recovered from his bruises as
to leave his bed, and so restless and uneasy had he become
that, in spite of the pain it gave him, had, called for his horse
and ridden to the village,,to make inquiries himself respecting
the fugitive.  etter satisfied by personal examination than
he had been by the reports of his uncle, Montlack was now on
his return to the mansion; when, at a sudden bend in the path
he was slowly pursuing, much to his astonishment, and with no
little trepidation, he found himself in the unwelcome presence
of Kenton. Touching his horse lightly, Montlack would have

OR, THE SCOUT' S REVENGE.           183
passed on without so much as a salutation; but Simon, with a
pleasant smile, barred his way, at the same time good-humoredly
exclaiming-
S"'Mazin' glad to see you, casting ; have been on the look-
gut ever since I hearn you had made up your mind to git well
agin; for blast me if I liked the idea. of leavin' this 'ere blessed
country without tellin' you good-by, and gittin' a lock of your
hair to 'member you when I got among the savages."
"I have had quite enough of your pleasantry, Mr. Kenton,
and would thank you to step out of the path, and let- me pass,"
replied Montlack, surlily.
"If it ar' all the same to you, casting," said the Scout, with-
out moving, "I am very well satisfied, and if you ain't, and
want to pass afore- Isay the'word, then you'll jist have to ride
over me, that's all!"
"Which I'll soon do," exclaimed Montlack, becoming en-
raged at the cool indifference of Kenton, "unless you give me
the road."
"This ar' a free country," said Kenton, with a low laugh,
as if amused at the thought, "and may-be you will-and may.-
be you won't; but darn me, if you try it, if I don't spile. the
figure-head of your horse like I did that ar' one the other
day !"
. " And to you I owe the death of my fine gray, and my own
bruises, do I?" said Montlack, savagely.
"Not -Zactly to me, but to old Betsy," said Kenton, tapping
his rifle; "but you ought. to be -darned glad, capting, that I'm
sich a good shot; for if it had been any other, the bullet might
have been in your head 'stead of your horse's; and cuss me if
I think it would have been much harm if it had. I thought
first, darn me if I didn't, casting, when I saw you draw  ur
pistol on Mr. Bryan, of aimin' at you, but eludedd it wer n't
right, as you didn't 'spect it, and so took the horse; and you
ought to be powerful much obliged to me, instead of gittin in
a passion."e-
" Clear the road, sir I" exclaimed Montlack, in a fury, at the

I


184                 SIMON KENTON;
eame time urging his horse a few paces nearer the unflinching
borderer; ."my course is in that direction, and I don't wish to
bandy further words with you."
"I reckon you've taken the wrong path, casting," said Ken-
ton, quietly, at the same time presenting his rifle, "for blast me,
if you come another step nearer, though I'd, be darned sorry to
kill so fine a critter, I'1 have to give you another tumble!"
"What do you mean by thus stopping me on the highway ?"
exclaimed Montlack, drawing back his horse. "I cannot con-
ceive your intention, unless you design robbery."
"It wouldn't be much wrong if I did, as you robbed Mister
Bryan; but Simon Kenton is no robber, and you need have no
fears for your purse."
"If you have anything to say to me, do so at-once, and let
me pass."
"I hain't got much to say, casting, for I ain't pertickler anx-
ious to talk with ,a feller what's. got nigger blood in him, and
a darned parjured scamp at that! All I want jist now is for
you to right 'bout face, as the Sargeant would say, and keep
that ar' path till I say stop., Jist be turning' your horse, will
you ?" added the Scout sternly, at the same time glancing his
eye up at the sun; "for we ain't got no time to spare, and go
you shall, for I'm 'termined on that!"
" Why do you wish me to turn back ?" said Montlack,
glancing uneasily at the stern and determined countenance of
Simon.
"Never mind 'bout that," replied Kenton; "you'll find it
out soon enough. You made me stand like a fool behind a
tree t'other day ; while you, like a 'tarnal nigger, slipped away!
I'm goin' to have my reyenge now, capting, and am after
talin' you to a weddin' whar thar'll be no dancing . So right
'bout face ! March ! For Sharp-Eye ain't going' to be fooled
twice by a cussed yaller Frenchman without takin' satisfaction!"
Seeing that Kenton was in earnest, Montlack had no other
course left hi~ but to obey, which he did with fear and trem- .
bling; for he 'elt in his own heart that he deserved the severest

c
'
t"
5
t
_
r
4
r
,
',
,'
f             '' '     "       \

OR; THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.            185
punishment at the hands of Bryan and his friends, and doubted
not he was now about to receive it. But the captain had not
ridden a hundred paces, followed closely by Kenton, before he
began turning over in his own mind the chances of escape by
a rapid and sudden flight;, and it seemed that Simon had fears
very near akin to the hopes of his captive, for suddenly, just'
as the captain had fully made up his mii4 to the dangerous
undertaking, Kenton called out in - a quick and peremptory
voice-
"Halt, Mister Capting! I'm of the 'pinion that we had
better change our plan of march."
Coming up to the side of Montlack, who had silently obeyed
this command, Simon drew from his shot-pouch a strong cord,
at the same time sternly ordering him to cross his hands; but the
captain, divining at once his intention, refused to submit to 0
degrading a request, and it was not until Kenton, levelling his
rifle, ordered him in a threatening voice to do as he was bid,
that he could bring himself to yield.
But between death and dishonor, the worthy captain, with a
worldly care for his person, had no thought of hesitating, so,
crossing his hands as he was bid, he quietly submitted to be
bound. His prisoner, secured to his entire satisfaction, Kenton,
drawing -the bridle-rein over his own arm, once more stalked
rapidly onward. Ever and anon, as he walked swiftly along
through the woods, the borderer would glance over his shoulder
at the rueful countenance of Montlack, giving utterance, as he
did so, to a low chuckle of delight. His secret cogitations,
judging from the. expression of his face, were decidedly of an
amusing character. But, without again halting, for, from his
frequent glances at the declining sun, he seemed to be in a
hurry, Kenton pursued the most direct route to the house of
Duffe, and very soon commanded a halt in front of the farm-
house.
Montlack, as he rode up, noticed several horses, fully
equipped, as if for a long journey; but he was not allowed
much time for observation; for Kenton, aiding him to dismount,
16*~


SIMON KENTON,

hurried him to the house, and, pushing in the door, exclaimed,
with a roguish look at the company--.
I hope the thing ain't over, for Capting Montlack is power-
ful anxious to see the weddin'."
The company addressed by Simon consisted of Duffe and
his wife, Bryai and Coma, a minister, and old Titus; and they
were on the eve of celebrating the rites of marriage, making
Bryan and Coma husband and wife, when they were interrupted
by the voice of Kenton and the unexpected appearance of Cap-
tam Jean!
It would be difficult to say who was the most surprised at
this unwelcome meeting---Bryan, Coma,- or the captain; and
for a moment each, of them stood eyeing the other in silent con-'
fusion, -the Scout during the time greatly enjoying their amaze-
..ent.
Why this intrusion ?" at length Bryan asked, 1oi
at Montlack, and then at Kenton.             on
"May the devil take me if I know!" muttered Montlack,
sullenly.
"Jist go on, Mr. Preacher; it ar' all right," said Simon,
still laughing; "this 'tarnal Frenehman fooled me t'other day,
and laughed at me; and I'm takin' my revenge! Go ahead!
I axed him to the weddin'! He's been parjurin' himself, and
doing' us all the harm he wer' able, and I'm now fulfillin' the
Scriptuire on him, old chap. You see I'm jist shovellin' hot
coals on hishead, by retarnin' good for evil; for, to pay him
for all his enmity, I've jist kindly invited him to the wedding ,
and as- he didn't like to come, have brought him  an-
i fare "heclamedalong ay
low.!
st Sgacre" ithexclaied Montlack, grinding his teeth, and,
ta gwith rage, "Ilhave revenge if it takes me a life-
time to obtain it!"
"Be easy, or you'll hurt your teeth !" said Kenton, with a
provoking smile.
"Mon Dieu !" groaned Montlack.
"Don't be savage, capting," said the Scout, "for I'm jist

OR THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.       17

gittin' even with you foi that little trick you played me t'other
day.. I reckon -I felt a little of the cheapest when I crept
round that ar' darned tree backwards, spectin' every moment
to hear from you, and found that you were gone. But I guess
now you jist feel a drafted sight cheaper, when you find, after
alli your lyin', and swearin', and cussed rascality, that Mister
Bryan is goin' to marry Miss Coma !"
No pen could describe the rage and fury of the baffled and
defeated schemer, when he fully discovered the intention of the
parties now gathered in the house of Duffe; and Bryan, feel-
ing that the harmless revenge of Simon was no nore than a
righteous punishment for his treachery, with a smile at the
borderer's strange manner of taking satisfaction, ordered the
minister to proceed with the ceremony.
Amidst the curses and revilingsof the captain, Bryan and
Coma were pronounced man and wife; and when the ceremony
had been fully completed, Kenton, stepping forward, with a low
mocking bow to Montlack, exclaimed-
"I guess, capting, he's Head this time ?"
"rAnd I swear, by the eternal God, shall yet be Headless!"
shouted, Montlack, his countenance distorted with fury and
malevolence.
Bryan and Coma heard this ominous prophecy of Captain
Jean; but thought nothing of it then, for they considered it
only a harmless and senseless threat of their disappointed
enemy; but in after years this last greeting of her treacherous
cousin was brought back sadly""and -horribly to the memory of
poor Coma, and the consequences of honest Simon's harmless
revenge were bitter and terrible indeed !
But~they were married; and their worst foe had been an
unwilling witness to their happiness. , They could not, and did
not wish him a severer punishment.
Prepared for immediate departure, Bryan and Coma, the Ser-
geant and his wife, and old Titus and the minister, made no
unnecessary delay, but mounting their horses, after a lingering
look at' old scenes, turned their faces towards the setting sun.

I    .-4

.
{,;
, ,
{
'
'
u
_'
.  .  _                              t
r  ,

186


188                 SIMON KENTON;
They were gone! Bryan sought a new home in the West;
and Coma, trusting in his love, deserted father and home, and
followed her husband!
There were no steamboats then; and no railroads, not even
wagon-tracks, leading west; and where thousands and thousands
hurry along now, in carriages, wagons, stages, 'railcars and
steamers, all speeding with eager cares or hopes to the great
valley of the Mississippi--them, only here and there, and at
very rare intervals, would you meet with brave and hardy
pioneers, slowly winding their dangerous and toilsome way, on
foot, or at best mounted on horseback, to the bloody hunting-
grounds of the Indian!
The little party, now but started upon their perilous jour-
ney, fully knew the danger and hardships they would be com-
pelled to undergo ere they reached the beautiful cane lands
described by Kenton. Yet,-they had made up their minds to
risk and dare all, hoping at last to find a happy home! All
their worldly goods were packed on a few led horses; and Co-
ma, the child of fortune and luxury, rich in the love of him
she had chosen, forgot all the comforts of civilization; while-she-
hurried with -a glad smile, and buoyant with glorious hopes,
through the sombre forest, to embrace all the privations and
perils of a semi-savage land! Hers was a love,'not of sunshine,
and plenty, and wealth; but the rich confiding outpourings of
an artless, a trusting, and devoted heart. And Bryan felt and
fully appreciated the inestimable value of the rich jewel he had
gathered. He knew the sacrifice she was making, and with a
glistening eye looked proudly upon her graceful person as she
rode by his side; vowing, in his own heart, that she should
never know sorrow, or. danger, or want, so long as he had a
tongue to soothe, a heart to love, or'an arm 'to defend and sup-
port.
Kenton stood in, the deserted doorway of Duffe's cottage,
watching the departure of his friends; and when they were
about to glide from his' sight, with a' loud cheer he waved 'them
onward to his loved "FKaintuck."  .. ..

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.            189
The sergeant, drawing rein, returned the borderer's shout
with a military touch of the cap;. Coma greeted it with a wave
of her snowy hand ; Mrs. Duffe wept in silence; Bryan, rising
in his stirrups, took off his hat ; old Titus gave an answering
shout; and the minister, with a devout look to heaven, mur-
inured-" Amen1"
They were gone!
*       *      *       *      *       *
"I guess, capting," said the Scout, moving from the door,
and standing before Montlack, "that was about the beautifulest
sight I ever saw. I wish you had seen her, and -how bravely
she turns her face west, and how loving she rides by the side
of Mister Bryan, and how proud he looks. Blast me if it
wouldn't cure sore eyes;just to see 'em !"
"She'll be sick enough of her bargain before another year
rolls round," sneered Montlack, "and will have but fe sweet
words for him that persuaded her to so silly a step. How do
you think she'll enjoy the privation of a rough frontier life ?
Eh !,Captain Kenton, I guess she won't think .you then as
good, and honest, and truthful as you and your. snivelling
friend would have her now believe."
"Don't trouble yourself 'bout Miss Coma," replied the Scout,
eyeing the captain anything but pleasantly; "I guess she'll be
happy enough, as much so, at any rate, as if she had remained
here with that grand old daddy of her'n ; and your own beau-
tiful self. She won't have sich a great house out in. Kain-
tuck, and so many servants, and. sich fine furniture, and all
sich stuff, but she'll never want venison, and bear-meat, and
buffalo so long as Sharp-Eye can raise old Betsy; and blast me
if I don't jist make her carpets and beds of furs every bit as
costly and comfortable as the cussed stuck-up consarns you've
got in this 'ere country."
"A very inviting home, indeed," said Montlack, mockingly,
for he discovered that Simon was somewhat touchy on this
point, and wished to aggravate him as much as possible. "She
will be highly delighted, I have no doubt, eating fat bear-meat,


OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

and sleeping on greasy bear-skins, and willnever think of linen
sheets and feathers again! lHa! ha!'" he laughed; "to what a
glorious home your friend will carry his daintily-raised bride!
How happy she'll be in her nice log cabin, with the inter
ad refined society she will meet there."             g
"She'll not be so bad off for comforts as you think," retorted
Simon, "for Sally and Mr. Bryan have managed to take with
them many of them ar' little woman contraptions you speak
on ; and thar's Titus and me who'll fix up all things snug,
and .gather flowers, and grapes, and fruits, and make Miss
Coma happy enough in her new home. If we ain't so high
larnt and refined out thar as you folks in the old country, we
are honest and kind, and that ar' a darned sight more than can
be said of you. And if the worst comes, and Miss Coma has
to sleep on a bear-skin bed," added the bordered with dignity,
"she'll not be the first fair damsel that has done it, and.will
be happier thar in her log cabin, with the love of an honest
and brave man, than she would have been in the big house,
with silks and satins, forever parsecuted by sich a- cowardly
sneakin':villain as you are."
" Oh, no doubt of it," replied Montlack, no little ruffled by
the unpolished bluntness of his captor, at the same time
{moving uneasily in his seat, for his hands were confined un-
comfortably tight, and pained him; "but let her go, and to the
devil, for aught I care." '
"Don't forgit your education, capting, and that ar' refine-
ment you wer' talkin' about just now," said Sim'on, recovering
his good-humor with the increasing uneasiness and passion of
Montlack.
" A thousand devils take you !" exclaimed Montlack,
furiously. "fHow long do you intend to keep me here tied in
this manner?"
"One devil will do," replied Kenton, enjoying Montlack's
ill-humor; "and I guess I'll jist keep you till Mister Bryan
is beyond all pursuit- then I'll take a lock of your hair to
give to your friend Simon Girty for the scalp-lock I intend to

SIMtON KENTON;

190

take from him, and then, with your permission, capting, I'll
jist leave you to be hunted out by the general."
" You are a devil incarnate," hissed Montlack, (and have
it all your own way now; but my time will come, and I'll
have revenge."
"Don't be a cussin' so, for it ar' wrong, capting ; and be
patient, for thar's nothin' like patience," said Simon, philo-
sophically. "I wer' once jist like you; had no patience in the
world; wer' always breakin' out in a passion, and fightin', and
cussin', and doin' all sorts of foolish things; but I got cured at
last, and I'll tell you how it wer' fotched about, fof it will help
us to pass off the time, and ,may be of some benefit to you,
casting. I wer' a young man at the time, and all fire and pas-
sion, like most young fellers, and it wer' my first trip West.
I got on one of them ar' flatboats at Pittsburgh, and wer' going'
down the Ohio River in it; and when I got to my landin'-
place, they were sendin' me out in a canoe; and .to push clear
of the boat, I jist cotched hold of one of them long sweep
oars, lying out in the water, when a wag on board, seeing' I had
hold on it, placed his hands on t'other end, and without a word
lifted me plump out into the water."
"_And I wish. he had left you there," thought Montlack ;
but he did not give expression to his thoughts.
"I had on my best togs, captings" continued Simon, "and
maybe I wer'n't mtd, and cussed, and raved, hang' on ,to
that ar' oar up to my neck in water. But it wer'n't no use
at all; for the villain, when I wer' about half drowned, jist
bore down on the oar agin, and then up he raised me to drip ;
and as I wer' in a pertickler bad humor, and continued to cuss
and rave, and threaten him, without, more ado he jist let me
down in the water agin, and when I sorter cooled off, for it
were plaguy cold in January, then he would hoist me up agin
to dry. It wer' darned provokin', capting, and no mistake,
and tried my patience 'mazin'ly. But no sooner would I drip
a little than my patience would give way, and once more I'd
commence cussin' and swearin' like mad, and down he'd drop

191


192                  SIMON KENTON;
me into the water, and blast me, casting, if he didn't keep up
his dipping' and drippin' till I got as cool as a cucumber, had
no more spunk than a 'possum, lost my passion altogether, and
become as patient as a lamb, and they do say it ar' the most
all-fired patient critter livin'. I hain't been the same man
since that duckin'; never git into a passion now, and have
lots and squares of patience. Cuss me if I wer'n't cured
effectually; and I'd recommend you, capting, if you ever go a
fatboatin', to jst try the 'speriment. It works like a charm,
this cold water cure, both on dogs and men."
"I want 'one of your advice," said Montlack, surlily; "but
if you have one spark of humanity left in your brutal breast,
you will loose this cord from my hands. It is very painful."
Not in the least; you must.bemistaken, capting, for I'm
jist up to all sich things as that, and with my hands tied as
'beautiful as your'n could lay down and sleep like a baby.
Why, darn me if the Ingens didn't once keep me a week stretched
out at full length upon my back, with my arms bound down to
a pole, put under my head for a pillar, and my legs spread out
and tied to two saplin's, like a coon-skin put out to dry. I
'knowledge it wer' pretty hard at first, but I soon got used to
it, and spent my time lookin' up nt the stars, or sleepin' like a
turtle on a log. Blame me if it wer'n't rather good for me,
for I thought more of heaven then than I ever did afore or
since.
"My God! you are a fiend thus to torture me !" exclaimed
Montlack, with a groan, and struggling to burst his bonds.'
"Torture you, capting ? Why, you're jokin'. If the Shawa-
nees had you tied to a stake, like they had n'ie once, and wer' to
muse themselves throwin' tomahawks at your head, and touchin'
you up with burnin' coals, and shootin' arrows into you, thar
might be some sense in your talkin' 'bout torture ! But to
hear a feller sittin' comfortably in a house, jist 'cause his hands
ai't in his lap, 'stead of being' behind his back, talk of torture-
it's enough to make a dog laugh ! Ain't- it, Bang ?"
Bang showed his teeth, as if highly amused with such an

OR, THlE SOOUT'S RJEVENGE.13
absurdity; and his master, as if struck with the silliness of
Montlack's complaints, laughed outright.
Stepping to the door, the Scout looked out a moment on the
gathering night, then, a if satisfied with the result of his obser-
vation, returned again to the presence of his prisoner, saying-
"Well, Mister Montlack, we'll have to part company now!
I guess by this time Mr. Bryan is far enough on his way, and
nobody will be huntin' you to-night. The gineral thinks
Miss Coma at Hillsborough, and, I dare say, 'spects 'you are
thar too: so I'll be off, and leave you here to cogitate over
your defeated schemes, and to come to' the conclusion 'that
honesty ar' the best policy after all."'
"You will not leave me-bound in this manner?" said Mont-
lack, beseechingly.
"Not 'zactly; for I intend to put your feet in the same fix;
and then fasten them to that ar' post!S I wouldn't do it, cap-
ting," added Kenton, with some appearance of coinmisettion,
"but I don't want you to be cousin' the neighborhood, and'
common' after us afore we git outer all danger."
"Loose my hands, and let.me go, and I swear to you I will
alarm no one, and make nopursuit," exclaimed Montlack, at
the same time ruefully eyeing the cord Kenton had just taken
from his pouch.
"Can't trust you, capting; for you've parjured yourself
already, and ar' 'bout the darndest liar I ever met with."
Finding his captor immovable, Montlack submitted to iis
fate; pouring forth, however, a stream of impotent oaths and
threats, which the borderer received very quietly, merely re-
marking, when about to depart-
"To tell the truth, capting, it goes agin my nature' to leave
you in this 'ere pickle; and you might go, if my own *safety
wer' all that wer' at stake; but as it taint, you'll jist have to
take your fate and look for liberation to the gineral. I've no
doubt he'll be huntin' after you and Miss Coma, to-morrow.
The gal he won't find; but you can tell him whar she's gone;
I          17

m


195

OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.

an4 you, capting, I guess he'll find right here,'less you do like
that ar' Mister Samson I once hearn tell on, and he, wer' a
poweful strong one--jist walk off with that ar' post! But
afore I go, capting, I must say that this 'ere what you suffer
now ain't no more than you desarve for your treachery; and
I'm a hopin' it may be a lesson to you, and that you'll never
agin 'tempt. to ruin the character of an innocent man to git
his sweetheart!"
Moutlack groaned with pain and despair, and could not, for
the life of him, determine whether the Scout intended this
homily for a joke or a sermon.
" I'm even with you now, casting," continued Simon, with
a slight twinkle of humor about they, "for that ar' little
trick you played me; and  ou'lnow jist tell me," he added,
with much a a       -vi vt, "whether you've got any nigger
tlood in be etarnally obligated"
DWtlt k muttered an oath.
"od.b     shouted Kenton, and, whistling Bang, the wild
borderer was gone.! The semi-savage had turned his face to-
wards the "perilous, but;loved hunting-groundg of the west.
is was a soul of bravery, and honesty, untutored, unrestrained,
and, unpolished, it is true; scorning the law and its formalities,
but not lawless; despising the refinements and luxuries of civili-
zation,. but nevertheless kind, and gentle, and noble; ignorant
of hypocrisy and treachery, and drawing all of his wild notions
and emotions from the grand works of Nature alone !
But the ,child of fortune and refinement--the offspring of
education and civilization, corrupted and degraded by vice and
selfishness-remained behind, bound hand and foot, cursing
himself, his God, and the world; and during the weary hours
of that long and dreary night, pouring forth his blasphemies
and impotent, threats, and dreaming, as the hot blood flowed
through his heated brain, of bloody and horrible vengeance!
We leave him, a prey to his own wicked thoughts! If he has
not already suffered sufficiently, he will do so ere he beholds

.,

f~

the welcome light of another day, or catches the still more wel-
come tread of those coming to liberate him from his painful
bondage.
Au revoQr, Captain Jean Montlack !
Adieu to Civilization!
Farewell to the Farm-house!
" O'er thy walls
A joyless, sunless, darkness falls,
And horror holds his hateful reign."

SDEARn    E        2f ou would follow  ryan and his bride
to their "fort                 k and   lop y Ground," and
would learn the fate of th hnest        e bold Scot, and
faithful Titus, you may do so, at nove         in a vol-
ume entitled "The Winter Lodge; or Vow  ulfiich
ntended as a sequel to the present story, will lead you
sadand also many pleasant scenes, and many scenes
wl ad stirring interest-such as were ever coupled with, and
attendant upon a lifefrontier in the early days of Ken-
tuky.
THlE AUTHOR.

* The "Winter Lodge ; or Vow Fulfilled," is in press.
PUBLISHER.

THE END.

I

,194

SIMON KENTON;,


'    r

-  'r4i'  "  Y'  ''  1  .   i.'F  t   yi{   r 7 tp k 3

CATALOGUE
OF
VALUABLE BOOKS,
PUBLISHED BY
LIPIN         OTT, GIRAMBO &amp; Co.,
(SUCCESSORS TO GRIGG, ELLIOT &amp; CO.)
NO. 14 NORTH FOURTH STREET, PHILADELPHIA;
CONSISTING OF A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF
Bibles, Prayer-Books, Commentaries, Standard Poets,
MEDICAL, THEOLOGICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKS, ETC.,
PARTICULARLY SUITABLE FOR
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE LIBRARIES.
FOR SALE BY BOOKSELLERS AND COUNTRY MERCHANTS GENERALLY THROUGH
-,OUT TE UNITED STATES.
THE BEST &amp; MOST COMPLETE FAMILY COMMENTARY.
The Comprehensive Commentary on the Holy Bible;
u      H'JONTAINING
THE TEXT ACCORDING TO THE AUTHORIZED VERSION,
4,OTT'S MARGINAL REFERENCES; MATTHEW HENRY'S COMMENTARY,
CONDENSED, BUT RETAINING EVERY USEFUL THOUGHT ; THE
PRACTICAL OBS OVATIONS OF REV. THOMAS SCOTT, D. D.;
wait~ExTENSIVE
EXPLANATORI14CRITICAL AND PHILOLOGICAL NOTES,
Selected from Scott,o'ddridge, Gill, Adam Clarke, Patrick, Poole, Lowth,
Border, Hhrmer, Calmet, Roseniueller, Bloomfield, Stuart, Bush, Dwight,
and many other writers on theScriptures,
The whole designed to be a digest and combination of the advantages of
the best Bible Commentaries, and embracing nearly all that is valuable in
HENRY, SCOTT, AND DODDRIDGE.
Conveniently arranged forfamily and private reading, and, at the same time,
particularly adapted to the wants of Sabbath-School Teachers and Bible
Classes ; with nurnerous useful tables, and a neatly engraved Family Record.
Edited by Rev. WILLIAM J.ENK, D.D.,
PASTOR OF GREEN sTREET CHURCH, BOSTON.
Embellished with five portraits, and other elegant engravings, from stee'
plates; with several maps and many wood-cuts, illustrative of Scripture
Manners, Customs, Antiquities, &amp;c. In 6 mole. super-royal 8vo.
Including Supplernent, bound in cloth, sheep, calf, &amp;c., varying in
.Price from $10 to $15.
The whole forming the most valuable as well as the cheapest Commentary
published i i the wn-I,


LIPPINCOTT,,GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
NOTICES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE COMMENTARY.
The Publishers select the following from the testimonials they have received
as to the value -of the work:
We, the subscribers, having examined the Comprehensive Commentary, issued from the press of
Messrs. L..G. &amp; Co., and highly approving its character, would cheerfully and confidently recom-
mendaiteas' containing more matter and- more advantages than any other with which we are
acquainted; and considering the expense incurred, and, the excellent manner of its mechanical
execution, we believe it to be one of the cheapest works ever issued from the press. We hope the
publishers will be sustained by a liberal patronage, in their expensive and useful undertaking. We
should be pleased to learn that every family in the United States had procured a copy.
B. B. WISN ER, D. D., Secretary of Am. Board of Corn, for For. Missions.
WM. COGSWELL, D. D.,,            " Education Society,
JOHN CODMAN, D. D., Pastor of Congregational Church, Dorchester.
Rev. HUBBARD WINSLOW,               "         "   Bowdoin street, Dorchester.
Rev. SEWALL HARDING, Pastor of T. C. Church, Waltham.
Rev. J. H. FAIRCHILD, Pastor of Congregational Church, South Boston.
GARDINER SPRING, D. D., Pastor of Presbyterian Church, New York city.
CYRUS MASON, D. D.,         " -         "               e             -
THOS. M'AULEY, D. D.,-      H     a             .      .
JOHN WOODBRIDGE, D. D., H               "              r
THOS. DEWITT, D. D.,        "      Dutch Ref.   "      4       e"
R. W. BALDWIN, D. D.,       "                           a
Rev. 3. M. M'KREBS,                Presbyterian  a      '
Rev. ERSKINE 4MASoN1,       a         ..     a                a
Rev. J. S. SPENCER,                             "    Brooklyn.
EZRA STILES ELYD D., Stated Clerk of Gen. Assemn. of Presbyterian Church.
MON, VI'D0WBLL, D. 1., Permanent"
JOHN BRECKENRIDGE, Corresponding Secretary of Assembly's Board of Eduestiem
SAMUEL B. WYLIE, D. D., Pastor of the Reformed Presbyterian Church.
N. LORD, J). D., President of Dartmouth College.
JOSHUA BATES, D. D., President of Middlebury College,
H. HUMPHREY, D. D.,      4       Amherst College.
E. D. GRIFFIN, D. D.,    "       Williamstown College.
J. WHEELER, D. D.,               University of Vermont, at Burlington,
J. M. MATTHEWS, D. D., "         New York City University.,
GEORGE E. PIECE, . D.,M         WesternaReserve College, Ohio,
Rev. Dr. BROWN,          "       Jefferson College, Penn.
LEONARD WOODS, D. D., Professor of Theology, Andover Seminary.
THOS.H. SINNIER, D.D.,      "   ' Sac.Rhet.  '
Rev. RALPH EMERSON,         "       Ecch Hist . "      "
Rev. JOEL PARKER,,Pastor of Presbyterian Church, New Orleans.
JOEL HAWES, D. D.,' "       Congregational Church, Hartford, Conn.
N. S. S. BEAMAN, D. D., " Presbyterian Church, Troy, N. Y.
MARK TUCKER,-D. D., M                     4 a     u d
Rev. E. N. KIRK,      "          "        "   AlbanyN.Y.
Rev. E. B. EDWARDS, Editor of Quarterly Observer.
Rev. STEPHEN MASON,:Pastor First'Congregational Church, Nantucket.
Rev. ORIN FOWLER,        "    "                       Fall River.
GEORGE W. BETHUNE, D. D., Pastor of the First Reformed Dutch Church, Pie ilar..
Rev. LYMAN BEECHER, D. D., Cincinnati, Ohio.
Rev. C. D). MALLORY, Pastor Baptist Church, Augsta, Ga.
Rev. S. M. NGZI4      "     "      "    Frankfort, Ky.
From the Prqfessors at Princeton Thieological Seminary,.
The Comprehensive Commientary contains the whole of Henry's Exposition in a condensed form,
scott's Practical Observations and Marginal References,.and a large number of very valuable philo-
logical and critical notes, selected from various authors. The work appears to be executed wita
judgment, fidelity, and care ; and will fiurnish a rich treasure of scriptural knowledge to the
Biblical student, and to the teachers of Sabbath-Schools and Bible Classes.
A. -ALEXANDER, D. D).
SA MUEL MILLER, D. I.
CHARLER HODGE, D). D
2

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
In one. super-royal volume.
DESIGNED TO ACCOMPANY
THE FAMILY B I BLE
OR HENRY'S, SCOTT'S, CLARKE'S, GILL'S, OR OTHER COMMENTARIES.
CONTAINING
1. A new, full, and complete Concordance;
Illustrated with monumental, traditional, and oriental engravings, founded on Butterworth's, with
Cruden's definitions; forming, it is believed, on many accounts, a more valuable work than either
Butterworth, Cruden, or any other similar book in the language.
The value of a Concordance is now generally understood ; and those who have used one, con-
sider it indispensable in connection with the Bible.
2. A Guide to the Reading ,and Study of the Bible;
being Carpenter's valuable Biblical Companion, lately published in London, containing a complete
history of the Bible, and forming a most excellent introduction to its study. It embraces the evi-
dences of Christianity, Jewish antiquties, manners, customs, arts, natural history, &amp;c., of the Bible,
with notes and engravings added.
3. Complete       Biographies of Henry, by Williams;i Scotty                          s
son; Doddridge, by Orton;
with sketches of the lives and characters, and notices of the works, of the writers on the Scriptures
who are quoted in the Commentary, living and dead, American and foreign.
This pa tf tho:olume not only affords a large quantity of interesting and useful reading for
pious families, but ill also be a source of gratification to all those who are in the habit of consult-
ing the Commentary ;every one naturally feeling a desire to know some particulars of the lives and
characters of those whose opinions he seeks. Appended to this part, will be a
BIBLIOTHECA BIBLICA,
or list of the best works on the Bible, of all kinds, arranged under their appropriate heads.
4. A complete Index of the Matter contained in the Bible Text.
5. A Symbolical Dictionary.
A very comprehensive and valuable Dictionary of Scripture Symbols, (occupying about Afty-niz
closely printed pages,) by Thomas Wemyss, (author of "Biblical Gleanings," &amp;c.) Comprising
Daubuz, Lancaster,'Hutcheson, &amp;c.
6. A The Work contains. several other Articles,
Indexes, Tables, &amp;c. &amp;c., and is,
7. Illustrated by a large Plan of Jerusalem,
identifying, as far as tradition, &amp;c., go, the original sites, drawn on the spot by F. Catherwood, of
London, architect. Also, two steel engravings of portraits of seven foreign;and eight American
theological writers, and numerous wood engravings.
The whole forms a desirable and necessary fund of instruction for the use not only of clergymen
and Sabbath-school teachers, but also for families. When the great amount of matter it must
contain is considered, it will be deemed exceedingly cheap.
" I have examined ' The Companion to the Bibl' adhave been surprised to find so much inform-
ation introduced into a volume of so moderate a size. It contains a library of sacred knowledge
and criticism. It will be useful to ministers who own large librariesaRY cano fai tobea
invauabe hlp o eery eadr o th Bile. Pastor of Congregational Church, Vermont.
The above work can be had in several styles of binding. Price varying
from $1 75 to $5 00.

Ii

I

1
t
i


LIPPINCOTT, GRAM3O &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES,
ID one super-royal volume.
DERIVED PRINCIPALLY FROM THE MANNERS, CUSTOMS, ANTIQUITIES, TRADITIONS,
AND FORMS OF SPEECH, RITES, CLIMATE, WORKS OF ART, AND
LITERATURE OF THE EASTERN NATIONS:
EMBODYING ALL THAT IS VALUABLE IN              THE WORKS OF
ROBERTS, HARiVER, MURDER, PAXTON, CHANDLER,
And the most celebrated oriental travellers. Embracing also the subject of the Fulfilment of
Prophecy, as exhibited by Keith and others; with descriptions of the present state
of countries and places mentioned in the Sacred Writings.
ILLUSTRATED BY NUMEROUS LANDSCAPE ENGRAVINGS,
FROM. 8 KETCHES TAKEN ON THE SPOT,
Edited by Rev. GEORGE BUSH
Professor of Hebrew and Oriental Literature in the New York City University.
The importance of this work must be obvious, and, being altogether illustrate, without reference
to doctrines, or other points in which Christians differ, it is hoped it will meet with favour from all
who love the sacred volume, and that it will be sufficiently interesting and attractive to recommend
tselfnot only-to professed Christians of all denominations, but also to the general reader. The
arrangement of the texts illustrated with the notes, in the order of the chapters and verses of the
authorized v ion of the Bible,; will render it convenient for reference to particular passages;
while the cpio  ier at the end will at once enable the reader to turn to every subject discussed
in the volume. n
This volume is not designed to fake the place of Commentaries, but is a distinct department of biblical
instructon, and mae be used as a companion to the Comprehensive or any other .Commentary, or the
Holy Bible.                                                             a     tro    h
THE ENGRAVINGS
In this volume, it is believed, will form no small part of its attractions. No pains have been
to procure such as should embellish the work, and, at the same time, illustrate the text. Obec-
tions that have been made to the pictures commonly introduced into the Bibl, as being mete crea-
tions of fancy and the imagination, often unlike nature, andfrequentlycoveing false impressions,
cannot-be urged against the pictorial illustrations of this volume. Here ;the fine arts are made
subservient to utility, the landscape views being, without an exception, matter-of-fact views of places
mentioned in Scripture, as they appear at the present day; thus in many instances exhibiting, in the
most forcible manner, to the eye, the strict and literal fulfilment of the remarkable prophecies ; " the
. present ruined and desolate coditio of the cities of Babylon, Nineveh, Sela, &amp;c., and the coun-
tries of Edom and Egypt, are astonishing examples, and so completely exemplify, in the most
minute particulars, every thing which was foretold of them in the height of their prosperity, that
no better description can now be given of them than a simple quotation from a chapter and verse
of the Bible written nearly two or three thousand years ago." The publishers are enabled to select
fromseveral collections lately published in London, the proprietor of one of which says thatk"sew.
ral distinguished traveller. have afforded him the use of nearly Three Hundred Original. Sketches"
of Scripture places, made upon the spot, " The land of Palestine, it is well known, abounds in
scenes of the most pictaresgue beauty. Syria comprehends the snowy heights of Lebanon, and the
majestic ruins of Tadmor and Baalbec."
The above work can be had in various styles of binding.
Price from $1 50 to $5 00-
TEJILUSTRATED CONCORDANCE
S    I   one volnune, royal 8v        -.
A new, full, and complete Concordance; illustrated with monumental, traditionl adoinl
engravings, founded on Butterworth's, with Cruden's defiiins  .mng  ti bele, n  mainay
accounts, a more valuable work than either Butterworth, Cruden, or any other similar book In the
languae-
The value of a Concord    isance Isnow generally understood; and those who have used one, con-
sider It indispensable in connection with the Bible. Som  of the  ayavnae  h   lutae
'~oeeganc ha ovral th oters, are, that it contains near two hundred appropriate engravings:
iIsprinted on fine white paper, with beautiful large type.
Price One Dollar.
4

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
LIPPINCOTT'S EDITION OF
BABSTER'S. COMPREHE                                  SIVE BIBLE.
In order to develope the peculiar nature of the Comprehensive Bible, it will only be necessary
to embrace its more prominent features.
1st. The SACRED' TEXT is that of the Authorized Version, and is printed from the edition cor-
rected and improved by Dr. Blaney, which, from its accuracy, is considered the standard edition.
2d. The VARIOUS READINGS are faithfully printed from the edition of Dr. Blaney, inclusive
of the translation of the proper names, without the addition or diminution of one.
3d. In the CHRONOLOGY, great care has been taken to fix the date of the particular transao-
tions, which has seldom been done with any degree of exactness in any former edition of the Bible.
4th. The NOTES are exclusively philological and explanatory, and are not tinctured with senti-
ments of any sect or party. They are selected from the most eminent Biblical critics and com-
mentators.
It is hoped that this edition of the Holy Bible will be found to contain the essence of Biblical
research and criticism, that lies dispersed through an immense number of volumes.
Such is the nature and design of this edition of the Sacred Volume, which, from the various
objects it embraces, the freedom of its pages from all sectarian peculiarities, and the beauty, plain-
ness, and correctness of the typography, that it cannot fail of proving acceptable and useful to
Christians of every denomination.
In addition to the usual references to parallel passages, which are quite full and numerous, the
student has all the marginal-readings, together with a rich selection of Philological, Critical, Histo-
rical, Geographical, and other valuable notes and remarks, which explain and illustrate the- sacred
text. Besides the general introduction, containing valuable essays on the genuineness, authenticity,
and inspiration of the Holy Scriptures, and other topics of interest, there are introductory and con-
cluding remarks to each book-a table of the contents of the Bible, by which the different portions
are so arranged as to read in an historical order.
Arranged at the top of each page is the period in which the prominent events of sacred history
took place. The calculations are made for the year of the world before and after Christ, Julian
Period, the year of the Olympiad, the year of the building of Rome, and other notations of time.
At the close is inserted a Chronological Index of the Bible, according to the computation of Arch-
bishop Ussher. Als, a full and valuable index of the subjects contained in the Old and New Testa-
ments, with a careful analysis and arrangement of texts under their appropriate subjects.
Mr. Greenfield, the editor'of this work, and for some time previous to his death the superintend-
ent of the editorial department of the British and Foreign Bible Society, was a most extraordinary
man. In editing the Comprehensive Bible, his varied and extensive learning was called into suc-
cessful exercise, and appears in happy combination with tincera piety and a sound judgment. The
Editor of the Christian Observer, alluding to this work, in an obituary notice of its author, speaks
of it as a work of "prodigious labour and research, at once exhibiting his varied talents and pro-
found erudition."
LIPPINCOTT'S EDITION OF
THE OXFORD QUA RTO BIBLE,
The Publishers have spared neither care nor expense in their edition of the Bible; it is printed
en the finest white vellum paper, with large and beautiful type, and bound in the most substantial
and splendid manner, in the following styles: Velvet, with richly gilt ornaments; Turkey super
extra, with gilt clasps; and in numerous others, to suit the taste of the most fastidious.
OPINIONS OF TH E PRESS..
'in our opinion, the Christian public generally will feel under great obhligations to the publishers
of this work for the beautiful taste, arrangement, and delicate neatness with which they have got
it out. The intrinsic merit of the Bible recommends itself; it needs no tinsel ornament to adorn
its sacred pages. In this edition every superfluous ornament has been avoided and we have pre-
seated us a prfectly chaste specimen of the Bible, without note or comment. it appears to be just
what is needed in every famil-'the unsophisticated word of God.'
" The size is quarto, printed with beautiful type, on white, sized vellum paper, of the finest texture,
and most beautiful surface. The publishers seem to have been solicitous to make a perfectly
unique book, and they have accomplished the object very successfully. We trust that a liberal
community will afford them ample remuneration for all the expense and outlay they have necessary&amp;
rily incurred in its publication. It is a standard Bible.
" The ublishers are Messrs. Lippincott, Grambo &amp; Co., No.14 North Fourth street, PhdladeL-
phia."-- Bast Record.
"A beautiful quarto edition of the Bible, by L., G. &amp; Co. Nothing can exceed the typ in clear
ness and beauty ; the paper is of the finest texture, and the whole execution is exceedingy neat.,
No illustrations or ornamental type are used. Those who prefer a Bible executed in perfect sim-
plicity, yetoelegance of style, without adornment, will probably never find one more to their taste "
- M. Magaie.~
A * 5


LiPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
LIPPINCOTT'S EDITIONS OF
THE HOLY BIBLE,
SIX    DIFFERENT          SIZES,
Printed in the best manner, with beautiful type, on the finest sized paper, and bound in the most
splendid and substantial styles. Warranted to be correct, and equal to the best English editions, at
much less price. To be had with or without plates; the publisher having supplied themselves with
over fifty steel engravings, by. the first artists.
Baxter's Comprehensive Bible,
Royal quarto, containing the various readings and marginal notes; disquisitions on the genuineness,
authenticity, and inspiration of the Holy Scriptures; introductory and concluding remarks to each
book; philological and explanatory notes ; table of contents, arranged in historical order; a chro-
nological index, and various other matter; forming a suitable book for the study of clergymen,
Sabbath-school teachers, and students.
In neat plain binding, from $4 00 to $5 00. -In Turkey morocco, extra, gilt edges, from 68 00 to
612 00. -In do., with splendid plates, .10 00 to 615 00.'-In do., bevelled side, gilt clasps and illa-
minations, $15 00 to 625 00.
The Oxford Quarto Bible,
Without note or comment, universally admitted to be the most beautiful Bible extant.
In neat plain binding, from $4 00 to 65 00. I-In Turkey morocco, extra, gilt edges, $8 00 to $12 0a
-In do., with steel engravings, $10 00 to $15 00. -In do., clasps, &amp;c.,Avith plates and illumina-
tions, $15 00 to $25 00.- In rich velvet, with gilt ornaments, $25 00 to $50 00.
Crown Octavo Bible,
Printed with large clear type, making a most convenient hand Bible for family use.
In neat plain binding, from *75 cents to $1 50. -In English Turkey morocco, gilt edges, $1 00 to
00-In d       station &amp;c., $1 50 to 63 00. --In do., clasps, &amp;c., $2 50 to $5 00.- In rich velvet,
with gilt ornments, $5 00 to 610 00.
The Sunday-School Teacher's Polyglot Bible, with Maps, &amp;e.,
In neat plain binding, from 60'cents to $1 00.- In imitation git tdger $1 00 to .1350, .-ln Turkey,
super extra, $1 75 to $2 25.-In do. do., with clasps, $2 60-to $3 75.-In velvet, rich gilt orna
Meats, $3 50 to 68 00.
The Oxford 18mo., or Pew Bible,
In neat plain binding, from 50 cents to $1 00.-In imitation gilt edge, $1 00 to $1 50.-In Turkey
super extra, $1 75 to $2 25. -In do. do., with clasps, $2 50 to $3 75.-In velvet, rich gilt ores
ments, $3 50 to $8 00.
Agate 32mo. Bible,
Printed with larger type than any other small or pocket edition extant.
In neat plain binding, from 50 cents to $1 00.-In tucks, or pocket-book style, 75 cents to $1 00...
In roan, imitation gilt edge, $1 00 to $1 50. -In Turkey, super extra, $1 00 to $2 00.-In do. do
gilt clasps, $2 50 to $3 50._-In velvet, with rich gilt ornaments, $3 00 to $7'00.
32mo. Diamond Pocket Bible;
Thoneatest, smallest, and cheapest edition of the Bible published
In neat plain binding, from 30 to 50 cents. -In tucks, or pocket-book style, 60 cents to $1 00,-
In roan, imitation gilt edge, 75 cents to $1 25.-In Turkey, super extra, $1 00 to $1 50.-In do. do
gilt clasps, $1 50 to $2 00.-In velvet, with richly gilt ornaments, $2 50 to $6 00.
F  CONSTANTLY ON RAND,
A large assortment of BIBLES, bound in the most splendid and costly styles, with gold and silver
arnaments, suitable for presentation: ranging in price from 610 00 to 6100 00-
A liberal discount mide to Booksellers and Agents by the Publishers.
ENCYCLOPADIA OF RELIGIOUS KNOWLEDGE;i
OL, DICTIONARY OF THE BIBLE, THEOLOGY, RELIGIOUS BIOGRAPHY, ALL RE LIGlONS,
ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, AND MISSIONS.           ''
Designed as a complete Book of Reference on all Religious Subjects, and Companion-to the Bible;
sonig a cheap and compact Library of Religious Knowledge. Edited by Rev. 3. Newton Brown.
illustrated by wood-cuts, maps, and engravings en cpper and steeL In one yolume, royal 8yo.
Pgics, $4 00,.
6

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
Lippincott's Standard Editions of
THE BOOK OF COMMON PRAYER,
IN SIX DIFFERENT SIZES-
ILLUSTRATED WITH A NUMBER OF STEEL PLATES AND ILLUMINATIONS.
ZOMPREHENDING        THE   MOST    VARIED    AND   SPLENDID     ASSORTMENT      IN  THE
UNITED STATES.
THE ILLUMINATED OCTAVO PRAYER-BOOK,
Printed in seventeen different colours of ink, and illustrated with a number of Steel Plates and
Illuminations; making one of the most splendid books published. To be had in any variety of the
most superb binding, ranging in prices.
In Turkey, super extra, from $5 00 to $8 00.-In do. do., with clasps, $6 00 to $10 00.-In do.
do., bevelled and panelled edges, $8 00 to $15 00.-In velvet, richly ornamented, $12 00 to $20 00.
8vo.
In neat plain binding, from $1 50 to $2 00.-In imitation gilt edge, $2 00 to $3 00.-In Turkey,
super extra, $2 50 to $4 50.-In do. do., with clasps, $300 to $5 00. -In velvet, richly gilt orna-
ments, $5 00 to $12 00.
l6mo.
Printed throughout with large and elegant type.
In neat plain binding, from 75 cents to $1 50.-In Turkey morocco, extra, with plates, $1 75 to
$3 00. -In do. do., with plates, clasps, &amp;c., $2 50 to $5.00.-In velvet, with richly gilt ornaments,
$4 00 to 69 00.
l8mo.
In neat plain binding, from 25 to 75 cents. -In Turkey morocco, with plates, $1 25 to $2 00.-In
velvet, with richly gilt ornaments, $3 00 to $8 00.
32mo.
A beautifpl Pocket Edition, with large type.
In neat plaint binding, from 50 cents to $1 00.-In roan, imitation gilt edge, 75 cents to $1 50.-In
Turkey,super extra, $1 25 to $2 00.-In do. do., gilt clasps, $2 00 to $3 00. -In velvet, with richly
gilt ornaments,$300 to $700.
32mo., Pearl type.
In plain binding, from 25 to 371-2 cents. -Roan, 371-2 to 50 cents. -Imitation Turkey, 50 cents
to $1 00.-Turkey, super extra, with gilt edge, $1 00 to $1 50. -Pocket-book style, 60 to'75cents.
PROPER LESSONS.
i8mo.
A BEAUTIFUL EDITION, WITH LARGE TYPE.
In neat plain binding, from 50 cents to $1 00.-In roan, imitation gilt edge, 75 cents to $1 50.-In
Turkey, super extra, $1 50 to $2 00.-In do. do., gilt clasps, $2 50 to $3 00.-In velvet, with richly
gilt ornaments, $3 00 to $7 00.
THE BIBLE AND PRAYER-BOOK,
In one neat and portable volume.
32mo., in neat plain binding, from 75 cents to $1 00.-In imitation Turkey, $1 00 to $1 50.--In
Turkey, super extra, $1 50 to $2 50.
18mo, in large type, plain, $1 75 to $2 50.-In imitation, $1 00 to $1 75.-Ta Turkey, super
extra, $1 75 to $3 00. Also, with clasps, velvet, &amp;c. &amp;c.
The Errors of Moderni Infidelity Illustrated and Refuted.
BY S. 1W. SOH1VXUCEER, A. 1W.
In one volu~be, 12Ino.; cloth. Just published.
We cannot but regard this work in whatever light we view it in reference to its design, as one
of the most inasterly productions f' the age, and fitted to uproot one of the most fondly cherished
and dangerous of all ancient or m dern errors. God must bless such a work, armed with his ow
truth, and doing fierce and successful battle against black infidelity, which would bring Is Mast
and Wotrd down to the tribunal of human reason, for condemnation and annihilation.-Alb. Spectator
7

'ii

11

I


LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
Q(Iit4ergg of .Amtra:
CONSISTING- OF
ANECDOTES       ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE CHARACTER               OF MINISTERS OF RELI-
GION IN THE UNITED STATES,
BY JOSEPH BELCHER, D. D.,
Editor of "The Complete Works of Andrew Fuller," "Robert Hall," &amp;c.
" This very interesting and instructive collection of pleasing and solemn remembrances of many
pious men, illustrates the character of the day in which they lived, and defines the men more
clearly than very elaborate essays."-Baltimore American.
"We regard the collection as highly interesting, and judiciously made."-Presbyterian.
JOB EPHUS'S (FLAVIUS) WORKS,
FAMILY EDITION.
BY THE LATE WILLIAM WHISTON, A. I.
FROM THE LAST LONDON EDITION, COMPLETE.
One volume, beautifully illustrated with Steel Plates, and the only readable edition
published in this country.
As a matter of course, every family in our country has a copy of the Holy Bible; and as the pre-
sumption is that the greater portion often consult its pages, we take the liberty of saying to all those
that do, that the perusal of the writings of Josephua will be found very interesting and instructive.
All those who wish to possess a beautiful and correct copy of this valuable work, would do well
to purchase this edition. It is for sale at all the principal bookstores in the United States, and by
country merchants generally in the Southern and Western States.
Also, the above work in two volumes.
BURDER'S VILLA GESRO;
Or, 101 Plain an short Discourses on the Pricipal Docrines of the Gospel.
INTENDED FOR THE USE OF FAMILIES, SUNDAY-SCHOOLS, OR COMPANIES ASSEM-
BLED FOR RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION IN COUNTRY VILLAGES.
BY, GEORGE BORDER.
To which is added to each Sermon, a Short Prayer, with some General Prayers for Families,
Schools, &amp;c., at the end of the work.
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME, OCTAVO.
These sermons, which are characterized by a beautiful simplicity, the entire absence of contro-
versy, and a true evangelical spirit, have gone through many and large editions, and been translated
into several of the continental languages. " They have also been the honoured means not only of
converting many individuals, but also of introducing the Gospel into districts, and even into parish
churches, where before it was comparatively unknown."
" This work fully deserves the immortality it has attained."
This is a fine library edition of this invaluable work ; and when we say that it should be found in
the possession of every family, we only reiterate the sentiments and sincere wishes of all who take
a deep interest inhe eternal welfare of mankind.
F A MI LY P RA YE RS. A ND I M N S,
ADAPTED TO FAMILY WORSHIP,
-A ND
TABLES FOR THE REGULAR READING OF THE SCRIPTURES.
By Rev. S. (3. WINCHrESTERj A. N-,
Late Pastor of the Sixth Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia; and the Presbyterian Churchbs
Natchez, Miss.
One volume, 12mo.
8

{ 1

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
SPLENDID LIBRARY EDITIONS.
ILLUSTRATED STANDARD POETS.
ELEGANTLY PRINTED, ON FINE P4PER, AND UNIFORM IN SIZE AND
sTriYE.
'The following Editions of Standard British Poets are illustrated with numerous Steel
Engravings, and~may be had in all varieties of binding.
BYRON'S WORKS.
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME, OCTAVO.
INCLUDING ALL HIS SUPPRESSED AND ATTRIBUTED POEMS; WITH SIX BEAUTIFUL
ENGRAVINGS.
This edition has been carefully compared with the recent London edition of Mr. Murray, and
made complete by the addition of more than fifty pages of poems heretofore unpublished in Eng-
land. Among these there are a number that have never appeared in any American edition; and
the publishers believe they are warranted in saying that this is the most complete edition of Lord
Byron's Poetical Works ever published in the United States.
Sifh~uIf                                 5n
Complete in one volume, octavo ; with seven beautiful Engravings.
This is a new and complete edition, with a splendid engraved likeness of Mrs. Hemans, on steel,
and contains all the Poems in the last London and American editions. With a Critical Preface by
Mr. Thatcher, of Boston.
"As no work in the English language can be commended with more confidence, it will argue bad
taste in a female in this country to be without a complete edition of the writings of one who was
an honour to her sex anil to humanity, and whose productions, from first to last, contain no syllable
calculated to call a blush to the cheek of modesty and virtue. There is, moreover, in Mrs. Hemans's
poetry, a moral purity and a religious feeling which commend it, in an especial manner, to the dis-
criminating reader. No parent or guardian will be under the necessitysof imposing restrictions
with regard to the free perusal of every production emanating from this gifted woman. There
breathes throughout the whole a most eminent exemption from impropriety of thought or diction;
and there is at times a pensiveness of tone, a winning sadness in her more serious compositions,
which tells of a soul which has been lifted from the contemplation of terrestrial things, to divine
sommuninga with beings of a purer world."
MILTON, YOUNG,               GRAY, BEATTIE, AND COLLINS'S
POETICAL WORKS.
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME, OCTAVO.
WITH SIX BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS.
(nmrr angu 6 nninu' f ra                       A     $ii6tift           rk.
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME, OCTAVO.
including two hundred and fifty Letters, and sundry Poems of Cowper, never before published in
this country; and of Thomson a new and interesting Memoir, and upwards of twenty
new Poems, for the first time printed from his own Manuscripts,taken from
a late Edition of the Aldine Poets, now publishing in London.
WITH SEVEN BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS.-
The distinguished Professor Silliman, speaking of this edition, observes: "I am as much gratified
by the elegance and fine taste of your edition, as by the noble tribute of genius and moral excel-
lenetswhich these delightful authors have left for all future generationss; and Cowper, espasially,
is not less conspicuous as a true Christian, moralist and teacher, than as a poet of great power and
exquisite taste."
9

4


LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
THE POETICAL WORKS OF ROGERS, CAMPBELL, MONTGOMERY,
LAMB, AND KIRKE WHITE.
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME, OCTAVO.
WITH SIX BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS.
The beauty, correctness, and convenience of this favourite edition of these standard authors are
so well known, that it is scarcely necessary to add a word in its favour. It is onlynecessary to say,
that the publishers have now issued an illustrated edition, which greatly enhances its former value.
The engravings are excellent and well selected. It is the best library edition extant.
CRABBE, IEBER, AND POLLOK'S POETICAL WORKS.
COMPLETE , IN ONE VOLUME, OCTAVO.
WITH SIX BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS.
A writer in the Boston Traveller holds the following language with reference to these valuable
editions:-
" Mr. Editor: -I wish, without any idea of puffing, to say a word or two upon the ' Library of
English Poets' that is now published at Philadelphia, by Lippincott, Grambo &amp; Co. It is certainly,
taking into consideration the elegant manner in which it is printed, and the reasonable price at
which it is afforded to purchasers, the best edition of the modern British Poets that has ever been
published in this country. Each volume is an octavo of about 500 pages, double columns, stereo-'
typed, and accompanied with fine -engravings and biographical sketches; and most of them are
reprinted frotm Galignani's French edition.. As to its value, we need only mention that it contains
the entire works of Montgomery, Gray, Beattie, Collins, Byron, Cowper, Thomson, Milton, Young,
Rogers, Campbell, Lamb, Hemans, Heber, Kirke White, Crabbe, the Miscellaneous Works of Gold-
smith, and other masters of the lyre. The publishers are doing a great service by their publication,
and their olumes are almost in as great demand as the fashionable novels of the day ; and they
deserve to be so: for they are certainly printed in a style superior to that in which we have before
had the works of the English Poets."
No library can be considered complete without a copy of the above beautiful and cheap editions
of the English Poets; and persons ordering all or any of them, will please say Lippincott, Grambo
lc Co.'s illustrated editions.
A' COMPLETE
hir innur -}-nf               nr iru          11u nnin
COMPRISING THE MOST EXCELLENT AND APPROPRIATE PASSAGES IN
THE OLD BRITISH POETS; WITH CHOICE AND COPIOUS SELEC.
TIONS FROM THE BEST MODERN BRITISH AND
AMERICAN POETS.
EDITED BY SARAH JOSEPHA HALE.
As nightingales do upon glow-worms feed,
So poets live upon the living light
Of Nature and of Beauty.
Bailey's Festus.
Beautifullyilultrated with Engravings. In one super-royal octavo volume, In various
bindings.
Thie publishers extract, from the many highly complimentary notices of the above valuable and
beautiful work, the following:
" We have at last a vohume of Poetical Quotations worthy of the name. It contains nearly six
hundred octavo pages, carefully and tastefully selected from all the home and foreign authors of
eebrit  lis itvluble to writer, whl to the ordinary reader it presents every subject at a
" The plan or idea of Mrs. Hale's work is felicitous. It is one for which her fine taste, her orderly
habits of mind, and her long occupation with literature, has given her peculiar facilities; and tho-
roughly has she accomplished her task in the work before us."- Sarlain's Magazine.
"It is a choice collection of poetical extracts from ever English and American author worth
pernsing, from the days of Chaucer to the present time." Washington Uion.
"There is nothing negative about this work ; it is positively good."- Evening Bulieta.
10

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICt

THE DIAMOND EDITION OF BYRON.
THE POETICAL WORKS OF LORD BYRON,
WITH A SKETCH OF HIS LIFE.
COMPLETE IN      ONE NEAT DUODECIMO VOLUME, WITH               STEEL PLATES.
The type of this edition is so perfect, and it is printed with so much care, on fine white paper,
that it can be read with as much ease as most of the larger editions. This work is to be had in
plain- and superb binding, making a beautiful volume for a gift.
" The Poetical Works of Lord Byron, complete in one volume - published by L., G. &amp; Co., Phila-
delphia. We hazard nothing in saying that, take it altogether, tius is the most elegant work ever
issued from the American press.
"'In a single volume, not larger than an ordinary duodecimo, the publishers have embraced the
whole ofLord Byrou's Poems, usually printed in ten or twelve volumes; and, what is more remark-
able, have done it with a type so clear afid distinct, that, notwithstanding its necessarily small size,
it may be read with the utmost facility, even by failing eyes. The book is stereotyped ; and never
have we seen a finer specimen of that art. Everything about it is perfect-the paper, the print-
ing, the binding, all correspond with each other ; and it is embellished with two fine engravings,
well worthy the companionship in which they are placed.
"'This will make a beautiful Christmas present.
"We extract the above from Godey's Lady'sfBook. The notice itself, we are given to understand.
is written by Mrs. Hale.
" We have to add our commendation in favour of this beautiful volume, a copy of which has
been sent us by the publishers. The admirers of the noble bard will feel obliged to the enterprise
which has prompted the publishers to dare a competition with the numerous editions of his works
already incirculation- and we shall be surprised if this convenient travelling edition does not in a
great degree supersede the use of-the large octavo works, which have little advantage in size and
openness of type, and are much inferiorin the qualities of portability and lightness."-Intelligencer.
THE DIAMOND EDITION OF MOORE.
(CORRESPONDING       WITH    BYRON.)
THE POETICAL WORKS OF THOMAS MOORE,
COLLECTED BY HIMSELF.
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME.
Tams work is published uniform with Byron, from the last London edition, and is the most com-
plete printed in the country.
THE. DIAMOND EDITION OF SHAKSPEARE,
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME,)
INCLUDING A SETCH OF HIS LIF.
UNIFORM WITH BYRON AND MOORE.
THE ABOVE WORKS CAN BE HAD IN SEVERAL VARIETIES OF BINDING.
GOLDSMITH'S ANIMATED NATURE.
IN TWO VOLUMES, OCTAVO.
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED WITH                  385 PLATES.
'.ONTAINING A HISTORY OF THE EARTH, ANIMALS, BIRDS, AND FISHES; FORMING
THE MOST COMPLETE NATURAL HISTORY EVER PUBLISHED.
This is a work that should be in the library of every family, having been written by one.of the
most talented authors in the English language.
"Goldsmith can never be made obsolete while delicate genius, exquisite feeling, fine invention,
*he most harmonious metre, and the happiest diction, are at alvue."
BI G LA N DS NA TU R AL H I STOR Y,
-Of Animals, Birds, Fishes, Reptiles, and Insects. Illustrated with numerous and beautiful Engra.
ings. By JOHN BIIGLAND, author of a " View of the World," "letters on
Universal History," &amp;c. Complete in I vol,, l2mo.
11

T

It

I 

'TIONS.

d
-                   s.
{i
1
r
}
I    '
S    '
_                                         f?
1
11

I

f;
,
,


LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
THE POWER AND PROGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
T HE UNITED STA TES; Its Power and Progress.
BY GUrzLLhUME' TELL POUSSIN,
LATE MINISTER~OF THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCE TO THE UNITED STATES.
FIRST AMERICAN, FROM THE THIRD PARIS EDITION.
TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH BY EDMOND L. DU BARRY, M. D.,
SURGEON U. S. NAVY.
In one large octavo volume. 
SCHOOLCRAFT's GREAT NATIONAL WORK ON THE INDIAN. TRIBES OF
THE UNITED STATES,
WITH BEAUTIFUL AND ACCURATE COLOURED ILLUSTRATIONS.
HISTORICAL AND STATISTICAL INFORMATION
RESPECTING THE
HISTORY, CONDITION AND PROSPECTS
OF THE
COLLEED AND PREPARED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE BUREAU OF INDIAN
AFFAIRS, PER ACT OF MARCH 3t,847,
Yfi'      NRN        R- So.   OQsozio   Ar, LL'.D.-
LLUSTRATED BY S. EASTMAN, CAPT. U. S. A.
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS.
THE AMERICAN GARDENER'S CALENDAR
ADAPTED TO THE CLIMATE AND SEASONS OF THM, UNITED STATES.
Containing a complete account of all the work necessary to be done in the Kitchen Garden, Frit
Garden, Orchard, Vineyard, Nursery, Pleasure-Ground, Flower Garden, Green-house, Hot-house,
and Forcing Frames, for every month in the year; with ample Practical Directions for perform
the same.     .!P                                                in
Also, general as well, as minute instructions for saying out or erecting each wind every of the above
departments, accordingto modern taste and the most approved plaits; the Ornamental Planting of
Pleasure Grounds, in the ancient and modern style; the cultivation of Thorn Quick., and other
plants suitable for Live Hedges, with the best methods of making them, &amp;c. To which are annexe
catalogues of dic~en~Garden Plants and Herbs ; Aromatic, Pot, and Sweet Herbs.; Medcn
t,  port      apes, ., used in rural economy; with the soil best adapted o
their eultivt 17 Together With a copious Index to the body of the work.,
BY EERNrARD MW'MAR ON.
Tenth Edition, greatly improved. In one volume, octave.
THE USEFUL AND T HE BEA UTIFUL;-
DlH, DOMESTIC AND MORAL DUTIES NECESSARY TO SOCIA            APIES
BfAUIFLY I L LUST RA T ED.
IO6no. square cloth. Price 50 and 75 cents.

i

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
THE FARMER'S AND PLANTER'S ENCYCLOPEDIA
T, ~t fatuttfsad V1 ant'or s duy                          a is furad21air
BY CUTHBERT W. JOHNSON.
ADAPTED TO THE UNITED STATES BY GOUVERNEUR EMERSON.
Illustrated by seventeen-beautiful Engravings of Cattle, Horses, Sheep, the varieties of Wheat,
Barley, Oats, Grasses, the Weeds of Agriculture, &amp;c.; besides numerous Engrav-
ings on wood of the most important implements of Agriculture, &amp;c.
This standard work contains the latest and best information upon -all subjects connected with
farming, and appertaining to the country; treating of the great crops of grain, hay, cotton, hemp,
tobacco, rice, sugar, &amp;c. &amp;c.; of horses and mules; of cattle, with minute particulars relating to
cheese and butter-making; of fowls, including a description of capon-making, with drawings of the
instruments employed; of bees, and the Russian and other systems of managing bees and con-
structing hives) Long articles on the uses and preparation of bones, lime, guano, and all sorts of
animal, mineral, and vegetable substances employed as manures. Descriptions of the most approved
ploughs, harrows, threshers, and every other agricultural machine and implement; of fruit and
shade trees, forest trees, and shrubs ; of weeds, and all kinds of flies, and destructive worms and
insects, and the best means of getting rid of them; together with a thousand other matters relating
to rural life, about which information is so constantly desired by all residents of the country.
IN ONE LARGE OCTAVO VOLUME.
MASON'S FAR RIER-FARMERS' EDITION.
Price, 62 cents.
TIHE PRACTICAL FARRIER, FOR FARMERS:
COMPRISING A GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE NOBLE AND USEFUL ANIMAL,
THE HORSE;
WITH MODES OF MANAGEMENT IN ALL CASES,, AND TREATMENT IN DISEASE.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
A PRIZE ESSAY ON MULES: AND AN. APPENDIX,
Containing Recipes for Diseases of Horses, Oxen, Cows, Calves, Sheep, Dogs, Swine, &amp;c. &amp;e.
BY RICHARD MASON, M.D.,
Formerly of Surry County, Virginia.
In one volume, 12mo.; bound                   in  cloth, gilt.
MASON'S FARRIER AND STUD-BOOK-NEW EDITION.
THE GENTLEMAN'S NEW POCKET FARRIER:
COMPRISING A GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE NOBLE AND USEFUL ANIMAL,
THE HORSE; 
WITH MODES OF MANAGEMENT IN ALL CASES, AND TREATMENT IN DISEASE.
DY RICHARD MASON, M.D.,
Formerly of Surry County, Virginia.
-to which is added, A PRIZE ESSAY ON MULES; and AN APPENDiX, containing Recipes fo,
Diseases of Horses, Oxen, Cows, Calves, Sheep, Dogs, Swine, &amp;c. &amp;e.; with Annals
of the Turf, Areerican Stud-Book, Rules for Training, Racing,&amp;de
W IT H A SU PPL E ME NT ,
Comprising an Essay on Domestic Animals, especially the Hor'ie; with Remarks on Treatment ano
Breeding; together with Trotting and Racing Tablha, shows mg the best time on record at one
two, three and four mile heats ; Pedigrees of Winning Horses, since 1839, and of the moug
celebrated Stallions and Mares; with useful Calving and Lambms~ Tables By
J. S. SK1NNE~R, Editor now of the Farmer's Library, New York, &amp;c. &amp;c-
13                     13

A
i
3

"i

f
i
?
s
'
4 ,:
i
P
J
..
3
i
.{
}5
A
t
i
3
t
}

t
g
L
yj
i
F

i
i


LIPPINOOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
HINDS'S FARRIERY AND STUD-BOOK-.                                   NEW       EDITION.
FARRIERY,
TAUGHT ON A NEW AND EASY PLAN:'
BEING
tratis a           MunpnistasE          3ltrb uf tpr E aru.
Iith Instructions to the Shoeing Smith, Farrier, and Groom; preceded    ou       escption
!he Animal Functions in Health, and how these are to be restored when disordered.
BY JOHN HINDS, VETERINARY SURGEON.
With considerable Additions and Improvements, particularly adapted to this country,
BY THOMAS M. SMITH, :-
Veterinary Surgeon, and Member of the London Veterinary Medical Society.
WITH A SUPPLEMENT! BY J. S. SKINNER.
The publishers have received numerous Mattering notices of the great practical value of these
works. The distinguished editor of the American Farmer, speaking of them, observes: -"We
cannot too highly recommend these books, and therefore advise every owner of a horse to obtain
themn."     -
"There are receipts in those books that show how Founder may be cured, and the traveller ur.
8uu~e is journey the next day, by giving a tablespoonfu~l of alum. This was got from Dr. P. Thorn ten
o   e   r   ppahannu k county, Virginia as founded on his own  observation i t several cases. -
"The constant demand for-Mason's ani Hinds's Farrier has inducedrthepublis    ver  ass.' 
mncott -Grambo &amp; Co., to put forth new  dtos   i       hsmdcdtepubihers, Messrs. Lip-
~i~ottGrabo  Co, t pu fothnew editions, with a 'Supplement' of 100 pages, by J. S. Skinner,
sq.  %,e should have sought to render an acceptable service to our ariultur  aes, by  ivn
a chapter from the Supplement,' On the Relations between Man and the Doiestic Animals,espe-
cialthe ose , antemwd eObverruins they ioe'r te one on 'The Form of Animals; but that
cilyteHre        n   h   biain      hyips;        rteoeo       Teeither one of them would overrun the space here allotted to such subjects."
"Lists of Medicines, and other articles which ought to be at band abouteve training andlivery
stable, and every Farmer's and Breeder's establisuhet, will be found tese valuable wrks.
TO CARPENTERS AND MECHANICS.
Just Published.

A NEW AND IMPROVED EDITION OF
THE CARPENTER'S NEW GUIDE,
BEING A COMPLETE BOOK OF LINES FOR
ARtPBNTRY ANI) ZOO                                    .~y
Treating fully on Practical Geometry, Saffit's Brick and Plaster Groins, Niches of every d e ond;pt.
Sky~ighs, ine fo Roos ad Dmes wih great variety of Designs for Roofs,
Trussed Girders, Floors, Donies, Badges, &amp;c., Angle Bars for Shop
Fronts, &amp;c., and Raking Mdouldings.
ALSO,
Additional Plansifor various Stair-Cases, with the Lines for producing the Face and Falling Moulds,
never before published, and greatly superior to those given in a former edition of this work.
BY WILLIAM JOHNSON, ARCHITECT,
OF PHILADELPHIA.
The whole founded on true Geometrical Principles; the Theory and Practice well explained and
fully exemplified, on eighty-three copper plates, including some Observations and Calculations on
die Strength of Timber.
BY PETER NICHOLSON,
estne  of "The Carpenter and Joiier's Assistant," "The Student's Instructor to the am ve
Orders," &amp;e
Thirteenth Edition.      One volume, 4to., well bound.
14

,n
 '
k
,1
'4

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
A DICTIONARY OF SELECT AND POPULAR QUOTATIONS,
WHICH ARE IN DAILY USE.
TAKEN FROM THE LATIN, FRENCH, GREEK, SPANISH AND ITALIAN LANGUAGES.
rogether with a copious Collection of Law Maxims and Law Terms, translated into
English, with Illustrations, Historical and Idiomatic.
NEW AMERICAN EDITION CORRECTED, WITH ADDITIONS.
One volume, l2mo.
This volumetcomprises a copious collection of legal and other terms which are in common sue
wth English translations and historical illustrations ; and we should judge its authorhuly
ten to a great "Feast of Languages," and stole all the scraps. A work of thischaracter invold
have an extensive sale, as it entirely obviates a serious difficulty in which most re   are inr olved
by the frequent occurrence of Latin, Greek, and French passages, which we ~euppose are introduced
by authors for a mere show of learning-a difficulty very perplexing to readers in genereetual  1
" Dictionary of Quotations," concerning which too much cannot be said i r  fvbeh e  tally
removes the difficulty, and gives the reader an advantage over the author; for we believe a majority
are themselves ignorant of the meaning of the terms they employ. Very few truly learnedauhr
will insult their readers by introducing Latin or French quotations in their writings, when "plain
English" will do as well; but we will not enlarge on this point.
If the book is useful to those unacquainted with other languages, it is no less valuable to the
classically educated as a book of reference, and answers all the purposes of a Lexicon - indeed, on
many accounts, it is better. It saves the trouble of tumbling over the larger volumes, to which
every one, and especially those engaged in the legal profession, are very often subjected. It should
have a place in every library in the country.
RUSCIJEN BERG ER'S NATURAL HISTORY ,
COMPLETE, WITH NEW GLOSSARY.
EMBRACING ZOOLOGY, BOTANY AND GEOLOGY:
FOR SCHOOLS, COLLEGES AND FAMILIES.
SW. SW. R TUSCH                     EBGE f, 1-.D
IN  TWO VOLUMES.
WITH NEARLY ONE THOUSAND ILLUSTRATIONS, AND A COPIOUS GLOSSARY.
VoL.I.contains Vertebrate Animals. Vol. II. contains Intervertebrate Animals, Botany, and Geology.
A Beautiful and Valuable Presentation Book.
THE POET'S OFFERiNG.
EDITED BY MRS. HA-LE.
With a Portrait of the Editress, a Splendid Illuminated Title-Page, and Twelve Beautiful Engrav-
ings by Sartain. Bound in rich Turkey Morocco, and Extra Cloth, Gilt Edge.
To those who wish to make a present that will never lose its value, this will be found the moat
desirable Gift-Book ever published.
paerad  rntn  ae eutflad tebnig rich elegant, ad    sbtanil the mos sesil
and attractive of aill the elegant gift-books we have seen." Evning Bulletctedin.
e    rai s eb hebst  arti$sts and teothrprtionr o he wor  correspond in elegance."-
"here is nio book of selections so diversified and appropriate within our knowledge."-ltld'.
*It is one of the most valuable as well as elegant books ever published in this country."  oe"
1h s thie most beautifa. and the most useful offering ever bestowed on the public. No individuia)
of literary taste will venture to b'e without it."- The City Item
-15

e
r
f'
i
A
a      F
r.
.y
'x,


f

SAY'S POLITICAL ECONOMY,
A TREATISE ON POLITICAL ECONOMY;

ri, The Prroduction, Distribute
rion and Consumption of Wealth.
BY JEAN BA.PTXSTJ SAS.
FIFTH AMERICAN EDITION, WITH ADDITIONAL NOTES,
BY C. C. MIDDLE                  E
In one volume, octavo.
It would be beneficial to our country if all those who are aspiring to office, were required by their
constituents to be familiar with the pages of Say.                cwr     eurdb      hf
The distinguished biographer of the author, in noticing this work, observes: "Happily for science
he cmmened tat sudywhic fors th bass o hisadmiableTretiso  pily for science
work which not only improved under his hand with every successive edition, but has btaomyaeda
into most of the European languages."                             n   u  a  entasae
The Editor of the North American Review, speaking of Sa
popular, and perhaps the most able writer on Political Economy, since the time of Sith.e o
LAURENCE STERN'S WORKS,
WITH u A

Or R

WITH SEVEN

A1 LIFE OF THE AUTHOR:
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATIONS, ENGRAVED BY GILBERT AND GIHON
FROM DESIGNS BY DAR LEY. 'ADGHN
One volume, octavo: cloth '-l'

To commend or to criticise Sterne's Works, in this ageo h  olu ld be1ll "
extravagant excess." Uncle Toby.-Crra''1s age of the world, would be all wastefull and
eCraapt -eess. theD ead A ThiyaCorporl  rim- the Widow -_Le Fevre -Poor Maria-the
Captive -even the Dead Ass, - this is all we have to say of Sterne; and in the memory of these
volume is a very handsome one.                             follies are forgotten, The
THE MEXICAN WAR AND ITS HEROES,
A COMPLETE HISTORY OF THE MEXICAN WAR,
EMBRACING ALL THE OPERATIONS UNDER GENERALS TAYLOR AND SCOTT.
WITH    A   BIOGRAPHY OF THE OFFICERS.
ALSO,
AN ACCOUNT OF THE CONQUEST OF CALIFORNIA                AND NEW      M
Under teen. Kearny Cols. Doniphan and Fremont.                         MEXICO,
L'aer ien KerayCos. onihaaandFrmoat. Together with Numerous Anecdotes of the
War, and Personal Adventures of the Officers. illustrate with Accurate
Portraits, and other Beautiful Engravings.curate
In one volume, l2mo.
16

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
THE YOUNG DOMINICAN;
OR, THE MYSTERIES OF THE INQUISITION,.
AND OTHER SECRET SOCIETIES OF' SPAIN.
BY M. V. DE FEREAL.
WITH HISTORICAL NOTES, BY M, MANUELDE CUENDIAS
TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH.
ILLUSTRATED WITH TWENTY SPLENDID ENGRAVINGS BY FRENCH ARTISTS
One volume, octavo.

SIGHTS IN THE GOLD REGION, AND SCENES BY THE WAY,
BY THEODORE T. JOHNSON.
WITH NOTES, BY HON. SAMUEL R. THU RSTON,
Delegate to Congress from that Territory.
With numerous Plates and Maps.
AUNT      HILLS'S     wABIN

OR,

SO R, SOUTHERN LIFE AS IT IS.
BY MRS. MARY H. EASTMAN.
PRICE, 50 AND 75 CENTS.
This volume presents a picture of Southern Life, taken at different points of view from the one
occupied by the authoress of Uncle Tom's Cabin." The writer, being a native of the Southis fa-
miliar with the many varied aspects assumed by domestic servitude in that sunny region, and there-
fore feels competent to give pictures of Southern Life, as it is."
Pledged to no clique or party, and free from the pressure of any and all extraneous influences,
she has written her book with a view to its truthfulness; and the public at the North, as well as
at the South, will find in "Aunt Philliss Cabin" not the distorted picture of an interested painter,
but the faithful transcript of a Daguerreutypist.
WHAT IS CHURCH HISTORY?.
A VINDICATION0           F THE IDEA OF HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENTS
BY PHrILIP SCHAF.
TRANSLATED FROM T HE GERMAN.
In one volume, 12mo.
B *                           17

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
NEW     AND    COMPLETE        COOKBOOK.
T HE PRACTICAL COOK-BOK,
CONTAINING UPWARDS OF
ONE THOUSAND nROZPrTS,
Consisting of Directions for Selecting, Preparing, and Cooking all kinds of Meats, Fish, Poultry, and
Game; Soups, Broths, Vegetables, and Salads. Also, for making all kinds of Plainand
Fancy Breads, Pastes, Puddings, Cakes, Creams, Ices, Jellies, Preserves, Mara'
lades, &amp;c. &amp;c. &amp;c. Together with various Miscellaneous Recipes,
and numerous Preparations for Invalids.
BY MRS. BLISS.
In one volume, 12mo.
IY 3. B. JONES,
AUTHOR OF "WILD WESTERN SCENES," "THE WESTERN MERCHANT," &amp;a.
ILLUSTRATED WITH TEN ENGRAVINGS.
In one volume, 12mo.
CA LIFORNIA AND OREGON;"

f


LPINCOTT, GRAMBQ &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
DO O  OS L.E CT U RES.,
DISCOURSES TO YOUNG MEN.
hL1USTRATED BY NUMEROUS HIGHLY INTERESTING ANECDOTES.
- a BYAPLAL AM DODD, LL. D.,
I            CHAPLAIN IN ORDINARY TO His MAJEB O ', TLL. HIR
FIRST AMERICAN EDITION, WITH EGRAVINGS.
One volume, 18mo.
THE IR IS:
AN ORIGINAL SOUVENIR
With Contribution    from the First Writers in the Country,
pDITmED    EPROP- JOHN S. HART.
W SS   B dBound in Turkey Morocoo and rich Papier
Mache Binding.
ItsconteIN ONE VOLUMEI, OCTAVO.'
Its contents are entirely original Among the contributors are nam
oletters, such as Mr. Boker, Mrr. Stoddard,.Prof Dnam well known in the republic
of nn ltessuhamr.kr M.Sodr4 rf offat, l~cdith May, Mrs. Sigourney, Caroline May,
Dr,. ErnneysMW.  Butler,l  Mrs. Pease, Mrs. Swift, Mr. Van Bibber, Rev. Charley Carooks, Mrs.
Dorr, Erastus W. Ell worthh, Miss E. W. Barnes, Mr. VW iiam, ReouD. CardeTteok, Alice
Carey, Phebe Carey, Augusta Browne, Hamilton rowns CWilliams, Mary Young, Dr. Garde u ,ari
I. B. Browne, Miss Starr, Mrs. Brotherson, Kat C e Caroline Eustis, Margaret unkin, Maria
4KtoCpbell, &amp;c.            t.t
OR, HOLY THOUGHTs UPON SACRED SUBy
BY CLERGYMEN OF TIE EPISCOPAL ClnURoH.
EDITED BY THOMAS WYATT A. M
In one volume, l2mo.
WITH SEVEN BEAUTIFUL STEEL ENGRAVING
The contents of this work are chiefly by clergymen of the Episcopal  A ng S
tributors will be found the rames of the Right  Church      *Hopn he Sci
Bishop Johns, and Bishop Doane ; and the Re.Dep.V.D onCoeaadBulrHe.G
Bede  d Bihop Devm. Bishop Potter, Bishop opkins;BishopStn,
Bedell, M'Cabe, Ogilsby, &amp;c. The illustrations are rich and exquisiey oughtn, angrner; po
T.aadBtde  ujc~"Sa nuel before Eli," '"Peter and John healing h  aeMn,"oTh
Resurrection of Christ," "Josph sold eten "he  alg the nLawgst
Agony in the Garden," and "'1TheFlight intyphtre" These shTables ofth an eanphe
and verse, are ably treated throughout the work. Tproe
ANCIENT CHRISTIANITYEXEMIF
Ian the Private, Domestie, Social, and Civi Lieo   h    rmt~
Chritias, nd i  th  Orginal Institutions, Oices9
Ordinances, and Rites of the Chusrch.
BY REV, LYMAN COLEMAN, 0,0,
In one Volume 8vo. Price $2 50.
[8

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
LONZ POWERS; Or, The Regulators.
A ROMANCE OF KENTUCKY.
FOUNDED ON FACTS.
BY JAMES WEIR, ESQ.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
The scenes, characters, and incidents in these volumes have been copied from nature, and from
Veal life. They are represented as taking place at that period in the history of Kentucky, when
the Indian, driven, after many a hard-fought field, from his favourite hunting-ground, was succeeded
by a rude and unlettered population, interspersed with organized bands of desperadoes, scarcely
less savage than the red men they had displaced. The author possesses a vigorous and graphic
pen, and has produced a very interesting romance, which gives us a striking portrait of the times
he describes.
A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON BUSiNESS;
OR, HOW TO GET, SAVE, SPEND, GIVE, LEND, AND BEQUEATH MONEY:
WITH AN INQUIRY INTO THE CHANCES OF SUCCESS AND CAUSES
OF FAILURE IN BUSINESS.
-BY    EDWIN       T. FR EEDLY.
Also, Prize Essays, Statistics, Miscellanies, and numerous private letters from successful and
distinguished business men.
12mo., cloth. Price One Dollar.
The object of this treatise is fourfold. First, the elevation of the business character, and to define
clearly the limits wit bin which it is not only proper but obligatory to get money. Secondly, to lay
down the principles which must be observed to insure success, and what must be avoided to escape
failure. Thirdly, to give the mode of management in certain prominent pursuits adopted by the
most successful, from which men in all kinds of business may derive profitable hints. Fourthly, to
afford a work of solid interest to those who read without expectation of pecuniary benefit.
A MANUAL OF POLITENESS,
COMPRISING THE
PRINCIPLES OF ETIQUETTE AND RULES OF BEHAVIOUR
IN GENTEEL SOCIETY, FOR PERSONS OF BOTH SEXES.
18mo., with Plates.
Book of Politeness.
THE GENTLEMAN AND LADY'S
BOOK OF POLITENESS AND PROPRIETY OF DEPORTMENT
DEDICATED TO THE YOUTH OF BOTH SEXES.
BY MADAME CELART.
Translated    from   the   Sixth  Paris E.dition, Enlarged and Improved.
Fi fth A m er ican Ed i ti on.
One volume, 18mo.
TILE ANTEDILUVIANS; Or, The World Destroyed.
A NARRA TIVEr POE M, IN T EN BOOKS.
BY JAMES-M'HENRY, M.D.
One volume, 18mo
19


. LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
Bennett's (Rev. John) Letters to a Young Lady,
ON A VARIETY OF SUBJECTS CALCULATED TO IMPROVE THE HERT,
TO FORM THE MANNERS, AND ENLIGHTEN THE UNDERSTANDI G.
"That our daughters may be as polished corners of the temple."
The publishers sincerely hope (for the happiness of mankind) that a copy o'thjs valuable little
wor will be o th ccompani  of every young lay, as nmuch of the happines of evamil
depends on the proper cultivati onofmc of the femlepind
THE DAUGHTER'S OWN BOOK:
OR, PRACTICAL HIIS FROMi A FATHER TO HIS DAUGHTER.
One volume, I8mo .
This is one of the most practical and truly valuable
ale mind, which has hitherto been published in thiscountreatisesna the publiher nry co
det rmtegreat detiland for this invaluable little work, that cre long it wilbefudith
library of every young lady.wWill be found in th
THE AMERICAN CHESTERFIELD-
Or, "Youth's guide to the Way to Wealth, Hour, and Djstjictjon," kc &amp;.  lgio.
CONTAINING ALso A COnPLETE TREATISE ON THE ART OP CARVING
Pe    osri    y recommend theAmerican Chesterfield to general attention; but to yon
pon    particularly as one of the best works of the kind that has ever been published in this
sefulness." ty appreciated, nor its perusal be unproductive of satisfaction and
SENECA'S MORAL.
BY WAY OF ABSTRACT TO WHICH IS ADDED
THE TITLE OF AN A         DTE D, A DISCOURSE UNDER
A AFTR-THOUGH T'
BY SIR ROGER         L'ESTRANGE         K Nr
A new, fine edition one volume  , mo.
A copy of this valuable little work should be fou e, 18mo
sodbefind in every family library.
NEW SONG-BOOK.
BEING A CHOICE COLLECTION OF THE MOST FASHIONALE SONGS
ARE ORIGINAL.
In one volume, 'i1mo.
Great care Was taken, in the selection,eto admit no song that me,  c8montaine, ined igttee
any indelicate or improper allusions; and withgret Popriet ithay caimi the tites ThegPr,.
1our Song-Book, or Songster." The inmmortal Shakper obseirmavlamehsttl.f..TePa-
" The man that hath not music in himslf
Nor is not moved with concord of Swe oxds
Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils.'"ud,
ROBOTHAM'S POCKET FRENCH DICTIOAY
C A REFULLYARYSED
AND THE PRONUNCIATION OF ALL THlE DIFFICULT WORDS ADDED.
20

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM SHANDY, GENTLEMAN.
COMPRISING TIE HUMOROUS ADVENTURES OF
UNCLE TO"Y AND CORPORAL TRIM.
BY L. STERNf:
Beautifully Illustrated by Darley.. Stitched.
A SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY.
BY L, STERNE.
Illustrated as above by Darley. Stitched.
The beauties of this author are so well known, and his errors in style and expression so few and
fat between, that one reads with renewed delight his delicate turns, &amp;c.
THE LIFE OF GENERAL JACKSON,
WITH A LIKENESS OF THlE OLD HERO.
One volume, 18mo.
LIFE OF PAUL JONES.
In one volume, 12mo.
WITH ONE HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS
BY JAMES HAMILTON-.
'th work is compiled from his original journals and correspondence, and includes an account of
his services in the American Revolution, and in the war between the Russians and Turks in the
Black Sea. There is scarcely any Naval Hero, of any age, who combined in his character so much
of the adventurous, skilful and daring, as Paul Jones. The incidents of his life are almost as start
ling and absorbing as those of romance. His achievements during the American Revolution-the
fight between the Bon Homme Richard and Serapis, the most desperate naval action on record-
and the alarm into which, with so small a force, he threw the coasts of England and Scotland-are
matters comparatively well known to Americans; but the incidents of his subsequent career have
been veiled in obscurity, which is dissipated by this biography. A book like this, narrating the
actions of such a man, ought to meet with an extensive sale, and become as popular as Robinson
Crusoe in fiction, or Weems's Life of Marion and Washington, and similar books, in fact. It con-
tais 400 pages, has a handsome portrait and medallion likeness of Jones, and is illustrated with
umefous original wood engravings of naval scenes and distinguished men with whom he was
familiar.
THE GREEK EXILE;
r, A Narratie of the Captivity and Escape of Christophors Plato Castanls,
DURING THE MASSACRE ON THE ISLAND OF SCIO BY THE TURKS
TOGETHER WITH VARIOUS ADVENTURES IN GREECE AND AMERICA.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF,,
Author of an Essay on the Ancient and Modern Greek Languages; Interpretation of the Attribute
of the Principal Fabulous Deities ; The Jewish Maiden of Scio's Citadel; and
the Greek Boy in the Sunday-SchooL.
One Volume, 12mo.
T HE Y OU NG C H ORI ST ER;
-    Collection of New and Beautiful Tunes, adapted to the use of Sabbath-Schools, from some of %
most distinguished composers; together with many of the author's composmfons.
EDITED BY MINARD W. WILSON.
21

.2


LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS
CA MP LIFE OF A VOLUNTEER
A Campaign in Mexico; Or, A Glimpse at Life in Camp
BY "ONE WHO HAS SEEN THE LLEp jg,?i
COMPRISING A NARRATED OF EVENTS CONNECTDWTfHSPOES0,
CAREER AND AUTHENTIC INCIDENTS OFHITHEAR    Y   OFESSION
BY J. REESE PRY' AND R.' T. CONRAD.
With an original and accurate Portrait, and eleven elegant Illustrations, by Darley,
In one handsome 12mo. volume.
"It is by far the fullest end most interesting biography of GeneralTalrtitw evrsn.
--Richmond ( W~hg) Chronicle.myo             Taylor thatwe have everse"
"O the whole we are satisfied that this volume is the
Pubished."rHirt' oMerfhants' Magazine.  most correct and comprehensive one yet
"The superiority of this edition over the ephemeral publications of the d  e
more authentic accounts of his family, ius earlylife, and Indian wars. Thea rrativenofulisr
ceedings in Mexico is drawn partly from reliable private letters, but chief from his own official
" It forms a cheap, substantial, anrd attractive volume,-adoewihsol
side of every familywho desire a faithful and true life f tne wd ne aould be read at the fire-
GENERAL TAYLOR AND HIS STAFF:
Comprising Memoirs of Generals Taylor, Worth, Wool, and ButlerF;FCol.HMayeCrossO ClaytHaroGn
YelHays,and other distingis ices atd tenerayCross,Clay, Hard
Army. Interspjersed withTalr
NUMEROUS S ANECDOTEOF THE MEXICANTSWAR
and Personal Adventures of the Officers. Compiled from Public Documents and Priv
spondence. With
ACCURATE PORTRAITS, AND OTHER BEAUTIFUL L
.    MLILUSTRABTIONS,
In one volume, 12mo.
GENERAL SCOTT AND HIS STAFF:
tomprismg Memoirs of Generals Scott, Twiggs, Smith
Patterson, and Pierce; Cols. Child Riley, uran, andler  an eCadwalader
*  distinguished officers attached to General Sco tl r; ndohe
TOGETHER WITH
Notices of General Kearny, Col. Doniphan, Col. Fremont, and
Conquest of California and New Mexico; and Person Adveture office distinguied in the
Piled from Public Documents and Private Correspondence theicers. Com- -
CCURATE -PORTRAITS, AND OTHER BEUIFLiLUtRAh
R OneVolt   BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATIONS-,
In one volume, l2nio.
T~E AMILY DE N TIS T,
EXCLUDING THE SURGICAL, MEDICAL AND MECHANCLTET
OF THE TEETH.        ANALTETE
IlUstrated with thirtywone Engraying,.
By CHARLES A. DUX BOUCOHET, M. D., Dental Surev
I' one volume, l8m0.

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
MECHANICS FOR THE MILLWRIGHT, ENGINEER AND MACHINIST,
CIVIL ENGINEER, AND ARCHITECT:
CONTAINING
THE PRINCIPLES OF MECHANICS APPLIED TO MAChINERY
Of American models. Steam-Engines, Water-Works, Navigation, Bridge-building, &amp;c. &amp;c. EB
FREDERICK OVERMAN,
Author of "The Manufacture of iron," and other scientific treatises.
frustrated by 150 Engravings. Lu one large I2mo. volume.

I

WILLIAMS'S TRAVELLER'S AND TOURIST'S GUIDE
Throug the United States, Canada, &amp;c.
This book will be found replete, with information, not only to the traveller, but likewise,.t the
man of business. In its preparation, an entirely new plan has been adopted, which, we are con-
vinced, needs only a trial to be fully appreciated.h                   s     f   and tam
Among its many valuable features, are tables showing at a glance the distance, fa Union; so that
occupied in travelling from the prmcipal cities to the most important places isth n insoha
the question frequently asked, without obtaining a satisfactory reply, is here answered in uh
Other tables show the distances from New York, &amp;c., to domestic and foreign ports, by sea; and
also, by way of comparison, from New York and Liverpool to the principal ports beyond and around
Cape Horn, &amp;c., as well as via the Isthmus of Panama. Accompanied by a large and accurate ap
of bhe United States, including a separate Map of Califoria, Oregon, New Mexico and Utah. Also,
a Map of the Islad of Cuba, and Plan of the City and Harbor of Havana; and a Map of Niagara
River and Falls
T H E LEG I SLATIV E GUIDE:
containing directions for conducting business in the House of Representatives; the Senate of the
United States; the Joint Rules of both Houses ; a Synopsis of Jefferson's Manual, and copious
Indices; together with a concise system of Rules of Order, based on the regulations of the
U. S. Congress. Designed to economise time, secure uniformity and despatch in con-
ducting business in all secular meetings, and also in all religious, political, and
Legislative Assemblies.
BY JOSEPH BARTLETT BURLEIGH, LL. D.
In one volume, 12mo.
This is considered by our Judges and Congressmen as decidedly the best work of the kind extant
very young man in the country should have a copy of this book.
THE INITIALS; A Story of Modern Life.
THREE VOLUMES OF THE LONDON EDITION CMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME 12M.
A new novel, equal to " Jane Eyre."
WILD WESTERN SCENES:
A NARRATIVE OF ADVENTURES IN THE WESTERN WILDERNESS.
Wherein tie Exploits of Daniel Boone, the Great American Pioneer, are particularly described
Also, Minute Accounts of Bear, Deer, and Buffalo Hunts -Desperate Conflicts with the
Savages-Fishing and Fowling Adventures - Encounters with Serpents, &amp;c.
By LUKE SHORTFIELD, Author of "The Western Merchant."
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED. One volume,12mo.
POEMS OF THE PLEASURES:
Consisting of the PLEASURES OF IMAGiNATION, by Akenside ; the PLEASURES OF MEMORY
by Samuel Rogers- the PLEASURES OF HOPE, by Campbell, and the PLEASURES OF
FRIEN DSHIP, by MHenry. With a Memoir of each Author, prepared expressly
for this work.. 18mo
23


4.
1

nais nOfaTaleslandAaecdotes B
mental Pieces, n pros y at  oi, MoraRet  8,'a
- COMPILED  WILLIAM FIELDS.
DIION  REVISED ANDIVPRrB
In one handsome 8vovolume.  iMPROED.
OLI      FRAEIAAWODF.
UPON OUR           RIGAN GHRISTIANS.
AE     PON EXAMPLE AS A NATION, OUR LABOUR, &amp;c.
T  U E AUHORI  OF   H   NEW    TESTAMENT
E t   UHRO    NEW THE5IIS FOR THlE PROTESTANTS L  ~y
One vol 8vo., half cloth. Price 50 cents. r  e  by TEal   CLe Tr ay. "
THE  UMANBODYFor aleby all the Trade'.
THE HUMAN BODY AND ITS CONNEXION WITH MAN.
ZLLUSTATD BY THE PRIN cWAL OItGK
BY JAME JOHN GARTH         I   INSN
Member .: the Royal College of Surgeons of Englan S
INONE VOLUME. 12M0--.. .pRIoE *1 25
24

LIPPINCOTT GRA  .O&amp;    o'stBLCTIN
BALDWIN'SPRN               NINGAETR
A oofUNCING GAZETTEER.
A   PRONOUNCING            G   Z   T   E   R-
TPRAPHICAZ },STATISTICA L CONTAINING
ICA A  TPAC  A 1ND OTHER INFORMATION  O  L  H  OR1~
I~OT:~T L '  JTHE KNOWN WORLD FkPRO ATHE MOT
RETAT TAND AUT    SOURCES    T'TEMS
33I r T 1y.g 5
oh  listed by several other Gentlemen
o W h c h  is  a d d d  a  P D x ,  c o n ta in in w  m o re  th a n  T IE N  T H U A D A D ~ O A   A E
chiei        only of -te small   os and Villages, &amp;c., of the United States and of Mei0 L NAMES
wiNINTH EDITION, WITH A SUPPLMENT
Giving the Pronunciation of near two hsa  P E M E N T,
oin itself a Coplete Vocabulary of Geocga   Prouncianton rgia
O~iiVOLUE 120......RICE  $1.50.
~Liu23tbrurq trr f                  g
Complete in Twelve handsome irmo. volumes bound in Scarlet Cloth.
2. WOMANfS TIALS,*OR SADrle CTCHh
yMARRIELFE     TALES AND SETHESROM THE FE AROUND US
3. THE TWO WVE~STOR AOWS ND UNSHI FRO
6   R SCENESDANDHo   OR  E DOETHi ALL THINGS WELL"
6. SONS IN LIFEH.FORAUSEKEEPERS.
SS        ND HAR VEST WILL READ THEM.
LI STaTLA WHATSOEVER A MAN SOWETH THAT SHALL      E
RES.FRPA RE N7'STA                     HL
10. OFl?-UAND SKETHS LITTLDAH
ll OD OTEW*"        L AHDWT 2. THE TRIED AND THE TEMPTED  UMR
The aboveSeries are sold togethED. ore
be without aCopy of this itrs  tandseh rkis rc
hout a c9pd intuctiye series.Prscomplete in itself  No1Fmilysoud
Price Thveirty-severe a  al ens per
FIE L Daac'''
IELD  SCRAP BOoK.-New           Ed-t'j*
6t ntit -V

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMIBO. &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
BOARDMAN'S BIBLE IN THE FAMILY.
i   e3 ihit in    t1) ~1~rix
OR,
HINTS ON DOMESTIC HAPPINESS.
BY H. A. BOARDMAN,
PASTOR OF THE TENTH PRESBYTERIAN CHUIIVRH, PHILADELPHIA.
One Volume 12mo.-Price, One Dollar.
WHEEL ERSIST0R YOF NORTH CAROLINA.
NRTH CAROLINA,
From 1584 to 1851.
Comile  frm  Oigial  ecodsOfficial Documents, and Traditional Statements; with io gp hl
Compied fro riginal Recordsu e tcu  enJnit yiS
Sketches of her Distinguished Statesmen, Jurists,La yrSli sDvns &amp;O
BY JOHN H. WHEELER,
Late Treasurer of the State.
IN ONE VOLUME OCTAVO.--PRICE, $2.00.
THE NORTH CAROLINA READER:
CONTAINING         TIONS IN PROE
-AHGTEYHOF NORTH CAROEASELECTOF
HITOAMID.VERS (TANY OF THEM BY EMIN ENT CITIZENSOTIPRS
8TA ),HI  STORICAL AND -CHRONOLOGICAL TABLES,
~u  TA 1a6S '2o ~fcdaqueous ff honmattO1n aub etattst m
*BY C.H. WI L EY.
"M own green land for ever
Land of the beautiful and  srave-
'I he  freeman's  home" themiartYi'Sgrv.
illustrated t   ravin  and deigned for Families and Schools.
ONE VOLUME H2MO. PRICE $1.00.
THIRTY YEARS WITH THE INDIAN TRIBES.
PERSONAL MEMOIEB
OF A"                    "
ON THE AMERICAN FRONTIERS:
with. brief Notices of passing n Events, Fact, and Opinione,
BY HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT.
ONE LARGE OCTAVO VOLUME. PRICE THREE DOLLARS.
T HE S CAL1P -H UN T ER S:
ROMAilII ADVENTURE 'IN NORTHERN MEIIC0.
BY CA PTA IN M AY NE RUEhID,
AUTHOR OF THlE "GRlFLE RANGER.
(Complete in One Volume. Price Fifty ent.
C   .---               25

94

I

I
f
,,


LWPPINCOTT, GIRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS
THE CONFESSIONS OF A HOUSEKEEPER.
BY MRS. JOHN SMITH.
WITH THIRTEEN HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATIONS.
One Vo0ume0 2mo. Price 50 Cents.
Splendid Illustrated Books, suitable for Gifts for the Holidays
EDITED BY PROF. JOHN S. HART.
WITH TWELVE SPLENDID ILLUMINATIONS, ALL FROM ORIGINAL DESIpIW.
THE DEW..DROP: A TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION.
WITH NINE STEEL ENGRAVINGS.
GEMS FROM THE SACRED MINE .
WITH TEN STEEL PLATES AND ILLUMINATIONS.
WITH FOURTEEN STEEL PLATES AND ILLUMINATIONS.
THE STANDARD EDITIONS OF THE POETS.
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.
LORD AND LADT EARCOURT-
OR, COUNTRY HIOSPITAL1TIES.
BY CATHARINE. SINCLAIR,
Author of"' Jane Botrverie;." "The Business of Life," 99Moden   ccmusr,.tle~
(1                        ccoplia uts de,4
One volu~me l2mo. Price 50 cents, paper;  t, fide; '15 cent,.
A  Book for every Family.
THE DICTIONARY OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE AND    U8EII0LD 8URGR
BY SPENCER THONIVPSON, M.D., F.R.C.S.,
Of Edinburgh.
ILLUSTRATED WITH iUTMEROUS OUTS.
EDITED AND ADAPTED TO THE WANTS OP TInS COUNTRY, BY A WEIL-KNOWN
PRACTITIONER 0dFPIILADELPIIIA
In one volume, demi-octavo.
A TALE OF TWO WORLDS.
BY W. IH. CARPENTER,
AUTHOR 01 "CLI0ONE THIE R EL ~" "JOHN~ THE DOLD" &amp;,
OneVolmeI~m. ric Thrt-seenaHl Cent..
WILIA z' NWMOFTEUID STATES, ON ROLLhERS
A new Map of the United States -pnwinaedlnetdisvs o  ofbt~lCriud
cation, Routes across the tnen,&amp; . shwn lo9nd  th lsaic oua
Thfr Ma is handsome colored and one nrles n ilb on oa Ceubjadi,.
ornament t he Counting.House nad Parlo an ell as t sa Sh.o  autifu anwuo$

I

Y     1

I

tE

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO     &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
VALUABLE STANDARD MEDICAL BOOKS.
DISPENSATORY OF THE UNITED STATES.
BY DRS. WOOD AND BACHE.
New Edition, much enlarged and carefully revised. One volume, royal octavo.
A TREATISE ON THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE.
BY GEORGE B. WOOD, M. D.,
One of tie Author of the "Dispensatory of the U. S.,"'&amp;c. New edition, improved. 2 vols. S"e.
AN ILLUSTRATED SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY;
SPECIAL, MICROSCOPIC, AND PHYSIOLOGICAL.
BY SAMUELg GEORGE MORTON, M. D.
With 891 beautiful IllustrationS. One volume, royal octavo.
SMITH'S     OPERATIVE       SURGERY.
A SYSTEM OF OPERATIVE SURGERY,
BASED UPON THE PRACTICE OF SURGEONS IN THE UNITED
STATES; AND OMPRISING A
Bibliographical ladeianid Historical Record42of many of their Operaions,
FOR A PERIOD OF 200 YEARS.
BY HENRY H. SMITH, M.D.
Illustrated with nearly 1000 EngravingS on Steel.
MATERIA. MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS,
W ith  a mp le.Il ~tt iO BS Practice  in  all  the  Departments  of M medical  Scence, and  copious  No-
tines of Toxicology.
'   '1'IK~OX.&amp;S D. 1ZZITC1KPLL AnXM, X. Dn,
Prof. of the Theory and Practice of Medicine in the Philadelphia College of Medicine, ,c. lVOLBme.
THE THEORY AND PRACTICE 0F SURGERY.
By GEORGE M'C0ELLAN, M. D) 1 0o. Sv0.
J9BERLE'S PRACTICE OF MEDICINE.
New Edition. Improved by GEORGE M'CLELLAN, M.D. Two volumes inu1voBe.
E]BERLE'S THERAPEUTICS.
TWO VOLUMES IN ONE.
A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN.
By JOHN EBERLE, M. D., &amp;c. Fourth Edition. With Notesand ery large Additions,
By TuOMgs D. MITCHELL, A. M., *. D., &amp;. 1 vol. 8vo.
EBERLE'S NOTES FOR STUDENTS-NEW EDlTION.
*.'~ These works are used as text-ooks in most of the Medical School* in the United States.
PRACTICAL TREATIE ON POISONS:
Their Symptoms, Antidotes, and Treatment, -y.H  otlMD  ~o
IDENTITIES OF LlGHT AND HEAT, OF CALORIC AND ELECTRICITY.
A          BY C. CAMPBELL COOPER.
UNITED STATES' PHARMACOPOEIA,
Uditlbn of,18M. Publishedl by authority of the National Medical Convenion. I vol. Geo

I


IOAMQ &amp; C.'S PUBLICATIONS.
SCHOOLCRAFTS GREAT NATIONAL WORK ON                  THE
PART SECOND--QUARTO
WITH    EIGHTY BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATIONS ON                  STEEL,_
t, from Drawings by Captain Eastman, U. S. A.
PRICE, FIFTEEN DOLLARS.
COCKBURNS LIFE OF LORD JEFFREY.
LIFE OF LO RJ JE F F R E y
I SECTION P  ROM      Is CORRESPONDENCE
BY LORD           COOKBURN,
One of the Judges of the Court of Sessions in Scotland. Two volumesde-
"Those who know Lord Jeffrey only through the pages of t    u    e, eoctavo.
sideandnot he  et peas  nyl though  etagesof he Edinburgh Review, get but a one-
sided, and not the moat pleasant view of his character."
"wWe advise our readers to obtain the book, and enjoy it to the full themselves. They will unite
with us in saying that the self-drawn character portrayed in the letters of Lord Jeffrey,is one of the
most delightful pictures that has ever been presented tothm "Eenn Bulletin.
"Jeffrey was for a tong period editor of the Review, and was admitted by all the other contri
tors to be the leading spirit in it. In addition to his political articles, he  o  hwe oher wondrfbul
powers of criticism in literature. -e was equally at home whether censuring or applaudin in
his onslaughts on the-mediocrity of Southey, or the misused talnso  yoorigi ol  s'sya
on Shakspeare, or Scott; or Burns."-N e York xpress.etn  of Byron, or in his noble essays
PRICE, TWO DOLLARS AND A HALF.
R OM ~
ROMANCE OF NATURAL HISTORY;
OR, WED SCENES AND WILD HUNTERS.
WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS, IN ONE VOLUME OCTAVO, CLOTI.
BY   C. W. WEBBER.
"We have rarely read a volume so full of life and enthusiasm, so capable of transporting the
reader into an actor among the scenes and persons d ehsd asm, volumae an hanrtin the 
at any page without arresting the attention, and the reader is borne alolume can hardly be opened
style whose elastic spring and life knows no wearinesou      ieranw htheMovement of a C n
PRICE, TWO DOLLARS.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM PENN,
WITH SELECTIONS FROM HIS CORRESPONDENCE AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY;
BY SAMUEL M. JANNEY,
Second Edition, Revised.
"Ourauthor ha Aqutte gehiel in a ans ner wrthy of liis subject. is style is easy, flowing,
age, and a work that should fmnd its way into the libraryo every adiind" toth lieaueo u
"We regard thii~ife of the great founde of reny a of evalubl Frie d-ind toeliner, 
of the country.". Philadelphia~ EVening uetoin slai savlal  diint h    ieau
sat Wor hno hesitation in Pronouncing Mr. Janney's life of Penn the bes b~uetems
to the purposes of biog raphica nrtie  h    s le   leaor a nduino., n      s
P~iC, TO DLLAS.
28

s
w
,
A

SIMPSON'S MILITARY JOURNAL.
JOURNAL OF A MILITARY RECONNOISSANCE FROM SANTA FE, NEW
ME XICO, TO T HE NAVAJ0 COUNTRY,

BY JA-MES H. SIMPSON, A. M.,
FIRST LIEUTENANT CORPS OF TOPOGRAPHICAL ENGINEERS.
WITH SEVENTYe IVE COLOUeD ILLUSTRATIONS
One volume, octavo. Price, Threc Dollar.

C*

29

A

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
LlPPINCOTT'S CABINET HISTORIES OF THE STATES,
CONSISTING OF A SERIES OF
Cabinet Histories of all the States of the Union,
TO EMBRACE A VOLUME FOR EACH STATE.
We have so far completed all our arrangements, as to be able to issue the whole series in the
shortest possible time consistent with its careful literary production. SEVERAL VOLUMES ARE
NOW READY FOR SALE. The talented authors who have engaged to write these Histories, are
no strangers in the literary world.
NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
"These most tastefully printed and bound volumes form the first instalment of a series of State
Histories, which, without superseding the bulkier and more expensive works of the same cha
ter, may enter household channels from which the others would be excluded by their cost and
magnitude."
In conciseness, clearness, skill of arrangement, and graphic interest, they are a most excellent
earnest of those to come. They are eminently adapted both to interest and instruct, and should
nave a place in the family library of every American."-N. Y. Courier and Enquirey.
"The importance of a series of State History like those now in preparation, can scarcely be esi
mated. Being condensed as carefully as accuracy and interest of narrative will permit, the size
and price of the volumes will bring them within the reach of every family in the country, thus
maki them home-reding books for old and young. Each individual will, in consequence, become
familiar, not only with the history of his own State, but with that of the other States; thus mutual
interests will be re-awakened, and old bonds cemented in a firmer re-union."" omesGazette.
NEW THEMES FOR THE PROTESTANT CLERGY;
CREEDS WITHOUT CHARITY, THEOLOGY WITHOUT HUMANITY, AND PROTESTANT-
ISM WITHOUT CHRISTIANITY:
With        by the Editor on the Literature of Charity, Population, Pauperism, Political
Economy, and Protestantism.
"The great question which the book discusses is, whether the Church of this age is what the
primitive Church was, and whether Christians-both pastors and people-are doing their duty. Our
anthor believes not, and, to our mind, he has made out a strong case. He thinks there is abundant
noon for reform at the present time, and that it is needed almost as much as in the days of Luther.
And why  Because, in his own words,' While one portion of nominal Christians have busied
themselves with forms and ceremonies and observances; with pictures, images, and processions;
othershave given to doctrines the supremacy, and have busied themselves in laying down the
lies whin to enforce human belief-lines of interpretation by which to control human opinion
-lines of discipline and restraint, by which to bring human minds to uniformity of faith and actn.
They have formed creeds and catechisms; they have spread themselves over the whole field of the
sacred writings, and scratched up all the surface ; they have gathered all the straws, and turned
over all the pebbles, and detected the colour and determined the outline of every stone and tree
and shrub ; they have dwelt with rapture upon all that was beautiful and sublime;, but they have
trampled over mines of golden wisdom, of surpassing richnessand depth, almost without a thought,
andalmost without an effort to fathom these priceless treasures, much lessto take possession
of them.'-PRICE, ONE DOLLAR.

-


.L,     &amp;t CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
TALES OF THE SOUTHERN BORDER.
BY C. W. W E B B E R.
OCTAVO, HANDSOMELY ILLUSTRATED.
H hunter Naturalist, a Romance of Sporting;
0R WILD SCENES AND WILD HUNTERS
Author of "Shoti EBY C. W. WEER,
in the Eye," "Old Hicks the Guide," "Gold Mines of the Gila"
ONE VOL UME, ROYAL OCTAVO.n     a," &amp;c.
1L'USTRATED WITH FORTY BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS, FROM ORIGINAL DRAWING;
A4NY OF WHICH ARE COLOURED.
Price, Five Dollars.
NIGjHT IN A BLOCKHOUSE;
OR, SKETCHES OF BORDER LIFE.
Brade  among the Indians, Feats of the Wild Hunters, and Exploit4 of Boon,
Brady, Kenton, Whetzei, Fleehart, and other Border Heroes of the West.
$  HENRY C. V'TO
AuthH oEf "Camp-Fires of the Revolution.
WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS,
One volume, 8vo.  Price, $  .00.
HAMILTON, T HE YOUNG .ARTIST
BY AUGUSTA BROWNE.
AN. ESWITH
AN ESSAY ON SCULPTURE AND PAINTING,
BY HAMILTON A. C, BROWNE,
1 vol. ISmo. Price,  N12  Ent .
THiBRACSCAT       STORY OF TEXAS:
B3AIG AN ACCOUN T OP ITS REVENUE S DEBTS, AND URNYFO
THE COMMENCEMENT OF TILDEBSTAD CURRENCY, FRO
TH   C MM NC ME T  F  REVOLUTION  IN  1834,  TO  1851-2 01
WITII REMARKS ON AMERICANN  1,T       2,
utltor   BY W M. M. GOUGE~
Author of"A Short History of Paper Moey and a
T hese icdn a e  h-  8 c on   - n  th e  U nited  S tates, a
In  ne  ol.8vo, cot. Price $1 50.
Bri'tan  ring  the  years  181  andra5  o plt  r  n wo Unitu   t ate s anu d o r e~ ate
by the author from original sources, and isnw rst itroduced toalublicte  a c
80       dtohpuic

r

I

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
FROST'S JUVENILE SERIES.
TWELVE VOLUMES, 16mo., WITH FIVE HUNDRED ENGRAVINGS.
WALTER O'NEILL, OR THE PLEASURE OF DOING GOOD. 25 Engrav'gU.
JUNCER SCHOTT, and other Stories. 6 Engravings.
THE LADY OF THE LURLEI, and other Stories. 12 Engravings.
ELLEN'S BIRTHDAY, and other Stories. 20 Engravings.
HERMAN, and other Stories. 9 Engravings.
KING TREGEWALL'S DAUGHTER, and other Stories. 16 Engravings.
THE DROWNED BOY, and other Stories. 6 Engravings.
THE PICTORIAL RHYME-BOOK. 122 Engravings.
THE PICTORIAL NURSERY BOOK. 117 Engravings.
THE GOOD CHILD'S REWARD. 115 Engravings.
ALPHABET OF QUADRUPEDS. 26 Engravings.
ALPHABET OF BIRDS. 26 Engravings.
PRICE, TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EACH.
The above popular and attractive series of New Juveniles for the Young, are sold together a
separately.
THE MILLINER AND THE MILLIONAIRE.
BY MRS. REBECCA HICKS,
(Of Virginia,) Author of "The Lady Killer," &amp;c. One volume,l2mo,
Price, 37% cents.
STANSBURY'S
EXPEDITION TO THE GREAT SALT LAKE,
A N E XPL OR ATION
OF THE VALLEY OF THE GREAT SALT LAKE
OF UTAH,
CONTAINING ITS GEOGRAPHY, NATURAL HISTORY, MINERALOGICAL RE.
SOURCES, ANALYSIS OF ITS WATERS, AND AN AUTHENTIC ACCOUNT OF
THE MORMON SETTLEMENT.
ALS0,
A RECONNAISSANCE OF A NEW ROUTE THROUGH THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS.
WITH SEVENTY EAUTIUL ILLUSTRATIONS,
1FROM DRAWINGS TAKEN ON THE SPOT,
A ND WO LA RGE AND A CCUR ATE M APS OF T HA T REGION.
NWf H OW AR'D S T AN S BU RY,
CAPTAIN 'TOPOGRAPHICAL ENGINEERS.
.One volume, royal octave. Price Five Dollars.

31

, +, s
v


LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
THE ABBOTSFORD EDITION
OF
PRINTED UPON11 FINE WHITEPPE,
WTE PAPER,WITH NEW AND BEAUTIFUL TYPE
FROM THE LAST ENGLISH EDITION,
EMBRACING
THE AUTHOR'S LATEST CORRECTIONS NOTES ETC.,
COMPLETE IN TWELVE VOLUMES, DEMI-OCTAVO, AND NEATLY BOUND IN CLOTEI
)tJ  i *ustratfol,
FOR YONLY TWELVE DOLLARS
CONTAINING
WDAVERLEZior 'Tls Sixty Years Since.TEFR J~gOPNGL
GY MANNEQURN. - ---.........PEVERIL OF THE PEAK.
THE .ANTIQUARY     ......................UEINDWRD
-.---.---QUENTIN DURW ARD
THE BLACK DWARF..............L-"..ST. RONAN'S WELL.
ODMRALITY .....................EDGAU,.....TLETRE
ROB                        ''''"...REGAUNTLET.
RO o....B..................THE BETROTHED.
THE HEART OF MID-LOTHIAN.........TAA
THE BRIDE OF LAMMERMOOR..--..-.WOODSTOCK
A LEGEND OF IONTROSE........... HT  IGL
IVANHOE.-                           HIGHLAND WIDOW, ,
TEMONASTERY...................---THE FAIRMADO
THE ABBOT....ENOFASEER[ERSTEIN.
..................................COUNT ROBERT   1P .S
-------W-            -.................... .CASTLE DANGEROUS,
THE PIRATE.................... THE SURABEONS DAUGHTER, b
ANY OF THE ABOVE NOVELS SOLD, IN PAPER COVERS, AT FIFTY CENTS EACe.
ALSO
AN ILLUSTRATED EDITION
O1
T HE W AV E RL EY NOV E L S
In Twelve Volumes, Royal Octav,, on Superfiue Pper, with
SEVERAL HUNDRED CHARACTERISTIC AN*EUIU       NRVN8
ELEGANTLY BOUND IN CLOTR, GILT,~

IPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
A NEW AND COMPLETE
GAZETTEER OF THE UNITED STATES,
It will furnish the fullest and most recent information respecting the Geography, Statistics, and
present state of improvement, of every part of this great Republic, particularly of
TEXAS, CALIFORNIA, OREGON, NEW MEXICO,
&amp;o. The work will be issued as soon as the complete official returns of the present Census are
received.
THE ABOVE WORK WILL BE FOLLOWED BY
A   UNIVERSAL      GAZETTEER, OR         GEOGRAPHICAL         DICTIONARY,
of the most complete and comprehensive character. It will be compiled from the best English,
French, and German authorities, and will be published the moment that the returns of the present
census of Europe can be obtained.
THEIR      DOMESTIC         POLITY       AND     THEOLOGY.
BY J. W. GUNNISON,
U. S. Corps Topographical Engineers.
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS, IN ONE VOLUME DEMI-OCTAVO.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
REPORT OF A GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
OF

WISCONSIN, IOWA, AND MINNESOTA,
AND INCIDENTALLY OF
A PORTION OF NEBRASKA TERRITORY,
MADE UNDER INSTRUCTIONS FRONT THE U. S. TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
BY DAVID DALE OWEN,
United States' Geologist.
WITH OVER 150 ILLUSTRATIONS ON STEEL AND WOOD.
Two volumes, quarto. Price Ten Dollars.
MERClANTS' MEMQRANDUM BOOK,
n       CONTA I i  LISTS OF ALL GOODS PURCHASED BY COUNTRY MERCHANTS, &amp;o
One volume, 1Smo., Leathellaer. Price, .50 cents.
33

I.

4


LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
A RT HU R'S
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED,
1. WHO IS GREATEST? and other Stories.
2. WHO ARE HAPPIEST? and other Stories.
3. THE POOR WOOD-CUTTER, and other Stories.
4. MAGGY'S BABY, and other Stories.
5. MR. HAVEN'T-GOT-TIME AND MR, DON'T-BE.IN.A.HURRY
6. THE PEACEMAKERSB
7. UNCLE BEN'S NEW-YEAR'S GIFTaid other Store&amp;
8. THE WOUN~DED BOY, and other Stories.
9. THE LOST CHILDREN, and other Stories.
10. OUR.HARRY, and other Poems and Stories.
11. THE LAST PENNY, and other Stories.
12. PIERRE, THE ORGAN LOY, and other Stories.
EACH VOLUME IS ILLUSTRATED WIr
ENGRAVINGS FROM ORIGINAL DESIGNS BY CRO0ME,
And are sold together or separately.
TRUTHS ILLUSTRATED BY GREAT AUTHORS
A DICTIONARY OF OVER FOUR THOUSAND AID$, TO:  E     U
TIONS OF MAXMSMETAPHORS, COUNSELS, CAUT ONS .AT'HQII
PROVERBS, ,&amp;0. &amp;c.,' IN PROSE AND VERSE;"
COMPILED FROMESHAKSPEARE, AND OTHER GREAT WRITERS, FROM THE
ARLIEST AGES TO THE PRESENT TIME,
A new edition, 1With1 American additions wand revisions.
LIBRARY EDITION OF SHAKSPEARE.
(LARGE TYPE);
THE DRAMATIC WORKS-OF WILLIAM               SHAKSPEARE
-WITHA            O   TH      O
AND NOTES ORIGINAL AND SELECTED, TOGETHER WiTH .COPIOgs GLOSSARY.
4 VOLUMES O0TAVO.
Librar styl--..--............$6 Q0
Half-Turkey morocco....,                      - *900
Half-calf and Turkey,*antkqeti........9....1     00
Pull calf tnd Turkeyrantit~ style....... .     io
ue     8-

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
jut        fl) u VIA 10
OR'
WANDERINGS OF AN AMERICAN IN GREAT BRITAiN,
IN 1851 AND '52.
BY BENJAMIN MORAN.
This volume embodies the observations of the anchor, made during eight months' wanderings,
as a correspondent for American Journals; and as he travelled much on foot, differs essentially
from those on the same countries, by other writers. The habits, manners, customsbod an ug ler fcondition encaeul ntd adhs  iw'f hmar  ie
afro th s  ol  he been carefully noted, and his views'of then are gvn in clear, bold angug
His remarks take a wide range, and as he visited every county in Englandbut three,  ther will be
much in the work of a novel and instructive character.
One vol.l2mo. Price $1 25.
DAY DREAMS.
8TWESS LAREtTEA A LLSI'*
ONE VOLUME 12mo.
Price, paper, 50 cents. Cloth, 75 cents.
SIMON    KENTON      OR, THE    SCOUT'S    REVENGE
ENO        OTESOTSAN HISTORICAL RO1IAN CE.
BY JAMES WEIR.
Illustrated, cloth, 75 cents. Paper, 50 cents.
M     -E ERNIERE, THE MAROON,
AND OTHER TALES
BY W. GIL MORE SIMMVIS.
1 vl. Imo., cloth. -Prioe $1 25.
SORY OF THE NATIONAL FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES.
WITH .COLOURED ILLUSTRATIONS.
1Y 3Y     KUYLBT- EAMILTON,
CAP TAIN BY BREV-ET, U. S. A.
4 A One vol., crown 8vo. Price $1 00.
NN3iSH OP'S TRAVELS.,
~ TRVJg~      Q A$A    3ISH   IN 1NEXICO    (1849)
WT TWELV E BE AUTIFUJL %LUST RA TION.

PrcpprA(  ens  ~i.6cns
I           44
4 *
.  es  __ *          .  .  .  ...*_  ._


LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
A  REVIE  -1
}  ~OF}
"NEW THEMES FOR THE PROTESTANT CLERGY."
ONE VOLUME 12mo.
Price, paper, 25 cents. Cloth, 50 cents.
THE BIBLE IN THE COUNTING-HOUSE.
BT H. A. BOARDMAN, D.D,
AUTHOR OF "THE BIBLE IN THE FAMILY."
One vol.12mo., cloth. Price One Dollar.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A NEW CHURCHMAN.
BY JOHN A. LITTLE.
ONE VOLUME 12mo. PRICE 75 CENTS.
MILTON'S WORKS-NEW AND COMPLETE-EDITION.
WITH A LIFE, DISSERTATION, INDEX, AND NOTES,
BY PROP. C. D. CLEVELAND.
ONE VOLUME ROYAL 12mo., CLOTH. PR CE $1 25.
UNIFORM      AND DRESS        21
OF THE
ARMY    OF   THE    UNITED     STATES.
WITH COLOURED ILLUSTRATIONS.
QUAnTO, OLOTH. PRICE FIVE DOLLARS.
UI9FOR M    AID IPRE      S F                                      p
NAVY    OF 1TH E     NI        'TA
WITH COLO RD DItiLUSTRATf ~S.        *

QUAR$0, COTH PaICE ffVE LIARS,
rkl r  r +               /~ t  'r'r~l 'w''               [^4 8 6fS

U

-;r
Y sj
tY
yw


  
             
         
       
   
