
    ----CITATION----
        Van Namee, J. William. Juliette Moore, or, Passion and Reality .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8143
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Juliette Moore, or, Passion and reality 
            
               /

t S
K

N

p
I

"I

A  ~    BY WILLIE WARE,
M     aq,". noo0,oo     s story "A mei
I      -                c&amp;.isa;' "DepWte-

PURLTSNISD AT THE
eof "Tu Limn Caar," Frauklinz Mils O hio
O*IO
;w       1           ,   (       k$.
/~4iZTt1~  W

IS tUS?&amp;

I
p/i


N

This iutntlugLitenry Monthly is stored with Polite Literatureeoasisting of
A&amp;RERRFM .A~P OLD, WORLD TRADITIONS,
:tt flY~~fl
WILD ADVENTURES AMONG THE INDIA 4S
flhPSTuIW UIhly ~Vrought Legends,
The Beet ffi*orical and        tic &amp;orie.e,
~S~&amp;SA2 V
#PbEtkCf&amp;E3f
rLIrs.rIcT#JRNS OP HEARTS AND ROSES,
AND
traps, Thought Gen, etc.
,A ohs featurejnll otfnstruetion and Entertainment, which cannot fail to
fortune p read Own. We shall also devote a.
heALed
ad whatever else tends to the publishing of an interesting lt4tersry Joins).
tk~ eoutectawzlI he
NEARLY ALL ORIGINAL
and of tir* order at~ MeeiY*hi$h Arinks .Otr*~~ comparison with the
Utsrature of anysiwilar work printed in the English language.
'S
~                    £611 RN.
I QQ))y~ 935 yflf,  .'  .....              S6ISI&amp;
30.0*0, n'y.er.                  .            *%oo
tOeopiss.ene year,    -   .   .        .     #10/JO
WSr~.us .Munburstent'fltl,
onqy~o,~ ,~         Qac          enS
a, another
- W~mkSs Ohio.
RJWU Lkd ~tuh~iaWi~trMor,
Ti~ot SSBOTNEW YORK;
Or, Masa Dint PubUsher &amp; Proprietor,
V                                    t'i~~&amp;&amp;, Franklin Mills, Ohio.

,         4'


~7
I
'I
\ /1
I
K
~ (~f)
7                                        /         N          ~
N            ,f.
*      BY          LIE~ WARE,            N~
Author of "D~fewood;" "E3tella Grakam," a *500,00 prze.8tory, "P~'icZ~. ~nI
Passion," "Woman's Reeenge," "The C'koice," "Deep Wats~'s,"
etc., etc., etc.
FRANKLIN MILL$, OHIO:                                            p
/1
PUBLISHF~I) AT TIIE~
Office of "Tim  LITERAllY CABEnT," Franklin   ~Ie~
~7;-~ ~


~4iA $~

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1s6o,
BY.9J. W. VAN NAMEE,
isthe Cleik's Office of~the District Court of th eoUnited States for the Southern+

.~A ~

'THIS-HUMBLE TALE
IS
RESPECTFULLY. DEDICATED
*.A TOKEN OF ~S1NUERE REGARD,
o-
NEW HAVEN, CONN.
-BY THE AUTHOR.

~1
~        /1


0
iO T     EADE1~.

I am aware that the following story
is one much unlike the popular novels
~f the day-I have failed to follow out
the estaV ed rules of novelists, and
may, by so doing incur the displeasure
if some of those who admire only the
sensation tales of the "flash story pa-
pers," now so popular. But, it has, at
least, one merit, it contains more truth,
than most stories of a similar character
usually possess. The persons figuring
in this humble tale are no ideal crea-
tions. They have all "played their
parts" in threat drama of Life, and
seine of them are, even now, upon the
"stage" of the World. With their per-
mission, have Iwritten out this narrative
~of actual events.
I have given fictitious names to the

different characters, and that is all. lb
no other way have I deviated from the
path of fact, and those who follow me
through the narrative of Juliette Moore's
trials, and triumphs, will be ready to
echo, "Fact, is indeed, stranger than
fiction."
Perhaps some of my renders, those
well versed in fashionable literature cx-
peetmeto apologizeforprdsenting these
pages to the world. I will simply reply
in the language of another-Shelley-
"The spirits that I have raised haunt
m~ until they are sent to the devil of a
printer. All authors are anxious to
breech their bantlings."
WILLIE WARE,
"Riverside,"
Monroe, Michigan,
June, 1861.

B

-I


OIIAPTER L
The Arrival and Death bed Scene.
"Oar God requireth the whole heart or none,
And yet, he will accept a broken one."
"Thou hast been call'4, 0 sleep, the friend of
woe,
* But 'tis the happy who have named thee so.
-SOUTUAY.
"ThenL)eathwhy shouldst thou dreaded be,
And shunn'd as some great misery,
That crest our woes and strife?
Only because we're ill resolved,
And in dark error's clouds involved,
Think desth the end of Life;
Which most untrue,
Each place we view
Gives testimonies rife.
-HAcYnoars.
The sun was just~ sinking to his wes-
tern home behind the hill tops of the
little New England village of Tarrow-
dale, when the old stage coach rattled
up to the village Inn. It contained
but two passengers, one a lady in deep
mourning, who remained inside-her
destination was, probably, the next vil-
lage. The other, a gentleman, bearing
with him every appearance of wealth
and distinction. After. alighting from
the coach, he sauntered leisurely up to
the bar, and inquired of the pleasant
faced landlord, the way to the cottag~
of the widow Moore. The man eyed
him narrowly for a moment before re-
plying in the following way-
"Wall, I guess you'll find the wider
pr~tty~badly off-she's been aiIm these
many months."
"I did not inquire after the lady's
health, but desire to be directed to her
dwelling," haughtily replied the strang-
57-
"Wall, wall, you needn't get niad

about it; nor put on au's; nor talk to
me with your head so high in the air,.
'cause I'm Joe Wiggins the Inn keeper
-justice o! the peace-one of the big-
gest men in Tarrowdale, and my father
fit in the. Revolutionary war; I've often
henred him tell how "
"I do not care about hearing of your
father's exploits at present, no doubt he
was a very wonderful specimen of the
human family. Mr. Wiggins will you
have the kindness to direct me to the
dwelling of Mrs.~Moore l"
While the stranger spoke, the hard-
settled look of haughtiness and gloom"...
which usually rested upon his handsome
features, broke away, and an aznused,
almost cheerful look, took, for a time,
its place.
"Yas, yes," replied Mr. Wiggins, as
he advanced towards the open door,
"do ye see that ar little white cottage,
over on the hill, wal if ye do, that's jist
where the wider Moore has lived these
six years, and a better; a.nicei~ woman.
I never knew."
"Thank you sir," was the rather cool
rejoinder, and the elegantatranger step-
ped from the piazza, and walked brisk-
ly towards the white cottage on the
hills
Joe Wiggins stood in the door way
looking after the gentleman, and as he
shatled his eyes, with his sun burarted
0
hands, ho said-
"I wonder who that ar giotleman can
be; he must be some of her fine relations
ewne to take teare of little ~uliette. I
allers said Mrs. Moore was a born lady,.
and that little Juliette would some day

9

0

0

/ j


J
I'

8                   JIJLIETTE MOORE.
be the President's wife ;" wish these "Mother! s~,other!!" exclaimed Juliette
words he turned and re-entered the springing from her seat, "there is a
room, to attend to a customer, who, at stranger coming up the path, I feel sure
that moment entered the bar-room. that it is Uncle George,"-at thatmo-
Joe Wiggins had for many years been' ment the hall bell sounded, and she
the proprietor of the Tarrowdale Inn, tripped to the door, and opening it
arid was considered by the'humble vii- stood face to face, with the haughty
lagers as quite a grand personage~ He stranger.
owed his succeai and popularity in a "You are my uncle Gorge; are you
great measure, to his genial, hearty dis- not ?" and the sunny, childish face was
positions and liberal hospitality. turned to meet the cold, calculating gaze
Juliette Moore, sat by the window of of the man of the world. "Mama is
the little white cottage, which her moth- very ill," she continued nothing daunt-
or, and herself occupied. She sat there ed, "she has wished' for your presence
in the fading daylight, dreaming, she alniost daily, we' feared the letter we
was a strange child. A sort' of child sent failed to reach youand that you
woman, much given to day dreams was were not coming."
this heroine of ours, she would spend "Where is your mother?"
hour after hour, in imaginings, as if "In this room;' she is very, very sick,
trying to lift frombefore the path 'of the and you must please step softly," she
future, the~veil, which hides it from replied and gently pushing the door
mortal gaze. Air castles without num- open, she glided noiselessly to the bed-
her she erected; at one time she 'would side of the dying woman, and bending
determine to write books, which should over the prostrate form whispered:
s~tartle the world and make herself fa- ' "Mama, dear mama, open your cyot,
mous, at other she would decide to en1 Uncle George is come."
tsr the'list of candidates for histrionic The closed eyelids opened with a
fame, and through her instrumentality tremulous, unsteady motion. The thin
cause a new light to dawn upon ~that and almost transparenthand was streteh-
noble art, and again; she would spake ed f6rth and eagerly clasped within that
up her mind~ to paint pictures, and hear of George .Mo6re; raising it to his lips,
her name coupled with those of the old hepressed one warm andpassionate' kiss
masters; at other times, music would be upon it and then tenderly laid it back
the pathway which should lead her again upon.the white spread.
footsteps to the pinnacle of Fame, a firm "George," said the dying woman in
determination to win applause from the an almost' inaudible tone, "you hr~ve
or some thing she should per- come, at last. Why did you defay so'
form,~seemed, stamped upon her child long? I feared that I would never see
heart.                              you again before going home to b'o at
Atlength the little rustic gate swung peace forever."
back u~oa'iLs hinges, and,~th0j stranger "Juliette, chide me not; it was not
from tl~e Inn entered the garden1 and any own will that kept me from yolfr
slowly, and with stately treadapproach- side. As soon as your letter reached
ed the cottage door. sac, I prepared to come to you, but sh~

/.

JULIETTE MOORE.                            9'
who has for years borne the name of man with much. emo~on.
my wife, u~as taken suddenly ill, and "Swear it, swear it by High Heaven,,
crc I left home, I saw her form laid to by all that you hold dear on earth, by
rest in the silent tomb. Poor Ettie, your hope of divine pardon, and happi-
the loving but unloved wife is now at ness hereafter, swear it George Moore,
rest, Some say it was my constant before the ufihappy, broken-hearted
coldness and austei ity of manner that mother dies."
caused her to fill an early grave. They "I swear by all that's holy, good, and
call me haughty, and heartless. I may pure, that Julietto shall be nurtured as
appear to them so; but oh, God they carefully and tenderly as I cari nurture
know not of the, anguish and remorse her,-that when a suitable time rolls
that is ever burning upon the hearth around, the MSS. in yonder box shall
stoup of my heark~'                be placed in her hands, accompanied by
"Every heart knoweth its own bitter- a few lines from my own pen."
ness," replied thp invalid. "I have bad "'Tis enough, and yet I would ask
many trials to bear, bus Christ has been you a question. Hivc you seen, or
a friend to me, giving mc sweet coni- heard any thing of the whereabouts of
fort for every trial. He will take me my sister Helena l"
soon to his own bosom. You have come "No, not a word.'?
none too soon, for even now the chill of "Will you, after I am gone search for
death is upon me. George Moore, I her, and if you find,' you provide her
freely forgive you tjze great wrong you with every comfort and luxury of life."
have done me;" pausing a moment, she "I will."
glanced towards Juliette, who stood by ."Call Juliette, for I am dying, I feel
the foot of her couch, and then added: the death dews oa me now."
".Juliette, my dear, leave us alone for a He arose called Juliette, and the two
few moments." Her daughter left the approached the bedside.
room, immediately, and she resumed, Raising herself on her elbow the dying
"Yes, I freely, and heartily forgive you. woman said:
Ged forbid 'that Ishould enter his pins- "Juliette, my "child, good bye, be a
ence with an unforgiving heart, for as good and dutiful girl, endeavor t6 curb
I hope for mercy, at the throne of Di- that terrible temper of yours, look to
vine Justice, so I forgive those who have Heaven for help in time of need, put
wronged me. Promise me, that when ~'our trust in Him who turns not asid&amp;
a sug~ble time arrives, you will give to 1~om those who truly repent, one who~
Juliette, the. DISS. you find in that lit- r4'ill give you strength to bear trials and~
tle box," pointing to a small, inlaid box, crosses, uncomplainingly and with &amp;or-
upon a stand, "with such additions as titude. Meet me in Heaven, and-oh!
you feel called upon to make, and prom- God! can this be death? So cold, so
iso me tl~at ehe shall be treated by you, cold.? She sh~yered, gazed from ona-
asafatherwould treat his child. I want of her companions to the ether, made
you to premise these things before I an unsuccessfi4 effort to apcak, raised
die."                              her eyes imploringly towards Heaven,
ej pron~ise," responded the stricken and sank back upon the pillow lifeless.


u

~i.

ft

10                    JJJLIETTE MOORE.
Poor, heart broken Juliette Montague The residence, called "Ashly Hall,~'
was at rest. Her breast had stilled its stood some distance from the highway.
beatings, her heart had ceased its ach- It was a large stone mansion, with port.~
jugs, her hands had finished their earth- ico running entirely around it supported
ly work, her life journey was done. Let by massive pillows, up ~vhi~h, choice
us hope that her futui~e life--her life in viner were tastefully trained. It stood
another world is one happiness and bet- upon a gentle rise of ground, command-
ter than her er.istance here. Little ing a fine view of the entire surround-
,Tiiliettewas now motherless. How des- ing country.
olate the sound of the word motherless "What a charming place, dear Uncle
-no gentle hand to guide the footsteps George," said Jullette leaning from the
in the path of duty, no soft low voice carriage window, as they drew up the
to whisper admonitions when in the winding graveled road. Her eyes wan-
wropg, no tender heart to give out its dered over the spacious, and beautiful
wealth of love. Poor Juliette, thou art grounds, to the stately aud elegant
to be pitied, thy life path will be un- dwelling which was to tobe her home,
even, but God will guide and protect and a strange feeling of delight filled
thee through all,                   her being.
-                 The carriage drove slowly up the
CHAPTER II.              road leading to the house, and as soon
The New Home,-.-FirSt Impression. as they neared the dwelling, the shouts
"I know a house, its open doors of welcome from the slaves filled the
Wide set to catch the scented breeze,
Whiledimpling sil the oaken lloois, air. Juliette, terrified by this unex-
I'asnt shadows of the swaying trees
?ass in and o3ct like spectral things, . pected confusion, clung to Mr. Moore in
Dim. cresturesborn4 screener light, aifright and dismay.
'Tillthrough thedeepningtwilightspriflgs The blacks had formed a line on cith-
A p&amp;lerradiencc of the night.
er side of the path which lead to the
4eroas the broad, unbroken glade,  house, and as George Moore passed
Which girds this house on either hand;
The beech.clumps sprinkle showers of through the double line, throwing here
shade;-                        an4 there a small piece of silver, the
These out posts of the forest stand
And gnas.d  kin dom of the deer,  noise was even greater than beforehand
The stillness of their charmed domain, the clear morning air was ladened with
Where Spring chimes natin every year, their
AndAutuIWIlSaVeSfflll down           noisy greeting.
-MISS PAXLStEs. When they entered the house they
After the bustle and confusion attend- were welcomed in a more quiet manner
sat upnn the funeral of Juliette's iiioth- by the house servants. Taking Juliette
~ had, in a measure subsided, prepora- by the hand, Mr. Moore led her to a
tions were made for the sale of the young mulatto girl whom he called
cottage. Apurehaserwasreadily found, Cora, ~and said,
and George Moore, accompanied . by "Here, Cora, is the young distresss I
5lnliette, started for his southern home. promised to bring you. Obey her
After a tedious journey of nearly two slightest order, and remember that she,
~w.eka dsratiou they reached their des- and she alone, is your mistress hence-
4natien.                            fofth. Delia will hereafter attend to

JULIETTE MOOkK                               11
Miss lanthe.".                     and stand occupied one side of the
"Yes, muses, I will. I'se sure she'll room. The walls were covered with
be a good missy, she looks so kinder 'elegant pictures hung in costly frames
putty like."                        of gilt, andon littlebracketa fa~tencdto
"There, there, Cora, do not flatter her, the wall stood small, but valuctble stat-
or you will make her vain, as vain as utes. After looking around for a few
yourself," he added in a pleasant 'tone. moment, 5uliettc continued:
"I nebber flatters, massa knows I "I know I shall be 80 happy here, if
don't," said Cora, with the air of an in- poor mama was o'nlyhere with me, I
jured person.                       could wish for 'nothing more.~~
"Well, well, never mind that at pre...  "Dis be a ber~'y'fine room, missy, but
cut, show Miss ,Tuliette to her room, and war is your manney?" returned Cora,
attend to her wants."               her curiosity aroused by the remarks of
"Yes, Massa."                    Juliette. And never having been troub-
"And Cora, unpack her trunks, ar- led. with bashfulness, she hesitated not
range her wardrobe, and see that she is to question her new mistress.
suitably attired for lunch, and do not "My mama is dead," replied Juliette
~gossip too much."                 . sadly, "she died soon after the arrival of
Respectfully dropping a courtesy that uncle George, at our cottage."
would' have done credit to a ball roem "Wal, she is better off now, dan if
belle; she took Juliette by the hand and she was alife, for dis world am a world
led her up the broad flight of stairs to oh sorrow, and oh misery-.-full'ob big
a room on the second floor, ugly, wicked folks-onlyberry few good
"Oh, what a beautiful room this is," folks here at de present day, berry few,
she said as she entered the apartment indeecl," i'esponded Core, as if endeavor-
prepared for her use. It was a pretty ing to offer some consolation for the
room. The floor was covered with a loss her young mistress had sustained.
lightdelicatecarpetthepattern of which "What makes-you think the people
was composed of hunches of flowers that are so wicked; are you very unhappy?
looked bright and natural enough, to and do you long for your freedom?" ask-'
have been gatlwredfroln the garden and ed Juliette.
.t wa over a surface of pure white.- "Me, unhappy, and long for my free-
The windows were draped with soft, dora; oh, no, I'se one oh de happiest
flowing lace-richly embroidered-and niggers mall de bressed south. What
lined with pale blue satin; the chairs makes you fink rse onhappy? I finks
and lounge werocovered with the same de people are bad 'cause do minister say
delicate colored material, and the bed so, and he is powerful learned, lend ho
was draped in lace and 'satin like the knows."
windows. In one corner stood a small "Why, I thought all the slaves were
writing table with a desk upon it sup- unhappy, and desired to be free from
pliedwith writing materials. Another the cruel bondage which chains them to
corner, stood a work stand, the drawer J their masters."
of' which was filled with materials for "Well, well, bress my soul, if dora
sewing, and an elegant dressing case 1narrund folks don't beatali possessed.~~,~~


12                    5 LETTER MOORE.
Why missy, ebbery niggar on dis ere holder or not,
plantations is just as happy as he can of conduct. I
be. Massa is goodanci kind to us; what into a discassic
do'we want wid freedom? we are just wrongs of Sic
an tree as we can be. If we were free facts, and shal
we'd have no good hunino kind massy, occur, with no
no nuflin."                        opinions of
"Don't uncle George whip you, and that much din
make you all work very: hard?" cry right or
"Wal now, I'll go right straight up; visited in the
massy whip us? no I reckon he don't intelligence, a
no how, no nigger on dis here plants- their slave pro
tien obber felt do weight oh a feddor on ness and cone
his back frommassa, or any odder pus- man of refin
sort; but Mrs. Simons, who Jibs on de property, and
next plantation, she lick her niggarsaw- at the north
fel; and way down South, dare dey make treat every ti
em work powerful hard, but hero on dis their cattle,
ore place we're all happy as a cat wid consideration
two tails."                        ness and cr04
"I am 'glad my4 uncle is kind to you; a gentleman
I feared that all slaves were hI used, mont, and ev~
ai~d cruelly treated, and am happy to messing anima
know that some at least, are happy." consideration
Juliette had read those over drawn plied. And
'pictures of southern life, writtenby men abound negr
sadwomen void of principle and truth. as far inferior
Giving the idea that the burning of ers the work
slaves, and whipping them to death are worthy of le~
thingsoccuning almost daily. Itis true all through
that some instances of almost inhuman "the poor wi
cruelty have been kn6wn, but where to my story.
ate therenot such circumstances? Here, After' the
at the northwhere all are free, we have which time
heaid of children being whipped to pictures and
death"by~ those they have served, and Juliette said
even by their'brfttal parents, but no one "My Un
supposes that such things are common, mc, and he
and' thetnajority of people feel indignant companions;
and i'us no mild terms condemn such a they I"
eburse. 'So at the South, when a man "Dey is t'
.'er woman treats a slave in an inhuman daughter,
niMmter, every intelligent, high mi~nd~d poor dead k
psrtun, be they man or woman, slave- late chile, si

condemns'such a course
do not propose to enter
~n as to the rights and
very; I am dealing with
I' present them as they
intention to influence the
y readers, in regard to
mssed question, "Is Slav-
rrong I" All who have
South know that men of
s a general thing, treat
perty with the sasee kind-
ideration that ~ northern
ement treats his animal
that coarse, brutal men,
or the south, are apt to
hing, be it their children,
~r their slaves, with less
sad often timeswith harsh-
cIty. George Moore, wan
of education and refine-
cry thing around him pos-
1 life was treated with kind
,and every want fully sup-
it is a well known fact that
o looks upon a free negro,
r to him, icnd even consid-~
ing class of white peopless

9

sa respect than slaves, and
the ~outh they 'are called
site trash," 'Bus to return
lapse of an hour or more,
rae spent in looking at the
'the furniture of the room,
mb's wife is dead, he told
maid that Iwould have some-
how many' children are
no; Misses lanthe, Massa~n'
~nd Mesas Walter, who is
[isses' son; hut it is getting
t down till I fix your hair.

JULIETTIi~ MOORE.
'You have got to go down stairs to see exhibiting any outward show of dislike,
your cousins before lunch, and I reckon secretly, felt that ,Tuliette was an in-

dey'd be scared to def tc see you' look
in dis way."
Under the skilful hands of Cora Ju-
liette was enabled to make a very pre-
sentable appearance, though her ward-
robe was plain, and scanty. After the
finishing tones had been given to hes
toilet, she descended to the parlor, where
'Mr. Moore was waiting to introrfuce hem
to his step-son, and his daughter.-
Walter Romeyn. was the son of his late
wife, she being a widowwith one child
when ho married her. It was through
his marriage with this woman, who had
died a few weeks before the mother of
Juliette had b~men laid beneath the sod,
that he obtained the immense property
that now belonged to. him. Her son,
Walter, was fourteen years of age when
Juliette became an inmate of "Ashly
Hall." He was a handsome, dashing
youth, with high, well shaped forehead'
K~over which clustered curls of glossy jet.
His eyes were large and full df 'expres-
sion. There was a haughty cmmrv'e to
his well tamed lips, his walk was majes-
tic, and his' whole appearance was
proud,-almose overbearing.
Ianth~ Moore, his half sisterwas ton
years o~cl, and beaudful as 'a poet's
dream; but there was a something in-
describable about hes~ that repelled all
witfr whom she came in contact; a some
thing which caused one to admire, rath.
or than love. There was nothingg affec-
tionate or winning in her manners; she
'appeared to be a heartless, soulless
beauty, as passionless and incapable of
omnotionas an exquisite piece of statu-
ary~
Juliette and Walter at once become
sociable and friendly. lanthe without

- trader, an interloper, and exerted kerr
self' but little to appear agreeable or'
* amiable.
*           CHAPTER III.
-lUtes lUorriss the Gevoriress.
"Hyj~crisyis the necessary burthen of vjl-
Affectation the charm tmppings of folly.
-JoaN505.
*    "She was deceitful, and cunning,
Her heart was as hard as's stone;
Pity and love were both stiSingers,
She~laughed at a sigh or a moan."
-VAN NASXEE.
Soon after the arrival of Julietteist
- "Ashly, Hall," Mr. Moore procured a
govern's to instruct the two girls.--..
Walter pursued his studios with Ms.
Stephens, the pastor of thehrick 'church
near "Ashly Hall."
Miss Mo~ri~s was a tall, spare, dis~-
grecable looking woman on the shady
side of thirty; although she firmly as-
serted that she was but twenty-five.-
She wasin every respect a fair specimen
of disappointed old maids, and she 'tvan
a thorough Yankee. lanthe made but
little opposition to the rules laid do~vn
for their observance; but when Julidtte
saw- Miss Morriss, and was 'informed of
the duties ~he wpuld be expected to per-
form, she stampeA7 her little foot, with
rage, upon the floor, and declared to
Walter, that she "would not mind that
cross vinegar faoed old maid."
Juliette had never been accustomed
t~ obey stern commands-her cn6ther,
being an invalid, 'had allowed her to
choose her own amusements, and per-
form what duties she pleased-living
alone together in quiet seclusion, their
liven had boon interrupted by but few
incidents. Juliette possessed a violent

ii


14                   JULIETTE MOORE.
temperthoughwhile her mother lived, much of mature dignity of manners, and
few occasions had witnessed an oat whose thoughts and ideas are worthy
burst5 as every thing around her was in of older heads and hearts, are destined
accordance with her own desires, ,but to pass through many shady paths, in
now her wishes and her will were to be the journey of life, and go down to the
often crossed; and Miss Morriss was by valley of death with a chain of many
no meSas a proper person to govern sorrows around their hearts.
such a disposition. And when Juhette Some are born for ease and pleasure,
would indulge her fiery temper, and al- Jojs~ and comforts without measure;
pain,
low herself to grow excited and passioii- Mark, their brow with sorrow's stain.
ate, Walter invariably encouraged. arid
upheld her, for he thought it quite be- After the lapse of a week, the school
witching in the little beauty. Thus duties were farely begun. A room bad
encouraged she grew more violent each been nicely fitted up, for study and
4ay, and her fits of passion continued rcctationaud several hours avery morn-
to show themselves more frequently.- ing and' afternoon the two girls, under
Bat her disposition was like an April Miss Morriss' sapervisiontpent in study
day. Oae moment her face would be and recitation.
clouded witlipassion, and her eyes flash It was no difficult task for Juliette to
with the fire of rage. The next moment commit her lessozfs to memory; she was
the clouds would pass over, and the an apt and willing pupil, anxious to
sunshine illuminate her features, and learn, and under different tuition would
from her lies break forth peals of mer- have proved a studious and well be-
ry laughter. Her disposition was one haved pupil; but she could not bring
'requiring much study, and careful man- herself to obey commands. Requests
agemeut to develope her good qualities made in s~n affectionate or polite way,
as they deserved. tier destiny was cvi- she invariably respected, and complied
dently a high 'one, though Fate would with; but a command she spurned with
relentlessly strew thorns amid the flow- indignation and haughty insolence.
era along her life path. Would cause lanthe was quite different, her pro.
her to pass through surging seas of gress was slow~itAas a difficult t~
Tribulation crc her destiny would be for her to study; she preferred to spend
* fulfilled. She seemed to feel, child that her time in reading those light aenti-
she was, that her destiny was a strange mental storips~ popular now.a.days;
one; that Fate had many sorrows and and so los~g had she indulged her pea-
and many ~jey~ in store for her. The sion for light reading, it was hard to
thirteen sufluners that had'passed over confid~e her attention to the dry and
her h~ad, had left their foot-prints unromantic pages of Grammar, Uhetor-
on her heart-she was at times, a wo- ic, Mathematics and French, and she
man, in thought and action, and again, witnessed the ease with which Juliette
her unnatural maturity was thrown mastered her lessons with chagrin and
asideand she appearedthecareless child almost hatred, and the fault-findings,
sh~ was. As a general thing, those and commands, administered so fre-
youthful beings who can assume so quently by Miss Morriss, she received

JULIETTE MOORE.
with sullen silence, and apparent indif- and up the pillers vines were trai 4
ference. What a glorious study, the and hung in graceful festoons. 5The
dispositioits of the two girlswould have garden in front was tastefully laid Out,
been for a high minded, intelligent we- and well kept. Effic Graham was the
lriao. To Miss Morris they appeared favorite-the belle of the village of
only as other children of the same agc Mitford, and a prettier, sweeter girl
would have appeared; she made no ef- never lived. Shewas in her twentieth
fort to win their affections; to study year, at the time of her introduction to
their charactersorto train their thoughts the reader; for some weeks she had
and aspirations in a right chanel. She been confined to her room, by a severe
gave them tasks to pcrfoi'm, and saw cold, which threatened to affect 'her
that they accomplished them, repri- lungs seriously, and hasten her to an
handed them severely when they failed, early grave. Her mother was a widow,
and considered her duty performed.-. and she had but one brother-a, youth
Alas, that such women should be the two years her junior, who was a student
ones chosen to mould the minds and at the college in the village of Mitford.
form 'the characters of the young. Ira- One day, after the physician had vis-
pressions received-prejudices inculca- ited Eflie, Mrs. Graham followed him
tea and fostered by daily 'example of to the front door, and as he stood upon
elders, when in early youth, are usually the piazza, pulling on his gloves, she
lasting; and when years have rolled asked-
their slow lengths along the lives of "How is Effie, to-day, Doctor l"
those young beings, these ideas and im- "She is no better, I fear that she will
pressions received in earlier years reman fall into a decline before many weeks."
with them and become strengthened by "Can nothing be done to save her l"
the lapse of time, unless some circum- asked the anxious mother.
a
atanceunlooked forso materially chang-. "A change of air, might prove benefi-
as the life prospects, as to itlter t'he views cial. If she could spend a few months
entertained before the change of events, at the south, I thitik she would recover."
"I once had a cousin at the south--
CHAPTER IV.               a woman of wealth. t~ut she is dead
In which the header is Introduced to
some New Characters,         now, and I am  a stranger to her hue-
eye's brilliant lustre, her hair in clus. band."
tsr,
O'er shading a forehead as white  ~he  "Would it notbe well for you  write
snow,
A form like a fairy; so joyous and  to this man, and ask hint to allow
Astepiustaslightas theboundof~.oe... daughter to spend a few weeks at his
I gazed on with gladness; but soon come a residence, for the benefit of her health.-
sadness,
The deejiest, the direst, my heart ever for the sake of the relationship you bore
knew."                        his late wife. If he possesses, the hen-
It was a pretty house-the home of pitality so characteristic of the southern
Efflo Graham. It was neither large, people, he will heartily welcome Elfie to~
nor elegant, but the dwc~ling itself was his home. I know it is adelicate1isin~
a Jew, humble looking white cottage.- to ask a stranger to receive one of your'
Atitoss thefrentawidepiuzzastretched, family as guest; and yet Mrs.Grah


16'.

JULIETTE MOORE.

f~the sake of your daughteryou should "Henry, your head pains you again ,:
be ~rilhing to lay aside your pride, and you are studying too hard; you. will
if necessary humble yourself even to a kill yourself, my boy. Try to curb this
stranger." -                       ambitious disposition of yours; you are
"I urn perfectly willing to write to very young, and there is plenty of time
this mats, for my cousin wrote me that for you to study; do not injure yourself
h~ was a gentleman in every sense of by such incessant toil."
the word; but Effie cannot take such a - "Dear mother, you are too, anxious
long journey, in her present weak state about me. My head troubles me, it is
alone, and I cannot afford to accompany true, but I do not study too much, and
her, however muck I might wish to do when I think how hard it is for you to
so It will embarres me somewhat to pay my college expenses, I feel as, if I
allow Effle to go, and I cannot for a ought to study even harder than I do.
moment think of accompanying her." But how is Eftie this afternoon.
"That is a matter of small isuportanee; "No better; the Doctor says she can-
I know a lady and gentlerrian who are not recover unless she takes a trip south,
going south before long, and they will and 'I have just written to my cousin
gladly take Effle under their charge, if Ettie's husband, asking him to allow her
you succeed in obtaining the permissipa to visit "Ashly Hall" for a few weeks.
of this man, for her to become an in- Some friends of the Doctor's are going
mate of his house." ' south and will take charge of her. How-
"I will write this afternoon; and am ever hard it will be for me to part with
a thousand times obliged to you, Doctor, her in her present critical condition, I
for your kindness." feel that it is my duty to let her go,
"Not at all; I hope 'you will succeed; providing Mr. Moore will cxteuid to her
Good morning."        '             the hospitality of his home."
"Good morning."   And the Doctor    "Tl~ro is little doubt but that he will,
drove off, while Mrs. Graham re-entered and I hope the change will prove bene-~
the house, and immediately wrote a 'fieial;-but I almost forgot to tell you
letter to George Mo~re, of "Ashley Mr. De Haven is dead, and Carl Do Ha-
Hall," asking him, if the daughter of von that mysterious, quiet young man,
his wife's cousin would be welcome:- in our college. of whons you have heard
She told him of her delicate health; of me speak, and whoni every body sup-
the advice of the physician; of their posod to be the son of Mr. Do Haven, is,
hum~e circumstances.; and her reluc- it seems, a foundling, or something of
Ajsnee toappeal to a stranger. It was that sort. When Carl was but a few
just auch letter as an affectionate moth- months old, a handsome young woman,
er, anxious for the, recovery of daughter evidentlY his mother-and deranged-
would be expected to write. came to the house of Mr. Do Haven,
8he bed hardly finished directing it, he then lived in Hartford, and asked
before the door opened and her son, hius to bring up the boy, and educate
Henry Graham, entered the room, and f him-that she hod been botra~ted by a
throw his books upon the table and I yort.ng man,' and was unable to provide
sank into a chair.                 J properly for her ch~Id. She also re-

/

JULIETT
Auested him to tell the boy when he
~comne of age, or if he should die before
that time leave in bitch and white, the
history of his birib, and how he came
to be educated by Mr. I)e Haven. The
papers were found with his wiji, and has
caused quite a commotion in th'~ college.
The will leaves hint nothing save a
sufficient sum to finish his coPe~e course
then he will be obigeCl to do f~r hhn-
self. All the vast p';ssessions ~f Mr.
Do Haven arc given to clitrirable in-
stitutions."
"P"or boy, he must feel dreadfully
about the disgrace attached to his birth.'1
"No, I think riot; I am but little ac-
quainted with him, hut tho'e who know
him well, say he is one of the.c silent,
mysterious, and supremely selfish per-
sons, who feel a blow of this kind, but
little, lie is much disappointed to
know that his benefactor has left him
penniless, and speaks of the excellent
man, who has befriended him from in-
fancy, in a most uni coming manner."
"Then he deserves but little pity.-
But, I had ne~tiy forgotten my letter.
Please take it to the offic~ that it may
go by the evening mail."
* Henry, arose, took the letter in his
'hand, and left the house, for the Post
Office, thinking in the mean time of all
the strange events whit~h had transpired
that day.
CnAPTBRV.
The DecI'sdo,..-T',e avttstwna...-The
Midnight Flight for W~reetiojn.
"Wiep by you, you may change
But words once spokenn can never herecall-
ed."-Rosco~~go~,
"Depend upon your husbanding a moniedt.
The light Jesting of a woman's will:
As if the Lord of nature should delight
To hang this ponderous globe upon a hair,
And bid it dance before a breath of wind."
-ROSIL

MOORE.

One afternoon es Walter parsed
through the hall on hie way to his own
roem, to change his habit, for he had
been ri(iing, he leat d Mr. Moore call
him; st pping to the library door he
said-
"What is ~t sir? if you, wish me, I
~.vill haste to my room make my Filet
and tetuin."
"Never mind your riding habit; coa~o'
in, I have something to say to you."
Walter entered the apartment and
seated himssjf in one of the chairs,
"I have just received a letter," con-
tinued Mr. Moore, "which I wish to
talk to you "bout. It is from a cousin
of your mother's; a MrL Grabauf;
widow lady. Her daughter it appears,
is in a delicate stne of health, and be-
ing too poor to send her south to board
..-tvhere the physician thinks slawould
regain her health-she has written to
me, asking me to extend to her the hos-
pitalities of "Ashly Hall," for The sake
of 'my dead wife; her' dear cousin,"
"I have often heard my another speak
of this cousin at the north, in terns of
'the greatest endoarment~.he thiougirt
a great deal of her, an~l wi~hetl her to
come to Ai~hhv Hall to live when she
was left a widow,"
"I have never heard your mother
speak of her. I thought I would in-
form you of the letter and leave it with
you to 'decide whether or no, l'liss Gra-
ham should come."'
"Certainly, by all means invite her
to come. Aslily Hall has always been
a hospitable house.-Aet it not beotber-
wise n~w."
eJ agree with you5 Walter; we have
plenty of room; a large nunberof lazy
slaves, and ~the company of' thia Mire
Graham, will receive the monotony of
our lives; anddoubtless prove as benefit
to the girls."

0


18

3ULIETTI~ MOOUE.

a

And so it was decided tbat Effie
Graham shonidheinvited tospendsome
weeks at "Ashly Hall." George Moore
penned the following polite letter to
Mrs. Graham, in reply teher epistle.
Man. GRAIJ&amp;ss:
.Deas' Afadam,
Your letter, dated
-18-, is before me, and I hasten
to reply. Walter Romeyn, the son of
your cousin, and myself, will be very
happy to welcome Miss Graham to
As ly Hall, and we sincerely hope, the
young lady will be pleased to make us
a long visit, And return to her north-
ern home fully recovered. We will, at
any time, be glad to see, any member
of sour family. Your connection with
my latewife will insure the friendship
and respect of'
Yours Traly,
George Moore;"
The letter sealed, and in an hour,
~was on it~wny.north.
Miss Morriss wasnow less liked by
.~Jsiliette tud Walter, than when she first
.eouteto "Ashly Hall~" The more they
sawed her, the less they respeete~ her.
Per a week or two back she had been
in the~abit of visiting the negro quar-
ters after ~smdown, Walter was some.
what suspielous of her motives for ec
doing. She irad come from one of tbt
I~ew England states, and was probably
prejdudiced against slavery, though
-while at ",&amp;shly Hall," she had seei
but the brightestand best siAc of it. bu
still woman of her disposition Waite
felt would do almost any thing, and h
watched thor movements closely, be
~wss imalAe'te ascertain anything to he
~~bin~!ayoungmulattoname
Benwan her favorite resort. Ben wa
- a marriedreazi, and ha~1 one child-
bright little fellow of souse twoyears.-
His cabin was oneofthehostin tI

quartersand he was a bright intelligent
man-much loved 1w his master and
fellow slaves. The other negroes had
taken a dislike to Miss Morriss. and did
not sbowany disposition to weh~ome her
visits and she confined her labors most-
ly to the cabin of Ben. Here, evening
after evening she would sit, and tell the
inmate~ how happy and independent.
the negroes were at the north, poison-
ing their minds, and sowing the seeds
of discontent and rebellion in their
hearts. Martha, the wife of Ben, would
pay little attention to the stories of this
unprincipled woman, but her words
muir deep into the young mulatto's
heart. Long after she had left the
cabin he would ponder over her conver-
sation, and at length become convinced,
that if he could but reach the north-.-'
that land of freedom and of wealth, he
could soon purchase his wife and child
from slavery, and become a rich and in-
dependent man. Martha tried to con-
vince him that his impressions were
erroneous, and without foundation, but
it was of little use. One night after
Miss Morrise had left the cabin, he told
his wife that he had determined to run
away-to fly to the uorLh, as~d in a few
months send for her and the child, and
they would all be happy among the free
s and, independent citizens of the north,
t where all, black and white were looked
r upon with equal favor. , In vain Mar-
a tha remonstrated and pleaded. Ben
t had made up his mind; he firmly be-
r lived all MiasMorriss had told him and
nothing conl4 persuade him from his
1 plan. He made his wife promise not
~ to toll that Miss Morriss had influenced
a himnnd packing afewneceasary articles
- in a large gayly colored kerchief, bade
ie her mid the child an affectionate fare-

JULLETTE MOORE, ______ 19
trail, and left the cabin where be had a most efficient and excellent woman.-
spent many happy days, to seek his He was compibtoly blinded to her moral
freedom, an4 his fortune at the north, defects, by her hypoerasy and suavity
The following morning when he was of manners; but the time was approach-
missnd, Martha went to Mr. Moore and big when the mask she wore must be
earnestly begged him to sead out pur. laid aside,~ and her dark deformity of
stiers and bring her husband back; but ehatacter be brought to his gaze. "The
he refused to do so saying- wicked and unjust cannot always tri-
"If Ben is dissatisfied and wants his umph," their sin will fiud them out, and
freedom bad enough to steal it, let him the injured and persecuted will have
go. If he becomes disappointed and justice.
succeeds not as well as he expects to, he One afternoon, the school room was
will wish himself back to his comforts- made the scene of quite a little tragedy.
ble cabin, and may return to his fami- Janthe had accompanied her father on a
ly. Cheer up Martha all will be well I dsive to a distant part of the plantation,
doubt not; and Ben will probably write and inliette was alone with Miss Mor-
to you before long." riss in the school room. 'A difficult lea-
Poor Martha retained t~ her lonely son had been assigned to Juliette, and
cabin with a heavy heart. She felt that after applying herself', for a half hour or
Ben had been deceived, and longed to taorc, closely5to her task, she threw
tell her master that it was through the aside her book and pulled the bell rope.
influence of Miss Morriashe lefthis home "Why did you ring that belil" in-
to seek his freedom; but her promise to quired MissMorriss in no very pleasniit
her tibsent husband must be kept, and tone of voice.
she went about her daily duties with a "BccauselwishCora," replied J'uliette
sad heart and smileless face.' haughtily.
"You cannot engage in anything un-
CHAPTER VI.              til you have applied yourself to your
Tk~ School Room Battle       lesson a half hour longer.
"She was a little fury-
Her heart with auger burned,    "I know the lesson perfectly-it is
Iter flashing eyes, with 5~Ofl~  useless for me to spend more time upon
Upon herteinpter turned.
Her dainty feet she stamped    i4; and I shall not doit."
Wth passion, on the froor-      At this moment Core. appeared at
She sto~gt in bold defiance,
Close by the open door."     the open door way.
-MAUD Iavi~e.     "You may go Corn, Miss Juliette has
Miss Morrisshad been nt"AshlyHall" no noed of your service at present," said
souse months; we have already seen the Miss Morriss in cold, measured tones.
effects of her influence, at the negro "Stay, Cora, stay, I wish yOu," cx-
quarters. AIIsaveMrMoorethorough- elaimedjuliette, her brow fiashing~with
ly disliked her and the aversionjuliette anger. Cora stood for a moment irres-
and Walter felt, amounted to to the olute, not knowing which to obey, but
bitterest hatred. In the presence of her she remembered her master's words-
ernployet she usually appeared just, "Remember she, and 8kB alone is your
correct and proper, and he deemed her mistress;" and actingon the impulse of

a
i
4
5
i
l'


20

JULIETTIE MOORE.

the ranment she crossed the room and Go back to your own part of the coun-
stood beside her young mistress. try, talk of the sin of slavery, of the
aDid you lear my orders?" shoi4ed cruel manner slaves are treated. Give
Miss Morriss, her face I vid with passion. your money to buy the fresdon.of some
"1 belong romissy Julietteand masets infatuated nigger, and pray f~'r the free-
tells me to okey her and I'se no 4ht to dow of all hound people. But don't
4~ oderwke tiil he says so," replied Corn, you stay here, with your heathenish ab-
~ith a broad grin' olition notions7 to abuse oar servants,
"How dare you speak back to me. and insult your superiors."
and disobey my orders, you contempti- Miss Morriss more enraged than ever'
ble nigger ;" arid catching a small cane gave her a push which sent her sprawh
from ~beside die black bard, she inflict~ ing upon the floor, she quickly sprang
ed a cutting blow over the shoulders of to her feet and exclaimed-
the faithful Cori, "there take that, arid "How dare you, you poor miserable
disobey me again if you decat it pru.~ dependent, litt'e.above a slavehow dare
dent-noW let~e the room this instant." you touch me?" and drawing her little
"She shall not stir." broke in Juliutte. flgnr~ to its fullest height, she cast a
her eyes diIa~ed with passion, and her look of numitigated scorn upon her op-
lips white and cofupressed with rage, ponant.
"touch her again, if you dare; you dried 'Your uncle shall be made aware of
up, withered old maid, you mocking your shameful conduct, and the impu-
hypocrite, you daitardly coward, I'll dence of your nigger maid. You shall
ki'l you if you raise a finger against be made to humbly beg my pardt'n for
toraagain," and she shook her little the words you have uttered," said Miss
fist in the face of the infuriated woman Morriss.
"Our of the w~ty, you insolent child," "Neves~, never, you human monster,"
cried Miss Morriss, raising her hand and turning to Coca she said, "Corn see if
bringing it down with cctnside;able my uncle has returned from his ride,
force. upon tbe cheek ofjuliette. Quick and ii he is in the library, request him
as thought Juliette snatched a glass to come here immediately, that I may
front the table, and with well directed expose this base woman's ~onduct."-
aim, threw it at the head of the goveras Cora left the r'om to obey the ord&amp; of
ess. It caused a deep flash wot~nd, from her iftistress. For a few moments silea~e
which the bloo 1 flowed freely. reigned unbroken. The a rtment pre-
"Now touch rae again if you diere, seated a struge appearance; it put one
or Corn either, and I'll tear the eyes in mind of "a banquet halt deserted."
out of your headyou ugly old demon. Several sf the chir~ were thrown
Never was there a haul raised against over, the table-cloth lay upon tho floor,
a slre on this plantation until your pieces of the broken glass lay here and
foot crossed. the threshhold of the Hall there. Miss Morriss stood nearthe ecu-
Yew misersible northern Yankee-you tt5e of the room pale as a eorp' e, and
whoprofess to beiicve the neg: o as go d holding l'er hanrlkerehief, almost eater'.
asthe white man. Yu have been the ated with blood7 qvev the wound reoeiv-
iratto ill t~ a slave at Ashly HalL.-'1 ed from the glaseJulietto had throwur"-'

JULIETT

Julietee stood near the door, her arms
folded across her breast, her lips corn-
pressed, her eyes dilated, he, curia hang-
sag over her face and shoulders in tang-
led masses. Her whole appearance was
o~ie of defiance, and her look seemed to
say, "I defy you." The silence was at
length broken by the appearance of Mr.
Moore, who said-
"What is all this confusion about?
*~ora informed me that there has been
quite a battle fought. Miss Morriss
will you give me an explanation of the
affair?"
"I will, sir; Juliette rang for Corn,
when she should have been engaged with
her studies, and when Corn appeared I
dismissed her, Juliette bade her remain.
I again bade her go, when she turned
tand showered upon me a volley of in-
solence; when I remonstrted with her
in a kind and gentle manner, Juliette
seized from the table a glass, and hurl-
ed it at me; it struck my head
and inflicted, I fear, quite a serious
wound. Not contented with this, she
heaped upon me the most disgraceful
insults, calling me a white slave, and
other degrading names-words which I
would blush to repeat, and dared me to
repremand Corn again, threatening to
kill me, I did so. Really, the temper
of that ehildeis te~'ible, and 1 must in-
sist upon a suitable apology from her,
or I shall leave i~sh4~ Hall."
"Liar I fiend I! serpaict I! I" hissed Ju-
liette through her closed teeth. "Uncle
it is a base wicked lie she has told you
Corn did not speak impudently to her,
it was I, Who was insolent; but shethe
miserAble tyrant, struck Cor with a
cane, slapped my face and knocked me
down, and I will not live in the same
house with her-either sh. or I, must
leave ~&amp;shly flaIL"

E MOOR1~.
"Do not giiTe way to passion in euch
a manner, Juliette. I willin the course
of the afternoon, look into this matter.
I cannot now attend to it, as matters of
importance claim my attention. Juliette
you may retire to your room, and there
remain until I send for you," bowing
coldly to thegoverness, he left the apart-
ment, and repaired to his library, to at-
tend to some business matters before
giving his. attention to this affair,
CHAPTER VII.
Reception of Mr. Moore's Letter. M-
rangenseut tor the Journey.
Life is but a day at most,
Springing from night, in dnrkaess lost;
ifope not sunshine every hour;
Fear not clouds will always lower."
-Beasts.
"Aegroto dons anlina eat, spes eat."
Cacano.
A number of days had elapsed since
Mrs. Graham had sent her letter to
George Moore, and as each day passed
she looked anxiously for an answer.-
One came at last. Henry brought it to
her one afternoon, when he returned
fromia college , and after reading it, the
widow communicated to her son and
daughter the eor~ial invitation the lat-
ter had received to visit "Ashly hall."
The following morning the Doctor call-
ed, and when the good news had been.
told him, he said."-..
"You are more than fortunate, dear
Mrs. Graham ;.the friends I spoke of as
intending to start for the south soon,
reside on the plantation adjoining that
of Mr. Moore, and will see your 4augh-
ter to the very door of Ashly Hall."
"Indeed I cannot be grateful enough
to you for your kindness. When do
these friends of yours start?" replied the
widow.
"In a week; they have been north
S
some weeks and are      one to yeaoh


22                    JUL1IETTJ~ MOORE.
home as soon as possible-they will de- school room, and requested her to do ho,'
lay but little along the way." she threw herself upon the bed and
"I will have Effle ready in time; but wept violently. A half hour or more
you have not as yet told me the name passed v~'hen a gentle knock *as heard
of these kind people who have offered at the doordnd in answer to her gentle
to take charge of Effle?' ~rCome in,'~ Walter, entered. She arose'
"Mr. and Mrs. Simona and daughter. from the bed and approaching' him,
Effie will find them intelligent, kind- said-.-
hearted, and agreeable eonIpanionsi'~ "Dear Walter, is it you? 611, 1 am-so
It was a busy week at the cottage of 'glad you have eome~, I have so much' to'
Mrs. Graham, and when every prepara- tell you."
tion for the visit was finished; ivhen "IT knoW it all, dam4ing, I was on the
the new-made garments lay upon the veranda and heard, and saw all that
~eor, neatly folded, and Mrs. Graham transpired. That wickeddcsigning wo-'
knelt before an open trunk, packing a- man shall, not injure you; I will be your
way one article after another, her tears protector:' he said, passing his arm a-'
fell thick and fast, and' silently she of- round the waist of the excited girl.-
fered prayers to the Giver of all Good, "You acted like' a little heroine; by
that her darling child might return to Heavens! you did look beautiful. Ju-
her restored in health; amid ~tfttl as she Jierte, you should go upon the stkge,
was now, no one can know, save a you would make a fortune in no time."~
mother, how hard it was for her to send "OhWalter how can you say so? I
her invalid daughter among strangers; was very angry, I wish I could subdue'
alone. No one save a mother can know this wicked temper of mine, but vihile
-how bitterly she wept, how earnestly that womaw remains I eanslot be good,
she prayed. All, was at length, ready, I am always in a passinas I hate her
and Effie waited 'patiently for word -I know it is wrong, butl cannot help
from Mrs. Sinlons, who was to meet it."
her in New York, whither she was go. "It is not ~rotIg; dear Juljette," re-
ing in charge of the kind hearted Doe- plied WaIter, imprinting a kiss upon
tsr.                          '    her burning brow. "Who could help
hating tImt *voman 1"
CHAPTER     VIlIg   .        "But mama us4 to tell me I should
The Iuterview~. Watt4it'5 Proiiii5e;-.
"Believe .Juizette's DeoIsioa~    hate no onennd should try to love these
not each accusing tongue,  who hate me."'
As meat wealipersons do;          "Yes, but no doubt your mother held
EnS still believe that story wrong
Which ought not to be true."    but few trials, and knew not what it
"~fliere an:  Borne  -.-SinmamAs.  was to be wronged and misjudged."
Whlch'rmg      guiding power,     "Oh, you are mistaken, mama had
Sly suffers wrOng,
Gives vice to bloom iSa little hour,-  many trials; she used to toll sue that
But virtue tat. and ~           her heart wasbroken by unkindness and
"Asetretit is well to keep."  I wrong from  one she ~ovod more than
'When Julietto repaired to her apart- I life itself, and trusted as purely as she
mont, afterMi', Moor0 had entered tli'e trUsted flea'ven."

.TULIETTE MOGRE.                             23
"'Thea she was an angel," said Walter, "I know not, but God will take care
'4'and you must notbiajus yourself for act- of us, and will not see us wronged.-
.ing as you did, you were right, and I The spirits of our 'dead mothers will
shall tell father just how matters were. watch over usand keep us from misery."
Miss Morriss shn~ll not ~oi~pel hin~ to At This moment Cora entered and i~-
believe a lie;"
"I fear Miss Morriss will make him formed Juliette that Mr. Moore wished
think that I am very, very wicked." her in his library imnieditstely. She
"No she shall not, I will go to him hastened 4t0 answer l~s summons, and
and         the    ~t*        M    as she entered the room, Mr. Moore si-
explain maei-expose iss lentlv motioned to her to take a seat.-
Morriss' unprincipled course, and 5CC
She seated herself in an easy arm chair,
tthat you receive justice."         and Mr. Moore said-.--
"Do not, dear Walter, for any sake, "I have been conversing with Miss
do not. ~f Uncle George cannot take
my word, I would disdain pardon ten- Morriss, and have endeavored to sift this
dered mc, through the interference of matter to the bottom. I am both pain-
ed a             learn of-your dis-
another. He no douht thinks Miss Mor- ad surprised t
riss perfect-if be chooses ~o believe graceful conduct, and sincerely hope
that this will be the last time you allow
her in preference to .me, leti~ be, I am yourself to get into such a passion, if
'too proud to allow another, even you, to the scene enacted in the school-room this
intercede for me, or to prove what I afternoon, is repeated, I will take severe
say; promise me that you will say noth-
ing to him in regard to the matter." measures to curb this unhappy trait in
"I cannot promise to say nothing a- your character. But what pained me
more than all was the falsehoods, you
~bout it, dear.Juliette, but I will promise uttered about Miss Morriss~-..tliat lady's
to keep silent-for atisne, and let matters
take their own course, and see how far feelings are much hurt, by your un-
grateful and inwroper conduct, And
that woman will carry her diabotical when you appear at the supper table I
plotting. She is evidently maneuver- shall expect you to apologize to her in
sag to become the mistress of Ashly the most humble manner. You may
HalIbut never, if I can prevent it, shall now retire to yourroom."
she fill the place once occupied by my Whiis he had been speal~ing, the
sainted mother."                   cheeks of Juliette had gradually flush-
"Oh, WaIter, you do not, %'or a mo-
sweat think that Uncle George would ad, her lips had become compressed, her
marry that awful creature, do you8" eyes flashing, and when he ceased she
arose from her seat stepped before him,
"I do -pot~know, he is a strange-man; and in a passionate'manner, said-
shehas evMently secured hisgood opin- "Do you suppose thati[ will calmly
ion, and there is no telling what the re- submit to such ti~entment; am I a slave
suit wilibe. One thing is certain, she that I should be eoudemne4 without a
is anxious to beconie his wife and Will hearing? No sir, I am -a responsible
leave no stone unturn~d to accomplish being, and will not bear insults from
slier desire."                                       ver-apokgise
"What will become of us,'if be does even you, I will-ne      to Mio-
anarry ~ior ~"                      Morriss for what treuispisied this after.


3ULTETTE MOORE.

noon. No human power can compel
me to do so. She has insulted me, ~he,
apoor miserable dependent dared strike
me, I'll not bear injustice from her, nor
frQm you. Is this the way you fulfil!
the solemn duty, my mother entrusted
you to perform; remember, she can see
from the Spirit land the injustice done
her child."
"Juliette I wish no outbursts of pas-
sion; you must be tamed; your temper
must be subdued, and I htwe chosen
Miss Monies to accomplish the task..-.
You shall apologize to her," he said in
a sharp imperative tone.
"Never! never!! and Miss Morriss
shall not subdue me; she is a vile, de-
signing woman. I can never learn to
be good under her tuition; I will not
live under the roof that shelters hex. I
would rather share the cottage of the
witch in the haunted grove, though it
be ~he terror of the whole neighbor
hood,"
"You know net of what you speak.-.-
You have never seen the witch of the
grove, and if she should terrify you as
she has all those who have seen her, I
pray that you may ever be spared from
meeting her. It sounds well, for a child
like you, to threaten to leave the only
home you have, because your temper
*nd your pride rebel against making
an apology to one you have most gross-
ly insulted."
"I have informed you, uncle George4
of my determination. I am not a child
at heart, though .1 may be so in years,"
and Juliette passed from the apartment
* with a haughty tread. Sheseemcdn'ore
like a woman of twenty than a girl of
fourteen. After leavingthe library she
sought her own room. When she en-
terad the aparta~snt she found Cora sit-

ting by the work stand, engaged insew-
ing Scene light material.
~'Cora," she said, sa4iy, "lay aside
your wock, I need your assistance for
to-night, I leave Ashly Hall, perhaps5
forever."
"Leave dis place! leave your Uncle!
why war on artb you go to? you got
no odder home but die," replied Cora
in amazement.
"1 am going to fly to the little cabin
by the brook, there I will remain, for a
time at least."
"Gem to de cabin by de' brook? why
missy de witch ob de grove, who lives
near dar, will be sure to catch you and
kill you."
"No, no, Cora, t do not fear her, I
have never harmed her, and Bhe will not
molest me. While I remain concealed
there you must bring me food, but if
you love me, you will tell no one, ~vhere
I have hidden myself."
"What, not even mnssa X'7alter I" in.
quired Cora.
"No, no one must know where I am.
I will return to the Hall if Miss Mor-
ris's leaves; if she continues to remain,
God only knows what will become of
me, He will take care of me, and no
harm will befall n.e while I trust Him."
"Do blessed Savior will take care oh
you jist youkcep on trusting Him, and
you'll get along well enuff."
"I shall leave to-night, after the plan-
tation is still and all are asleep"
"Ab, missy it is dreffuldon'tgo away,
she'll kill me sure arter you're gone.-
I'ae awful afraid of her, she called me
a niggar-.-jiet as if I was one of dcxii
common brack ni~gars; oh~ missy, if
you go, I'm done-.-gone--4.y gar."
"No, Cora, she will not haqu you;
it is best that I go, my uncle supposes

2A


7~LB~T1i1' MO6RK'
seating hoiv powerful glad I ~n to sea you."
?e~an~e. ~'Yois are ag~o&amp;girl, C~ra. you have'
~xn. lent brou~h~ne eornot~xing toast, but Ifear
~e9f~he ~ ~haii h~we hut little~ appetite thia
~"Brooh- ~norning"
~e name "Oh, missy, you must eat."
~ "I will try; have they missed me yet,
ted her- a1~the ~Tail I"
~ herself ~ uo~ yet~ ~tsut wl~ew do breakfast
~ea b~e1~ :b~h1 ring nd3*eune eowedown, rIl
me, she bet de±e$ be s~ hig'fuss."
~ child- "Ge back news (}ornor they will miss
bei, aud yo&amp;~ r ersajmnothing; ~oute back
to1aetghtatemIg~ha~
~T4 ~pens."1
~enei bygisr4is c~ilo knows a tiegor
i~iissy~, good-
)r? flO, b~te5" and the honeW hearted girl ha*
~reg me~  Th         'Lbell xang. Mr. MoQrs
wa~ ~sa~l dtei~wined to cerap~l Juliette to
~t I do ~oflhr ~p~ilegv to Miss Morriss at the
tt~b4e, as she ha4~failed to do
~       n4 tli~4sveiiing~pfevious. Before break-
Gout had ~pe4~st the' door' of
~Iartha's lonely cabinnud informed hot
be ~ that ~nliette had ~utxt *~'a~, at which
sa piece of ~e&amp;~t~rtha had in~d-
%bste~ja~t littI4        but quietly

17

______               .WLU~TTh. MOO~
breakfast table save Julietto, her place had hardly finished speaking, w~hen
was vacant. They waited a fe~ mo- Marthl.'s yellow tin~b~u~ and bla~l face,
monte, but she vanae not, then Mr. was poked throughh the wi*iddw,~ and
Moore said-i                       ~he s~iid-
~bra, where is Miss Juliette? why  "Yes, iAassa, she be a beizy hail w~-
does she keep us waiting this morning? mMii, it was she wli&amp; coaxed D~n to
0o teILi~et that breakfast is upon the run away, she told him a&amp;h6w d&amp;braek
table, ~and we are 'waiting for her." peopleat de north nil got nob, and *as
'iMissy Juliett~i done gone9 rnassashe ,jistas good as white; ~oer fellow he be
went off I apees in de night." lived all her lies and Went~away ~om
"Gone, gone, ~Iuliotte gone," exela~rn- his wife and chile to get rich at do
e4 Walter ~ iuging~te his feet, "where north.".
oh, where has she fled l'~           "Thee sir," exolaiwe~l Wa1*er~ "do
"Gonegone, what niensi you, Uor4" you now believe thntthis wo~itsu is the
added Mr. Moore turning pale. , person you have given hei the ~redi~ of
"$he say you tink her ongrat~ful; bo~ngk?" and the exeitod n~th rushed
dat iajus~iee haf~heena9~eer,41ddflt from the room. Mr. Moore kosefrosa
she can'tlib wid dat nafar~?ns cnitt~r." his acat, and without utte~iu~ one wora
pting t~ Miss Morriss, "andi ~pees followed l~im, leaving ~sIe~riss~Ioas
she's gone ~ay nif to IIb~ and. Coin with lanthe and Cor~ Irtsitl~e stepped
wiped ~aei~ ~ea with tl~emer of her out ii~on the veranda, not knowing
~vhat tO make of the affair,' as
~              n:~~4        YOU? entirely ignorant'd~ t~ nihoo1-~roora
battle  ~he         gone hut a me-
poor, weak, innoced gi4 u~ronge~ ~xient when Oora's~s~d2
Vour dial~olieal pto~ting has 'brought "I hate you, yonDgly ~ white nig~
this calamity upen us~ God grant that gay YYU m~tk~ all die fuse, but "i~~a55i4
it may uoths of long eo~ntnna~iee I ~nt blijid, lie aintalfd he v~ll~s~o ~hr~'
'was ~ i~en witness~ io the see~ie in a ladder afore ~ by gay, ~nshIeii I
t~te so~ic*l-rooman~l Pwoudethow ~r~u reckon #ou'Il eotoh it; a~, ~ofly ~ront
4a~s~wyonrdemonfaceafte~~tEOm dat he fuu~ fgcss like t~ ~y~u~t
fen~~ehoodsyon hate uttere4, what you de~arv~,it do m~vheart~ ~&amp;;,
said W~lter t~r~ing~t~ MissMlrrxss if I sebracit I ahit got a ~ra~ '~ies~t,
Then add asingMrJ~&amp;oorebe eontii~u hygar, d'~se," au4 Corn ~sat a'spit&amp;
-~41
~$sr~, y~uhave heats the dupe of fiti glance upon the crest-f g~ern-

4

1'

4


I

jtjtdAttt ~MOORE.

~ engiiged in oilong hnd e~rne~t cc
yersat~4A in the private library, of the
tbote~ult of this priv4econ-
Lareneewas, that afternoon,, soon aftor
Z'n4 $is4forrias received her djsnaltw
al fremtsshly hall; artdWrdter, after
learpin~ fronv Gas, where Sglietve
uiii~ht b4tountb hastened ~o the spotito
cown~uniea~e th9joyftil intelligence to
her. Toteliher all was llnderttoedthat
NiseMorrisawas no longer nc occupant
of Ashly Hill.
When he reach$th&amp;htitjulisttc was
lying npo4eome strait in one corner of I
the rooM{*h~iidd itt li$A ~hitbet.-
He seated hiMself by her a1A~ to wait
to distiuth her. A haTCher passed by
beforeilia ru ~r ri4rbing her
~she ~ted upon'himnineurpriseaa
inflatable to realize 'bat ~t was indeedd
hitpAelft Whplr she become '~Uy~rn-
vinced thal~ she was not drsttxning the
threw her anna around his neck ana
lwy~g h&amp; b#d upon his 'Wsow wept.
' flesre4t, why did you noti telliue1
44~y44 3eave ihe Hall, withbul
o4gvtord4o pretyon cannot in6w lion
0zious.Z h.4~been, and howmn
ntIM~$e endured on yow~~o

C

4

in an hour, and it S ~no* nearly two
hours sihos I left thu flaiLt~
"I will g4 in a fevrsnonssnts. Finit
tell inelrowyoa knewwhero't&amp;findiwe
no one si~ve Corn knew, aM she prom.
"Net to teltPha:stid, ~intenuptiug
her,'tut when 4sokne*tlt4tyouria~els
was no longer angry ~$thyou, and that
*ii~Morriss bad been dismissMt cpn
;vixcedherthatlerpnwilse~vasno1on;...
~sr binding, and prevai(ea upoujters&amp;
tell une'where you had concealed y~ur~
%elfandtrulyIwsasome*hnt ssi~rnish.
e4 *4&amp; disconir tibatycir t~I
courage to ventura us this h~iht4
"No, I have seen not witch i1ia r44
doubt if there be Mnih
~4$vean4evenif th~r.i* ~h6bAapr&amp;~~
beelfa hannkss, ipxiet~being/i
"You are a~ brave girl Jul~iie, ansi
one wouldzsuppi$se you ~ uiizAlr ~4j4f..
~er than you are."             1
"You know a         anthei54
'ageshoixid h6I%6reekoneabt~fflg~t
STinw1bitbihda~tthrAb~a~~s4a
attender tells ins that ~s evel( ~ei
twa.":


~flJL1ETTE MOO1Ui~.
nt one end, bex~t over her and closely cx- accompanied by a note of explanation.
mi~iaed her features, and rnuttcre~l~ t~ . 8irn~ris had called at Ashly hail
7hel'seltsomeunititeiligahlewrn'ds. And once, and ihat was all the acquaintance
oven ~liile Walter *aa coversing~with existing between the twefamilies. Mr.
J~abe~Inge*I irear the hnt~ ~on~ M~ot~re really hoped tba~ the 41~rivd pf
esald bye thIe~ which grew near Miss (~rahamwonld bring the fansilies
t~ &amp;4rat~ h~ ~lld lit~ee4ance, she more together, far the sake of the girls
ThSton~d to IhalVOO1W4~r5aboD.      and Walter, who needed some society
~WI~en2W~t~es retdnied to tbe ~In1l outside of the home circle, and Miss
accchWa1ile~ by Jnliette, Mr~ Moore 8hnons was near the age~ofJnhiette.
bAst~4ed to meet tlte,~ and"taking Ja~           -
t(~ttehy the1an4A~e imprinted ~t warm Catu'm~t Xi.
~i~ik~*~rn her br~, and s~1d.~-     A~flvat of ~lie Grabruui.-Deatls ot
"~saiohild,1ba4~e wr~aged yonfer~ V~e~cone, welcome, do I sing,
~ve we, ~awl I hope her~after ~so net Par shore welcemef~hantJie spring;
o*~xnine will cans6 ~ H~e that parteth ftom you never
1O~ Wot 1                       Un-   Shall enjoy a spring forever."
se#~' moment whiIe~ you remainat ~ in thy hand
The ~etof SCret5i-~th the keyl
~~i~ar ttncle, forgive ~ie'1~r one me-                      ~BALav.
aerisbinga4itterib6ughtagainet It was ~ beautiful !U~rising~ and Mr.
!~*~s tee hesty, my quick te~ap~ Moore, Walter, andjuliettc were seated
o~ta n~orethauIwould in ~e- npoa the piazza enjoying the ~eantyof
a~' nnuu~. In futur~1wflt try the scene. tantheas nsn&amp;l, was in her
~veraisi~ temper aed Va more fer- own room, pointing ovei~ the pages of
some ~ichly; aentia~ental story.: "Oh
&amp;no~merereignlngav.~shJy blessed zn~n! ewe6t hear of many
~ ~e~i~nins wl4ehiliad cam. ~ray~softhedeep worah~p of a million
~ewst~ )inger where sunirearns souW ~The fisirc'hild lispizigat its moth-
zea~t j4yltad ?ie~asici with her de~ er's knee ito jofant tlmnkfszlness; the
em and diseo4   It        a vows of ateek 4eyorioa to a
Ahi~thearriyalo               e       onfrotnThe hreaat*t
l~eraccents4a.
for        ~atiey~.-.               ~achpu$lgs of a
thi4 oLhe~ven oja
v~f so~ m*
~a*ii4ersAct                                      with
mud lips ~bat move t~d
~of    I~t~Mai ~fluey                    thougbt~ w~t   ~$$ng in

JULU~TTE~MOOR~;
morning the family had arisen unusual- "While Miss Orahani remains at~
ly earlyastbey expected Miss (*raham~ Aeldy Hall, we will be pleased to see~
and they had taken seats upon the ye- you end ycc*rfaunily often,"
randa to witness the sun rise. "And we will he pleased to accep$~
The'God like sun! all life and light" your polite~ittvitation, and will welcome
arose from behind tops of the bills in yourself and fasnilyto hock f3tenu,~.-
~he gorgeoushilast.. Ihiachariot mount- The gentlemeix bowed; Mr. llimona to-
ed the skies, nectar like, many million tuned to the carriage, and Mt. Moore
heartshelllled with joy. Nature awoke conducted Mite(tmhahn late the hon~e~
from heralumber at bissolemntread,~-'-- One ~f theblacks was conveying her
The grove throbbed with, the musi&amp;of baggage to bar roo~n~ and Ocra stood
the birds~ the bright eyed flowerets of in th~ hail waiting to show her to her
the vale seemed glad; the fountain *ut room and ettead t~ her wants. Julietto.
aponthe lawn threw its water inthe air, and Walter remained at one ~ud ot~he
and as the sunbe~sna kissed the cry~ta1 piazza, not wiahing to embarrass hcthy
drops, they seemed ofburmished silver. being iutroduco~ while she was yet in
"What n lovely seen aclautied J~i~ her traveling ~tire, Coin conducted
tiette, '~it~ ecemnelmost as if this were a her to her rooxnend assisted her to ue-
gliunp9(~at5diCe."                packandarrs~*waxdtehe~at~dtl~en
MIt is a lovely scene, repluedWaltev, helped her make ~er toilet. 'When she
"and afterthislthinkwe toU~t nsecar~ d~ended to the parlor~ Moors pm.
~y every morning and take a saddle ride seated Juliette jund Walter with ~l~ze
before breakfast. Do you think:you formality, and lisutho was presented to
cau do it, Juliettiet"           the guest at7 thei breakfast-table, ~ll
'~esoh~ yes. it would be dcl ghtful~ werenloased with A~t~luewa5 pleas-
hat hark! I hear the gate cpening~our a~ and entei'tainin~.~ When the meal
guest is, doubtless coming" ~ Ilnished Mr.Mrore said-
'~ltethreo turned their eyes toward: "I hoje you will~ make yourself 'ppr-
thegateand sure enoughal~rge t~v. ~ iu~ home *hlle you remain with
eling c    e,~drawuhy th~-        us~ and as yo~ are, ned~uba ni~~tt.fa~'
h~vlyap~~roaehed~,                ~tiguc~ wiit~yourjourney yen wi~pt~e:
~*~uenrencev ~r foxemaini~t ~nr pwoen~ttntll
4~'~ed~ yonhavo recoveredfr~m th~eiteilteiut
nuws Mt. Sifloitu alighted ati&amp;   attendant upon your j~nzrney. it yop~
My~ closely veiled todeacond pgtr, ytur menis esahe s~t to your
~       leading ftoin the carriage~ ~   ~   ~  become stsez4$O1."
4~n~o t~ vel$th: M~fetoe ~ thankyon,~ouereto~M1$th~e.
er~z~g herein              here ba~~~dy

S


JUU~TTE QO~F.   _______

tures, As night uppronehed en noise.
iess footsteps, aunt Molly grew worse,
and~Yuliette refused to leave her bedside,
and with Cora for an attendant she do-
termined' to watch by ihe couch of the
aged sufferer until morning, buathe poo~~
creature failed so rapidly that before the
morning dawn streaked the eastern ho-
rizon with yellow and gold, her spirit
took its flight and soared to ~vorlda
where there is no sorrow, no weeping,
no night, no ropiningno grieving; where
weary, world-sick hearts find everlasiihg
rest, and where troubled sculs are for-
evOrkuor~ at peace.
CHAPTER XII. ~
'1'heFusietsitof Aunt eloirv.
Slave is flurried.
'the storms of life with her are ps.~sed,
Stern memory leaves her soul at rest;
She finds a tranquil home at la~t,
.Ooatent with bles.ic'g.to be blest19~l.
Mis. Am~ ~rEwuicIs.
When the blacks awoketheiblov'in~,
morning, and learned that Anut Mdlv
had gone to her final rest, they were
iafortned that no work was to be done
dudug the day. The quarters were
quiet; thechildrenseemed to participate
in the general sorrow-they seemed to
feel the loassuatained, as keenly as their
eldera. All were arrayed in their Sun.
day garments, and 'collected here and
there in groups, talking of the ninny
estimable qualities poSsessed by the one
now deadand tears trickled down nhtny
an honest cheek.
Juliette went to the room of lanthe
to tell her that Aunt Molly hSd at last
been relieved of her suffering by death.
Something like a tear glistened in each
eye, ~s she said.-.
"Ab, poor creature, she is now at
rest, 'tis bettor, far better than living,
2longi'ig, hoping, waiting for that which,
e~u never bereslized. Iwish my~ormJ

was even now, resting cold ai~d rigi~ in
the embrace of death, beside her. The
valley clod would cover the p~bings aix~
painings oi~ this sad heart, so desorte~
by love and friendship."
"Oh, Tanthe, how can you make such
a wicked, wish I" exclaimed Juliette in
surprise.
"How can 11" repeated Inathe sad1y~
'4sow can I wish otherwise? I know I
am wicked, but it is so hard to be ~n-
loved, unappreciated, and I am unuttcr~
ably wretched." Never had she before
confeteed so snu~hand Julietto hastened
toaay--
no, Janthe, not nnlove you
wrong ~ We all love you..-!ove you
dearly, and your coldness pains us
i~nu6h. You wills not allow us to ox-
press our affeetion-y~u turn coldly
from us. Even Miss Grsibsrn, our love-
ly guest, said the other evening white
I sat in her room, tba~ she loved you,
and hoped to siiahe you look upon
the picture of life more hopefully, Ian-
the she is an angel, so good,~so sweet,
so kind ;" and Juliette wound her arms
around the nods of the sad hearted ~irl
and gently kissed her cheek; Ihe tiesi-
ed fountains Were opes~ed,. and re~tiiig
her head upon Juliette's shoulder, ~e
wept lonjand ptosionateIy~ .~t I~n~g~h~
she said-.
"1 haveindeed, Wronged you; Ili4~o
heen selfish, very selfish. I have~tn
myself 4ise~grecable to all thos~i~oitnd
we, I never saw it1~efore.~ Fergi~e~as~
dear cousin, and in ftiture twill barn~to
hopeful and cheerful,"
lanthe was swt'keatless, but sh~ list~
brooded over her trivial aorrows'in~ss.
eret; she sought not sympathy, riodor.,
her wind bud been poisoned by perni-
cious reading, and she deemed herself
neglected~ and inisutiderateed b~ ail


JUL1~1TT1E MOORE.

sro~nd her. A new and brightei~future grief lingers buta short timeand makes
*cemec~dawning for her. if a mother's but little impression. Few shado~vs
careftil hand i~o~ald have guided her had ~vcr settled over the negro quarters
Cebrse, ehe would doubtless become hap- df Ashly Halland they ha'd been quick-
py and useful, but one less watchful and ~y dispelled and sunshine had usurped
tender could not search out the secret their place.
workings of her heart and meet them
properly, she was still surrounded by       CHAPTER     XIII.
thote book~ which had, at first poisoned Quiet Days at Ash!y %IaII. The Sirs-
her mind, and while she dunn' to them  0115 J1'ansiI~ mere laslimately In.-
tresluced to the Reader,
*here was little hope of a perfect reform- Oh, Vriendship! thou helm and sweeter of
ation.                                 life,
Kind Farents of ease. and composer of strife!
A nice mahogany coffin was procured WithoLt thee. alasl what are riches and
and the remains of Aunt Molly, attired But
empty delusions, the joy of an hour.
in her best suit of garments, was laid in               ~     M. SMzra.
the narrow bed, and placed in the din- Some four weeks had glided by, since
ing hall. Invitations to the blacks upon the arrival of Miss Gralam, and so fast
the neighboriuig plantations to attend had she improved in health that she
the 'fua~ral Were scgt out, and Mr. Ste.- was able to mingle freely with th9 fain-
phens, tEe pmiter of~,the brick church ily and participate in all their amuse-
in' tEe valley, and Waltei~s preceptor, ments. She had written home of the
was requested to perform the burial ser.          age of her constitution,
~iee I d~ not pretend to assert that all and of her enjoyment at Ashly Hall;
I~ve~ ree~ivo the same attention and and her letter, gladdened the heart of
'kiiid~s awarded to A4nt M~lly, but I her widowed mother. The Sitnons fern-
~ ~ureth~maa,~, dpaud :~in confident ily-consisting of mother and father,
th~t ~bat'.Z aiiv wrjting- is simple truth, and one d~ugbter, Olura-had scent
The funeral too'k place in the afternoon; one evening at Ashly Hall, Mr. Simo~s
thodining bsll'aad the mala haIl, qf was t~ genial, pleasant, weJl-informeden.
mansi0~i were' crowded wi
'4re~sed in Sunday        th  bl4es, ~ertajning man. Mrs. Sitnons wad di
st~ire, Many honest ~r~etly l~is opposite; she was thoroughly
tears were shed for the departed, many a woman of the world, proud, haughty,
~pr#yera offered a4~,that~erouo of divine apabitious, and chilling in mannen..-.
~ at~ the lifeless *brm.of the faith- Clara wa~ much like bet father, open-
f4 vIiiv~ weaconsigned to the tomb.-.. hearted, impulsive, good-natured, and
In #~4#diys, all things resumed their 1 oftentimes almost teekless.-...tho idol of
wont$ SWay. The absent one was sad- her father, and the cause ef constant
ly missed at the quarters, butt time haals anxiety to her inothei~ Her hlunthon-
~va~.the keenest pangs of sorrciw, and est speeches often shocked the delicate
~re~tnany days, the blacks were'n~arlt~, sensibilities of her lady mother; and
~ ~vely~and contented, as if death had aris*iy a lecture on ~olitoness, and lady-'
mt~reeently taken one of their flusnb~r j like~conduct waseho obliged to listen to,
m. their iriidit. Sunbeams alway j but ahe 'heeded them not. ~She wa~ a
*llo#oiesrdnuite the' happy hearted simple hireartedehild of nature,-a little

en as if opportunity offered her no ad-
vantage. She diseovere I that Mr.
Moore, was fond of having some one
read to him~ and after she ascertained
this fact, she passed many hours each
day in his library,' reading aloud to him
from the pages of his favorite authors.
One dny as she seated h~rsa1f, prepara-
tory to c9mineuu-ing her self-imposed
task, be said-
"~1iss Graham, lay aside the bo'ok you
have in your hand, Vt was a voIun,~e of
poems, by Lnng~ellow,) and read me
some         morningpSOse or ~oetry
which you partielarly admire yourself
~ou hav~ ~iever chosca any partic Ini
worls~ or article yet, and I desire tha'
yea stiould ~lo so this pnce"
"I will comply with your request; a
I was looking over some papers th
other day, I caine 'across a perfect gem
and though lam generally no great ad

p1e wine;
But the minor-keyed soul is standing naked
and hungry upon one of Ucaven's high
hills of light,
Standing and waiting for the blood of the
feast!
~5arving for one p our word!
Waiting for God to launch &amp;ut sonic bettson~'
on the boundless shoi~s of this night.
Shivering for the uprising of some ~oft 'wing
under which it may creeplIzsrd-lilse,~e
warmth and rest.
Waiting! starving and shivering!
:tii.
StPl I trim my white bo~om with crimson
ms-en for none shalisee the thorns,
Ibind my achingbrow withajesvqled en'ewn,
that none shalt see the iron one hfneath
My silver-sandaled feet keep impatient time
to the music, because I cannot be calm.
Isughat earth's passion. fever of love; y d
1 know thatOod is hear t&amp; thti soul on
the hill. and hears the ceaseless ebb and.
flow of a hopeless lov~ though all my,
laughter.
Butif I can chpat my heart with the old
comfort that love can he frgotteu, is~it
not bette~?~
After aJlIiving is but to play apart!
" ~he poorSat worm would h's ajewel beaded
1- snake, if she could!

JULIETTE MOORE.                      -          3&amp;.
too wild perbaps,-but nevertheless miser of newspaper poetry, this poem
good and kind hearted, and contact with is certainly one of the most beautiful
the world would never hur~ her, or make things I have ever read," she drew it
her vain and foolish like her mother. from h~i pocket, "it is called.-
Bille Graham had couipletely won ~ow XND THEN.
the heart and confidence ~f' Juliette;
together they read, sung and walked.- "Away down into the shadowy depths of
Walter was very busy with his studies ihe Real I once lived,
to enter college, and spent ~ thought that to seem was to hs,
Y~rO~1ring                            But the voterss of Marsh were beautiful, yet
much of his time with Mr. Stephens at they werebitter.
n-lcd more ~ waited, and hoped, and prayed.
the~ parsonage.  Tanthe mine          Counting the heart-throhs aid the tears that
with ~ho family, but she still contrived answered them.
devour light reading, and that ~f the Though my earnest pleadings for theTrueIf
to                                        learned that the mildest mercy of life
most pernicious kind, and gradually she   ~vas a smiling sneer;
And that the business of the world'was, te
sank, back into her old habits and ways   lash with "crenee nIl who dared to be
of conduct.                               what their Ged had made them.
Smother back Wars to the red blood of tIn
Effi~ ~i'aham felt very grateful for    heart!
the kindness she had received from the Crush ,'ii things c-died souls!
No room for them here!
family at Ashly Hall, and was anxious
in some way to makeasniall return for
the attentions, so grateful to the heart Now I gloss my pale face with laughterant
it seem- sail my voice on with the tide,.
of the stranger and invttlidbiit    'Decked   jewels and lace, I laugh heticatl

I

F
i
4


~8                     JULIETq?~Mo~R~,
Iv-
Al) this grandeur of glare and glitter ha~ ifa  I~ in the first place, it seems to
Thep4lid.yelids niustahut out smiles and untamed hors% wild and passionate~-...
nigist-thae,                     n~e that the ant her's genius is like an
Thea 1~y cold hands and leak &amp;~ There is no regularity, no observance
out of my ~rsriversofalove that reshes of standard rules, and yet there is a

Unseen aad~nuksown they tide oa
black rocks and chasms of death.
Oh5fm4 ens sweet w~rd to bridge their ter-
rible depths!
o jeakius soul! why wilt t1~eu crsv~ and
yearn for what'thou canetnothave?
And life is so long-so long?
Wi~h~tke daylig~rt~ene5 the bisainessof liv.
The prayers that I sent trembling up the
g~l4ca tkrea4 of hope all come back to
IIep~6oinplesein ray hosoam4hr under the
~e~e~r*es~,gthe world,
Fed know that stranger thaa these tepents
of passion, is the s~uI that hetjs, lsft~d
itself u p to the h511.
What care Ifor his careless laugh?
I do not sigh; but $ knew that God hears
the life blood drip p lag as 1, toolsngh.
I anld~de~t bd tbofghtafooli5h roee~ that I
flaunts hatted heart roOt to t
A~fi.   k-            -

depth and beauty of' thought, almost
wonderful."
"I like the poem for its very reckless
daring, its independence of rhyme, apd
its originality of construction. The brain
that formed those thoughts is powerful
and grand, the heart that echoed them5
has suffered and is strong."
"I would admire it as extravegently
as you do, if the glorious thoughts in it
wpre clothed in amore becoming dress."
"Indeed, if they were expres~d in
ordinary rhyme, and in pci feet measure,
they would loose one-half their force
a~d beauty. I know but few admire
this style of writing, but it is because
they cannot understand it, they cannot
~ako in the poet's meaning; but as we
~annot agree on this point, let us agree
a disagree. Shall I give you some
nuale, or do yea desire m&amp;~ to read
omethingelsc-'.-.somcthing more suited

to your ex~ctingtaste."
"By all meaps let me hear ~nme mu-
sic, play something low and sweet.'~
Effle~rose and approached the opesi
instrument. Moving her fingers light2
ever the ~ceysshe played witbbkpr~s-
eisa arM geod taste, that beautiful vicce
called "Flowers of Spring!'
In ~hi~ way tning~i~er murui~g,
afernoop after afternoon werd whiled~
aw~y1 at A~hIyHalJ, and if a ri'de,1a
walk, oe~ company prevented thbte
~epdin  and ehatsMr.         quiet
~s             Moore felt lenelyr
discounted, indeed. Effle~Graha~
rh~d won all heartaatAshl~li~l1.

p

JULI~TTh MOOEE.

CHAPTER XIV-.
The Visit to the iIs'ude I {.rdvs. P. -
par nrc of ~flie Urnhair~ for flome.
It was a bright and sunny day,
The sky was ~lear, the e~irth was gay.
And fields, and woods, and flowing streams,
Were brilliant in the tune sweet beams.
The air wn~ mildand fragrant too,
With odors from the orange groves,
Which in luxuriant beauty grew,
Where maids mect to tell the r loves.
Farewell, it sounds too fell of grief,
Too full of mourning for the past,
It breathes of joys that are too 1.rief,
Of ho p us that aic too bright to last.
Tee deeply ocr my troubled foul
It casts its strange and sadning spell,
It tells ~r e all are doomed to part-
Yet 1 camiot say farewell.
-Mas. LAuaaar.
Days lengthened into weeks, and
weeks into months, until Effle Graham
had been: at Ashly Hall nearly eight
months. Her health was fully e'eab-
lished and yet the time for her depart-
ure was put 'off from ~'eek to iVeek,
until a letter from her mother, urging
her to return home, w~is received. She
had not passed those months nsnil scenes
of elegance and ceec, and in a clime cel-
ebrated for its mildness and agreeable-
ucs', without learning to love them and
feeling a pang of sorrow when she con-
templated leaving them. She had not
passed hours of pleasant intercourse
with Mr. Moore in his library, without
learniti~ to feel a certain degree of inter-
est in, an4 cherishing a certain amount
of aIYction for him and he, hi turnh~d
learsied ~ l&amp;ve the g~ntlb l'eing wise
had eoiis~e to the inmates of Ashly Hall
like au angelof light, compelling~ all to
love her~ isud causing sunshineto linger
in even the ~hadicst corners. And when
he though~ of her leaving the Hall to
return to her northern home, lie felt
tbat the futtn~e w6uld be all, (lark and1
cheerless, aad he asked her to heeome
his wife, to reninia at Ashly Hall as its

~uture mistress. And she told him that
~he loved him and would become his
bride after the lapse of a year. *Yce
Rflie Graham promised to be th~ wif~
a widower-.-flll the place once oee~,-'
pied by the dead. And theugli it
may appear unromantic, George Meoih
isaily loved this gentle being, with ~
pure and undivided affection,
One afternoon, a few days hefdre th~
time appointed former departnre.Juliettb
proposed a ettoll throtagh the wood,~nd
having heard of the "witoh" Effid hsd'~
strong desire to see her, and hopiu~ t~
meet this strange creature she accom-
panied Itiliette. They wandered akn~
the banks 0f the stream for snore than
an hour, and gradually neared t1~sp&amp;
where the cottage of the witch stood.-
While they sat at the bdse of ~
treewatching the blue sumoke enrlfrZ.ni
the old chimney, a woman ap bacbe~
them, dressed in tattered gar~desittha4~
with hair of silvery whiteness-
"That must be the witch," *1iepcred
Juliette. A monicutmore and sbestdod
hofore them, and in a broken, treniul6ud -
voice she said-
"Ycu are not afraid of me. overybay
shuns me and flubs frona inc witen Ia~
pronchbut you are not aff~id4~'
"No, my good woman, we
afraid, we have neVer done you hsr~,
and have nothing to thar; we know tha~i
you arc unhappy, but ca~otth~nI~I~
you woul(l harm us."
"Is is tinly thh eiil wli6A~e ~et~e
imaginary danger', and you are
the stars tell me so,"
"Then you areaforta~e.teU~t~
ly spol~e Juhiette.
"No, not ~ f&amp;rtune-tel1~, ~iit ~
times lift the veil frbin before tb~fisf~it~,
and point out the destiny of tlio~e wI*


38.                   JULIEVJ
consult me. give me your han], an
I wi~j toil you what the future has ii
8to~e f~r you."
Jidiette held out her hand, and th4
old .creature took it in her own, an
looking intently at the lines upon th~
delicate palm said-
"You 4o not remember your father
Your mother never spoke of him, anc
yo~ ow~notbing of him, but ere mats~
years yo~ will know all-more, much
moretlian you wiji wish toknow. -Yout
future for a time will l~ bright, tt~z
clouds will gather,1.ut~ if you, are strong,
and ke~p a det~sruiiined will, and un*
fline'biug heart, you will be happy an~l
joy ~wu)l be yqui's, but it' you should
give way to soi~row and despondency,
you *111 be wretched all your days.-
Ther~ will l~e one hc~rt which will love
you ,and'stand by you though every
trial; cherish that l~eart, offend it not.
You~' ~1~sth~I ~s a strange one."
"If'i[ put faith in your words I would
be yery unhappy, for I would continu-
ally think of the misery in store for
me,~utIshall try to forget your words,
and ~wh~en tioimble comes it will be time
enough to mourn."
cannot forget what I hate said,
andyou 'vilf~t'ten ponder on my words,
and souse daly iivihl see my predictments~
fl~il&amp;l;" then turning to Eflie, ~he
'~y.sM~l Itell you of your future?"
~ffie I~ut~ been niuch apiused by the
s.rieue~ aW assumed by the crazy eros-
t;~iIwit4out placing the least con..
ideuce ~ii what she said, or for a mo-
menttbinkin~ sou~ously ot' the matter,
she'jAaced her band in that of the for-
tuno4eller who at once commenced-~
'~~7&amp;ar~wayfroni home; you were
ill *be~Yjou e~ine here, since your at-

['E MOORE.

fi rival you have fallen in love and are
a engaged to be married, you will be mar-
tied, your intended loves you, but you
will not be perfectly happy, for he has
I a secret which he will not tell you, and
attimes he will seem cold and unloving.
This secret is wearing his life away, and
* will eventually be~ the eaase of his death,
I but do not try to discover it-its soln-
tiOn would makeyou wretched. There,
go, I have said all I can, leave me in-
* stantly lest I forget myself and say more
than I should, tell no one of your visit
herefor if you do it will make youtoth
* wretched for life." Grasping her cane
she hobbled off as rApidly as she could7
towards the cottage, awl Effle and Jim-
liettereturnecl to the Hall. They de-
terumned to tell no one of their inter-
view with the witch, and notwithstand-
ing the lenity with which. they con-
versed of the event, they could not help
pondering over the words of the strange,
wild creature.
The day at length arrived, which was
set for the departure of Effie Graham..
Mi'. Moore was to accompany her home,.
and at' the same time procure an insti uc-
tor for the girls. Amid tears and sobs
Efile took her leave and the traveling.
carriage drove from the door bearing
with it one loved by every living thing'
upon the plantation.
After her departure the house seemed'
lonely and alimmat deserted Walter was
home but little of the time, his 'studies
occupied his time and attention. lanthe
was absorbed in the pages of exciting
end thriving novels, and Juliette was
left almost to herself for amusement,
and consequently an intimney sprung
up between her and Clara Simons, to..
gather they 4ould roam the woodsanet
often times they would ride together,,

JIJLIETTI
many miles from home. Mrs. Simons
was kept in a continual ~vory by these
madcap girls, and whenever Clara r&amp;
turned from these exploits she was sure
to receive a long lecture on pfo~~e~iy
'and lady-like e~nduct, hut it seen4~F~s
it' the more pains her mother took, to
convert her into a fashionable woman,
the more reckless and daringahe grew.
Mr. ~imons looked on and sad noth-
ing, hut he was secretly, well pleased
'that his daughter spurned the trammels
of fashionable society, and dared to en-
joy heraclf.
CHAPTER XV.
A Long Lapse if I'inme.
"Time rolls on with rapid flight,
Nor stops in his career;
He sweeps our loved ones from our sight,
Nor spares Our hopes most dear."
"Day follows day, year rolls on year;
They just begin, then disappear.
how quick, how rappid is their flight.
'Tis hardly day, wien lo? 'tis night!
How swiftly do the seasons flow,
The summer's heat, the wi,,ter's snow,
The autumnal tinge, the vernal given,
There scarcely seecis a space between."
A year passed swiftly awey l A
year, how long it i~, and yet how swift-
ly it seem~ to pass away. When we l~ok
back through the dun vista of the past,
a year ago, seems but as last week, or
last monthat most, and yet how many
changes often take place in a twelve
month. The time of probation had ex-
pired, and Effle Graham was to be the
'wife of GeorgaMoore. At first her moth.
or was reluctant to give her consent, but
at length she yielded to the wishes of
her 'only daughter, and evei'y prepora-
tion was made f~r the approaching nup-
AM Moore had left Ashly hall ex-
~ccting to be absent a number of weeks.
On his return 3i~ffie Graham would ac-

'7

MOORE.                        59
company him as his wife. TIi~ girls
were lcft in charge of their tufor, Carl
Do Haven, who had conducted tikeir
studies for~nearly a year, having ~etu~n-
ccl with Mr. Moore from the northwh~
he accompanied ERic to her home.-
Carl DeHaven would have attracted at-
teation among a thousand. U~ wap,
at the time of his introdu~tion into the
family of Mr. Moore, about sixte~~,
though apparently much older, tall,
slender, and by no menus faultless fig-
ure-a habit of stooping made shede~ect
more obvious. His face was full, bu~t
the features were irregular,' and the
mouth would have been pronounced sen-
sual by a close ob~evver~ His hair ~vap
a deep black and so curly that it set ~t
defiance all aid from comb and brush.-
His complexion was dark and he had
but little color, save when asinimated.-
Juliette had dished him from the first;
she thought him unprincipled, but he
was so quiet and unobtrusive thatit was
impossible to findfault with him. Ianth~
seemed almost like a new being after
his arrival;' ~he applied herself closely
to her studies and astonished even her-
self at the rapid progress she was mak~
ing. As time ~scd onJuliette thought
she discovered more than ordinary in-
terest manifested in the demeanor o~
Carl Dc Haven toward~ lanulie. Cer-
tainly he paused longer at her desk as~
lie explained some difficult lesson, than
he did at Juliette's, and he bent lower
over her drawing, and spoke in ~ softer,
sweeter tone to her. And several times
Juliette had observed lanthe reading
fictitious works, in which 'yoting ladies
represented as being unappreciated by
their families had rom~nticly elopnd
with their tutors, 'and at last reached
the highest pinacle of happiness' usid


____ JULIETT
worldly success. 8he felt sure that these
b~oks were placed in the hands of Ian-
by Carl Dc Haven, and he must
I~4 aox~te purpose in view. Mr.
~iue'n was so much engaged with his
~pscl4ng nuptials that he failed to
icp~tliegrowingintiaiacy between his
p~il4 sad liar tutor. bathe, naturally
io~z~u~ies~d just budding into maiden.
~ fett pleased and flattered by the
4te~tiens a~d compliments lavished up-
on her by her youthful instructor. She
~ peon nothing of the world, and
.4cedthelsollowilatteryisnd silly com.
pl~auenta that he. poured into her e~ua,
~he pisucere. feelings of bir heart, arid
4ia.~reated an ideal,~gave it his forni,
~4o.wedit with attributes he. never pos-
a~pp~l, and al~e foudlj dreamed that she
2~vim.
~t.~seperations were going on for
~ reqep$ie~i of the new mistress.~.-
Ad~*t$c~as~ssd alterations hadheen made
~ Hall; new furniture had taken
~ ~~lape of the olil, and Aunt Dora
was in liar element, for cakes, pies, and
~ia~try of every kind was to be made,
*~d f~r ; few days previous t~' the as-
a~uel of the bridal party, her cabin was
ok' the greatest eonfueion.-~.
~i~p~ouId suppose. to have looked in
ari4 ~p~a the-rows of pier, cakes, and
4i~hoa of jellies,, and sweetsneats, that
4~as aahlng~.praperations for an cx-
t~sive tker4butuo one could find
~ ~hpt purpose she was making
iio~tb~ngs. When theinquisitive
~lpel~.wou4~ question her, she would
'4 hu~ewe,1j ~iewsforwlsatVseworl~-
i.44e~eu'telioose to let on about
~ ~p~ra~e, When de new ~fissy
~ will s~ for what I am unak~
i~ ~l1d4r~nd preparation."

E MOORE.
And she weist on with her duties day
after day, without gratifying the curios-
ity of oa&amp; Walter was still persuing
his studies with the pastor. He was
nearly r&amp;dy to enter college, and was
applying himself so closely. that he paid
but little attention to the affAirs stAsh-
ly Hall.
CHAPTER XVT.
Arrival of the lit idal Party. The
grand Ball at Ashly Hall.
She stood like aii angel jt:st wandered from
heaven,
A pilgrim henighted away from the skies,
And little we deemed that to mortals were
given,
Such visions of heas~ty as come from hereyes.
-4. 'V. FIELDS.
Every wedding, says the proverb,
Makes ~other soon ornate;
Never yet was any reaivia~e
Eat~red in the book of Fate,
But th~ naine~ v~eivniso written
Of the patient pair who wait.
-.T~ W.PAtsbzis.
The day at len~tlt arrived on which
Mr. Moore and his brid~, accompanied
by her mother and brother, were to re-
turn to Ashy Hall. Cards of invita-
tion for a ball, had been issued, before
tbcir arrival, and every family for miles
around were invited,
since Juliette had resided at Ashly
Halibut few visitors, save the Simoas
family, bad frequented the place, and
the idea of a ball was very plea~ng to
her. Iapthe also, expressed satisfaction
at the announcement, but Walter, tho~
he said nothing, did not lil'e $t. The
day previous to the one set apa~tfos'
the gathering, ho sat in J'rdiette's ~ooni
~eonversiag, arid tisr~e since my ~
"'Tis so short a
motherwas laid to rest beneath the ~oI~
sod, that it seems to me wrongthat thr
house in which she died should be nia~e
the place of festivity and rejeicing~.. t

JULI~TTE                                   4r
wanted to hate the bride of George as the instructor in the fsmjly of his-
Moore, but when I discovered that: it sister's husband, be was somewhat cur:-
~was sweet Efile Graham Icould not she priced, bu4~said nothingUbOutt~e mys-'
is a kind, sweet woman. and be it far tory which hung ever tha childhood of'
from me to do aught to makeher path-i the strange young mair, but watched
way uneven. 'Tis true, I do not like his movements closely, fearing lest ~n
to see her 1111 the place onee occupied' sense way. he would take advantage ~of
by my sainted mother, and I cannot his possitionbut Carl was cautiouS atld~
take part in the festivities of to-morrow Iknry discovered nothing to cause bUn
evening; I shall remain in my own a.moment'5 suspicion asto the tutOr's'
room." As he ceased speaksng the integrity.
slight figure of Mrs.Mooredarkenedthe edfromthe windows of the old~5la'1l5lOU,
doorway-as sheentered, she said- 'and rich music was wafted on the evcii~ -
"Walter, I have heard the Thstt~word5'.  "  Within, all was gorgOOilO~eu
you uttered; I blame you not,.and yet, ing air.
it would give me muchiple5sUretos~ chantsn&amp; and ~ewilderiags for it ~1i~
the parlont to.merrow evening, the celebration of Mr. Moore~sweddl~
you in                        the' There never was a grander g~th~l'i1lg of
I hot~e that while I remain here as  youth an         th and fsshiofl,
Hall~sriy presence w in all d beauty, weal
miattessofAsblli                       the-SOUth. There were fisir we--
~' cause you no feelings of pain5l wouldbe men whose eyes 5bamed the atar&amp; f
to you both amether~~veto you can- evening,          emma the youth'
mother's love; young as I am.   . iui DaVinci would have ~oycnlte gar4
not hope to~fllLtliepl5c  her, who~s There w          he flr~t glorious
now        iii her          wilibe. ilush of ore mon in sleeping  gravebUtI  nisoci with faces abd ~
to you, all I can. Will yougiva
your confidence, your love? Will you' of such fascination, that even tha ~ arola
look upon mona your fricird?"     old coquette Queen Elizabeth woutil
have looked on them with ~voriiig
Juliette threw tier arms around the e Some were floatingtliro~Igi1. the'
neckof the beautiful bride1 and Walter cy.
mazes of the dance,,tO'the. sound of niur~-
plncedbishitndinhers. ~~at8tronger
assurance of their love and friendship rne~s-gloflbuslY.as~~ that i~ mtide they
did she require? The tetira~ gmateful~ eye brighter and the cheek gl(*V6tl~
happy team filled her eyes, and nft~r era strolled in the prorae~itdt/, while.
kissing them both she left them, not to here and thereateOd a group m~eak1ltat'
aeekher own room, but to make tin ef- conversatiOn.
The bride was arrayed in a robe ofi
fort tO break down the berrier which richwhitOSittiflwithahev)Lc~~
s~omcdtO exiatbetween bet s~dIatithO, ly laco~ confined by pure white orange'
mid nobly did she succeed. Ianthoiit buds andbloSaoDiS shelookedas be0~
tt~cei~od her coldly, haughtily, but tiful and pure as an angal~ Juliotte'
r a time she touclieda tender chord and lanthe ~~rebecoU~~gly arrayed in
young girl'shOtirts and won f*oitt simple white niuslines and pain blue
hat runny an enpressioiief endearment. sashes. claraSimOlir, nccerdingt~'
ge(~%ebZ~ mother's taste was dresser1 like a~dan
1doll, in silk, laces, nudlinWatS, hat'~hO


JULIETTE MOORI~
4anecd and romped, not caring wheth~ you; I am nqt the cold, the heartless
r she dfsarranged her toilet.oi' not, and being I have seemed. Our new mother
~ mother followed her around, and ha~ taught me my duty. Walter, she
w~ppontinmzal.ty cautioning her about is an angel, too good and p
messing 1~er french flower head.dres,.. earth." . nrc for this
The blacks were all collected upon the "Aye, she is good, and I fear is des-
~ themselves by watch- tined to r main with us only a short
lag thesecee of gaiety within Waiter time. Tl~e fatal disease, which carried
Ws alone in his own room, alone sith our mother to an early grave, is, I fear,
~iethongbts. ~e bed been pacing to glusping her life within his icy clutch-
and flo, and bad at length seated him- ~
"Oh, do ~ot say so, the balmy air of
~lf by the open window, and as hd oUr own sunny south land will ward off
4w~tchedthoin~n and statu in the blue the approach of the destroyer."
-usult of heaven, and the windplayed
Withhj8 long wavyh~ir, and tossed it "(god grant that it tcay, but Con-
from lilt lilgh, pale brow, the sound anmptiois is a guest hard to rid one's
~arnssIe and ~attet4ng Ihef, and merry self of, and she has been very near the
cente ftoni the nioms helow;b~s *grave, and cannot live many years."
1~lI                                  Thus they conversed for a long time.
~Sdedupon lii4                                     with the change
ears. fl,~ W&amp;5 Walter was pleased
of his 'nothee; And as he manifested in the deportment of Tanthe
thought a feeling of eadness Stole OltS) and hoped that it would prove lasting.
his being. and be 1ean~dhf~ head hpon
hit band and wept; A    pair of soft        (JiIAPPER XVII.
~h1te Utbis stole lovingly etound his rzsgn~ 'at ~ari ~&amp;uIavea find Tanthe
stock, and a gei~le:y~;~~ ~vhftPei.ed two  $etera of ~5ea-4iis Oprajee of
3'roedom.
1r6.~-*My brlith~r'1" lIe turned and "SbelelUer h6ite, her friendsand all,
liebuld I~s4he.. For'a'ulomcnt he was' And fled '~itli one she deemed she loved,
tttSrstpietely                     Rut oh the passion that she felt
overcemSby               Was'
srstprlse that    olily faacyTiine surely proved?'
lie~ could say nothing, sail the contian.. IJ~ retjn4ied front his wanderings witer and
better.~.4~aAy
"Me I.tlzen~so unwelcomek visitor
that. yen havaiio sVo)~d ofgreeting for Aboutthree weekeafter the ball, one
have so lono' eveningJulicue was *alkipg in the gar-
ef~ Wtll,1won~e~0~        &amp; -     'den alone; becoming wearied she seated
bnlbrgetful of inyduty 55' siste~-
aelashnesa hee so long bald8      ' herself upon-a mossy bank at the 'foot
tuethet tWond~ not tiiatw~Y;oYer of a large tree tores4 She had been
an intrndet~' 3'OU 190k there bat a few moments, when ~he
he~ir             distanoA
~a Intruder P~ he repeanqcr in tifem~. 4 ypicea in ~lse ~, and - foot..
hllattet~~ Rs~lfe g~ized upon her lov&amp; s~epe approaching5 and ir~ t~ shovtthae,
ly ~ hi4ferin' "oh'n~, dear Ianth~; ~ fl~u~es. which ~he r~aclily yeeog~d~.
ta'~j~ne liatruder, but tliiajs'ae ~ c4. as Cml Do hay
Ith          -                   edhen  They wer~ en and lanthe, pass.
ought 4Tousv4J~e belbw                 ao earnestly engaged
~n eonverststiou that they failed to
'~IWD4llutbecan~e wasry...4 thought ~soran4 passed~ to a ruetioeofa~few
#~yon ~a~r~i sicee, and Ie~e toeh~, rods tlietantwllerethey ':seated them-

K

4$
selves. Juliette saw that she was unob- him~ an all titling powers and I have
served~ and supposing thot they would but little worldly wealth, but why, els,
remain but a few moments, deteymifled why, must our lives be niade wretched
to remain where she ~vas, unwilling to and unhappy~ to gratify his se
make them aware of her pretenCe. The whims? If you love me With one-hal!
trunk of the tree hid her completely the fervor that I feel, or even appreelat-
from view, though she could distinctly ed my passion asitdeserve5~W be ap-
hear every word spoken by the guilty preciated you would not for'a n~ement
pair, and ~he was an unwilling listener think of fatherfriends or home. I
to a portion of their conversation. Sur- you to hieome my bride, to fly Wit~
prise and indignation took possession of me -far from those who would make ire
her as she listened-                wretched, and revel in the pure and he-
"Believe me, dearest Tanthe, since the ly atmosphere of affection. Saydeareab
first day I beheld your lovely face, 1 lanthe, my Iove,'my life, will you be
have loved you. Invain have! ~ mine?"
eisde~    Jujiette heard nomorefOi~Be hec~aS'
ored to quell this passiou~lLT1d look upon ed speaking, hefos't Inuthe replied, she
you as one whom jt is'my duty to* in- fainted anti when she recovered herself
strict and forget as scion as out of sight. the lovers had left the spots sad the
Your lands have swept across the harp hastened to the house, and alone in her
of m~ heart and ~.vakened a sweet
strings                             own room debated i.ipbn
melody of love. I ht~e even dared to       lttr.MOorO ajitiblidehed g6nt
hope tht~t Wild love of mine has pursue.
this                      over to k1~.Sirnmon5' to'apendth88V8~
found a response in your own heart;
oh, ing; it wouldhelate beforethey reture~
tell me, dearest, may I ho~eis my love cd-she could not inform them that
returned?" he passed his ~fm around so she r~solvedtOtOll~r~o9re
her waist       her unresisth~g hand evening,
ai4tooll                   oil that she had ov&amp;lseai~do~ thefoll~-
within his own.
"V ~un s  young," plead lanthe; tire. ing mornings i~mediatOlyM't0r break-
niertiber I ant yeta mere child in years fast"
~
and cannot kiibw my own heart, lint t The family asse~bl~ aV the
eonfe'ss it is notisupleasant tokuowihat tiful. The
I am loved, and yetJ dare nciteticOiW breakfSst table, all sn-ire Iathl arid Carl
age you, itq fetiser 4~ould never cetisent l)e Ilaven. Oora was eent~ toIaiithe'e
to our niarriage, he~is ~Woud and uti- room tO ascertain the causeof the d.l~'
yielding; and if ~e'suspeetedthat yost ma few moments she returned, and In
loved me, h~ would at once dismisS hethalid she held S. note-
aMisaylanthe be not in her roe an
"Love, true, ardeitt love, knows no de bed henot tumbledUp S. bi~ di~ ore
laws, no rules. I feel that I have hot biller lay right on ~dS. pillow.. anso I
loved lit vain; you hive niebVtVwill not brings itn~long. ~
se~r so; you have told it in yont actions off wid dat arflnenarTUfld~tar9fh~i'a
in a thet5sandW~y5; have encotW~ ~-I'sehadiny. eyes opendis ;ong~t*re~.'K
aged every overture I ave made~ you ~Ir.~Mocre took ~benote ~nd r~djit~
know it, you feSl it.' tTis true, your his brow contracted and b~~diugitt~~
father would object, for money is, with Juliette, Ito turned and left tIre roeta.-~~


MOORE.
'O~neinghastuy over the note, she said: j Henry Graham left the room snJ
even worse than I feared." sought the presence of Mr. M~ore, tcr
"Wli~tis it? read the note, Juliette," I make known all that he knew in regard
*oZoJai~ed Mrz~, Moore;" and Juliette to the eArly history of Carl De Haven ~
rpd:.s~ follows.....               as Mr. Moore listened the color forsook.
'fl~ar' ~'attmer,                 ha face, and he raid in a ton
* Be not angry with your agony.....               0 of d'eep.
ertingchi1d~i11a~0 Mftyonrroofto he.
'~9in0 the iivlfe of cue I love. He ~ "Oh, God, can it be? I never noticed'
~ ere$hisre~ches J the fatal resemblance before. If thisbe,
yo~J will be bonnd~oj~i~, by.tiea That) true, how heavily have my own sins~
onhiRaave,, can sunder. Forgive me, becn viSited upon me."
an4 i~rn~ to~nie, Iwfll therpbe perfectly These words were unintelligable to'
hsp~y.
Your daughter                 Henry, but lie saw that some great mis-
IanthelDe Haven,        cry fell upon the strong man before him,
St. Dennis Hotel and he did not attempt to offer conso.
Qhsrleston, s.c. nation. Afewmoinents after, Mr. Moore
"'I knew that she loved him, but ~ arose and reentered the breakfast room,
~heied kor sonse of honor would keep his face was ghastly pale and
4..,....   ~ ~,,           perfectly bloodless:       his lips
liar t~O14 ~.iusig0neh                "The name of Isethe Do Haven must
"I fear this me not the worst," Said never ho mentioned at Ashy Hall," he
Ijemury allan,, "I knew this ~Carl Do said in a stern commanding voice, "she
I~av~un w~'en heisttended ecllego;'he ~ i~ ~ her duty as a child and
asid unp*ieipled; I do not ~ henceforth she isasone dead;" he could
Love he byes the poor girl; hehasper. say no more, his voice failed him, and
snadod hot' to leav~ her fat er5s roof hehurried from the apartment to hide
~rz~ b~ee~no Ins wife in hopes ofigain- his grief and wretchedness.
on of thepropertythatweuld Thsringthe day, as he satin his libt'a-
huthe on her beeomia~ rylze bearda str~pge noise at the win-
age. Mr. Moore will doubtless eec dcw.bet edandsten~ingat the open
~ru~JttJ~. 5(lllefllsarmddisownher, ~ window, with her face through the ease-
O9?~eo uez~tJy #jewill bean nnloved.ead mnc~at, was thp witch of the grove.' As4
w4~ Poor girl,~~at a~fl~te, he P4Od at her a deathly chill stole
..1yJ~t~r~a~k ~ over she ~t~"'.--' forth
~      ~ ~           ~                  him~m;    ~          one bony
haprl, m          held   paper-4
it 1lntteredi~i the breeze and
ep)zer ~              she anusttread     OOiO~                    the
i~,~jt~e@nsi~Jqt'jjt my ,~uty ~    carpet near his feet; 'without speaking
glided away as noiselessly
know of her rascally ;as she caine,
h1ljl4I~n4,                          For amome4t Dfr.Dboon sat s~oticu..
'~?~~t Taisthe" fl~urmuredJuhette...... less, ets~ing wildly at the win4owgaen
~itt~T ~'a~a~ay from homsand~s she he stee
tl~OtoIknsa5 shesaid, "I feat' it will  pod aadpipke4up the s~l~d pa-
persndre4the~~st~~thSreOD
blow to the proud he~rt o~ -...they were written with ~Iopd a~i4

JULIETTE~9ThRj~___                          45
"Carl DeHaven is the child of Helena Martha was half wild with joy at the
Montage. Tanthe Moore, the wealthy return of Ben, and his boy capered and
heiress, has married her half brother~- 1auced .about his feet in ecstasy of do.
The betrayed and deserted Helena is light. For days Ben entertained the
now avenged." He groaned9 and his blackswith stories of the NorthaTtd the
head rank heavily upon his hands.- incidents of his life while there. He
Truly his sins had caused this world to hadretnrnedtobisPlsntatiofl home with
be to him a living hell. All day he re- .~ veiy poor opinion of free negroes and
gained in his library pacing up and f~eedom, and earnestly advised all, who
down the floor, his head and heart al- had comfortable homes, to stay there,
most burst with their weight of remorse and not run away as 'he didto he worked
and agony. He refused to appear at to death at the North in order to obtain
the supper table and though the family sufficient to eat and drink. He resuID-
knew not the true cause of his wretch- ed the duties he had been accustomed
edness they manifested no surprise, to performs and once more the cabin of
After the evening meal was finished, Ben was the scene of domestic felicity.
as the family were seated on the front
piazaaanego in tatteredgarlflcntacnme    CuAPTER XVIII.
up the graveled path, and pausing at     changes at A~hIY flail.
the foot of the steps. took off his lint  "{ear the cradle of each mortal ~
Joy and Vain ~getherglide
t~nrses are they at life'S portal.
and raid-                               Ever after by his side,
"Missy Juliette, you does not know  On the right, ifiyi5~lOwifl~:
me-I is Ben?'                           On th&amp; left, stil  Pam,
"What, can it be possible I" enebiiui-  Till the three, together Ilowing,
ed Juliette. "Can this indeed be Ben27'  Vanish in Time's solemn mien.
"0! such is life. To come and go,
*    "Oar, Missy, I'se been free nigger    The sport of wave and wind;
~long enuft; and now I wants to come To meet, to part for aye, nor know
back and be a slave once more. rse Where certain rest to find;
Tobe beloved, forgotten be;
been to do North, and I nebber works    To love~..sad heart, be still,
hard in all my life, and I be most  The evening glory blindeth me,
50                                      My eyes with tear drdps fill."
dead wid hunger?'                                  -~~* W.OALnwE14~.
efly Uncle is ill this evening, but Fronithe morumg5fterth0~6l~eI~Wnt
therniano donbthut that howilibeghld ofIanthe,~.MOorOhedb~ad~~eNent
to take you back. Go to your cabin, man-for days togetherho gould in.
your wife will be glad to see you, and main shut up in his ~Iibrpry, an4 ~efuse
yonwill doubtless receive a hearty wal- to see any one, saveOora,'who brought
come from all the blacks." him his meals upon a sums11 tea tray.-,
Poor Thin, he had been disappointed A smile never wreathed his lips,'and he
he had entertained too high an opinion grow thinner and paler each passing d~y~
sif (reedomsali&amp;foufld that such ahosne The time bad celTic when Walter was
sake possessed~ even though ho was a to enter advanced class in Colleg~
sinve, was better than being free, and ai4Julie~te was to cuter a Bemina?~ of
Aepeudent upon his own ererticils at learniJ~gt~oftni5hhereducahon. It w~o
The north; There were rejoicings and arr~ged that while Walter was in Mit-
£~ptvt~~ at the quarters that night.- for~l~~Olle~Os he shouki board with


Mrs. Graham, and ~Ienry and herself ful promenade. The grounds around
wotzl4 accompany him North. Though the building are beautifully laid out.-
E~e felt reluctant to part with her moth.. Winding paths leading to shaded re-
* er and brother she made no opposition treats, miniature fountains and fish
toth&amp;pr~posed plans. During his gay ponds, scattered here and, there. A
at 4shly lall, Henry had seen much stranger passing the police would st~p.
of Clara Sirnons and ere he left for his pose it to be the residence~ of som~ weal-,
hosrie, he asked her father's permission thy and aristocratic gentleman. l3u~
to correspond with her, which requesfr "Woodlawn Seminary" was patronized
was readily granted, for Mr. Simons was only by the daughters of the wealthy......
a man of goqd sense, and saw that Hen.. many a Southern and Metropolitan belle
?y was a young man of unexct~ptionable has received her education and been
morals-which wp~s.~uitea rarity in the taught fashionable accomplishments at
South-~-and though Mrs. Simons was this Institute.
strongly opposed to the intimacy exist- It was late in the afternoon when
ing between the young people, it bid Mrs. Graham's traveling carriage drove
fair to ripen into love and matrimony, up the long, winding road leading to
The week previous to the departure was the building. Several young ladies,
a bus~' week at Ashly Hall. Dresses richly attired in costumes m6re suitable
were to be made for Juliette, trunks for a summer watering place than a -
-packedand a thousand little things kept boarding school5 were pacing up and
tall busy until the day set for the journey down the piazza, and when Juliette as.
arrived. In the morning .Iuliette visit- sister by Walter, alighted from the ear-
ed the quarters and 1,ade each negro riage, they eyed her narrowly from head
fareweU, and as she left the cabins tears to foot.
and bJessinge followed her. When the Ringing the door-bell, they waited a
carriage drove away from the dooreon- few moments, and then were ushered
airingg Mrs. Grahnn~1 Henry, Walter, into a sumptuously furnished parlorby
and Juliette, Cora wept bitterly for she a polite, colored waiter. Juliette was
loved her young mistress much. astonishedd at the magnificence which
lathe first place 'they were wtee ~u- surrounded her, for Madame Knrth's
liett~ eat'ely to the SOnrinary, tnd then parlors rivalled iii elegance many' suet-
proceed'~i Mitford, where the'h~me of ropolitan merchant's palaces, andahe
M~A~ Gr&amp;ham.waa basted. " " had' always entertained the idea that
Standing near the outskirts of abean- larding schools were dreary. places......
tiftil townin one of our rathern states, After the lapse ef a fewinoments Mad-
is jilendi4 dwelling, known as the amel(urth mad~'her appearance. 'She
"WoedIawx~x' Sesniriary," an institution was a large 'woman, with .'very black,
ot l~arsaiisg foryoung ladies. TheSem- glosy hnir;which' was combed frem off
hiary buildings are large..-the main h~r face, red ehecksand full form, prt~h-
in height, ably som~whcre in the neighborhood of
gsrzmngontfrorneither5jd8~0~~0 She received her guests with great
stories lsigii. '.&amp; broad piazzastretches formality, and after arranging matter
~aer~ss thoesitire front, making adehight- with Mrs~ Graham, in regard tojulieUo's

I
I,,

JUL1E~1YTE MOORE.            ___            4T
stay, she left the room for a few mo- ed it-before her stood a young girl,
n-eats that her new pupil might bid her sUght of figure, with light, curling hair
friends adieu, nncmbarre~ed by the and deep blue eyes.
presence of a strangely . After Mrs. Gra- "My name is Edith Ranar," she snid~
ham's travelling carriage r~'lIed away in a musical voice. "Madame was en-
from the door Madame re-entered the gaged and bade me come to your room
room, and said-                    and introduce myself," and she held out
"You axe no doubt wearied with your a dainty little handwhiehjuliette grasp-
long journey, and you may remain in ed and pressed within her own ~s she
your room this evening. To-morrow I replied-'-
will introduce you to the young ladies "Thank you; walk ia-my room is
who will be your companions while you all in a confusion, I know nothing about
remain at Woodlawn. Do you wish to order, and fear that I shall sadly miss
room alone, or would you prefer a room- my faithful maid, Cora, who always
mate?"                     to have looked after my Things. ~o you, are
'a "~ think it will be pleasanter one con- Edith Ranar of whom Madame I~urth
roonr-r~tate, providing
genial," replied Juliette. . spoke. I am stare we will 1)e warm
"I will, after you have in a measure friends, for I always like or dislike a
recovered from the fatigue of your jour- person the first time I see them.."
n~y, and made your toilet bring to your "And so do I. Something neat my
room Miss Edith Ranar, a young lady heart whispers to me, whether I shall
about your own age, and if you are be friend or foe to each newperaotd meet,
and as Istood upon the piazza andivatell-
pleased with each other you can room
*together." A servant was thea called ed you alight from the carriage, I. felt
to show Jpliette to her room----whither that we were destined to. be warm
her trunks had already been conveyed, friends We are to share this rdom,
,Sh~ followed the servant up the broad and I hope naught but peace and hap-
flight of stairs, passed through the spa- piness will dwell with us while we re-
oioushal.l to the farther end of the west main together. But let me assist you
wing and entered room ~o. 15, which in arranging your ~ardrobe.....my.things
she found to he comfortably-nay, eves~ will be moved bite this room tO~mottOW.'
~Iegantly furnished. She closed the And the two young girls set about
door, ~nd sat down upon the edge , of unpacking Juliette's trunks and arrang-'
the. ,bed-.-she felt , a little, homesick.-' lug the articles in the roomy elothpl'e55
~~0~eamo1gstyangersmany mileafroni and bereau drawers, and while their
her home, who could wonder that she hands were thus busily empIoye~l, I as-
* wept? But the weakness lasted f&amp;r a sure yoi~ their tongues were not idle.
few moments only; drying her tears, she , ~ 2~X.
arose and unlocked one of her trunks,
A Lapse of Two i~ear5.
awl took therefrQm a becoming robe The Future is a taigledrfltb
* awl proceeded t~ snake her toilet..  ,  Of mingled thorns an~ fiower5-'~
She bad hardly completed her task, The Future has in store for all,
I ~
when she heard agentle rap at her door. '
She stepped across the room and open-J "Time is ever on the wing.."


48          JIJLIETTE MQGRE.

Two years qf mingled joy and sorrc
had passed over the heads of the cbs
actors figuring in this story, and th
brought with theni many changes.
Mr. Moore had gradually d~clirs~
until lie became a confirmed inv~ilh
feeble and nervous, his brow was marl
ed with deep care-lines, hia hair irs
almost white and his figure much ben
lie looked full fifteen years 'older tha
he really was.
'W~1ter liemeyn had finished his cd
lo~iato codrac and graduated with th
honors ~ his class.
lIst a word had been heard from, or
in nigs~r4 to lanthe. She was, indeed
taioiie dead to her family.
Julietto had finished her course o
studies, at~d was preparing for the ann
It! ~tblbiston bf the Woodlawn Seriiina
l~',when she would receive her diploma.
The erbaing previous to the one ap.
jointed for the closing exercises Juliette
and her room-mate, Edith, sat in their
reo~
"To-sAnorrow, I will see dear, dear
Walter~ouly think Edithit is two long
Vearsainceweparted. Itoperanemy
studies, here, and he to enter the junior
olasa'atoollege. Since that time he has
been winning laurels at Mitford College
and to-zaoriv*w will come to ice crowned
~ highest honors~f his class,"
said Juliette,
'4r08~ asia to-morrow I will meet my
brothsi~ flisrry, wIse, for the past fire
YO155leentrsvelling~hieughforel~
lands. Oh, what aglorious time I will
have toniegto his accounts ofall he
haaaeenanth~faroft~~
I can hardly realize that to-morrow he
willbe here, aird ~tteud our closing cx-
ereiaes~ I am glad that he will listen
tCi~rIeautiful essay-dam confident
you will tsiketlie prize."

iw "Be not too sure dearEdith, you know
~r- theyoung ladies have all exerted them-
iy selves in hopes of winning this prize,
and I fear with so many skillful corn-
d petitors in the field, I shall be one of
1, the number who fail to win the reward."
r- "But you know, Juliette, you have
is ahvays stood first in all the classes, and
t. I heard Madame say this afternoon, that
a your essay would he a credit to the In-
stitution."
"And you, darling, will win golden
e opinions from the audience for your
matchless playing."
"Oh, dear, I tremble when I think of
playing before a crowded audience."
Thus the two friends conversed until
a late hou~
- Early the next morning the expected
guests began to arrive; and before the
morning wore away, Walter and Mrs.
* Moore came-Mr. Moore was too feeble
to leave home. After stopping at the
hotel to change their dresses, they hast-
ened to the Seminaryto seeJulierte be-
fore the exercises should commence.
When they reached the Seminary
Juliette was in her room atranging her
dress for the evening. A servant in-
formed her that a lady audgentleman
were in the parlor anxious to see her.-.-
~he threw down the garment she held
in her hand and fairly flew dowri the
broad stairs, and a moment after was
folded to the breast of Weltei.,and after
embracing him, she is~lrmly welcomed
Mrs. Moore. She could hardly realize.
that the tall, elegant looking man before
her, with heavy moustache and whisk-
ers, was her youthful playmate, Walter,
and he in turn, was stimewhat torprised
to had that Julietto had merged into a
tall, queenlygracefuland dignified wo-
man. Mrs. Mooke had changed but

9

JULl1~TTEMOOIVE.
little, she was the same quiet, self-pos- ~f one of the greatest masterS of sonaic.
sessed woman; her face wasp perhaps, a Widter, as well as every ~ne pre5~t5
litgOi~oie care-worn and thinner, hut was charmed. lie had &amp; ~iue ear
she wes. still Jll~le ~habaxn, lovely and music azri  Edith's execution wasfanit-
gentle. They emaiaed 'with Juli~ttt~ less.. As soon asahe swuedher plaea
but a few moments, and as they parted among thepupils, Ji4iette stepped for-
she ss~d-.--                        ward to the extreme front of the pInt
"This evening Walter, after the'ez- form end delivered an esnay~ brilliant
oreiesare o~rer we aroto have a brilliant and beautiful. Sbeehar~ned every. litt-
pa~t~, then I will introduce you to my ener in that vast audience with her ole-
r~ste, Edith Ranar, the loveliest, queues. After reading her essay~ she
a14 moal~ bewitching little fairy in the turned first to her instructors, and with
world."                            tears in her eyes, addressed'thera in a
~'Indeed she must be all that is beau- suitable and elegant utanner, and thea
tiful and good, if she be the intimate to her class-mates she hid an affection-
friend of one so noble and magnificent ate farewelL Amid shouts of applause
as yourself, sad I will feel honored by and shbwers of bequetta she resumed
an introduetionahe replied gallantly~ her seat.
"A1i~ I see, that while at college, you The exercises were closed by the pre-
have ie~srn.qd ~attery, as well as Latin sentationof diplomas to the graduates~
a~d .t~ronls.~' After exchanging a few and the conferring of the honors of tire
sr~s~ wor4sof friendly greeting they class upon Juliette Moore atid Rditlr
parted                              Ensure. After the exercises were uver,
Jiong before the hour for commene- the pupils and their friends a4ijonrned
ing, the exercises arrived, the Chapel to the spacious parlors ~f Woodlawn to
waa crowded to overflowing. Many pass the remainder of the eveuin~, in
we~ ~tnnble to obtain even standing "merry dance, and aoag'
r~q~a~udreluetnntly turned away.      WalterdevOtedbinlsclftosweethttle
At1en~th, the young ladies, all ar- Edith Itanar, and scarcely left her side
rayed ~u ,~,tlesnwhite, took their seats for a half hour at a time.
u~p~ t1~e ph&amp;tforrll and the exercises be- l~arry I~nnar,, the elegant and digni-
gan.                                ~nd, traveled geut~ seemed
One after another o~the graduatIng with the. ~onenly liette~-hin petit
~ and iead their cqm: ~i~s.boeem f'~n4-w~4 made evpr~,
~erforlned
us~rumerrt. AfteraWsn4ejtrliette hie. 2Belere the~ pr~r~4 for th~ ~
h#"~~a their parts?' ~dith Il~snar it ~ms arr~ang~ that lia~ry a~i4 ~4ith
t~ h~rp1a~e ~t~Iie~4uoanA rii~s~n~ wexa.tt spen&amp; th~ ~)Ie~ing inte; at
hqersniorerdieI~e~e, played 0.AsWy flaP," arid in t~m m~nntbim n
~weet ~e,~itd then,~rn.~ friendW ~pen ne~we~te be kept
jalBLA# all avaunA liar, she entered: ~ ~ there r4lz


____ &amp;1UL1I~TTB MOOU~.
~to love one another ~sritIx even a deeper, women with less heart and revereueef4sr
more coafiding affection than nanally truth than brains, I was led to sn~
ezist~ between brother and sister..- pose that ~ll~iave holders, wete ~lave
Hai~ry had for some yearn bee1 itavel- drivers. Sofascinating are their bo~k~
ingthrougb'differeksa'pottionsef.Eurepe soititricate in plot thst~ one is ohanndd
and had nowreturned to pre~arethome by their perusal and easily led ~to adopt
for hi beat tiful ~'~:~omp1isbed sis their views."

tOr. Hi~ father hs~t I4ft sri t~inple for-
turie t&amp;be ~diifde~t~tween them;' arid
they werothus enabled to indulge every
re~ned and delicate taste, and surround
themselves with theeleganoiesand corn-
'%rts~of life.
tUAPTER XX.
Visitors at AshI~ 1I.-~-Eagagen~enta
Made,~-Deat*~,-..Oise;osures.
"Not ours the v~sws ufeuch as plight
Their troth in sunny weather
While vesaregreenandslriessre~right,
Ae walk on flowers together."
-DE5Z~ASJJ BAILTON.
"True4ove is as ebangle's as Heavenitselt"
rDeathcoines to all."  ~-RA~LRu.
'Anobhei, 'lapse of time, aii months
'bsve passedawayandarereokoned with
the~ast~ Howrispidlytixnetlies[Harry
:aud'Ed~th ~Ranar have been guette at
.A.shly Hall sonie'weelss, and this even-'
ing, they arp all out upon the piansa
enjo~'ing the cool, delightful sir--it is
Harry who is speaking-.--'
~QI'bIaiAe mys~W fat h itig searched
foi~'hearitiea of nature iufoi'eign dimes,
anti neglected, so long, to discover the
bt~ri~1es otany t~wa land This SouW-
* ant klinai is t yzslandofpoetr~. I
caa~ahno~t iussg~no myself beneath the
earthy .ldei of rtaiy. Iwcnder itot,
that you, Miss 3ulietto, have become hts
l6yal is Salithetner. T caine here witli
~raIreru ~ee~e bent ox-'
'pectin~ to Ond cueI~yan4i~ih1rmsrsity]
edn*ay. Ilythe
~ra~b~ok~, 'wtitter1~y men itIrd

"I, though a mere child when I canre
South, entertained the same erroneous
ideas, but since umyresidenee hero Ihate
never seers a slave *hippcd but once5 arid
then, by a nortkes'n abolitionist. 'I know
there 'are-eases of cruel treatment of
slaves; but- where can we go and find
all good and just? Cruel and heartless
men exist in every place-in every coun-
try, and will' treat every thing under,
their control, be it man or brute, with
severity. In portions of the South,
where hard-hearted overseers are re-
quired to~kee~ the slaves in orderthose
overseers are invariably from the--New
England states, sad treat 'the Vskhs
under their charge as no Southerner
would treat a dog; andthen we ate
blamed for it; our institutions are as-
saikd, when it is simply thes&amp;nmieerable.
hypocrites that are to blame." 4faliette
was a 'strong. advocate&amp; fat Southern
ri~htsamrd looked upon 'the intetferenee
ofthoah6hitionist-sAththeirinstitirtiens,
with strong disapprobation and jsst iri-
ignation.,
-One Ovenin&amp;ab0ut a month after the
arrival of Harry and Edith, Mr,'Moeye
was called upon to bless a dcsuble~be.
~roth~L' -Walterhadseenenoug~hofthe
beaatiftd'Ed~th to
won               know that :l~is lifis
Id be lonely withouther~ isiz&amp;hse'had.
afferrid hierilis lmaiart and name, which
s#~eanhesitatiz2gIyacc4~&amp;. ~htr.Woere
had a~ pAvate interview with ~rtr~
Ranarbefore ~ous~nting to tIse engage-
neat between ~s~iim and. Juliette. I~)u-

JUIJETTE MOORE;.
ring that brief-interview strange diselo- "Often, so often," 'slid replied in trem-
auresweremadfl~~..disclosurOsth5tWOuld hUng tones. She felt that there was a
have pr~vented'.mauy atnan-less true mighty sooretAbout.t~cs be-diselosed, and
a~d noble hearted...4oresign.his claim, something 'ivithinAier, told her thgt it
but Harry Itanar was one of the noblest would cast aheavyek'ud 9verh~ryoung
of his sex; he- loved Juliette truly and lifer

purely, and what he. heard-from Mr.
Moore in regard to her birth. and par-
entage made him even more nuxious to
protect her proud heart from - sorrow
and trouble, and make-he~' life one 9f
easeand contentment. Soon after their
betrothal, Harry and Edith started for.
the North, promising to return toAsbly
hall ~re many months. For a few
weeks, every thing went on quietly and
smoothly in the old mansion... 1Vlr~Moore
grew more sad and. silent each passing
day, and all realized that heivas rapidly
approaching the grave.
One dayduliette weutintethelibrary
to arrange hispapersas she had always
been accustomed to do, but as she corn-
azenced her task he said-,
"Never mind them, darling, I shall
not use my desk agaln, let 4he papers
his as they are; I know that I have but
afew bours to live, and ]rnust summon
oo~unge to confers a secret whieli has
wor*my life away by degrees. I must
speak, ore I am silenced by death.-
I~rep up these piliow0 f~r me, that- I
amay lie easier, thea send for my wife.".
.TuliettedoneasehewM desired. Mrs.
Moore entered the room and seated her-
self upon a low stool by her husband's
side.-'Jaliette drew an arm-chair near
th* lounge on which he reclined. A
rueasntailence reigned unbroken in that
ole~sut apartment, and..then Mr.Moore
said abruptly-
"Juhiette, yen ye never heard of
your f~ther-have you ever desired to1
knew of him I"

/

"Have you never unagmnat woo 'u-s
was? baa your mother 'never spoken. of
him to you?"'
"I have never imagined who he was;:
ipy mother once said he did her a great
wrong, but that she believed ~e repent-
ejof-it, tud then forbade me~to~ sp~ak
of it again, and the ~ubject.'was-never
more mentioned between us."
"She said shebelieved herepentedof
it-are sure she said this?"
"Yes sjr'.i'
"Thank Heaven f9rthati" He leaned.
forwardtook a small b~x, whielilookeil
like a jewelry easke~ from a stax~d by
his side,- opened it and took fror~ it~a
roll ~,f 155, handing it to Juhiet~t~he'
ssid-"Tako this, go to your room and
read it carefully, then return to me-
remember I cannot live long, and I
would say maoi~e to you.betore Ig~o te
meet my J'udge before th~. baref
tice;"he c~ivered his facowithhis lands,
and his whole frame shook with ~gony.
JuIiiQte took the pacliage from hi~
trembling hand and passed out of, th9
room. She went to her own chamber,
siad afterlocking the door, she bud the
MSS. ~mpon stable and drew a~ohair up
to-its aide and seating herself she untied
the faded ribbon which bound it, and
spreading Wont before her read--
My chi~d:.
It is the histoq of your
mother's wrongs and sullhrings t at you
are about to read, said anyou follow the
tracings of her pen, remember the hand
whIch guided that pen is now cold and

Y


JULIETT~ MOORE.
lifeless, and do not curse the one who Tarrowdale-and settled upon me osuna
gavey~tz birth. Your erring mother's sufficient to suppOrt myself atiti ohild
broken heart is now stilled and though ~n~comfOrtand'X passed fors Wldow.~~-.~
y~u may nev~r have been tetapted and I believohe haaheartiI~.repented Of his
tried. C#Od grant that over your heart sin~and no d6wbt you ato ~ovr under
tim frost ef~rejudice has not hardened, his care, and have always siippos&amp;l lAlan
thaa you may feel for her who failed to tobe your Uncle. My betrdyerGeorgu
ase~pefr temptation. My twin sister Moore, is your father, Juliette, trioz
Helena Montague, and myself u~ere left hini kindly..-.if he has mpentedHeai~en
orphans at the age of seventeen-we will forgive him as freely as I do; &amp;zkd
*Ore both balled beautiful. We were may your heart soften tOwards hita,
pheed under the guardianship of an when you think of the misery ho hta
~Auiitaladyofw~alth living in a pleas. e~dusedon neeQunt of his enily straying
an~ village. While living with this from the path of duty. Do no~urterly
AntiC we heonme acquainted with a despise the memory of your heart.
young student at Iaw.-a yon gman Of broken, repentant rn&amp;ther.
pro      n~ &amp;ppearanceand agreculAc            Julietto Mozitague.'~
mauneu. Afteran 5cq1i5iz&amp;*~eeof some O~e heart rendering moan escaped
months he won the tiffeotious ok'both the white lips of the bent figure, and
my sister and myself~ and unknown to all was still. ror a half hour ormore,
each other made love to bosh of usand the proud, and beautiful ~rlieu~~e.
or soleum. promise of marriage Se. stained seated by that table her kead
due~dns. ~Oonafter he left the village bowed upon hey hands, then slar aroSe,
promi~ingsoreturn soon, but he never but aid how changed, te±~ ye~tra seemed
came bauk. [ cannot describe the mis. to have passed over her be~.ddeep lines
ery my sister and myself felt when we were engraven around the tightlyconr.
becanteaware of his perfidy. My Aunt pressed mouth, the eyeS had ~s vn!catIt4
~aa~ us oZ asia ~flelenaheing more del. snll~n stare, and berfMlIvidwbiv~.
ltate and excitable than iy~eh~ became She put the hISS. esreftflly S*~y and
demagetlaud fled noo~hnew whither, Went dowts to the library. ~e~flak~
1&amp;id~ her shame. f being stronger ~waa lying motionless u~Mni ~
In o~tWtitutioti determined to follow my hIs wife was bitterly *eephlg~ his
aedt~cer an4 compel him to repair the side. Juliette approached nd1a~9.
WObghehaddon~rne. 4ft~ryeuwere ing her ~oldhasid upon his brow said~
1~qrti I ts~rtsd fix search of him, for "My Father!"
tires Ioug~earsT journeyed from pla~~e '~Myehl~d! oh, myclxild~ tell me~ that
~ its persuit of him, ~nd at last I yo~r will not curse me, though tdeservd
fOund him; but alas, he was then mar~ your curses, tell rue you forgive i~xe a~
vied tea *osimn of wealth ac~ living in truly as ~Ae did, es~d as kindly ant Isd.
Elegance and luxury. Almost erased lieve reasonu l~as~'
$h hapafrand anguish Iscoepted the "My fatheryou have hons kindi~ty
~i40#ition he made me-4s for my hind tome; I am grateful ttiyowf~*f it.
oi~%~ko.~.batforthesake ~ifs~y ehikt I has~e always loved yOuandno~* free.
~ perchased a eottsge..4wi&amp; home in 'ly forgive you the wrong ~ou dkt my

mother and the curse youhave etiused
to vest upon mo2'
"Thank GodA ensforgivenI Julintte
can you kiss your guiltyfather.V'
She bent low over him sn'dkisaed
hi~ burning lip~
"0, Godt yourIipa av&amp;eol&amp; as keA
have eru~bed th~lif~ont~fyo'uv~young
heart. Julietto...wifeforgivemo..ayI15~
pathizawitlx~ and love.eaeh'cther~ tell
lautbe if you e er seehee that I fveely
forgive her-after I a ~neli~ telL
her all;anduow whereis'WMtes, Iatei
dying~c~ll Ivimn eve I go2' Walter W~5
sumusomil, but when he nppea
geMoorounuld .lrspeak-.~
he raised himself, pointed toHearen,
made aneffortto say somethiag~tn these
around him an&amp; fell liacim upon his pib
Iow2-deadl
Jut otto ~Lsc6~~ts her A st....Uarrv
SiOW lie meceirns zt'.~.Jz~r~iages.
"~e4nQ~QSbO'JkO5rfl the hauuted~ w~eda-r~
Vl~is'nOatls a splendul roof
thoughh tom~s~itda~i4?ctsit5d,
Her hearth fullof love and
isobir well..-
renk 1cuesm~~~ell~'
Another grave waa~ a&amp;~ed to. 51w
nwabor alres4yinAbe %khiIrchyMd, anti
a nw~o slahat. tbohe4 t~qre thef4
lowug ipscription
"t~dosg~ M~oie;
Ag~d42 years stsid t~wo months.'
D~tb edpesull traces of sorrow fron
rile brow, and sets the troullled soul a
rest~
lleautifisVconsolhig tliougfitl Who
we are called from this world to eros
the turbid waters of death's stream, al

rtraces~ofourpnAtsc*cYw~ *ll laPsti
awa~i.our4ronblsdPtshimIB vhll~fl&amp;d~
.rast:froui4if&amp;~5 ~ frOiWitS s~W5~,
We~wi1l l*~alike,~ onebnSeltSWOf~'~ai
or o~bla tl1O~bsO5tb~4if thbksltSsde.
~r~audthe-voineof tIre ~tter6'ruliinot?
distar1tr~'repo5et
AfL~ thO-funoralsWl5'oVO~ Jil1~to
udasow which h5d ighied4ses~yd
life nti~reIessiug~hits  frotahiA~si
menu. After sending* ~thla4 r' sItS
feltibap~ie~ atskF bhtthc~X5~
oue;te. giv&amp;wa~ te~sorrew
~ her days in nOeless piuiOgn
andore~*nt. She bumiedP herself wriuls
her acces nsedtdtrties~ en&amp;uitongbiruk~
V e wtihtnghbIlttI~lI~~~
to breeding over her misa~ Mhi~
thOge~tU~U1 ~do~waa
a1ki*i~st cin5hd&amp; b~bOblo*'*hldbVhIs
f~llOiPu~*iS~lfef.~ SlieAikd~alis~4
eWti~ to her~hti5bkus&amp;~Os cn~ul the
teialted'abd tfaet4 ~-
'AWd~ the fflTh ~
his crimes o~lik*1leheib&amp; &amp;1~gii~
~bo rOla'&amp;fl1~iO~
iiildndI n~El~jilcizte~dj tIM
~lsit of old~On~sIlktheL ~
~*~oh *~            cetho~ t~i*iimi&amp;
~'65~lh4it hit Idoll, ad&amp;&amp;il~Mtl1*h1
I 4uickuess~ofthOU~it and ~lh~sb.
cI4~adoklMWof benMure, l~&amp; liirr at
i~iee6:eui~ thaCt1$eu*i~X~ft~le
was hiss, nlbtVxeI"s twi&amp;str,
e1on~, and she sdt, outo~ie ~itiy fur
tl~ haunte,~iwood~, ~ fl~d her Aunt,
1 and when Mieretirned4he poor~broken.
~ hisirtitd 'creature-who liact for y~eara
been ,tlie.tevror of thesioghbo4so9d-~-
~ ~hs with her, andiVom that hour bb.
s came an inmate of Ashly~1alI. l'roper
I medical attendance was summoned, but

l 9.


JULIETTKMOoUE~._ _
Iermiod had so longbeen its clouded the fair, famous state, the rose which
stat~ t~t the pliysioitna gave no hope the South and the West wears on their
of o~p restoring her to sanity. ~very breast, the borne of the brave, the noble
4t~u~ice, every kin*at~as possible was and trtse, spume4 disunion and seces-
lwrivAed upon her, and she wsess harm- sion, and boldly held up the Stars and
.lesa'aa44odle a~ &amp; little chili Stripes, and stood by the Constitution
I1sreewee~s passed awayaadiostead and laws. Walter and Harry proud of
~of.wsitis~g a reply to Juliette's letter the state in which they lived, deterinin-
Marry came hiniself to Ashly ThtIl to ed to shoulder their muskets and fight
asure £he~idel of~is hear~,tlaat the late for the Union, and the glorious Red,
~sel~sures were bot all, unexpected by White, and Blue. With the blessings
ihi0, and'that they ~nade no difibrence ofthcirpatriotic wives they enlisted, and
v*ith bi*x.-4hat he was unwilling to so. left the quiet and peacefulness of Ashly
~o~pt the release Juliette had gsauted Hall for the battle field, determined to
~hua, 8UL14 quiet, peaceful 4sappinesa fight neath the waves of their Country's
.ettJedovew the heartof ~the noble girl, flag, till the last drop t~f patriotic bleed
~whea.sbe~fislly reallaell~thas the great left their noble veins.
1ev. ~ho~baAi so %e efullytsurtured was Soon after their departure, 3iiliette
stllLto bid&amp;with her and teaks her was one day informed that a poorly
clad woman wished to see her. She
~&amp;Xrs~ (*rahsm and I~e~ry, in nesor.
hastened upoa the piazza where a wo-
roques~camcto ~ dressedin tattered garments stood.
o~p~tftert1ieir 4Irraval,1*enry It wa~~a Za~, sh~had returned. to her
'ws ~u1etly united to Clara, Sirnons, early hokn~ito~die ~ her atbry~ was the
41541 they took up their residenee ina~~0 Old taleher husbtred after ~ding
szaalJtaatefu1eottage~ ereet~ for
t~y Lb. happy bride's father.      that her father disowned her and would
In thospring a dei~blewedding ~ give her nosie ef his wealth, left her
p1... in t~ie old ~ 'alone in a strangecity to battle unaided
and J~dith, Harry d;Jeliette were against poverty. She had struggled
uatte&amp;' at the ~as~ie tis~se, ~d Ashly0~ usitil life was nearly gone and thea
the ~            she determined to return to her home,
~aa 0n~mnore           of~eare
and ckave~ thepermission of boy friends,
monas~ea~yfrei~ there tedie. Poor cfeaie~e, bet p~th
ed ~rithjtij 4d glades; then'our had indeed been uneven and thorny'-
c~sit~ry 4~ ~ungod in ~ horr&amp;e She lingered but a fewdays, .~n4 then
~ortaz of civil war, an4 in&amp;ny of tJ~ they laid her co1d4ay~ beside her fath.
8outhera~Mates, forgetting the loy~sfl~ er's lifeless form in the churchyard.
tftheit'forei~thers, s~umning dx, bli~xt ± harry and Welter are in tb*it~oun-
~l~otZ~'rea4ow, tia1nplie~ ~tp. try's service A large American Flag
~Wt~re ~cre~ilaw&amp;of their Couetryrose ~xow~oats from the roof of Ashy hell
uj~iis unholyrebelliou; but Keuts~ekjv, and happiness dwells peseefully there.

0


V                                 ou THE
A O(~LEOT1ON OFTALE~ SKETCHES uad POEMS. By Wn~u ~Wsuu.
Price of itook. $t.oO. 3. Challen &amp; Son, Publishers' Philadelphia, Peun.
Single copies will be sent, free of postage, on the recent ~if $1 00.
Address-
MONThOE, MICUKIAN.
ph~ions of the Press.

From tire New York Dispatch.
Dawvwoon ON THE SEA OF L1Fs~-Uoder
the abovetitleone of our most favored con-
tribators is ebont to publi8b a volume that
cannot fail to be agreeable, to not only our
readers, who are familiar with the semi-
plquant, seml.philosophlcsl style of working
out his ideas, bat the reading public at
large. Willie Ware is a young, but pow-
erfel ~end"daeising writer-one who is des-
tiue~ to make his mark on the literature of
~thenge,~and should, therefore, in his enrly
elt'orts, (whieb. by the way, are far from
being '~crisde," in either thought or word,)
besecoaraged.
From the Indepeudertt Press.
To all who have read his elegant pro.
4IuOtiOna of prose and poetry, it is enough
to w~rtent ita suCcess to know that it
nosnes from the pen of Willie Ware.
Front the Welcome Guest.
This its ~ha firjint book~of the author, but
'by no meansimis first appearanceia print.-
lie hascoatribated largely to the leading
periodicals a9 papers of4he country, both
'in prose ,ud wree, and this coliCetion is
~iaety gathered from~the perishing pages
~ef~ouraalism into a permanent form. We
'tasve bere~oesna, sketches, stories, essays
ndt~9w~hts ~ great -variety of sub-
~jects, wrstte~ gracefully and well. The
author evidently writes from the heart,
obeying the dicttstes of genuine ipipulse
tad enthusiasm, and whatever is written in
'thlaSpIklt$s hute to he read. in thesefiret
~ffezIngs of his genius, we find evidence oi
a pease wbiob~ It manfulIy~ and unbesitat-
~ngW paIr ~fortb, cannot full to make its
stark. We accept this volume with pleas.

nra, and look to it~ complete success witit
cox4ldence.
From the True Elag.
The verse is musical-the prose cuter.
taming.
From the Luzern U~,don.
This volume is ft otis the pen of a cl9se
observer-a poetical genius.
From the New York W~eklg.
has contributed largely to the pressof~the
The author is a youngjeutiememwbo
country under various uorna daplaree.--
The author shows excellent taste in the
selections of his subjebta, and much t~lent
in his method of treating them.
From the Rrcsoldyn Standard.
A piquant, lively, and entertaining vol.
awe of sketches, tales and poems, which
will he read with interest by all classes, on
account of its quaint origlnalttythad'daeh-
ing style.
~ Arthur's Horns Ms.gazissa.
A volume of pleasant prosq~ketcI~aad
poems, from the pea ofal~avore4ot~*mib'
utor to many of our newspapers and pqri-,
udidals,
From Gody's £0d98 J?00A7.
It is just the book with which tc'while
away a listless hour.
From the Aurora (Teeen.)
It is full of delightful fragments of leisure
reading, all of a high toned moral seati-
meat.


ha the Fk'ttI ~

181!? 0?; LffgRAT VR~ F
~       ~2Et4R4C~1?~$~ i* eAi~ T4Z~*
~ZM8 10X~ ~RThQ32~Y~ N~o~ I
~ w~e8 ANW FLIEBi
A ~*t~ ?~t~
the fo0~WiA ~
t7~
~*r ~he P~1I 1~r~de, in tN
OeltR.

t
4 4
r -


  
             
         
       
   
