
    ----CITATION----
        Thompson, George, (d. 1893). Harry Glindon, or, The Man of Many Crimes .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8045
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               HARRY GLINDON: 
               OR, THE MAN OF MANY CRIMES. 
               A STARTLING NARRATIVE OF THE CAREER OF A MOST DESPERATE VILLAIN. 
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        "Tear off the mask from hideous crime, and show 
                        The loathsome monster in his actual state- 
                        Behold his hands, on which the blood doth flow, 
                        And see his eyes, which gleam with most malignant hate!" 
                     
                   
                  [GREENHORN.] 
                
             
            BY GEORGE THOMPSON, AUTHOR OF "THE GAY GIRLS OF NEW-YORK," &c. 
            
               New-York:
             
            1854. 
          
       
      
         
            Harry Glindon, or, The man of many crimes 
             
                
               HARRY GLINDON; 
               OR, THE MAN OF MANY CRIMES 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  THE ALARM BELL.-THE ESCAPED CONVICT.-THE MURDER, AND THE DISGUISE. 
                  ON the margin of the Hudson river, thirty-three miles from the city of New York, is situated the village of Sing Sing, one of the most thriving places in Westchester county. Its own location, and the scenery around it, are exceedingly picturesque; but it is especially interesting and important on account of the State Prison which is situated there. This famous criminal institution is of vast extent, and is filled with the most desperate and hardened criminals, although many an innocent man has doubtless pined and died within its massive walls. The discipline of the institution is very strict and severe; the prisoners being compelled to labor hard for the benefit of the State, and being also prohibited from speaking to each other. But it is not our purpose now to give a description of the arrangements of the State Prison at Sing Sing-for, at the present time, we have other and far more interesting matters to engage our attention. Reader, if thou wilt accompany us through the following pages, thou wilt find thyself amply repaid for thy trouble. 
                  One sultry afternoon in the month of August, in the year 18-, the inhabitants of the quiet village of Sing Sing were startled from their indolent repose, and interrupted in their various labors, by hearing the clanging sound of the alarm bell of the prison, announcing that one of the convicts had made his escape. There was something singularly appalling in those solemn notes of warning, as they boomed upon the still air of that summer afternoon, and the good people of the village shuddered and turned pale as they thought that perhaps some desperate murderer, under sentence of imprisonment for life, had eluded the vigilance of his guards, and escaped. Perhaps he was even then lurking about in their midst, ready and eager to perpetrate any outrage which his own villanous nature, and his desire to avenge the wrongs which he imagined society and the laws had inflicted upon him, might suggest. Concealing himself until night had thrown her dark mantle over the earth, he might then issue forth from his hiding-place, to burn, rob destroy and kill. These reflections naturally inspired the inhabitants of the village with terror, for any danger that is hidden and uncertain, is more fearful than a palpable and visible peril. In the one case, we know how to be upon our guard; but in the other, being ignorant of what quarter the danger is lurking in, we know not which way to turn in order to defend ourselves from harm. 
                  It was very seldom indeed that a prisoner succeeded in escaping from that institution; and hence the excitement which now prevailed throughout the village. 
                  The convict had not been gone ten minutes, when his absence was remarked by the overseer of the stone-cutting department, in which he was employed. The astonished and bewildered overseer, who could not comprehend how the prisoner had contrived to disapper so mysteriously, immediately rushed into the office and communicated the startling intelligence to the chief officer of the prison, who caused the alarm bell to be rung. All the prisoners were then locked up in their cells as expeditiously as possible, for, knowing that one of their comrades had taken "French leave," they were fast getting into a state of riotous excitement which might have ended in a general revolt. 
                  All the keepers and guards now assembled in the office; and the warden, who was much agitated, hastily addressed them as follows:- 
                  "Gentlemen, but little time must be wasted in words; we must act! It is of the utmost importance that we should capture the man who has escaped. Yes, we must re-take him if we would save our reputations and retain our places. Remember, he is no ordinary prisoner; he is desperate, courageous, shrewd, polished and educated. He will fight desperately for his liberty, for he was sentenced here for life. How he got away, I know not; but I must say that the affair looks rather suspicious, for you know that he had an iron ball and chain attached to his leg, as a punishment for attempting to take the life of an officer, a short time ago. I will not insinuate that the overseer of the stone-shed must have connived at his escape; but I can assure that overseer that his apparent Regligence will be rigidly investigated. Gentlemen, we owe it to ourselves, to society, and to the authorities by whom we are employed, to capture this dangerous convict, whose escape is a public calamity. The lives and property of people are not safe, so long as such a villain is at large. If he were an ordinary offender, the case would be different; but Harry Glindon must be found! I see, by the records of the prison, that just one year ago, Henry Glindon was sentenced to be confined here during the period of his natural life. He was convicted of murder, and sentenced to be hung; but His Excellency the Governor (very injudiciously, I think,) commuted the sentence to imprisonment for life. Glindon is twenty-five years of age, and is a young man of superior personal appearance, winning manners, and finished education-so say the records, which speak in very flattering terms of the scoundrel. Upon his left shoulder has been deeply branded the letter T, probably signifying thief; this mark, which can never be effaced, was placed upon him in England, at a prison to which he was sent for robbery, according to his own story. But, gentlemen, I have already detained you too long; scatter yourselves in every direction, and search every hole and corner in the neighborhood. He must have secreted himself somewhere in this vicinity, for he would not dare to travel far in his prison dress. He may possibly have hidden himself within the limits of the prison itself;-therefore, a number of you will remain and search the building thoroughly. I promise a reward of fifty dollars to the man that takes Glindon. When I get the rascal, I'll flog him until the skin peels from his back like the bark from a tree! Gentlemen, to your duty-to your duty!" 
                  Several of the officers now began to search the building, while the remainder scattered themselves throughont the village and adjacent country, stimulated by the promised reward of fifty dollars, and also by the disire to gain the credit of capturing the fugitive. *   *   * 
                   
                  Let us now seek out, if possible, the individual who has caused all this excitement-this uproar. 
                  The deep-toned alarm bell of the prison was still ringing, and the keepers and guards were searching about in every direction, when a man of singular appearance cautiously emerged from a little thicket of trees and shrubs, among which he had been concealed. This thicket, or forest in miniature as it might, properly be called; was situated upon the summit of a hill of considerable height; and the man was consequently enabled to survery the surrounding country to a great distance. Half a mile off, lay the village; and there, too, loomed up the great prison. Beyond it, the placid waters of the beautiful Hudson glided along as peacefully as if there were no such thing in the world as crime. The impartial river gleamed as splendidly in the rays of the setting sun while passing the mighty store-house of human depravity, as it did while laving the green banks upon which stood the elegant villas and mansions of aristocracy and wealth. Perchance, however, in some of those tasteful abodes there might have been found persons whose fashionable crimes, more culpable and atrocious than the crimes of poverty, rendered them well deserving of a residence within the walls of that hotel in which gentlemen are provided with single apartments, and from which every enervating luxary is carefully excluded where habits of industry are earnestly recommended to the inmates, who are required to keep good hours and lead lives of the strictest chastity. To speak plainly, we mean the State Prison. 
                  The man whom we have referred to, as issuing from the little forest on the brow of the hill, was seemingly about twenty-five years of age. His race was pale, but strikingly handsome; and, although its outlines were so delicate as to be almost effeminate, the impression that there was anything soft or womanly in his nature would have been instantly contradicted by the lurking devils in his eyes, (those faithful mirrors of the soul,) which eloquently proclaimed the bold recklessness of his disposition. There was something, too, about his well-formed but sensual mouth, which would not have prepossessed a close observer in his favor-a something that appeared to indicate cruelty, a thirst for blood, a love of outrage, a proneness to commit crimes out of sheer wantonness, a scorn and hatred towards his fellow-men, and an entire lack of every redeeming principle of honesty and honor. Yet, as we have said before, this man was handsome-possessing the beauty of the devil, when that arch fiend assumes a pleasing shape in order to fascinate and destroy poor, weak and credulous mortals. In form, our mysterious stranger was tall, and exceedingly symmetrical and graceful, presenting a rare combination of strength and beauty of proportion, which even his uncouth garb could not conceal. That garb consisted of a cap, jacket and pantaloons of coarse gray cloth relieved by black stripes, giving the man, at a little distance, the look of a zebra upon which had suddenly been conferred the human shape. This was the uniform of the prison; and the wearer, it is almost unnessary to say, was no less a personage than Harry Glindon, the escaped convict, on whose account the alarm bell was then ringing, and for whom the officers of the prison were industriously searching. 
                  Glindon, whose right hand grasped a sledge-hammer which he had brought with him to serve as a weapon in case of necessity, leaned against a tree and looked about him carefully. As his eyes rested upon the distant prison, from which he had so recently escaped, a smile of bitter scorn curled his lips, and he thus soliloquized:- 
                  "Ah, ha! old prison, ye are strong, and your walls are thick, but ye cannot hold me within your stoney grasp! I despise ye, and the myrmidous who are employed to watch and guard the poor miserable wretches who are so unfortunate as to fall into the iron clutches of the hag called Justice-I despise and defy ye all! Did the humane, considerate Governor, who snatched me from the gallows and said that I might have the privilege of dwelling within these walls during my life-time-did he think that I was the man to stay there! He was a fool for his pains! Ring away, ye deep-voiced bell-fill the air with clamor, and crack your metal sides-ye shall not call me back! Woe, woe be to any man who shall attempt to take me! With this sledge-hammer will I dash out his brains! If I am overpowered by numbers, sooner than be carried back to my old quarters, I will raise this heavy weapon on high, and crush, my own skull! Liberty is before me-its free air fans my heated brow, and imparts new vigor to my wearied frame-wearied by slavish toil in that accursed prison! I must be free, and resume my former career of pleasure, dissipation and crime! But how shall I manage! This uniform will betray me wherever I go. I must change it for the dress of a citizen-but how? If I can but avoid observation until night comes on, I may then contrive to enter some house and supply myself not only with clothing but with cash. I'll leave my mark behind me in this place, never fear-the mark of robbery, and burning houses, and slaughtered men, women and children. As an epicure gloats over the tempting repast that is spread before him, so do I revel and luxuriate in crime! I hate my species, and wish that the whole human race had but one throat, that I might cut it with a single stroke of a knife! Society is badly organized, and the world is full of abuses. The bloated Judge who punishes a culprit for a trivial offence, is himself a drunkard, an adulterer, and a villain-yet people do not know this, and they call him honorable. That "distinguished statesman, eloquent orator, and pure patriot," before whom the masses bow almost in adoration, hath his pockets full of bribe-money, and laugheth in his sleeve at the blind credulity of his dupes. But here I am, moralizing, and playing the philosepher when I should be taking care of myself, for the hounds are doubtless after me, even at this moment. Ha! there is a man at the foot of the hill; now he begins to ascend. He sees me, and quickens his pace almost into a run. He is armed with a pistol, which he points towards me. Let him coine on; I am ready for him! But who is he! Ah, now I see-'tis Lashman, the officer whom I came so very near killing a while ago; and he was the cause of my being ornamented with the ball and chain. His face, which was horribly cut, is enveloped in a handkerchief that conceals it almost entirely from view. A capital idea occurs to me: I will wreak vengeance on Lashman, and at the same time secure my own safety. It amuses me to see the poor fool rush forward to his own inevitable destruction!" 
                  As Glindon finished his soliloquy-which we have given at length, in order to show the character of the man-Mr. Lashman came up, panting and out of breath. This individual was tall, and not badly proportioned; but his face, which had been terribly mangled by the former assault of Glindon, was bandaged so as to be almost invisible. 
                  Taking deliberate aim at the convict with his pistol, Lashman exclaimed, in a loud tone of authority- 
                  "Ah, you infernal scoundrel, I've got you, have I? Now I can pay you off for trying to take my life. Will you surrender, or shall I shoot you like a dog?" 
                  "Shoot away!" replied Glindon, in accents of bitter scorn-"but remember, if you miss me, you die as surely as you are a mean, petty tyrant!" 
                  Lashman fixed, and the ball whizzed past the head of the convict and lodged in the trunk of a tree. 
                  "It is my turn now!" cried Glindon, in a voice of thunder; and springing forward with his sledge-hammer up-raised, with one tremendous blow he dashed out the brains of the unfortunate officer, who fell down upon the grass a mangled corpse. 
                  "Good!" muttered the convict-"I have begun well. This looks like business. Lashman deserved his fate, for he was an inhuman, cruel sconndrel, taking advantage of his position to oppress the poor devils under his control. He caused me to be flogged when I had committed no offence, and therefore did I try to kill him-but, ere I could accomplish my purpose, I was overpowered and secured by a parcel of traitorous prisoners who sought to gain the favor of the officers by saving the life of Lashman. However, I've made sure work of it this time. Now to carry out my plan." 
                  Glindon raised the corpse in his arms, and bore it into the thicket. Having thrown off his prison uniform, he proceeded to strip off the garments from the dead body of Lashman. In these garments he dressed himself; he then bound up his face in a handkerchief, and issued from the thicket. His disguise was perfect; and so nearly did he resemble poor Lashman, that almost any one would have taken him for that individual. 
                  Glindon now walked down the hill with the utmost coolness, for he felt satisfied that no one would recognize him as the run away convict, and that his appearance would deceive even the officers of the prison, should he happen to meet any of them. Having gained the main road, he walked along at a leisurely pace, for he did not wish to exhibit any haste and besides, he had business to transact in the village that night, and therefore he had no desire, just then, to wander far away from the vicinity. Several country people passed him on the road, and saluted him with respect, for Lashman was well known in those parts, and the convict was of course supposed to be that personage. The villain chuckled at the complete success of his plan and the impenetrable nature of his disguise. Soon he saw approaching him a large, portly man, of genteel appearance; and, although he was far from being a coward, his heart beat quickly, for he recognized Mr. Skinner, the chief officer of the prison. 
                  "New," thought Glindon-"if he does not see through my disguise, well and good; but, if he detects the imposition, I will rush upon him with the fury of a tiger, and dig out his heart with my teeth and nails!" 
                  "Well, Lashman," said Mr. Skinner, as he approached the disguised convict-"what luck? Have you discovered any traces of the fugitive!" 
                  "I am sorry to say, sir that I have not," replied Glindon, imitating as nearly as possible the voice of the murdered officer. 
                  "Did you, according to my directions, search yonder thicket on the top of the hill?" 
                  "I did, but without success." 
                  "Where can the rascal have hidden himself! He must be somewhere in this neighborhood, for it is impossible that he could have gone far off. His prison dress would betray him to the first person whom he should happen to meet, on the road or elsewhere. Depend upon it, Lashman, he is anugly stowed away in some hiding place, and is only awaiting the arrival of night to get clear off. If the scoundrel is caught, I'll Skin him alive. You, Lashman, shall have the pleasure of flogging him to your heart's content, on account of his spoiling your face. If he is not taken, the very devil will be to pay. What will the Governor and Commissioners say! They will give us a blowing up, and perhaps discharge the whole pack of us. I tell you that Glindon must and shall be captured!" 
                  "But, sir, suppose that Glindon should manage to disguise himself; do you think that you would then be able to recognize him!" 
                  "Ha, ha!" cried Mr. Skinner, and he laughed until his fat sides shook again-"ha, ha! That's a pretty question to ask me! Recognize him, indeed! Well, Lashman, I rather think that I should recognize him-in fact, I am devilish sure that I should-even if he were to disguise himself in the most outlandish and fantastic costume that was ever made for a masquerade ball! No, no, Mr. Lashman; Glindon, with all his smartness and daring, could never pull the wool over my eyes, I can assure you. There are some men whom he might possible deceive; he might ever elude your vigilance; but as to his coming any of his tricks over me, why, the thing can't be done. I should know the fellow ten miles off, if my eyes could stretch so far. If he were clever enough to humbug me by assuming a disguise, upon my soul I would, in admiration of his talents, let him go free!" 
                  "I take you at your word, Mr. Skinner," cried Glindon, in his own natural voice, as he tore the handkerchief from his face, and surveyed the astonished fat gentleman with a triumphant leer. 
                  "Victimized, by G-d!" cried Mr. Skinner, as soon as he recovered breath enough to speak. 
                  "Just so," was the cool response of Glindon,-"you see that with all your boasted penetration I have humbugged you most completely. I could not resist the temptation of proving you to be an old fool." 
                  "You scoundrel!" yelled Mr. Skinner, foaming with rage-"you shall pay dearly for this insolence! Where did you get those clothes! No matter; we'll find out all about that very soon. Come, will you go back to the prison with me quietly, or shall I drag you there by the heels as I would a refractory beast?" 
                  As he uttered these words, Mr. Skinner advanced close to Glindon, with the intention of seizing him. But the desperate criminal, with the quickness of lightning, struck the chief officer of the State Prison on the forehead with such violence, that the said officer was immediately favored with an astronomical survey of many stars, while, unable to maintain an upright position, he fell prostrate upon the dusty road and ejaculated "murder!" 
                  It was most fortunate for Mr. Skinner that the convict was unarmed, as, had it been otherwise, his life would not have been worth a single straw. As it was, Glindon was more than half inclined to dash out the old gentleman's brains with a stone; but he changed his mind, and contented himself with throwing a large quantity of dust into the face and eyes of Mr. Skinner, who, blinded and almost choked, floundered about like a porpoise in shallow water, while the triumphant Glindon, with a loud and scornful laugh, leaped with wonderful agility over a stone wall, and plunging into the woods, disappeared. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  A HUMAN TIGER ABROAD.-MIDNIGHT.-THE WATCHMAN.-THE BURGLARY.-MURDER, OUTRAGE AND FIRE. 
                  NIGHT came on, bringing with it a violent tempest of wind and rain. The search for Glindon, the fugitive, had been abandoned, Mr. Skinner having some to the conclusion that it was useless to seek for him in the storm and darkness. 
                  "No matter-we'll have the rascal back again before long, never fear. I'll advertise him in every newspaper in the country, and every village, town and city in the United States shall be flooded with bills describing his person and offering a reward for his arrest. His first halt will probably be made in the city of New York, and there, even if he is not recognized as an escaped convict, he may commit some crime that will place him at once in the hands of the authorities. We'll have him again, unless the gallows snatches him from us." 
                  These words were uttered by Mr. Skinner, whose forehead exhibited an accurate impression of Glindon's fist, and who still suffered under the unpleasant effects of the dust which had been so profusely heaped upon him. 
                  Just before dark, the corpse of the murdered Lashman had been discovered in the thicket, by several officers of the prison. The body was stark, stiff and cold and presented a horrid spectacle, the head being completely crushed. The prison uniform which had been thrown off by Glindon, and the sledge-hammer which belonged to the stone-cutting department of the institution, left no room for the existence of a doubt as to who had perpetrated the bloody deed. The appalling news soon circulated throughout the village, and caused a thrill of horror in every breast. Feeling that a human tiger was abroad, and perhaps lurking near, the inhabitants adopted unusual precautions in the fastening of their doors and windows, and were particularly careful in the making of every arrangement which they thought calculated to prevent unwelcome intrusions. House dogs, of large size and great ferocity, were in extraordinary demand; rusty old muskets, and other fire-arms, were cleaned and loaded to their muzzles; pitchforks, pokers and other implements, both agricultural and domestic, were brought into requisition; and, had a stranger suddenly entered the village, the war-like preparations that were going on would have led him to imagine that the inhabitants were expecting a hostile invasion. 
                  About midnight, the storm abated, and the rain ceased to descend from the clouds, which drifted in heavy masses across the dark sky. The wind however, continued to blow with considerable violence. Harry Glindon crept forth from the woods in which he had been concealed; and, as he looked about him, he muttered- 
                  "The rain is over at last. Good!-there is nothing now to prevent my getting up a brillint conflagration, for my own private amusement. Yes, I am determined to leave my mark behind me in the village, so that the good people will be sure to remember me. This wind will aid me in my purpose admirably, for it will increase the fury of the flames. The devil!-I would have died had I remained in my hiding place much longer, buried up to my chin in a swamp, and surrounded by snakes and bull-frogs. The fellows who were engaged in the search, were continually passing me, but fortunately they saw me not, my head being thrust into the hollow trunk of a fallen tree in which lived a whole colony of snakes. The reptiles stared at me with their green eyes, but harmed me not; perhaps they instinctively knew that my nature was congenial with their own. I am covered with mud from head to foot, and must furnish myself with another suit of clothes ere I leave the village. Hark! there is the clock of a distant steeple, proclaiming the hour of twelve. Midnight is the appropriate season for crime. Now I will go to work!" 
                  Glindon, whose black heart was overflowing with wicked purposes, walked back towards the village with rapid but noiseless footsteps. His tall, active form, griding onward through the darkness like a spectro, seemed to be the very impersonation of crime; while his clenched teeth, contracted brow and disbolical-looking eyes announced the bloody and infernal thoughts that were flashing through his soul like lightning through the black clouds of a midnight storm. 
                  Suddenly remembering that he was entirely unarmed, the man of crime paused before a tree that stood at the side of the road, and broke off one of the branches, to serve him as a cudgel. Then he went on his way, and soon entered the village without having encountered any one. 
                  Throughout the place there reigned the deepest silence, which was, however, occasionally broken by the howl of a canine sentinel, or by a gust of wind violently agitating the tops of the tall trees. The moon had just peeped out from behind a sable cloud, but her rays were feeble and sickly, and the queen of night, as if ashamed of her contemptible performance seemed to be debating upon the propriety of retiring to private life altogether, feeling herself to be incapable either of creating a sensation or of producing a respectable illumination. 
                  Glindon reached main street of the village, and then, feeling that he was treading on dangerous ground, and appreciating the necessity of using the utmost caution, he paused to reflect upon the best way of proceeding. Soon he was startled from his revery by hearing the sound of approaching footsteps; and he hastened to conceal himself behind a pile of bricks and rubbish that stood in front of a new building. He had just hidden himself, when a stout man, armed with a musket, passed slowly down the street. This was a watchman, and there were several others scattered throughout the village, all armed to the teeth on account of the provailing belief that the escaped convict was still hovering about, seeking for an opportunity to commit some dreadful crime. And that belief, as the reader is aware, was too well founded. 
                  When the unconscious watchman had disappeared from view, Glindon, who, in his reckless desperation, had made up his mind to delay no longer the consummation of his plans of villany, walked boldly forth from his hiding-place and examined with attention a handsome dwelling-house that stood on the opposite side of the street. In this edifice resided Mr. Enfield, an elderly gentleman of independent fortune and some political distinction, he having once been a member of Congress. Mr. Enfield was a bachelor, and his only companion and attendant was his niece, Miss Edwards, a beautiful and accomplished young lady, who performed the duties of housekeeper. She was an orphan, eighteen years of age; as good as she was lovely, and possessing a heart that was the abode of every noble and excellent quality of human nature. 
                   
                  Poor girl! our hand trembles as we approach the painful task of describing thy melancholy-thy terrible fate! 
                  Glindon was a proficient in the art and mystery of burglary. He determined, at all risk, to effect an entrance into the house of Mr. Enfield for the purpose of plundering it and leaving his mark behind him. Having climbed over a high wall with considerable difficulty, he passed around to the rear of the premises; and raising a window which happened to be unfastened, the desperado easily gained an entrance into the house-Groping about in the darkness his, outstretched hand soon came in contact with a door. He raised his bludgeon so as to be ready in case of any sudden surprise, and boldly but softly opened this door, which admitted him to the chamber of Mr. Enfield, who was soundly sleeping in his bed. A light was burning in the apartment, much to the satisfaction of the intruder, who, without the slightest hesitation, approached the bed and thrust his hand beneath the pillow, in the hope of finding a watch, or money. But he was disappointed, for he only drew forth a dagger with which the old gentleman had provided himself at the earnest suggestion of a cautious neighbor. Muttering an oath, Glindon threw the dagger upon the floor; and then, in a sudden paroxysm of fury, he raised his heavy bludgeon and with it struck Mr. Enfield several tremendous blows upon the head. Either one of those blows would have produced instant death. The poor old gentleman died without a single struggle or a groan. 
                  For a few moments, the murderer gazed at the corpse of his victim with the smile of a demon. Then, recollecting that there was "business" to be attended to, he began to search for money and valuables, without much success, however, for Mr. Enfield, although very wealthy, was not in the habit of keeping any property of consequence in his house. 
                  Glindon found a few dollars in the pockets of the old gentleman's garments; and having broken open a bureau, the villain helped himself to a new suit of fine broad-cloth, which he put on at once, and which to his great joy fitted him tolerably well. As he surveyed himself in the looking-glass, he muttered- 
                  "Now I appear once more like a gentleman. Thus far, everything has worked admirably. But where the devil has this old fellow stowed away his money? Before killing him, I ought to have tortured him and forced him to divulge the place where he has concealed his treasures. However, 'tis too late now to think of that. There must be other people in this house. I'll visit every room, and perhaps I may secure some valuable booty after all. Ere I leave the building, I will set fire to it. Ah, this is glorious sport! Talk of the excitement of the chase-of the pleasure of shooting, fishing and sailing; they are all mere child's play compared with such glorious fun as this! Where can be found a greater luxury than crime?" 
                  Picking up the dagger from the floor, Glindon took the light and loft the chamber with the intention of exploring the house from the garret to the cellar. Room after room did he visit, without finding anything of value which he could conveniently carry off. The house was very plainly and simply furnished throughout, as Mr. Enfield had always been a true republican who despised aristocratic luxuries, and scorned ostentation, show and parade of every kind. Yet, so far from being an avaricious man, he had long been celebrated for his benevolence. 
                  Surprised to find that all the rooms which he visited were unoccupied, Glindon came to the conclusion that the old gentleman had been living entirely alone. But this impression was speedily contradicted, when, on entering an apartment that was fitted up with the most exquisite taste, the prowling villain saw, reposing on a voluptuous couch, the form of a sleeper. 
                  The reader need scarcely be told that this sleeper was no other than Miss Edwards, the beautiful niece of the unfortunate old gentleman who had just been slain. 
                  The young lady, in all the unsuspecting confidence of her angel purity and innocence, had left her door unfastened-even as poor Mr. Enfield had done, in his absence of mind, for which he had always been remarkable. 
                  Glindon drew near the couch, and, as he surveyed the lovely occupant the hot blood of excited passion rushed tumultuously through his veins.-Ravishingly beautiful was the ill-fated maiden, as she reclined there in an attitude of unconscious grace, with her rounded arms and snowy bust uncovered, while an enchanting smile wreathed her rosy lips. Her luxuriant tresses had escaped from the confinement of her delicate little lace cap, and lay in rich masses all about her neck and shoulders of alabaster. 
                  "By heavens-she's an angel!" muttered the escaped convict, as his eyes devoured the distracting charms that were spread out before him. 
                  But the presence of a veritable angel arrayed in the shining and glorious habilaments of a celestial sphere, would not have restrained that infernal villain from obeying the promptings of his black, polluted heart. 
                  "She must be mine!" he hissed through his clenched teeth; and bending over the fair sleeper, he imprinted a kiss of foulest lust upon her chaste lips. 
                   
                  That odious, that contaminating kiss awakened the young lady. She opened her eyes, and, on seeing the intruder, terror took such possession of her soul that she swooned and became entirely unconscious of everything. 
                  "We shall not describe what followed. Suffice it to say that a scene was enacted which devils would have contemplated with delight. The villain triumphed to his heart's content; but, happily for the poor victim, she remained in complete unconsciousness of all that was passing. She never knew her degradation, for she awakened not again in this world. 
                  Glindon, having gratified his hellish wishes, set fire to the drapery of the couch, and then hastily left the house. When he had walked away a short distance, he turned, and saw that the whole building was in flames. Criss of "fire" were now heard in different quarters, and many of the inhabitants of the village, aroused from their slumbers, rushed to the scene of the conflagration. 
                  Before any effective arrangements could be made for extinguishing the flames, the house was entirely consumed, and naught remained of it but a heap of smoking ruins. 
                  The people knew not that Mr. Enfield had been brutally murdered, and that Miss Edwards had been made the victim of ruffianly outrage. It was merely supposed that the old gentleman and his niece had perished in the flames. 
                  But the villagers looked significantly at each other, and whispered among themselves- 
                  "This fire must have been the work of Glindon, the escaped convict!" 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  THE ROBBERY OF THE QUAKER.-THE SEARCH-. THE SUPPER AT THE NAG'S HEAD.-VICTIMIZING THE WAGGONER. 
                  THE next achievement of our respectable and enterprising friend, Mr. Harry Glindon, was to break into a stable and steal a valuable horse, having first saddled and bridled the animal. Mounted upon the back of his "Arabsteed," (after having fired the stable,) our criminal hero felt himself almost as much elated as Dick Turpin, or Claude Duval, in a similar position. He longed for an opportunity to test his skill as a gentleman of the road, or highwayman. This opportunity presented itself just as the first faint beams of morning were gilding the Eastern horizon. 
                  An elderly Quaker, and his old-fashioned spouse, were performing a very early excursion in consequence of having received intelligence that their married daughter, who lived ten miles off, had just been delivered of a son and heir to the name and fortunes of Aminidab Smoothley. The worthy couple, seated in a chaise, and drawn by the old white family horse, were congratulating themselves upon the honors of posterity, when, just as they were passing a substantial farm-house with its barns and out-buildings, Harry Glindon rode up to them, mounted on his coal-black steed, and presenting every appearance of a desperate highwayman. 
                  "Halt!" cried Glindon, in a tone of authority. 
                  But, instead of complying with this request, the Quaker, whipped up his horse in order to urge him into a faster pace, and responded- 
                  "Friend, I know thee not, and think not well of thee; therefore I will bid thee good morning, and leave thee!" 
                  Glindon, however, was not to be thus foiled. He pursued the Quaker, and succeeded in stopping that individual's horse, which seemed to have an aversion to rapid travelling. Sister Deborah screamed, while Brother Aminadab mildly cursed, and demanded of Glindon what he wanted! 
                  "Your money-or your life!" was the brief but significant reply. 
                  Aminadab, not being a remarkably brave personage, and imagining that the highwayman must be desperately armed-also, having a strange dislike to the idea of a bullet being passed through his head-very reluctantly handed over an ancient sheep-skin wallet containing about one hundred dollars, and a very aged and inconveniently heavy gold watch which Aminidab had inherited from a remote ancestor. Having secured this booty, Glindon, like one of the gallant highwaymen of old, touched his cap politely, wished the Quaker and his wife a very good morning, and rode off. 
                  Pretty soon, Harry began to feel very hungry, and he stopped to take breakfast at a road-side inn which flourished under the imposing sign of "The Nag's Head." Our hero having given his horse in charge of an ostler, entered the hostelrie, and was soon seated in front of a table bearing all the "substantial elements of life," as our friend Sweeney says. 
                  While enjoying his repast, our adventurer saw a party of horsemen ride up to the tavern, and one of them said to the landlord, who had rushed out in anticipation of a profitable number of guests- 
                   
                  "Landlord, has any stranger stopped here within an hour or so! A prisoner has escaped from the Sing Sing prison-he has raised the very devil in the village, and it is supposed that he is the rascal who just now robbed old Smoothley the Quaker." 
                  "Why," said the landlord, mysteriously, placing his finger to his nose and glancing meaningly towards the parlor of the inn-"there is a stranger here, and-" 
                  Glindon waited to hear no more. He made his exit through a back window; and knowing the danger of taking the road, or being found lurking about the fields, he went into a barn, buried himself beneath the hay, and awaited the result. 
                  An hour passed, and several men entered the barn. 
                  "He can't be far off," said one of them-"and he may be here; at all events, I'll see." 
                  Whereupon, the speaker mounted the hay-mow, armed with a pitchfork, which he began to thrust among the hay with great vigor. Several times did the fork come within an inch of entering the vitals of the concealed fugitive, who, however, kept perfectly cool; and he finally had the satisfaction of hearing those depart from the barn who had been searching for him. 
                  He did not dare for some time to leave his place of concealment, and wisely concluded that he would remain until night and under the cover of the darkness make good his escape. 
                  The sound of the usual noise and bustle of a country tavern continued for a long time; and as it must be recollected that he had eaten nothing for a considerable space of time, the reader will form an idea of his impatience, and the satisfaction with which he heard the departure of the last visiter to the bar and hospitality of the "Nag's Head," and the sleepy yawn of the ostler, as he closed, and fastened the shutters of the windows. 
                  At last all was quiet, and the lights from the windows of those who were retiring to rest were one by one put out, and after giving them all time to fully reach the "land of nod," Harry cautiously came out from his place of concealment. 
                  The fastenings of the window were not of an extremely secure or massive character, and many minutes had not elapsed before Harry Glindon, with the aid of his professional skill, and an old rusty prong, of a hay-fork, was in the interior of the bar-room of the tavern. By the light of the moon which shone through the open shutter, he soon found means to light a lantern which had been standing on a bench, and then with the most philosophical coolness, he started, as he observed," on a bunt for grub." 
                  The aforesaid "grub," in the shape of a good half of a cold chicken pie, a not much dilapidated sirloin of beef, and some good home-made bread and fresh country butter, were soon discovered in a closet in an adjoining room, and as he had the choice of brandy, wine, or ale, and being unable to make up his mind as to which fluid to attach the greatest consideration, he surrounded himself with a quota of all combined, and soon made himself comfortable-we might say convivial on the good things before him. 
                  Having appeased his hunger, which was no light matter, as was evident from the dreadfully diminished aspect of the sirloin and pie, and supplied himself with a good sized bottle of the liquid labelled "prime otard," he left the house, previously penning a note of obligation to the host of the "Nag's Head" for the excellent meal he had made, and regretting that time forbade his thanking him in person; adding a postscript to the effect that if the chicken pie were the handy-work of the hostess, he, the host, had every reason to be proud of such an estimable help-mate. 
                  To the stable he bent his steps, and finding on comparison, that his own horse was inferior to a very handsome chestnut in the next stall, he concluded to leave his own and cancel the difference, comforting any qualms of conscience he might have had, with the reflection, that most assuredly "exchange is no robbery." 
                  Once more on the road, after reflecting for a few moments as to his best course, he, with the dare-devil boldness of his nature, determined that his destination should be New York!-the very strong hold of those who to secure him, would leave nothing untried,-the centre of the enemy's camp as it were. 
                  "Yes! let me only reach the city in safety and I think I can risk the possibility of finding me. With all their cunning, the hounds of justice will undertake no light task, when they essay to take Harry Glindon." 
                  He mused thus as he rode along, and a scornful smile curled his lips as he spoke. 
                  "Until I am within reach, however, of those whom I can trust, I must in some way disguise myself, that recognition will be impossible. How to do it though is the question. 
                  As he slowly gave utterance to these last words, he heard the rumble of a wheel near him, and a voice called out "how do do Sir!"-" fine morning sir-ridin' towards town?" 
                   
                  The voice proceeded from the seat of a large wagon loaded with flour, on which was a man, with a face bedaubed with the compound he was conveying. He was of good-natured aspect, and his round black eyes twinkled with fun through his floured visage. 
                  Harry's first feeling was that of impatience, and a hasty imprecation on the man's impudence arose to his lips. 
                  But before he gave it utterance an idea struck him, and having formed a plan, he proceeded to carry it out. 
                  What more secure disguise could he adopt than the dress of the waggoner? "The very thing" he ejaculated, "by Jove!" 
                  He at once entered into conversation with the man, and was soon on the most familiar terms with him. In a few moments Harry began to distort his countenance as though suffering from pain, and, on the man's questioning him as to what ailed him, gave him to understand that he was at time subject to excruciating cramps, and was in consequence compelled to carry with him something in the way of a preventative. 
                  As he spoke he drew out the bottle of brandy with which he had provided himself at the tavern, and applying his lips to it, pretended to take a considerable "horn." 
                  In order to carry out what he intended, he did not partake of much, however. 
                  As he held it to his lips, he perceived a rather wistful glance from the waggoner towards it, and before recorking it he offered it to him. 
                  It was unnecessary to repeat or press the invitation, and a rapid diminution of the contents of the bottle followed the application of it to the flour-smeared physiognomy of the driver. 
                  "Ha!" said he smacking his lips, "that's the medicine for the worst of sickness;" and the black eyes became more redolent of fun and there was soon a vivid contrast between the natural color of his face, and the flour patches upon it. 
                  Harry did not again offer it for some time, but continued on in conversation, and then carelessly placed it once more at his disposal, and once more did the "prime otard" become "small by degrees, and beautifully less." 
                  "I shall git tight of I drink any more of that ere," said the waggoner, watching with interest its return to Harry's pocket, and thinking of the probable consequences that would ensue, were that event to transpire; but as the fumes mounted, his circumspection was forgotten, and he followed up his last observation with "I say-(hic) I you-(hic) is there any more branngy!" 
                  He became rather thick in his speech as the liquor had the effect, and finding that he experienced considerable difficulty in talking, he ceased conversation altogether, and applied himself with animation to the, apparently not disagreeable task, of finishing his fellow traveller's medicine.
                   
                  The bottle emptied, he appeared desirous of swearing eternal friendship with Glindon, and in the effort to seize his hand, he made a sort of summerset over the seat, and was soon oblivious among the flour bags. 
                  A few moments sufficed to exchange the flour-covered clothes of the waggoner, for his own which he hid in the waggon, and then having daubed his face and hair with flour, he seized the whip after tieing the chesnut to the tail-board of the wagon, and started off in good earnest for the city, which he reached as evening began to set in. 
                  He drove to a tavern and gave the team, with his own horse, in charge of the estler and then making the clothes in the wagon up into a bundle and covering up the still insensible waggoner with flour sacks, after waiting until time to go to bed, he ascended to his room bidding them wake him early in the morning as he had to go some distance yet, he said. 
                  He then dressed himself in his own clothes and after waiting till all was still, descended, let himself out into the stable yard, and knowing where his horse was, before long, on the outside of the gate, and on his way towards a place of safety. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  THE SECRET SOCIETY OF THE JIMMEY-THE TRAITOR-THE RETURN OF THE ESCAPED CONVICT-THE BEAUTIFUL DIANA MORTON. 
                  Avoiding the streets that were likely to reveal to the guardians of the night his face in the gas-light, he took his way towards the quarter known as "Cow Bay" and the "Five Points," a place that is now at the time we write, beginning to assume a far different appearance to what it did then. 
                  At that time it was, as we may say, in all its glory, that is, as far as its villanny and ill-repute were concerned. The police were much more inefficient cient than at present, and crime of every description held sway, undisturbed by the hand of the law and able even to wage war if necessary with the minions whose duty is to see that justice is respected, and evil deeds punished. 
                  He stopped at a hovel of the meanest appearance, and applied his knuckles vigorously to the door. For a time no answer appeared to the summons, and as the place was in complete darkness, the natural supposition would be that the wretched inmates were stretched on their miserable pallets, and were for the time lost to their poverty and misery. 
                  Perhaps he thought otherwise, for he did not repeat the summons, though a considerable time elapsed. 
                  Finally a round hole in the door-panel was visible and an eye surveyed him for a moment in silence, and then without a word uttered on either side, the door was quickly opened and as speedily closed. 
                  He was now in the interior of a low-ceilinged room, with a dirty counter, and a number of bottles and glasses, of anything but inviting aspect, so far as their cleanliness was concerned. It was evidently one of the holes in which the vilest liquid fire is vended to the wretched denizens of that locality. 
                  Harry did not take any notice of anything in the room, but turning to the individual who had admitted him, he gave him some directions as to his horse, and then proceeded from the room which was unoccupied, to a rear room. This was likewise tenantless. He walked up to the fireplace, and taking a brick from the side of the chimney, a small brass handle became apparrent. This he pulled for a moment, when the stone of the hearth raised slowly from its position! 
                  Nothing was revealed however save the usual bed on which hearthstones generally rest; but measuring with his outstretched thumb and finger a certain distance, he pressed his finger hard upon the spot, when a rattling noise ensued as of falling chains, and an aperture sufficiently large to admit his body became visible, and a flight of stone steps which he immediately descended, previously closing the secret entrance after him. 
                  He was now in total darkness, but the way lay straight before him, between two narrow walls, slimy with damp. 
                  He now reached another door against the lower corner of which he pushed, and it opened without noise or creak. 
                  Another passage traversed, a short flight of steps ascended, and-Harry Glindon the murderer!-the incendiary!-the escaped convict!-was among friends who were scarcely a whit better than himself. 
                   
                  
                      
                        THE HIGHWAY ROBBERY. Mr. Glindon, being desirous of pursuing his respectable career, and of 'keeping his hand in' the trade of crime, relieves a worthy old Quaker and his wife of their loose valuables, and goes upon his way rejoicing, leaving his victims to depart mourning. 
                     
                   
                   
                   
                  Yes! this was the secret rendezvous of a gang of the greatest villians in the country, both native-born and foreign! Here they felt themselves perfectly secure and here the principal robberies were planned and the booty distributed. 
                  For a few moments those who were present were too much engaged-nor did they hear his entrance in fact-to take any heed of him, and he stood for an instant in contemplation of the scene before him. 
                  It was a low ceilinged, but deep apartment, and a table ran the whole length, round which were seated an assemblage of the most heterogeneous characters. 
                  There were men of handsome appearance, gentlemanly bearing, and with quite a destingue air-these were the cheveliers de industrie; gentlemen who depended entirely on the supply of wits, with which nature had endowed them for their means of existence, and who possessed a versitility of talent, in obtaining from unsuspecting "green horns," the whole, or part of the ample supply of "dimes" with which their wallets are frequently provided. 
                  Then there was the low, bullying ruffian; thickset, coarse and wicked looking, who would, if worth his while, perpetrate the blackest villainy-the most hideous crime. 
                  Here was an expert "cracksman," relating to an admiring croney, some spirit-stirring professional anecdote; there was a fashionably dressed foreigner, describing to a knot around him of his "selling" some of the head aristocracy of New York, by personating a distinguished French count; and after gaining the confidence of one of the first families so much that he occupied an apartment placed at his disposal, finally decamping in the night with all the valuables he could lay his hand on, and there, at the lower end of the table were two celebrated forgers engaged in trials of skill in copying handwritings. 
                  The president of this assemblage, was a stout man with a red face.-In his hand he held a miniature "jimmey," with which he ever and anon brought an unruly member to order. He decided all disputes that arose, and they were by no means few; and altogether seemed to be treated with as much respect as such men could assume towards any one. 
                  "Now gentlemen of the Society of the Jimmey" said at length the stout man whose name was Burden, "let us come to order." And first let us see, who has been taken from amongst us, since our last monthly meeting. 
                  "We are all here your worship, with the exception of Harry Glindon, who has been "jugged" for the term of his natural life," and the speaker dropped his voice as he added-"and I hope he gets d-d well cut up, until the time when the devil gets him, curse him! I hope they'll lash him till the flesh peels off him, and his shrieks of agony re-echoe through the stone corridors unheeded by them as they lay it on his cowardly carcase!" 
                  The man who uttered these bitter words with his teeth grinding together, and his sharp finger nails fiercely digging into the flesh with the violence of his hatred, was a man of the middle height, of rather prepossessing aspect and good figure. His face was distorted with passion, and apparently unable to control himself he raised his voice, and unmindful of Burden's calls to order went on aloud: 
                  "Yes, I hope he'll rot in the darkest dungeon they can put him in, and may his dying moments be attended with reptiles and vermin as the comforters of his expiring hour, and fit attendants to his hated death-bed.-He thought perhaps that he could with impunity triumph over me as he has done so often-that my time would never arrive when he would be the one to be pitied-I! the triumpher. 
                  Ha! ha! he has now, I expect found out the difference. Little does he think that to me he owes the thanks for his present situation, however.-That I it was who described his hiding place to the officers of the law and through me he will end his days in a prison. Thus do I repay him for all he has done to me, and mine." 
                  "And now you may have the satisfaction of knowing that spite of your good-natured officers I am safe and sound as the day I first saw the inside of a convicts cell." 
                  These words caused all to spring to their feet amazed! It was Harry Glindon, who had stood till now in a dark recess unnoticed, and coming forward he continued: 
                  "Well Brotherhood of the "Society of the Jimmey" I am once more amongst you and have but one regret at our meeting, and, that is to find my reception not satisfactory to all. However here I am, and have only to say that if not agreeable to you I will take myself back to my cell." 
                  "Yes! yes! Harry," uttered the gruff voice of the President, "you are welcome, you are welcome; and we are all right glad to see you. As for Marriot here, he knows that he has played the part of a traitor towards us, for he acknowledges informing the police regarding you, and as he knows he has been guilty of an offence against us all in doing so, he must receive ceive the punishment, due at the hands of the Society of the Jimmey "through me, their President. Off with him!" 
                  Two members of the body instantly seized the individual Marriot, who was the person who uttered the maledictions against Glindon, and he was by them conveyed to the dungeon of the society upon the same floor as the room they were in. 
                  "There! so much for every man, no matter who he is who plays the part of a traitor to any of our members. Now let us congratulate Harry on his safe escape from the bounds of the laws for he knows he's as safe here, as if he were in the shades below." 
                  So saying, the stout President filled up a glass for Harry and making him sit down by him asked for a relation of his adventures. These Harry gave, and many a laugh arose at his different escapes and the ingenuity he displayed. 
                  But even these men, hardened villains as they were, felt something like a shudder as he told of the murders, and the firing of Mr. Enfield's house. Depraved as they were, murder! they could not commit with the coolness he displayed. 
                  "Why boys you look scared," said he, "you aint getting squeamish when you hear of blood spilt, are you?" 
                  "Oh no! no!" said one and another as they tried to shake off the feeling. "Oh? not we indeed." 
                  "Come some of you," said Burder "give us a song, you Harry look about us merry as any one, suppose you give us one; something spirit-stirring." 
                  Harry Glindon possessed a very superior voice, and also the faculty of extemporising as he went along; so after a minutes hesitation he sang in a clear voice the following, the rest joining in chorus at the end of each 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              THE ESCAPED CONVICT'S SONG. 
                               
                                 Once more am I free 
                                 O'er the world to rove 
                                 With my own strong hand, I, the bonds have burst 
                                 What matter to one 
                                 There's a God! above 
                                 I've escaped! and now for revenge I thirst! 
                                  
                                 Chorus, I've escaped! I've escaped 
                                 And the law's hounds shall feel 
                                 That the whiz of the bullet, and flash of the steel 
                                 Is unheeded, unheeded by me. 
                               
                               
                                 Like a spirit of ile 
                                 Will I pace the earth 
                                 And the cheek shall pale when my name is heard 
                                 For to sob and kill 
                                 But afford me mirth 
                                 And I'll revel in blood like a ravenous bird 
                                 Chorus; I've escaped, &c. 
                               
                               
                                 In the moon-tide gleam 
                                 By the pale moon's light 
                                 When I have resolved, the fell die is cast 
                                 Like a fearful dream 
                                 In the slumbers of night 
                                 Try to shake it off; still it holds thee fast 
                                 Chorus; I've escaped &c. 
                               
                               
                                 And the world shall feel 
                                 That the convicts hate 
                                 Is a thing to dread as the serpents coil! 
                                 'Twere as well to kneel 
                                 For pity from Fate! 
                                 As to me! or think my revenge to foil. 
                                 Chorus I've escaped &c. 
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  After the applause and clinking of glasses which followed this lawless song had subsided, and the tumblers were once more replenished, the spirits of the company which had received a temporary check once more arose, and song, aneedote and adventures, some true, some doubtful, followed each other rapidly. 
                  The buisness of the evening, namely the distribution of the gains, and the concoction of fresh robberies, then came up. 
                  Each individual as his name was called came up and gave an account of what he had done in the past month and some queer doings were told of, as one and another arose, and laid his gains upon the table. 
                  The organization of this Society was intended as a means of strength and mutual security. Should it happen that one of the members was arrested or otherwise placed in trouble, the society furnished funds to provide vide the necessary legal assistance, or did it happen that it was requisite for a change of climate for any one of the Brotherhood, he was immediately equipped and sent off. And acting as they did together, many facilities of course occurred of mutually benefitting one another, and setting at defiance the law and every thing connected with it. 
                  Each one was allowed to keep a certain portion of the spoils they had obtained, and the surplus went into the general fund for the assistance of those who had not been so fortunate, and the usual expenses of the society. 
                  At an early hour in the morning, all things were arranged, and the meeting broke up; each member, on reaching the room containing the secret entrance, taking a different road out of the house of which there were several, and leaving an interval between the time the last one left, and the following one. 
                  Some after passing through by-streets and alleys took their way at length to the best hotels, and retired to rest in the most luxurious manner that could be procured for money. 
                  Others were contented with more humble, and as they thought more secure residences; and others again betook themselves to the arms of their expectars fond ones. 
                  Harry however was soon safely ensconced in an apartment, underground certainly, but decidedly comfortable, and what was more, secure from the intrusion of any impertinent and inquisitive policeman. The latter, a rather desirable item in the arrangement. 
                  About noon he arose, and supplied himself from an ample wardrobe, with a complete suit of fashionable clothes. 
                  The wardrobe which was another part of the apenditure of the place, contained everything necessary for disguise in any character that might be desirable to assume, and from it the appearance could be changed from a beggar to a finished gentleman, or vice versa.
                   
                  As soon as night had fairly fallen, he issued from the house, though from quite another street from the one we have seen, he entered the rendezvous of the thieves. 
                  There were means of egress and ingress through private houses, taverns, &c., opening on various streets, and which all communicated with the Five Point house; all of which were occupied by members of the fraternity, and used ostensibly for various honest callings, and which were totally unsuspected as to their true character, by their neighbors, and those whom they cared most for-the police! 
                  Through one of these taverns issued then our hero, dressed in the height of fashion, and presenting every appearance of a thorough gentleman. As he passed through he was greeted by several who were present and the person who attended behind the bar, endeavored strongly to dissuade him from putting himself in peril so soon. 
                  But Harry had made up his mind, and no persuasion could move him; so after warning him, the barkeeper bade him "good night, and good luck." 
                  Leaving the street he was in, he turned into Broadway, and jumping into a carriage gave orders to be driven to Waverly place, at that time the most aristocratic portion of the city. 
                  The carriage stopped in front of a handsome marble fronted, old fashioned building, and Harry dismissing it, ascended the steps and rang the bell. He was immediately admitted by a colored waiter in livery, and was without question ushered into the parlor, and sent a card with "Ernest Wethcrell" engraved upon it by the man, with his respects, and a request to see his mistress. 
                  The man took the card, bowed and withdrew. In a few seconds the quick rustle of a silk dress sounded in the hall, and a beautiful woman of about twenty five entered the room hastily, and threw herself into his arms. 
                  "Dear, dear, Harry, I had thought you lost to me forever. I heard, and oh! with what anguish that you were incarcerated in prison for life, Thank Heaven! you are once more returned to me, and never to leave me again, I trust." 
                  He drew her to a sofa as she spoke, and after kissing her tenderly-for he loved her with as deep a love as his nature was capable of-drew her close up to him, and they remained silently thus for some moments. 
                  Let us look at her as she thus sits with her head resting fondly on his shoulder. She appears to be of about the middle height, of a most beautiful form and perfect figure. Her complexion is of an alabaster dazzling whiteness, which forms a most delightful contrast with the glossy black hair, tastefully arranged over her temples. Eyes that seem to swim in liquid love, so soft, so deliciously melting in their deep, dark beauty, are they. The small foot in its delicate white satin caseing, and the embroidered hem of the white petticoat, slightly raised and displaying the sculptured ankle, and just sufficient above it to render the intoxication of the sight complete. No wonder Harry Glindon gazed upon her with eyes that spoke the intensity of his admiration for the bewitching woman in all her matured loveliness before him. 
                   
                  
                      
                        AN HONORABLE OFFER. Mr. Glindon is here seen making a generous offer of his hand, heart, and forts a widow lady whom he suspects of having a goodly portion of "filthy lucre," a ed by an industrious application to her needle. Strange to say, she rejects him! 
                     
                   
                   
                   
                  And yet beautiful as an angel as she was, if we may draw the comparison; those liquid eyes could light up with demoniac fury, and those fair features become distored with passion and that sweet placid bosom heave with the intenseness of fury, did aught occur to awake the slumbering volcano beneath. 
                  It is time we should explain something of this mysterious visit of Glindon's. 
                  The beautiful creature we have described is the celebrated Diana Morton, well known at that time as the most successful enslaver of the hearts and procurer of the purses, of various ardent members of the opposite sex, whom she first fascinated by her beauty, and then "fled" to the extent of their ample means. 
                  She lived in this style at the expense of these individuals, each of whom she led to believe was the favored one, and each of whom, it is needless to add was most egregiously "sold" by the fascinating woman. She had her carriage, and in short every luxury that money could procure, was at her free disposal. 
                  We have thus described Diana Morton to the reader, and must now return to her and her lover, the villain Harry Glindon, whom she loved for the very villainy he displayed, his courage found an echo in her heart, and admiration in the first instance was followed by love as a natural consequence. 
                  He related to her his adventures since his escape from Sing Sing, and her eyes glowed, and her bosom heaved as she listened to the recital. She was a fit companion for him. No terror was visible upon her delicate countenance as she eagerly heard each incident recalled. And yet one soft feeling she had in her heart, and that was love! Love of the intensest character; love that brooked no rivalry, yet still was gentle as the love of the soft, cooing dove. Such love as would lead her even to kill its object rather than that another should possess it. 
                  "Well, here you must remain until all this has blown over; that is certain. But few of the police will think of searching the house of the aristocratic Diana Morton for the body of the robber and murdorer Henry Glindon. Come, let us go into my boudoir; we shall be free from all interruption there, and can converse at our pleasure." 
                  So saying, she took his arm, and through a staircase opening out of an adjoining room, they ascended to the boudoir in question. Here after taking a hasty glance at the magnificent satin covered bed, and the splendid furniture of the room generally, we will observe proper delicacy and leave them. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  THE TRAITOR'S DOOM.-THE FOR LET LOOSE.-THE MASQUERADE BALL.-THE SEDUCTION.-THE BLOOD-HOUND ON THE TRAIL. 
                  Return we for a time to the rendezvous of the band, leaving the principal personages of our tale, reclining in the beautiful arms and looked in the soft embrace of his mistress Diana Morton. 
                  We left the person who owed so deadly a hatred against Harry, and who had also been the cause of his last arrest, on his way to the cell, in which those who broke the laws of the robbers were confined; and in the custody of two members of the band. 
                  They were about to place him in a dungeon, and the punishment as he well knew was starvation! He would be left there until in all probability death had ensued, when his body would be removed and buried. 
                  The horrible fate which awaited him, seemed however to have but little terrors for him, and the "good bye" rather sorrowfully spoken by the men as they left him was unanswered; and in a moment more the door had closed upon him, never again as was reasonable to suppose, to be opened again for him in life. As soon as they were gone, however, he sprang to his feet and exclaimed: 
                  "Fools! that ye are, do you think for one instant, that I would tamely submit to be immured within this dungeon to starve and rot, without an effort at least to gain my liberty, were I not certain that it would not hold me an hour! Ha! ha! ha! Your surprise will be great when you return, expecting to find my attenuated corpse to discover that the imprisoned bird has taken to itself wings, and has flown off. Now 'Slippery Dick,' as the English jailors used to call you, when they found they could never clap you into a jug you could not find a crack to creep through and get out-just try your skill once more, at your old trade." 
                  So saying he sat down upon a stone bench in the cell, and began cooly to pull off, first one boot and then another. This done he set about what we shall next describe. 
                  The heels of the boots were constructed in an ingenious manner of sheet iron! covered on the outside with leather, so as to resemble a plain solid leather heel, but which in reality were neither more nore less than small boxes closely packed with straw and filled with implements for sawing and filing iron bars; gimblets with which panels or other wood-work could by boring a number of holes closely together be weakened so as to be easily removed; also small pieces of wax candles and matches to light the same. The heels were attached with springs to the soles of the boots and were so neatly arranged that nothing could be perceived on the most minute examination. Even the sharp eyes of the men who had placed him in the cell were at fault, for before leaving him they had examined his person to see that he had no instruments concealed by which he could escape. 
                  And now having lit his candle, and placed it on the stone bench, he paused and looked around him, before going to work. The cell was cut in the solid earth, and the sides, wall, and floor were lined with stone. It had but one small aperture to admit light and air, and this was heavily barred. Beyond this window, was an opening underneath the pavement, and if successful in getting out of the cell into this opening, the next bar to escape was the following: immediately overhead was the usual plate that covers the aperture to admit the coal, this was perforated with holes, that admitted but little light or air, and besides being chained to the sides, immediately below it were placed bars of iron again; and these so high that they could not be reached by any one from beneath unless by climbing, and then even with the necessary tools the labor of removing them was immense. 
                  So that all things considered the occupant of the cell, stood apparently little chance except by a miracle of ever seeing the light of outer day. 
                  During the time that we have been taking this survey, the captive had skillfully and neatly sawed through the two bars of the inside window, and then at the risk of suffocation had squeezed his body safely through. Behold him now standing beneath the hole in the pavement, with a spring he caught the bars above him, and taking his saw from his teeth, after twining his arm around one of the bars began cutting through the first. First one end was severed, and then the other, and one obstacle was gone. After a short rest, again he sprang up, and another bar was displaced.-Another, and he could raise himself up and sit upon the remainder of the bars which formed a sort of grating. The chains which held the iron plate were soon demolished from their hold, and now-one push of the plate and he was free! 
                  He had accomplished one of the most arduous tasks that ever fell to the lot of a prisoner, and which might safely be classed among the escapes of a Jack Sheppard, if indeed such a feat was ever accomplished by that celebrated jail breaker. 
                  He paused not an instant, but under cover of the darkness, reached a dilapidated looking house in the vicinity, and was now safe, for the rest of the band were not aware that this was one of his many places of hiding after either from troublesome friends or unwelcome foes. He then threw himself on a bed in the corner of an apartment near the top of the house, and was soon fast asleep, where we leave him for a time and return to follow the fortune of Harry Glindon. 
                  He slept on unsuspicious of the enemy now let loose against him, and determined to strain every nerve to have his life, or perish himself in the endeavor. At a late hour he rose from the luxurious couch on which he had slept, and proceeded to arrange his toilet. Breakfast was served in an adjoining room, and surrounded by every luxury he partook of it with Diana who looked, if possible more beautiful in the clear light of morning than by the rays of the artificial light of the chandeliers. 
                  He amused himself in different ways during the day, and at evening there being a masquerade to be given from the house of one of the most aristocratic families of the city, expressed a wish to accompany Diana, as she had intended going. 
                  Diana was at first fearful of detection, but as she, would wear a domino, and from the select nature of the assemblage no fears need be entertained of evil consequences ensuring, she consented. 
                  With the aid of a celebrated French costumer Harry's fine figure was soon fitted with the rich dress worn by the nobility of England of about a hundred years ago, viz:-Dark purple velvet coat, trimmed with gold lace; white satin vest with richly embroidered pink flowers upon it; black velvet knee breeches, and white silk stockings; hair powdered and tied in a cue behind, ruffles of the richest lace at the bosom and sleeves; and with sword, three cornered laced hat and a domino which revealed only the lower part of his face, the costume was complete. 
                  Diana wore a dress to match his, and when completely dressed, a handsomer-and we may add-a wickeder couple never entered a coack together. 
                  They were at last set down at the entrance of a splendid mansion not very distant from the Battery, the vicinity of which was then the abode of some of the best New York families, and entered the ball room together. 
                  It was already half full of gorgeously dressed gentlemen and lady magnificent chandeliers lighted up a scene of beauty seldom before seen by the descendants of the Knickerbockers, and indeed as no mean rival of some of the best European entertainments of a like nature. 
                  At the end of the immense room a flight of marble steps conducted into a conservatory filled with some of the richest and costliest gems of nature, natives of both the old world and the new; and the conservatory was lighted by innumerable colored lamps, purple, green, gold, blue, &c., which threw a gentle light around, and gave it something of the appearance of an oriental scene. 
                  The master of the mansion was a descendant of a noble Spanish family, who had emigrated to the western continent in consequence of threatening troubles at home. They had amassed by entering into mercantle business an ample fortune and were considered as wealthy as any family in New York. 
                  As soon as Mr. Valmerdon saw Diana coming he left his lady and daughters and approached to welcome her. Harry she introduced as a relative, for the Spaniard was one of her admirers, and she was not willing he should think she looked with any particular favor upon the handsome young man at her side, whom she introduced to Mr. Valmerdon as Mr. Ernest Wetherell. 
                  Mr. Valmerdon then took them to his wife and daughters and as the ladies were acquainted, Mr. Wetherell alone remained to introduce. 
                  Good Mrs. Valmerdon had no suspicion of the intimacy existing between her liege lord and the fascinating Diana. Had she been aware of that interesting fact the probability is, that she would not have displayed quite so much affection towards her rival in the affections of her husband. 
                  Nothing occurred however, and in a minute Harry found himself doing the amiable to the good looking hostess and her two fascinating daughters Isadore and Berinice. Isadore the eldest was a most bewitching creature of about nineteen summers. The warm blood of Castile coursed through her veins, and her beautiful eyes shone with the liquid loveliness of that lofty and ardent race. Her sister Berinice was some two or three years younger, and was equally beautiful though of a softer order than her sister. Throughout that vast assemblage of beauty, few could be found to compare with these two peerless girls. 
                  "Now then Mr. Wetherell just see me safely over yonder to the side of my friend Mrs. Van Ostrander and you may have the duty-probably to you a disagreeable one, of escorting my daughters whither you please." 
                  Harry having performed this duty gallantly tendered an arm to each of the young ladies and after receiving an admonition from their mother to be careful of them, proceeded to join in the promenade of kings, knights, peasants, flower girls and other motley characters with which a masquerade ball is usually filled. 
                  Dancing shortly afterwards commenced and Harry after seeing Berinice under the questionably safe protection of King Charles the second led out her sister in the opening dance. 
                  Harry was accomplished in almost all the embellishments of a fashionable man, and he was gratified to observe that the effects of his graceful dancing, fine figure, and when he pleased to make it so, a rich and winning voice, were not lost on the fair creature at his side. He caught sight of Diana exerting her efforts to entrap the heir of a celebrated millionaie, by the force of her fascinating charms, and determined to seize the opportunity presented of paying his court to the fair Isadore, and leave it to fate for what might follow. 
                  For the sake of appearances he did not devote his entire attention to her but danced with a number of others and read in the blush that followed his return to her, the pleasure his society gave. 
                  A splendid supper was served at a late hour of which they partook, and by this time all felt at their ease, and wine was quaffed and the laugh re-sounded from the merry ones seated around the tables, and nnrestrained mirth had its full sway among the gay assemblage. 
                  They returned to the ball room, and dancing began again. Harry's arm encircled Isadore's waist in the voluptuous waltz and their hearts beat together, and the warm breath of each played on the cheek of the other as they kept pace with the music. They entered the conservatory together and reclined on a crimson velvet couch surrounded by perfumes of a delicious odor. A fountain in the centre threw a grateful coolness around the place and as they were in a retired part of the conservatory the feeble lights that gleamed from the colored lamps, did not reach them, so that they were out of sight and were not likely to be easily discovered. 
                  There had been no declaration of love between them; the language of the eyes alone had told each other the truth that they did love, and mutually. And as they seated themselves, he with his arm encircling her waist, there was no manifest repugnance on her part, there was no drawing away from his embrace, and without a word having been uttered she submitted to his taking her soft, white hand up to his lips and imprinting on it a glowing kiss. 
                  Oh! Isadore, beware! The tempter is beside thee. Pause are it be too late. Thou hast much to overcome, for the demon who seeketh to encompass thy destruction appeareth in the most entrancing light unto thine eyes, and a mighty effort must be made if thou wouldst save thyself! 
                  But she has, alas! drank too deeply of the cup held to her lips. Her warm southern temperament is aroused, and the flushed cheek and heaving breast tell of the fires that burn within her bosom as the hand of Harry becomes familiar with her glorious charms, one by one. 
                  He presses his lips again and again to her's, and the glowing kisses are returned. His eyes seek the liquid depths of hers, and the glances are returned with passionate intensity. 
                  She totters on the precipice of dishonor! The objects surrounding her have each their voluptuous effects on the sensitive, warm blood of the ardent girl. The pleasant music of the ball room, softened by the distance, the inhalations of the flowers, the playing of the fountain as the cooling drops reach their marble receptacle, and the warm embraces of the handsome youth at her side, all combined as it were to make her forget everything of earth, and she is now a ready prey for the spoiler! 
                  "You will always, always, love me, dear Ernest! you will never forget me for another," she softly murmurs. He whispers vows of endless constancy to her too ready ear, and-the kisses are renewed-they are clasped in each other's arms-no human eye as they think is on them-and-the sweet face of the angel Virtue, who ever hovers near until overpowered by the demon Vice, becomes clouded with sorrowful tears as she sadly turns to wing her flight unto the Throne of Day! there to tell with stern truthfulness of the erring soul thus triumphed over, and lost to redeeming grace forever! 
                   
                  They arose and left the conservatory as soon as her agitation had subsided in a measure, and re-entered the ball room. 
                  Their absence had not been noticed, or had excited no surprise, the supposition being that like many of the other dancers they had gone to enjoy the delicious perfume and coolness of the garden. 
                  At length the hour of departure drew near, for the tints of day were just beginning to gild the verge of the blue vault above, and their carriage being announced, after bidding adien to their host and hostess they stepped out through the vestibule and down the stairs to the street. Harry did not observe, during the whole of the evening, that his every movement had been jealously watched by an individual whose features had been concealed by a domino covering the whole of his face, the lower part of which was still more effectually disguised by a heavy black beard. 
                  He had joined in none of the amusements of the evening, but among the vast crowd had escaped without particular notice. The curious on the subject comforted themselves with the recollection that the servants at the door would admit none but such as bore an invitation or were armed with the necessary credentials that rendered them admissible. So that they were obliged to content themselves with wondering why he preserved his incognito quite so closely, and setting it down in their own minds finally that it must be some love adventure or something of that sort. 
                  He took notice of but one thing, and had but one object in view, and that was to watch each movement of Harry Glindon. He never lost sight of him, but never permitted himself to be noticed by that individual in return. 
                  When the carriage containing Harry and his mistress drove off, the incognito sprang into another which was waiting, and without stopping to receive any order, the driver followed cautiously at a distance, the other carriage. 
                  Arrived at the house in Waverly Place the first carriage stopped while the other containing the incog, drove past, sufficiently slow to allow the inmate to take an accurate impression of the house. 
                  Who the mysterious follower of Glindon and Diana Morton is will transpire as the reader progresses. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  THE TALE OF HORROR-THE AVENGER-THE BLOOD-HOUND NEAR HIS PREY. 
                  The day after the scenes enacted in the last chapter transpired, Diana Morton was seated upon a handsome couch on her boudoir, with Harry Glindon at her feet upon a low stool, and at the same time that he was looking into her eyes with looks of love, pondering how he could obtain successfully enough money to enable him to go to Europe, and there in safety lead anew the life to which he was so attached. 
                  A servant entered and announced that a gentleman wished to see Diana is private for a few moments. 
                   
                  
                      
                        SCENE IN THE STONE JUG. Glindon visits an old aged companion and "pal," who is in prison for murder; and he pretends to be deeply affected by the emotions of the old man's two daughters, who have visited their father, and whom he designs to make his victims. 
                     
                   
                   
                   
                  "Ha!" said she, "it must be the son to the wealthy millionaire with whom I carried on so violent a flirtation last night. Do you stay here, Harry and not be jealous in my absence, for I shall not spare one of my arts to entrap the game, and then bleed it plenteously you may be sure. He promised to call to-day, and I suppose is somewhat fearful of sending up his name, as he does not know what the results might be. Ha! ha! ha! poor fool, he thinks no doubt that he may be putting his head in a noose, and in fact he is not so far wrong in supposing so." 
                  During this time she had been adding to her natural charms, by the addition of some tasteful but costly jewelry, and then having kissed Harry playfully upon the cheek, she descended to finish, as she supposed, the triumph began last night. 
                  She entered the private parlor to which the stranger had been shown by her direction, and after closing the door went towards him. 
                  What was her surprise to discover that it was not the person she had supposed; that in fact the face was perfectly strange to her. She slightly drew back, but the stranger advanced towards her and addressed her in a hurried, impetuous manner. 
                  "Madam! think not strangely of my intrusion; when you have heard all I have to say my conduct will not appear quite so singular. Listen then with patience, for it is of something that nearly concerns yourself. And first let me tell you that I know everything." 
                  "You know everything," said Diana in a wondering tone, though her heart beat with apprehension of she knew not what. "Why do you speak thus strangely, and what mean you by so bold an intrusion! If your purpose is nefarious, you will find I am one not easily cowed, nor one to be played with." 
                  So saying she turned to reach the door, when by a sudden spring he caught her in his arms, and holding a pistol to her head, spoke in a voice thick with determination: 
                  "Woman! utter one sound that will alarm the house and thus foil my purpose, and I will be coward enough to stain my hands with innocent blood, and that a woman's. I mean you no harm, nor will I injure one hair of your head, provided you stand not between me and the just purpose that brought me here." 
                  "Strange! incomprehensible man," said Diana, "unhand me and I will promise to act as you wish; and now"-said she seating herself upon a chair, "let me know the object of this singluar visit." 
                  "Listen then," he continued, "and interrupt me not Harry Glindon, she escaped convict! the incendiary! robber, and murderer! is here, in this house! and at this moment! This much I know, and I do not ask you either to deny or affirm what I have said. And you, fool as you are, love him I suppose, and think he in return loves you. Ah! you little know him; you can be able to form but a poor idea of the extent of his utter villany; of how doubly, deeply perjured he really is. You fancy, poor simpleton as you are, that he is true to you, as you to him. When I tell you he is as heartlessly indifferent to you and what concerns you, as he would be to a stone, I tell you what is true. And now to the proof. 
                  "Last night you went accompanied by him to a masquerade ball in-street near the Battery. He parted from you and took the arm of each of the daughters of the host and hostess. You saw no more of him until the time for departure drew nigh, as you had an object in view, with which I have nought to do. My business was with him. I endeavored to watch an opportunity to obtain an interview with him in the garden; such was my intention, but it was frustrated by the pretty fool who was with him. occupying all his attention, and the chance I sought for did not occur.-And now comes the portion that concerns you. He has without doubt whispered the flattering tale of love into your ear, and you believed him true to you, and you alone,-the bare idea that the same soft tales which he told to you were uttered by him the next moment to another never entered your head. Your heightened color tells me that I say right, and the fire that flashes from your eye, assures me that I could not find a better assistant in my vengeance, when I do but assure you of his perfidy." 
                  He then entered into the particulars of the seduction of Isadore Valmerdon, and told slowly and distinctly each minute particular of the villanous act. Her countenance as she listened gradually assumed an expression almost fiendish. Her eyes gleamed like cools of fire, and her face became of a marble pallor, while the white teeth could be seen fixed together, and her hands convulsively opened and shut. Her bosom heaved like the waves of the angry sea, and her whole appearance was that of one striving to appear calm, while tumultuous passion almost burst the heart within the breast. She spoke through her clenched teeth. 
                  If what you have related is true, and I will not doubt it, for something within screams with the voice of ten thousand furies that it is no falsehood, I will aid you in anything you may command me, so that I have deep revenge upon the vile traitor! I ask not your motive, I care not to know in what he has offended you; I see in you only an able and willing assistant in my great task of crushing this villain beneath my foot. Oh! God how I have loved that man; would I not have for him laid down even my life: and yet this-this is the return he makes. But I will have revenge, and he shall soon know that 'hell has no fury like a woman scorned.' Shrink not then, but tell me how I can assist you in your schemes, no matter how bloody.' 
                  "First let me tell you" said he, "why I am thus fiercely bent on his destruction. The tale is not a long one. 
                  "I was born in England, on the banks of the river Dee, near the old town of Chester. My father owned a farm, was of comfortable circumstances, and his family consisted of only a sister and myself; my mother had died shortly after the birth of this sister, and my father held the memory of my deceased mother too dearly ever to think of marrying again. 
                  "Near by my father's farm was that of a neighbor of the name of Glindon; he had but one son, the wretch now here. We were schoolmates together, though there was never any congeniality of disposition between us; he being a cruel, bold and overbearing boy, and my nature was just the reverse. He was almost universally disliked, though he was as handsome a youth as could be seen, but his disagreeable nature and selfishness gained him no friends. Few however cared to be his foes, for he was as revengeful as an Indian, and was ingenious in torturing, one way and another, any one against whom he had a grudge, and woe to the luckless wight who might happen to move his displeasure. So that he was feared and hated by all his associates and school fellows, with only one exception. There was but one person who cared not for his humors, nor feared either him or his displeasure, and that one was myself. We were exactly of an age, being born within a day or two of each other; he was the eldest of the two. We often fought together through some insult or another at his hands, and invariably the battle was in my favor, whether from superior strength or what, I know not, but in all cases after an obstimate combat he was under the necessity always of retiring well pummelled and crest-fallen. 
                  "One day I could not but observe that his manner was more than usually insulting towards myself. He seemed eager to quarrel with me, though it was but the day before that he had received a severe chastisement from me for cruelly beating a favorite dog with a large stick, and afterward pelting the poor animal with large stones; and for this I had castigated him without mercy. And yet he now tried every means to make me angry with him, and finding I was not easily roused, on coming out of school, he threw a bottle of ink in my face, which he had evidently carried out for the purpose. Of course I struck him, and had fully determined to teach him a lesson not easily forgotten, when I saw his hand placed within his breast, and a knife gleamed in his hand. He made a spring like a tiger at me, and before I could ward the blow I felt the steel strike me in the side. I do not remember more, until many weeks after, when I opened my eyes in my own chamber. By the side of my bed sat my father, but what had altered him so? His hair, which had been black as the raven's wing, was now grown grey, and I noticed that his once smooth brow was filled with furrows deeply marked as an old man's. Great God! what had happened! I laid my attenuated hand on his shoulder and he hastily looked up. 
                  "Thank God! that thou art spared to me," were his first words, and he fell sobbing like a child upon my neck. 
                  "I had thought that my home was to be totally desolate, and that my old head would not be long before 'twas laid beside thine, my boy, in the cold grave!" 
                  "I knew not what he meant." A cold chill ran through my veins as the thought occurred to me. "My Sister!" I exclaimed, "where is she! oh where." 
                  "Nay, my boy" said my poor father, his voice broken with sobs, "thou art not strong enough to hear it yet. Rest thee, rest thee, and thou shalt be told; and do not care to know too soon, for it is a tale will make thee almost mad to hear." 
                  "Father," I exclaimed, "I must and will know, tell me, oh! what of my Sister. Is she dead! Oh speak, and keep me not in this torturing suspense." 
                  "Would to God she were!" he returned; "better a thousand times than as it is." He then told me the following dreadful tidings! Upon the night following the attempted murder of myself by Harry Glindon, and his departure, no one knew whither, my Sister's window was found forced open, and she herself gone! The following note was found on her table." 
                  "When this note is read, the writer will be far enough, and with him the fair occupant of this chamber. Thus do I deal out my vengeance on all who dare to cross my path. Ha! ha! ha! my vengeance will be complete when the head of the son fills a bloody grave, the daughter dishonored, and the old man left childless. Such is the punishment of those who move my revenge. Harry Glindon." 
                  "Great God! and here was I, helpless as a child, and he-oh I shuddered to think of what might not even then be enacting by the fiend. 
                   
                  "Days, weeks passed away, and under such excitement did I labor that my recovery was retarded. The blow fortunately did not strike a vital part, and thanks to a good constitution I finally fully recovered. But my poor father! as soon as I recovered my health completely, he grew gradually childish. He would sit for hours in his arm chair, without uttering a word, and ever and anon would utter a piteous sigh, and shake his head. Thus he would sit, and become more and more simple each day. At last he began to fail, and one day on approaching him to let him, as he was wont, place his hand upon my head and gaze fixedly on my face I found that he did not take, as usual, any notice of my presence. I looked in his face, the eyes wore their usual fixed look; I took his hand; the cold chill of death was there. He had died thus sitting and gazing on the pictures which his poor mind formed in the bright coals of the fire." 
                   
                  "And now," said I, as soon as the funeral was over, "and now for vengeance deep, deadly vengeance against the destroyer of my happiness and the despoiler of my home. 
                  "From a sailor whom I met with, and who was perishing of hunger-in gratitude for assisting him, he told me that he could help me in a way I little suspected. 
                  "He then proceeded to relate that he had formerly been captain of a smuggler's vessel. That he had accidently become acquainted with Harry Glindon, who was frequently in the habit of running away from home, and going to some town or other, and there among the most abandoned characters spending the money he had taken from his father's coffers. 
                  "Their acquaintance ripened into intimacy, as he saw in Harry a bold spirit, and a heart unknown either to kindness or fear, and just unscrupulous enough for a smuggler. Harry at length made an agreement to join the smuggler's crew, if he would aid him in a plot he had for revenging some injury received. The smuggler consented, and the night following my attempted murder my sister was, with the assistance of the crew of the 'Dare Devil' carried off and placed aboard of the smuggling craft. 
                  "He would not proceed unless I solemnly promised to do him no harm. I did so and he soon finished the horrid tale. 
                  Harry Glindon finished the revenge he began, by foreibly and brutally taking advantage of my sister's helpessness, and after having polluted her pure soul, he murdered his helpless victim and then threw her into the sea. 
                  "Shortly after the 'Dare-devil' was captured by a revenue cutter and the gang, Harry included, placed in Portsmouth jail. He escaped however by a bold stratagem, and since that time he did not know what had become of him. America he thought the most likely place he would have gone to and thither I determined to go after I had settled the affairs of my father's property. 
                  "Providence surely pointed him out, for the very day that I arrived I saw him in company with some fiashy dressed men enter a fashionable barroom. 
                  I had disguised myself so that in case I should meet with him I should not he recognized. I went into the same place, and by pretending to be slightly infoxieated, soon drew the attention of these men to myself. I soon found out that they were gamblers and sharpers and they soon determined to pluck my feathers. They induced me to sit down and have a quiet game at cards. 
                  I was an adept at cardplaying, having learned all the intricacies of them from a celebrated London gambler whom I had rescued from an enraged bull by shooting it just as it was about to gore him. Out of gratitude he had taught me every trick that was practiced by the best sharpers of London and Paris, for he told me that the time might come when I would be thankful that I knew so much, and could meet any gambler and foil him with his own weapons. 
                  "I will make the rest of my story as short as possible. 
                  "I played with them, and spite of every attempt on their part, at the end of an hour I rose from the table, having cleaned them out. I then pretended to laugh and told them I was one of the fraterrity, who had just been amusing myself. I refunded the money I had won, and then at their urgent request agreed to join them. I did so, for this was exactly what I wished as I wanted a fitting opportunity to be revenged in a satisfactory manner, on the destroyer of my sister. I soon found that he was steeped in crime, and that among the whole catalogue of villanies there was not one he had not committed. From constant association with robbers, I in time became one myself and was obliged to flee for a time to England, and while there was taken in a burglary and committed to jail. And then began my first attempt at breaking jail; after escaping from this prison I was again recaptured, but succeded in setting myself at liberty, and each time I was immured. I managed to get on in some way or another, thus gaining for myself the soubriguet of 'Slippery Dick.' 
                  "I returned to America and now found the opportunity I sought for-Harry Glindon had committed a horrid murder, and was eagerly sought for by the police, and a heavy reward offered for his apprehension. I placed the officers of justice on his trail, and they soon ran him down. He was tried, found guilty, and sentenced to be hung. The governor interposed his authority and he was imprisoned for life. The villain escaped, when I thought myself most sure of him, and I was doomed by a band who were formed to protect each other, to starvation in a dungeon for being a traitor to the Society. 
                  I escaped, followed the direction of a friend who is well posted in the movements of Harry Glindon, followed you to the masquerade ball, and seeing that you would be an able assistant in my revenge, concluded to come and ask your aid in striking the viper on the head, and thus prevent him from even more spitting his venom or any more victims." 
                  As he finished his long recital, fraught with such deeds of horror, and black-hearted villany, Diana Morton sprang to her feet and exclaimed: 
                  "I will help you to the last gasp of my life, for such a wretch as he deserves not even the hangman's office. He "has injured us both so villanously that a refinement of torture shall be dealt upon him. Do not ask me now what I intend to do but return to-night and our deep revenge shall be glutted to the full." 
                  "At about ten O'clock return here and your sister and father shall be deeply revenged." 
                
                
                  CHATER VII. 
                  THE BLOOD-HOUND AT ITS PREY-THE DOOM-CONCLUSION, 
                  When Diana returned to the room where she had left Harry, she my that he had thrown himself upon a couch, and was fast asleep. As she entered and softly closed the door, in order to make her intended preparations, she thought she heard him pronounce her name. She looked towards him, but saw that he was fast asleep and that he was now talking while he slept. 
                  She listened and heard him say: 
                  "Yes! yes! silly fool as thou art, do you think that you have so strongly thrown your chains of love around me that they will never be willingly snapt by me." 
                   
                  He muttered some incoherent language, and finally the next connected words were: "Murder her, yes! that is what I will do, and then with the wealth which she possesses I will fly with Isadore to a distant land and there live the life of a prince, and forget her and everything else in the soft embraces of the sweet Isadore." 
                  He continued muttering for some time, but nothing more could be understood, and he shortly sank into profound slumber. 
                  She rose from the side of the couch where she had been kneeling with her ear close to his mouth to catch every word, and her look was perfectly demoniac as she muttered through her clenched teeth- 
                  "Cursed-double dyed villain and traitor! Any compunctions of conscience I might have had are now totally obliterated and soon, dog as thou art, shalt thou feel my hatred." 
                  When he awoke she was seated calm and unmoved, doing some embroidery work, and as she turned towards him she laughingly chided him for going to sleep. 
                  "You were so confoundedly long down stairs," said he "that feeling drowsy I cast myself upon this couch, and went to sleep to dream of you." 
                  "Ha!" she muttered to herself, "you little think that your dreams are open to me, and that even the secret thoughts of your black heart are known to me." 
                  But she did not appear in the slightest degree discomposed, though her bosom was almost bursting with the consuming flame therein. 
                  Night at length came, and she placed some wine before him, knowing that he would partake of it. 
                  In the liquor she had thrown a powder, the effects of which would be to throw him into a profound sleep. 
                  At the hour appointed appeared the visitor of the morning. She led him into the room in which lay his enemy helplessly stretched upon the floor. 
                  They picked him up between them, according to her directions, and placed the insensible form upon a bed. Immediately over this bed was a singular looking apparatus. It looked something like a shower bath, but the bottom, in place of a number of holes perforated therein, had a small brass pipe containing one minute hole sufficient for one drop of water to fall upon the bed below or any object placed beneath it. 
                  A handle and string completed this instrument, with which Harry Glindon was to pay the forfeit for his numerous crimes. 
                  In the adjoining room a huge kettle of water boiled upon a fire. With the assistance of the personage known as "Slippery Dick," the kettle was taken off steaming, and scalding hot, and its contents poured by means of a high stool into the recepticle above the bed. 
                  The cruel instrument of murder was now ready. They bound the feet, hands and head of their victim to the posts of the bed, and then the horrid preliminaries were completed. 
                  The string was pulled-and down came one heavy scalding drop upon the insensable head. Another and another followed, and as the body beneath was incapable of moving, the drop fell always in the same place. 
                  The intense pain soon awoke the tortured man, and unable to move his head, his eyes turned wildly and blood-shot from one side to the other. 
                  The agony became unbearable, and he uttered deep groans. They pulled the string once more and the water ceased to flow. Diana spoke: 
                  "Accursed wretch as you are, your hour has come. Your doom is sealed and a few torturing hours will end your vile existance. It is needless to ask for mercy for you will receive none. You thought you would murder me, did you, and then with the fair form of Isadore Valmerdon by your side, and riches in your possession, you would escape to some distant land and laugh at the trick you had played your unsuspicious victim. But you are foiled, reptile as you are, and now the hour of retribution has arrived." 
                  The other then spoke: 
                  "Henry Glindon, you must before your crime-laden soul takes its departure for the infernal regions, know the other to whom you are indebted for your present position. Do you remember the injured Richard Severing your enemy? Do you not remember that old man whose grey hairs were by your hand brought down in sorrow to the grave! Do you recall that happy home made desolate by your hand! That sweet, pure being whom your fiendish hand first polluted and then destroyed! Do you forget all this! No! you now as you lay there writhing recall all I have brought back to you recollection. And do you know that the blood-hound who has tracked your fortsteps your years has now driven you into a corner and all hell"-he shouted in a voice of fury, "shall not save you from the dreadful doom in store for you. The murdered one's voice cry aloud for vengeance! and vengeance they shall have. If your vile lips can frame a prayer, the sooner it is uttered the better, for you may as quickly look for pity at the hands of a tiger robbed of its young as ask for mercy from me!" 
                  Again was the fatal cord pulled, and again descended the scalding drops, which as they increased felt like hot irons setting into his brain. 
                   
                  In vain did he beg, scream and implore for mercy. They were as obsrate as the devils of the bottomless pit, and in silence was the dreadful torture continued until he was raving mad! His groans and cries became fainter and fainter, and in a short time his mad struggles ceased altogether; his chest heaved convulsively, his eyes were turned towards them with a most malignant expression, and then closed forever! He was dead! 
                  As soon as they were certain that the vital spark had fled, they hastened to hide the evidences of the act. 
                  The body was taken and buried beneath the building, and then, the earth being trampled down all evidences of the murder were hidden from human eyes. 
                  Horrid as was the deed, the punishment was just, and if ever crime could be enacted with just cause it was when the wretch was sent to his account, and rendered incapable of further atrocities. 
                  The next week Diana Morton and Richard Severing were on their way across the blue sea towards South America, and they were never more heard of. 
                  The gang of the "secret Society of the Jimmey" was shortly after broken up, and most of its members imprisoned, through information given by a letter, from whom did not appear, as there was no signature. It was postmarked Callao, South America, and contained full particulars of their secret haunt. 
                  A large posse of the police were sent upon the night they all met together. 
                  They obtained entrance through the edjoining houses into the room containing the secret entrance to the rendezvous-found the brass handle-raised the hearth-stone-and measured off the distance exactly as they had been informed. 
                  They then descended, and before the slightest resistance could be offered, captured the whole gang, from the hearty president, Mr. Burden, down to Eely Jerry, who was useful in going into area windows for the furtherance of the designs of the older heads accompanying him. 
                  The place was kept open by the authorities for a length of time to enable the public to examine with wonder the great den existing in their very midst. Crowds of course took advantage of the opportunity, and great was the surprise of every one who saw it. 
                
               THE END. 
             
             
                
               CATHARINE AND CLARA, OR, THE DOUBLE SUICIDE; A TRUE TALE OF DISAPPOINTED LOVE. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  KIND reader, on the wings of fancy accompany us to Bidde ford, in the State of Maine. It is summer, and the air is full of music and perfume-the melody of birds, and odor of flowers. It is the Sabbath, too, and the very atmosphere, so soft and sweet, seems full of the sanctity and holiness of the occasion. The church-bell chimes out its gentle invitation, and a throng of the piously inclined inhabitants are wending their way towards the house of prayer and praise. Observe that seat white cottage, which modestly half conceals itself amid trees and shrubbery. How tastefully the little garden is laid out in front, and how prettily the snowy curtains are arranged at the windows! Surely, that beautiful spot must be the abode of contentment, and the home of loveliness and virtue. 
                  Let us put on our invisible caps, and enter. A small parlor, exquisitely furnished, meets our gaze. Everything announces the presence of an elegant, delicate, and feminine taste. But where is the presiding divinity of this gem of comfort! There she sits, upon the sofa; and we shall now attempt a brief description of her personal appearance, for the gratification of our lady readers, who are always supposed to be curious about such matters, and also for the benefit of our male friends, whom we presume to be admirers of female beauty. 
                  Miss Catharine B. Cotton is about twenty years of age, although she looks somewhat younger. She is what the world would call a very lovely woman; and a close observer would be charmed with the peculiarly melancholy and tender expression of her dark eyes, which indicate the depth and intensity of her soul. It is easy to perceive that if she once places her affections upon an object, the slightest disappointment will break her heart. Who can be so base as to tamper with that pure, confiding heart, and destroy its hopes of peace and happiness forever? 
                  Catharine is perfectly formed, and her wavy hair falls in rich masses over her ivory shoulders. She is dressed in a style of simple elegance; and, although she is nothing but an humble factory girl, she is, in education, in manners, and in appearance, a lady. 
                  She is not alone. By her side is seated a well-dressed young man, of prepossessing appearance. We can see at a single glance, that he is her lover, and that she adcres him. Her head reclines upon his shoulder, in a confiding and affectionate manner, and his arm encircles her waist. Occasionally, she gazes up into his face with looks of ardent love; then she blushes, and casts down her eyes; and then his lips meet hers in a "long-drawn kiss of ecstasy." 
                  But love scenes are always tedious, except to the parties principally interested; and, therefore, we shall not dwell upon this interview between the lovers. After a little harmless dalliance, which the reader will have the kindness to imagine, and save us the trouble of describing, Catharine remarked, as she partially withdrew herself from the close embrace of her companion,- 
                  "Dear Cyrus, the church-bell is ringing, and the sound seems to reproach me for failing to attend divine worship. Are we not very sinful in thus neglecting our Christian duties?" 
                  "No, Catharine," replied her lover, "the passion of love is holy, and the Sabbath is just as appropriate for its indulgence, as any other day. But come, give me another kiss, and I must then tear myself away, for I have an appointment with a gentleman, in relation to matters of business." 
                  The kiss was given, and lepaid with twenty; and as the lovers prepared to separate, Catharine remarked,- 
                  "Cyrus, you know that the time appointed for our marriage is near at hand. The ceremony must not be delayed. But are you content to become the husband of a poor factory girl?" 
                  "You are dearer to me than you would be, if you were the heiress of a princely fortune," was the reply of Cyrus; but, as he spoke, a slight and almost imperceptible smile curled his lips-a false and mocking smile, that announced a cruel and an inconstant heart. 
                  "To-morrow," said Catharine, "I am going to Pownal, to make preparations for our wedding. I shall return here one week before the day appointed for the performance of the nuptial ceremony that will make us one, and sanctify our mutual love. Farewell, dearest Cyrus, and remember that the happiness of my whole life depends on you. I do not believe that you are capable of deceiving me; but, if you should, I never would survive the blow!" 
                  Again that hollow, contemptuous smile! Cyrus, if thou art not false, then was Iago true, and Benedict Arnold a patriot! 
                  "I never shall deceive you, Kate," said the hypocrite, as he drew on his gloves, and having once more kissed his unsuspecting victim, he departed. 
                  Catharine gazed after his receding form and her bosom swelled with agitation, for a strange presentiment of evil took possession of her soul. 
                  "I love him to distraction," said she to herself, "but I cannot help mistrusting his strange, peculiar smile! O, would to heaven that to-morrow were our wedding-day!" 
                  Catharine, plunged in melancholy thoughts, seated herself and drew from her bosom a miniature of Cyrus. While she was contemplating those handsome, but deceitful features, Miss Davis, her friend and companion in the mills, entered. Miss Davis is a young lady of superior manners and appearance, and possesses a mind of extraordinary acuteness and cultivation, for one of her social position. To her is the author indebted for many of these facts. 
                  The two young ladies saluted each other affectionately, and then entered into conversation. 
                  "My dear Catharine," said Miss Davis, seriously, "I just now saw your friend, Cyrus, leaving the house. I candidly confess to you that I do not like that young man. As your particular friend, I wish that you would entirely relinquish his society. I do not desire to interfere with your private affairs, but I really cannot refrain from advising you to beware of that man. He may be handsome and agreeable, but his countenance tenance is full of treachery. Depend upon it, if you place any confidence in him, he will deceive you in the end." 
                  "You must be prejudiced against Cyrus," said Catharine, with some severity, "pray, has he ever injured you in any way?" 
                  Miss Davis blushed scarlet, as she replied,- 
                  "I once regarded Cyrus as a friend-as a brother. He insulted me, and when I treated him with scorn, he used language which displayed a corrupt heart, and a deficiency in moral principle. That is why I dislike him, and that is why, as your friend. I am opposed to your intimacy with him. 
                  Catharine sighed deeply, for again did that mysterious presentiment of evil arise within her breast. 
                  "Tell me, Catharine," said Miss Davis, earnestly, "have you been indiscreet-have you forgotten yourself so far as to-" 
                  "O, ask me not," interrupted Catharine, bursting into tears, "I am the most miserable being on the face of the earth. Yet I think that Cyrus will marry me-I know he will!" 
                  "Poor girl, I pity you from the bottom of my heart," said Miss Davis, in tones of sincere compassion. 
                  After some further conversation, which it is unnecessary to repeat, Miss Davis left her friend, with the assurance of her constant advice and sympathy. 
                  Catharine, being alone, abandoned herself to her sorrowful reflections. Yet hoping that her lover would prove true, not withstanding what had been said against him, she began to prepare for her next day's journey to Pownal, her native home, where she intended to make arrangements for her anticipated wedding. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  "THE silly creature loves me dearly, that is plain enough; but how can she help doing that, when I am such a good-looking and fascinating fellow? The girls of these factory-places all adore me; and at this moment I have a dozen, each one believing that I am hers exclusively. Poor Catharine! I like her well enough, and she is certainly a charming girl, but then I can't marry her. What! throw myself away upon a poor factory-girl! Never! No, Cyrus, you must become the husband of some rich heiress, whose wealth will enable you to live like a prince! I have my eye now on a fair damsel, who has money as well as beauty; and if I can but succeed in winning her, I am a made man! Catharine is going home to Pownal to-morrow, to prepare for our wedding. Ha, ha! What will she say when I inform her that I never intended to make her my wife? However, she'll soon get over the disappointment; for a woman's heart is not so easily broken as some people imagine. While Catharine is away I shall have a splendid opportunity to flirt to my heart's content with every pretty girl in Biddeford and elsewhere." 
                  It was with such cruel, selfish thoughts as these that Cyrus left Catharine's abode, and wended his way along for the purpose of enjoying a solitary walk in the country. His statement to Catharine, that he had an appointment to keep with a gentleman on business, was an untruth. That statement was an absurdity; for people in puritanical New England are not apt to transact business on the Sabbath. Cyrus had become tired of Catharine's society; her presence seemed to reproach him, and therefore he avoided her as much as possible. 
                  The young man walked along, enjoying the salubrity of the air and the fair prospect around him. He had reached a retired and lonely spot, when suddenly a strange, wild-looking figure darted from behind a tree and confronted him. 
                  The figure was that of a young female, worn and wasted almost to a skeleton, yet retaining in her face and form trace of beauty and of grace. In her eyes blazed the fires of insanity, and her garb, language, and actions, all announced a "mind in ruins."Her raiment was tattered, and carelessly put on; no shoes protected her feet; and the only shelter for her head was a fantastic wreath, formed of flowers and leaves. 
                  This poor creature placed herself directly in the young man's path, and greeted him with a loud shout of maniac laughter, that made the blood run cold in his veins. 
                  "You here, Mag!" said Cyrus, in a tone of assumed compassion, while his agitated countenance betrayed fear, and a desire to cut short the unpleasant interview. "Poor, foolish girl, why does not some one take care of you? Why are you not provided with a home, instead of being permitted to lead this life of privation and misery? You ought, at all events, to be placed in the Lunatic Asylum, where your shattered intellect might possibly be restored to reason." 
                  "Ha, ha!" screamed the maniac girl-and, reader, is it not strange that laughter, the offspring of mirth and delight, should be the favorite sound of those unfortunates who are bereft of reason?-"ha, ha! How very benevolent-what a great philanthropist you are! You'd like to see me in the Lunatic Asylum, so that I might be whipped and chained by men as heartless and as cruel as yourself! Who made me the wretched thing I am?-who caused my reason to be destroyed?-who broke my poor mother's heart, and made her die of grief on account of her daughter's fate?-who made me homeless, and transformed me from an humble, but happy factory-girl, into the gibbering maniac I now am? an object at which some look with pity, others with contempt. Margaret Willford, alias 'crazy Mag Wildfire,' asks you to tell her, who did all this?" 
                  "Come, come, Margaret," said the young man, soothingly, as he gently laid his hand upon the arm of the maniac. "why do you so continually recall the past, whenever we happen to meet? Let by gones be by gones, as the saying is. I am sorry for your misfortunes, but I do not think that I can justly be accused of being the author of them. True, we did once consider ourselves as engaged to be married, but circumstances beyond my control rendered that marriage impossible. This sad disappointment somewhat affected your intellect, and your mental malady has been greatly increased in violence by your neglecting to take proper care of yourself, and by your unnecessarily exposing yourself to the most terrible privations. Your mother died of old age and decrepitude merely; a 'broken heart' had nothing to do with her death whatever. A hard-hearted landlord turned you out of your cottage, and made you houseless. Therefore, I am not to blame for your misfortunes. There are plenty of kind-hearted people in this place who would be glad to give you a home, my poor Mag. I will use my influence to procure you a comfortable one without delay. Come, let us be friends." 
                  "Ah!" cried the unfortunate girl, as she burst into tears, and sobbed in a manner that would have affected a heart of stone, "you speak kindly to me now, just as you used to do in the old happy times. Do you remember, Cyrus, how, upon a fine Sab bath like this, we used to sit upon the grass beneath this very same tree, in this beautiful and quiet spot, and form plans of future happiness? O, what were the circumstances that prevented our marriage? I was true to you, and loved you better than tongue can tell. That cruel letter which you sent to me, on the morning of the day appointed for our wedding-that letter, which coldly announced to me that the ceremony could not take place, and that I must relinquish the expectation of ever becoming your wife-that letter, Cyrus, broke my heart, and crazed my brain. I was nothing but a poor factory-girl, Cyrus, supporting myself and my invalid mother by the labor of my hands-but I loved as truly, and suffered as keenly, as the finest lady in the land. O, Cyrus, it was very cruel in you to desert me thus, at the very moment when I thought my happiness complete!" 
                  Margaret, who was now in one of her lucid intervals, wept with renewed bitterness; while the young man gazed at her calmly, his countenance wearing that peculiar smile. 
                  "You say," continued Margaret, after a short pause, and making an effort to dry her tears, "that there are benevolent people who would willingly give me a home, and that you yourself will procure me one. But, in my miserable state, I cannot go among happy and rational people, to horrify them by my insane ravings. I am unfit to dwell with my species, and prefer to live alone. Near this place, yet quite secluded from the gaze of passers-by, is a little cave which I inhabit. Dried leaves form my bed, and food is brought to me every day by several kind young ladies, with whom I formerly worked in the mill. Among these friends are Miss Davis and Catharine Cotton. You started, Cyrus, at the mention of Catharine's name, and I know the reason. It matters not how I became acquainted with the fact, but I am aware that you are paying your addresses to Miss Cotton, and that a time has been appointed for your marriage to her. Do you mean to deceive her as you deceived me? Do you intend to break her heart, as you broke mine! Beware! Cyrus. There are some women who are capable of doing desperate deeds, involving the destruction of themselves and the betrayer, when they find that they have been made the victims of a heartless male coquette, who engages the affections of an unsuspecting, too confiding female, just to enjoy the triumph of casting her off; who laughs over the misery which he has created, and tramples on the heart which he has broken! Again I say, beware! Do not deceive Catharine, that amiable, that excellent girl. Deal with her truly, I implore you, and I will forgive and bless you." 
                  "You should learn to mind your own business, Mag, and not meddle with affairs which do not concern you," said the young man, in a tone of severity, "what do I care for your forgiveness or your blessing?" 
                  This harsh, contemptuous language produced an immediate return of Margaret's insanity. Her eyes flamed with fury, as she sprang towards Cyrus, and cried, in piercing accents,- 
                  "I will make you care, then, for my hatred-my revenge! Die, thou false and cruel man!" 
                  As she utterred these frantic words, the poor demented creature drew from her bosom a knife, with which she aimed a desperate blow at the breast of Cyrus, who, however, sprang aside, in time to save his life. Margaret, impelled forward by her sudden movement, fell to the ground, with a violence that rendered her insensible, her forehead having struck against a stone, causing a wound, from which the blood flowed in a copious stream. 
                  On beholding this melancholy sight, something like pity entered the breast of Cyrus. He raised the form of the poor girl in his arms, bore her to a neighboring brook, and bathed her head in the cool, clear water. Then he bound up her wound with his handkerchief, thus stopping the flow of blood. After a little while, Margaret slowly opened her eyes, and as they fell upon the conntenance of Cyrus, who was bending over her, she shuddered, and by a painful effort released herself from his arms. Making a sign to the young man to indicate that he must not follow her, she walked away with slow and uncertain steps. Just before disappearing, she turned, and placing one hand upon her heart, and with the other pointing towards heaven, she murmured, in a faint and tremulous tone, which was, however, perfectly audible to the person addressed,- 
                  "I forgive thee, Cyrus. We shall never meet again. Do not deceive Catharine; and now farewell, forever!" 
                  Slowly and thoughtfully the young man left the spot, and walked towards his boarding house. Margaret's last words still rang in his ears; and in future years, during the solemn hours of night, those sad, forgiving tones will thrill through his soul, mingled with another voice, at the imagined sound of which, his eyes will try to penetrate the darkness, and he will almost ex pect to see, emerging from the gloom, a pale form, dressed in white, with dripping hair, whose blue lips move, but speak not, and whose glazed eyes freeze the soul with their supernatural stare! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  WE now come to a portion of our narrative which reveals, in all its hideous deformity, the moral aspect of a heart that is capable of deceiving a loving, gentle, and trusting woman. 
                  One year ago, last June, as we find by a careful reference to our notes, Miss Catharine B. Cotton left Pownal, and returned to Biddeford, one week before the day appointed for the nuptial ceremony. It was with contending emotions, that this excellent and ill-fated young lady resumed her abode in the little white cottage, which we described in a former chapter. Her heart glowed with happiness and joy at the prospect of her approaching union with the object of her love; but then that strange presentiment of coming evil would arise within her breast, casting its dark shadow over her soul and making her miserable. 
                  Cyrus had written very sparingly and coldly, in answer to Catharine's frequent and ardent letters. But she tried to excuse his negligence and seeming indifference, by supposing that a press of business prevented him from being a more attentive correspondent. 
                  Had the poor girl suspected the distressing fact that Cyrus had all along been paying the most devoted attentions to a wealthy and beautiful young lady of Biddeford, it is very probable that she would then have terminated her sorrows by a voluntary descent into the cold, cold grave. 
                  "He may be fickle," thought she, "but I do not believe him false. He knows that I have returned to Biddeford, and he will of course call upon me without delay, to assure me of his undiminished affection, and to make the final arrangements for our union. With what joy I shall gaze into his countenance, and listen to his voice once more! He will visit me to-day; I know he will! Away, dark snadows of misgiving and fear! Let nothing enter my bosom but the golden sunshine of joy!" 
                  Thus thought Catharine, on the day of her return to Biddeford. The day and evening passed away, but Cyrus came not to see her who so soon expected to become his bride. 
                  Catharine passed a sleepless and a wretched night. On the second day after her return, the agony of suspense which she suffered became too painful for endurance, and she resolved to have an interview with Cyrus, and learn the worst at once. Accordingly, she addressed him a few earnest and affectionate lines, entreating him to come and see her without delay. 
                  This note reached the young man towards evening, just as he was preparing to go out, and pay a visit to Miss Templeton,
                        For certain reasons which the intelligent reader will have no difficulty in an derstanding, we have here given a fictitious name.
                      the lady whose wealth and beauty-the wealth more than the beauty-had attracted him and inspired him with a sordid sentiment which he imagined to be love. How often is the divine passion of love libelled and outraged, by its sacred name being applied to motives the most selfish and dishonorable! 
                  We will here remark, that we have good reasons for believing that Miss Templeton never cherished any warmer feeling towards Cyrus, than that of mere friendship. She thought him agreeable, and respected him-nothing more. We do not think that she ever would have married him, under any circumstances. Had he proposed, she would have rejected him at once; and we will do her the justice to assert, that had she been aware of the fact that he was capable of engaging the affections of a lady, promising to marry her, and then cruelly deserting her;-had Miss Templeton, we say, known this of Cyrus, she would have rebuked him severely, and then dismissed him, with an injunction never to enter her presence again. 
                  Cyrus carelessly glanced his eyes over Catharine's note, and then tossed it from him with an air of impatience, as he muttered,- 
                  "I expected this! Well, I will go and see Catharine at once, to save myself from future annoyances; and, as I have fully made up my mind to dissolve my acquaintance with her, I may as well speak plainly to her first as last. I hope she won't take the disappointment very deeply to heart; I can't help it if she does!" 
                   
                  As the heartless young man wended his way towards the home of the much-abused Catharine, he continued to soliloquize as follows: 
                  "Having got rid of Catharine, I must turn my whole attention towards Miss Templeton, who is both rich and lovely; but, even were she as ugly as sin, I would gladly marry her, for gold is a agical talisman, that can render the most repulsive face charming. But Miss Templeton, as yet, has given me very little encouragement; however, I won't despair, for she is only a little coquettish, and wants to plague me. I must push the warfare with vigor, until she surrenders the citadel of her heart. She must be mine, or I shall begin to lose confidence in my powers of fascination, with reference to the fair sex." 
                  Cyrus soon reached the little white cottage. Catharine, who had been a waiting his arrival with the utmost impatience, sprang forward to meet him with a cry of joy. 
                  "You are come at last, dear Cyrus," cried she; "all, then, is well, and I am so happy!" 
                  And how acted he-the man whom she loved better than her own heart's blood? Did he not at once dismiss his cruel intention of deserting her, confess his meditated fault, implore and receive her entire forgiveness, and make her supremely happy by the assurances of his undying constancy and love? 
                  No, he did no such thing; for such a course of conduct was altogether foreign to his nature. He coldly repulsed that warm-hearted girl, and said to her, in a tone of freezing politeness,- 
                  "Miss Cotton, excuse me, but it is both proper and desirable that we should come to a definite understanding. I have changed my mind, and concluded not to marry! This is my unalterable decision. We can never be more to each other than friends. I need scarcely say to you that I shall always wish you well. Don't suffer this trifling disappointment to cause you any unhappiness. You may feel badly for a little while, but the great physician, Time, will soon cure you. Now, consider, and look at this matter calmly-dispassionately. We are both poor, and, were we to marry, nothing but a life of poverty would be open before us. I, a young man without fortune, or brilliant prospects, hope to wed a lady of wealth; while you, although nothing but a poor factory girl, are possessed of beauty and accomplishments that may win the love of some rich man. Our remaining apart, you see, will be to the great advantage of us both, while our union would entail misery and hopeless poverty upon us. Love in a cottage is all very well in its way, no doubt; but I, for one, greatly prefer solid comfort in a palace. Tell me, Miss Cotton, as a rational woman, don't you think that our engagement should be cancelled!" 
                  No reply came from the lips of that forlorn and broken-hearted girl, whose fabric of happiness, reared by hope, and sustained by the strong prop of her own truthful love, had thus suddenly crumbled into dust, overwhelming and crushing her as it fell. She could not speak, but, burying her face in her hands, she moaned in all the agony of her lacerated spirit. A sense of complete desolation swept like an avalanche over her soul, forever destroying every green and flowery thing that had ever bloomed there, and producing a desert, dark, gloomy, and peopled only by images of sorrow and despair. 
                  "Answer me, Miss Cotton, if you please," said the immovable Cyrus, after a long pause, as he gently placed his hand upon the unhappy girl's shoulder, in order to arouse her from her seeming lethargy. 
                  Catharine slowly raised her face, which had assumed the hue or marble. The few moments of mental agony, which she had already endured, had done the work of years in changing her appearance, and Cyrus was almost frightened at the alteration. She gazed at the deceiver with the rigid look of a statue. No expression was in her face-neither surprise, nor reproach, nor sorrow, no rage. All was cold, calm, immovable as the face of the dead. Could she have wept, she might have experienced some relief; but the fountain of her sorrow was frozen, and she could not shed a single tear. 
                  "Can she be dying!" thought the alarmed Cyrus; "that would be really too bad. Poor soul! I actually pity her. She must have been very fond of me, much more so than I thought, as she exhibits such intense emotions on my informing her that I cannot marry her. Well, the worst pang is over now, and she'll soon recover her usual composure. I hate this sentimental interview, and shall make my escape from the house as soon as possible." 
                  This matter-of-fact young man-this hater of sentiment-whom, we presume, the reader admires as much as we do, now said to Catharine, in a loud and pompously benevolent tone,- 
                   
                  "Miss Cotton, you do not appear to be well. Shall I call for assistance? Perhaps I had better, as I wish to go, having a particular appointment to keep." 
                  Catharine struggled to break the spell that seemed to have thrown its frozen chains around her. In this, she only partially succeeded. Her pale lips moved, and Cyrus could see that she was vainly endeavoring to pronounce the word "go!" Her hands were clasped with convulsive energy over her heart, which felt to her as if it had been rent in twain. A wed by that pale and spectral figure, and frightened, in spite of himself, Cyrus left the room; and, having told the inmates of the house that Miss Cotton appeared to be very unwell, he precipitately departed from the premises, and hastened towards the elegant mansion occupied by Miss Templeton. 
                  Catharine was found by Miss Davis and others of her friends, lying upon the floor, in an insensible condition. Several weeks elapsed before she was able to sit up, and her illness, her despair, and the terrible disappointment which she had sustained, enlisted universal sympathy for her; while remarks were made, with reference to Cyrus and his conduct, that were not always complimentary. 
                  When Catharine had recovered her health sufficiently, she determined to leave Biddeford; for after she was abandoned by one upon whom all her affections were placed, it was to her like a deserted home, and therefore she left and went to Loweil, where she stayed a few weeks, and went to Lawrence. She remained at that place but a short time, and went to Manchester. But there, as at all other places where she lived, after the silver cord of her existence was broken, she could think of nothing but sorrow; clouds and thick darkness were continually about her. 
                  From Manchester she went to Lynn, hoping that a change of occupation might bring relief to her mental distress. But wounded affections, caused by the desertion of a lover almost at the bridal hour, cannot be healed by mere worldly cares, nor by diverting the mind by travel. About seven weeks before her tragical end, she returned to Manchester, unable to find peace anywhere. Then, for the first time, she became acquainted with Miss Clara C. Cockran; and, being possessed of kindred feelings upon one subject, the young ladies became intimate friends. 
                   
                  The following letter, written by Miss Cotton, and addressed to Cyrus --, Biddeford, Me, has been found; and its language is, to our mind, peculiarly simple, eloquent, and affecting: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 MANCHESTER, AUGUST 14, 1853.
                               
                              "I now, for the last time, will attempt to scribble you a few lines, and, ere these few lines reach you, I shall be sleeping in death. Think not that I shall ever trouble you again with a letter, for I shall not. No, this is the last. You will receive this with anger, perhaps; but, Cyrus, forgive me for troubling you. I have forgiven you long ago, but have not forgotten. I suppose you are in Biddeford now, happy and contented. I hope you are. As for myself, I am not happy, but in a few moments I shall be free from the sorrows of this world, and I cannot be more unhappy in another. When you read this, think that I am cold in death, and shall one day meet you in another world. So farewell, Cyrus; go and be happy, 
                              
                                 From your friend and well-wisher. 
                                 CATHARINE COTTON."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  Miss Cotton also left the following poetry, and a postscript, which gives a clue to her state of mind. These simple, unpretending effusions of her pen are far more touching than if they possessed all the polished elegance of the highest order of composition: 
                         
                           "Cyrus, dear Cyrus, 
                           It was for loving you 
                           That makes me so unhappy, 
                           For you have proved to me untrue. 
                        
                         
                           How many times you have promised 
                           That you would marry me, 
                           But how little did I think 
                           That I should ruined be. 
                        
                         
                           I know you have tried to ruin me, 
                           But now I'm far away, 
                           And, perhaps, we never shall meet again, 
                           Until the judgment day. 
                        
                         
                           I have strayed far from friends and home, 
                           You for to forget, 
                           But you are ever present, 
                           And you I think of yet. 
                        
                         
                           Now you and I are parted, 
                           Perhaps never in this world to meet, 
                           Remember there is a meeting, 
                           It will be at the Judgment Seat. 
                        
                        
                         
                           Pray, think how you have wronged me, 
                           And remember what you have said, 
                           And may it not escape your mind, 
                           When on your dying bed. 
                        
                         
                           And when our bodies, they are laid, 
                           Beneath the cold, cold cold, 
                           Our spirits will return unto 
                           A just and holy God. 
                        
                         
                           And then to be judged 
                           By the God that rules on high; 
                           The judgment's fast approaching- 
                           The Judge, he will not lie." 
                        
                     
                   
                  This is the postscript: 
                        "CYRUS:-Several months have elapsed since I saw you, and how many sad hours I have seen within that time, and I often think, O, that I had never seen you, for you have destroyed my happiness, I fear, forever. Now, while you are enjoying yourself in the gay world, remember that you have been the destroyer of one's happiness-one that loved you sincerely. If you had trested me as you should, you would have found in me a devoted friend. What is passed cannot be recalled. I am now far from those that I once prized as friends."
                     
                   
                  
                     Miss Clara C. Cochran was, at the time of her death, about nineteen years of age. She belonged to New Boston, and, for a time, lived with her brother at Hopkinton. She was, had she reached the age of twenty-one, to have come into possession of several thousands of dollars. She left behind her the following scrap of poetry, which, no doubt, expressed her feelings at the time of writing: 
                         
                           "I shall soon in death be sleeping, 
                           Far away, where strangers dwell- 
                           Far from all those haunts of pleasure 
                           That in youth I loved so well. 
                           Flowers shall not be o'er me planted. 
                           Nor shall willows o'er me wave: 
                           Marble columns, decked with grandeur, 
                           Ne'er shall deck my humble grave. 
                        
                         
                           Friends will shed no tears of sadness, 
                           When my dream of life is o'er, 
                           For around me all are strangers- 
                           I am on a distant shore. 
                           Hear me, then, O! friends of childhood, 
                           Hear an exile's dying prayer; 
                           When I soar to climes Elysian, 
                           Let me meet my loved one, there. 
                        
                        
                         
                           My heart now droops in loneliness- 
                           My misery's perfect now; 
                           For dark Despair his seal has stamp'd 
                           Upon my throbbing brow; 
                           No voices, in affection's tones, 
                           Upon my ears now fall: 
                           Alone I tread the path of life, 
                           I am the last of all. 
                        
                         
                           I would not have proud marble piled 
                           Above my grassy bed, 
                           One simple stone to mark the spot, 
                           And one to weep me dead. 
                        
                     
                   
                   
                  Miss Cochran, in early life, became strongly attached to a young man with whom she went to school. Although they did not see each other afterwards for six years, up to last March they kept up a regular and affectionate correspondence, begetting in her mind the belief that he was her lover, and would be her husband. It may be that the young man considered these letters merely as the offspring of friendship, and had no idea of ever marrying her. Last March, he wrote to her, saying, that she need not write to him again, until she received another letter from him. She, however, sent him several letters, which elicited no reply; and from the moment that the full conviction flashed upon her mind that she was abandoned, her life became desolate. "Hope deferred maketh the heart sad," and dreary, dreamy, almost unreal, were her hours after that conviction came upon her. Her tears were more bitter than those shed for the dead, and yet not so consoling. As she read, "do not write to me again," she seemed to lose all consciousness of who she was, and where she was, and the meaning of what she had read, reminding one of little Mary Lee: 
                         
                           "I put my hand upon my head, 
                           To think what it could mean; 
                           I knew I never had been dead, 
                           And come to life again. 
                        
                         
                           "'T was long before I understood 
                           The words that I had read; 
                           And then, an overwhelming flood 
                           Of burning tears I shed." 
                        
                     
                   
                   
                   
                  It was very natural that Catharine Cotton and Clara Cochran should have become warm and sympathizing friends. It is true that their cases were not precisely alike; yet there was a sufficient degree of similarity between them to unite the young ladies by the most tender, affectionate, and enduring ties. In private they mingled their tears together; and their poor bruised hearts may have derived some consolation from such interviews of mutual sorrows and sisterly love. They roomed together at No. 24 Manchester Corporation; and, secluding themselves as much as possible from society, they were almost constantly in each other's company. O, that must have been a dark, a dreadful hour, in which these two amiable and interesting young ladies, throwing themselves into each other's arms, and weeping bitterly, resolved to terminate their sorrows by resigning themselves to the icy embrace of death. The public mind, as is natural, is anxious to know the true cause of such strange, such tragical proceedings. Was it disappointed love? Was it shame for past acts? Or was it fear of bringing disgrace upon themselves and friends! A tattling, surmising, evil-minded class in community, simultaneously cry, the last. But we are authorized to say, and feel warranted in saying, that such surmises are all false. Disappointed love was the cause, and the only cause, that brought about such sad and fatal results. Not a late disappointment, but, in the case of one of them, wearing and preying upon the mind for some fourteen months, so that almost nightly her pillow was wet with tears. She (Miss Cotton) told Miss Davis that several times, once at Lowell, she went to the bank of the river to drown herself, but her courage failed her. Miss Cochran once, while she was at Fishersville, threatened to commit suicide by drowning, and repaired to the river for that purpose; but she was followed by some friends, and restrained. These facts show that both the unhappy young ladies, before they ever saw each other, had thought of committing the desperate act of suicide. 
                  On Sunday, three weeks before the commission of the double suicide, Miss Cotton and Miss Cochran remarked to their roommate, Miss Davis,- 
                  "We have made up our minds, and nothing on earth shall dissuade us from our purpose. In three weeks from to-day we shall die!" 
                  "Catharine-Clara!" said their friend, in a tone of mild reproof proof, "I know that you are only jesting; but then it is very wicked for you to speak so. Do not, if you love me, pain me by repeating such expressions. You must have been reading some romantic or melancholy book. Dismiss your sorrows, my dears, and look forward to brighter, happier days. You know it is said that the darkest hour comes just before the dawn of day." 
                  "We are perfectly serious, and mean just what we say, for we cannot bear the pain of living," rejoined the young ladies, seriously; and they persisted in saying that they were determined to put an end to their existence, but their remarks were not taken in earnest by any one. Their friends endeavored to cheer them up, but these well-meant efforts were all in vain; they grew more melancholy and solitary every day, and, in secret, deliberately prepared for the awful tragedy which they were determined to enact. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  LET us now, reader, pay another visit to Biddeford, Maine. There stands a splendid mansion, whose grand exterior denotes that it is the abode of aristocracy and wealth. It is approached by means of a noble avenue, bordered with lofty trees, whose spreading branches, meeting over head, form a vast green arch, through which the soft breeze rustles musically. This mansion is the home of Squire Templeton, an old gentleman of princely fortune; but he is an incurable invalid, and seldom or never leaves his chamber. With him resides his only daughter, Julia, a beautiful girl of eighteen, the sole heiress of her father's immense wealth. 
                  It was evening, and in a splendidly furnished parlor of Templeton Hall, as it was called, two persons were seated-a lady and gentleman. Not to keep the reader in suspense, we will state at once that the lady was Miss Julia Templeton, a creature of ravishing beauty, fully qualified to adorn the highest spheres of society, possessed of the rarest accomplishments, and dressed with exquisite taste. Altogether, it was no great wonder that Cyrus-the young man who had so basely deserted poor Catharine Cotton-had become ambitious to gain the hand and fortune of the heiress of Templeton Hall. 
                   
                  Julia's companion, as the reader has doubtless anticipated, was Cyrus himself. He, too, looked remarkably well, but his face indicated uneasiness, and, we may say, agitation. Was this the result of remorse for his heartless conduct with reference to poor Catharine? No; for he had almost, if not quite, forgotten that wronged and unfortunate creature. His discomfort proceeded from the unaccustomed coldness of Julia towards him. She had always treated him in a cordial manner, at least; and upon this occasion the coldness, the reserve, the aversion which she manifested towards him, utterly confounded him; for on that evening he had intended to make her an offering of his "heart and hand," as the common jargon goes. 
                  An awkward pause succeeded some common-place remark, and Cyrus at last ventured to say,- 
                  "Miss Templeton, will you not favor me with a little music this evening? An air or two on the piano, accompanied by the tones of your own unequalled voice, would oblige me much, and have a cheering effect upon my spirits, which are somewhat depressed." 
                  Cyrus, notwithstanding his coldness of heart, knew the softening influence of melody; he thought that, as "music is the food of love," its divine charm might possibly awaken in the heart of Miss Templeton emotions favorable to his hopes and aspirations. 
                  "When she has become warmed up a little," thought the cunning and fox-like young gentleman, "I will throw myself at her feet, and refuse to rise until she has consented to elect me to the position of husband, and the sharer of her fortune." 
                  Julia darted a rather contemptuous look at Cyrus, as she replied,- 
                  "I cannot grant your request, Sir." 
                  "You do not seem to be well, Julia, that is, Miss Templeton," said Cyrus, fearing that his familiarity might offend. 
                  "I am quite well in health," was the cold rejoinder. 
                  "Then you are low-spirited; something must have occurred to annoy you." 
                  "Something has occurred to annoy me," observed Julia, emphatically; "but do not question me further." 
                  Another awkward pause. Cyrus began to grow desperate, and said,- 
                  "Is my visit an intrusion, Miss Templeton? If so, I will retire." 
                   
                  Julia answered not; and as silence is supposed to imply consent, Mr. Cyrus began to arrive at the unpleasant conclusion that his absence would have been preferable to his company. 
                  "What the deuce ails her?" thought the perplexed and mortified young man; "she never treated me so before. She's got some crotchet into her head. I'll be sworn. Perhaps, after all, this is nothing but female coquetry. Now, of all things in the world, I do hate a coquette. To trifle with any person's affections is a despicable piece of business. Whatever may be the cause of Julia's conduct towards me to-night, I shall not retreat from the field of battle without making another effort to gain the victory. But what shall I say next? Her confounded coldness has completely frozen up my powers of speech. Let me reflect a little." 
                  Mr. Cyrus proceeded to reflect accordingly, while Julia traced out imaginary figures upon the rich Turkey carpet with the point of her delicate slipper. She was evidently laboring under a considerable degree of embarrassment; sometimes she seemed to be on the point of making an important observation to the aspiring youth, who was so ambitious to become her husband; then checking herself, she appeared to shrink from making the communication which occupied her thoughts. 
                  After a little while, a sudden, and, as he conceived, and exceedingly acute idea took possession of the mind of Cyrus, who said to himself,- 
                  "O, ho! I see it all now, and I was blind not to have seen it before. This excellent but weak-minded young female, whose wealth and personal qualities certainly entitle her to some consideration, having become tired of my bashfulness, and wishing to get married without any further delay, is affecting all this coldness and reserve merely to drive me into a declaration of love, and into a demand for her hand in matrimony. She thinks herself shrewd and sagacious; but her design is so transparent that I can easily see through it. I have before heard of such 'artful dodges' on the part of ladies who have been anxious to urge matters to a crisis. Why, Julia might have known that I am as anxious as she can possibly be for our union; and a few words of encouragement on her part, or a smile even, would have been quite as effective in bringing me to her feet as all this manuvring. However, women will be women all the world over, and I suppose that I must humor this whim. Now for a love scene, got up in the most approved style of delicate art." 
                  Reader, have you ever seen the "walking gentleman" of a comedy or farce, in the character of an ardent, impetuous, but impoverished lover? have you, we ask, ever seen that individual in the act of casting himself at the feet of a wealthy heiress, and imploring her, in piteous but honeyed accents, to bestow upon him just one look, one smile, one word, to assure him that his love was reciprocated, that he was not wholly an object of indifference to her, entreating her to murmur that little affirmative monosyllable that should render him the happiest of men; and warning her not to think of making a negative response, unless she desired to make him food for the fishes, or a suspended ornament from a beam; or, as we might say, a gentleman in the act of accomplishing an aerial hornpipe; declaring to her, upon his unsullied honor, that her wealth was no object to him, none at all; he merely being anxious to possess her person alone, to live exclusively upon her smiles as an article of diet, and so forth? If the reader has ever seen this, he or she can perhaps form something like an adequate idea of the manner in which the enthusiastic and disinterested Mr. Cyrus laid siege to the heart of Miss Julia Templeton. 
                  This young lady, with ill-concealed disgust-for she despised the theatrical manner in which her admirer was urging his unwelcome suit-requested Mr. Cyrus to rise; and Mr. Cyrus did rise, rather chopfallen it must be confessed; for Julia's tone and manner convinced him that he had made a failure, instead of a hit, and he felt painfully assured that he would never succeed remarkably well as an actor, especially if Miss Julia Templeton was to constitute his audience. 
                  "Let me hear no more such language," said the lady, with severity; for I will not listen to it." 
                  "Then you reject my proposals?" 
                  "Most decidedly." 
                  "May I inquire your reasons?" 
                  "You may, and I will answer you. In the first place, I never loved you, and never cherished towards you a warmer feeling than that of friendship. Your circumstances in life I do not at all regard; for, were you the possessor of millions, my sentiments with reference to you would be the same. I am entirely my own mistress tress; for my invalid father, having implicit confidence in my discretion, has often told me to marry the man of my choice, whoever he might be; and therefore, should I meet a man in the humblest circumstances, whom I might think capable of making me happy. I would unhesitatingly marry that man, provided, of course, that he would marry me, even if he were not worth a single penny in the world. Therefore, you see that neither parental restraint, not your own poverty, has anything to do with my rejection of your proposals. I have two other good and sufficient reasons for refusing to accept you as a lover." 
                  "Will you be pleased to name those two other good and sufficient reasons!" said Mr. Cyrus, in a tone of bitter mortification. 
                  Miss Templeton, who spoke with an energy and a decision that were among the most prominent elements of her character, replied,- 
                  "Certainly, sir. I have but to mention the name of Catharine Cotton, to remind you of-" 
                  "Ah!" interrupted Cyrus, "then you know all about that affair?" 
                  "Yes, I do know all about it, having just learned all the particulars of your desertion of that excellent girl, whose heart you have broken, and of whose death you will be the cause. Your heartless conduct towards her was related to me to-day, for the first time; had I known of it sooner, I would have told you that our acquaintance was at an end. I now inform you, sir, that hereafter your visits will not be received by me, and that you must not attempt to intrude your presence here again. I cannot endure the sight of a man who is capable of such baseness. Henceforth, and forever, we are strangers!" 
                  Trembling with suppressed rage and shame, Cyrus faltered out,- 
                  "Now for your other reason." 
                  "You shall have it, if you insist; but I warn you that it will not please you." 
                  "No matter, let me hear it." 
                  "Have you ever known such a person as Margaret Willford?" 
                  Cyrus started at the mention of that name. which painfully recalled to his recollection another poor girl whose heart he had broken. He replied, with assumed composure,- 
                  "Why, yes, I have heard of such a person. She was a factory-girl, who, being disappointed in some love affair, became insane, and has ever since been wandering about without any settled home. She is, I believe, known as Mag Wildfire. But what of her?" 
                  "What of her!" repeated Miss Templeton, bitterly, as, with flashing eyes and heaving bosom, she scornfully surveyed our discomfitcd hero, "can you ask 'what of her'-you, who disappointed her in that 'love affair,' to which you so carelessly allude-you, whose cruel desertion made her insane, and caused her to become a homeless wanderer? Your agitated countenance proclaims your guilt. I will tell you 'what of her.' That poor, forsaken creature is dead!" 
                  "Dead!" echoed Cyrus, as for a moment-but only for a moment-a feeling of pity took up its unaccustomed abode within his icy breast. 
                  "Yes, poor Margaret is dead," said Miss Templeton, who was now profoundly affected, and from whose brilliant eyes the tear drops fell bright as the gems that adorn the robes of an angel; "her sorrows are over, and she has gone to a world where her poor bruised spirit will be healed, and made supremely happy by the Redeemer's smiles. Listen to me, and I will tell you how she ended her weary earthly pilgrimage. A few days ago, I was taking a walk not far from here, when, in the course of my rambles, I accidentally discovered a sort of cave, which I entered. Judge of my surprise, when I found, stretched upon a heap of dried leaves, the emaciated form of a young female, who was clothed in rags, and who was evidently not long for this world. Full of sympathy and pity for the unfortunate creature, whose faded countenance still exhibited the impress of beauty, I asked her a few questions, which she answered with extreme difficulty, for her system was completely prostrated by her life of privation and suffering. She was perfectly rational, and replied to me with clearness. Informing me that her name was Margaret Willford, she related a few of the events of her life, and then I became aware that she was the poor crazy Mag Wildfire, of whom I had often heard, but whom I had never before seen, although I had frequently attempted to procure an interview with her, for the purpose of administering to her comfort. I had heard that her troubles arose from her having been abandoned by a man upon whom she had placed her affections; but I had never suspected that you were the cause of her deplorable condition. Feeling a deep interest in her, and being much affected by her artless tale, I caused her to be removed as speedily as possible, to this house, where she was immediately provided with every comfort. A skilful physician was sent for, and every effort was made to revive the spark of life, which was fast dying out. But her system had received too severe a shock to admit of her recovery. Up to the very moment of her death, her reason remained unclouded. Just before she died, and while her head was pillowed on my bosom, she faintly whispered your name, Cyrus, and said that she freely forgave you; and then I knew, for the first time, that you were the author of her misfortunes. May Heaven forgive you, Cyrus, as she did! Her gentle spirit passed away like a summer cloud-and she is happy now!" 
                  "Where is she buried?" inquired Cyrus, in a hoarse whisper, which proclaimed that even his hard heart was a little softened by this touching recital. 
                  "She died but yesterday afternoon, and her remains have not yet been consigned to the tomb," replied Miss Templeton, mournfully; "would you behold, for the last time, the face of her who once loved you so well? Follow me, then." 
                  Cyrus would gladly have declined this invitation, but some mysterious and irresistible influence urged him to follow Miss Templeton into the adjoining room, where his eyes encountered a spectacle that caused his heart to stand still within his breast. 
                  In the centre of the apartment, on a table, was a mahogany coffin partly covered with a sable pall. Several wax candles were burning on the table, and shed a ghostly light upon every object in that chamber of death. Seated at the head of the coffin, was an old and faithful servant, who had been appointed to watch the corpse during the night. 
                  The most profound silence, and an air of deepest solemnity, prevailed in the room, which seemed to contain the visible presence of the King of Terrors. 
                  "Her funeral will take place to-morrow morning, and she will be buried in our family burial-place," whispered Miss Templeton, as she glided to the coffin, and removed the pall that covered the face of the dead. 
                  Cyrus gazed long and fixedly upon those pale and delicate features, which seemed to have been restored to all their pristine beauty, as if Death, in striking, down his victim, had kindly obliterated every trace of hardship and sorrow from her face, and left there all the loveliness of an angel. A smile rested upon her pallid lips, like a sunbeam upon snow; and no one who gazed upon that screne smile, and those placid features, could help believing that the spirit which had once inhabited that frail tenement of clay was then in heaven. 
                  "Poor Margaret!" murmured Cyrus, after a long pause, during which he had stood over the coffin, with folded arms and moistened eyes; and a sigh came up from the depths of his bosom-a sigh which indicated that remorse and sorrow had achieved, at least, a temporary victory over his hard, unyielding nature. 
                  The scene was a very imposing and striking one, as dimly revealed by the lights of the unsnuffed candles. The corpse and the paraphernalia of death-the old gray-haired servant, who sat as motionless as the corpse itself-Julia Templeton, with her pale, but gloriously beautiful countenance, and soul speaking eyes-the form of Cyrus, who stood in the attitude of a culprit-all these combined to form a scene that would have deeply impressed an observer, especially if he had been acquainted with all the peculiarly distressing circumstances of the case. 
                  "Let this be a lesson to you, Cyrus; and remember that a woman's heart is too delicate an organ to be trifled with. Had you been kind and constant to this poor girl, who now lies here, cold in death, she might at this moment have been alive, well, and happy. Cyrus, I have no harsh feelings against you, whatever; but it is my wish that I may never behold you again. Go, sir; the world is wide enough for us both. I trust that you may be prosperous and happy, and that you never may experience the pangs of disappointed love, nor the anguish of a broken heart. Farewell, forever." 
                  Cyrus went forth from the young lady's presence, and left the house, with feelings which he had never before experienced, and which we have not the power to describe. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  THE remains of poor Margaret Willford were consigned to the tomb, and many were the tears shed by compassionate eyes on account of her melancholy fate. 
                  Before dismissing Miss Templeton from these pages, it may gratify our readers to know that she has just been united in marriage to a worthy young man, after a short courtship. The young man was poor, but he possessed many shining qualities, which attracted the attention, and won the admiration, and then the love, of the elegant and brilliant heiress, who, in accordance with her intention of marrying the man of her choice, no matter how poor he might be, bestowed her hand and her fortune upon Mr. Ray, with the entire consent and approval of her father. The manner in which the young couple became acquainted was quite singular. Mr. Ray, who was a common mechanic, happened to be employed, by Squire Templeton, to make some repairs about his mansion. While thus engaged, the young workman attracted the notice of Miss Templeton, who could not help admiring his manly beauty, which shone even through the coarse, rough garb of the mechanic. She was also pleased with his industry, his skill, his good-humored cheerfulness, and his perfectly respectful deportment. On entering into conversation with him, the young lady was surprised and delighted to find that his intellect was of the very highest order, and that he possessed an excellent education, which he had acquired by self-application. He was exceedingly well informed on almost every subject, and the splendidly accomplished Julia Templeton found him a match for her, and thought that she had never enjoyed the society of a more congenial companion. Mr. Ray regarded the superbly beautiful girl with a feeling of positive adoration, and, when he was in her presence, it seemed to him as if he were holding communion with an angel. The idea of ever becoming the husband of that peerless creature, of possessing the legal right to press that glowing and voluptuous form to his throbbing heart, and to banquet upon the nectar of those rosy lips, where lingered the perfume of a thousand flowers-that bold idea never entered the mind of Mr. Ray, and, if it had, be would have scouted it as the offspring of a madman's brain; for would she, a young, lovely, accomplished, and rich lady, occupying the very highest rank in society-she, who might reasonably have aspired to an alliance with the noblest gentleman on earth-she, whom he regarded as almost belonging to a superior order of beings-would she descend from her high estate so far as to wed a poor carpenter, whose sole dependence was on the labor of his hands, which were hardened by toil? Preposterous thought! 
                  "Ah!" said poor Mr. Ray to himself, with a sigh that came up from the very bottom of his heart, "poverty may be no disgrace, but it is certainly very inconvenient, and it becomes a curse when it debars me from the enjoyment of the greatest earthly felicity I ever dreamed of! Now, if I were the owner of a few piles of paltry yellow gold, I could woo, and perhaps win, that glorious creature, whose angel presence thrills my heart with a strange rapture, and whose voice, with its exquisite melody, lingers around me even now. I wish that I had never seen her, for she has destroyed my happiness forever. Did ever a sculptor, or a painter, or a poet, in their moments of inspiration, conceive of a being so ravishingly beautiful as Julia Templeton? No, that were impossible! What eyes she has-lustrous as stars; what cheeks-glowing with the hues of a ripened peach; what lips-like "wet coral"; and then her hair, which falls in such rich masses upon her neck and shoulders of dazzling whiteness! I can scarcely look at her, without feeling as if my heart were about to leap out of my bosom; and I fancy that she sees my emotion, and pities me on account of my hopeless passion, for she is goodness itself. The qualities of her mind are not inferior to the graces of her person. She seems to combine the most masculine learning with every feminine accomplishment. There is a nameless charm in her conversation, that holds me as if spell-bound; and then how kind and condescending she is towards me! Why, she treats me as if I were her equal in every respect. Well, to-morrow I shall finish my job of work, which I have protracted until I can do so no more; and then I must pack up my tools, and bid an eternal farewell to Julia, who will forget me before a single hour has passed. But shall I ever forget her? Never-never!" 
                  This soliloquy will show Mr. Ray's feelings with refer ence to Julia Templeton. The next day, the young carpenter reluctantly completed his job of work; and, with a heavy heart, he repaired to the library of Squire Templeton, for the purpose of receiving his pay. The Squire, by the way, is a fine specimen of the "gentleman of the old school"; his countenance indicates benevolence, and a love for the good things of this world; but, alas! that infernal plague of the generous liver-the gout-has crippled him, so that he can scarcely move; and he is obliged to be wheeled in his chair, from one room to another, by a stout servant. 
                  Having paid the mechanic most liberally, the Squire said,- 
                  "You have done your work well, sir, and I thank you. Whenever I need the services of a carpenter, I shall be happy to employ you. Help yourself to a glass of brandy; there stands the decanter, on the table. Excuse me on account of not rising, for I am a cripple. The devil take the gout! that last twinge nearly wrenched my leg off!" 
                  "I am sincerely obliged to you for your kindness, sir," said Ray, respectfully, "but I never drink." 
                  "Ha! you are a temperance man, then?" 
                  "I am proud to say that I am. I never drank a glass of liquor in my life, and never intend to. My father died a drunkard, but I am determined that his son shall never come to such an end." 
                  "Give me your hand, sir. I respect a man, no matter what he is, whose conduct is based upon principle. You are a fine young fellow, sir, and I like you. Are you married?" 
                  "I am not, sir." 
                  "Ah, that is a thousand pities. A bachelor is a miserable dog, while matrimony is the greatest blessing in the world. I have been through the mill, as the saying is, and know all about it. You should select some fine girl for a wife, to comfort and take care of you, and hand down your name to posterity. You are a good looking fellow, and almost any girl would be glad to have you. But perhaps you can't find one exactly to your liking-eh?" 
                  "I have found one exactly to my liking," observed Ray, with a sad smile. 
                  "Then why the devil don't you marry her?" demanded the good-humored Squire, whose constant confinement made him delight in conversation. 
                   
                  "Because, sir," replied Ray, seriously, "I do not believe that she cares a single straw about me; and, another thing, she is very rich, while I have hardly a dollar in the world." 
                  "Bah!" cried the bluff old Squire, "what matters if she is rich? You're as good as she is, I'll be sworn; and I'm quite certain that she does care about you. Take my advice, young man, and make her marry you without any delay."- 
                  "But, sir, she has a father who might possibly object to the arrangement." 
                  The Squire snapped his fingers derisively, and exclaimed,-'A fig for her father! What do you care for him? Pay no attention whatever to the old fellow, but run off with the daughter, if necessary, and make her bone of your bone, and flesh of your flesh. That's the way I did with my wife, who is now dead and gone, poor soul! Her father objected, to me, and so I eloped with the girl. The old man soon forgave us and all was right. Follow my example, young man." 
                  "I will think of it, sir," said Ray, as he took his leave of the old gentleman, who little suspected that he had been strongly advising the youth to run away with, and marry, his own daughter. 
                  The carpenter could not help smiling, as he thought of the amusing scene that had just taken place; but his merriment was of short, duration, for he reflected that now, in all probability, he was about to part forever from the idol of his soul. As he passed down the stairs, he looked eagerly into every apartment, in the hope of obtaining a glimpse of Julia Templeton; but she was nowhere to be seen. Ray sighed deeply, as he left the house, and entered the magnificent garden that was situated in the rear of it. This garden, which was of great extent, was full of flowers and ornamental trees, and contained many classical statues, fountains, and arbors. Our "love-sick swain" strode along one of the gravelled walks; and, as he approached an arbor, he was delighted to see it occupied by Julia, who was seated in a listless attitude, holding in her hand a book which she was not reading; although her eyes were fixed upon its pages, her thoughts were elsewhere. 
                  Ray thought that she had never looked so charming, as upon the present occasion. A single white rose was carelessly entwined amid her luxuriant tresses, and a plain white dress, wholly without ornament, revealed, to the very best advantage, all the graces of her form. 
                  She looked up, when she heard the sound of Ray's approaching footsteps, and greeted him with a radiant smile of welcome. He returned her cordial salutation in an embarrassed manner, and said,- 
                  "I am sorry to be obliged to bid you farewell, Miss Templeton, for my work is finished. I regret to go, very much, for you have been very kind to me, and I feel that I am about to lose, forever, a true friend. Farewell, and may you be happy!" 
                  "Mr. Ray," said the young lady, with that charming frankness, that adorable candor, for which she was ever distinguished, "do not be in a hurry, but sit down here in this agreeable shade. Let us converse freely; I am sure that you will not misinterpret my motives. I confess that you have inspired me with a deep and abiding interest in you; and I regret, for your own sake-but only for your own sake, remember-that fortune has not, in a pecuniary sense, bestowed her favors upon you with more profusion. Yet you possess personal and mental advantages which should reconcile you to a lack of wealth. O! what is gold, compared with worth-with intellect-with education-with the sacred pleasures of friendship, and the celestial joys of love!" 
                  Miss Templeton's enthusiasm had hurried her into the use of language which, in her cooler moments, she would have considered indiscreet. She checked herself, cast down her eyes, and blushed deeply. Ray looked at her with surprise; but not for a single moment did he doubt the angel purity of that elegant creatures, whose bosom now heaved with the agitation produced by her own chaste, but ardent emotions. 
                  A delicious hope began to arise within the heart of the young mechanic; and he said, softly,- 
                  "Pray, proceed, Miss Templeton; your words are like balm to my despairing soul!" 
                  Julia recovered her ordinary composure, and looking up with a frank smile, she said,- 
                  "I see that we perfectly understand each other, Mr. Ray. There are many congenial points between us, and it is natural that we should like each other. There is no impropriety in that. So let us be friends, let us be like brother and sister. You are poor, and I am rich; but need that insignificant circumstance separate us? Let us see each other frequently, and continue to derive instruction and amusement from each other's conversation and society. Does not this arrangement please you? Don't you think that I am a very singular young lady, to talk in this free and open manner? Well, I confess that I am singular, and I glory in it, for I despise the hackneyed forms and customs of the world. I am a decided original; and, so long as I am assured of being right, I care nothing for the opinions of other people. The world may frown, and shake its head, and shrug its shoulders, but it shall not frighten me into the abandonment of any line of conduct I may choose to adopt. My father will approve of our friendship, for he resembles me exactly." 
                  The mechanic, carried away by the violence of his feelings, could not help saying,- 
                  "Ah, Miss Templeton! I wish to Heaven that you were as poor as I am!" 
                  "That is a strange wish," observed the young lady, with an arch smile, "pray, what prompts it?" 
                  Mr. Ray, with the courage of a hero-knowing that "faint heart never won fair lady,"-threw himself at the feet of the beautiful heiress, and in burning, passionate and eloquent language, poured forth the story of his love. We shall not dwell upon this scene; suffice it to say, that the young man acquitted himself remarkably well, because he felt just what he uttered. And what reply did Julia Templeton make? That we conceive to be none of our business; but we feel bound to state, as a faithful chronicler of the truth, that a very few moments after Mr. Ray had "finished his speech," he was seated by the side of Miss Julia, with his arm around the waist of that young lady, whose head rested confidingly and affectionately upon his shoulder, and whose conntenance proclaimed the intense happiness that filled her soul. 
                  "The course of true love" did run smooth in this instance, at least. Squire Templeton readily gave his consent to the marriage of the lovers, saying, as he turned towards Mr. Ray,- 
                  "Well, sir! you have followed my example with a vengeance! But I am very well satisfied, and I hope that you and Julia won't quarrel more than half-a-dozen times before the honey-moon is over. There, go and make love, and let me enjoy my afternoon's nap!" 
                   
                  The marriage ceremony was performed without delay, much to the astonishment and dissatisfaction of the neighboring gossips, who declared that no good could possibly spring from such an "ill-assorted union." Heedless of all this, Mr. and Mrs. Ray, accompanied by Squire Templeton, removed to New York, where they now reside in an elegant "up-town" mansion, surrounded by all the comforts and blessings which wealth and virtue can give. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  EVERYTHING throwing light upon the last hours of Miss Cotton and Miss Cochran, or tending to show what contributed to their melancholy fate, is read by the community with great avidity. A thousand and one stories are in circulation, most of them having no foundation on fact, and calculated to injure the feelings of the friends of the two unfortunate young ladies, whose sudden, deliberate, self-possessed act of taking their own lives, has caused such a sensation in our midst. 
                  The statements which we give, were made to us by Miss Davis, in the presence of two other ladies, one of whom was also a room mate of Miss Cotton and Miss Cochran, and all three of whom saw them when they committed the fatal deed. 
                  Miss Cotton, as we have before intimated, was a particular friend of Miss Davis, with whom she has conversed freely about these matters for a year or two past, and in whose company she was during the greater portion of that memorable Sunday. Catharine left all her affairs in the charge of her friend, declaring her intention of drowning herself; but Miss Davis did not believe she was in earnest until she saw her jump into the fatal stream. 
                  Catharine left a letter for her father, and another for her sister, bidding them adieu, and stating that she should not be alive when they received the letters, which contained a small sum of money, (fifteen dollars,) and which we here present to the reader. 
                  To her father she wrote thus:- 
                   
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "Dear Father:-While your eyes are scanning these few lines, your unhappy daughter will be lying cold in death. This is to bid you farewell, and to hope that we may meet in another and a better world. I, and a chosen companion, have concluded to quit together a world which has nothing in store for us, but sorrow and grief. We have both been disappointed in love, and both of us are broken-hearted. Forgive me, my father, for this rash step; you may condemn my conduct, and the world will judge me harshly, but no one is aware of the distress of mind that drives me to self-destruction. If you ever see Cyrus, tell him that I forgive him, and that with my dying breath I blessed him. Farewell, kindest, best of fathers; never again on earth shall you behold your unhappy daughter, 
                              
                                 CATHARINE."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  The reception of this letter naturally filled the heart of the father with grief and consternation. Who could have helpe I compassionating that sorrowing parent, in the dark hour of his affliction? 
                  To her sister Catharine wrote the following letter: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "DEAREST SISTER:-I am going to write you a very long letter, but you must not complain, for it is the last one which you will ever receive from me. My earthly career, which commenced under such a bright sky of promise, it about to close in gloom and darkness. Start not, but read this calmly to the end. Do you not remember, when we were little girls together, how often we used to wander away into the depths of the shadowy forest, to listen to the music of the birds, to gather wild flowers, and to talk of the future years of happiness which we supposed ourselves destined to enjoy, when we should become grown-up women? Ah, my sister, those golden hours of my innocent childhood were full of felicity, and, as I think of them now, the tears come into my eyes, and almost blind me. Those dreams of happiness have not been fulfilled, for the fondest hopes of my life have been blasted, my loving heart has been rent in twain, and here I now stand, a trembling soul upon the shores of the vast, mysterious ocean of eternity! Pray for me, my sister, pray that my spirit's shattered bark may be safely guided to that screne land where sorrow is unknown, and where angel music soothes the wearied soul. Yes, I have fully made up my mind to die by my own free, voluntary set; and, while your tearful eyes are perusing this, my lifeless body will be an object to be gazed at by curious and unmoved spectators. You know very well the cause of this suicide, for my former letters have explained everything to you. I have been deceived and abandoned by the idol of my love, and existence has become a burden, which I am desirous of shaking off. Desperate diseases require desperate remedies, it is said; an I my distress can only be alleviated by death. Poor Clara Cochran, whom I have so often written to you about, intends to be my companion to the spirit-land, "where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest." Clara, like myself, is a victim of disappointed love, a young man, from whom she had been accustomed to receive affectionate letters, and whom she regarded as her lover, abruptly terminated the correspondence, and broke poor Clara's heart. She is a sweet girl, nineteen years of age, while I, you know, am twenty-two. I have tried to dissuade her from joining me in this terrible business; but she is resolved. She is determined to go with me down into the dark valley. After my death, people may assert that I was insane. I wish it to be distinctly understood, that such is not the case. While I write these lines, which I do with a steady hand, my pulse is as firm and regular, and my brain is as clear as ever they were. I send you a lock of my hair, to keep as a memento of me. I have just written a short letter to father, informing him of my intention, and bidding him farewell. And now, in conclusion, dearest sister, let me entreat you not to grieve too much on account of my sad fate; and may you never know such pangs as I have suffered. Give my love to all our friends, and tell them not to weep for me when I am gone, but rather to rejoice, for I shall be released from all the anguish of spirit which I have endured. Farewell, my sister! and in future years, when you are happy-surrounded, perhaps, by a troop of rosy children, and made the joyous recipient of a husband's tender love-then sometimes think of poor 
                              
                                 CATHARINE."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  The reader will acknowledge that the foregoing letter is a most beautiful and touching one; and no literary lady who contributes to the pages of our fashionable magazines, could surpass the poor factory-girl, in the eloquence with which she depicts the miseries of a broken heart. We have reason to believe that the false Cyrus also received a most affecting letter from Catharine; and we regret that it is not in our power to give that letter to the world. 
                  Clara Cochran, on the day of her death, addressed the following the letter to the young gentleman whose coldness and indifference were the cause of her mental distress, and fatal resolution to put a period to her existence: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 MANCHESTER, N. H., Sunday, August 14th, 1853.
                               
                              "I write you this letter, and thereby disobey your request, for the last time. This evening I am going to die. You will not care-you will not even weep-no tear will dim your eye on account of poor Clara-no sigh will arise from your bosom; you may perhaps smile and say, 'She was a foolish, an infatuated girl.' You will also say, 'I never gave her any encouragement to believe that I loved her, or intended to marry her. My letters were merely those of friendship; and, when I found that she was becoming affectionate, like an honorable man I immediately discontinued the correspondence, instead of taking advantage of her strong partiality for me.' This you will say when I am gone. Well, be it so. I write not this to reproach you, but to bid you farewell, forever. I hope you may always be happy, and select a bride whom you may consider worthy of you. As for myself, I am in a few hours to become the bride of death, and the cold grave will be my nuptial couch. Oh, my dear --, (for I must call you so once more), could you not see that your kind letters were calculated to make a lasting impression upon my poor susceptible heart? Why did you not cease writing to me before you had excited my tender regard-why did you tamper with the happiness of my life? I must give vent to my feelings, even at the risk of arousing your displeasure but I do not think that you can be very angry with me, for, while you are alive and happy, I shall be food for worms. Excuse any wrong expressions which I may make, for I am only a poor girl, having no knowledge of the world. My world would have been a quiet, happy home, and I should not have cared how humble it might be, if that dear one, whom I so fondly love, even at this moment, were with me, to cheer me with his ever-welcome presence-to warm my heart with his beaming smile-to delight my ears with the music of his voice-to say to me, 'Clara, I love thee." But this was not to be. That happiness would have been too great for me. I am doomed to die a disappointed, a broken-hearted girl. Life can afford me no further enjoyment, and therefore I am about to relinquish it. And yet I tremble as I approach 'that dread bourne from whence no traveller returns.' What is to come hereafter? Is not the act of suicide a terrible-an unpardonable crime? Will it not be punished by eternal banishment from Heaven! I ask myself these questions, but I am unable to answer them. Nothing, however, shall induce me to give up my determination. *   *   *  Oh! it is hard, after all, to leave this bright, beautiful world, with its green fields, its sunny skies, its million avenues of pleasure and enjoyment, which are open to those who are light hearted-it is hard to exchange such a world for the darksome tomb! But I must go! I must nerve my heart up to a great pitch of courage, to enable me to perform this act of self-destruction. I must not let another rising sun find me in the land of the living. But you are perhaps impatient for me to conclude this unwelcome letter. I must at all events close now, for I have preparations to make for my self-sacrifice. Let not my death cast a shadow o'er your life-forget me, and be happy. 
                              
                                 CLARA."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  This letter will show that Miss Cochran possessed literary abilities of a very respectable order. She was frequently in the habit of beguiling her leisure hours by writing compositions, both in poetry and prose. Some of these productions she caused to be published in different magazines and newspapers. As everything connected with her must be of interest to the reader, we will here insert a piece of poetry written by her a year or two ago. It is entitled- 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              THE FRIENDS OF OUR YOUTH. 
                               
                                 The friends of our youth have departed, 
                                 No longer their voices we hear; 
                                 The joyous, the gay, the fond-hearted 
                                 Have closed their short earthly career; 
                                 No more shall we listen in gladness 
                                 To their footsteps, so lightsome and free- 
                                 They have left us in sorrow and sadness, 
                                 To sleep 'neath the cypress tree! 
                               
                               
                                 Alas! that the music of voices 
                                 Of those that are dear should be hush'd; 
                                 That the heart, which in fond hope rejoices, 
                                 By the cold hand of death shou'd be crush'd; 
                                  
                                 That the flowers of beauty should languish, 
                                 Depriv'd of their sweetness and bloom- 
                                 Bright gladness give way to cold anguish, 
                                 Joyous earth to the darksome sad tomb! 
                               
                               
                                 The friends of our youth-ah, what sweetness 
                                 Doth dwell in that beautiful sound! 
                                 When Time, on the wings of his fleetness, 
                                 Shall scatter his frosts all around, 
                                 Still, still shall the fond recollection 
                                 Fill our hearts with its freshness and truth, 
                                 Of those objects of early affection- 
                                 The long-cherished friends of our youth!" 
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  How melancholy is the reflection that the authoress of these lines, while in the very flower of her youth, descended, of her own accord, to the "darksome, sad tomb!" 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  WE now approach the denouement of the appalling tragedy-the closing scene in the lives of Catharine Cotton and Clara Cochran. 
                  During the week before the commission of the fatal deed, they did not mention the subject to any one, and seemed to act as if they had forgotten it. 
                  On Sunday, one said to the other- 
                  "I did not speak of our drowning during the week, because I wanted to leave your mind uninfluenced by anything I might say." 
                  The other responded- 
                  "I have been silent about it for the very same reason." 
                  Miss Cochran worked on a dress until a late hour on Saturday evening, and on Sunday they both appeared as usual till nearly noon, when they began to pack their trunks. 
                  After dinner, they devoted most of their time to writing letters and giving directions about their affairs, seeming all the time to be in such good spirits, that no serious apprehensions were felt by Miss Davis or others, who had received intimation of what they had said and done. They ate a hearty supper, and seemed to be in a cheerful frame of mind, until they went up stairs for the last-time. Then a friend said to them, good-naturedly- 
                  "You foolish girls, what do you think now of drowning your-selves? I have a great mind to give you both a good scolding, for talking such nonsense. Don't you think you deserve it?" 
                  Catharine and Clara both burst into tears, and, for some time, remained apparently lost in thought. 
                  Miss Cotton gave Miss Davis three letters, and asked her to put them into the post-office the next morning, and also gave her labels for her trunks and boxes, showing where they were to be sent. 
                  A little after dusk, Catharine and Clara came down stairs, dressed in white. Miss Davis and another lady asked them to go out and walk, thinking that thereby their minds might be diverted from the subject, which had become so awful. They refused rather coldly, and, leaving the house, walked quietly around the corner and up the street towards the canal, which was but a few rods off. They proceeded hand in hand, and with great apparent cheerfulness, to the bridge crossing the upper canal, leading to the Manchester Mills. 
                  Miss Davis and two other friends, feeling a little uneasy, thought they would follow after at a distance. They did so, and, upon inquiry, found that the two young ladies had gone up a short street, and turned to the left towards the canal bridge. They followed as fast as they could, and had just got to the bridge, when they saw Catharine and Clara hurrying to the side of the canal, some three rods above, and leap into the water together, without a word, or a scream, or a particle of hesitation. The act was seen by several persons, and the alarm was instantly given. Miss Cochran sunk to the bottom, and was not again seen until her body was taken out, three quarters of an hour afterwards. Miss Cotton sunk and then arose, gave a gurgling sound, and floated down the canal. Great excitement was instantly created, and a young man, named James Hall, boldly jumped in and caught her by the dress as she was sinking again; but she was so heavy, and he so light, that he was not able to save her. Boards and rails were thrown to her after she came up a second time, and though they came within her reach, she made no effort to touch them. She was taken out in about ten minutes, and every effort to resuscitate her failed. 
                   
                  
                      
                        "One more unfortunate, 
                        Weary of breath, 
                        Rashly importunate, 
                        Gone to her death. 
                     
                      
                        Take her up tenderly, 
                        Lift her with care, 
                        Fashion'd so slenderly, 
                        Young and so fair?" 
                     
                   
                   
                  Thus perished these two interesting and most unfortunate young women; and it must be a hard heart indeed, that can deny the tribute of a tear to their memory. May their sad fate convey a useful lesson; may it teach thoughtless young men to beware how they trifle with the affections of loving and tender-hearted women; and may it be the means of urging the latter class to bear up under disappointment, and never yield to despair, for, as the hymn says, "There is no sorrow that Heaven cannot heal." 
                  The body of Miss Cochran was carried to Grafton, Vt., on Monday, (the day after the suicide,) under the charge of Mr. John T. Moore. She was born in New Boston, but requested to be buried by the side of her mother, at Grafton, where some of her relatives reside. Her funeral took place on Tuesday morning, at 9 O'clock, at the house of Jonathan Sherwin, and was attended by a large concourse of people. John H. Sherwin, the person to whom she wished her property to be given, was present at the funeral. Miss Cochran was of an excellent family, and had a superior education; and her melancholy death causes deep sorrow. Her father and mother both died of consumption; and she formerly had the impression that such would be her fate. 
                  We are tempted to give another specimen of this young lady's poetical abilities. The following was found among her papers, after her death:- 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "THE EXILE'S LAMENT. 
                               
                                 "O, talk not to me of the beauties of spring, 
                                 Or the pleasing enjoyment of summer's gay hours 
                                 Of the warbling of birds, as they joyously sing 
                                 On the leaf-covered branches of nature's green bowers- 
                                 Of evening's soft twilight, of bright rosy morn, 
                                 As it comes in its glory o'er valley and hill; 
                                 Of the emerald mantle that carpets the lawn, 
                                 Or the sweet, gentle sound of the murmuring rill! 
                               
                               
                               
                                 "Sad, lone, and forsaken, an outcast on earth, 
                                 Far from the loved scenes of my childhood I roam; 
                                 An exile I am from the land of my birth, 
                                 Bereft of friends, kindred, and dearly-loved home; 
                                 No more shall the accents of love in my ear, 
                                 To my care-stricken breast consolation impart, 
                                 Nor shall the kind voices of those I hold dear 
                                 Shed comfort and peace o'er my sad, broken heart!" 
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                   
                  We envy not the feelings of Cyrus, with reference to the fate of Catharine Cotton. He must, as long as he lives, reproach himself for having been the cause of her untimely death. We have, throughout this narrative, dealt as lightly with him as possible, and have by no means depicted his conduct in as strong colors as we might have done. Our motives have been most disinterested and honest, for it has been our sole object to lay before the public a true statement of all the facts connected with the affair, in order that justice may be done to the memory of the deceased. 
                  The young man, whose indifference was the cause of Clara Cochran's death, was far less to blame than Cyrus, in our opinion; for we have no evidence that he ever engaged to marry Clara. It may be that he merely corresponded with the young lady as a friend; and that, on discovering her increasing tenderness towards him, he deemed it advisable, and necessary to secure his own happiness, that the growing intimacy should be broken off at once. We charitably hope that such was the cause, and that he had no idea of the depth and intensity of Clara's love for him. He must have been terribly shocked when he heard of her melancholy end. 
                  From a journal kept by Catharine Cotton, we take the following interesting extracts. We omit dates, as being unnecessary:- 
                  "Last evening I attended a very agreeable party, at which many of the factory-girls were present. A beautiful time we had of it, with music, dancing, and other innocent enjoyments. How superior are such simple, harmless amusements, to the pursuits of the wicked! Innocent pleasures leave no sting behind them, while guilty joys result in sorrow and remorse. I had the satisfaction of becoming acquainted with Mr. Cyrus-, a young man of prepossessing appearance and superior address. I took quite a fancy to him, and he paid me particular attention, complimenting me on my good looks, and assuring me that he never flattered. Indeed, I am vain enough to believe that I did look remarkably well; for I wore a new silk dress, bought by the proceeds of my own industry. I am poor, and work hard, it is true, but then a clear conscience, and bright hopes of future felicity, render me very happy. I would not change places with the richest lady, who has not purity and virtue on her side. But I sat down, not to moralize, but to keep a journal of events. When the party broke up, Mr. --, accompanied me home, and asked permission to see me again, requesting that we might be friends I assented, and we separated. How strange that I should have dreamed of this young man last night! He has certainly made a deep impression upon me. How natural it is for the heart to seek some object upon which to bestow its love! But, do I already love Mr. --, whom I have seen but once in my life, and of whose character I know nothing? I certainly feel very strangely about him, and long to see him again!" 
                   
                  "I have seen him again, for the second time, and much as I like him after our first interview, I find that he improves upon acquaintance. We went together to the concert, to hear the Hutchinsons sing, and their simple, touching melodies deeply affected me, and moistened my eyes with tears. On our way home, Cyrus-I prefer calling him by that familiar name-talked in a manner that made my heart beat almost audibly. His language was strictly proper and respectful, yet he spoke of love, and the blessings of matrimony, in a very pointed and significant manner. How I blushed and trembled-he speaks with such eloquence! When we parted, he pressed my hand, and-shall I write it?-kissed my cheek, and my tongue had not the power of reproving him. I am to accompany him to, meeting next Sabbath. How happy I am!-but shall I always be so?" 
                   
                  "This is Sunday evening, ten O'clock. I am writing in my chamber; my room mate is fast asleep, and all is still, yet I am so deeply agitated that I can scarcely hold my pen. My agitation, however, is of a pleasurable character. Cyrus has just left me-we parted in the garden. I went to meeting with him this afternoon. After meeting, we took a long walk, during which Cyrus frankly told me that he loved me, and asked me to become his wife. His declaration and proposal were so abrupt, that I was taken all aback; yet what a flood of delicious happiness gushed to my heart, on hearing him speak thus! I trembled from head to foot, and would have fallen to the ground, if Cyrus had not supported me. He repeated his offer with increased tenderness of tone, and I became his affianced bride-his betrothed wife. This happiness seems to be too great for me to bear. My brain is dizzy-I can write no more." 
                   
                  "To-day I went with Cyrus on a very pleasant excursion, and enjoyed myself highly. It was a pic-nic party, got up by the factory-girls and their friends. We had singing, and dancing, and such a nice dinner! Cyrus was particularly kind and affectionate. When we are married, I must repay his kindness by the most constant devotion. He says that we are to live in a beautiful little cottage, surrounded by vines and honeysuckles. How delightful! Yet I could live contentedly with Cyrus in a hovel." 
                   
                  "The day for our marriage has been fixed upon. But a singular presentiment of coming evil oppresses me. This is very foolish, and I must banish such feelings. What have I to fear? Is not Cyrus as devoted and as affectionate as ever? Can he prove false? To suppose him capable of such baseness, is doing him foul injustice. Yet why am I unhappy at this moment? Alas! I cannot tell." 
                   
                  "To-morrow, go to Pownal, to make preparations for my marriage with Cyrus. Still that odious presentiment! My friend, Miss Davis, does not like Cyrus. She tells hard stories concerning him-but have I a right to believe anything to the discredit of my beloved? No, I will not-I must not. Where is all my accustomed strength of mind, that I cannot drive these gloomy shadows from my soul?" 
                   
                  "Last night I dreamed that I was in the water, strangling and drowning; and I thought that Cyrus stood over me with a mocking smile. I awoke, feverish and unrefreshed. What should cause such a horrible dream? It seemed that I had thrown myself into the water-that I had committed suicide. Then I thought how a coroner's jury would surround my life less remains, and coldly record their verdict, without caring anything about the poor creature whose body lay before them. To pass away my time, I write the following lines: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              THE SUICIDE. 
                               
                                 "Assembled in grave conclave 
                                 Are six men of portly mien; 
                                 A woman has found a suicide's grave, 
                                 And her dripping corpse is seen. 
                                 Near the rough, unpainted bier 
                                 Stand these six 'good men and true,' 
                                 And a gaping crowd is near. 
                                 All scrambling for a view 
                               
                               
                                 'Tis hurried quickly through, 
                                 The verdict's easily made; 
                                 'There, gentlemen, that will do,' 
                                 The burly coroner said. 
                                 He takes a huge pinch of snuff, 
                                 Then looks benignly round- 
                                 The jury have heard enough, 
                                 And they render the verdict, 'drowned!' 
                               
                               
                                 'Now let there cheaply be 
                                 A coffin quickly made;' 
                                 And he pocketed his fee 
                                 As the heartless words were said. 
                                 In a suicide's hated grave, 
                                 The unwept was speedily laid- 
                                 The compassionate, soothing wave 
                                 Knew alone the grief of the maid." 
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                   
                   
                  "I am distracted-mad-deranged! My brain is on fire, yet my heart is a lump of ice! Come down, ye thunderbolts, and crush me-come down, ye lightnings, and pierce me! Would that an earthquake would yawn and swallow me! Those words-I will try to write them:-'I have concluded not to marry!' Was not his tongue blistered as he spoke? O, it is cruel-cruel. I have not deserved this. Cyrus ought not to treat me so. Well, let him go-but do I hate him? No-no-no! That were impossible. I love him still. Yes, I can forgive him. I hope he will be happy; but, as for myself, there is no happiness left for me in this world. Death alone can end my misery; and death will soon come to my relief." 
                   
                  "This is the last Sunday-the last day-that I shall ever pass on earth. My mind is fully made up; I shall die this evening. Poor Clara Cochran will die with me. My friends are very kind, but they cannot win me from my purpose. All my preparations are made. Will my fate excite any sympathy-will my death cause any sorrow-will Cyrus shed a single tear on my account? Will he regret having so coldly abandoned me, almost at the hour appointed for our marriage? Oh! if I thought that he would, happy would be my death. *  *  *  Miss Davis is in the room, looking at we while I write. She smiles, because she thinks that all my threats of committing suicide meant nothing. When she sees my cold, wet corpse this evening, she will believe me. How strangely calm I am! Not the slightest agitation-not a flutter of the heart-not the least confusion of mind, do I feel. It is like the terrible stillness that precedes the fearful elemental war that follows. And I am about to rush headlong into eternity. I shall soon be before the throne of my Creator! Oh! Almighty God, in thy bounteous mercy, have compassion upon me; and the crime I am about to commit against nature, do Thou! in the plentitude of Thy goodness, thinking of the depths of my heart's great sorrow, oh! do Thou visit not upon my head thy just displeasure."  *   *   *   *   *   *   * 
                  Here ended the melancholy and despairing lines, every word and sentence of which was laden with misery, despair, utter 
                     ess, and yet reliance for forgiveness on the mercy of a  whom she was yet fearful of offending, yet totally unable to bear the dreadful load of sorrow which was pressing upon her devoted head. 
                  Talk as ye may, of the sinful and wicked act of cutting the frail cord of life, but when it is considered that here were two of humanity's purest and brightest creatures, who have been given to the world for man to love and cherish, and who look up to him by right as a protector, and one, on whose strong arm they must look for reliance; when all these are considered, how can it be wondered at, that their loving, gentle, trusting hearts should break, at the infernal deception, and heartless villany that men, forgetful of themselves, practised against their confiding and weak natures. 
                  If suicide can have an extenuating cause, here surely was one; and few, we think, can have the heart to blame the deed of the heart-broken, wretched, and forsaken girls. 
                  And the great Judge of all mankind will visit on the despoiler's head, his just and fearful displeasure, and we trust and believe will not deal wrathfully with the victims of heartless desertion, and disappointed love. 
                
               THE END. 
             
         
       
   
