
    ----CITATION----
        Webber, Charles Wilkins, (1819-1856). Spiritual Vampirism .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8247
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Spiritual vampirism 
            
               YIEG       'S CABINET
SPIRITUAL VAMPIRE
THE HISTORY
op
ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN
95 AND
3I~r friruh   of tIrr "3%tm tigJ.
BY C W. WEBBER
AUTHOR OF
OQLD HIKS THE GUIDE," "CHARLES WINTERFIELD PAPERS," "THE HUNTErNATU
TALES OF THE SOUTHERN BORDER " ETC.
A heavy, bell-like paleness loads her cheeks,
Unknown to a clear heaven.
Jo0N MARSTON.
0 vulturewitch, hat never heard of mercy?
ENDYMION.
P HIL ADE LP HIA:
C LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; Co.
1853.

t
SM:
BRAIBT'


Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1853, by
LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.,
in the -Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

STEREOTYPED BY J. PAGAN.

T. K. AND P. G. COLLINS, PRINTERS.

A

INTRODUCTION.
ON page 392 of the concluding sketch of.a late series, the
"Tales of the Southern Border," occurs the following pas-
sage:-
"~THE ESCRITOIRE.
"THE author, being a resident of New York during the period
of the leading incidents narrated; as occurring in that city, had
formed the acquaintance of the principal personage. Himself
a Southerner, he had, from the natural affinities of origin, inev-
itably been attracted toward Carter. The intercourse between
them, at first reserved,,chad imperceptibly warmed into a degree
of, intimacy, which, however, had by no means been sucb as to
render him at all- cognisant. beyond the merest generalities, of
the progress of his, private -affiairs. He was not a little  surprised,
therefore, at finding, one day, an elegant escritoire ,r cabinet,
of dark, rich wood, heavily banded;in. the old-fashioned style
with silver, which ha been. place4Y in his absence, on the .table
of his sanctum.. A-note, in a sealed envelope, lay upon it. He
instantly recognised the handwriting of the address as that of
Mr. Carter, and broke the seal.
(3)

f~ q-,  . %'i .i X1r 7~i

sak

. _
a                        ^',
4 _


4                SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
"It was evidently written in great haste, but without any siga
of trepidation. It ran thus.:-
"MY DEAR FRIEND :
"I have no time for explanations, as I am in the midst of
hurried preparations for an unexpected yacht-voyage -upon
wh Iset sail in a few'minutes. I send you an escritoire,
which was left in my charge by a highly valued friend. He
was an extraordinary man; and its contents will be, I doubt
not, of great value to the world.
"It was ,given me, with the injunction that it should not be
opened until six months after his death. The six months were
up some weeks since, but I have lately been too much otherwise
absorbed to think of making use of the privilege of the key.
I now therefore transfer to you this bequest in full, with the
proviso that you will not open it for six months. - If at the end
of that time I have not been heard from, please open, and with-
out reserve make what use of it your excellent sense may justify'
Please take charge of whatever correspondence may arrive to
my address for the same length of time, at the expiration of
which you will also please to consider yourself as my ex-
ecutor-open my correspondence and proceed as .you may
think best. Pardon this unceremonious intrusion of responsi-
bilities upon an intimacy, the terms of which I hardly feel would
strictly justify me ; but the plea that I know no one else whom
I can trust, and have no time for further explanation, gill I am,
sure justify me in the eyes of a brother Southron.
"Yours truly,
"tFRANK CARTER.

INTRODUCTION.                 6

"Six months having elapsed, and still no news of my singular
friend Carter, the fulfilment, of the important duties of executor,
thus unexpectedly devolved upon him, were deferred by the
narrator as long as his sense of duty would possibly admit. At
last, when longer delay would have seemed to assume almost
the aspect of criminality, the duty of opening the cabinet was
unwillingly entered upon."
On my next meeting with my friend Carter, who proved still
to be in the land of the living, I spoke to him of the cabinet
and its remarkable contents, which had so unexpectedly been
left in my charge ; offering to resign to him my trusteeship.
To this, however, he would by no means consent, but continued
to insist, as in his original letter, that I should without reserve
make what use of it my sense of propriety might dictate. I
was finally overruled into undertaking the mere arrangement
and editorship of its contents-for the revelations there made are
in many. respects so strangely horrifying and unusual, that I fear
the world will be, little disposed to pardon my agency in giving
them publicity. However, as I believe them to be, in every
respect, genuine life-experiences, I have determined to make
the venture, come what will of it.. We shall therefore give, as
proper introduction to the singular' narrative which we have
selected from beneath the blood-stained seals of The cabinet it
has been our fate to open, the following singular paper, which
we -found lying separately above the folds of the MS. which
constitutes the History of Etherial Softdown.
1*


6               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

THE PIIILOSOPHY OF MESMERIC IMPOSITION.
TO  E READ BY PHILOSOPHERS ONLY.*
THE existence of what may be called the nervous or odic
luiid--the sympathetic element-has been partially known to all
ages. The knowledge of this powerful secret, in moving and
controlling mankind, has been professionally and almost exclu-
sively confined to the adepts of all sects, religions, and periods;
though it has occasionally, in various ways, leaked out of the
penetralia, principally through its forms, accompanied with
little or no apprehension. of their vital - meaning.  It is in
this way that a series of scientific"phenomena, the discovery
of which probably originated with a remote priestcraft, and
had been made to subserve exclusive' ends, has gradually been
fragmented among the people, and in many imperfect, ignorant,
and vitiated forms has now become the comnion property of
science.
When it is understood that this nervous fluid is nothing more
nor less than that force-whether electrical, magnetic, odic, or
otherwise named-- which, lubricating the nervous system in
man,- produces all vital phenormena -is, in a word, the vital
force -the active principle of life -it will not be difficult to
comprehend' how important a knowledge of its laws may be
rendered to even those relations of life not exclusively physical.
Mesmer promulgated, under his own name, as a new and
Lstounding discovery in science, something of the sympathetic
laws to which this nervous or Odic fluid is- subject, and by
* The Story begins at Chapter I.-En.

which the vital 'and spiritual relations of man to the external
universe are in a great measure modified, and even controlled.
This was no discovery of his, but had been the mainly
exclusive secret of the ancient priesthood; employed alike in
the ceremonies. of the novitiate in the Thibetian temples of
Buddha, in the Egyptian Initiation, and in Grecian Pythisin.
But, the particular reason why his announcements caused such
prodigious excitement, in 1784, .as to run all Paris mad, even
including the court of the wary Louis XVL, and stillbcontinue
to excite and madden mankind, is, that, as the sympathetic
ecstacies and furors, superinduced by the mummeries of :his
famous "vat," were- called by a-new name, the people failed to
recognise them, although they had been famiiarised with, and
even acting habitually under their influence, while surrounded
by accessories of, a more" sacred character. The immediate
success, of Mesmer's experiments amazed men. He, in fact,
little knew what he was doing himself; the effects he, under-
stood how to produce, because accident had furnished him with
the formulas. Having gone through these, which, though most
grotesque and preposterous, later experience has shown, really
included all the "passes" and other conditions necessary to
establish sympathy through the nervous fluid with the victims
of his delusion, he proceeded to produce -.exhibitions the most
extraordinary the world ever saw, except in the hideous and
frantic orgies of some wild, barbaric creed, and the parallels- to
which, in this country, are to be found in the shrieks and bel-
lowings of a fanatic camp-meeting, Miller ascension.tent, Mor-
mon rite, -or hard-cider political mass-meeting. 
Beginning with the, postulate that "Nature abhors a vacuum"
itf does not seem difficult. to understand something, at least, of

INTRODUCTION:               7


SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

the-rationale- of this sympathetic influence of one man over
another. The laws of the 'distribution of this Odic force seem
to bear a somewhat general affinity to those of electricity. The
surcharged cloud discharges its superfluous fluid into the cloud
more negatively charged. The man holding a. superfluous
amount of vital or-Odic force, can - dismiss a portion. of this-
along the course of its properxlightning-rods, or conveyers,.the
nerves:-into- the organisation -of -a being more negatively
charged, or, in other words, of a weaker man. As electricity
can only.. act upon inert matter through its proper media, the
elements, so the Odic fluid can only-- act upon organised matter
normally throughits proemedium, the nerves, of vitality.
 mmu  i   of the odic fluid, by'which. sympathy be-
tween'the two beings has been established, can be, to a certain
degree, .regulated -.and controlled by manipultioenswhich bring
the thur~bs and fingers of the hand, ,which are properly Odic
poles, in contact with certain great nerves, or centres of nerves,
alongwhiicli"idifluenc can be readilyommuncated. These
manipulations, the vital and original meanings of which these
lfesmer agitators have betrayed, maybe -traced vexjcilearly
through the most important ceremonies of.religion, and the
secret orders of fraternisation in the world. From this point of
view, how significant the "la ing-on.of hands" in ordination,
thet"joinu  ofhands" in the marriage ceremony &amp;c.
Here let us. remark, that we would'no more be understood
as accusing .a Christian' Priesthood, in modern times, of having
made, an, improper use,, either inside or out of their- profession,
of 'the manipulations mentioned above, than we would think of
accusing them of having, as a class, any special knowledge of
their significance beyond that of ceremonial forms, set down in

IN R0I)UOilN.,

the discipline. It has been to the Heathen Priesthood that.we
have consistently attributed a knowledge of tie ps  Toolical
mepanigHofthese. ceremonials, which have descended through
the Hebrew and Christian churcheswasvowed detfo  a
significance, and intended; in their arbitrary exaction, as, toa
certain degree, ordained tests of Christian faith and obedience.-
But it isby no, means indispensable to tLe exhibition of the
Odie phenomena, that the processes of manipulation should
have been literally gone through with in all cases--nor, indeed,
in the majority even--for some of the most apparently inexpli-
cable and extraordinary of them all are brought about without
such intervention. Take, as comparatively "modern instances,"
such effects as those produced by-the preaching of Peter the
Hermit, when not only vast armies of men were moved like
flights of locusts toward the Desert,' on the breeze of' his fiery
breath, to disappear,.too, as they, within its bosom, and never
be heard from again, but even great armies of children 'rushed
in migratory hordes to the sea-ports, to ship for the Holy Land!
--and those produced by the crusade of Father Mathewasist
intemperance, in our time, when, all Ireland- lay wailing at his
feet. These great jurors were precisely -identical with those
already enumerated, so tar as the -sympathetic or motive power
went. So with the story of the rise of Mahbmet, Joe Smith,
-Miller; and all such agitators.- They are usually men of pro-
digious vital power, and of course surcharged with the Odic
fluid, who begin these great movements; and they possess, be-
side, vast patience and endurance.- They begin by filling the
individuals in immediate contact with them, as 1Vahomet did
his own family, with the superfluity of the Odic force in them'
selves, and having thus obtained .a single medium by this imme-

Pf f,{

B

w


10               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
diate contact-which, although it may not imply the formal
)Manipukations with preconceived design;implies the accidental
equivalents .-the circle gradually enlarges- through each fresh
accession, in much the same way that it began, until, after a few
patient years of unshaken endurance, the apostle finds himself
-surrounded by thousands and thousands of human beings,
whose volition is swayed through this Odic force -this sympa-
thetic medium   by his own central, resolute, and self-poised
will, as if they were bat one man. His moveless volition has
been, from the beginning, the base and axis of the vast sympa-
thetic movement going on around him, and upon he single
strength of the Odic - force within him, all depends, until,
through- a thorough organisation of ceremonial laws and obser-
rances, the system of which he was the vital centre assumes a
corporate existence, and can stand alone.
This is about the method in which all such organizations,
radiating from the one man power or centre, widen their clues
to an extreme circumference, until the force of the pebble'thrown
into the, great lake is'exhausted. So it is with all sympathetic
excitements-from the Dancing Dervishes, the Shaking Quakers,
or the Barking-Brothers, to the vast Empire of France, led fren-
zied over the world in the willio'-the-wisp chase of univer-
sal sovereignty, by the fantastic will ,of a 'Napoleon. These
are some of the general phenomena of sympathy, and there are
many quite as extraordinary, if not as broad in what are called
atmospheric Or epidemic conditions, which go'to prove the uni-
versality of this sympathetic law.-
The distinctions between Od and Heat, Od and Electricity,
as well as Od and Magnetism, have been so c   jearl demon-
Vated by the investigations of Baron Reichenbach as to leave,

INTRODUCTION.'

at present no. choice between. the terms. Od expresses that
force which, differing in many essential properties from the other
two, can alone through its phenomena be recondiled.with what
we knowof the Sympathetic or Nervous .Fluid.. It is therefore
used as a synonym of this mysterious agency, and as conveying
a far higher definition - and significance than either- the -term
Electricity or Mesmerism.
The 'worst and the best that the agitation, begun by Mesmer
has accomplished, is, to have stripped old Necromancy of its
mysterious spells, by revealing something of the rationale of
them, While at the same time, in unveiling its. processes to the
sharp eyes of modern knaves, they have been enabled to appro-
priate and practise them again with even more than the old
success, under the new christening of "scientific experiment.",
It is, I think, easily enough shown, bya minute and circum-
stantial comparison of the cotemporary history of the dark age
of black art ascendancy in Europe, which was literally the- dark
age of chivalry, with that of Cotton Mather witch-burning en-
lightenment in New England, that the. arts practised by the
accused in both these countries, and at all other such pe-
riods in all other countries, were nearly identical with each
other; and those familiarised to us through the doings of mes-
meric manipulation, revelation, clairvoyance, spiritual knockings,
&amp;c., &amp;c.  are generally the very same, though assuming slight
shades of difference, indicating some progressive development.
A partial knowledge of psychological laws, which was formerly,
and with great plausibility, considered altogether too dangerous
pabulum for the vulgar mind, has been sown broadcast, by the
empiricism of this mesmeric movement, the principal oracles
and expounders of which have been clearly as ignorant of the


12

SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

causes with 'which they agitated, as ever wrinkled crone of peat-
smoked hovel was of the true -laws, of that occult palmistry,
through the practice, or vague traditions of which, she finally
prophesied herself into the martyrdom of- the " red-hot plough.
shares," or the warm resting-place of the pot of boiling pitch.
They only know that' certain formulas produce certain results,
and as they are blundering entirely in the dark, they mix those-
which have a basis in science with the crude and meaningless
forms which ignorance, with its abject cunning, easy supplies.
From such amalgamations have arisen the mummeries of conju-
ration inwhatever form,,and by the imprudent use of which,
the credulous, simple and superstitious, are so easily "-fright-
ened from their propriety," and thus made easy victims of more
dangerous arts.
But it is a study of the fearful uses which have been made by
the evil-disposed, of this partial knowledge of the laws of rela-
tion of soul to the body, that is more-interesting now than these
olden disguises of the same evil in more helpless forms; as now,.
through the mesmeric agitation, it has really attained ;to some
gleam of causes-has now something of scientific illumination
to steady and give direction to its reckless and deadly- aim. In
the radius of its hurtful circumference, the vicious power ofthe
witch, fortune-teller or conjuror, was as much more circum-
scribed than that of the semi-scientific charlatan of clairvoyance,
as the vision of the mole is-less than that of the viper, which,
at least, 'looks out into the sunshine though every cloud may
impede its malignant gaze.
The' relative degrees in which-the Odic or sympathetic fluid,
may be found exhibited in the different individuals of our race,
have been previously remarked in general terms. In the sexes,

INTRODUOTION.-,.13
we most usuaJly find the.positive pole i1 man, who gives out,
and the negative in woman, who receives and absorbs from him,
the dispenser.. 'Though this be the general rule so far as the
sexes.are concerned,.it is by no- means the universal rule for the
race---since there are among men but few positive poles,- or fwed
°ceutres of Odic radiation; and where such are found, they are
observed to possess much of what we commonly call "influ-
ence" with or upon others. All the. parties; therefore, within
the circle of thissympathetic radiation, or" magnetic attraction,"
as it is popularly termed, must necessarily.'be,-relatively to .this
positive pole,negative poles, without regard to sex--while each of
these comparatively negative poles may in turn be a positive pole,
or Odic centre, to those below or of weaker nature than himself.
Those men who have been known to-allhumanity as prophets,
poets, law-givers, discoverers, reformers, &amp;c., are, and have
been, what we mean by. positive Odic poles; for -while they
have seemed.to'stand in immediate an4 direct communion with
the spiritual source of all wisdom,they have at the same time
given out the impulse thus granted, to the people byewhom they
are surrounded, thus acting as the chosen media "of divine reve
lation, and from the cloudy summits of Sinais handing down
the tables of the law to all the tribes.
Now there-is a mighty, radiation of the Odic force from these
men, through which; the love, wisdom, or rather will in
or sent through them -s nade operative upon the great masses
of makind; and' this same radiatiii,in the greater.or less de-
grees, is found emanating from a-thousand different sources. at
the same time, affecting man for evil as well as for good ,. for,
when we comprehend that this Odic or sympathetic forces the
_sole mfedimi' f communiation'with 'the spiritual .and invisible


I

'4:

SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

world; as well -as with the }visible and material world, it
cn then be easily understood howwhat are -called " evil '
and  "good 'spirits''-hould through it affect mankind. This
will be fully'illustrated when we observe the common condi-
tions of health anid disuse: Health is 'good and disease is
evil; andithese are the two-eternally antagonisti chemical forces
inethe universe. Health is that normal condition of the body
which enablestit to-resist evil and maintain the proper balance
of'the spiritual anid material' elements. - Disease is that abnor-
mal condition of.the 'body in which'the integrity of the spiritual
.nd organic functions has been destroyed 'through, the sympa-
thetic fthedia by 'evil, and good overcome.-  -
In eitiier-case, the balance is. destroyed, and the immediate
consequence may be, in'the one, sudden paroxysms of fearful
insanity,-or in the other, sudden -death,. asin common apoplexy.
'Thus the popular fallacy, that all 'things having a -source in
the spiritual, oa-rather the invisible must of necessity be good,
is in a very sixnple wa exposed. We see there may be what
are called eyt, as -*ell'as 'good spirits,:which hold coinmunion
with us; and the safest -and only true general rule with regard to
such matters is,-that, while the good spirits are those propitious
chemicalforees which make themselves known to us in love, and
joy, and peace, through the unbounded happiness of the normal
conditions'. of health, the evil spirits are those-'vicious chemical
forces, morbid delusions, and malign -revelations, which are
made known to us through all other -diseased conditions as well
as that of Olairvoyance.. Reniember that no such being has yet
beenkJnown throughout the wholerange.of Mesmeric experiment
as a healthy Clairvoyant, ora "subject"'who has attained to the
super-eminence of Clairvoyance, who was not what they fanci-

fl TROITfJCTI'ON.

15

fully term:"-delicate"-'that is, liable' to those diseases which
are- well known to. supervene upon nervous weakriess, exhaus-
tion,' or emasculation.' This ,condition of nervous' exhaustion
renders them, of course,'the very-negation of the negative pole
of sympathy, and the first. person approaching thenwho pos
sesses the ordinary Odic conditions of health, is clutched hold of
by their famine-struck vitality, in the agonised plei- for life! life!
"Give !, give!" is still the' insatiable cry. -They must have
the Odic fluid restored,'and that, in takiu from  our enoughh"
they exhaust and undermine the holy purposes of your life to
make up that deficit in their own -which' loathsonie' ice has
brought about-the "hideous selfishness of weakness"_rather
rejoices. ,The syinpathetic rapporte beingonce established
they can at least, through :this-.dangerous medium, live- in - 'the
integrities of your life, and enjoy, both physically and  irit-J
ualry,  a ""r o"  '   ah
slly, a rintitoiyaltwhichwhile' it reflects thepre-
vailing phenomena of Tyour own mind and spiritual being,;has,
in addition1 some approximation even to the physical exaltationf
of your higher health.
These human vampires ormsponges raay be, therefore, as well
absorbtiitr'espiitual as animal-vitality. Their parsitical
roots riay. strike, iito the very ceitres-of _life, and 'their hungry
suckers remorselessly draw away-the virilityof manho6d -or 'the
.spiritual strength.
They seem to be mainly' divided into two classes, one off
which, born,:seemingly, with but-a rudimentary soul, attains to
its apparent spiritual though merely: mental development,by
absorption of the spiritual life in 'others, through the Odin
medium. ,Another class, 'born with -a 'predominating - spiritual
.ity based upon a- feeble physique,: is ravenous of ,animal

a
,r
'V


10                SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
strength, and can only liveby its sympathetic absorption of the
sanmed;from. 'others, through the same per'ading medium.' Of
thetto, the first is the evil type;'for, born in the-gross sphere
of tb. passio is with a vigorous orgnsation,'but family ilu-
iimated at the beginig with.that golden light of love which
Is spiritual life, the' fierce half-monkey being is propelled 'on-
wards, and even'upwards, by the basest of the purely animal
instincts,"appetites, and lusts. If 'such beings strive towards
the light of the harmonious and the beautiful, it is' not because
they yearn' for either the holylor the good, but because it lends
a lurid charm to appetite and glorifies a lust.
The other 'character, in whom the spiritual predominates,
whether from., a natal inequality, as is'very frequently the case,
or froin the sheer exhaustion of the physical powers, through
emasculating vices, is yet, in itself, good, so far as its morbid
conditions lave it an unaccountable being; but, as, its 'evela-
tions and utterings depend 'entirely upon -the Odic characters'
apd will of those from whovit.s strength may be derived, it can
only be regarded,.whether used for evil or good,: as a rmedifam.
This character is the common Clairvoyant, to whom we are
indebted for those, strangely-mingled gleams of remote truth,
with errors the most grave and injurious, .which have so tended
to confuse the judgment of mankind in= regard to the pheno.
mena of Clairvoyance.' Such persons can be. made as readily
the -nedium. of,-any' falsehood which the knavish passions of
their "Mesmerisers "'may' dictate,'as 'they' 'can 'be caused to
ar notnep, by a will as strong, but 'soul 'more 'pure' theydiscon-
netted tnyths of science and of history, which have' ,so sur-
prised the ' orld in what are called the "'Revelations" of
'Andrew- Jackson Davis. 'This man belongs -to our second

INTRODUCTION..
class, and is purely " a medium-" .of the sympathetic ~fluid.
His organisation is most sensibly sympathetic and -delicately
responsive,.but. is too .feeble to balance.his spiritual develop-
ment.  His' case stands, therefore, as the most remarkable
modern instance of what the- ancients termed "atiination;
but as has heen the case with other false prophets, his "gifts"
have proved of no value, except to knaves. 'He'das undoubt.
edly practised upon "by a choice set of such characters; and,
now that he has found in marriage a sympathetic restoration,
through the physical,.of its needed balance ,with the spiritual,
he has lost his "lying gift" of prophecy.
We have examined this man carefully, and are convinced
that the whole{-mystery of his revelations' and character may' be
contained in a nut-shell. He is to the sphere of intellectual
and spiritual sympathy, and in a lower sense, precisely -an
analogous case with that of Mozart, in the sphere of the musical
and spiritual. When the great soul of humanity has been long
say one generation-in travail with a great thought in art,
science, music, or mechanics, there-is sure to be somebody born
in the succeeding generation who is physically, mentally, and
spiritually, the impersonation and' embodiment of this thought,
of which the age 'is in labor, and who must of necessity be-
come, solely and singly, the expression and embodiment thereof.
Thus Mozart,'the infant prodigy in music; who at five years old
was the pet of monarchs and the miracle of his age, continued,
with no signs of precociousness, a steady and-consistent' devel-
opment, which showed him to be indeed the embodimentof the
musical inspirations of his age. His' revelations in music were
just. as prodigious as even the rabid worshippers of the Davis
2*


18         e.-SRITU4L VAMPIRISM.
revelations would imagine thoseto be ;yet there are some most
essential differences between-the.results of the two.
Dpvis, born amidst the travail. of:this new Mesmieric agita-
tion, became the most sensitive organ of the -sympathetic -fluid-
in intellect, as the other had been in music ; but asj in the case
of Mozart, the -exciting cause came from Nature, and consti-
tuted" her .purest and .most sacred inspirations, so the in-
spiration of Davis ,came from  man, with all his ,inperfect -
tions iand=subjective tendencies:  The sequel,has been, the
inspirations of Mozart are considered now by mankind as only
second to the f Divine, while those- of Davis are justly regarded
as morbid; fragmentary, incomplete, and worthless.
The organisation of Mozart was equally sympathetic with
that of Davis but it was of that healthy tone -which could-only
respond to nature and the natural; while the organisation of
-Davis-belongs to that mich inferior type, whichfrom its mor-
bid and unbalanced conditions, can respond only to the human
as"the representative of nature. Such persons receive nothing
direct from nature, but only through its representative, man:.
. It would seem as if thle world were absolutely divided into
two elapses--the radiating and the absorbing; the first receiving
from nature, and the second from ,man. In the first, are. the
holy brotherhood of prophets and the poets, an'd in the, second,
the poor slaves of sympathy-the knaves and fools'--the impos-
tors who play upon its, well-known laws, and, deceiving them-
selves aswell as-others, may well be said to'know not what
they4do."
We. are- convinced that no man, who has kept -himself is,
formed of the psychological history and progress of his race,'
can by any meanis fail to recognise- at once, in the -pretended

INTRODU0TION.                  19
" Revelations"' of Davis, the -mere disjecta mem- aof thesys*
teams so extensively promulgated by Fourier nd  wdenborg.
When you come to compare this fact -itl- the additional one,
that Davis, 'during the whole period of his  utteringss," was
surrounded by groups, consisting. of the disciples of Fourier
and Swedenborg; .as, for instance, the leading Fourierite of
America was, for:a. time,. a constant- attendant upon those mys-
terious 'meetings, at which the -myths of innocent Davis: were
formally announced from the condition of Clairvoyance% and
transcribed by his keper 'for the press,- while the.chief exponent
and minister, of Swedenborgianism in New York was often
seated side by side with him. -.
Can it be' possible that these men failed to comprehend, as
thought after thought, principle after principle, was enunciated
in their presence, which they-had previously supposed to belong
exclusively to . their own schools, that the "revelation" was
merely a sympathetic 'reflex of their own :derived systems? It
was no accident; for, as often as Fourierism predominated . in
"the evening lecture;" it'was -sure that-the prime representative
of Courier was present; and when the peculiar views of Swe-
denborg prevailed, it was equally certain that he was forcibly
represented in the conclave. 'Sometimes both -schools were
present; and on- that identical occasion we have a composite
metaphysics promulgated, which exhibited, most consistently,
doctrines of Swedenborg and Fourier, jumbled in 'liberal
and extraordinary confusion. This is, 'in epitome, about the
whole history of such 'agitations. The weak Clairvoyant falls
naturally into-the hands of knaves who are superior to him in
physical vitality. He becomes, first, the medium. of theit
vague and feeble- intellection ; and then,- as attention is at-


20,               SPIRITUAL -V4AMPIRISM
traced by the notoriety they know well how to produce,:the
"medium"becomes gradually surrounded, by the enthusiasts-
of veryy school; and aa he7 'is brought into their'various- Odic
spheres,.he sprgnounces the 'creed of. each in .his morbidly illu-
minated'language, and it sounds to the mob like inspiration.
There is no greater nonsense; men are inspired through-
natural laws.  But this comparatively innocuous character,
which'we have thus far stepped aside-to indicate, is nothdig
compared to. the first specimen of this Clairvoyant. type which
we have classified. This, it will be remembered, is'the animal
born with feeble spirituality, but vigorous physique; which is,
at the same time, intensely sympathetic. These, as we, have
said, are the infernal natures; for, possessing no life outside the
lo4ei animal passions, self is to them the close, centre of all
being, and their Odic sensitiveness a, vampireabsorption, the
horrible .craving of which, not'fontent with the mere -exhaustion
of the animal life of the victim, by wanton provocations,. drinks
up soul and mind, to fill the beastly void of their own. These
wgree  than ghouls, that live, upon the dying rather than the-
dead, possess some ..fearflly dangerous - and extraordinary
powers.
:Vampirism, as a superstition, prevailed, not -many years, ago,
like .eneral pestilence, throughout the countries of Servia and
Wallachia. ,Whole districts, infected by'this horrible disease,
were desolated; people grew. wiId with terror, and, in their
savage ignorance, comniitted monstrous sacrilege uon, the'
sanctities of burial.  Bodies that had rested quietly, in.-their
graves for ten,.}twenty, and even 'eighty days, were dragged
forth, to .have stakes; driven through their  chests; 'and if. any
blood was, found, they were burned to ashea

X T1RQDUO TION.

21

The, belief was, that the deceased, when 'living, had been'
bitten by a human vampire, which, coming forth. froa'i its grave
by night, had sunk its white teeth in.his throat, and -drunk his
blood, thereby-causing a lingering death; in which 'he was also
doomed to the hideous fate of becoming a vampire, after his
burial.
The bodies of vampires, when dug up, presented a perfectly'
natural appearance; and,'even in those  ses where -the scarf-
skin peeledoff, 'a 'new slin was found underneath, 'and new
nails formed on. the fingers. The vital blood was found 'iM the
heart,' lungs, and viscera, exhibiting the conditions of perfect
health.  How the "vampire got out 'of his' grave, without
scratching a hole, does not appear.'
Thus we find, in modern vampirism, a strange compound of
ancient superstition with. well-known  scientific truths. -The
vampire is the counterpart of the ancient ghoul, with the simupfe
transfer ;of the habits of the vampire-bat to its identity. These
are then connected with the 'fact, well known to the medical
profession, that persons have been buried, supposed to be dead,
who, in reality) had only fallen into what is called the death-
trance; and who, 'had they been left above ground for a su$-
cient period, would have probably resuscitated of"thentselves.
That they have done so after burial, is a familiar fact; since
'bodies     -   "e.
exhumted, long after; have'been found to have changed
their position in the coffin. How long bodies, thus indonsider-
ately buried, retain a resemblapeto the normal conditions of
life, has=not been fully ascertained.
We have here the historical origin of whatdialled vam-
pism; ut there are certain phenomena of this fearfi4 infec-

j

, i


SPIRITUAL VAMPRISM-
'tion, closely resembling -those which we have attributed to the
Spiritual Vampire...
Vampirism is' clearly a disease of the nervous system; i
being first excited though thie imagination of ignorance and
superstition. The nerves, then affected.through ,the %dic me-
dium, lose their balance, and the -mind constantly playing
wi ,in-the circle of-the one thought of horror, a rapid and pre-
mature decline-is the mediate consequence.,
The infection of which the, victimdied remaining still :within.
the odic medium  of the sphere it occupied, passes into the
nerves 'of others, who, die also; and thus thedisease spreads like,
any other epdemi.. .But mark-whencethe-true origin of this
superstition-of the .ghoul and the, vampire, so universal in the
world-? Is it not that mankind, everywhere, ,as felt, with, an
unconscious shuddering, the presence of the spiritual vampire?
The instincts of the masses have, in their superstitious, fore-
shadowed, all the great discoveries of science. Ias it not been,
that they have felt the hideous incubus always; but not being
able, through any connected series of observations, to discover
the real' cause ,of their dread and suffring, have, ven its
nearly idei"tical attributes a -local habitation and a name"
among their superstitions ?
What we have' termed' the Spirital Vampire, is a scientific
fact- we believe as much so asthe bat-vampire  and' that it
feeds, not alone upon the living, but upon the spiritually dead ;
that original, 'so far as ,its spiritual entity is concerned, it too
comes forth from its sensual charnal to feed'upon the soul-
blood of mankind. This may seem a horrible picture, but we
cannot consent to withdraw it. These records were made under-
a sense of duty to mankind; anid if they 'should 'ever see the

INTRODUCTION.                    23
light, it must be as they have been written. We dare not reveal
all that we kpow of this thing-we can oily venture to say
enough to arouse men in amazement, at the realisation of what
they. have always known and. felt to exist, without having ex-
pressed it, No mortal mind could have conceived such possi-
bilities, even in hell, much less in actual, life.
Amidst the profound securities of the, best-ordered house-
holds in the world, unless a strict eye be had to such facts and
phenomena as we have adverted to and shall describe, the most
insidious and fatal corruptions of the bodies and souls of your
children, your wives, and your sisters, may creep in,' while
there is' no dream of wrong or danger. . If we shock you, it is
to put you somewhat upon your guard against the many evils,
concealed under the apparent harmless approaches of the
viciously-purposed manipulator, or the covert practiserr upon
the odic or sympathetic vitality of the pure and 'unsuspecting.-
We will abide the issue.
Milton clearly had vampirism in his thought when he.wrote-
" Clotted by contagion,
Imbodied and imbruited, till quite lost
The divine' property of their first being
Such are those thick and gloomy shadows damp,
oft seen, in charnal-vaults and sepulchres,
Lingering and sitting by a new-made grave."


SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM;
01R,
THE HISTORY OF ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.
CHAPTER        I.
THE GIRLHOOD OF ETHEREAL.
"Be thou a spirit of health, or goblin damned?"
IN a mean and sterile district of Vermont, which shall be
nameless, but which exhibits on every side stretches of bare
land, with here and there the variety of clumps of gnarled and
stunted oaks, EtherialSoftdown was born. If mountains give
birth to heroes,, what ought to have been the product of a low-
lying land like this, on whose dreary basins the summer's'sun
wilted the feeble vegetation, and the bleak winds of'winter
wrestled fiercely with the scrubby oaks, whose crooked and
claw-like limbs seemed talons of some hideous, gaunt and
reptile growth'.
On the edge of one of the most desolate of these stretches,
and beneath the shelter of the most ugly ~of these deinonised
oaks, were scattered the storm-blackened sheds of a miserable
hamlet, in one of which, for there were no degrees in their
comfortless dilapidation, the family of our heroine, the Softdowns,
resided, and another yet smaller and at some distance apart from
the rest, was occupied by her father, who was a shoemaker, as
3                                       (26)


26             SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

a workshop. This was one of those strange, out-of-the-way,
starved and dismal looking places that you sometimes stumble
upon in our prosperous land'- which ought long since to have
been deserted with the vanished cause of-the temporary pros-
perity which had given it birth- butin which the people seem
to be petrified into a morbid serenity of endurance, and look as
if under the spell of some great Enchanter they awaited his
awakening touch.
The child, which was the birth of a- coarsely organised
mother, was as drolly deformed with its squint eye and stoop-
ing shoulders as fancy could-depict the elfin genius of such
a scene. Dirty, bedraggled and neglected, with unkempt locks
tangled and writhing like snakesabout her face, and sharp, gray
animal eyes. gleaming from beneath, the ill-conditioned creature
darted impishly, hither- and yon amidst the hamlet hovels, or
peering from some thicket, of weird oaks, started the stolid
neighbors with the dread that apparitions.bring.
Indeed,'so wilful, unexpected and-eccentric were her move-,
ments, that the people, in addition to regarding the oaf-like child
with a half feeling of dread, gave her the credit of being half-
witted as well. There was a hungry sharpness in her eye that
made them shrink; a furious, raging, craving lust for something,
they-could not understand what,, which startled them beyond
measure; for, as in their -stagnant lives, they had never been
much troubled with souls themselves, they could not understand
this soul-famine that so whetted those fierce eager eyes.
The' father, Softdown, who appears to have been something
more developed than the mother, and to have possessed a gro-
tesque and rugged wit, more'-remarkable for its directness than
its delicacy, became the 'sole instructor and companion of the
distraught child, who' readily acquired from him an uncouth
method of enouncing trite truisms unexpectedly, which was to
constitute in after life one of her-chief, because most successful
weapons.
Etherial early displayed a passion for 'acquiring not know-

ledge, but :a facility of. gibberish, which proved exhausting
enough, to the shallow-receptacles around her, specially as her
mode of getting at the names and properties -of thing&amp;so closely
resembled the monkey's method of studying physical laws.
She had first to burn her fingers before she-could be made to
comprehend- that fire was .hot, but that was enough about fire
for this wise child; she remembered it ever after as a physical
sensation, and therefore it had ever after a name for her; and so
with all other experiences, they were to her sensational, not spi-
ritual or intellectual. The nameof a truth could come to her
with great vividness through a blow or pain of whatever cha-
racter,that might be purely physical, but through no higher
senses, for these she did not yet 'possess. Of a moral sense she
seemed now to develope no more consciousness than any other
wild animal, but in her the memory of sensation took the place
of mind and soul.
Thus passed the girlhood of our slattern oaf-shy and sullen
-avoiding others herself, and gladly avoided by them, ,with
the single exception-of her father, from whom her strong imita-
tive or sympathetic faculty was daily acquiring a rough, keen
readiness of repartee, in.the -use. of which she' found abundant
home-practice in defending herself against the smarting malig-
nity of the matron.Softdown, who charmingly combined in her
person and habits all and singly the cleanly graces of the fish-
wife.                   .
At sixteen, with no advance in personal loveliness, with pas-
sions fiercely developed, a mind nearly utterly blank, a taste for
tawdry finery quite as drolly crude as that displayed by the
plantation negresses of the South, and manners so: fantastically
awkward and eccentric as to leave the general impression that
she was underwitted, Etherial suddenly married a lusty and
good-looking young Quaker, threw off her bedraggled pkumes,
and became a member of that prim order.
Now her career commences in earnest, for this Was the first
great' step in her life in which she seems to have attained 'to

ETHEAIAL SOFTDOWN.I,"f


28-             SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

some gleams of the knowledge /of that extraordinary power of
Odic irradiation and absorption which was afterwards to be ex-
ercised' with such remarkable results.
She did not make her great discovery without comprehending
its meaning quickly. She first perceived that, day by day, she
grew more comely to look upon-,-that her figure was becoming
erect; and losing its harsh angularities -the pitiless obliquity
of her features growing more reconciled to harmonious lines
and last, and most astounding, that-the immediate result of the
contact of marriage had been a rapid increase of her own spi-
ritual and mental illumination, accompanied as well by a cor-
responding .decline on the part of the husband in both these
~                                                    ~e s  e c ts .~
Here was a secret for you with a vengeance! Like. an.
electric flash, a new light burst upon Etherial; and, as there
was only one feeling of which her being was capable towards
man, she ehnckled over the delicious secret which now opened
out before her with a terrible gloating.
Glorious discovery! Hah ! the spiritual vampire might feed
on his strength  night grow strong on this cannibalismof  b.
soul! 'and what of him if she dragged him down into idiocy?
erved him right! Did Etherial care that his spiritual death
must be her life ? She laughed and, screamed with the joy of
unutterable ferocity! .Eureka! Eureka! They shall all be my
slaves ! They taunt me with being born without a soul, with
beingr underwitted ! I shall devour souls hereafter by the hun-
dreds! I shall grow fat upon them! We shall see who has
the wit! -Their thoughts shall be my thoughts, their brains shall
work for me, their spirits shall inform my frame! Ah, glorious !
glorious! I shall live on souls hereafter-! I shall go up and
down in the .land, seeking whom I pny devour! Delicious'!
Deleftable Etherial!.

CHAPTER       II-
SCENES IN THE GOTHAM CARAVANSARIE.
And all around her, shapes, wizard, and brute,
Laughing and wailing, grovelling, serpentine,
Showing tooth, tusk, and' venom-lag, and sting!
0, such deformities!          ENDYMION.
IN Barclay Street, New York, years ago, flourished, at No. 63,
that famous caravansarie of all the most rabid wild animals on
the Continent, who styled themselves Reformers and New-light
People, Come-outers, Vegetarians, Abolitionists, Amalgama-
tionists, &amp;c. &amp;c., well known to fame as the "Graham House."
Here, any fine morning, at the breakfast-table, you might meet
a dozen or so of the most 'boisterous of the then existing or
embryo Reform notdrieties of the day. Mark, we say notorie-
ties, for that is the word.
From the Meglatherium' Oracle, whose monstrous head, co-
vered -with a mouldy excrescence, answering for hair, which
gave it most the: seeming of a huge swamp-born fungus of a
night-who-sat bolting his hard-boiled eggs by the dozen, with
bran-bread in proportion, washing them down' with pints of
diluted parched-corn coffee-even 'to the most;meagre, hungry-
eyed, and talon-fingered of the soul-starved World-Reformers,
that stooped forward amidst the- babble, and, between huge
gulps of hot meal mush, croaked forth his orphic words -they
were all one and alike -the mutterers of myths made yet more
misty by their parrot-mouthings of them!
Here every crude; ungainly crotchet that ever possessed igno-
rant and presumptuous brains; here every wild and-unbroken
hobby that ever driveller or madman rode, was urged together,
pell-mell, in a loud-voiced gabbling chaos. Here, the negro
squared his uncouth and musky-ebon personalities beside the
3*

ETHEREAL SOFTDOWN.-


80                SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
fair, frail form of some lean, rectangular-figured spinster-devotee
of amalgamation from New England.       '
Here the hollow-eyed' bony spectre of an old bran-bread dis-
ciple stared, in the grim ecstacy of anticipation, at the ruddy
cheeks of the new convert opposite, whose lymphatic, well-
conditioned corporation shivered with affright, as he met those
ravin-lit eyes, and a vague sense of their awful meaning first
possessed him, as his furtive glance took in the sterile "spread"
upon 'the table, to which he had been ostentatiously summoned
for "a feast."
Hereesome Come-outer Quaker, with what had been, at best,
cropped hair, might be seen with the crop now shaven yet more
close to his, bullet-head, in sign of his greater accession in spi-
ritual strength beyond the :heathen he had left behind, sitting
side. by, side with some New-light or Phalanxterian- apostle, with
his long, sandy, carroty, or rather golden locks, as he chooses to
style"-them, cultivated- down -his back in a ludicrously impious
emulation of the revered " Christ Head" of the old Italian
painters.-
Here the blustering peace-man, and professed non-resistant,
railed with a noisy insolence, rendered more insufferably insult-
ing in the precise ratio of exemption from personal accountability-
claimed by his pusillanimous doctrines.  Here too, a notorious
Abolitionist, with his tallow-skinned, and -generally-disgusting'
face, roared through grQss lips his vulgar anathemas against the.
South, which had foolishly canonised'this -soulless and meddle-
some non-resistant rulian, in' expressing their readiness to hang
him, should he be caught within their territory..
Here the weak and puling secretary of some milk-and-water
creedrolled up his rheumy eyes amidst the din, and sighed for
horror of a " sad, wicked world."J Here the sharp animal eyes,
the cool effrontery and bard-faced impudence of ignoramus Pro-
fessors of all sorts of occult sciences, ologies, and isms, met
you,-with hungry glances'that seemed searching for "the green "
in your eye ; and mingled with .the whole, a sufficiently spicy

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWit -            31

sprinkle of feminine'" Professors," of the same class, whose bold
looks and sensual faces were quite sufficient offsets to the extreme
etherialisation of their spiritualized doctrines.
Here, in a word, the blank and ever-shocking glare of harm-
less and positive idiocy absolutely would escape notice at, all, or
be mistaken for the solid repose of common sense, in contrast
with the unnatural sultry wildness of the prevailing and predo-
miinating expression !
But this menagerie of mad people held caged, in one of its
upper rooms, the object of'immediate interest. On entering
the apartment, which was an ordinary boarding-house bed-
chamber, a scene at once shocking and startling was presented.
A female, seemingly about thirty-three, was stretched upon a
low cot-bed, near the middle of the floor, while on the. bed and
upon the floor were scattered, napkins, which appeared deeply
saturated with blood, with which.the- pillow-case and sheet were
also stained. A napkin was pressed with a convulsive clutch
of the hands to her mouth, into which, with a low, .suffocating
cough, which now and then broke the silence, she seemed to be
throwing up quantities of blood from what appeared an alarm-
ing hemorrhage.
A gentleman, whose neat apparel and fresh benevolent face
somehow spoke "physician !" leaned over the wonian, with an
expression of anxiety, which appeared to be subdued by great
effort of a trained will. He bent lower, and in an almost whis-
pered voice, said:
" My dear madam, you must restrain yourself. Tishemor-
rhage continues beyond the reach of any remedies,,so long -as
you permit this violent excite ent of your maternal feelings to
continue. - Let me exhort you to patience -to bear the neces-
sary evils of.your unfortunate condition with more patience!"
The only answer was a slow despairing shake of, the head,
accompanied by a deep hysterical groan, which seemed to flood
the napkin at her mouth with a fresh .effusion.of blood, which
now trickled between her fingers and down upon her breast.


32               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
The humane physician turned, with an'uncontrollable expression
of horrified-sympathy and alarm upon his face, and snatching a
clean napkin from the table, gently removed the saturated cloth
from the clutching pressure of her fingers, and tenderly wiping-
the blood from her mouth and person, left the clean one in her
grasp._
"Be calm ! be calm    I pray you! you must some day
escape his persecutions. You have-friends ; they will assist
you to obtain a divorce yet, and rescue your chird from his
clutches. Do, pray ,now, be calm !"  The voice of the good
man trembled with emotion while he spoke, and the perspiration
started from his forehead..
At this instant the door was suddenly thrown open, and a' tall,
gaunt man, with a very small round head, leaden eyes, and a
wide ungainly mouth, with a.projecting under jaw, singularly
expressive of animal stolidity, paused on the threshold and
coolly looked around .the -room. The woman, sprang forward
at the sight, as if to rise, while a fresh gush of blood poured
from her mouth, bedabbling her fingers and the sheet. The
physician instinctively seized her to prevent her rising, but, re-
sisting the pressure by which he gently strove to restore her
head to the pillow, she retained her half-erect position, and with
eyes that had suddenly become strangely distorted, orawry in
their sockets, she glared towards the intruder for:an instant, and
then slowly raising her flickering hand, which dripped with her
own blood, she pointed at him, and muttered, in-a sepulchral
voice, that, besides, seemed choking:
" That is he! 'see-him! see him'! There stands 'the monster
who would rob me of my babe, as he daily robs me of money."-
Here the blood gushed up again, and she was for a moment
suffocated into- silence, as the, object of her denunciation
stood perfectly unmoved, while a cold' smile half lit his leaden
eyes. This seemed to fill the apparently dying woman with
renewed and hysterical life.. She raised herself yet more erect,
and still pointing with her bloody, quivering finger, while -her

ETHEREAL SO TDOWN.             8

head tossed to and fro,,and the distorted eyes glared staringly
out before her, she spoke in a gasping, uncertain way, as if
communing with herself. "The- wretch taunts me! my mur-
derer dares to sneer! 0 God ! must this, always continue ?
must that brute always follow me up and down in the land, to
rob me of the money that I earn  - to be my tyrant, my jailor!
He will not give me money to pay postage even, out of that I
earn abundantly, while he is earning nothing. He will not give
me clothes to keep me decent, while I earn enough. He will
not give my child shoes to wear, though he is trying to take her
from me !"
" That is a lie, Etherial! you know I 'gave the child a new
pair yesterday !" gruffly interposed the man at this stage of the
deeply tragic soliloquy, while he stepped forward towards the
bed: A choking scream followed, and the blood was spattered
over the spread as she fell back screaming-
" Take him away ! take him away ! He is killing me with
his brutality !" and then her head sank in sudden collapse upon
the pillow, and the face, which had heretofore looked singularly
natural in color, for one in, such a dreadful strait from hemor-
rhage, turned livid pale, while the blood continued to pour upon
the pillow from the corners of the relaxed 'mouth.
The poor physician, whose frame had been shivering with
intense excitement during this interview, sprang erect, as the
form of what he-Ssupposed to be a' corpse fell heavily-from his
arms, and with the natural indignation of a feeling man, fully
roused at what he considered the murderous brutality of the. hus-
band, rushed forward, and seizing him furiously by the collar,
shook and choked him in a'perfect ecstacy of rage, shouting, at
the same time-
"Unnatural .beast ! monster ! You have. killed that poor
child at last ! murdered your own wife, whon you swore -to
nourish and protect! Infernal villain! you' ought to be drawn
and quartered -hanging is too good for you! You saw the
terrible condition of the poor victim of your brutalities when
you came, yet you persisted ! In the name of humanity, I send


84               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
you hence ! Death is toolight punishment for you !"- and he
hurled the unresisting wretch  who, by this time, had grown
perfectly, black in the face under the rough handling of this-
roused and indeed infuriate humanity-staggering out of the
door -M-=and :ching it upon him, he proceeded .to apply such
restoratives asen an- examination - the real condition' of the
patient suggested.
A short and anxious investigation proved it to he -rather a
state of syneope-than. actual death; and, with a full return of
all his  professional cauti n3yskill.and coolness, he applied him-
self to the restoration of hj patient, with a heart greatly re-
lieved by the discpvery that the result he so much dreaded was
not yet, and liuggingto this kindly breast the consolation
"while there is: life, there is hope,!". He paid no attention to
clamorous knocks for. admissionsand lau d-talking excitement,-
which the, violence of the preceding scene had no doubt caused
in alarming-the house. In a kaitisnenthe good doctor cau-
tiously -anbolted the door and came forth from the room, tread-
ing as though on egg-shells. 'After leaving careful -instructions
with the landlady that his patient) who now, slept, should under
no pretence be disturbed, most especially by the husband, until
his return, as her present repose might prove a -matter of life
and. death,.he left the house, promising to call again in two
hours.
For one- hour the woman lay calm and motionless on her gory
bed, as if in catalepsy, when- to -a low,' peculiar kndok. at the
door, she sprang up, wideawake, and in the apparent full pos-
session of -her faculties.
"Who ?" she asked in a quick, firm tone, as she -threw the
hair back from her eyes.
Tolthe low response, " I, love!'.she stepped quickly from the
bed and- snatched a shawl from the back of a chair, and, by
several rapid;sideway movements of her feet at the same. time,
thrust the -bloody -rapkins which strewed the floor beneath the
bedr where ihey would be out of sight, and by a movement

ETHERML SOFTDOWN.                  85
almost as swift, threw a clean "spread'-over the -blood-stained
pillows and sheet, then drawing her large shawl closely over
the stained dressing-gown in which she had.'risen,' she rushed
first to the glass,:andsmoothed her hair with an activity that
was positively amazing, and then to the door, which sheun-
bolted on the inside-showing that she niust have risen to bolt
it immediately as the-doctor passed out-and- admitted a-man
who was in waiting.
" Ah, my. soul's sister ! my Heaven-bride! how is thy
spiritual strength this evening?" and at the same. time, as =her
yielding form sank into his outspread.arms, he pressed her lips
with his, adding, "I- salute thy chaste .spirit!" "-
"Brother of.my soul, I was weary,,but now I am at rest. - I
was wounded and fainting by the way, but the good Samaritan
has come !" and she turned her eyes upward to his with a
melting expression of confiding abandon.
"Angel!" accompanied by a closer and convulsive clasp,
was the response.                                z
" What do- they say -of poor me'again, to-day, those cruel
wicked people outside ?" she asked, with eyes still reverentially
upraised to his, as-they moved slowly with clasped arms towards
the cot, on the side of which they ,sat, she still leaning against
his bosom.
"My good sister, they say what evil spirits, always- prompt
men to say of-the good, who, like the Prophets, -are sent to be
stoned and persecuted on earth. You should not regard such.
There are those who know you in the spirit,,to wham. it has
been revealed through the spiritual sense, that you are good and
true, as well- as iethe right, and through such, you will find
strength of the Father."
" Oh, you are so strong in spiritual mightiness that you do not
sympathise with the weaknesses of we humbler mortals! I
wonder, indeed, how you can forgive them ?" and her downcast
eyes were furtively raised to his. - The man wore his hair thrown
back over his head and behind his ears. H  drew himself up


8              SPIRITUAiT VAMPIRISM.

slightly atthis, and stroked back his looks, then placing his
hand with patriarchal solemnity upon-her bowed head, proceeded
in: a somewhat louder tone. "My simple child-my soul-sister,
I should say, you are hardly upon the. threshold of the true wis-
dom- Your knowledge. of the law' of'spiritual correspondence
is yet too incomplete for you to understand how entirely good
has been mistaken for evil, and evil confounded with good in
the world. For instance -it is called evil by the ignorant
world, for a brother -man to caress thee in the spirit as Ihave
caressed thee but now. The. imaginations of a world that lieth
in evil are impure. 'Evil to him who evil thinks !' The great
doctrine of correspondence teaches that there are two lives-the
spiritual and the animal. The passions of the animal are in the
fleshly lusts; those of the spiritual are in no wise such, they
are in the Heavenly-sphere,. they are of love .and wisdom.
Thus, my caress in this Heavenly sphere is of no sin to thee,
for by and through it I. convey to you, my spiritual sister, the
strength of love and wisdom for which your heart yearns.,
Thus-"-
As-he stooped his head to renew the unresisted caress, the
door flew open again,.and the man with. the wide mouth, the
hideous chin and the leaden eye, stood again-upon the threshold,
and as the affrighted pair looked up they saw he was backed by,-
the curious faces of half-a-dozen chambermaids, jealous of the
honor of the house, flanked by the indignant landlady and a
score of prying, curious, sharp-eyed faces, which -might be
recognised at a glance as belonging.to those pickled seraphs of
reform,' known as " free-spoken" spinsters in New England.
"There, they are at it !" shouted the man with the gaping
mouth. "I told you so ! I told you that Professor was always
kissing her !"
"Yes!"
"There they are, sure 'enough!"
"I always thought. so !"_
'cThe honor of my house !" bristled the landlady, striding
forward. " I did not expect this of you, Professor!"

" Madam !" said the gentleman with his hair behind his ears,
.striding forward as he released the suddenly collapse ai d
seemingly lifeless form he had just held within his embrace, and
which fell back now heavily upon the pillow-spread, which was
instantly discolored by a new gush of'blood from the mouth.
" I was.administering, with all my zeal, spiritual comfort to this
poor, sick and dying sister, when you burst in! See her, con-
dition now!"
He. waved his hand towards the tragic figure. " The 'Pro-
fessor" occupied a parlor on the first floor, beside two bed-rooms
adjoining this, and being on the palmy heights of his renown
and plenitude of purse, it was not convenient for the landlady
to quarrel with him at present. " Ah, if that is the case, Pro-
fessor, I beg you to pardon us. The husband of this woman
has misrepresented you and your beneficent motives, and
accuses you of' all sorts of improprieties. We came up, at his
urgency, to see for ourselves, and the shocking condition, in
which we -find her now, proves that the ravings of the husband
are, as she has always represented them, insane."
" I've seen you kissing her before !" roared the husband,
advancing threateningly upon the Professor, who, however
spiritual in 'creed, did not now alpear particularly spirited, as
he turned very pale, retreated backwards, and holding up his
two trembling hands imploringly, exclaimedi-" Hold!,hold!
my dear brother! It. was a spiritual kiss! I meant you no
harm, nor that angel who lies there dying ! Our kiss' was pure
and holy as the new snow.- Hold him! hold him-! Don't let
him hurt me ! I am a non-resistant ! I am for peace !"
"You holy kisses!' I don't believe in your holy kisses "
gnashed the enraged husband, still following himup with war-
like demonstrations; but here the easily appeased landlady
interposed once more, to save the honor of her house in pre-
venting a fight.
"No blows in my house !" she shrieked, as she threw her-
self between the parties. "The Professor is a man of God,
4

BTHERIAL SOFTDOWld.                3 j'


88             SPIRITUAL VAMPSRISM.
and shallknot be abused here ; shame on you, Aminadab, with
your poor, persecuted wife there, dying before your face ! Every-
body will believe what she says about your persecutions now!"1
"Bah, you don't know that woman ! she's no more dying
fhan you -are!" grunted the fellow, whose wrath fortunately
seemed to be of that kind that a straw might turfy it aside, All
the women rolled up their eyes and lifted their two hands at this
speech.
"What a brute!"
"'The horrid, murdering' wretch! and she bleeding at the
mouth, and from the lungs, too1"
'Lord save the poor woman's soul, with a husband like
that!"
And other speeches of like character were ejaculated by all
the women present.
At this -inoment a fresh effusion of blood, accompanied by a
low groan, from the mouth of the suffering patient, flooded the
elean spread with its purple current, and the horrified females
rushed from the room, screaming --
He's killed her at last, poor thing !"
"Where'% the doctor ?"
"She's dyig of his brutality--run for the doctor  At this
moment, with a hasty and-heavy step, that gentleman was heard
advancing along the passage,-followed by a crowd of pale,
frightened4ooking Women. He strode into the room.,
"What now?'--what's to pay?" and his eye fell on the trem-
bling foam of the brutal husband, who had by no means-for-
gotten the rough handling he had received, and now skulked
and quailed like a whipped cur, as his eye saw: the instant
thunder darken on the brow of the doughty doctor.
"You here again--you brutal fellow ? I shall instantly bind
yoA over to keep the peace toward this unfortunate woman,
whose life you are daily endangering by your brutalities. Take
yourself off, sir !" Aminadab waited for no second invitation,
but availed himself of the open doorway. -

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

Without noticing the spiritual professor, wko had drawn him-
self into as small space as possible in one corner, the good man
advanced to the side of his patient with an anxious, flurried
manner.
"What can that besottedwretch have been doing to her
again ?" and he gently placed his fingers upon her pulse, and
shook his head gravely as he did so.
"Very low ! very low, indeed!-nearly absolute syncope
again! This is horrible! How sorry I am that I was com-
pded to leave her for a moment."
"Is she really in danger, doctor?" asked the spiritual pro-
fessor, advancing with recovered assurance.
" Who are you, sir ?" he said, looking up sharply. " One
of these officious fools, I suppose ?"  Then glancing his eye
around at the crowded doorway, he straightened himself-hastily,
and exclaimed -s
"Leave the room,, all of you-she must be quiet-I wish to
be alone with my patient ! Leave the room, sir, I say!" in a
sterner voice, as the spiritual professor hesitated on his back-
ward retreat.
" I-I--I p-pro-test against the impropriety !" he stammered
forth, looking back at the women, with a very pale face, -as he
accelerated his backward movement before the steady stride of
the resolute doctor. -.-
"Out with you, sir-T-I will answer for the proprieties in this
case!"
The door was slammed-in-the ashy face of the spiritual pro-
fessor, and securely doubled-locked before the doctor returned
to the bedside of his patient.
The bleeding from the 'mouth 'had now ceased. All the
usual remedies in such cases having so far entirely failed, the
puzzled doctor had come to the final conclusion that the hemor-
rhage--.be its seat where it might-was only to be subdued by
a restoration of the patient to the most perfect repose. Sleep,
calm, unbroken sleep, to his sagacious judgment and sensibili2

I-


40               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
ties, seemed to offer the sole alternative to death. He. had
been impressed by his patient that her constitutional tendencies
were, by a sad inheritance, towards consumption, and the loss
from the lungs, of such quantities of blood as he had witnessed,
was well calculated to fill his professional 'mind with horror and
dread. The case had thus appeared to him a fearfully uncertain
and delicate .ne; and this sense may fully account for the stern
and unusual procedure of turning even the husband.out of the
room on the two occasions we have mentioned.
As her physician, he felt himself boundto protect his helpless
patient against those moral causes of irritation which he had
been led to believe existed, not only from her reluctant disclo-
sures, but from what he had himself witnessed. Believing that
her- beastly husband was the chief and immediate cause of this
fatal irritation; he had felt himself justified in his rough course
towards him, and was now fully and resolutely determined to
protect what he considered a death-bed-providentially thrown
into his charge-inviolate from farther annoyance, from what-
ever quarter, at least so long as he held the professional respon-
sibility. In this resolute -feeling, and as the. day was warm, he
threw off his coat, raised' all the windows,.and sat himself quietly
down beside his patient to watch for results.
The eyes of the kind man very 'naturally rested upon the
object of his solicitude, and after the first excitement of anx-
iety was over, and he had settled calmly into a contemplative
mood, he. first 'became conscious that there 'was something
strangely fascinating in the. position of the nearly inanimate'
figure. .He had never before thought of the being before him
as other than a very plain, but much-afflicted woman, by.whose
evident physical calamities, no less than her private sufferings,
he had been strongly interested..'
She had told him her own story, and. he had believed her,
thinking he* daw confirmation enough in the conduct' of those
she accused of ill-treatment; but the idea of regarding her as'
attractive in any material sense, had never for an instant crossed

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.                 41
his pure soul. Now there was an indescribable something in
her attitude, so expressive of passion,- that, in the pulseless
silence, he felt'himself blush to have recognized it.
Her arms, which he now remembered to have been bare in
all his late interviews with her, were exquisitely.rounded and
beautifully white, and he could not but wonder that he had not
before observed the strange contrast between them and the plain
weather-beaten face. They looked startlingly voluptuous now,
contrasted with the pallid cheek which rested on them, and- the
glossy folds of'dark hair in which they were entangled. So
strikingly indeed -as this expression conveyed, that even the
purple stains of blood upon the spread beneath' would not
divest him of the dangerous illusion. Thegood doctor felt the
blood mount to his forehead in the shame of deep humiliation
as he recognisedin himself this wandering of thought.
What! could it be that one so habitually pure in feeling as he,
could permit-the intrusion at -such an hour of impure associa-
tions ? Such things were unknown to his life, so disinterested,
so spotless, so humane. What could it be that had caused
such feelings- to possess him thus unusually? -It could _not ' be
possible :she was conscious of the position in which her body
was thrown. Was there some strange spell about this woman
-some mysterious power of'sphere emanating from that still
form, that crept into his blood and brain with the evil glow of
these unnatural fires?
The poor doctor shuddered as he turned aside from the bed
and, with a soft step, glided to the window, and there seating
himself, strove to recover the 'command of his thoughts by dis-
tracting them with other objects in the busy street.
The good man was on grievous terms with himself, as he
continued to beat the devil's tattoo on the window-sill with his
heavy fingers. He felt alarmed, nay, even guilty. He knew
not why. We shall see!
4*


42             SPIRIrTAL VAMPI1ISM.

CHAPTER        III.
TILE SYREN AND THE MOB.
And after all the raskal many ran,
Heaped together in rude rabblement.-
SPENSER.   '
What intricate impeach is this ?--'
I think you all have drunk of Circe's cup I,
SHAKSPEARE.
TNiE woman continued, with calm, regular breathings, to
sleep for several hours. The dusk of evening had now closed
in, and yet her patient guardian sat silentlywatching her motion-.
less figure. A long and serene self-communion had gradually-
restored the excellent doctorto his ordinary equaiimity, and he
now, with untiring vigilance, awaited the changes that might
supervene in the, condition of thepatient.
After all his-thinking on the, subject, he found himself now
no nearer comprehending the cause of the late unwonted'di-s-
t rbance of his habitual serenity than at 'the beginning.,- He
had dealt harshly with himself, in endeavoring to account for it,
and never dreamed of reproaching the feeble and wretched
being before 'him, as in any degree the conscious agent of what
he considered a weakness unpardonable in himself.
' With the natural proclivity of generous souls towards the ex-
tremes, he had, in the plenitude of his seff-re roach, proceeded
to exalt the sleeping woman into an earth-visiting angel with
wounded wings, the spotless purity of which the breath of his
darkened thought had soiled. The poor,' good-hearted doctor!
The silence of the room was now broken by a low exclama-
tion of fright, accompanied by a slight movement of the patient.
The doctor sprang forward softly to the bed-side.
"Who ?-what ?-where am I? What has been happening?"

asked the woman, with an expression of bewilderment and
alarm.
"Nothing ! nothing, my dear madam! I am here-you are
safe -but you must not talk."
"Where is. he? is he gone ?" she persisted in a wild, terrified
manner.
"Yes, he is gone. He shall not come back to disturb you
again. You must be quiet now, and get well. Please be calm,
and trust inime."
" Trust in thee ?" said the patient, in a voice which had in-
stantly lost its vague tone. "Trust in thee, thou minister of
light, who hast come to my darkened pillow, to my bloody
,death-bed, to console ne !". and" here she- clutched his hand.
" Trust thee -I would trust thee as I' trust God!" and she
pressed his hand to her heart.
"You must be silent, madam,".urged the physician, endeavor-
ing to extricate his imprisoned hand, for he- felt strange tin-
glings along his veins, which 'alarmed his now penitent and
vigilant spirit. She only shook her head, and clung with yet
greater tenacity to his hand, and then, first raising it to her lips
with a reverential kiss, she placed "it upon the top of her head,
with the palm outstretched, and- signified her .desire that he
should keep it there, with a smile of entire beatitude. The
doctor barely knew enough of 'mesmeric manipulations; to un-
derstand that this laying-on of hands was commonly resorted to
among the believers in the science, as a remedy for nervous
headache. He could see no harm in the innocent formula, if it
assisted the imagination in throwing off pain, and he very
willingly huniore4 his poor patient, in .permitting his hand to
remain there.
In a moment or two a singular change -came over the face and
general physical expression of the woman, and-the doctor, who
had witnessed something of mesmeric phenomena, instantly.re-
cognised this-as clearly presenting all the symptoms of ~such a
case. He had-mesmerised her by a touch, and it was not with-

-ETHERIAL' SOFTDOWR.          43


44             SPIRITUAL-VAMPIRISM.

out a thrill of vague wonder that he awaited further develop-
ments.
There was a' perfect silence of ten minutes' duration, when
the -mesmerised patient began moving her lips as if in the effort
to articulate.  The curiosity °of the doctor -was" now fully
aroused-his will became concentrated-he desired to hear her
speak; in his unconscious eagerness, he willed that she should
do so with all the energy of his firm nature; and speak she did-
Happy! happy ! Ah, I, am content in .this pure sphere !
Iy soul can rest here !" a long pause, then suddenly a shudder
vibrated through her frame, and she shrank back as one appajled
by some spectral horror.  2
"Ha ! it is all dark now ! I see,! I-see ! his hand is red!
red! red ! red ! There is murder on this soul !"
The doctor sprang up and back as if he had been shot.- His
face grew livid pale, and he trembled in every joint, while with-
chattering teeth he stammered-
"Woman! Woman, how know you this ?"
" I see' it there -that huge 'red hand ! Now all is red !
There ! there ! I felt it must be so !, The pale and golders light
breaks through! It spreads! It fills. and covers everything!
His heart did no murder-A--it was, his hand! He can be rdeemed !
This soul is pure !"
The poor doctor sank upon his chair and groaned heavily,
while he covered his face with his hands. He spoke, in a few
moments, in an almost inaudible tone, to himself, while the woo-
man, who had suddenly opened her eyes, turned her head
slightly, and watched him with a sharp attention.,
" AlasI! alas! how came this strange being in possession of
thefatal secret of my life ?- - I believed it buried in the oblivion
of thirty years  My life of-dedication to humanity, since, I
thought -might have atoned'. for that quick sad- deed ! Yes! I
struck him !, 0, my. God-I struck him! but the provocation
was most fearful!- Woman, who and what are you, that you
should know this thing ?" and with a vehement gesture he jerked

his hands from before his eyes, and turning swiftly upon her, he
met the keen, still glance of those watchful eyes, which shone
through the subdued' light of the room, steadily upon him.
The doctor was astounded ! He sprang' to his feet again, ex-
claiming angrily-
"What shallow trick is this? You seemed but now in the
mesmeric sleep, and mouthed to me concerning my past hfe,
and here you are, wide awake-! How came-you with the secrets
of my life ?"
The woman answered feebly, and with a sob that at once
touched the gentle-hearted doctor, and turned aside his wrath-
" You took your hand away-you would not let me speak.
Place your hand upon my head again, an'd I will tell you all."
The troubled doctor re-seated himself with a shuddering
reluctance, and renewed the manipulation.
In a few moments she appeared again to have sank into the
sleep, ;nd commenced in that slow, fragmentary manner supposed
to be peculiar-to such conditions:
" I see ! The dark shadow is on this soul again ! It is of
anger and suspicion-they are both evil spirits ! They strive to
make it wrong the innocent ! It is too holy and pure- to yield!,
I see the golden light fill all again!- The bloody hand is gone.
No stain -of crime remains upon this'soul. It will be pardoned
of .God. - This soul needs only human love. Through love it
can be made free before God ! All the past will be forgiven
then-the red stains will fade! A sudden 'anger made, it sin.'
Love can only intercede for this sin. Love will intercede! It
will be saved !"
Here her voice became 'subdued into indistinct mutterings,
and the doctor drew a long breath as he withdrew his hand-
"Singular woman! How could all this have been revealed
to her'? She must comunine with spirits in this state. My story
is not known to any here. I never saw or heard of her, until sent
for as a physician, to visit her in this. house. Strange that this
fearfully passionate and repented deed should thus rise up in my

ETHEItIAL 60FTDOWN.             45


SP RITUAL VAMPIUISM.

path, thousands of miles away, amidst strangers, who can know
nothing of ie ! Oh, my God! my God ! Thou .art indeed
vengeful and just !" and the miserable man clasped his hands
before his' eyes and moaned. "Jt was my first draught of love
and life. He dashed it! -I was delirious in my joy, while the
beams rained from her eyes into my hungry soul-hungry of
beauty and of bliss, He dashed it all, and in the hot blood of
my darkened uiadness- I slew him!. Oh,. I slew him ! His
shadow, that can never be appeased, though I have: given body,
and soul, and substance,'to relieving the sufferings of my race,
since that unhappy hour-it rises here again ! It haunts .me"!
Yes! yes! I feel that love alone can-make me strong once more, to
bear such tortures! But have I not denied myself such dreams?
Have I not with dedicated heart walked humbly since in, self-
denying ways? Have I not' clothed the orphan, fed the poor
and nursed the sick ? Have I not ministered amidst pestilence,
and held my life as of none account that I might bring good to
others.? Can I be'forgiven ? No!' no ! The Pharisee recounts
his holy deeds and thanks.God that his life is not sinful as an-
other man!. I am not to be forgiven! I shall never know those
dreams of 1ove~"'
The strong man .bowed his frame and shook with agony.
Could he but have looked up, a keen, quick 'gleam from the eyes
whichh had been so steadily fixed, upon him during this painful
soliloquy, would have struck him as.conveying the ecstacy of a
sainted spirit over a soul repentant - or of some other feeling
:quite as exultant.
This curious scene was, however, most unexpectedly inter-
rupted at- this-moment, by 'a loud yelling from the street below.
The clamor.was 'so sudden, and yet so angrily harsh, that both
parties 'sprang forward in the alarm it -cause4-the woman,.
springing up into a sitting posture on the bed, and the doctor to
go 'to 'the window.
"What is it?" she exclaimed wildly, as she tossed back her
hair.- " What do these cruel people want to do to me now ?",

ETHEBIAL SOFTDOWN.                47
The doctor, who saw at a glance the- meaning of what was
going on below, and the necessity of keeping -his patient cool,
turned to her, with a very quiet expression--
"Do not be alarmed, madam. It is merely some disorderly
gathering of rowdies, in the street below. There is no dange
to you-only do not get excited, or you will bleed again. I am
here to protect you."
" Then I am safe !" was the fervid response, which, however,
was followed by a roar so sullen and portentous, from the infu-
riated mob underneath, as to leave some dohubtof its truth even
upon the mind of the doctor.
" Down with the anialgaitation den !"
" Down with the saw-dust palace!"
"Tear it down!"
"Let's lynch the wretches !"
The response to speeches of this sort, from single voices,
would be a simultaneous burst of approbation from the great
crowd, and a trampling and rush to get nearer the building., It
seemed a formidable sight, indeed, to the doctor, as he looked
down upon this living mass of men, surging like huge waves
tossed against some cliff, while the torches, that many of them
bore,. glared -fitfully upon the upturned, angry faces.
A powerful voice, which rose above all the tumult, exclaimed
with a hoarse oath, as the speaker turned for an instant'toward
the crowd, from the top of the front steps-
"Let us burst open the door and lynch -every white person
found with a negro. Here goes for the door !" and he threw
himself furiously against it, while a perfect thunder-crash of,
roars attested the approbation of the dangerous mob. The door
resisted for a moment, when there was a sudden yell from the
outside of the mob, nearly a square distant-
" Here ! here 's what'll do it ! pass 'em on-!"-and the alarmed
doctor saw immediately the portentous gleam of fre-axes, which
were being passed over the heads of the' crowd towai-ds the
door, and in another instant the crash of the' cutting would


48             SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

commence. The doctor, as we have seen, was a very prompt
man. He thrust his head out of the window, and in a loud,
commanding voice, shouted-
"Stop !"
The man at the door, who had just received the axe, and was
in the act of wielding it, paused for an .instant, to look up, while
the whole sea of faces was raised toward the window, amidst a
moment's silence, of which the doctor instantly availed himself---
"Gentlemen, do you war upon women? I have a female
patient here, in this room, at the point of death ! If you pro-
ceed, you will kill her !"
"Who is she ?" shouted some. one, while another voice, in a
derisive tone, yelled'out amidst screams of laughter--
" Is she 'Rose? Rose? de coal-brack Rose ? I wish I may be
shot if I don't lub Rose !"-
Amidst the thunders which followed, some one shouted from.
a distant part 'of the mob, to the man with the axe-
"Go on, Jim! It's all pretence with their sick women!"
".Down with the door-they don't escape us that way ! Look
out for your bones, old covey, when we catch you !"
The axe was again swung back, but the doughty doctor still
persisted--
"Stop !" he shouted again, in a tone so startling for energy
of command, that the axe was again lowered.
" Are you.Americans ? Have you mothers and sisters ?"
'Yes, but they ain't black gals!" gibed one of the mob, and
set the rest into a roar once again.-
"I -appeal to you as men-as brothers and fathers, do not
murder my poor patient!"
" Who is that noisy fellow ?" bellowed a brutal voice below.
"I am a physician ! I have nothing to do with this house
or its principles ; I only beg to be permitted to save my patient !"
" What, is your name, I say ?" bellowed the hoarse man again.
"Out with it! We''11 know you-some of us!"
The'name was ,mentioned. There was a momentary pause,

M1

ETHEREALL. SOFTOWN..               49
and a low murmur ran through the crowd ; then shoutafter shout
of applauding huzzas.
" We know you!
"Just like him.!"
"Noble fellow!"
." The good doctor! 'Huzza-! huzza!",
And soothe cry went up on all sides, for the, doctor's reputa-
tion for benevolence was as wide as that of John Jacob Astor
for the opposite trait.
There seemed to be a vehement consultation. among what
appeared the leaders of the mob, which lasted but for a moment
or two, when one who, stood upoi the top step looked up, and
in a firm,, respectful voice, said to the doctor-- -
 " It's all right, sir, about You! We shall let the women pass
out!' But you must clear the house of Ahem !" ..
 " But it is" dangerous to move my patient."
" We cannot help that, doctor ; we do this for your sake, not
theirs, for they ought every one of them to be. burned, and we
are determined .to- abatethe nuisance.of this house. So hurry
them along here quick,for the boys-will- not keep quiet l9ng."
" Yes, hurry them women along; we'll let them: go. this
time."
" All but that lecturing lady (?), who says that, she would as
soon marry a negro asa white ma !"
" Yes, all but her; we want to e rid of sch creatures; let's
duck her in the Hudson."
"No, boys, we will make no distinction. We have pro-
'mised -- let the  woman  go.'?.'sj
"Down with the lecturing women and their black lovers !"
" Duck.the hag ! we'll:wash off the scent for her !"
'Cries such as these' convinced the doctor that indeed no time
was to he lost, particularly as .:the sound of the axe, was now
heard below in good earnest. Approaching the bed "hastily,
he took the 'shivering form of the, panic-stricken woman, who
had heard distinctly these last -omirious cries, into his arms.
5


sPIRiAL. VAMPIRISM.
She -lutched him with a desperate-grip, vhilehehurried down'
the stairs.
On the-way, he met the Spiritual Professor in the passage,
surrounded by the women of the house, who were custered
about hn, in the seemingly vain hope of obtaining from him
something of that ethereal consolation and strenigth, of which
hewas the so mucly vaunted Professor.-Indeed, he-himself
now seemed the most woful,. of all the whimpering, terrified
group, in: want of any kind of-strength, whether spiritual or
otherwise; and his teeth literally 'chattered; as he clutched, at
the doctor's passing arm.
aWh -wh-- what shallwe do ? They mean to burn the
house} don't'they?"         .'
"iBo ?  said the doctor, sternly, shaking off hiss grasp.
CC Try and be' a 'man, if you've got it in you! Get, these
women out of the house, and take yourself off on your spiritual
legs as fast as you can, or you may make some ugly acquaint-
ern es ",                             ,:
The Professor stillbclung to his skirts.-
""Oh -Lordi the doctrine of correspondences does not sanc-
"Go to the devil, with your correspondence, or I shall kick
youout of my path!" roared the angry doctor, while the snivel-
ling Piofessor, more alarmed than everiyslunk aside. to let him
pass. MThe crash and clatterfrom below now announced that
the mob -had effected an entrance from the street, and leaving
the women, all screaming at the top of their Jungs, around their
doughty spiritual guide, he rushed on with his burden towards
the front entrancewhich had thus been taken by sterm, and
was now rapidlyifilling with excited rnen. Some were seig
the 'furniture, which they began to demolish, while others hur-h
Tied forward to intercept aiim.
"It is the sick womari. , Remember your promise; let me,
pass.?'-
'Yes, that's the good doctor; let him pass, boys."

ETHEREAL sOTDOW.              1

"'No, not yet!" roared a burly-looking ruffian, pressing
through the throng. "We, must see who it is he has got there.
Who is she ?" and he roughly dragged,-aside the shawl that par-
tially covered her face.
"Monster!?, shouted- the excited doctor, "the. woman is
dying! Make ',ay! Let me pass !"
"Not so fast!" said the ruffian, resisting his forward rush.
"I shall see! I' shall see ! Boys, here she 'is! .By G-d, this
is she, that lecture-woman; shewants to marry a nigger, hah!1
We won't let her go."
"But you will!" said the doctor, releasing one' arm, with
which he struck .the ruffian directly in the mouth, and with a
force that sent him reeling backwards.
":Good! good !" shouted:twenty voices; "served him right,
doctor."
The 'fellow had rallied instantly, and was ru hing, like a wild
bull, headlong upon the doctor, when several powerful -men
threw themselves between the two, seizing the ruffian at the
same time.
"No, Jim, you stand back!" said one df them, brandishing
a heavy axe before his eyes. "You touch that gentleman again,
and I'll brain you!"
"It's a shame !" interposed others: "It's the good doctor
who nurses the poor for-nothing. Doubt if he gets a ceilt for
that creature."
"Yes,'if she was the devil's dam herself, we promised 'the
good man to let her go. Stand back, boys, and let the ' doctor
pass."
An opening was accordingly formed, through which the
doctor hastened to make his way. When he made his appear-
ance at the door, he was greeted With three wild, hearty cheers
for himself, and as many groans and hisses for the character of
the woman whom he' bore, the news of- the identification of
whom had instantly found its way to the outside.
Regardless of all this,-and only congratulating -him elf upon

'\

N!-

51


52              SPIRITUAL  AMPIRISM.
-the prospect of getting his patient off- alive, he pressed rapidly
through the. crowd, with the purpose of bearing her to the
sheler of his own bachelor home.,
The mob- now instantly occupied the building, which was
.gutted by them, and the shattered contents, along with its' oceu-
pants, men and women, roughly hurled into the street. Some
of the former were very severely handled, and among the rest,
the Spiritual 'Professor had his share of material chastening.
The: mob found him under a cot-bed, with three ors four femi,.
nine disciples of'his spiritual correspondences .piled over him,
or clinging distractedly to=his nerveless limbs.
1ey dragged-him out by the heels, with his squalling cor-
tege trailing after him, and finding that the occult professor of
spiritualities had gone-into. a&amp; state of obliviousness, or rather
fainted, they proceeded, in their solicitude: for his recovery, to
deluge his person with.sundry convenient slops,,which-'shall "be
nameless, and 'afterward's kicked him headlong into the street
below, where the dreaming boys' pelted him with gutter-mud
and rotten eggs,-until, finding his spiritual legs,' as he had been
advised - it is.to be supposed-- of a sudden, he made himself
scarce, down Barclay Street, in an inappreciable twinkle..
In a word, the people., in this instance, as in many others,
when they have found-it necessary to take -the laws of decency
and .comrnon sense 'into their own sovereign hands, did the work
of ridding themselves of-this most detestable nuisance effect-
ually.. :The 'Graham.House- was broken up, and although the
pestilent -nestof .knaves 'and fools who most delighted there to
congregate,. have, endeavored, in subsequent years, to reas,
semble;' and, renew the ancient character of the place as their
head-piarters; yet the attempt has only been attended with par-'
tial successs
The blow was -too decisive' on this night ; forzalthough the
walls weie,left 'standing,: the proprietor was given clearly to
understand, that the unnatural orgies 'of amalgamation would
"not be 'tolerated 'agaiih 'y th~e 'community, under the 'decisive

1
!S
4;
['.
.{
«'
e
. '
t
.}
1
e=

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.                 58
penalty of no. one stone.' left standing upon the other,'of the
building.,
He took the hint, and it was about time ! It has been fairly
conjectured ,by this time, from the glimpses we have takes of
the interior, that the house was; the scene of other vices -than
those implied in amalgamation merely. It will be seen in yet
other words and years how much there was of real danger to the
well-being of society, in the doctrines taught and practised within
its unhallowed walls. No,.one lesson could -ever -prove suffi-
cient for these people; they enjoy a fatal impunity even now,
and we ,shall endeavor that inen shall know them as they are !
CHAPTER        IV.
. BOANERGES PHOSPHER, THE SPIRITUAL PROFESSOR.
He strikes no coin, 'tis true, but coins new phrases,
And vends them forth as knaves vend gilded counters,
Which wise men scorn, and fools accept in payment.
*B, isrnsA .
None of these rogues and cowards, but Ajar is their fool!
en.
THAT the world has, dealt. hardly by its heroes, is a truism we
need not. insist upon at this late day. But whether the world
knows who its heroes are, is another question,'and one more
open to controversy: "Now I insist that the world does, not
know, or else Boanerges Phospher, the Spiritual Professor,
would long singe have been stoned and persecuted into one of
the holy company'oft saints and martyrs!
There are several kinds of heroism heretofore known among
men. There is the fierce, aggressive heroism of the soldier and
conqueror.- there is the" glib and oily" heroism of' the polite
5*


SPIRITUAL VAMMIRI$M.
cian*-thecalm, during heroism of-the saint--the lofty, death-
defying heroism of the patriot; but it remains for moderntimies
to record the brazen heroism of impudence.  npicdence too,
has it grades arid.degrees -its ancient 'types and its more' mo-
derin ones -but as they all veiltitheir brdssy splendors, merging
their separate rays in the 'central efflgenee of our spiritual-Co-
locsus, -we- shall ,waive their particular enumeration in favor of
the individualised impersonationof them all.
Ah, verily--and this ishe-!-our Spiritual Professor! .Born
n:Yankee-land,:of course, the earliest feat of -Boanerges Phos-
pher-iterally, aciorging to his own account of it---was to pry
up a liuge stoneupon one- of the- sterile pernal acres: for what
purpose, would you suppose? -To -place his feet upon the soil
beneath,'because the foot 'bf no other man could have pressed'it!
A laudable ambition, truly,. but one which, somehow, un-
luckily,'-suggests that-
"Fools may walk where angels fear to tread I"
It was- a necessary.seucence to the career of this modern Co-
lumbus of untrodden discovery, that we find his "first appear-
ance upon 'any stage" toihave been, while;so pitiably ignorant
as to be barely-able to read his own language by spelling the
words, and write'Lhis own name execrably, as 1(ROFESsOR or.
EL9CPUTION!
Admirable! admirable ! Why make two bites of_ a cherry ?
Why- not-step at once -where no foot of such Man:ever trod
before?- +  ^ -       w '    -  A,
Shade, of Blair!-- Look ye not askance at this daring intruder
upony9ur -classic company ! He intends yo -no harm; he- only
means-.to re-Muse his briss back into. copper s!
,In lecturing on Eloution, our PoTfessor, of necessity, gra-
dually learned to read- -withfluency, we meani-.-iltath is, he could.
" talk right ,out 'f like the head boy-in a class, though it -was
in  nasalngmgsongy more remarkable for its pietistic intonation
than- its rhgthr- "thia was, nio -doubt, in a-great measure owing

ETHERrAL SOFTDOWN.                   55
to the facility of whining he had acquired, in his more juvenile
experience, -as a preacher of some:three or. four different liberal
sects.;- We class these as -mere experiments, as purely preliini-
nary trials of strength, before he entered the true arena of his
professorship.
The professorship to be 'stre, was self-institited --self-
ordained a- nd why not self-asserted?, There'.ere professors
of hair-invigorating oils, professors-of dancing, professrof rats
catching, professors of hair-eradication, professors of cough-.
candy, -professors of commercial- book-keeping and running-
hand writing, , professors of flea-powder -and bug-extermination
-and why not a professor of elocution?-- The very igutter-mud
germinites professors in this free country.f They grow like
fungi out of wallowing reptiles''heads.; and who need be sur-
prised, in America,. at receiving the card of his boot-black,
inscribed Professor Brush ; his chimney-sweep, Professor SootI
or be appalled by the bloody apparition of a rmissive -from his
butcher, emblazoned, " Professor Keyser, Killer ! '
No disrespect, mark you, is intended to be either understood
or implied, for the gentlemen of the various professions above
enumerated, for they are all respectable in their way,' and to be
respected,- outside of their professorships. ~ But- that is rather a
serious name, as we understand it-one that the world has been
accustomed to look up to with veneration -proportioned, until
these"' modern instances," to the vast 'and profound learning
which had made it, in. the old World, the synonyme of almost
patriarchal inspiration - the grand, firm, and stable'bulwark of
human progress, and its-lofty. future; of infinite' science,- and its
clear, glorious myths !,.
This -thing -of learning.,seems so easy, that your starveling
Yankee perceives. no difieulties-in the- way, ar d glides -into its
penetralia -"like a book,"'-only that he never reads it! -e is
at once at-home -in all topography, as much as "if he were in
Kamtschatka, orthe t"Tropic Isles."" Frred cloaks-or 'biead-
fruit leaves are all the same to- him; he was born- knowing, and-

I


SPrIU4, V:APIRISM.
of' course could,,ot do less than know a great deal more about
Kamtschatka pd the" Tropic Isles" that theirfurred and fig-
3eaied deifern&amp;  Brass is the Yankee's capital, andno wonder
they ade the. grea4liscoveries of copper on Lake,,Superior, so
extensively patronised by.New-liglht sages. It is the fset to
Califoxnia =old; .fbr, while one promises an ininite supply of
the, substantial basis of commerce and all trade,. the other pro-
nr es to furnish, in perpetuity, the :crude material-of impudence.
We mean no insinuation in regard to the Spiritual Professor,-
however much;h. hmayhave had .to do, 'ty "spherical influ-
ence," in precipitating the discovery of this r great mine of the
niwtalso much in favor with the'sages ,above mentioned-arnd the
remainder ,f the sect to which the Professor. belonged--the
motto of,which'is, that, "Out of the youths of babes and, suck-
lings shall ye, be eopfounded."  Yet- we can, freely venture to
assert, that he had Rno 'connection whatever with those unfor+
tunate commerciall results, which, in the first place, nearly,
if not entirely, swamped the great Patron of the- enterprise.
The miid of our Professor was necessarily not of that vast reach
and ge eralising comprehension, which could lead to the Behe-
moth stride and wizard calculation of results, which had enabled.
his master thus confidently to 'speculate in so subtle a material.
The operations of our Professor were essentially minified ;,
that is, their sphere and scope had been particularly narrow.
He was. heroic enough, Heaven knows; but then his heroism
was f that.dashing character which only required a patron to
lustrate and make it known.
Having published a book upon this- occult (in his hands)
science of' elodttioi, which was, of course, written for him by
another. - arty, he suddenly,'felt himself inspired with a new
nspiration.
He had already taught; men how to talk, and it now became
'necessary; and ind ed spiritually incumbent upon him, to teach'
then how to :live; 'He oeordingly announced himself, forth-'
with, as Revelator'inPChief of th~e spiritual-mysteries of the uni-

E THERIAL SOFTDOWN.        '
verse. Every reader will probably-remember thoseflaining pro-
grammes of lectures which appeared, by the half column, in a
New York paper, for a long period, daily, between '43 and
146. Mendacious impudence never. vaulted higher ! Our Spi-
ritual Professor was in his glory now.
An illustrious man lived once in Sweden. He was humble,
pure and firm., 'His astonishing works on seientiic subjects left
the 'mind of his period ffar behind him, utterly confounded by
his direct' and stringent-:lucidation- of the most' subtle of the
purely physical l.aws. 'It seemed a miracle to.them; they found
their professional accuracy so faf surpassed, thatthey durst nrot
do more than wonder. Work after work of this amazing intel-
lect came forth, dressed in i language, while handling such
themes, common to the world of science
Then came a sudden change, and this vast mind, which here-
tofore had dealt in simple demonstriationwith 'mankind, threw
down its"compass and its squares, :and, in the language of hu-
milty,' proclaimed itself a Medium' The' God of Jacob.and
humanity had revealed hirpself tohin,' not-in the burning bush
of mystery, but in the lustrous quiet of a calm repose.' He had
talked scieiific truth before, "but now:-he spoke -of spiritual
things-a chosen Medium between God and man'! His theme
was far beyond all science. We-have nothingto. do withhis
wide postulate; his name was too. sublime and venerable-among
the patriarchs of 'mankind, for 'me to speak of it, otherwise- in
this connection, than in disgust and loathing of the profanation
to which it has been' subjected, in our country,' by monkeyisii
and parrot-tongued -ignoramuses.
Our learned and sagacious Professor of' Elocution, happening
to stumble upon .soie of the earlier translations of the worksof
Swedenborg, seized upon them with great. avidity, ard,'as he'
had now learned to rad without spelling the words out loud, he
managed t6 get them- byheartWith most surprising facility,-and;
to the astonishment of Jew and Gentile, suddenly proclaixed
himself arn apostle of the' new church.


SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM
To be sure, wlYen ne :considers this undertakingin the- ab-
st40t, it ,was rather a serious one; .one indeed that would have
applied_ most meiniash the works of $wedenborg really con-
sist ed of some forty-add' huge volumes, writte in 'Latin, not a
line of which the Professorcould translate,; -nd the-hand-books'
he had faller- porn =ere merely translations ff .intoductory
compends   -What though the field .as one of the most pidi-
gious inhuman- learning-what though the themes-were the
highest that aould occupy morta' .contetnplation ---what though
the patient diligence of an oordinary lifetime would scarce suffice
intelligent-#persons for the studiouscomprehension of the:'truths
taught by tns wnderfulman ?4 it was all the"same to the Pro-
fessorn; i;' indeed, instead. of being discouraged, he was
rather'encouraged, by the i agnitude'-of the :undertaking ! An
e ponent of Swedenborg'!' Well, why'got?  He. could-spell
words in three syllables!
igwit h'he prodigious discovery of his o n capabilities and
the new mine 6f doctrinal science,'the learned Professor rushed
precipitated 'into 'the 'ever-extended armns of his 'Pat'ron saint,
the 'nourisher} and cherisher:of empirics'and empiricism. And
why should he iot be-so,, forsooth? It was -cheap, not "too
much leariiing," that. had made-himnmad:"aswell!  letoo
had fonnd it to ;his account to1 scorn the decencies of a thorough
education, and from a printer's devil, with a mind that had 'fed
upon 'scraps .nd paragraphs, had doggedly risenfrthrough' the
help 4 the familiar demon of labor, which-possessed-him, into
this position of Patron: to all new-corners--oprovided they bore'
"new-lights" and coppers!f
It mattered ;litl&amp;to this self-constituted and unscrupulous dig-
nitarygwheth erthe theme was ,et 'to the wdord, pr only to him-
self;- the, latter was most likely:to -be the case with one who
had 'prabably'ne er read a'dozen books' coisecutively through
in dis life, and 1'who, from.=gros :physique, dress, habits, and
mental idiosyncrasies, was necessarily' incapacitated for coipre-
hending the fine arid subtle relations of truth; who, even with

ETEBRIAL - SOFTDOW1.        -       5l
the sovereign aid :of the 2new-light Panacea, bi-anbread, had
seemed toy be capable of digesting bud a fragnent oftruth at' a
time, and that fragment, too,.gobbled'without the sightest regard
for its relations toother truths.
Here was a happy appreciation 'with a vengeance !-was it
knave of fool, or fool of kba-'which? The cjuestien is in-
teresting' At all events,-the results were the same, so far as' the
public were concerned;. It was forthwith announced that the
Patron Saint, like some patient andVfatchf l' atronomner, sweep-
ing the-blue abyss of"heaven-with ever-constantglass, had dud-
denly discovered a-new luminary-it-certainlyhadia fiery tail,
but whether it was going to prove a genuine' comet or not, let
the following announcement bear witness:
"Professor Joanerges Phospher lectures to-night in*the Taber-
nacle, which it is thought may possibly contain some small por-
tion, at leas,of the enormous crwd ljich will of course assemble
to hear his profound and luminous expovsition of the mysteries
of-the universe. 'The doctrine of correspondences- as pro-
pounded by the learned Pi-ofessor; reveals the true solution of
all problems which affbet the relations of mankind to the spirit-
ual world. Indeed,, his enoirnious research and unappreciable
profundity have at length enabled him to solve the groblei of
the universe, which he, with the- tost luminous demonstrations,
will educate even the infant mind to-comprehend with sufficient
clearness, in 'fiye easy lessons, or lectures. on every other night,
at one dollar each. 'The whole subject of mnan, in' his eternal.
relations to"God, to the spiritual word, and-to the earr, 'will
be mathematically expounded to the full comprehension-ofall.'
Herefollows the programme:
"-Professor Boanerges Phospher 'undertakes to show in the
lecture of to-night, That in-the universe there are these three
things: end, 'cause; and effect ; that infinite things in the infinite
are'one- that they-constitute a triune eistene-they are three
in one; that the universe is a-work eohe ng from 'firsts to lasts.
" That Good is from a twofold origin,' and thence adfititious.

__:'' F


901V              SPIRITUAL VARPIRISM.
That celestial g od is good in essence, rd spiritual good is'
~6o5d in'for' That the goo~d of tlie -inmost Heaven is called
celetiaI;' of the middlJe He"re, ospi'rtuaf;iad1o;the ultimate
Heaven, spiritual, natural..-That good is called lord, and- truth'
servant, befo-theyjare conjoined, but aftervards-they are called
brethren. That he'who isgood isr in the faculty of.seeing truth,
which flows frengeral truths, and this in a.continual series.
Thatgodds.actually spiritual fire, from  yhich spiritual heat,
which makes alone, i&amp; derived.;
That al'Evil habits rise frm ithe sensual principle, and also
from the scientific  There is an. evil derived from thefalse,"and
a false froi evil. .   .    .
" That gold sig the good of love.. Whentwice-mertioned,
sig. the good of lol e, and the goodof faith originating in love.
"That.influx from the Lord'is through the internal into the
ernal' *Spiritual influx is founded on the nature of things,
which i spirit acting on.matter.         (
"That iphysical.ingiuxor natural, originates from the fallacy
ofAhelsenses that thebody.adts on spirit.
" That harmoriious influx is founded on _afalse. coielusion,
.viz .: that the soul acts jointly and at.the -same-instant with the,
body. :That ;there is.a common ifux ;and this influx passes
intothe life-of'animals, and alsointo'the.subjects of the 'vege-
tabie. kingdom. JThat-influx. passes from the Lord to man
through the forehead-far the-forehead corresponds to love,'nd
theface to the interior of the mind." .
To befolioged lby questions itthe corrsspodenses by any
of the audigie whe may choose to ask them;,,stuch 'as, To what"
does, "-horse" correspond ?-,"-Towhat:doesitable,,""chair,"orl
'oap-stone" correspond ?-Towhat does "hog," " goose;"
buttermilk, ' o "jackass"' zeorrespond-? &amp;. &amp;c  TO all of
whidhrquestions the learned lecturer:will give' edifying answers,
rom;thestand. 3dmittance,'one dollar--Children, half-price.
This isalong-programme, to" be 1iure,.and-somewhat over-
vwhelnijg to i-e ,common people, Nho have b-een in the habit

ETHERIAL. SOFTDOWN.

"
,
.,
, ;
E
E
,'
,

61

of regarding certain subjects with the profoundest -veneration,
and our modest and capable teachers with reverence. But the
very length of this programme, and the enormous stretch of the
themes, only go, I suppose, to illustrate the hardihood of our
" admirable Crichton," the professor of the- occult-and the
genial and the generous-to call it by its lightest name-gulli-
bility, of his gaping audience.
Forth went these flaming announcements day by day, on
thousand hot-pressed sheets, until.New York became all agog,
and the great mass conceived that they had found a new prophet.
All its spectacled and thin-bearded women forthwith were in
arms; the Professor wore his hair .behind his ears, and, of
course, was the soft and honey-sucking seraph of their, dreams.
He could be indeed nothing short of seraphim-revealed, for
he discoursed with them in winning tones of mists and mysteries.
He told them bald tales of angels with whom he had been on
terms of intimacy; for he sagaciously kept his master, Sweden-
borg, mainly in the background throughout.
Representing himself, as the - individual recipient of these
revelations, from the spherical ladies who wear wings, and who
are habitually designated as. angels by both the sexes, on our
little clod of earth, our champion became, of course, the hero
of all such semi-whiskered maidens or matrons, who, though
essentially "pard-like spirits," were 'yet, to reverse the words
of Shelley, more "swift," alias "fast," than " beautiful!"  It
is, of course, to be comprehended that beauty is comparative as
well as wit, and we would no more be understood as insinuating
that these thinly-hirsute virgins and dames, who at once con-
stituted the principal audience of the mighty Professor, were
themselves in any degree deficient in sympathy either with the
man and his profound doctrines, or the man per se, than that
we would assert they understood one word of what he mouthed
to them, with his hair behind his ears.
Boanerges Phospher, the Spiritual Professor, Was successful,
and never was there anything so professionally brilliant as the
6


SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

crowded houses that he nightly drew. -The immense Tabernacle
seemed a mere nut-shell; he could have filled half-a-dozen such
houses nightly. The mob had grown excited by the novelty.
The paper of the Patron Saint, at so -many pennies aline, day
by day, continued to.prostitute its columns to this vulgar trap
of silly-servant-maids ad profound clerks,
The Professor's lectures were attended by countless swarms
of inquirers after truth, who, as they were willing to accept a
-'spoken for a written language of which they knew nothing, per-
mitted him to stumble through propositions, which, in them-
selves, were so ridiculously absurd as even to disarm contempt
in the wise, and make denunciation ?harmless as superfluous.
CHAPTER        V-.
BOANERGES AND THE YOUNG MATHEMATICIAN.
Famine is in thy cheeks,
Need and oppression stareth in thy eyes,
Upon thy back hangar ragged misery.
SHAKSPEARE.

There's no -ore
Mercy in him than there's milk in the male tiger.

.Idem.

THE bowels of:-Boanetges Phospher, the Spiritual Professor,
were possessed of such extraordinary capacity for yearning over
the fallen and lost condition of his brothers of mankind, that,
not content with saving them by wholesale, and nightly, in those
marvellously spiritualized lectures, his indomitable energies took.
up the trade of "saving" men idividually and;by detail.,
This, let it be understood, wasdone between times, by way
of recreation, just to keep his hand in. Let us follow him on
one of these eriads of mercy.

a
;
i
3
o
.j
'  .
1

ETHERtAL sOTDOWN.       .
In a poor garret of Ann Street, New York, might have been
seen, about these days, a young man, seated in a Tickety chair,
beside, a: dirty pine table, which was plentifully strewn with
manuscripts covered with many a tedious column of figures and
mysterious-looking diagrams.
You saw at once, from the disproportionate size of the broad,
white,.bulging brow, which brooded heavily over large moirn-
ful eyes, and thin, emaciated features, that he was a mathema-
tician; possessing one of those precocious and enormous de-
velopments of the organs of calculation, which are so apt, when
not diverted by other occupations -and excitements, to consume
rapidly the feeble fuel of life in their consecrated fires.
A wretched cot-bed occupied one corner of the room, which
was likewise. strewn with papers and books on mathematical
subjects, while on the. mantel lay scattered little heaps of dri~d
cheese and crusts, which seemed so hardened, that no tooth of
predatory mouse had left its mark thereon.       -
The young- man was dressed in entire conformity with the,
miserable appearance. of the room.: His thin and. silky hair
hung in lank, clammy locks about his shockingly pallid features,
as he leaned forward on his elbow, his -forehead resting heavily
on his thin hand, as he pored overthe papers before him.
" Ah me,"- muttered he, "this horrid poverty !" and he threw
down his pen and sank back with a faint, despairing movement.
" My brain is giddy with this :dizzy round of figures, figures.
My weary calculation is nearly done, but my over-tasked, brain
sickens. Ah, but for just one good meal, to strengthen me for
a few hours, and I could finish it -finish my glorious work!"
At this moment a rapid. step was heard ascending the creak-
ing stairs ; the door flew open rudely, and, without any' an-
nouncement, the Spiritual Professor, .with. his hair all nice
behind his ears, came bustling forward toward the table, beside
the fainting young-student. Rubbing his hands at the same
time in prodigious glee of anticipation, he exclaimed -


64              SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

"Ha! my son! my spiritual child! how is it with you?
Have you finished ? Is-it done ?"
The poor student shook his .head slightly, and muttered
feebly -.
"No, no; I cannot finish it."
The eager face of the Professor turned suddenly very blank
and very white at the same time, as, straightening himself, he
stammered out
"Wh-what ! c-cannot finish it'! You must finish it! you shall
finish it!" and then continuing with greater vehemence, without
apparently noticing that the weary head of the poor being before
him was slowly droopingyet lower.-
"Here's a pretty business, to be sure!. This is the reward I-
am to get for all I have done for you-for all my efforts to ad-
vance you in the world  for all the heavy expenses I have
incurred in bringing you on from Cincinnati, and supporting
yob here ! The evil. spirits must have re-entered the boy!
Have I not striven for these six months faithfully, with all my
spiritual strength, to.drive them forth, that I might save him?
The boy:must be born again-he must be regenerated once
more. Cannot finish it! He. must. be chastened, to rebuke
this evil spirit in him; he must be reduced to bread and water.
I must .recall my liberal allowance for his food; he has been
living too high. The .evil demon has probably. entered him
through a meal of fat pork !" and the spiritually outraged Pro-
fessor :sniffed with an indignant and eager sniffle, that he might
detect the presence of the.forbidden food.
The poor youth,-in the -mean time, had been slowly sliding
from his chair, and, as the' Professor turned aside with the air
of an injured cherub, the body lost its balance, and the faint-
ing youth fell to the floor.
"-Ha!. what-now ?" shouted our cherub with the hair behind
his ears, springing into the air with a nervous agility, as if he in
reality .wore wings. He placed himself on. the opposite'side of
the room in a twinkling, and then turning his face, ghastly with

fright, exclaimed, "I thought the house was coming down!"
and seeing the prostrate body, he walked around it as cautiously
as a cat crouches, and, with a stealthy inspection, peered into the
half-open eyelids, at the upturned eyes, but without"touching
the body.
" Wh-why, the fellow's gone and died! There goes my
great speculation!" and springing back suddenly, he rushed
towards the table, and seizing convulsively the papers, ran his
eye eagerly over them, while his hands trembled violently; and
his lips turned as ashy blue as those of the poor victim at his
feet, while, with an expression of despair, too unutterable for
words to paint, he groaned out in frantic exclamations "No,
no, no, it is not finished ;- nobody else can do it but him I'm
ruined ! I'm rained'! Oh, my money's\gone -my money's
gone ! To think that he should die, after.all I've done for him.
-after all my liberality! 0! 0! O! boob! boobh! hoo!"
At this melting crisis, a slight noise caused him to. turn "his
head ; the apparent corpse was 'drawing up one foot, and mak-
ing some other feeble movements,-which showed that life was
not entirely extinct.
At this sight the eyes of Boanerges flew open as wide iri a
stare of ecstacy, as they had before' been stretched in horror,
until their suffusion "with the briny," as Mr. Richard Swiveller
would say; had caused them to momentarily wink.
".Why, he ain't dead yet ! my .speculation is safe. Some
water ! Where's some water? Get some water!" and he ran
peering and dodging around the room with an uncertain air, as
if the new influx of joy had bewildered his seraphic, mind.
After some little delay he found the pitcher, which had. been
standing alt'the time in full view, within three feet of him; he
wildly dashed more than half the contents into the face of the
victim, who instantly drew a lqng sobbing breath, and in a mo-
ment or two opened his eyes.
This so increased the ecstacy of the Professor, that he now
ventured to kneel beside him, and, in his eagerness, forgetting
6*

ETHERTAL S4FTDOWN.    -       Q


PETHERIAL SOFTD0WN.          76'j

to use the tumbler that was standing near, he nearly crushed the
poor student's teeth down his throat, in his awkward endeavors
to administer drink tohim from the heavy pitcher--exclaiming,
during the process,. ".Drink! drink! my son. Don't die, for
Heaven's sake ! Remember, my liberality-my generous sacri-
fices to advance you in the world. Remember our almanac -
your great work, that is to make your fortune.- Remember how
you have been saved !"S
" Starved, you mean," feebly whispered the young man,
whom a few draughts of the precious fluid had rapidly revived.-
y"-St-a-a-r-r-ved! does he -say ?" yelled Boanerges, shrinking
back as if horrified, and nearly dropping the body he was sup-
porting from his arms. Then, suddenly releasing one arm, he
smoothed back his hair gently; that radiant, angelic expression
of sweet humility, for which it was so famous among the female
pag of ,his select and nightly audiences, overcame his face as
ia halo, and leaning down,-so as to look into the eyes of
his -ictimi he asked, in a liquid voice,- " My son, have I-have
I.- thy spiritual- father, starved thee ?" and then tenderly he
gazed into his eyes. With, a look of assured self-satisfaction
that those siren tones had done the business, he silently awaited
the answer to the gentle and rebukeful question. But no an-
swercame to the. sweet, lingering look ; -the young man only
closed his eyes heavily, and shuddered. .
"My. son, my son !" continued the Professor, in yet more
grieved and -meek, and dulcet tones. "fVIy spiritual son, have I
starved the-? have I not been generous to a fault, and even to,
wronging',the beloved 'child of my own loins? This room,'
these writing materials, this tumbler, this pitcher, that delightful
bed, are they not all my .free-will gifts to thee for thy own ad-
ancement, to enable thee to glorify God in thy works? Have
I Dot. rather saved thee from starving? KYou had nothing when
I took you ap, to patronise your genius, and. bring you before-
the world ; and now you have plenty! See, see, your mantel

,
;
ti
;  .t
; ,
,
E

is even now crowded with bread and cheese, that you .re
wasting here in the midst of such superlative abundance.'
The young man, at the mention -of the bread' and cheese,
turned his head aside with an expression of bitter loathing and
disgust.
" Pah!" he muttered; "the very name of it makes me sick;
I have tasted nothing else for the last six months. That is
what is killing me ; my stoniach can retain it no longer! Who
can keep body and soul together on thirty cents a week ?"
" Horror !" exclaimed the Professor, rolling up his eyes
meekly. "To think of such frantic extravagance!' Andbe-
sides, my son, your spiritual strength should. have sustained
you -the success of your great work, the prospect of future
glory! A man starve on bread and cheese ! Why, who ever
heard of such a thing? -Why, when I was a boy of ten years
of age, I started alone, on foot, to, cross the Alleghanies,,to
make my way to the North to school. My father had moved
West when I was very young. I started with only one loaf of
white bread in my bundle, when the whole country was wild
and full of bears and wolves. The:wolves chased me, and I
climbed a tree; they surrounded it, barking and gnashing their
teeth, to get at me; there were five hundred-wolves at least,
but I in my faith kept my strength, and remained cool as Daniel
in the lion's den, until at last they kept me' there so long, I fell
asleep, when the limb broke, and I fell down into the midst of
them; the wolves were so frightened, that they all took to their
heels and ran away, leaving me safe. There is 'a specirien of
the spiritual strength that faith gives,-and should encourage you
never to give up and faint by the way. Had you possessed
more of such faith, my ,son, you would -never have been
stretched here, upon this floor, in such a: condition, and talking
about starving on bread and cheese. It is the soul, my songthe
regenerate soul, that sustains the heroic man on earth, as I have
so often endeavored to teach you."
"Yes," groaned the poor youth, with a gesture of impatience.

66             SPIRITUAL YAMPIRISDS.


OS               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
"The body must live too, and life.cannot be sustained so long
upon unyaried food."
If Listen, my son !" said 'the patient saint at his head-
'listen) and you shall hear what I accomplished on that single
loaf of bread. I travelled on 'with my little-bundle on my
shoulder, containing the home-spun suit I was to wear when I
arrived at schoolgand my loaf of bread. I travelled on till-my
clothes were all worn out, and .my shoes full of holes, and my
feet were so sore and swollen that I was afraid to pull ofl my
shoes, for fear I should not be able "to get them on again. So I
waded across all the brooks and mountain streams with my
clothes on, until,-at last,, one afternoon, when high up in. the
mountains, my strength gave out, and I laid me down in the
howling wilderness, thinking I must die. The weather was
Very cold,: and my clothes, all wet from crossing the streams,
freezing, and the dreaded sleepiness was coming over me,
en a good wido* woman,swho lived, with her children on the
mountains, and was out gathering wood, accidentally found me.
She took me up in her arms, and carried me to her hut, and
laid me on her bed, where I slept all night. In the morning,
when I opened my eyes, I. saw her breaking the hot Indian-corn
bread, and ,giving it to .her children. I toldher if she would
give' me :some of her corn bread, I would divide my loaf of
white bread' with her and her children.  She eagerly ac-
cepted the offer, for such a luxury as white bread had been
long 'unknown to them, and_ that was my first speculation!
While they ravenously devoured my loaf, I feasted upon her
rich hot bread. My soul overflowed with delight as I witnessed
their- intense enjoyment of the meal I had been thus instru-
mental' in bringing them, 'and I felt as if the Lord had thus
enabled, me to fully repay them for their kindness. I rose to
depart, and the good woman, filling my bundle with a large'
piece of her hot bread, sent me, with her blessing, on' my way
rejoicing. Thus, you see, my dear son, how, through the-spi-
ritual strength which fa-th imparts, and which you so much need,

. ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

'
',
"
.l
t}
,ys
i
,
a
c;
a
"i
.;
c
ti
a
;

_-A

{               4
7                i
5

I was enabled to cross the Alleghany mountains alone, at ten
years of age, with nothing but my loaf of white bread, and with-
out so much as a bit ofA cheese,,or a cent in my pocket, and
attained to the great goal of my ambition, the school; and from
whence, by the aid of selling an occasional button from my
jacket, I have been able to rise to my present position as pro-
fessor and patron of struggling genius.*
" Ah !" said the young man, " words, words.!   Give me to
eat -I am starving!" and his head sank back once more.
The Professor again- deluged him with water, and,'profoundly
surprised and alarmed that the honeyed eloquence of his saga-
cious narrative had'proved unavailing in convincing-his victim
that he could and ought'to live upon faith, came to the desperate
resolution of being guilty of the extravagance; for once, of a
small bowl of soup to resuscitate his victim, and depositing his'
head upon some books, though the pillow was equally cote-
nient, he hurried off to the nearest eating-house, with hishnds
upon his pockets, which were overflowing with gold, as he Was
then in the, meridian height of his prosperity.
The sequel to this particular story is a short one. The young
-g
man revived with the change of a single nutritious neal, and
with it returned the courage of even the trodden worm; for he
now stoutly told the Spiritual Professor that, unless he furnished
him with ample means to support life, he would :not touch an-
*Incredible as it may seem, we pledge our personal veracity that this
bald and silly narration, which appears to be merely a foolish' bur-
lesque, is a bona fide, et literatim, et punctuatim, transcript, as close as
it is possible for memory to furnish, 'of stories that were, at least as
often as five days out of the seven, related at the dinner-table at which
Boanerges presided, to long double lines of gaping women, who, obe-
dient to the irresistible spell he bore; had-followed up this maudlin
Proteus of Professors, as disciples of water-cure, through his latest meta
morphoses, into physician of such an establishment in Boston. It was
thus he exhorted them to faith, and encouraged his backsliders.


SPXRITUAL VAMPItISM.

othefigure of the immense and complicated calculations on.
which he had been so long engaged.
The Professor, of course,:resisted to the last, and quoted the
correspondences upon him, with desperate fluency. But when
the young man coolly seized the manuscript on the table before
him, and -held it overthe flickering flame of the miserable dip
candle, which had now been of necessity lighted, the Professor,
sprang forward to arrest his hand, shrieking --
"I will! I will! .for God's sake, stop.!-how much do you
want?"
"Five dollars a week !" was the cold response, as the flame
caught the edges of the paper.
I'll give it! I 'll give it! What fearful extravagance ! My
God! put it out!"
"Pay me five dollars at once," said the other.
.Here it is-here it is!" and he jerked, in his excitement,
from"his pocket, a dozen gold-pieces of that value, and dashed
them upon the table.
" Take your fivedollars! put it out !";
The young man quietly swept the pieces within his reach into
a drawer, which he at the same moment opened; and, extin-
guishing the.margin of the manuscript,:which had burned slowly
from its'thickness, he replied deliberately to the Professor, who
had shrieked .out -
"Do you mean to rob me ?"
"No, sir ! but I mean to keep this money, and if you ap-
prgach me,,.I shall destroy this manuscript if it cost me my life.
You have-starved and outraged me long enough; you expect
to make- a fortune off my labors, and kill me with famine just
as my work is done. But with all my humility, abstraction and
patience, this is too much ! I am roused at last, in self-defence,
and you shall find it so!"
The Professor sank into a chair as if fainting; and for some
moments continued to mutter, with more than the magnanimity
of a sick kitten ---

a
a;
3
t
t
s

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.                 71
" To think ! Robbed ! All my -generosity ! The, ruffian !
Here, to my very face !  What have. I gained by saving
him?"                                   }
This last expression was gasped'out, as if the vital breath of
the speaker was passing in the final spasm.
The scene need not be prolonged. The valorous Professor
crept away, cowed beneath the cold, firm, lustrous eye of the
now aggressive victim, Whose enthusiasm for science and earnest
self-dedication, had 'heretofore .kept himn blinded to a full reali-
sation of all the, monstrous iniquity which had so long been
practised upon his abstracted, meek, and uncomplaining nature.
He now determined to take his life into his own hands, ,and saw
clearly through all the shallow and ridiculous pretence.of patr9n-
age and "saving," by which his single-hearted fervor had been
beguiled.
In a few days it was announced to the Professor, whose-faith
and spiritual strength-the same that had scared off the wolves
when he fell among them-had in the interval been, restored to
their equilibrium, that the great work was now con pleted, and
the announcement was accompanied by a proposition on the
part of the young mathematician to sell out to him entire his
copyright share in the whole enterprise, at a price so compara-
tively insignificant, when the rofessor's own florid anticipations
of future results were consi ered, that he sprang at the offer
eagerly, and thus possessed himself at once of- the "golden
goose.-
The young mathematician disappeared, and the Professor was
left exulting in the sole possession of what seemed to him, in
vision, the nearest representative of the gold of'Ophir,' not to
speak of California.
The idea of the young mathematician was, in itself; a prae-
tical one, and seemed rationally conceived.
We have used the word almanac, by which it was designated,
but in reality it very poorly conveys the subtle and singular
combinations which were here brought to bear upon a circular;


72'              SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
rotary surface, the aim of which was, to so far simplify the cal-
culations of - interest, wages, discounts, and.a hundred other
tedious and.difficult problems occurring in complicated business
affairs, that the merchant or banker had only to glance his eye
down a line of figures, to ascertain in a moment results which
would take him, by all the ordinary aids and processes, a long
calculation to arrive at.
It was a brilliant conception, which must prove ultimately a
most successful discovery;'of the young mathematician, and one
which had cost him many years of careful analysis and profound
observation. But as he handed over the perfected copyright to
our astute Professor, who had just enough of button-trading cun-
uning to perceive the immense practical results of the enterprise,
without the slightest knowledge.of the processes by which it had
been perfected, there might have been noticed upon. the face
of his former victim, as he pocketed his paltry bonus, a slight
sneer, which would have alarmed any one less gifted with occa-
sionalshort-sightedness than our Professor has shown himself
to be.,
He made off with the documents in an ecstacy of triumph,
and forthwith began making round purchases of paper, paste-
board, and other mechanical appliances necessary to his success,
to the amount of thousands of his easily-got gains ; and then as
heavy-sums were as rapidly expended upon the costly and diffi-
cult copper-plate engraving, which was to set forth in full the
triumph, the undivided honors of which he now claimed, to the
world.
There are few of the main printing-offices in the country
that had not, or have not, that famous circular almanac hanging
upon their walls. Unfortunately the Professor had been too
eager to promulgate his triumph, and powerfully illustrated in
this experiment the truth of the old aphorism, "The greater
haste. the less speed;" for it turned out, upon a close examina-
tion of the long and intricate series of calculations, by scientific
men, that the fatal error of a single numeral ran throughout its

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN. -              I3
complex demonstration, and rendered, its !hole results utterly
futile, without the-enormous expense of cancelling the costly
copper-plate," and- the tremendous edition which had. been
alreadyTssued.Tle inorrigible igntorande"of the Spiritual
Professor -hadrenideied hiin incapable of detecting the error
himself, and he had thereby swamped. effedtually=dotrily his
magnanimousspeculation in this particular case, but thoroughly
dissipated the abundantpro ceeds of his more suiceful
lation in the spiritual correspondences.
This little accident -threw him upon his shifts; but we shell
surely find him upon his-feet again hereafter
Had not his starving victimsn subtly worked out a sublime
revenge, in spite of the fact that he had- been over and- o.ver
again so thoroughly saved? So much for Boan rges and the
young mathematician.
C H A P TER   VI.
'THE NEW "sAVING GRACE.
Thou hast thews
Immortal, for thou .art of heavenly race;
But such a love is mine, that here I ehase
Eternally away from thee all bloom
Of youth, and destine thee towards a tomb.
E'NDYMION.
Fierce, wan,
And tyrranizing was the ,lady's look.
Idem.
A YEARS in the life o man, is a long time. As    what
changes may it not bring about to any, the strongest of us, the
most 'secure --those weary, dragging twelve months   Such a
period has elapsed in the chronology of our narrative sino the
:scenes described as occurring it the Graham House.


SPIRITUAL VAMPII$M,'
It is latef on a dark stormy evening, and we will look 'into
thwell-stocked half libraryand half'office of a handsome pri-
vateresidence in Beekgan Street, New York.
Theushioned appliances of the most fastidious luxury of
 repose were strewed about theroom in the strangest disorder of
heaped cushions,,fallen chairs. and 6ot-ofsplace lounges while
books, surgical instruments, vials, dusty,. crusty, broken; and
corkless, all mingled in the 'desolate confusion which seemed to
have usurped the place.r
{A shaded' lamp stood upon the table in the -centre oftthis
chaos, and threw itsalight upon a large decanter of brandy and
ar glass- :eneath. A  deep-drawn meaning sigh -disturbs the
deathlike 'silence of the -room ; 'and a broad, stout figure,'which
had leaned 'back within' the shadow of a huge= cushioned chair
beside the table, reached suddenly forward 'and chitched the
brandy-bottle convulsively. He dashed a great gulp into the
glass, and then, with treinbling hand, attempted to carry it to
his lips. After two or three efforts, which proved unavailing
from his excessive nervouiness, he replaced the glass, muttering,
" Curse this nervousness!' It-will not even let me, drink my
poison any more !" ' He shuddered' as.he turned his head away.
" No wonder! how horribly the hell-broth smells!" 'He fell back
into the-deep chair again' and was silent-for some time, when,
uttering from- the depths of his chest that strange moan, he
sprang to his feet.
"I mustdrink!" he gnashed,- as, seizing the decanter again,
he filled the tumbler to overflowing, splashing the dark fluid
over everything' on the table  I shall die if I do not drink !
T shall:go crazy:! I will not be baffled!"
Without' attempting to raise it again to his lips, he bowed
them. to the brimsing- glass,iand' as the beast drinks, so drank
he. Oh, fearful degradation!. Where now is the strong man? -
that powerful frame would speak. After leaning the tumbler
with his lips and trembling hands in'a long, deep diraught, he'

ETHERIAL SOFTDOW.

'  S

straightened himself with an expression.,of loathing that distorted
his face hideously.
" Paugh ! Hell should mix more nectar with its chiefest
physic ! This"stuff is loathsome, and my revolting nerves seem
with a separate life to shudder as the new babe- does to, hear the
asp hiss amidst' the flowers where it sports! Paugh!  infernal!
that it should come to me in this short time, even as a second
nature, to learn to feed on poisons! It -was not so once,; nature
was sufficient, aye, sufficient, when the skies 'rained glory 'out
of day, and the stars came .dowti in beamy strength through
night !, But then!-but then! Ahyyes ! it had not beco ne ne-
cessary then, -that I should be s-a-v-esd 'by human love !" and
his features writhed as he' prolonged the word;-"S-a-e-d!
no! no ! no heavenly guise of horrid lust to s-a-v-e me ! The
chaste and blushing spring came to the early winter'-of my ste-
rile life that bloomed beneath its radiant warmth, and gladdened
to grow green and odor-breathed and soft, and then! oh, horror!
horror. .I am strong enough to -drink again. -'My nerves are
numbed now; they dare not tremble."
He seized' the decanter once mre, and then, with unshaking
hand, conveyed the brimming glass to his lips, and after a aleep
draught threw,himself upon the chair again, and drawing. at the
same time a glittering object from his' breast, 'he leaned forward
within 'the circle of the lamp-light toregard it as it lay open upon
the. table before him. This is- the first timewe have seen that
face clearly-that haggard, pallid face. Ha! can it be ? T1Lhose
sunken, bloated cheeks! Those dimmed, hollow eyes, with
leaden, drooping' lids ! -0, can it be ? Have we.known that
face before ? -God help us-!, The good Doctor ! and only one
year!
But see the change ! His, eye has rested upon, that face before
him. A, miniature, beautifully executed. ' In it a charmed art
has presided at.a miracle! an arch seraphic brow all usunnied
o'er' by the golder'eflex from-its'tangled curls, broken in beam
and shadow, gracefully glanced a gay defiance in" his eyes,-from

'[5


SPIRITUA'- VAMPIUI$M.
eye-so iutrous innocent! You dare not say they could be
less than all divine, but that the sweet mouth spoke of earth, and
eve .weakness of it, early. "
ee how theace of that sad and broken man is changing !
thpse shrunk and heavy features are re-lit with life, as some dead
waste'with sunshine, suddenly; The .bright,the tender past;
the; meliwed   mournful past, ha   mounted to the eyes and
flushed those massive features.once again. He seems as one
transfigured for a moment, while he gazes.. The glory of old
ini ocenca has' compassed him about,:alas! but for a moment!
'he fears pbur flooding from his eyes, and-hlot the facewhereon
he gazes. A sob-that wild an d'piteous moan again-and the
palsied wreck of the strong man falle back once mere into his
cushioned chair. A horrid, stertorous breathing, most like that
of a dying man, -flls the gloomy air of that dim room, and with'
ashyolips and ffglen jaw, he sleeps! Ah, that seems a fearful
sleep ,with the tears, warnr tears, still pouring, pouring down
the rigid cheek!
The shaded lamp 'burns on,:and fitfully the chaos of that
room, heregard, there, is, touched by its faint light. A slight
sund, a rtstling tread is heard, and in a moment, a woman-
dressed in black,iwith a black veil about her face, and he um-
brella which had protected he~r from the -storm in~ her hand, stood
beside the sleeper.. She. evidently had a passJkey,' for she
walked forward as one, accustomed to, use it at all- hours and
confidently.
{The beast !- Drunk,. dead drunk -again !" she muttered.
"I shan't get. the money I wanted to-night, that is plain! Curse
his obstinacy !. After all 'my trouble -to save him, this is my
reward! Worse and worse!"r
She sprang forward eagerly as her eye fell upon the jewelled
miniature that 'lay before:him 'on the table, and. snatched it up.
"Ha ! this will save me some trouble!"  She' turned it eagerly
over in her hands, 'throwing back her veil' at the same time, to
examine the valuable case with vivid glistening eyes, that did

ETHJRI4X  ODW  , '' 77

I

not seem to notice in the least 'degree the, exquisite painting
within.
" Ah, yes, this is great! Wonder the fool never let me know
of- it before!' I should have had it in Chatham Street' before
this ! Never mind, 'never too late,' I see ! It saves me the
trouble of e'ploring his pockets and table-drawers to-night, for
what is getting to be a scarce commodity. Bah! what silly
school-girl face is this? 'He is falling back to':whine about the
past. 0, that's all right. -P11fil lhis decanter for him! He has
done enough.- He has fed me for a year, I'll let the poor
wretch off! Yes, I've saved him! I 7ave feasted on him!"
And she drew herself erect with a triumphant -swelling of the
whole frame, which seemed to emit, for the moment, from its
outline, a keen quick exhalation most like-the heat-lightning of
,a sultry summer sky.
- She fills the decanter rapidly from a demijohn she drags from
a closet in the roomandplaces it by his side..She pushes the
water-pitcher far beyond his reach, and then steps forward for a
moment into the light.'
Have we ever seen that face before ? -No.! no! It might
have been-there is some resemblance-but this form and face
are too full of arrogant abounding strength to be the same faint
bleeding victim of. ruthless persecution that we saw at first !
No!, no !- It cannot be she! Ha! 'as she thrusts that jewelled
miniature into her fosom and turns to' glide away, I can detect
that infernal obliquity of the left eye ! 0, dainty Etherial!
7 *


SPIRITUAL VAMPfIlIM.

CHAPTER V-II.

THE. CoNVENTICLE OF TIE. sTRONG-MIND9D..

Her strong toils of grace.
, KSHAKSPEARE.

TAKE we a glimpse now of another interior scene in -the
strange,. mingled lifeof the great metropolis. In a bare and
inanly-furnished- but roomy parlor of a house in Tenth St-eet,
near Tompkins Square, we find assembled; on one' summer's
afterrioon, a group of females. There are perhaps- ten of thenn
irl a:  'he characteristicwhich'first strikes the eye, on glancing
aroi nd this group, is the strange angulaity of lines presenteI
eveyWhere, in faces, figures and attitudes, except when con.
trasted with an uncouth and s uabby embonpoint, which seemed
equally at variance with tfie physical harmonies, supposed to be
characteristic of the sex. What' sl 'tis meant, you could
not comprehend at first' glance '; but the impression was, of
something "out of joint.' Where or what, it was impossible
to conjecture. Some sat-with their'bonnets on,which had a
Quakerish cut about them, though not strictly orthodox. "Some,-
donsciou. of fine' hair iad tossed their: bonnets hn the floor or
chairs; as.the case might be. There-was, in a word, a prevail-
ing atmosphere of steadfast and devil.-nay-care belligerence ---
a seeing, on brow, in hand ,andsfoot, that, demurely restrained,
as it',certainly was, unconsciously led you to- feel 'that a slow
and simtltaneous -unbuttoning of the cuffs of sleeves, a del-
berate rolling up' of the same, and a dazzling' development'of
lean, taut tendons, corrugated muscles, and swollen veins,
would be, the' most natural - movement conceivable. Not that
this bellicose sentiment, by any means, seemed to have found
its proper antagonism  in the forms and personalities then and"

1. ;

E'IIERIAL SOFTDOWN.                 79
there presented; but that you felt, in the vacant reach.. and per-
sistent abstraction of the expression, that the' foe, at whom they
gazed through the infinite of space, was not an yIdividuality,
but an Esence, - a world-devouring element' of Evil, with
which they warred.    "'                    "-f
And warriors indeed they seemed-we should sag Amazons--
wielding,; not the weapons .of carnal strife, but those mightier
arms with which the Spirit doth, at times, endow our race. As
for the war they waged,. whatever might be the power with
whom they were engaged, it seemed to. have been a protracted
and a: desperate one; for, verily,,judging from, the harsh lines
that seamed the faces of those present, one would imaginethern
to be " richpanly in large hurts"
. There were .young ,women present who were clearly under
twenty; whose foreheads, when they elevated their eyebrows,
were wrinkled and parchment-like as any.
"Painful warrior famoused for fight."
Why this unnatural 'wilting'? would be the-certain question
of the cool observer. What'fearful wrongs have these women
suffered? What- "contagious blastments ?" Is the wicked
world arraigned against -them for no just cause ? Has it doin-
bined its respirimig 'masses nto one -large, simultaneous breath
of volcanic cursngs, to be wreaked upon their uneffendig
heads alone ? To be sure;
" Some innocents capee not the thunderbolt -"
and can it be that these, too, are "innocents ?" It-is' true, phy
siology teaches that, when women wither prematurely, acquire
an unnatural sharpness of feature, become
"Beated and chapped with tanned antiquity,"
before they have seen years enough for the bloom of. the life of
true maturity to have freshened on their cheeks and foreheads-
there must be' some cause for it. Common. sense teaches, too,
that that cause is most likely to -be, originally, ratliera physical

.      ..
K                    -
_

J
Yt i


ETHEREAL SOFTDOWN.               81

than a spiritual one-that mental aberration, dogged and sullen
maoeds,"'oneddeaed abstractiQns,: a general peevishness and fret-
fulvdiseoritent,' a suspicious -unbelief in the warm'blooded geni-'
alities,, and much enduring 'syrmpathies of those around them,
whose lives are intact-or, in other words, who have held them-,
selves, ikrhealth, through- nature, near to God - must have its
source in some evil not'entirely foreign to themselves.
Ask the wise 5Physician why are these things so  'He will
answer, God has 'so ordered this material universe, that, while
we live in'it, we must conform to its laws; that, however pow-
erful our; spiritual entity, our relations to this life must, to be
happy,.be' normal.
But this is posing. It mjiay,,or it may not, account, in part,
for the combative and generally corrugated aspect of this con-
ventiQee oft the "strong-minded," to which 'we have been intro-
duced. Now let us listen!;
She to whom the place of presiding Pythoness seemed to
have' been, by general understanding, assigned, ow solemnly
arose, amidst a sudden pause of shrill-tongued clatter. ,iShe
was',very tall- nearly six feet  Her straight-figure'would have
seemed vgluptuously rounded, but that the loose-folded, and
wilted oval of her face suggested that the plump bust, with its
close, manly jacket of black velvet, buttoned down in front,
might owe something of -its elastic seeming roundness to those
conventionalities, a la modiste; and otherwise, against which
her principles most vehemently'protested.  Her, flaxen hair
emulated the. classic tie of any Venus of-them all, onthe back
cart ofthe head; while the effulgenceof sunny curls flooded,
the very crow's-feet in the corners of her g'eat, cold, dead,
grey eyes.
She shook her, curls slightly, and spoke: -
"hy sisters, we have cometogether this afternoon, not to talk'
about abstractions of right and wrong to out sex; for, upon all
these -elementary subjects, our ninds are, fully made up -all
those inductive. processes of which the human intellect is capable,

our minds have already passed through. Qur opinions are irrevo,
cably formed, our conclusions absolute! -Woman is oppressed
by man. She is denied her just rights. She is taxed, yet ;de-
nied the privilege of representation. She is a slave, without
the privileges of slavery;! for, in -the old slave-states, the pos-
session of twenty, or thirty, or forty slaves gives to their master
the faintly-representative privilege of an additional vote, while
to' our tyrants, though each may hold,yin reality,-_a dozen wives,
the law grants nothing! Leaving us, in ,fact,, not even the
'shadow of a shade' of a social or civil existence!t We. are
thus reduced to a condition of insignificanee, in relation to . the
active affairs of life and the world, that we have determined to.
be, both incongruous and insufferable.
"IMan, our time-out-of-mind despot, 'has determined to
reduce us to, and hold us within, the sphere of mere wet-nurses
to his insolent, and bifurcate progeny ;- we must,' forsooth,
spawn for him, and then- dedicate ourlives to educating his pro-
creative vices, into what he calls inanhood!- We are wearied
with the dull, stale, commonplace - of nursery-slops, and of the
fractious squallings of our embryo tyrants! Man must learn to
nurse his own monsters,; and.we will nurse ours ! We have de-
clared our .independence of his 'tyranny;A our great object is to
displace him from his seat of.power! For six thousand years
he has been our despot-our ruthless and unscrupulous tyrant !
We have ,therefore a settlement, to make with him-a long
arrearage of accounts to be.rendered.
"JBut we are weak, while he is strong ! lIe. possesses' the
physicalforce,;and all the- guarantees of precedence since- time
began _rhile we' have only our 'own' weaknesses to fall back
upon -;wsht ,they, in their suxrfeited rythm, style 'witching
graces,' and   aeless charms!F
"Well, we must' use these against .ese foe as best we
may.. We must clip the clap's -anc1' teetr of the lion, at any
rate ; and, in consideration. that the whole World of- Pastyand
Present is arraigned against -us, we mult accept as our motto,

I


82               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
that of the only. man who: ever deserved to be a woman; Loyola,
the founder of, the Jesuits,1
The end justifies the means.
A small noise--a} scarcely sensible ."teetering  of pedal ex-
tremities upon the thin carpet, followed this " stern" demnonstra-
tion" of "womari's rights," from the accepted Priestess'of -the
conventicle; when various exclamations arose from different
parts of the room,.such as-
"Right;! right! End justifies the means, in dealing with the
brutes.!
"'They.give us no quarter, and-we will give them none !"
"Nurse their brats, forsooth" P
"We must circumvent them    as we can; to obtain our
rights!'"'
"Yes! yes! All stratagems are fair'in love and war !"'
Suddenly sprang to her feet a very emphatic Stouttwoman,
straight and thick-set, with soiled cap, coarse, stubby, grayish
hair, sparse, silvery bristles on her chin, gray, savage eyes, and
large fists, which she brought down with a, crash'iipon the; frail
chair-back which constituted the bulwark of her position. In
a voice of creaking'bass; she exclaimed-
"Te' sister is right -they are our oppressors ; but it is be-
cause we have been cowards- enough to yield 'them the suprem-
acy; .it is nothing but our own .cowardice that is to blame.
Manknows,,as well as any other animal, on which side his bread
is buttered; ;we have only got to learn him whatand where his
Place is, and he willkeep it.- When I first married,!I had some
trouble with my Jonas;. but I soon taught him that he had better
be back again in the whale's belly, than employed in trenching
upon my ' woman's rights ! (A general disposition to laugh,"
which was, however, frowned down by the dignified Priestess.)
" It is- truemy sisters; we.have only to,. assert our rights,
and stake thea,  Man will never dare to rebel,-if we are reso-
lute. Oferwhelm hinm with our strength - make him feel his

I'

ETHERIAL. SOFTDOWN.                88
littleness beside us, and he will slink into any hole to hide. , I
am myself in creed. a non-resistant-(suppressed laughter.)
I do not believe 'in pummelling truth into man ' forced; conver-
sions do not last; and should not.. But I will teF you what
sort of' conversions I do believe in ; they are spiritual.:Bow,
bend, aye, break his spirit -to your will, and then he is yours;
instead of being slave to. him, he is your slave. This is what
we want. When he can be reduced to obedience, then he will
be happy; for when he has accepted us as his spiritual guides,
and no longer dreams of lifting his thoughts in rebellion, then
will he always go 'right. They then eves are for ever confess-
ing, that without us, as mothers, theywould'never-the greatest
of them-arrive at any thing; that' they owe it all to us -all
their greatness, all their goodness. Let us take the hint, and
hold the spiritual birch over them always, and they will ever
remain obedient, for their'own good."
This speech was received with very general approbation;
though, that all did 'not 'recognise it as orthodox, became imme-
diately^ apparent. A tall, thin, cadaverous-looking lady, with
excessively'black hair; aid eyes that literally glistered as she
rose --the, huge ear-rings and multifarious trinkets about her
person quivering, with excitement --exclaimed, in a 'shrill
voice-       ''
"It' is false ! it is not true that we desire to make slaves of
man. We are opposed to slavery--.to slavery of all sorts; and,
although mnan deserves, on account of his oppressions of the
poor negro, to'be made a slave of, if human' slavery were to be
tolerated, yet we desire rather 'to return good for evil; and all
we ask is equality in the Senate, in the Presidential chair, on the
bench of justice, in the countirg-house and work-shop. We
want our rights; our right to marriage as a mere civil contract
our right to choose with whom we shall enter itito-That con-
tract, whether colored orwhite man, and our right toanul that
contract when it pleases us. What kind of freedom is it, When,
if I choose to marry a mai of color, o matter~ how noble he


S IRITtJAL 'VAMPIRISM.

may be, I am to be-mobbed-and driven out of the society of my'
race; while, if I am so- unfortunate as to marry a white man,
who turns.out tob'e a brute and tyrant, as he is most like to do,
and attempt to rid myself of the horrid incubus,, by-leaving him,
or by suing him for a divorce, I: am equally mobbed by the
hue-and-cry, and, banished -from society as an. outlaW?  We
want our rights in marriage -we want equality. I can
Here the speaker was interrupted by -a voice marvellously
flute-like  and  lingering  in  itrintonationsy -
"'At which, like   44colts, they prjoked their ears,  -
Advanced their 4   ifted up their noses,
As they smiell  e
And cold shoulders wre simultaneously turned upon the, dark--
haired and be-jewelled orator-of amalgamation.
The dulcet-toned interrogator, who, to the surprise of all
eyes, appeared a squabby, cottony, pale-eyed, thick-lipped,
lymphati.-ooking personage, who wore a wig clumsily, and had
no vestige of hair upon brow or violet eyelids, proceeded, in
mneliuous.phrase
"(We did not come here to talk about private grievances.
The, sister who, speaks so fiercely of our rights, in regard to
marriage, had better have had a little experience on the subject.
She is,.1vshould judge, considerably the rise of forty, and has
never yet been married; not even to one of the. darkbrowed
children of Ham, towards whom she .exhibits so decided a lean-
ing. - Now, I have been murried.six times already-(great sen-
sation,) --and to white men, and gentlemen, at that; and con-
sider myself, therefore, qualified to speak of marriage. Mar-
riage is a great blessing; let herdry it when she gets a chance,
and he-will find it so :(much bustling and fidgeting, the dark-
hairedwoman looking daggers.) It isn't marriage that.is the
great evl, ag ihst which we; have to fight Mnor it isn't the
slavery of the colored race, either. It is the slavery of our own
-race,of our owl kith and kin, of our own blood- and complex-

I

ion. Jt is the emancipation of our own fathers, sons, and bro-
thers, frotn, the barbarous -penalties. of the penal. code. Our
erring fathers,.sons, and, brothers; it is their cause, my -sisters,
it is their- cause we are called upon to vindicate. According to
our brutal laws, one- little frailty, to which we all miay be sub-
ject,'-one little slip, which-any, the purest of us may yake
subjects man to solitary incarceration for life, in which he is cut
off from all loving communion .with our sex; or to the horrible
penalty of death by the rope ! -This, my beloved: sisters,-is the
crying evil of the day ; and ma   man, is in favor of such
inflictions. We -mustsofteni'hi sp *  -art, through our charms.
It 'is our duty, it is our rnision,41 eftct amelioation in favor
of theterring classes. We are all erring; and in how much are
we better than they;?--except, that through our- cunning, and -
in ou cowardice, we have as yet escaped penalties which, under
the safe measure of justice, might as well have been visited
upon us. I have visited the penitentiaries and prisons of many
States, that I might carry~consolation to the shorn and manacled
children of oppression.. J tell you that I have seen among them
gods, whose shattered-armor gleamed in..light! I -have seen
Apollo, with. his winged heel chained to a round-shot ! I- have
witnessed moi gforioa effulg-
"Hiss-s-s-s !" "Nonsense !
"It was. Mercury, the god of thieves, 'you saw with the
round-shot at his heels !"said an oily voice; and, as all eyes
turned in' that direction, the forehead of the- speaker flushed
crimson while she proceeded--
" It is nototnan at all; it is we who shut ourselves up. in tight
frocks, who make hooks-and-eyes our jailers, and ribs of whale-
bone our. strait-jackets! -Let us first free ourselves physicaly,
give our-lungs and hearts room to play,-an4then we may talk
about open battle with mran- for our rights But, as it is, t6 speak
thus, is -nonsense. We areweak, while man is strong we must
fight him-with other weapons than open force. While he laughs
at our pretensions, let us, too, laugh at his- foibles, and govern
8

zels",au#  ;V,
*

85-

- .  --Ql
%rx

ETHEEI4L SOFTDOWNL


ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

86-

SPIRITUAL  a.-VAMRIM

hinb roighlhem. It was to consult, as to some consistent and.
uriforunb system  by which we should. be enabled to. accomplish
this _result'that wer came together this afternoon. It -has been
well said, that our' motto should be, 'The end justifies the
neans.' To 'the weak and the _deterniiined, this is a-sacred
creed,'and we should go forth with it in our hearts, and act
upon it in all our relations towards. men. It should be our
business to get possession of them, body-and soul. We need
their influence, to advance our views, to obtain our rights. We
should be all things to all men;- should believe in the Bible, in
Fourier, in Swedenborg, in-Joe Stith, or Mahomet, if neces-
sary, so that the influence be gained. We must seek out every-
where men who hold places of power-and public influence, and
win them-not to ours oause, for that would be hopeless  but
to ourselves ; and through ourselves to our cause.  We must
not scruple as to the means; for 'the end justilie sthe means.'
We must find, by whatever stratagem,=art, or intrigue, that
may be available,,the assailable points in the characters" of those
who may be of use to us, and secure them, at whatever risk'of
reputation; for, as we'will secretly sustain each otherr' we will
at once dignify ourselves and our cause into the position of
martyrdom, and be able to take shelter behind the omnipotent
cry of persecution. There we are safe."
iGood!"'  "Good!"    "Right!"- "Right!"     'Just the
thing!" burst from' ill sides of the room; while the weather-
beaten face, ,--that is, the forehead, .2-of the lithe, glib speaker
flushed with momentary exultation, while she continued, with
still greater emphasis
" Thus banded, my sisters,- if -we are firm, faithful, and en-
during, we"'may-conquer the world. There is never a period
when there is' more then a dozen men who wield its destinies.
There are nearly a dozen of us here present, and there are Other
spirits that I know, resolute and strong enough, to be our asso-
ciates;' let us resolve, then, to-govern those who govern; and
the' romantic fragments of the life of a Lola Montes will have been

firmly conjoined in the fact of a governing dynasty, the sceptre
of which shall be upheld by woman."
Storms of applause,,during which the' plain, Quakerish-looking
speaker subsided into her seat. As she did so, there might
have been observed, under the flush of exultation which man-
tied her brow, a singular obliquity of the. left eye! -'Ha!
Etherial !

,             _                                  ,
4.
_                                       1
1

8'


88- Mrrl-xVAIL VAMPTISime

CHAPTER VII.

N'1flUs:UN.
'Tis he?" I ken the manner of his gait-.
He rises on the toe; 'that spirit of his
In aspiration lifts'him from the earth.
SHAKSFEARE.
A barren-spirited fellow!1 one that feeds
On objects, arts, and imitations.
Idem=
Thjs is a slight, unmeritable man,
Meet to be sent on errands.
Idem.

WE will now enter one of the upper rooms of the notorious
Graham House, with the interior of which we have before been
familiarised; and, which had' been reopened, on a 'modified
basis. A single glance at the confused piles of manuscripts,
books, and papers, scattered about the 'room and on the table,
mingled with stumps -of pens and cigars, ,and a' long-tubed
meerschaum, showed, that it could "be no other than the charac-
teristic den of a literary bachelor, who, with chair: and table
drawn close to the stove, sat there to show for himself,'ear-
nestly, engaged in what seemed to be the business of his life -
writing.
You ,saw in a moment that this- was not a Northern 'man, for.
in addition to the long,.black, and wavy hair; the dark, bronzed,
and vaulting features indicated clearly.a Southern origin. He
was' evidently young-certainly- not more than twenty-seven,
-judging, as one instinctively does, by.contour of person. and
features, and not by the expression of these face. -But that  ex-
pression, when you sawit; as,-he.lifted his head, at once,left you
in doubt whether 'it could possibly belong to so immature a

ETHERIAL. SOFTDOWN.-               89
period of life. Although the brow was broad, and mild as that,
of a child, yet there was a solemn and unnatural fixedness in
the whole face, which, united with the cold stillness of'the great-
gray, hollow eyes, told at once a dreary tale of suffering, which
sent an involuntary shudder through your soul. Where the ex-
pression rested most, it was impossible for you to, tell; but the
feeling it conveyed was one of absolute horror. T'Ihat-a face,
which seemed so young, should be .one tihat' nver smiled! -
And could the.story that it told be true ? : Could-it be that for
years that face had never smiled.?
A light tap was heard at the door, and, with a momentary
frown of vexation at the interruption,-he turned his head, and
a young man entered the room, with, somewhat hesitating step,
which showed that he was by no ,means certain of .his ground.
He was slight and thin something below the average height,
with even a darker complexion than that of the 'face we have
just described;xhis black hair,.-and preternaturally black ,and
vivid eyes, glitteredbeneath straight, heavy brows, whichrnearly
met. '.'His nose was prominent and partly arched ;.and there
was, in the whole bowed 'bearing and cat-like gait of this per-
son, an inexplicably strange and foreign look, which, alike in
all countries, characterises that fated race which is yet an out-
cast among the nations.
His greeting was singularly expressive of eager:ap reciation,
while that of his host to him was cold, distant,' and merely
polite. Pushing aside his writing materials, as he handed him
a chair, Manton-for such was the name of our young writer- -
turned upon his visiter a 'frigid look of:inquiry, and said, with
a formality almost drawling
Doctor E. Willamot Weasel, Ihope it is well with youi this
evening?"
His visiter, in rather ,a confused -manner, commenced-
"Ye-es, yes-I--.I fear I am intruding on'-yout seclusion ; but
p-pardon n, I cannot bear any longer to see you thus seclude
yourself from all the amenities of social life.' You need relaxa
8*


SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
tion: our Esteri isolation here-vith tle pen, and pen alone, is
laying wild work with your fine faculties. Pardon me, if I
in ist upon it; that you must and should accept the, sympathies
'ofthe men arid'women around you. In the doctrine of unity
in divesity,TFourier  demonstrates that there is .nothing more
fatal to consistent"development of both body and mind, than
entire pre-ocdupation in a single object orpursuit."
Detecting a shade of vexation, at this juncture, crossing the
open"'brow of Manton, Doctor Ebenezer Willamot Weazel hast-
ily" reiterated his apologies.
I-beg of you not to mistake my zeal for impertinence. I
have already received much ,good and- many valuable truths
frorxi eouversationwith you, and I conceive 'myself under strong
personal obligations of gratitude todyou, that I hope may plead
for me in extenuation of what your no doubt,."considef an im-
pertinent iintrusion." Im'would, as some measure of acknowledg-s
ment for such obligation, beg to be -permitted 'to protest with
you against this' dangerous_ and' obstinate' isolation 'from  all
human sympathies; in which your life, dedicated to 'literary
ambition,' seems to be'here fixed."'
"My good friend, Doctor Weasel, :ny life is my Qwn, and
nay purposes areUixed. I need' no sympathisers, since 'I' am
sufficient unto myself. They would only distract and minify
the :higber:aims ' of '. My life. 'You may call it literary ambition,
but I callit a'settled and 'sacred purpose to achieve good in' my
day ad generatiort. I am content, sir!- "To not attempt to
"disturb thabetatentmnent" P
"This1 reply wad somewhat curtly delivered, and seemed to dis-
compose 'theDoctor, who, however, hesitatingly persisted-
~ Ah! ah'! ahlfes! I-expected to hear something of the sort
from you, of course, but I beg you to consider that, underithe
harmonic law of reciprocation or mutual' support and benefits,
discovered by Fourier,'and which lies at the base of all true or-
ganisation, you, have rio~ more right, as an individual, to hold'
youtself aloof, intellectually and socially, fromn the- great body

B HERIAL SOFTDOWN.                 91
of mankind who are working'for your benefit as well as' for 'their
own, than a rich man has to lock- up his hoards of gold, and
bury it where future generations may not reach it! The social
state can only exist by individual concessions in. favour of the
whole."          '      =f''
"Your argument," was the-cold response, "like all genes
ralising postulates aimed at particularcases,overIeaps its mark.
I consider that I shall effect more earnest good 'by persisting in
'this isolation against which you 'protest. For as Ido-'not-ask or-
require the' individual sympathies of my race, but rather -choose
the still-life of "undisturbed sympathy and 'com'munion with
nature, I feelthat' I shall accomplish more, far more, for
humanity, in thus: dedicating myself to her interpretation.
'Through -me, as a medium, my fellow men may thus learn far
loftier truths than they themselves .might ever impart reciprocally
amidst the babble of what you 'call -social intercourse."
0' "But you do not exclude women, surely?  That would be
unnatural; for you kno* that the life of ran cannot be com
pletely balanced, withoutthe ameliorating presence and-'ub
duing contact of woman. .He becomes asavage without 'her;
his passions are bruftalised, and the man is spiritually andsocially
degraded. '-'        ""'
"An admirable truism, Doctor! 'I honor and revere woman;
in her high  place-she is to us, eniphatically --angel' But this
very reverence in which 1 hold' her, prompts nie to avoid cod.
tacts.that may 'despoil me of my ideal. I am prepared to wor-
ship her, but not-to' degrade or look Upon her degrded. There
is nothing, in'the range of human possibilities, so hideous to me
as such contat--for I would hold my mothers 'image' always
uncontaminated. I any a.strager, sir. 'I mdke no female an-
quaintances at present' here."
"Sorry," 'said the Doctor, "very sorry, sir ;  fori my. special
niission'in this case-was'to persuade 'you to give ip your'isola
tion; in favor of an acquaintance with a most noble and charm
ing woman, a friend of mine, who, having inet with your papers


92'

SPIRITUAL ;AMPiRIsM.

in thejournal you arenow editing,. is exceedingly anxious for
anintr dnetion, which :, in plain terms, have come to request.
Sis-a woman of masculine and .daring mind, and is taking
the ir itiaT in- -most :of the reform movements of the day, and
particularly The most important of then all, the science of phy-
siojogy as applicableto her -own sex. She has taken the: lead
as the first lecturer on such subjects, and is acc&amp;rmplishing a vast
amount of god. I am- sure you will be mugh struck withP her,
and I never ;met'two-people whom.I was .more anxious to see
brought together. You will appreciate each other, as physiology
isone:of your favorite subjects."
"Ba!-a leetureewoman ! But :I don't mean to be disre-
spectfulDoctor. You could have told me .nothing that would
have nore firmly fixedemy resolution; neither to' be introduced
to or know the person of wher'aYou speak, on any terms what,
ever!.Your manly-minded women are both' my disgust and
abhorrence Y- as what they choose to call, manliness is most
usually a coarse and sensual impudence, based on inherent
immo:de ty,which renders them incapable of recognizing 'the
delie"a unities of propriety, either in thought or deed. i fully
concede a woman capacity for displaying the great and even
loftier processes of intellection;, but the moment she unsexes
herself, she andhnr thoughts become vulgarised. :Such people
are uniyersally-adyenturesses, and of the most unscrupulotns
sort' ,I, as .a stranger here,., ish' to run no. risk ,of "becoming
entangled. in their plausibilities  'amtworking for, a ,full, free
and frank recognition, by the social wold, of my righto, chose
the place, the social circle rather, that I shall enter and become
aptr ofI I'o not wish to be dragged into such contacts,,but
to command them at my willt"
'But, sir," persisted the Doctor, "she. admires your papers
so fervently, and pities the cruel and selfinfilicted isolation in'
which you live, with such ardent, disinterested and motherly
warmth, tht you can scarcely in your heart, be so obdurate as
to reject her genial overture-the sole object of which is, to

ETlRIAL SONTDQW .               '9
draw you forth into some participatioiwith the milder humani-
ties-to make you feel that New York is not really the savage,
base and flowerless'waste which- we are 1e4 to presume you
consider it, from the attitude you have assumed toward its
social conditions. -You are killing yourselfhere-with ftobcco,
wine and labour,' while she would show that even self-immolated
genius may find- a warm place to nestle, in distant lands,
and near the matronly bosom, in spite of cold and sullen self
reliance!"
"c The fact of her beinga-matron," frigidly responded Manton,
considerably modifies the general character ofthe proposition
which she has done rpe the honor, through you, to communicate.
But, Doctor, I must finally and definitively state to you that I
do not, at present, wish to cultivate any female acquaintance
whatever in the city 'of New York. I propose to wait until I
can select instead of being selected."  And rising at the-same
time with an impatient movement, which might or might not,
be mistaken for a ,desire to be left 'alone, Mr.' Manton politely.
showed Doctor E. Willamot Weasel, who had now taken the
hint, to the door.
Almost the same moment after- his discomfited visiter left,
Manton. hastily gathered, up the scattered leaves of manuscript
on his table, and muttering, as he thrust the roll into his} pocket,
"Curse the intrusion! this ought to have been in the printers'
hands an hour ago, and yet it is not finished !" and snatching
up his cap, he passed from the room, and left the house..
Not long after; there' came a sharp ring at the door of, the
Graham House, and the female servant,-who hurriedly hastened
to open it,,was quite as sharply interrogated by a woman on the
outside, who was closely veiled, and wore a sort of Quaker
garb -
"Is Mr. Manton in ?"
"No, ma'am, he has just gone out."


SPIDITUA YAMPflSIM,
1Whereis his room?  Ilhave a letter for him, which I wish
t de   4tsn a s      pace with' myown hands. What is the
hepr1of his room.    he asked, i an imperativemanner.
Maa'm, t'he gentleman is out. 'an t-youleave the letter.
with me or the =mistress ?  We will give it to him when he
co1
No ,I choose to place it 'myself.  What is his numbers"
A   ;..d as'he  e, she slightly unveiled herself  The servant
seemed to recognse hr face even through the dusk, and-said,
though rather sullenly, as she gave way for her to pass,-
"Yes, ma'an, walk, ir= His room is:No.26, 'on thethird
flor,"  The female glided rapidly'past, and as the servant at-
'tempted to fllow her exclaiming, "Ma'am,.Iwill show you
_ e numberr" she-answered hastily, ".Never mind, I know where
the roan is'nowa!" nd darted up the. stairs..
The servant routtered some:"droll commentaries on this proce"
dure,:whicl&amp; itlis notnegessary to repeat, an4 seeming to be
afraid to co  1i-to her syperiors, dragged herself surlily back
towardsisubterrarean home\
In the meantime our lightfooted and uneremonious caller
had 'reached the'third-floor, and walked straightforward to the
door of the room' just left by Manton. She troubled herself
with no idle cerem ony of knoking, but walked confidently in.

L

ETHE AL SOFTDOWN.
CHAPTER IX
BESIEGED.
Such forces net not, nor ao wide a camp,
When Agrican, with all his northern powers,
Besieged Albracca, s ,romances tell.
PAiRADISE RGA~IED.
AN hour afterthe last scene, Mantori returned to his room,
and, seeming greatly hurried, lit his lamp, aid- throwing him-
self into a-chair, seized his  mupen,Mttering 'between =his teeth'
" It -ufust, he finished tonight ! a, an has no right to be tired !"
He was drawing his writing materials towards him, to proceed
with his work, when a something of' strange disorder among his
papers 'caught his quick eye.
"Ah whq has been:disturbing my papers ?"and as a flash of
suspicion 'shot-through him, he sprang to his flet, exclaiming,.
" my trunks, no doubt, have shared the inquisition!" and, step-
ping quickly to them, he threw up the lids.
- "By Heaven, it is'so! what-accursed carelessness this is 'of
mine, leaving everything unlocked in this fashion!"
His first glance had shown 'himl that the trunks had beentlis-
turbed, and a cautious effortbeen made to replace the contents
as they were before. Uttering some energetic. expletives_ of
wrath, he knelt beside one to ascertain how far the-examination
had been carried, when, reaching.-he packages of letters and
papers:at the:bottom,'he saw-there, too, unmistakable evidence
of a pretty thorough' examination having been held of- their
contents.
If he had been enraged before, this illed himgith 'uncon-
trollable fury. He stamped his foot heavily upon the foor, and
his whole frame -shook.violently;-while with, gnashing teeth -he
called don a fearful imprecntion upon the head of this wretched

y

4
.-


/'

9                SPIRITUAL VAMi' RISM.
violator, whoever -itrnight be, of the sad and mournful secrets
of his past life, which he ha~d held sealed in his own bosom, so'
sternly, so long, and, alas! sosvainly. Those letters revealed
all. 'Some paying reptile had thus slimed the holy penetralia
of his proud'life!
The very thought was horror-loatping'! A shudsler of un-
utterable -disgust cr'ept through him; an- uncontrollable fury
blazed through his-soul; his eye's glittered with almost demoniac
fire; hisface turned; deathly.white, and his teeth ground and
plattered.:like the clamp of a wild .boat's tusks, and yet he
ade ro tragic start; he stood still, with his arnms chitching
each other across his breast, and his eyes looking out into the
lank diatpace, through which their concentrated light. seemed
to pierce to some far object. He at length pronounced slowly-.
Ye, my curse"shall follow you; be you man or woman, it
shall overtake you in teror ! I feel the prophecy in me! The
wretch who has thus contaminated those chaste and loved ne-
rentoes, shall yet feel my curse ! My consciousness is filled
with itn! I know not how,- or when, or where'! my curse shall
reach and blast the author of this sacrilege !  bah !" and'his,
face writhed into the devilish mockery of a smile; "it is
almost sufficient vengeance, one ~would think, that the wretch
fouindno money "
Starting suddenly forward,.he'commenced pacing to and fro
with long strides; with knitted 'brows, compressed lips, and
eyes bent upon the floor.-For 'more than an ,hour he ,thus
silently communed with himself, without, the changeof a muscle
in expression, when drawing a long sigh, he threw off this'
frigid look in a degree, 'merely .saying -in a low voice,' "My
curse s good !" and returned to the table to resume his seat and
his labors: '
As he' did so, his eye fell upon a note directed to himself,'
which, as it had been placed in no very conspicuous position
areong t1e 'objects pan the table,had, till now, escaped his atten-
tia. He reached it,  and the dainty crow-quilled band of the

BTHERI.-SOFT OWN.                 97
superscription,' the snowy en elope, and the pure white seal,
diselpsed at once the woman.--He regarded it for a moment;
coldly,,and without any expression. of interest or surprise; ana
with., a slight sneer upon his face, broke the seal, when out.
slipped a gilt-edged note,.which he opened and read aloud with
a jeering tone:
FRIENn-May I not claim to be' th.y friend in; comnion with
the whole world, "who have learned to love thee, through thy
beautiful thoughts ?" Stricken, sad, and suicidal child of genius,
nay I not steal into the tiger's lair of thy-savage isolation, to
bring one single ray of, blessing, to tell thee how, at least, one
human soul has throbbed to the seraphic eloquence' of powers,
that,, alas!-I appeal to your inmost consciousness!-are being
rapidly destroyed by your obstinate-.seclusion in labor, and by
the vices of.wine and 'tobacco,,fwhich are its necessaryatten-
dants. You have it in you to be saved; your. soul is tall and
strong as an archangel; -your' vices are the withes - of grass
that bind you; and love, social love, the calm and genial recip-
rocation-of domestic sympathies, can alone redeem you.
You are proud -4 know it'! but pride will yield to.gentleness,
and in a distant land. among strangers, the tearless, motherless
boy, will-not reject a mother's proffer of a mother's yearnings.
You naughty, haughty child, we must save you from yourself;
in spite of yourself!            Yours spiritually,
MARE.
Manton, whose face had, during this reading, writhed with
almost every conceivable expression, tossed theI letter from' him
as, he finished it, with the -exclamation-"Pah! this'. must be
Doctor E. Willamot Weasel's lecture-woman!" Impudent '.ad-
venturess in every line, as I expected !"  And he' resumed his,
pen, and his labors, continuing in a low voice, as he commenced
his -writing--"Unfortunate allusion, by the way, tothe withes
of grass -we cannot help being reminded' of a' certain Mr
Samson, and, a Miss or. Mrs. Delilah. curse her ! how came
9

z


sPIRIToAI VAMPIRISM.T

she to speak of my mother ?" and grinding his teeth heavily, he
proceededwith the work before him, without paying anyfurther'
attention'to the. circumstance.
The greater portion of the'night was spent in intense labor;
but, when, after a very late bath and breakfast, the next -mrn-
ing, Manton went out to theoffice of the Journal for an hour,,
end returned,11e was snot a little surprised to find another missive,
asreatand-snowyas the first, awaiting' im, on the table.-
He thought it must surely bethe first, that he had in some
unconscious- mood, re enclosed in the envelope; but glancing
around, 'he. saw it lying open, where he had tossed it.'
tramercy!-but she fires fast!" he said, with a droll look
passing -across his features, ashe stooped down, his hands cau-
tiously clasped behind his back, to survey more closely the-deli
cate superscriptionn -- Mr. Stewart Manton, Graham  House
Present.
"Present!:present! but this sounds rather ominous! Can it
be, that A3y spiritual correspondent of last night is an inmate
too?  My:correspondent is evidently both in earnest and in a
hurry! What- shill I do? .yl3'myfaithI have a great mind
to thr6w it.upon the centre-table of the common parlor below,
and let this benevolent lady reclaim her own, or- else'leave it to
the irresistible access of curiosity, 'common to the sex, and pe-
culiar.to.-'this queer-house, to explore its unclaimed sweets.
-T-e-firsitaste 'has quite sickened .me. I= have something-other
to do tha iilisten to such inane, twattle,"
He continued for some moments to gaze upon the letter,
while a half-sneering smile played 'upon his, grave and melan-
cholyfeatures."' Well, but this must be- a quaint specimen of
a feminine,;to: say the least  of it! I have heard of-these spi-
ritual ladies. before ! The character must be worth studying,
though it seems -to be transparent enough,,toq.  Well! we'll.
see what she hits 'to say this ,i.tne; at any-rate'! It can hardly
be richer than the frst! -Here it is!"

FRIEND - I know your heart. That proud heart of yours is
at this moment filled 'with saorn for my poor words and humble
proffers. - Butit does, not affect re mtch,for well I know that
this pride:is-the evil which ever strives in the -unregenerate soul,
to fence against- the approaches of good. # As -yet this -demon
possesses thee, and; until conquered and humbled by love, you
can never -:be saved. Thy physical life- is poisoned --is: poi-
soned with tobacco = and it is through 'such poisons that. this
evil spirit of pride enters into thy, soul. -Thyspiritual vision is
thus obscured, that, you may not perceive the truth. I shall
pray for you.  My- spirit shall wrestle with thine when 'you
know it not, and God will help his humble ntrument. May
He soon move that obdurate heart of thine, proud boy!
1A-RIE
"Well! but this is cool! decidedly refreshing! This perti-
nacious- creature is surely some mad- woman confessed, as she
certainly- is a most raging- and impertinent fanatic'! .Boy,'for-
sooth! j'atronising. I' should almost be provoked, were not
the thing so egregiously ludicrous! 'Well, well"it is consoling,
at least, that I have 'found my. good Samaritan at last: .I shall
preserve these precious epistles, as decidedly curious memoranda
of this original.type of the Yankee -adventuress, for Yankee 'she
must be, who has set out thus boldly on a speculation in the
spiritualities. - I think I 'have had enough- of this -trash now, as I
'intend to take no.notice either of it or of the writer. I should
suppose she might kget discouraged.":
The letters were thrown carelessly into 'a drawer, and Man-
ton sat down to his work. -,
The next morning, when' Manton returned from the office, at
the usual hour, what, should meet his eye, the first-thing on en-
tering the room, but athird snowy-missive, placed now more
conspicuously, on the very centre 'of the table. The poor man
stopped, frowned, then gradually his eyes distended into a wild

99

98

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.


100               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
stre;, and lifig. his- hands at the-same moment, he, shouted
out-
"Good God! 'What, another;?" and- then, with a sudden
revutsion of, feeling, he burst into a loud, unnatural laugh.
This is patiice for you! By heaven! she dies game to the
last'! Well! let's see what Row  for I in beginning to be
charmed with the progress of this thing. There's an absolute
fascination in such-daring."
ie snatched- up the note, and opening it, read it sotto voce,
with an indescribable intonation of contempt:
FAnIT--Ah, glorious soul, that  Imight call thee so indeed!
I have just read your poem'in the Journal. Read it, did. I say?
My soul has devoured it! Again and again have I returned'to
the feast unsated. Ah me, that mighty rhythm ! It has-filled me
with new strengthsn4 light!' Qn its harmonious -flow the uni-
verse of beauty, love -and life has-been brought closer to me-
has been'revealed in splendor and unntterable music, until I
have sobbed fr joyr thereof,,'and prayed and wrestled for thee,
with my Father: above, that thou mightest be saved. 'It is ter-
able to think that a soul so godlike as ;thine. should= be unre-
generate. I bless thee,! I bless thee, my son! I pray, for thee!
I am praying for thee! I shall pray for thee always, until thou
art saved!                            f       MARIE.
((Good!- I am in a fair way for. salvation now, one would
think! ,This seems a strange character -- such a mixture ol
fanaticistm, cant,- and, withal, appreciation! That poem of mine
was certainly an extraordinary one. I hardly expected to find
any a one that would appreciate it at' first. B1ut see ! .she has
already' caught itssubtle ;reach ;and meaning. Pooh! what a
foTl I am! This is perfectly on a par with all the other iyste-
nral cant-which I have received from this person.  The proba-
bility is, if the lines had .been written by'Mr. Julian Augustus
Maximilian Dieaway, upon whose soft sconce she desired to

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

101

make an- impression (in the-way of' speculation), the same ex-
travagant tropes and metaphors wold have found' their way to
the, snowy surface of this gilt-edged paer, through. the' deli-
cately-handled crow-quill! Curse it! I' shall order the cham-
bermaid to stop the nuisance of these missives !"
This letter was impatiently tossed into the drawer 'with' the
others, and Manton threw himself into, his chair ; when, after
sitting with his head leaning on hishands, moody and motion-
less, for some time, hesuddenly straightened himself, and drew
from the heap of magazines and books before-him a fresh-look-
ing copy of the --Journal. Turning o'er its leaves eagerly
to that which contained his pew poem, he perused it and re-
perused it over and over again, with an expression of restless-
ness and intense inquiry in his manner 'during the time.
At last he drew a long breath, and threw the book 'back upon
the table, exclaiming' in a..firm voice, "No! I am satisfied.
This is no namby-pamby die-away rhyming - there is genuine
stuff there ; that is true poetry, or I have it not in my nature to
produce it. That cursed meddlesome woman has made me
distrust myself for the moment ; by her extravagant praises- has
made me doubt the genuineness of my own inspiration.' Her
letter is so- evidently disjointed ranting, that it has shaken my
self-reliance to have even read it. Curse her silly and imperti-
nent legends, I shall read no more of them!"
Poor Manton was, evidently troubled now, at length ; and can
the reader conjecture why this last letter had so excited him?
Had a subtle arrow found 'its mark ? , Was there any, thing in
the poem really to justify the high-flown and ecstatic panegyrics
of missive No. 3, in the snow-white envelope ?. You shall see-
you shall judge.. Here is a frue copy of the poem: -
NO REST.
0 soul, dream not of rest on earth!.
-On!I forth on!l it, is thy doom!i
Too stern for pain, too high for mirth,
On ! thou must, through light and gloom.
9*


$PI ISTUAL VAMPIRISM.
Would'st thou rest wheu thou hast sti-ength_
= .     , Mated witiethe seraphiam.?
Time-outlabbing, allU whose length
Fades, witllin thin ages, dim.
o strong tr vellec, ean'at thQu tire,'
When, but touching at the grave,
hy  orn fee, re-shod,.aspire,
Winged to cleave as U'riel* cla e?
Rest! ah, rest then be alone -
God the Worker, thou the Drone!I
Soon yon atom, swiftly driving
Past thee, in tIeupward race,
Braveryfor the perfect striving,
Shall assume the Jighbr place.
God, the Worker, knows no rest
Pause, and beo oim unblest.
Lol how by.thee'all is fyingI
Even matter oitspeeds thee !
Stronger thou, yet thou seeii'st dying
Fading down immensity.
4 Rousethe quickened life-to' know I
God works subtly, work thou so!
-TThen art subtler than the wind,
Than the waters,.than. the light,
Than old Chaos,-whomthese bind,
Beautiful,-on axle bright.
Yet :thou steepest, while they speed-f
God, of sleepers has no need!
Waiteth cloud, or stream, or flower,.
Robing meadq s and the wood?,
Waiteth swallow past its hour,
Chasingspringbeyond the flood ?
*   -Yet 'thou Waitest, Weak, untrue -
God rebketh sloth in you
r",Thither catne          g thigg the evsn."
P41Aamse' LOST.'

108

THEAL SQFTDOWN.-
Sing the stars wearily.
Old though and gray?
Spin they not cheerily
Cycles to-day ?
took they like failing,
Pause they for -wailing,
Since none may stay?
Systems'are falling-
Autumns have they.;
Stars yet are calling
Life fr decay.
Dead worlds but gild them
Dusted in light;
Dead times have filled them
Fuller of might
Brightening, still brightening,
Round, round, they go
Eternity lightening
The way and the wo I
DE NoTo.
CHAPTER X.
ONCE MORE, TO THE BREACH.
Once more to the breach, my friends !
Once more!1

OLD PLAY.
Poop, Manton was not permitted to remain in peace at his
labors long. On the' afternoon-'of the same day,'Doctor F.
Willamot Weasel, scarcely taking time to announce himself by
a sharp knook, bolted into the room, exclaim g-
1Ah ! my 'dear friend, pardon me; bqt the lady concerning
whom I spoke to you, is now in the parlor below, and requests
the pleasure'of an interview."


W4               SPRITUAL VAMPIRIS-M.
A frown instantly darkened the brow of Marton, and he an-
swered angrily-
"Sir'you will remember tlhat I expressed to you, most dis-
tinctly, a 'disinclination for'such an introduction. I told-you I
did not wish to know this woman, then, and :I feel still less
inclination -to.know her now."
"But, a-ah ! mf dear sir, yqu would not surely be' unkind
enough to refuse to .see tbe lady now, when she waits in the.
parlor, in moinentary expectation of.,seeing you --for the ser-
vantitold her you were in ?  It certainly can do you no harm to
be courteous."
" That's 'a.strong appeal to make to a Southerner, Doctor
Weasel, it must be confessed."'
"Yes,"- said he, rubbing his hands, "I thought you could
not disregard it. I ain so anxious to' bring you together ! Do
come.   I shall be "delighted.  Come! pray c+me! she is
waiting.".
"Doctor Weasel, I do this thing with great eluietance," said
Manton, rising. "t suppose I must go; but rest assured, I do
not feel particularly obliged to you for forcingmrent6 this posi-
tion."
This was said in a very cold, measured tone ; but the Doctor's
delight at the prospect of accomplishing his favorite and benevo-
lent scheme, was so greate-sthat' his excitement prevented him
from observing it.,
"Nevernind, come along; you will thank me for it,' on the
contrary, as lohg as you live.'
- Manton left the room with him, and when they reached the
parlor,she was rapidly introduced to Mrs. Orne ad.l her daugh-
ter, who sat.upon a lounge awaiting him. The Doctor instantly
darted.out of the roo'nm; and Manton was left'vis-a-vis with his
ecstatic correspondent.         _
As the woman. rose to meet:him,.the blood mounted to her .
very plain face; _ind square, compact, masculine forehead  The
child, Which was an ugly, impish-looking girl, 'with a mean fore-.'

RTUERIAL SOFTDOWN.  ,'105.

head, wide mouth and projecting .chin,.nevertheless arrested the
eye of Manton, as he sat down, by a mournful expression of
suffering in her 'light gray eye..
The woman-was evidently:embarrassed for a moinent) by the
studied coldness- of Manton's manner, whose eye continued to'
dwell upon the. half-quaker, and' half-tawdry dress, rather than
upon the face that Lhad at the first. glance -impressed him so
disagreeably.'
" I have found you out, at last !" said the lady visiter, in a
low, pleasing voice. ":Nw   have ventured into the tiger's
den, I hope he vildiotat me !"
'You are perfectlysafe, imadan!" was the stiffresponse to
this sally. "But toAwhat may I owe the hanor of this visit?
Is there anything ean do for you ?"
The blood mounted quickly to the woman's forehead as she
answered hastily, "Yes, I wanted to know if you. can furnish
me with -a copy of ally your works! I' have admired with 'so
much intensity what I have, seen-but I am afraid you are very
much of a naughty boy -you look so cold 'and cross! I am
almost afraid to ask you !"
"I am very sorry, madam, I have witten no works, as you
are pleased to call them. What I have done is entirely frag-
mentary, and I:have noi collected those fragments even for'  ny-
self," was the-unbending reply.
" Oh, yes, you have ! I have seen many of them, and you
need not be ashamed to own them,.,for there is 'nothing of the
kind in literature'to surpass them. Why, there 's -----," and
she ran on with a ready list of what she termed works, not a
little to the 'surprise Qf Manton, who only listened with a cold
stare, and bowed profoundly, as she concdaed with a high-
wrought panegyric.
"I am sorry I have no such works in my possession, nor can
I tell you' where they can be obtained!"
The woman grew very red in the face .again, and bit her lips
in vexation, while Manton remained silent. ,She soon rallied,


106              SINTU L' VAMPIRISM.
however and commenced a conversation upon the -general lite"-
rature 'of ,the day; i: which Manton, in spite of himself, was
gradually interested, by a certain -sharp epigrammatic method
of uttering heresies" and bold paradoxes; which seemed -to be
peculiar to hermind, and which could not: but proie refreshing
to one, who, like "Manton, most 'eartily detested commonplace.
'He, however, did not unbead in the slightestgand the woman,
who finally, in despair ofr" getting at hirm," rose to depart; said,
yet persereringly, with-wining badinage
"I1finiwyou in .a naughty humor-to-day. You are as cold as*
an iceberg, and sharp as a nor'wester. When you get to be a
good boy, you may come and'see me !"'
"WhenIdos madam, I-shall surely corn'e !" was the response,
accompanied by a very low bow; and delivered in a tone that
would have frost-bitten the'ear of a polar bear.  f .
The discoirfited 'woman hurried from the parlor with the'
blood almost, bursting froi her face, while Manton, turning on
his heel, mufteed -
s"tWell! if' that does not freeze her of!; she ought to be
canonised!
CHAPTER XI.
RRIED BY STORM.
You call it an ill angel -it may be so;
-jut sure am I, tsmong'the ranks that fell
Tis the firstfend e'er counselledman to rise !
ANON.
MANTON had reckoned without'his host, in supposing that his
self-constituted pattoness had any idea whatever of being frozen
off: on the contrary , her benevolent ardor had been only warmed
tiIl more, as te had -yabundant evidence when, on returning

ETHERIAL SOFtDOWN.            1Q7

from his office next morning, he found yet anothersnowy missive
crowning the centre of his table.
" Monsieur Tonson, come again !" he exclaimed, as he seized.
the note, and opened it this time without hesitation," what can-
the incredible woman have to say now? Well, here it is!".
MY FRIEND --You heaped ice upon my heart      rdestray.
To-day, I feel' chilled and stiffened, as if my very soul-wings
had been frosted through your lips! Why did you do so? It.
was not magnanimous in'you.  ou;are proud, and beautiful,
and strong,';while I am plain, and weaktand lowly. Was-it
worthy of a noble soul to treat with such harsh and cutting cold-
ness a poor,'feeble, and wayworn.daughter of sorrow like my-
self, who had come merely in the- meek and matronly overflow
of tenderness and appreciation for a poisoned;sick and erring
child of genius, to offer him her sympathy in his dreary and
unrelieved immolation of glorious powers at the. unholy. altar of
ambition? Was it not unkind of you? Can you suppose that
had' you not been poisoned, body and 'soul, the' denon pride
would have thus overruled your better and your angel nature to
such harsh' rejection of the comforter, the Father had sent you
in his mercy ? What have'I asked of, you, butthat you should
unbend this fatal pride, and accept of mortal geialities? That
you should spare yourself from yourself, and give something to
others. Ah ! you will not always thus repulse the sympathies
of your race -naughty, naughty boy! hasten to begood and
core to see me!                              MARIE.
" Well! well! by heaven, the audacity of this thirig=soars to
the sublime ! and yet there is some trutiras Well is patlos in it,
too ! Now, I come to think of it,.-it was unmanly of me to treat-
the poor woman so, just as if I expected she ca ried.stilettoes or
revolvers under her petticoats, or wore aromatic poison in 'her
bosom, with a foul and treacherous design upon my life! The
fact is, I have' made a bugbear of this creature in- my itnagina-
lion, when she 'is. nothing, in fact, but-fool andfanatic coinbin-


ed, with a4jttle disjointed mother-wi1. Curse the whole afair !
Iwishshe and her endless letters were in the bottom of the sea!
S.Bthesepersistent impertinences she disturbs Ime in. my work;
-these, distractions :ire unendurable! I wish she, were crly- safe
in heaven.                  r-
it is useless to give al.the letter which poor Manton received,
within A=theext1fur or fve days bunt it is suffcient to say that
at last, in a fit ofveritable desperation sleen and huior, he
answere4-one f 4Iie.last in a tone of hyperbolical exaggeration
tha would have put to shame, not lYercutio only, but the veri-
table Bombastes'Fuoiosohimself., The effect was coldly studied1
and behol&amp;the result.'-_
Thenext m6rnifig servant informed him that a lady desired
to-see him in the parlor.m
'errr-strioken by the announcement, he nevertheless knew,
in Is conscience, that hhad brought down the judgment upon
his own headI. Hetherefore felt it to be his' duty to abide the
consequences of ls own imprudence, and went down to wait
upon his caller; who, of course, was no other than- his cor-
respondent..
She'recewed him with a flushing face, as seemed, to be usual
to her shrikin   nature.  She was this, time without her
daughter. There were other persons in the parlor, and this
seeded to disconcert-her somewhat, for she had evidently come
1Fll of some "importnt;-disclosure. Although it was the latter
part of winter, and a heavy snow had just commenced breaking
: up, Which rendered-the streets of New York almost impassable,
she neverthelessproposed that they. should go out for a iong
alk. 'Manton looked through the window into the sloppy
street, op eie4 his eyes a little, and assented.
There was something wonderfully rare in the-idea of a wo-
zjan 'sop(loposing a long walk on such aAday, and Manton
 rekl.hed the hardiness anid originality'of the thing.  -
K Well saidad hE to' himself~ I like her spunk, anyhow !
tSheahda shown-herself in every wvay to be- in earnest in 'what 'she

r   I  i,,

undertakes.. Phew! I shall"enjoy it ! a 'm in iloxngpeti-
coats, wading a mile or two througfa cold slush .Mteh as this![
After thi , what is' it 4hat Madame Wvon tdo ?  I'h lead her
something of a round;.at -any iate, before she-gets back."
These thoughts passed through'his 'mind as he ran. up-stairs
for his cap. She met him as he came down, in the passage-way,
and they passed out at the 'front door.h-
,'aYou are a droll{person,'1 said Manton, ani they reached the
street.
" a Why?" asked she, with h covert learn in her eye.
"'Why?; because few women would 'have thought of choos-
big such a-day as this for-a walk.
"I care nothing foItrifles! Misfortune has taught me to dis-
regard tHein. Suffering makes us hardy."
Manton looked  down at her with surprise.; for, of all things
on earth, the most disagreeable' to him, was that commonplace
timidity and shrinkig' from trifles, which is so ludicrousy cha-
racteristic of American women. He did4 not wish to seewoman
unsexed, but contemnied her puerile and unnecessary cowerdice
His companion now proceeded with, great aniimation to follow
up the favorable openingthus effected, with a rapid andpathetic
sketch, in outline, of her sad and suffersg life..
She had bieen married by hei parents to a. sordid lout of a
Quaker, in- New England, whose horrid- barbarities and -perse-
cutions had finally compelled the weak and hitherto unresisting
woman to seek a separation, the scandal of which had roused
against her the relentless animosity of the whole -body-of New
England Quakers,who finally carried their--brutal perseution to
the extreme of assisting her yet more brutal husband, in rob
bing her of her.dear and only child, under the plea that she was
neither a suitable nor capable person to have chargeof it. That
after a long period, spent by the- distracted.mjther jn roamig
up-and down the lanA,-in search of aid andemfort, she had at
length succeeded in enlisting. some noble and benevolent soulh
10 -

'XTH9RL SODQWWT


1104

sPIRflUAL VAMPIRISM.

in her cause, who finally rescued' the child, by strategy or force,
and restored' it. to its weeping mother's arms.
"in addition to this sad tale of suffering connected with her
private history, which was most skilfully and artistically worked
up,'she,'had.another, of public martyrdom,-which'was, to Man-
ton-, far more ipipressive.
Through obscurity and poverty, this resolute- and daring wo-
man ,haddedicated herself to 'the amelioration of.the physical
evils of her he less sex.- She had, with unflagging ardor, stu-
'died the -books of anatonuical science, the diseases 'of. her sex,
and the wisest means of cure. And thus, in addition to having
been the first woman in New England to publicly assert that
there is no trae marriage but in love, she had also led the way
in announcin-to women their sanitary duties to themselves;
that they mistlearn to heal their bodies, and leave the other sex
to .take care of their own diseases; that delicacy as well as
utility promoted this course.
This idea atl once met the approbation of Manton, to whom
its assertion was comparatively novel but who had always.
deeply felt the lamentable helplessness of 'woman, and the un-
natural relation of the male members of the profession to them.
The brave and hearty manner in which this singular woman
had evidently breasted alone the popular prejudice, in a cause
which he saw, at a glance, to -be so just and 'nobly utilita.
rian, for the first time moved' his sympathies somewhat in her
favor; in spite of his contempt and disgust for -women who ven-
tared beyond their sphere.
The vocation of a learned nurse to diseased persons .f her'
own sex, was clearly to him not beyond the' proper sphere of
woman, but a most important, legitimate, and-however little
recognised,J conventionally - the' mosthonorable and useful.
He' c  o    but respect theWoman, whatever her-eccentricitids
mightbe,'who could be brave and true enough to assert effect-
ively to her -sex the natural' and inevitable mandate," Know
thyself!

ETIHRJAL SOFTDOWN.                 11
There was something chivalrous in the thought-,a generous
daring, a martyr spirit, that could not fail to- arrest a nature in
itself, rashly, scornful of all that was merely conventional, and
whose untamed, half-savge soul rejoiced in all, novelties that
expressed to him a higher utility than mere forms conveyed.
The walk was continued for hours ; and still further to try her
nerves, during this long conversation, Manton 'turned' through
many intricacies into the most darkened labyrinths' of the vice-
profaned metropolis.
The woman never flinched ; nothing seemed' to appal her,
and, as they threaded rapidly the dingy alleys of the -"Five
Points," she had an acute theory or-'a daring speculation for
each evil' the external form of which they successively en-
countered.
There was a 'vigor and. originality in all this, as coming from
a woman, that interested Manton in spite: of himself. Plain,
uncouth, and eccentric aswas this scorned "lecture-woman,"
he could not but confess to himself, as they returned mud-be-
draggled and tired enough from that long wal , that his respect
for her had very much increased.
"                   -    "Z


s8IITUAL 'VAMaPIRIM.'

C H- APT ER     X II.
SPIRITUAL CONFIbENiEs.'
And uiider fair pretence of fri idly ends,
- 'An4d well placed words ofygloing courtesy,
Baited with reasons not unplausib1e,
Wind me into-easy-hearted man,
And hugihim into snares.
M e

r  i KO   UMUs.
WE shall followsthe bedraggled heroine-of the last chapter,
begging leave 6f the.readerto "see' her home."
Mark With what an elate and vigorous step -she trips it up
Barlay Street into .Broadway, after taking leave of 'Manton at
the door of the Graham 'House. One would think that she
should' s urely'be tired, after that tremendous mornirig's work,
trudging and splashing through the dirtiest mire of three-fourths'
of the great city. But.- no--slie spring in her gaitand her
strange,animal eye,. 'glitters fairly with a devilish obiquity,
which has for the 'moment usurped its expression. She does
not mind that people turn and stare after her' dragging and be-
spattered skirts-not she !-.her very soul is possessed with th'e
pre-occupation of an ecstatic gloating over some great conquest
achieved,. or closely perceived already in the prospective future
Mato, which she. glares.
We shall see what we. shall see-only follow, still follow.
She has turned p 'Broadway, and threads the great throng 'there
tlrapid glide, as street after street-is passed. Ah, now we
lave-it! She, crosses-this 'is Eighth Street L There, in Broad-
way, near the coriar, stands a great house, with wide-open
door; ;the 'smeared und dirty lintels, the greasy latch,. the wide,
incarpeted hall of which,. at once reveals it to be one Qf those
miscellaneous and incomprehensible. edifices, which' are not
*-

E-THEAIA L SQFTDOWN.:

118

t
t"

$u

unfrequently met with on the great.thoroughfare, aid the uses
of 'which are not generally- more -specificalgr known, than that
they are fashionable boarding4iouses.
Into this ever-gaping entrance she-wheeled, and darted up
the broad, uncarpeted stairway, Which- she continued to ascend
with almost incredible ease and swiftness, to'the fifth storf. When
near the end of a long' and- narrow passage, she paused before
one of-the doors, and tapping it slightly, entered without 'farther
ceremony
A handsome nd v-dressed woinan, who was engaged in
writing -at a small escritoire looked up indifferently as she
entered, but the moment ,she caught the expression of the new-
comer's face, she sprang to her feet, thro'ving-doWn the pen,
and with a strangely 'shrill and unmusical laugh,screamed out
in'a most inconceivably voluble 'style-
"Why, I' declare! Marie, what's the matter'?  Your eyes
are almost bursting out of your head! You look as if you had
found a bag of gold, and meant to give me half! Why, bless
the woman, how she looks ! Have you .caught him at 'last ?
Well, we're in luck! I've caught, my man for sure'! He's been
here all the inorning,( he's just left!. Why, how the ,woman
looks! She keeps staring so ! You haven't gone crazy for joy,
have you? Now, do tell! how have you managed to catch
that insolent baby, you seemed to have set your heart on so'?
Why, how' muddy the woman is !" she shrieked, looking down
at the condition of her dress. 4 Ia! ha! ha! ha! . o tell,
what sort of a game have you been playing? Did you have 'to
hunt him through a'pig-sty ?"
The \woman had been standing motionless, in the meantime,
with distended eyes and compressed mouth, stretched in a rigid
smile of supernaturally savage exultation. She gazed towards'
the face of the speaker, but did not seem to listen to, her, or see
her features. She looked the .abstracted,, einbp6diment o.
triumphing evil. 'Very soon her 'stiffened lips quiveredjslightly
10*

Ki


a   1; .SPIRITUAL' VAMPIflU$M.
while the voluble lady stepping forward, shook her sharply by
the shoulder, shrilling out again-
SDo loogkat the woman!'.Why, what can be the matter ?
p'f you talk? 'The cat's got the woman's tongue surely ! I
ddnot think gau were so mach in earnest about that green boy!
Why; I could twvist" him about my finger like a tow-string! I
have achieved something in conquering my lae !"'
""Y-3y trman'!" said the. woman slwly, interruptin'-her.
But these words were accoinpanied by a loQk of such strange
and tauntirig ignificaice, that the other turned instantly pale and
sprang back, as- if she had received an electric shock from those
singular ejes, that fell 'upon her for a moment with their evil
o'bliquity 'and then returned instantly to their naturalaxpression."
" Wi-why, what do you mnepn ?" stamnmered'the other angrily.
hThe woman only, answered with a -pleasant smile--" Now
don't be a jealous fool, Jeannette Shrewell-I shall never'inter-
fore with your schemes if you don't with mine."'
Yes! but because you, knew Edmond long ago," continued
the other in a fierce and'shrewish voice, '!you dare to insinuate,
to me that'he too has passed throng your hands!"
The woman broke out'into', aloud laugh " Why, what a
child you are!. You- know what my relationsto; Edmond are,,
perfectly. Spiritopl-purely and spotlessly spiritual. I should.
no mpiie think of him'than of my grandfather."
"Spiritual! ' shrieked ethe 6the  springing forward;""do
ou darej to use 'that stupid cant to- ne?- Reep it for the sap-
headed boys'and.iile drivellers that you decoy with'such bait,,
to pluider  You shan't\insult mue'to.n r teeth with it."
The speaker, whose physical energies.,vere far more veheiient
and orhbearing than the'other, seenied to have 'entirely awed
E. She ' ack amekly into a chair, turned vey pale, and lift-
ing her: eye'with anTumuble look,she 'said, in'a'low imploring
voice, "NowJeannette;please don't 'be so iol   I did nt
miean to taunt or insult youi t ou ha altogethe mistaken me,
deaf friend;' WNow,.-please' b'e 'calm."  K

ERIAL soy   a  rL              115
But the other, whose; long black durls still writhed and q
veered, like the snakes of the Gorgon 'head; with rage, stood
towering before the suppliant, as if she meant-to crush her; ;and
as she -thu stopd,. she really looked superb.
Her profile vs delicately chisellesi and Roman, withlarge,
dark -gray eyes, thin lips, and fine chin ; and '6oW that every
feature was inspired with'anger, the e.ye ceasedto be ofended
by their'habitual expression-of selfish, cold,:aid sharp.intellec-
tion. She continued, quite as veheiently-
You have sown the wind, and you mut reap. I have
heard this vile insinuation before of something between you and
Edmond at 4"
"Jeannette' Jeannette! it is false\ every word of it. It i
a vile slander of my enemies. Ask Edmond himself-.-he will
tell you it is so.'"
"Yes! jes ! I know it is fale.B' ut who gave irculation-to
these reports ?- Hey ?  Your enemies, were they?:KYour'ene-
mies- must have a great deal,:to do, that they keepthetnselves
busy with these manifold stories of you advepturesj Whowas
it aspired to the- eclat of any -affaiwith thre- rich generous,
learned, and travelled Edmond,?- Who was it dragged Iim,
through his unsuspecting recklessness of conventionall usages;
into conditionsvWhich rendered him liable to 'such aruimp uta-
tion ?. Who boasted of' itand attempted to place;him in the
same category with the dupes and gulls ard foels she had
already ruined and plundered? ' Hey? Who was it? Marie
I know you" ad she stretched herself t6'her full height ;
but, had her vision rot been blinded by passiri, sher might-havej
pereived a cold and searcey perceptible smile of scornful in-
credulity pass over the, face at 'which 'shd pointed her 'sbarp~
finger' aI know  you, wc ran!- BvwareI-beware -1dw you
cross my track with Edinond'! Youhad better :rouse the sleep
ingtigress with hr ybunge ingo'ir aIs r Hefshll be mine  1
'have sworjn it! iOneyear ago,'when I heard of his return fromr
Europe, and left everything, foother, sisters. riende, and came


SP Rf JUAL iY"Al I R R1M.

onto this ity,}a.thousand miles, alone and unprotected,-that I
might throy self ir; his way, I sore that he should:be mine.
had watcheddhis. career for years, from a distance, and he shad
grown to be my ideal. 'When helbeane, first the pupil and
then the: expounder dofthenew philosophy in France, Itoo be-
cameits. stirdent;- with unwearied lahor I mastered its rodi-
"ious cienc, forI divined the purpose of the man. I knew
he dust return to. his .own ,country, and become its exponent
here,,and that then my time would -come.
"I studied'the Gerkhan, the rench, and the Italian;- with all
which languages'I knewhiim tp be familiar.' I acuainted my-
self with the literature of each, that I might be able always'to
speal with him in he tongues and of the themes of which' his
long residence in :Europe -had made the, associations 'most
pleasant. Armed. thus. cap-a-pie, ' have met hii, at. last,: as  I
feltitas my destiny to do.'
"Iha ve a ttetedhim, - I .have all but conquered him.' That
mane shall be my lover! Ay,.woman, he. shall be' my lawful
husband!l Cross my track finanyway, if you d-a a-r-e! I know
your' arts; I, will-render'them for ever' unaailing to. yo -I will'
explain them,and expose. them.  Cross my track then, if you
d--a-a-r-e" end, as-she. hissed out the word between her teeth,
she stopped foraaid and shook her finger in the face of the now
actually trembling woman . "Remember! our compact is, you
let me alone, and I willlet you alone; you help me,-P'lhlp
yu; cross me, destroy you 4" '
"Is that all. ? murmured  eL'oman, in a soft vice, open-
ing her'-eyes,twhieh 'had been closed during the greater.part of
this' tirdewhile;at the same time, the. old obhquity became
for a moment apparent"    ':;'
Jeanntte, I never, dreamed of any thing else. I
would -soorter cat off myrightwhan dthanintefere withyouin
any respect. Our two cQurses are. entirely different, You have
one ohjectand one'spe es ofgame to hunt down; whiledI have
another. We shall not elash'-and seeing the features of the

1d

other relax from exhausted passion, she leaned forward with a
pleasing sinile.
" Just; tothink you stormy child! I had hastened home to
tell yoto my good fortune, and you- so overpower 'me as to
make: me forget all I had to tell. You have- frightened me
saAly, Jeannette, and all about nothing: But Pye got him-
I think he's booked at last "*
. "Pooh !".said the other, sinking into f chair  "Well, I
asked you ever so long ago; ;how did you manage it? You
seemto have had a great deal more trouble this time than usual.
He does not seem to haye beeu very civil toyou heretofore, I
should think:"
"No "said the other--in a-low, Hoarsened tone,-while the
blood anointedd in crimson flush to her foheheadl, rot to her
cheeks. 'This nice discrimination is very necessary to a"true
apprehension of such a ,character. "No, he has acted 'like a
sullen cub, .heretofore ..a perfect young white bear, with his in-
solent pride, and clumsyrhiughtiness t iHeis the most insulting
and impracticable boor I ever took hold pf
" Ah! I perceive you are splenetic!"
"No! It is simply annoying, that the insufferable fellow
should give me so, much trouble. Why only think, he posi-
tively refused to be introduced to me--said I was a shg1low ad-
venturess, and that he. did not wish' to know tue--even when
our Doctor Weasel went to him, with -specal request on my
part for such animtroduction
"Oh, yes! but our Doctor is proverbially awkward in such
matters. No doubt he  boiled it all in the manner of the
request,"
"Well, but you know, if the Doctor is' awkward, he's got
money, and 6s long ,as he believes 'in Four1er and Swedenborg
as devotedly as he does now, we can use his purse. 'But, to
proceed: That sullen Southerner not only refused to ,be inro-
diuced to me in the most insult igtermAinut When I waote him
three,1 or four of: ny most irresistible billet-doii that Snever


aied beforehe treatdeitthe  it)hat I uppose he meant to
be silent contempt, for he did not answer one ,of Athern, though
Shad takethe pain to place hem allupon his tablewith y
vwa hands, during his absence, and find out- 41couidd concern
g him'at the same time..
found the key-ote,:however;the boy loved his mother,
and has beeu playing hyena with the rest of the world ever
since she. disd, and been endeavoring to imagine himself a mis-
anthropy with a life dedicated since solely to the. ambition' of.
achevingn i her name, good fo? makind. '.This discovery,
private made, put me fully in possession4 of all 1 ,wanted to
know of his weakness., I saw he was earnest and chivalrods, as
his ife ipes, and proudly secretive, so far as the privacies
of his life were oncerned. So I at once felt that this incrusta-
tion of reserve with which head .fenced about his lifefcould
onlyse broken down by a coup de main. -
"I detenined to come down upon him, bysurprise; in.spite,
of  erything ..[Jcalled pn him; and sent.our trusty Ioctor up'
=to    him to.the parlor per'fose. The ruse succeeded so
fa    o effect- an introduction' but, to tell you the truth," and
herorehadtairly baed while sb6ispoke, "I never was treated
with such insolentand frozen hauteur "n my life before! I wert
away with .my ears tingling and blood on fire, but'I cursed him.
in myvery heart, 'iand swore to -have a woran's, vengeance'!
You reiembe. How.ick I was that night      h   ,God! such
furie as tortured me ! I scarcely slept ; but a. happy thought
cane to -me just about morning.
"He was a,popet-his brow revealedthat-1 t with' charg-
terstic sternness he had yet published nothing  hich could be
accounted the highest expressionn of his in'ost life. lie had
made ais wy jnlite ratufe'rapidy and brilliantly through aovel
cnphatior of stylg, in which the essential elements. ofprose
and-poetry pe  e ecoibined'; but.had:never yet ventured to asso
iate is' proper ane with anything baking theforms of potry'.
ow     pthe Doctor had told e tht the po, d   the

soubriquet of) 'De Noto,' i. the hat number of theJournal,
was his and it at-once flashed across rfe-appreciation! appre-
ciation! 'The young poet has 'stolen timidly forth, under
disguise, with' this myth 'clear from his"soul! f-Ile 'does. not
expect to be understood at once, and any prompt appreciation
will overwhelm him from  the very suddenness of the thing ; and
in his delighted suirise he would yearn towards. the :aoknow-
ledged-devil himself'
I sent him another note expressing that: intense appreciation
foi which X knew he was craving. Hetreated it with the neglect
that he had the others; but I somehow felt that I had made my
mark. . I caled this morning, and as I knew~his contempt.for
mere conventional forms, I ventured upon a.dashin , ruse de
gtterre.
gue challenged him, for I knew his own personal-hardiness, to
take a'longwalk through all the slop of the thaw. With °a stare
of surprise he accepted it. I felt" even'then that my point wa
half gained,' There-were people in -the .parlor, and -xy oh _et
was to get him "alone with. myself. I felt that I had  y
touched one weakness,, and''myobject now was to arrests
chivalrous sympathies in behalf of" 'my' forlorn and' unprotected
martyrdom' to the' cause of 'woman in her resistance: to 'the
brutalities of the niarital law, 'and her- iight-'f .proclaiming to
hers sisterhood .the- sanitary laws of health, in which they have
been kept in.pr~found ignorance by the 'profession.
" At first, I arrested his attention by the 'daring of thepositon
which I had assumed, and then arouse ihis sympathies by a
fervent .relation of the wrongs inflicted oni' me by my brutal
husband. rthe story was old'-butI managed to throw into it a
great deal of feeling, for there is nothing like a tale of persecu-
tionto arrest chi'valrous minds all over the world.  We under,
stand all these propositions as- scientific!' When Iparted. with
him he smiled upon me, for the first time, genially.' '1am sire
of I ithoW!"  ,'      '
" I should think you might bie!"

,
y


RMA V4MPM.E            AW

0 .CH APTSR; XII
"0-,rNTEA  OY   REVEAAT 0NS4 'E  '
'What see io there,
That has so cowardedand chased your blood'
Ot of appearance ?
-IA go dsized, eatly-furnished apartment, of a large house
in Bond Street, al*3'ut two weeks.Fafter the incidentswhichw
related in -thylast chapters, .a'-groupwas assembled about nine
o'clockin the evening; which consise d of Manton, the wian
de'riaOnefher daughter, ind.DrEWilainot Weasel; 'f
homawe have before'-pphken.  .     '           ', i,'.)-
Te dark eye of doctor Weasel, glistened "vith benevolent
eight as'be'azed upon the group ,froma whichhesat some-
apat    Manton'     seated"on ahhair near t  goingg
sire,:with the xmother on a;low stool on one side of him, and the
aighter kreeliig on the therm while both with upturned reve-
retial eyes 'dank-in eagerly each-word that fell from his lips.
They seenid to be enchained, 'erihanted while he spoke'; and
.he.mother in the almost total speechlesness of her rapt appre
ciationecould only venture to trust her, tremblig voice in -low,
whispered exclamations;hilethe sad eyes of the impish look-
;ng dughter imita ig]y stared uutterable things.
The wonian's subtle suggestiveness had roused the brain of
ate,' and fully dr iw'him out on 'his favorite nies; whlat-
'ever'finatur# loquenehesessed, and he possessed much,
to e, smnoothlynow, for,' ii spite of hiiiself,s hifrozen heart
a begn     arm edIbythe' unwearying deference whichie "met
thromt3iese peol' "1 ...'
The lam ps rrbned brightly, the. . earth glowed, and'tie eyes
of all were bent upon him. with genialwarith aid admring

earnestness. The north wind howled cold without, to remind
him. of the long, harsh " winter of his discontent," which had
for ten weary years been unrelieved by any approximation to a
scene thus flushed with the sanctities of domestic quiet. Manton
always idealised woman!-he idealised everything. . He was a
poet. The very presence of woman was hallowed to his imag-
ination. There was a thrill of sweet fancies and gentle memo-
ries conveyed to him, in the very rustle of a silken gown. He
adored, he worshipped woman, as she lived in his memory-
the holy attributes with which he invested her, penetrated and
held him enchained in peaceful awe. He could not, he dare
not. believe evil of her, if she bore the semblance of good, in
thought, or deed, or life.
He had shrunk thus long from contact with her, not because
this interval of self-inflicted separation had been other than
a weary penance of yearning, but'that his fastidious nature
dreaded the .common contact, which might degrade or mar that
ideal of love, which woman personated to him, and in the -wor-
ship of which he had found the strength for brave deeds..
It was the weakness, the petty flippancy, the commonplace-
isms of woman, from which he shrank. He believed that .her
spiritual strength should equalise her with man's physical strength
in disregarding common fears, paltry conventionalities, and con-
temptible topics. The miserable skeleton of soul and body,
which the world calls "woman of society," was more horrible
to him, by far, than the actual contact with her dry bones in a
prepared skeleton would have been-for where one was a com-
paratively pleasing object to his eye as a philosopher, the other
was but the painted, dim-eyed, ghastly spectre of a living death.
There was in this woman, at least so far as he could judge,
a total abandon to her natural impulses, which seemed to utterly
repudiate those restrictions which are merelycommonplace. This
was refreshing to him, from its novelty, at any rate, in contrast
with the insipidities he so much dreaded, although his taste had
from the first been constantly offended.
11

ETHERTgL SOFTDOWN.           I2 ..


122             SPIRITUAL. VAMPIRISM.
Yet she seemed'-so utterly lawless and quietly defiant of what
the world, that works in harness, might say, he could not help
krspecting her for it. It was a new thing in his life, to meet
with a woman, sufficiently heroic, to face the martyrdom that
she was daring, for so elevated and noble an aim as the emanci-
pation of her own sex from the conditions of utter helplessness,
into which their ignorance, of the laws of life had sunk them.
Besides, she had shown so much earnest patience with his
rude pride, had followed up its aberrations with such a matronly
tenderness, exhorting him only, and unceasingly, to be at rest
-a rest, the need of which his proud and fainting soul had con--
fessed so often to his inward consciousness. And then this fihe
appreciation - ah, where is the young poet who can withstand
appreciation ? And then such delicate deference in, trifles.!'
He had spoken incidentally of his taste in dress ; and now
the mother and daughter were dressed in the most graceful and
faultless simplicity! The heart of Manton was touched. He,
felt grateful and pleased with these strange Samaritans to him
m a strange land.    -
On a slight pause in the conversation, the woman, still gazing
up timidly into the face of Manton,.changed the theme sudden-
ly, by asking him,
" What do you think of Clairvoyance ?"
" The world is not old enough yet, by twenty years, I think,
to answer that, question."
"TMy reason for asking the question, was, that I have some
strange premonitions myself, which I cannot explain. You will,
no doubt, .be able to explain the mystery at once --"Y
Yes!" interrupted Doctor Weasel, eagerly, " do let us have
you examine the matter! Facts have come within my own
knowledge, concerning revelations which have been made by
her, that, are the most extraordinary I ever knew. For instance,
when she has been brought into' clairvoyant rapport with indi-
viduals whom she has never seen er heard of before, she has
revealed to therm the whole history of their lives."

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

128

" This unexpected enunciation of their life-secrets to men,
must of course be productive- of1strange scenes occasionally,"
said Manton, in a tone which had.suddenly become cold.
"Oh, very curious and interesting ! very curious !" exclaimed
the Doctor, quickly. "Marie, do relate to him that incident
of the bloody hand, that you have so often told me."
"   ell," said she, "it has been some years since that a
number of my friends, who knew of this giftof mine, were in
the habit of inviting me to their respective houses, to meet
friends of distinction, who were curious to observe the experi-
ments, either upon themselves or upon others.
" On one occasion I was invited to meet a celebrated physi-
cian of this city; whose reputation for purity of character and
life was very high. There were, no parties present but my
friend, this physician, and myself. Such an arrangement, I
afterwards understood, had been made at the particular request
of the physician himself, who desired that there should be no
other person present but his host at the interview.
" When the physician placed his- hand upon my head, as is
the necessary formula to bring me into spiritual communion
with my interrogator, I relapsed almost immediately into the
syncope of the clairvoyant' state, and of course became entirely
unconscious of what Iuttered in that condition. But our host,
who was his most intimate friend, has given me many times the
following explanation of the scene :-
" He says that when the physician placed his hand upon my
head, I first said from the sleep, ' I am content ! All is pure
here-this is a holy soul-one that is regenerate and will be
saved!' and' then that while I was recounting his many deeds
of kindness to the poor and friendless, and the' rich, I suddenly
shrank back, exclaiming, 'Blood! blood! blood! There is-blood
upon this hand!' This soul is darkened now'with blood ! Here
is some fearful crime!. Murder has been committed by this
hand ; everything seenis red beneath it!' My friend says -the
doctor staggered back as if he had been shot, on hearing this,
11


124               SPIRITUAL VAMPI1lISM.
turned pale as death, and swooned -on the floor; and after' he
recovered, acknowledged that he had committed murder and fled
from th&amp; consequences; the name by' which he was now known
was an assumed one, and he implored his host not to expose
him to the penalty. of the gallows by revealing these terrible
facts.
"My friend, of course, did everything he could to relieve,
him' on that point, and assured him that he would never breathe
the fact where it 'could injure him; that the purity of his life
for so many years had cancelled the enormity of the crime, so
far as society was concerned.
"But in spite of all this, the wretched and guilty man left
the house in overwhelming despair, and the last I have heard of
him was that he had locked himself in .his own house, and was
killing himself with the most unheard-of excesses in drinking
brandy, to which vice he never before had been addicted.-
"When I realised the tragic results of this fearful insight,
with which I seem to have been mysteriously endowed, my very
soul was shaken with sorrow ; and since that time my spirit has
wrestled in agonies of prayer with God, that this poor child of
crime and headlong vices might be 'saved!"'
As the woman uttered these last words, Manton recognised,
'for the first time, rand with a' shudder, a peculiar obliquity of
the left eye. His soul was chilled within him; and for the mo-
ment, the light of the glowing room was darkened as if the
shadow of drear winter had passed over and through it.
Doctor Weasel exclaimed gaily, "Is not that extraordinary?
I assure you, I have myself witnessed things in connection with
this power of hers, quite as inexplicable, though happily not so'
tragic."
"-It sounds strangely enough," said Manton,. shortly.
"I assure you I have no means of accounting for these
things,".said the woman in a meek, deprecatory tone.
"Suppose you demonstrate. it, madam, in my case ;" and a
slight' sneer, which crossed the face 'of Manton,' whose manner

ETHERIAL $OFTDOWN.     -         12
had :entirely changed, did not, escape the hawk-like quickness
of the woman's eye. "My life, I am willing torsubmit to the
scrutiny of your inscrutable sense."
" Oh, by all means !" exclaimed Doctor Weasel, springing to
his feet in a paroxysm -of delight. " Let us, have the experi-
ment, by all means ! Do please place your hand on the top of
her head!"
Manton turned, and with a bow most studiously deferential,
seemed to ask of the lady her permission to do-so.
'' Oh, yes, yes," and her head was bowed forward to meet
his upraised hand ; while the daughter, who seemed to under-
stand the thing,'either from previous experience, or from some
private signal, rose from her clinging position about 'his knee,
and stepped back,.leaving the two-alone, without other contact.
In a few moments after the hand of Manton had rested upon
the meek, submissive head of the woman before him, she- com-
menced exhibiting' the common and preliminary attitudes,
muscular retchings of the throa, nervous twitchings of the lips
and limbs, accompanied by thle apparently palpable, organic
changes, which are recognised to be symptomatic with well-
known conditions of the mesmeric sleep.
Manton watched all these phenomena with the sharpest atten-
tion, and then, as the lips began to -move as if in inarticulate
enunciation, he leant forward over her, and asked -
"What can you tell us of the soul, with which you are now
in communication ?"
After several preluding and spasmodic efforts to articulate
sounds, the Clairvoyant at length said, in a voice only distinct
above a whisper -
"I see light! all light!-pure, holy light. It fills the universe
with a mild radiance! I can see no blurs,'no -clouds in the fore-
ground. I can see only angels, 'seraphs, and seraphim, and-all
forms of light revolving in the sphere of this mighty soul !"
" Is there no evil there ?'" said Manton.
"No, I see none ; I see only white light.~
11*


SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

"But look close --perhaps you might find somethingdark
Look long and steadily into the world you visit-see if there
be not clouds there."
There was .a pause. The lips moved without articulation
again ; and again Manton asked -" What do you see now ?"
"I see, I see, the light is parting on either side ; out in the
far distance, between those walls of light, a giant form uprears
itself in shadow. - Down the long vista stands this darkened
giant. He is fierce and stern, and wears a cold, hard front, with
fla'ming eyes,. that scare the ministering angels all away. He
strikes around him with the imperious sway of his huge, knotted
club, and all, the bright forms flee. He seems the savage Her-
cules of pride !'
There is a pause ; and after a stillness of some moments,
Manton asked again-
"What now is the vision, to your sense ?-is the giant gone ?"
"No, he is humbled but not subdued ; and from afar behind
him, down this darkened vista, a light has grown up, like a-
rising star. It advances slowly, rising over his head. The
splendor increases as it comes. Now, thedark and wrathful
giant has fallen on his knees--the-flood of glory overcomes
him. His'club: is dropped. His eyes, upturned in awe, seem
dimmed by the sadden glory of an angel's presence. Ha! I
see ! the .features of that. angel are like his whose soul I see!
The giant issubdued! His pride has bowed its forehead in the
dust, before the angel, radiance of a visiting mother !"
Manton felt his flesh creep as this was 'spoken, and as the
Clairvoyant paused for some moments, he asked: "What does
this spirit of the mother say ?"
The slow answer-was --r
"She seems to ,rebuke this pride even more with her efful-
gence, and to say,-My son, I am -with thee in the spirit, but I
cannot be with thee through the medium of the flesh which thou
hast so poisoned .and corrupted, since I passed from thee into
this higher sphere. Make thy body clean and purify thy life,

and I shall be always with thee present, in the spirit. It is
necessary for your usefulness in your present life that you should
accept of human sympathies. It is only through such that you
can .establish a true community with the material world of which
you form a part. Accept human 'love- accept a moral repre-
sentative of myself- believe in the possibility of its chasteness
as well as utility, and you will yet be strong, powerful of good,
and happy."
Here Manton, who had become intensely excited during the
progress of this scene, removed his hand with a vehement ges-
ture from the head of the woman, and springing to his feet,
seized his cap, and with scarce the ordinary adieus, hastily left
the room. He rushed hurriedly through the dark storm, which
careered along the street, muttering as he went:
" Eternal curses on this infernal woman ! What can it mean ?
She dares to speak of my mother again. Hah.! does n'ot this
account for the inexplicable disturbance. of my papers in my
trunk? Is it possible 'that this can be the accursed and despi-
cable wretch who has stolen into the privacies of my life? But
think, think! I may have been hasty. This whole subject of
Clairvoyance-is an impenetrable mystery. That strange story
of the bloody hand has impressed me. Foy all we know, as
yet, suchthings may be within the possibilities of Clairvoyance.
That myth she uttered as if she were in a dream, was strangely
significant to me -"supposing her to be ignorant of all my past
life ; and then she seemed so patient, so disinterested, so.gentle
and so kind, so matronly, so tender, and so heroic, too. I can-
not altogether distrust ier, nor can I believe ; I can only wait,
I must see 'more ; I must know more ; I must comprehend
the whole. There is a something here I cannot understand-a
something betwixt heaven and hell, which I must bide my time
to fathom. -Curses on all mysteries !" and, rushing onward
through the storm, like one hag-ridden, or pursued by stern,
accusing ghosts, the bewildered Manton soon reached his cheer-
less room, all storm-drenched and depressed.

126,.

127

,ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.


128             SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

CHAPTER XIV.
THE PROUD      AN BOWED.
Dim burns the once bright star of Avenel;
There is an influence sorrowful and fearful,
That dogs its downward course,
SCOTT.,
TRANSPARENT as is the meaning of the foregoing scene, it
conveyed to' Manton, who knew none of these things which
have been revealed to the reader, a tremendous shock. Mind
and soul were thrown into chaotic convulsions; 'he knew not
what to think, or which way to turn for truth.
Had the incident occurred 'but a short time previous, before
his nature had begun to be moved by generous sympathy and
honest respect for this loyal, persecuted, and indomitable wo-
man; 'had it occurred before that eventful walk through the
slush of New York, he would have at once turned upon her in
freezing ,wrath, with the deliberate accusation of having entered
his room in his absence, and searched his private papers, or else
have merely' sneered at it, as the accidental hit of a reckless
adventuress..
But he had admitted her to his respect as a' noble and unpro-
tected devotee. In- a word,'he had, as was usual with him
wherever women were concerned, idealised her into a heroine.
qould he suspect her after this? He rejected the weakness of
such suspicion almost with terror.
Had he known any thing of New York'life ; had he formed
any' relations except those of a strictly business character ; had
he 'cultivated acquaintances at all, who belonged to the city, and
knew it, a few inquiries might have settled all his doubts.. But,

alas! pride,,pride, that fatal pride ! He knew nobody, he cared
not for what any one said of another.
He had heard this woman violently abused at the dinner-
table below, to be sure ; but then the character of the persons
who had joined in this cowardly vituperation was, to his mind,
evidently such as to prejudice him in her favor; for he had a
proud way with him, which never permitted him to judge of-the
absent  by what was said of them, but-by who said it. Taking
these things together, he would have felt ashamed to have asked
any questions concerning the woman, of those whose opinion
and opportunities of knowledge he respected.
If she had thrown herself upon him, it had been with perfect
frankness, and without any attempt at concealments. She had
told him how she was persecuted and slandered by ignorant
women, because she had been bold enough to tell them the truth
about themselves. He had already heard something of this, and
the stories told were of precisely such character as.envious, vul-
gar, and malignant gossip circulates about females who make
themselves conspicuous by their virtues or their ,talents. Be-
sides, had he not, before he knew more of her, been violently
prejudiced, too? What more natural than that others should be
so, including these ignorant women ?
And then this wonderful Clairvoyance ! Whocan dare to say
that he believes nothing of its claims ? 'He held its marvels and
miracles in great contempt, and firmly .believed, that whatever
of truth there was would soon be unveiled of its apparent mys-
tery by the close analysis of science, and shown to proceed from
purely natural laws, the exact relations of which had not been
heretofore understood.
And then it might, have been accident. Ah ! and then, it
might have been-what his thought had long struggled with as
the solution of all such phenomena-it might have been sympa-
thetic ! a mere result of the unconscious projection of his
stronger vitality through a magnetic or odic medium of sympa-
thy, which had been instantly established through the contact

1~

:ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.           129


ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.              13j,

180            SPIRITUfAL VAMPIRISM.

of his hand with the thin 'and sensitive region on the top of her
head.
She might thus have been made to feel him intellectually, if
not spiritually ; to see, through this sympathetic sense, those
images with  which his brain was most full, and thus express
this startling outline of his life.
Be those things as they may, he was restless and excited ; his
imagination was aroused, his memory profoundly stirred. He
was thus fast hurried past the point where a cool analysis could
well avail to rescue him. - Tossed to and fro by doubts and
dark suspicions, which a generous confidence 'strove hard to
banish with. its magnanimous suggestions, backed by self-reliant
pride ; confounded with the fear of acting with injustice towards
a helpless female; with the fear, too, of the soft pluckings at his,
heart, from those tender memories which she had thus aroused by
her offers of maternal sympathy -together with the penetrating
light and warmth of that genial and unlucky{ evening spent with
her, amidst the quiet of domestic surroundings-he could form no
conclusions, discriminate no clearly definite purpose -could
only wander to and fro, restless, in troubled, sad irresolution.
A vague dread of evil in advance afforded apprehension of
he: knew not what, that always, when the gloaming darkened
most, seemed' parted to a tremulous, dim light, like summer
coming through the morn, and made his pulse go quicker, while
those yearning memories faintly glimmered, as if within a shaded
reflex of the glowing day.
He kept himself strictly secluded ; yet, day by day, those
dainty missives crept in upon -him by some mysterious agency.
At first they were read mechanically, and, amidst his troubled
doubts, produced no apparent effect; but, by an'd by, they grew,
more chaste, more delicately' worded, and more sweetly toned.
Was tit that they were really advanced upon the blundering
specimens we have seen ? or could it be that his fancy had be-
come excited with regard to them-that he was merely idealising
unconsciously? or was it that those awkward first attempts at'

producing imitations of the -rhapsodical style peculiar to himself,
which had so excited his contempt, as obviously taken. from the
study of his writings, had now been cunningly improved upon,
since personal intercourse had afforded his correspondent a
closer insight of his purer and more simple forms of expres-
Sion?
Had his haughty egotism been touched at last, by a skilful
reflex of himself, thrown shrewdly into his eyes, from the daz-
zling surface of this snowy crow-quilled page ?
We shall see, perhaps. Here is the last that he received
from her:
" MY PooR FRiEND    My heart yearns over you; I am op-
pressed with your suffering, for I feel how you suffer yet-how
you are struggling, by day and by night, with those twin fiends
of Doubt and Pride. I know my letters soothe you, though
they cannot heal. . Had you not informed me so, in your note
I should yet have been conscious of it. Had you never written
to me again, I should yet have known that the great deep of
your soul had been stirred at last, and that, though pride had
triumphed in the struggle, love, genial, human love, had yet
found, beneath the dark shadow of his wing, a warm resting-
place once more beside thy heart.
No human aid can save thee now-that stiff neck must be
bowed-you must be humbled! Then will come the full influx
of the light from heaven., Then you will iknow joy and peace
again-the pure raptures of a holy rest will calm this dark, be-
wildering struggle. I pray for you without ceasing-weary the
throne with supplication that you may be humbled ! Your little
sister sends you her tearful greetings-she weeps, for you with
me always-for she dearly loves her tiger-brother. She says
that, like all, terrible creatures, he is so .beautiful-oh, that he
were only. good!                             MARIE."
This letter strangely thrilled upon the already over-wrought
sensibilities of Manton, whose nervous organisation had been


182              SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
rendered intensely susceptible by the protracted excitement
under which he had been laboring. He read it over and over
again, with increasing agitation, until it seemed, while his eyes
suffused, as if the accusing angel of his own conscience spoke
to him jn mild rebuke.
Long he moaned and tossed-the, dim moisture struggling
all the while to brim over thoseparched lids, that for years before
had never known a freshening. Those tearless lids-how rigid
they had been ! how bleak ! Like some oasis-fountain where
the hot simoon had drank !-Dry_! dry !.
Suddenly, with a deep groan, the young man bowed his head
upon his hands, while the tears gushed between his fingers in a
flood, that seemed the more violent from its long restraint. His
body shook and rocked, while he gasped aloud-
" It is true ! It is true!, This woman tells what is true !. This
sullen pride has been the cause of all-I feel its crushing judg-
ment on my shoulders now ! Great God! deliver us from this
thraldom!' Let me but know my race once more ! let me but
weep when others weep, and smile when others smile, and it
will be to me for a sign that thou hast received the outcast into
the family of thy love, once more ! Forgive,% oh, forgive me,
that have so long held thy goodly gifts of earthly  consolation in
despite! The.worm's presumptuous arrogance has but moved
thy pity, oh, thou Infinite One! Forgive! forgive! oh,-let me
feel that countenance reconciled once more! Give back to my
weary soul the holy-communion of thy creatures! Pity! Pity!
Pity ! Ah, there is a paradise somewhere on the earth, for the
most wayworn of her darkened children-a rift in the sunless sky,
,a glittering point above the darkened waters! Men are not all
and totally accursed by their defiant passions. Pity sends star-
beams through the port-holes of the dungeon. Mercy comes
down on.holy light of visions, where stars cannot, get in. Oh,
love,. Infinite Love! Thou art so -powerful of penetration-
come tome now!",-'
For a long time he sat thus, while his frame shivered in
voiceless throes; when suddenly straightening himself, with a

ETHEREAL SOFTDOWN.     .     128

powerful effort, and while the -tears yet rained like an April
shower, he drew towards him his paper, and wrote--
WOMAN-I know not what to tall you-you~ have strangely
moved me ! In my most desperate and sullen pride have I not
struggled. long with this great blessing, which thou.hast brought
me ! I would have driven the good "angel from me in wrath
end scorn-but it would not be offended. In patience and long
suffering it has abided-near, hovering-on white wings, until now,
at last, the fountain has been troubled. Ah! woman, its depths
have. been broken up, indeed-and- the dark, long, unnatural
winter of my life, has felt the glowing breath of spring; and in
one mighty crash,, the 'hideous ice-crusts that. had gathered,
heaping-over it,'have burst away'before the flashing leap of un-
chained waters. Once more my soul is' free--once more I
smile back love for love into the sunlight, and-weep for joy--
that God is good. Once more I feel as if the earth were a holy
earth, and its flowers, too, might grow for me. Thou hast con-
quered! . Thou hast conquered, woman ! Thy pure and chas-
tened sympathies, thygentle and unwearied pleadings, thy meek
compassion for the harsh and:wayward boy, have conquered.
The stiff neck is bowed even now before God, and thee, his
minister of good. Ah! forgive and pity me! My eyes are
raining so, I can scarcely see to-write. 'I am shaken as in a.
great tempest, body and soul. I could weep at your feet in
penitence, and pray to be forgiven'and for pity! Ah,;that, I
know you have ! I am blinded with these tears---I know not
what I say ! -'Oh, be to me what I have lost.! I faint by the
wayside ; my soul dies within me for that holy rest that I have
lost--for the sweet, calm and tender peace, all the holy memories
your loving gentleness has thus recalled: Ah, be to me all
that you-have thus filled me with, anew! Receive me as your
adopted child, that I may rest my throbbing head once more in
peace and joy, upon a sacred bosom. Be to me, forever,
"Marie, mother!"                            MAN oN.
12

e


VMTHERIAL S@OTDOWN.             135

CHAPTER       XV.-
DELECTABLE GLIMPSES BEHIND THE' CURTAIN.
Now, with a bitter smile, whose light did shine
Lik,'a fiend's hope upon.her-lips and eyne.
SHELLEY
TURN we now to that large and mysterious house, to which
we haye ,before -referred, near the corner of Broadway and
Eighth Street. We will pass the greasy lintels, into the wide and,
dirty entry, climb those five flights of stairs, turn down the long,.
dark passage, and pause before a door, just one beyond that
which we have had occasion to renrember in the course of this
nartative.                  .-    "-
We will take the liberty to'enter. The, scene presents the
woman, Marie,-reclining, on a lounge, holding a note in her
hand, which she seems to' have read and re-read with a peculiar
look 'of' puzzled inquiry.
The impish-looking daughter, to whom we have before re-
ferred, was seated.in a chair, behind the'woman's head, and out
of her sight., The creature seemed to have much ado to keep
from laughing outright, for her face was screwed into all sorts
of contortions in the effort to subdue, it, as she peeped over her
'mother's shoulder, and watched her puzzled looks and be-
wildered gestures.
" Well!" said the mother, as if speaking to herself, "if one
could only comprehend how he came to write this to me' -it
seems to contain a great deal. Upon my word, it appears a
beautiful snatch of rhyme, and to convey quite a confession -
only I don't understand -it reads as if it were an answer to
something that had gone{ before."  She reads.---

Angels a subtler name may know,
But not a subtler thought of joy
Could thrilling through a seraph go,-
Than that your presence brought to cloy
And weigh my life down into calms
With ai unutterable sense-
Like music perfumed with the balm
Of dews star-she -- all too intenseI
" Most too high-strung, for my, purposes, it must be confessed!
He never expresses any flesh and blood in his correspondence.
Ah, well, I'll soon bring him out of that! But this really does
puzzle me ! This is allthe note contains."  She turns the note
to examine' it.  "It is certainly in his hand, yet he makes no
explanation."
Here the child, whose blood seemed ready to burst through
her face in the' continued effort to restrain her laughter,,.tittered
aloud. The mother sprang erect, and, turning upon her with
an expression of rage and surprise upon her face --
" What ! Why, what are you laughing about ?, ,What busi-
ness is this of yours, pray ?"
The child, although evidently a little frightened, had so ens
tirely lost her self-control as to be unable to restrain the bursts
of laughter which now followed each other, peal upon peal, as
she danced about, the room in a perfect ecstacy of glee.
The mother's face turned first pale and then .red, as she fol-
lowed the motions of the child with her eye, until at last, with
the expression of an infuriate tigress, she sprang to seize.her.
The child was too quick for her, and with the agility of a mon-
key, darted from beneath her grasp; and still shrieking with
laughter, was pursued around the room -leaping the furniture
with an airiness that defied pursuit -- which her strange, wild
laugh yet taunted.
The woman, after exhausting herself in vain' attempts at catch-
ing her, sank upon the lounge-and at once, in a whining, fret-
ful'voice, commenced to pour upon the head of the child, the

8l'i-MITUAL VAMPIRISM:


186              SIITUAL VAMPIRISM.
most inconceivable and galling epithets. So long as this tone.
was held, the. child held out in defiant spirit, either of sulking
obstinacy, or of -harsh and irritating laughter,, and tb every reit-
erated question frpm the angry mother--" What are you laugh-
ing at? What.do you mean ?"-"she only clapped her hands
and danced more wildly to her elfin mirth.
The mother now changed her tone of a sudden, in seeming
hopelessness of carrying her point by storm. She began to sob
violently, and turning with streaming eyes towards the child --
"You -you tre-treat your poor mother very cruelly to-day;
I am dying to know what it is you mean ; but you will not tell-
me!. Please, dear, come and .tell poor mother why you laugh,
vhat it is you mean, and what' you know about this letter ?-
for I am sure you know something -- do tell poor mother, and
she will'forgive you all!- Come, dear child!" and she reached
out her hand as if to clasp her to her bosom.
The child, who seemed to 'have no intellectual comprehension
of the meaning- of all this, but to have taken a purely impish
delight in watching the'confusion and puzzle of hermother, in
regard to the letter at first, and then instantly, when she flew
into a. rage, to' have answered in a monkeyish and -hysterical
rage, on her own part ; now at once, with equal promptness, and
with the common instinct of young animals, responded to the,
tender infeetians of the maternal voice.
Dropping her whole previous manner, she instantly sprang
forward and ,knelt at her mother'sside. The mother did not
speak for some moments, but silently caressed her, placing her
hand frequently on her'head, the top of which she 'fondly stroked
with a 'tenderness that seemed to linger there. She drew the
child's face to hers too ; and although she seemed to kiss it fre-
quently, it might have been observed that' she breathed deep
and heavy exhalations upon different portions of it, which- she
only touched 'with her lips.
The effect was magical beyond any power of expression,.
The hard, ugly, animal lines' of that child's face, which had

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWT           1"t

been writhed and curled but a few moments before, 'in every
conceivable expression of most ignoble passions, at once sub-
sided into the meek and suppliant confiding of that inexpli-
cable and most tender of all the relations' known to the animal
world, mother and child!
" Dear, why did you not tell me what you knew about this
letter before ?" said the mother, in a tone as musically reproach-
fur as if she dallied with her suckling babe. The child buried
her head in her 'mother's5bosom, and after ,a silence of some
time, during which her mother industriously stroked the top of
her head, she looked up, and in a sly, bashful tone exclaimed-
"I did it just for fun,'to try how-writing love-letters went-
I copied the verses from a book, in your han,, and sent 'them
to him as yours !"
Scarcely were these words uttered, than the languishing and
tender-seeming mother hurled the child from her, backwards,
upon the floor, with a violence that left her stunned and
prostrate,"and springing to her feet, raged round and round the
room, as only 'a feminine demon infuriate could be imagined to
do, spurning now and then' with her foot, as she passed, the
still senseless form of her own child!
Hell might find an equal to this whole scene, but hell has
always been too civil! It is enough ! This is jealousy! That
woman is jealous of her own child ! and she only thirteen years
old!
How long she might have raged and raved, and to what con-
sequences it might have led, heaven can only judge. Provi-
dentially, perhaps, a knock at her door announced 'thie postman.
She clutched the ,letter she received convulsively, and tearing it
open, the instant he closed the door, read - what ? The letter
of Manton, which we saw in the last chapter!
She read it through,- standing where she had received.it-her
eyes 'dilating, and her whole 'form changing. She literally
screamed with joy as she finished the letter, and clapped her
hands like one bewildered with a sudden triumph.
12*


SPIRITUAL- VAMPIRISM.

"Ah,, ha! I have him! ,I have him!. He is mine hence-
forth!: He cannot escape me now!" -and her oblique eyes fell
upon the motionless child upon the floor.  " The little fool!-
she catches my arts too soon-she is not hurt-but I must.help
her."" She proved towards the child, but the demoniac triumph
which possessed her-seemed irrepressible. ' She bounded sud-
denly into the air, and almost shrieking aloud as she did soI-h-
"I have conquered- I have conquered him at last !" came
down' like a statuesque Apollyon transfixed in, exultation.. It
was a horrible glimpse of unnatural triumph! It lasted but for
a moment; for, with a sudden drooping of the usually stooped
shoulders, as she turned towards the letter again, she said,
thoughtfully,
" This will not do-he perseveres even here in talking about
mother ! mother ! and chaste ! and holy! 'and all that sort of
thing.  The.,foolish boy is 'too much in earnest. I have used
this stuff about long enough. -I must find the means of bring".
ing him gradually around. Such a relation as the silly -fellow -
desires wont -do between us-we are both too full of life! Oh,
I'll write him a note at once that will' prepare the way - will
break up the ice, as'he callsit, still more about his 'life !"
She raised the-child, which had been stunned by the fall, and
sprinkling some water upon her face, which caused the first long
breathing of recovery, she laid her upon the lounge, muttering,
as she did so, " The meddlesome little' fool! She' must do
everything she sees me do! She must imagine herself in.love
with everyone, whom slbe sees me pretend to-love.: She must
'write love-letters when she sees.me write them, and heaven only
knows what she wont do' next 'with her monkeyish imitation,!
But I can't be crossed by a child so; if she is my own. Lie
there until you get over the sulks -you are ,not much hurt !"
She turned away from the child and seated herself at the
table, exclaiming, as she seized her pen, "Ah! this letter! I
'feel that 'I shall need all my skill and wit to word this properly,
so as not to alarm him.. In his.present excited 'and hysterical

mood, the veriest trifle would have the effect of-driving him off,
at a tangent, forever beyond my reach. And yet it will not do
to let things go on in this way; for I see that that idea of the
motherly relation, if once' permitted to become settled in his
mind now, will remain a fixed barrier, which I shall never be
able to pass on earth. I must see him to-night, and take ad-
vantage of his present over-wrought, ecstatic, and bewildered
condition, to break down this boyish dream of his! Bah'! to
think that he should have taken. me to be so much in earnest in all
that first twattle about motherly- relations, which I found neces-
sary to use in order to get at him at all!- Pity my correspond-
ence hasn't warmed him up a, little by this time! I've tried
hard enough, to be sure, but the queer fellow will persist in
etherealising everything !"
During this soliloquy, the child, who hadentirely recovered,
lay. perfectly still, with sharpened attention, catching every
word that was spoken. There was an eagerness in her eye
which showed her to be, if not an aptscholar of such teachings,
at least a very attentive one. The woman wrote
"'Our Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name!
thy kingdom come, thy. will be done on earth as it is in
Heaven!' My soul is deeply moved for thee in this thy.time
of trial. The good God chasteneth thee now-now is the hour
of thy great tribulation come; now thy life-denons wrestle
in thee, with the- love, the good the Father has sent to
redeem  thee. ' Be strong! Ah, be strong even now, thou
child of many sorrows, and thpu shalt yet find .grace and peace
in acceptance with Him. Meanwhile I can but pray for thee
and with thee. :I weary Heaven with supplications, that out of
this travail a great and glorious soul may be born inthe humility
of love, for light, eternal light.
"Come to me this evening, that I may take that throbbing
heart upon my bosom. I may soothe and calm youbut I cannot
give you rest-rest comes only from the Father! .You psk me

109

188

ETHEREAL SOFTD©WN.


140               SPIRIITAletVAMPIRISM.
to be 'for you, forever, Marie, mother!'- I can be to you,
forever, yourfriend Man "
"Ah! ha! that will do it!" she said 'in a low chuckling tone,
as she rapidly folded and.directed the letter ; " though he might
take tbe alarm at .this if he were cool, yet there's' no danger
now ! It will no doubt shock him a-little, but he has learned to
believe in me, andin his ,present excited state he has deified rie
aimostlint an object of worship; and any suspicion he might
feel he would only blame himself for. Ah! this will do! it
shall go instantly!: Here!" she said, turning sharply to the
child, " Here! get up there, put on your bonnet; and take this
letter! 'You 'know how to deliver it, and where! Come,-*up
with you!"
"But, mother," said the child, as she slowly lifted herself
half-erect, " I don't feel like it-I'm'not well! You hurt nie !"
Nonsense !",said the mother, harshly; "go take a bath, and
do it quickly'too! . You'll feel well enough ! This letter must
go, and shall go !- Get along, I say, and'do what I tell you!"
The-child dragged herself slowly out of the room.
"tThat little wretch will torment me to death !"
The letter was despatched and reached its destination.
Manton, whose 'excitement 'had -continued, without -'the
slightest diminution, to return upon him, in paroxysm  after
paroxysm, seized upon' this last letter with the famishing eager-.
ness of a man:who looks for strength-for spiritual consoling.
He read it with suffused and, swollen eyes; he scarcely saw
what he read, so much -had his vision been dizzied, and obscured-,
by weeping... But those last words did indeed shock and thrill
him. He' was strangely startled; and, for a moment they seemed
to open to him an appalling and terrific gulf of falsehood,;more
hideous than yawning hell.
We say, it was but for a moment ; but in that little space the
blackness- of darkness overcame his soul. A shuddering of
dread, of doubt, of fear, and all that horrid brood, the birth of

ETEIAL SOFDOWN.                1:41
rayless and unutterable gloom, passed over him convulsively, and
then the whole was gone. He had been too intensely wrought
upon by the ecstacies of Faith. He shook off, by.one great
throe, the giant shadow of its natural enemy, this Doubt, which
he now conceived had so long made his life accursed ; and the
rebound, by a necessary law, carried him to a yet greater aid
more unreasoning 'extreme of trust, and ..unquestioning confi-
dence in this woman, as under God the instrument.and medium
for restoring him once more to life and-the world.
He at once determined to visit her, and prove to his own soul
the falsehood of these dark suspicions of the being who had
thus moved and spoken his inmost life for good.
CHAPTER       XVI.
REM OR SE.
THE evening, was closing .in when Manton made his way
through a heavy, drifting snow-storm, to the number of the new
address, near the.corner of Broadway and Eighth Street, which
had appeared upon the last notes of his correspondent. He was
only made aware, thereby, that, she had- changed her residence
from the rooms where he had visited her in Bond Street, and had
thought no more about the matter ; for it would have somewhat
damped his enthusiasm, or rather have made him furiously-in-
dignant, to have been told that the woman he was visiting;, with
such sublimated sentiment, usually found means to adapt her
rooms to the purpose and business in hand.
He was too much excited and pre-occupied to notice the sig.,
nificant appearance of the entry, further .than to feel its dreari-
ness, as he rang the bell and waited an unreasonable time for
admission. 'The door was wide enough open to be sure, but he
was not sufficiently initiated-into the mystery of such places to

,
. ' ', _  fti


understand the meaning of this exactly, even if it had been
possible.fr it to.have'excitd his attention, in the then absorbed.
s  ndfabstracted condition'of his 'whole faculties.
Aero ervant at length made his appearance, and approach-
=  'l    ; osely, answered his inquiries in ;a tone so insolently
nidetf that uider othei'circumstances he would surely have
been danger    a a flooring at the hads of Manton, who, how-,
te, oly passed on: up the stairs with a feeling of annoyance, the
cause of which he made no attempt. at apprehending. He as-
i.rended three steps at a bound; and in a moment tapped ,. htly
at te~door.       -
A .oft voice;" "ome !" was the response. The door flew
open.r.                                                .
Yes:! yes!. I come! A, Marie, mother, it must be so !"
And 'dropping his cloak and' hat upon the floor, he sprang for-
ward to.the woman, who, with her pale face beaming with un-
-natural light, was seated upon a lounge, where she seemed to
have been awaiting'him.
"My podr friend!" and she stretched forth her arms towards
him. Ie laid his head'upon her bosom, while his whole frame
shivered'violently, and he sobbed forth.-.-
aAh, blessed mother, let me rest here! !My brain is bursting !
I am become as :a'little child again! Ah, I am so weak ! A
wisp of straw Would bind ine!" My own vaunted strength is
gone-all gone ! .I have no pride, no scorn, nodefiance now !
My lips are in the dust ! Ah, I am humble, humble, humble,
now ! Dthou, incarnation of that angel mother who has passed
rog earth, udopt me for' thine own ! Thine own, poor, lost;
bewildered; panting dhild!"
",ly poor friend, be calm ",'-and she caressed his wet cheek
lightly with her. fingers.  'Only be. calm, and God will give
you strength 'to pass through this valley and shadow of trial."
"Gode"gave me 'strength!" said he, with a sharp ar1d sudden
ange" of tone, raising his head slightly to' look in her face.
"Woman, he gave me strength when he gave me life ! I have

T~HB iA                        1-4,1
strength enough, as men call it, to move the-world, aye to wiel
Fate itself. It was: not. for-such streigthIcame ,to=yu.       r
was not for such:strength I would condescend to plead     a .r}
It is for that soft and beautiful preseice-that livetovin  in dt.
freshness, the spring4lower of the heartreneaththou
outstretched wing of Faith., Faith' in 'ourowankind
what is true and chaste in the purposesand h' ries whih
widely separate 'froin the sensuous and the passionate, cdnstute
all the blest amenities of intercourse - between the' sete.-Tia
not th  I, would ask you to be all mymother, for that could R ,
be  Aft that you should impersonate to. me that calm joyha
serenity of repose .in which I lived so long, upon, a troubled
earth, through her. It was she to whom I turned when the
world buffeted and baffled rue, to renew upon her bosom my
faith in my fellows, and it was upon that sacred restingplace
that. I alone found soothing. She reconciled me to endure.
She subdued my rebellious heart. ' She saved. me from actal
madness;.aye, front the strait-waistcoat .and. the chain, whea
my brain was like- to burst fromthrobbings that soundedlike a
thousand wild' steeds thundering frantic over echoing plains; for
the conflict was most fearful, when my young soul first arose to
grappler with the 'world and its huge 'evils. Ina my impotent
wrath I should have dashed myself to atoms against its moveless
battlements of 'wrong, but that a low, sweet voice would quell
and hold me back.'I'
" Lwas the child of much travail, and' years of weary andy
desponding watchfulness. I alone, of all-her children,'bore her
features-she loved me unutterablyand- shielded me always;
it was not like the common love of mother, for 'her: child. .I
all things concerning me she seemed 'to be filled with a strange
prescience-she read' my inmost thought as if it were hetown
as if it were a scroll made legible~by illuminated letters. "She
seldom' asked ine questions, butt simply told.me what -had hap-
pened. It was useless to attempt disguises with her; minister-
ing 'in the flesh, she was my present 'angel, reconciliing m'e to


144:              SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
life; and when she passed from me and the-world, I first real-
ised what darkness, death, and separation meant.
I was delirious I know not how long--for they seemed slowly
tearing my heart out by the roots, chord by chord, with a heavy
drag, until thelast one snapped, and then I went into deep
oblivion, from which I awoke a man of stone,' so far as sensa-
tion went ; and if stone couldwalk, with no more heart than it--.
or rather if you can imagine this walking statue moulded of the
red lava, and only cooled upon the surface, you can better con-
ceive the smouldering, heart-devouring chaos in which my life
now moved  among my fellow. I did not stop to curse and
battle'°with mold foes, I only hated them with'a liquid flame
ofscorn thatffound its- level in me and was still. I would not
harm them--no, not I-I wanted them to live for companion-
ship in suffering. I gloried in their perversions--they filled me
with ecstasy. I could not but add to them,.and in ferocious
delight threw myself into all-the excesses and extremes that de-
monise the world."
"But ambition .came to rescue my dignity at last, and of its
iron despotism you have seen the worst. From' its hard and
meagre thraldom you have released me for the time, but it re-
mains with you to hold me, free, The wings that have borne
me thus far 'on this biold upward flight must feel the soft freshen-
ing of 'the breeze, and the glad welcoming of sunlight, to the
purer realm they, try, or flagging soon of the unwonted effort,
they will sink again to seek the old accustomed sullen perch.
The strength I need now is a subtler. thing than any power of
will within myself-purerihan the breath of angels, it is 'chaste
and mild, as star-beams.
"If is you who have filled me with these yearnings-..'tis to
you that I look for their realisation, and yet you have not ac-
cepted that pure and holy relation conveyed in the ' Marie,
mother,' I have named you, and plead with you to recognise."
During all-this.time the-face of the woman had been, bowed
so close to that of Manton that she seemed almost to touch with

ETEERIAL 8OPTDOWN.

her lips, first-his temples and then his cheek. A close observer
would have perceived, in her long ard deep inspirations, her
slightly~parted lips and the slow creeping movement of the head,
that she was steadily- breathing upon certain well-known 'and
highly -sensitive nerves. The brain of Manton was. too full to
'notice this. strange manoeuvre; but while he -talked, that hot
breath had been sending soft thrillings through his frame which,
at first unobserved, had' gradually grown more palpably'deli-
cious, until, as  he ceased to 'speak, he found his whole'frame
literally quivering with passion.
He was -silent for a moment, that he might fully realise the
sensation, and then, with a shudder of horror, sprang away
from contact with the woman, exclaimiing--
" My God ! what is 'this'? What an unnatural monster am
I! or"-as a sudden gleam of suspicion shot through his brain
-" Woman, is it'you who have done this?" His face darkened
in an expression of rage and ferocity which was absolutely
hideous, as his eye glanced coldly on her.
"I' ask you, woman, was it some inferna} art, of yours.?
Answer me!-for, by the Eternal God, you shall never thus-
tamper with the,"sacrednesses of a true man's heart again !"
and, grinding his teeth, he approached her menacingly, as if, in
his blind rage, he would rend her to atoms.
The woman had taken but one glimpse of the terrible face
before her, and then shrunk bowed and crouching into the
corner of the lounge. Her neck and forehead flushed crimson,
spasmodic retchings of the throat commenced, and whet Manton
stretched forth his hands, as if to. clutch her, there was a deep
suffocating cough, and the red, warm blood gushed in an ap-
palling current from her mouth, bedabbling his fingers and her
clothing.
The man was startled from his rage into immeasurable terror,
as he shrank back with upraised hands-'
"My 'God! I have killed-I have killed her by my brutal
violence! .I am accursed ! I .am accursed for ever!' I have.
13

145


146              SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
slain the white dove of peace-they sent to me from Heaven-!"
Snatchinga towel, he was on his knees by her side in an in-
. sant;. and  'lacing it within her bloody hands, which were
clutched upon her mouth, as if to stay the fatal tide, he burst
into an agony of tears, praying in frantic accents to be forgiven;
for he could see nothing but immediate death :in a hemorrhage
so violent, as this  seemed, and he-. remembered now, but too
vividly, hgw ofteR she had told him of her. melancholy predis-
position to such: attacks from. the;lung, -by.which she was kept
constantly- in expectation of being carried offE
Ah, with what fierce remorse, what agonised penitence, all
these things came up to him now, as. gush after. gush of crimson
saturated thetowel In answer to -his 'prayers for forgiveness,
she at last reached. one cold, bloody hand to- his, pressing it
gently.  -r  -y-,:
And now his self-possession was immediately restored. His
only thought, at first, had. been forgiveness before she died;
now he thought alone how to save her. Strange,:he did not once.
thinkHof giving the alarm, and sending for medical aid ; for he
instantly felt the case was one beyond-"the reach of ordinary.
remedies, and ne in which the most perfect restoration of both
the moral and physical natures to abablute repose could alone
avail. .         -    -
He -eached another towel frpm the toilet-table, on which he
found, by the way, abundant supply, which, innocently enough,
seemed'4to. hii remarkably apropos; then,- seating himself by
her side, he endeavored, 'by the use of all tender epithets which
could be applied, to soothe and-calm her. .She suddenly seized-
his right hand and placed it upon the top of her head, and from
that moment he thought he .could 'faintly perceive an increase
of his cqiitrol over the more violent symptoms of the case. -
More than half an hour of harrowing suspense had passed,
before the paroxysm of bleeding had so far subsided as to enable
himto. breathe more freely; but even when the bleeding had at
length entirely ceased, a long period of coma, or death-like sleep,

ETHERIAL SOrTDOWN.            147  -

induced by' exhaustion, and suspended sensation, supervened,
during which he continued -to watch her with the most painful
anxiety, still holding his right hand upon her head, while, with
the other, he clasped the fingers of her left hand as she had
requested. As she immediately showed signs of restlessness on
his attempting to remove either hand, he felt himself-compeled
to sit thus, without change of position, for several hours, awaiting
whatever might occur.
And, finally, after a slight stirring of the limbs, she suddenly
opened her eyes upon his, and smiled with a clear, sweet smile,
rather of pity and, affeetionthan of forgiveness or reproach. He
felt his heart bound, within him, and he -could oily utter, in a
low tone, "The good God be blessed.! I have not killed you!
Oh, I will never be ugly and cruel again! I will be your good
boy now, always!"
"Yes, yes," she said in a clear,,firm voice, ' you were very
naughty; but -I ai strong again now. You will never speak
harshly to me-again, will you? Lean here, my beautiful tiger ;
let me feel that fierce cheek upon my bosom once more. You
have suffered, too; I must soothe you."
Manton, who,h'by this time, had become thoroughly exhausted,
bowed his head lightly towards her, in obedience; but he leaned
it rather upon the cushion than her person.
It was now near twelve o'clock, and the man was lite-
rally worn -out by the lng and violent- excitements which we
have traced. Body, soul, and sense, utterly collapsed, the mo-
ment his head found a resting-place, into-a deep sleep.
The lamp burnt low; there was not another sound to disturb
the dimmed silence of that room, but the heavy breathings of
Manton. But even that murky light was, sufficient to disclose
the figure of the woman stooping, as before, close to- the face
of the- sleeper. Slowly her lips crept over, without touching
it, lingering here and there, while her chest heaved with deep'
inspirations. You could not see, had -you been a looker-on,
the slight parting of the lips, nor could you have felt the-heated

4


bMSPTUAtLr VAMPflISMT0                                                        W

furnace of here breath play along the helpless surface of those
prostrate&amp;nerves; but you might -have seen an eager, oblique
glitter- in her eye; that grew the stronger while the darkness
thickened, as ghouls look sharper'out-of graves, they have un-
covered. 'But then, had you been patient, you would have
seen, as the hours went by, a gradual twitching-of the nerves,
possess that .d'eathlike frame.--a restless' motion, a moan, an  all-
unconscious smile of ecstatic delight ; and-then if your sense
was not frightened and appalled: by 'the fierce, swift blaze from
those still. eyes above, a fiend's'triumph would be all:familiar to,
you.
Alas! alas! will that young man wake sane ? The owr er of
those glittering eyes seems to know; for hark ! in her exceed-
ing joyshe whispers aloud,-"HIle is mine now! Seeshow his
nerves vibrate. I was right in choosing this time of great pros-
tration. 'I am scudding along'those nerved like a seabird on
currents of the 'sea; 'all that is animal in him is mine now. { He
is mine at last-the insolent tyro ! I shall drag him down from
his vaulting self-esteem;-[ shall humble -him ; I shall 'degrade
him. Ah,.ha ! I shall feed upon him !";
There may be retribution on eaith or in 'heaven. We  will let
that dark night's history rest!!

I
CHAPTER      XVII.
IT would be' well for sinners were there no to-morrow. At
least it would be well for them so far as impunity in the enjoy-
ment of sin was concerned., But it may not be ; the inevitable
time of reaction must follow that of excess, the wages of which
are remorse.
The effect of that to-morrow upon' poor Manton was fearfully
crushing. At 'first he dared not think -the horrid realisation
would have slain him. -He dared not look up, lest he should
see the great height from which he had fallen. He ,dared not
hear the voices within him, or above him, lest they should blast
his sense. He shrank from the sunlight, as though each ray
were a fiery arrow, to cleave hissing through his brain. - He
dared not look his fellow-man in the face, lest he should see the
mark upon his brow, call him accursed, and spit upon him.
The innocent eye of childhood was the most dreaded basilisk
to him; and the face of a pure woman nade him shrink and
shudder in 'aifrighted awe.  His shadow seemed a speciral
mockery to him, for it no longer glided with him, straight and
firm, but was bowed, and crept sneaking after.'
The burden of a hundred years had fallen upon the young
man's shoulders in one fatal night-a ghastly, loathsome burthen
of self-contempt -his face had grown old; his eyes lost their
proud fire ; his lips, their firm expression ; there was no longer
any " aspiration in his heel."  The haughty, bounding self-
reliance, the unflinching, upward look, were gone! gone ! Man-
ton had lost his self-respect.
Ah, fearful,:fearful loss, that it js! . There was a leaden des-
peration in the man's whole air that was shocking, even to those
who had never seen him before.. There was no bravado in it-
-13*

I'

149.

148

EPUERIAL S01'TDOWWN.


S1IRITUALVA4MPIRI5M.

it was sultry, slow and self-consuming -shrank from observa-
tion,' and burned -inward.
.He neither sought Dor found any palliation for himself. He
blamed no one else; his'pride  would not permit him to confess
to himself that he had been unduly.influenced, or that any un-_
fair advantage had or could have been taken of him. No, it
was-his own fall._ His own grossness had profaned those asso-
ciations which he had stupidly deluded himself, for years, into
-supposingto be really sacred things in his life. He had ren-
dered himself,'thereby, unfit for Heaven, unworthy Earth, too
base for even Hell.
His first sullen =recourse was -to the winescup, that he)might
numb the unendurable agonies. He drank to monstrous excess;
but, no, it would not do; that cold burning,.as of, an ice-bolt
t'Gough his heart and brain, lay there still,-in the two -centres.
He sought and found' men- like himself, with great thoughts
and stricken hearts; like -himself, brain-workers; and in the
fiercest orgies. of .desperation, hours= and hours were spent with-
out attaining to, one moment of the-coveted'oblivion.
The evening had long set in among such scenes, when a note
was suddenly thrust into his-hand from behind, and as he turned
his head, he saw a boy hastily making his Way, through the
thronged room. This movement had not been observed by,
his noisy companions --;heihastily concealed the rcote.
He had recognised the superscription with a feeling of deathly,
sickness, for which he cduld not clearly account. It 'was as if
the fresh wdunds-were all to betorn open again.
He soon after found an opportunity to withdraw beyond
observation, and opened the: note, which, contained only these
words: Z..     -
My FRIEND :-why have you left me all day? come to me-I
am-dying.t:-                                 MARIE.
The sheet was' bespattered with blood.  Manton nearly
fainted. 'Recovering himself in a moment, he muttered, "In-

fernal brute that I am! to have neglected the poor, frail creature
thu--after last night, too ! May God forgive me, for I shall
never forgive myself!"  He hurried from, the room.
The scene, on 'reaching her apartment, was, as may by this
time "be expected, ghastly enough. But as -we have seen a
little more of these horrid bleeding scenes than Manton has, we
will refrain from, another description of one, since we have
found that they3only differed in the intensity of effect and de-
gree in the precise ratio of -the results to be, attained. In' this
instance she had not reckoned without her host.
Manton, who never dreamed of suspecting her, and had been
fully impressed with the belief that these attacks were fearfully
dangerous, and that the magnetism- of his-.touch, whether ima-
ginary or otherwise- could alone suffice to' restore her to the
calmness necessary for -the arrest of the hemorrhage, felt as if an
awful responsibility had been suddenly -devolved upon him; as
he thus apparently held 'the -very life of this singular woman in
his own hands.:
This inmpression had been consummately-fixed upon the mind
of Manton by her obstinate refusal to permit the-presence, at their
interviews, of'any third person, not -even that of her own child.
She could .thus, through his generous humanity, most eflectually
draw him toher side; -and, when once in her, reach, he was
again in the power of those fearful arts, of which we have - seen
something.
The life of Manton became'now a succession of the:"to-
morrows" of remorse: Each new sun arose upon its succeed-
ing scene of wilful, self-degrading excess, such as, we have wit-
nessed. He never permitted himself to grow afully- sober, but
drank incessantly --morning,:noon and night.' But that the
wines he chose were comparatively light, and lees rapidly fatal
than the-heavier and more dangerous drinks of our country, he
must have,'undoubtedly, destroyed his life, as he did his busi-
ness reputation,

I

h dw

15.

ETHMUAL - SQETDOWN


152               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
He still wrote brilliantly-nay, even with a fierce and poetic
dazzle of style that surprised men greatly, and added rouch to
the notoriety,if not to the solidity of his reputation. But every-
thing went wrong with him. His purse was regularly drained
by a remorseless hand; his wardrobe fell into neglect, and the
marks of excess upon his fine, proud features, were at once
rendered conspicuous by their association with almost seedy ha-
biliments.
Before one year had passed he had begun to exhibit himself
before: men, in the pitiable light of one who had more pride left
than self-respect. In a word, he had fallen fully into the toils
of the hellish Jezabel.
Remember, in judging of poor Manton, that while he-is hood-
winked, through mtich that is most noble in him, we .see this
woman through the strong light of day. He looks upon her as
a devotee of science, in the holy cause of human progress and
social amelioration.. A poetand enthusiast, his life' is dedicate to
both. He regards her as a frail being, whose life hangs by a
thread, and that thread -held in his own hand -= degraded into
a false relation- to himself-a relation which he, loathes, to be
sure, and which he feels to he heavily and'swiftly dragging him
downward, every instant, while it lasts,, but' which he dare not
utterly break, for/the fearthat that frail thread of life, of which
he has s, strangely become the' holder, should be snapped. He
has only seen her, through her representations of herself; and
therefore,, all that is chivalrous and tender in him -has been
aroused in her defence, as the white roe, hunted into his strong
protection for ;defence against the demon hounds' of New Eng-
land' bigotry, jealousy, 'and fear.  Apart. from all other con-
siderations,.these were sufficient to compel an utter negation of
self, in .all that .related to her, as well as a hasty dismissal of
those 'suspicions that might thrustthemselves upon him.
A house, in the meantime, had been taken for her in Tenth
Street, for the rent of which. Manton,-and the benevolent Doctor
Weaselwere to become jointly responsible. But the woman

'ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.      '         158
was far too astute to permit any such entanglements as might
lead, prospectively, to mutual explanations between her victims.
The Doctor alone ultimately became her endorser for the rent.
She had other designs upon the less plethoric purse of Manton.
In entering upon this 'arrangement, Manton had been induced
to believe, by'her own representations, that for ten years before
the name of Preissnitz had been heard of on thi' continent, this
woman had been practising wa'ter-cure among her women pa-
tients. Manton had been sufficiently educated in the profession,
to understand that.its general pretensions were essentially empi-
rical.= He was too much an Indian,.,indeed,' and'had lived'too
much among Indians, to regard anything beyond the simplest
natural agents as efficiently curative. 'He therefore recognized
what Preissnitz had discovered, as simply confirmatory of his
experience of the usages of savage life, and his own observation
so- far as it went. It contained not to him ,any Pre than any
other pathy, the essential vis medicatrix of nature'; but it seemed
good to him, because it was new to the popular sense, and wash
well worthy to be urged upon its recognition, and thus 'to find
its proper place among the other systems.
He entered upon the project with the fullest enthusiasm, for
this woman seemed to him, from her personal habits and untir-
ing energy, to be specially set apart to preach the crusade of
physical cleanliness to her sex. "The house was therefore occu-
pied by her as proprietress and female physician, while Manton,
Doctor Weasel, the fiery Jeannette, and victimised Edmond, of.
a former scene, occupied respective chambers 'as boarders, and
patrons of the new enterprise.'  '

Iy


-tir
:;"
:r' ' '

154

BUT even in the black'abysses of the hell down which he had
fallen, a flowercould grow to the eye of Manton. It was the
strange birth of a wizard evil place ; yet, as it spread beneath
his nourishing eye and hand, it daily grew more beautiful to him.
It may havebeen the unconscious contrast of a something young,
living, and blooming in an unnatural sphere like this, where he,
with the sudden weight of centuries upon him, breathed with,
such heavy gasping. He could not tell what it was that thick-
ened this drear air; he only felt the oppression on his lungs,
and shuddered when sleep had partly sobered him, and he could
realise it for the hour. His sympathies had been first touched
for that ugly, impish, persecuted child, to which we have fre-
quently referred, because he, saw, at once, that the mother's
querulous jealousy was forever subjecting it to a species of covert
torture, which kept it always haggard and wretched. Had it
been. a sick and neglected kitten, on the hearth, he would have
felt for it the'same kind ofisympathy. He accordingly noticed
and caressed the child, and endeavoured to rouse its low, igno-
ble frontal region into activity. . The response of a hungry and
vivid animalityy, surprised him with its aptitude of apparent in-
telligence. -He did not understand that marvellousfaculty of
imitation which, in all the animal tribes approximating man, or
which, in other words,' are born with embryo souls, assumes the
external semblances of intelligent expression. The faculty
of musicis below man, and common both to bird and beast; and

SRUAL                                                                 E    RVAMPIuSM..
CHAPTER XVIII.
A DIVERSION.
Never did =ooi so ebb, or seas so wane,;
But they left Hope-seed to fill up again.

I'

HERRICK.

155

he had yet to learn, to his heavy cost, how a perception and de-
tection of the physical harmonies of sound may be utterly distinct
from the spiritual comprehension of their meaning. .He had yet to
fearfully realise how this insensate aptitude of harmony, which
enables the monkey of the organ-grinder,-to dance in perfect
time the most wild and rapid strathspey that ever Highland pi=
broch rung, or a stupid parrot to whistle the divinest strains of
Mozart; could yet bestow upon the combined parrot and monkey
of our own race that segnblant mockery of the "gift of tongues,"
the use of the'soul's higher language. In a word, he would
have been greatly shocked to hear the affiliated Poll and Jocko
talk down Shelley in his own etherealisms, and appal Byron with
the mad bravado of forgotten linys from his own reckless and,
besotted misanthropy.
Poll and Jocko are easy enough to detect through all the hu-
man disguises'of their combined powers, if the man of common
sense and society meets the itnpersonation for the first time,
when developed, or in most of the latter stages of development.
But it was a very different thing with poor Manton, who only
saw an undeveloped, abject animal, from which he expected
little but the gratitude of the brute for protection, and from which
anything like a vivid response was as surprising as it was un-
consciously gratifying to his egotism, for the reason that all. that
was really pleasurable in it was owing to the fact of its consti-
tuting a close reflection of'his own mind.
Gradually the feeling took possession of him, a he observed
in her an excessive sensibility, that could weep _it a moment's
warning, and laugh like April through the glistening storm in
the next instant,cthat he would make amends for the great sin
of his life, in working upon this sensitive organisation for good..
The line delicate chords of this frail instrument might be made
to respond to the divinest dotes; and this creature, with devel-
oped brain and expanding soul, become a Medium of the lofliest
intelligence-aye, be even to him the-consoler of after years.

'E1 HERIAL SOETEOWN.


56sPI1ITALVAMPIRISM.
The idea was a strange one, but it suited the intellectual auda-
city of Manton for that very reason.
It .seme dohis darkened hopelessness, that here, through the
innoence ofchildhood, he~ iight renew that broken chain of
iviig light which helddimin communion with the upper world,
until its blackene4, spvered links, falling about hin, had left his
manacled soul is hopeless bondage, He dreamed that if he
guarded-it with holy zeali his prayers might-rise upon the first
odora That went, up from this strange young flower to Heaven,
and bring its light down too, in forgiveness,'to him.
He did not know--for he'had fed.on poisons until it had be-
come a 'kindof second nature to him; asto that old'Pontiac king
-that the pure light of spheres could never reach him through this
lurid glare, which he had now come to think the natural day -
that the odor of no flower could rise through its thickened air
to meet the keen, grey stars. The man became bewildered with
thegorgeou&amp; dream he nourished; and, day by 'day, without
knowingwhy, he threw himself between the child and the bale-
ful shadow of its" mother. He spread his hands above her in
blessing ; he watched' that he niight shield her:
From the moment when his attention had been- first attracted
to her, she seemed to become illumiated; her ungainly body
appeared assuring the lines of beauty ; her mean,.harsh features,
softened, as the gnarled- shrub assumes, in slow~unfolding, the
graceful mellowed drapery of spring. The. coarse, elfin locks,
- grew tamed and. smooth;- a dark blue, in soft and gradual dis-
placement, entered the sharp, greenish, animal eyes. The low,,
ape-like forehead, swelled above neekly'curved brows that had
lost their hirsute squareness. Indeed, so rapidf was .the' expan-
sion of the frontal region, that it absolutely startled and afright--
ed the devout experinentei, when he placed his hand upon it,
and felt it almost lifted by.the wild throbbings beneath. The
work was. progressing too fast ; he feared that the general health
of the subject might fail; but.,how to check and remedy this
powerful 'reaction, so as to control it from fatal results, now so

I

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

157

fully-occupied the spiritual subtilty of the man, as to leave him
little time to think of himself.
The loathsome contact of the reptile mother daily grew more
abhorrent to him; and her characteristic cunning soon disco-
.-.                  -.
yered that she had no real hold upon him herself, and at once
encouraged this growing interest in the daughter, with the same
assiduous art that she had before displayed, in tormenting her
with jealous gibes. Through this help she:hoped he might be
held within her reach. 'She had already, by her malapert, silly,
malignant interference, so far completed his ruin as to have
brought about a desperate, and finally fatal collision, between
himself and his business associate in the Journal, which his
genius had built up; and-now he was thrown again to struggle.
hap-hazard with"the world, he had become' more reckless and
'desperate: than before, -so that she .feared he might, at any time-
break away-from'his bondage, and that, too, while he was still
of use to her, and before she had gloated fully upon his ruin.
She had studiously taught the child the process of those infernal
arts, of which we have seen something; and, although the crea-
ture understood nothing of the rationale involved, yet her imi-
tative cunning made her a most sharp pupil and practitioner.
By saying that the child did not understand, we mean to con-
vey, that she could not have explained to herself, or to others
what effect certain manipulations would produce specifically;
yet she had a feeling-of them, a vicious intuition, that answered
with her all the purposes of intellection. To look at her
through the eyes of Manton, the uncouth and grotesque girl
had become a fond and graceful plaything, that clung about him
in soft caresses; that kept his heart warmed towards her, and
caused him to regard the mother even with a modified sense of
the growing disgust which was possessing him, and of which
her shrewd insight made her fully aware.
Her child had become necessary as a bait-.-and"her child let
it be-f or, in her hideous creed, nothing was sacred. She was
filled towards her victim with fierce yearnings, and, had she
14


15  4S IRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
possessed the actual entity of soul, would have loved him
madly- but no, she hated him, as the slave hates the despotic
master.to whom he hourly' cringes for each favor. In aword,
she ad him as a man-or in his double capacity of. a spiritual
being,-rather,; and, as'even her hate was secondary, her appe-
tites towards him were those of the weir-wolf for mankind-
She would devour him body and soul, but she meant to feast
alone.       s
Fearing .lest the. tenderness, of his nature might be too
strongly moved towards the, child, if not diverted in other di-
rections, she- at once set her subtle wits to work to furnish her'
"Tiger," as she called him, with sufficient toys of the same
kind to 'keep.him quiet, and avert the chances of his leaning
more .towards one than another.  Some letters were. hastily
despatched to New England, and the result was the appearance
of. a fair and gentle child, about the age.of her own.
Elna and the stranger;Moions, sprang into each other's arms
when they Wet, as if their very heart were one... They were fast
friends, it seemed, and. a thousand times had Elna said how
dearly she loved the gentle Moione; and so jealous were the
children of their first, meeting, that Manton saw little of either
for several days.. Glance at the bread, serene brow, great,
clear ;eyes, and delicate mouth, of the new-comer, :filled him
with a strange, inexplicable -sense of confidence, and even.
relief; which he could not well explain, to be sure, because it
was too undefined to himself. - He could only wonder how that
white-browed creature. came in such .. place. It seemed as
though it were a promise, answering t his prayer for the. elfish,
Elna, that this calm spirit should have descended in their midst.
The vehement arid headstrong. petulance .of her nature pro-
mised to find here a balance that would, sober it within the,
bounds of reason; and strangely,-although he sa w ,hope for her,
and for bis own yet.undefined purpose in her development, he
saw:.nothipg definitely in the stranger, but a good angel sent to aid
him. His soul went out to greet her,,but was it-'yet his heart?

5T11]flUAL SoFTDOwN.              159
These children were both dedicate to art; and Manton found
it now by -far the most pleasing occupation, to watch and give
direction-to the rapid unfolding of this- instinct for the creative.
The newly-aroused intellect of Elna here displayed' man yFhapish
and brilliant characteristics- of the imitative faculty, that might
easily have been mistaken, by a less partial observer than Man-
ton, for genius. These peculiarities were strikiiigly contrasted
with the placid, but vigorous style of Moione, to'-a degree that
one formed the exact offset to the other, not alone in art, but
in all physical and mental, as Well as spiritual idiosyncrasies.
As these. children grew upon him, there seemed something
strangely familiar in them to Manton. He often tried to ac-
count for this to himself. Had he seen them before in dreams?
Had he known them in some different world, and-ina) previous
stage of 'being?  Why was it that the vehement-.eccentricities
of temper, the elfin wildness of motion, and light, mocking
spirit of this child Elna, all seemed to him so familiar ? Why
was it that the coming of the fair-browed Moione had surprised
him so little ? There was that in her 'pure, calm face to startle
most observers; yet, from the first,, he had looked upon it as a
matter of course, and as if he had unconsciously waited for her
to arrive. Why was it that he had felt comforted since she-
came?   What was it, in that name of hers, that sounded to
him so much like a half-forgotten music-note? -
So he had-questioned himself a thousand times, becoming
each day more puzzled than the last, until accident furnished
him with the curious solution of this mystery. One, day, in
looking over a pile of old manuscripts, he found one, upon
whidh he seized, with an unaccountable thrill. In .an instant
the whole thing flashed upon him-
"I have it! I have it!, - Here the mystery is solved at last!
Strange, that I should so utterly have forgotten this manuscript!
Two years ago, before I ever saw these people, this strange
foreshadowing ,f what seems now a reality in my life, came to
me in a summer's day-dreamn; and I 'wrote it 6ff,-to be thrown

"i


160               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
aside and forgotten until this moment. . It seems the most won-
derful coincidence. I am no believer in.miracles, but this ap-
pears a marvellous reach of. the soul into the future; I was 'con-
scious of,nothing when I wrote, but the pleasure of embodying
in words what seemed to me, a beautiful -thought; strange, it
should have benthus thrown. aside and so utterly forgotten,
until,,themncreasingcoincidences of my present relation have
gradually forced me back to And it! What blind ._instinct,
struggling in me, sent me hereto look through these old manu-
scripts,. with no definite purpose?  What vague struggle of
consciousness; and memory is this, that has been moving me for
weeks to understand why it is those children seem so familiar to
me?   Strange! strange! strange!"
Manton now proceeded to read this curious manuscript, the
contents of which we shall alsoplace before you:--
THlE LEGEND OF THE MOCKING-BIRD.
Friend, do you know the Mocking Bird ? I warrant, if he is_
a familiar:of your childhood, you have a thousand times won-
dered at the strange malignant intelligence which characterises
his tyrannical supremacy over all the feathered singers. Not'
only is he "accepted king of song," but he is the pest and
terror. of- the groves and meadows. 'Spiteful and subtle, he
conquers in battle, or by manoeuvre, all in  reach of him; and
you may easily. detect 'his favourite-haunts, by the incessant din
and clatter of wrath. and fear he keeps up by his malicious
mockery:among his neighbors. From my earliest childhood, I
can remember having been singularly impressed by the-weird
and curious humors of this creature. Since those, times ,of in-
nocent wonder, I have been a wide wanderer. The preposses-
sions of my fancy were irresistibly attracted by the wild -legend-
I gie below.v' It was told me by an old Wako warrior.
On a hill-side, above an ancient village of his tribe, while we
were stretched upon the grass beneath a moss-hung live-oal he

1

ETIERIAL' SOFTD&amp;WN.             161
related it; The moon was- out, gilding with silver alchemy the
shrub-crowded crests of prairie undulations-piled, as we may
conceive the wavest of the ocean would be-stayed by a word
from heaven, while on the leap before a tempest. It -was a
fitting scene for such a story. Out from- the dark-gorges on
every side ascended the night-song-of the mocking-bird. The
old man had listened tothe rapid gushing- symphonies for some
time in silence, then drawing, a long breath he remarked-" That
is an evil bird !" I begged him for an explanation, and he pro-
ceeded.
Those peculiarities, indeed, of the Indian's phraseology-
those broken-pointed expressions, so condensed and meaning,
and eked out continually by significant gestures, I could hardly
hope to convey, were I fully able to remember them. The
wild and fanciful methods of the Indian mind, believing what
it dwells upon, yet half conscious that it is dreaming, are diffi-
cult to remember or repeat. We can only do the best we 'may
to preserve the idiosyncracies.
"Yahshan, the Sun," said the, old chief, pausing reverently
as he uttered the name, "in his great wigwam beyond 'the big
waters, made the' first Wako! He laid him in his fire-canoe
and oared his way up through the thick mists that hungevery-
where. When his arm tired of pulling,' he took him out and
stretched him upon his back on a wide dark bank,' and then
rowed on his path andieft him. The Wako lay like the stem
of an oak, still and cold. -Before Yahshan entered his night-
lodge in the west, a dim hazy light had hung{ over 'the figure,
but this only made its' broad couch look blacker-for nothing
that' had form 'could be seen. Yahshau, the Moon--the- pale
bride of Yahshan-came forth when he had gone in, and rowed
her silver bark through the- ugly shadows above the -Wako, to
watch lest the spirits that hated Yahshan should do harm to his
work, which it had taken hin many long. "ages to finish. .,He
was very proud of it, and the evil 'spirits'hated him that he had
made a thing so goodly to look upon ; and they drifted hideoun"

"

P
,


162             'SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
phantom shapes, across the way of Yahshau, and tried to over-
whelm her light canoe, but-its keen shining prow cut through
them all, and left them torn and ragged, behind her. At last
they ned, for when her eye was'on' the mute:form of the Wako,
they feared to do it any harm. When all were gone, and
nothingqthat looked'like mischief was to 'be seen, she too went
in. And.then they flocked out from the. deep places where
theyhad been hid, and-gathered with hot fingers and red eyes
-,;about the quiet'Wako. He did not stirfor his senses had riot
yet been waked; Quick they pried open his clenched teeth, and
poured a green smoking fluid down his throat. Just then the
prow of the fire-canoe appeared parting the eastern mists, and
they all fled.
"Yahshan came on, He looked upon his work and smiled
-for he did not know that evil had been wrought-and came
now in glory, riding on golden billows, scattering the chill mists
that clung-around the icy form,. for it was time to waken it up,
with life. He rolled the yellow flood, upon it, and the figure
shivered ; again the glowing waves pass over it-.Athe figure was
convulsed-tossed.itslimbs about, and rocked to and fro. Its
eyes were open, but it saw not; its ears were open, but it heard
not;,it was tasteless and dumb ; it smelt not, nor did it feel.,
Life had gone into, it, and the heart beat, the, pulses throbbed,,
the blood coursed fast, and it was monstrous =strong. But what
was 'this ? Being, self-fed .and self-consumed, hung upon the
void of 'midnight, hurried and driven 'from its own still gather-
ing impulse '-through a chaos of ,crude matter., That green
liquid of the evil one now rushed in burning currents through
the veins, and it dashed away, crawling, leaping, tumbling, like
a mad torrent, over piled-up rocks across" the dark plains,
striking'against hard, formless things, and rebounding to rush
on more swiftly, till it had left the fire-canoe and Yahshan all
astounded, far behind, and the terror of darkness was beneath
and above it  But what was this to it?  On ! on ! the green'
fire still burned' within, and it m~ust. go---chasms'and cliffs, with

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.      '         168
jagged rocks--into them, over them all. What were rough
points and bruises,'and crashing down steeps, 'and midnight to
it ? There was no feeling, yet the 'heart leaped, the blood
careered, .the limbs must follow.- Motion, blind motion-no
control, no, guide-but through and over everything,-move it
must.
" The bad spirits thronged after it, grating and clanging their
scaly pinions against each' other, and creaking their pleasant
gibes, vhen suddenly there was, no footing, and the headlong
form pitched down, downward, whirling through 'the empty
gloom, while all the herd of ill things.laughed and flapped them-
selves in the prone wake behind it.
" At once, with a sigh 'of wings, like a sharp moan of tree-
harps,, a shape of light shot arrowy down amidst them. They
scattered, howling with affright. It bore up the filling Wako r
on strong, shining vans an instant, then stretching' them out,
subsided slowly, and laid it on a soft, dark couch again. This
was Ah-i-wee-o, the soul of harmonies, the good spirit of sweet
sounds. She is the great. queen of spirit-land. Yahshan and
Yahshauare her slaves; and all the lesser fire-canoes that skim
in Yahshau's train obey her, She gives tall life its outer being.;
to know and feel beyond itself-without her, life is only motion.
There is no form, no law, no existence beside, for'.she holds
and grants them each sense,. and in' them reveals all these.
Yahshan could give life-but not content with this, he was- am-
bitious. . The formless chaos his fire-canoe sailed over must be
a world of beauty! A soul dwelt in.it, but that world was pas-
sionless and barrei.- Yahshan had given life. to many shapes,
but the cold spirit had scorned them all; and yet she must be
wooed to wed herself to life, that,,out of the glow of that em-
brace, might spring the eternal round of thoughts made vital,
clothed out of shapeless 'matter with symmetry. He planned
an impious scheme. He would not pray the good'Ah-i-wee-o
for aid, but would act. alone, and be the great 'Medicine Spirit.
He would frame a creature from out the subtlest elements within

,. .


164              SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
this chaos, so exquisite .that, when it cane to live, confusion.
would be harmonised in it, and the order of its being go forth
their law of beauty and of form to all. Then that coy spirit of
desolation would be won at last, and passing into- its life, a royal
lineage would spring forth, and procreation wake insensate
matter in myriad living things, gorgeous ideals, harinoniously
wrought, -and' self-greducing forever. All these would be his
subjects, and 'he would rule, with Yahshau, this most excellent
show himself! So he labored on, in the deep chambers of his
night-lodge, through many cycles. The work was finished. It
lay in state, within his golden wigwam at the east, that Yahshau
and her 'glittering train might look upon it and wonder. Then
he carried it forth; but evil spirits are wise,'and, though it was
a nijghty work, they knew that it was too daring, and that Aha
i-wee-o' would punish' its presumption, and would not let the
senses wake with life ; so they poured that fearful fluid in,
that fires the blood, and makes life slay itself. They say the*
white man has dealt with them, has learned from them the spell
of that' bad magic, and makes his " fire-water" by it. So when
Yahshan waked up life,.its power waked too; for he knew not
of the craft,'and, it tore the glorious work from out' his hands,
While they flew behind and mocked him..
"Ah-i-wee-o bent ,over the swooning Wako; for the life that
had been soi tumultuous scarcely now'stirred his, pulse. She
was a thing of beams, silvery' and clear ; a warm, lustrous light
clung around-her limbs and showed their delicate outline.' She
floated on the'air,'her wings and figure waving with its eddies,
like -the shadows of a Lee-kaloo bird'upon the sea. Her eyes;
deep.as'the fathomless blue 'heaven,, looked down on him with'
pity and unutterable' gentleness. It was a marvellous work the-
overdaring Yahshan had accomplished. Beautiful, exceedingly,
was that 'mute form, and; rarely exquisiteRits finish. Must that
glorious' mechanism be destroyed,: and till the noble purpose of,
its framing be lost?, No! She moves her 'tiny, flower-like
hand abve it,.and every blotch and all the bruises disappear,

ETERIAL SoPTDOWN.                  165
and it was fair,to view, and perfect as -when Yahshan bad given
it the last touch. Now she stooped beside and touched him,.
white sparks 'flew up, and she sang a low song. At the first
note, the dark, formless masses round them quivered and rocked:
the Wako smiled; .for feeling now first thrilled along his nerves.
The song rose ; the 'dumb things shook and stirred the more.
She touched his nostrils and his lips; the sparks played between
her small fingers and danced up. Yet a louder note swelled
out, and 'the thick mists swayed. and curled, and a cool wind
rushed through them, and dashed a stream of odor on -his, face.
He drew long breaths, and sighed with the burden of delight,
and moved.his lips to inarticulate joy; and-now that wondrous
song pealed out clear,=ringing bursts that shook the blue arch
and swung the fire-boats, cadent with its gushes-; and through
the dim' mists great shapes, like rocks and trees, leaped to the
measure, marshalling inlines and order. Now she pressed his
eyelids with her fingers; the silver. sparks sprung in exulting
showers, snapping and bursting with sweet smells. 'Once more,
pealing triumphant, a keen, shining flood,:that symphony poured
wilder forth ; his eyes fly open, and that heavy mist, like a great
curtain, slowly rises. First the green grass and, the flowers,
bending beneath the gentle breeze, turn their deep eyes and
spotted cups towards him in salutation, and all the creeping
things and birds, that love the low herbs, dew-besprent, are
there: and as the mist goes, up, majestically slow, other forms
of bird and beast are seen, and dark trunks of trees, and great
stems beside them, looking like-trees, until his eyes have traced
them up 'to the great moose, the big-horned stag, the grizzly
bear, and the vast-moving mammoth. But then it has drunk
the harmony of grades; for all are there. And,.side by side,
he marks how, from the crawler, every step ascends, in beauti-
ful gradation'; the last linked to the first in one all-perfect chain.
Then came the knotted limbs, with all their burden of green
leaves;' and, underneath, the round, yellow fruits, or purple
flushing of rich clusters and gay forms, that flutter through them

1


ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.           1/47

on wings of amethyst, or fame, or gold, their every movement
a music-note, _although all was .dumb to him as yet.  Still
higher the Wnist-curtain goes; 'and the 'grey cliffs, with shining
peaks, and a proud, fierce-eyed bird perched on them; nieet his
gaze ; and then the mists goat far away, and scatter into clouds,
and all the "splendor aiid the pomp of the thronged earth is
spread, a gorgeous, but voiceless, revelation to his new being.
With 'every touch 'of the enchantress, Ah-i-wee-o, thesoul of
chaos- had passed.into a sense; and all the pleasant harmonies
the Wako felt, and all the scented harmonies the Wako tasted
and inhaled-all the thoughts of harmony in grarid orgraceful
forms the Wako saw ':that blissful interpenetration gave con-
ception to, and the magic 'of that powerful song -brought" forth.
One more act, and his high marriage to eternity is consum-,
mated': ecstacy has found a voice, and all these harmonies ar-
ticulation, yet his ears were sealed-; and though music flowed
in through. every other sense, 'his dumb' lips strove in.vain to
wake its language..
"But this was the supremest gift of all. This was the charm-
that had drawn beauty out -of chaos -- the -magic by which Ah-
i-wee-o ruled in spirit-land,. and chained the powers of evil. It
were death to spirits less than 'she, to hear the fierce crashing of
those awful symphonies'-she knew.' His nature could not bear
the revelation. Besides, what'had he to do with that celestial
'minstrelsy which led the heaven-fires on their rounds ? '''here
was ambition, full enough, up there; and Yahshan had been
playing' far too rashly on those burning -keys. She would-not
curse this perfect being'with a gift too high, ,and add another.
daring rebel to her realm! -No-! he must be ruler here, as 'she
'ruled everything. From all those harmonies he must extract
the tone, and on it weave his 'song of power to lead them cap-
tive. This divine music is the voice of all the beautiful, the-
higher language 'of every sense;. and 'not "until the -soul is
brimmed to overflowing with sparkling thoughts of it, drank in
through each of them, will the beamy currentrun, as streams do

in 'the skies. He must lead the choir of all this being-yet, this
infinite sense would overbear his nature, if suddenly revealed;.
it can only wake in other creatures, as its birth matures, in him
-andhe shall go forth into silence-every living thing shall be
mute-and from the'low preluding of. the-waters and the winds
the first notes of his exulting powers shall be learned, and they
shall learn of him-.until all the air is one harmony-all breath.
takes music on, and echoes bear the'twice-told glee--until faint-
er, more faint, it is gone!
"She touched his ears--the sparks leaped up-she pressed his
lips with one entrancing kiss and sprang away. The quick
moan of her pinions cleaving the air isthe first -sound that steals
on the new sense, and stirs the dead vast.of silence that weighs
upon his being. And now myriad soft wavelets of the infinite
ocean follow-breaking gently:over him-the whisper of quiver-
ing leaves to the .caressing zephyr, the low trenible of the forest-
chords, and the deep booming of great waves afar off; the'-ring
and dash of cascades nearer, the tinkling of clear drops in caves,
the gush and ripple.of cold springs, the beat of pulses, the purr
of breathing, and the hum of wings, in gentlest ravishment pos-
sess his soul-for now is the bridal of his immortality consum-
mate in a delirium of bliss, and lulled upon his couch he sweetly
sinks into the first sleep.
"'The Wako is roused next morning by a' warm flood from the
fire-canoe-for Yahshan had come forth right roj~ally, and though
Ah-i-wee-o had humbled his presumption and.would not 'permit
him to be 'sole lord as he had hoped, yet all he, had dared at-
tempt had been accomplished, and he believed if to be-in full
his own work, and thus wore all his panoply of splendor in honor
of his glorious creation. The Wako rose, ai d lo-! around him
as far as the eye could reach, a mighty multitude of all the ani-
mals of the earth were rising 'too. They waited for their king,
and it was he. They came flocking around him to caress him
in obeisance-- a gentle, eager throng!
" The panther stroked his sleekglossy fur against'his legs and

ss

SPIRITUAL VAMPIRIS .


18              S RITUAL VAMPIRISM.
rolled ard gambolled like kitten at his feet. The great bear
of the north rubbed his jaws against his hand and begged to be
caressed. Big iountam (the mammoth) thrust his huge tusks
i for a touch; and the white-horned'moose bowed his 'smooth-
bristled neckland plead-with meek black eyes for notice. All.
the huge grotesque things pressed around, and the .smaller
creatures, pied, flecked, and dotted, crowded beneath their
heavy limbs, unhturt-=all, fulf of confidence and love, gracefully
sporting-rto win one glance.
"Above him the air was thick with wings, and the whirr and
wirinowing of soft plumes made pleasant music, and the play
of brilliant hues was -like' a thousand rainbows arched and wav-
ing over him; and the little flame-like things would. flutter near
his face, and gleam their sharp brown eyes intohis, and 'strive,
in vain; to warble out their joy, for their sweet pipes were not
yet tuned.'
"All were there, great and 'small; and the wide-winged6agle
came fromiIts high. perch and circled. rou nd his. head, and
brushed its strong plumes with light caressing, through his hair.
He went with them into the forest burdened with rich fruits, and
ate, then shook the heavy clusters down for them. Then he
passed forth to look upon tire land, the first shepherd, with that
countless flock thronging about his steps.
"It was, indeed, a lovely land ! Here a rolling meadow, there
a heavy wyood; -the -tees ill bearing fruits, or hung with vines
and bloom. A still, deep river, doubled sky and trees in its,
clear niirror, and he gazed, in a half.waking wonder, when the
ripples the swan-trains made, shivered it to glancing fragments.
"But wander:which way he might, he came to tail gray cliffs,
with small streams,sthat pitched from theirtcloudy sutumits, and
bounding.off from the rough crags below, filled all the valley
with cool spray.
"' He found his lovely world was fenced about with square,
towering rocks, that nothing without wings could scale. But

" _'

E

'r.
x
i
t
{i"      d
7
i
,I
s
i

ETHERTAL SOFTDOWN. '
there was room enough for all, and profuse plenty the 'fritf l
eart4 supplie.w
At-noon, he went beneath a grove f syclinots  here a
great stream gishe' 6ut, ahd laid him down beside its briik,
while his subjects stretched and perched around hin4 .i the
shade, to rest. His sleep vfas broken by strange new melodies
that crept in. He opened his eyes'; near 'him were two maidens
and all the birds and beasts were'gather'ed around them, and
they were singing gay, deicious -airs, teaching the birds t
warble.
"One of ;them was fair-white as the milk.white fawn that
licked her hand and gazed up ,at her musical tips; -but her hair
was dark and a strong light, gleamed in her small black eye,
This-was' Ki-ke-wee. She surig and laughed and kissed the
song-bird that perched upon her 'finger, and when it tried to
follow her wild carol, she mocked its blunders aid stamped her
tiny foot, and frownedI and laughed and warbled yet a wilder
symphony to puzzle it'the more.
"The other- waS a darker maiden with larger gentle eyes.
This was_ nemoia; her voice was soft and low-aind she rsang
sweet songs and looked full of love and patience., The Wako
half rose in joy= and'., wonder. They bounded towers him--
sang .a rapturous roundelaf to a giddy, whirling dance fhen
threw theirrms about his neck and kissed lim, 'They became;
his squaws, and Yahshau smiled upon'them as she sailed by that
night.
' The Wako wais very happy and Ki-ke-wee was his favorite.
She, grew very. lovely and full of curious whims- that each day
became more odd. She loved 'the blue jay most 'among the
birds, and taught him ill his antics; pdtlxe magpie was a
and thepassionate, briht humnuer lived abojt heplips.
"As yet nothing buf soundi and scenes of love -were in that
little world; and the strong terrible brufes knew notghat they
had fierce passibns or the taste for~hlood; but Ki-kwee ewuld
stand before tlie grizzly bear and pluck "his ja~s'andswitch his"
15


T&amp;V          SPIRITAL 'yAMPIRISM.
fierce eyeballs until he learned to' growl with. pain,. and then
she would mock him; and when he growled louder she -would
mock phim still until at last he roared with rage and sprang upon
hepanther--for he feared Ki-ke-wee's eye !-.and' the- panther
tasted blood and 'sprang to the -battle fiercely. And now the
tempest-broke, and everything with clawsand fangs howled. in
the savage discord. Ki-ke-wee clapped her hands and laughed.'
Mnemoia rised:the 'nchantment, of her'song above it all,' and
it was stilled,. Then -i-ke-wee .wouldctease the eagle and mock
him till he screamed and' dashed.at the great vulture in his rage;
and she _o ld dance and shot for joy; and Mnemoia would
quell it; then go aside and weep.;
"The Wako loved ythe beautiful -witch,'and when he plead
with her she would 'mock even him,'and every -day and every
hour this knocking elf stirred some.new passion, until' at, last
even Mnemoia's song had lost its charm, and. the, bear skulked
in the 'deep n'thikets and. 'shook them with his growl, and the
father moaned from out the, forest, and the' gaunt' wolves
snapped their white teeth and howled,' antd all the timid things
fled away from these fierce voices;, and battle, and blood, and
death, were rife where love and peace had been. The birds
scattered in affgihtand sing their newsongs'in snatches only;
and hateful sound of' deadly passions, and the screams and
wailsHof -fear, resounded everywhere.
"Ki-ke-wee: made a bow and poisoned the barbed arrow, and
mocked the death-bleat of the nilk-white fawn when the Wako
shot it ,at her tempting. 'This was too' much ! Ah-i-wee-o
cursed her and she fell. The Wako knelt' over her and wept;
and when the dissolving spasm seemed upon her, he co ered his
face' with his hands and wailed "aloud. A voice just above him'
wailedtoo! He looked np surprised ; a strange bird with
graceful form and sharp black spiteful eyes was mocking hiri!.
He ipoked down-Kike-wee was gone'; 'and 'te strange bird
a ped its legi bilhissingl at him; and'when it spread its wings.

EITHER; L SOPTDOWN.ii

tobound 'up from the twig in an 'ecstacy of passion, he knew by
the broad white"stripes across them that it was Ki'ke-wee!
".He found 'the neglected Mnemoia weeping in tii' forest ; and
soon after they scaled the cliffs and fled from that fair land to
hide 'from Ki-ke-wee. But she 'has followed them and mocks.
their'children -yet,,and we dare not slay her, for the wise isen-
think she was the daughter of the Evil Spirit that poured' tfie
green fluid -down the Wako's throat, and that the same bad fire
burns yet in ,our veins. our hunters chasing the' tnountain-goat
sometimes look from the bluffs into that lovely vale 'that lies
in the bosom of the  Rocky Mountain chain, but they never
venture to'go down!"

s

CHAPTER XIX.

SOME SELECT SCENES.
SOME short glimpses of daily scenes may convey,' perhaps, a
clearer idea of how life sped now with Manton, amidst the new
charms which it had gained. The whole man was rapidly
changed'; his habits of excess in wire-drikig were, in a great
measure, thrown aside, and the hours he. had thus,.wasted
in stupifying madness, were given to the society 'and 'develop-
ment of these fair children, that had thus come to him in bless-
ing. lie now knew no difference in his thought-of them; they
had grown to be twin-flowers to him, transfused with a most
tender light of spring-dawn in his darkened heart. Yes, there
it was - that little spot-of light' h e felt it warm, and slowly
spread and waken in soft'beams, 'trerhulous and faint alo he
ice-bound chaos where the life-floods met' within him.
His brow would grow serene and" Iose its painful tension, as,
hour by hour, he watched beside them, guiding their wayward

171


*$PIRITUAI VAtPIRJ$M.
ppncils with his, sure eye, to teach their yet irresolute wills and
una cestome4 fngrs to act together with that consciousness
that always triumphs; ,and then, with the long eyenings, came
lessons1  botany, or the eloquent discourse, half poetical,
hal rhsoica, and all ;inspircdwhich led "their young spirts
forth, amidst the mysteries and: beauties of the other kingdoms
of the natural world. Or, when the stars: came ,out, and their
calm, inspiration slid into his schl,- he communed with, them
of higher themes -of aspirations holy, wise,;and pure -ofthe
heroic souls,of ark:-of their pale, uimoved dedication, through
dark,.saddened years of neglect, obloquy, and want-6f their
glorious' triumphs, their immortal bays, that time can never
wither-until, with trembling lips and glistening eyes, they hung
upon his words.
It was wonderful to see how quickly Etna:wept, like.an April,
shower, at any tender word or thought; but the great eyes
of Molone only trembled like dark violets brimming with heavy.
dew. All the truth, the religion of Manton's soul, was poured
out at such times.
The' door would ' sha   pn
Thedoor wouldharply, open -' Elna ! Moione ! go to
oed !"  This would -be spoken in' a low tone,' evidently half-
choked with- rage, bybthe woman. Eer bent form looming
within the-eshadow of the entry, looks ghastly enough in her
white gown, loose dark hair, and the greenish glitter of her
obligne- eye:.-Thepoorchildren rise, with a deep sigh from
Mbio a over her broken drealih, and . a quick exclamation of
petulant wrath from Elna -while Manton mutters an involun-
tary curse orbithe unwelcoine intruder ; and, as the light for ns
of the children'. recede before his vision and disappear in the
dark passage, be shudders; unconsciously, 'a if a ghoul had
disturbed 'him at a feast with' angels..
-Now, again, had he fallen back to -hell. With a fierce out-
break of jealous fury, she would spring into the room, as
if literally. to devour him with talons and teeth ; and, when
ta few paces o11 catching his .eold, concentrated eye, -

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

178

she would stagger' backwards, as ifshot through the heart, toss
her white arms wildly into.the airr and, with head thrown back,
utter, in a strange, choking, guttural screech -
"Auh! 'auh! auh !-yaughk-you kill!-yon kill me!"' and
pitch forward convulsively, withthe blood bursting 'in torrents
from her nouth. Then 'came the long, harrowing,' and 'oft-
described scene of terror, remorse; pity, on the part of Manton,
and the plea -for forgiveness, the slow recovery, and -- and
so on.
Or else, ith some modification of tactics, the lioness changed
to the lamb, the Gorgon-head to that-of Circe, she.would throw
herself upon him, with tender expostulations, call him  "che-
rubim," and stroke his. "hyacinthian curls;" and,"when that
failed, cling about his knees, and weep and pray, andethen, as
the desperate resort, suddenly swoon, with a tremendous crash,
upon the floor, and lie there for an hour, if need be, in a con-
dition of syncope, so absolute, that Manton-who had.now wit-
nessed this comparatively-harmless phenomenon so many times,
as to be relieved from any apprehensions ofimmediate results-
had lately felt the curiosity of'the philosopher 'irresistibly aroused
in him, and would frequently leave her for a considerable length
of time, in order to watch the symptoms, before' he proceeded
to apply the very simple reniedy for recalling her to conscious-
ness, with which, by the way,. she had furnished him long ago,
in advance, through certain adroit hints and indirections. ~'When
he had satisfied his more analytical moods, in this way, he would
proceed with the restorative process, as per prescription.
This mysterious operation consisted ii placing the pillowsof
the sofa, or -the rounds of a chair, under" her feet, so as' to ele-
vate them atf a. slight anglehigher than the head. As he- was
led to understand the result, the-blood,.by-the laws of capillary
attraction, was instantly carried up, from, her head to. her feet,
thereby relieving the oppression 'of the brain; when Jo! to this
new "opet sesame,'" the rigid, lids flew wide apart, disclosing
eyes as vivid with life as ever.,
15 *

0


Vt4               SPIRITUAL VAMPI aSM.
The strangesf part ofthis scene consisted in the fact,,That
while the fit lasted, it was impossible to perceive the slightest
symptoms of-breathing or pulsation, any more than in the most
broadly-defined, c se of catalepsy; or of absolute death itself.
It was, therefore, clear ,enough to his mind, that such conditions
could not be entirely counterfeit; though -the. suggestion had
now become -frequnt, that they might,  after long training, be-
come, in a great measure, voluntary.
Another scene. The mother reclines apon her bed, anV the
child 'ia by.,hertside, with arms around her neck and face
against- her bosom. Moione stands leaningover the foot-board,
with 'folded arms, her pale face expressing mingled grief, anger,
and pain, while she looks with a cold, steadfast glanceinto the
oblique eye of the woman, :who addresses her rapidly, in bitter
tones --
4 You lovethat bad man, Moione ?"
"Ye;rI -do'!" said the young girl, curtI and coldly.
"Ha!' you acknowledge it, do you, ungrateful girl? Ac-
knowledge that, 'at your age, you love a profligate wretch like
this? a an utterly 'without principle, where our sex is con-
cerned. A villain) who has already, attempted The ruin of my
own daughter, under my very eyes!"
Moione turned paler still at this, and looked. inquiringly to-
wards her friend-Elna,,rwho, however, gave. no, sign, either by
word or movement, of dissent to this vile insinuation. In-.
stantly the blood. mounted- to Moione's brow, and her gentle eye
shot lre, her thin lips curled with scorn -
It is false-! Itis false! You know it to beso ! "He'has
taught us nothing but-what' is' pure and high!' He never
breathed a.thought of evil to either of us, and Elna dares not
say so! I love him as .our lofty, noble brother, and shall con-
tinue to- do- 'so so long as he; shows himself only to me, and to,
her, as he has done! .Pray, madam, why do you permit him to
remain in 'the house, if he be so wicked?. You tell me' you

TFRIAL'SOFTDOWN.                175
have the power to turn him out at any minute. Whyiiot do it ?
Why do you -trust your. child with him, at all hours, and under
all circumstances?- Why do you so constantly-seek his society
yourself? If he were. the fiend you represented, one would
think you would have reason to fear for yourself, if not for Elna.
What he. has done once he rill do again! How do you recon'-
cile all this?"
The flashing look and withering tone 'in which this unex-
pected outburst of indignation, on the part of the usually quiet
Moione, had been delivered, cowed the craven nature to which
it was addressed. It was but for an instant, thoughJ; her 'subtle
cunning returned to the charge, in a lower tone, andion another
tack. She reached-out her hand, affectionately, towards her -
" Come, Moione, dear! come, kiss me !"
The child did not move, but merely answered in a low; con"
temptuous "No!"
The. woman continued, in a wheedling tone, "Hear! my
naughty Moione ! She will not come to kiss me, yhenI love
her so! Moione does not understand everything she sees, or
she would not haye spoken thus sharply to her friend. ,She does
not understand that I am striving to save this poor youth from
his frightful Vices! his wine-drinking, his .tobacco, his meat-
eating, and all those ugly sins which so deface, what I hope one
day to see a beautiful spirit ! She does not know I must endure
this evil that good may come'! She does not 'realise how- mdch
pain it costs me to have the purity of mj household thus 'dese-
crated by his poisoned sphere ! She: does not reineiber that
God has placed us here, on this earth, to bear and forbear to-
wards his erring children ; that they may,.tbrough us, become
regenerate and redeemed! I know his eloquence, I know his
subtlety, therefore I have warned you against him; he cannot
be dealt with as other men,.for he is but a foolish, headstrong
boy, with a great soul, if he were only free; but while his vices
hold him in bondage, he is. not to be- trusted. Though I have
lifted him out of the very gutters of debasement -given him a


SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
home in my house- I have o confidence; at this moment, that
he -would, not deliberately ruin either you or Elna to-morrow, if
he could ! You should, therefore, rather pity me than be angry
with2 me, dearest Molone !"
" So;I peceive !' said the young girl with a cold sneer, as
she turned and walked haughtily from the room, Slamming the
door emphatically behind her. The woman sprang to her feet,
witi an expression of ungovernale fury in here face.  The
insolent, ungrateful wretch! This is what I get for all' my
trouble to make something out of her-to render her of some
value to me! To sa-a-ve her!" and she hissed out the words
with a horrible writhingHof her- features, while the pupl of her
oblique' eye was wrung aside, until- nothing but the white,
ghastly blank of the ball-was to -be seen.-
"Yes Ill save you! I'll use you; you insolent beggar! I
have not brought you- here, alone, as the ant carries' off the
aphide, to give spiritual milk to my--own offspring ! I brought,
you to.usetoo, and use you I will! I will coin you into profit !
I'll 'humble your insolent airs! I've got a market. for you
already, and a bidder! Dare to cross, my path, ha ?-with
your supercilious insolence - I'll bow that. white forehead! I'll
fill those blue eyes with ashes! until, blearedd and rheumy with
premature decay, you crawl tokis my foot for favors !"
-During this horrid apostrophe, the woman had stood stiffened
where she had first planted her feet --upon the carpet, staring
blankly at the, door through which the young girl had passed,
and throwing her.,arms out in wild gesticulations after her.
The girl Elna lay, in the meantime, with her face half con-
cealed -in the- pillow, closely watching, with one sharp eye
uncovered, the whole scene. The woman, who had forgotten-
herself in her fury, turned suddenly and saw her. Her manner
-istaptly: changed.. She threw--herself by her side, took her
caressingly into her arms, drew her face close to tiers, breathed
upon it long and steadily, and then commenced in low, confi-

I

I

i

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

I7

dential tones, a conversation between them, the purport ofd
which we must leave to conjecture.

,A
.,

Another scene. About this time, Manton had effected the
advantageous sale of a new work, which placed -him suddenly
in the possession of a larger sum of money than he had been
able to cominmand, at one time, for a long. period. ' His, first
thought was for lhis young proteges, ands although his own ward-
robe was- sufficiently dilapidated, he expended a portion of the
sum for their comfort and gratification before he thought .at all
of his own necessities.  Unluckily for him, however, it was
evening when the money was received, and the purchases in-
tended to surprise them were the only ones made on'the way to
the house.
In almost boyish eagerness, and all breathless with the de-
light4 of giving joy to -these gentle ones he loved so much, he
hastened home and threw his presents down before them, to be
greeted- with rapturous expressions :and gleeful- merriment, the
silvery and most musical clamoring of which, soon brought the
woman, Marie, to the scene., Her eyes danced. and glistened
as she saw them; her infallible instinct scented the money in an
instant.,
" Beautiful! beautiful !" she- exclaimed, clapping her hands
with childlike-artlessness. 6 "How lovely! How sweet! How
noble !' How generous of you to think of these.dear girls first,
when you need so much yourself!" and she looked up with be,.
witching candor into the face of Manton, though it might have
been noticed by more careful observers that one eye- turned ob-
liquely towards his pockets. - She -sprang suddenly to his side,
and lent affectionately against-his arm, which she clasped with
both her hands..
"Ah,-my gentle Tiger ! How shall I ever thank you for;your
unwearying kindness to these my tender blossoms ? My precious
' Monies!l' Youi are too good! We shall never know how to
thank you.enough-l"

I


18,            SPIRITUAL rAMPIRISM.

And leaning still- closer and in a 'more confidential.manner
towards his ear, while her 'forehead flushed ,and. her voice sank,
"You sold the book," did you ?"
For how much ?"
"The feeeipts in my pocket will show !"
"Ah, let us see them then !''said she playfully, as she thrust
her hand into his pocket. "I want to see if those' evil and
stupid publishers' have understood the' value -of the precious
genius they were purchasing !.- Oh, dear, why what a treasure !
Here are' fifties, twentties, ever so many!" while-she, with eager
and trembling- hands, fumbled the notes that she had snatched
from the vest-pocket where.he had,. with his. characteristic are-
lessness of money, thrust them loosely. '" Ah, I must take time
to count' all this treasure for you, for I do n't believe you know
how much you 'ye got; you careless boy!". And as she said
this she hastily deposited the, money in the bottom of her pocket.
Manton looked at her a moment with a very' hard, cold
glance, while a-flush of indignation gleamed across .his brow ;
for he had a sure presentiment that he -should never see 'this
money again. The great'misfortune of his'organisation Wasrhis
recklessness in regard to money, and the absolute inability of his
nature to, comprehend the sterile meannesses of its abject wor-
shippers. - For' the first time the impulse to strike thisswoman
to the earth came across hir, but in an instant this 'angry feeling
was dissipated amidst the gay and laughing caresses of his petted
favorites.
When, on the next day, Manton demanded of the woman, an
account-of the money, she turned pale and red, looked upwards
and downwards, and finally askance, while she faintly told him
that she had spent the whole ; but, for his good, as well as that
of.the dear' girls' and herself, "for," she said, "you know you
are so. 'careless, about money, so generous, so liberal, that you.
would .have thrown it all away without accomplishing any of the
good you so much desire.- Pray, forgive me, for my anxiety to

EfIERIAL SOFTDOWN.                TT9
do the best for us all !" and as she saw the brow of Manton,
who had not-uttered a word, settling, darker and darker above
his cold dilated eyes, she sank upon her knees at his feet, and
clasping his in her arms, she plaintively plead -.
"Ah, forgive me! forgive me! I acted for the best ! For
God's sake do not look so, you will kill me !"
He spurned her contemptuously from him with his foot, and
retreating, as she. crawled abjectly back again, he ,said in a
measured, deliberate tone -
'.Keep away from me, woman! You may, retain your ill=
gotten plunder once more, but, mark you, if ever you dare to
put your hands into my pockets again I will strike you to the
earth, woman as you are, and trample you beneath my feet, as
I would another reptile ! I have had enough of this remorseless
fleecing!" And spurning yet more contemptuously her persistent
attempts to clutch his knees .again, he left her swooning upon
the floor. He went forth with the scales falling from his eyes
regarding this woman, in some particulars at least.
The sequel to the last scene is too rich to be passed over.
Since that wholesale and- impudent robbery, Manten had main-
tained his ground firmly, in regard to money. 'All her-arts were
brought to bear,"in vain; he steadily and sternly refused to be
plundered any farther; until finally, his feminine 'tsaviour"
being driven to the extreme verge of desperation, tried-,a new
and dashing game.
She had just been reading Zschokke's charming tale, " Illumi-
nation, or the Sleep-Walker."  The'reader will reniember how
the   ,-Sleep- Walker, the heroine of the tale, instructs:Emanuel;
while in the clairvoyant state, as to how he"should proceed in
her own case, which 'he had -been elected to restore to health
again, through the nervous, or sympathetic medium, by re-es-
tablishing the balance of the lost physical with thespiritual life.
That, in. addition, the Sleep-Walker revealed to him" 'the
thoughts of his own soul, and counselled him as an angel would


18

SPIRITUAL VA]PIRI$M

hate done, against the evil she saw in him-tells him too, that,
he must not regard her weakness, or' the petulance of her words
owards him in her waking state..
Well, our clairvoyant, after reading 'this book herself, exhib-
ited an unsual degree of restlessness to have it read by Man-
ton, too ; nothing would content hfler until he had fairly com-
menced it, -when she know there was no probability of his
pausing until he got through. She watched him during the
reading, with great curiosity, frequently interrupting him to draw
out his opinion as, he progressed.
Everybody knows the fascination of the tale, and 'confesses
the fine skill with which its wonderful details are wrought up.
Manton could do no les ; he was charmed, of corse, as mi-
ions of other readers have been. A few hours after finishing
the book, while sitting at his table, engaged in writing, the door,
which was vnbolted, flew open wide, and there stood Madame,
dressed in pure white-the eyes nearly closed, and features pale
and rigid, the outstretched hands reaching vaguely forward, after
the manner of the somnambulist.
She paused- for;a moment thus--while the whole meaning of
the scene flashed through the mind of Manton in an instant ; 'and,
although he felt a very great inclination to laugh, he restrained
himself, and determined to encourage the thing, and -see how
f4r it would go. The new Sleep-Walker now advanced slowly
towards him; and as she crossed the room, a slight movement
9f her fingers beat-the 'air before her, a. if through the guidance
of these magnetic poles her soul sought its centre of attraction ;.
with a slow, gliding mQvement she thus approached, until within-
a few inches of him,-when her hand leaped, as the magnet does
"  to' the stone, to meet his, and then a 'certain painful rigidity that
had marked her brow at first, was -displaced and gave way to
a serene expression of content, as if she had now found rest.,
'That peculiar action of the muscles of-the throat, as if in the
effort to swallow, now followed immediately, and was sufficient

I '.

ETHE  IAL $OFTD0WN.

1281j*

intimation to Manton that she desired to speak. lHe accordingly
asked her, solemnly--
"Why are you here ?"
But there was-evidently something of mockery in the tome in
which this question zwas asked, for 'the Sleep-Walker only
frowned and shook her head impatiently. Manton now changed
his voice, and with real curiosity, proceeded.
"Speak: why have you come to me thus? What would you
say to, me.
After some four or'five efforts to, produce sound,' she articu-
lated-
"For your good."
" Tell me then, what is for my good ?"
She again frowned and shook her head and muttered-
" You are ,naughty."
" Why ?"
"You have no faith."
"Faith in what ?"
"Faith in me-in my mission-in my truth."
"I have faith in you-tell me what is for my.good. -
" You must be more humble ; your pride and your suspicion
will never let you be saved. -You must have some hard lessons
yet to bring you down-to humiliate you-to purify."
Here there was a long pause, when Manton, growing' impa-
tient, finally asked--
"Is this all you have to say to me? Is this all you see now-?"
'No."
"Well, what is it?"
After considerable hesitation, she at length said,
"You do not treat me right !--you hold my life in your-
hands-yet you are cold--you do not come near' me-you are
leaving me to die !"
Here then was another long pause.
"What more is there ?" at length asked Manton; "this is
not all."
16


182            SPIRITUAL -VAMPIRISM.

This time the choking and hesitation, before pronouncing the
words,. seemed greater than ever. At length, however, out
they came.
"They complain of you in Heaven, that you let me suffer--
that you do not care for my necessities-that--that you do. not
--not--give me money now:"
This'was too much-Manton literally roared with scornful
laughter, as he spurned. her from him-'
" Ha! ha! ha ! here is illumination for yoiq with a vengeance !
Alas! poor Zschokke! 'to what base uses do. we come!' The
divine inspiration of the Sleep-Walker raising the wind! '-Vive
la bagatelle'! Hurrah ! hurrah !"  He fairly danced -about' the
floor, in an ecstacy of enjoyment---the scene seemed to him so
irresistibly ludicrous.  -
During this time, the woman, who had staggered, towards the
bed, and fallen across it, lay perfectly immovable and white,
without the change of a muscle, or the quiver of. a nerve.
Manton, however, paid no attention to her, and half an hour
afterwards, taking his'hat, left the room, .without again approach-
ing her. But what was his astonishment on, returning, two
hours afterwards, to meet the- sobbing Elna, and the pale,
troubled face of Moione; in the passage. Elna, at the sight of
him, seemed wild with grief, and sprang, with her arms about
his neck, screaming-
".Oh, mother is dead! mother is dead ! My dear mother is
dead!"
" Why,' Moione," said Manton quickly, taking her hand,
as he shook Elna off, " what is-the matter? what is all this ?"
" She seems to be in 'a fit of some 'sort. We missed her, and
after looking all over the 'house' found her lying on they bed in
your room, without motion-or breath. We have not been able
to wake her since, and did not know what to do until you came."
" Oh, come!,do come !" screamed the horrified Elna. "Save
my -poor mother!. save her! .save her! You must save her ! I
shall die!"

ETIERIAL SOFTDOWN.'               183
Manton, who immediately felt his conscience sting him,
assured the girls that it was merely a mesmeric sleep, from which
he would relieve her in a few minutes. He then rushed up-
stairs, accompanied by them, and found her, indeed, in pre-
cisely the same attitude and'apparent condition in which he had
left her. After a few of the usual reverse passes for removing
the magnetic influence, she -slowly opened her eyes, while the
blood returned to her face. - Starting up and staring about with
a bewildered look, she uttered merely an exclamation of surprise,
and, then, after rubbing her eyes, quickly asked the poor child,
Elna, who had thrown herself sobbing -wildly on her breast---
"Why, you foolish girl, what's the matter now ?"
"Mother, dear mother, we thought you were dead !"
And now came an explanation, so far as the thoroughly re-
pentant Manton.was disposed to make it, of the scene we have
just described'; the amount of which was, that she--had come
into his room in a clairvoyant state, and, being called out-sud-
denly, he had left it for an hour or two, forgetting to' make any
explanation to" the family, and without having relieved "her, as
he should have done, before going, by using the necessary
reverse passes.
The- incredulity of Manton had never before received -so
severe a shock; and it was a long time before his conscience
would forgive him, for what now seemed his brutal suspicion.
Alas, poor Manton! had he only possessed, for a little while
after he left that, room, the invisible cap of the ." Devil on two
sticks," he would have been most essentially enlightened as to
something of the art and mystery of clairvoyance.
As soon as the front-door had slamnied behind him, he would
have seen that woman spring to her feet,-and, with lips and
whole frame quivering with rage, glide .from the room, mutter2
ing to herself; and when she entered her own room, which
could be reached through an empty bath-room, he would have
heard several low, peculiar raps upon the partition-wall which
separated her own from the room of her daughter. These raps

4u


ETHEREALL SOFTDOWN.

SPIRITUAL. VAMPIRISM.

were repeated, at intervals, natil a single tap at her door re-
sponded, and in another moment the girl Elna glided in on tip-
toe. The conference between them was' carried on in a low,
rapid, business-like-tone, while every half-minutesthe girl thrust
her head from the window, to watch' as for some one' coming.
After a few moments'thus spent, the child left 'the room, with
an intelligent nod, in answer to the repeated injunction not to
leave the window of herown room until she saw him.coming,
far up the street.-- and then-!
tAfter this, he would have seen the woman quietly seat herself
at the table, after locking her door, and, write a long letter;
when, on, hearing three low'taps in succession, she sprang to
her feet, rushed'tirough the bath-room into- the room of Man-
ton, and threw herself across the bed, in the precise position in
which he left -herand, after three or four violent retchings of the
whole muscular system, her face collapsed-grew ashen-white--
her lids drooped---her 'muscles became rigid, and she exhibited
all the outward resemblances of suspended vitality. ;'hen the
wild Elna rushed in, accompanied by the deluded Moione,"and,
the moment she looked at the condition of the mother, burst
into- the most extravagant demonstrations of helpless grief;
while-Moione, with perfect presence of mind, sprinkled water
upon the face and, endeavored to restore animation. Soon the
street door-bell rings with a' peculiar energetic pull, and the
frantic Elna at once exclaims, "Manton! dear Manton! he can
save my mother; let us run for him."  She seizes the hand of
Mo one, and--we know the rest
Shocking, ludicrous, and monstrous as all this may appear to
the reader, 'from his point of view, its only effect upon Manton
was necessarily to rebuke-the feeling.of harsh incredulity which
was beginning to become so strong in him, with regard to this
inexplicable wonan. He was now more troubled and con-
founded than he had ever been ; for it was impossible that a
nature like his could ever have voluntarily suspected the un-'
imaginable trickery e nd collusion which we have traced 'in this'

scene; while his common sense was too strong to be in any
degree shaken by what was simply unexplained. His 'magna-
nimity would not permit him to suspect the full degree of
knavery, or his conscientiousness to run such risks, again, of
doing grievous injustice,'as it now seemed to.him he had clearly
done in'thiscase. He felt it utterly impossible.to treat these phe-
nomena with entire disrespect hereafter, however little influence
he might permit them to exert upon his fixed purposes and will.
CHAPT     R  XX.
SELECT SCENES CONTINUED.'
WE have lost sight of the other characters in our narrative,
and it is now time that 'we return to them. 'The reader will re-
member, in the dark-eyed, sharp-tongued Jeannette of a past
scene, the contrasted type - of. another class of adventuress,
whose schemes seemed to have been rapidly culminating. Her
success, indeed;, seemed now to be absolutely assured; 'the
coveted conquest had been achieved -Edmond was daily at
her feet. They were, as it was understood, soon to be publicly
married. In the meanwhile, she occupied the best room in the
house, and became daily more and more imperious andoyer-
bearing towards the woman Marie, as she believed the time to
be approaching when she would no longer need her services.
In common with her type the world over, she was credibly
selfish and ungrateful, where she had once fawned and cringed.
This little weakness of arrogance she had begun to make some
slight exhibitions of, even towards  Edmond himself; while, as
for the woman Marie, she hectored her on all occasions with the
pitiless volubility of. a most caustic wit. In this, however, she
made a most fatal mistake ; she little dreamed of the dark and
16 *

'                           V

185

X84


188

SPIflTUAL VAMPIRISM.

terrible subtlety-of the reptile she thus hourly trampled with her
ruthless scorn. 'She,'too, was doomed to 'feel the fearful pois m
of the hidden sting she carried, and writhe beneath its hideous;
tortures.
There had been 'a more than usually bitter scene between
them, in which 'Jeannette- had loftily taunted her with the ab-
jectness of the. game she was now playing, in putting forward
her own 'daughter, as the attraction, by which to hold Manton
any longer near her. It was not.that Madame Jeannette was so
much shocked' at any villany in the act itself, but that her lofty
pride was revolted at the inconceivable meanness it displayed ;
for, as among thieves and robbers, there is among adventuresses
a certain esprit du corps,-and the haughty Jeannette aspired to'
be a sort of banditti chieftainess in sentiment, and was really a
person of refined cultivation, so far as mere intellect was con-
cerned,--it is little wonder, that at such a time of unbounded
confidence in the security of her own position, and independ-
ence, as she"supposed, of any fai-ther aid from the woman, that
she should have given way to a natural feeling.of disgust and
abhorrence, in a' moment of irritation. But that taunt proved
to-her the most, deadly error of her life. '
The woman, who feared her presence mortally, left the room
hurriedlyand in silence, shivering in an ague-fit of rage. 'In1
another moment she left the house, without,'speaking a'word to
any one. Indeed, she seemed incapable of speaking. Her eyes
looked bloodshot and hideously awry; the veins; of her face
swollen as if to  bursting, and the 'skinabsolutely livid.
It was: a long walk .she had set out upon, and gradually the
headlong rapidity of her gait subsided into a more measured
tread. Her face became pale, as it had before suffused, and a
sort:of ghastly calmness succeeded. At length, in White Street,
she rang the bell of an old-fashioned, but respectable-looking
mansion, and shot past the servant in the passage,ivhen, instead
of turning into the parlor, she hurried up-stairs to the chamber
of the lady.,

It

ETHERIAL, SO]TDOWN.

187

A somewhat masculine voice answered her tap, and she passed
in. A woman of stout symmetrical figure, imperious- bearing,
whose somewhat coarse features were relieved by the animal
splendor of her large black eyes; the luxuriance of her jetty hair,
and voluptuous embonpoint of person, greeted herin a short,
abruptstyle, as she looked up with a cold glance from some lace-
work over which she was bending.
" What is it, Marie? , You look flurried."
" No, no," said she, throwing off her bonnet and sinking into
a chair. "I'm only tired ! It/s a long walk from my place
here ; and then it is very hot to-day. But, Eugenie," she said
abruptly, changing her tone, " I came this morning to tell you
about Edmond."
" What of him ?".said the other sharply, turning full upon
her.
"Dear Eugenie,. the fact is, I could not restrain' myself
longer-I should not be acting truly by you or him, if I did so.
You know you love him still."
The face of the French-woman flushed slightly; her head was
thrown back with a haughty 'curve of the neck.
" Ah, no," said the woman, interrupting her quickly as she
was about to' speak.
"No nonsense, Eugenie; you remember that proud as you
are, you loved him well enough to risk the loss of your social
position for him. You never loved any one- as well since, and'
never will again ; and I know that he loves you, and you only,
to this hour. It was your pride caused the separation, it is your
pride that has reduced him so low as to become,.in sheer de-
spair, the victim of such a sapless,. bodiless, dry and sharp-
set speculator, as this Jeannette C Why, would you believe
it, she has tormented him at last into -apromise to marry her!"
"What!" said the other, springing to. her feet; ".what ! marry
that starvling!-' Edmond marry that pauper adventuress, after
having loved me ! Pshaw ! Marie, you are mistaken. He only
tells her this to get rid of her importunities. He's trifling with


188           SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

her: he's not in earnest-he can't be--he's too proud: and be-
sides, his father would--disinherit him !"
"Sit down and'keep cool, Eugenie. I am not mistaken; so,
far from it, that every day he comes to me, grievously bewailing
his hard fate, in:having so far committed himself to Jeannette,
whomhe curses, while he mournsover this obdurate pride of
yours; in refuse to see him again. He says if he could only
see you once more he would be strong enough to break with
Jeannette forever. I've shown him how he could-easily buy her
off, in case of reconciliation with you-thather object, from the
first, had been simply money, and the eclat of the position it
would give her abroad-and that when she had become con-
vinced that a separation must take place, she would soon be
brought to compromise her claims; Beside, the marriage is im-
possible ; I have seen his father and his brother, and have given
them some seasonable hints in regard to her; ;and the testy old
man now 'swears that he will disinherit, him, if he dares to marry
what he considers to be little better than a common ,adven-
turess. And the. brother, whom you know is the most influ-
entiat-of the two with the old man,.is equally violent about it.
So, you see, my dear 'Eugenie, I have been working for you
faithfully'all the while, while you considered me as co-operating
with Jeannette."
"Yes," said. the other,. who had resumed :her seat quite
calmly, "I dare.say.I did you injustice, for I had conceived all
the time, that it was through you that this' affair, between Jean-
nette and Edmond, had been brought about ; that you had had
some interest in it you have not thought proper to explairi to
me,; and an explanation of which I have not chosen to ask of
you. It is quite sufficient for me to know that you now desire
to supplant Jeannette, and thereby- undo your-own work. Now,
if you choose to explain to me what the object+ you wish to ac--
complish is, so that I clean understand your motive, then, per-
haps, we, may come, together in this matter-for I know you,
Marie, that you never do,;things without a motive for yourself.

I

ETHERrAL SOFTDOWN.

189

Come, out with it ! Has Jeannette'crossed your track in any way?
Has she foiled you?' In a word, do you hate her now-?"
" Of course I hate her, now," said the woman, "or why this
visit? Why the deliberate care I have taken to prepare the way
to foil her dearest schemes.? She has outraged me beyond en-
durance. by her insolent superiority. She frightens, bullies and
taunts me, She has insulted me beyond the. possibility of wo-
man's forgiveness to another ! I hate het as deeply as I love
revenge !"
" All this' maybe very.true, Marie," said the other, 'with a
cool smile, " but knowing you as I do, I should prefer to be in-
formed specifically in what thisinsult consisted. Tell me what
she said and did, give me all 'the, circumstances in detail, and
then I shall understand your motive and know how far'~woe can
act together !"
The woman paused an instant as if in hesitation, her'eye grew
hideously askance' once more, her forehead blazed, andher lips
quivered, as glancing furtively around the room,'with a stealthy
movement, she glided closely to the side of-the French-woman
and whispered in her ear, with purple lips, a.rapid eager com-
munication for a few moments, and then' sank back. into her
chair again, pale as death and seemingly exhausted.
The French-woman bent her ear to, listen, with her needle
.suspended in 5her hand, and as the other finished, a fierce,
electric gleam darted from her eye, and with untrembling fingers
she finished her stitch, While she said in a low tone'-
" That will do, Marie ; that's enough to secure your faith.
We will punish ,her. . Edmond' shall corne back to my feet!'?
The results of the last scene may be rapidly traced; 'Very
soon there commenced a' series of mysterious calls by a- dark-
veiled lady, whom 'Manton was induced to suppose wassa patient
who. was desirous to retain her incognito.' ,She came and went
always at unusual hpurs, and though a vague :suspicion once- or
twice forced itself upon his mind that-there was something un-


190              SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM..
usual going on, yet in his pre-occupation it created but little
attention.- But we, who have undertaken from the first to be-
somewhat closer and more widely-awakened observers than he,
can see something more significant than met his eye in all this.
'Anaccidentad meeting in one of the, rooms of the house soon
occurred:ibetween Edmond and Eugenie, upon the privacy of
which we are not disposed to intrude.. Let the consequences
suffice.
In a -few weeks the imperious tone of Jeannette, who, too,
t had been kept entirely ignorant of what was going on, was
lowered, though the covert and. sardonic vindictiveness- of her
wit had clearly lost nothing of its directness and ferocity even;
because,- as she daily became less exultant, the moroseness of
her temper increased.
It would be anything but a pleasant picture to unveil the har-
rowing struggles'of such a womar to regain an ascendency,
which she felt was daily driven by 'some malign and invisible
power-bey6id the breath of her heretofore ascendant will. She
only felt its -devastation amidst her towering hopes,. and, the
moon-stone battlements of regal schemes that she had nourished
in daring fancies., She- only felt the shadow of desolation on
her soul, but her-vision was not strong enough to see the demon
wing that threw it.=
She was passing througl'rthe valley and the shadow, yet knew
not where to aim the lightning of her curse. She sank at last,
bewildered, stunned, and-utterly humiliated ; for she had crawled.
upon her very knees to Edmond to plead for mercy, but he was
inexorable. The old passion had been restored tothis life, and
her proud,'voluptuous rival held the sensual philosopher a
prisoner, "rescue or rio-rescue," oncee-more.
For days-and days after the tremendous realisation of her'loss
had been forced upon her, she lay upon her bed, tossing in dumb
anl tearless torture: then her concentrated madness took a new
and sudden turn; she shrieked and wailed, she cursed heaven,
arid- earth,- and mnen, and even Edrnond, with the lurid curses.

ETHERIA.L .SOFTDOWN.          191

of madness, while she kissed the hand and blessed the minister-
ings of the soft-gliding genius of her ruin, who"hung with a
cunning science about her suffering bed.
But 'Jeannette was clearly not the stuff to die of any one pas-
sion less intense than her love of self. She came through at last,
haggard and broken,-and humble enough, but she 'received~her'
pension nevertheless, and soon after sailed for England, leaving
the field to her stronger rival, to whom Edmond was soon after-
wards married
CHAPTER  XXI.
S ELECT SCENES CONTINUED.
WE have. frequently mentioned the eccentric Dr. Weasel in
the course of this-narrative. Another scene will enlighten the
reader-somewhat in regard to the yet undefined character of his
relations towards the woman Marie. He had just entered her
room; arid'approaching with a quick, nervous step, he said to
her in an irritated and squeaking voice -
"Marie Orne, I tell you I musf have my money back again !
I did 'not give it to you, when I advanced 'it to get you started
in business.. - You were to have returned it.to me, long since.!
You have been doing well now for two years and more, and yet
instead of returning the money I first ,advanced to you,.you have
been borrowing, more than double as much! -At this moment
you have more than 'five hundred dollars belonging, to me, of
which you have never returned me'-a cent! Yet I have been
suffering for money, for months, and you know it! You know'
I cannot receive remittances now since the death of my grand-
mother, till the settlement of our estate ! I an tired of this treat-
ment, Madam! I will have' my money!"
The Doctor, who had been walking hurriedly -up and down


192    -DI'-         ITsm A vAxmIsM.
theroom during-this speech, now paused abruptly before the
.iagn, who had quietly continued her writing
 Do you hear tne?" he said angrily, in a loud, sharp tone.
" Where is the money you have plundered me of?"'
The woman now looked up, staring at -him with wide-open
eyes that expressed the-nost.unutterable astonishment, while,
at the saine n ment; a bland smile. broke across her face, while
she -exclaimedin a, lowj, sweet, reproachful voice-
" Why, Doctor E. Willamot Weasel! What cai'you mean ?,
My-dear friedid -Iplunder you?  Ypu forget yoruself! Re-
member what a feeble child you were-hQw sad, how sick; how.
despairing; .when I took hold of you, as the tender nurse :does
the dying foundling at her door- --"
"Ibelieve you had no door, till I gave- ypu one !" interrupted
the. Doctor, while his sharp little eyesshot fire.
rThis were all very fine; if it were only true: I advanced
yut my ioney, not to pay you for curing me, which you have
neveraccompished, but that:you might do good with it ; be-
Oae I beli ..l in 'yourrmission Ito your sex !.. But I am not
pleased with ifeuse you--""
"Doesc rot that mission exist still ?'11said the woman, with
flushing brow, quickly interrupting him. "Has not the number
of my patients.,inc eased daily ?-including the first'ladies of the
land,?  Have; not my, lecture-classes- become'- more. full and
widely-atteyded'every season? .Have you not a thousand evi-
dences, in the extent ',of my correspondence; that woilien are
becoming awakened throughout the country?  What 'more do'
you-ask?- Do-you expect me-to perform miracles ?"-
"Not unless the expectation that you will deal honestly with
those who have befriended you, be Jwhat you call a miracle.
Come, I know what all this ambunfs' to, perfectly-!  gaye you
my money, as you know I dedicate ali that I have, in trust, for
humanity r You seemed'to be laboring in common cause with
myself, for the restoration of the Passional harmonies; and as-
you appeared to me -capable of accomplishing much. for the

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.  .          193

great cause, I felt that I had no right to withhold my aid froni
you when you needed, it. I gave you my gold as freely as I
would have given you a drink of water, when athirst.'- But you
have not been just and true-you have used it selfishly -you
have surrendered yourself exclusively to the cabalistic sphere;
your life is wasted in 'a series of ignoble plottings; sensual in-
trigues merely, inutter disregard of-the harmonic relations Do
not interrupt me ! . I have -watched you closely ; I know :this to
be true! Instead of elevating that noble sdnl, Manton, whom I
thought, through you, to rescue froin the dominion of  his appe-
tites, and see set apart, with- all his glorious powers, to the- ex-
alted priesthood of the Harmonies, you -)ave steadily dragged
him down from the beginning until ow,  when he is further
removed than ever'beyond our teach, and regards withcontempt
and disgust the very- name of the system with which I had
yearned to see him identified;. You have done this, and allfor
your own individual and unworthy ends, and have defeated one
of my most treasured purposes !"
" This is false !" shrieked the woman, as, with flushed face,
and with the aspect of a roused tigress, she sprang to her feet,
and placed herself directly across the track'- of the excited
Doctor.
"You lie in your teeth, you ingrate-! It is 'not so! His
own beastly passions have degraded him, in spite of me ! - Justn
as I have failed to make -a mian out of you, through your own
weakness !. For years I have patiently wrestled with your down-
ward tendencies, in the hope you, too, might be redeemed-
might be sa-a-ved from yourself! The money that you have
given 'me, I have earned twice over again, ainthese vain and
exhausting struggles to bring you back, to the true health of
unity with God through nature ! Your childish aberrations and
eccentricities ha'e baffled all my spiritual strength'! The proof
of it is,.-that you dare to- tannt me in this way ! I see that you
are incorrigible!. You may go! Go from me forever! ' I am
hopeless! I will no longer- expend myself upon' you! "Your
17


194              £?IRITU4L VAMPXI$M.
monieydI shall keep until it is my convenience toprestore it,-if
evet! it ia mydue, and you way recover it if you can ;. I
own nothing here. TheT furniture of" this house has all been
loaned ine: Seize it, if you dOarej  Go, Lsay! Go! Leave
my house instantly!"
And she stamped{ her foot, an4, waving her. hand in nelo-
dramatic fashion- towards. the. door, repeated the -imperative
order to~ " begpne!?'
We have mentioned, that the DoctorWas a small- man, and
the woran was, ao doubt,.fully conscious of her physical, supe-.
nority Qver him ,before. her coward and reptile nature could,
have da.e4 tor have assumed such a tone. Jut. she hal mis-
taken the metal with which-she had to- deal.
The Doctor had listened to this tirade with. a. cold, sardonic
smile upon .his fade,-while his keen little eyes. fairly snapped-
with scintillating fury..
c"You are a fool !" said he, in.a low, smooth tone, ".as well
as a thief and an impostor ! P11 put you in the Tombs to-
morrow, if you. do not at. once lower your tone!. And what is
more, I will expose your practices, fully and publicly.. I will
swear to. the false pretences by which you have swindled me
out of my money. 'I will swear that you have made overtures
to me, time after time, asan equivalent for 'the money you'are
dragging fro me, to:,sell.to me the chaste and gentle Moione,
whose u potected poverty you have dared to think you could
traffic in,! I will swear,, too, that at one time you did not
scrupleto suggest, by indirection, one much nearer to you; the
true scopeof which suggestion, howeverartfully disguised,' the
world will readily comprehend. Furthermore, I can now un-
derstand, perfectly, the secret of -all those physiological pheno-
mena, by which you have -managed to delude and degrade
Manton, not forgetting the disgusting fact, which has. become
too'apparent to -me, that you are endeavoring to play off Elna
upon him, and, through his generous susceptibilities, to retain
hixnwithin the reach of your damnable arts! You are becoming

j;ETlEfINAL sOcDOWN.             195
aware that 'he, too, is beginning to see through them, and
through you. I have never'-spoken a word, for I wished him to
work .out the problem himself! I will secure even him from
your catchess !'
The woman made no attempt -to reply. Her face became; of
a sudden, as white and rigid- as death, and, muttering a few
choked and guttural sounds, she pitched forward' suddenly, like
a falling statue; against the bosom of the irritated Doctor Wea-
sel; who, not' a little shocked by the unexpected concussion
staggered- backward, for an instant, in 'the utmost 'confusion
while her form fell upon the shaken floor. He recovered  is
coolness, however, in another morient, and merely muttered, as
he left the room--
"Pah! nonsense!' The old trick - she's purely in the sub-
versive sphere-and I can make nothing of her in.the 'Passional
Harmonies ! We require purity and singleness of purpose. 'She-
may go to the dogs, hereafter, for 'me.'


SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

I

CH AP-TER    XXII.
FURTHER REVELATIONS.

. ANoTHE1, year had now passed, .which, although it-found
Manton not entirely released from his, thrall, had yet left him a
calmer and a stronger man. One by one the manacles had fallen
off, unconsciously to himself. Hope was slowly filling his dark-
ened. life once more with visions of an--emancipated future, and
he now even dared to smile in dreams:  -
. Whence .came these fairy visitors ?. Ah, he did not understand
yet, clearly, in his' own heart. 'He.only felt and welcomed them,
fresh-comers from he knew: not what far Eden of God's minis-
ters of grace. ,He did not question them-it was joy enough
to have had them come down to him in his hell. Perhaps they
were but airy counterparts of those- sweet children he had watch-
ed over with such fostering tenderness.'
But now at,-once a shadow fell upon his dream. Moione, the
wise, the- resolute, and the gentle, seemed all at once to droop,
to- become wavering and shy, while.Elna.grew, more conscious
in her impish grace, and more exultant, more capriciously ten-
.der; more caressingly electrical. -Manton could not but observe
that although Moione shrank from him now, she held her pencil
with a heavy hand, and worked with a hopeless carelessness,
while, her lids drooped low and trembled often with a furtive
moisture.'
Another might have observed:what he. could not 'see, how at
such times the eyes of Elna lit with glistening joy, and how her
spirit mounted.in rollicking ecstacies-; how she danced and sang
like some rmad elf; or¢else her drawing-sheet was spoiled while
her pencil went riot over it, in all fantastic drolleries of form,
mocking. characters, of every sentiment, and worst of all that

she mocked Moione, too, and 'made' him see her heavy brow,
and covertly suggested painful questions.
"Manton would sometimes see enough of this to startle him
gravely, and make .him question his own heart,'long and pain-
fully. Elna seemed to watch these moods and dread then, and
would break in upon 'them with 'some wild antic or pouting
caress.
Suddenly Moione \went away, without any other explanation
than that she should return to hernother in NewEngland. The
thing was done in a cold and resolute way that left no room for
explanation. She had-been here-she was gone ; and strangely
enoughit was not until now-that Manton realised how-much of
light there had been from her presence. Deep shade filled the
places which had known-'her once, and it seemed as if his-vision
had been illmed - as if the shadow of. that shade' filled Heaven
and darkened earth before him. He could not have explained
why this was so. It was a voiceless -consciousness, through
which he felt a sense, most indescribable, that made him first
aware of a great want. It seemed as if the 'moon and stars
were gone, with theirscalm inspirations of repose, their pure and,
holy beatings, and-that their place about him had been usurped
by a red and sultry light, more garish than perpetual day, and
clouded in brazen unnatural splendors, too thickfor those star-
pencillings to break through, or that chaste -moon to overcome.
As the weeping Elna clung about him now, he 'shuddered
while he felt that strange, new thrillings crept along his.veins.
Why had he not felt this before, when' Moione. was beside
them ?. Was 'he=again given over to the evil one? and had the
white dove again been banished from his bosom ?- These vague
forebodings could never be entirely banished from the heart of
Manton, although the lavish tenderness of Elna, who, by-some
strange instinct, seemed aware of the struggle; the shadow"and
the cause, and wrought eagerly to.dispel them.
Elnawas- no longer 'a hild,'if, in reality,' she er had
been since Manton 'had 'known' her. 'Sheb atne daily rore
17*

A

196

ETm1 TT ,I T n 1mO}
AL SO"o

197


198              SF.RUats   VAMPIBISM;
and more lovely in his eyes, which soon grew again accustomed
to the unnatural atmosphere-surrounding him, though he yearned
oleb: for the calmer and the clearer sky he had lost ; yet ashe
gave -him little time to think of- the past.  The preternatural
activity into which! hers brain had -been roused gave him full emi-
ploymentin guiding its eccentric energies. And then: the bud
had be g to unfold its petals, as well as give out its aroma.
,Her,,sick and wilted frame seemed to have become'suddenly
inspired wish a tender and voluptuous sensuousness,-which filled
out her graceful limbs in rouinded, bounding vigor, and swelled
her line bust with its elastic tension, and lit and deepened her
" keen eyes with most lustrous .and.magneticfires.
He could not dream long among such conditions.   One
morning, as he sat beside her at her drawing, she-'"looked  p
suddenly into his face,.and with bewitching naivete remarked-'
This ismy-birthday-do you know how old I am?"
"No, I never thought."
" Well, I am seventeen to-day."
"Seventeen! Great God ! is it possible ?' And Manton
bowed.his face, coveriiig it with'his'hands, and for a long-time
spoke not a word, though his frame trembled. - That magical
word; "seventeen," had revealed every thing to himself. He-
had as yet always called .her b, the affectionate baby-name of
",Sis."3  ,Hebad thought of her only as-a child.;# for through these
four weary years he had kept no note of time. He supposed, up
to :this monient. that he had been feeling towards her, too, as to-,
wards a child-the same saddened, persecuted child which had
first attractedlhis sympathies by her mournful expression ofcon-
stant suffering. Heihad never once, thought before that any.
change had taken place in their-relations;.he had still, fondled'
her as a spoiled and petted playmate-; he still attributed the
strange thrills her topch Jiad lately produced, in him to a thou-
sand -other and innocent causes beside the real.: He had not
dreamed of passion;,-he had .only learned to deadly love her, as
he thought, because she had been developed beneath his 'hand,

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.               199
and semed, in some, senses, almost a creation of hisown-a
sort 'of feminine .elaboration of the thought of Frankenstein
within him=--the creature 'of his own daring mind and indomi-
table will. Seventeen! seventeen.! Now the whole truth was
flooded into his consciousness. She was 'no longer a child-
she was 'a woman.' And -he felt that he had indeed loved her
as a' woman, while recognising her as' a gaf pet, a play-
thing .He now understood how deep, how pure, was the un-
utterable fondness that had grown -thus unconsciously into his
life, for her, and how monstrous had -.been the .relations into
which the mother strove to drag-and hold him.
With the first flash; of this conviction, of his real feeling to-
wards Elna, camethe purpose, a stern as it was irrevocable.
He lifted his head and turned, towards the young girl, with
moistened eyelids, and said 'to her solemnly,-and with trembling
lips -
"Sis!-.- Elna,-do you know that you are no longer a child-?
that you are now a woman,?"
The blood sprang to her forehead, and, with downcast eyes,
she said,'in a faintevoice-.'
.I know I'm seyenteen to-day."
" Do you know, too, Elna, that we cannot continue to be to
each other that we have been ?"
"Why, can't ,you be my brother still ?" said she, looking up
quickly, as if astonished.
"'Because you are a woman, 'dear; and I realise now, for the
first time, that I love you as a woman."
Her dilated eyes glistened;,for.a mniment, with a strange ex
pression of exultation, and,' in: another instant; she threw her
arms about the neck of Manton,. and burst ,into the wildest
expressions of mingled ecstacy and grief, in the midst of which
she sobbed out frequently.
" My mother! my poor 'mother.! what will she do ? She will
never consent to this'-it will kill her."'
" Elna," saidManton, calmly,, disengaging. her clasped hands -


200               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRJOM.
rom about his-neck, 'A yourmother is an- evil woman; I know,
and you know, something of :her terrible passions. But she
shall submit to this; my will is her fate--she cannot escape me,
now flat 'it is Thoroughly aroused. She' m  st'bear it-she shall
bear it,iif itskills her. I shall hold no middle ground; and she
'dare 'not stand 'before nie, or openly cross my track. This ex.
piation is due from her to me. She ;has -strven to hideously
wrong me, and-,rong you, and she shall noV reap the conse-
quences. I shall hold no terms with-her; and vyou must fhake
your choice now,-calmly, between us, for ever ! I 'have not
guarded you thus -for .years, with sleepless vigilance, against
her demiohising influence, to-have you fall back at once into her
talons.. I know' it is a fearful -thing to- ask a child to do -to
-sunder all instinctive- ties, and go apart into the house of
strangers; 'but where implacable evil dwells, purity must look
to be grieved in every contact,,and there are no human ties suf-
ficiently sacred to justify pollution of soul and body in continu-
ing such contacts. I love you, Elna -I feel' it now-I have
loved you long, unconsciously; I would make you my true 'and
honored wife, within another year -say the birthnight eve of
eighteen. But mark me, you mustbe separate'from this horrid
mother. Elna, -which- do you choose ?",
She threw herself =hysterically upon.his breast, sobbing'-
"You!--you! Ahm ry poor mother! I see it all! there is
no choice- Yours! I am yours !-for ever yours! She is good
to -me sometimes; butt I know. she is bad-you must shield
me from her. But we will not go away at once -- it would kill
her.- Oh,:my poor mother ! my dear mother ! this 'is hard !"
and 'she shuddered, as 'she clasped him  nore closely in her
arms, and sobbed yet more wildly still.-
Manton-spoke in tender soothing to the gentle trembler, who
continued, amidst bursts of hysteric laughter, and. smiles of
stormy joy, to 'moan --'-Poor mother! how will she bear'it?"
Manton, at iengtig gently released himself- from her -cares,
and placing herdad'up'on the eishion of the sofa, whisper-ed,

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.                201
"Be-calm, Elna ! She must bear it --shewill bear it;Mit is a
righteous retribution,,that has. overtaken her at last. I go now
to tell her every thing. Promise me to be quiet, and wait till I
return. She shall know her doom, in this [same sacred hour in
which I have learned to know myself and yot.";
She buried her face in her hands ad shivered. as he turned
away.
He mounted the stairs with calm, unhurried step, and, tap-
ping at the.door of the woman's room, it was'opened instantly,
and' she met him on the threshold.. Her eyes sought his as he
entered, with a strange and troubled glare of inquiry. His
brow was fixed, and all his features, seemed just cast in iron.
She reached out ,her hand to him, with a vague, quick gesture ;
but he did not accept it. He stood up before her, erect, rigid,
and impassive. -Her eye grew wilder, and a ypt more furtive
and startled, expression glanced across her face, as she. gasped
out feebly--.
" What now! has it come?"
" Yes!"' answered Manton, with a cold, ringing, and metallic
tone ; "it has come, woman! The same curse that your devil-
ish arts brought upon poor Jeannette, has now come home to
roost. We, are for ever severed, and,.on no pretence or artifice,
shall, you ever again, come near me. Know you, woman, that
I love your child with an honest love-have come to a realisation
of the fact, and told her so."'-
She reeled and staggered backwards, shrieking-
"Ah! ah! ithas come at last! I felt it would be so!
There was something in her gait and manner so like stun ed
m adness, that Manton involuntarily sprang forward, to catch her
wavering form in his arms. She thrust aside his clasp, and,
staggering towardsthe bed, fell across it -not in a. swoon,. not
in a bleeding-fit; but in a paroxysm of weeping; in which the
flood-gates of long'years seemed suddenly opened.- There was
no word, no sob, no gesture of impatience, but her eyes ran
always a clear flood of silent tears


SPIEITUL vAML   nid.
Ha!:ha! 'Etherial !'has it cone to thee at last? Is it thou that
must in turn be' -a-vie-d? 'Where-h owthy disguises? Where
thy unnatural triumphs ? O'woman'! rthou woman, 'Etherial?
To Manton, 'the phenonenon seemedtmore moving and inex-
plicable than any we +haye yet described.' She did not sleep,
but always the tearspoured'forth; and for twenty-fdur hours she
did not change her posture, or utter any word, but these, 'which
sent a chill shiver through the frame of Manton, as he heard
them
She' will serve you so, too!"
'Those. words he could -never forget.  It was a ,weary
watching beside that 'bed, that.-Manton had to pass through
before the incessant flow of tears began to' be checked, and
the woman to 'recover something' of her power'sofpeech, at
intervals.
The first thing now spoken was,"I must be content. 't can-
not be escaped! She must be yours, if you can hold'her-!"
A. fearful "if" was that suggested to 'Manton ; but he was
too happy:after all this solemn travail, to notice its.significance--
"I shall try to reconcile myself to 'see you both 'made happy;
while I shall walk aside in the cold 'isolation: of my duties 'to my
mission among:women.".
Manton,. who.had expected a much more sultry and formida-
'ble climax=to this critical 'scene, felt his heart tbund with the
sense of relief, as, when after allthis exhausting watch over 'that
dumb and sleepless flow' of tears, the calm and unexpected
philosophy of this conclusion came to-,his consolation. He had
anticipated a 'frantic, obstinate collision.; perhaps as 'savage as
~it-anight .prove tragical. And his grateful surprise may be 'con-
ceived at the result.
So soon'as this result had been attained, he hastened to im-
part the news to Elna, whose approach to her mother, while in
this condition, had been studiously guarded against by Manton."
When he saw:her,' now, in her own room, to which he eagerly
hastened, she sprang abut his neck, exclaiming-l

I'

ETIIEBIAL SQFTDOW r
"W.ill she bear it'?' Can she live ?"
" My darling, she has passed through a, terrible struggle,, but
she has now awakened to a recognition of what is, and has
been, and must continue to be, the falsehood of her purposed
relation to me."
" Ah !"- exclaimed the young girl rapturously, clasping his
neck still closer--"-" Now I may dare to love you as .much as I
please!"
CHAPTER XXII.
ANOTHER INTRIGUE.
Wrru all the apparent amount of suffering which we have
attempted to describe above, Manton was no little astonished,
not only at the promptness and'completeness of'therecovery'of
the woman Marie, but at the shortness of the time which she.
permitted to elapse before he found her again engaged deep m
a bold and characteristic, intrigue.
He had immediately determined" that Elna should.be sepa-
rated from him until the time of the proposed marriage had ap-
proached. While she was to be sent to New England to prose-
cute her studies under the charge of an artist friend, he himself
proposed to spend the greater part of the year in the northern
mountains, hunting, fishing and exploring.
But before this prudent and 'proper step could- be taken, a
week or so of- preparation became necessary. It was only' a
week since the woman had risen from her bed; a showery
Niobe, as we have seen, when Manton -entered the house one
morning at an hour when he was not expected, he met the wo-
man gliding hastily through a passage, with one. of the sleeves
of her dress gone. The meaning 'of this sign at once flashed
across him, for he remembered to have seen that fair and beau-


204            SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

tiful arm, by skilful accident,'exposed to his own gaze during
her first attempts at diverting' and exciting his passions, and he
shrewdly conceived that there must be somue now victim on
hand, even'already.
"Ha!" said he maliciously, as - she was. hurrying past.
Why, what's become of your sleeve this morning ?"
The woman flushed very red, and her eye- turned obliquely
upon him as she muttered confusedly-
"I-I've lost-it!"
"'Ah, well, come ! Let us look for it !. Let us find it,! The
morning is too cold !, I will help you! I fear you will suffer !"
"No, no, never mind ! I will find it myself!"
"But I insist.! We must find it at once, before you take
cold! Come, we will look in the parlor!"  And he. ma4e a
movement of his outstretched hand as if'to open the door.
She clutched him nervously, saying in a low whisper-
"Don't go in there, I have a visitor !",
But as Manton only siled at this and showed, no disposition
to desist, she continued in an -imploring voice----.
"Don't go in! Mr. Narcissus, the editor, is there ! I will
get the sleeve and put it on immediately:! Don't disturb us
now ; Iam just reading to him-the MS. of my new novel, which
I hope he will undertake to publish in. his paper!"
"Well," said Manton, qmietly stepping: 'back, "it must' be
confessed you are prompt-' in'finding alternatives! I wish you
success in your new publishing enterprise! And I suppose this
bare arm is to have nothing to do with his anticipated commen-
tory upon your text!"
Mantonturned away with 'a light laugh, but the look which
was, sentafter him. would have chilled his very soul could he
have met it. His sneering conjecture wasonly too true: She
had already fastened -upon a new victim. " But for once it
turned out that it was'" file cut file."  She had at lapt met her
equal in all that was detestable--her peer in baseness, and only
an under-graduate to her in cunning.,

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN..              205
She had -selected him as she did all her victims, with reference
to social and,' pecuniary position. He was- at the time a,- co-
editor and ostensible part-owner of one of the most brilliant and
successful weekly papers of New York. She had always aspired
to-command an "organ."   And anything in that line, froni a
review down to a thumb-paper, to her, restless a ibition, Vas
better than nothing. -For by a process more hideous to the
world than anomalous in fact, she had .come to 'reconcile any
degree of private intrigue, by balancing it with the value of ab-
stract teachings for the public.good, under that liberal:postulate
of the school ,to which she belonged, that the end justifies the
means.
In setting herself down for a regular siege before this news-
paper establishment, she had first iii- her eye, all three of the
associate owners. - It was a matter of entire indifference to her,
through which she succeeded in obtaining an entrance to its
columns, which might lead to her control of the future tone of
the paper.. She opened the investment in the-usual form; fire,
by visiting them alone, in their offices;'then by bombarding
them, from the distance of her own writing-table, with a con-
stant hail of those snow-white missives, with the sugared con-
tents of which we have before been made acquainted.
They were each privately and successively pronounced in
their own ears, and under 'eal .of those crow-quilled envelopes,
to be "naughty boys," whose proud and wilful natures were
driving then headlong to ruin-to be sons of genius, whoonly
required to be saved from themselves and their own vices, by
her, to become the illustrious reformers of the age! One of
them sinoked-too much-was making a " chimney of his, nose,"
through which he was exhaling spiritual mightiness, that might
equalise hin with the cherubim, if only free! Bit this unhap-
pily did nqt tell; the shrewd and wary business-man, who knew
more aboutcoppers than cherubim, and was by no means con-
scious of the spiritual prowess she so pathetically attributed to
18


2O6             SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

him,,"smoked" her, or her motive at least, and threw the dainty
correspondence aside, with a jeering laugh.
The other,+-who was really chief editor, and a handsome and
talented fellow, might not have gt off so'well, had he not been
pre-occupied, .and predisposed to bestow the exalted attri-
butes which she had discovered in him, in another direction.
He wag duly grateful to'"her, however, for the discover that he
was a child of genius; -and, though a little disposed to be sus-
picious, could not, for some time, restrain the expression of his
delight at having' met with a lady possessing such unquestion-
able and extraordinary discrimination.
He was a jovial and generous fellow, though very shrewd and
suspicious withal.  She was not quite' aware of the last two
attributes, aid therefore. expected a great deal from him, as he
proverbially drank too much. She, therefore opened her bat-
teries .merelessly upon this weakness, which, as she -affirmed,
combined with the horrible practice of chewing to excess, was
demonisirg an "Archangel! Dragging down the loftiest spirit
of -his.  age ! A spirit that migIht guide the destinies of the
human-race, and. rule it, whether for evil'or for good."  She
particularly desired his salvation. -She prayed for' it, day
and night!   She had, a spiritual monition that -he could
be saved ; and the fact was, he would be saved, if he would
only listen to her counsel! Indeed, she might guarantee he
should be saved; if he would-only give up his poisons, and
dedicate the columns of his paper to the great cause of pro-
gressive hygiene and popular physiology. In a word, the fact
was, he must be saved, whether he wanted to be or-not!
But the-trouble was, our editor was a person who would do
nothing on compulsion. -.And when'he fond that such a pow-
erful edict had gone forth, that he must be saved, he swore, in
his benighted obstinacy, that he would be  .  if he would!
This ledi through his spleens to an explanation between him-
self and-the business-man of the firm, and what was their mu-
tual 'astonishment, on privately comparing "notes," to find that

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.                20T
one was absolutely a "Cherubitn," and the other an " Arch-
angel!" They looked at each other with a blank stare of sur-
prise. The tawney, lean, angular, iron-jawed face of the busi-
ness-man suggested anything but the plump, and dimpled out-
lines of that prolific progeny of winged infants, which Raphael
has rendered so illustrious. While, in contrast, the features of-
the young editor were remarkable for their plump and child-
like freshness.
4 Why!" shouted the business-man, with a tremendous
guffaw, "there's a great mistake here -she 'has clearly mis-
directed the notes. You should be the cherib !"
The breath of a simultaneous roar of laughter dissipated all
her fine-spun web, in these two directions, at least. She was
more successful, however, with the third party.
Manton had been deceived, egregiously, in regard to this
man's past history,-or.he would never have permitted him to
pass the threshold of the house where he lived.  He had
known him only as- ostensibly associate editor of a highly-
respectable paper, and therefore had not felt himself called upon
to interfere in any way. Although he had, as we have per-
ceived, early indications of his having become a frequent visitor
at thehouse.
To have gone any higher in her classification of him than she
had already gone in that of his associates, would have puzzled
any less versatile genius than hers. But. as cherubim and arch-
angel had already been used up, she placed- him among the
"principalities and powers in heavenly places," and there he
decided to stick. It was certainly time for him to be pleased
with elevation of some sort, for, as it turned out afterwards,
when his history became better understood by Manton, he was
one of those slugs, or barnacles of the press, that, cling about
and slime the keels of every noble aid thought-freighted bark.
From the precarious and eminently honourable occupation of
writing obscene books for private circulation, "getting up"
quack advertisements, interpolating the pages of rau['De Kock


208           SPIRITUAL' VAMPIAISM.

-with smearings of darker filth than ever his mousing vision had
yet discovered ,in- the sinks and gutters of Paris, he had gra.
dually risen, through his facile availability, to the sub rosa
respectability of a well-paid "sub" in a respectable office --.I
say sub rosa, for it seems-to have been" well understood, in New
York, that the appearance 'of his- name, at- the head of the
columns of any paper, would be' sufficient to damn it, outright,
so linked had it become with sneaking infamy of every sort.
However, this-" dhild of genius" and Madame progressed
bravely towards a mutual understanding; 'and billets-doux flew
between them thick'as snow-flakes. ,As for their contents, the
reader is 'by -this time, pretty well prepared to conjecture. In-
terviews, from weekly tosemi-weekly, crowded fast upon each
other's heels; until, at last, Manton began to perceive that, not
only was the sleeve lost every day, but that the new novel, like
the pious labor of the needle of Penelope, "grew with its
growth."
About this time, however, it came to his knowledge, that this
highly respectable literary personage, Mr. Narcissus, had been
as notoriously abject in his private relations as he had been in
those to the press.' However, as he had. determined to drag
Elna from beneath the. clutches of her mother, and to sever all
reinote,: or even possible connection between them, he did not
feel himself called upon to do more than announce the fact to
Madame that the fellow was even now an infamous stipendiary
to a party no less infamous tlhan himself, who had privately fur-
nished, him, out of her ill-gotten gains,' the money to buy his
share in-the weekly paper she was so ambitious of controlling,
through him. As he had now 'to expect, she received the news
with the most refreshing ycolness, and merely remarked, that it
was no fault of hers that this.bad, woman had loved' Mr. Nat-'
cissus; that he possessed-great talent in affairs; could be made
of much use in, the cause of human progress and advancement
--in a word, 'deserved to be: saved, and to save him she meant.
{ She should rescue him from such gross and debasing associa-

ETHERIAL SOTDOWN.                209
tions, and give to his astonishing energies a nobler bent; 'that
his future life; under her inspiration and guidance, should be
made to atone for the past.
This logic seemed so very conclusive and characteristic, that
Manton made no reply, but a shudder,.at the thought of that
saving process; to which, despicable as he was,'a new ,victim
was to be subjected. But it' was no part of..his ,plan to divert
her from her purpose ;. for he wished, by all means, toj see her
active and dangerous energies employed in any direction;;save
that of the subversion and counteraction of his own design in
regard to her daughysafter, was sent to New.England, with the
understanding between Manton and herself, that' she would by
no means consent to return to -her mother, until he himself
should come back from his tour, and should send for her. He
did not dare to trust her for an hour' beneath the accursed
shadow of this domestic Upas, that had given her birth;,and
more particularly did he dread the hideous combination of in-
fluences which were likely now to be brought to bear upon'her,
as Madam    had openly announced her intention, since she
had obtained a divorce from her former husband;,to marry the
delectablesNarcissus.
dNWe may as. well dispose of this affair at once, by remarking,
that in a few months afterward she did marry him; that the un-
fortunate woman, who had heretofore so long lived with and
loved Narcissus, 'instantly withdrew the support which her ill-
gotten gains furnished'; and that, asserting her rightto the-share
which he had pretended to own in the property of the paper,
and disclosing the whole of his infamy to his former partners,
the cherubim and, archangel indignantly.kicked him- out of
doors, and at once toppled about the astonished earsof Madame
all her castles, in the air reared, with regard to "controlling a
powerful organ."
But Madarne, as we have perceived, .was possessed of one
of those elastic natures which always rebound from collisions,
18*


210

SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

or which, in a word,. U6never say die ;" so that, instead of being
discouraged by this untoward conclusion of her ambitious
schemes, she-set herself to work forthwith to make the best of a-
bad bargain; and, as she had already exhibited. her passion for
professional spouses,.in immediately converting her first and
dear Ebenezer, into an M. D., she could not do less than make
a Doctor o't of her-beloved Narcissus.
It did not matter to her that both of them were ludicrously
ignorant--that neither of-them had probablyever read a book
clear through in their lives; rparchments were dog-cheap in New
York, and could be had any day for an equivalent in hard coin.
She accordingly "put him through ;" and in something less
than three months, one more legalised murderer wjs turned
loose upon society, under the cabalistic ogis of M. D.
CHAPTER XXJV.
REANIMATION.
AMIDST the green and savage solitude of pine-haired hills,
wild-bounding streams, and islet-fretted lakes, asleep, 'twixt
gleam and shadow, -where the bellowing moose still roused the
echoes, and the light deer whistled to the brown bear's growl,
and-the trout leaped, flashing from its clear, still home, Manton
_etiewed his life once more, in refreshing- communion with
nature.
It was not till now that he realised how terribly he had
suffered during his long and hideous bondage. His physical
health had been shockingly impaired; the elasticity of his con-
stitution seemed to be gone forever ; but it was only in the pre-
sence of Nature, with whom there are no disguises,-that he could
first comprehend, in all its ghastliness, the mental and spiritual
deterioration that had gradually supervened. 'He scarcely knew

I

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

211

himself, now that, he had found-his way back to the only stan-
dard :of comparison.  He was profoundly humiliated, but not
utterly despairing.
He.felt his chest already beginning to play more freely, and
a deadly sense, as if a thousand years of suffocating oppression
had lain upon his lungs, was beginning to be dissipated before the
pure air of the mountains, and the exciting pre-occupations of
angling and the chase, in the rough wilderness-life he now led;
and beside,-there was the image of that wizard child, that had
so grown in beauty beneath his hand,~that- sat forever in his
heart, glowing and, fair, to warm 'it with a new life of hope.
How studiously his fancy exalted her. Each fortnight brought
him a package  of her daily letters; and though in spite of his
isolation; and his idealising enthusiasm, as he eagerly read and
re-read them all a thousand times, and' carried them near his
heart, to keep the glow there all alive, he could not help
realising at times, with mournful presentiment, their hollowness,
the entire absence of ingenuousness and natural dignity which
mostly characterised them. He would feel his flesh creep
strangely too, as he recognised their close resemblance in aiti-
ficiality of sentiment and tone,-to those first letters he had ,re-
ceived from her mother.
Buthe earnestly strove to banish"'all such impressions; he felt
as if they were pofane, as if they'were a monstrous wrong to
her, as well as to himself. That she was too young -as yet to
have:developed into the full faculty of expression; that she was
timid, and dared not trust herself to- speak freely out; that she
feared his sharp criticism, and did not say everything that her
soul moved her to speak; that she dreaded his analysis; and, in
a word,' had not quite overcome, in -her. feelings towards him,
the instinctive apprehension of the master, 'the preceptor, which
so long lingers in a youthful mind.; and'this very timidity, of
all things, he was desirous of removing, as he felt that, so long
as it remained in her mind, the full and entire reciprocation of
confidence, which the jealous exclusiveness of passion de-


212

SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

hands, could not take place.  He felt that it was a most
hazardous experiment he had been unconsciously makin
thus attempting to develope and educate a 'wife, especially under
circumstances so unusual and ill-omened. He therefore fatally
persisted in. blaming himself for.the-.self-evident shallowness of1
Rlna's letters; and would not hear to the whispers of his con-
non sense, that the chitd, was a mere chip of the old block.
So that still, in spite of his determined idealisation of her,
e these evidences stared him in. the face with. each new,
yearned-for,.and eagerly-welcomed budget of letters from her,
they enly servd to fill him, to a more sensitive degree, with the
dangers of this excessive timidity, and the necessity of greater
spiritual activity and tenderness of treatment on his part that
might arouse her to a more full realisation of the sacred confi-'
dences which- love implies. His letters to her overflowed with
natural eloquence ; and all that was chastening, ennoblin fair
and pure, in the inspirations surrounding him, were lavished in
the prodigality of an absorbing and overflowing affection Upon
this fair, hollow idol, that his passion alone had rendered all
divine.
Tliis brooding,, constantly and long, upon a sinle image,
amidst the solemn privacies, the wild and' dear soleinnities of
primeyal nature, was quite sufficient to give, intime, to an na-.
ture possessing the intensity of that of Mantoi, a sultry tinge
of monomania1, in reference to it- This was clearly the case
with him now. Her image, glorified through ,his imagination,
now killedd all his lice; he saw her everywhere--where the beau-
tifu might be, it took some shade of semblance to her--where
the d wers gave outtheir-odors to the breeze, it was to him
tearoma ofher presence-; when the wild berry tingled his
palate in a nameless, ecstacy of flavor, the taste was of his sense
of her, when, in their last kiss, her 'lips were touched to.his..
But it'isa strange thing that, with all the fervor of this pas-
sional attraction, "e never dreamed of her at all; she never,
came tohis soul when his senses were asleep. This single fact

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.

218

might have warned 'a man of imagination less 'excited than
Manton. This happy delusion had at least one good effect, as
it enabled him, by a single effort, to throwoff all his dangerous
habits, and return from his tour, to New York, with a 'freshened
and invigorated frame, and a soul chastened indeed, but 'filled
with wild and eager hopes of the golden-hued Utopia he had
framed out in the wilderness.
Elna had returned and met him. . Alas-! how his heart sank,
as, on the meeting, he felt the rainbow-hues all melting from
out the visionary sky, and he took into his arms a cold, overact-
ing, artificial semblance of his passionate ideal! He felt as if
the sky had turned to lead, and- 'fallen oW him; and the first
image recalled to his mind, was-of the sick and monkey-imp,
souliess and animal-eyed, that he had years ago rescued, in
compassion, from the demon-talons' of the mother. He clutched
her desperately to his heart, endeavoring to recall the soul he
misses, and that she had lost, while he had been away. HA
felt as if there were fire enough' in his own veinsito make a soul
-to fill that delicate and graceful organisation with a subtler
element, that might answer to the ravin, of his sympathies.
No such response as he yearned for came; but he felt in-
stantly , from the contact of her hand, that fierce and sultry
thrill, the memory of which had lingered so long with him,
tinging his imagination with a lurid light amidst the white clear
calm of nature's inspirations. He would not give up now ; he
had loved too long already-or, rather, the habit of confounding
passion with love, had become too confirmed with him, for it to
be readily possible that he should make the clear distintion be-
tween images nurtured in his own-mind and the objective real-
ity. It was his own mistake ; he had expected too much of the'
child--ihe must'give her time to gain confidence and speak out
herself.
Infatuated mai!' She only wanted. a few hours' contact to
speak out himself to himself, through the Odic medium!
And so it proved. Her organisation soon took the key-note

N


214              sI aiwTw  VAMPnI M.
from his, and, in a few :hours, responded as rapturously as he
could desire, to the inost vehement expressions of his enthu-
siasn.
First. and foremost, she showed to him the drawings that she
had raade- during-their long probation. Among them were
some so characterised by a firm,. exquisite ,delicacy of hand.
ling, that Mariton regarded them with delighted wonder;-ore
especially as the defect in EIna's pencilling, which he had always
noticed and lamented, had been precisely contrasted with the
excellences here displayed.. .EIna's had, with all its gay and
mocking eccentricity, always been trembling and uncertain.
The want of smooth, and poised,,directness in .her harsh, rude
handling, had often been contrasted by him in his lessons to her,
upon art, with the clear, firm, and mathematical precision of the
lines of Moione. He- could not. but exclaim impulsively, on
examining them. curiously-=
"Why, dearest, you-have equalled the brightest excellence of
the style of Moione in these. Ah, how I love you for this ! you
are deserving of all that. I have dreamed and thought and felt
of you, since I have been away."
The blushing girl slid into his embrace; and that moment was
to Manton a sufficient compensation for all the self-degradation
and the .humiliating conditions through which he had passed.
He was now to attain the coveted crown and glory of his life
as he conceived. An artist-wife ! Capable, inspired, true, and
a "help-mate" indeed, through whose assistance and tutored
skill lie night embody in realisation those. fleeting and majestic
creations which visited him, not alone in dreams, but in the real
impersonations of his habitual thought. It had been a dreary
of such chate beanty,-that :all these visionary forms might be
transfigured to him in the alembic of art, through love, and be-
come, in form and color, fireside realities of the canvass...
We shall see how vague and empty was this fanciful dream,
as yet.

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.            215

CHAPTER XXV
THE SEPARATION.
HAD it ever occurred to Manton to reason at all upon the
subject of his passion for this girl Elna, or had it been possible
for him, under the: circumstances which had lately surrounded
his life, to reason concerning her, in any sense, he must and
would have felt howrominous such a passion in reality was. To
be sure, he did not feel that the. relations into which it had been
attempted to drag him by the mother, had ever been voluntary
or accepted on his part; he had loathed and rebelled against
them from the. first.
But this did not, in reality, niake the fact of his having con-
tinued near her-to -occupy the same house-any the less offend.
sive to the moralsense ; for, taking the best aspects of the case,
the durance had not been a physical one, and he-might, if he
had so willed, have walked himself bodily off, and thus escaped
this horrible entanglement ; but he had not done so. Although
we have endeavored, as some etenuation, to trace the reasons
ihy he had not thus acted, yet we have found  no excuse suffi-
cient, in all this, for the new sin he has committed,-in daring to
love, and contemplating honorable marriage, even, with-the
daughter of such a mother. But we have naught to extenuate,
naught to set down in malice, in this too fatally true narrative;
we have related it because it is true, and because we felt it to
be our duty to do so, that. others might be warned. of these
things,'which may, perhaps, enlighten the reader somewhat, as
to the character of the new thraldom to which Manton has been
subjected.
It must always be borne in mind, in speaking of Manton and
measuring his actions, that although the nervous sanguine tem-

T 4


216

SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

peratment predominated to an extraordinary degree in this man's
organisation, the tendencies of his mind were, nevertheless,, un-
usually conservative, This rendered him, necessarily, a man
of habits; and therefore, more than usually liable-to suffer from
gradual and constant encroachment t for, if his quick'sense has
not instantly det~eted the danger on its first presentation-if his
ear has not }recognised the serpent's hiss at once, among the
flowers; hisfearless hand would ,soon be caressing. the shining
reptile, and .bear' if, it might- be, even to his own bosom. It
was this tenacity of habits which had rendered him so. easy to
be imposed upon.' Nothing was- so. difficult for him to. throw
off as- a 'habit; for, from the intensity of his nature,it always
cost himtthe- suffering of a strong excitement before its chains
could be broken.       '
Manton found, very soon, after his return, that what he most
dreaded now, was to bey at once precipitated, which was a sepa-
ration between himself and Elna. .Not that -he did not fully
concede to the general propriety and prudence of such a step;
for he; remembered that he had at once proposed. the previous'
separation, when, he came to understand the nature of hisfeel-
ings towards her ; but that- had been when she was to be placed
beyond the reach of her mother, and they could be both out of
town at the 'same time ; but now that his-business made' it im-
perative - for him to remain in New York, if he dreaded before
lest she be left with the mother one day. even, were not the same
causes operating still, and with redoubled force, when, in addi-
tion _to her -baleful contact, he had to .contemplate that of the
creature she had married,?-
The'moral and spiritual' grime of such a contact was enough
'to blast an angel's -bloom  to sully, the purest wing that ever
winnowed dream. He must be there to shield his fair treasure
always, till the time had come when. he could snatch her for
ever beyond their reach. But the war had now fairly opened.
On the very day of' his return, Mantonhad been not a little
astonished to find the heretofore abject and 'cringing otherr turn

I

f
i
c

ETHEIAL SOFTDOWN.    .917
upon him, suddenly, with a lofty insolence, that seemed at first
incredible ; but his surprise .and anger rapidly gave way to
wonder and stunned amaze, at finding her exhibiting the most
unparalleled phenomena of brazen, grave, deliberate falsehood
that ever still imagination, in bottomless conceit, had conjured
as the thought of demons in dark hell. - This was yet, strange
as it mayseem, a most terrible realisation to have .come upon
his life ; though he- had, up to this time, known that she was
unscrupulous, as far as the attainment of influential connexions,
for the dissemination of her theoretical views, was concerned -
that she was, in this respect, a dangerous and an evil woman-
that her influence would make her presence deadly to purity, in
her own or the other sex; yet, he had not learned to regard her
as utterly God-forsaken. The veil was now lifted. The scales
that had ,remained fell forever from his eyes. 'Shei now stood
revealed, not as he had heretofore striven to palliate his convic-
tions concerning her -the ferocious fanatic of one idea  the
cunning and detestable Jesuit of a "A cause"--but 'as the
incarnation of, unnatural passions and a demonised selfishness
He trembled to his heart's core at the thought of that fair young
girl, whom he had learned to love, being left to the tender mer-
cies of a monster such as this. He saw at once the whole nefa-
rious scheme that had been concocted between herself and her
worthy coadjutor.
This was but the initial step. This precipitation of a quarrel
with himself, which would~ bring about at least a partial
separation with Elna, and then their subsequent game would
slowly ands surely accomplish the rest. Was it likely that a
wretch like this pink of 'Adelicacy, Narcissus, who had be-
fore, for years, been steeped to 'lips in that monstrous traffic
the sale of bodies as well as  , would quietly permit to slip
through  s fingers a lovely and fascinating girl as Elna had now
grow    -P e, over wig's value, in dollars and cents, he had
gloate          rst ? or was it likely that his worthy consort,
who had eil y learned to appreciate the convenience of such
'19


 218            SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
speculations, would not fully coincide with him in his view of
the policy of defeating 'Manton, who,' in the event of success,
woeld be sure to separate, her from them as far as the poles are
sundered ?
We shall now see how-far the young lady herself' was likely
to, -or had already, become a party to such utilitarian views.
Manton had left the house, and 'taken board elsewhere. The
same evening, he visited Elna, who.received him alone in the
warm, well-lighted , .and neatly-arranged parlor. :Manton had
come in the most hopeless mood, for all the results of this sepa-
ration had been most fully and painfully impressed. upon him
since the first indication of the rupture that had led to his quit-
ting the house.'
The, young girl sprang eagerly to meet - him, and with a
bounding caress clasped his neck, exclaiming
"Dearest one, you must not look so sad ! We are to have
the parlor thus every evening, when you, shall come to see me ;
when we shall be very stately and proper folk. I shall play the
dignified matron in anticipation, and you shall be my very wise
and solemn lord and master. . Mother is not to permit any
interruption, and, we shall have such nice and easy times.
Come, sit down here by my side, -and let us begin to play
stately. And clear up that gloomy brow of yours,'for I am' de-.
termined that 'we shall be happy !"
Manton could only smile faintly, as he seated himself.
"Ah, heedless child, you do not see in all this gay vision, the
black and" deadly realities that. couch within its shadows!. I
understand your mother's game fully.- This will note last long;
and you are about to. be sorely' tried, my little love !n'
His head fell back heavily,  his eyelids drooped with an
expression' of unutterable des . dency. Elna, who had been
watching hinr eagerly," now flew to his, side, and taking his.
head gently on her shoulder,. commenced caressing  is face-
in a- peculiar manner. She did not absohluty tou'it,. but'
her lips crept over certain portions with a slow snale-like mo-

ETH RIAL SOFTDOWN.                -219
tion, while the deep 'heavings of her. chest, disclosed that "she
was breathing heavily upon them, and a certain greenish dilation
of the pupil of her eyes revealed--what ? . Ah, horror! and she
so young! 'What? what ! is, that the mother's art ? Let us see.
The lines of the man's face are sunken in the expression of
hopeless prostration. Soonra slight twitching of the'nerves be-
comes evident, then a faint smile breaks across its pallor; the
inspirations become deeper, and she breathes with almostaon
vulsive energy. The glowing air lingers and burns along -the
sensitive' temple, and now it pauses on the cheek, close beside
the ear-ha ! her arm is about his neck ; is it a wonder that the
blood mounts flushing to that man's cheek and forehead, that
his eyes fly open filled with wild and vivid fires, that a shudder-
ing thrill is. running through his frame, as he stretches forth his
arms to her, with a low, ecstatic laugh, of passionate yearning,
while she clings about him, and their lips meet, in a burning,
lingering kiss, and then, with a'-light laugh, she springs beyond
his reach, and dances in tantalising mockery about him, per-
mitting hie 'but to touch her for a moment, eluding-his grasp,
with yet more subtle sleight, until exhausted by morbid excite-
ment the unfortunate man sinks upon the sofa?
This picture is only, but too real. But why should Manton
have endured the repetition of a scene like this? He was.a man
of habits, and for years, before a thought of passion had for
once intruded upon him, this young girl, under the sacred shield
of childhood, had been taught to approach him with fondling
caresses. There seemed no danger then, but when the real
time for danger came, he felt a vague and general 'monition of
it, yet failed to locate it where it really rested. These caresses
had become so- dear and 'natural to him; they seemed so
harmless.
He blamed only himself,. cursed only the unetherialised gross-
ness of his own nature. There was to him far too much of
affection and accustomed tenderness in all this to arouse his sus-
picions for a moment. He hated 'only himself, and strove oni


22~~       $PSIRITUAL VAMP'IRISM.                  ~HRAIS'TOI                                       2

eaoh of these now frequent occasions, to chasten, bythe sevetest
selftinfdted penance, his own soul.
In the meanwhile, this modern Tantalus grew thinner and
more pale each day ; was wasting rapidly to a-shadow, beneath
auch scenes as we have witnessed.
The girl, Eha' grew fairer and more strong each day-..
seeming to have fed upon his slow consumption.
We will not dwell upon} such 'pictures farther. It was enough
that all the consequences dreaded'by Manfon followed,.in slow,
but sure' progression, and that the, last blow the subtle couple
struck at him -wasfully characteristic and consummated the
separation.
Elna had seen- little, as yet, of public amusements, and her
strongimitative faculty had led her to-express. a passion 'for the
stage,'which Manton greatly 'dreaded, "and had' particularly
wished .to guard her against, Until her mind should become more
fully developed, and until he, himself, should possess the legal
right to attend her, upon 'all such occasions. He hadtherefore
at all times resolutely opposed heroin g to any publ, place
of amusement, unless he could accompany her. But now
it happened that, being engaged in bringing out a new work,
with the press only twenty-four hours behind him, urging him
inexorablyfor a certain amount of'daily matt  WhichIefthiMno
leisuretwhatever, except a few moments, which i wrested from
the vortex, for the short evening re-union with her he so loved,
he had, therefore; no time left to accompany her to such places.
Here the enterprising couple saw at once their advantage;
the mother understood what Menton did not, the extreme shal-
lowness of the character he had 'thus perseveringly idealised.
She at once laid siege to her passion' for dress and display, as
well as novelty.' They bought her fine and showy clothes, and
urged her first. to accompany them to concerts, then to theatres,
and then to public ball-s.
When the young girl first came to Manton, all pushed with
'eagerness, to show him her finery, and 'ask him if she might not

2ao

i'i
X
i

go with her dearamother and her new "papa," he felt his heart
sink unutterably within him. lie reasoned with her long and
earnestly; endeavoring to inake her understand how impossible
it was for a woman who was to become his'Wife, to appear at
any public assembly in the -city of New York, with a person. so
notorious as this, whom she had thus, suddenly, learned to style
"papa."?
Rut he soon found it to be all in vain.; for, when he-told her
if she would only be content to wait a few weeks until his book
had been published, that he would himself dedicate any amount
of time she might require to visiting such places with her-she
still urged that she did-snot see why it was improper for her to
accompany the man whom her mother had '.nharried; to any
public place-that her new dresses were so beautiful-that she
wished to attend this magnificent concert.
Manton sighed heavily and only answered in 'a mournful
voice to her repeated entreaties---
"Alas ! poor child,' 'my dream is; nearly over!\ I see they
have bought you' with the tinsel of a fine dress and new ribbons!"
The child wept and fondled and caressed; but' all her arts
failed this time. His heart felt like lead within him; and he no
longer had nerves with life enough to be played upon.- But she
went that night, nevertheless, and the great- gulf had sunk im-
passably between them.
Manton was now again a madman. In the pride of his hope-
ful loye he had built magnificent schemes, which his singular
energies had rapidly placed upon the firm basis of realisation;
it only required the calm exercise of his own will to 'conisum-
mate all and make his name illustrious. But he had not labored
for himself-and she, for whom all had been achieved, ,was no
longer his-she was gone-utterly gone! She had sold hei
birthright, and was no'longer his. The world became'dark, its
honors and its ambitions as nothing. To recount'the wild and
desperate extravagance by which he dashed to earth all that he
had achieved, as the 'heartless and hideous shallowness of the
19*

21.

FTHERIAL, SOS 'TDO WN..

1
'


222              sPxRnITUAL-vAmprars$.
phantom soul he had been worshipping became, with each day,
more apparent, would be only painful to the'reader, who can
well understand what to expect from the recklessness of'such a
madman. Suffice it that the separation was complete. He last
saw her, but for an instant, on hei- eighteenth birth-night, to
commemorate 'which, the mother, in pursuance of her schemes
had assembled a large party at.her house. 'This was to have
been -their wedding-night ; and Manton, though long .since
hopelessly separated from bet, could'not resist the passionate
desire to see once more, upon this.night, to which he had so long
looked forward with holy raptures, that face and form._
He rang the bell, and, by a curious instinct, she recognised
the characteristic pull, and met him alone 'at the door 'She was
lovely, radiant even, as she' had sometimes come to'him in his
wild, imaginings. .Dressed in pure white, with a wreath of
flowering myrtleresting lightly on her brow. There was a look
of exultation on her face which she 'had not been able to-throw
off, as she came' forth from thew admiration of the crowded room.
Manton took her hand -- r
"Ah, child you are very lovely'now-=- you look just. as I
dreamed you would look on this night, when you were to have.
been- my bride. My eyes are filled with blood, now! I cannot
see you any more ! Farewell! farewell !" and he rushed from the
door into the dark street, while she, who had-spokenno word,
made.inoattempt to detain him, turned cold!gback, and entered,
-with a beaming face, the scene of her new triumph.

c     SI

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.           228'

CHAPTER XXVI.
DESPAIR.
" The white feet of angels yet' upon the hills."
MONTHs and months- had passed, and yet this wretched man
was staggering on, not this time drunk, literally, but, as though
blinded by red blood, oozing from his brain, which had been
crushed by the weight of this blow. He was wandering vaguely
hither and yon, distracting his brain in ineffectual chimeras, the
very impossibilities of their success affording to him their greatest
attraction. But gradually all this maddened struggle had been
settling, down into one sultry, close, inevitable conclusion of
sullen self-destruction, -which must. result from the continued
precipitation, upon conditions. that promised death in-one form
or.other. He went to Boston while- the cholera was raging
there at its worst. The pretence of the visit, was some wild, dis-
tracting scheme that he had seized upon, and in-which he was
endeavoring to secure co-operation there.
But unfo unately for his mad' purpose, since -that very sepa- -
ration from daily contact with the irl Elna, which was working
so sadly iupon his imagination nowt his attenuated and exhausted
physique had rapidly recovered all its inherent vigor, and' in
animal health and strength he had suddenly become, by an inex-
plicable reaction, mor-e prodigally abounding than ever for many
years. So that fate seemed to have closed up to'him'.any ordi-
nary means of getting rid of himself, except the pistol and the
dagger, from the use of which his manliness unoenquerably
revolted.
But by a strange process of self-delusion, he had managed to
confouid himself into the idea that the abject cowardice of tie
act of suicide might be avoided by a species of half uncnscious
indirection. For instance cholera was rife -in the city, anc he


224               SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
well knew that long warm baths, by relaxing the ,system, would
lay it more open'to the attacks.of any epidemical tendencies that.
might be prevalent; and accordingly, without ever venturing to
explain to himself why, he continued, day after day, to take these
long hot baths -and then to eat and drink, in the quietest possi-
ble way, everything that Was specially to be avoided at such a
time.-
While this novel process was thus coolly progressing, he one
morning met, by the merest accident,-on State Street,' a person
whom he knew to have been long and intimately the friend-of
the lost. Moione aid her -family. .1Vanton eagerly asked him
if he knew where she could now be found;^'for,.strange enough,
her calm image had lately intruded often into the darkened
vistas of bis.thought, from whence -he had supposed her ban-,
ished long ago.
+ler address was promptly given: it was in a remote and
humble district of'. the city ; and, although Manton already felt
the seeds of the disease, which he had - thus pertinaciouslyin-
vited, rioting within him, yet he vowed to himself that he would
at once seek her. His first visit failed.; but the second found
her, thin and wan, stretched on 'a lounge, awaiting she knew
not whom..
With a, short cry of sudden joy, as she recognised his fea-
tures, she sprang -to meet him, as, of old, with a child caress.
Ah, why was it that he felt such. sullen cold, and yet sawlight,
falling like, star-beams upon .the midnight of his soul, as his
arm,s met this fond, and.childishsclasp.? He did not understand
it --but we shall see!.
The physical results, which 'he had so assiduously courted,
could not be 'avoided. As. he had walked about among his
friends already for several days, with the premonitory symptoms
of the fatal epidemic fully developed in his system, and as fully
understood by.hihnself, yet without the adoption, on his own,
part, of one single precautionary step, it was now sure to wreak
its worst Soxie, who. could udt help observing his ghastly ap- -

ETIrEitIAL SOFTDOWN.              225

I

parance, thought him Jnonstrously reckless, and others, hope.
-  -
lessly insane.
Regardless of every remonstrance, he still kept his feet, until,
at length, the third evening found :him leaving his hotel, in a,
hank, which he ordered to be driven,.to the home of Moione ;
and from which he. had to be carried, by the' driver, into the
parlor, where 'he sank upon what he supposed to be the last
couch upon which he should recline in life. A strange, inde-
structible feeling, that he must die beneath her eye,-had urged
him to this last and desperate exertion of the feeble vitality re-
maining in him. He had lain himself there to die ; but why,
the strange purpose that shoe should -minister to his passing
breath? Was it only here that peace could be found for hin?,
Moione was alone, with a timid, young, and undeveloped
sister. Their mother was accidentally away that light; having
been detained by the illness of a friend, joined with the incle-
mency of the night, ,which set in in* darkne s- and storm, in
terror, in thunder, and in blaze. In the me atine, the parox-
ysms of cholera had commenced 'upon the enfeebled frame of
Manton; and the black fear of the night outside only corre-
sponded to the convulsed' and,, writhing agonies which now
tossed him to and fro, in helpless, but most, mortal agonies.
The thunder' crashed, and the frail house shook, and the fierce
pangs shot along his quivering nerves, as vividly as any blinding
burst of lightning' from without.  The 'darkness' which sur-
rounded hiim had been penetrated 'by a" calm, pure light, that
dimmed not nor trembled before the blinding blast. A voice,
the soft, clear, cheerful tones of 'which vibrated not to ,the
quick rattling of thunder-crashes' from without, told'him. of
strength and hope, of peace and a calm future, in. the life yet
beyond him on the earth-that he could not die now,,and should
not !-until his will b came elecirified with a new impulsion, and
-was roused to cope with 'the fell derion that 'had thus, ofthis
own invitation, possessed him;' and, illuminated with asudden


SPIRITUA VAMPIRISM.
and rapid intellection, he directed her how to baffle every.
paroxysm of cramp as it rose.
It is sufficient, he was thus sustained by light applications of
cold-water;-until the passing of 'the storm enabled her to sum-
mon to his aid a physician, whose skilful 'application of the
same, powerful remedy, even in the "blue-stage " of collapse
into which Manton had now fallen, sufficed to relieve him from,
the disease,-.with the vital Fprinciple yet striving .in his frame;
though many days must elapse before those starry eyes, that held
sleepless watch above him, could impart to his dimmed and 'in-
credulous consciousness sufficient strength to nable him to lift
his hand, in' Pague and mournful wonder that he still possessed
a being.
Ah, what an awakening was' this! Deep, deep, beneath the
realms of shadow   dark and deep -he had lain .in long and
dunb oblivion of consciousness. He knew not that he lived;
it was a blank' of rayless rest-a peace without sunshine. low
profound ! how ununtterably still!' What a contrast with the
ceaseless, dreadful tesion. of the moiling chaos of past years,
during which the ,passions had never slept,, but, through his very
dreams, had. moaned in the weariness of strife. Alas! the re-
bellious heart, which struggletjh in' unyielding pride with life,
refusing to concede to its conditions, how it must -suffer? The
World, know little of the life-long horrors of that'fight.-.'the un-
idealizing world, the conservative, the compromising world. It
little dreams' what this self-immolating madman must endure a
to what nights of sleepless' thought, to what days of bleak and
sullen isolation-walking apart.from sympathies that are dis-
trusted and scorned, yet yearned for-hating nothing, yet loving
nothing which is warmed in the embrace of earth, because that
earth -may be accursed in hissight: its barren bosom' has not
yielded to his exacting soul the flowers and streams and echo..
ing groves of 'the' Utopia it has framed within him.
This isthe unpardonable' sin of pride! He dares to 'treat
~wth contempt a ,world that will not. turn to his inspired voice,

P                             ,   ,
l
1

and live as he has dreamed it might live. It is not to be won-
dered at, that the bolts fall thick and fast about him; but when
we see his pale brow scathed and seamed withmany a stunning
stroke, while his-- hollow eyes yet glitter with, a 'deathless and
defiant fire-when we think of, the mortal tension of his unsyn-
pathised life - oh, should we not remember, that this. painful
warrior has been battling, not for base lucre, not for selfish ends,
but for the beautiful, as it has been revealed to'-him-the true,
as he has felt it - for the ideal in him; and that, though
wretched and suffering and wan, it is, after all,
"Of such stuff as he,
The gods are .made."
It is of his suffering that his prowess comes-of his experiences,
his themes-of his solitude, his reach and radiance of thought-,
of his strong will, 'his conquering flight at last. Do not think to
pity him; may-be he is pitying you.. Do-not attempt to "sate"
him ; it may be, it is you who will be damned in the effort.
Only let him alone-do not persecute, him. Let his pride pass--
that is what sustains him;' but for that, he would be like you, a
mere "compromise." ; Give him the same chance that you
give to others around you, and,' although you may -not under-
stand him .now, only give him time, he will make you under-
stand him; it may be, in wonder and in joy.
But this waking-but this waking of the weary man! Was
it a 'new birth--a new resurrection-or, a mere waking from
a light sleep, without a dream? The world upon  which his
shrinking vision now opened was filled with sunshine -,he was
blinded with the glory thereof. He closed his thin eyelids, and
the splendor came through them, all rosy-hued. and dimmed,
that he could bear it; but there was a starlight for him too,
and her could bear its calm effulgene better.
Yes, there were two stars, and'they were tempered, that they
might neither freeze nor slay his ,feeble life. When they came
over him, as he lay in a half-trance of weakness, he could feel

XJ IIERIAL -OFTD0WN.22

227


228

1'

SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

them through- his -eyelids and upon', his heart; 'and they were.
warm, and he felt, his heart 'warm, as buds to the unfolding
spring. - A dim-remembered music flowed" into his soul, faint
and dim, but oh, sweetly mellowed, that he might not die ! .
There was :a rustling, top,-it was as of a tempered wind,--.
and a soft touch; it sent no thrill, but it was of healing-it sunk
into his life in strength. A strange, balsamic tenderness, like a
new sense of peace and joy, pervaded all his being-and a new
growth set in apace, and a 'dim remembrance of ancient strength.
flitted into his' thought.
Ah, ha! this wondrous presence, what was it? Moione, the
ministei-ing -Moione ! It was she! 'Ever there, sleeping and
awake, she leaned over him. When he dreamed, he dreamed
of a fair spirit, that hung upon the air above him, on viewless
wings, and ever, with still eyes looking upon his, shedding their
soft radiance deep into his -soul. No wonder that life,-in swift,
light waves, came flooding in again; no wonder that the crushed
and much-enduring man became as a child once more, and
laughed out in the ,sunshine with a simple joy. The Present
was .sufficient unto him; he remembered not the Past now-the
hideous, the spectre-haunted Past. What was~it to him,, when
serene hope thus smiled ? Ah, it was 'a happy time, that period
of rapid -convalescence.. Yes, rapid, for his heart beat freely
again. The natural sun could reach him; no lurid delusion, like
miasmlatic fog,- hung over to intercept the rays.
4 They talked of the future, and peopled it with wild dreams,
like children; until 'it all became as real to them ,as their own
being. .
There was a strange and mournful romance, connected with
the or in of'oione's family, that pointed at possible realiza-
tionsin another country, through inheritance, that would be' as
gorgeous 'as the creations of Aladdin's lamp. They talked of
these prospects as of facts. assumed, ,and of all the high-
thoughted enterprises of the day which promised to be of true
benefit to mankind, as already 'achieved, through their aid; and,

I

ETHRIAI 50FTDOWN.                229
with magnanimous simplicity, were already distributing hoarded
and rusting millions to ,bless the world withal.  These were
gay daydreams; but they were innocent, and, Ilthough they
may never be realized, they gave them joy -inspired the yet
feeble Manton with a future.
There could.be but one result to all-this. His health was
rapidly restored; and when Manton married Moione, which he
soon did, his soul now first -found rest. ,The' last that was
spoken between them concerningElna was in a, conversation
soon after,'when she.casually 'asked him-
"Did Elna -show'you my drawings, when you came back
from the 'North?"
"Your drawings? your drawings? She showed me some,
the delicacy and calm precision of which, I remember, 'vainly
intoxicated: me with delight. - But why do you ask,'dear ?"_
"Why, she. carried off from me,' about .that time, certain
studies of human anatorpy, which I had elaborated much, and
which I valued. As I4have never been ably to recover them,
after repeatedlyerequesting 'their return, I thought, perhaps, she
might have shown-thein to you, and then thrown them aside,
through forgetfulness."'
"Ah! hal" said Manton, "I remember now.. They were
assiduously paraded' before me by her as her own. In spite
of my rec gnition of the fact, that she did not possess originally'
and must-have very suddenly acquired, the constitutional steadi-
ness and delicacy of touth'necessary to accomplish drawings so
fine and exquisitely accurate, I never dreamed.,of imposition, of
course; 'and thus, with 'fatal credulity,.set down to her credit,
from what she had stolen of 'you, a new and .infinitely signifi-
cant attribute, which I had heretofore,-speciallyand hopelessly,
in spite of, my passion, denied to her."
"Let us forget-it now," was the quiet response. "She is
only harmful to either of us, as you ,mayiremember morbidly
the' relations which have existed  between you; the delusion is
over "
20

i
'


280               dPiRITUAI VAMPIRIis .
Such was the fact, indee&amp;  anton had, at last found his
artist-wife, and a true and wondrous artist did she prove indeed,
realising 'his fond, high' dreatp. Uhider this blessed - and holy
guardianship, he had returned fully to the'realities of a true
existence . He now saw, felt, and understood all that had oc-
urred in thtlong shuddering dream; and this-rsality he had
attained seeed only the more unutterably precious.
When the calm Mojone revealed to him all the secret of the
bleak and poverty-stricken desolation, in which he found her
living, he was not at all astonished to find- that her mother, who
was a generous, trusting, noble-hearted zealot' of Water-cure,
had been another of the many victims of Boanerges Phospher,
the "Spiritual'Professor."  He h'd not o9xly stripped her wid-
owed isdlationof'all the appliances of-household comfort,' which
years, of' devoted and selflsacrificing labor had enabled her to
collect and' throw together, ;in respectable defence.between her
helpless children and common:want, but had absolutely turned
her out of 'doors, without even; spoon, or knife, or fork left her,
of all this little property which she had'thrown .in rashly, per-
haps, but earnestly arind with a noble dedication of .her widow's
mite, towards'furnisliing a Water-cure establishment.
The cause was' one that she revered for the good that she
knew, ractially, it might accomplish; and Boanerges, who
wasin this case,as usual, profoundly ignorant of what he had
undertaken to 'o, had availed himself of her well-known expe-
rence and knowledge of Water-cure, just so long as-sufficed to
collect around him again a hirsute confederacy of -faithful 4ma-
zons; the strength of ofwhich he thought would be sufficient to
oer-ride'all opposition, and sustain him in the 'valorous'assault
upon helpless widowhood intended. He then openly claimed
her property as his'own, and the 'proud, uncomplaining mother
of Moio e was, of course, plundered of- her iall---victimised!
The sainted Boanerges soon met with a just retribution.V The
partner, to 'wh6m healhad assignedin trust, to stave off his'cre-
ditors, 'all his claims upon this illusti-ious institution, and wiho,

71 _

. ITHERIAL . SOFTPOWN.            28
from the late -chrysalis of a vulgar tailor, had suddenly'-been
emancipated into an M. D of Water-cure, at once sprung upon
him his legal rights, under the transfer, and he was-reduced
again to beggary.
Some method wrested from his- puerile studies of Sweden-
borg, has no doubt,. by this time, andiupon some other tack,
suggested to -the, .Spiritual Professor" just enough of wisdom
to enable him to persevere in ."saving" the elderly New-
Lights- of.the land.
We wish Boarierges happiness in his now-enterprises; for,
certainly, hi versatility at least' comrnands respect.

f1


SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

C1IAPTJER      XXVII.
THE SECRET COTCLAVE.'n
THE Editor finds that here--the connected narrative of Ethe-
rial 'Softdown breaks off. Though there are many fragmentary
notes, which he found in Yieger's Cabinet, which bear a clear,
yet somewhat disconnected relation, to the past and future of
the scenes, and actors already described ; these he has thought
proper to collate, and throw together into something as nearly'
approaching order as their desultory character will permit.
This -man Yieger, seems to have been an enthusiast of a very
unusual stamp. He has, however, left so little concerning him-
self, that we can only say, he appears to have made, it his
business to follow up, in a quiet and unsuspected way, a certain
series of investigations, the purport and"tendency of which was
to unveil a class of, crimes, which, from being secret, were en-
abled to work and worm their way nearest to the core of the
social state.-"
Thus, in addition to the monstrous and unimagined vices de-
scribed by him in the preceding-chapters,-he seems to have dis-
covered secret combinations, the possibilities of which have
probably never entered before into human brains, but the results
of which were as prodigious as the causes were unsuspected.
These were composed of no mystic demagogues of humaiita-
rianism, who sheltered mere partisan and personal designs,
under the broad curtain of secret rituals symbolising philan-
thropic aims ;- no bald enthusiasts, who softly sunk their indi-
vidualities -in an. Order, 'and sold their, god-like birthrights of
universal' benevolence, of world-wide charity, for the -golden
shackles of a ,pretentious benevolence, the selfish code ofwhichb
was,-mutual protection first, and -nobody else afterwards! -

s
i

a
C

These were wise, bold, hardened .men -hardened in the:
rough contests by, the highways of life--who had seen all; felt
all, and known all, that life could give or take. They were pre-
paged for, any of its.extremes, but had outlived its sympathies.
They were incarnations of pure intellection; the accomplish-
ment of the object was their conscience -t-hey despised alle-
gories, and.they trampled upon symbols. Nothing was myste-i
rioJs to them, but an undigested purpose. For them there Was;
no law but that might be eluded=-no sanctities, but as they
might be used-no religion but necessity, which was, -to them,
achievement!
When -such men organised, they merely cane.together,-ten
or a dozen of them,-they required no oaths, no pledges--they
knew each other! "We hold such and such opinions upon
one point only; and thatone point is, mutual interest, and tnder,
that, 1st, that we can govern this nation;.2d, that to govern it,'
we must subvert its institutions; and, 3d, subvert them we will
It is our interest ; this is our only bond. Capital must have ex-
pansion. .Thil hybrid republicanism saps the power of our great
agent .by its obstinate competition. We must demoralise the
republic. We must make public virtue a by-word and a mock-
ery, and.private infamy to be honor. Begit ning with the people,
through, our agents, we shall corrupt the State.
"We must pamper superstition, and pension energetic fanati-
cism--as on 'Change we degrade commercial honor, and make
'success' the idol. . We' may fairly and' reasonably calculate,
that within a succeeding generation, even our theoretical schemes
of republican subversion maybe accomplished, and upon its-ruins
be. erected-that 'noble-Oligarchy of caste and-wealth for which
we all conspire,.as affording the only true-protection to capital.
"Beside these genera views, we may in a thousand other ways
.  apply our combined capital to immediate advantage. We may
buy up, through our agents, claims upon litigated estates,-upon
confiscated  bonds, mortgages-upon embarrassed property,
land-claims, Government contracts, that have fallen into weak
20 *

282

283"

ETJIERIAL SOPTDOWN.


284               SPfIITUAL VAMPIRISM
hands, and all those floating operations, 'constantly within hail,
in which ready-money is eagerly-grasped as the equivalent. for
enormous prospective gains.
"In addition 'through our monopoly of the mahufacturing in-
terest, by a rigorous and impartial system of discipline, we shall
soon be able to fill the masses-of operators and producers with
such' distrust of each other, and fear of us, as to'disintegrate
their radical combinations,-and bring themto our'feet. - Govern-
ing on 'Change, we rule in politics; governing in politics, we
are-the despots in trade; ruling'in trade, we-subjugate produc-
tion; production conquered, we domineer over labor.- This is
the common-sense 'view of our interests -of the interests of
capital, which we represent. In the promotion of this object,
we appoint and pension our secret agents; who are everywhere
on the lookout for outinterests. We arrange correspondence,
in cipher, throughcut the. -civilized world ; we pension our
editors and our reporters; .We bribe our legislators, and, last of
all, we establish -and pay our secret police, local, and travelling,
whose business it is, not alone to report to us the conduct of
agents already employed, but to- find and report to us others,
who may be useful-in such capacity.
" We punish treachery by death!"
Such is a partial schedule of the terms of one of these terri-
ble confederacies, as furnished. -in a detached note by Yieger,
which held its secret sessions- in New York city. - He seems to
have, obtained- a sight of some of their records, but by what
means, the most daring could only conjecture. He appears to
have regarded this particular organisation as the most formida-
blefof all, and to have traced many of its -ramifications, in their
covert results, with A singularly dogged tenacity. -
Among the extraordinary papers contained in the Cabinet
he has left, are to be found -short notes, -containing what are
clearly reports and proceedings of this formidable conclave.
Its ~mysterious signature, Regulus,. seems to have been known
throughout the world; and even he, though clearly a fierce and

ETHERIA SOFTDOWN.               286
relentless foe, never writes it, bit'with the involuntary conces-
sion of respect, which large, clear letters, underscored, would
seem to convey.
Having now presented- such an outline of the character, and
designs of this secret conclave, as the means of information fur-
nished him have enabled him to do,.the Editor will'proceed
with the promised extracts from its proceedings, such as relate
to thosein regard to whom the reader may be supposed to have
some curiosity.
First, we have here
. A NOTE CONCERNING ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.
"This woman, whose patronymic was Softdown, first -mar-
ried a Quaker, named Orne ; which name, after her separation,
and until after her-divorce, she continued to bear, with"the alias
of Marie. *She began her public career, soon after her marriage,
as a Quaker preacher ; but the straitness of this sect Dot conform,
ing at all to her latitudinarian principles, she recanted in; disgust,
and left the society. She now plunged at once into Phfsiology,
and, after a miraculously short gestation, produced a few leires,
with which she went the rounds of two or three New England
States, accompanied by her husband, whom she, sans ceremonie,
dubbed M. D., without putting him to the trouble of reading,
or ever having read, a book on any subject. He officiated as
ner doorkeeper, and received the 'shillings;' but, refusing to
render any account of the proceeds,-a furious feud grew up
between them, and soon the war waxed hot and fierce.
"Finding this to be poor business on thewhole, she deserted
nim, taking her child with her.. Tie next occupation in-which
we find her versatile genius engaged, was that of teaching
French; a more humble. employment, surely, but one. for
which she was equally well fitted. This, however, soon dis-
gusted her, as her unreasonable. patrons would insist. upon
the vulgar :necessity..of her being able to speak French, 'as


-A

286

SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

wll a: teach it. It was at best but a tame avocation, and one
entirely, unsuited to her ambitious temper.
"Having now fairly assayed her wings for flight, she soared
aloft at' once, ip full career, through mid-air. She. became first
a preacher of Universalism.; but meeting, about this time, with
the celebrated Boanerges Phospher, she, in a: few weeks; turned
out fall-plunied, as a lecturer on Elocution.- To his she' soon
addeda knowledge of Phrenology, which, in her active zeal,
she-took care to impart to the world,, as fast as, acquired, and in,
the same public m manner.
" Then, as, a natural consequence, came Mesmerism; then
Neurology. Of ill these sciences she became the prompt ex-
pounder, .f er a few days' investigation.
"From this point she immediately ascended a step higher, and
announced herself as- a revelator in Clairvoyance ; and, by an
inevitable-p.ogression, she at. once found admission, along with
Andrew Jackson Davis and a'host of other seers, into the Swe-
denborgian.Arcana, and held herself on terms of frequent inter-
course and positive intimacy:with the angel Gabriel, and, indeed,
the whole heavenly host.,
They revealed to her that the great and unpardonable sins
of humanity were, first, eating pork; second, using tobacco,
whether snuffing, smoking, or chewing; and, third, wine-drink-
ingin all its tfo ms. They accordingly commissioned her, form-
ally, to go:brth into the world as a-missionary, to warn mankind-
against, the fearful consequences of these vices, and to 'save'
them therefrom.
" Theexposition, of Grahamism and Bran-bread was now
added to the enlarged circle of her enlightened Professorships;
and, bye this aid,; and that of her spiritual commission, she
wrought wonders, in assailing the, camps of the great foes of
humanity-Pork, Tobacco, and Wine!
"Many were the brands plucked by her from'the burning, or
rather 'saved'--preachers, lawyers, .editors, artists, aid wa-
tery-eyed young gentlemen, in -particular. It was or this grand

I-

-ETHERIAL S0FTDOWN.

234

to r that she first assumed her most distinguished attribute, the
Patroness of Art-particularly of the Artists.
"Returning to civilization once more, she again assumed her
cast-off Profesorship of Physiologf, and. began lecturing to
classes of her own sex. Now, with the first gleam- of light
from =Gr efenberg, she, pronounced herself as having.been, for
many years before, a practiitibner of the system; and at once
proceeded to combinetGrahamism, Mesmerismn, Water-cure,
and Physiology.
" While in the vein of Physiology, she also lectured on the
benefits of Amalgamation, Abolitionism, and Non-resistance.
About this time, having met with one of the chief expounders of
Fourierism, whom she also undertook to 'save,' she turned out in
a few weeks a Phalansterian lecturer. That bubble had' barely
exploded, when she came forth a Communist. Shortly after-
wards, having one or two editors 'separately undergoing the
process of being 'saved,' she became authoress'!  She pro-
duced several physiological novefs, :a number of essays, ppems,
volumes of lectures, &amp;c., &amp;c.
"The police which obey the mandates of the formidable
Regulus, have kept the -changes of this feminine, Proteus for
now upward of forty years, steadily in-view; and,the 'Council
of Disorganisation report, through their comimittee, that they
have ample reason to be.pleased with this Etherial Softdown, as
the most indefatigable, active, unscrupulous, and energetic N of
the agents of Demoralisation in the employment of the Secret
Conclave.
"UThey congratulate themselves in the belief that;with an hun-
dred such employees devoted to their service, they could cor-.
rupt the private faith and public virtue of the whole Union -so
effectually,.in a single generation, as to enable them to utterly
destroy its social organisation and subvert its Constitution:
"This would, of course, secure the'desired Oligarchy of caste
and wealth, and reduce the nation to'serfdom.
"She is' to beencouraged, and placed upon the pension-list
of the ' Secret Conclave.'

B


w  ; a                          s
ia' .Ci.
.                 ,
y ;'
sr, l      s
.                                  p
7'              ,
is
v', ,
t a               1
1
i r
3
1
( ,
!.F
5
" )   -   r
L
z~                                  .
e

ETHE1EIAL SOFTDOWN.

Since this report, the latest transformations of*Etherial Soft
down'have been, first, into rabid Bloomerism; in the height of
which madness, she possessed a -suficiency of.the martyr-spirit
to parade herself, 'on all public occasions,-though nearly- fifty
years of age,.in full costume.
By a'nedessary transition, the next step was into a apostle-
'ship.of- the new school of 'Woman's,. Rights'- and 'Abolition-
ism  which openly rejoiees.in the repudiation of the Bible from
among the sacred books of the 'world-accepting it merely as
the text-book -of popular. cantfto be used in working upon the
passions and superstitions-of the mob-
"'This last metamorphosis of Etilerial Softdown seems to be
the most-promising of all those through which the polite of the
'-onclave.' have,- thus far, been able to trace here" *" -

* The' following note was received, in answer to one addressed to
-distinguished surgeon of Philadelphia, in relation to the phenorne
non of voluntary bleeding, so frequently illustrated in the History of
Etherial-Softdown.--EIfR.
DEA   SIR:     ' . -
-"The case which you presented to ine, for an explanation of the causes
which'may have produced volurntary discharges of blood from the mouth,
is certainly a very remarkable one, though by no means without parallel
'in the records of feigned diseases. The power of the will, in persons of
peculiar, formation or constitution, is seen,' occasiorially, to be extended
to- various organs' designed by. nature to act without awakening con-
scipusneqs and in a manner altogether beyond the control of the .indi-
vidual.- TQ say nothing of many muscles of the-scalp, the ears, the skin
of the neck, &amp;c., which) are used to great purpose by the inferior ani-
mls,'but are totally mactive inmanexcept in afew rare instances, it
i's well-known-that many persons posses's the power of voluntary'vormit-
ig. Aboutforty years- ago, a man presented hiihself before a cele-
brated;surgeon of Londen, and proved that he 'possessed the 'ability to
check completely the flow of blood through the artery at the wrist, by
violetly contracting. . muscle of the arm above. the elbow, which, in
his case, happened to overlap and press' upon the' rain trunk of the
vessel. I am acquaintedwith -a' gentleman in this, country, who can
perform-the-same feat. There'is on record a well-authenticated history

HJHAPTER X-XVIL.
REPORTS OF THE SECRET CONCLAVE;
WE continue our reports of the police of the " Conclave,"
so far as we find them relating to Etherial Softdown.and her
friends.
of' a" man who could completely control, by will, the motions of his
heart; and who, eventually, committed accidental suicide, by arresting
the esoeulatlon so long that the heart never-reacted. Ilam acquainted
with a gentleman who can voluntarily contract and dilate the pupil of
the eye tgo asoertain extent; and have-seen the: same effect repeatedly,
and in a far greater degree, 'Umong the-Hindoo jugglers. This action
is natural in'the owl, but probably requires a peciliar nervous structure
in man. So'mepersons have a power of'so completely simulating death,
that neither by respiration, the motion of the ege'under light,-nor the
pulse, could any-unprofessional observer, or even an experienced phy-
siian, detect the counterfeit. One of my servants in India, struck
another Jlindoodwith his open hand, for some impertinence. The man
instantly -fell, apparently dead ; and L happened' to arrive just as the
friends -were about to remove the body, no doubt for the purpose of ex-
torting money by concealhent and false pretences,' I could perceive-no
respiration (the glass-tet was not applied), no pulse at the wrist; 'the
pupil of the'eye wad fixed in all lights. There was, however, a slight
thrilling in the carotid artery; and I judged the case to be- one of ad.
mirable feigning.' Severe pinching-was borne without change of ex-
pression, -as was- also the deep prick' of a pin. For a; usement, I-
pronounced' him dead,'but assured the ignorant natives that -1 would
bring bim to life. On my calling for a little pan ofc'al; always ready
in a bachelor drawing-room in the East,:ffr lighting eigars,;-there. came.
over'the countenanethe. slightest possible shade of anxiety. I ordered
the' patient's abdomen laid bare, and gentlyltoppled a bright coal from
the pan upon it. The effect was magical. Instantly, tlke fellow gave,
the most lively :evidences of vitality; -and, -as he crossed the Compound
and darted through the gateway, he seemed solely; bent upon rivaling
the mysterious' industry of the I man with the cork-leg.'  --.

28

289

$PIRITUAL -VAMPIRISM.

"           ,ti  ,


240                SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.
This report -says of Eusedora Polypheme :-" This woman
is between thirty and 'thirty-five'.years of -age. She is of New
England birth, and eonumenced her ,education at what we' con-
sider the female high-schools of demnoralisation on the Conti-
nent-' the factories.'
" These estalAishments are. especially 'patronised by the
"Council of Disorganisation,' who consider them of vast effi-
ciency, on account of -the well-understood certainty with which
the results' we aim at are achievedunder this system.  So great
is this certainty, indeed, that we may always 'safely calculate
that eight-tenths of the females who seek employment in them
come forth, if they ever do live, ino ulated. with just such
principles and habits as we dtesire to have spread among the
rural population to whiclthe'.'majority of them return. -tCot-
rupted themselves,' they act aas'dinirable mediums and con-
ductors of corruption to the class from whom they went forth
iniocent, and 5hich receives them again without suspicion.
Besides the spinal diseases, affections of 'the lungs, twisted
"By strong Contraction of all the muscles of the chest, while those
of thesneck' are rigid and the lungs fully-inflated, the vessels of the head
and neck can be, distended' almost to bursting.. Actors sometimes' use
this power to produce .voluntary blushing,"or the suffusion of anger,
though the practice endangers apoplexy. Take this to'be the secret
of the voluntary bleeding, in the case describedby you.
!'" The 'tonsils, andthe fmembrane of the throat behind,.the nose and
mioutb arg full.of innumerable blood-vessels, forming a -net-work ; and
very slight causedoften" produce great enlargement of these vessels.
By frequent temporary distension, theyare. not only permanently en-
larged, but.made more susceptilrle; of additiona.-expansion from trivial
accidents. 'In this conditions'they may brought to resemble, in some
degree, what is termed,'by-anatomists, dhe erectile issue, which' struc-
ture has sufficient contractility to prevent the 'admission of more than
au ordinary amount of blood on common occasions, but when excited
in any wayhit yields with great ease, and admits of enormous ilata-
tion. . Erectiletumors are dangerous,from theirtendency, ultimately,
to reedpontaneoaly. They are sometimes former inlrthe that Te

ETHERIAL SOFTDQWN.                    241
bodies, and deformed limbs, which the greater number of these
girls take home with them, all the foolish .romanticism of girl-
hood has been thoroughly crushed out of them, by the morale
which we have promoted in these institutions, and theirminds
and tastes have become even more vitiated than their bodies.
"It will thus be seen that this factory system  is our chef-
d'auvre of demoralisation of the simple agricultural classes.
'But in yet another aspect' the results, it will be perceived,
are still more brilliant. We soon found the necessity of creat-
ing a public sentiment in favor of our system, which would put
a stop to officious investigation and interference with our plans.
We accordingly established a defensive literature, in the shape
of dainty serials, announced as being edited by the factory-girls
themselves. These were filled with sentimental effusions, written
principally to order, outside the factories, the general burdenof
which consisted in poetico-rural pictures. of .the joys brought
horne -by the patient~ atnd industrious factory-girl, to. some hip-
shotten father or bedridden grand-papa.  These little incidents
sels by habitual mechanical distension, by compressing the chest in the
manner just described.. There is such a natural tendency, in all parts
about the throat and nose, to bleed from slight causes, particularly
after repeated inflammation, that it strikes me as by no means wonder-
ful, that a designing person should, by long-practised mechanical efforts,
aided, perhaps, by the consequences of former colds, reduce these-prts
to a condition such that they would bleed from voluntary distension.
The only wonder in the case is the quantity discharged, while this person
does not appears to be subject to involuntary hemorrhage also. This
result will probably occur hereafter, and the impostor may share the
fate of the man who arrested the motion of his heart.
"These cases of feigned diseases give great vexation to army sur-
geons and almshouse physicians; and, in :private life, are often resorted
to by the cunning'and unprincipled, for the .purpose of harrowing the
feelings of relatives, from some sinister intention. It might well be
wished, that the case you -describe were one.of the most difficult 6f de:
tection, but it is far from being so.
"Believe me, my dear sir,
~"Very truly, yours," &amp;c.
21~


- 24~

SPIRITtAL VAMPIRISM.

were studiously invested with all that'charming unexpectedness
and die-away'bathos, which is so attractive to girlish imagina-
tions; and so satisfactory to elder philanthropists. Then there
was still another' class of romances,, cultivated with yet -more
fervid unction.' These consisted in stories of a 'lovely young
girl,'who,:all' for 'love of independence;' gave up a home of
luxury, to comwsto the factories and make a living for herself,
independent of her natural guardians. How this stout-hearted
young ladyone day attracted, by her beauty, the-attention of a
handsorfe young-gentleman of romantic appearance, vho visited
the mills along with a party of other strangers.. HoW the sro-
mantic young gentleman was very -much 'struck, while the
strong-minded Angelina was rendered' nervous ; how the
heart!-stricken' after many trials, succeeded in moving -upon
the heart of the ' sleepless gryphon' of morality with whom
Angelina boarded, to permit him to have an interview  at
least in said gryphon's presence ; how that then and th re the
young gentleman, in the most 'proper' way declared h self,
sought Angelina's -hand;, and was-accepted ; and how he turned
out to be te son' of a' Southern nabob, and Angelina, from'a
poor factory-girl, became one of the foremost ladies of the land;-
and. how, though, she, never forgot her dear and happy com-
panions of the factory. This same susceptible young South-
erner' isF the standing hero of four-fihs. of these girls, and, is
he does' not come -every year to make them all rich, we may
coigratulate ourselves upon the general morals cons quent upon
such reasonable' expectations.
Out.of one or two thousand girls, there are usually a few
who exhibit some sprightliness. In the ratio of the ductility
of their characters; are they sure to be selected, ard= brought
forward 'by our managers; and' in proportion as they exhibit
tHeir availability, 'are they readily promoted to editorships.
_  Y Y P                   toeditrshps-
They receive private salaries, and are released from any other
than norfinal participation in the routine of factory labor.
Fror this distinguished caste of young ladies of the factory,
Eusedorg Polypheme originated.

ETHElIAL sQFTDOWN.              4Ad
"We expect gratitude from all such. favored parties;rand
Eusedora proved. the most grateful  of the grateful.  She as
readily took to the shallow limpidity of Mr. Little, alias Tommy
Noore, as ever did callow cygnet to the drains of a Holland flat.
She possessed, indeed, a marvellous gift of sentiment-a sac-
chariferous faculty, that would have caused Cerberus himself to
have licked his jagged lips. She was accordingly encouraged
to cultivate transcendental, tendencies, exchanged with the Dial,
and, after a- few months' exercise, she spoke like a veritable
thoness.
-"    " Considering "that she had now made herself sufficiently
familiar with
The celestial syren's harmony,'
to make her of value to us abroad, we placed her on our pen-
sion-list, and turned her loose upon society.
"Thisstep the Committee.have never had cause to .regret.
$he leaped upon the social stage, a specimen of what the, factory
system~ could produce - achieved the lioness at once, and had,
the honour of being hailed in all circles, a phenomenon, a lusts
nature -the world was undecided which, considering she was
nothing but a factory-girl. They must be eminent institutions
surely, since they could turn .out young ladies who talked so
' divinely,' possessed 'such' command of language, and were
such favorites with the gentlemen!
"There was- a society, too, not very far off from this, into
which she had forced her way,.and which haughtily called itself
'the' best,' that held its court in houses with dingy outsides, that.
lined the back-alleys; but, amidst garish ;and sickening splen-
dors.within,-the 'highly' intellectual' character, of the hollow
eyed and painted queens who presided there, was equally owing
tp the educations they had received at the ssme 'eminent' instill
tutions -. on1y they had had more soul and less cunning than
Eusedora Polypheme, and would not, therefore, have been so
available to the Committee..


I

'SPIErflJ.L VAMPIRT9 '.

244,

"When a class is already sunk as low as it can sink, it is rit
our policy to go aside to interfere with themyfor they are sure
to fecundate in degradation fast enough; our sole aim is to drag
the grades above down to their level, which we consider a sWfe
one   .
" There is nothing so dangerous to the designs of the-'Corn.
mitfee of Disorganisation, as soul ---what the world calls heart.
To an executive power, these are always considered intrusive
and distasteful superfluities; and it vas because Eusedora has
managed, by some surprisingly efficient process, to rid herself
of both, that she is to be so-trusted.
"Besides parading her accomplishments everywhere, as
merely a fair average of the education of a factory-girl, she
very soon mapped out for herself a very peculiar field for ope-
rations. She became the -leader 'of a new school of Platonic
Sentimentalism, in New England. This was an achievement---
a decided triumph. She soon gathered around her a host of.
feminine disciples--principally young and unmarried, with pre-
mature wrinkles on their brows.,
"After years of close observation of the operations of this
sect, its police would' beg to express to the Committee their
unqualified admiration of the results obtained. Theincrease
of the number of suicides hasbeen gratifying. The number
of young men and girls rendered worthless-for life ; the number
of elderly men plundered and cajoled out of their means and
driven into dotage, is only equalled by the surprising rapidity
with which the fanaticism has spread; indeed, it would seem as
if thg first step towards all the popular forms of fanaticism, is
through Platonic Senfimentalism.
" It seems, that it is'through the teachings of this school, of
which Tusedora Polypheme is now the acknowledged priestess,
that the hollowness and unsatisfactory character of all, our natu-
ral sentiments and passions is first perceived. This illumination
achieved, it becomes necessary that their place be supplied by
what the world would call morbid sentimentality and unnatural

.

ETIIERIAL POlTDOWN.24
passions, but which Eusedora P4lypheme aptly terms, 'spherical
illuminations' and ' divine ecsthcies.' But since we know, as
well as Eusedora, that flesh is ft sh, aid blood is blood, we can
therefore calculate, with great precision, whither such mystifica-
tions must lead,
"Hardened and sharpened in mind and temper, by a gradu-
ation in- this school, its disciples pass, not from it, but through it,
'into other, and, to us, not less important fields of activity. Hence.
come the fiercest and most unscrupulous partisans of Infidelity,
Abolitionism, and Woman's Rights. Having learned both theo-
retically and practically to disbelieve in themselves, by the- most
natural transition in the world, they become, infidel of all other
truths, and 'scorn all other sacrednesses alike. They are then
prepared. to be of use to us in a variety of ways. The spirit of
antagonism, the love of strife and notoriety, have assumed in
them the sense of duty, justice, and modesty ; a spiritual diabllerie.
has possessed itself of the" emasculated 'remains of womanhood
left in them. Only give them a chance for martyrdom -only
give them an excuse for the cry of persecution, and upon what-
ever theme or theory, ology or ism, that may promise to afford
then. such healthful and natural excitements, they will at once
seize, and, hugging the dear abstraction to their bosoms, do
battle for the same, with a cunning and unscrupulous ferocity
that has no parallel.
"But for their thorough training under the teaching of Euse-
dora Polypheme, they might, perhaps, be sometimes disposed
to pause, and inquire if there might not be two sides to every
question; whether they might not have made some slight mis-
take in crying out 'Eureka' so soon. But, fortunately,' they
are never troubled with this weakness; and, as their capacity
for mischief is not, therefore, liable to be impaired by any maud-
lin conscientiousness, or feeble questioning of their own infalli-
bility, or that of their teachers, they are from the beginning as
valuable as trained veterans.
" The jargon of 'the sect, which they acquire with wonderful
21*

SAC


N.

246,

SPIRITUAL VAMPIRISM.

facility/constitutes their logic; and their efficiency in the use
of this weapon, consists in the savage, 'waspish, and persevering=
iteration of, its phrases, at all times and on all occasions.
"It is astonishing, 'the ease with which the majority of man,
kind. can be bullied, -especially from within the bulwark of pet-
ticoats. But when at once the terrible aspect is hid behind the
mask of Circe, as the followers of Polypheme know so well to
accomplish, the lower becomes resistless indeed.
"' rhe principal weapons of-offence used by the followers of
Polypheme, in all their subsequent metamorphoses, are, first and
foremost, what is technically termed the 'electrical eye.' This
is the most brilliant 'and. effective of their weapons. It is not
by any nwans necessary that the spiritual Amazon should have
been gifted by Nature, in this respect ; for the arts of Polypheme
were clearly inspired from
'Some other deity than Nature,
That shapes man better.'
"After 'long practice, the power is acquired of dilating or
straining the 'eyes wide open, and suffusing them at the same
time." The moisture gives them a marvellous effect of electrical
splendor. As this habitual tension can only besustained for a
few seconds at a time, Polypheme- happily offsets it by the
modest habit of dropping her eyes towards the floor, or a
filow4r or book in her hand; then up go the
'Downy windows close'
And out leaps-another  humid flash, to electrify her audience.
" Greatenergy and activity of gesticulation is recommended,
in order to distract attention, as much as possible, from the fact,
that these' cruelly-worked 'eyes sometimes run4 over with the
'salt-iheum'=-of any thing but,'grief.' A loud voice, too, is
especially recommended-as, without it, somebody else might
be heard in the room.
"Secondly, a thorough knowledge of the minor dramatics of'

_       _  ,

247

emphasis is also suggested. Sneers should be thoroughly practised
before the glass, as well as interjections, exclamations, shrieks of
wonder and surprise. The grimace of rage, worked up with great
ferocity, without the slightest regard to the poor victim. Scorn
should be lofty and incredibly superb; archness, irresistible,
taking care not to pucker the wrinkles in the brow too much;
sentiment, nothing short of the white rolling-up of two huge
spheres in spasm. Childlike simplicity requires great practice
in the dancing-room; it is very effective, when artisticallydone.
Favorite poets - Petrarch, Shelley, Mrs. Elizabeth Brownson,
and her husband, 'poor Keafs.' Gods - Tom Moore, Byron,
and Author of Festus.. High-priest of the Arcana-Emerson.
Priestess - Margaret Fuller Ossoli. Apocalypse - The Dial,
&amp;c., &amp;c~
" Travelling should be studied as an art. The many corre-
spondences held in different portions, of the country should be
made the dutiful occasion of sentimental {visits, which, as they
may be protracted for a month or two, will, no doubt, result in
the effectual 'saving' of some half-dozen, at the very least, of
both sexes. Neither scrip nor money need be provided for the
journey; for is not the laborer worthy of his hire?: Besides, who
ever heard of a. lioness carrying a purse? The world owes all
its benefactors a living.
" It is necessary to be an authoress-abundantly prolific and
intensely literary: to write dashing, slashing, graceful letters,
in which your own superbhorsewomanship 'shall always figure
most prominently;, next, your own disinterestedness; next,
your own amiability, and dangerous powers of attraction; and,
last, the' dashing, slashing,.graceful character of your own wit;
your romantic love-affairs,~by bookk -and meadow, on-highway
and in byway, by ocean-side or in greenwood.
"These, with a lofty scorn of the commonplace, a darling
love of the arts-that is, you. must know the names of the pic-
tures, and what they are all - about, but 'most particularly the
names of the painters. And if somebodysays the picture is a

ETHERIAL SOFTDOWN.


248               SPIRITUAL VAMPI1RSM.-
goodone, be on term's of intimacy with the painter, or at least
in close correspondence with him; and be sure he is a 'noble.
spirit,'-a ' divine creature,' one of the 'elect of genius,' whose
'eyes haye been unsealed to the touch of the Promethean fire:'
"Must know French, Italian, German, and Spanish phrases,
out of the PronouncingDictionary. Quote theses occasionally,
but very guardedly, when you are. certain there are no apeish
foreigners or troublesome old fogy scholars present.
" This panoplied, the novitiate will be, in -every, sense, the
equal of Eusedora Polypheme herself, and entitled to go upon
the pension-list of the Committee. Indeed, we. are booking
them rapidly, and sending out missionaries in every direction.
"The disciples of this school are among the chief favorites.
of' the 'Committee of Disorgar isation.'"
CHAPTER       XXIX.
REPORTS CONTINUED---REGINA STRAIGlITRACK.
WE have already obtained a glimpse of -Regina Straight-
back, in character. Her tall Indian-like figure, with her pictur-
esque and semi-manly costume, will not be readily forgotten.
The, faithful police of the.' Committee -of Disorganisation,'
in course of a detailed report concerning this woman, says:
"Regina Straightback is nearly as unbending in temper.as in
figure, which peculiarity renders her of somewhat less avail, to-
us than such more ductile -natures as her fast friend, Etherial
Softdown, and her soul's sister, Eusedora Polypheme.
" However, she possesses an availability of her-own, which is
invaluabl in ifs way. She' is incontrovertibly the Amazonian
queen of the 'New-Lights.' Her commanding figure and her
dramnatic carriage, together with her -unanswerably positive and

ETHERIAL $OFTDQWN.            249

'Io

imperious manner, have, as implying a natural gift of command,
won for her the universal 'suffrage of her sisters militant. - So it
never fails that, bg a species of spontaneous' acclaim, she is
selected to' preside "over all convocations of 'the 'faithful;'
whether held in public or in private
" By tacit consent, she has, therefore, -come to- be regarded
as the actual figure-head of the' bark of Progress; and, hence,
there is no movement,. on the part of feminine schismatics,
worthy of attention,'to which "she has chosen to deny her pre-
siding countenance.V
"This renders her, of course, a very formidable and import-
ant person, in all the 'New-Iight' agitations of the day. Con-
scious of supremacy, she exercises it without hesitation; and,
with a boldness that is startling to' all parties, dares to assert
outright those opinions which, in reality, lie at the bottom of the
whole agitation in which they are engaged.,  '
"Indeed, not only does she defiantly-assert them openly on
all occasions, but openly lives up to them in the face of socir
ety. While hier followers modestly say, they-want wonan's ciif
rights in marriage, she courageously asserts, that there is no mr-
riage except in love, and that the civil contract is -like any other
partnership in which equivalents are exchanged.; and, by way
of proof of her sincerity, she boasts, publicly and privately, of
the'terms on which she married her'present husband ; -who, by
the way, possessed considerable property. 'I do not love you',
sir,' said she; 'I love another man, whom you k,.ow. If you
choose to take me on these conditions, I an ready to mary
you.
"yThe charming candor of this proposal won the day; and
the superannuated'-sew-Light' Was fain content to exchange
his hand and fortune for her hand, and to leave her heart to
settle its affairs in some other direction.
. ' This is the sort of frankness in which the ' Comrtittee of
Disorganisation' do most rejoice. They regard it as a highly
favourable -oten, when a 'distiguished female' can take such

. ,
i,


250             RITUALL VAMPIRISM;

grounds as this, and be publicly sustained by thousands of her
sex; for with whatever gravity they may pretend to repudiate
the doings of Regina Straightback, in this one particular, it is
very certain, that they must regard it with secret favor, and that,
this is the principal cause of her universal and overwhelming
popularity.,
"They regard her with a species -of covert adoration -as' a
heroine, who has first, since Fanny Wright,. dared, in living up
to. principle, to do thatwhich they are, all, in, reality, yearning
for courage to do themselves.
"The chaos -of 'social. licentiousness, to which the- general
acceptationI of such doctrine as-this must lead, may be regarded,
to.say the least of it, as pleasantly nmelo-dramatic. When one
woman may go to the house of another, and say,"' Though thou'
hast been bound to this. man, in the holy bonds of matrimony, yet
these bonds are of no moral force; though thou hast borne to this
man children from iis loins, yet the- factthat thou hast suffered
gives thee no claim upon him, for it is the penalty of 'thy sex;
and. that they are bone of thy bone, pnd flesh of his flesh, gives
thee. no just hold upon him, but rather upon the' State. And if
thou hast 'nursed' him in sickness, he' -has fed-thee and clothed
thee, in ample, equivalent; if thou hast loved him, he has loved
thee'; if thou. lowest him still, it- is, 'thy weakness. Get thee
gone!' This man no longer loveth thee; he is mine. Thou
shalt surrender to me thy nuptial couch; there is no true mar-
riage but in love!'
"Nor does the ~candor of Regina Straightback rest with
practical declarations such 'as these ; she goes quite as,. far
in other: directions.  She does not hesitate to denounce .the
Bible, as sanctioning all the oppressions of woman-as the mere
tool of the priesthood, the orthodox of whom are banded, to a
man, in mortal opposition' to their rights. She recommends the
use of it, as a means-to those who are more disposed than she
is to Jesuitism:of ,conquering by. indirections.  They may
influence and control the masses, by invoking its sanction, to be

'ETHIERIAL SoFTDOWN.           251

p'
4
A
f

sure ; but she, for her own part, will..have nothing to do with
subterfuges; she rejects the Bible systemin toto, as-false-false
in fact and tendency. God has made woman sufficient unto
herself in the universe. She can and ought to protect herself;
and if she does not, it's her own fault.
" The Bible might do for men; but women possess a higher
spirituality, and stronger intuitions; they do not need it. Man,
with his heavy logic, never gets beyond a truism or a self-evi-
dent fact, of the .mere physical world; while woman, with her
electrical inspiration, leaps the ' large lengths' of universal law,
and, like a conquering presence, glides within the spiritual,
supreme. It is thus that, scorning all bonds of sense, she
knoweth that she doth know !
"The announcement of these tremendous propositions would,
of course,.be calculated to have an overwhelming effect upon
the tender adolescence of thousands of bright spirits -- to elec-
trify their hearts and souls with the novel consciousness of
claims and attributes, of which they had never dreamed them-
selves or their sex to be possessors.
"The result has been, of necessity, the, institution of a femi-
nine order of 'knight-errantry,'of which the Quixote has yet to
be sung.
" The Committee do not generally employ such agents as
Regina Straightback; but as the time seems to have practically
arrived, owing to the preparatory labors of Etherial Softdown
and Eusedora Polypheme, they seem to have conceded that
such ppretensions may be safely risked, though, it is well known,
they usually do far more harm than good to any cause.
"The fact that such a step may be safely ventured upon,
seems to be the most encouraging token of the progress already
achieved, and of the ultimate and triumphant success of the
exertions of the ' Committee of Disorganisation.'"


SVMPIIS.  JERTIAnL soFIOW,

..    t Y IJ        _                 {T +i
1(  {,   t 1t'  (.       v
Lk 7
k'v1!  , y,               i7
te j                     .      r        M1
VtP7 '           .                  t
5r  7,

IZMWT Y .AR B ONE'S 1T" QTT.

T     prgo'es onto say-.
"JBut What the circumscribed wits of Etherial Saftdown, the
divine  ggtishr ents of EusedoraPQlypheme, the defiant un-
serplQusaess of Regina Straightback, failed to accomplish,.
napiely, the onvul ing ;of.al Phristendq, by one dexterous
jugglery of cant, was left to be achieved by our at present
ot .honoredag1nt, Euiity Barebones Stout.
rtwill . seen ,by herigenealogical tree;,asj;indicated in
her middle na e, that she came, as it were, prepared,
through .a long table of  engelicai descent, :for the work
before .her. -Nothing could--be conceived more apropos: the'
blood of the Covenanters in -thb veins of the modern New.-
at.': prpsned inits passage thrg gh, New England Puri-
Wnigit has now become as professionally capable of splitting
hairs, as it formerly was of splitting heads. And then there was
honoredsal,inwhichit
Poq~~ AIJ it L~A d l  fU

: ure'  s ooquirs orth -
1eprAnatinr of the exactintonations of.which does amarvel-
19 ,~egit to the antiuaria proclivities of hjs distinguished
line.Thenthere is a. cthate rstie   anunad of doggerel
sngehes', confessedly, Witlig]  hyhm, because they were in.'
spired;   . which U     Jther arebones and Poundtext were
pculiar1y otedin tirheW y,-w1  hiseems to ioveha ben trans-
mitted,; withoutthe ;ightest deterioration of manner or em-
phasis. 'And, in addition, there was an ecstaticism of text-
ology, to which these revered fathers uniformly resigned them-
selves, abpnt the time they had -reached their sitet,

I

;
r  _ .'
'..
r..
,

From coughing trombone down to hoarsened piye'--
no fecundant' sprightliness of doggerel-no illuminated aptitude
of text, betwixt Daniel in the lion's den, and Death on the pale
horse-no syllogistic or aphoristic touch of bedridden theology
that has been in vogue sinde the time of Luther, but is at the
-      tongue's-end of this Cyclopean. daughter of the 'Fathers of the
Covenant.'
c.Admirable  admirable#! What was to prevent Humility
Barebones Stout-from -using these rightfully derivedr'and ex-
traordinary gifts for' they god of humanity ? "Not that she had
thought anything inore philosophically about it, than that the
good of humanity ought to consist with the claims of her inhe-
rited renown, her caste, and her prescriptive rights. Not that
she cared particularly who suffered; but being of a hysterical
and exacting temperament, she had come to the conclusion that
her own, the white xace, had conspiredagainst her --that they
were jealous'of her- would never yield to her ancestral claims
*  a fair precedence. '       ''        -     '
"Her pride would not permit her to cry persecution for her-
self and in her own name ; for she had been, lo! these 'many
days ! a tireless scribbler and notoriety-seeker, in .appeals;. to
her own race, through the legitimate .channels of current litera-
ture,,on the simple basis of her own individual, experiences and
the inspirations proper to her sex and grade. .These having'
failed to attract any attentionbeyond the day's notoriety, an4
from the additional fact of the most labored of them having
been consigned to oblivion ,through the pages of silly annuals,
she turned herself about in wrath, to avenge -her wrongs. Her
heart was filled with bitterness.
"She. had known Etherial Softdown, with jealous unction;
she had communed with Eusedora" Polypheme, in hopeless
22

the facilities of which seem to have been ruoxe than improved
upon by their modern representative. In a word, no reach of
nasal effect,

'    ;r

SPIR UAT;
P=- -V-

253


24sxrg4                     VA.
enulatioa of spirit; she had shrunk before the lioness. mood "
of the triumphing .Regina Straightback, 'She felt that- she was
displaced -"that she had been left 'behind. She saw that they,
were all too proud, or too far advanced, to condescend to use the
rusty weapons which had fallen to her by inheritace;" that they
had, set theeNPet above her,.on the .platform of progress; that
they at- least called the semblances of science and 'philosophy,.
through their terminalogies,.to aid tem; while they left cant to
their menials-
"She felt,. that she was as bold as they.  In what, then,
consisted her weakness? 'Could the fault be in her 'stars,' that'
she was still {an 'underling? - ' Ha! ha!, ha  Cant- cant !
cant'. and -she laughed out,.with' the exultation of Soft-
down's first 'Eureka!  'Cant! cant! I have it! It descended
to me from Barebones, my illustrious ancestor. Insolent bel-t
dames! I will show them! They affect to quote the pure
strains. of philosophy.--
"'To imitate the graces of 'the gods." '
We shall see ! we shall see ! I hate my own race ; it .h's not
ipprejiated me. 'What care I for white-slavery and its abuse&amp;-.
for fairnes,'for tr th ?  Cant ! cant! By its magic, I shall
"Show as a sno wy dove trooping with crows."
.Fireka' Eureka!"
Ztha ual!_ ah, Etherial! the race hath not been to the swift,
nor th4b -tle to the strong.-thou hast been overshadowed!,
THE END.

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLIATIONS.'
THE C0NFE8StONS           OF AHOIUSEKEEPER.
BY M-RS. JOHN SMITH.
WITH THIRTEEN RUMORQUS ILLUSTRATIONS.
One Volume 12mo. Price 50 Cents. -
Splendid Illustrated Books, suitable for Gifts for. the .holidays
THE IRIS: AN ORIGINAL SOUVENIR FOR ANY'YARN.
EDITED BY PROF. JOHN S. HART. 
WITH TWELVE SPLENDID ILLeMINATIONS, ALL FROM ORIGINAL DESI(WI
THE DEW-DROP: A TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION.
WITH NINE STEEL ENGRAVINGS. -
GEMS FROM THE SACRED MINF N
WITH TEN STEEL PLATES AND ILLUMINATIONS.
~ 4~nd'~Iffnug#-
WITH FOURTEEN STEEL PLATES AND ILLUMINATIONS.
THE STANDARD         EDIT IONS OF THE POETTS-
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.
ZORDAND EADYBEARCOURT:
OR, COUNTRY HOSPITALITIES.
BY CATHARINE SINCLAIR,
Author of "Jane Bouverie," "The Business of Life," "Modern'Accomplishments," &amp;e.
One Voume 2mo. Price 50 center, paper; cloth, fine, 75 center.
A Book for every Family.
THRE DICTIONARY OF. DOMESTIC MEDICINE ANDl HOUSEOLDBUROldTRY
BY SPENCER THOMPSON, M.D-, F.R.C.S.,
Of Edinburgh."
ILLUSTRATED WITH NUMEROUS CUTS.
ITED AND.ADAPTED TO THE WANTS OF THIS-COUNTRY, BY 'A WELL-KNOWN
PRACTITIONER OF PIILADELPHIA.
In one volume, demi.octavo.
A-TALE OF TWO WORLDS.
BY W. M. CARPENTER,
'AUTHOR OF 4CLAIBORNE SE' REBEL," "JOHN THE BOLD," £0., £0.
One Volume 18mo. Price Thirty-seven and a Half Cints.
WILLIAMS'8 NEW MAP OF THE UNITED STATES, ON ROLLERS
SIZE. TWO AND A HALP BX TElREE FEET.
A new Map ef the United Statesuo widn are delinieated its vast works of Internal CommuN~.
cation, Routes across t~he Connent, &amp;c., showing also Canada and the island of Cuba
BY W. WILLIAMS.
Thie Map is handsomely colored and mounted on rollers, and will be' found a beautifti and useft'
e.mament to the Counting-House and Parlor as well as the School-Room, Price Two.
26


LIPPINCOTT, GRAMIBO. &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
SCHOOLCRAFTS GREAT NATIONAL. WORK                ON THE
FART SECOND--QUARTO.
WITH EIGHTY BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATIONS ON STEEL,
Engravedi the first style of the art, from Drawings b  Captain Eastman, U. 8.4.
-         PRICE, FIFTEEN DOLLARS.
COCKBURiWS -LIFE OF LORD JEFFREY,
IF           OF LORD JEFI#'.RIEY,
WITH A SELECTION FROM.HIS CORRESPONDENCE!,
BY  LORD CO0CKBUR-N,
One of the Judges of the Court of Sessions in Scotland. Two volumes, demi-octavo.
"Those.who know Lord Jeffrey only through the pages of the Edinburgh Review, et but a o
sided, and not the most pleasant:view of his character.",                get
"We advise our readers to obtain the book, and enjoy it to the full themselves. They will unite
with us in saying that the self-drawn character portrayed in the letters of Lord Jeffreyis one of the
most delightful pictures that has ever been presented to then."-Evening .Bulletin.
"Jeffrey was for a long period-editor of the Review, and was admitted by all the other contribu-
tors to he the leading spirit in it. In addition to his political articles, he soon showed his wonderful
powers of criticism in literature. He was equally at home whetherhcensuring, or applauding;
his onslaughts on the mediocrity of Southey, or the misused talents of Byron, or in his noble essays
on Shakspeare, or Scdntt, or Burns."-New Yorke Express.
PRICE, TWO DOLLARS AND A HALF.
ROMANCE OF NATURAL HISTORY;
OR, WILD SCENES AND WIL) HUNTERS.
ITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS, IN ONE VOLUME OCTAVO, CLOTIL
BY C. W. WEBBER.
"We have rarely read a volume so full of life and enthusiasm, so capable of transporting the
reader into an 'actor among the scenes arldpersons described, The'volume can hardly be opened
at any page without arresting the attention, and the reader is borne along with the movement of a
style whose elastic spring and life knows no weariness."-Boston Courier and Transcript,
PRICE, TWO -DOLLARS.-
-THE LIFE OF WILLIAM PENN,
WITH SELECTIONS FROM HIS CORRESPONDENCE AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY,
BY SA-MUEL M. JANNEY.
Second Edition, Revised.
"Our author has acquitted himself in a manner worthy of hi subject. His style is easy, bowing,
sad yet aententious. ;Altogether, we consider it a highly valuable addition to the literature of our
age, and work that should find its way into the library of every Friend."= iend ntell cr,
PhilwIelp~lia.                        -.1
"We regard this life of the great founder of Penlsylvania as a valuable addition to thd literature
of the country."-Phiadelphia Evening 2ndletia. ure
"We have no hesitation in prunouncing Mr. .Ianney's life of Pen  the bsbcuetems
satisfactory, that has yet beeii written. The author's style is cleaan nnvobe, bcse te st
to the-purposes of biographical narrative."-Louiasjour,   r ndunnvlvd ndWel uied
PRICE, TWO DOLLARS.

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATION.
LIPPINCOTPS CABINET HISTORIES OF THE STATES,
CONBI5TlNG OF A BERIEB OF
Cabinet Histories of all the States of the Union,
TO EMBRACE A VOLUME FOR EACH STATE.
We have so flr completed all our arrangements, as to be able to issue. the whole series in the
shortest possible time consistent with its careful literary production. SEVERAL VOLUMES ARE
NOW READY FOR SALE. The talented authors who have engaged to write these Histories, are
no strangers in the literary world.
NOTICES OF THE PRESS,                           -
"These most tastefully printed and bound volumes form the first instalment of a series of State
Histories, which, without superseding the bulkier and more expensive works of the ,safne chara-
ter, may enter household channels from which the others would be excluded by their cost and
magnitude."
"In conciseness, clearness, skill of arrangement, and graphic interest, they are a most excellent
earnest of those to come. They are eminently adapted both to interest and instruct, and should
nave a place in the family library of every American."- N. Y. Courier and Enquirer.
"The importance of a series of State History like those now in preparation, can scarcely be esti-
mated. Being condensed as carefully as accuracy and interest of narrative will permit, the size
and price of the volumes will bring them within the reach of every family in the country, thus
making them home-reading books for old and young. Each individual will, in consequence, bec-
familiar, not only with the history of his own State, but with that of the other States; thus mutual
interests will be.re-awakened, and old bonds cemented in a firmer re-union,"-Home Gazelle.
NEW THEMES FOR THE PROTESTANT CLERGY;
CREEDS WITHOUT CHARITY, THEOLOGY WITHOUT HUMANITY, AND PROTESTANT-
ISM WITHOUT CHRISTIANITY:
With Notes by the Editor on the Literature of Charity, Population, Pauperism, Political
'Economy, and Protestantism.
"The great question which the book discusses is, whether the Church of this age is what the
primitive Church was,,and-whether Christians-both pastors and people-are doing theirduty. Our
author believes not, and, to our mind, he has made out a strong base. He thinks there is abundant
room for reform at the present timer and that it is needed almost as much as in the days of Luther.
And why 1''Because, in his own words, 'While one portion of nominal Christians have busied
themselves with forms and ceremonies and observances; with pictures, images,.and processions;
others have given to doctrines the supremacy, and have busied themselves in laying down the
lines by which'to enforce human belief-lines of interpretation by Which to control human opinion
'-lines of discipline and restraint, by which-to bring human minds to uniformity of faith and action.
They have formed creeds and catechisms; they have,spread themselves over the whole seld of the
sacred writings, and scratched up all the surface; they have gathered all the straws, and turned
over all'the pebbles, and detected the colour and determined the optjine of every stone and tree
and shrub; they have dwelt'with rapture upon all that was beautiful-and sublime; but they have
trampled over mines of golden wisdom, of surpassing richness and depthalmost without a thought,
and almost without an effort to fathom these priceless'treasures, much less to take possession
of them "
PRICE, ONE DOLLAR.,        -
SIMPSON'S MILITARY JOURNAL.n                                           _
JOURNAL OF A       MILITARY     RECONNOISSANCE FROMy SANTA              FE, NEW
MEXICO, TO THE NAVAJO           COUNTRY,
B Y J A MES H . S IM P S ON, A .M.
FIRST LIEUTENANT CORPS OF TOPOGRAPHICAL 3ENGINNERS.
W I TH S E VE NT Y-F IVE -0 0L OU RE D I LLt11ST RA T I0N S.
One volume, octavo., Price, Three Dollars,


IPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
TALES OF THE SQUTHERN BORDER.
BY C. W. WEBBER.
ONE VOLUME OCTAVO, HANDSOMELY ILLUSTRATED.,
The Hunter Naturalist, a Romance of Sporting;
OR, WILD SCENES AND WILD HUNTERS,
BY C. W. WEBBER,         ,
Author of "Shot in the Eye," "Old Hicks the :Guide," "Gold Mines of the Gila," &amp;c.
ONE VOLUME, ROYAL OCTAVO.
LUSTRATED WITH FORTY BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS, FROM ORIGINAL DRAWINGS,
MANY OF WHICH ARE COLOURED.
Price, Five Doliars.
NIGITR IN A BJOOK-HOUSE;
OR, SKETCHES OF BORDER LIFE
Embracing Adventures among the Indians, Feats of the, Wild Hunters, and Exploits of Boone,
Brady, Kenton, Whetzel, Fleehart, and other Border Heroes of the West.
BY HENRY a. WATSON,
Author of "Camp-Fires of the Revolution."
WITH    NUM EROU S I.LUSTRATiON'S.
One volume, 8vo., Price, $2 00.
HAMILTON, THE YOUNG ARTIST.
BY AUGUSTA BROWNE.
AN ESSAY ON SCULPTURE AND PAINTING,
B-Y HAMILTON A. C. BROWNE.
iivol. 18rne Pricec371-2 cents.
T HE   FISCA L     HISTORY      OF.TEXAS:
EMBRACING AN ACCOUNT OF ITS REVENUES, DEBTS, AND CURRENCY, FROM
THE COMMENCEMENT OF -THE REVOLUTION IN 1834, TO 1851-,
WITH REMARKS.ON AMERICAN'DEBTS.
BY W1*. IA. GOUGE,             -
Author of" A Short Historyof Paper Money and Banjcing in the United States."
In one vol.Svo., cloth. Price $150.
INERS0LL'S HISTORY OF 'THE SECOND WAR:
A HISTORY OF THE -SECQNO WAR BETWEEN THE U. STATES'AND GT, BRITAIN.
BY OHAiuLES ,T. INGERSOLL'
Second series. 2 volumes, 8v0. Price $4 00.
These two volumes, which embrace the hostile transactions between the United States and Great
Britain during the years~1814 pn4 *15, complete Mr. lngersolla able work on the Second or " Late
Wa,"a t has usull ben called. aA great dea os inew and valuable matter has been collected
30

'',

AND TWO LARGE AND ACCURATE MAPS OF THAT .REGION.
3.7 HQOW A R     S TAN5 -UT,
CAPTAIN TOPOGRAPHICAL ENGINEER.
One volume, royal octavo. Price Five Dollars.
31

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; ,Co.'s PUBLIGATIO$8
FR.OST'SJUVENILE SERIES.
TWELVE VOLUMES, 16mo., WITH FIVE HUNDRED ENGRAVINGS.
WALTER O'NEILL, Ok THE PLEASURE OF DOIlNG4 GOOD. 25Engrav'g3
JUNKER SCHOTT, and other Stories. -6 Engravings.
THE LADY OF THE LURLEI, and other Stories. 12 Engravings.
ELLEN'S BIRTHDAY, and other Stories. 20 Engravings.
HERMAN, and other Stories. 9 Engravings,
KING TREGWALL'S DAUGHTER,'and other Stories. 16 EngravingS.
THE DROWNED BOY, and other Stories. 6 Engravings.
THE PICTORIAL RHYME-BOOK. 122 Engravings.
THE PICTORIAL NURSERY BOOK. 117 Engravings.
THE GOOD CHILD'S REWARD,- 115 Engravings.
ALPHABET OF QUADRUPEDS. 26 Engravings.
ALPHABET OF BIRDS. 26 Engravings.
PRICE, TWENTY-FIVS CENTS EACH.
The above popular and attractive series of New Juveniles for the Young, are sold together a
separately.
THE MILLINER AND THE MILLIONAIRE.
BY MRS. REBECCA HICKS,
(Of Virginia,) Author of "The Lady Killer," &amp;c. One volume,l2mo.
Price, 371 cents.
STANSBURY'S
EXPEDITION TO THE GREAT SALT LAKE,
AN EXPLORATION
OF THE VALLEY OF' THE GREAT SALT LAKE
OF UTAH,
CONTAINING ITS GEOGRAPHY, NATURAL HISTORY, MINERALOGICAL RE.
SOURCES, ANALYSIS OF ITS WATERS, AND AN AUTHENTIC ACCOUNT OF
THE MORMON SETTLEMENT.
ALSO,
A RECONNOISSANCE OF A NEW ROUTE THROUGH THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS.
WITH SEVENTY BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATIONS,
FROM DRAWINGS TAKENJ ON THE SPOT,

7


LIE, INCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
THE ABBOTSFORD EDITION
PRINTED UPON PINE WHITE PAPER,,WITH NEW AND BEAUTIFUL TYPE,
FROM -THE LAST ENGLISH 'EDITION,
-                            EMBRAQING
THE AUTHOR'S LATEST. CORRECTIONS, NOTES, ETC.,
COMPLETE IN TWELVE VOLUMES, DEMI-OCTAVO, AND NEATLY BOUND IN CLOTH,
POR ONLY TWELVE DOLLARS,
CONTAINING
WAVERLEY, or 'Tis Sixty Years Since............THE FORTUNES OF NIGEL.
GU m[ANNERING.......................................PEVERIL OF THE PEA.
THE ANTIQUARY........................................QUENTIN DURWARD.
THE BLACK DWARF......    ...........ST. RONAN'S WELL.
OLD MORTALITY.........................................REDGAUNTLET.
ROB  ROY...................................................THE  BETROTHED.
THE HEART OF MID-LOTHIAN...............,..THE TALISMAN.
THE BRIDE OF LAMMERMOOR...................WOODSTOCK.
A LEGEiND OF MONTROSE....................THE HIGHLAND WIDOW, e.
IVANHOE....................................................THE  FAIR  MAID  OF PERTH.
THE MONASTERY.........................,......ANNE OF GEIERSTEIN.
THE ABBOT................................................COUNT ROBERT'OF PARIS.
KENILWORTH .........................................CASTLE DANGEROUS.
THE PIRATE...............................................THE SURGEON'S DAUGHTER, he
ANY OF THE ABOVE NOVELS SOLD, IN PAPER COVERS, AT FIFTY CENTS EACH.
AL SO,
AN ILLUSTRATED EDITION.
T H-E WAVERLEY NOVELS,
In Twelve Volnnes, Royal Octavo, on Superfine Paper, with
SEVERAL HUNDRED CHARACTERISTiC AND BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS.
RILEQANThY BOUND INC0LOTHgGILT.

. II

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
)h eus,
A NEW AND COMPLETE
GAZETTEER OF THE UNITED STATES,
It will furnish the fullest and most recent information respecting the Geography, Statistics, and
present state of improvement, of every part of this great Republic, particularly of
TEXAS, CALIFORNIA, OREGON, NEW MEXICO,
&amp;c. The work will be issued'as soon as the complete official returns of the present Census are
received.
THE ABOVE WORK WILL BE FOLLOWED BY
A UNIVERSAL GAZETTEER, OR GEOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY,
of the most complete and comprehensive character. It will be compiled from the best English,
French, and German authorities, and will be published the moment that the returns of the present
census of Europe can be obtained.
1Jinzu           j     3?nrn f                  ttR4~
THEI DOMESTIC POLITY AND THEOLOGY.
BY J. W. GUNNISON,
U. S. Corps Topographical Engineers.
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS, IN ONE VOLUME DEMI4OCTAVO.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
REPORT OF- A GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
OF
WISCONSIN, IOWA, AND MINNESOTA,
AND INCIDENTALLY OF
A PORTION OF NEBRASKA TERRITORY,
MADE UNDER INSTRUCTIONS FROM THE U. S. TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
BY DAVID DALE OW'Nr,
United States' Geologist.
WITH OVER 160 ILLUSTRATIONS ON STEEL AND WOOD.
Two volumes, quarto. Price Ten Dollars.
MERCHANTS' MEMORANDUM BOOK,
CONTAINING LISTS OF ALL GOODS PURCHASED BY COUNTRY'MERCHANTS, &amp;o
One volume, 18mo., Leather cover. Price, 50 cents.
33


LIPI?  CO'TT, WRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
ARTHUR'S
BEAUTIFULLY ILLLISTRATEDS
1. WEO'IS GREATEST? and other Stories.
2. WHO ARE HAPPIEST? and other Stories.
3. THE POOR WOOD-CUTTER, and' other Stories.
4. MAGGY'S BABY, and other Stories.
6. MR. HAVEN'T'GOT-TIME AND MR. DON'T-BE-kW-A-HURRZ.
6. THE PACEMAKERS.
7. UNO±E BlEW EW-YEARl'S GIFT, and other Stories.
8, T'HE WOUNDED"BOY, and other Stories,
9. THE LOST CHILDREN, and other Stories.
10. OUR HARRY, and other Poems and Stories.
11. THE LAST PENNY, and other Stories.
12. ?RRE, THE ORGAN BOY, and other Stories.
EACI VOLUME IS ILLUSTRATED WITH
ENGRAVINGS FROM ORIGINAL DESIGNS BY CROOME,
And are sold together or separately.
TRUTHS ILLUSTRATED BY GREAT AUTHORS.
A DICTIONARY OF OVER FOUR THOUSAND AIDS TO REFLECTION-QUOTA.
TIOXS OF MAXIMS, METAPHORS, COUNSELS, CAUTIOlNS, APHORISMS,
PROVERBS, &amp;o. &amp;c., IN PROSE AND VERSE;
COMPILED FROM SHAKSPEARE, AND OTHER GREAT WRITERS, FROM THE
EARLIEST AGES TO THE PRESENT TIME,.
A new edition, with American additions and revisions.
LIBRARY EDITION OF SHAKSPEARE.
(LARGE TYPE.)
THE DRAMATIC WORKS OF W                iAM     SHAKSPEARE,
WITH    A LIFE OF- THE POET,
AND NTES ORIGINAL AND SELECTED, TOGETHER WITH A COPIOUS GLOSSARY.
4 VOLUMES OCTAVO.
STYLES OF BINDING:-
brl      .....e.............................. .. ....$6 00*
Half~Turkey morocco.................................................. 9 00
Half-calf and Turkey, antique style............................ 12 00
Pull calf and Tlurkey, antique style................................. 16 00
84

I

i

MARIE

DE BERNIE RE, THE MAROON,
AND OTHER TALES.
BY W. GILiMORE SIMMS.
1 vol.12mo., cloth. Price $1 25.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES.
WITH COLOURED ILLUSTRATIONS.
BY SCHDYLER HA.NZLTON,-
CAPTAIN BY .BREVET; U.S.A.
One vol., crown 5y. Price $1 00.
ANNA BISHOP'S TRAVELS.
TRAVELS OF ANNA BISHOP IN MEXICO (1849):
WITH TWELVE BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATQNS.
Price, paper, 50 cents. Cloth, 75 cents.
85

LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO &amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.
OR,
WANDERINGS OF AN AMERICAN IN GREAT BRITAIN,
IN 1851 AND '52.
BY BENJAMIN MORAN.
This volume embodies the observations-of the anthor, made during, eight. months' wanderings,
as a correspondent for American Journals; and as he travelled much on foot, differs essentially
from those on the same countries, by other writers. The habits, manners, [ustoms, and condition
of the people have been carefully noted, and his views of them are given in clear, bold language
His remarks take a wide range, and as he visited every county in England but three, there will be
much in the work of a novel and instructive character.
One vol. 12mo. Price $1 25.
DAY DREAMS.
BY M9SS91 MARTH~A ALfLN.
ONE VOLUME 12mo.
Price, paper, 50 cents. Cloth, 75 cents.
SIMON KENTON: OR, THE SCOUT'S REVENGE.
AN HISTORICAL ROMANCE.
BY JAMES WEIR.
Illustrated, cloth, 75cents. Paper,50 cents.


LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO-&amp; CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.'
zA   REVIEW
OF
"NEW THEMES FOR THE PROTESTANT CLERGY,"
ONE VOLUME 12mo.
Price, paper, 25 cents. Cloth, 50 cents.
THE BIBLE IN THE COUNTING-HOUSE,
BY H. A. OnARDXAN, D.D.
AUTHOR'OF THE BIBLE IN THE FAMILY."
One Vol.l2mo., cloth. Price One Dollar.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A NEW CI URCHMAN.
BY JOHN A LITTLE.
ONE VOLUME 12mo. PRICE 75 CENTS.
MILTON'S WORKS-NEW AND COPLETE EDITION,
3*~i~n~  ~Sn~icnI;I     nrkA
WITH A LIFE, DISSERTATION,INDEX, AND NOTES.
BY PROF. C. D. CLEVELAND.
ONE VOLUME ROYAL 12mo., CLOTH. PRICE $1 25.
UNIFORM AND DR$SS
"               'Or THE
ARMY. OF      THE    UNITED     STATES.
WITH COLOURED ILLUSTRATIONS.
QUARTO, CLOTH. PRICE FIVE DOLLARS.
UNIFORM AND DRESS
OF THE
NAVY OF THE UNITED STATES,
WITH COLOUR ED ILLUSTRATIONS.
QUARTO, CLOTH. PRICE FIVE DOLtARd.
86

.          a        .*
_                                     _          M1
r
~                      '  "
w
r
l
si


  
             
         
       
   
