
    ----CITATION----
        Willis, F. R.. The Dancing Star, or, The Smuggler of the Chesapeake .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8333
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The dancing star, or, The smuggler of the Chesapeake 
            
               L

I)

-'

THE

Li

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

tj

OR,

TlEl     L OF TUE W AE4KE:

L  g

BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY F. GLEASON,
AT THE FLAG OF OUR UNION OFFICE,
MUSEUM BUILDING, TREMONT STREET.
1851.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by F. Gleason, in the Cerk's Office of the
District Court of Massachusetts.

:
Z
, , s
,  .
-
}f-
} {{
!;1
'
i._
4
1
{. 7
!
Y f
.t
1
17
jr  i
,E
s'
z
7'  1
F ",
,
"'  .r
.   !
+'3
j

tfY
t
i
R
C
r'
}

'

] k
{

(romst anD Asa.

.1 - MIA IN

DaI  O

2 zfor8 of tje


r

PUBLIsHER's NoTE.-The following Novellette was originally published in TiHE FLAG or OUR
UNION, and is but one among the many deeply interesting productions emanating from that source.
The FLAG has attained to a circulation unrivalled in newspaper literature ; its contributors form a corps
of the finest talent in the land, and its romances, tales, and poetical gems are of a high order, and such
as enrich the columns of no other publication.
The following is the Prospectus of the Flag:
The Best Miscellaneous Paper in the World is
A Literary and Miscellaneous Family Journal, containing News, Wit, Humor,
and Romance-independent of         Party or Sect.
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY, BY
F, GLEAJON Museum Building, Tremont St., Boston,
S. FRENCH, 151 Nassau, corner of Spruce street, New York,
A. WINCH, corner Third and Chestnut streets, Phladelphia,
H. TAYLOR, NBrth street, Baltimore,
R. E. EDWARDS &amp; Co., 115 Main street, Cincinnati,
E. K. WOODWARD, corner 5th and Chesnut streets(t. Louis.'
Printed with new type throughout, manufactured expressly for that journal, with a superb heading,
on)   r ..     J paper, and in a style unequalled in this or any other country.
It is running over with aneqdotes, adventures, exciting stories, prize tales, wit and humor, sprinklings
of fun and wisdom, and the well-digested news of the day, both foreign and domestic ; and with great
editorial care, and the employment of the best writers that money can procure, it is emphatically, A
GREAT PAPER.'
It contains an average of TWENTY-FIVE COLUMNS OF ORIGINAL MATTER each week, o the choicest
character, besides the CREAM of all the general intelligence of the times, so carefully condens
embrace, in one paper, the matter that would fill half a dozen ordinary sheets. With a circulation
UNEQU XLLED BY ANY OTHER PAPER, the publisher is enabled to make large outlays upon
the FLAG OF OUR UNION, and to outstrip all competitors in liberality.-
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.-
1 subscriber one year,  -    -    -   $2 00    8 subscribers one year,  -     -    -  11 00
3    "     "    "       -    -    - .5      f  16    "      "    "       -    -      20400
4    "          "       .    -    -    6 00J
iNvARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Postmasters, or any who will go by the above terms, may become agents, and may make handsome
-profits-or they may induce some of their friends to club together, and get their papers cheap. No
subscriptions taken for less than six months.
Those in the country who wishi to become subscribers to the ' FLAG,' by enclosing the amount of sub-
scription in a letter (post paid), to either of the above places, may depend upon' receiving their paper.
regularly every week, and in due time.
The ' FL AG' may also be obtained at all the Periodical Depots in the United States, and of Newsmen,

at FOUR CENTS per copy.                                    F. GLEASON, PROPRIETOR.

4

RMN~WM- PYI1
~E

CHAPTER I.

G7oucester inlet.  A  boat and its occupants.  A  lovely visitant and an interesting conver-
sation.  Brandon St. Leger, the miller.  A touching scene.  A rude interruption.

F the reader will turn to the map of Virginia
A   and glance along the indented delineation
of the Chesapeake shore, he will detect a small
inlet penetrating into the coast of Gloucester
about a league north of York river. It is here
the first scene of our story opens.
This inlet is irregular in shape and has a
number of jagged points running into it, with
small, deep coves between, which, with a rocky
islet here and there covered with moss and a
few wild trees, give the place a romantic-aspect.
The entrance to the inlet from the bay is not di-
rect, but first it flows into a basin three and a
quarter miles across, which basin finds an open-
ing into Chesapeake bay through a narrow and
somewhat intricate channel, and better known to
the fishermen and bum-boat skippers than to the
regular coasters, which seldom found their way
in these out of the way waters, save when driv-'
en from their moorings in York river by a south-

east gale, or sought its shelter from a gale onj
the bay.
The shores of this inlet were chiefly in a state
of nature, unless a fisher's cabin perched herd
and there upon its rocky headlands might serve
to redeem it from this character. Farms, or cul-
tivation' beyond a mere patch -of garden about
the huts, tgere was none. Sometimes the dark
woods would approach close to the beach and
cast the shadows of their gnarled trunks and
limbs in the clear, still wave beneath ; and some-
times a rocky barrier of gray granite would over-
hang the coves that scolloped the border of the
inner bay.
There were, however, two remarkable objects
that gave character to the scenery of this land-
locked inlet, and relieved the otherwise solitary
features of the place. One of these was a wind-
mill, constructed of stone, that stoods upon a
naked rock where the windslcould reach it unob-

a1
-
Ott
" T1
LI
'.1

A'

y... ,                                         -                                  1   ,

+3
r   a'y
R   3
d
i
if
4
it

3

y           . +rc. a    .,  .,n., ,el: "If' E+IP "r    n"Me^'  .a h..          r  'wst"re w.a  s+ wl5tss.rL« , x '  r i°  f'af'^rlFt"'b  MV   ypdR  '#y'°e' 4 :.      ,r~ y , ,            x


THE DANCING STAR.                                          THE DANCING STAR.

structed ; and the other was a ruin which was
something between a fort and a light-house. It
was situated upon a bluff headland where the
e inlet opened into the lesser bay, -and command-
a ed not only the waters of this bay but the spark
ling Chesapeake five miles off, and the towers
of York four miles to the south were visible
from lit. By the side of the mill was a square
stone dwelling, the abode of the miller ; its
roof steep and its roqftree high, on each end of
which was a weather-cock, and upon the top of
the mill was a third in the slape of a fish. There
was also a roof, thatched and patched with tiles
peering above the wall of the ruin, which, from
the smoke wreath curling skyward from it, was
the home of some occupant ; but as there was no
light kept in the ruinous tower which had once
been a light-house, it could not have been the
watcher of the beacon. The windmill and ruin
were on the same ridge and not three hundred
yards apart, so that the voice of a person at the
door of the one could be heard at the other.
Our story opens towards the decline of a day
in the month of September, and so many years
ago that the gray-haired man who may read-
these lines was then a lad. The sky wore that
roseate and purple mingled hue that it puts on
before sunset in the, beginning of autumn. A
soft haze filled the air, and a calm summery si-
lence, broken only by the hum of, insects or the
tinkling ripple of the small waves, prevailed.
The sun was so tempered by the low position it
1 had descended to near the horizon that its beams
invited their enjoyment rather than repelled, as
they had done at noon by their heat, those who
sat in them.
Many skiffs, scallops, bum-boats and fishing-
acks werkscattered about on the surface of
t e inlet, either at anchor near the hut of their
owner, or becalmed far off unable to reach the
land, or floating and fishing with the idle ebb of
the tide. None of these crafts were more than
five or seven tons large, and the latter were the
bum-boats, a species of bay-vessel used to con
vey corn, flour, fruit, vegetables and even stock,

from the farms along the water side of Glouces-
ter county to York and Norfolk southward, and

to Baltimore and up the Potomac north wardly.
The inlet was the favorite rendezvous of these
vessels during the summer when they were little
employed. Here they refitted, were repaired,
and put in order for the lively autumnal season
when the teeming harvests would crowd once
more their broad decks and shallow holds with
freights.
One of these bum-boats was gayer than its
fellows, having a bright scarlet pennon flying a;
its single mast, and snow white canvass, and a
green and white hull, as if the owner was gifted
with more taste than the skippers of the sur-
rounding craft exhibited. This little vessel
was slowly drawing nearer that part of the shore
where .the windmill and ruin stood, availing
itself of every cat's paw of wind to run in nigher.
It contained but two persons, a man and a negro
slave in a red shirt and white trowsers. The
former was young and well made, with a bright
hazel eye, flowing brown hair inclined to curl,
and florid cheeks, with fine teeth and red lips.
He was not above three-and-twenty. His sun-
brown hands and the developed muscular out-
line of the young sailor, showed that he was
nothing more than-his coarse attire and present
employment specified, a hard-toiling craftsman
of the bay, who lived by his manly and honest
labor. He wore a straw tarpaulin, narrow of
brim, and a gray linen jacket and duck
trowsers, with a blue shirt, the collar loosely
tied together by a plaid bandanachandkerchief.
He was s king a cigar of good tobacco with a
careless air, hisfoni lounging in t-  rn sheets
with his left hand one tiller, and one foot
hanging over the quarter-rail almost touching the
water. He had a frank, bold air which would
have inspired a maiden with trusting confidence
in his power to protect, and an enemy with
respect.                s   .
He seemed to be listlessly gazing upon te
prospect about him, in the additional bea ty
which the golden skies and empurpled air lent
to it. Astern was the narrow entrance by which

he had half an hour before sailed into the inlet
from Gloster bay, beyond which was the Ches-
apeake, on the broad bosom of which were half

a score of trading vessels, schooners and brigs,
becalmed like himself, some bound up to the
city of Baltimore, others with their prows point.
ing oceanward. Near him and encircling him
were the numerous lesser craft which we have
already noticed. The green, or wooded, or
rocky shores, nowhere two miles distant from
him, and on the north not a quarter of that di-
ameter, were bending like embracing arms about
him and his companions on the water. If his
eye lingered over ne part of the shores more
than another, it was that where stood the wind-
mill, its huge white wings at rest looking like a
gigantic guide-post.
The boat was laden with a few kegs, a barrel
or two, four or five boxes, a bale of canvass, and
some small articles such as the humble fishers
sent for from time to time down to York, some-
,         times paying the hard money, a rare commodity
among them, but oftener bartering domestics,
grain, dried fish, and vegetables for them. The
little vessel was not more than six tons measure-
ment, had but one mast, which carried a main-
sail and a topsail about as large as a quarter-
master's pocket-handkerchief. But everything
about her was neat and ship-shape, and she was
made for sailing like a bird, or there is no form-
ing an opinion of a vessel's qualities by the shear
of her bows and the graceful bend of her counter.
The negro, who was amusing himself by lying
flat on his belly and supporting his cheeks in his
hands with his elbows spread on the deck, and
in this attitude watching a flight of (lucks as,
they flew in a long line across a point of land
towards the west, at length broke the silence :
Ah, massa Elliot, if dis chil' ony. hab a
double bar I gun, he kill two demi wil' goos mity
easy at one shot."
- You know, Tony, you rascal you, that you
wouldn't touch a pocket-pistol with a ten foot
pole, and talk about shooting a double barrelled
gun. When will you quit such tall talking, es
'pecially before me who know what a coward
you are?"

Here the young man's eye twinkled with a
*    smile in it. and he puffed his cigar with a glance
almost unconsciously turned in the direction of

the windmill. It was not a lookHof indifference,
nor of expectation, nor of vacancy, nor because
he might as well look there as anywhere else--
but it was that kind of glance which follows a
t ought of the heart, which betrays the direction
in which points the needle of that compass which
every young man carries in his bosom, and the
magnet of which must sooner or later find its
pole. The glance was playing its "tell tale."
As we are something skilled in detecting wlt
passes within the breast of men by the to e-
ments of their eye, we should say that such a
glance as our young boatman shot towards the
stone house by the windmill, had its peculiar
character in the fact' that the cottage con-
tained a maiden, more or less young and lovely,
in whom his feelings were interested. This is
our interpretation of this movement of his eye;
but the progress of our story will determine.
- " But, Massa Elliot," responded Tony, look-
ing a little blank at this reception of his obser-
vation touching the gun with two barrels, " die
chil' ant feared ob de gun, not at all; dat ant
it; it am de orful loud noise dat make dis nig-
ger seared ! I knows wat you's thinkin' 'bout
me, you 'members dat time Massa Beachampe
lef' his gun,- and [ttook him and shot at dat
rack crow and knock mysef' over, apd den git
up an' iun like de deble. You's thinkia' 'bout
dat, yay ?"
"I dare say, Tony."
" Well, now, it's the skriptral truth, Massa
Elliot, it want de gun skeared dis chil', ony de
drefful loud noise. Dis nigger hab bigger ears
dan common, and mity sight o' sound get in 'em
at onet.  If 't want for de noise I wouldn't mind
a tive barrel gun no more dan I does dis boat
hook, yay "
"WHave you heard from Nevil Beachampe,
lately, Tony ?" asked Elliot Be-aufort, who seem-
ed to have been thinking of the person who
owned this name since Tony had mentioned it,
and with a frown on his brow and an expression
ill at ease.

"{
Y
i  t
1t r     -
'   _
.  *
e
i
4. kf }
t L+
.-Y
I }
r  i
r
TtSY
{+
i
j4r
t
y  i;
.
i:' a
ti t
.  a
+°"t:
i  =+
3  f _
'  s
Yy '
r J  :
yf '
'i4
; z
, i:i
; f
t!
?
!
E_,
" tir
a 77f, 3ii
i.i
d    ';
t
S   3       -
re
i s
_ Y 1
a  I
o
^ F
1}
f
{1
i4

"No, massa," answered Tony shaking his
ad slowly and decidedly ; " and dis child' don't
care 'bout hearin' 'biut him. It wont be no

j

8

(

9  4

nub spC!i    i     dr% +     f j     4     i    i              b.          _                                                       ,r '. ih"s+1
7'° 4'--

e
rt't"Y+ III t vh'r' k  ry?.   K iy4 # ri SwiNtll.sog+          '#_ LEVt#!  3 i ^'',? ti; y3 f   °p"q


I.

THE DANCING STAR.

t
t

Tony when he axes terrogatively for laming and
defamation about things.  Now, ax de ole man1
dis one 'quiry, is de world round ?'        l
Yes, Tony."                            I

ING STAR.

10                           THE DANCI
good no how, dat's sartain. I hopes, too, Massa
Elliot, he and you nebber see one anoder agen,
coz he's mity desp'rate and^ don't mind using'
knives ; and I know your blood's up 'bout dat
tiiiie when Miss Alice-.-"
" That will do, Tony. Don't speak of that !
1 think about it often enough. I wish to meet
him again. It will be the last meeting he will
have on land or sea with a mortal man!"
" Ah, Massa Elliot, don't you think about
ever doin' anything to him, for jist as sure as
you do he'll kill you, for he's learned to use
swords and pistols, and wouldn't mind killing
as you would, who ant so bad a heart as he
had. Take old Toney's advice and let him go.
Dere's Miss Alice jist as safe as ever, and no
harm done---"
" Hush, man. That is enough. Haul aft
the sheet. There is a puff of air."
" So dar is, and de sails filling' right smart,"
answered the gray old black man, getting to his
fet rather stiffly and obeying the order with a
look of lively satisfaction.  " We'll have a wind
to run in, sure. .1 was pesky feared dat dis ole
nigger man 'd have to row home."
" You are always careful of your ancient
bones, and don't do a finger's more work than
you are compelled to," answered Elliot, with a
pleasant look.  "Give a pull to the halyards,
don't you.see they are slack. The sail wantsI
three inches of being tort set."
" Dat him, massa ?" asked Tony, after three
pulls and three grunts.
" Yes, belay I Now we have way on her !"
"0O, massa," resumed Tony, squatting down
again as he saw the bum-boat was gliding smooth. I
lg along, " I nebber ax no more dan let do wind
blow dis chil' all round de world ! And inow I I
thinks 'bout it, I has a pertikier declination,
young massa, to ax you dis here kestion. I
hear Missy Mag read out ob a book onet dat deo
world be round-round jist like a water-million. I
Now, Massa Elliot, you -nebber poses on old I

ike a gigantic' banjo played upon actively by a
pair of bones of proportionate magnitude.

"Yay! Dare, you say so too. Den, if dis
world am round as a punkin, and tarn round
ebbery day, as Missy Mag read it do, wharfor
dis nigger no stan on him head ?"
The.young man made no reply, perhaps dick
not even hear this emphatic interrogation of this
pursuer after knowledge under difficulties, for
his attention was attracted at that moment by a
waving hand from the door of the stone house
by the mill. He answered it by springing to
his feet and waving his straw hat, while his fine
eyes brightened and shone with the light that
only a maiden's loved image in the heart can
kindle.. The boat was full a quarter of a mile
from the shore, and no eye but a lover's could
have detected the form of the young girl to
whom the hand appertained, half hidden as it
was by a rose bush that grew before the door.
Old Tony looked but could see nothing, though
he tried hard to make out what object bad pre-
vented his young master from giving heed to his
profound investigations into the mysteries of
physical science.
" Yay !" he ejaculated in a monosyllable, the
accent and tone of which can only begin to be
described by the three letters which we have put
together at the beginning of this sentence.
"Yay ! Wat dat, Massa Elliot ?"
" Margaret," answered the young sailor with
looks of pleasure.
" We ben gone ony two day and you make as
much glad as thof we ben gon a mont."
"Hold your ugly tongue, uncle Tony. There's
Alice, too ! Their pretty arms are worth any
pair of signals in the whole navy ! See how
they wave at us."
Hereupon Tony, unable to restrain,the im-
pulse, and willing to postpone, under the circum-
stances, further philosophical inquiries touching
the shape and diurnal rotation of the earth,
snatched off an old felt that looked as if it bad
been used all through the Christmas holidays
:or a foot ball on a college green, and began to
wave back and hurrah and dance on his long
projecting heels, till the hollow deck sounded

this good news."
" He began to mend last night; the fever re
broke at sundown yesterday, and to-day he sat wi
up and ate broth."                        kn

"Stop that, you Guinea, or you'll break
through the deck or break off your heels," ca -
ed out Elliot. " Stand by to brail up."
"Nebber break off dese heel, Massa Elliot.
Dey screw on too hard for dat accident to
happen. Leff dis chil' ax you de one more kes.
tion, Massa Elliot. What am de nigger man's
leg nail on in de middle ob him foot fo', when
de white gemman foot grow out from de eend.
Dis nigger's heel be in de middle ob him shoe !
Look dere." And Tony thrust out his enor-
mous sole.  "I has to cut a notch in 'em afore
I puts 'em on, coz if I should get 'em on wrong
ways behind, I'd do noffin all day but back wat-1
er like massa crab, and nebber get no whar but
behind me I"
" Brail up," shouted Elliot, as he brought
the bows of his vessel into the wind within half 1
a dozen fathoms of a flat rock, along-side of
which he laid the obedient craft as motionless as
if she were at anchor. Toney, who always for-
got his inquisitiveness whensoever there was
anything to do, sprung to land with a hawser I
and secured the craft to a post fixed in the rock f
for this purpose  A path led to the top of the
bluff, on which fifty feet above his head stood a a
fair girl awaiting him. A few bounds brought i
him to her side.                           t
There was a frank, friendly grasp of the hands, i
and smiles of that affectionate sympathy between s.
them which betrayed that they were lovers.
"I am so glad you have got in before night,
Elliot," said the maiden. " Alice and I have
been watching your boat this two hours, and I
thought that it did not move at all. It seemed
to me you would never get here."
"J guessed you were watching nmeMargaret, c
and I thought I saw you long before you waved w
your hand," answered Elliot. " How is your ai
father ?"h
"0O, he is so much better. He will hardly lo
need the medicines if .you brought them." , a
" I have got them, and I feared I should nod ea
be here to do any good. I am so glad to hear\ ch

"I have seen in town the captain of the'
venue- cutter, who was here a few weeks'agojI
ith his vessel," said the young man. ",You
Low how urgent he was for me to join his erew.
e                'V.

"3+

_______________

"Then he is doing bravely. I thought so
from the bright smile on your face when I saw
you. Where is Alice ?"
"She has gone "into the fort. Her mother
called to her just as she was coming down with
me to meet you."
Elliot sighed, and a slight muscular contrac-
tion about his brow betrayed a spirit annoyed at
something which was associated with his mother..;
"Has she been over to the mill?"
" No. She keeps in the fort and makes in-
cantations all the time."
"I thought so, when I saw the blue and
black smoke going out of the chimney."
"Never mind, Elliot," said the maiden;kindly.
"I try not to mind; but when one would love
and respect his mother, and yet cannot do it,
but rather feel like despising her, it is very bard."
"I know it is; but Alice loves you so fondly."
"And Margy, too ?" he asked, as if he knew
what her reply would be.
"0, you know that, Elliot ; you only ask to
have me say so. - Come, let us go up and see
father. He asks for you."
"I love to hear you say you love me. Has?
ny news happened in the two days past ?" he'
inquired, as side by side they walked towards
he stone hut near the windmill, leaving Tony
n the boat preparing to land the freight, and
inging as he worked:
"0, nebber, nebber, nebber,
0, nebber tell you mammy,
How you run'd away
From ole Virginny's shore,
T'oder day."
The path by which they proceeded from the
ove-side to the house was. narrow, and if twreib
alked in it side by side, they had to touch andy
rmn; and this proved so agreeable to Elliot that2j
3 placed his arm about the fair girl's waist, andt
eking their forms thus together, they walked
thier as one than two in harmonious tread, and,4
ch looking into the other's eyes at every inter
Ranging word.

. v.-6*i^, -.  ; .xw., .,e ,  ..sw.a C  #9, + A 4iA"7'         _              3"7 5' "/ x ci i " } (+   9 MRM' GM      ';"  3' "   '     '   3,trp     1++a4 a  j


THE DANCING STAR.

i

THE DANCING STAR.

"I feared he would persuade you, too, you
listened so earnestly, Elliot. But you saw that
I looked sad abgut it, and so refused. You
don't know how grateful I was."
But it was a great sacrifice, Margy. He
\ offered me four times more a month than I can.
make by my boatfthough I made three trips a
weekto York instead of one."
" But you don't want to make more, Elliot.
I know you are too noble to be avaricious. Be-
sides, you are here with Alice and me, and,
our society you would lose if you attached your-
self to the cutter. You would be - cruising the
whole length of the bay all the time, and some-
times you would be at sea. No, no, Elliot, I hope
you are not going to say the captain has per-
suaded you at last."
"No, not persuaded me, Margy; but he says
he will give me the place of quarter-master.
This would-would-"
Seeing her Ibver hesitate, Margaret said in a
serious tone,'as if the proposition to go on board
the cutter was every way distasteful to her,
would what, Elliot ?"
"Would enable me to get money enough in a
year to--to marry you, Margaret !" he answered,
blushing; while her own cheeks .reflected the
rich crimson.
"We can be married, Elliot, without your
going to serve on board the cutter," she an-
swered with quickness.-
"We must have a cot ; we must have it fur-
nished; we must have provisions. Ab, much
as we love each other, Margy, we can't live on
love."
"I know that, Elliot; but .you have your
boat. I can knit and weave, and-"
"I know that, Margy ; but it will' be three
years and more before in this way 'we can lay
up enough for me to buy a little garden and
house; and I am too proud to live on your
father."
" He wants you to do so. He is failing, and
says he must have some one to aid him in taking
eare of things."

"He must hire, then, Margy. I will never
let even your father say he has given me the
roof over my head.",

"Well, don't let us talk about it now, dear
Elliot; here we are at the door. But just let
me tell you that with my consent you shall nev-
er go into the revenue service."
"Then I must go without it, Margy, " he said,
smiling, as he stole a kiss from hereheek as she
opened the door.
The house faced the inlet, and 'its moss cov-
ered sides and ancient roof showed that it had
stood there lng prior to the revolution. A small
grassy enclosure surrounded -it, bordered by a
low wall of hedge and rocks.  A gate led from
it on the right to another enclosure also bounded-
by a stone wall, in the centre of which stood the
windmill, which was of an octagon shape, strong-
ly constructed of hewn stone. It wad forty feet
in height, tapering as it rose in the air. There
was a low door in the eastern side towards the
house, from which it was but a few yards dis-
tant. Four tiers of circular windows rose one'
above another to the top and gave light to a
winding stair-way within, There were four lofts
one above another : and in the middle loft was'
the huge axle that revolved with the moving
wings when the wind set them in motion. In
the second and third lofts were placed the grain
for grinding, and the lower floor wai partitioned
off into square bins to receive the descending
streams of snowy flour. This mill had been
used by the earliest settlers, beyond the memory
of the oldest man ; and in part supplied the
American army with flour during the siege of
York. It, therefore, had- a famous name ; and
although at the time of our story there were not
so many large wheat farms on the neighboring
lands as in former times, yet corn enough came
to old Brand Sledger's- mill, as the owner was
:called, though his name was Brandon St. Leger,
to keep him busily grinding from one week's
end to another. Inheriting it from his fathers,
who had been millers there before him, he lived
in comfortable independence, and was not a lit-
tle vain of two things, the reputation of his mill
and the beauty of his only child, Margaret St.
Leger,

" Here is Elliot, father," said his daughter, as
she entered the room where he was propped up

in an arm-chair of well worn leather, which he
boasted, with truth, that Lafayette had once sat
in and taken an after-dinner nap ; but as it is a
long story and has no especial bearing upon our
narrative, we will not detain the reader, as old
Brand, were he alive and looking over our shoul-
der, would have us do, to tell it.
"Glad to see thee, glad to see thee, son in-
law to be," said the miller, reaching out his
hand.  " You see I am getting a breeze again,
and shall be able to grind many a grist yet be-
fore I die."
" I hope so, Master Brand ; I am thankful to
find you up, though pale a bit."
"Yes, pale, but that is nothing. Glad to see
you back. : I was troubled about you in my fe-
ver. Talked a good deal about you, I believe.
I was afraid I should die and leave my pretty
one alone and unprotected! I have made up
my mind," he added, emphatically, though his
voice shook a little from feebleness.  " Why
don't you ask me, you rogue, what it is I've made
up my mind to do
"Well, sir, perhaps it is to take better care
of your health, and not go out in the rain again
without your hat."
"iNot a bit of it, not one bit of it ! I'll get
.cold just when I please. I've made up ny
mind that you and Margy shall get married.
" 0, father !" ejaculated halfreproachfully the
happy girl.
"6Nothing would give me so much joy, sir ;
but-" answered Elliot, regarding the old miller
as he sat in his arm-chair. with a red kerchief
tied hard about his head just above the eyebrows,
which, shaggy and gray, projected far out be-
yond. His high Roman nose, and large face,
for he was a very large formed man altogether,
brought into full relief by this close fitting cap,
gave him a very striking appearance and one
that commanded respect; for Brand Sled ger,-
though a man in humble life, was just the sort
of ian in appearance that the Indians, who
reverence manliness of size, would have chosen
for their chief. He was honest, sensible, intel-

igent and brave, and though obstinate at times,
as gentle as a woman to the helpless and unfor-

tunate. His love for his daughter brought out
into daily exercise all the best qualities of his
heart ; and his worse ones were only apparent to
those bad men whose falsehood and doubleness
of character roused his indignation and contempt.
He was not a more determined friend to the
widow and orphan than he was a determined foe
to their oppressors.. He interrupted Elliot with
a frown that made his white eyebrows snap as if
they emitted lightning.
"But me no buts. I know what you would
say. You will not let old Brand do you a favor.
You must wait years yet to get the means I can
give you with a scratch of a pen ; and all this
while Margy will be pining, you a sighing, and
both miserable for the pride of earning the chips
that are to make your pot boil. Don't say a
word. I can get angry if I am a good-natured
man.   Sick folk get their dander up quick."
" But-"
" There it is !-but, but, but ! .,I don't mind
your buts a button.  Come to ne, Margy.
Give me your hand.    Do you love-but no,
you, young man, come here and answer this
question first. Do you love this maiden ?"
Better than life."
That's heartily said. You speak like a man
who can defend her, if need be, with life. I
like the ring of your voice. Its tones have
metal in 'em.. Now, Margy !"
" Sir."
" Bless me how you tremble, like the wings
of the mill when the wind, is rising. Do you
love Elliot Beaufort, here ?"
" I know that he loves me, and I should be
ungrateful not to love him in return."
" That wont .do. That isn't a right up and
down answer. Say you love him because you
can't held it. That's the only kind of love I
ever knew anything about when I was young.
I loved your mother because I couldn't help it ;
and that's all the reason she ever gave for loving
me. Loving for gratitude is only a trading af-
fair; it's give mne wind and I'll grind your corn !
Pay me toll and I'll toll you grist !"

"Well, dear father, I love Elliot because I
can't help loving him !"

12

13

s'
Ti
{1
tttt/(j       ,
t'
4 t
7(t
s   z
'p s
'X t
s 3
lit
may" C
1     ,
2[
s
3
f
4t}   t
c     S
F
f'
.r
i g

{
}
f
!1
"
:r
fi
k


I.

14

THE DANCING STAR.

" That is the way to talk. Now, both of you cut features, and expression of mingled fanati-
give me your hands. Here, then, take a father's cism and hatred.  She. wore a man's long sur-
blessing thus united.; Son, I give thee my tout, beneath which dragged her petticoats. She
child. I know thou wilt love and cherish her, was bare-footed and bare-headed, and carried in.
and render her life a happy one, or rather than one hand a dirty pack of cards, and in the other
give her to thee I would see her coffined and the a piece of rope. She regarded the scene for a
damp earth heaped upon her grave. He who moment with spiteful malice, and then thrilled
takes a maiden from the parent tree and embit.. the bosoms of all present with a frightful laugh.
tern her years, wrecking her sweet hopes of a life  " Mother !" said Elliot, half in surprise, half
of love and honor, is not worthy to be called a in reproach.
man.   It is, therefore, my dear young man, that  "There she is !" said the miller, in a manner
I give my daughter to thee, knowing that she that betrayed great annoyance.
will find in thee father, brother, husband, all in  " Yes, here I am.  Come home. I have
one, the three props, next to God, the maiden come after my runaway  Come home I say!"
clings to in this world of wrong and violence.  "Dear mother, I only ran over to see Elliot."
And thou, Margy, I know thou wilt love, honor " And left my caldron fire to go out, let my.
and obey him-yes, obey him. Thou hast been fire go out, let my fire go out !" she screamed,
an obedient child, and I would have thee obedi. in a manner both painful and disgusting to hear;
ent as a wife ; for to be guided and ruled by her and all the while she was trying to get at Alice,
husband is a woman's glory, as it is her shame who was protected from the blows she aimed at
for her to govern and command. The woman her by Elliot, on whose shoulders they fell.
was made for the man and not the man for the  " I will go at once, mother," she said.
woman, and it is, therefore, an unnatural thing "Don't strike her, woman !'' said the miller,
for a wife to seek for authority over her husband. in a commanding tone.
God bless you  both, as I bless thee, my      "I have a right over my flesh and blood.
children !".=-                             Die, old man ! die, old man ! die, old man!"
Impulsively and with tears in their eyes, both "Mother, let us go home," said Elliot,' saying
knelt by his side, and she placed his hands upon his hand gently upon her arm.  "I will keep
their heads and let them rest there a few nio- thy fires up for thee !"
ments, while he closed his eyes ,and raised his  "Wilt thou?  Then thou shalt. Ah, see
brow heavenward in silence.  He then bent what it is to have a son that knows how to res.
over and kissed them both. A third figure stole pect his mother ! As for thee, thou pale faced,
noiselessly in and across the floor and was added pink cheeked, blue eyed, soft haired, small
to the group.  It was a blue eyed, slightly handed, slight waisted, bird voiced little devil
formed girl of seventeen. She knelt between in Eve's flesh, I'll not own thee 1"
the betrothed pair with'an arm encircling each;  " Come, mother, Alice and.I will do our best
and when the venerable miller opened his eyes to please thee."
and saw her and heard her say, "less me, " Indeed we will, dear mother ! Forgive me
also !" he placed both hands upon her head and for leaving the fire. 1 willinot neglect it again ;
said, " And thee, also, my gentle one. Heaven but I knew Elliot was here."
give thee peace all thy days, 'and after this lice "s1 brought the medicines for Master Brand,
ended, make thee an angel in heaven as thou art mother."
one on earth !"                               " And didst thou bring the brimstone for me "
In the half opened door by which the young " Yes, mother, Tony has it in die boat."
girl had entered, stood gazing upon the group a " And the deer's left hoof? And the bul.

THE DANC

"Thou shalt see for thyself.  Yonder goes
Tony towards the tower with them all."
"Come thou with me and let us see them, if
all are as I commanded thee," she said in a
tone of elation; and seeming to forget for what
she had come to the house of the miller, drag.
ging her son by the arm, she strode off towards
the fort as if she had a culprit in custody rather
than an honorable son, whose life was a contin-
ual sacrifice to fulfil the divine command, "Hon-
or thy mother 1"

a  f1
ING STAR.
"Patience, dear Alice I" said Margaret St.
Leger.
" I have it, Margy."
" Thou wilt have thy reward, child, for this
thy suffering, in heaven," said the miller, with
sympathy.
"I do have it now, sir, in the consciousness
of doing my duty," answered Alice, quietly.
"She is my mother." With these unanswer-
able words-she left the house and hastened to
her filial servitude.

CHAPTER II.

Ancient York. The
comers at the inn.
The Dancing Star,

L

tall, gaunt woman, with hair -cut short like a lock's gall ?' And the box of earth from under
convict's, blazing black eyes, sharp and strongly the York gallows?  And the inch of rope from
the hangman? HFast thou brought them ?"

"Binnacle"    inn, and     its host.  A
A toper's soliloquy. -An inner room.
with her reckless crew.

4
E now change the scene of our story
to the town of York, situated not more
than a league and a half south of the inlet,.and
near the mouth of York river, .a short distance
from the Chesapeake. It is the evening of the,
same day on which.we have seen Elliot Beaufort
reach the windmill, on his return from the town.
The town of York is ancient, and in thle streets
near the water are many old edifices, which have
stood there long prior to the revolution. Some
of them used to be the residences of the gentry
of that day, and one of them was the house for
the king's customs, and another the abode of
the colonial governor. In the latter, the Brit
ish general.in chief who defended York held his
quarters; and its walls still bear the traces of
the cannon shot that struck it. But this street,
once so imposing and aristocratic, in the day
when chapeaux, small clothes and powdered
heads were in fashion, has now lost its exclusive

" Tartar"   matched.   e
Mine host and the guest.-

character. Edifices that one hundred years ago:''
were regarded as stately affairs, after the revo-
lution, when the increase of wealth enlarged the
ideas of the citizens touching grandeur, these
abodes were deserted for more modern and showy'-
structures, and new streets, adorned with Italian 4
villas, took the place of and wholly eclipsed the"bi
venerable Water street, with its Dutch brck
habitations with their high roofs, enormous pro
jecting gables, and little windows.
It is with old houses, once fine, as it is with
old coats once new-it is their destiny to fal1_.
to hu'mbler people, to whom second hand is thet
best. The mansions in old York street, there
fore, which had once held baronets and lieuten 1
ant-governors, which had witnessed lordly dint'
ners, and been the scenes of many a ball, aI
which the ladies danced in hoops and farthingale:''
and the gentleman in knee breeches and queuesr,
fell into the possession of more humble citizens .

, ;;
r9
f
1                      s       [
f

,.      ?                '     * y 5  ; -'   ,.  t                 ,. -. .     -  ,q~ y...,.     . v s wPn y, -¢c o., , = a.,'vr ^ °e"a 'n-q :-"yr°.rw.w+H-            ,5, . h+rr*s vnyM ev,.5p, ,f.                 .                                                                J
...,


I4 1

THE DANCING STAR.

THE DANCING STAR.

In the boudoir of the secretary's daughter sat a  The tavern was therefore situated close to the
poor sewing-girl, from day to day toiling at the water in the rear ; and although the wharf was
needle. In a dining-room where statelygentle riot used by river craft, yet there was a ,dock
men had drank toasts to George the II. and alongside of the pier, at which boats came and
George the -III. were huddled a poor widow landed at the foot of a flight of stone stairs that
with her numerous progeny. The old house of led to a platform, which had to be crossed to
customs had become a warehouse, and the gov- enter the tap-room. This apartment -had, two
ernment house a storeroom for the goods landed doors-one upon the street in front, by which
from the vessels ; and the building which once townspeople usually went in, and another oppo-
went by the name of " the Palace," was   Un- site the water stairs, by which the bum-boatmen,
verted into a sailor's inn, under the sign of a fishermen, coasting mariners and other river-
"Light in the Binnacle," which was represent- faring gentry approached it.
ed in a panting above the door, in the shape of  The "Binnacle" was .a popular resort at the
a blue box with a round top, in the end of which time of our story, both for townsfolk and boat
was a something intended for a lamp burning, craftsmen. Its having been the old government
Jut greatly resembled a starfish stuck on the house conferred upon it a sort of respectability
nd of a marking spike. The artist, however, in the eyes of the more ancient men of York,
had no doubt done his best, and if any doubts who loved to drink mine host's ale, and smoke
should come into the minds of any passers by as their pipes there ; and its vicinity to the water,
to what it was intended to represent, they would and being the first place reached from the Bay,
have been instantly removed by the words be- and last place left in coming to or going away
neath in yellow letters, upon a light ground, from the town, rendered it, aside from the fame
which gave information to all who, could read of its good strong potations. a favorite stopping-
that the house was a " Light in the Binacle  place of those who did business on the rivers.
If any of our readers have ever been in any   There was something truly imposing in the
one of the river towns, they will have noticed great square mass of brick, with its gables rough
that the street next to the water is dove-tailed to with dormer windows, its heavy carved cornices
the river by a series of wharves, more or less ind mouldings, its massive rain droppers pro-
narrow, and longer or shorter, according to the jecting over the windows and doors, and the
business intended to be transacted upon them. grayish black  hue which  time had bestowed
York was not an exception to this feature.  Be- upon it.
sides several of these piers running their slimy  It is about dusk when we take our reader to
noses and ribbed backs out into the current from  this inn, and give him a seat in a corner of the
the shore, there was one near the lower part of tap room, in one of the score of leathern-bottom
the town and' the extremity of the river street, chairs that surround the room, with a little round
which was broader, older, and less used than one-legged table, about the size of the head of a
of the rest.  This pier looked as if it might barrel, before him.  The tap room is long, and
hay been built 'for Noah's ark to land its freight so low, that a tall fellow like long Tom Coffin
upon, for every pile was green with moss, and would scarcely have space to walk erect. Doubt-
grass grew from every crevice ; while, so many less it had once had fair white walls, but the
of the planks had rorted away, it was unsafe to tobacco smoke of half a century had given to .
traverse it save by day- them an almost black appearance, which, serv-
The " Light in the Biqnacle" stood directly inig as a good groundwork for nautical drawings',
at the head of this wharf, and as the inn-keeper the surface was almost wholly covered all around
had little use for it, be suffered it to remain in the room with ships and brigs under sail and at

the possession of father Time, and a few urchins anchor, laying to and wrecked, foul anchors and
and tap room idlers, who occasionally of a Satur anchors not foul, 'old tars' physiognomies, pi.-
day afternoon fished from the end of it.

tures of favorite Dollies and Sallies, a naval of-
ficer with his swabs, and even hearts united by
a love knot, all done, with more or less-skill,
with the point of a jack-knife or the end of a
nail. - There were, in addition.to these volun
teer adornments, not less than sixteen colored
prints in black frames hung all round, four feet
apart, within four inches of the ceiling. Some
of these represented naval battles between Jon-
athan and John Bull, in which, with true nation-
al partiality, Jonathan was always the victor-
the English red cross being constantly seen drag-
ging at the end of a flag staff in the water, or
else midway in air taking the directi-in of the-
water, while the stars and stripes waved aloft in
the breeze, snapping their victorious fingers in
saucy triumph. Four of the frames held por-
traits separately of Perry, Preble, Bainbridge
and McDonough, all four looking as fierce as
Turks. To relieve this warlike garniture of the
room, there were interspersed three pictures of
a sentimental character ; one being a shepherdess
in blue ribbons and red shoes, leading an-orange
colored sheep by a green string over blue rocks
and indigo looking grass; another representing
a neat sailor lad, in blue jacket and long togs,
kissing, a pretty girl with rosy cheeks, flowing
curls, and uncommonly short frock and panta-
lets, with yellow shoes, tied with pink bows,
with a ship loosing her topsails in the background.
The third picture represented a marriage scene
in a village church-the bridegroom being the
identical sailor boy in the blue roundabout and
white long togs, and the bride the lassie in
the pink shoe-ties and remarkably short frock.
Over the mantel-piece, which was broad and
high, stood a pair of 'conch shells, i their del.
cate pink linngs a branch of dried coral, a
Chinese ivor all, carved one within another,
and sund outlandish and beyond-sea curiosi
ties, a ong which was a shark's tooth and the
end of a sword fish's spear, broken off in a plank
and still held by the piece of plank. Two nin-
iature black profiles cut out of white paper, with
square pieces of black silk behind them, hung

above the mantel, one of which was that of a
pug-nosed, low-browed, bristly-haired, double

'i
"
.  1-
1;                .
I ,

chinned worthy, in a high Sunday coat collar,
and the other of a thin, long-necked, sharp chin-
ned, vinegar-looking dame.
The floor of'the tap was sanded, and-the win-
dows guarded by calico curtains. Opposite the
fireplace, in which, at the time of our story, was
stuck a pine bush, was the tap or bar. This
was a half-moon affair, and in the rear was lined
with black bottles of all sizes, and plethoric-
looking decanters. Its shelves also contained
packages of smoking Virginia weed, bundles of
domestic cigars, boxes of Havana cigars, that
had never seen Havana, and blue pictured cov-
ers, containing packs of cards, with other and
various articles, usually found in a legitimate
and well conducted seaport tap-room.
Behind the tap stands a man, short but fleshy,
with a red bully face, and wiry haiir-the coun-
terpart and original, in fact, of the profile with
the square piece of black silk for its background
in the little brass-gilt frame above the mantel.
This person is mine host - of "The Binnacle."
He is about forty-eight years of age, or there-
abouts, and it is apparent, from the smart round
jacket, thickly set with anchor buttons, and the
loose, nautical tie of the black handkerchief
abo t his thick neck, and the boatswain-like cut
of is whiskers, that he has been on the sea, and,
still affects its fashions ; but in what capacity, or
in what service, under what flag, or in what seas,
nobody knew except Ned, or Captain Ned, as
he was called by the frequenters of The Binna-
cle, himself. He always preserved a cautious
mystery touching entering into particulars in
reference to his life before he took charge of
the Light in the Binnacle, which was about fif-
-I -
teen years before. During this period, what-
ever may have been his character previous, he
had conmported himself, sc far as men's eyes
went, like a trusty host and thriving citizen ;
and as his landlord found no fault with him on
the score of rent, as he always paid his debts
promptly, and treated every body civilly, and
kept the best going in his tap, he was a popular
1nan in Old York street, and might have been

elected alderman, without doubt, by his friends,
if his ambition had taken that direction.

- v, +~  °  i,.a 3a# 1J t!;.  :? "        i~fw 4   '.  ', ~t   .r1 P ,  r~"c   r -,

16

;  i
'  1,,
;
"
s+
_
'
,, }'
riG
.  ,
tt,'  .
. }4
S r
i   4
i
i"
.fp  .'
d, t
ij
i
''
j.. .
-sr
'°
-' Y
" f
3
1 4  .
i
i  ;

3- ,i
TA
t I-
'fi

}-    _
3i
_  ,

-.W
i     P

r,,,.    .....«.......... . .,-.. .,-,  .w.. uanw.,.,en.;.sw-,ne rCP'rtfi sr s+,. 1r".a..e;..,±,'wc. s"!t ' "q';t1 v*.YNT YFMt 4'6'4 iKP"+6yMl''1     !? ,        iYr


-Nb

j ,

THE DANCING STAR. .

THE DANCING STAR.

Captain Ned had been a married man, and
his wife, whose black silk profile hangs vis- a vis
with his own, was the former proprietor of the'
inn, which now owned Captain Blouster as its
master. Fifteen years before he had appeared
in York ; no one knew whether he came by sea
or by land, up the bay or down the river-and
put up at the tavern, which was then kept by the
widow of a, meek host, who died of his wife's
har
usage, as public report fully attested.-
His helpmate had, scolded and worried him to,
death. All the old women in the neighborhood
said,-=-and who should know better ?-that he
was tormented out of his little soul-case ; for
Mister Simon Smerks was a little man of small
stature, of small spirit, small heart, small voice,
and small appetite. But as no coroner's inquest
sat upon his body, which was found dead and
cold in the boot-room, where he used to sleep
alone on a straw mattress his wife charitably
loaned him, while she luxuriated alone in the
wide feather bed, with curtains, we cannot pos-
itively affirm the exact mode by which his im-
4   mediate exit from life was. elected ; we only
know the fact that Mrs. Smerks became a widow,
and after wearing a piece of narrow black ribbon
over her cap for two weeks, she took it off, and
set her cap for 'a man.
"Yes," said she, talking over the matter on
the seventeenth day after the departure of Simon
1to that land where the voice of his wife could
not penetrate, " yes; deacon, I intend, if I
marry again, to marry a man !  Smerks was too
meek. He had a soul that you could put into
the bottom of this here thimble, and then put it
h on your finger and not know it was there ! "-
And here the widow, suiting the action to the
word, thrust her finger to the extremity of her
thimble with such a jerk that the deacon winced,
expecting to hear the little soul of Simon Smerk
cry out from the depths thereof. " I want a
alman that will make mue afraid of him ! A wo-
man that has a mean husband despises him, and
t he ought to be despised; and that's the reason
I've treated Smerks so !"

a    Here the deacon looked blank. He had half
an eye to the widow's hand and dollars, and the

good custom of the inn, and was early making
up to the widow--not exactly courting her yet,
but standing by to speak first in good time,
should he see any rival likely to succeed to Si-
mon. He winced, for he knew that he himself
bad hardly nerve enough, as her husband, to
control her, for she was as brave as a dragoon,
and as sharp as vinegar, and had a voice like a
Cape Cod skipper, i1 a gale of wind.
The deacon shook his head a great many times
on his way home that night, and thought more
than once that though he might gain the widow,
he would lose his own life, like poor Simon.-~"
One month to a day had Simon laid in his grave,
when a bluff, stout, sea-dog looking man, well
dressed, with a sun-burnt visage and a bluster-
ing air, came noisily into the tap, and striking
his fist hard down upon the bar, leered out of his
left eye to the widow, who was within it, and
ripping out a nor-west oath, asked her if she
had board and lodgings for the devil, for a
month-and as he did so, he poured a .handful
of foreign gold upon the board.
She stared at him with surprise, and even
drew back a step from the front of the bar-the
nearest approach to fear any body had ever seen
her manifest; yet she kept her eyes fixed on his
face resolutely.
Yes," she answered, after regarding him
steadily till one might count fifteen.
"Then I'm your guest, madam. Count out
your charges, and then give me my supper.-
But first pour me out a flagon of your best Ja-
maica I Come, do not look at me, woman, but
obey me. I am as thirsty as a shark, and could
drink Chesapeake Bay if - it were red rum and
no salt in it !",                        ,
The new comer quaffed the potation which
she gave him, all the while looking at him with
a sort of uneasy curiosity. -And well she might.
I'he man fascinated her like a basilisk. Before
the month was up- she had married him, and be~-
fore the year was up he had buried her. She
had married a man indeed, who seemed to have
been sent, as she said to a confidential friend on

her dying bed, from another world, by Smerks,
to avenge himself on her for her treatment to

him while living. - "0, how could - he hav
made me marry him as he did, when I was a
afraid of hirm as death, and he has made me obe3
just as I made poor Smerks, and has broke m3
heart. I was never made to obey a husband,
and though he hasn't laid a finger on me, yet h
has made me mind him just as particular as i
I had been a child. I couldn't stand it n
longer, and II am going to die !" And die sh
did, fairly worn out in trying to resist the author
ity of the man who seemed from the beginning
to have acted as if he thoroughly understood her
disposition, and really came, as she believed to
the last, to avenge upon her the martyrdom of
poor Smerks.
This was the way that(Captain Ned got to be
host of the Light in the Binnacle, and his popu-
larity in York street had its foundation, no
doubt, in his victory over the widow Smerks;
for hen pecked men respect and honor the man
who can conquer a termagant, and women who
hen-peck love to see their rivals in this way com-
pelled to succumb, as it is an inference of their
own unconquerability ; and wives and husbands
who neither peck nor are pecked, but live lov-
ingly, rejoice to see a s olding wife bridled.--
Therefore Captain Ned f und great favor from
all parties, and was ever after looked upon as a
very proper pattern of, a han.
On the evening on which our reader is taken
to the tap-room, just at that dusky time of the
twilight when it is too light yet to have candles,
and yet dark enough to make objects obscure in
the room and without, a man who was standing
by the window that looked out upon th. river,
saw a small four-oared boat suddenly round the
old pier-head, and pull in towards the stairs.
"'Ere's river customers for ye, cap'n," said
the man, with the officious bustle of a tipsy tap-
room loafer, as his ragged coat, torn hat, old
shoes down at the heels, bloated face and watery
eyes showed that he was ; " four ears and ajig'
in the stern. Prap's a officer ; it looks like a,
reveny boat P My eyes ! I'll go and bring in
his duds, an' he'll give us a drink !"

The man, though not drunk now, shuffled out
of the door down to the water-stairs with that

e weak-kneed gait which belongs to the confirmed
s inebriate, like a child just beginning to learn to
y walk.
y    Captain Ned, who was smoking a cigar be-
;hind his tap, and had just ordered a negro slave
e to light up, rose quickly and countermanding
f the order, walked briskly to the window, mut-
o tering to himself, as if with pleasing expecta-
tion:
"It is he, I'll bet a Spanish peso. I'll keep
dark a few minutes longer, till he gets housed,
for he don't care to be seen."
From the window, he saw through the obscu-
f rity the outlines of the boat and persons in her,
as she touched the stairs, but could make out
nothing. Only one person got out of the boat,
who came up the stairs and entered the tap,
though not without a certain hesitation in his
manner, and a searching glance around and
within. It was, however, the usual supper hour
of its frequenters, and it was deserted, save by
one man, who sat in one corner, smoking a
German pipe.
At the door Captain Ned met the stranger,
and saying in an indifferent tone, "Binnacle,"
he was promptly and in the same tone answered
by the other "Light."
You are welcome," said Blouster, extend-
ing his hand to the man, whose face was conceal-
ed by the upright collar of a sea watch-coat, that
cane as high as his temples, and nearly met in
front of his eyes. "I am glad to see you, sir.
Follow me !"
The other, without a word, walked after him
across the tap room, on the opposite side of which
was a door, which the host opened, and admit-
ting him, closed it. after him and bolted it.--
" Sit down-I will get a light, sir."
- " No, Blouster," answered the other, in a
voice that evidently belonged to a young man,
and one who mingled in good society ; for it had
that bred and polished tone, which is not easily-
described, but which can be understood by all.
"No, we can talk in the dark."      -1
" That we can, sir ; but I must first get the

time from my duties. I will return to you in a
moment."

'7L  r... . , - a"*  aW  4-~M 4PS     -4  - j  / 4444 .4 :ra
;  4i {ds --4  _ J ,  }

1S

41
19      1

IAA
!44
4

ys
#K
r p'{6S' 8j
e           ..er        _...  Mli
a

.;k.    drzir'sr k;'ff-  ?'  ' , Aa%+;;a 'litgt   ~ i y;+ .'"e      ;'           . jciil'+# A'1'F1 .* F M                            '
,                     ' a'         ;            s ..d..  ;             '                 ..       "y     9 . ti'   '  J,            .+                                 '                                    -                    ,YM+uw-app=.-KKVi..

e
,{
{ 1
i 'i5
,i
}r '          I


20

-        I
-4

=               L.

THE DANCING STAR

THE DANCING STAR.

"Bring me a tumbler of brandy at the same
time.  I have been on the water-this three
hours, and so much water about makes. one thirs-
ty enought"
"First, before I go, I will ask, are you
successful?"
"Yes."
" That is good news. I will be in again after
a few moments."
hus'speaking, the host left the small, old-
fashioned parlor, in which he had left his guest,
and entering the tap through the little stooping
door back of it, underneath the shelves, he- call-
ed to light up. The slave kindled two candles
on the mantel piece, and a lamp on each side of
the half-moontap, the light from which gave a
cheerful and home-like aspect to the long room.
The African then took a chair, by which he was
enabled to reach a small panel, on hinges, above
the chief entrance.  Upon opening it, there
was visible  a binnacle-lamp, placed in a box
within, and directly behind the painting which
we have described as being above the door.-
.The picture being transparent, the 'light shone
through; and to persons in the street the starfish
was as brilliant as a genuine.light in the binna-
cle. When the negro had kindled this sign to
the neighborhood that the evening in the tap-
room  had fairly commenced, the gossips who
usually congregated there of evenings to smoke,
drink ale, and talk over everything that trans-
pired, began to direct their steps towards the
inn.
"sWivil," said the host, after he had seen the
lights were all right, addressing the seedy look-
ing individual whom we have described as stand-
ing by the window on the arrival of the boat in
which the stranger had come.
"'Ere, cap'n !" he answered, hurrying to
wards him with the fawning simper of a poor
creature who lives on the bountyof another.
" You keep bar-do you hear ?"
" I'll do it, eap'n."
" And don't touch a drop ; if you do, you'll

not.have a drop from me for a week."
"I wont drain even the sugerin', cap'n, blow
me if I do. I know when a gentl'n is a gentl'n

-an' I guess I've been a gentl'n, if I arn't
now. To be sure I'll, keep the bar--who but
Wivil?- .That's my name, "Tim Wivil--good as
gold. To be sure I will I"
" Don't you trust a soul, Wivil," said the
captain, as he pouredout half a tumnbler of his
best brandy, the sight of which made Tim's eyes
water so that he had to wipe his cheeks with
his cufE-
"No I wont-not I. 0, cap'n, that brandy
looks like as if it 'uld make a dead feller git rite
up out o' his coffin to smell it !  I say, Cap'n
Blouster, what gentl'n was that, hey ?"
"Did you ever see him before, Tim?" asked
the captain, with a sharp look at him.
"Can't say-,-couldn't see his face.  Guess
he's a reveny chap, ain't he?  Looks like a
reveny boat."
"Mind your own business, Wivil."
"I'linind yourn, sir, fast, if you please,"
answered Wivil, with a grin, going behind the
tap.  ".I haint nobody else's to mind, havin'
none o' my own in pertickelar to 'tend to. Ah,
bless us ! this 'ere round little tap smells like
a flower gardin," added the toper, snuffing and
smelling with gusto the rummy atmosphere of
the bar, after Blouster had disappeared. " 0,
what a place for a sinner !  'Ere's paradise !-
aint I happy? Would you, Wivil-would you,
boy-give this' ere sitivation, with all these bot-
ties and kegs full o' licker,-speak the truth,
Tim Wivil,-would you'xchange sitivations with
enny king ?   No, you wouldn't!   Here's a
kanter o' white shiny gin, pure as amber, and
smellin' as sweet o' juniper as the bed o'
vi' lets Shakespear writ about; an' I guess if
he'd been here, he'd a talked about th' breath
of dimijohns and kanters and bottles full of sper-
rits. Now look at that red brandy, Timothy !
Hands off!I-honor bright ! Jest look at it with
your eyeses, an' keep your hands in your pock-.
ets, and if you hasn't,--as you hasn't,-nerry
pockets, keep yer hands in yer trowsus, and
don't be tempted I Arn't it pretty to look at,

'specially, when a feller knows how it tastes.-
Smack !-0, don't, brandy-don't now !j Shot
yer eyes, Wivil, and don't look at it no longer !

21  '

Jest see that ere Jamaiky ! It's like a kanter was exceedingly black  id flashing. A mus-
full o' melted rubies, sparkling as bright as dia- tache shaded his short upper lip. His features
minds--oney it's a pesky sight better nor melted were handsome, but wore the impress of dissi-
rubies, coz it's licker, and rubies isn't-least, I patron, or rather not so much of intemperance as
never heard they had enny licker flavor. Hands of fiery passions.
off, Wivil !  Honor down, and don't touch, for  "Shall I be overlooked here ?" he asked,
you're trusted like a gentl'n, and say die afore looking round as he set the glass down.
you put a drop o' licker down afore the cap'n  "No," answered Blouster, going to the only
gives the word. Just look at that wisky ! 0, window, and examining it; " the shutters are
my stars ! it shines like diamonds, too. - But closed, and I have fastened both the doors upon
it's a heap better! Don't talk to me of diamonds, us."
Wivil, 'long side o' wisky ! Diamonds I des- "Then I will take off this infernal hot watch-
pises, coz they've got water in 'em; I've often coat ; this warm night it is enough to suffocate
heern tell o' diamonds o' the fust water. It aint a man to wear it.''+
the fust water I have had anything to do with He removed his coat, and displayed a tall,
this last seven years.  0, bitters, don't I love well-shaped figure ; but he kept on a sort of sea-
yer of a mornin' !  Vhy don't some customer cap, which shaded his brow. His dress was a
walk up to take a drink ? It '11 do me a sight sort of naval frock coat, of blue cloth, richly em-
o' good to smell the licker, pourin' on it out ! broidered and corded with gold ; and he wore a
Valk up, gentl'n-ere's the blessedest lickers ! broad, polished belt, enwreathed by a scarlet
Jest walk up and take some'at."              sash. To the belt hung a short Turkish yata-
This last remark was made to two men, who gan in a highly ornamented sheath, and a pair
came up from  the water-stairs, dressed as sea- of superb pistols were stuck in it, one on either
men-yet evidently they w re not regular tars, side, [by a belt-hook.
there being something about them that betrayed " So you have really donned a uniform ! That
their lives had been spent more on land than on looks like earnest, captain !"
the ocean ; yet they'affected the swagger of man- " Yes,". answered the other, smiling ; "this
o'-wars men. They rolled up to the bar, and is well enough, as I must have some distinguish-
calling for rum, at once gave Wivil the employ- ing dress.
ment in which his heprt delighted.             "Where is your vessel?   You told me that
Leaving them dri king their grog, which Tim you had succeeded."
mixed for them  in the most approved manner    " Yes.  I will relate the circumstances."
that long personal experience gave him, we will "I should like to know them, for I feared
follow the host of the Binnacle into the inner that you would hardly manage to get your vessel
room.  Upon reaching it, he placed a candle and crew, and get out of port without exciting
upon the table, before his guest, and a goblet o suspicion."
brandy in his hand, saying, with a very meaning " You shall hear, and I have no doubt in the
smile :issue, you will compliment my sagacity, Captain
S" You wont find better than that, sir, that has Ned."
paid duty."                                    " I have no doubt I shall. I know you well
" Mellow as amber oil, Ned," answered the enough to be convinced you will darry through
stran ger', putting b~acg his collar, and placing it whatever you undertake."
to his lips. A glimpse of his features as he " Yes, I have usually done so, save in one
quaffed the liquor showed that we were right in affair ;" and here his brow darkened, and an

j
I

udging that he was a' young man. His age was unpleasing expression played about his mouth;
probably about twenty-five or six, and his coin  "but that I do not by any means consider as
plexion dark as that of a Spaniard. His eye finished."
2

tt9  +    t     .        4  yF

r
. '
,
,-
4t +t
t
C

,
r;
.t'i    "-
r
r
tt ''k}}   f  _
" +ia
iF
_  s
'' _
$  i d
r} q[ c q c
c Tf i
'   j
.
i  #
C#
y
*.r i :
af t_ ~
7'"  ,
.
i;
.t(
a3'. T
'3.
. },
y ,
J t
{
yrrj' 1
.j
$F}Vl
y* f
s  !     _
'i  !
.
g' e
7
s
'
"  _ i
;  r
rj
.
" .
i

a          ,-' 1             '^"'-; I":     .,d9sa!tr'.+.+, zw +ryyfiT;M   :i" u at:nt :y, . ; w ?nYa":!fti  ^°:. , aY*  Jj"tF 'at  p.-+ei*=;+9:R             ,fig  p                                   '
'k .   a'i jai    i  -          Yir#        .i r;     _,r,           f          4           ya                _   ^ f -    -    ti       ;    a d h,!'" ,'1,   k 5   v          f;  y ,        s..yi,  ,,ia     s   l   _N                         _t                   1 W43c+' !1r rrrr
''  . -- ,1      'I              _a '4      '  ,,               rta           ,                                      .  {a               rbr+ ~    -.; -        ,    f     '                        ".       1a'                     -       ,r                                       .
.   . { ,                  ...   f             {, r  .t'    -     ~  ram r.  ..,                    :?'-'   _                            ..            ,r-'                'e .    i'    _         t1 .-r.,, ''rv               -}.. ,K'      { . '              -                      '3,          _              -   .a '            , _
'

1

3
r
r

Q

r
ski
'_t
+'


y
ti                            r
_
,-
j
.':i."s.. ...." ' :'-:- .'  4^3  i  -='.::. = C  .:3, ..:l,  = rt?"afr(r ;'7lTt""eretr,,s    G  .c..:  :, amaeya.,.ynwe,-                                                                                      ~ ,                                                      4._,
"

,; t
£ ,j- i
_' °A
11 : r

THE DANCING STAR.

TIHE DANCING STAR.

You mean the young girl on Windmill point
above here."
"Yes ; and you will see that your words shall
come true even in this.  It, is the only thing in
which I have been foiled ; but I mean to carry
it out, after our other matters are arranged."
"The brother was in here to-day.'"
'ieaufort !" exclaimed the stranger, with
fierceness.
"Yes. He left" not five hours ago for the
inlet."
What was he doing here ? I fancied he
thought too much of himself-the low-born
hound--to enter a tap-room."
He was brought in by Lieutenant Mainwar-
iigor rather they walked in talking, and sat
down and held a long parieying about his joining
the revenue."
Heaven grant he did consent to do it."
"I don't know, but rather think not. You
know I always keep my ears open, and my bari
is so constructed,-hollow  behind,-that I
catch, when I am in it, almost the lowest whis
-:per men utter at any of the tables. He seemed
to draw off, and parted without coming to any
terms. -Mr. Mainwaring once told me that he
had taken a liking to Beaufort, and thought him
one of the most promising - young bay men that
ever enter York river. He says he is a capital
sailor, and as brave as a lion, and possesses every
honorable trait in his character a man need
have!"
"He will spoil a parson in him, then, if he
take him into his cutter," said the guest sneer-
ingly, as if he liked but ill this praise of an up-
right young fellow. "If he gets into the rev-
erdue, we may one day meet, when T shall not be
backward in paying off old scores. But let
Eim pass," he added, haughtily, " one thing
at the time. My news is this~ Blouster. I had
no sooner reached Baltimore, than I looked
about the harbor for such a vessel as we fixed
upon; but not finding one, all having too great
tonnage, I was afraid I should have to wait till
one could be built ; and as luck would have it,

when I had received your letter, saying I had
best contractat once to have the keel laid, a

little clipper of seventy tons-as pretty a crea-
ture as ever swam the blue water-came into
port from a trip to Pensacola on a coast survey.
Upon inquiry, I found that she was sent home
as drawing too much water, and her place was
to be supplied by a craft of less tonnage and
lighter draught. The clipper was, therefore, for
sale, and three weeks ago I purchased her, and
paid for her just as she was, in sea trim, even
to her provisions on board !"
How much did you pay for her complete?"
asked the host, with the look of a man who has
a deep pecuniary interest in knowing the answer
to his question.
"Four thousand and six hundred."
"It is not too much if she is sound."
"Sound as a racer ; not a blemish in her
from stem to stern."
"You have made a bargain."
"You will say so when you see her."
" And what have you expended of the remain-
der of the six thousand ?"
" I have victualled the vessel for four months,
shipped a crew of eighteen men, and paid them
a month's advance each, and two ofieers, both
of them reckless rascals ; and as for my crew, it
is motley-such as I could get and knew I could
trust."
"This was the most difficult pert of your
business.
"That is true ; but I had i6y first man in
Lastels."
" A precious rogue !"
"That he is-worth his weight in ingots.
With Lastels, who had run his career in Balti-
more, and who knew half a score of as desper-
ate, fortune-tossed gentry as himself, I secured
these through him; and then, as each of these
knew others of like calibre, unknown to Lastel,
I made each of them bring a man. By this
scheme I got my eighteen men all of one stamp,
and ready to ship and ask no questions-glad,
every mother's son of them; to find some way-
of getting out of' the city, for they were victims
of debt, and had of' late seen the streets only by

"iDo any   of them  know what you have better.     Now when will you come on board ?"
shipped- them for?"                            " where does your clipper lay, and what do
"Not one but Lastels, who is my next in com- you call her ?"
mand.   They suspect, however, he says, that it                 Dancing Star.
" A prtty  ae     -ugbt a         niu.
is some madcap expedition; and as they have         prey name enough, but fanciful.
nothing to lose, and everyth  to gain by an      She has a golden star on each bow, and as
nohig oos,.n evrthn     to giby yshe dances ove       the wae   rahrtansis-
change, they are not too inquisitive.  But when  aeso    ver he waves rather than sails, I
.u      - Bt       h  aveonad
you go on board I will give them  a talk, and hesDameaher.,         t would have called, her
hint at my object, and if any one of them chooses dancing Feather, but that would have been
to withdraw he can do so. I will take only men  "You haveavr     o
oho will abide bythe.i"sYou havevarverymgoo  name for her, but it
be                  e issue, whatever it may is not painted on her stern."
be."                                         "No; we keep her name only on our li
"Well, you have been indeed successful ; I man of-war style. She lays to about a mile from
cannot but compliment you. What arms have the mouth of the river, directly opposite Beach-
you                                          ampe House."
"Twenty-five pairs of side-pistols, as many "You are too bold. The revenue cruiser ran
cutlasses; two dozen boarding-pikes, and two down to the bay this afternoon.
brass six pounders on swivels, with ammunition  "We saw her far in the southern board..--.
sufficient.                                  Lastels is on the watch, and will keep at a'dis-
" You can't have much money left."        stance from all suspicious sail.  Will you go on
"About four hundred dollars."             board tonight ?"
" You have well laid out the rest."          "Yes.   I will close all up at ten, and then
"I am glad you are content.  I could not do take boat with you."

'' .' t
t .F
fi:   t
n
-rt
+{
v "..
S:; {
rkI
_ g
a
: j
1
.j
'
.F tr .
,:  #
c +
r
"  j
iy
}5

AtA

lamp-light, and under a slouched cap at that.-
Ah, Blouster, they are a precious and rare set
of scoundrels."

..       ,...--..-. .,..-T,.r r+a.°+ "oz- a sr-  '" ~i'3ya   t -, ?p~  y4'7'4. ''
. '   b ''              _          - -.          ' '         . r ; r-,  .        _           r;a'+"  ;  "i+ ;+ '   ["r t     , '. '; . Y'+t ., Yx i, R           ' ,       :      q
t  -         i S'4   . i ,a,             s . " i'  i F t       - 3s.. , s               ;             .x - - .              ts'.;     'x                        _                                     " we-!+n.ka
ilk
y. -  L   -

t
i 5
Apr
Ri
S+
t,
c  j tr
t4 1C
t{
t 6 +
L

a
r,; r
. -                                    ;        ' ;


THE DANCING STAR.

I

CHAPTER III.
The "Binnacle's" motley customers.         suspicious stranger.   Bluster's efforts to be
rid of him.    A surprise.    " To are my    prisonerr"    The police off cer foiled.-
The boats and a desperate chase.       The result.

ten o'clock, Captain Ned gave orders to
t         o his factotum, the .splayfooted negro boy
who did the rough-and-tumble work about the
tap, to "douse the glim," a nautical phrase
well understood by Dick, though he had never
seen any other salt water than   the  distant
expanse of the Chesapeake seen from the inn
wharf. All Bluster's customers, fresh water
and salt, also understood the meaning of the or-
der; and as Ned was known to be punctual at
the hour, and gave no favors, there was a gen-
eral movement of the men who happened to be
in the room at that moment.
Three of these were retired skippers, who
talked over reeling blows off the Capes, over a
glass of half and-half, often replenished in the
course of the yarn by the instrumentality of
Dick, who waited-upon the customers.
Two of them were mechanics, one a cobbler
and the other a tailor, whose evenings for seven
years had been passed in the tap, neither of them
going home or offering to stir till the order was
given to put out the lights ; and then, arm in
arm, and equally tipsy, they would help each

other home-a pair of Dromios that the love of
good liquor, and frowning helpmates at home,
united in the closest bonds of sympathy and
companionship.
One of the sitters was a broken-down merchant,
in shining coat sleeves and collar well waxed
with age, a grayish hat, but often smoothed with
an old wiper, in remembrance of former respect
ability, a gray head, thin face, and a nose fiery
red at the extremity; a gentleman who lived
upon the weekly pittance an industrious daugh-
ter, by teaching, bestowed upon him, and which,
to drown sorrow, and from fear of looking his
misery in the face, he spent at the Binnacle in
strong potations.. But he was never drunk, and
the more he drank,-and he drank much, for
many asked him out of respectful-commisera-
tion, and in consideration that he had once own-
ed warehouses and ships, to walk up and take
something with them,-he seemed the more sad.
Everybody paid him a sort. of deference, for he
was always neat, though he wore the garb of
poverty, and mine host would always hand him
the morning papers before anybody else.

These persons, with Wivil, were usually the
last in going away; and though others might
sometimes stay as long as they did, they were
never known, not one of them, to rise to depart
before the order was given to douse the lights!
When it was now given, there was an eighth
individual seated in the corner near the window,
sipping his negus. He had come in about an
hour before, and instead of going up to the bar
to order what he wanted, had proceeded to this
corner, which he seemed to select as being more
obscure than any other part of the tap-room.--
He had received his glass through the agency
of Dick, whom he had called to him to give the
order. The man was tall and powerfully made,
with huge black whiskers, long black hair flow-
ing on his shoulders, and a short bushy beard on
his lips and chin-in a word, bearded like a
Pard. His entrance had attracted general at-
tention, but as one eye after another rested on
him without recognition, it was turned away
again without remark, for Blouster had often
strange visitors in his tap-room. Captain Ned,
however, regarded him a second time with closer
attention than his guests, who were occupied
talking and drinking, had done; and he felt a
curiosity to know who he was, as he always did
if there was anything striking about any of the
strangers that entered the tap-room. He there-
fore took Dick's duty upon him when the glass
was ordered to be replenished, and carried it
from the bar to him; but the man, while he re-
ceived the glass with his extended hand, was
looking out of the window, as if gazing intently
upon some object that that moment had attracted
his attention. Blouster did not, therefore, see t
his face, and he departed muttering:      I
"DIone on purpose. It looks suspicious.--
I'll know who he is before he leaves !" r
When, therefore, -Blouster saw the man main- p
tain his seat till the light in the Binnacle above t
the door was put out, he looked uneasy, and e
kept glancing towards him where he sat smoking b
a pipe, which he had taken from his pocket.- o

The decayed gentleman rose first, on seeing Dick w
climb the chair to extinguish the lamp, and bow- r
ing politely, but with a melancholy air, to mine

host, was going out, when Mr. Wivil, who was
standing by the bar admiring the sparkle of the
liquors through the sides of the decanters, being,
as we have seen, an amateur that way, laid his
hand with tipsy familiarity on his shoulder, and
said :
" Come, ole gentl'n, suppose we take a nights
cap afore we goes. The cap'n '11 treat, I lnow
by his eye."
" Sir,"  answered the decayed    merchant,
shrinking from the hand laid on his shoulder,
and drawing himself up with the wreck of his
former pride struggling in his pale features, " I
am a gentleman and educated man, sir, and
though poor and a drinker, I am not yet so low
as to be your companion. Good evening, sir,"
and the wasted form of the elderly merchant dis-
appeared from - the tap into the gloom. Mr.
Wivil looked after him with stupid surprise,
and then turning to the landlord, winked at him,
and remarked, apologetically:
"The gentl'n needn't take offence-I didn't
mean nothin' but feller feelin'. I doesn't 'gree
with him ! If two gentl'n as tipple aint equals,
I never seed a yoke o' steers as was. Every
gentl'n to his taste, and my taste is to licker.
Cap'n, one more glass-jist a little night-cap,
if you please !"
" Wivil, you've drank twelve times to-night,
if you've drank once."
" And wot's twelve times to a man as loves
licker ! Bless yer soul, cap'n, I could drink a
gross rite off, and cry for more
"Don't talk here,! Go !-I must bar up!
answered Blouster, testily ; for he was anxious
o join the stranger in the little parlor, where he
had left him.
The two friends, John the cobbler, and Sam-
my the tailor, fiow seeing that all the lights were
ut out except one on the bar, left their cups at
he little round table where they had spent the
vening in loving talk about "yven they vos little
oys," and arm in arm, with their hats cocked
n the same side, their left eye shut, and each
ith the right corner of his mouth screwed down,

heeled up to the bar.
Cobbler.-" Good ni-night, Captin Blowsy."
Tailor.-" Go-od night, Cap'n Blow-ser."

-         .~       ,                                     .      .     ,

It
~ .  nr l~  ;  www~~.wrwNMYw.       w.w4 ,+  wni  ius....  r. .. , . ,s-4r       . .

4

17
2 5    T)

,a
.
r
'i  "
.
:_;
+
; .'

,
'ri
;t
_ ,,
_;
_ .
- ,
,
F     i
#"
°.    {
'j,
} rl
3 !f

Arl
t
l
fII

;

t       Y      f               ,«   ,   ;   ts,.,                     ' _           e         i i4 i J           41..ri  "  y      - RE
r 7  " S                        s;; f   4; ,     r.                      _               M     Y1   f         l r                    y ,


THE DANCING STAR.

-                                                                                                      _                                                                                                                                                                f      ,
i
r
.r' .
i                                                                                                                 i
a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           _
uvunta. - ... ".  ra                                                                            _..,._._        ...  ....   ... ,.    ._. _.....   ._.  .  .r..           n. +        .rt, .m,.     .  .....    ...  _.. ...            r       -   " .        "1R'l                                    i
.. _..                _.      ...         ._. _.    _ __                  ...                                                ,.     r         ..-. ..                                                          w.wwr

THE DANCING STAR.

Both extended their hands at the same mo-I
meant and grasped that of the host, and shook it
most affectionately. They then reeled to the
right, and then to the left, and finally, like a
pair of Siamese twins, ejected themselves from
the door and brought up in the middle of the
street. Here they spent full five minutes in as-
certaining which was up street and which down,
and finally moved off, presenting a happy/illus-
tration of the motto of their fellow-citizens,-
"United we stand, divided we fall !"
"There goes a, pressius supple ." soliloquiz
ed Wivil, as he saw them depart; "if one o'
them men should have the toothake the other 'd
have it. They'll die the same day, and be
buried in the same grave !"    -
The three old skippers, who had lingered to
hear out a yarn that one of the numlr had been
telling all the evening about "a school o' por
poises and a Marblehead fog," now got up, and
taking a parting glass, in which Wivil was adroit,
enough to be the fourth in the affair, they but,
toned up their thick pea-jackets, pulled their tar-
paulins over their eyes, and the collars tup about
their ears, as if they were going on deck to stand
watch in a December snow storm, and thrusting
their hands into their pockets up to the elbows,
rolled out of the tap one after the other, like
three topsail schooners sailing on a bowline in
each other's wake, and disappeared up the street
on the starboard tack.
There remained no one in the dim tap-room
nowsave Wivil, who, having no home, hung on
to every place he, could stay in with the ends
of his elbows and heels, and the large man in
the drab coat and Pardic black beard. Blous-
ter cast his eyes impatiently towards him several
times, and grew each moment more uneasy.-_
The man sat joking his pipe as imperturbably
as if 'he had not observed the preparations for
closing the tap.
" Come, Mr. Wivil," said Blouster, in a loud
voice, " you must go home, for I am about to
shut the doors up ;" and he shot a sharp glance
towards the stranger, to see if he would take

the hint. - But he never moved a hair, nor.
ceased to smoke.-

"Home !" repeated Wivil.    "I'd be very
much obleeged to enny gentl'n as would have
the goodness to tell me the number o' my house,
or the street. I've quite forgot it !  Guess my
house aint numbered, and they forgot to- put it'
down in the D'rectory.  I'm 'fraid it would be
two 00, Free street, corner o' Sky alley. Bless
you, cap'n, I haint laid in a house these five
years!  I sleeps about in spots; sometimes,;
when it's warm nights, I lodges comfortable and
cool on the spungy side of a market stall; some-
times I takes it out on the church steps; but the
capitalest place for a feller to sleep in is the
churchyard, rite on one slab, with another cover-
in' him over to keep the dew off, and with plenty
bushes stuck round on the windy side, and grass
under you, it's comfortable till purty late in the
season; but in winter I takes to hay-lofts. If
you never slep in a hay-mow, cap'n, you don't
know what's nice and comfurtable, 'specially if
a hen comes an' lays a egg rite alongside o'
your head, for you to breakfast on. That's wot
Icalls luxury and livin' independent.  But I
sees you're wantin' me to go. Good night,
cap'n !" and here turning to the stranger, Mr.
Wivil touched his ragged castor, and also wished
him a good night. The man responded in a
frank, bluff, deep base, "Good night to you,
too, my lad! Here's a dollar to get you a night's
lodging and a breakfast."
kith this he tossed him a Spanish dollar,
which fell on the floor, rolling at his feet. Mr.
Wivil stood still and gazed upon it, with incred-
ulous marvel in every lineament of his rum-
blossomed face.  He then took it up, and hav-
ing examined it, he was about to thrust into his
trowsers, but recollecting that pockets he had
none, he held it in the closed hand with the grasp
of a vice, while he made a miscellaneous sort of
a bow, saying: .
" Thank ye, sir. It's a long day since Tim-
othy Wivil had such a sum o' money as this.
Sir, you knoir how to 'preciate distressed virtue
and individooals in distress. Sir, may you live

a thousand years!  I'll drink your health every
time I licker till I die !  Good night, every
body. If I don't show this white dollar to every

i

ter had been all his life an upright and honest
liver, he would not now have felt any misgivings
at the sight of a strangr, however suspicious
and mysterious he might seem ; but a guilty
conscience never sleeps. It is always active to
listen, to mark, to suspect, to doubt, to detect,
to imagine, to convert all doubtful circumstances
into agents that are about to unveil his secret.
Thus it is that.a consciousness of crime commit-
ted makes the hardiest man a living coward from
the lively apprehension of detection. Tbe shadow
of an act of wrong done in early years will cast
its shadow along the whole path of a man's life.
and, uncepented, gather in a dread darkness
about his dying hour.

formidable attitude of defence, so quickly taken,
and while he manifested equal resolution of man-
n, r, neither drawing aside before the levelled
pistols, nor abating one inch of his ground, he
evidently thought it best to parley. To his de-
miand he had received -no other reply than the
silent eloquence of the determined attitude we
have described.
"Nevil Beachampe, I do not desire to proceed
to extremities. I arrest you in the name of the
State government, for forging the-"
Before he got farther, Blouster, who had hast-
ily barred his outer door, and taken an immense
African knife from a shelf above the bar, sprang
into the room behind the stranger, and, coming

,'. ,
-
,,,
.a
_ ;;
.,

man, womansand little baby in York, may I      "Very well--I can lie on the floor," answer-
never spend it after !"                      ed the man, in an indifferent tone.
With this resolution,' the goo -natured but  " I never turn my taproom  into a lodging-
good for-nothing Master Tim Wivil left the tap- ball," answered Blouster, sullenly.  ":Come,
room, quite oblivious of everything but the ex sir, if you please, you must seek other lodgings."
traordinary fact that he was in the possession of  The man made no reply, but looked out of
a dollar  1in the hilarity of his heart, he com- the window into the darkness.  Blouster did
menced singing a jovial bacchanal in honor of not like this movement; he had seen him do this
his good fortune.                            same thing twenty times, as if he were watching
There was not a word spoken in the tap until pome particular object on the river-though it
the last words of the receding singer had died was- too dark, it being only starlight, to see
away in the distance ; both men seemed to be clearly at any distance.  At this moment the
listening, thou h Blouster was only engaged in door of the little parlor softly opened, and the
deliberating whether he should boldly ask his occupant cautiously peered forth.
late tarrying guest to leave, or let the tip remain  " Are you alone, Blouster ?" he said. " The
open till he should finish his pipe; when he hoped time is up."
he would depart.   His perplexity was put an   Scarcely were the words out of his mouth,
end to as the song ceased, by the man saying: when the man, who had turned his eyes towards
"Do not wait for me, sir host; I shall lodge the door on detecting the sound of its opening,
with you to night !     -                   rose and sprung forward to it almost at a bound.
"I am sorry to say, sir, we are full," an- But a cry of alarm and warning from Blouster
swered Blouster, on theimpulse of the moment; made the young man shut to the door quickly ;
for he had taken a prejudice against the man  but before lie could bolt it, it was burst open,
he felt, he knew not why, a secret dread of him, and the stranger entered,.pistol in hand.
and he resolved, though there were three spare  " You are my prisoner, sir !" he cried, as
beds in th. inn, that ho should not remain.-  the occupant of the-room, unable to escape, drew
Moreower, he had to leave the inn in a few arrr two pistols, and threw himself into a most strik-
ments, and for the last five minutes he had heard ing attitude of combined defence and attack, his
the inp itiert tread of the young eap :ami of the tall and symmetrical form  elevated to its most
Dancing Star in the little parlor ; ant he did not towering height, while he scanned the in ruder
care to leave behind him a strang=e r in whose with an eye that betrayed a courage equal to
presence he felt irmself so ill at ease  if Blous the emerge ncy.  The other stopped full at this

fry
r ff3
r3
"   r
r    :
c;
f
f
tr
t P ,
" 4,
r  .
t
i 6-
'  )
'  Sxff i
r  ( f
i
e
k S
k
c       _
of
r u  f
i
(t t.
mot:
1' 1
f
i
5
r ! +

I!a

6V

Is

_
.'

71
ii
27

-for

I

_
j
i   a
I
3a
{ 1
e
,i f
f"
' k
i'
7 "
i' '
;
r
ji
e,'
1+
h
,
.
'4
=3
i
4
' t_ r
.
:1
7 t
,'
'}
: i .
e
i
t   i
e
4
?t
3

S
4
,
'6
f"
r.
1


.C:     s,'  N~sy  M. vi~a~ ",wr~  v  5 '  ,f  ...r1 +W .M/

T

THE DANCING STAR

THE DANCING STAR.

near unseen, struck to the ground the pistol that
he held, and before he could redeem  it, threw
himself before him, in an attitude of terrible fe -
rocity, his stiff, gray hair almost alive with fury,
his eyes blazing with rage and madness, and the
gleaming, double-edged broad knife raised above
his head ready to strike.  The stranger drew
back, but did not show a sign of fear-it was
evidently not in him.
"Who are you that dare attack one of my
guests in my own house ?" demanded Blouster,
the mischievous blood in him fairly up. " By
all the fiends, I will rip thy heart out !"
It was a moment in which the nerves of the
stoutest of men might well have quivered, for
besides the knife above him, and which he had
no weapon in his hand to ward off,'the captain
of the Dancing Star still covered his heart with
the muzzles of the two pistols.  The stranger
had got himself into a dilemma which he evi-
dently felt would require the utmost skill and
coolness to extricate himself from  alive.  He
knew that he was in the presence of desperate
men, who felt themselves compromised, and
would not hesitate to kill him to save their own
persons and preserve their own secrets.
" Gentlemen," said he, calmly, "you have
the advantage of me. I confess myself foiled,
for once.  With your permission L will bid you
a very good night."
" Not so easy, sir," answered Blouster.-
"You have attempted to commit an act of vio-
lence in my house, and you shall answer for it."
"Let him go, Ned," said the young Oman,
putting ui his pistols.  " He can do us no harm
now.   Shall in ten minutes be beyond the reach
of danger from offers of the law. I see, sir, you
are only doing your duty, arnd you have done it
bravely. I have no quarrel with you, if you let
me alone. You are at liberty to go."
"And you act like a gallant fellow, Beach-
ampe, arnd I acknowledge that T am fairly beat-
en. It is not your fault that I do not have these
bracelets on your hands. But we shall meet
another time, and be better acquainted."

Nevil Beachampe smiled disdainfully, and
going up to Blouster, 'took hold of his arm that

still held the knife and lowered it gently. "That
will d.; 'let us go."
"You are, too careless. You were reckless
in venturing ashore, and should have sent Las-
tels. - No, no ! This officer can do mischief; I
shall not let him go from my sight to-night. I
must look out for my own safety as well," an-
sWered Blouster, in a low half tone.  " What
hie has seen to-night, that I have harbored you,
will compromise ipe. He must not blab it-not
he !"
"He has discovered nothing-he has only
seen that you have taken, as becomes a good
landlord, the part of your guest. He knows
nothing to hurt you."
" I am not so sure. Leave him to me !"
"Do as, you please," answered Beachampe,"
in a tone of indifference.
The police chief, for it was the most.celebrat-
ed police officer of that day in the land who had
attempted this bold arrest, stood the while. in,
the midst of the room, Blouster being between
him and the door. His eye/had lost none of its
courage, and he seemed to be equal, unarmed
as he was, to the emergency. , He heard all
they said.
"Master Blouster," he said, quietly, " I see
you fear that your name as host of the Binnacle
is going to suffer for what you are enacting, and
so you meditate mischief.  Now let me tell you
plainly that I know you! I have..discovered
nothing to-night new to me.' I have long known
you were disposed to harbor lawless guests.-
But.I shall not trouble you unless I have a-war-
rant for you, which I have not.. As I have
kept your secret, having had you under suspi-
cion, I can keep it still. I am not surprised at
your fence of Beachampe, and I well knoW it
is n/so iluch as your guest as jour comrade."
" Who are you?"
" That .is neither here nor there. I know
you ! I do not fear you ! I will niot injure
you, except in the way of my duty. Now you
see that you wil-1 do no good nd gain nothing,
by putting that villanous lo -ing knife between

my ribs. So with your ieave, as you have the
best of it to-night, I will take my departure."

Blouster slowly turned the point of his knife
towards the floor, and looking at the tall brave
man inquiringly, said
"You are     brave man and fearless, and I
love a brave man ; and as Mister Beachampe
says, you are only doing your duty, I will trust
you. But before you go, tell me who you are.
You are not an ordinary policeman ?"
" There is my name on my warrant," said
he, exhibiting it to the eyes of Blouster, who no
sooner glanced at it, than he turned deadly pale,
the knife fell from his grasp, and he started back
with a cry of terror that made Beachampe's
blood run cold. The officer took up his pistol,
and passing the statue-like landlord, crossed the
tap-room, unbarred the door, and went out with-
out even looking behind.
"What is the matter, Blouster?  Why, man,
you are as pale as death !" cried Beachampe.
"Thank Heaven he 'is now gone ! Do you
know-" Here he gasped, and his voice sunk
into his chest.
" Know what?"
"I killed that man once !"
"Ned, you are beside yourself. You have'
been taking wine."
" Yet I couldn't have killed him, or-- Do
you believe the dead come back ?" he asked, in,
a tone of horror that awed the young man, who
gazed on him with amazement.
I believe no such thing."
"He didn't die then !  Yet I stabbed him to
the heart, and threw him into the sea ! I saw
the waters close over him ! Nevil Beachampe,
the person you saw here but now was no living
man ! I see it all; I shall not live-it is a
warning."
" Take some brandy. Here, I did diot drink
half of it-you need it-you are ill. He was
savesi somehow."
'The' young man poured some brandy down
his throat, and the host revived and looked more
composed.
" Yes, he must have been," he answered,
relieved. " I could not have killed him. It

is very strange !"
" Well, let us forget it.

I can't stay here ;

he has not bound himself not to try and secure
me otherwheres-let us to my boat. I would
not like to-be dragged off to a prison on that old
affair."
" I will go with you. I want to see you off,
for if you are taken all I've adventured is lost."
"Just so," answered Beachampe, with a com-
pression of his lips. " Now take a pistol, and
let us both go out on our guard. Ten to one he
may try toprevent me "frem reaching my boat,
if he sees me go out."
"We can pass out secretly. Follow me."
He took up the candle, but-his hand shook so
that Beachampe took it from him, but Blouster
led the way down a stone staircase into the wine
vault. This they crossed, and came to a small
door, by which they issued upon the wharf. All
was still. After listening a moment, they went
forward to the stairs, where Beachampe found
his boat and three of the men asleep, but the
fourth was awake and watching.
" I thought it was you, sir, a few minutes
ago ; but it was a man who had a boat at the
wharf end, and he has got into it and pulled
down the river.
"Was he a tall man?" asked Nevil.
"Yes, sir, and came out of the inn."
"It is he," said both Blouster and the young
man, in the same breath. -" Who had he with
him ?" demanded the latter, as he stepped into
his boat.
.3, " Four men, sir ; two of whom have teen
lurking about outside the Binnacle, as if watch-
ing out or were finding a place to break in and
steal."
" He had men with him, and now I see what
he was looking out of the windoW for and took
his seat there. It was a regular plot to take
you. But how could he know you were here?"
asked Blouster, as the men shoved out from the
stairs, and let fall their oars into the water.
" I saw a boat far astern of me, pulling along
after mnecjust before I reached the wharf here,"
observed Beachampe, " and I have no doubt it

was he in pursuit; and knowing I had landed
here, he waited till I should come out to take
boat again to arrest me.
a

.+            14.    r   -J* , fr  , /i    '  : 2L   ,  _
   1*_  ,,  'n  '7 t " ,   3'4M~   ...tc   -  t  ,  ',e-7    1, r4t  H,

2S

!
.
, , yam, '
.._..M ........_....,.u,.-.-   .... .

f
1
n  qtr
t
j
4
.
{{{jf
51 , Fw
f r
xr
i j
i "  _
j     4

e        s
Ii3
Vi

10

t      _ l          f

29


4t

30

" That is the way of it," said' Blouster, in a
faint, almost absent, sort of manner, as if the
re-appearance of the man he had.long believed
dead still troubled his mind with anxious and
superstitious doubts.
"Did you take your pistol'?"
"Have it ready.  One of mine I have in my
hand, and my cuthass loosened for service. Do
you know I expect that we shall see our friend
again. He is not a man to give me up without'
another trial; and you must understand, Blous.
ter, that I am not to be taken."
"No, you must not be taken--that would
ruin me!",
"Then be yourself and stand by me! Is
that infernal ghost fear upon you yet."
I can't shakeit off!"
"Then it would be a good thing if you could'
get a broken head from him by way of assurance
of his being bone and muscle.  Now, my lads,
give way strong and long !" he added, as the
boat cleared the dock and shot past the head of
the wharf out into the open stream. The keen
eye of the young man surveyed the river below
to see if there were any sign of another boat on
the. water, and bending his face low close to the
water, he cast his glance along the surface; but
before he raised his head, he was startled by a
cry of surprise from Blouster.
It was caused by a boat that shot like an ar-
row out from beneath the dark arches of the
pier. In the stern stood upright the tall figure
of the unknown.
"Pull for your lives, men !-stoop to your
oars !  This is life or death !  Now, Blouster,
S you shall kno  whether your friend be flesh or
,spirit." ie rose to his feet with his pistol
cocked and levelled at the dark figure which the
starlight revealed.
SBoth boats were now flying along the water
With inconceivable speed. The pursuer had
just missed cutting off t le boat in which Beach
ampe and the host were, by half a length, cross

ing her wake a few feet astern as she shot out
from the whaif, instead of striking her with her
bow on her quarter, as his intention evidently

THE DANCE

was. Missing the charge, it had therefore to,
follow hard astern, and make a stern chase of
it.  Not a word was interchanged by either
party, for each knew well the other's purpose.
Blouster stood over the four men, encouraging
them with his voice and promises of reward, and
in his anxiety to, escape, forgot his ghostly fears.
His resolution returned, and in the few words
he from time to time spoke with Beachainpe, the
latter saw that he was to be depended on. The
young man never took his eye from the faintly-
seen face of his pursuer, but with his pistol on
the full cock, and presented at him, he watched
his every movement   The wharves, the houses-
of the town were rapidly left behind, and they
shot past the lonely and barren banks of the
river with great speed, and about twenty yards
apart.
The chase had continued in this manner for
full a mile, when Blouster whispered hoarsely
in the ear of the young man, " Let as both fire
and finish this business. It is lonely out here
on the water, and no one will hear the pistols."'
'' No-.let him come on. In half an hour the
schooner will be within hail, and theA we shall
have him in a trap.  But if he gains on us, anul
is likely to come up, I will fire and wing him, if
I ca see to do it. I wont kill a man if [can
h    it.  Give way merrily, men
At this instant the starboard bow oar snapped,
and the bows of the boat were pulled by the two
larboard oars broadside round before this catas-
trophe could be prevented. The boat astern,
which was a long, narrow, sharp-nosed whaler,
coming on at full head, struck her directly abaft
the after starboard row lock. Blouster and two
of the men sprung to fend her off, by which
they but partially broke the shock. The stern-
sheets of both boats swung together, and brought
Beachamnpe face to face with his pursuer, who
leaped into his boat, exclaiming:
" Now, Nevil Beachampe, you are surely my
prisoner !"
He laid his hand as he spoke upon the, young
man's shoulder, when the darkness was illumin-

ated by a crimson flash, and the report of Blous-
ter's pistol rung in their ears. In the difficulty

of aiming at such a time, the ball missed its
mark, and the officer responded by placing his
pistol close against the breast of the host, and,
drawing  the trigger.  As he discharged it,
Beachampe struck it up, and with his own pis.
tol shot the officer through the body. le fell
headlong over into the river.
"Grasp him when he comes up !" cried Ne-
vil, " for he may not be mortally wounded. I
don't want to kill him if he can be saved."
"-Better let him alone," answered Blouster,
fiercely.  " If he comes up alive, and goes
ashore,.I shall never dare set foot in the Light
in the Binnacle again."
Every eye watched to see him rise between
the two boats, but they saw him no more. The
boat which had brought him, the men in which
had remained passive at their oars, now attempt-
ed to pull away as if by one impulse acting on
the minds, of the oarsmen, but Blouster's hand
grasped the gunwale and held her.
"We mustn't let these men escape," he said,
with that savage selfishness which his fear of
exposure aroused in his breast.
"What shall we do with them ?" asked
Beachampe.
"We must take them on board and keep them
in irons, till we decide what to do with them."
These words were hardly uttered before the
rowers, one after the other, leaped into the rivers

THE DANCING STAR-

'.i t
i 
411
+e~n e6T"-.Yrrwr  +  {;           _                        . ., _,. ..4.... ..... .+^Mw .we~f                .^     '1

i

f k
'T.  {                        n dwthwMrM                      I M KAVWVf.NTnw+ ' y YNw1 M

k

t
t'

DING STAR.                                31
and began to dive ard swim towards the nighest
shore.  In the darkness they were lost to the
eye immediately-or could they be heard, they
swam so noiselessly . Blouster, mu' tered curses
Cloud and deep, and would have endeavored to
retake them; but Beachampe opposed any fur-
ther detention, and the former, satisfied that it
would be impossible to find them all, suffered
the boat to proceed, and the other being cast off
adrift, they once more continued their course
,down the river.
After half an hour's row, during which they
talked over the tragic events which had just
transpired, they reached the mouth of the river
and their little boat began to dance upon the "
rolling billows of the Chesa peake. A mile far-1I
other out they came in sight of the Dancing Star, 7
which was lying to under her jih iin a light wind.
A starlike lantern, suspended above her stern,
undulated and waved from side to side with the'
heaving of the ground swell. on wlhicth the little
vessel was gracefully riding, anl at a distance
looked like a star dancing on the sea, rendering
'her worthy of her name.
Upon being hailed, and answering satisfacto-
rily, they were suffered to approae. an in a
few minutes the captain and owner of the Dane-
ing Star were standing upon the deck of their
vessel.
fiI


..+.,,.};Sist~sr3"+'e .++., r,  ! ^= b          ..., ..4. }.:;. ...,I..~ ..
y  at'itrt                                    A

THE DANCING STAR.

CHAPTER IV.
The schooner an4 -its belongings. Articles of agreement. lBlouster's fears again awak-
ened.  A troubled s mber.   Reminiscence? of the past. Beachampe's career of iniquity.

T was about midnight when Beachampe
reached the schooner, which lay to off a
headland that in the darkness looked like a high
dark cloud resting on the water. There was a
gentle breeze blowing up the bay, and the stars
sparkled in the sky; wh le here and there in the
distance glimmered a starlike spot on the water
which indicated the presence ofa vessel.  One
ght in particular, far to the south, from its
superior brightness attracted Blouster's attention,
as soon, as he looked about him after gaining the
depk.
"That is the revenue cutter's stern light."
"So I guessed," answered the young cap-
tain; "but she ,'will not trouble me to-night on
that tack. She is beating out."
"She will not trouble you at all till you are
caught smuggling. That is not the thing, not
to be trusted-but not to be suspected. Once
1et this s /hooner have the revenue's eye on her,
and sh' might as well lay on a mud bank, high
and -y."
" shall  e as secret as you wish, Ned. But
yod have not seen my cabin."

"I am looking at the deck and spars.   So
far as I can judge by this light, she is a fine
craft.' Bring a bottle-lantern this way, my
man," he said, as he approached one of the six
pounders, "1 want to exminethem. Th y
are capital looking barkers.  And your men,
they look like, a- brave set of fellows," added
Blouster, as he followed the young captain be-
low. At the foot of the companion-way was
the foot of the main-mast, encircled by pistols,
cutlasses, pikes and muskets in glittering array,
and all ready to the hand. . The cabin was
handsome, panelled' with maple, and polished
like a mirror. -4t had a sofa on one side, a din-
ing-table, stools and carpet, and the transuni
held glasses and decanters.  Over the transum
were crossed a pair of swords with a star  6f
pistols in the centre. A few books.lay 'about,
a spy-glass, and a chart or two.
"This is comfortable, Beachampe," said
Blouster, after looking round at everything.
" You found all so when you bought her ?"
"Yes, books and all. I see you like the
vessel."

I

"Yes. And now the thing is to make her boxes of cigars, linen and wines on board, run
pay."                                      directly for the river mouth and stand up for
"That she'll do. We have only to settle the wharf in the rear of the 'Binnacle,' if
upon our first cruise."                     you see all dark and no vessels in the way; but
" That is easy done. Here are my written if you see a light in the little bell-tugret on the
instructions."                             top of the Inn, you will stand out again and
"Which, my good- admiral, I will obey to keep at a distance until the light is changed to
the letter, trusting more to your experience than a blue, one, when you will run boldly in.
my own," answered the captain, with the forced  " Six.-In no case. are your men to come on
smile of a proud man, who is compelled by cir- shore nor leave the vessel till they are finally
cumstances to obey where he would direct.   discharged.
Buster drew from his bosom a leather case,  "  even.-This contract to keep in force one
which had sden the service of many years, and year from this day."
untying the greasy bit of green silk with which  "Now, sign it, Nevil, as I have done, and it
it as bound, he drew forth a paper. He un- will be all right. Under my name."
fol ed it with that awkwardness peculiar to men  Theyoung man wrote his name in a bold and
w o are not familiar with writing and such lit- elegant hand, to the paper, under the rheumatic
er ry matters, and then began to read, in a muf- looking signature of Blouster, saying, with a
fled tone, from very bad writing and worse spell- laugh :
ed, as follows:                               "You ought to have been a lawyer, or a jus-
"Agrement between Ed. Blouster and Nevil tice o' the peace at the very least, Ned. You
Beecham :                                   write up laws like a London judge. I agree to
"first.-Tn concideration of buying the all as I have before said. Now, when do you
schoonir and advansing the money to pay the expect the James ?"
first month's wages, you are to comand her.   " She was to have left Genoa, by the news
"Second.-You are to be guided bye my ex- that came by the way of England and published'
periense and direction and wee are to share equal in the Baltimore papers, on the first of Jine.L3
prophets.                                   I saw Skipwith the pilot up from the capes three
" Third.-You are to cruise in the Bay and days ago, and he told me the owners look for
wait for the ship JAMis which will lay to on her her every day now, as she is due this week if
way up and signalize ; if in the- day by a red she had a fair voyage."
flag with a white cross ; and in the night by a  " Is Skipwith to be trusted ?"
white lantern at her fore and a red lantern at  " Yes, if he can make money."
her mizzen.                                  "Does he know why you asked about the
"Four.--When you see the signal you are. James?"
to run near her in the day apd show in answer a  " Yes-he is ,in our confidence.  He will }
r ed fl ig with a white cross in at your main, and board the James when she comes in and let herf
keep jher in sight till dark when you will see know that we are ready, for  sent him word K
that the coast is clear, no cruiser in sight, and -last night by Tarbox, the coa~ fisherman, who
board her and take in your load ,with as much left for the capes a few minutes after you came ,
expedition as, possible. But if you discover the into the tap. Skipwith will have the news by
signals in the night you are. to run for her and this time."
board her at once ; 'and you are, therefore, in no " Tarbox is one of your confidants, too, I
case to run beyond the capes' of the bay, lest believe."
the ship should slip in past you and our chance '' Yes, and a man to be trusted. Now, let f

is lost.                                  j me caution you, Beachampe, against the common 41
"Five. -You will,-on getting the silk and foe, the revenue cutter. Keep out of her wayi

"  _  t  _   r~a '^    W, f ,.  b  ,  N..f ' . fy  " #a 4F  n..  ,  .'  I   ,5t~t  Ee

{I J~

1/1

if.

1

b
.'

r"

334


I
V  '   t,

THE DANCING STAR.

THE DANCING STAR.

and you shall soon enrich  yourself to your
heart's content.  A few adventures well man-
aged will yield an enormous return."
"It would be a good plan, if possible, to have
a friend in the cruiser."
"It can't be done. Manwaring, her young
captain, is as particular (as can be, and knows
every man, or something about every man he
ships. But if the cruiser is likely to be trouble-
some, means can be found to keep her in port,
or cripple her, or keep her from doing us mis-
chief. I will kt ep my eye upon her and watch-
her every movement. She always makes York
her anchorage, and I always know her goings
and comings in time to give you warning."
"Some further conversation transpired touch-
ing minor matters, when Blouster, having drunk
with his young captain, rose to go on deck.
"You will land me on the point and I can
walk up to town," he said. -
"{No, I can make sail and run in and set you
ashore within a quarter of a mile of the Binna-
cle," answered Nevil.
"I don't like to have you leave the bay; but
as it wont take you long you may do it. But,
Beachampe, I would give half I'm   worth to
d know that man was in the bottom of the river."
"That I will insure you of for a quarter of
s what.you are worth, Ned. He went down like
lead!"
Yes, and ten to one came up like a feather."
My pistol was within its length of his heart
s when I fired."
d " And the ball may have glanced round the
ribs, or been flattened against a bone. I wont
trust to it. I tell you I saw him fallhedog
into the boiling sea in a pitch dark night, a
hundred miles from land, and a stab in his body
too; and yet I saw him drinking and smoking
cmi my tap to-night. It will go hard with me if
4 he's alive. He'll be sure to 'peach on me, and
then I shall either have to take to the blue wat,-

er or be locked in prison. I shall go back and
set about to be ready for squalls."
"You've nothing to fear; the man is as dead
as a stone."

" Then the four oarsmen. They might have
swum."
"Did they know you; or you them?"
" I saw them only in the dark.''
"And they saw you only in the dark. You
are not known to them, be assured. They were
only barge men from  Baltimore that brought
him down, for the boat was a Baltimore barge
"Well,.I begin to breathe easier."
They were nowen deck. The vessel still lay
to, gently riding the smooth billows. The light
which had indicated the presence of the cutter
in the distance, was no longer visible. There
was a large topsail James' River schooner went
sailing sluggishly by within a hundred fathoms,
the pipe of the skipper at the wheel glowing
like a live coal on the end of his nose. This
was the only object moving within range.
"Stand by there at the fore sheet. Helm
hard up. Ease off and let her fill away," call-
ed out the cptain of the Dancing Star.  " We-
are going to run into the river."
The silence of the vessel was instantly changed
to bustle and activity, and the schooner grace-
fully laid off to the wind, and curling the water
before her prow, went dancing along towards
the river, the broad. mouth of which she soon
entered. After standing up about a mile or lit-
tle more, Blouster insisted on being landed at a
low point not far below the town ; as he didn
wish by any chance that he should be known to
have come from the schooner. The Star came
to close in with the land, and Beachampe took
leave of him at the gangway, though not until the
latter had reiterated his cautions. The boat
having landed him and returned, the Dancing
Star once more was under canvass, laying her
arrowy course out of the river, with Beachampe
on her quarter-deck,-feeling, now that Blouster
had left, that he was at length the free, sole lord
of his swift and beautiful 'cruiser. After he
had got once more outside, he laid his course
S. S. East, passing near the headland known as
Beachampe Head, upon which, a short distance

from the sea, darkly rose the mined walls of
Beachampe Hall, once the stately home of the
young Nevil. He stood upon the deck on the

side nighest to the shore, and silently gazed
upon the faintly delineated outlines of the home
from which he was now an exile.  He sighed as
if conscience and an uneasy memory were at
work, and turning quickly away with an oath,
he mattered
" The fiends take the past. I would do it all
again. What right had he to disinherit me
It is their just due. I have only one prayer,
and that is that when my fair cousin fromt over
the sea comes to take possession of Beachampe
Hall, we may meet on the threshold. From
that moment will my destiny be chalked out.
Lastels !"
" Sir,": answered a slender young man,
scarcely-one-and-twenty, who had been watching
the southern board through his glass from the
gangway.
" How many men did you place in a watch?"
"Nine, sir."
"Did you 'place the men in my watch I
named ?"
Yes, sir."
" I am now going down below to get some
sleep till four o'clock, when you will call me.
Keep a sharp look-out ; and if you see the rev-
enue cutter, or a vessel showing a signal of any
kind, awake me at once."
"1 will, sir," answered Lastels, with a brev-
ity which seemed to be a mark of his, character.
Beachampe then went below, and after taking,
a heavy draught of undiluted brandy, he threw
himself upon the sofa. But he could not sleep.
He was restless and seemed to be combating
with ugly thoughts. There are times in " the
wakefulness of sleep," when the body is weary
and the eyes are shut, courting oblivion, that
the mind is active, and the very soul of a man
seems laid open to the inner eye of his spirit,
unconscious of surrojmnding objects, his outward
eyes sealed upon them, yet he is not asleep ; but
more wakeful than he ever is when -awake.
His vision'seems sharpened supernaturally, and
he sees everything in a light that no sun ever
equalled in clearness. He re-beholds everything

he ever did; and is compelled to see each act in
all the minuteness and clearness of its most re-

volting and hateful details. He tosses arid
throws his body from side to side, and struggles
to escape these sensations, but in vain ; he can
neither wake himself up nor sink into forgetful-
ness. His whole soul is laid - open before
mental eye, and he is compelled to read it like
an open book.
Such was the sleep of this youngrman!  The
past the past that he wouldbury with all the
dead f the past-was lived over again therein ;
and all his sins, and all his wrong doing, he did.
over again; but with a wonderful addition that
he seemed now to be re-committing them as the
horrid punishment for having committed them.
He was conscious that what once gave him satis-
faction in the reality, was now his torment in
the dream-like repetition. It was a strange but
fearful retribution to him; for great drops of
sweat oozed out of his forehead and rolled down
his temples, and his brow was contracted as if
with the sufferings of Prometheus as the vulture
ate out his vitals.
We will unveil the past to t he reader's eye,
also ; at least such features of it as will throw
light upon the present profession of the tortured
sleeper.
The Beachampe family from which he des
cended' is as old as William the Norman; and
the name is to be found registered to this day
on the roll of Battle-Abbey, with those of the
chief knights who aided the conqueror in 'win-
ning England at the field of Hastings. In the
early settlement of Virginia a knight of the
family came over to recruit his straitened for-
tunes in the rich plantations of the new world.
He left a princely estate to his heirs; but at the
revolution, they taking part with the tory fac-
tion, it was confiscated. Subsequently, however,
for sonme favor done by a Beachampe to Amer-
ican prisoners, a portion of it was restored to
him, and upon it he built or rather enlarged the'
ancient hail on the cliff commanding. a view of
the bay. T1pis Beachampe was the grandfather:
of our hero. At his death he left the estate to
his only son, though he had a daughter who

married in England and resided there. This
only sen, the father of Nevil, was a noble spee-

-*j°r  4 rr  "  ' ^    ' .  '   -  _:I .' - ,  .  F  . .;1 v"  4 ='.t  ;'   ':
+  6P'S:  3  1 .F ~k  ' -i  41'   -t !'  'r.l  t      a    t   ; }  ..

/

34

3~5

-- .   y
_
'
P 1
1 : k i
4
3  .
1"
a    1
}    I
t9
7;,'
ti r
# ').
E   yyg7t}} i.
i
;-
Y  T.
{(((((
=fii
i if
1   "
9a:liliT
i ("-
i i
, i
ti f
,. t f              n
[
i
. Y
i
l
}
i      "   ,
" '
y.
Y
!-
tS
.; }' 3i
. ',.
. 4. i
4 '

'i
iy
4111
By


p.
. .

i"c
;;f"        ,                                 "%iK,'I                 T    1'4' r y}r f               r't   'ha. {     '   ti     C' _    :..e,       ' t "   ; .    r   .,      n; f   1J'
' r        x[. F$^_  'OS 474          ,:f.' Y . f      .it  i :, s.t~ _,?f   R  ";#".'  =  i Ht "."rf r _  e"f +cj.,i.   sf,,v- 'yp''r"'YCb   3,    s     M-     ' '          s  s.     a-     .              ;
r   '      s "1 i"         t °  .:.'           +J, . a. f  i .:.lY ;^" 't              J y'1_ .;1 a        'I t..J"  J rs  j y.   w '-  r;.               rii: L'fia      y -i5
_ rtw -,        i"'' -"C          1'.* ',j^.     "gyp;   '              -'-f            i  r y     r     .X'f~-"       r-t      _t   .,        .r;      7q,,,     d"   ,       _               y,    4P


_ 4    4fi
4      4 
44   t

He found, however, that home was not the same
place it had formerly been. Its quiet, want of
excitement,---its sameness afterthe scenes he '

I.
i.

36

ingen of a Virginia gentleman. His house was
the home of lordly hospitality, and by his cour-
tesy and benevolence, he won the respect and
regard of all far and wide, Beaufort Beachampe
was his name. He had married early in life an
accomplished lady of Maryland, and by her
had three children, Nevil, the eldest, and a son
and daughter younger some years. These were
both lost one evening in their childhood, ly be-
ing carried out into the bay in a frail boat in
which a negro who attended them  had, it was
supposed, taken them to row; for they were last
seen some distance from the shore, when a white,
squall came up, foaming and roaring and sweep-
ing every obstacle before it on land and water.
This was the last seen of them, and their boat
was found next day driven high up the bay
bottom upwards. It was some years-before Mr.
Beachampe recovered from this severe blow;-
and his wife sank under it. The widowed fath-
er now placed all his affections upon his only
child., Nevil was a lad of itelligenee, daring
and spirit, and loved the chas , and to sail upon
the bay-. Indulged in every wish by his fond
and weak father, he at length became imperious,
uncontrollable and unbearable. A tyrant to his
servants and slaves, at fourteen, he despised his
father's gray hairs, andacted as independent of
his wishes as if he were one-and-twenty. By
nature passionate and impatient, he could little
brook opposition, and he carried everything
with so high a hand that finally his quiet-loving
father was afraid to cross his wishes. He, nev-
ertheless, gave him an unlimited command of
money, provided him tutors, who were soon
either silenced in a captious spirit by the spoil-
ed boy ; or left unable to endure the' petty
tyranny anid annoyance, to which they were
subjected.
In this manner Nevil Beachampe grew up
from his twelfth to his eighteenth year. During
this time he had learned a little from his tutors ;
but he knew more about horses, dogs, guns and
boats, fish, rabbits and birds, duck shooting and

trout catching, than he did about'books. At
length a gentleman and two of his sons,.-about
Nevil's age, came from South Carolina to pass a

THE DANCING STAR.

few days at the hall. These, 'young gentlemen
were thoroughly educated in mind and taste ;
and were also good hunters, fishers, riders and
sailors, for their years.. Every hour showed him
his infirmity to them. They conversed of fifty
things they had gathered from books, that he
was wholly ,ignorant of; and in the drawing-
room, when the conversationtook an intellectual
turn, he had pride enough. to feel humbled at
the consciousness of his own deficiencies. Be-
fore his young friends left he had the candor to
acknowledge to them how foolish he had been to
waste so much time, when he ought to have
been improving his mind, .as became a gentle-
man's son and heir to a handsome estate. He
also asked of the young men to write down for
him the titles of every book they had ever
studied or read. This they did do so far as
they could remember them ; and a formidable
long list-it was as it seemed to the young heir.
He, however, resolved to have them; and went
with them as far as Baltimore, and there bought
as many of the books as he could find, and or-
dered the balance from New York. For a year
he gave himself closely to reading and study, and
having a quick, intelligent mind, he was. ena-
bled in that, time to make himself acquainted,
more or less, perfectly with the contents of all
the books. He was now in his twentieth year ;
and he resolved to travel. His father gave him
drafts and he proceeded to the northern cities,
where he commenced a life of gaiety which ere
long was changed into the most reckless dissipa-
tion. His enormous expenditure of money, the
recherche style of his living at gorgeously fur-'
nished rooms, his open and unblushing licen-
tiousness, rendered .him an object of curiosity
and surprise. But suddenly his. career was
checked. 'In a gaming hell he lost several
thousands in one' night, and ran the winner
through the body, and fled. The man did not
die, and requisition was not made for Nevil,
who sought the seclusion of his home where he
resolved to stay till the affair had blown over.

:.,'.
i
-t

excursions quite across the
ing miles up the bay. One
s running along on a bow
hall, being about two miles
by a bum-boat coming from .d
on the wind northward in #I
inlet. As the two boats
ot ten yards apart, he was
ent at seeing in the stern of
vely  girl  of  six teen ,  w i t
-77  ( te '

r            .                        !+ 4  tv44  Ir+."fi. 4  4..    ,e          '~Cr'.y r~si .4 ~  ^a M .  444rY-)  v  4. A  _

THE DANCING STAR
had passed through, palled upon his mind. for hell! My fau
There was a change, too. in the manner of his punishment is grey
father towards him. He found him cold and     From this time
distant ; and well he might be, for he had nearly was that of a finis
impoverished him by his extravagance-and the den impulse he all
fame of his son's deeds had reached his ears life of a penitent.
and pierced his very soul. He knew that his be restored to fav
son had losicaste as a gentleman of honor ; and command of his ft
his pale and haggard face and inebriate eye though he revelled:
showed that he had lost his self-respect in the night to the town,
degrading wine-cup. Atlength, when one day Mr. quarter, and in the
Beachampe firmly refused to advance him money nacle, where he ha
-to go on. another excursion to Charleston, the of it," he would di
ire of the young man was fearfully roused.  father supposed himn
" Nay, boy, flash not upon me," answered ber. Blouster was
his usually mild father, ia-a resolute tone that timacy of a dissipa
filled Nevil with dismay, "I will advance you ways made his little
no nmore&amp;-not a dollar. I have none ! You sat up and drank a
have placed it out of my power, if I had the after the light was
will.  No, sir. You have disgraced me and they became great:
your name !  All New York rings with your Nevil, reduced to h
infamous extravagance ; and I have seen your borrow money at us
name printed in a newspaper as that of an as-  Nevil at length
sassin. Sir, ask me for no more. Here is your at the Binnacle, an
hoine. it shall cost you nothing o  on asyuhshreadw
choose to stay in it. But I will not give you found at daybreak
one sous marque to enable you to commence going to the market
another campaign of dissipation 1"          This accident,. of c
It would be difficult to describe the effect this had passed the nigh
determined speech of his father had upon Nevil. needless ; and he s:
Hitherto be had, -as he expressed, turned the he had lost his ce f
old gentleman round his finger ; but he now saw It was some weel
that be had awakened the lien-like spirit of his ered, when he reso]
ancient lineage in his father's bosom. lie saw lest a worse thing
that affketion and partiality abused turn into an his taste for sailin~
opposite sentiment. Bunt, instead of blaming spent much of his
himself for this change, he blamed his father, sometimes in clear x

and cursing hi' with demoniac rage to his face, negro lad, making
he left his presence. The gray-haired parent bay, sometimes runny
was no sooner left alone than he sank on his afternoon, as he waw
knees before a crucifix,-for he was of the line steering for the
Romish faith,--and cried repeatedly in the distant, he was met
deepest accents of contrition :               the town and goingI
Culpa mea! cuipa mea ! culpa mea ! The the direction'of the
punishment is just. I was entrusted by Heaven passed each otherin
with an immortal being to prepare for heaven, struck with amazem
and by my neglect he has become a monster fit the' trade-boat a lo

i
l='
.1
, +,
,
~ ,
, ;;
i.'

3

37
it ! my fault ! my fault! My
water that I can bear !"
Nevil's manner in the house
hod dissembler. By a sud-
at once assumed the air and
By this meahs he hoped to  
or, and have once more theiI
ather's purse. But secretly,
not in the house, he went by ,
which was but a mile and a
little back parlor of the Bin-
d had many a boyish " night
rink to excess, believing his
a fasting shut up in his cham-
not a man to refuse the in-
ted young heir, and, he al-
e parlor so comfortable, and
nd talked with him so long
put out in the binnacle, that
friends; and especially after
is last coin, went to him to
;urious interest.
one night drarnk too deeply
d in riding home he fellfrom  4
s nearly killed, and being
by some of his father's slaves
, he was [orne home ward.
course, by betraying how he
t, rendered further hypocrisy
aw by his father's eye that
idene'forever.
k s befoi-e he perfectly recov-
lved to be more temperate
should happen to him; and ~
gon the bay returning, he '
time fishing and sailing-
weather attended only by a.4


38

TIlE DANCING 'STAR.

{

a sort of false river, running parallel with the
bay four or five miles inland, and terminating at

beauty of form and feature surpassing that of
any maiden he had ever met with. He uttered"
an involuntary exclamation of admiration which
caused her to blush and look in another direc-
tion. There was also in the beat a negro man
forward, and a young man who sat by the fair
girl and steered the boat.  The next moment
the two boats were far astern of each other ; and
though Nevil looked back often and long, he
could not get another sight of her face, for 'she
did not, as he hoped she would do, turn her
head-to look after his boat.
"Cato," he said to the negro boy in the boat
with him, " whose craft is that ?"
"I dummo, mass'," answered the negro
with a stutter and lisp combined; "gueth he
bumboatee."
"That is plain enough.   But whose bum-,
boat ?" answered the young man, impatiently.
" Dat me dummo, mass,' responded the in-
telligent youth, rubbing his eyes as if he had
the wisdom of Solomon beneath his woolly pate.
"Well, I will find out, that is all.  I see
she is steering up the inlet.  They live some-
where on its shore.  Stand by to haul after the
fore-sheet.  I am going about."
The little boat was.in a moment running close'
hauled to the wind on the starboard tack, and
sailing almost in the track of' the bum-boat,
which, as the reader has already surmised, con.
tained Elliot Beaufort, his sister -Alice, and
Tonef, the gray-headed son of Afric,
In order not to be suspected of sailing after
them, Beachampe hauled his win4 close, so as
rather to keep to windward on his course, while
Elliot was steering with the wind four points
free. When Beachampe tacked to follow, the
two boats were about a quarter of a mile
separated.
The afternoon was within about an hour of
coming to a close, the sun shining brightly low
in the west, and spreading the beauty of light
and cheerfulness over land and water. We
have already described the inlet as an elongation
of the mouth of York rivel northward,'or rather

t
_                                  (              -
+'
-                    ,
.r,...               ... .....     ...:.:x rirss+G cx'ID     %.Fk:+- f.%wF7"..rnr- r'..a .. .....a...Y.+,+.nw..s .- ,.-o...      ..o. .   .,h                                     .,...,... .1:..-...-.-.-. -.....1--^ -- -     _        _ __...y.«... .-..--              -          r
-
'                               

the cliff or headland on which the windmill
stood, themouth of the river. and inlet being
the same. A reference to an ordinary school
map, however, will show better the shape of the
water and land thereabouts than the minutest
description we can give:.          .   .
The speed of the boat which Beachampe
steered was soon seen to be superior to that of
the bum-boat, which was heavily laden, and was
an old affair, not being the handsome natty craft
we introduced him to the reader as commanding
at a later period ; for the times we are now
speaking of are nearly two years prior to the
time in which the first chapter of our story opens.
Beachampe seeing that he could easily come
up with the bum-boat, and not wishing to do so,
lay to for awhile, giving her a long lead, and
then made sail again. In this manner he kept
her in view, while he seemed to them-who
were suspicious of no evil-only to be stopping
to fish, until they reached the head of the. inlet,
and he saw them land on the flat rock at the
foot of the path which led up to the mill. With
a little river spy-glass which ;he always carried
with him, he saw them proceed to the old fortress
and disappear within it.
"That is where they live, then," he 'said, as
he thrust the joints of the spy-glass- together,
with emphasis, "and I have found 'a treasure-
trove. If that fair maid is a fisher's daughter,
she is too beautiful to be thrown away like a
jewel among swine in such a place. I must
follow up the adventure.  Cato 1"
"Mass'."
"Look in the locker and see if there is
enough for supper, if I shouldn't go home for
some hours yet ?"
" Mo, mass'. Moflim im dere omy bomes."
" Throw the bones overboard."
" Me keep 'em, mass', for marrner im dem.""
" Ease off the fore sheet. That will do-be-
lay ! I will run out again from the shore as if
I were going to leave, and after it is dark run
in and land."
" Whar for you lamb, mass' ?"

"I have ,some matters on shore by the old
fort to look after."

''" h_.' 4 - a.+ x".,.  ,.' , .w              "'~rn_+?^'i_, ,  ',3  t a5  i f~  6 ,:'*

_                    _ ,                        t             _                     , ..m,,....,.....,..,,    «...

THE    DANCING STAR..                                 392#
It was now the rich hour of an August twi- as he could, being ignorant of the ground. He,'-
light, and sky, clouds and water were beauti- however, missed the flat rock, but making Cato
fully flushed with a peachy crimson. The wind jump on shore and draw the boat along, he final-
was light and evidently failing with the day. ly gained it, and laid his boat alongside of the
Beachampe did not like to be caught far from  bum-boat. He now took a pistol from the lock- 4
the place -where he contemplated landing and er beneath his seat, and thrust it into his bosom,
have to row in, and he therefore tacked and and also taking a boat-hook in his grasp to ena-
stood towards the windmill, the little windows ble him to climb the path and defend himself,
of which, reflecting the western skies, seemed as he told Cato, against any fierce dogs, he bade
blazing with golden panes.                 Cato remain in the boat to wait for him, and to,4
As the twilight deepened into dusk and ob- be ready to shove off at a moment's warning.
jects on shore grew indistinct, he drew near the He then took his way 'p the cliff and-noise-
shore, and finally, half an hour after sunset, lessly approached the fort, the drk ramparts of
while the skies were still a little bright, thou 1 which were strongly outlined against the east-
the stars were out, he ran in and landed as wel, ern sky,

It'
I A}
-.


4

THE DANCE

CHAPTER V.
The family   at the fort. A spy. Alarm of the inmates.
devise a plot. His conference with Blouster, and plan of

walked all around the fort, and surveyed its po-
sition, and then proceeded cautiously to advance
into the enclosed, space, where he saw a light
gleaming through a window of the dwelling.-
He approached with caution, and at length stood
in front of the window, against which stood a
pair of oars and a broken boat's mast, with a
part of a sail hanging to it.  This shielded his
person completely, as he peeped between the
oars into the room.  The weather being warm,
the lower half of the window was raised, and
there was nothing to obstruct his vision. A ta-
ble was set out, covered with plain, coarse dishes
and simple food. Around it sat three persons,
a tall woman, with grisly locks, a haggard neck
and restless, wild eyes, and her whole appear-
ance stern and fanatic. She was eating a piece
of corn bread with rapid and fitful chewing, as
if she was not conscious what she was about-
her eyes in the meanwhile flying around on,
every object continually, and not resting upon
any particular thing.
Beachampe gazed upon her with aurprise,'and
not with a little alarm, lest her piercing glance

Y the light of the stars, aided by the still
/   - pale west, Beachampe reached that side of
the old rampart which had been washed away by
the rains and nearly levelled with the ground
on the outer side ; for, as we have already said,
the fort was a ruin, and had been disused many
years.  The house was within the enclosure
which served as a wall on three sides, while theta
fourth was quite open, in the direction of the
mill.  Directly back of the house rose the stone-
and-earth tower, which had, in the time of the
fort's better days, been made use of as a look-
out, and to kindle signal-fires upon,-also, to'
support the fiag-staf, a stump of which still re-
mained.  The chimney of the dwelling, which
had been constructed from the debris of the fort,
was built directly against the inner side of the
tower, which, at a little distance,-looked itself
like a gigantic chimney, as the smoke rose above
its top. The courtyard, or area of the fort was
green, and worn hard with feet, and used partly
as a garden and partly as- a place to cure fish.
It was to these premises that Beachampe se-
cretly stole, under cover of the night. First he

should fall upon him. The other two persons
were the young man and the young girl he had
seen in the boat. The appearance of the former
arrested his eyes.  He was struck with the
open brow, frank and fearless bearing, and
cheerful air with which he ate his supper and
talked with his sister, for such was the relation
Beachampe knew she must be to him from the
resemblance.
"That fellow is as courageous as a lion," said
he, under his breath, " and I must play my
cards cautiously. He has the eye and bearing
of a gentleman, with all his coarse apparel and
humble life ; and she !-by the eyes of Hebe !'
she is handsome enough for a princess. What
sweet eyes-how large and full they open, as
if innocence and no fear looked out at their
azure windows! What rich chestnut hair; what
a profile of beauty ! How lovely her neck and
virgin bust beneath its homespun boddice !-
Free and natural, and unconscious of being ob-
served, she knows not how fair she is ! What
splendid teeth ! They look like bracelets of
snowy pearls placed in a casket lined with rose-
colored velvet-and how musically she laughs
and talks ! I have indeed -discovered a prize.
It will require all my wit to know how to go to
work to secure possession of it ; but she shall
be mine, or I will perish in the attempt to make
her mine! From the moment I beheld her my
heart has not been my own ; she has fascinated
me beyond the power of any female to do before,
and without being aware of it. But who can
that fearful wild being be who munches and
scowls about her, and looking as if she were
the very Witch oc Endor. Hark ! they talk
to her."
" You don't know, dear mother, what a hand-
some gown I saw in~ York to-day," said the
young girl. " When Elliot goes to town again
he has promised me he will get it for you. I
mean it shall be your birthday gift, for your
birthday comes next month."      .
" Um ! um ! um !" growled the woman, and
answered snappishly, " birthdays are 'death-

days !  Don't talk to me of birthdays.  Death!
death ! death ! that is what I love to talk

;
;
.   _                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

head, twisting the ends in and out in the shaiY
of a turhan.  Beaufort then brought a bit {
broken glass, and held it before her as he wou
have done before a sick and capricious chile
yet with remarkable filial reverence, a sen
ment which neither of them for a moment forg'
"Look, mother," he said. "Is it not fine
;{

'  .               p ~       .' W~K'  .4~y "'r "  _ y(    r~p  -q -..rn   p.rerK,.- . ,3

Beachampe's history continued.
Beachampe returns home to'
disguise.

pi

'i'   ?}-  firn+s        x ,.-3£  ,v;")~  i., wr uw ;. a ^ =ss fu'  c r. - . , m "  r  ,   _  _.: ' .h'i,     '". l i!!"+ dpl 9S' 3'  M+  ti .  .,  , ,    -  _ .    ' " 7?  'F' ° 1  , ,::  .  t        ':'  " .  ' x'( t   '

ING STAR.                               417
about !" and she began to rock herself and
to munch.
'" And I saw a handsome handkerchief, moth-)
er," said Elliot, without seeming to notice heil.
words and manner ; " and I couldn't resist the
temptation to buy it for you. It will do nicelyf
to go with the gown, as they've both got red
and green in them."  As he spoke he drew
from his pocket a handkerchief of just the pat.
tern to suitan old dame, who usually fancies ga3'
tints; but their mother shook her head in
melancholy manner, saying in a hollow voice :
" White winding-sheets and white coffin-caps
Bring me these-I want nothing but grave
clothes,!"
"Dear mother, I mean to make up your gown 1.
and hem your handkerchief, and dress you uj
so fine that nothing will ao but you will go 4
York orn Christmas to see the churches al'
trimmed.
"Church! what's a church?   I tell you
hate church! I and the devil are good friends
0, we have rare times o' Sunday nights smoke;
ing our pipes-he one side o' the chimley an;
I the other, with a piece of a hangman's rop
crossed between us, talking 'bout the wickednes
o' this world ! He smokes gunpowder, whie'
is all I don't like in him, but he's promised t{
use tobacco if it's steeped in infant's blood. OC
we're great friends, and he's promised to sho
me his black book, in which he's got writ dow
the names of every man, woman and child he' I
going to have for his portion of us. He says--{
" Dear mother, suppose you let me try th
new handkerchief on your head," said Ali
Beaufort, rising and folding. it, and playfully
approaching her, and seeming only to try ar~
prevent her mother from indulging in such ni
happy moods. The old woman made no resis
ance, and Alice gracefully wound it about hQ

I


I

7 F,
it   4
+-tai    )-_
t
'tlr:, 42

THE DANCING STAR.

It is so becoming !' echoed Alice, arrang-
ing it a little more.
The, poor woman .caught the glass out of his
hand, and holding it to her face, her features
relaxed into a smile, and she said in a tone of
satisfaction anl simple pleasure, that rewarded
them both for all they did:
" It is pretty-it is splendid ! Now, chil-
ndren, I can walk queen of the night and of the
stars !" and, rising, she strode up and down the
room with a majesty that, while it was ludicrous,
was truly commanding; for she was barefooted,
and her gown old and torn.   " Give me my
sceptre !" She. snatched up a broken broom,
and extending it in her right hand, she proceed-
ed to make a speech as imaginary queen of sonie
imaginary realm, when Beachampe, in his inter-
est to get a better look at the face of the maiden,
who had drawn near the window, knocked down
one of the oars. The noise it produced startled
all three in the room, but alarmed himself more,
lest he should now be discovered. With a
bound he left the place, and hastened towards
the boat at full speed.
"What can it have been ?" asked Alice, look-
ing inquiringly into her brother's face.
t+   I will see," he answered, catching up the
light and going out.  "Tony! Tony !" he call,.
'ed-but no Tony responded.
" Be? it is the devil !" exclaimed the old
* woman, with extraordinary readiness.   " He
couldn't find the door in the dark, for do you
iknow he is almost as blind as a bat on earth,
though in hell he sees with eyes like the sun."
Much as Alice heard of her mother's wild
rhapsodies and extravagant notions, and little as
custom had made her regard them, she turned
pale and glanced towards the door, not without
apprehension, as her brother went out.
"Some one has knocked the oars down I put
here as I came in."
F" What dat you ses, massa Elliot ?" called
out Tony, from his cabin, which was a sort of
cook-house, on the further side of the area. -
" Did you knock these oars down?"

"When wos it dey knock down ?" interro-
gated the African adjunct, coming up, in a red

woollen' nightcap, and otherwise prepared for
turning in.
"Just now.   They fell not half a minute
ago."
"I nebber do it, massa. I wos jes got done
sayin' my prayers jes as you call out, and wos
gwine to turn in onder my blanket. I nebber
done it."
" There is not wind enough," said Elliot ;
" some person did it."
" Dat dey did-jes you look dar !  See dat
ar' track ob a shoe. Sombody stan' dare not
long 'go-sartain!"
" It was the devil, I say," called out the
woman from within. " See if you don't find
one of his feet cloven like a beast-I know he
was there ! - Don't I smell the brimstone he per-
fumes himself with when he comes to see me !"
"Gor-brangay, massa ! I b'lieve de ole mis-
sus half right," almost yelled Tony. " Dare
clove foot-reglar hoof, sure ! Phuff!' phuff!
I tinks I smellem brimstone, too-!"
Elliot examined with the light the tracks a
little closer, and saw that they had been made
by high heels of a boot-two or three of the-
heel marks touching, presented exactly the ap-
pearance of a small hoof.
"It is no fisherman or person of our parts,
whose foot made these," he said, speaking to
himself.
" Pat it aint, massa-dat it aint !  Do ole
missus is right dis time; de debble hab been
here an' no mistake ! P'raps he come to steal
de middlin's out ob do kitchum !"
"That some one has been here is very clear,
and somebody who doesn't live on the inlet
shore," said Elliot. "They seem to have been
looking into the window."
" Perhaps," said Alice, "it is some hunter
from the distant plantations who has been shoot-
ing on the bay, and lost his path home."
" Possibly ; but why. did he run when the
oars fell, and not rather come in to ask the
way ?"
Tony, whom a bright thought had struck, had

run up to the top of the rampart' to look around
him, when he called out that there was some-

THE DANCI

body making off with the bum-boat. Elliot im-
mediately ran to the look- ut, and with more in-
telligent scrutiny was able to detect a boat
pulling away from the land, which he knew was
much too small for his craft; but in order to
make sure, he called to Tony to follow him, and
ran to the water side as fast as he could go.-
He there found the bum-boat safely moored'
within three yards of the rock, and off on the
water he was able to see more clearly than on
the rampart, by placing his eyes on a level with
the surface, a small two-masted boat receding
from the, shore.
His first impulse was to pursue-but for
what? he asked of himself.  '/ They have done
/no mischief. * Doubtless it is some idle person
who has sought purposely to alarm us." See.
ing then that, whoever he was, he had departed,
and finding the bum-boat safe, he returned to-
wards the house ; but on his way was called- to
by old Brand, who came to the door asking what
the running meant, saying that he had heard
three persons run by, one after the other. El-'
liot told him that one of them was himself and
the other must have been Tony ; but who the
third one was, who had been the first one, he
could not tell-but it was some one who had
been lurking about his dwelling.  The old mil-
ler's daughter, Margaret, also came out, and
after some further conversation upon the proba-
ble cause of such a stealthy visit, the two lovers
loitered along towards Elliot's house, for they
were then, t o years before our story opens,
lovers-nay   had   loved  one another from
childhood.
Beacham e had succeeded in effecting his
retreat undiscovered, yet from the voices he
heard, and moving lights which he saw, as he
pulled away, he was aware he had caused some
alarm. -This he regarded as unfortunate-for
he had only intended, in this secret visit, to ex-
amine the ground, and see what chances there
were for his seeing and getting acquainted with
the lovely bay lassie who had so captivated his
senses. After getting further out-'into the open

water, the breeze enabled him to hoist his sails
and ship his oars, when he glided swiftly in the I

NG STAR.                                  43
direction of York. All the way down he was
revolving in his mind the course he should take
in order to get access to the acquaintanceship of
the old fort, without rousing their suspicions, or
letting them suspect that he. had any agency in
the little affair of disturbance which had taken
place during his espionage at the window.
At length, after planning and rejecting*half
a dozen schemes, he finally clapped his hands
together so sharply, and shouted so loud with
joy at having discovered a feasible one, that
Cato, who was fast asleep in the bottom of the
boat, dreaming of hot corn cakes and roasted
sweet potatoes, with salt, sprang to his feet as
if lie were shot, yelling forth a most strange
gibberish of aifright :
"Chou-chou chob-gah, yah! Whar-whar
-what do massy, massa?-what de massy'?"     1
"Silence, you monkey !" cried Beachampe,
almost himself frightened by the negro lad's jab-
ber.  " You'll have the whole coast up, think-
ing a murder is doing here on the water. Keep
your eyes open, or I'll prop 'em open with twos
pegs.
"Yis, mass', I nebber shet em nebber mo
more.
The boat, pushed rapidly along by the wind,
soon came near Beachampe Head, and ran in
under the dark, frowning bank of earth and
rock, where a couple of tall trees made a prom-
inent mark in the day time for vessels coming t, .
up and down the bay.    There was a narrow
creek on the south side of the bluff, which ran
some eight yards inland. Into this Beachampe j~
steered, as familiar with the place by night as
by day ; and as the wind did not follow him j
into the narrow recess of the bay, he brailed up
the sails, and the negro lad shoved her along to
the end of it with a pole, by pushing on thed~
bottom. At the extremity was a flight of rude 4

stairs, made of layers of loose stones, for the
purpose of ascending the bank.    To an iron
staple in the upper stone he fastened the chain
of his boat and locked it, while the boy unstep-
ped the masts and placed them on his shoulder,
with the oars and tiller. At the top of the bank
he placed these in a narrow shed or boat-house,

$','t'.' '                                                    '4 '4'4
,.'     " rr-4  «oy, t , .'4 4" y.'4  4''4"4'"4's "4 r' ". 44r'dttp-'4'4'+'4 r ' *''  'y''AA'4   """°. 4'  A"4,+ , fT ~ xr+ ±r,,r' p4~4444"'4A41' 1r l' !,} '"a" 4 rgy.4s','W_"   "'""V'.''-.'.*'--..  +., ....w'..  .,  ^. +L.'*4''*44*4*44  4 "
.r ;'4P ,                               '    " :9  r   '-+'4"  -  t ar-"4 ;, -    ,  I''S  '   ,,. '    ,4 ff  .     '


..Fe44                 T'HE  DANCING S

j
______ _____ _  I.-

TAR

DANCING STAR.               45

THE

under the two tall maples, and then took his who took a seat by the table, and asked Blous-

1
S r 
s r
a
1
A e     r
1
c i
P t
ai

rate matters. He soon followed the young man,

way to his house.  The approach to Beachampe
I-Tall was over an open green, that on the bay
side had no other fence than the protecting pitch
of the bluff. The mansion handsomely faced
this open esplanade, which swept smoothly up
to its very portico. On one side were the sta-
les placed a little in the rear, and on the other a
conservatory, both showing handsome fronts,
and. looking like plastered wings to the main'
body of the house.  An arched gateway for car-
riages led around them on either side.
Beachampe did not approach' the front en-
trance, but passed round by tlh stables, and
gained by the rear his own room, by means of
a side door, of which he always carried the key.
The house was all quiet, and not a light was
anywhere visible.
"Dey all gone to bed, mass'," remarked
Cato, as they, passed through the hall to his-
room.-
" Yes. You may go to bed also," said
Beachampe.
The boy did not wait to be told this a second
time, but crawled under the stairs, where lay a
blanket and 'a bunch of cotton tied up in an old
jacket, as a pillow. Wrapping his head and
face round ,and round with the blanket, and lay-
ing his ear down upon the old jacket, with his
naked feet thrust out at full length, he was in
a moment as fast asleep as an owl at noon-day.
Beachampe sought his room, and without strik-
ing a light, retired, and was soon asleep. Over
whose slumbers did the " guardian angels"'
watch-the master's or the slave's,-over the
sit-planning Nevil, or the ignorant, poor little
woolly-headed Cato?
The next morning Beachampe, as usual, break-
fasted alone in his room-his father taking his
meals always in'the breakfast-room, which No-
vil of late never entered. After breakfast he
went ouk, and took his way towards town. THe
etered the Light in the Binuacle, and, making
a sign to Blouster, passed into the little parlor,
a room in which the host always held conferences
with such persons as wished to see him on pri-.

"Not money ?    Then it's done !"    /

"At least not money just now.

an you

ter to sit down opposite.
"Well, what news this morning, good master
Nevil ?" asked Captain Ned, in a tone that he
meant should steer at the just medium between
familiarity' and respect. .6"You are in town
early. "
" Blouster, I have an affair on hand, and-
want you to aid me a little,'\sail Nevil, at
once coming to the point.
"You owe me, if I may be so bold as to
name it, Mr. Beachampe, something like four
hundred dollars now, and all over due, and Ir
have no security but your note; and if the old
gentleman should not make up with you, and
give you the go by, why I shall lose it."
" You are as calculating as a 'miser, Ned,"
answered Nevil, coloring with angry heat, but
for the present feeling that discretion would
serve him better than  resentment.  "You
needn't fear but that you'll be paid what. you've
loaned me."
"I don't fear it much ; but .how do matters
stand at the HAIll?  Any reconciliation since
the fall from your horse ? I told you not to
go home that night, but you were as obstinate
as Lucifer."     -
" Things are just'the same; we never meet."
That's bad-bad ! You ought to concili-
ate him, 2r he'll cut you off with a shilling."
"Not he ! He wont go that fav."
"iDon't trust to it."
"There's no other heir."
'I thought you had a cousin."
"Agir1 in England. He never saw her.-
But it is' not worth wasting a thoug-t upon. Iff
he should will my inheritance away, I would
break the will, tand swear that he was out of
his mind. I could bribe witnesses enough to
swear to this." -
S" I advise you to treat him well, and make
up You see II am interested-"
" To the value of four liundred and odd dol-
lars,". added Nevil, sneeringly. " Do not fear
-you shall be paid. Now as to this favor I
want you to do me, it 'is not money I1 want-"

there must be mad Bess."                      t
"Then you have been there ?"

o tain for me a suit of clothes such as the bay
coasters and bum-boat wear ?"
"Yes; I have three chests now in my store-
room, left here by chaps that have not come
after 'em. But what's in the wind ?"
"That's just what I want. Let me have a
suit complete-hat, shoes, and all."
"Yes, I think I can fit you out; if anything
is wanting, you can buy it at a slop shop."
" Can you get me a place as a hand on one
of the bum-boats that run to the inlet after flour
and fish, hemp and the like ?"
" Next Thursday I send a bum-boat up the
toast thirty miles, for flour, fruit and grain."
" Do you own one?"
" Two that are always going, and a very
pretty profit they 'give me. One must turn
many ways tliese times to turn a penny."
"Can't you send your boat up the inlet for
what you want?"         -
"I might for the grain and flour, but-"
" No buts about it. I want you to let her
go to the windmill to load, some five miles up."
" I know it-Sledger's mill, you mean. But
what freak is this ?'"
" I know I can trust you, Blouster. The
truth is, I've fallen dead in love with a pretty
fisher's girl, and I want to put myself on a foot-
ing with her position, to get acquainted with
her. I have conceived the idea of playing bum-
boat lad for a while and want to run to the
windmill."
"It must be Sledger's daughter. I have
seen her down here with him; a fine, bold, darkI
eyed, dashing ereature, with a head like a sea-I
hawk, proud and spirited."1
" That don't describe my princess, who has
eyes as blue as violets, and is mere like a gentle
dove than a hawk. Besides, she doesn't live
at the mill, but in the old fort, where there is a
house constructed of the fallen stones. Do you I
know who lives there ?" ,
" That is where mad Bess lives--"t
" Yes, now you've hit it. The woman I saw

der.. " I shall always feel bound to you for
his readiness to serve me."
"Well, I hope you will, in return, make
peace with the 4Id man."

i Y,
. i   r
", -
st
,
,} ,
i ,
j 79
*)
" jk '!
(       1
f
.;
i
v r
+j _ .
1     .

r
.a
,y
i
.i

c'

" Once only, but was not seen by them; but
I saw enough to desire a more intimate acquaint-
ance with the fair girl, who is Bess's daughter,
for she called the old-woman her mother."
"I've seen her ands her brother. I saw them
both pass the wharf in their boat to-day, going
home. But you had best 'be cautious. You
will gain nothing by this mad adventure--give
it up."
" I am resolved. Who is this Bess, that she
has children so unlike her ?"
" I don't know-I never saw her but once or
twice ; but I have heard the river and bay men
talk about her over their cups in the tap-room.
She has the reputation of being a witch, and
many of my customers believe she can raise a
storm, and send ill luck along with a vessel.-
They speak of her with fear and respect; but
she is only cracked, and imposes on them by
the fierce and violent manner she takes upon
herself. The ~son is a fine young fellow, and
would be a dangerous enemy for you to make
in this affair, Nevil."
"I don't fear any man. I am as reckless
and. courageous as any man you'll name, you'll
allow. If I have enemies, I'll meet their knife
with a knife, their hate with hate, their strata-
gems with stratagems. Consequences I am in-
different to. The girl -has maddened me ! I
am not myself since I saw her yesterday. Will
you give me the suit ?"
" Yes."
" And give me a birth on your craft?"
" Yes; the skipper is a steady double-dutch-
man, who never sees anything except it is be-
fore his face, and then he has to turn it round
to see the other side also."
" The very man !"
"'You have some knowledge of the water-
you can go in place of the foremast man, whom
Will manage to keep at the Binnacle for a
few days."
" A friend indeed you are, Ned," exclaimed
he young rman, striking the host on the .shoul-

+R
1
it'I
Its
tib


'

31R^
f4r~f+i
gr 46
rp rr
H+   t
t.   '

N
fi
ipt
ry f
3fS  e )y
h Z
_ IS 51
f       4"'  x'{hhh
1y,
*d r
1f
.        -u1
+    e     a f6
t     i   'c:

wont get me into any scrape.."'
"Not in the least.  I shal be prudent, for
i have a skillful game to play."

"I will do my best."
"It will be wise. If this affair you have n w
under hatches were a' plan to catch or marry an
heiress, I would help you in it so much the
readier ; but this girl isn't worth a shell comb."
"I'll rot marry a woman, were she rich as
Croesus, if I didn't love her; nor do I say I
would marry a woman whom I did love, without
a fortune. As for this pretty girl, I have not
come to any decision-I shall leave that to
events.  But rather than lose her, I would
marry her."
"You are beside yourself."
You don't understand me, Ned. Your head
is a little thick in love matters. I would marry
as your foremast hand, you know--as Peter,
Jock, or John something; and then if I chose
afterwards, I need not consider Nevil Beach-
ampe, heir of 'the Hall,' as bound by such a
marriage ! You see I am not such a fool as you
suppose."
"When do you want these things ?"
" When does your bum-boat sail ?"
Thursday forenoon. "
"Then I will don them here. I will come
and stay with you Wednesday night, and get
acquainted with the skipper-what's his name?
"Skipper Von Krouteni."
"And the name of the boat ?"
" The Black Buck."
"A rare name, and fanciful."
"She's painted black as a coal all over, and
has a pair of "buck horns nailed on her stern,
and hence the name."
"And what shall be my name ?"
"I would say the 'young buck,' responded
Bluster, laughing, or approaching as near a
\laugh as he ever did, which was a hyenaish dis-
play of his lower tier of teeth.
" You are in humor to-day, Ned. ]I'll take-
let me see, ]I'll be called Ralph Rowley. I think
that'll do very well; it's easy to say and easy
'obe'recollected."
"I am in hopes 'that as Ralph Rowley, you

This matter being thus arranged, Nevil took
his leave and returned home, after remaining an
hour or two in the town, where the better class
of citizens, as he went along, seemed to look
upon him with but slight respect, while broken
looking men, with seedy coats and red noses,
and dissipated, hard-faced young men, rather'
fawned on him and coveted his notice-for he
was still the heir of ,Beachampe Hall, though
well known to be living under temporary dis-
grace with his father.
The night of Wednesday arrived, and Beach-
ampe found himself once more at the Binnacle.
Having changed his dress in Blouster's bed-
room for the one he had provided foi- hin, and
put a brown curly wig on over his dark hair,
and reddened his complexion by a brownish-red
tint which Blouster prepared for him, he sur-
veyed himself in a glass, much to his satisfac-
tion as well as that of his host.
"You would never be known, Mr. Beach-
ampe," he said, approvingly ; "you might como
up to the tap and drink, and I'd never suspect
you. You look like quite a beau, too, for your
wig is handsome, your cheeks are florid, and
your dress is almost now ; and the way you
wear your cap gives you a buekish jaunty air
that sets you of'."
" Yes, I think I will do. Why I am not a
bad looking fellow even in this guise-do you
think so, Ned ? It will do to captivate a fisher's
maid."
"I wish it were an heiress, Master Nevil."
"So do I, and I fancied her as I do this
pretty girl in the old fort.  Now where is. my
Captain Krouten.?"
" In the tap, smoking and drinking ale.-
You go out by this other door and come in by
the usual way, and I will let you know him. I
have already told him I have got a new man
for him."
2Beachampe entered the tap-room with a roll-
ig gait, admirably imitating- the manners, ,as
he had assumed the garb, of the river men, and
going up to the bar, slapped down a piece of

serve him slowly, and in a sullen way, as if he'
didn't like the authoritative tone in which he,
had been addressed. He gave him the liquor,
and was taking up the money with his eye upon
the door, as if he each moment expected Beach-
ampe to make his appearance. .The latter, in-
stead of resigning the money, said in an under
tone, " You'll charge it, Ned,- if you please,
boy !'
The host started, and then burst into a chuckle,
and bringing his hand down on the bar, he
ejaculated:
Capital ! Took me in cleverly ; you'll do.
Krouten, man; come hither."
" What do you want ?' bluntly asked the
person addressed, a short, pot-bellied fellow,
seated at one of the tables, on which stood a
mug of ale, of which and his pipe he whiffed
and quaffed alternately. He was the very pie-
ture of comfort and ease. "What do you want?"
he repeated, as if he didn't like to be disturbed.
" Here's your foremast man, skipper."
"Good ! Let him come here."
Beachampe rolled, up to him, hitching at his
trowsers and touching his cap to him, " sarvant,
skipper 1"
"So you are going with me?"
Yes, skipper."

money and called loudly for a dram. J3louster
was evidently deceived, for he proceeded to

)1

THE DANCING STAR.

THE DANCING STAR.

47

1 1/
" G;y   , fL 1  i
14i i  11  t
f.            it
All
r   ^Sy   , r/  1
(rI
'         r"
'  R l1      11
!t     .
rt t
k"           _
l
r
gr        )

"That is right. What is your name ?"
Ralph."
"Good-you will do. Now, do you know
any stories?"
With this the skipper, who had filled his pipe
in anticipation,' leaned  back, shut his eyes,
pricked up his ears and prepared to listen.-
Beachampe regarded him with surprise, and not
being exactly prepared to spin the old fellow a
yarn, took the advantage of his eyes being shut
to, run to the tap. and ask Bloaster what he
meant by asking a story.
" Why the skipper is more fond of yarns
than he is of beer, I believe. He never will
take a man in his craft that can't spin a yarn.
He asked me if -you could, and I told him yes.
He has a mania for hearing yarns, and bores his
hands to death, and when he is in the tap he'll
often keep Wivil drinking-and spinning till we
dousedfe glim."
" If that's his weakness, I'll humor it," an-
swered Beachampe, laughing, and getting back
to his seat, just as the skipper was beginning to
open his eyes to look after his foremast man, he
told him the story of Sinbad the Sailor, which
our readers need .not should be here given,
though the old skipper swore, when it was end-
ed, that it was the best yarn he had ever heard.

{}-;

e
-3
_   , i
t
, '
' .
_   }
Y
;r  . a
R ;
i
i
r     4   _

l 1  ,    i..w..wwsl.'sWIIMT+v1«-r

..
1
f
{ 7f "
f
r

!r

a
.;

'         ,                '           '       _   ,                       f                                                                      ..                   _                 _


CHAPTER

A new comet at the mill.
skipper with a story f
tion.  Suspicions respect
HE evening of the
which we left Nevil'
skipper in the tap-room, a
lugger of large 'size, was s
standing under easy sail to,
place. The sun was about
and Brand Sledger had abo
for that day, and was prepare
p and go into the house.
"jMag," he said to his da
the craft that came up hereJ
freight of flour ?"
"tI can't say, father; b
skipper himself, who was a fa
to hear stories."
"Yes, it is the same. I
the red round spot on either I
horns over her stern.  He is
have no doubt.  I haven't
Elliot's boat took down twen
The lugger drew nearer ar
came to within twenty yard
water, the tide being low, no

VI,

If

Ralph's plan works favorably. -ie entertains the circle and the
ll of romance and peril. Impression on -Alice. His declara-
ing him.
day after that on to get higher. From this position he hailed
Beachampe and the Siedger.
bum boat, or river - "Mill ahoy !"
seen by the miller  "Ahoy !" responded the stout miller.
wards the landing-  "I want to take in a boat of corn and flour
half an hour high, to-morrow morning, and here's the order and
ut ground his grist the money 'from Ned Blouster of the Binnacle
ing to shut the will tavern."
Sledger told him he could h avc forty bags of
ughter, " isn't that flour and sixteen of corn, and then invited him
last spring toget a to come, ashore and take supper with him.
"I never can go in my boat."
ut it looks like the  "That's true," Sledger said, with a laugh,
Tt man, and so loved as he surveyed the tun-like dimensions of the
skipper, and then glanced at the little yawl that
know the lugger by would scarcely contain two boys.
bow, and the buck's "You come on board and eat with me."
after more flour, I  Sledger locked his mill and went down to the
forty bags left, as shore, where, taking a boat belonging to himself,
ty this morning." be shoved her along-side of tho lugger, which
nd nearer, and soon had painted on her stern the words, " The Black
is of the shore, the Buck." He leaped lightly to the deck, which
At allowing Krouten was not two feet from the water, the whole ves-

49

THE DANCING STAR.

sel not being more than thirty-two feet long, by
nine in breadth of beam amidships, sloop rigged.
He shook hands in his frank way with the skip-
per, and nodded to Beachampe, who was coiling
up the jib halyards.
The miller advanced and shook hands with
the foremast man, and said he should be glad.,to
have him come up to the mill and see him and
" see the folks," by which he meant his daugh-
ter ; for, be it clearly understood, the position of
foremast man made Beachampe an equal of
those honest and= unsophisticated people. A
foremast man of good character, and industrious,
Brand Sledger considered a match for his hand-
some daughter. Nevil Beachampe, therefore,
was in no manner regarded as inferior to those
whose acquaintance he came to make, but exactly
their equal. He, therefore, entered into easy
conversation with the miller, and the miller with
him, about news in York, prices of corn, flour,
meal, &amp;e., and a few questions were passed and
answered upsn the national politics. Nevil
played his part well, and did his best to ingra-
tiate himself into the favor of Sledger, in which
he succeeded 'so well, that the miller insisted
that after supper both should go ashore in his
boat and spend the evening with him. " And,"
added the miller, " I'll have a lass, a neighbor
of mine, in, and if you are so good at telling
stories, they would like to listen, I'll be bound !"
Beachampe's heart bounded. He guessed
who the lass was, but he had too much caution
to ask the name. He resolved to risk nothing
by precipitancy, but wait patiently the develop-
ments that might occur. After supper, which
the miller ate on board, and of which Nevl par-
took as an equal, the larger boat which b brought
the miller on board, bore the skipper safely to
land ; and th'e three were soon seated in the best
room at the stone house. There was no one
there when they entered, but in a moment camne
ii Margaret, who received her father's guests
with that native hospitality of which formal
politeness is only the imitator.

"Can she, tell good stories ?" asked the
skipper.
" She can keep you up all night, skipper,

talking about ghosts and faies, mermaids and
giants, till you'd be afraid to' go to bed," an-
swered Sledger.
"She shal tell me some to-night. I will sit
up all night to hear them."
"I fear you'd fall asleep very soon, sir," an-
swered Margaret, to whom the skipper seemed
to be a sort of amusing curiosity. She had cast
more than one side glance at Ralph Rowley, as
we must now call him, and thought what a con-
trast there was between the skipper and the fore-
mast man. - She thought him a handsome, bold
looking young man, and shrank suddenly from
his fiery glance ; for though Nevil could disguise
his form, he co uld not mask his eyes ; these be-
trayed the true character of the soul that looked
out of them. The unexpected beauty of the
miller's daughter struck him with surprise, and
he could not help gazing at her; but it was with
different emotions from those lie experienced on
seeing Alice Beaufort for the first time. He
admired her, but rather feared the proud style
of her brave beauty. His inferior spirit saw in
her eye a spirit higher than his own, before
which, did he dare to insult her, his own would
quail. While he was regarding her, and won-
dering that so noble a looking girl should be
only a miller's daughter, the door gently opened,
and a soft, pure face looked in and was half
withdrawn again at the sight; of the strangers.
P-lph's quick ear had caught the opening -door,
and his keen eye recognized the lovely features
of the fair maid he had adventured on this: ex-
pedition to see. The time had now come for
him to exercise his utmost skill and precaution.
The object he had in view was to endeavor to
draw the young girl's heart to his own, to en-
twine her affections around him,-in a word, to
use every art to make her love him.
" Come in, Alice," said Sledger, " don't be
frightened. It is only two friends. I was go-
ing to send for you."
" Don't draw back, dear Alie," said Mar-
garet, running to and drawing her mn.
" I did not know bat it was some one of the

neighbors who could tell where Elliot stays."
" He'l be bowling along shortly," said

t. "7'r, t
rf f
2{   _
y        yy
pA
F1
n  }
r    r
rttt'f'* r
5"r _ _
lF  y
ff r kr

s
,4. -
', r
*      "  a
i     _
!
i    .
f,
.
y
L 2
E
?
f
f  '

t4.
Il
r1',

'      t
k _   i


iI

50

THE DANCING STAR.

_I.
,4I~ry'
q- 1
Tt ,
r

ana could tell well what he had seen; and having
a fertile imagination, he could romance by the

hour in the most attractive narrative..

He soon

Sledger; " the wind is light, and he will hardly
row if he can come with the wind, which will
rise with the moon in about an hour.  Come in
and sit down. This is.Skipper Krouten, whom,
you remember seeing here before, and this is
his foremast man, Master Ralph Rowley, I think
he said."
Alice gracefully and timidly bowed, and then
seated herself close by Margaret. -
Here the two old men entered into a conversa-
tion upon crops and freights in their way, while
Margaret, with her knitting in her hands, took a
seat by a little octagon stand which she brought
out from he corner, where it stood all day with
a big bible upon it, and set it in the centre of
the room.  She sat by a candle placed.upon it,
and commenced taking up stitches in a pair of
enormous blue hose 'that she was knitting for
her father.  But at every  stitch she would
glance slyly at Alice and then cut the corner of
her eye ,round at the place where Ralph sat
quietly watching, stealthily, the charming face
of the latter, as she bent over to see what Mar-'
garet was doing, as-if she had never seen stitch-
es taken up before.  But . that is the fashion
young girls usually comport themselves in the,
presence of 'a strange young man, especially if
he is at all good looking, and has an air about
him as if he might prove a very agreeable fel-
low if they only knew him better.-
Finding that they were a long time engaged.
in reckoning the stitches, and whispering and t l-
egraphing together, Ralph drew his chair up
nigher, and said, dryly :
"When are we to have those stories ?"
This was spoken so oddly and with such a
dry manner, that both girls, looking him in
the face, burst into a laugh-or rather Mag
laughed, but Alice only smiled. He smiled
back, and thus the ice being broken, they had i
quite a merry conversation. Ralph amused
them with numerous queer anecdotes about the
old skipper, oft course made up on the spot.
He also had a ready wit, and was a good mimic,

Sledger, and wheeling square round, filled up
his pipe hard crammed, and bending his ears,
was lost in listening.

THE DANCING STAR.

had them both deep and thrilled listeners to an
account of his escape from an old castle on the
coast of Spain, where he had been carried by
Algerine buccaneers. His story was full of
love, adventure, narrow escapes, and striking
scenes. Those two girls, who had never listen-
ed to anything of the kind before, and to whom'
it opened a new world of ideas, were fascinated,
especially the fair Alice, whose face underwent
changes as rapidly as the changes of the story.
Now it expressed horror, now surprise, now pale
fear, now eager expectation, now deep symp
thy, now, joy and triumph. He saw that he
could play upon her sensitive nature as upon
a harp with silver chords. Margaret listened
with less emotion, and seemed to be most pleased'
with the parts where danger and battle stalked,
and courage and energy were called into action.
But Alice was not moved by those.; they rather
shocked her ; but when he spoke of a youthful
maiden, the superb daughter of the buccaneer,
who fell in love with him, and at the risk of her
life, aided his escape, but who was shot by her.
father as she was flying to embark with her lover,
having onlygone back for a casket of jewels,
the eyes of the credulous Alice glittered with
tears, and she heaved a deep sigh to the memory
of the fanciful creation of the young foremast-
man's brain.  And when, in his tale of romantic
love and adventure, he spoke of his own dan-
gers and death-escapes, she sat and fixed her
eyes upon him as if her heart were in them;
and when he ended his story, she looked happy
to think that he who had gone through such-
peril, by sea and land, by fire and sword, by
love and hate, in prison and on deck, was alive
to tell it. Ralph discovered the impression' he
had made upon hei-, and he immediately con-.
gratulated himself.   ..
There was a third listener to his story, who
was, in his way, quite as much interested in the
narrative as either of the maidens. This was the
skipper. His quick ear hai no sooner caught
the pace of a story going forward, than he
abruptly put an end to his conversation with

I fear it will be more difficult to escape, if I
would, than from an Algerine prison."
They had stopped to look at, the gorth star,

The evening being pretty well spent, Alice
said she must go, and Krouten said he must go,.
also. The miller said he would go down and
see him safely on board the lugger, and in the
morning they would go to work betimes to load
her.
"Good night," said Alice lo all, and was go-
ing out to run over to the fort alone, as she had
done a hundred times, ' when Ralph was at her
side.
"Will you let me go with you?" he said, in
a gentle tone, just suited to her gentle ear, al-
ready ringing to the mellow notes, of his fine
voice, which in those parts of his tale that spoke
of love, he modulated with the most persuasive
skill.
" It is not far-I can go alone," she answer-
ed, while in her heart she was sweetly pleased
at having him by her side.
He, however, walked by her side ; and in or:
der to detain her, that he might longer enjoy
her society, hinted to the north star, and
said with emot'':
"How often, fair Alice, have I gazed on yon-
der star from the barred windows of my prison.
in that' old castle in Spain, and sighed to think
that even-the birds could fly whither they would,
while I was bound in adamantine chains."
Alice looked at the star with deeper interest
than she had ever gazed at it before. She lin-
gered because he lingered.
"Ah, if you had known, dear Alice, that I
was there, thus a pensive captive, I know you
would have felt for me ! I know you would
have thought about me, and wished, in the
kindness of your heart, you could release me."
"Indeed I should," answered Alice, with
sincerity. " I rejoice now in yod~r being free."
" I know you. do. But, Alice, I fear I have
.escaped one bondage to be bound in another."
"In what way ?" she asked, with surprise.
," In the chains of love. Yes, dear Alice, I
am your prisoner ! I am your captive ! You
have to-night taken my heart and bound it ; and

all day getting here. Don't be alarmed. He
will be here in good time. You and the miller's

--1

44                     4,                               44

and she was still standing midway between the
mill and the fort. He. had gently drawn her
arm within his, and sought to ~fold her warm
hand within the clasp of his own. But at these
words she quietly drew her hand from him, and
said:
" You must not talk so, Mr. Rowley ; you
but laugh at me." And she moved on quickly.
" I do not, indeed I do not, lovely Alice. I
am sincere. I love you. I can love no one
but you. Do not be displeased,"
"I am not displeased. Here is my mother's
door. Good night, sir !"
" Alice," he said, detaining her by the hand
as she was about to enter, " Alice, dear Alice !"
'I will listen," she calmly answered, yet
trembling with a strange and undefinable min-
gling of hope, fear and love.
"Do not be my 'enemy for loving you."
"Indeed I am not-but-"
" May I hope? I shall leave here to-mor-
row. It depends on you whether I ever return.
Nay, do not go in. I may not have another
moment like this. Say that I may hope."
"Hope for what?"
" That you will look kindly on me ! Hope
that I may be your friend. Hope that you will
show me confidence. How that you will love."
"Yes, you .may hope ; but remember, I
promise nothing," she answered, playfully. "It
is no more than hope."
It is all I ask,'" he answered, thrilling with
inward joy. "II may then return to see you
after to-morrow."
"Will your duty call you ?-not without."
"I shall make it my duty. Yes, I will have
business here."
" To-morrow you will see my brother, El-
liot. I know you will like him."
" If he is at all like you, A~lice, I shall love
him as a brother," he answered, warmly. I
" I am afraid something has happened. He
has not yet come home.
" There is no wind. If he left York since
noon, he has been becalmed since. We were

}F ,
4
f

Iig

4 s
4 .'
*1-
IY


52

44rout4
4k t.
4 / , 4.4 ,tea
11t~
1411
r     4 r
444
:1

" What have you so long been watching the
bay for ?" asked Margaret, who came to the foot
of the rampart on which Alice stood.

daughter seem to be great friends. She is very
handsome, but I thought not of her in your
presence. You remind me, Alice, of that beau-
tiful Moorish maiden who aided my escape.''
"But you said she had black hair and black
eyes ; mine are blue, and my hair is brown. 0,
you are pleased to say what you think will
please me !"
" I don't mean in complexion, but in air,
person, voice and beauty.  Ah, Alice, you
know not know fair you areJ"
" Come in ! What do you chat, chat, chat,
on the door step for. Come in, and let the
devil have a chance to get in through the key
hole !"
" It is my mother. I must go in," she said.
" One kiss, Alice !"
And before she could withdraw herself from
the arm that clasped her waist, his lip had touch-
ed her cheek.  She sprung back and entered
the house, and he walked away towards the
lugger, cherishing in his heart hopes that had
for their' aim tlhe destruction of the guileless
girl whose heart he had ha f won, by deceiving
her as to his true rank ; for had he approached
her as Nevil Beachampe, t e young roue, she
would have shrunk from him as the dove from
the hawk ; but as her equal, the equal of her
brother, as "one of themselves," she was pre-
vented by no fears or suspicions from loving him,
if she were pleased with him. Maidens of the'
humbler class are much ,more easily approached
by youths of their own position in society, than
by those who are far above them; and it was the
knowledge of this fact which suggested to Nevil
Beachampe the disguise which he had now
assumed.
The next day Ralph had an opportunity of|
again speaking with Alice, during which he took
care to deepen the impression he had made upon
her heart. When, at length, in the afternoon
he embarked and sailed away in~ the lugger ,she
looked after it long and earnestly, and did not
cease to watch it until it disappeared behind a
promontory a league to the south.

skipper, Krouten, and I think it is all the ree-
omendation he has, .and that he is just fit to be
the story loving skipper's foremastman, and tell
him stories over a jug of gin ; for I did not tell

J'..

THE DANCING STAR.

She blushed and inade no reply ; but the ob-
serving eye and good understanding of herfriend,
with what she had already discovered, enabled
her to guess at the truth.
"You are looking after this fne sailor, Ralph,"
she added, laughingly  "0, Alice, you must
not think of him again. He never '1l do for
you There is something ii the expression of
his eyes that I do not fancy.  Be assured, smilo
and be as areeable as he pleases, he has a bad.
heart."
"0, Margaret, how can you say so! He
seems all goodness and honor. I never -knew
any one equal to him. le is so superior to
any young man we know.   Ah, Mag, I believe
you are a little bit jealous 1"
"Not a whit. Dear me! 'I jealous, with
such a noble lover as Elliot ? See him there
standing on the rock directing the landing of
the cargo he brought so late last night.' What,
a free, manly-air, as if he never had a thought
he would not be willing men and angels should
know. He looks the superior of your dashing
foremastman, iho don't appear to be sincere. I
am glad he is gone. Elliot does not like him
ei her. He wonders he ever saw him before.
He says that when he first saw him this morn-
ing and was introduced to him by father, that
he spoke embarrassed and seemed as if he
would rather not have met him. This don't
look Alike being your friend, Alice, if he is
afraid of your brother."
" This is only Elliot's notion.  Ho was no
doubt afraid he might find in Ralph a rival in
your love."
"Ha, ha, ha !" laughed Mag, with right
hearty mirth. " This is an idea! He knows
me better than that. .But I wont say any inore,
as I-see you have taken a liking to him ; but for
my part I never want to see him again !"
" You forget what romantic tales he can tell,
and how wel4."
" This might recommend him to the good

THE DANCING STAR.
you that Elliot said he found him drinking gin he had inquire
on board when he went into the lugger."      bay men he kn
"'Well a-day, I find I shall have to give up of by any of ti
thinking about him," answered Alice, with a had been nobo
sigh and a smile ; though in her heart she was vised her to ha
very well resolved that the more Mag talked he ever return.
against him, the more she would like him. This her liking for I
is human nature in young girls. It is no way, ly think Alice
in order to draw a maiden's affection from a and he felt it h
young man whom she really likes, to begin by of the attachm
speaking against him.  She will at once take up  Men easily
his side, and instead of being made t 'think the liked. There
worse of him, she will think the worse of the instructs men t]
friend who tells her those things. Opposition they are held
in such cases only strengthens love : and it is true to its dut
very natural that it should do so. If a maid champe. Afte
has fixed her affections upon a young man, it is had had with ti
because, in her estimation, he is preferable to all of Windmill H
other young men.  Now, if an officious friend that he was no
cones to her and begins to defame the person of and that there
her heart's -choice, he at the same time is admin him except wit
istering a covert rebuke to her judgment and refined by mad
discretion is making such a choice ; therefore at a glance h
she commences defending him in order to de- neither one way
fend herself from the imputation of having acted liking. He al
indiscreetly. Let, therefore, no person suppose and civility; a
that by defaming the lover to his mistress, he is times say that t
going to gain any other end than to invest him- about Ralph Rc
self with the very robe, in the lady's eyes, he turn it off with
would fling about the person he traduces.      "The young
Now, with this bit of wisdom, which we throw he thought, of
in for the benefit of all parties concerned who had an average
may read our story, we will proceed-with the saw no harm it
chain of events.                            fort; and I woi
The return of the Black Buck with the skip- low there is wit
ppr and his :foremastman after three days, was her. It isn't t
bailed with joy by Alice. Elliot was absent at best grist. Th
York, and Ralph had an opportunity of a long the nimblest in
,interview with the maiden whom he had fasci- iest in a steady
nated. This state of things continued for sev- out to be a manr
eral weeks, until the season for freighting was "'But he ma'
over. There was then no further excuse for . "And Elliot

y ask to marry Alice."
, may ask to marry Mag."
" answered the maiden, coloring
and laughing, well pleased,
w.i
e Alice can marry him, Ralphet a
We shall not let him take off

(   '   ;,       ;1i  rat   'r  !  +:'   ' 4- 4

Ralph to make his appearance at the old fort.  ''But father,
Elliot had never been cordial towards him, and up handsomely
had more than once cautioned his sister against "Elliot we kno
him, saying he believed he was a very bad man, " And be'for(
though he knew nothing against him. He said we must know.
4

53
d at York of all the river and
ew, but he had, never been heard
hem. What his former character
dy, therefore, knew, and he ad-
Lve nothing to say to him, should
He had learned from Margaret
him, not to say love, for we hard-
loved him yet with all her heart,
is duty to prevent any increase
ent.
understand when they are not
is a feeling in every breast that;;
ruly as to the estimation in which
by others. This sentiment was
ty inl the breast of Nevil Bea-
r the few weeks intercourse he
he virtuous and honest inhabitants
eadland,,he had satisfied himself
~t liked by Margaret or Elliot,
mother of Alice never spoke to
h denunciations, as if her spirit,
ness, had been able to penetrate
is character. Sledger shwed
nor the other any likingjr dis-
ways treated him with frankness
nd when Margaret would some-
here was a mystery, a something
owley she did not like, I-e would
a laugh, and say:
foremastman was rather fond,
shooting with the long bow, and 4  .
fair opinion of himself; but he
i him, except liking Alice Beau-
uld like to know what young fel- ~
hin five miles: that ,doesn't like t~
he yellowest corn that makes the t
e weather cock; that flies around
a flitting wind, points the stead-
breeze. He'll no doubt turn
of weight and substance."j

, ,,  .4,
_   ;;    .= :
:      -
''  .  :
_,j_


r  .
I
r.
t :,
. ; #

THE DANCING STAR.

IV
G r
r _  p ^
wit
.  4   '}7r

with a laugh, grasping the bottle:'
"Come, let us fill up and drink to' the success
o1 "The Light in Binnacle."

our pretty neighbor until we know to whom we
are to entrust her. When he-asks for her, then
it will be time enough to ask him to give us ref
erences to persons who have known him all his
life.'
Such a conversation as this had been over-
heard by Ralph, accidentally, only a few days
before the last departure of the lugger, and it
brought him to a determined course of action.
This we shall be able to reveal to the reader by
following him in carrying it out.
It was dark when he reached the wharf and
ended from the lugger on the night of the after-
noon on which Alice had watched his departure
from the shore.
",Well, master foremastman, what news
now?" ahed Blouster, when they were once,
more together in the room in the rear of the tap.
Before them was a bottle of old brand brandy
and two glasses .
"I have laid all my plans.    Success is
\ ertamn."
"Then you mean to marry her ?"-
"i on't be inquisitive, Ned. The girl is in
love with me, and will follow me to the world's
end."
"1 wishshe had a million to take with her,
for your sake and mine. There is five hundred
and o you are-"
"Nomore, Ned, I pray thee, no more. I
Snow every dollar I owe thee as well as thou
dost. In good time thou shalt be paid.  Have
I not served thee as foremastman these three
months without pay'?  Out upon thy avarice,
man. You owe me wages. But let that pass.
The girl is mine. I waite lugger once more.'
" You can't have it. sdger sends me word
that all the corn is ground p. She has nothing
" I must have her."
Evil' eyes flashed with disappointed hopes.
But he instantly refieeted that anger would do no
good vyith such a determined man as Blouster.
He, therefore, restrained his feelings,. and said,

it to you."
Will you leave it with me, and I will to-
morrow take it to a jeweller's?"
"S o, Ned, pardon me ! I wont trust you,

'lx                                            v                7                               ;a                                                                                    ,

THE. DANCING STAR.
as you wont trust me. Send for your man to "douse the glim," an
come here."                               Inegro, Dick, sent him
"Very well, everybody to his humor," an- In one more chapter
swered Blouster, who was too anxious to ascer- complete this retrospe
tain the real value of the cluster of diamonds. which we are revealing
in order to obtain out of it his own dues, to be about two years prior
displeased at the answer of the young man. He our story, and then ta
then rose and went out into the tap, which he cabin of the Dancing
had left under the charge of one of his " regu- captain trying to covet
lar" customers, for it was not yet time to

When they had drunk, Nevil, after a mo-
ment's thoughtful silence, said, in a low, decided
manner, as if be had made up his mind :
"Ned, one offer I have to propose. If you
will give me the control of the lugger for a week,
that will be long enough, I will pay you every
dollar I owe you."
" Easily said, Mr. Beachampe," answered
Ned, with a tone of ineiedulity.
"And easily done. Look here !" and he
displayed before hiseyes a diamond brooch, the
light from which flashed on the eyes of the host
like drops of sunshine.
"What is that ?-is it diamonds ?"
"Yes-and it is worth eight hundred dollars."
"That may be ; but I am no judge of such
baubles. What are you going to do with it?"
"Place it in your bands, and you are to ad-
vance me the remaining three handed : and-
when I redeem it _I will pay you the whole." py3
"I must first be sure-of its value."
"Is there a jeweller here you would trust?",
Yes. Let me take it to him, and if he
sets that value on it, which I greatly doubt, I
will advance you one hundred and fifty over ;
keeping the balance for risks and loss of interest,
for it might be ten years before you'd redeem it,
and ten years' interest must be secured first, as
diamonds brew no interest."
" By St. Peter and St. Paul, Ned Blouster,
you ought to have been a Jew broker," he an
swered, .sneeringly.
sI dare say I could get rich that way if I
had moneyto begin with.  But why not sell
the diamond outright ?"
"For-you-you see-I dhave reasons. g    e
and meanly, "this was once myhaoherpn it
to tell the truth, at least ten times'in Philadel
phia and New York, when Igwas hard run;j but
you see I always redeemed it. I can't part with
it altogether, as it was hers ; but I will pledge

I

Beach2mnpe's plan of  abduction.   I1s interview  with Alice.,  She discloses  te ,p
cions respecting him. is forcible seizure of her. ' Her terror, and desperate shrieks.
A  revenue cruiser.  The cha;e.   A1lce overboard.  Her rescue, , y the cutter.  A A-O.
rific storm, which enables Beachampe to escape.
S IE slave Dick returned to the inn, after man as soon as he reached home on leaving the
- A  an absence of ten minutes, and touching windmill point, was walkI    a     vn
.  ..                   gpoi , as             alkngup, and down im--r.
his old cap to his master, said:             patiently.  Upon seeing Goldust enter, his fae.
"Mlass' Gold us say he corn' rectly."     brightened up and approaching hihhb
Scarcely had he delivered his message, before his hand, saying:
a slender man, with a very long nose, sharp    "Glad to see you, Goldust; you are prmpt "
chin, little gray eyes behind iron rimmed speed. " Al-al-al'ays p p p-prompt t t t, when, when,
tables, and dressed in a faded suit of drab, came when, when there's any business s s-s t-to do "
shuffling  into the tap. He went straight to   And the jeweler, having delivered himself
Blouster, with the positive directness.of a man of this speech, which seemed to distress him to
who always, like an arrow, takes the shortest get rid of, took off'his broad brimmed white h
way between two places.                      and setting-it down by his chair on the r
"Y-y-you wish to-to-to see-me I" he said, rubbed his palms together, and looked from one ,4
stuttering dreadfully, and speaking with aston- to the other, as if expecting to have the busune  :
fishing volubility, and thereby it was that he introduced.  Goldust was a man who not
stammered..repaired watches, mended jewelry, and boug
Yes, Goldust; just step into the back room  old gold and silver, but itwas well known, he
here.B  bhaeait businem'm  alsr          loaned moneys at three hundred per cent., toary
B-b- b business i'm-I"-'m  always ready- persons whose distresses present compelled#
f-f~f for!  What is' it tttO"               to pay such usurious interest. It was not
"I'll tell you if you'll just step in;" and first time he had been sent fo to the Binnach
Blouster threw open the door.                t    k   l
Beachampe, now attired in his ordinary cos- ashore customers; and hisba  shop
tume, having thrown aside that of the foremast a motley array of spy-g1ass   uadrat

-     "  f *       -  t°

CHAPTER VII.

ad giving an order to h
away with it.
r, dear reader, we sh
active part of our novel, is
ig events that took pa  =
to the commencement EA
ke up the story again in th "
Star, where we left it
the oblivion of sleep
4

I

,-                                                      ,                 '


I                                                              I
j

THE DANCING STAR.
)asses, charts, Blunt's coast pilot, chests, watch you, so ydu
ap and a thousand articles which, the neces- it. It is not t
itie ofinariners rendered it expedient to part to know its ji
He also had an iron ihest in his bed.- "Th-th-at'
r prthe drawers of which were filled with quite s-s-s-so
S ngs, watches, brooches, seals,. chains, and dred d-d and.
bracelets which the necessities of fast ladies of m-m-m-more.
z   hion had transferred to his hands; and in an  "Would y
mormious faded red pocket book, which enjoyed it ?" asked
he protecting shelter of the iron chest whenever  "N.n-no!
t was not in his pocket, were notes of hand, could only ad
leeds, mortgages, &amp;c., all representing available " Very wp
property, which, at a proper time, in default of take a glass
bligation to pay, Would own Jeremiah Goldust  " L I-1-let1
as master. So Jeremiah now anticipated some, jeweller, wh
gains, but in what shape he could not exactly drank it offt
define, since Beachampe, he well knew from ex- g-g-g goo'goo
perience, was what he professionally called only p pin is this
inohbeck-p p-p pinchbeck !"                 "It's min
Master Goldust, I've sent for you to ask "0, very,
you the value of that bauble," said d3louster, tt to get f f-f-
ointing to the brooch which Beachampe held in on it-t-tt."
his hand in open sight.                        The jewell
Let t-t ni-me-me see it Pt 1" he answered, asking wheth
extending his bony hand.  He then raised his to him, thrust
round glasses above his brows, and took from brows, and si
hisponket a circular greasy leathern case. This disappeared.
K  he opened, and drew forth a jeweller's lens set in  "Now, B'l
ebony.  He wiped it with the corner of a dirty said Nevil, e
old yellow handkercief, and .then stuck it in dervalue it."
his eye, where it fitted as if the hollow of the " Yes. -I'
e w made for nothing else but to hold the one hundred
instrument. He then drew the candle close to " Say two
him, and placing the brooch under the lens, " Very we
with the light strongly reflected fiom it, he stud. " Have yeo
jed its appearance for full a minute, while Nevil " Come to
and Blouster looked on in silence. At length count it out t4
he raised his head and said, to the surprise of ." And the

the host:                                     " How lonI
8 s a-si si-six hundred dol-lliars."      '" Only lonj
Six hundred 1" exclained Blouster, in a   "What do
tone that showed he expected to hear that it was  "To carry
not worth as many cents.                   I can smuggh
Six hundred 1" cried Nevil, angrily.-  and in Baltim
" Thou knowest, old man, that it is worth eight  " How sha
hundred; or thou l nowest nothing about thy  "My boy 1
craft. - Itell you beforehand, it is not to go to can bring her

need not lower its value to gain on
o be pledged to you-we only want
ust worth."
s a very diff fferent t-t-th-thing-
It is worth perhaps seven hun
fif-fifty. I wouldn't give a shilling,
f ffor it."
you be willing to advance that on
3louster.
not now I've told its value. I
Lv-v-v-ance five. hunred-d-d-d."
l1, that is all I waft to know; now
of this brandy."
me help my myself ' ianswered the
o filled the tumble' half full and
with gisto.  " Y-y you k-k-k-keep
d li-li liquor, Blouster. Whose p-
",            I
e."
very well. You'll always be abld
five hundred-d-d adv-v van-vaa-ced
er then took up his ha, and without
er there -was anything-more to say
t it down over his ers and eye-'
hufled out of the room and soon
ouster, I hope you are satisfied,"
xultingly.  " Of course he'd .un-
11 take the brooch Ind advance you
and fifty."'
hundred. I must have two !"
l-that will be the outside."
u the money here ?"
me in the morning, and I will
lugger 2"
g do you want her ?"
g enough to take me to Baltimord "
you go there for ?"
off my prize, Alice Beaufort. If
eher into the lugger, she's mine ;'
ore I could hide from all pursuit."

ll I get the lugger back 7"
Cato will return her to you.  He
back safely."

.I

.

Beore ascendimg the path, mistructed CatoElliot to bewar'e of you; that your name wc.as no4
to turn the bows of the lagger towards the bay, R Iph, but that you were an evil-minded peers
and instead of fastening the hawser, to hold i and an outcast from men's esteem !
toe rock by his hands, so-that at a mom  t's  "And you believed this tale 2"
warning  e 'might spring into it and sail a . y.  "1I did not, Ralph! I defended you till wn
e l      to makng known these orders to deaf 'brother became angry with me ; and he brough-
Jack, and hastened towards the old fort, the the man to me, who told me the same, and sa

' .1I  . r .fy'~  ;  . , .. , ,,'r W JT  Ps"YMaa kyr  woFt~l~-.~y  -li-lt"-'

:F
F     =
rr y    r  t
h, i    Yf'
N T,
s
j'.
4,' i
7t i.6
1
e   !ryY     i
Ti
E     -
b ai J
_    t 4i

f    xr

THE DANCING STAR.
"'I'll send another man with her also."   light upon the tower of which directing l
"Send one I can trust.."                  steps, but not shedding radiance enough to die{
"Deaf Jack, will he do ?"                cover his approach. The'night was, perfect'
"Just the man, for he is quiet and discreet, dark, not a star being visible, and a heavy blaco
and talks little. . I want the lagger ready the cloud covering the heavens like a pall.
day after to-morrow, for at that time I shall be  "I must be expeditious in my work,
ready ; and that is the day Beaufort the brother muttered to himself, as he saw a flash of lighi
will be absent, as he comes to York on Satur- ning gleam in the north-west, followed by thy
days.  And look you, Blouster; you must do low, distant rumbling of thunder.  "I have in
me a service touching this young fellow. I want time for delay, or I shall be caught in the storms
you to manage to keep him till to morrow, or I would rather have it a better night-but it i
rather so late that he wont get back till the dove now or never ! - Elliot is away, and darkne'
is.stolen. I can't succeed if he is at home."  will favor my escape with her."
"I'll try and do my best," answered Blous-  He now reached the entrance to the area
ter; and- being called into the tap by a custom- the fort. Here he could no longer conceal him,'
er, he rose and left the room. Beachampe soon self, for being near the fire it revealed his per
after departed by another door, but not without son-at the same time, to his glad surprise, th
first casting a searching glance round the room, form of Alice was seen in relief against th'
and wondering where Blouster's strong box was light of the fire by which she was standing, look
kept, out of which was to ce     the money ingoff down the inlet, shading her vision Wit
which he was to have on the mo row.'         her hand, as if her affectionate solicitude for he-
We now carry our story forward three days, brother would enable her to penetrate the dark,
to Saturday night, 'out an hour after the sun ness that hung over the water.  Nevil was hab
had set in a dark bank of clouds.  Through the ited in his foremast man's disguise. He step
gloom, the lugger was to be seen slowly and cau- ed up the rude earthern steps that led to thF
tiously advancing towards the landing place be- look-out, and stood behind Alice. But in orde
ow the old fort  A  light was seen i the mil- not to alarm, he spoke her name softly.  Sh
ler's house, shining brightly, and a little fire turned quickly, and, seeing him, uttered a cr'
was kindled on the look-out above the rampart.' between alarm and pleasure. "Ralph I" ,
The latter was the affectionate work of Alice, to  "It is Ralph, sweet Alice,!1" he claimed
direct her brother how to steer, for as yet he had taking her in his arms; but she disengaged hers
not returned from town; and the bright light in self as if with mistrust, saying:
the window of the miller's house was the Pharos  "I am glad you have come to defend yotu
of love set thre by the solicitude of Margaret, self. There has been much'said about you."
fte knight was dark and lowering, and por- "X hat has been said ?" he asked, turning
tee  tonlrrk thtserdbt               pale, fearing that he had been discovered 'in hi
tohe oaecnl bak that sted by thleseN twin true character.
torchfafecGided wabht thepoiler, Nevil    "There came one here the' day you left,
Bahnpe   Gude    y them, he drew hear to said she, sole-mnly and slowly, " who said th~
te landing, and at length ~pang to 'the segre. y~ou were not what  asemdanwre-
I~eor aseningth  pah,'hointrute  Gae ~llotto ~iareofyou thatmed, name warn

o                     *
r
,                 ..
_ "
.   1
7                         ;      $


THE DANCING 'STAR.

\Aayou were Nevil Beachampe-that heuad
k cog-red you on board the lugger under your
f   .
well, and did he make you believe it ?"
sked Nevil, scornfully.
i  L didn't know what -to believe. I could
t consent to confess that you were un*6rtby
my rgard--I was reluctant to acknowledge
4at I htd been deceived."
}   "Aid, Alice, suppose it were true?  Sup-
that instead of being a bumble foremast
p 1man, I were the noble gentleman they declared
e to be ."
They did not call you noble, but a base
'j, dete an."
Tut I a gentleman is a gentleman, Alice.
onld you love me any less?"
"I could never love one who deceived me."
, "But suppose I had assumed this disguise in
order, underit, to win your love,-would you
 endespise me?"
y   "There were no need of it."       e
p   " You would not have given me your coni-
4. nc had I come in my true character, suppos-
i      I had been a gentleman."
" But I should have ceased to have confidence
Syou as soon as I discovered thai deception
ad been practised."
h " Ah, Alice ! would you rather I should now
rove to be only the foremast man Ralph, than
this rich Nevil Beachampe ?"
"Yes; for if thou wert Nevil Beachampe,
rich thou wouldst not be ; and wert thou he and
rich, thou wert too high to be the companion of
F thought of Alice Beaufort."
and that there was an expression in her eyes as
a sihe fixed them hard upon hiis face, that showed
1txlin she was beginning to doubt him. She
looked pale and anxious, and said, wihout ask-
Shim to follow:
S" I must go down into the house."
"iDo not leave me, Alice !" he cried, de.
7sending the tower after her. Upon reaching the

,rea below, he caught her by the hand and de-
f  trained' her; for he saw she was possessed with
s sudden fear of him, for in his eagerness he had

almost forgotten the character of Ralph in the
haughtier one of Nevil.
"Stay, dear Alice. Walk with me a few
steps to Sledger's house, and I will tell thee and
him there that which will give thee full confi-
dence in me !"
She yielded from native kindness of heart,
yet with mistrust, for he did not seem to her like
the same Ralph she had before known ; and he
drew her arm in his and said, as he moved to-
wards Sledger's:
"Why would you hate me '? why lose confi-
dence in me, dear Alice, should I confess to
you that I am no foremast man, but ra gentle.
than, who, from love to you-"'
to Tell me the truth, sir !" she cried, with a
sudden impetuosity that startled him, while she
stopped full in the path they were walking;
"Tell me, art thou not Nevil Beachampe ?"
"Ask th brother.    There is his boat at the
landing ?"
"His bo ?--has he come ?"
" Yes. Do you not see ?"
" I am so happy; I feared he would be caught
in the storm that is brewing."
" Let us go to him.   Ask him if I am a
deceiver."'
"Does he know-?   Did he not say that. you
were ?"
" No matter what he said the other day ; ask
him now. Let us go and meet him !"
Wholly unsuspecting anything like the act he
was contemplating, and faintly seeing the lig-
ger, which she readily believed, her brother's
returned boat, she accompanied him to the land-
ing. She stood on the flat rock against which
the stern of the lugger was held, and began to
call to Elliot by name, and supposing Cato to
be him, she approached close to the slave, when
a vivid flash of lightning revealed the negro and
the lugger, and showed the absence of the
bum-boat.
" It is not Elliot's boat I" she exclaimed.
" Never mind-it is mine !" be answered,

taking her up and springing on board with her.
"Push off Ind run her out, Cato 1" he called
to his slave, who obeyed ; and before Alice

A

,could realize this act of sudden violence, or use
her voice or strength to resist, the lugger was
blown by a strong'wind, which came from the
north, rapidly from the shore. But he had no
sooner set her feet upon the deck, than disen.
gaging herself from his arms, as hey was endeav-
oring to throw her shawl across her mouth, she
uttered a shriek so loud and piercing, that Ca'o,
affrighted, dropped the tiller, and the lugger
would have broached to, if Nevil had not caught
the helm with one hand, while he held the strug-
gling and shrieking Alice in the grasp of the
other. Cato at length retook it; but not before,
with shriek on shriek, the terrified girl had
roused the inmates of the miller's house, who
were seen running out with lights. Sledger
shouted to know what was the matter, while
Margaret's screams were heard, id which were
mingled the words, "It is Alice-it is Alice
drowning !" A light also appeared in the fort,
and the tall figure of Mad. Bess was seen stand-
ing upon the rampart, while her shrill voice took
up the cry. But it had already been silenced
on board the lhgger. Nevil had no sooner got
the vessel under steerage way again, hand threat-
ened Cato with immediate death if he left his
post, than he succeeded in muffling the head of
his helpless captive, so that her voice was choked
to moans. He then bore her below to the
wretched little steerage or cabin, and locking
the hatch upon her,left her there upon the floor,
while he returned to the deck to look after the
safety and flight of his vessel. He was now a
quarter of a mile from.the shore, on which hei
could still see lights moving about in great haste
hither and thither, and from which came voices
to his ear. But he only smiled grimly and tri
umphantly ; for the breeze was strong, and mo
mentarily increasing his distance from the land,
and he felt conscious that rescue could not robr
him of his fair prize. Taking the helm himself,.
and making Cato tend the main sheet,. while
Jack,-who could always tell without hearing s

orders, how to busy himself,by seeing the
course that was steered and knowing the direc s
tion from which the wind blew,-looked after i
the square foresail and jib.               d

The appearance of the heavens did not by
any means please our navigator' The occasional
flashes of lightning revealed dense nd lowering
a masses of storm clouds driving along not three
quarters of a mile above the earth. The tAJun.
der continuously rolled overhead, and the light-
ning became more and more frequent and blind.
ing. - At length, when he had reached the mid-
die of the inlet or bay, the wind begin to lull,
and blow fitfully, and he found it difficult te )
keep his vessel under steerage way, and every
minute or two the heavy sloop-boom would swing
with tremendous force over from starboard to
larboard, and back again. Yet he continued te
run on, hauling his wind and steering out into-x
the Chesapeake, though half tempted to make e
harbor at Beachampe Head, when he discovered,
by a glare of lightning, a vessel directly ahead
of him,-steerigg up the inlet. He at once bore
up to let her pass 'to leeward, especially as he
heard the moans of Alice become more and more
audible, as if she were getting her face free from
the muffler he had put over it, and he knew that
a shriek heard in the vessel would be fatal to
him. " Cato," he said, " go down .into the
cabin, and tell me'if she is likely to get the shawl
off her face ; if she is, hold it till I call you ;- I
can't leave the helm now."  Another flash of
lightning showed him the vessel nearer and more
distinctly, and with a deep oath, he ecimed:
"It is the revenue cruiser ! I must up helm,
and run for it. A mere fisherman I would not
so much care for. Cato, on your life, let het}
not lift her voice I"
The revenue schooner came gliding on through
the nightigloom, the lightning from time to time:,
revealing her tall, pencil-like masts, and, broad
fields of snowy canvass, with her black and white.
tier of ports. She passed the lugger within three
hundred fathoms, taking no notice of her, though
evidently seeing her. Beachampe's heart was.
n his mouth as she came abeam, but when he
aw her sail on and pass him and fall astern, he
)reathed again ; and hearing a struggde in the

teerage, he called Cato to take the helm. But
instead of the slave, Alice appeared, her hair
dishevelled, hier eyes wildly wandering, her face.

_                                        x             ;         .

3  1  ,' - N ,

. ,.                                                                                     i5

-*i;ns rKy"'F  .r^na. *t+ i Pa'!'cn' '".  ,y ry -   ..    a ....... _. _r _ - . y                                         x+ Mw          t+.'a' ,yav'r^.-.

THE DANCING STAR

C


60
pale as marble, he whole figure di
were about to spring, all winged,
 'this appearance was distinctly re
eyes by the lightning, which was i
yfessant. She cast one glance hea
sprang to the side of the vessel.
caught her by the arm as she was
Jy into the water.
" Alice, do not fear me-do no
love you to madness ! Be calm, I
At this instant her eyes fell on
revenue vessel, and with a shriek
-heart-rending agony, she stretched
towards it.  "S ve-save---O, sa
"That voice is a woman's 1-sb
from the lugger !" exclaimed the
der in command of the cutter, wh
the quarter deck when Alice's voi
ears through the stillness around,
heart leap to his mouth. "Ready
s  down your helm-hard down, n
aft here, three of you, to lower the
Lively, men, lively !-it is for lii
'All was instantly animation an
the deck of the cruiser. She had
close hauled on the larboard tack
west-north west, but she came inst
.   wind, and falling off on the other
course straight for the lugger, whit
boat was already lowered, with thr
ready to cast off and pull where t
a person in the water ; for that t
from a drowning person the captai
bad no doubt.   .-.
" They have ceased ! 1 fear she
he said, as his vessel bowled on
creasing wind. " Look sharp all
As the shriek escaped her lip
uttered a fearful curse, and grasp~
bhroat, in his madness and fears

and of losing her, deliberated a m
he should not throw her overboard
afraid he could not secure the sile
slaves, and the cutter, which he n
about, might rescue her from the
therefore, thought better of it, an
ro n the deck, he released her thro

THE DANCING STAR.
lated as if she ened her in the most horrible manner that if she,
into the air. raised her voice again so that he could hear it,
vealed to his he would bury his dagger in her bosom.  She
now, almost in shuddered and tried to speak, but her voice, from
venward, and the pressure of his clenched fingers, failed her,
Beachampe but her eyes expressed eloquently, " Slay me,
plunging mad- and I gill bless youI"r
He now gave his dagger to Cato, and told
At fly me ! I him if she stirred to kill her. He then gave his
implore you." whole attention to escaping from the cruiser,
the receding which he now saw was coming after him with a
of the most bone in her teeth.  He resolved he would make
out her arms the lugger do her best to run for it, knowing
ve me I"    that a stern'chase is a long chase ; and he thought
e is drowning if he could hold his own a quarter of an hour or
youthful offi- so, the storm which was galloping on with roar-
io was pacing ing chariot wheels,. would soon compel the
ce pierced his schooner to take in sail and lay to, while for his
and made his own part, he was willing it should blow " ten
about ! Hard thousand devils," so that he escaped the cutter.
nan !  Spring    But he soon saw that the cruiser sailed two
quarter-boat. feet to his one, and that hecould not esape.-
fe or death !' Each instant it was overhauling him, and he
id activity on knew that they meant to know what had .caused
been running the shrieking. How should he foil them? The
and steering sweat stood in  cold drops on his brow as he
antly into the tried to think himself out of the danger he had
tack, lay her involved himself in. But before he could make
le the quarter up his mind what deception to resort to, the
ee men in her, schooner was under his quarter and hailed him :.
hey might see  "Ho the lugger ! What noise was that ?"
he voice came   "A drunken woman on board-my foremast
n of the cutter man's wife.  He has been beating her'; it's all
quiet now 1"
is drowned,"    "1Ay, ay. I thought   he had fallen over-
under the in- -board," answered the officer, in a tone as if lie
about !" was perfectly satisfied. " But you had best
s, Beachampe make for the land, skipper ; a storm is coming
ing her by the up that will do you mischief. I am running up
of detection the inlet to secure an anchorage under the land."
moment whether " I can run to York before it blows hard,"
dI; but he was answered Beachampe, his heart lightened of a
nce of the two heavy load. ." Good night, and a pleasant-"

ow saw coming    But he was interrupted by the thrilling voice
e water. He, of the maiden, to whom the idea that she was to.
id placing her be left to his mercy lent strength and energy to
at, and threat- make a final effort for rescue. Though Cato,.

61

THE DANCING STAR.

seeing her raise her head, and struggle to artic-
ulate, had pressed his, knee upon her, she threw
him backward, and springing to her feet, cried,
"It is false! it-is false! Save me-save me-
0, save me !"
The lightning revealed her fah- form, with
outstretched hands, to the eyes of those on the
deck of the cutter.
Two more men !    Cast off-give way !"
[      were the rapid orders given in a loud and excit-
ed tone by the commander, as seizing a cutlass,
and followed by two more men, besiles the three
already in the boat, he leaped into it and sped
away from the side of the schooner like an ar-
row. The distance between the two vessels was
not fifty yards. {'Beachampe hardly had time to
decide what he should do for his own preserva-
tion, when a sudden thought struck his wicked
mind, and catching up Alice he cast her over
the stern bodily into the sea, hoping by this
means to gain time while they should be engaged
n rescuing her, to effect his escape. He did
not miscalculate the value of this act to him.-
They saw the hellish dked, and being almost un-
der the stern, the commander leaped from his
boat into the water, and rose to the surface with
her.  He was soon taken into the boat yby his -
men, with his fair prize,' which he was not a
little amazed to see was a beautiful young girl
She had consciousness enough to realize that she
was saved, and no longer in the power of Nevil
Beachampe, and to whisper faintly her-gratitude
when she became insensible. This was, there-
fore, no time to think of pursuing the lugger,
and the commander gave orders to pull directly
to the cruiser, which was lying to.
"Once on board, we'll make sail after this
murderer in the lugger, whoever he is," he said.
"Give way, men! Don't you see he's escaping
to leeward. It is a strange affair ! Who can
she be ? What has this crime been committed
for ? Pull hard and strong, men ! Here we
are alongside-fill away !" he shouted, as he
touched the gangway ladder. Stand after the

lugger-crowd on all canvass. She contains a
murderer !"
The young officer then bore the insensibl9

Alice to the cabin, and bringing out the medi-
cine chest, applied restoratives to bring her to
herself. While thus engaged, and wondering at'
her marble like loveliness, and amazed at what
had transpired, he heard a commotion on deck,
and at the same instant the vessel reeled and
lay over fearfully low, and the noise of the wind
whistling through the rigging told him that the
storm had burst upon them. The safety of his
vessel was paramount to all other considerations,
and leaving a little mulatto cabin boy to hold
salts to her nostrils till his return, he hastened
on deck.
Until all was made safe on board the cruiser,
no man had a thought of the lugger, which being
looked for, was now no longer visible.
"She's swamped, without question," said the
lieutenant, " but it's a pity the assassin who
threw this lovely girl into the water 'has not
lived to have his neck stretched."
When the commander returned to the cabin,
he was delighted to find Alice sitting up, and
though dripping like .a mermaid, smiling and
beaming gratitude upon him. And well might
she smile. ' She fully realized her escape, and
though still trembling and half doubting, she
said, extending her hand :
"0, sir, Heaven will reward you. Is there
no more danger from him ?"
"None ! He is at the bottom of the sea,
which is a pity, for drowning is too good for
him. Pray who is he ?  What did he cast you
from the lugger into the sea for ?"
" Doubtless that. he might escape while you
were rescuing me-I know not else. He is a
very, very bad man. He took me by force from
my home to-night, and but for your appearance,
and that you heard my shrieks, I should have
now been in his power. 0, sir, my brother will
be so grateful to you also'"
" Who is your brother ?"
" Elliot Beaufort."
" I know him-I know him ! Is it possible
you are Alice, of whom I have heard ?" he
said, with surprise ; and as he gazed upon her

sweet face, fast recovering its natural tints, his
heart insensibly ceased longer to be his own.

p

4
M1
"   1
,g
J      _
4 y
f'.Y
2
t   t
is fY
t F _
s
d
. aY Y
t    T !
f  . {
F  « )
Y
t
i
+, 5
"
Y
t,
J :r
1 tF
f     2
k
i
3
6.
f". a

f''Y-e+R"n'jKt4C3'"' S n'W^ A+     a  Y  '     u'        f     ;.  ...  '+F x            + ..:                                         i      -    'a eKePKYk              'Y°

t

,;...a

b


)

I17

j

CIIAPTER VIII.

Alice restored to her home. . She fnds a new lover.    Beachampe's villanous course mace
him a wanderer.  A new scheme of smuggling.    Disinherited by his father.   Desperate
revenge of an incendiary.  Enters fully on his career of wickedness.
HE   revenue cruiser having safely rode as often anchored his cruiser of   Windmill,
out the gale, about midnight the moon' Point as his duties would let liin ; and at length,
burst from thestorm-clouds and shone upon the in the pure and sincere attach-nent of thj, young
tumultuous waters over which the schooner was seaman, Alice forgot her misplaced erectionn,
'leaping under freed canvass in the direction of and tried to forget that s .ch a p :rsor as Ralph
the windmill.  By one o'clock Alice was placed Rowley had ever been seen by her.  If Henry
by Henry Mainwaring, the commander of the Mainwaring loved the sister, i heevne no less
cutter, in the arms of Margaret and her father, attached to the brother, and often urgod him to
who, believing her drowned off the rock, were take a berth in his vessa wi  hin; but Elliot
weeping her dead when the cruiser arrived.   refused to leave his mother and Aliee ; asl when
The next morning early Elliot made his ap- at length Henry made known to himi his devo-
pearance, having been detained, as he said, by tion to the latter, and his irtention to nakede her
the lose of his rudder, which someone had stolen his wife, when he would hip him  in taking
from his boat;- and he had to wait to have care of his mother, the latter said, smiling
d.. ,        Wh hS[tn.c h  dV f4 th  tv          fll :               .

4     }}

"I love you, Captain Mainwaring, and I
know Alice loves you.  You h ive my consent,
and [ have no doubt you already have here.
But. how can you have a wife and live at sea all
the time?"
" [ have thought of tat," answered the
young officer, sighing ; " th regulations wont
allow me to take her with n, ; anl I can't live
on shore without throwing up my profession.-

63

THE DANCING STAR.

Bat I hope in a year or two to lay up something
and.bhuy a snail farm; and you shall marry
Margaret ;tndl have a firn by mine, and I will
retire from the sea, and be hippy there with
Alice."                 .&amp;'1
Thus the young officer would talk with Elliot
of his plans whet they would meet, either at
the winl mill, or in York, where the duties of
the revenue service of en called the cutter to-
remain anmhrre l there smne days at a time.
Nevil Bae 'lcha'np , in the meanwhile, remain.
ed out of the wiay.  The outrage' he had com
mitted in carryingt off Alice Be tufort was well
known to every bo ly ; and no class of persons
were more indignant than the river men.  He
become a wanderer* In Baltimore and other
cities he pass-d his days sometimes with money.
oftener without a shilling, and plunging into
scenes of dissipation and dwelling in the haunts
of vice. At length he went a voyage with a
man who h td secretly got a crew and secretly
agiledJ in a topsail schooner under great mystery
After a year he returned, but - not benefited .by
his a ventures on the seas. for he was penniless
and an outcast. At length he forged his father's
name to a large amount, and drew the money
and beinr; detected, only escaped arrest by a
midnight flight  In disguise he sought his old
home, and under the garb of a knife-grinder he
made himself known to his old friend, Captain
Ned Blouster. This worthy gladly hailed his
return, and after some hours' conversation, du.
ing which every matter interestiig to Nevil was
talked over ; the trner seeing that his fortunes
were desperate, and th it he would not hesitate
at anything, proposed to him to engage with
him in smnugglirig-a pursuit to which rely se.-
cretly and cautiousy our host had been for some
year or, two turn ing his versatile talents. It
will he supposed that Blouster didi not miscal-.
culite his nyan's desperation of condition.
Without hesitation Beachaimpe said he would
place himself in his hands arid do whatever he
directed ; "aiiything shor t o'f murder, Na d !"
heree nel4 b no iiurder if the affairs are

manage. idiscreetly. You see that I have been
smuggling, only on a small scale. I have had1

as my accomplices, Skipwith, the Cape pilot,
and the fisherman, Tarbox. These had their
partners on board certain inward bound vessels;
and one would board them to pilot them in, and
have his parcels conveyed to his boat ; the other
would board them to sell fish, and receive his
packages in the same way; but this business,
though profitable as far as it goes, is not large
enough for the trouble. These men bring me
their goods by night, and if you will go below
under the foundation of the inn, by-and-by, I
will show you how I received them from their
boats secretly. Now, Beachampe," he added,
"you are the very man I am looking for."
"Make it profitable to me, and I will join
you."
"That I promise. I have been trying to find
a man to go into this business with me on -a
larger scale, and more than once thought of
you and wondered where you could be cruising.
You have come back in the nick of time. In
the hopes of getting some larger vessel, I i
structed the captain of the James-"
Is he your partner, also?" asked Nevil,
with surprise.
"Yes."
Your plan enlarges."
"The captain of the James is fond of gaming.
He has relatives living near York, and a year
ago, when his vessel was in port, he came down
here to see them. He was in my tap room
every night. After I shut up, he and two or
three others would remain and go into the card
room up stairs and play half the night. He
lost everything. I had to loan him money to
get back his watch he pledged, and to get to
Baltimore."
" What security did he give you ?"
" I knew a gambler will be tempted to do any
villany, so I told him I would loan him the
money if he would afford me facilities in smug-
gling by his ship. At first he objected ; but
finally he signed the compact with me. Now,
( expect his vessel in a few weeks,-for it was

six months ago we bargained together,-and as
he will bring a valuable venture for me to take,
[ want to have a larger vessel than Skipwith
has. Now listen to me."

k          ~ 7

nUother mae.U   v e  iene e  earu ut uo  u evVU
of the past night, his fierce anger against Nevil
Beachampe could only be equalled by his grati-
tude to the captain of the cutter.
Beachampe, however, who had reached the
land safely, escaped from the country, well
aware that the revenge of Elliot would not sleep
till the insult he had put upon Alice was ap.
peased in his blood.
Months passed away, and Henry Mainwaring

-
.
;" '  ,
i_
i _
1

I
r

n            , rv  °°  - :w .-v---         ,..    r    .,r    _ ,_.+." . air  -  _.  -._    +la. ' P.iyy5"}...  a8. sss"w     -.


r
S' ? '34  I
i hSt  F

year and a half. During that time, his father
had died and disinherited him. This he heard
of at the time, but he had heard the particulars
from Blouster.  This person informed him that

ING STAR.

64                           THE DANCI
"I will hear every word."
"If you will go to Baltimore and look out
there a fast sailing clipper schooner of about
fifty tons, I will place the money in your hands
to purchase her. I know you are a judge of a
vessel.  I will put to your use seven thousand
dollars, with which to buy the vessel, man her
and provision her. She must have a crew of
eighteen men. Your former friend who used
to visit you here from  Baltimore, is here in
York now, and looks like a rogue, and I have
no doubt will be easily induced to ship as next
in command to you."
" Do you mean Jack Lastels ?"
"That is his name."
"He will not be backward if he should hap-
pen to be out of money."
" Ie looks ready, and drinks at the tap on
credit."
"Then he is fit for treasons, stratagems and
spoils. When a man gets so -low as to get his
liquor on tick, he's easily won to anything. I'll
do it, Blouster."
"This vessel must have arms to resist, if the
revenue cutter should trouble you.  You must
not allow yourself to be boarded with a cargo
in."
" It is likely to be a pretty active and dan-
gerous business."
" I trust to your discretion and coolness. I
don't think much -of your morals, Mr. Bea-
ehanppe; but I know you are brave, and have
judgment, and are long headed enough."
Our readers now understand the origin of
the bond of union between Beachampe and the
host of the Light in the Binnacle. We have
now to relate an event that portrays the charac-
ter of this young man in colors still darker
than any with which he has been hitherto repre-
sented. The night of the day on which the
conversation and interview above described took
place, Nevil left the Inn, and took his way to
Beachamnpe Hall. He had not been there for a

out, he took up in an iron skillet several live
coals which he covered over by heaping the

Colonel Beachampe had not seen any one for
some months after the forgery of his son was:
discovered by him; but that at length be sent
for lawyers and made his will, in which he be-
queathed all his estate, real and personal, to his
niece, Kate Beachampe, born in England. A
few weeks after mating thg will lie died.  The
hall, in the meanwhile, was in possession of one
of the executors, who had moved into it to pre-
serve it until the arrival of the heiress, who
was, said Blouster, expected in a few weeks.
In the mood which this intelligence had put
him into, the outlawed heir of Beachampe Hall
now approached the home from which his vices
and crimes had driven him. It was a clear,
starry  night.  He knew every footpath, and
walked on with familiar step, until he came
within sight of its tall and imposing northern
front. Lights shone through the windows of
the room where he had last parted with his
father. A light was also glimmering through
the Venetian shutters of the apartment in which
his mother had died in his boyhood. He gnashed
his teeth together and clenched his fists with
rage, to see strangers in possession of what he
deemed was rightfully his own.
With the furtive step of a burglar he stole up
to the portico, and climbing up, looked in at the
windows. He saw a family group, a father,
mother, two daughters and a son.   The son
was his own age, and he had always hated him
for his superior virtues. This sight filled his
cup of bitter revenge to the brim.  Heregained
his feet and walked across the lawn until he
came to a gate ; this he opened, and going for-
ward, soon reached the stables and wood-sheds.
Here he turned to the left and cautiously ap-
proached two or three brick negro houses in the
rear. One of those was the kitchen. He look-
ed in at the low windows and saw that all was
silent and dark, save a faint glimmer from a fire
brand, half covered up in the ashes. The door,
on being tried by him, was, as he expected,
only shut, and unfastened. He softly entered
and approached the hearth. Raking the ashes

THE DANCING STAR.

/

1
Y4

leaped the farthest gate, and fled to a wooded
hill a quarter of a mile off. Here, for the
first time, he stopped and looked round. The

65

skillet with ashes. He then took from the side
of the fire place a bundle of pine sticks, placed
there to kidle the fire with early in the morn
ing. With these under his arm and the iron
vessel of concealed coals in his hand, he left the
premises without disturbing a negro boy who
lay asleep by the hearth.
On gaining the yard he returned by the way
of the stables and wood shed. From the latter
he took several sticks of wood and'added them
to the kind lings. He then looked cautiously
on all sides and listened attentively, to ascertain
if any one was moving out of doors. Finding
all quiet, he crossed the yard to the rear of the
house, concealed by a hedge that bordered one
side of the garden.  In the rear of the mansion
was a gallery supported on square stones, with
spaces for light and ventilation into the cellar.
He reached this gallery, and stooping, passed
under it. As he did so, a huge dog leaped from
beneath the floor where he had been lying, and
seized hin by the shoulder.
" Down, Nero, down," he whispered, hoarse-
ly, while he writhed with pain.  "Off, sir !
Don't you know your master ?"
But the faithful dog did not recognize in the
husky whisper the voice of his master, nor in
the apparent thief, his person. So be buried
his teeth deeper into his flesh and threw himself
upon him. It was too confined a place' for
Nevil, thus arrested in his nefarious purposes,
to stand up ; but he tried to use his knife, and
after a fearful struggle he at length succeeded
in burying it in the heart of his trustful dog.
He now   released himself from his weight and
crawled farther under the piazza. He now pro-
ceeded to lay the kindling in order in a corner,
and having done so, he proceeded to the other
extremity and placed his wood there. He then
set the last pile on fire ,and crept hastily away
to the first, which he also kindled. He then
made his way out from beneath the gallery over
the body of Nero, and with the speed of a deer
rail across the yard, skulked along the hedge

champe Hall I"
At dawn of day he was once more at the

''  Y ~.   ',t.S .     s ';  , * i'"'nt x   '  ' t   ''  .. _   r e  . E+ a+Yr xwu    n4R.M"..iir  M. .~t.. -,.. _ _  ~ ,_i,. u

house was in sight. There was no sign of fire
having seized upon it, and he was beginning to
think he should have to return and coinplete his
work, when a faint gleam lighted up the wall
and roof of the stable as if reflected. But he
could still see no fire, as the lower part of the
house was hid by trees. But the light on the
stable grew brighter and more ruddy.
" It will burn !." he said, exultingly. " That
glare is from under the, portico as from the
mouth of a furnace. It will soon break out !
There it leaps !'
He was right. The fire did leap suddenly
into view from the floor of the portico. It be-
gan to curl around the columns and run along
the architecture. le clapped his hands and
shouted with exultation. He saw the red flames
hiss along the dry roof of the gallery and then
flash out of the lower windows. He saw 'the
inmates flying hither and thither in consternation.
lie heard the shouts of the gentlemnan and his
son calling to the slaves to assist in saving the
furniture. He beheld the fire burst out of the
upper windows, and he heard- the roar of the
vast conflagration. It made his heart bound
with joy. He saw a negro 'mounted on a horse
galloping past at mad speed, raising the alarm,
towards town ; but he only laughed, knowing
that before aid could reach the spot, the hall
would be but a scathed and smoking ruin.  So
rapidly did the flames seize upon the whole
house, that in twenty minutes it was all one sheet
of flame, and shooting far up into the dark sky,
lighted up the sea for many a league, and re-
vealed the spires of York with the distinctness
of noonday. Concealed from hurrying passers-
by hastening to the scene, by climbing into a
tree, the guilty author of this devastation sat
calmly watching it. He saw the last flame ex-
pire and only blackened masses of smoke roll
from it in a dark cloud over the bay.
" That deed of revenge is done," he said, in
aL tone of sullen exultation, as he descended
from his place of concealment;- " and much joy
do. I wish my cousin of her inheritance in Bea-

1
"
. _,
,:,i
j  t
.
if
ay _
3+'     e
, 5  e
t
i    .
E  !i
,
i  i
#x4'
3
i-
..
i i
i
c
F.
t
f  !
,    i   1
#    t
'
=
-.
+_
y ]
i .
;
c
- s
x
i - S
.
v
_; +
w
7,

s
s
i


66

THE DANCING STAR.

fe
ht ti
-4L  I'
K7V

though he would gladly have escaped the retro-  "rShe is a clipper running out-doubtless go-
spect. It was some hours before he at lat sunk ing to the West Indies. But she is full of men.
She has a confoundedly rakish look, Manley l"

THE DANCING STAR,

Binnacle, still disguised as 'a knife grinder, with into a doze, which lasted but a short time, when
his wheel, a dirty hat, greasy coat, and a month's the officer of the deck called to him. Be sprang
beard.                                       to his feet and went upon deck. 'The dawn was
" Where. did you pass the night?" asked just lighting up the east.  A gray light covered
Blouster, significantly.  "We had quite a fire the heavens and the bay.  By it remote objects
in our neighborhood."                        could be seen, and the line of the west rn shore
Beachampe saw at a glance that he was sus- of the bay was traceable for many miles.  The
pected, batmade no reply. The next day, with Dancing Star was sailing under short canvass
drafts for seven thousand dollars on Baltimore, parallel with the land, ahut two ni l(s fiom it.
but so guarded that without the name of a third " What is it you see ?" he asked of Lastels,
,arty there, the money could not be obtained, he as be reached the deck.
left York for the city.  Ho was not a little an-  "A schooner at anchor just under'the head-
noyed at the mistrust which Blouster evinced land, south. I can't make her out, but I think
by rendering the drants payable to two endorse- it is the gutter."
ments; but after a little reflection he felt that he  "Give me the glass," said Nevil.  "Yes,
ought not to complain ; for he had never shown you are right, it is Mainwaring's vessel.  That
the host any conduct that should beget good man is my mortal foe, Lastels. I would be will-
faith.                                      ing to sacrifice all advantage I hope for in this
In Baltimore he called on a person whom cruise, to lay alongside of him, and capture
Blouster had given him a letter to, who, on ex- him !"
amining tle several vouchers and bills which ' "We can do it, sir !" answered Lastels, with
grew out of Beachampe's transactions in buying animation. "They- do not carry above fifteen
the clipper and getting her ready, endorsed the men in all; and we are a match for them in-
orders for the money.                        metal."
'ie reader is now made fully acquainted with  "It wont do, Lastels.  I am not my own
all the circumstances which transpired affecting man, now. But by-and-by, one of those sunny
the -fortunes of our several characters during days, we shall meet.  But for him  I should
the two years which passed before the time on have been in possession of the fairest prize man
which we opened our story.  The reader is also ever had in his grasp, and lost again.  He is,
familiar with the issue of the visit to Baltimore, moreover, my rival!  But I must bide my
that a vecsl was purchased, and manned, and 'time.  Keep her away more," he called to the
brought down to Yor k river ; and has seen Nevil,= helmsman.
now Captain Beachampe, of the Dancing Star,    The course of the Dancing Star was now al-
report to Blouster at the Inn, where he narrow- tered eastward three points, in order to give the
ly escaped arrest, for his old forgery, by an offi- cutter a wide birth. She was passed about four
cer of police who had followed him from Balti- miles to leeward still at anchor, and evidently
more. We have seen Blouster visit and exam- without suspecting the true character of the ves-
ine the vesel which his money had purchased, sel in sight. Her commander, however, came
manifest his approbation, and lea7e her to return on deck as' the Dancing Star, after passing,
to York ; and we last left Nevil Beachampe stretched away dowym the bay ; and his eyes fall-
alone in the cabin of his own vessels as she was ing on her, ho said :
cruising in waiting for the James, trying to for- " There is another cutter. Who can it be?
get his wicked deeds in sleep, but in vain ; for My glass I"
his wakeful conscience compelled him to review After examining her a moment, he removed
each' item of his past career, as we have done, the glass from his eye and shook his head :

stiff red beard. He was muscular and fleshy,
and had a stern visage that was unprepossessing,

-         I
p
it~
67          ~
ii

Yes, T thought so," answered his first offi-
cer, a frank, sailor like looking, middle aged man,
with gray, busl y whiskers and pea jacket, in
which lie kept his hands, as he paced three
paces fore and aft the lauiboard side of the quar-
ter deck. ' I i(n't like the cut of his jib ; and
besides, when I first imade him out he was stand-
ing down the coast this way, but afterwards
hauled his winl and ran away from the land on
the course he is now steering."
jtWell, our business is not with vessels bound
out, but bound in, Manley," answered the con-
mander, carektsly ; " it is likely some Baltimore
slipper on a cruise."
" Perhaps a slaver!"
"Likely ; for more than one has sailed down
this bay, and after getting into the tropics hoist-
ed the African flag."
The Dancing Star, in the meanwhile, contin-
ued her course down the bay. The sun rose
and ushered in a brilliant morning. The waves
sparkled in its beams, and the shores became a
brighter green and the skies a deeper blue.
The canvass of the schooner shone whiter than
snow in its light, and far along the surface of
the bay was seen the little sails of the early fish-
ing boats dotting the water.
In a little while the capes of the bay opened
oceanWard to the sight of Nevil as he stood on
his deck, and about ten in the morning his ves-
sel was dancing over the swell of the ocean with
the westernmost cape on his starboard quarter.
He now brought his schooner to, and taking his
glass, surveyed carefully the eastern board.
But seeing no other sail in sight than two
hermaphrodite brigs standing southward,- and a
topsail schooner steering north-east, and half a
dozen fishing smacks scudding about, he made
sail once more, and running west, came to with.-
in half a mile of the light house. Here lie
hoisted a signal to the fore, which was an-
swered by a boat putting off from a cove near
the light house and pulling towards him. It
contained three men, two negro rowers, and a
white man, with fiery red hair, red face, and a

resist a revenue vessel if it were disposed to
board you. - It would be hanging, sure."

and which was not softened by a large fox-skin
cap that be wore.
" Glad to see you aboard, Skipwith," said
Nevil, taking him by the hand as he crossed the
gangway.
"Ab, Master Beachampe, so it is you!" an-
swered the man, looking pleased at the recogni-
tion, and smiling, well satisfied as be glanced
about the armed and well manned deck. " I
half suspected it when I saw your signal; for
vessels of your tonnage don't usually trouble
themselves about calling for pilots when they
run in or out. By all that's saucy, you've got
a dashing craft here. Captain Blouster told
me, when I was up at York last week, all about
you, and how he was expecting you."
" What day do you look for the James ?"
asked Beachampe, after taking him down into
the cabin, and setting some Scheidam before
him.
"She's due. She ought to have been in
days ago," answered the pilot, pouring out a
glass of the liquor. "But you had best not
think of going off the coast to meet her; if you
cruise between the capes you'll soon see her
corning in."
" How shall I know her if I should see her
so far down the bay as this, before she thinks it
time to hoist her signal."
"By the letter J   in her f&amp;e-top gallant
sail."
"I'll remember it."
Some further conversation took place upon
other matters, when Skipwith, looking at the
circle of weapons about the lower part of the
mainmast, which, as we have said, was cased in
mahogany and passed through the cabi, said :
" By the reef of Hatteras, Master Beachampe,
but you have a pretty craft, and well armed and
manned. One would swear you had something
else in your eye besides smuggling."
." One needs to go well armed even in sug-
gling, pilot, if one doesn't want a revenue officer
on his deck."
" That's true. But it would hardly be safe to

11.

i
f5 i
i.   '
.  i
r
E i   f
re3 1
S  f x
.
# '
i

sI

.rr,.r   U°*  .e '.w  ^    v SV +y        iA          +t     xpY .     N  x  ,..- ..._   ..               " 1    t         _ + k s (MJw:' '1iv wr i 'lr+c 7 s.n^; ytlR   .:.

f

r5
yT yi
T
iry
r


THE DANCING STAR.

69
7'

"I'll be hanged, then, if I let one come on
board my vessel. It is -llouster's mind as well
as, my own, not to suffer one of those fellows to
"I    step foot on our deck."
In that case, you are well fitted to carry
out your mind. You are armed and manned
like a buccaneer."
"Well," laughed Beachampe, "if smuggling
does not prove profitable enough, who knows
k     but we may try our hand to something a little
more exciting."
"Ah, captain, I see you are a bold man !
You would as leif, I dare swear, to pirate as
smuggle," said Skipwith, who had drank a good
deal of gin, and was not particular about his
words.
Better men than I have hoisted the black
fag, Skipwith, and I may do it yet."
Then, by the lord Harry, I am your mang"y
You, pilot ?"
      "Yes, Dick Shipwith, master. I have not
always been a pilot. It's a tame life that is not
after my liking. 'Whenever you want to know
whether Dick will go with you, just .come off the
cape here and hoist the black flag. He'll be
withyou in the flash of a belaying pin. Money
is to be made with a bold captain and a craft
like thi, When I was younger than I am now,
I've seen seventy thousand dollars in gold
change ships in a jiffy."
" When was that, Skipwith ?" asked Bea-
champe, his eyes brightening up.
"It was in-let me see-1820 something,
off the Tortugases. I was second officer-lufg',
as we was called by our sea dogs, and my cap-
tain was the famous Spaniard, Don Caracca,
who was afterwards hangedl at Havana."
" Then you have been a pirating, hey,
Skipwith?"
" To be sure I have, and I don't care who
(knows it," answered the pilot, filling his glass
for the sixth time. " It is a honor to have sail-
ed under the free flag, say I, to be kings of
the ocean.''

" Well, about this affair off Tortugas ?"
"Why, we captured a Spanish ship from
Vera Cruz, after a long chase, and robbell her;

and what is better, the ship was commanded by
Caracca's own brother.  You should have seen
them meet on her deck, and then fight. I nev-
er saw so fierce a fight; but our captain got the
best of it, and ran his-brother twice through the
body. We then set fire to the ship. Ah, those
were rare times, Master Beachampe. If I had
the command of" such a fine craft as this, I'd
not skulk about the bay here watching for goods,
silks, and cigars, and such like, but i'd scour
the free sea and enrich myself with gold. If
you are going against the laws o' the country,
you might as well be hanged for killing a king
as killing a beggar."
"-You're half right, Skipwith ; but I'll try
smuggling awhile first. I'm not fond of blood-
shedding.  I hate to kill a man unless in self-
defence."
"Men is made to die. If yo   don't kill a
man, he must die some other way."
"But my conscience, Skipwith."
" What ?"
" My conscience, you know."
"What is it?"
What is what ?"-
"Conscience you talk about. Is it a punish-
ment found' out worse nor hanging, that you
seem to be so afraid on it ?"     o
"It is one's conscience, you know, that is all
I can say of it."
" You keep me in the dark. Never heard
on it afore."
At this confession, which came seriously and
naturally from him, Beachampe laughed, while
the pilot, filling his glass, drank :
"Here's luck to the Dancing Star; under
whatsomever flag she hoists-and may conscience
be hanged, if it has -any neck to fasten the noose
of two fathom of rope about 1"
" Sail ho !" came cheerily from the deck-.
"'A sail in sight, Skipwith. It may he our
man !" exclaimed Beachampe, going to the
depk, to which he was followed by the pilot,
whose libations had made himn half seas over.

But his brain did not more reel with liquor than
did Nevil's reel with the intoxicating ideas he
had imbued from him of acquiring sudden
wealth by hoisting the free flag.

4:

6i
69  ,

THE DANCING STAR.

CHAPTER IX.
"Sail ho /"   The revenue cutter. Determi-
nation to elude her.  On board the lames.
Removal of contraband goods.  The cutter
in pursuit. The police ojf!cer again.
PON gaining the deck, Nevil Beachampe
called out to the man aloft who had seen
the sail:
" Whither away?"
" Sou'-byeast, sir," answered the lookout.
The captain of the Dancing Star turned his
glass in the direction indicated, and from the
deck could see the topsails, resting on the line
of the horizon, of a ship standing for the entrance
,of the bay. She was too far off to distinguish,
any mark in her sails, if any existed.
"What do you make her out, sir ?" inquired
Lastels.
"A   ship steering for the Capes ; but she is
hull down. - As she lifts, I shall be able to tell
her quality better."
It ought to-to be-be the Ja-James," answered
the pilot, who was so tipsy that he had to steady
himself by a back-stay  " Do you see-see J in
her fore-topsail ?'"
"I believe. I see something painted there,"'
answered Nevil. - " But we shall know in good
time. She is bringing a good breeze to the main
along with her 1"
" Sail ho?!" called out a man from the heel
of the bowsprit; and he pointed in the north-
eastern direction.
"One or the other on 'em is the J-J-James,
or I hope I may be eaten by sharks !" said
Skipwith, standing unusually straight,.in order
to keep himself from falling over. '
" The new corner is a brig, square rigged,"
answered the young officer, Lastels, who had
directed his glass towards. -
" Sail h&amp;'." again shouted the lookout.
" We are having a tea-tea-tea par-t-ty," stut-
tered Skipwith. " Plen-ty-ty o' room-let 'em
co-come."
" Where away ?" called out Nevil, who cduld

see nothing of the new comer anywhere on the
sea line.
5

" To the nor'-west, sir-up the bay."
I see her. It is the revenue cutter coming
down," he answered, with heightened celor.
"He'llspoil our sport if the ship is the James.
Skipwith, take to your boat and go to your
landing-place. I am going to make sail and run
out and gain the ship outside, before the cutter,
which is full six miles off, can get down."
" That's the Tway, sir-that's the way."
" And look you, are you sober ?"         -
" As a purser, if I've anything to make me
so, sir.
" You must be sober, then. , The cutter must
be misled with regard to my quality. You will
leave us and stand rin shore ; and when you see
her coming down, and likely to pass the Capes,
you crops her forefoot is if you were t running
out to Pilot the ship in, and if they don't hail
you, you will volunteer to tell them that my
schooner is a Spanish revenue cutter, built in
Baltimore, and now going out to take her sta-
tion at Cuba."
"Capital story. I'll do-it. You may trusts
me ; I think I'm sober now, sir-or I will b.
afore the cutter gets down the bay."
Skipwith let the Dancing Star in his bet,.
and the schooner at once filled away and stood -'
straight out to sea, under two jibs, main and (
foresail, and a flying topsail, which was bellying r
out steadily before a nor'-west breeze. The
distance between the inbound ship.and schooner$k
now rapidly diminished ; and- in half an hour
after she was first seen her hull was visible-
and, what was more, the letter J was plainly
to be read with the glass, in her fore-topsail,
though as she was close hauled, it was some
time before it was made out .to be this and no
other letter.
As soon as B3eachanmpe satisfied himself of'.
this fact, he ordered his boy Cato, who was
with him, to bring up from below a bundle of'
flags. These he poured out on the deck, and
from among, the parti-dolored'- heap selected a'
cross-barred'revenue 'flage This he l bent on to

the signal halyards, and sent the rest below
save one other, which was ared flag with a white
crosa in it. He then looked astern to see- what

-4j

.                                                                   r                                                                                                     _                                                                       _
,                                                                                                                                              ,,    .. ,              ,
..
..
..                                                                                                 ,  ,                                                  ,.,
::.

Vgvjny~'+y   w+     . p ae.. .  e   -              a               rt  m J"                               u    " '       a       "    e       _          'f' "' i+YF K..n L+ r'y.NM IfK
'":vrAil  L"        ,..       _     4r                  t.S f.Y :#  .r - _.. °Sl                ..

j

A


670

'4
44£t
1"

had become of the cruiser, w ich. he saw still
coming, down the bay, as steadily and under as
crowded sail, as if she had an errand at sea,;in-
stead of her usual loitering, watching and laying
by system.  She was, however, five miles off,
'Te sbip was only two miles ahead.,
S"I have plenty of time to accomplish my er-
rand;" said Nevil, to Lastels, with'aproud and
defiant smile; "and if, after I get the freight
on board, the cutter dares to be inquisitive, it
wont be my fault if we ; don't have a fight.  I
am not in the humor to have my path crossed by
any man, much less by Henry Mainwaring.   If
a he knows when he is well off, he had better not
venture to be too particular to know who we
The two vessels were now drawing nearer and
nearer to each other, when Ythe shigwhich was
:bowliiig along with slow and stateiyAmajesty,
displayed her colors.  They were the stars and
stripes, and waved in scarlet splendor -to the
wind.
"Hoist away and answer him," said Nevil,
to his lieutenant; and the revenue flag, with
the stripes perpendicular across it, fluttered at
the peak of the schooner.
"Now steer so as to come to under her---
be a: little ahead of her,' said Nevil, to the
helmsman.
aThe ship was now so: near that every rope
and sparrwas distinct, and the heads of the men
could be discerned above' her bulwarks., The

The captain was seen to leap into the mizzen
rigging with his speaking trumpet in his hand.
Nevil ordered Cato to bring him his. At the
same time he directed Lastels to be ready to
hoist the red flag with the white cross at the
fore.
"Ship ahoy 1" he shouted, through his trum-
pet, as the two vessels drew within speaking
distance of each other.
Ahoy, the cutter 1"
"What ship is that G            t
The James, bound from Genoa to Balti-
more."
"Heave to!   Hoist away, Lastels," he cos,-
wgnded to one =4 whispered   ' theQthdr; yd

the white cross rose to ;the foremast head, and,
was immediately lowered again.
The captain of the lames no sooner saw this
signal, than he answered with alacrity:
"Ay, ay !" and immediately he was 'heard
givig orders to lay the main-topsail of his ship
to the mast.
Nevil also brought the schooner into the wind,
and as soon as both vessels became stationary
abeam of each other, he ordered his boat to row
him on board. Upon reaching the deck, he
said:
"I wish to see you in your cabin, captain."
This was spoken with an air of authority, and
in the presence of several passengers, one of
whom the eye of Nevil discovered to be 'a lovely
girl, of about nineteen, with a superb figure, and
the finest blue eyes he ever saw. But he had
no time to indulge in his admiration for beauty.
The' captain, with a look of misgiving, and-
changing countenance, preceded him into the
cabin.                        r
"You are Captain Hardrun ?" said Nevil.
"Yes-and are you a revenue officer ?"
" Do you think so ?-not exactly. Did you
not see the signal ?"
"Yes; but your vessel, your uniform, your
flag and all, as well as your mannei--"
"My manner is assumed.   I am here to re-
ceive goods from you, that I understand are
shipped, but are not in the bill of lading. I
shall take them out as a revenue officer, so that
your men and passengers will have no suspicion."
" You are then in the confidence of--"
"Captain Blouster. Here are my instruc-
tions and a letter to you."
S" All is right.  You shall have the goods at
once; gut demand them of mue on deck." .
"1 i*il1 do so. Make your men work active-
ly, for there is a genuine revenue vessel' coming
down the bay."
" I have, no time then to lose. Blouster' has
taken me quite by surprise in a nding a vessel
like this."
Upon deck, Nevil loudly demanded the bales.

and boxes to be given up which were not on the
manifest, and the hatches being opened, and the

f
j

s'

THE DANCING -STAR.

goods all being placed on the top, in half an
hour the whole had been placed in boats and
conveyed on board the Dancing Star,-Nevil
carefuly superintending the transfer. l1e then.'
openly gave a receipt to the captain, and signed
Henry Mainwaring's name to it, acknowledging'
having taken' out' the goods. All' this was to
blind the crew and passengers, who were sup-
posed to know so little of the revenue cutter's
powers and the mysteries of the revenue law,
that dust could be easily thrown into their eyes,
as doubtless it was.
By the time the packages had been placed on
boars the schooner, the revenue cutter was with-
in a mile, and the pilot boat of Skipwith still
nigher. The revenue flag 'had, been hauled
down as soon as Nevil had got on board the
ship, as it was not his purpose to attract by it
the attention of Mainwaring. But the red and
white signal still flew at the fore. He now re-
turned to his vessel, but not without a strong
inclination to carry off the young girl as contra-
band also ; but he had not yet fully made up
his mind to be a pirate.
Upon regaining his own deck, he filled away
at once, and stood south under all sail. The
ship also squared away and resumed her course,
her cargo fifteen thousand dollars less in value
than it had been three quarters of an hour be-
fore, while her treacherous captain, in anticipa-
tion, was richer in proportion, according to the-
share of the profits that might be by-and-by paid
over to him by Blouster from the. proceeds oft
the sales.
The revenue cutter, after having got down
the bay as far as the Capes, had crossed the
course of Skipwith's boat, and hailed him.
" Ho, pilot, what rakish looking schooner is
that standing east ? Were you not on board of
her ?"
" Yes. She says she is built for a Spanish
revenue cutter, and is bound for Cuba," an-
swered Skipwith.  "A. fine vessel and well
appointed."

"But that is not her course,": said the com-
mander of the cutter.  "She is steering east."
"She wants to send some message 'back to.

the city by the ship, for there was something
said about it," replied the inventive pilot-for
wrong ever seeks lies to. conceal itself. Arid
the pilot by this time got out of heariri,darting
away in his-boat like a flying bird.
" Then we are mistaken,' sir," said Main-*
waring, turning to a tall man, who stood on the
deck by his side.
"No.   The schooner is the same which I
followed down in my- boat from  Baltimore,"'
very decidedly answered the police officer whoni
we last took'leave of as he was 'disappearing be-
tween the two boats in York river, after Nevif
had fired his pistol at him.  " There can be no
mistake ; he has deceived the pilot."
" Then let us overhaul him. I am willing toy
give chase to discover whether it is the vessel
you think it is."
I t cannot be deceived."
"She is making for the ship, and she hoists
a flag."
Henry Mainwaring's spyglass now remained
at his eye for full a minute, before he could' sat'
isfy himself that the flag he saw was 'that of the
revenue service. 'When there was no room to
doubt, he exclaimed, with surprise:
"It is either a cutter, or, as yousay, a smu
gler. But there is no cutter in the service like'
that craft," added Henry. "But we will 'over-'
haul her and know all about it."
" The two vessels are alongside of one anoth-
er," said the officer. "Mark my words, there
is mischief there, and that you are wanted."  i,
An order was at once given by Mainwaring
to crowd all sail, and then to get ready for ac-
tion. There were four six pounders and a twelve
pounder in the cutter, with the usual supply 'o
small arms, and about twenty men and officers.
At the order tor clear for action, all was aniina.
tion on board. The powder chest was opened,'
and cartridges dealt out ; and the shot Iocke'
supplied a pyramid of balls for each piece. -In
the heedless haste of the men, to whom the pros.
'pect of-a " brush " was a novelty in their usu-

ally pacific life, one of the seamen, in hanging'
over the side to give help in opening one of the
orts, which, from long disuse, had beeonueval-

''2  ' ':i~4

TR&amp; DANCING STAR.

71.

'
}.

{a

i

o
.   _     z      Y  P


2~~2THTE DANCINN SW
iost a t-re, lost his balance and tumbled board of her in command,-mugh as    ,despise
Iead first intthe sea., This accident compelled that man, and should wish to ee hi brought
Madinwaing -to bring his vessel into the wind, to justice, I would not disobey this signal--
j Andge$ dog, and  an, and send out a boat to IKep her nigh a couple of points, and ut the
pick him up, all which occupied nearly half an ship off," he added, to the helmsman; and the
 hour.  Bu$ for this mishap, the cutter. would cutter, which had been standing on pfter the
have come up with the Dancing Star shile she schooner, when the signal was hoisted by the
lay alongside the ship receiving freight. As, it James, now bore up for her.
a0 e was f"il a mile distant from her when   The officer walked impatiefitly up and down
Ssh@ made sail and ran off, with her nose point. the deck, a frown upon his stern brow, yielding
te sk           npthardly.  with ill grace to the necessity which the com-
, x  " Which shall we do ." said Henry's, old wander's duty put upon him ; and while the
leutenant, turning t his commanding officer, cutter is making her way towards the ship,
qjpurue the schooner, or board the ship, to see which was about two miles from her to the north
what has been d p,? It is likely she has done and east, we will explain to the reader how the
er mischief."                 ., .~        officer, whom he supposed in the bottom of York
"Shemakes no signal of distress, answered river, his
Eenry. "We will pursue the schooner ;, for     White bones in a watery grave,
his gentleman is so certain that she is fitted   Bleaching 'neath the midnight wave,"
t;%ng    and that NevilBeachampe came to be alive, and on board the cutter.
commandss her, that I have no intention of giv- It will be recollected how, that when he at-
ag jp tle chase, till I. ascertain her true tempted to arrest, Nevil in the boat, the latter
,harage~       ,fired at him, and believed that he had killed
" Them goes a signal," cried the old seaman, him, as he'saw him at once fall and sink beneath
90 { king an, p9itig at the ship. "Four little the  rface. The officer, whose own name was
e flags-that rea something."                 littleknown in the more usual appellation, which
"ft is a telegraph signal," said Henry; and hs daring had won for him, of "American Vi-
1 etting his book of the explanations of the flags, docl," Was ;ot, however, wounded.  The, ball
ie looked into it, comparing the, flags flying at had struck the blade of a dagger which covered
Slhe mast-head of the James with the interpreta his heart, and saved his life, while the force of
' ons laid down ig his book of signals.    the ball knocked him over into the water. When
" It is a signal of distress," he answered.--. he rose to the surface, he saw that the boats were
'It reads s  ie en board-we need aid.' "  some yards from him, and that his men were
;" There ,is no question now but the, schooner swimming around him. His first impulse was
' e pursue has done some mischief,"' spids the to swim hack to eiideavor to rescue it, but know-
police offippr. " Let pis-first overhaul her." .inlgithat he would be wholly in their power, and
j~~~  Not ~tillgwe see what the ship wants," an~ that they might~ chop off his hands in his 4eforts
weedrd Hlenry.f " My duty calls me there first." tor board them, he, made up this mind to, let them
" The schooner will then have times to, es' go for this, time, and make his own way back~ by
ape," said the, oticer, with his brow growing swimming to the shore. He did not even let

{ark.                                      the men who were swimming after him, and
"I hope not. It is a part of my duty as a whone he could hear but not see in the darkness,
avenue o epr to relieve vessels in distress.  know that it was himself; -as he thought it best
annot peglt this signal to sail afterwhat may that the idea of his death should go abroad, in
rove to be only a Spanish revenue cutter,that order. that he might have. a better opportunity of
as done nor intends to do no harm. Even ifiI capturing the leaders of -w a he was now satis-
newk ti   evil Beachanpe were certainly on fled was an extensive echeme for smuggng.-
_44                       'a't I+'4  4

t'
Q
3
3
t
1
f
L

THE  DANOINC 'STAR.

" A regular fraternity," ventured to remark
the Yorker.

The shore was about a quarter of a mile, and
having reached it, he made his way to the town;
and to the house of the chief of police there,
whom he well knew. Here he dried his clothes
and made known whaA had happened.
" And your men ?" asked-the chief.
" I saw the rogues all reach the land. They
will be up to town and report my death. So
much the better. They will' make their way
back to Baltim.re, where I hired them. Now,
I want you to get me 'a horse, strong and fleet."
d' I can do so. But for what, colonel?" ask-
ed the Viiinia policeman, giving his superior
this title by way of respect for his talents, a com-
mon way of showing respect in' America.
"'It is about three hours' ride down the bay
shore road' to Hampton. I can reach there by
morning,,in advance of the schooner which they
were going on board of. In/Hampton Roads I
shall find some small vessel f war, which I can
get the commander to get under weigh, and cut
off the schooner before she reaches the Capes';
for there is no wind scarcely, and 'she will be
several hours getting down."
" Are you going to arrest the schooner as a
smuggler too ?"
"I have' no proof of this charge. I only
know' this ; 'when 'I heard in Baltimore that a
vessel had been bought by a young stranger,
and that he was secretlyshipping men for her,
I of course, as in duty bound, kept a sharp eye
upon him. But I could learn 'nothing about
him; and hlis secrecy only increased my sus-
picions that all was 'not right. In disguise, I
saw anid had some talk with 'him at the inn
where he put up, buitiI obtained no results--his 1
face was whollyne  to me. .-But :ias not dis-
posed to cast aside my suspicions;i so I instruct-
ed one of rmy police comyany--Ja thorough young I
dare devil, up to anything, by the name of Kit I
Littleby, to disguise hinaself. as af bay man, and
offer to ship. But it was no use  he refused tot
take anybody except'he was knowA, something(
known about lim, by some one of those he had ~
already shipped." '          '     ,

"And supposed you' had come 'uj with her '
Did you hope to take her alo e, coldoeI  3

ys 3  N                           ,y _  '        .'

'J

'4'{                  ,4,4 -4    -      4}h",, ~ 444~4
# 4t4t  d ~     -_'iiA~. Mw Y ~" a . '.:w n ~.+':;  r~:a w. .

"V

}
MQ' i Ir.      .tl:"                      .vvr.-. r.s ur: ..u      aY     ...._"-+  .r-.".,. .-..wv.. w+v.-....-...+-+r.uw_.=,.,. ....,... ..«... -.,.. _-,rr..- ,._...+,.-...-,._........ .....-...-. ..w...     ....v. .:        ..             ,- ................: "-  t .::

igg
b
.f'

i

S
Li
.r
3
t .

" Yes--thoroughly -.organized.  Wll, the
day approached when they would p obally sail,
when bribing the wife-of the innkeeper; I tohl
her to listen to every word spoken aiong then,
and through her I got a hint that they-were gi
ing on a smuggling cruise. This was s'oethine
gained, but not enough for me to act on; so I
could do nothing but inform the colledtor of then
port. But the same night the little schooner
slipped out of'the harbor, and I feltas if I hid
been fairly beaten ; for I had a presentiment;
an irresistible-feeling, that if I could only have
known the name of the captain, that I' woula
have found some act associated with. the names
which would give me authority to stop him, wil
a pair of irons. The daydafter he sailed wl
not three hours old when I was met by' a broke
who came up to me in 'great haste aid eelte-
ment, and taking me aside, said' he ,had' juist
heard from his negro servant, whom he ha
bought a few years before from Colonel Beach(-
ampe, that: he had seen hisyoung  ashter th
night before on one of the wharves.  I1h
ybung master,' continued the broker, 'is none
other than Nevil Beachampe,' the  utterer of t1h[
forged paper a year or more since, and bywbiel
I lost four thousand dollars.' The result
within an hour after this interiew,{with 'ws#
rant in my'osom, I was sailing in a lhied boat
down tlhe harbor after the fugitive  Fortunrtel
the wind'was light,'and ifter sailin g'mand - owin u.
five and 'thiity miles, I calne in sight" of th'
schooner moving under easy sail ddwn the ba.
We lost sight of her at dark; but I ke  on all
night. In' the morning'she Was nwhee is
ble ahead or astern, nor abeam. I looked cai
'idly along the 'shore of th&amp;'bag wich wa~ oig
ny right, thinking she might lisfeg~ti i
the 'land, and that I doueld not disti ub: hh
frotm the 'color of their bliffs. But T k~pt en,
and about ten o'clock spoken ae6otd~slooffroi
he Potornac, which reported that tdisf~had pa5s
ed such a vessel ten miles to the solith. 1 bM
gan to fear I should htik~ m/rtrohble for mf :
pains."

.  -f
t,
i"
"; ,


17
4                            TESDANCING STAR.
d t quite, sir:. Iknew  he wac armed and get fonrmiles ahead, for I was in instant sus-
augned. l;  y ject - pursuing was:,4o ,    follow  icion that she would take notie of m  cl
L 'eRrinto any  ppron tiebay that she mighten- proximity; but she did not seem to notic my
tar, and y#in with a posse, board and carry her, little boatg About surpet, ora Jittle earlier,
If coul4not entrap Beachampe out of her. on she had towed down, opposite the mouth of York
A e la+4; and my, plan further was, that if she river, where; as the wind rose, she lay to:-
.  qontinud on down the: bay, seaward, to dog her About dark, a boat put off from her, and pulled
heels, till I reached Norfolk, when I intended to into the river and up towards the town  I now
get the aid of ;a hip of war, whereby I should followed in good earnest, believing that I should
 ue of hAe before she got man y leagues at find, my man in the boat. The wind aided my
sea"                                        progress, and under the cover of the darkness I
{Y 4      well digested plan, and worthy of your came so near the boat that I could hear the
eat tlents      oeL. It req uires a Napoleon voices of those on board. I followed it to the
't ,e A great police officer. Ah, sir, I en  steps at the foot of the old platform by the ,Bin-
ua.erel in York, we have, small. rogues, nacle, and saw one of the party  et out and go
S;fere .p ty d.yils, that do not call for and.draw into the inn. I was not long behind, and en-
9t  aian's genius. .But' I interrupt you, sir. tered also ; but I had previously disguised m -
p        sgu     y
t e.:wait to le rn how yu proceeded, so that one self, so that. no pne who had ever before seen
Nit shoud ever be my happiness to be me would recogne me. I watched at a little
We, in like or similar circumstances I nay table for a long while, till I saw my man come
pwgow to at j.roceed sir," said the York out of a back room,, when I pounced upon"him.
n       d bowng with-respectful awe of his great ex- We had a pretty affair for a moment, and I was,
. t ; par an the, department du police.        disarmed. The result was, we came t apar-
'About sunset, by rowing steadily, there ley, and I agreed to let him go if e thwould let
aviulg beenhut verylittle wind all the after- me go."
r,    a 8 a to. increase materially the schooner's dis-  " They ?"
tynce from me,; I came in kighp of bier, about  "Yes  for between you and I, Bloster,
S;84 +; il e' ff.j  was now all auination ; but who keeps the inn, sided with him.  [e. pre
a enere alugst worn out, rowing so many tended it was to take part with a gpest; but
Us o.       I letthem all, sleep, while I rowed that man is as  eat a rogue as B achampe."
yeho     .alone  Duringt this while I crossed  " One of our most respectable citizens in his
the month, of thepotomac ;and having roused line,". answered the York man.
~Iymen, they took to the oars again, and by " That may be ; but I tell you 'he is a the.-
iylggl found myself withinetwormiles of the rough son of wickedness, and is more dangerous
'Lppajiappoc riigr, becalmed. As it was not than half a dozen men like Beachampe. I have
. mvpurpose ito board her-rnly keep her in reason to know him well., le is engaged, too,
Sjght, I lowered my mast, having eaten our in the smuggling business, you may be certain;
~ leafasts, and I made my mnen lie down and for he afterwards accompanied Beachampe in his
'lgepghile Ipent over the side in the attitudea boat, at midnight, towar~ds the vessel., I pur-
~of one fshipg, j order to make them, who might sued the boat, and a second time I got the worst
~ ~~looking towardis me with a spy-glass, take me, of it, and was knocked overboard by him with a

pra fisher nn. At;length, the wind not rising, pistol ball, and had to swim ashore. Now, my
h schooner began to, use her sweeps, and sent man of York, I want you to keep a sharp eye
bait a mlo ad tot tow. I let hier move on on this Binnacle. . Io not} let Blouster know
, when-I roused two of my men and that you suspect him, or nothing wil be discov-
"set jhem to rowing easily after her. In this ered. Is my horse ready-?
1way we ;nt all  ay-4 sonetim s letting her   "   e boy has just brought hinr.
4'0
-N;  X3   "4'

THE DANCING STAR.'

"Very good.' Now be wary, and keep an
eye on Blouster, and money will come of it.----
Also'try and hunt up my four men, and send
them back to Baltimore by the' first craft that,
goes up the Bay."
In a few minutes, Vidoeq was spurring a fast
and fleet horse'along the pebbly road that led to
Hampton,'down the coast. It was a dark night,
and he lost his yay twice, which left him sev-
eral miles north of the place of his destination
at sunrise.  He now could see the surface of the
bay for many a mile to the north, but his keen-,
est gaze could discover no vessel in sight that
looked like the one of which he was in pursuit.
He at length drew up at a small wayside inn,,
not far from-'the beach, where he breakfasted.
As he was about to mount, he saw that his horse
had east a shoe,,and that another one was loose.
In this emergency, and without a smith being
near to aid him, he'left the animal at the inn to
be sent back to York, and proceeded on foot;
for in that desolate region there was not another
horse  to be obtained.
From time to tine he looked back, and at
length he saw a schooner heave in 'sight from
behind a jutting cape. At first sight he believ-
ed it to be the Dancing Star, bat after a second
look, he saw that it was larger and painted dif-{
ferently, and carried two topsails, while the'
Dancing Star carried but one. As it came on,
he saw that she carried the revenue flag at her
peak. His hopes now rose with this discovery,
and he hastened towards a point of land that
stietehed half a mile out from the coast, in hopes
to signalize her,and bring her to. '.His attention
was so much taken up with her, that he had got
to the en4 of the cliff on the border of the shore
before he discovered, far out in the bay, a sec-
ond rakish looking vessel, which he was confi-
dent was the'ecraft he sought.
The revenue cutter at length saw the signals'
that he made,' with his coat and hat fastened to
a long pole, and as she was not more than a half
a mile from the land, she hauled her wind and

stood in shore, and sent her boat to know what
was the matter. Vidocq desired to be taken on
board ; but there being a spring there, the men,-

75

who had brought a cask with them, 'said"'their
orders were to stop and fill, it. To roll 'it to the
spring and fill it, and roll it back, required sone
time; during which, the impatient officer saw
the distant schooner, which he was certain was
2Beachampe's vessel,' sailing past four miles off,
and stretching away for the Capes. At length
he was put on board 'the revenue cutter, made
his official character known to Henry Mainwar-
ing, and the character of the schooner, an i end-
ed with soliciting his aid .to capture her.
This Mainwaring proffered, and with the more
'readiness, because he was at 'last likely to see
brought to the end of his: career the dangerous
and criminal young man who had so deeply
outraged the affections of the unsuspecting Alice':
and committed so many other'and various crimes.
The cutter therefore made sail with Vidocq'on
board, and commenced the chase of the schoog-
er, passing Hampton Roads, and thinking only
of overtaking the fugitive.' But we have seen
how' the report of Skipwith, on being hailed, and
the revenue flag hoisted by Beachampe, cast
doubts   over Mainwaring's mind, whether he
were in pursuit of the right vessel or not.

-   - -
CHAPTER X.
The cutter under the ship's quarter. 'fMaksr.
sail for the smuggler, whose speed defes.
their skill. A fearful gale.  Critical s;tu Y
ation of thee cutter. .The schooner near, but
yet escaping.
HEN the revenue cttter came under
the quarter of the James, ih
speaking distance he hailed her to know what
had happened.
."I wish to inform  you that we have been
boarded by the cutter now running to leeward
answered the captain of the James, " and that
on pretence I had on board' goods not on my
manifest, has taken from me a large amount of
freight. I wish to ask you if it is your custom,,
so to do?"
"It is not, sir," answered Mainwaring.
"That vessel 'is 'no revenue vessel. You have
been robbed.

't
'd,        4                      a" . '

I It


TfEACiAN GGSTARp

"What did Itell you, Captaiain  aiang'
said Vidocq, alniost joffilly  did I not say
that that ould be none othe" than the lancing
State
tf il  away again l -All hands to' crowd
sail  " houted Henry. u My lads; we must
overhaul that pirate, for such she has proved,
berelf$ to bey"  ie ten }hailed 'the captain'of
6!'the Jatnet and aid:
'116w many men hddshe ?"
"Full of Anen;",, andWered: he, not by any'
    means'relishiug the, idea of the schooner's fall-
ingintot the hands-of the cutter, having invent-
= ed is story only :to clear himself of any sus-
Ppii'n of having been a party'to the act;; but
.hedidd notethink of the certainly of the ctter's
at once giving chased It is thus that rogues
'only can- see half of anything. The ultimate
consequenceeof their -actions seems never'to'oe-
~euxtothein utiti 'they' are/ entrapped in them.
" Full of men--savage  looking set, sir, and
ea iy armed: e  It will' be impossible for you
toseaplo ture- her.' "  , ' tr L     .     f
"'She sails' like the' wind, too," called out
Skipwith, who, had as little relish for the success'
the revenue cutter as the captain of the
/,!Tames
" "Be she armeditli twentgoiirs and manned
with devils," said nMaurig, eolutely, "I
;j  4   l ice hler chase. "No" sir officer," he add-
ming        'Vidoc  "you shall not com lain
f atty ackwhadess on my part. I only wished
I be sure 'of my man ! Loose the m'resail and
'aul aft the sheets tort,' he called to his men,
forward.  "We must carry   sail if we carry
oayur masts "
SThe revenue vessel now darted away from the
;1jip like a hawk on the wing, leaving Skipwith
~Keqpilot and the captain of the James looking in
j achothyr's~faces with no very pleasant feelings.
S" They'll~catch her l'' said the: latter, with
'Ilarm; " ad if they do, Inmay as well hang
elf oto the yard.4;m, for the whole truth'll

; "Don't fear.   The little school r 'Il show
a le n pair of heels, you may be sure of
And come to the worst, Beachampe will

fight his vessel to the sinking before he'll
surrender."
It's a bad business, bad business," respond-
ed the captain. of the James, 'shaking his head;
it would have been safer to have trusted to
the old way. But Blouster's haste to get riches
is going to bring us all to the halter." H1e then
cast an anxious glance after the revenue cutter,
which, under the strengthening breeze now
blowing,' went bowling off as it" emed to him
at a tearing pace, which gave the  schooner but
little chance of escape. Again he shook his-
head, and bidding the pilot square away and
lay' the ship's course up the pay, he went below
and took a bottle of brandy out of his case of
liquors, to-try and imbibe at'the mouth courage
enough to balance that which was oozing out of
the ends of his.fingers.
The James once more went ronling and pitch-
ing on her. way up on a north-westerly course
past the Capes, and the revenue cutter steered
strait after the Dancing   r' on a southern
course.  By this time it  as two hours to sun-
down, and the two vessel were not more than
two miles and a half ap t, one right astern of
the-pother. The wind was blowing a seven and,
a half or eight knot breeze, and the ebb tide
front the bay meeting the sea waves, produced a
high ground swell, over which both vessels went
dancing in the most dashing and graceful style.
They were very much' alike in appearance, both
being rakish, low in the hull, and saucily war-
like in their aspect ; but the cutter was full one.,
third larger.; but her metal and the number of,
her men, did not exceed that of the Dancing-
Star.
When the cutter had been under sail from te
James about fifteen minutes, she had all her'
sail put on her that she 'could carry, and might
,be said to be doing her best. The wind was
blowing steadily -from north-north-west, and as
both vessels were steering east by south, they
both had the wind very free, indeed the cutter's
topsail yards were almost squared.' The time
was now an intensely exciting one. 'Henry

Mainwaring had not only his very natural dis-
like of Nevil Beachanipe to induce him to do-

THE' DANCING STAR.

sire to have him in his power, but he wanted to-
capture the daring pirate, and to bring to pun.
ishnent the forger. The police officer was so-
licitous on his part to bring to a successful and
triumphant issue, the, long chase he had been
upon, and in which he had been so often baffled,
as victory was a point of personal and profes-
sional honor with him.
"His capture, after all this," he said to him-
self, as he paced the deck, "will be the highest
feather yet in my cap.".
The crew of the cutter, whose tame life in
cruising up and down the bay with little to do,
were all anxious for a little fighting to relieve
their tedium; and smiles were on every face.
After the sails were all set, to the belaying of an
inch of egging, so that not a pull more or less
could aid the vessel in her speed---after all the
guns had been shotted, and every preparation
made for action, there was nothing for the men
to do but to loll over the foot of the bowsprit
and forecastle bulwarks to watch and speculate
upon the schooner,'Whichthey did not fail to do
to the full vent of their fancies..
"Shivermy timbers, Ben," saidau old cut-
terman, who had been in the "venoo sarvice,"
as he termed it, man and boy, five and thirty
"years, "but that craft is a beauty and no mis-
take. How clean she looks, trim and tight, fore
all the world like one of the pretty crafts one
sees in the museums in glass cases."
"Don't talk 'bout museum clippers, ship-
mate," interposed a young sailor in a red wool-
len cap.  " They are 41 madeby land-lubbers.
Why, .I see one th was meant for a mor-
phrodite rigged brig, in the Baltimore museum,
and blast my eyes if she didn't have her cap on
her mainmast, and her main cross trees for'ard,
and her capstan was abaft the- binnacle. If it
wa'nt may I never taste duff agen 1" .
At this description there was a loud, scornful
laugh, and it was voted that the lubber that
made that craft ought to have hisl eyes swabbed
out every morning with slush, eat oakumi for a
month, and then be hanged to the fore yard arm..
" Ken enny on ye make out what that ar' bit

o' buntin'.is she 's flyin' to 'her fore ?" asked a

sailor, whose physiognomy, as well as his accent,
showed that he was a New England man.'- "I
guess it's a queer pirate flag with a cross in it !"
"Pirates al'ays hoist sich colors," answered
an old salt; but the' mos' al'ays has cross bones
and deth's headatween 'em. I doesn't 'member
as I ever know'd one with on'y a cross bones."
" Them ben't no cross bones ; but a reg'lar
up and cross Roman idol," answered the Yan-
kee. f' But we aint goin' to catch her. She's
got heels as has spurs on 'em, you may be sure;
and she kicks the water behindher as she goes,
and laughs at us."
The opinion expressed forward began to pre-
vail aft. The cutter instead of gaining was
evidently falling rapidly  astern ; and after
another half hour the Dancing Star, instead of
being only two and a-half miles off, was- full
three. When this superiority of sailing on her
part became apparent, the chagrin of Mainwar-
ing could not be concealed, while Vidocq swore
up and down like a buccaneer.
" Is there no way of increasing the speed' of
your vessel, captain?" he asked of him. " We
are doing nothing but fall behind."
" I see it- too plainly. That craft sails like
the wind.. I can do no more unless I throw my
guns overboard."
" Over with them "
"And what good would they do me when I
should by this means come within range ?"
".True. You must keep your guns. But I
can't see her escape from  my grasp 'in this
way."
"I am quite as desirous of taking her as you
can be," answered Mainwaring ; "and if we
lose her, my disappointment will be as great."
"'And do you'think we shall lose her ?"
" I see no chance of getting any nigher. I
have done my best. I never knew a craft sail
like hei-. 'The only hope is--"
"Is what ?"
" That the wind may lull; and if it falls
calm, we can i-each her with our boats."
Vidocq cast an eager look over the sikies-

The whole horizon was heavily filled up with
great banks-of clouds, and there seemed rather

'4

F:1. " ,' ,  ,   ry . .yn; ,  . '  '""' !t~,.N; R ea -+rgt {  d"i"'w~  r10,'  .~"e !N :h  ,..r~t,-"'".k u+-

-;

^.?

i
1
"     3
,' _

77

.  k

'/6 y

; ,   rds J;Y' _. h    : v.f:'   ;?+: x sl iii  _         s "  .       - fl. l n- _ - w
.ail !'.  _   ."f' i.+r       ; _                  .,  ,                  ' '       .,
r'                             (+'r
i


. 5.r

78

THE DANCING STAR.

"t
S&amp;Y, t
A  ,p
t N    'i
ly   1
w I ' 4~bK"7[
I,,1,

cutter, and Mainwaring very reluctantly decided
to give up'the chase. Even Vidocq, when he
saw the portentous aspect of the heavens, ,and
heard the gathering winds roaring about his ears,
made no objection; for he was well satisfiedthat
any further stern chasing was useless,,and that
to stand on a southern course longer would in-
volve the vessel and all on board in the dangers
which the coming:storm promised to bring upon
all who were compelled that night. to be out
upon the sea.J
" Ready about 1  Helm   a lee :" shouted'

Mainwaring, with more reluctance than he ever

r

about the vessel was silent, and every soul was
expectant.  Nothing could be donemore than'

.
. ,, ,  ",
..      .,  ;.
i
r
e

likelihood of increase of wind: by sundown than
a lull.
"No hope from a calm, I fear, sir."
"No., It will come on to:blow by night, and
then the schooner will have to shorten sail."
"t And if you can carry longer than she, you
can come up with her."
"Yes; but she will carry as long as I shall
dare 'to, be assured of that--and when it is time
for her to take in and lay to, it will be for me.
This is a dangerous coast to be caught on in an,
easterly wind, for there is not a harbor for a;
hundred miles.  The wind is hauling northerly,
and will by-and-by come out of that :white spot
in that mass of black clouds in the North-east."
"I fear, then, we stand a bad,.chance for
catching the schooner."-
"I fear so ; bt:t I - will, stand on till Ilose
sight of her in the night. Some accident-might
bring her into our grasp, such as losing a top .
mast, or the like."
The revenue cutter, therefore, stood on,
though warned, by the appearance of the sky
that it would. beFrisking a great deal to be caught
south of Cape Henry in a north-east gale. But
a. hope re gained in Mainwaring's mind that
some fortunate -ecident might enable him yet to
place his vessel along side of the fugitive
schooner.  But the sun went down, 'leaving the
vessels three and a 'half miles apart, a league
from the coast, and about twelve miles south of
Cape Henry.   The deepening night at length
hid the:Dancing Star entirely from the sight of
the anxious and eager eyes on board the revenue

bled to lay her course in the wind's eye and
keep tolerably true to her helm; but she tossed

called out those orders, before. The main-top-'
sail and fore-topmast studding-sails were taken
in previous to this order'; and the vessel close
hauled laid her course east by north to gain an
offing, in order, on the next tack, to weather
Cape Henry and run into Hampton Roads. It,
was a long step of twelve miles or more to take,
on that tack before they would get abeam of the
opening to the bay, and this in the prospect of a
storm to burst upon them within an hour. The-
wind, however, continued to blow strong and'
steadily from west by north for about an hour,
by which time the cutter had gained eight miles
of her twelve. It then suddenly became calm;
and the vessel was tossed. helplessly about on
the huge billows without a breath of air.  The
atmosphere was oppressive, and every sign fore
told a sudden and: heavy gale, Like a good
sailor, Mainwaring had the cutter put under.
storm gear, With only his jib and foresail set.
close reefed. The guns were lashed and every
loose spar secured. -Suddenly in the east north-.
east board was seen a whitish lighting up of the'
sky in the angry spot which Mainwaring had:
noticed there after the sun went down, aid afar
off was heard a.low roar like the rambling voice}
of a lion in the beginning of his rage. Louder-
and louder it grew, an  yet nothing:else but the.
fierce white spot was v' ible in any quarter, ndt
even the black clouds 'ere distinguishable from
the black sea.
"Steady, men !   Stand to your posts!  Let
no man flinch.  Three men at the helm, here,"
said the, commander, calmly.. Vidocq stood
near him,,in anxious anticipation of the result.
Brave and resolute aJhe was, he felt that he was
impotent there ; and he could not but admire
and respect the steady courage of: the young
commander and his men. There, was not a word
heard that betrayed fear. All was .quiet, or-
derly, professional. Louder came on the roar-
ing winds, cand before them there suddenly be..
came visible a broad cascade of phosphorescent
light like a wild beast showing its front of glit-
tering teeth in the darkness of his dent- All

as it can't be helped, till we get better weather.
or daylight. I wish you to keep a sharp look
out for Cape Henry light."

A-                                                                                                        4-                                     4--

had been done. Human skill had completed
its part, and now all that man . could do was to
wait the event, trusting to Providence to temper
the stroke that it might not destroy utterly.
"Steady, men !" was- heard above the muf-
fled roar the low vice of the commander encour-,
aging his crew.  " Stand by with axes ready to
cut away the masts .if she, is knocked on her
beams. Head-her hard on.    Keep her head
well up. Now,;look out all. There it comes
Let the reader imagine a fall of water five or
six feet high, and leagues in extent, rolling on-
ward with, the tide of a broad river, and menac-
ing everything in its path with destruction, and
e will form  some idea of the danger which
enaced the cutter.  The sea seemed to be lift-
d like the crest of a lion over a wall of waves,
which, as the captain spoke, came galloping on
-With a roar that was deafening. The three men
at the helm kept her bows head on to the foam-
ing mass of waters, so that when they struck
her, her bows first received the shock, and part-
ly cleaving the liquid wall, and partly rising
upon it, she shook through every joint, and
reeled to starboard and larboard in the most
frightful.manner, lashing the sea on both sides
with the extremities of her yards. Part of the
huge wall' of billows broke over the forecastle,
and three feet deep rolled aft, sweeping men,
spars, guns, and every moveable object along in
its resistless course.  For a few seconds Main-
waring, who had sprung into the main rigging to
command a view of the whole danger, to direct
and command his men, believed that she would
never free herself from the score of tons 'of water
that she had taken. in, and that she would go
bodily down; but fortunately the larboard bul-
warks gave way and the mass of sea rushed out,
and clearing the decks, the vessel rose again
from her half submerged condition and before
the blast which had come riding on the top of
the wave. The first shock past and the vessel
alive, Mainwaring felt confidence, and as the
three men at the helm had not left-it, but had
been able to resist the deck wave, she was ena-

A

THE DANCING STAR}

and pitched fearfully.  It did not take long,
however, for the'young captain to see that his
vessel was to be depended on, and that she
would ride out the gale in safety, unlessit came
on to blow a great deal harder than it did. It
was perfectly dark, save the ghostly light emit-
ted from the phosphorescence of the boiling sea
around ; and Henry felt anxious to learn the
mischief that had been done. With his trum-
pet to his mouth he called for two battle lanterns
to be lighted, and while this order was being
obeyed, he was inquiring of those about him if
any one had been lost overboard.  Some said
yes, and others said no.  The lights at length
came, and were slung one near the mainmast
and the other forward of the foremast; and by
these the whole of the decks could be seen, with
the mischief that had been done. Two of the
guns had broken from their lashings, and a pile
of spars which, had been on one side of the ves-
sel were.now on the other, farther aft. The ca-
boose was lying upturned in the scuppers; the
two harness-casks were rolling about the quar-
ter-deck ; and every part of the deck was strewn
with rigging uncoiled and blown and lashed
about. These mishaps were repaired as well as
possible; and after twenty minutes, the force of
the gale abating, Henry determined to put some
sail on her and try to lay his course. _ Under a
close-reefed mainsail and foresail and half a jib,
he steered by compass over the wild waters east
by north.' But the little vessel struggled vio-
lently over the rugged billows, and rose and
pitched in enormous ascents and descents amid
the mountainous;surges.
"We have lost one man, sir," said the old
lieutenant, coming up to Henry and speaking
in a low voice.
" Who is it ?"
",That I can't say. I saw him washed past
me over the taifrail when we shipped the sea;
but I could do nothing for him in the uproar,
~for it was as much as I could do to keep. my,
feet myself."
" Poor fellow; we .will say nothing about it,

79

}yyyy 2
}Y
i
}


T " ".

so

THE DANCING STAR.

f i~r
4   4 ,y L
}!  yr
fia  fl '
'
z  4t

charaeter shows me she had no intention of go-
ing any further south than she could get out of
my way.

"That is it.

She ha now come back and

"Ay, ay, sir.  We have made a narrow es-
cape of it. I thought that time we should nev-
4r see wives or sweethearts more."
"I had no hope. The schooner can't have
lived it out."
" think not."
 Light ho I" shoted above the wail and
rush of the winds and waves."
"Welcome sound !" exclaimed Mainwaring.
"There is the Cape light. It bears west north
west. We can run in on the next tack."
The sight of the light made every heart glad,
and a murmur of satisfaction ran along the decks.
The cutter now labored on her course heavily,
hauled close so as to weather the Cape on this
taek. The store , however, continued to in-
crease, and they had to come to, so that it was
three hours before they had accomplished the
three miles which would place them far enough
to windward to render it safe for thom to go
about. Just as they were going in, an extreme-
ly delicate maneeuvre in the height of so fierce
a gale, all were startled by a sharp cry of "sail
ho ! sail ho ! sail ho !" repeated from one of the
men. Henry had only time to look round and
see flitting through the darkness, not his vessel's
length distant, the indistinct outline of a vessel,
whieh seemed to be flying right across his quar-
ter with fearful velocity. He could hardly
make her out, her speed was so great and the
night was so dark, but half a dozen voices ex-
clamed, with eagerness:
" It is the schooner!  It is the schooner !"
But before he could satisfy himself of the
truth of their assertion, she had disappeared in
the darkness.
"She was going on the starboard tack just as
we were now," said the lieutenant to Henry,
"and was right behind us on the same tack."
"If I was sure it was the schooner."
"Would you tack after her?"
" Yes. Though in such a wild sea as this I
could neither board her nor use our guns.'- If
it is she, she is bound into the bay, you may
rest assured of that. Vidocq's account of her

"There she is! It is the schooner !" exclaim

I  7-
" '
 4t
I

will soon be tacking to run into the bay. I
wonder if she saw us."
"She couldn't raake us out. If she is going
into the bay, she wont stand on that leg long,
but be after us out more to windward. but
where is the police officer, Vidocq ?"
" I haven't seen him since that- sea came
aboard of us. Aint he below ?"
" It is possible," answered Henryb; "ut he
was standing there by the main-tojnast back
stay when the gale came upon us.  Since then
I have had no time to think about him."
Vidocq was not, however, found below. He
was sought about the decks fore and aft; but
no one knew anything about him.
" Call the roll of the men," said Henry to
his boatswain.
They were all called in a loud tone by name,
and every man answered to it.
" Not one of the crew is missing," said Hen-
ry, " the man you saw washed overboard was
the police officer, without doubt."
Every part of the cutter was now searched
with lanterns, and the painful'conclusion had at
length to be arrived .at, that the police officer,
who, not being a seaman, was less skilled in
taking care of himself in such a crisis as the
vessel had passed through, had been borne'on
the mountain wave from his feet, and carried 6ff
into the boiling ocean 'to perish unseen and
unheard.!
Hepry felt sad at this discovery, but he had
no time to indulge regrets.  The wind was still
very high, and the darkness, unrelieved even
by lightning, was intense; and he -felt that there!
was great danger of encountering the vessel
which had flitted past, or some other. On this
tack the water rushed through the gap made bfy
the broken bulwarks in such ki quantity that it
was found necessary to tack again, and finally
to lay to so as to keep the shattered side to
windward. In this manner the cutter had been
lying about ten minutes, when the cry of " sail
ho !" again sent all eyes searching into the
darkness.

THE DANCING STAR.

I

One of the first thoughts that came into the
mind of the commander of the cutter, on the
appearance of the light, was to look about to
see if the schooner had also gained the bay; but
far and wide but one object was. visible, and
that was'a dismasted brig which was being borne
along over the tumbling seas .towards Cape
Henry.   With his glass he saw that there were
signals of distress flying from the stump of the
foremast, and he saw that nothing could prevent
her from being dashed to pieces on the Cape,
strait towards which she was being driven with-
out power to escape the threatening danger. He
instantly put the cutter about and lay his course
so as to head her off, and if possible save the

persons on board. On coming near her he a

aw

ed Henry.   'I can't mistake her."  And sure
enough the Dancing Star came in sight, appear-
ed in view a moment, sailing in the direction of
the Capes, and was out of sight again in two
minutes ; but she had come so near the cutter
that her peculiar rake and size could be distin-
guished by nautical eyes.
"She is making for the bay," said Henry.
" Come, men, lively. Lively there, carpenter !
Get that big hole stopped up in any fashion to
keep the sea out, so that I can tack and lay after
this vessel."
The carpenter and his hands, by the aid of
lanterns, went busibly to work to plank up the
bulwarks ; but it was two hours before they were
made strong enough to withstand ,the rush and
force of the water when she should lay down
upon this side on 4he larboard tack. By the
time this work was done, the storm had nearly.
blown its cheeks out, and the main and foresail
could be carried with only single reef; but the
sea ran high and caused the cutter in her course
to leap wildly from  sea to sea. It was just
dawn as they came up with the light on Cape
Henry, which was, slowly fading into the light of
morning. - The roar of the surges against the
rocks sounded like thunder as they drew nigh ;
' and as they passed the Cape into the smoother
water of the bay, the sun rose above the ocean,
breaking the storm clouds away before it, and
sending the splendor of its, beams over land and
sea.

the cutter, made it nearly noon by the time they
reached Hampton Roads. Here they spoke a

4 V

&amp;

s,
;i
~r.
A,1
0'
r
x

'   y
.1
'
t  "1,t''4

t-

full twenty persons on her decks, all of whom
were waving hands and signals to him for aid.
It would have been madness to have attempted
to- board her, as the sea was running very high,
and both vessels were pitching upon it in a fear-
ful way. But with. the skill of a thorough sta-
man, Henry wore round under the stern of the
wreck, and going forward, called to the persons
to drop overboard one at the time and he would
save them. For this purpose he lowered one of
his boats, though very nearly swamping it, and
also threw ropes and, buoys over for the swim-
mers to catch to. In this way, while both
vessels were in full headway towards the shore,
he succeeded in saving all but the mate, who,
resolving to be last, had remained on board till
the brig had got so close to the breakers that it
was no longer safe for the cutter to keep near
her without sharing her fate ; Henry was,
therefore, compelled to put about and try to
beat off this lee shore the best he could, with
the nineteen persons he had saved. He had
hardly got the fore and main sheets hauled, when
the brig struck and broke in two.' The mate,
who had ran to the forward part of the vessel,
leaped in the seething waves and was borne
ashore upon the surges, and landed safely. At
this all on board the cutter set up a shout of
joy, which the mate answered by waving his
tarpaulin, which had stuck to his head through
all his dangers.
"He will go up- to the pilot's house, and
from thence get up to the city," said Henry to
those around him. "Were you bound to Bal-
timore ?"
"No-to Annapolis, sir,". answered the cap-
tam. "We were dismastedl about midnight in
the gale, and our escape from death has been
n'airaculous, with tha nks to your skill and cour-
age. We are from Liverpool thirty-four days
out."
But we will leave the survivors to tell their
story and express their gratitude. The delay
caused by this act of humanity on the part of


2
vessel from Norfolk, bound to
at the request of the captain
Y r     brig, the passengers, and suc
'   wished, who had been saved
placed on board of her, while t
ed to visit the place where his
The gale had entirely abate
the waters of the bay were o
light breeze. The sky was
and not a trace of the vast fiel
x1   had darkened it in the morn
All was cheerfulness, life and
"I fear, said the old li
have bid good-by to the clipp
never got out of that gale s
assured."
"It is hard to drown men t
hanged," said Heniry, as he w
sent it by the captain of the bi
4=   sage in a passing boat, to a sli
Roads a mile distant. The n
~     tion of the wreck of the brig
assistance of the sloop to pro
cast ashore, Henry adding tha
had received an injury in the
R    repaired before he could again
The cutter then stood up th
which was her usual rendezvous
there.
CHAPTER X
SEffects of the storm. The "1
Blouster's apprehensions.
James. An interesting con
two precious rogues The
chase. A wonderful i'escue
humor works against him.
THE storm which had p:
ii        the Capes of the Ch

which the schdoner and cutte
lost, with the brig that had g
also swept over the land, and
with no little severity., Tre
by their roots, chimneys bl
stacks dispersed, and no little
the small craft at the wharve
The mind of Blouster was

THE DANCING' STAR.

Washington, aid
of the- wrecked
h of the crew as
from her, were
he captain resolv-
brig lay.
ed by noon, and
nly rippled by a
a clotdless blue,
ds of clouds that
ing, was visible.
beauty.,
eutenant that we
r- schooner. - She
afe, you may be
hat are born to be
rote an order and
rig, who took pas-
oop of war in the
ote gave informa-
and asking the
tect the property
t his own vessel
gale that must be
venture outside.
.e bay for York,
is in order to refit
CI:-
Binnacle" again.
Wreck of the
versation between
schooner and the
e. Blouster's ill-
roved so fatal off
esapeake, and in
r were well nigh
rone ashore, had
been felt at York
es were torn up
own down, hay-.

damage done to
s.S
far from being at

ease as he heard the roar of the winds -about
the Binnacle, and the loud dashing of the
waves as they broke over his wharf, and even
swelled up to the foundation of his dwelling.
He was absent-minded, and so engrossed with
his thoughts that when brandy was asked for he
would pour out a glass of water, and when a
cigar was desired would hand the whiskey bot-
tle.' This unusual conduct drew many\eyes
upon him, and more than one of his old cus-
tomers sympathizingly asked if he were sick.
" 0, wax !" ejaculated Johnny, the little
cobbler to his fr nd Sammy, the little tailor,
"the cap'n looks as if he was in likkor, don't
he,'Sammy ?"
"0 scissorsW! n't he, tho '? Let's go and
talk to him on the evils of intemperance,"
Don't ve,tho'!' responded his friend; and
the two worthies rising to their feet as wells
they could, for they were tolerably blue, it be-
ing after nine o'clock, reeled towards the tap.
Here one laid a hand on one shoulder of
Blouster, and the other a ,hand on the, other
shoulder, and both looking him in the face,
hiccuped together as follows :
" 0, Blou-Blouster, you-shouldn't get drunk !
0, Blou-Blouster, you shouldn't get drunk !",
At this moment the sweeping rush of the blast
made the four corners of the Binnacle shake;
and Captain Ned ripped out an oath that made
them both start back with consternation and
hold their tongues; in which state of silence
they resumed their seats and drinking mugs,
both of which had the handles broken off, for
when by accident Johnny broke his, Sammy
smashed his; and they carried theirlove of be-
ing like each other so far as to drink sip for sip,
and finish their ale with the same last swallow-.
The decayed gentleman, also, could not but
regard his host with some surprise, as he saw
how differently he acted from his wont; but he
was too polite to do more than say in a quiet
way as he asked for his glass : F
" I trust, sir, you are not seriously indis-

posed !-
" Quite well, sir, but something on my mind,
sir';" answered Ned; "thinking of the poor
sailors makes a man sad."
SS                         r.

THE 'DANCING STAR.

" So it ought, Captain Blouster. It is a ter-
rible night to be at sea."
" I say, cap'n," said Tim Wivil, shuffling
up, "you don't look 'mazin' well, if I may
Speak my mind ; sposen you goes o bed and let
me keep tap. I'll do it capital, and, honor
bright ! I wont likkor till I've got through and
doused the glim."
Well,-Tim, if you are sober !"
" Sober, cap'n,' repeated our friend,straight-
ening up and looking Blouster in the eye as
straight as he could ; "look at me! Look at
me good ? Look me in the eye and see if I'm
drunk. Do you see any likkor in my eye,
boy ?"
"No, but plenty o' water, Tim !"
"Water? If there's enny water in 'em, I'm
blamed if I know how it got there ; I aint tasted
no water, 'cept when it rained in my mouth
von night I slept with my mouth opep ahind the
boord pile, since then I haint tasted a drop o'
water ; and that was three years ago last fourth
o' July might. I1ll never forget it.' If you see
water in my eyes and didn't put it there, that's
proof a man's sober, when his likkor'turns to
water and runs out o' his eyes."
"Well, Tim, take the tap, and see that you
keep sober, if you are now," answered Blous-
ter. He then left the tap-room and hastened up
stairs to a corner room that by day commanded
a view of the bay. He was in no little alarm.
He feared that the schooner would be lost, and
he had no insurance on her, and he had not the
utmost confidence in Nevil's seamanship. He
threw up a window. All was pitch dark with-
out, and as he listened, the roar of the wind
and the waves was terrible to the ear. He
could hardly stand by the window.
" This is a Cape Horn gale. The schooner
.will go ashore whether inside or outside of the
SCapes, if Beachampe has not had the sense to
make a harbor before the blow came on." -
After he had closed the tap he did not go to
bed, but was watching and listening to the

Itorm till after midnight; its long continuance
only increasing his apprehensions. At length
when the morning came, and showed him half a

83

score of small river craft, sloops and bum-boats
stranded upon the shore,-he made up his mind
that he .should hear no more, or very bad news,
of the Dancing Star. During the day, after the
blue sky again appeared, he was to be seen upon
the top of the house, where was-a little cupola,
or lookout, with his ship's spy-glass to his eye,
closely examining the bay towards the south-
east. The York policeman was the only one
of those who beheld him thus engaged who di-
vined his object; and this worthy shook his
head wisely and mysteriously, if any one by
chance happened to remark that one would
think old Ned Blouster was expecting a ship in
from India, the way he kept on the lookout.
About ten o'clock in the forenoon the citizens
were not a little moved by a report brought by
a fishing boat, that about daylight that morning
a large ship had gone ashore about seven miles
up the bay on that. part of the coast nearly
opposite the old mill-fort. Blouster was now
confident that if a ship could not stand out the
gale, the Dancing Star must have been lost.
"Did you find out the name of the ship ?"
he asked of the fisherman who brought the
news.
" They called her the Genius," answered
the man.
" The Genius-was it the Genius? are you
sure?"
"The Geenus or Janus !"
"James ! It must have been the James !"
he exclaimed, in no little excitement. He now
hastened to his lookout, but he could not see
the creek, as it was hidden by the shoulder of
land on which the old fort stood. About noon
another boat came down stating the particulars
and bringing the captain of the vessel himself,
After Blouster had warned him with his best
potations, he took him into that famous little
back parlor, and shutting the door, said, for
he did not like to appear too intimate before
" And you have indeed lost youi- vessel,

captain ?"
"Yes, Blouster, and nearly lost my life with

.

'


.3
t
i
E f
E
a t
ref
=s
r
t

84                           THE DA   CNG STAR.
h  If it had ot been just before daybreak, and laboied worse than I ever saw a ship off
we should have fared worse. As it was, two} Cape Horn. The Chesapeake seemed to be
of my people were drowned."              turned into'aboiling potseething white. About
"How did it happen ?"                  midnight we had to lay to; but I could not tell
" Why, you see after I had parted with your where I was; for the rain was so thick that no
nAan in the schooer---"                 light could be seen on the shore. But by sound-
" What, were yofu then boarded by--"   ing I found we were ?drifting rapidly on the land,
"By a rakish craft, and a fair young fellow and [ gave orders to make more sail, though# I
nii icommand-of her," interrupted the captain; feared the imast wouldn't hold another square
"and he took out of me nearly the value of inch of canvass. So1 shook the reefs out of her
sixteen thousand dollars ; and so far, so much fore-topsail, though the wind blew so that the
save"                                  men had to hold on to the yards with their eye-.
e This is good news, good news, captain," lids. But the sail was no sooner 'hoisted than
paid Blouster, with animation; but instantly crack went the fore-topmast. The wind then
his face darkeried. "When was this?'     caught the ship in her teeth and turned her nose
"Yesterday afternoon, before the gale off right off from the wind, and after that there was
SCape Henry !"                              no bringing her to. There was' no alternative
"And which way did he steer ? for I have but to run for it ; so I let her drive. I knew
been afraid hehas been caught in the gale." that all was over with her, and so gave orders
"He ran:south, and when I had got well for the men to clear the boats and cast all the
into theCape, I saw him running, hull down spars, hatches and so forth loose, for us to save
}  full two leagues south of Cape Henry."  our lives upon. I ordered 'minute guns to be
a    " Can he be running off with my vessel and fired to alarm the coast. Away we went drive.
my goods ?" cried Blouster, starting to his feet ing with astonishing swiftness broad in front of
with a huge oath.                        the- gale. Soon I heard the roar of the waves
"  -  "Not if he could have helped it. There trembling on shore, and in five minutes after-
was a revenue cutter in full chase after hirn" wards, just as the first dawn began to lift the
"A cutter ? Then he was running away darkness, we went ashore. In five minutes
j from her ?"                             she parted at the fore-chains, and several who
"Yes. He couldn't do otherwise, and I have remained on the stern went down with it, but
s no doubt at all that both vessels were caught how many were lost I have not ascertained. I
in the gale."  -.gained the shore with great difficulty on a
I1 hope the cutter has gone to the bottom hatch. Our guns had brought several, of th.
of the sea. "I fear my schooner has not been inhabitants down, ;who aided in saving us.,
able to make a harbor. You know~ the coast There was one young fellow particular irly active
i there is as smooth as the edge of a cutlass for and showing the most wonderful courage. Ho
a hundred miles."                        alone, by plunging into the sea with a rope,
" They stand a poor chance, both of them. saved five of the passengers; and when as it
II never knew it to blow harder. When night grew lighter he discovered Miss Beachampe

J. .k
came onl had to take in all my top-hanperand alone upon the forecastle, he with great risk of
rj send down my royal yards; but an hour after his life, and when no one would second  im,
dar, snap weirt both fore royal masts and the reached her on a plank, and safely broughthery
imizzen top-gallant mast. I tried to make HRamp- to the shore, though she was insensible. It was
ton Roads, but my pilot, Skipwith, 'said it her second shipwreck, poor girl.
couldn't be done, and so we tried to keep an of-  Miss Beachampe! What, do you mean to
fing in the bay and run northward. But by ten say that
k o'clock it blew great guns. The vessel tossed  "She is the heiress of Beachampe  al."
ir41 T g
£fU4 )K y ,,.    "   ~ye    L.  .Y~~i  ''3° 1 ,Y "4 ."Kl 'L _-1  ta     '" ~   , _ '  s°'" -  1 - '

THE DANCING STAR.

"This is news' And she is safe, you say ?"
"Yes; they bore her over the land to the oth-
er side of' a ridge where was a mill and fort that
stand on an inlet about half a mile across the
neck of land."
"Then it was Elliot Beaufort that saved the
lady. How came she in your ship, when you
came from Genoa, and she was expected from
England ?"
" The ship in which she sailed from London
foundered at sea. I fell'in with the vessel and-
took off the crew and passengers. She is a no-
ble girl!"
"Who cme with her ?"
"tThe executor who went for her."
- Ah, yes, Judge McNeil. Was he saved ?"
Yes, but bruised by being cast upon the
rocks."
"And so Miss Beachampe has arrived ? and
Nevil doesn't know it."
"If you mean the young captain of your
schooner, he saw her and spoke some words of
gallantry to her. I fancied he was deeply smit-
ten with her beauty'."
"She is his cousin-perhaps," added Blous-
ter to himself, " he may make a match of it. I
will propose it to him and. aid him all in my
power. But I fear I shall never see him nor
the Dancing Star more I"
Leaving the two friends in wrong-doing to talk
over their affairs more in detail, and speculate
upon the probable chances whether the Dancing
Star were likely ever to be heard from again, we
will once more place our readers on board this
vessel.
It will be recollected that we last saw her as
the day of the storm  was closing, full twelve
miles south of Cape Henry, steering to the south-
ward with every stitch of canvass sprearl, flying
from before the revenue cutter. At dark and
in the prospect of the gale, we saw Henry Main-
waring reluctantly give up the chase and stand
away northward in order to gain the Chesapeake
before the blow should come on. We have wit-
nessed the fierce struggle of the little revenue

cutter with the tempest, and her ultimate success
in gaining the bay towards morning, with the loss
6

86

of part of her bulwarks and of one man over-
board, the Vidocq of the police. , But the cut.
ter, as we have seen, was not outrin the darkness
and storm of that appalling night alone.' More
than once ad it tacked from one stretch to anoth-
er, it saw crossing its bows the phantom-like out-
line of another vessel; which on being the se-
cond time seen was pronounced by all on board
to be the schooner.
This opinion was a correct one. It was the
fugitive which they had ceased to chase at dark.
And no sooner did it become so dark that the
cutter could no more be seen astern, than laa-
champe gave orders to put about, saying to Las-
tels, " We will let Mainwaring run south and
chase the caps of the waves till morning for his
amusement, while we give him the slip and go
back again !
But the two vessels had, unknowingly the one
to the other,1 tacked at the 'same moment; and
unseen by each other, had stood together in the
darkness on the same tack. When the storm
grew so great that Mainwaring lay to,the schoon-
er passed him and then first discovered him.-
For miles further on, both vessels being under
way, they saw one another again for an instant,
crossing on opposite tacks. After seeing the
cutter the second time, the lieutenant, said to
Beachampe :
"  will bet my head it was the cutter."
"She can't be here," said he, " unless she
tacked when we did, which is probable. We will,
however, cheat her. She is lying to, and we
can run in to the bay and reach York before she
will let out her reefs 1"
"If we carry sail this way, we shall reach a
hotter place than York," answered the mate-
"We plunge under to the windlass~ at every
leap."
"If can't help it. I shall carry sail so long
as she floats. It is neck or nothing. We must
either gain the bay or lose all we've gained;-
and I would as lief go to the bottom as go ashore
without a maravedi in my purse. Let her

drive !"      d        y      T
And let her drive the did. The masts of the
clipper bent like a coachman's whip, and the

_t,

_Y
F
}}   f
[ wyY


'I

IN   8 ,                           THE DAN(
cordage was drawn as hard as rods of iron.-
{ The bowsprit dipped under the waves at every
plunge. Suddenly a cry was heard under the
bows, and the wave that broke over them lifted
upon its briny arms a human form and cast it on
board.
What was that ?" .cried out Nevil. " Who
is overboard'?"
i4 "Nobody, but some one has come on board,
I believe, sir," answered- one of the men.-
"Either Neptune or the devil l"
I am neither one nor the other, good friends,"
said the man of the sea, making his way aft as
well as he could by the light of the battle-lan-
tern that hung in the companion way.
" Who in the name of Satan, are you, and
where di you come from .  demanded Nevil,
as a tall man with dripping garments and hair
f  stood before him. He had light hair, and was
beardless, and therefore could not be Neptune ;
and he was not cloven-footed.
' " Iam saved by a wonder, sir. Have been
washed overboard from a ship in the gale not
r  many minutes ago, and was supporting myself
as well as I could by swimming, when your
schooner's bows dipped ine up as if I had been
a fly in the cream-pot dipped up with a spoon.
4, It is true I fell on your deck something hard,
but I am willing to take a few hard knocks to save
t   my life."
r    "You are welcome," answered Nevil; " and
I wonder at your rescue. What ship were you
The-the America, sir, bound to Charles-
ton fr om New York,'" answered the man. " I
was only a passenger, sir. What vessel is this?"
This? Well, it is a revenue vessel. We
are bound in."
~ Speak louder, if you please, sir ! The wind
'Yhowls so, I don't hear ; and besides my ears are

as full of water as a bottle of porter ?"
It is a revenue cutter, bound to Baltimore !"
4     "Very well. I am willing to go to Balti-
more.
"The deuce he is," said Beachampe to him-
41self.   "He will spoil all my plans; for if 1
mean to run my goods into York river, Iwant no

CING STAR.

THE DANCING STAR.

spectators. I will land him on the coast, near
Elampton."
With these reflections, he bade the man go in'
to the cabin and stay till he got dry, if he wish-
ed. As the wind blew chilly, the stranger
availed himself of this permission and disappear-
ed down. the companion-stairs, which, however,
he descended with difficulty, the schooner danc-
ed about so wildly in the gale.
" I've heard that voice or one like it, some-
where before," said Beachampe to his lieuten-
ant; "but I don't think I ever saw the man be-
fore. He has made a rare escape .
"He is born to be hanged, that you may be
sure of," said the gray-haired lieutenant, laugh-
ing; " so we ought to be sure he is a rogue,
and must keep a sharp eye on him."
The clipper now continued for the remainder
of the night to battle with the storm ; now lying
to when it would have been madness to have run
any longer; and now running, when other ves-
sels with less desperate captains and more hon-
est fortunes, would have laid to. Safely passing
the Capes, they steered N. N. W, and kept
the Hampton -coast on thg starboard beam, sail-
. . "
ing as nearly to d as they could, in order to give
a wider berth to the western coast, which was a
lee shore ; and on which, for not keeping on the
wind ward side of the bay, the captain of the
James the same night wrecked his ship.
The darkness, however, was so great that
after standing on for about two hours after
doubling Cape Charles, Beachampe resolved to
anchor and wait for daylight. This decision,
doubtless, saved his vessel from sharing the fate
of the merchantman.
At daylight he male sail again, but discover-
ing that his schooner had. sprung aleak in the
hard straying she had undergone, he was com-
pelled to sail sht wly ; finding the leak to in-
crease after suni e, he perceived that he should
either have to remove his goods from the hold to
the deck, or make some harbor where he could
beach the vessel till the next tide and repair the
leak. If the reader will look at the map of'

Virginia, he will see a small cove directly oppoi'
site Cape Charles, west in York county, between

87

p(

sail. A glance told him it wgs the revenue cut- sand dollars' worth of silks and satins, which be-
ter, which his glass confirmed. The sight of longed to himself and the captain of the James,
her made his eye light up with animation.-- jointly.  The latter gentleman had already gone
Better to see and know were an enemy is, and back with two or three lighters, in order to save

0,

the rnosth of York river and Hampton Roads. I can then keep out of his way !" he said t
Por this cove he mad  direct, steering rightrfor Lastels, who was with him
it with the wind aft. H  reached, it about ten  "Yes, we can follow -her at our own distance
o'clock an! entered it o  the top of the flood 'She is bound to York."
tide. .Ie knew the place k el.  It did not pen.  " And will be in the river when we go in.-
etrate more than a mile fro the main shore of She is always crossing my hopes. But if i
the bay, was solitary and seldom, visited except comes to fighting, let us fight."
by oystermen in their piroques. He wellknew " If she should put her helm up and run it
there was body there that he cared for.   here, there would no doubt be as pretty an imita
Having sailed through the narrow entrance, he tion of the affair, on a minor scale, between the
steered south about a quarter of a mile, till his Wasp and Frolic, as one would wish to see !"
vessel Was completely hidden from the bay by   " We should whip the cutter out of the wat
the intervening land. Here was a smooth white  r. See, how she stands on, crowding every
each, upon which he easily and gently run his stitch of canvass, as if they expected to catel
vessel's bows. The water  this time was a foot us at York in broad day. We shall be afloat by
deep in the hold; and he felt that he had not half an hour after sunset; and -then we'll crne
reached the place a moment too soon.  They on after her. The moon is now five days old
now began to break the bulk of cargo to- get at and will shine till twelve o'clock. This will be
the leak ; and as the ebb tide was fast flowing as early as we ought to try to run in !"  The
-out, towards the middle 'of the afternoon the two young men now rejoined their vessel, which,
keel of the schooner was out of water and the at a little after sundown, hoisted her sails and
vessel could be walked round on the sand. The moved away from the beach.  The moon shone
mischief was now plainly apparent. -A plank with silvery radiance upon her canvass, and the
had started under the counter, the fourth one wind being light, she moved gracefully out of
from the keel, and sprung the pins and spikes the inlet into the broader waters of the bay.-
which should have kept it in its place ; and Here shaping her course northwardly, she glid-
from a huge gap between it and its neighbors, ed along near the dark shores about four miles
-the water which had been taken into the hold. an hour, at a rate which would bring her to the
now passed out like the stream from a pump.  mouth of York river in three or four hours.
The sun was about an hour high, when the    The evening of this day was passed by Blous-
mischief was repaired ; and as the flood was now ter in his tap-room in much more anxiety than
coming in, he hoped by dark to float off and he had passed the night previous, while the storm
make sail for York, which he expected to reach was raging. Sundown had found him on the
about eleven o'clock at night. While waiting lookout on the Binnacle, eagerly scanning the
for her to swim again, Nevil ascended the ridge southern horizon with his glass; but the twilight
that lay between him and the bay, to see if the deepened into night without revealing to him
way was clear and what craft he might be likely any other vessel than a couple of coasters run-
to fall in with or be observed by in running out. ning down past the mouth of York river on their
He6 also thought it possible he might see the way to the Capes.
cutter.  And no sooner had he reached an       He therefore returned to his tap-room to wait
elevation which commanded tme bay almost from on his customers, in great trotle of mind ; for
York river to Hampton, than he saw a vessel di 'he had now to lament, niot only the probable losa
reetly opposite, standing up the bay under easy of his schooner, but of more than fifteen thou-

f"
U
z
Cl
T
e
r-
V
V
p
I
t
M
t
w
i
t
4

.
.
.i
',
a
r


THE DANCING STAR

'IT-
Elf
i4    F
r e,
k  ,V'f  t
'rf  CV
fI'

or two.  I can tell som'hing0!  , the villain, 1
to go for to drown Tim Wivil in water!" 

a portion of the ship's cargo. Blouster, there-.
fore, had no one to impart his troubles to.  He
was-se'll-humored that his customers did not
wait till the usual time to-shut up, and began to
go away; and had all left except Wivil by nine
O'clock, each much wondering at the moroseness
of their usually civil host.  This latter wor-
thY, having no sleeping place, and no home,
usually hung about the inn to the last moment.
But he was now peremptorily ordered to leave
by'Blouster, who wanted to go out and inquire,
of a sloop that had just passed up to the wharf
above, if anything had been seen of the Dane-
ing Star. Wivil, however, refused to go, saying
he must have a "night cap " todrink before he
would go; and besides, as it was. wet out, he
begged to be permitted to sleep on the floor of
the tap.
"I am in no humor to be bothered with you,
fellow," answered Blouster. "Get you gone,
dog ?"
Wivil, however, still whined and begged for
the liquor, when Blouster rudely took him by
the collar and thrust him forth and shut the
door in his face. The poor wretch fell heavily
down the steps and rolled into the dock, where
he would have drowned, if at that very instant a
boat had not appeared and shot in towards the
stairs.
"It is a man that has fallen in; pull hard,
men ;" and the next moment he had him by the
jacket, and with the aid of his ' men, lifted him
to his feet upon the stairs.
"It is Tim Wivil," said one of the men, as
soon as Tim shook the water from his head and
face.
" Yes, gentl'n, it's poor Tim.  He never had
so much water in is mouth afore', nor nev-
er had so much touch him. I'm werry much
obleeged to you, Cap'n Mainwaring. You've
saved a poor devil's life; and Ehat's vot I cidl a
genm'l'nly thing !"
" How came you to fall in,. Tim ?"
"~ It was that 'fernal Blouster pitched me in !
Darn him, I'll 'peach on him. I'll tell a thing

V8:

" You can 'peach, can ou, Tim f What de
you know ?" asked Mainwaring, in an under
tone, struck by the earnestness of Wivil.
" Don't I know ? I could hang him !"
" You could ! Well Tim, you mustn't stand
shivering here. Get in the boat and go aboard
the cutter, and you shall have something strong
to keep you from taking cold, and a warm bed.'
"Shall I ? I aint got drownded for nothin'."
The men helped Tim into the boat, and then
said Henry :
"How is it Blouster has shut up so early ?"
"Because he expects smuggled goody, I
guess," answered Wivil, almost savagely.
"He does, ah? I see, Tim, you do know
something. Wait here, my men, a moment, till
I return !"
He then passed round the inn, and after walk-
ing rapidly a few steps westward, he came tc
he dwelling of the York policeman, from which
two nights before Vidocq had taken his depar-
ture. He was at once admitted, when he made
known to him,the fate of Vidocq, and also, how
that the latter had informed hin that suspicions
rested on Blouster in connection with the schoon-
er.o The police officer then told him he had
placed a spy upon ouster's motions; and gave
the name. It was Tim Wivil ; who the York
policeman said would be the most suitable, as
he would not be suspected; and that he had
bribed him largely enough to insure his faithful-"
ness. Mainwaring then told him how his spy
had been treated, and added:-
"My cutter is now in the stream, just above
the inn wharf. The schooner, if she is not lost,
will be coming this way in a night or two, to
land the freight she has robbed the ship of. It
is more than likely that Blouster will be the re-
ceiver. I want you now' to .watch with two of
your men, both the house and the wharf all
night, and also every night, till we discover some-
thing. If you find anything going on you will
show a light from the west upper window of
your house, which looks up the river. I shall
he on the alert with my men, and my boats,

ready for a rush down. If nothing occurs till
near day, I shall then ascend the river out of

I

CING   STAR.
l was not very difficult to be tempted to play the
-spy on a man who had often struck him severe
I blows The policeman gave him money, pledg-
ed him to comparative sobriety, promised him
f ten dollars if he brought him any useful infor-
mation to criminate Blouster, and sent him back
to the tap. As he now came with money, of
course he could remain and drink so long as his
money lasted ; but whether Blouster suspected
or not, he was more than usually savage in his
language to him on this night, and finally when
Wivil proposed staying longer, we have seen.
how he gave response to his petition. Little
did he think he was casting him   into the
arms of his enemies to be made a witness

HE revelations made by Wivil, when against him.
placed on board the cutter, were of a   There was another guest also whom Henry
the mind of Henry Mainwaring respecting the Beaufort. He met him on going back to his
guilt of Blouster, in a conspiracy to defraud the boat, coming to the town in his lugger, and by
revenue. Until he talked with Tim, and heard the moonlight recognized him, as the two boats
the whole story of the discoveries by eaves-drop- passed each other within a few feet.
ping, he had believed that Beachampe had really  "Why, Elliot !"
turned pirate, and robbed the James of goods  " Why, Captain Henry!" exclaimed both of
which he intended secretly to place in Blouster's the young men, in those tones of friendly pleas-
charge to dispose of. But Nevil informed him ure which true regard only can pitch.
that he had overheard the whole of the conver-  "Where are you bound so late ?"
sation-all of which we did not record---that  " To the town after a surgeon and medicines."
had taken place between the captain of the    " I have both on board my cutter. Who is
James and Blouster, by means of a closet, into hurt ."
which his familiarity with the premises had en- "Three of the passengers of the James are
abled him to effect an entrance from behind, by very much injured.  Did you hear of her being
slipping aside a board, from which he had pri- wrecked ?"
vately drawn the nails. Into this hiding-place  "Yes, but I could scarcely credit it. I know
he had crept when he saw Blouster take the something about the vessel. But come along-
captain into the little back parlor ; and from side with me, and my surgeon shall go back
this post he had heard all that was said-in fact, with you. I want to bear the particulars and*
he had obtained a history of all matters con- also tell you some news."
nected with the affair of the James and the   Elliot put up his helm and ran along-side the
Dancing Star, and Beachampe's true connection cutter. The surgeon said he' would get his in-
with Blouster. Wivil, indeed, was not wanting struments and so forth ready and accompany him
in sense or shrewdness ; and of late Blouster in his lugger in twenty minutes. They then
had treated him harshly, and more than once went down into the cabin, where Henry made
forbidden him to come to the tap again unless Wivil come. Here he gave Elliot a brief ac-
he had money in his hand. It was in a com- count of his chase of the Dancing Star, of Bea
planning mood, occasioned by this expulsion, champe, and the James being boarded by him
that the York policeman fell in with Tim, who and then Wivil made known in full his discov-

IT
I

t4

S                                                               .S . .

It

THE DAN'
sight of the town and lay two miles up till
the next night, when I shall drop and take up
my position again.  If the schooner comes in, I
want you to let her first land; as I want to
catch them in the act of landing, and Blouster of
receiving their goods."
CHAPTER XII.
Wbil's revelations. Elliot Beaufort, and his
account of the wreck and the survivors.
The Dancing Star again.   Plan to capture
the smugglers. A desperate chase and con-
flict.  The rescued man.   The game up.

r
;
1         ,
F
i          f   F


Q

~90
ories at the Inn, which present
conduct of  evil iirrclear light.
"And do you think," asked E
listened to the recital with the dee
"do you think his vessel outlive
Do you think Heaven would let
:    survive ?"
"I last saw him standing pas
bay, and I have no doubt he reach
must be somewhere lurking in its
he has not gone up the bay I am S
Sj  spoke every vessel and every fishii
}  but none of them had seen such a
upper bay. She is, therefore, ei
the lower bay,; and if in the lower
be here to-night; for Wivil states
hs be heard Blouster, in his convers
dishonest captain, say that if h
water he should -look for him in
land his goods. So this is a fine
are likely to have ?"
"We?    I wish it was we, an
remain and aid you in the capture
And why not?"
"I must take the surgeon back
4       "Who is in the lugger ?"
'Only Toney and a seaman be
James."
' They can take the surgeon
back. You remain : and if you
office of quarter-master I offered
share in whatever hinor and mo
may bring. .I will take you hem
to-morrow." .
" I 'will stay. I would be
SNov11 Beachampe is taken and
) to help," answered Elliot, w~
have asked me once or twice how

3    I was so intent on listening and
this scoundrel of a smuggler.
never better. It is some weeks
to see us."
"I will go to morrow whenI t
answered Henry, his handsome f
at the recollection of Alice, his
whom his poverty alone preve
marrying. The surgeon at leng
's1a

THE DANCING STAll
td the whole parture in the lugger, leaving Elliot on board
the cutter, burning with impatience to have a
lliot, who had meeting that night with the man who had so
pest attention, deeply wronged him and Alice.
ved the gale      " But you have not given me the particulars
suchsa villain of this extraordinary wreck of this guilty ship.,
the James," said Henry, after he had given or-
t me into the ders that the strictest watch should be kept
hed it ; and he towards the river's mouth, towards the "Light
coves.   iat in the Binnacle," and towards the darkly seen
satisfied, for I roof of the policeman's dwelling, He had,
ng boat I met, also, seen that- everything was in readiness for
.craft in the hard fighting, if necessary.  The boats were.
other lost or in alongside with oars, and a e'xswain in each,
r bay, she will and pistols and cutlasses in the stern sheets for
distinctly that sixteen men. Everything, in a word, was pre-
ation with this pared for instant action, with the boats on shore
e were above at the first sight of the signal. The distance to
before day to the landing at the Binnacle steps from the cut-
adventure we ter's anchorage was about a third of a mile, or
five minutes' rowing.
d that I could  " The first we knew  of the danger of the
."           ship," said Elliot, " was about four o'clock this
morning, when I heard first one gun fired, and
."            an instant after another.  The storm  was so
noisy I had not been able to sleep, so I was on
longing to the my feet in an instant. I ran out to the top
of the. old tower and loolied over the land
and bring him towards the bay, and immediately saw a flash
will take the and heard a third gun.  The flash revealed to
you, you shall me a large- ship standing dead on the shore,
mey this affair about a mile off. I at once called Mr. St.
e in the cutter Leger, and we hastened over the ridge towards
the bay coast, calling up on the way four or five
by when this lshermien who lived near the beach. We reach-
give my hand ed it just as the ship struck. 0, sueb. a fearful
armly. ""You human cry as rose upon the blast ! It seemed
Alie is But as if the souls 'of all on board passed by us
thinking about shrieking on the wild blast.' It was a loud, in-
She is well, articulate wail of mortal agony. The ship in-
since you were stantly broke in two. By the aid of a fisher-
man I launched a skiff, and Mr. St. Leger and

ake you back," I started to save whom we could ; but it was
ace lighting up directly overturned and he had to swim back ;
betrothed, but but fortunately I caught a tub that was in the
nted him from  boat, and turning it upside down, was enabled
th took his de- to reach the bows of the vessel.  Here I caught

THE DAN

0

j
t
Y

" The. estate is worth a hundred thousand
dollars.  I know when Mr. McNeil, the execu-

a spar and helped several who jumped overboard
by my direction to reach it. Many were lost
by rashness ; but we had the happiness of sav-
ing seventeen persons. Among them was a
young lady of great loveliness, whose name we!
have not learned. I saved her barely with the
safety of my own life. She was, however, I am
sorry to say, severely wounded in the side by a
spar that the waves bore violently against her,
and rendered her insensible in the writer, so
that but for my arm, she would have instantly
drowned. She and two others, the mte and a,
gentleman from New York, who were also se-
verely bruised, were borne-by us to our houses,
where they lie. The gentleman cannot live,
and I fear for the life of the young lady. It is
for them I came after the surgeon.  The cap-
tain, who came earlier, took a message to the
friends of the gentleman, informing them of his
condition."
" That geml'n is Squire McNeil," answered
Tim, who was listening in the cabin to all that
was said, wrapped to the chin in a storm coat,.
and luxuriously sipping a mug of hot negus to
keep him from catching cold after his drowning.
" I heerd the capting tell bout it ; and the lady'
is Miss Kate Beachampe, the cousin of this
preshus Nevil Devilchampe !"
"Can it be possible !" exclaimed Henry,
with surprise.
"I now see the resemblance in her profile,"
said Elliot.  " I knew that it was familiar. It
is her likeness to him."
"I trust she is nothing like him," said Hen-
ry, with emphasis.
" I will answer for that; for she seems to be,
all patience and gentleness. She smiles in all
her suffering when Alice or Margaret do her any
little service, and thanks them so sweetly. Yet
she is not able to move a limb."
"Sad ! sad ! She is the heiress of the noble
estate. .It is a pity she should not inherit it.
If she should die it would fall to Nevil as the
next heir." '
" If bedis not hanged first."

lay beam on against it.
" There is no doubt now  of the quality of
our friend there," said Mainwaring. " It is
the Dancing Star, and she is about to discharge
her freight of bales and packages of silks, and

-

DING   STAR.     -                         91
tor, went over to England. It is well that Nevil
fell not in with this vessel. He would not have
hesitated to have added a new crime to his many
deeds of evil, by taking her life."
"Yes, as she alone stands in his way to the
estate."
"Captain Mainwaring, there was a light just
shown on the top of the Binnacle, and then re-
moved, and then raised again, and then put
out," reported the officer of the deck.
Henry and his friend were instantly on deck.
The light re-appeared as they were watching.
and became stationary.
"Look on all sides, men, and see if there is
an answering light anywhere, up river or down,
on land or water."
I see a light twinkling like a star down the
river," said Elliot.
"I see it," answered Henry, with animation ;
and he directed his glass towards it. " It is from
the deck of a vessel.' I can makeout her dark
hull -just outlined in the surrounding gloom.
The light has disappeared. Now keep watch
some of you on the policeman's house. The
crisis is coming. That vessel is coming in. I
can see the masts and canvass loom up. It is a
small vessel. I believe on my soul it is the
schooner.  Put out all lights in our cabin. We
must not be seen.  The lumber sloops at anchor
between us and the coming vessel will help to
conceal who we are, if this should be our man."
The vessel which had shown the answering
light now drew nearer, coming stealing up the ,
stream, till it was easy, without the aid of the
glass for persons accustomed, like sailors, to use
their eyes in the night, to make her out to be a
clipper built schooner, under her fore and main-
sail and single jib. She at length reached as
high us up the old wharf opposite the Biropacle,
when she put her helm up, and brailing up her
sails to check her headway, as well as to conceal
herself better, she ran strait into the wharf and

x
,
t
.'
;


r.tc + _'i '.t  ' -  ;        'q.  r  :-    'i_      J, .k~"  3  -   -  r i ,  .    '  I

THE DANCING STAR.

f-;t
4
12{,;
-  I:.r7
'1 7

other foreign goods.  Ho, the lookout aloft !
Do you see no light on the top of the police-
man's house ?"
" Not yet, sir .?"
"Yet the man must be on the alert."
liHe was on the alert. He had stationed his
men, secretly, and had himself watched the
movements of Blouster, whom he saw moving
his dark form, densely seen in the night, about
in the lookout on the top of his tavern.  He
saw him show the- light,; and he saw the light
answered down the river.  He saw the vessel
reach the wharf, and Blouster pass within two
feet of hissseeret hiding-place and shake hands
with Beachampe on the wharf. He saw    the
men proceed to unload, and carry the packages
and bales on their shoulders, singly, or by twos,
or by fours, according to their weight, and enter
a low door beneath the inn, and depositing them
there, return for more.  He thought it was now
time for him to make the signal agreed upon ;
and hastening to his house close by, he hurried
to the roof with a lantern.
" Light ho! I see the signal!" shouted the
lookout at the cutter's mast head.
" Now, to your duty, men. Not a word
above your breaths. No noise of oars or feet.
Handle your arms carefully.  There are twenty
smugglers landing their cargo at the Binnacle
wharf from the schooner.  So you know what is
expected of you.  You will do nothing without
my orders. We must board their vessel on this
side, while they are engaged on the other landing
their goods. If they will surrender, no firing;
but we must take them. alive or dead.  Now to
your oars.  Softly.  Elliot, you command one
of the boats. I will head.- You board at the
bows while I carry her on the quarter."
Two boats were now filled with men, eight in
eash, armed to the teeth and ready for fighting
twice their number. Henry gave orders to his
lieutenant, who had five men left with him, to
slip~ the cable if he heard firing, and run down
to within hail.
" Now, let fall without noise, an give way

her signal; and in a, few moments the boats met
-her under full canvass coming down the river,.

At this very instant Blouster, who was talk-
ing with Beachampe on the deck of the Danc-
ing Star, while the men were, taking out the
freight received from the James; saw the lantern
which was swinging to and fro i  the hands of
the policeman out of his garret windows. He
pointed it out to Nevil, and said :
" That means mischief. It is from the house
of the chief of police. YQu are discovered, I
fear."
"There are not ten packages to go ashore
yet !"
"A   spy-a spy !" cried Lastels, collaring,
one of the under policemen, whom he discovered
within an old sugar hogshead.  Blouster ran to
see, and recognizing him, was about to take hold
of him to imprison him on board the schooner,
so that he might not give the alarm, when the
man fired his pistol to defend himself, and
broke from them and fled.
" It is all up now! This will raise the whole
town," sOd Blouster, coolly, pressing his 'hand
on his side to stop the blood of a wound he had
received from the bullet.  "Call your men.
You must land the balance some other time."
". All on board. Every man on board,"
cried Beachampe.  "Cast off and bear off.
Lively, men, all !"
In a moment the crew were on board, and
the sails spread and sheeted home, and the
schooner under steerage way with her stern
rounding away from the wharf. It was at this
moment the two boats full of men came in sight.
"Give way hard and strong, men. They have
seen us and are escaping," cried Mainwaring,
standing up in his boat, and waving his cutlass
in his eagerness.
" We had best give chase in the cutter,"
said Elliot. "'She will outsail us in the -boats.
She has got headway on now to distance us."
" You are right."
He then discharged a couple of pistAs as a
*signal for the cutter to slip her cable and bear
down' This she had already done, taking the
pistol fired by the police officer on the wharf as

all," he whispered, scarcely above his breath
The two boats left the cutter's side simulta
neouslyan d pulled noiselessly towards the wharf

92

south-east, and this kept him too close to the
wind for speed ; and he also saw the cutter haul-
ing her wind to cut him off to windward.  He
therefore resolved to square away and run wing
and wing, his best point for sailing, strait up the

"r      -
r$     a"
t(
4
F

93

THE DANCE
They've given us the slip !" exclaimed
Henry, as he leaped on board ; but we will not
let her escape. Hoist up the boats, and then to
quarters, men. We must take her or sink our
own craft. Ho, there, ont he wharf!" he hail-
ed as he passed; "is the chief of the police
there ?"
" Yes ; with Ned Blouster a prisoner, and
wounded."
"The schooner is Beachampe's vessel ?"
"Yes; and he landed a score of boxes and
bales."
"That's enough-all I want to know. His
race is up this night. Take possession of the
inn, and I shall bring you more guests besides
its host for you to entertain in it," answered
Henry.
The Dancing Star was by this time standing
strait out towards the bay, about a third of a
-mile ahead of the revenue cutter, which was in
plain sight by the light of the low and newly
set moon astern. Beachampe was in great ex-
citement. He urged his men to crowd sail with
the most terrible oaths. He cursed himself for
having run into a trap, when he was invited to
enter the river by the light Blouster displayed.
But Blouster was ignorant of the presence of
the revenue cutter in the river, as she had pass-
ed up far across and taken her anchorage out of
sight of his inn. He paced the deck, cursing
not only himself, but Blouster and his own ill-
fortune; and as he saw the cutter more than
holding her own, and trying to cut him off from,
going south down the bay, he began to feel that
his chances of escape were very few. Having
crowded all sail on that he could, he now order-
ed his men to their quarters, and swore to them
that it was his intention to die fighting rather
than be taken.
As he reached the mouth of the river he tried
to steer south, but as the wind came from the-'
south-west, he could not .lay his course south-

was distinctly heard to crash through the bul-
warks. The smuggler no sooner received this
shot than he put his helm up and ran stretching

bay. He gave orders accordingly, and flinging
broad to the stern wind his fore and main tacks,
he commenced a regular flight. His courage,
his previously expressed desire to meet Henry
Mainwaring, his rival in Alice Beaufort's love,
in deadly combat, seemed now to forsake him in
the imminent and present danger to which he
found himself exposed.
" If he takes wings in this style, he will es-
cape us," said Henry, observing the new ma-
noeuvre of the schooner ; and he gave orders
to bring the heaviest piece of ordnance he had
on board forward to bear upon her.
"Fire !" he cried.
The cutter recoiled, and the roar of -the ex-
plosion seemed redoubled from the stillness that
preceded it. The flash lighted up the waves
and were reflected like red lightning from the
canvass of the Dancing Star.
' It did not hit her ! She keeps on! There
she answers !" cried the young commander, as a
tongue of flame was darted out from the schoon-
er's side, and thrust back again like the tongue
of a fiery serpent. A sharp report was follow-
ed by the rushing of a shot above their heads.
"The game is fairly begun," said Elliot.
"Now I pray that we may soon be winners."
"'Keep her away and gain the offing of her,"
said Henry to his helmsman.  "We must crowd
her in shore ; so if she should outsril us,i we
can shorten  her track.  Is the gun again
loaded ?"
"Double-shotted, sir !"
"Very good. I will sight the gun this time
and see if we can cripple her. There she fires
again.''
" He means to fight, that is plain," said
Elliot.
The shot from the schooner struck the fore-
mast about ten feet above the deck and buried
itself in it. The cutter still kept eating her
way to windward of the clipper schooner, until
a gun could be brought to bear on her weather-
quarter. Henry then fired, and the iron missile

f1

I
4~+
sr;. D l

ING STAR.

.T't c          }
,Ee  i            -
4E;    ,rv   t l
^,i             _   '
r


9                               THE
his course up the inlet, with a descrij
which we opened our story. Drawing le
er than his pursuer, he hoped, it wou
seemed fiom the course he steered, to go
the revenue vessel could not follow.'
boldly across a bar which Mainwaring
bear away our or five points to go to the I
of. By this means h lost~ his weathe
The chase, therefore, became once more
chase.  With everything drawing that
hold a cap full of wind, the cripper fle
4  the water strait up the inlet in the dire
the old mill. Every five minutes Bea
would fire a stern gun at his pursuer in
of crippling him. And this was always
ed by a shot from the bow gun of the cu
"If I can't cripple his masts," said N
he discharged his. piece for the eighth time
;z shall have to ru  the schooner ashore
her on fire and  ake our escape on fool
county. I have no intention of
taken."
" "And  o say the. men, sir,'" answer
tels.  " They are one and all for beachi
That last shot we had, which split our bo
has prevented the jib from doing any goc
of it drags in the water."
Then clear it away. Get out the
and have everything ready for a run
'  should h  pen to strike, for there are pl(
Stocks about here, and T am running1b
But I shall keep her as strait a course a
for the mill, where the water T know
enough."
"The man we picked up off the cape
j  said Lasteis, "is still in his bunk.  Sh
; leave him there sick ?"
"No. If we set the schooner on f
willl take him in the boats with us. W

not have his life on our hands,"
This was spoken of the person whom
had thrown over the bows of the schoon
will be remembered that he at once went
There he sent word by Cato that he wa
very ill, and begged leave to keep his
GitK  This he had done most of the time, sav
' they landed at the York wharf; and then

DANCING STAR.

option of
ss wat-.
ld have
where
He ran
had to
reward
r gage.
a stern
would
w over
action of
champe
hopes
return-
tter.
evil, as
e, " we
and set
t across
being-
ed Las-
ng her.
wsprit,
d, half
boats
if she,
enty of
lindly.
s I can
s deep
s, sir,"
gall we
ire we
a'need
a sea
er. It
below.
s taken
berth.

e when
n, if he

could have wished to be on deck, it would have
been impossible to quit the cabin, as he tested
to 'his own satisfaction; for Nevil had locked
him in to prevent the possibility of his going on
shore and reporting the character of his vessel.
But little did he imagine that he was locking up
so safely the very policeman-Vidocq-whom
he had so much' reason to fear and detest.
When finding himself washed overboard from
the cutter, Vidocq believed that it was all up
with him ; but being a good swimmer, and hav-
ing so often escaped death from. drowning, he
hoped that something might turn up in his favor.
Every wave broke over him and washed off his
black wig, wilted his false whiskers, and made
his dark complexion fair as nature intended it
should be. At length, when he was about to
make up his mind to become food for the fishes
of the sea, he saw near him, and bounding di-
rectly towards him, the clipper schooner, which,
before he was aware, scooped hin up with the
wave on which'be rode, and larded him safely
on her forecastle.
In, order to preserve himself free from possi-
ble recognition and not to be put ashore till the
vessel had got where he could call aid, Vidocq
pretended illness.  But when he would have
quitted the cabin at York, to call for the aid of
the" police, he found himself a prisoner. He,
however, proceeded to cut his way out through
the bars across the cabin windows, when he felt
'the schooner in - motion, and found that they
were flying before the cutter.' His position was
now by no means an enviable one ; and he hoped-
that he would be rewarded for his danger from
the "shots of the pursuing vessel, by seeing her
capture the smuggler. As he had no arms of
his own, and as he had been loaned a thick deck
coat to wear, he took a pair of loaded pistols
from the rack and placed them in the pockets,
and prepared to avail himself of the, first turn of
fortune in his favor. The companion-way had
been unlocked after the schooner commenced
running, and he could go on deck if he' saw fit.;
but for the present he resolved to remain in the

'I

da

cabin and play the invalid ; especially as he
could see all the manoeuvres of the revenue
cutter from the stern windows.

The cutter gained every minute upon the
chase, and when within about half a mile of the
landing at the mill, a shot from the former
knocked the foremast out of her. It fell, topsail
and all, over the lashed sides ; but was soon cut
away, and every effort with the aid of sweeps
was made by Beachampe to get away from Main-
waring. Ie urged his men to superhuman
efforts; but all was futile ; a second successful
shot took the head of the mainmast off, and the
schooner broached to and laid a helpless wreck
on the water within cable's length of the shore.
To our boats all !" shouted Beachampe.
The men threw themselves into the two boats,
and Vidocq, who was resolved not to leave the
side of his man again, jumped in with them.
They cleared the wreck of the schooner, which
they had no time to set on fire, just as the cut-
ter ranged up alongside and prepared to'board.
"Follow me !" cried Mainwaring, who in the
darkness had not seen the boats depart.
" Follow, my brave , fellows !' exclaimed
Elliot, as both leaped on the deck of the schoon-
er at the same moment at the head of boarding
parties. But three wounded men and one corpse
were found upon it.
" There they go ! Boats ! Man our boats !"'
shouted the disappointed commander of the rev-
enue cutter, as he pointed with his cutlass to the
retiring boats crowded with the fugitives pulling
for the land.
"In a few moments the cutter's boats were in
full pursuit, and, gaining every instant, reached
the landing at the same instant with the smug-
gling party. Both crews sprang on the shore
from their boats at the same moment, and Bea-
chamnpe and his men, instead of flying to the
ridge and woods, had to" stand their ground to
defend themselves. The contest was for a few
moments of the most sanguinary character.
Several were severely wounded on both sides.
Beachampe and Lastels, attacked by Mainwaring
and Elliot, fought with groat courage. Ibastels
was struck down by Elliot, who disarmed him ;
Henry, after twice wounding Beachampe, com-

polled him to yield his cutlass and take h's life
at his hands, though he haughtily refused t beg
for it.

"You may kill me, Henry Mainwaring. I
will not own a life one hour that I begged of
tliee !"
"Kill him not, captain," said Vidocq, now
making himself known.   "lHe is my prize, by
the arm of the law "
" Vidocq!" exclaimed Henry, as if he had
encountered a ghost.
"Yes. I was picked up by the clipper, and
they have brought me to land again.
When Bea champe understood who it was that
now laid claim to his person, and whom his ves-
sel's bows had picked up, he, ground his teeth'
and uttered a curse deep and ferocious. But
he was too weak from  loss of blood to resist.
Vidocq, therefore, placed, with professional
skil , a pair of iron manacles on his wrists.
Two thirds of the smuggler's men were also
capt red, and the rest, favored by the darkness,
for t ie moon had been set for half an hour, es-
cap d to the woods on the ridge in the rear of
th mill.
Sleger, the miller, was not a little amazed at
seeing two schooners, pursuing and pursued,
coming up the inlet and firing into each other:
and he went out to watch the result, wondering
what it all could mean. He now drew nigh,
when being recognized by Elliot, he was briefly
told what had happened. The wounded men
of both sides were taken on board the schooner,
which now was secured to the landing place;
and the surgeon had his hands full until day-
break. Beachampe was borne to the miller's.
house and there had his wounds dressed ; and
one of them in the chest the surgeon pronounced
mortal.  Sleger's house now had the aspect of
an hospital- In the rear room lay poor Kate
Beachampe, who tile surgeon said could not
survive the injuries she had received among the
waves. Near her was the executor of Colonel
B~eachampe's ,estates, Mr. McNeil, who was
pronounced out of danger. In the front room
lay Nevil Beachampe, suffering greatly from his
wounds, and conscious of all that passed around

him.   Near him sat Vidocq, with an expression
o! professional triumph on his face. He had
succeeded, and his reputation as chief of the
police had received its crowning star.

'/

THE 'DANCING STAR.

.. ,nvC ...ws"a MwW+aaf Naia'.r       _-'                          "+41aMW.MUYM IbR

I                                                                                        .
,+.,       4i,        ,   '       '       _  r  ' rr t":" ;    "i-    Hi              .     ! r.' i  .,P, .{,                  r     ..           {,.,"     *gi-',:  . }  ..S r                  . i
. 'F",      '.1 "M  K :f                   y      , :              r, ',     t            ,y" f, k .
, f    ,. ;           , .         '°.4s.._ {, f t     .",1-T; +                         'rau.  ;}..z(Y:             «;   .  .';b +stip «r1a; ;v, sr  a ~ ~;'A..:, . ,r"Y,;a   . f,
S, {r'                r                            ~7"        vhh ,,r       M'           , {Z v",

R       "   _ ,rv            ., _       -,      .. .-    'd.          ..      ..      .fir


96

THE DANCING STAR.

CHAPTER XIII.
The pall of death.  The Will of the dying
girl.  The wretched Nevil conscience strick
en in death. An angel of comfort.    The
repentant "man, bequeathing all to Alice,,
expires.  Our tale brought to a close.
'     HE morning sun shone brightly through
the small panes of the mill house window
and lighted up. with golden gloiy the counte-
nance of the lovely English girl, Kate Bea-
ehampe. Her face was pale as the marble, and
her large fine eyes lit up With unearthly bril.
liancy. A group was gathered about her bed.
Nearest to her, kneeling by her pillow, her face'
bathed in tears, was the gentle Alice Beaufort,
who mourned that one so young and fair, and
born to wealth and honor, should die so young.
On the other side of the bed, bending over her
and bathing her forehead and hair with Eau de
Cologne, stood Margarat St. Leger, beautiful asI
either of these, yet with a striking contrast. It
was the beauty of the falcon compared with that
of the dove.S
At the foot of the bed stood, with folded
arms, the tall, manly form of the miller.  He
was gazing sadly upon the young stranger, who,
the surgeon had 'warned, would not live many
hours, nay, -was , dying even now, though she
had her voice clear and intellect unclouded.
Elliot kneeled by the side of Alice.
A door opened.  The dying girl raised her
eyes :
"Has he come ?" she said, softly.
It is Henry," said Alice, gently.
"Tell him to come hither."
Henry Mainwaring drew near, and Elliot
rising, gave him his place by Alice. . She then
cast her eyes towards a settee on which sat Mr.
McNeil, regarding her with profound grief.
"Sir,"she said tohim,"IJwish ou tobear
witness that what I say is my will. I am about
to go where the gold and silver of earth are
valueless. .I have heard during the watches of

the night, from good, noble Margaret here, the2
simple story of the attachment of her brother,
who saved me at the peril of his life. She also

made known to me the betrothment of the gentle
Alice, who has been like a sister to me, to this
noble gentleman; and when I asked her why
she was not married, she "blushingly told me
that it was 'the pride of the lover who would
wait to be rich. I, therefore, in testimony of
my regard for, band gratitude to, Elliot Beaufort,
bequeath to h-m one half of my estate, to be
divided e uall between him and Margaret St.
Leger, on condition that they marry within one
moth afer my death; and I, appoint you,
Colonel McNeil, to see that my wishes in this
respect be 'faithfully carried out. With, regard
to the other, I-     -
Here she ceased speaking. The mother of
Alice, who had been peering in at the door,
now rushed forward and said eagerly-" Raise
her up and she will live long enough to say
what she will do with the other half, for it must
have been to my Alice."
No one heeded the woman. Restoratives
were applied, but the maiden spoke no more.
She ceased to breathe, and her bright spirit took
its flight to realms of joy, to which the doors of
the dark tomb are the only entrance.
For several minutes all was silence. The
awe of death weighed on every mind.    Mad
Bess at length approached the pure corpse and
reverently made the sign of the cross upon the
for head, and Alice crossed the fair hands one
6ver the other upon'the still wargi bosom. Mar-
garet burst into tears and wept over her as if
she had lost a sister. Large glittering globes
rolled down the cheeks of the stout miller.
But we close the curtain upon this scene, to
present another.
In the adjoining room, with no one by his side
but Vidocq, lay Nevil Beachamnpe, while his
cousin was dying. He had been told who she
was and 'that she was dying ; but he could not,
move. The least motion, his surgeon said,
would bring on hemorrhage and produce imme~-
diate death. He, therefore, lay and-listendd
when all had gone into the other room. "He
listened with a strange desire to imagine how

she looked dying ; for he had been told he must
die-i the knowledge that one was preceding

i

Ia
4
V
up.

him through the dark portals, aroused a morbid
curiosity\ in his soul, and he listened as if
he expected some echo to reach' him from the
world unknown of how the departing spirit had,
found it.
"Do you think she is dead yet?" he asked
of the officer, whom he was too prostrated t,
fear or hate, or care about, one way or the other..
But Vidocq kept his place by his bed side ; and
although at Elliot's request he had removed the
manacles from his hands, he did not intermit
the' closest vigilance. He was evidently annoy-
ed at the precarious condition of his prisoner,
and in his heart prayed that he might just live
long enough to be hanged.
"Do you think she is dead yet?" he_ asked,
rolling his bloodshot and glaring eyes towards
his keeper, and then directing them to the door.
".No-1 hear them talking.",
"And it is my cousin. She will die and I
shall be heir ! 0, for life and health !" he
groaned.
"You had best keep quiet if you want to
live," answered Vidocq, in nervous anxiety for
fear he should hasten his end.
Live!   Yes, if she dies I want to live ! II
shall be rich ! I feel no pain now. I don't
believe it will go so hard with me as the
doctor-"
"Hist !  She isAdead now !"
" Dead ?" he repeated.
"Yes.   That is the silence of death in that
room. She's gone !"
Toney now came into the room on tiptoe and
said in a solemn way :c
4' Dead, sir -r"
" Yes, I knew it ."
"Did she die easy?" asked Beachampe. g
Does death seem to be hard ?"h
"She died like gwine to sleep, massa." i
"I am glad to hear one may die easy !' ~
Here he groaned heavily. " Ah, I fear me, 1 I1
shall die hard." .he muttered. "0O, my crimes~~~

my guilt seems to have a thousand eyes to gaze'I
at me! .  am heir of Beachampe now, but i I
shall~ inherit only the grave and worms !". J

97

"You seem greatly- troubled," said the
officer.
At this moment entered a gray-haired lawyer,
who had been sent for in the lugger to come to
make the will of Miss Beachampe at her request.
But he was too late. He was shown- into the
room by Tony. In the meanwhile Nevil Bea-
champe began to suffer the tortures of conscience.
He repeatedly groaned and buried his face in
his hands, but always replied he suffered no
pain of the body. The surgeon soon cane -in,
and after feeling of his pulse, pronounced mor-
tification to have taken place. He received this
announcement with 'a shriek of terror; for up to
this moment he had a secret hope that he might
recover. For some minutes he remained with
his hands covering his face and moaning deeply.
A group stood around' him  gazing on him with
surprise, curiosity and pity. He had no man's
sympathy. He was merely a spectacle of curi-
osity and horror.- He began to writhe. He
uttered curses, and maligned the Almighty
that he should be taken out of life now that he
had become rich. These raving continued with
more or less strength for half an hour. Then
he became calmer. He lay a long time perfect-
ly silent, with the eager Vidocq watching at his
bed's head, as if in his zeal he were prepared to
arrest the very spirit inits escape from the body.
"I can't die !-'I am too great a criminal to
die !  I have wronged so many ! Ilhave done-
so much evil! Doctor ! 0, if you can by any
force or power of art prolong my life, even for
a week, that I may have space to repent, I will
give thee half of my fortune ! I am now heir
of Beachanipe."
" Save half," answered Colonel McNeil, who
was leaning on the arm of the lawyer and re-
~arding him. " Thy cousin has bequeathed the
ialf to Elliot Beaufort."
" The half ? Ah, well, be it so ! The half
will do for a man who will be dead in an hour.
see by thy silence, doctor, there is no hope for
meo. Send me a priest ! Let him pray for me !
s there none ! Who will pray for me ? I feel

am dying ! I never experienced such a strange
mortal coldness about my heart ! I know it is

THE DANCING SAR.


'     Koo"         r"  ::   Syr-     ,is            S.     F« ^                    f                e't   ,,
r;    d ,. ,y?'%" ;:'       r  - ' Y,;i' ;ni ..,''.i,              'r.. - r'(~            .,",      by                 a             :{,                                                                                   "__,.......
r , .w ,. .,.......tv nw -..+*rr.-r.-..+ +1..+ ""...
. i ,          ,i. S.C red "t       " t",1     .1 G                                                                   ^    _

death ! I know it is death ?
for me ?  Some one pray for
shrieked. Every one stood
were either not accustomed to p
that prayers for one so evil we
avail. But suddenly alight si
men, and a graceful delicate for
couch. It is Alice !  All are
} pectful awe, as if a pure- young
I  scended into the room. The e
smuggler turned upon her, and
nized the fair maiden he ha
groaned deeply, and then said e
"  es, yes--od will hea
wrong to thee has wcighel\ heap
If thou prayest he will forgive
She prayed !  0, with.hat
what earnestness of holy hope,
faith, with what confidence in t
Her upturned eyes seemed t
while the words of her lips asc
She prayed that he might be b
ance, or the forgiveness of his
safety at the judgment day.
committed him to Gol -in these
of the prayer for the dying :
commend the soul of this repent
Hands, as into the hands of
and most merciful Saviour.
blood of the immaculate Lamb
take away the sins of the Y
cleansed from all the defileme
,world, it may be presented
_  spot before thee; for his sak
merits and mediation all m4
Athee."
" Amen !" repeated the
4  and the rest echoed the ejaculi
.1 who would rather have had hi
Body safely lodged in an ear
police oilicers, even the most
Smen's bodies, must yield th

when he interposes his author
"B;,'

THE DANCING STAR.
Who will pray    Alice rose and was retiring othout a word
me !" he almost more, when he called to her faintly. His face
appalled., They had gradually lost its expression of despair, and
ray, or they felt was now more composed.
would be of little  " Alice !" he said, humbly yet earnestly.
tep passes by the  She drew nigh to his bedside.
rm kneels by his  "I have wronged yon! Will you forgive
silent with res- me?"
g angel had de-   -"With all my heart, and as I. hope you will
yes of the dying be forgiven by One whom you have more deep'
when he recog- ly wronged."
ad, wronged,. he   " If God were merciful like thee, I should
earnestly :      be easily forgiven, Alice -1'
r thee; for my     " Am I merciful, and did not God make me
viest on iy soul. what I am ?  Whence comes my mercy than out
' ?             from God, who is the fountain whence all mercy
holy fervor, with flows?  If the creature has mercy, dost thou
with what humble say ? If Qiod were merciful as his creature,
he divine mercy  you could be forgiven.  God is the ocean of
o reflect heaven, mercy, and I  m but a drop of the ocean. It
ended as incense, tell thee, that if thou art truly repentant, and
brought to repent- askest forgiveness of . him, he will forgive thee,
sins, for his soul's as much soever and more perfectly than I forgive
.At length she thee, as he is as much greater and. more merci-
e beautiful words ful than I.,
'We now humbly "0, that I could feel and believe it ! he
tant man into thy sighed.  " But your words give me great com-
a faithful Creator fort. Ab, I soon shall know all!- The great
Wash it in the mystery of another life, to which I have given,
that was slain to so little thought, will in a few minutes be opened
world, that being to me. Where is Captain Mainwaring.?G. Go
nts of this wicked and come hither with him."
pure and without She returned in a few moments accompanied
:e through whose by Henry.   Nevil beckoned him to approach.
en can come   to He then called to the la yer, and said:
" Write, v#ite quickly what I may have
miller devoutly, breath to utter. I would show the ,world my
nation, save Vidocq, repentance, and repair wrong so far as lies in my
mn recover and his power. Listen, all present. I, Nevil Bea'
'tly prison. dBut champ, being of sound mind, do give and be-
skilful in arresting queath, after all my just debts are paid, all my
e palm to Death property, real and person, of which I am posh

ity.

THE DANCING STAR.

sessed, to Alice Beaufort, for her own proper testimony. The captain of the James left the
use and her heirs forever; and I appoint Colo- country and went no one knew whither. Blous-
nel McNeil, th6 executor, to see this my. only ter, however, had not been discharged from
will and testament fully carried out."      prison a week before he was met by Vidocq,---
The lawyer wrote these words at his dictation. who was a little elated with wire,-who, after
He then placed the pen in his hand, and with upbraiding him for having, as he said, " when
difficulty the dying man affixed his signature to they were both buccaneers years before, sailing
the instrument.  He then grasped Henry's under the same flag, attempted tr murder him.
hand, his eyes sought a look of forgiveness from  Now, my man, I will avenge myself;" said he,
Alice, he murmured,- " May you-be-hap-i and taking a pistol from his pocket, he took de-
py !" and closed his eyes forever on all terres- liberate aim and shot the former host of the
trial things.                               Binnacle dead in the streets of York.  He at-
In one month after the death of the noble- tempted to escape, but was arrested, convicted
hearted Kate Beachampe, Elliot and Margaret of the murder, sentenced to be hanged, and
were united in the holy bands of matrimony in was h:nged'in ten-months afterwards; thus ver-
the venerable church at York ; and when they ifying the proverb, that a man who is born to be
retired from the altar, Captain Henry M.ainwar- hanged will never be drowned. Lastels was
ing and Alice Beauf9rt took their places and tried and sentenced to the State piison.for life,
wexe also married.  The weddings were meant but effected his escape, and was last heald of
to be private ; but it had got abroad that the smuggling on the coast of Texas. Wivil was
two weddings of the heir and heiress of Bea- taken into Mainwaring's employ as a sort of
champe Hall were to take place on that morn- " errand lad," in which distinguished position
ing, and a large concourse of people assembled; he now-lives, getting tipsy only after dinner,
and when the two couples left the church to when there is "nofin 'tikkler to do 'sides enjoy
dine at the villa of Colonel McNeil in the vi- a fellar's self!" Tony is Elliot's coachman,
cinity of the town, they were cheered and con- and drives a coach as skilfully as he used to
gratulated with right good will; for not one of steer the boat, yet it is his " private 'pinion dat
the four had an enemy in the world, but on the four wheels an' two 'orses vos nebber ekuel to
contrary many friends--and everybody rejoiced one keel and two masts, wid de wind after, for
at their good fortune, which all declared no one nice ridin' !'
deserved better than themselves.              Brand Sleger, the old miller, has been pro
At the end of the year Beachampe Hall rose valued upon to give up the mi, and occupy an
from its ruins more stately than before, and be- arm-chair in his old age by the side of the par-
came the abode of Elliot, who erected it; while lr fire of his daughter one wAlk, and of his
half a mile distant, Henry built a handsome son the next; and the two beautiful wives rival
match to it, where he resided ; and both gentle- each  other in making him  perfectly  ha
men devoted themselves to the improvement of Captain Krouten has given up the rver craf&amp;
their estates, and lived beloved by all who knew and taken the " Light in the Binnace," as its
them.                                       host, and it is said that it in no wit has lost its
Bluster was imprisoned and tried for smug- reputation, but rather gained in the artie of
gling, but was acquitted for want of sufficient ale and beer, of which he was doubtless a better

J,                    I '

0

i
_


THE DANCING STAR.

judge than Captain Ned Blouster. As for poor
" Mad Bess," ever since the holy deathbed of
Kate Beachampe, when -,she was seen to sign
the cross on her brow, she seemed to have been
restored to herself.  One who was inclined to
believe in the transmigration of souls, would
have supposed the mild spirit off the dying
maiden had taken possession of the soul of the
mother of Alice, and expelled the evil spirit
that had hitherto dwelt so long therein.. She
was now composed and lady-like,P and in her

K.

right mind became a beloved and respected in-
mate of the house of her daughter, to whom and
to. her son she was all love and tenderness.
And now, having disposed of our chief charac-
ters, and brought our tale to a happy ending, we
respectfully take leave of our readers, whom we
thank for their courteous indulgence, and hope
soon to meet again to pass together through other
scenes of romance woven from the golden woof
of fancy, or tradition, or legendary history.

sI

I'
tI

THE END.

p+

/

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

lr
9
1
I'

_
.

1   t  J
e,
Y'
1411

prvX


  
             
         
       
   
