
    ----CITATION----
        Vose, John Denison.. Seven Nights in Gotham .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8163
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Seven nights in Gotham 
            
               SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM   BY JOHN  D. VOSE, ESQ., AUTHOR OF "FRESH LEAVES FROM THE DIARY OF A BROADWAY DANDY."   -NEW YORK: BUNNELL& PRICE, 121 FULTOEN STREET. 1852.     Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1852, by BUNNELL AND PRICE, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern Distlict of New York.  ;j.  t4c'L   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. NIGHT THE FIRST. DAYIGHT   had buttoned up his coat and disappeared; this brightness upon earth was re- placed by grim old night, with his moonlight shadows, glisten- ing stars and city gas. Gas shone from the City Hall clock. There was gas in the "Tea Room". below-gas far up Broadway, far down the Bowery-gas about Bowling Green' --the Battery, and gas along the dooks. Will street had looked up and gone home; Broad street clerks had sloped for the remnant of the twenty-four hours; i and the big iron safes of South street held their precious contents against the tormenting threats of burglars and the fiery elements for the coming  night. There was gas in the Chatham' street shops, which glared upon plain.  looking shirts and ready-  made coithing; while in the  windows -of Bleeker street  mansions, gas shed its rays. of light upon thepbright door.  knobs and fancy railings of. the Wealthy. All shades of  gas streamed forth from the  cold-looking palaees of Union  Square, from the Doric and Tuscan mansions of the Fifth Avenue, and the Italian villas of Fifteenth street. In short, Manhattan Island loomed up amid poor city gas. It oozed from the pavements; and there was gasinthe atmosphere   6       BSEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. gas everywhere. Like a politician, the whole body-corporate of Gotham is-gas in the evening. You -may knt v that it was not late, for the Drummond light was in motion from the summit of the American Mu- seum, throwing its powerful rays so as to give a splendid silvery tint to the white marble of Stewart's palace, to the fine granite of the Astor House, a dull, lonesome light to the towering spire of Trinity Church, but a magnificent view to the observer of the actual condition of Broadway with a three-inch depth of city mud. The iron tongue of St. Paul's clock had just beat a parti- cular number of loud pulsations, as we passed up the modern thoroughfare of extravagance, Broadway, 'mid the " multitu. dinous mass." Soon after, "Beekman street clock" gave the true time. Questionable characters clothed in petticoats had began their evening's promanade along the spacious street; while beings of every order and degree of character known to civilization moved on with the great floating popu. lation. Well-dressed gentlemen were lounging about the doors of brilliantly-lighted saloons and hotels; dashing car- riages were depositing their living freight at the entraince of theatres, concert rooms and private mansions. The repre- sentatives of fashion figured largely amid the stream of human beings that floated along this fashionable resort-dependers of wealth and rank, and in the enjoyment of all that the eye could see or the heart desire. There were also emaciated subjects and objects bearing the impress of extreme wretched- ness, clothed in rags and filth, with out-stretched hands im. ploring charity-tottering limbs that bespoke disease and want. All, all came forth, the vile, the nioble the despica- ble, the pure, the -innocent and the vicious,: to mingle with each other, and exhibit to the world the different lights and shadows of human nature. eM m  great commercial centre of the United States is New-York, the City of Nations. This fact is universally admitted. The world comes to see it; and the variety of scenes, degrees of ignorance and refinement, grades of virtue and evil, present to the eye a boundless and inex- haustible variety: Of course we are in duty bound .to touch upon both sides of the picture. \ Its a long time since the first white man en" tered the Narrows, and looked upon the waters of the spacious harboreof New-York. And now, if its march of improvement has been so rapid for the past few fleeting years, that the " old citizens"p have   SEVEN NIGIITS IN GOTHAM.      7 but an imperfect knowledge of its extent and splendor, then let mystery throw aside her dim veil, and show to them, as well as to the mass at large, a " little world of wonder." The steady-going merchant who resides in the upper part of the city, " above Bleeker," and for years past has daily visited his house of business in Wall street, South, Broad, Pearl, Front, Water, Cedar, or Williap, discharging his vari- ous duties with untiring energys who diligently reads the daily papers, and is well versed in all that is connected with shipping and commerce, foreign and domestic affairs, politics, and other interesting items and incidents of the day, may imagine himself as " among the knowing ones." Such a person may, in a certain degree, be likened to a tribe of savages in some vast wilderness, who foolishy imagine that there is nothing in the world beyond the boundaries of their hills and forests. Let him, however, read these pages atten. tively, andi he may, perhaps, be led to acknowledge that there are more things in heaven and earth than his philosophy has ever dreamt of. There are strange sights to be seen everywhere--on the hill top of the East--in the huge old forest of the wild wood West-in the caverns, and on the shores of the ocean, that forever sings the deep-toned dirge over the lost of many lands. is isn Gotham, around Gotham, and under Goth- am, sights- which the ancient City of Babylon never possessed-sights which the general run of society are ignorant of, as much so, as the Bush. men in their jungles are ignorant of the exist- ence of Christianity.* And yet this modern city, promising to be the chief one of the world, is filled with the marvellous of all kinds. But let some' one o "Hold the light," while we report the" various interesting scenes every day enacted in our midst. Dwellers in Gotham! wake up, get up and ex.- plore; and at once materials are profuse, f6r there is an El Dorado of marvels well worth the attentive, close scrutiny of mankind in- general. Yet poor Gotham has to brook abuse from the four quarters of the globe, for never was a plape so slandered, libelled, and villified. The world: thinks-at least some of the people in it-that NeyrYl Qrk is a business city, and nothing more-a city free from romance--free from adventure. Unroll the page of truthful form, explore fairly its hidden mysteries and miseries, and the result will be that   8  -     SEVENV NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.            : Gotharm stands pre-eminent over all other cities on the face of the globe. An author requires neither invention nor ima- gination, if he will but confine himself to one point, to give the true unvarnished tales or revelations which this city pos. sesses, such as are at his command. Countless are the objects; characters singular and original stand unequalled; while the people sleep without heing its mysteries disturbed, such as would astound and captivate the reading public. Explore Gotham, and nothing is wanting in any department in representing its station. You can find secret associations -midnight assassins--bold robbers -old murders--dark holes-deep caverns-mysterious forms--depraved women -unparalleled cruelty-horrible suicides-singular coinci- dences--unhappy marriages-interesting love tales-broken hearts-brilliant episodes-dashing and vet villanous conspi- racies-scenes "i as are scenes" of poverty and splendor- and a goodly catalogue of all that is truly of a marvellous nature. Such is Gotham-the old historical Gotham of many a great episode. Fun gleamed ahead for the evening-an evening as fine and agreeable as April generally brings. Two very singular and eccentric characters were to accompany us on our tour -two originals of the first water. We were assured in our own mind that their company would lend a double charm to the interresting occasion. But allow us to present them in "charcoal sketches." ONE is a tall, lank, lean, com- passlegged individual, the per- feet image of an inexpressible u Ace Beanpole, six feet four in his socks; a covey blessed with hard looks, hard features, and a certain quantity of "hard cash." We will venture to call him Kit Hobbs, and say that Kit's equal (take him is hard to find. For years past has he poked about town, with a long green um- brella generally under his arm-we say generally, for Kit went to a funeral once without it-and from all ap- pearances he seems destined, for years to come, to continue poking the end of said article, every now and then, against somebody during his circumlo.   cutions. Eccentricity sticks out all about him, in every manner, form, and way--in his. looks, in his form of attire, in his actions. Oddity is his hobby-horse, money his idol, and women his enemy; crossed in love at the early age of nine- teen years, in a rude and malicious manner, while in the height of prosperity and success, he" has carelessly rushed through another nineteen years, in this singular and unfortu- nate manner, with what a heartless world calls a " cracked brain." His style of dress is plain and rather seedy; his language is a mixed up lot of quaint and ungrammatical phrases; while his natural propensities run- all ways at ran- dom. His ideas are his own. Persons are sure to smile as they pass Kit, for he is of the pipe-stem form, from head to heel, always grinning, always chewing something, sticks or peanuts in particular, and always tugging through the streets, in the most pleasant weather, that long green urnm- brella under his arm. We often doubt if Kit makes it a practice to comb his hair more than twice a week, or black his No. 13 cowhide boots once a month, judging from the ap- pearance of said hair and boots. But more of Kit anon. Judge Jerome Blower, the other character, is one of the genuine old-fashioned " blowers"-a scion of the "old school" -a gentleman at heart and in deed. At present he is a widower of eight and fifty, quite wealthy, and well known. Notwithstanding, he is short in stature, thick set, corpulent, and weighs sixteen pounds or so over a two hundred and forty-pound notch (good honest weight). He is quick and active, as well as being everlastingly talkative, especially when one touches upon "parliamentary debate," or the "points of common law." Then, again, the Judge is a capi- tal " nice drinker," can "smile" every half hour, day in and day o ut, if anything rather too often, judging him constitu- tionally. In his expressions, he is apt to be very comical, as he has a large, round, plump-looking face; and while con- versing, no one can refrain from laughing, as he talks very rough and blusteringly, brings out " his sentiments" plain and blunt, and generally chews the stump of a cigar, which he keeps whirling about his mouth. He never forgets to give all hands, and even the cook, to understand that " what he says, he does say;" " that he is well versed upon all subjects, especially 'common law,' Jeffersonian democracy,' and ' Tammany Hall doctrines ;" and the various topics of the day that entwine themselves amid the general intercourse of society. He generally dresses in blue broadcloth, with large old-fashioned brass buttons upon-his coat, and wears at pre- sent a white hat with wide crape upon it. Among the many      SEVEN NIGHTS N GOTHAM.       " quaint expressions which Judge Jerome Blower makes use of, there is one very peculiar in character-one which he re- peats every five minutes during conversation, loud and blus- teringly: "One moment, if you please. See here, the fact of the matter is thus; and so-- d-n me, if it ain't." This expression he is sure to make use of during any kind of a discussion.  The reader should see the Judge, and then form an opinion "as is an opinion" of his personal attractions. "We shall have a fine evening for our affair, Judge; hope you are well." we remarked on entering Otis Field's in Broadway, and taking the old gentlemen by the hand. "Fine, very fine-glad to see you-man of your word- up to your time-rather chilly-hope you find yourself in fine spirits." The Judge was pacing the floor with both hands thrust into his breeches pockets, and turning the stump of a " three cent-er " in his mouth. We made a ready reply to his seve- ral laconic inquiries. "Rather singular, wasn't it, of what I was telling you the night before last, when you called at my house to invite me? I refer to my ignorance of the different phases of city life." "Yes, Judge, very." "The fact of the matter is thus and so," said he, "I never paid much attention to such things; but I am now anxious to look into a little of this mystery, and that's the reason why I consented to meet you here to-night. You young bucks  who are full of fun rand frolic, wandering about town day and night, as " lookers on in Venice," kna I about Gotham  and its contents; but you see, oldi 0pdgike myself, are thirty years behind the age, at the lse$ i l!ation." "Very true, Judge; they are, ian.   seio, ignorant of the mirror of city life."  "Yes; that's the reason why I want t/ look'in and see for myself, as I've never paid much attentiio^:to:the many re- ports about certain classes and places. Tha t's why I don't know anything about the 'dark holes' ;in4 iO'thamr?  "' Exactly; that is one reason, Judge, -asW, are also anx- ious to be shown by a knowing persponthqeoji lar, la places. Has our friend Hobbs showed himself yet?' we inquired. "Havn't seen him, or the policeman eitetot' rreplide the      ,    12       SEVEN NIGHTS. IN GOTHAM. "Officer Wigglesworth will be here in time, I assure you. The Chief bade him to be on hand at eight." "Hard on to that hour; thirteen minutes, five seconds only lacking," I think, said the Judge, hauling out his little "silver bull's-eye." "By the by, I believe that he is a very old policeman, eh?" ONE of the very oldest settlers is Wigglesworth. We sup. pose he knows New York like "Like what? like a book, sir? D-n queer expressions you have over, I notice. But I 'spose you infer by that says aft+ ing, that Wigglesworth knows New. York and its contents." "That's the idea, Judge. Then this Wigglesworth in- tends to poke us about, and into some of these rare old places, eh?" "Yes, sir; and Wiggles- worth can do it, for he knows how." "What's up for the first thing? Where are we to go?" "Can't say. Perhaps he may take us to a ' Cook Fight,' or to a 'Rat Worrier,' or somewhere else." "And he pretends to know the whole rigmarole of these places, eh V?" "Yes, sir. Never fear; all's right as long as we have him with us." "Great city this; young man; d-n hard place; bad, bad ;" and Blower shool; his head. We agreed witi him upon these unfortunate points. "By-the-bye, that Kit Hobbs is a very singular kind of a human being, taking all things into consideration; now isn't he?" "That's a fact, Judge Blower, Kit Hobbs is an oddity, and no mistake." ' ".He's nobody's fool, however.", "Far from it." "Bad isn't it, that a woman should run away with hzs mind, eh?"                  v "' It is so, Judge. He was crossed in love in his younger days, I believe?"    SEVEN  IGHTnS m GOTHAM.       13 "Yes, and the d--i was to pay about it. I remember the circumstance very well." "I believe you are acquainted with the family?" "Oh, exactly; yes-for years; and a fine family it was, previous to their being scattered to the four winds of'-the earth. This Kit lives at present with a rich old aunt of his, on the ' East River side' of the town, whoahas lots of money. They are the remnant of a large household; the aunt, an old, troublesome, fussy, pesky maid, born to be in trouble and hot water during her life, as she thinks; and he, a 'loved,' wild chap. But let us walkl back," said the Judge, " and take a ' light nipper,' eh?" For "compliment sake," we, of course, obeyed. "What shall it be, gentlemen?" asked the short genteel barkeeper. Before we had an opportunity of answering, the Judge, loud and strong, replied-,' Gin and sugar for me." Blower took a "stout horn," and as he " smiled," remarked, with an egotistical air, wiping his mouth-"That's the best Holland's gin I've drank since 1832, when I was travelling on the Continent." Confidentially, we would say that-its very likely he never was outside of Sandy Hook in his life. "Speaking of Hobbs," he continued dicking the sugar in. side of the tumbler), "I'll tell you one thing about that fel- low.  Naturally, he's a sharper, although he's one of the still kind of men, always thinking, but never saying any. thing." "Shouldn't wonder, Judge." "Rather singular that he has done nothing for months to- gether. But why he does not stop toating about that long green umbrella of his under his arm, is one of the mysteries, Wherever he goes, there goes the umbrella; and I aint sartin but what the fellow takes it to bed with him. Let me see now-one, two, and two is four, two is six, two is eight, and one is nine. Yes; Kit. has carried that article about with him for the last nine years, day arid night. I'll tell you what I date from; Kit was about town with 'that umbrella under his arm as far back as 'Tyler's veto of the United States Bank. The fun of it is, he hardly opens it from one year to another, for in rainy weather he stows himself away in the house. He's a very singular covey, is he not?" "Very. But, Judge, you don't suppose that he will have it with him on such a fine evening as this?" "Won't he, though?" interposed the old man in a hurry.   "       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "Just as sure as Kit Hobbs shows himself here, just so sure comes the umbrella." "By-the-bye, did you ever notice what a foot the fellow has? Isn't it an awful big one--awfully large?" ", It is so, Judge." "Devilish doubtful whether the shoemaker takes a mea, sure of his foot or not! I guess he takes the width of a flour barrel, which makes a sure fit!" said the Judge, laughing. "And then look at his mouth!-jimmeny, what a large one! -it puts one in mind of Boston harbor, when he opens it! But that tongue of his beats all things in creation, in my opinion. We have noticed it, and the Judge is correct. It is " large and long." "Large--long," said he, the old segar stump still persist- ing in performing revolutions in his mouth. "If a fellow on. a hot day should see Kit coming down a hill with that tongue of his hanging out of his mouth, he would be apt to think, as the sun shone upon it at a distance, that Hobbs had a small quarter of veal on his shoulder." look, what did I tell you! 'The devil is never nearer than when you are talking about him.' See here he is, coming in backwards, with the um. brella, as usual, under his arm." And, sure: enough, there was Kit backing in through the doorway, with the long green ar-. "Hobbsle under his arm. therella aon hand, Gentlemen, as you  ob- "Becauserve, I always takes aid he,  as he dntered. 'C Why, how do you stand it, Judge; re-  joioeA to meet you.' Hobbs, give us your hand ;" and the Judge gave him a hearty skake. ci Why didn't you leave the umbrella at home, Kit?" "Yes, Kit, why didn't you?" we also asked. "Because how, Judge, I always takes it with me in case   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       16 it might storm on a sudden, you see," said Kit, in his soft squeeling tone. his face constantly on the broad grin while talking. One look would convince any person that he was born "never to set the world on fire," being evidently rather "weak in the garret." "No more signs of rain to-night, fellow, than there is that we are to have a double clap of pell-mell thunder, mixed up with a few sharp twitches of lightning," cried Blower. "Look at the canopy of heavten above," yelled out the Judge; " all is fair, starry, and pleasant." "Well, you see, Judge," said Kit, " you can't always tell about rain, "no more than you can what will 'turn up ;' and then the almanac says,' Rain to-day ;' so aunt Cynthia says to me, ' Take your umbrella, nephew,'--and so you see I did, gentlemen. I always mind my aunt-always.5" "Well, well, then, stick to it closely, my good fellow,' re- plied the Judge, in a moro submissive tone, who thought it useless to discuss the matter with him. Kit was bundled up, about the neck especially, as if -he was going into the cold northern regions in search of Sir John Franklin. "Are you all ready for a start yet?" he asked; and just at this time in came the veteran Wigglesworth. "Let me time it," cried the Judge, who- grabbed hold of his "bull's-eye " in a hurry.' "Fact to-tom, just eight o'clock. Officer Wigglesworth, my old boy, put it right then," extending his hand at the same time. ("You are a man of your word. Now we'll all take a 'light nipper,' and then we will be off." While " smiling" at the bar, Kit was observed at a distance. "This way, Hobbs; this way, my dear boy.." "No, Judge, thanks to you a thousand and one times, but I never drinks anything but cold water."' "But take some soda?" "No, Judge, but I'll take a piece of mince pie m ( Huloa! At your old tricks again, eh?" said the 6adge, as we all stood laughing at the " pie remark.'- Wel, then, come up and get a bit of pie, if they have any.' Ifete the Judge declared to us that in all his travels with t'bbbs, -e had never known him to "' imbibe strong drink ;') ' but us for pie," said he, '" why Kit one night eat a doszen pieces "in the different saloons we visited."        ' As we left the place, to prepare for our departuri) tie Judge inquired what was " the first move on the dooket.'5 "Can't exactly tell yet," replied Wigglesworth "I had some notion of going first into- Oak street."   i6       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. Wigglesworth is a short, dried-up little fellow, who, with his white neckchief, has rather a clerical appearance. "Oh, yes," said Kit, in C major key, " over to 'Old Bill's.' That would be a bunkum good place to commence on, and-then again, officer Wigglesworth, there's that under- ground kind of a circus place, over in the lower part of Jack- son street." "Yes, I know," replied the officer carelessly. We at once perceived that both were well " posted up." "Then there's "Old Moll's,)' away up West street; then the "Ginger Inn" over in Mott street; the "Beer Pot" in South street, and ---- "Hold up, Kit, that will do," remarked the officer. "See here, one moment if you please," said the judge, who seemed to have Ocught an idea in a hurry, " how is it about watches and pock et-books? better leave them here, eh?" Wigglesworth bade him leave them behind. ' "Exactly so. You had better stow 'em away," added Hobbs. Out came " old bull's eye" and long pocket-book at once. "Wouldn't lose that watch no how," said the judge, " for s it was made, gentlemen, by the same man who manufac. tured one for the Duke of Wellington, years and years ago." Imparting the information in a very pompous and laudatory manner. The articles were left in the possession of a faith. ful hand, Hobbs was advised to leave his umbrella, but his reply was:   O you don't, I wouldn't feel safe without it." By this time the coachman had informed us of the arrival of our carriage. I Got a carriage, eh? Well that's nice enough-very nice indeed," said Hobbs in a tick- ling mood. "Hav'nt rode idi one for a long time-always walk- wonder how I'll feel? Will step out and take a look at it,"' and off started the fel- low, keeping the old green cot- ton under his arm. "That tickles Kit very much," observed the judge, who stood with us, viewing Kit's  various  attitudes.   SEVEN NIGHTS LN GOTHAM.       17 "Here," ejaculated the judge, in a loud tone, come back here, of course we've got a carriage, did you think that I was ' going about town to-night on foot, who pulls down 256 pounds and nothing shorter? "Ha! ha! ha! cried Kit, "I'm darn afraid we may go into some places to-night, so narrow and small that it will be as much as you can do to squeeze through conveniently in tolerable good shape." "Come, come, I say Kit, none of that now, for as fat as I am, I can travel some, when you once get me fairly started with a good head of steam." "I'll bet, officer Wigglesworth, that it will be a darn tight fit for the judge to squeeze through that underground place over in Essex street--don't you?  He smiled, but made no reply. "And there's ' old Nat Cromwell's' place, too." "Take- us down there, Kit, and I'll try my luck," inter. rupted Blower. "Since I come to think it over in my head, I don't believe you could get through that door over in "Suicide Alleyn" ,do you, Wigglesworth?" , He smiled, but remained silent. "Some ticklish-looking places, Judge, over on the 'L East side of the Town," let me tell you," observed Kit, as he stood with his right eye squinted upward. ' WI guess we'll go over into Mulberry street first,!; observed Wigglesworth. "What's up there?" we inquired. "A six story house," said the officer. "And filled with organ grinders and squealing monkeys," added Kit in much haste. "I havn't said what was in the building,"' replied Wiggles- worth, tartly. ( No, but I have, well it's an awful smelling place over there, awful smelling, and it's all yelling and squealing, music and dogs," observed Hobbs, who seemed to,be thor- oughly " booked." There will be a place for you to clap dovn a lot of notes," turning and addressing us. ("That's what we want--it's our business," we replied. '( Well, I'll post" you on, don't be alarmed, for I " know the ropes," all the crooks, all the curves, and corners, and the little points, and keworanks of the city." Saying this, Kit began to give us a sample of (" affairs" which were very am using. "This is a pesky hard city, and a chap has got to mind his moves or else he's a gorner. I can take you into sone of the most skittish places you ever saw, and some night we'll go alone, eh??"   18       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.  We answered in the affirmative. 4"Because, you see how I've travelled now for over twenty years about the city, but more especially on the "East River side." There's some mighty queer places in Big and Little Water Streets, in Mott, Essex, Jackson, Front, and a good many others; and then along South street, especially about Catharine Market and James' Slip, are hard, awful holes. What do you say, we'll go some night together, eh?" We promised Hobbs accordingly. We soon took our departure. As our carriage rolled over the Russ pavement at an early hour of the evening, all kinds of subjects were discussed. Blower seemed to be brimful of glory, Hobbs was An solid comfort," and nothing else, Wig. glesworth was pleasant and interestingly instructive, and as for us, we were somewhat excited as our expectations and anticipations were soared high amid the fields of imagination Kit's dress of grey clothes throughout, and a big blue broad- cloth cap made him appear as a defender and admirer of ec- oentric notions. While to this, add that umbrella, and you see at once that he presents himself before the public as a ship shape representative of oddity. 1"We have passed Mulberry street, officer Wigglesworth," said Kit, as he took a squint-out of the carriage window. "Never you mind if we have, keep cool, and let me be the pilot to-night.' "Yes, Hobbs, hold up, be easy, don't get into a frustra. tion," added the judge, as he sat describing circles with the stump of a cigar about his mouth. "By-the-bye, one mo- ment, if you please,'" cried Blower, " who of the gang has weapons?" "Weapons?" asked we. L"Yes, weapons. If we are going to some of the skittish places, weapons we must have." t"All right, Judge, I have a small brace of pistols," inter. rupted Wigglesworth. "And then agin, I'm well armed too," added Hobbs. "With what? where's your arms?" inquired Blower. Here Kit raised his old green cotton. 1 I can do all the swipeing with it too, you'd better believe I can-by thun- der." By this time we were -informed that we were about to pass through the Five Points. We readily perceived that we were hard on to the "St. Giles" of New York, for all was a dis- mal and degrading sight--low wooden houses, muddy streets, poorly lighted, and swarms of people of a most polluted na- ture. Wintlows were crowded. with heads--ragged and dirty urchins thronged the poor decayed steps of the dingy houses,    SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       19 and degraded harlots were to be seen upon all sides in clus- ters, door after door. As we passed along from street to street, presenting scenes anything but inviting, Hobbs looked out, and as he rode along whistled away cheerfully in a low tone, and seemed to feel happy, for be it known, Hobbs had been in these quarters before, Wigglesworth was easy, but Blower kept mentioning, "Hard, ah, hard place this, awful skittish looking," his little blue eyes sticking plumply out of his head. "Here we are," saidC Wigglesworth, as the coachman drove up in front of a miserable-looking hole. "It takes the driver, for Tim knows?" "How ddas the fellow know?" asked Blower. "What fIe coachman? what Tim don't know about Gotham isn't worth knowing. Why, Judge, that Tim is an old traveler, and he knows every foot of land about here. He's an old hand at it-was the one who went with Lord Ashburton, Charles Dickens, and other notables, when they were here." "Did you take them are bighugs around, Wigglesworth?" inquired Kit. "Well, I did, rejoined the officer carelessly. "Paid you well, of course, eh?" I have no time to talk about that just now." Kit then alighting from the carriage.       ' As the Judge followed him, he gave a grunt, a rough shiver, and then began to sneeze. "' Oh hum, hard place this, awful skittish looking," concluding with another convulsive sneeze.     20       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAMf.  "Oh, ho I Proceed then, officer, I'm prepared." As this sight was something new to us, we felt very much interested. We doubt if our readers are aware of the fact, that there are establishments of this kind devoted exclusively to " the trade." "Follow me, gentlemen," said the officer, " and I will strive to show you a goodly part of the contents of this brick four story structure." Blower was the second one who ascended the steps of dirt and filth, his fists doubled, ready for any emergency. A newly lighted segar whirled about his mnouth. Hobbs fol- lowed him with umbrella under his arm, and we after him. Crowding through a gang of hard-looking beings in the long, dismal, dirty, damp, and (" skittish" passage, Wigglesworth, who held in his hand a lantern of pocket dimension, led on briskly up stairs, remarking that the chaps we passed were organ grinders-boarders at the establishment. Blower cau- tioned him not to ascend too fast, as he was so, fat that it troubled him to " rush things," to which remark Hobbs added, as he cracked peanut shells between his bony fingers, "No, not too fast, Wigglesworth, for I'm a leetle near sighted." The stairs were broad and rickety, so much so that Blower remarked he was actually afraid of '( going through." Dirt and filth was visible upon all sides, and overhead cobwebs were so thick that it gave to the eye a foggy look. . Ascend- ing to the second floor of this abode, where grim want and ghastly poverty shadowed everything with their gaunt wings, we found it but a repetition of the first. The confined mo. tionless air, filled with the. flavot of tobacco pipes and that peculiar odor that ever arises from animals, would almost give one the idea that he was within the precincts of a menagerie, and. with the almost ceaseless chattering, jabbering, and mocking of the monkeys, then strangely mingled, Babel-like, the confused jarring of almost every language of earth. We met a thin, wasted, sickly-looking resemblance of what once probably had been a human being, but now more like the skeleton of disease than aught else. ( Hillo, Hance, your just the man I've been looking for, if you think, you can move your trotters swift enough I want you to show us over these premises again," was the saluta- tion Wigglesworth greeted him wik  "Yes, Senor, Yes servitora udilisimo-eh, yes, Hwill- buon-I will wiz pleasure. "All right, Hance, let's go ahead and see the hogs, dogs, monkeys, and women-everything;"   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       21 "Yes; women particularly," interrupted the judge, his month vainly endeavoring to contract itself into an expres- sion of satisfaction, but which the heat and atmosphere pre- vented. "It's so infernally nasty here than I'm hanged if I can laugh."' Then you know that fellow," asked Kit of Wigglesworth. Wigglesworth didn't answer, and Kit looked as sulky as a sick dolphin.       ' After a series of grumbles from the judge at the probable number of stairs there would be to ascend, and a variety of attempts at a single joke, all of which proved failures, headed by the redoubtable Italian, we found ourselves on the fourth' floor-a kind of a twin floor to those below, but apparently better educated in the beauty of filth, and above them in the particular essentials of grease and miasmatic slops. The very doors which loomed up to the view at regular intervals. seemed so many entrances to the mysteries of crime, degra- dation, and their reward. Kit's eyes became as large as a pair of moons, over which his brows hung like two thunder clouds. We ascended again, and reached the fourth floor, and the same doors and sights, in a worse degree, saluted bur gaze-, the Judge was astonished-and well he might be.. And whp tenanted these rooms, these gateways through which the deni. zen became acquainted with disease and wretchedness? We looked in, arid saw hurdy-gurdy organs on the floor, one bed 'to an average of nine'or ten persons-the beds, like the occupants, reeking with filth and coated with rags. Men with loathsome faces seared by the result of many a fierce, drunken orgie;' women, whose bleared and besotted eyes were the title-pages to volumes of guilt and depravity, children revelling upon the floor, squalid and ghastly from inheritance, and not by chance. Hen-cooped monkeys, that seemed to grin with delight at their miserable owners. Pan. demonium may be paved with tortures, but its tortures could not exceed the abject, terrible, and revolting hideoasness of this fourth floor. The furniture was rubbish--the dishes were not even apol- ogies fit for a dog keninel. Kit Hobbs sneezed like a kitten with its tail cut off-and even his umbrella sneezed, for it bobbed up and down-who- wouldn't sneeze if they had strength enough, in such a den of infamy? "This 'ere air is wus than bad snuff at three cents a grab, to make a feller sneeze. I say, Blower, wot a place this 'ere would be for dryin' red herrins, eh-it 'ud salt em, and   22       EWEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM* shrivel 'em up hard as a rich man's heart in the winter time." The Judge only looked at Kit, but the look said more than his tongue could if he had talked for a month. We saw there what had once been-so the Italian said- one of our most beautiful actresses, playing penny loo with a street beggar. The cards were greasy and shiney--fit visit. ing invitations to the regions of the damned. And she-that had been so bright and fair, whose beauty had thrilled to the hearts of the fashionable of our city, was now a faded wreck of youth, wasting away upon the shores of ruin-lost to hope, lost to memory-a feather, awaiting the whirlwind of death to waft it to eternity. What a sad, sad romance is the reality of life. As we descended the stairs, their creaking seemed to sug. gest an idea to the Judge, which he uttered in the form of a question to the Italian, who was secretly gloating over a shilling which Kit had, unknown to the rest, given him. "Do you know how many people live in this house?" The man raised his dark lustrous eyes in their cavernous sockets, and answered him -- "Yes, yes sah, there is-there is-- tink 'bout two hun- dred people." "' And are they all organ-grinders?" "Oh yes, certamo." c, And do they all own monkeys?" C"Certamo, yes- dey is-eall the men that have no mon- keys and a big, or. gan, "Legcitimatesg," and de organ men that have ze mon. kies, ze melo-dra. matio, yes., , I 'spose you're one of the turning chaps?" asked Kit, poking the end of his umbrella against the person of the "intelligent young genius." "Eh! What you "mean?" he inquired. "Don't you turn   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTAM.      23 the crank?" and here Kit gave him a specimen of what he meant, by whirling his right hand over and over. "Why don't you ask the question right out, man fashion, Kit, and done with it?" ejaculated Blower. "Say, fellow, he wants to know'if you are an organ-grinder?" "' Oh yes-I see now-yes, yes. Me used to be one, and me got a very big monkey yet--climb right up water-spouts and poles; yes, away up." "'How long have you lived here, Hance?" asked the officer, i Two whole big years. Me kinder boss 'em up stairs. Me kinder watch about nights,"' and a grin of satisfaction crossed his features as he proclaimed that he was a " boss." It pleased Kit. '"What do you give the monkeys to eat?" -we asked. ' They eats most anything." "Eat anything, eh? Well, then," said Hobbs, " it don't cost much to keep 'em. How often do you wash them down?" "' How much do these organ-grinders make per day, on an average?" we asked. "More one. day-less t'other." "Shouldn't wonder if you spoke the truth then," inter. rupted Kit, who stood eating pea-nuts. "Yes--sometimes two dollars, then not four shillings all day. Oh, trade is very dull-too many in the business, kills all. I used to do first-rate, I did. Part of the folks upstairs and down stairs have gone away, and part have gone to bed." "( How do you like this country?" inquired the Judge. "Oh, very much-very much I likes it." "Big country, ain't it?' said Kit. c, Oh, very big, and will be bigger yeti eh?" "( You're right there, old fellow, that's a fact," said Hobbs, continuing his warfare on pea-nuts. "Yon folks take a run down South winters, -eh?" in- quired the Judge. "Oh yes, a good many go away, and then comes back here when the warm weather comes back," "Just so, just so," responded the Judge. "What rent do you men-you grinders, pay here?" "Three dollar f; every month-three dollar, sure," re. plied Hance. "Pay in advance?" asked Kit. "Shut up, Hobbs," cried Blower. "How many organs grinders do you think there are in this country?"   24       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. E don't know.-must be several thousand. - One man up in this big city lets out organs and mon- keys to the men of this city. Then there is one in Ann street, Boston, away over that way," and he pointed East- ward. "a Then there's- two, yes three, very big establishments in St. Louis, and one in Buf. falo, away that way," and he pointed South- ward and Westward. We inspected  the other parts of the build- ing during this *' flying visit," and then we came to the conclusion that if the roofs were taken off the misera- ble buildings in- that neighborhood, and it were to rain right straight down," as Kit said, for one month, day and night, the impurity might escape, and be washed away to a considerable extent. Blower was of -the opinion that t" rain for forty days and forty nights " wouldn't more than be a fair introduction, yet he thinks that " a certain disagreeable smell will be eternally smellable." The reader can now form an opinion of the actual condition of such a place where these prerambulating surveyors of music and their monkey allies live. When we reached the street door, some forty of the clan stood about the passage way, on the steps, and along the muddy street. Judge Blower felt delighted when he reached the open air, nor did he forget to express himself as of old- (' hard place, awful skittish," adding that he was unaware that such awful places or establishments were in existence, when officer Wigglesworth elevated his green umbrella, and gave him to understand that he had seen nothing yet to what he would. "Show 'em up." Then seating himself in the carriage, Kit followed, requesting the driver to "-hold," his green cot- ton until he was seated, the idea of which caused some sharp expressions to fall from Blbwer's lips. "Drive over to the Bowery, Tim," said the oiAcer, addressing the coachman, as he was about to take a seat within.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      25 "Yes driver, drive as soon as possible where I can get some gin and water to settle my stomach," added the Judge, as he coughed, wheezed, and granted. "What do you think of that establishment, Judge?" "Officer Wigglesworth, it's impossible for me to talk upon that point until my throat is wet. Just tell the driver to take us to some good hotel, where we dan ' liquor up,' if you please, for my throat and wind-pipe is in an awful fix.?' ,( Wait patiently, Judge, until we get into a decent part of. the city.' True enough; the close air about the organ and monkey establishment had set the Judge to wheezings incessantly. ," What makes you drink 'eye-water,' Judge?" said Kit. ' Eye. Water?' Well now, that's a new term ; d-n it all, why don't you talk plain English, you asthmatic indi- vidual ;" here the Judge finally roared. "Ha! ha! ha!" cried Kit. "Why, Judge, ' eye-water ' is liquor.'"  GOOD reasons why I drink it, Hobbs; liquor is liquor," muttered Blower, "and I drink liquor, 'cause how li- quor does me good-- agrees with me-kee ps my stomach in order-- gives me fine spirits af. ter laborious duties- and you'd'find that a light horn' wouldn't set you back any, your- self. The fact of the matter is, you're a gen- uine Grahamite; alto, gether a white-bread and cold water disciple." "But I eats pie, Judge," ejaculated Hobbs, grinning "One moment, if you please," returned Blower. "The fact of the matter is thus and so; you don't eat more than one good meal of victuals in every week; you sleep half of your time; days you are nervous, billions, erratic, conglom- cratic, asthmatic, wheezical; up and down in the night, rais. ing the devil about the house ; and when you're asleep, you're on a nightmare-excursion, or dreaming of the girl you left behind you; one moment in Paradise, and the next in, in, d--n me if I know where. Why, it's no wonder that you   26       SEVEN MGHTS IN GOTHAM. are nothing but skin and bones-no wonder at all. But, Wigglesworth, tell that coachman to drive faster," said the Judge. We could not desist from laughing, as Blower parted with a good quantity of gas. Kit took it very easy, for he sat opposite us, seeming to be highly pleased with the flattering remarks made. "' Whoa!" cried the coachman. "Here we are, Judge," said Wigglesworth. "Where?" he asked. "At the Broadway House; the best place to 'liquor up,' as you say, Judge, in town," replied the officer. AFTER the 'Compliment ' had passed at the Judge's expense, officer  Wiggles- worth remarked that if we were ready, he would do us the honor of showing us the inside of a Cock-Pit.' We here made several inquiries in regard to the location of i this Pit.' "It's a very low kind of a place, down in Water street, and where the very worst of beings hang out," he ob. served. "Awful skittish place, then, you say?" interrupted the Judge. "Oh yes, just a'bout as low a place as one would ask to get info." "But there are better, and more respectable ' Cock-Pits' in town, are there not?" "' Oh, yes, but as you want to see the different grades, I thought we would take a drive down there, and then go to some other, although I don't know of but one that is more respectable, and that is in Second street," We here informed Wigglesworth that this was the reason why we   accosted hint as we did. "There is one in the Bowery," we continued, " and as we have been there before, we thought that if the circle were willing, we would call there first." "All right then?" observed the officer. "This is the regular gala night," said we, "and we have just four tickets of admission." Here we presented them.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       2T "Then you know about the place?" they asked- ("Yes." "Coachman, drive up the Bowery, and stop between --- street and --  street." Stopping before a certain location in the Bowery, we gazed. upward to see if we could discover any light in the windows by which we might be certain that we were in the right place, but all was dark. Proceeding to the nearest gaslight, we examined our ticket, No. 2** plain enough, and on the hall door the number tallies. Let us enter. Whew! light enough now; up stairs we go. Soon another door is passed, when some one takes our ticket, and ye gods! where are we? A crowd of all sortsobf men surround a miniature circus-ring about ten feet in diameter, in which we suppose the per- formances were to take place. From numerous bags hung up on the wall, came the chanticleering of the cocks, and it is not a little surprising how they could live and orow in, so confined a compass. At first, we looked on the audience as so many ventriloquists, each outvieing the other in his imi. tations of the feathered tribe; but on drawing nearer one-of the bags, to satisfy our doubts, we placed our hand upon it, and were rudely admonished by a rough looking individual, to " let that cook alone," and of course we did not press the matter farther. "The main," is about to commence. The crowd press close around the ring, and the ceremony of weighing and tying " the gaffs," engages all attention. A small steel knife about one quarter of an inch in length, with a socket fash. ioned so as to fit the place of the spur which has been trim. med for the purpose, is designated by the title of " gaff," and according to the rules of " the pit," must be made of just such a length and shape. Indeed, we were told that by mak. ing them of a peculiar curve, it would enable a cock with one stroke, to kill his opponent. The gaff-tyers place their birds--a pile and a rose-comb in the ring, head to head, and simultaneously the major part of the audience take out their pocket books, and bet after bet is made.   28        SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTIIAM.         " HOW   the fun comr mences. The cocks stand bill to bill for sometime. All eyes are upon them. At length, jumping up, they strike at each other with their feet however, 'V111witha the lod srug e and until nearly e xhaust. The excitement amongst the betters is intense; oath after pile-cook lays in the ring copletel otionless, with one ed byplucked from itsocket, and loo streaming fom a dozen uts An oer is made nowh e  n by the owner of the rose- combed conqueror, to pound, (i. e., to bet 20 to 1?) the lose against the pile. The rose-colb stiill stagoers around the nipped. A4ts this bet is madle, so rushes and draws nearer and nearer the crowatd each othe ring. As the rse-comb nears Ithe fallen fowl, he points his lon narrow beak in contempt, as it were, at his foe, whose hea still movesblood an follows that of his apparent conqueror. The down bird now shows disoet- slight animation in his limbs, and a ruffian in  the rowd bawls out that he will ate. that bet. of 20 to 1; but the rose. comb better  ing  ts too much for that, and laughingly dclines osely trmme         fea de u ' nf im n b therow, are now t om- aThe pilencoch rises-mae es one deadly onslaughtvered lasth gore. Still the noble birds fight, bravely on, draws 'neparein anof their throats, and weakness of their limbs plainly show, death truggle as it werer, than be otle combatannot last much longer-- oTh exhis pement amonquer. the d ntters  bird intenoawsh aowsfner eye apluckted from ins solkets and blood streaming from a dozen outs. An offer is made now by the owner of the rose- combed conbueror, to pound, (i. t., to bet 20 to 1,) the rose against the pile. The rose-e obnstill     staggers around the as it were, at his foen whose head still moves and followsethat death struggle as it were, and both combatants fall exhaust.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTtHAM.       29 -ed- dead. Satisfaction is expressed in the most lively man. ner by the spectators, and a rush is made for the bar and gambling tables in the front room, whither we will follow them. It may be supposed that none but the low and vul- gar could be found among the frequenters of a cock-pit; yet this is not so. Gentlemen of exalted reputation, scholais, philosophers, even divines are here, mixed up with stable- boys, market hucksters, fishermen, thimble-riggers, gamblers, and loafers of every description. That there are cook-pits in certain low streets, such as Water, where :' rascals make up the crew," we will not deny; but here in the Bowery, in Grand street, as well as in several other noted thoroughfares, the assembly present at one of these fights, consists of the good as well as the bad. Here a man could expose any amount of gold without the slighest fear of its being forcibly taken from him. It is true the hangers-on might offer him induae- ments to chance his treasure where -the advantages would be against him; but his own powers of yielding to, or resisting temptation, would be all the risk he would encounter., : In the gambling-room could be found roulette, faro .and several other tables, at which are seated a goodly number of players. Pile after pile of ivory chips passed to and'fro, "ate each turn of the wheel, card, or dice. All was quietness about the spot, save the deep breathing of the excited players, strangely contrasted with the solemn tone of the dealer, "Done, all done, gentlemen." This was repeated just before turning the card, and scarce another word would be spoken, each eye being riveted on the small spring-box which contains the papers. On they watch their fate, 'mid strange infa. tuation; and on, hour after hour, they thus exhaust. :the night.  The excitement still continues in the ring; bird after bird are pitted against each other, and ever true to their only in- stinct, fight bravely on, regardless of the crowd and confusion by which they are surrounded, until at length the "4 main" is ended. During this time, Wigglesworth, Blower, and Hobbs, looked on with great indulgence. Each of them discussed the sub- ject; Kit in particular, with much avidity, and Blower was greatly surprised at the sights before him, this being his debut at a, "'cook-pit."              '  After we had fairly seated ourselves in the carriage, W. ig- glesworth remarlked that, if in accordance with our wishes, he would take us to'the L' cock-pit " in Water street, where the scenes would be of a fart different nature-as dis'respeota- ble as the present one had been respectable., He bade us 'to   30       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. remember that we would notice a change, far beyond our ex-  ' peotation, and as he had lbeen there before, it was his duty to give us a few warnings: "As we are now going to a place where we shall meet desperate characters; to a wicked hole, full of dark, myste- rious brutality, where we shall find an assemblage of villany, any how you can fix it, let me warn you to be careful what you say, and one thing in particular, don't, for goodness' sake, put on any airs." "Hold up, Wigglesworth, one moment, if you please; just say that once again?" "I say, Judge, it won't do for any of us to put on any airs after we get inside." "Yes, yes; but Wigglesworth, accommodate my cranium, by condensing the term so as to bring it to a focus of rudi.  mental English." Here we laughed heartily at the remarks set forth by the learned judge.' "Why, Judge, Wigglesworth, our old friend, means that none of us must be obstropolous," inteposed Hobbs.       : "Judge, allow me to explain," said the officer. "When  I spoke about 'putting on airs,' I meant for us to be quiet, still, while there; be, in fact, ' lookers on,' and nothing more. i! Don't enter into a discussion with any of them; ask no ques. ? tions outside of our circle; for if you do, you may be made  a bully, a laughing-stock for the ring- leaders, who may come  round you or Hobbs, and make you 'treat ' the crowd with  liquor and segars, or else lam you, as the saying goes."  "Ah! ah! I see, I see now, friend Wigglesworth, that  advice is important-quite so; but not that I'm afraid to  speak, however," remarked Blower.  "No one doubts your courage, Judge, but it's best to be mnum while there; I've been there before with gentlemen ob-  servers, and a fellow has to mind his own moves, or else he  may get himself into a scrape before he knows it."  "One moment, friend Wigglesworth, if you please; will  there be any danger of us getting into a muss?"  "Not if we mind our own affairs."   "And where is the place:?"  "- Down in the lowest part of Water street" "Awful skittish-looking hole, I 'spose, outside as well as ! inside." 4 Very, judge" "s That one in the Bow-wow-ry," said the judge, while gap.  1 ping, " is quite a decent place."; Yes, it is so."    SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       31 I've been down into this 'ere place, where we're going, now," observed Kit, who evidently had been 'thinking it over in his own mind.' "I'm sartin of it, Wigglesworth," and here he explained its location satisfactory to him. L I come darn near of putting a fellow's eyes out with this 'ere umbrella of mine, 'cause how he abused me. Didn't I sw- swipe him? Then, friend Wigglesworth, I've been into that one up in Second street; no, I mean Second Avenue, in that low porterhouse, where you go in first, then travel away in ' back, then down into the cellar, where there's a pit with seats all about." "And Hobbs, are the tops of the seats painted red?" inter. rupted Wigglesworth. "That's a fact, officer." "I know where it is, Kit." "And then; officer, there's that one down in Water street, near James' slip; and then that one over in Essex street." "Yes, I know, Hobbs." "Did you ever go into that one kept by a woman, in the lower part of Front street?" "Never."   32       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "t Well, you've been into that place where they have 'Rat- Worriers, over in Mott street?" "' Never. I've been in Grand and Twenty-fifth streets, where they have them," was Wigglesworth's reply. "One moment, if you please," interrupted the judge; "I want to inquire into this new scene, ' Rat-Worrier.'"  Wig- glesworth said he would take him to one, where he could see for himself. By this time we were passing through Pearl street- at a * rapid rate. "If a ' negro,' or any hard-looking individual, should push against you, stand by your side, or act mightily, while down about this ' Cock-Pit,' in Water street, overlook it, and say nothing," was another warning from the officer. "' Yes; don't undertake to lamn him." This expression of Kit's called out the judge, who desired to know the meaning of all these singular phrases. As Wig. glesworth had become well versed in all the sayings of the Police, and also those used by slippery individuals, he took a chew of tobacco, and then volunteered to explain them. "Judge Blower, the word lam means, or rather signifies, to beat, or knock down, or flog. I Going the rounds,' is to go about from place to place, on a cruise, or on a spree. ' Ben. der,' is to go on a dfuliken froclio, or abroad, and have a high time. You will, no doubt; hear some chaps say,' in Water street, ' Tip us your mauley.' This means to give us your hand. Thieves, when they wish to go on a pilfering cxpedi. tion, express themselves to go ' on the dub.' The profes. sional term for thieves, is I Crossmen;' and for burglars, the word ' Cracksmen.. , When the latter breaks into a house, and wishes to tell a confederate of it, the term of "I've cracked a crib,' is made use of. Pick-pockets use the word 'File' when they have an assistant; and if they steal a pocket-book, they call it 'Dummy;' while if they' wish to convey a meaning that they have cut a pocket, and ab- stracted its contents, I Nick' is the term applied. You may be asked by some fellow, are we going to take a ' Plea at the bar?I which means to take a drin' An assistant to a thief is called a ' Pal.' Burglars who t ^ke small boys with them to push through the pannel of a door, or through a win- dow in a house which they break into, is called a ' Snakes- man,' and whatever they get in the shape of plunder or booty, goes under the head of L Swag.' If they have a place where they put stolen goods, it is styled ' Stalling ken;' others Crib;' others ' Fencingc Crib.' If one thief inquires about another one, whom he mistrusts is in the same line of busi-   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOT'HAM.      33 ness, he gets an answer back, 'on the cross,' which infers that he is dishonest, and I one of the family.' But, gentle- men, I can go no farther now, for here we are," said the vigilant officer, " in Water street." Sure enough, and here we were in the very heart of a de. plorably muddy and filthy street. The judge was very'much interested in hearing Wigglesworth explain the 9'vulgar phrases" of villainous characters. Kit seemed to enjoy the treat very much. "You will please bear in mind, gentlemen, the warnings I mpade," observed Wigglesworth as we left the carriage. All promised to " put on no airs," and to mind our own business. "In following me," said Wigglesworth, "don't feel afraid, judge, although it's " rather a skittish looking hole," as you say." "Great heavens, what a-place," exclaimed the judge, as he passed from the street, up a long and narrow alley of dirt and filth. '( Where now?" he again asked, as he descended a pair of rickety stairs. "( Come on," said the officer. All was darkness. "Your hand, friend Wigglesworth, or I shall stumble," cried the judge. "And judge, you take hold of the end of my umbrella, and I'll hang on to the other end, and then you see it will be all -O. K.," added Kit, who was following on ahead of us.: After wending our way along another dark alley, we soon heard thie sound of many voices. Wigglesworth in a short time led us into a large under-ground room, where were as. sembled "' a crowd" of a heterogenious mass of mortals. Never can we forget the night in question.  Near an hun- dred persons were present of the most vicious character, pu- pils and defenders of the school of rnffianis*-- a fair repre. sentation of a "little of all creation." . There were to be seen boys full of glory, interest and oaths. Middle aged men, and old men too, bending forward to the grave, looking on the offensive sight, seeming to be as much pleased as a child with its pet cat. Breeders and trainers, (desperate looking fellows,) of these game birds, stood around " betting high" on their favorite bird, proclaiming stout oaths in a bullying, blustering manner, acting out a fully-developed, brutalized disposition. From looks, all were " followers of one school of faith," save some half dozen persons aside from our circle, 3    3        ^SVIKvr  NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. who stood ar ound the ring as 6, lookers-on," seeming now and then to watch the progress of the battle with breathless eagerness, and carefully studying the chances. Our circle kept together, looked upon the " sport," and each for a time was silent. We never saw a more surprised man than Judge Jerome Blower, for his very looks betrayed aston- ishment, his eyes snapped at the unexpected sights before him, and from his actions, one could easily perceive that he stood in a strange place-a place far from causing --him to feel at home. We watched him cautiously as we stood by his side, and often heard him remark to himself, ("How wonder- ! ful!" "What a desperate place," "Can it be possible?" "Oh I sissors!" Both hands thrust into his breeches pocket. As j for Hobbs, he stood near us looking on attentively, with long umbrella under his arm, feeling perfectly easy and at home, for he had been " round the diggings" before. Many were  i watching his ecoentricityWvith a smile, as he stood in one of his comical attitudes, eating peanuts, appearing as he con. sidered himself not far from A, No. 1. Wigglesworth was on the opposite side of the judge. As we gazed about upon the crowd, strange characters were before us. Here was an " old stager " with one eye, one arm, one boot, one shoe, a hand l minus a thumb and two fingers, sporting a cane and a flashy waistcoat. He did nothing but stand cursing, swearing, and j ejaculating, ("Go in, old double comb al d win!"Opposite stood a regular educated Bowery B'hoy-in fact there were many of that stamp present; his " tender sensibilities" were ' in fine tone, for he seemed longing for something to sharpen a depraved appetite, a bloody bulldog spirit. He had his i chums about him, regular " tiger hounds," who had rather  ' i" raise, a muss" than not, rather fight than eat, appearing as :; though they had been battered and bruised by a shower of brickbats, hard knocks, and other surer weapons, amid their vile haunts of rowdyisln, robbery and prostitution. Here  I were the roughest and most untamable specimens of human- . ity, nothing better thaft unmitigated rascals, full of vice and infamy. And all gloried in the fight, halloed and screamed, clapped their hands, danced about, changed money, d---d just who they pleased, and frolicked in a regular knock-down- kind-of-a-way, as though they loved to conspire against the dictates of peace, pleasure and justice. There were boys there, , ranging in yearsfrom nine to sixteen, some sober, some intoxi-.  cated, others chewing and smoking, asking odds of no one, and swearing as loud as the oldest and more hardened; some i; betting on the strength of side and side, with a few coppers. 1 One could but observe that these poor unfortunate youths  ' a- ^   SEVEN IrIGHTS ZN GOTHAM.'      33 5 were possessed of obvious faults and execrable vices, a nature vicious and incentive to theft, most of whom were poorly clad, some without shoes or boots, some without jacket, some without caps, but after all, they seemed to feel comfortable, if one can judge from appearances. It is thought that there are sixty thousand of this kind of " reckless youths," at the least calculation, in Gotham, who are preparing to become anything but great and good inhabitants. THE ring of this 'cock- pit" .was situated in the centre of a large and  damp  cellar, sparsely lighted with candles, whose flick- ering rays fell dimly upon the walls, ren. dering several cheap and conmon pictures barely  observable. This place is situated in the third rear building from the street, made access able by narrow alleys from Water street, and is considered to be as "4 low a den " as Gotham is the possessor of. We are satisfied in our own mind that the last report is well-founded, for we have no anxiety for visiting the place the second time, under any consideration whatever, either by day-light or by gas- light. It is not an uncommon thing to find females of the lowest ill-repute at this place. Ever fresh in our minds will be the cove who whiffed a "long-nine "-wore eight large rings upon his fingers-carried his gold-washed watch-chain-wore a blue coat with big brass buttons--a pair of pants with an im- mense area, as he stood in front of the ring door, giving orders. We noticed him as we paid our admission-fee at the door; but now, he had " come down " to giver a few orders, such as 'stand back, there, you fellow over there, with one eye ;" 'D--n me,. if Jakes' side ain't good yet;"9 "hit him again with your gaff, you little bird ;"' " lick the bird, my dear littleo ewel, for I've got a V on you ;" ' that's it, duck, let him have it; there, I'll ten to one now ;"' 1 Jim, wouldn't Moll laugh if she was down here, oeh?" " that's better yet, old rooster; I'll bet high on you," together with similar expressions. Then, there were '" old tars," who "' yelled with delight ;" sons Af Erin, with their stinking pitps, and low (" negroes," who carried about with them an odor hard-to describe. Mostly all of the assemblage were " half seas over.'   3G      S54VEN NIGHTS IN GQ'rHA3 M. T the bar, formed of a few loose boards, placed upon blocks of wood, old sleepers, &c., in a dis. tant part of the room, could be seen a few bottles, a barrel of beer, a few lemons, and a quanti- ty of other loose material, helping to make an assortment, with a fat cross-eyed Corkonian, behind the rather of an imaginary bar, to deal out the precious poison, at one, two, and three cents per glass. Asleep on the opposite side of the room, we noticed three men and one woman, who were made the subject of many uncouth re- marks, and even spit upon by those who had not concluded their drunken orgies. (Greely should visit this notorious den of "Old Sarn's," for it is almost as bad, if not worse, than the "Old Brewry," and if our philanthropists, our reformers, would but spend a few hours in visiting several hundred low and notorious " holes," to be found in Gotham, where they could, with their own eyes, obtain a slight view of the utter depravity, and sunken channels of vice, we are led to believe that it would nerve them on at once to cause a thorough reformation. This is the best, and only way to commence the work, and it is for this reason why the author has undertaken the task of visit- ing a few of these " sinks of iniquity," so as to enable him to give an account of the same, true, plain, and unvarnished; although for modesty's sake, we are obliged to touch lightly upon certain vulgar and outrageous scenes, which have been enacted in our midst, and which, if recorded, would cause even the hardened enactor of them to blush. '( Do you see that tall fellow, over there, by the post; that cross-eyed fellow?" whispered Wigglesworth. We replied in the affirmative. "I He's a New-Jersey thief; he has been in the Sing Sing States' prison two different terms. Oh, you notice, he recog- nizes me!" We had observed him looking closely at Wigglesworth. "Awful skittish place," observed the judge who had been silent up to this time.  "Rather," we tartly replied.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      37 "' The fact of the matter is," continued the judge. Here he was warned by the officer to "s talk in a lower tone." After this repremand, he'added, "I say, I begin to discover thaA Gotham is a d---n hard hole, anyhow; and if some- thing isn't done to check iniquity, all of us will be sent like' those destroyed in Babylon--to endless perdition." We remarked that we were rather confounded ourselves at what we had seen, but Wigglesworth bade us bear in mind that we had not began to see "( the sights," to use his own words. "Judge, you have seen nothing yet of the abyss of crime and moral degradation which lies hid in this city. What you have seen this .evening, you could have seen years ago   't But one momrent, if you please," interrupted the judge in a low voice; ;' Did such things exist in '35, when I repre- sented my- district in the State Legislature?" "Very likely," was the reply. "Did they, Kit?" inquired Blower, who seemed to be watching the " third cock fight" with much earnestness. ("What did you ax me, judge?" Blower repeated the question. "' Oh, yes, siree, they did; for just afore the big fire in '35, I remember of going to one of these 'ere fights-to a " rat worrier," and also to a regular bull dog fight away up toward the Hook." "*  Well, if I'ed known it in those days, I'ed joined Arthur Tappan's ' Mary Magdalene Society,' and helped to legislate 'em out of existence, at least in this country," said the judge blusteringly, as much as to intimate that he was of "some importance" in olden time, which caused a smile from our circle. "You plainly see, officer Wigglesworth, that I'm not much of a 'man of the world,' after all." "Oh no, judge, you are one of the steady going, virtuous kind "But he's '.one of the people,' anyhow," interrupted Kit. As we stood on ore side of the ring conversing, we plainly saw many watching us with a covetous eye-two thieves in particular. "But, judge, you were aware that such sinks were to be found in this city, eh?" "D---n bit of it did I; and if I had known before we started this evening that I should see such skittish and un- lawful places, Hed been apt to have told either one of you, that it was impossible to make me believe it. The fact of the matter is, I've always lived in York, or at least on Man.   38       SBIVIN NIGITS IN GOTHAM. hattan Island, but I've always avoided and overlooked all such kind of places, until I've reached an age when the re- port of such places actually existing, have been considered by me as a lie, as a humbug, for the reason that I never be- fore, in all my life, took the trouble to look in upon what was hid from outside view. I now begin to see the wickedness existing about us. Glad I left my bull's-eye watch and wal- let behind," and here he took anyther good survey, and then in a low tone, repeated his oft expression, " hard hole, awful skittish," During this time the cocks were still fighting. 'l Do you notice this chap hard by, with a white hat, and a diamond pin in his bosom?" asked the officer in a low voice.   We glanced towards him and replied, "He's a noted pickpocket. We have had him down to the CHEFS office several times, showing him up to the men, *hat they mnight ' spot him.' We have a very nice way, judge, in -doing the thing. We take such fellows from one station house, to another through the different districts or wards, making a stay of several hours at each; after we have ' been the rounds ' with the ' individual,' we let him ' slide.' But it takes Frank Tukey, City Marshall of Boston, to do the thing up nice to them fellows, for sometimes he takes them into his grasp for weeks ' showing 'em up' in all ways; when he runs afoul of some of the rascals, he has a deguerreotype taken of his highness, sometimes much against the fellow's will i "No," cried the judge. c( A little lower, judge, not quite so loud if you please, for there is no use of them individuals overhearing us. Yes, that's the way he does it, and Frank can't be beat in over. hauling a thief, as he knows how and where to ' nab' him." "But do you see that fellow next to the one dressed so stylish?'  "I do," said Blower, as he looked towards the opposite side. i, But you don't pretend to say that that slick-looking fellow is a pickpocket?" "( He's nothing else, and a daring one at that. Both of 'em have been 'showed up' to the Police, for I recollect that Prince John Davis was one of the officers who took them from one station house to the other." "( Well, he's a well dressed fellow, any how." "Very true, Judge, and just the kind of a person who could get into conversation with you, and the first thing you know, he'd pick your pocket  "   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       39 "Oh no, impossible, friend Wigglesworth, for Blower has his eyes about him." (' Never you mind, I'll bet that he could pick every pocket you have, and you not know it  "Ir possible!" interposed Blower-and how his eyes stuck out when the officer told him this. "Well, perhaps so; but I'll venture something when you've travelled as long as I have in this line of business- the Police-.-you will ' give in,' and say that you are mis. taken. Sometime, I will tell you a few instances of their exploits, and then you can judge of their powers, yourself. See how they watch Ine." The officer continued to give us valuable information re. specting thieves and pick-pockets in general.: He remarked that such fellows lived by picking the pockets of individuals, and were to be found in all crowds, by day and by night, in all of the leading cities in the United States. "At all the great ' turn outs,'5" said Wigglesworth; " you will find them in the heart of the crowd, where they fearlessly practice their business. New York is the head-quarters for them, as much as New Vicksburg used to be the head-quarters of gamblers. No doubt but what there are two or three thousand of them in this city to-night. These two pick-pockets here to-night, have come expressly to rob sailors, as they dare not, or rather they don't like to mingle amid the respectable portioft of com- munity, too soon after being ' showed up' by the Police, for fear they may be ' taken' again. This is the reason why they are here to-night, and I know just as well as I live, that they have 'spotted' me, and no doubt think that I am here to watch them. When we were 'showing 'em up,' their ' women ' came to see them--two old, diseased creatures, ex- travagantly dressed in their silks, kids, feathers, fuirs, and jewelery.'" "( But see here, one moment, if you please," said the judke, leaning against a post. "How did you know them to be bad w6men?" "' Why, Judge, that is one of the easiest things to tell, of all others. I can tell "em ' the minute I put my eyes on them, and I'll be right in nine cases out of ten. As for these two, I knew one of them twelve years ago, and she was then one of these creatures, and was living with the once renowned Jule Brown, in Church street. As for the other, a member of the Police informed me that she had been ' sent up' two different times, for a term of six months each." "Oh, horrible depravity," whispered the judge. "But you should visit some of these kind of 'hells' where   4SEVEU W NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. such crern ures live, and you must, if you have a desire to see how all kinds of crime and iniquity are carried on in our midst. But look, they still watch me." "Well; let's go now, for I've seen enough," observed the judge, who had begun to feel rather nervous. In a short time after this, we had gained the street, much to our desire and comfort   NIGHT THE SECOND. SATURDAY   NIGHT! and what a night in New York, among the Goth- amites. It is the gay one of the seven, a joyous kind of holiday to the circle of mediocrity, who have slaved during the six days for toil. Everybody wel- comes its approach, the rich as well as the poor, for each class have their chr- tain reasons. Boys, young men, old men, girls, and women, all prepare for its approach; for on Saturday Night, expectation with anticipation, go hand in hand ; the weeks' pittance comes due, and the hand is willingly ex- tended to receive it. Money changes hands on a Saturday to an enormous extent, much to the delight of some--much to the chagrin of others. .In some instances, it is the only night when Poverty feels like smiling. To realise, -one must pass through the varied scenes to be observed on such an eventful time ; allow experience to have a hearing. The main streets and avenues are always well crowded with a moving population--but no more so than the market of the multitude. Broadway is on! crowd, and the Bowery another. Long before sun-down, these noted thoroughfares are densely thronged-the former with the "fashionables"-the latter with the hard-fisted mechanic, and the laboring classes in general. And what a charming sight does the Bowery and Chatham street present at an hour when thousands of younfg girls and young women 'are wandering homeward from their daily toil. Astonishing as it may ap- pear, yet it is nevertheless true, that one can behold more real beauty within the circle consisting of several thousand "sewing girls," than in any other part of Gotham. This is saying a good deal in a plain way, but the verdict is an old and just one.   42   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTIIAM. Saturday Night! and see the thousands of human beings moving all weys.  Shops and{ stores are thronged with cus- tomers. Gas, bright gas, seems to shed a more powerful ray than usual upon the city. The millinery shops along Division street, they, toof look beautiful amid gas and ribbons, saying nothing about the attractions of pretty girls, who are out 'shopping" from place to place. All of the theatres are "densely crowded," and many there are who have given, what they but a few hours before received, an " extra quar- ter." Old and young, male and female, are on the, move; and in the various departments of businet, there is some kind of a diemand from the anxious customer. UCH is a faint gleam of a Saturday in Gotham, when it seems to be in its most active, and in one sense, demonstrative phase. But see what a difference exists between Mr. Capital and Mr. Labor- between M3iss Virtue and Miss Vice. The enjoyments are of a thousand kinds, placed info execution by all classes of character, and hence the morality and- Immorality which pervades our city-- especially by gaslight. But pray tell us, you who can, how these many classes average, which help most to make up their part of a round half nillion population? Are you dumb? Then let us confine ourselves to statistics, alone-to the records--and let those who doubt the accuracy of the same prove their assertions to the contrary. We have taken a deal of trouble to do our best in gaining such infer. mation as was needed, and that too, from reliable sources. OW there are several hundred thousand people in this city who live somehow. Out of that number, we have thirty thou. sand women and young girls, who work ten, twelve, and even fourteen hours .per day to gain an honest living for themselves. And oh, what a pittance do they receive? It is abominable to think of, and we trust that the time will soon come when they can be paid well for their labor, more than the bare pay for a -subsistance. We have over two hundred   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.    ,  43 thousand hard daily laborers in this city, persons who work from morn -till night in various departments; and here, here, in the very sight of our splendid mansions and magnificetlt palaces, seventy thousand confessed paupers breathe! Our city pays a'haaf million of money annually to support crimi- nals and paupers. One fourth of our city population are foreigners. We have, it is said, 'fourteen thousand blacks among us. At the very lowest count, statistics show to the I world that there are twelve thousand courtezans to come in for their share of this mixed up population-and fifty thou- sand men, morally as guilty, as these twel've thousand women. There are over fifeen hundred, public brothels in the city- excluding the several hundred assignation houses, supported by select and secret circles-and the number of inmates range from ten to twenty-four. It is said that Church street alone, contains some eigh-lty-four of these dens of vice, while seme nine hundred female inmates are to be found in these four and eighty places. Mercer street, it is said, contains some forty of these hells; while 'Leonard street,' in certain parts, is strongly barricaded by the same. Hundreds of low    J dance-holses; rooms where two, three, and five hundred wretched creatures are piled in; thousands of girls and boys ignorant of God, law, and virtue, ai;to be found amid the Gothamites. Amid a city with its two hundred and forty churches, can be found, its thousands of gambling-houses of all grades; scores of mock-auction Hells, together with its two thousand superfluous groggeries. Regular educated gamrnblers move in stout phalanxes of thousands, and are as regular in their investments, as are the seven hundred omnibuses that pass the The American Museum, Broad- way, every hour during the week! It is reported that the number of " tippling shops" in Gotham, will equal one to every third man, but this must be greatly exaggerated. Now, with other aggravating classes which help to make up the essence of society, please place and mix them up, allow. ing each one to have its bearing, and after bringing them into one crowd, as it were, the reader can form an opinion of the sights and scenes presented in the metropolis of New  York, especially of a Saturday night! Knowing, the natural propensities and desires of Blower .  and Hobbs, the former one's ignorance of " high city life," we prevailed upon them to visit with us an -exhibition of "Model Artists." The idea took with the judge, as it did with Kit, althought he had witnessed the same sights several tinles since the earliest representation of the "Living Statues " now called in this country by the appellation of h . 5    "      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOT'HAM. M M[odel Artists." Although Blower had roamed through Gotham for a great number of years, he had, however, never witnessed the L' display" set forth by a number of ' naked Olympians," at one of these openly advertised places, where females pass through various scenes put down as being ' tableaux vivants." Without having an insight in regard to what we should be able to discover while there, the judge expressed a wish on our way to the a' grand scene" to behold these wax figures. Reaching a common looking structure, illuminated in front by globular gas lamps, where-tere to be seen flags, banners, gilt signs, female paintings, asthmatic music could -be heard from the balastrade, while large handbills expressly stated "wonderful sights." "Why, I've been by here a thousand times?" "Yes, but always neglected to go in, judge."' Certainly I have. We ascended a pair of narrow stairs, at the head of which we purchased tickets.. .Bef;re us, on the left of the entrance, was a large and- flashy bar-room, (we suppose '" saloon " is better, not being so " vulgar" a word ;) here were to be, seen paintings most too modest for a modest eye to gaze upon. After havsig obtaiep:our tickets, we passed over loose boards, up dirty passages, and at last were seated at an "extra price," in one of the private boxes." A seat in this location afforded us an excellent view of matters and things in general. In taking an observation of the establishment, our audience consisting of about sixty persons, mostly of a low class, who sat amid the poor gas (almost too poor to sup- port combustion,) anxiously waiting for the rising of the "rag,' alias curtain. Here whistling, .yelling, singing, stamping, some crowing, others clapping their hands, strangely mingling with the cracking of peanut shells during a course of mastication; add to this, the odor of gas, tobacco, a confined air, and you have the general features of this to us an uninviting place of amusement. To the judge, this was quite disagreeable, as it made him cough and wheeze,; Hobbs, intimated that it put him in mind of our visit to the monkey establishment. After sittingc for some ten minutes, the gas was turned up when there was light enough. The tine was eight o'olock, minus nine minutes, in the evening. The entire crowd began to give, vent to their feelings by cheering. A shadow of some. thing in the shape of tights and legs merfe discovered behind a thin green baize curtain ; the scraping and rheumatic ting- ling of several niutical instrumnents were heard, and at   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTrHAM.      45 once "ding-dang" goes a feeble bell, when up whirls the curtain. "' Oh, my! what does all that mean?" bellowed the judge, the instant the " sights" were observable, snatching hold of a programme. THE performance commences by the appearance of  a band  of female minstrels attired in short dresses reach. ing to the knee, be- low which, tights of color, fancy slips, rosettes, and a profusion of cheap jewelry. The band, consistinog of eight performers from sixteen to eighteen years of age, all of whom nature had not been un- mindful of in gracing them with an elegant form, charming slooks, though, from abuse, showed signs of decay, resucitah ted by paint. Each one performs onmdif4erent instruments, accompanied by the voice devoid of harmony, as if afraid to approach that which from associations, had rendered them unmindful of exist enoe. As they gazed upon the audience, a half-hidden smile seemed to flit across their countenances, save two who seemed to have been touched by something which had gone wrong; for in playing and singing their inter. ludes, consisted in making wry faces at their female asso. ciates, who seemed to have not forgotten one of the golden rules, return good for evil, met the rebuke with a smile. One of the performers who played the accordian, seemed to take pains to display no less than five or six rings on two of her fingers. Blower sat in a'perfect state of excitement shrugging his shoulders, Hobbs with his tongue out of his mouth, both hands resting on the top of his umbrella, looking on coolly. We could not .desist from smiling as we eyed the judge, who, by-the-bye, is rather of a bashful nature, for although he had his yellow kids before his ooculars, would continually, like a prisoner behind his grated door, gaze through the aper. ture, with a longing eye for that which he could not possess. After they had sung several songs, a la Christy, they rose, bowed, and retired. Down went the curtain. The audience thus far seemed to be in igh glee. Soon a good deal of noise   "       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. was heard in the rear of the stage, which in the end proved to be the arranging of the tableaux. (' What's to come next?" inquired the judge. "You will soon see," was our reply. "D----n queer kind of a place, gentlemen, eh?" said he. "' Rather so." WAIT   until you   see what you will soon see,"   Said Kit; " and, old fellow, if your eyes don't stick rather tink that them girls ain't very bashful, if thouas ey canes, been inside of a theatre, most assuredly you hav e seen them." "Never, gentlemen, although I've been to the Bowery, and in olden time, used to pop into the ' Old Park,' about twice a year.' s' Perhaps you never happened to hit the time when a bal- let-troupe was playing ted "Didn't you see Fanny Essler kick up her heels, judge?" interrupted Hobbs. "No," was the gruff reply. "How comes that about, that you didn't get a peep at her?"tink tat tem girls ain't very basful,  "Why, Kit, my wife as liviegsng in those days, and her religion wouldn't allow me to visit such places. When I used to pop in once in six months or so, it was always on the sly." As he made this sensible remark, which helped to soften his ignorance very much, up w ent the curtain. A large re volving wheel was to been about midway of the stage, on   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      47 which reclined a young girl of about seventeen, dressed in tights alone, flesh-colored at that. Her farce and frontage was to the audience. This view met with loud and boisterous applause. The girl could hardly refrain from smiling as she held a piece of white gauze in her hands. After the wheel had turned slowly around, so as to give the audience a fair look upon all sides, " ding dong" went the juvenile bell, and down glided the " rag." "Well, there now, if I won't yield--give right in," said Judge Jerome Blower, blushing all manner of ways. "Now, one moment, if you please, gentlemen. Did you think tfat IL expected to see wax figures when I came here to-night?" This query caused both Hobbs and ourselves to laugh. Poor old judge-poor innocent; how we felt for him Next appeared "Susannah at the Bath,"-slowly revolving with the circular platform, which received the approbation of the assembly, by numerous vociferations. AFTER this, the third taubleax was person- ified by a young miss, who came forth alone, attired with flesh-.colored tights, standing erect upon a pedestal, and then passed through various supposed attitudes of an- cient statuary. Next came another, whose clrcumgyra. tions "brought down the house with thun- ders of applause," so much so, that she was called out the secnd, third, and even fourth time, by furious yells. One individual, no doubt the pos- sessor of generous feeling, who was seated about midway of the house, threw his hat toward the stage as she appeared the last time, but luckily it fell upon the orchestra-seat. Another one got up, and cheered three times, concluding his remarks with a crow. "Where is the law of the land? How is it that such indecent shows are allowed?" asked ;the judge, as this, almost naked Olympian, passed through several disgusting attitudes. "Don't blush, judge, for this is nothing to what you might see in this city," said Kit. "No, don't blush, judge, for this is nothing more than a public place of amusement; a place openly advertised to the world." "Well, if I was Mayor, I'd send them to, to, yes to the devil." Here we were interrupted by the discordant notes of music, and up rushed the " rag" again.   48       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "Don't put your handkerchief to your face now, judge, for I want you to ifspect the sights," said Kit. 4"Who is?" asked Blower, rather pompously. "But look yonder, judge. Now what have you to say?" Blower looked nonplussed. Standing erect upon the pedestal, hugging each other, the tableau was three females of fine form, and commanding height. "That's what they call ' The Three Graces,' judge," we observed. ELL, I should think it was-grace disgracefully illustrated." Kinder nice, ain't it," added Hobbs.  A very fine representation of statuary it is, " we rejoined. "Very, .I should say.  The whole three ought .to be sent to the House of Correction, and there kept until they learned decency." "Now, I kinder like that are sight a little better than any of the rest of the fixings," said Hobbs, swinging his head back and forth, his chin resting on the umbrella head. "Oh yes, it no doubt suits such fools as, you," remarked Blower. Youv'e been here before it seems?" "Oh yes-oceans of times, judge." "Well, your aunt had better put you to bed." Then six females appeared upon the revolving wheel in a certain tableaux. All was " noise and confusion," which caused the room to become quite full of dust. Soon came representations of "Power's Greek Slave"-"Sappho"- "Venus rising from the Sea"-"Ajax defying the light. ning"-the "Dying Gladiator"--"The Lady Godiva, or Peeping Tom  of Coventry'-"Venus de Medici," and "Psyche," together with various other tableaux. This pleased Kit, for he declared to the judge that the "fat one" who kept looking towards us, had fallen in love with him, while -in return, Blower insisted that she was smiling and winking at Kit. Such is a hasty glance at the "lModel Artists"-a place openly advertised and countenanced in the midst of a "rising generation." To say the least, they have a disgusting and obscene tendency. Once they were checked. During the last five years, various companies of "Model Artists" have sprung up, lived, and died within Gotham. At first, they were carried on quite to the purposeFbut at last they became provided with abandoned women of the lowest grade, RI   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       49 when things were carried on in a horrible and indecent man- ner. It is true that several times the mnunicipal modesty became quite sensitive when these females appeared upon a stage in a perfect state of nudity, and at one blow put them down. Yet it was not long before another company came out in Thirty-first street; but as the artistes appeared here perfectly naked, the clan was " broken" up in a very short time. Thus in this state of beastly shame do women expose themselves to public gaze for so much per week. Is it not a bad thingI considering that all this happened in Gotham? We were conversing not long ago with one of the smartest officers belonging to the staff of the Chief of Police, who openly informed us that there was a private company of "1 Model Artists" somewhere up town, supported and gotten up solely by a clique of rich men's sons ; he had gained posi- tive information that they displayed themselves--(a party consisting of some ten women and girls)-in a state of perfect nakedness, so many times during so many different evenings for a stated sum, and that each member paid so much. He then went on giving us a description of one of their enter- tainments, as told him by a spectator. It is hoped that the police may "spot" this private club some evening while the. entertainments are going on. After we had left this " place of amusement," now under consideration, we never heard a man talk more sensibly than did Judge Blower.  "You did not expect to see such sights, did you?" said Hobbs. "No, Christopher-not living sights." "Darn big city, this York is, eh?" "Very-- and an awful wicked hole it is." "But, judge, I tell you how it is, there is nothing like ' see- ing the elephant,' arter all, is there?" and here Hobbs poked the judge with the end of his umbrella. The judge intimated to us that he had begun to " see the elephant in right good earnest." "I was down there in Canal street one night about two years ago or so-down there to the ' Walhalla,' when the M. P.'s come down, and lighted upon the gods and goddesses with a perfect rush. Darn my eyes, if that wasn't one of the nights," observed Kit, " for of all the times and sudden revolutions, that was the darndest. You see the 'Model Artists' come out there before a public audience in about as bad a state as they could, and you can guess then that they -were pretty near what may be called ' naked Olympians,' as you call 'em-but the way the old M. P.'s did nab 'em was a 4   SO       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. caution, just as they came out in one of the 'grand scenes, you see," continued Kit; " they jumped on the stage, arrested all of 'em, and off they were taken to the Tombs, and locked up. You see it was an 'extra night,' and the tickets were one, dollar." "One moment-if you please," interposed the judge, who had been listening closely. "And vou forked over a dollar, eh?" "-Oh yes, judge, cause how, Hed heard what kind of an exhibition it was bound to be, and so you see's I goes." "And this you say happened in Canal street, near Broad- way A' '"Yes, right at a place called the ' Walhalla,' and they arrested about a dozen ; and then they arrested about another dozen of the same gang of' women down in a house in Cross street, hard on to the 'Five Points,' where they were board- ing." Such is the " morals"* of city life in one light, and for further incidents and particulars, please see for yourself. We next visited the "Pit' of a Theatre for the express purpose of " mixing in " with the most promiscuous set of young mortals to be found on the face of the globe; for go where you may, no place-can be found that will surpass this "Pit" for one heterogenous mass crowded into a small comrn- pass. Reader, go take a seat in the orchestra-boxes, in front of the leading seats of the "Pit," and what a scene is before yon! You not only face the stage, but by turning around, the whole audience, from pit to dome, is before you in full view. Everything glitters amid gas, ribbons, feathers, and pretty faces. Saturday night is always put down in the bills as a great night of attraction. -Here, in the renowned "Pit," are hundrds of beings-a crowd-a jam-" full to overflowing." It so happened that we came in between the acts. Old frequenters of the theatre, peanut and lozenger- venders, are flying about, while now and then a few little news-boys are disposing -of their pet, the Picayune. All is "noise and' confusion " among these young critics ; for here, let me remark, can be found the very best of disinterested critics, among this crowd of the " rising generation." They give always an opinion "as is an opinion." Well might Blower continue to repeat, "What a crowd-what a sight!'   1    SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. -     -1 AS we sat musing, we said to ourselves, ;' Here is a fine opportunity to study human nature."' We could distin. quish scores of news-boys,' out caps, some in their shirt. Giltsleeves, bare-footed, ragged; "and some rather "tight." All kinds of b'hoy expressions were "going the rounds," while some were "mussing," 1 fighting, crowing, whistling, or ejaculating loudly, "boots, boots!" Discussions were heard, "Oh, he can't play that villain part as old Stev- ens can"-- Takes Eddy to do his part up brown "-"Say, Jake, how many 'Eralds did you sell of the third Edition?"'-"Roarer, loan us three cents for a drink?"-"Buy a ' Pick,e sir-only two cents "--"Say, Bouncer Mike, tell Joe, Bill, and Murphy, and the other hounds, that we must have Miss Hiffett out twice when, she sings that 'ere song," said a slim, little fellow, who stood up, and addressed some of his comrades, in various parts of the Pit. "Must get her. out three times," said another, who sent back a reply, (it was ' one-eyed Jim,") with his hand up to one side of his mouth. '"All right then, we'll do it; say, it's a new, and great song-did yer know it?" "No- but so much the better." At this time, a " soupqe" appeared, and began taling up the stage carpet, when one shout .went from the Pit--;"Soupe, Soupe." As the fellow was about to retire behind the curtain, he stopped, looked down, put his eyes upon one of the " young hounds," and then shaking his fist, sung out, "D-n you, I'll give you h-11 when I catch you out," and then disappeared in a rage. This created laughter in all portions of the house. Soon, slash, slash, slash, went the M. P;'s rattan against the orchestra boards, and "order reigned." Up went the curtain, and on went the play. Yet how strong was the smell of gas' and- peanuts. Sure enough, in due time, the handsome and very agreea- ble songstress, made her appearance, soon after the conclu- sion of the main play,i and by the entire assembly, was "called out " three dtimes and highly applauded. On went the discussions in the pit, after the falling of the   52       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. curtain. At this hour, nine-tenths were in their shirt sleeves, One little bit of a chap cursed and swore that he could " lick big O'Brien, fisting or square-hold ;" another big overgrown boy sat a few feet from us, betting with one of his cronies, that "Jack Scott had a voice" that could fill a house " ten times bigger than any theatre here ;" while a chap hard by stood ready to " bet high" thatyoung Goodall was the best young actor on the stage. In fact, all kinds of " bets" were offered, from three cents worth of peanuts, up to a shilling. As we gazed upon the newsboy, the mechanic, the butcher boy, the boisterous b'hoy, rowdies and libertines, and all those who had " forked over" their shilling at the door of the pit, we were led to believe that many of them had even gone so far as to give their last penny for the sake of " getting in," on this Saturday night. ' , Say, Mike; see that are chap there, with that 'are big um- brella under his arm," cried one of the boys who evidently had just put eyes upon the eccentric looking Hobbs, who was standing erect and viewing the crowd. "Kit, the boys are laughinri at you," said we. ', Well, I don't care a darn if they are," continuing to inspect the novelties presented in various parts of the house, as if nothing had occurred. 1"He's just from the country, I'll bet," sung out one chap. "Say, Country, did it rain when you left home?" and then slash, slash, slash, went the M. P.'s rattan again. "The d--n boys aint got no manners," observed Kilt carelessly, who stood grinning at them. "Wonder if his mother knows he's out?" exclaimed ano. ther newsboy, mischievously. "Look at that are Paris neck-tie!" said another. '( He'd make a good spile driver wouldn't he?" cried a third. During these tart remarks Hobbs smiled and acted as though it pleased him. Blowel advised him to sit down, or else put his umbrella on the seat but Kit would do neither.  ' '1 know what I am, who I am, and where I am," sait he, spitefully. Soon, however, the bell tingled for the cur tain to rise for the " after-piece." ' "House mighty full to-night," remarked the judge. " 'spose shop-women, paper-box girls, flower-girls, straw-braid ers, type-rubbers, sewing-girls, map-colorers, and all sue] kinds are before us to-night in box and gallery? But hea that baby squall up there in red flannel! great place this t take orange-sucking brats, I should say? its mother must lik the fun. Well,%such is life, however, -   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM[.      53 "Ped a darn sight rather hear it thunder than a young 'un squall," interrupted Kit, in a low voice. We remarked that at such a place such things must be expected. "' Yes, and it's jist so down to the National," added Hobbqs. "Well," said the judge, "I'ed advise the mother to stop the youngun's bellowing," turning around, and looked again toward the place occupied by said musician and mother.       . At this time a few louder expressions of a similar kind were sent from the pit. URING the period allotted between the a Xl^ two acts of the "last piece," we took the liberty of propounding a few ques. tions to Blower. "Judge, do you know the reason why we brought you hear to-night?" "Why, I suppose we just came in to take a look at the pieces, actors, and house. Perhaps you had some other particular reason," said he. "We did, judge. Now will you be so kind as to east your eye up in the 'third tier,' and after you have looked all ways, will you please tell me what you see?" "Why, I see a lot of men and women, just the same as I see below here-only there are more women than men," was thg reply. "As it won't take youn long, will you just count the num- ber of women in the 'third tier,' judge?" "All of 'em?" "Yes, all in the ' third tier,' judge."' He commenced. "How many do you make?" we at length asked. "Sixty-seven, seventy, two isseventy-two. Well, I make out eighty-four," said the judge. "Eighty-four, eh? Well, undoubtedly, you are aware who they are?" we asked seriously. Kit Hobbs stood smiling. "Why, women, to be sure," said he. "But did you know that they were low courtesans?" "You don't say so. Why I thought they were kept away in back like, out of sight, in a saloon. "No doubt but there are many in back there now, but they are all bad women:. This is the reason why we in.   54       SEVEN NIGHTS LN GOTHAM. vited you down here for, as you can get a fair view of each tier." "Yes, judge, them are the g'hals up there, and no mis- take," muttered Hobbs; "I was up there once, but you'll never get this child there again, I'll bet my life on it." "Why not?" we asked. "Cause how; three or four gals tackled to me. smashed my hat in, and took away my umbrella, unbuttoned my new vest, pulled my neckerchief half off, and then wouldn't give up this ere umbrella till I'ed agreed to treat more than fifteen gals "Guess so. And did you stand treat?" asked the excited; Blower. 'Wal, yes, I had to   " "' But one moment if you please; why in thunderation didn't you holloe for the police?" asked the judge.; "Halloaed for your aunt as much," said Kit laughingly. "The M. P.'s, up in such a place, are jist like theM. -P.'s all about the city-they aint worth a red cent; and then agin, when a fellar is in trouble, it's darned hard work to find a policeman, any how." "Very sensible remark," said we. "' Yes, yes, that's a fact; but see here,"' observed Blower, "what did it cost you before you got your umbrella back?" ( About--wal, yes, about a dollar; for you' see, arter I'ed treated on brandy and soda, two big g'hals said they must have two plates of pickled oysters anyhow, so arter that, I got my dear old umbrella, and the way I puts out for home was a caution. I aint been here since, and that was eight months ago."' "Don't blame you-wouldn't never -go- up there agin, Kit." "No sir-ee, judge--never." "It was, however, good enough for you; no business to have been up there." "So my aunt said, when I told her of it -" "Then you went home and told your aunt 7" we asked. '( Of course he did'-for he tells her everything," remarked the judge. "Gaul darn it, I wish I had the dollar back, for it's been sticking right in my mind ever since." ",But what sent you up there, anyhow?'" "( Oh, I wanted to take another look at ' the elephant,' so I goes up, and I hadn't more than got upstairs, afore a big strapping ' piece of furniture' throwd her arms around me, and began calling me ' her dear.' Then in about no time,   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       55 a dozen other ones got round ' Paul Pry,' as they called me, and then I had to take it, you better believe." "' Then you never will get caught in such a trap aoain, eh?' "Never, judge--not anyhow." "What did your aunt say when you told her?'. "Oh, Polly flew round, and said that they were nothing but regular bel'-bel, ' beldames and she-devils.' Then she took me by the throat, and boxed and cuffed me round awfully." "The d-1, she did?" '"Yes sir-ee." "Boxed your ears, eh? How old are you?"'v "Thrty-nine, last June," was his innocent rejoinder. p READER--allow us to lay a few plain " documents'" before you for- your inspec- tion-for your considera- tion. We have a right to do it, and it is a duty, but to describe the scenes en. acted in the "third tier"' of several of our theatres, with any degree of'just. ness, is more than can be done. But let it be un- derstood  that we do'not confine these truths to one alone-nay, far from 'it, but to several, where a "third tier" is allowed and supported. Here are th ree powerful reservoirs of im-. morality, blasphemy, and obscenity; chan. s neas, where float the scum and sediment of iniquity-where scores and scores of painted, drunken, lascivious females, young and old bearing, congregate night after night, from their sleeping dens of pollution, to make this 'third tier? a store-house, of prostitution. Here ruin and drunkenness-can be seen ranging at any rate or degree; here one can behold these poor, miserable creatures bargain. ing themselves away at moderate prices to anybody who has money; here can be seen young girls of fifteen, sixteen, eighteen, and women of middle age, all arrayed in their best, and as far from being shocked by obscenity, or frightened by foul-faced ruffians, as a heathen by his reptile neighbors   56       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. They know not fear, truth, or happiness ; they have become brazen, case-hardened wretches. Go up into the " third tier," and look for yourself. This is the best, the easiest way to become convinced of the facts of the case--to yield to -the teachings of truth. We have been there, and have seen the .corifninated influences which bind and charm the place. And much to our regret have we looked down upon the moral and virtuous maidens of our land, seated below, most of them, no doubt, unaware that a famous and hellish, assignation-house was countenanced alove them, within the very same walls wherein they breath- ed. This is the greatest outrage imposed upon public sense and public decency; and thank God, the insult has been felt, and the insult has taken from the treasury of these establish. ments thousands and tens of thousands of dollars, by a non. attending public of moral bearing, who are determined to meet the downright dastardly imposition face to face. And what is the result at this early date? The managers can't fill their houses with the honest and virtuous of our land, unless they present "star" attractions-some great bill of some extraordinary actor or actress, troupe or company. We sometimes rejoice at heart, that there are a plenty of "dead heads," rowdiesj and the like, to help fill the house on ordinary occasions, as we feel for the manager, not for his pockets, but for the looks of the thing. Perhaps these "touching remarks " may deprive more than one of the use of the " free-list," yet the effect is no more than a fly upon a mill-wheel, or a drop iti the ocean. We cannot see why a "third tier" is essential, when other celebrated establish. ments here prove to the contrary--the two best supported places of amusement in this city, And what is the secret of all this, we would calmly ask? It is solely because no 1" third tier" is allowed-because a woman might as well crawl through a key-hole, as to undertake to enter either of the establishments, under any pretext whatever, save accom. panied by a gentleman.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      I7 AS we took our friend Blower to the theatre purposely to inform of these things from personal observa- tion, we politely asked him to look upon the scene pre- sented for the evening in the "third tier " alone. Most of these females sat, or stood conversing with men of all grades and classes, displaying at that height their limbs in a disgusting manner. Some were locked arm in arm; some were observing -the., per- formances; some were seen emer. ging from the door where liquor manufactured in New Jersey, and adulterated in New York, is sold; some with hat, and shawl, and cloak on their arm-others with them on; while from the orchestra-seats one could observe many hugging, kissing, whirling, and talking to some expected victim, whom they would eventually entice to their den in Elizabeth, Mott, Crosby, Centre, Franklin, Leonard, or some other notorious J street, where, perhaps, he would in the end, come off " third best," With either a "bruised eye," or a picked pocket. c' Let us go," said the judge, " for I've seen enough--more than I ever anticipated; I wasn't aware that these things were countenanced or allowed to such a public extent. Al- though, my dear sir,; ' continued Blower, "I have never been inside of a theatre before for several years, yet I'm ready to go, for I'm satisfied, and don't, like Oliver of old, 'ask for more. Come"-and we soon took our departure. At a certain place in the lower part of Broadway, we had agreed to meet Wigglesworth, at the hour of eleven. We did so, when Blower took the liberty of "spreading hii. self" upon the scenes which he had observed during the evening. "You begin to find out that Gotham is a very wicked city, I guess?" observed the officer. "Yes, yes, Wigglesworth, I do." "Only two murders to-night-one in Dey, the other in Cherry street," remarked the officer. "Then ther3 has been four arrests of pickpockets to-day," he added.   i8 SEVEIN NIGHTS IN GO1'AM.. We were enjoying ourselves over the luxuries of a hot sup- per near midnight, when Wigglesworth 'began to give us an insight into some of the deviltry enacted in this city by thieves, pickpockets, and counterfeiters. As he had been-placed in an uncommon good station for years, so as to gain an insight into these things, we anticipated some great revelations. Said officer Wigglesworth,. "There are a great-.many tricks that I have heard of respecting the movements of cer. tain kinds of thieves, and I have no doubt but what all..of you have heard of the satne for ought I know; yet 'Judg Blower, as I have a desire to tell them to you, I will nowy begin. "Some three years ago, or thereabouts, a gentleman wag;, promenading up Broadway one afternoon, when a very gen.. tlemanly individual, at least in looks, accosted him in a p6o. lite manner by inquiring the nearest way to reach pier No; 18, North River. The gentleman of course, directed him,. and then they parted. About twenty minutes after this, the gentleman desirous of noting. the, time of day, felt for his gold watch, but lo! the gold watch was gone. That evening, after he had come to the conclusion that it had been stolen, he sent tan advertisement to the several newspaper offices, offering a reward of fifty dollars for its recovery, and-no ques- tions asked. On the following -day, about eleven o'clock, a fine well-dressed individual, entered his office with a copy of that morning's Tribune in his hand. "Are you the gentleman who advertised for a lost watch to this effect?" he asked, presenting the paper. "I am," said 'ho. "What kind of a watch was it?" The gentleman snatched a bit of blank paper and wrote down its size, shape, number, and. name of the manufac. turer. "Then this must be your watch," said he, presenting it. "That's the identical watch, sir." "Take it, sir, and in return I will take fifty dollars for my trouble." The reward was paid over immediately. "\ ou will pardon me," said the owner," but I would hon- estly give another fifty dollar note if I could know for a cer- tainty how this watch escaped from my possession. It is true that I agreed no questions were to be asked, yet I put this second offer as an outside offer altogether." "Exactly so-all right. I  will take the sum offered sir,                  " "And you positively agree to explain all?"   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTI-AM.       59 '"Yes-explicitly. If you doubt it sir, bolt your doors," said the fellow.  * "Enough-there is the money." "The stranger pocketed it, and then, very politely asked the owner of said watch if he would take the trouble to step outside the counter that he might be able to explain all. -He' did so-and at this time,- bear in mind," continued Wiggles- worth, " that the watch had -been attached to a bit of .cord and placed within the watch pocket. "Do you recollect of passing up Broadway,; yesterday:: afternoon, when a person came up to you, and said, I Will'i you direct me to the North River,' eh?"     A ';Oh, yes, my dear sir, I remember it well," replied the. owner of the watch. "Just so, sir. Well then your watch was taken." The, d--1 it was? And in Broadway, too?" said the surprised victim. i; Yes, sir." "Well that's astonishing-really?? "By this time, the fellow had bade him good day," con. tinued the officer, " and had gone. But in a few minutes after this, the merchant goes to feel for his watch--but lo! in describing the way it first escaped, the scamp had taken it the second time." "Oh my!" exclaimed Judge Blower, who, had listened attentively. "Then the chap stole the watch again, eh?" asked. Hobbs, as he sat eating mince.-pie-umbrella by his side. ' Of course he did," said Blower. "Yes, and made one hundred dollars by the operation, too," added the officer. "Well there,"' jumped up Kit, " if that ' yarn ' don't take down all the 'yarns ' I ever heered of. Didn't they catch him, Wiaglesworth?" "No," he answered gruffly. "That was a wonderfully nice trick," observed the, judge, as he sat breathing over fried oysters, . norter-house- steak,. and brandy and water. "Well now, gentlemen, with your permission, I will tell you another olne." "Oh, of course-go on Wigglesworth,"' interposed the judge, " for you'll have time enough to tell a dozen of 'emr before 'I fininish my oysters and steak."' "Yes, go ahead, friend Wigglesworth :" and saying this, Kit sung out, " Waiter! more pie."   60       SEVEN NIGIITS IN GOTHAM. HAT you have heard of Mary  Burroughs, the female coun. terfeiter, who years ago, hail.- ed from Connecticut, is quite propable." "Doubtful--very uncer. tain," interposed Blower. "Well, she lived on the (the Canada line)-and a few years ago she came to New York, and bought a thousand dollars worth of jewelry, paying for it in counterfeit money.  Some s months after that, she visite,  the city again, under a dis. i guise, conveyed here by a elegant span of horses, a fine turn-out-with all the fixings, such as coachman, and so on. She worked her cards so as to lay a trick upon a young man in a heavy jewelry store in Maiden Lane, and done it in this way  " "One moment, if you please,'" interrupted the judge; "I think I remember about her, now.  Very good looking woman, wasn't she?" "Exceedingly so, judge-but allow me to proceed. In, the first place, she went to a temporary hospital, up town, 0 somewhere in this city, and there stated that she had a son, who by spells was out' of his head-was awfully insane. She informed those -' in authority,' that he was in a jeweler's store in Maiden Lane, such and such a number, and as she could always tell two days before when another attack of insanity was coming on, she had come to the conclusion to get him into the insane hospital, if it was a possible thing, as she considered he would be better off. She told them that he was about to have another hard time of it. After arrang- ing it in regard to the terms, she named the day when she would bring him, urging forcibly and strongly, that on his arrival, he should be made secure before time had been given for his insanity. "Well," continued Wigglesworth, " she went to Maiden Lane, saw the young clerk-worked it so as to have him give her the particulars in regard to the plate--and at last pur- chased a bill amounting, I believe, if mry memory serves me right, to some $1,800. When she was about to pay for them, after the articles had been packed7, and placed in her carriage,   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       61 at the door, she say's, ' There, that is a very fine thing--I left my pocket-book.' " ' Wasn't it a purse!" interposed Kit. ' Well, purse then; ' and,' says she; ' will you be so kind as to just take a drive with me in my carriage, that you may return with the money.'  Of course everything looked smoothly, and he, as requested, took a seat in the carriage. "While passing up Broadway, it did not take long for her to get him completely under her influence. The coachman knowing 'the ropes,' drove rapidly, and soon up he drives to this asylum. The poor fellow entered with her, where he was soon taken care of. She immediately left for Canada- and got clear              ' "But see here ---- "Don't, judge; wait now, until I finish my story --- " "But one moment, if you please ---- "I tell you, judge, hear me. After she left, these same questions were asked him, and they coincided Vith those of the woman's, such as being in Maiden Lane-in a jewelry \ store, and so on. Now, that's another way of getting hold i of money; but what do you think of it?" "' Awful bold act," said the judge. "She was a snorter-she was ' some pumpkins,'" ex- claimed Hobbs, who was fast consuming his. fifth piece of pie. "( There, there now," cried Blower--" there is another one of Kit's Hugunotish expressions, ' Some Pumpkins.' -Well now what do you mean by that vegetable expression?'" "Oh, she was gallus, 'judge." "Yes; and there is another one of those confounded knee- snapping words-' gallus.' In the name of Cripplegate, Kit, what the d-- 1 do you mean by these comical, accidental words? Wonder what dictionary you study?" "Oh, you would, eh? Well I study Webster's, una. bridged."  "Well, gentlemen,think of it as you may, but those two stories are true from beginning to end. But they are nothing to some of the doings of these slippery rascals." "Then tell us one,Wigglesworth," said Kit; " come, let her slide." "There now-there's another of those incomprehensible expressions," remarked Blower, ' Let her slide ;' Kit, you are a singular fellow-- yes, you are.'.' "Well then, let her went, if' that suits you any better." "Yes, and there's another d----d crooked word to be swallowed."   62   e   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. Kit continued puzzling the judge for the sake of hearing him 's blow out" upon him, as it never escaped Blower unno- ticed. ', Gentlemen, lay aside your rudimental English," as the judge calls it, and let me give you another slippery story," interposed the officer. "Go on, Wigglesworth, and as I eats, I'll listen, replied the judge. IN the winter of 1849, thieves, pick-pockets, and counterfeiters, in particular, devised a new way in their line of trade, to pass counterfeit money. The- method was this: Two fellows -would walk along in the evening together, and when they came to the right kind of a store, where the glass of the show windows were large and costly, one would so arrange it to stand in front of it, on a -rainy evening, with umbrella under his arm, and look at the attractions within the show window. When a crowd had gathered about the place, and a crowd of persons passing along the street, this confederate would mix in with it, and'in passing, give his chum a push which would force the' end of the umbrella through the large pane of glass. Out comes clerks or proprietors, or both, with a rush, of course, and then there's a -great excitement. In they go, when the fellow, who is generally selected, is middle aged, well-dressed, well-behaved-in short, a-man who looks to be anything but a rogue. He informs them in a serious way how the unfor- tunate accident occurred, that he stood looking at the attrac- tions presented in the window, with umbrella under his arm, and while there, some one pushed against him as a crowd of persons passed. The owners, of course, said that it was no nmore than right for him to pay for it, and then intimated that he had no right to carry an umbrella under his arm      ' "' Beg them fellow's pardon," interrupted Kit, {' he had a right to carry it just as he darned pleased.- That makes me mad," said he. "Guess the owners didn't think that they were in a free country." The defence which Kit "took," showed that he was blessed with "spunk," and quite an oily tongue. Hobbs was evi- dently "touched." "Well," continued Wigglesworth, "they told him'that those panes of glass cost them $15-each." "Whew! whew! whew!"5 interrupted Blower, letting fall both knife and fork upon his plate. "Fifteen dollars for one pane of glass?" and giving a long whistle.   SEVEN NIGITS IN GOTrrAM.      63 "Yes, judge; and the fellow says to them gravely that he is willing to pay, yet thinks that he ought not, under the circumstances, to pay full price, as he was not the originating cause of the destruction. Yet they talk blusteringly, and after the chap gave them to understand that he could pay for an hundred of them, and perhaps buy them and their store, he throws out a $100 note, and says, "Change that, take it out, and give me $85.' This is done, and paying for the destruction, he leaves; that night passed off, and on the next day the $100 note, with others, were taken to the bank; there it was pronounced a counterfeit." "Ha! ha! well done," exclaimed the judge. "So you see, gentlemen, that he made eighty-five dollars by the operation." We must confess that this story rather surprised us, as it was truly of a complicated nature. Hobbs took the liberty of informning his friend, Wigglesworth, that he was ', some on a story," and upon this point both he and Blower perfectly agreed. This was the first' time, however, -that they had, upon any one subject. "Ah.! what a set of rascals and villians there is in this world,':' saild Blower, heaving a 'sigh. "I wish I had the sentencing part to do of all. If I wouldn't give athem a stretchzing time, then my name is not Blower; then," bring- ing his big fist down upon the table with much vengeance, "the fact of the matter is, gentlemen, a man can get along in this country somehow without being dishonest, for a rea- son, the advantages in his or' her favor are seventy-five per cent. more easy' and satisfactory than in any other part of the world. .' Our laws are good common sense laws--none too strict-none too moderate.". "What kind of a sentence would you give 'em if you had 'the handling of the matter, judge?"5 asked Hobbs. "Why, l'ed come down to o ne common level," he replied, "and Jlet 'em all know that there were but two paths to fol- low, honesty and dishonesty ; and those that got qaught in the latter path, would get a sentence of two years, at the least, Het the dishonesty be light or heavy." "What, for a light sin?" asked Kit. "Yes, give 'em two years, all hands of 'em, except bank. robbers and murderers; and themn I!ed put in confinement for twenty-five years, and not a moment less." "Then you wouldn't go in for hanging 'em up, judge?" "No, never, Kit-give 'em a stretching time, and that would be warning enough. Now, if these petty thieves, in fact everybody convicted of theft, should be sentenced for two   "      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. years, never mind if they only stole- a hand-cart, it would check the growing evil."        r Here was a 1" legal opinion," yet the best thing the judge said, was the addition he made--"All of these big rogues, you notice, generally turn out to be foreigners zohen captur. ed." Hobbs thought that Blower was rather severe-while Wigglesworth smiled at the " points of law " advanced- by the " learned judge." As for ourselves, we were but "( look- ers-on " mid all the scenes encountered by the part'y--and our duty was to see, hear, understand, and remember. c, Did you ever hear how judge   had it 'come over him' by one of the slippery chaps?" asked Wigglesworth. ' Then as you never did, I'll explain. About two years ago, it seems that the Judge went up to the Court Room, where he had not been long before some one in the crowd about the stove, within the railing, inquired the time of day. The judge felt for his watch, but lo! he had forgotten to take it from home, and so expressed himself. It seems that this was overheard by one of these sly, slippery fellows, who immedi- ately goes out oA Court, and puts for the Washington Market, where he buys anlarge, noble turkey, and then takes it up to the judge's residence, presented himself and turkey, saying that the judge ordered him to bring it, and in return to bring his gold watch down to the Court Room, as he had accident- ally forgot to take it with him. The folks seeing the tur- key, and the fellow telling a pretty straight story, did not hesitate in the least to let the gold watch go. Home goes the judge toward night, and seeing the turkey, made inqui. ries about it. Finding that 'the folks ' had been ' sold,' he said, ' Never mind, I'll have some fun yet out of it,' and on the next day, he invites two judges and four lawyers to dine with him on a 'costly turkey.' Well, about ten o'clock in the morning, in rushes a confederate of this fellow, and at once inquires for the judge's lady. She appears, and he, in short-breath, cries out, ' The thief is found-the judge has got his watch, and they want me to bring the turcey down to CotrtW for evidence.' Out rushes the fellow-home goes the judge and his guests-but lo, ' sold again, for not only the twatch but the turkey had gone too." , A" i   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      65 CAPITALLY  well done-capital- ly," said the judge. Wigglesworth went on describ- ing several scenes of a-similar or- der, which were truly amusing, although we had heard many of them repeated before. "I tell you how it is,' remarked the judge; I got awfully ' suck. ed in ' once-awfully!" "What, you?" spoke up Kit, as though very much surprised. "One moment if you please. 'The fact of the matter was, I was walking in the Park one morning quite early, when a young fellow came up in a hurry, looking sorrowfully enough. Said he to me, ' Excuse the intrusion, sir, if you please, but to be plain and honest, I'm ' hard up,o and as I have a great desire to go up the Hudson in this morning's eight o'clock boat, won't you be so kind as to give me' your name, place of residence, and then $25, and take my watch for security; until I return, which will be in about twelve days.' Saying this, he, the innocent-looking chap, produced what .I called a fine gold watch, done up nicely in a buck-skin case. Without much hesitation, I pitied the fellow, outs with my wallet, and handed him two ten dollar bills on the Seventh Ward Bank, and a five on the Brooklyn Bank. Says he, ' I shall return in about twelve days, and will redeem it. Let me tie it up for yolu in the bucklskin case," so I stood and looked on. He gave it to me, and we soon parted." "Ha! ha! ha!" cried Kit.  What's up?" ( All right, judge ; go on." "Well, when I got home, I opened it, and what do you think I had in the buck-skin case?" "( A galvanized case," said one. "a No," answered the judge. "I guess you had an awful plump, round piece of hard putty," remarked Hobbs. "No--but I had a round piece of gulta percha!" This caused not a little mirth. Kit inl'particular, who continued for some time in a fit of convulsive laughter. "I got sold twenty-five dollars worth--mighty nice, eh?" "But when did that are time happen, judge?" inquired Kit.   "      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GnTHAM.. "Three years ago, or there abouts--it was the year my friends thought of running me for Alderman of my Ward." ",Well, what did you do? Did you ever see the fellow again?" "Did I? Well yes, I guess Hdidn't. - I kept mum, I assure you." "How old a chap was this?" asked Hobbs. "About as old, and about as green a looking fellow as you."  Only, judge, he wasn't green, arter all, eh?" "Well no, it seeIms not, that's a fact." Here Kit stood up, and after stretching and yawning aloud, took his seat and began thus. "Well, one of them are slippery fellows undertook to come it over me, one morning, on the Battery, but my wool was too coarse to be pulled over my eyes. You see," giving his shoulders a few sudden hitches,l' I was a leetle too smart for him, as I wasn't the verdant countryman in his eye, not by a long shot ; Don't you want to buy a good costly gold watch?' said he, putting it almost into my face. ' What do you ax for it?' sez I. 'Why, I've just got a telegraphic dispatch from up in Orange County, of the death of my father, and as I want to be off this morning, I will sell it to you for the low sum of -$8O! Its original cost was $108.' When he said this, 1 whistled and looked very much sur- prised, and then told the fellow that it was 'a leetle too high,' as my purse strings wouldn't allow it. ' Take it for $75 then, under all circumstances.' 'How many carrots fine?' I axed." ("Carrots!" said Blower laughingly. (' Yes, and sez he to me,' Eighteen, sir,' and then opened it, and began to describe all about the 'wheels within wheels.' I told him it was too high, and then he axed me how much money I had got, when sez I, 'old fellow, that's best known to myself.' ' Will you take it for $60?' ' No sir.' ' Will you give me $50?' 'No sir-ee.' Well, what will you give me-make me an offer, my good fellow?' but you see I was too knowing to do that. 'Well, after think- ing it all over, you may take it for $40, and that is the least, and believe me that were it not on account of a death in the family, I would not part with it for the best $100 note you could find me O ' When I got him pinned,' said Kit, ' down to that point, I takes my umbrella from under my arm, draws back, and hollers loudly, 'You mock-auction pimp, if you don't put yourself out of sight in two minutes time, I'll hol- ler for the police ;' and then I puts my thumnb to my nose,   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      67 and axed, ' Do you see anything green, you low, dishonest vampyre?' By this time you better believe that the rascal put. If he didn't go out with a rush through the Battery gate, and travel up Greenwich street in a hurry, then legs never carried him." THESE rascals have countless number of ways to gain their points. I must take you to a place where the police generally makes it a practice to inspect when any big robbery has been committed,"  re- marked  Wiggles. worth. "Then you have such a place in your eye?" ", Yes, judge, and it's a miserable hole. I will not tell you where it is just now, but will promise to show it to you be. fore long." "It's a place then, where. thieves mix, eh?" inquired Hobbs. "Yes, and those of a peculiar kind-the heavy robbers- none of your petty transgressors; those who go in for the thousands rather than a few hundred-the bank robbers, and all such fellows. You see," continued the officer, " such fel- lows are all chained, or rather linked together from Maine to Louisiana, and when one gang makes a haul, the rest know all about it. But it takes officer Bowyer to catch ern  -' Yes, that's a fact, officer Wigglesworth, he is smart," rejoined the judge. "' Old Hays wasn't bad in his day, eh?" said Kit "That's a fact," responded Blower. "Talk about officer Bowyer being smart," said Wiggles worth, " he's the most vigilant and celebrated thief catcher in the world, at least people who know, put him down as such. I've known the time when he was on the scent of a big rogue, and before he caught him, went forth in eight dif- ferent suits of clothes, disguised differently each time, and if you'll look over the records for a few years past, you'll find that he ' nabbed ' the rouges in nine cases out of ten. ' Old Hays' used to about equal him. Then there is Smith, he's smart, and Leanord, and our Chief--all of 'em are   68       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. smart, no mistake; and what's the best of it, they are obliged to be so, and wide awake. Officer Bowyer and Captain Leanord were sent over, you know, to the World's Fair, to look after these celebrated rascals, and they've got all of 'em ' spotted -to a T.' People in general, don't look in a fair light upon the system of Police, but they may say what they please, the system ag carried on in New York and Boston, can't be beat." To hear Wigglesworth go on defending his side, put us in mind of the " engine boys " who are sure to discuss and de- fend the superiority of "der machine" with which they run. And with what earnestness such discussion is car- ried on. As in Wigglesworth's remarks, he was correct in giving credit to those vigilant officers; but at the same time, we could not agree with him respecting the police sys. tem; for we verily believe that the police of the city of New York, consists, -as a general thing, of a very inefficient set of officers, and that a reformation in the whole system was never more needed than at the present time. We may be wrong, but when we have some of the first men of the city "on our side," we think that it will do no harm to follow the practice of the immortal Captain Cuttle--" make a note ont,."   NIGHT THE THRD GOTHAM! In this glorious old Gotham of many a bye-gone remembrance, can there be found the highest result of human civi. lization, thus far presented to the world? She stands as a Great City before all eyes! and at first sight, impresses upon the mind of a fresh observer the dazzling verdict, that-Gotham is a glorious city! happy people! nothing but magnificent edi. fices. costly palaces! the choice seat of splendid refinement! the home of luxury and ease! The whisperings of sorrow, trouble, poverty, are all forgotten for a while, and everything seems to give way to the cool, easy founts of love, and seem- ingly, of every joy. If this was but real, rather than vision- ary, then might we proclaim her a heaven upon earth. But alas! misguided man, hot-headed fool, this modern city is a modern Babylon. But we will proclaim her greatness, however, should it be known that "she falls to-morrow!" and while the boon of freedom carefully protects he*rights, as well as those of her sister cities, she holds the great key of the Union-and is the City of Nations-notwithstanding the wide abyss of crime and suffering, and the horrid scenes of filth and degradation, stretching widely throughout her domain. They who ask and demand a sudden change or reform, in a day, as it were, must search for some power more than human, although we are wisely informed that 1"He who knows how to melt the heart, knows all." At the present period of time, every day brings something new, and' wonderful. Humbug is a ruling theme, and Gotham is obliged to mother a countless number, as highly as she is appreciated ; among them are some which are put into execution on a most magnificent and extended scale, far excelling the best of ancient or modern magic. But it will not do to dwell too long upon the rise, progress, and bearing of such affairs. On this night in question-the Third one, the cold, piercs \               ,               70       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. ing winds of January blew blusteringly. Broadway was smothered in clouds of dust, as we left the Broadway House, at the early hour of seven-thirty, in the evening. For cer- tain good reasons, we were obliged to discard the company of Wigglesworth, Hobbs, and Blower, much to our regret, how- ever ; they were all strangers, and were ignorant of the exist- ance of the place which we intended to visit. We wander on this cold night to a place designated by the name of 1"The Golden Gem," where we had been told one could (" hold converse with the spirit world," in the very heart of Gotham, not five seconds walls of Broadway, within a fine and stately structure. Being informed that under the above title, a congregation of "spiritual rappers" were holding forth, we left Broadway, entered Grand street, and embraced at once the favored opportunity of calling on " the spirits" for the purpose of discovering, if possible, what deception was practiced to delude such gentlemen as Dr. Francis, Dr. Gray, Horace Greeley, Judge Edmonds, and others of equal celebrity. Yet little did we expect to be witnesses of the impious hypocrisy which followed our introduction to this unholy circle. Accompanied by a scientific friend, we made our first call at the rooms of 1"The Golden Gem," and enter. ed the ante-room after a few repeated knocks. It was on' the second floor of the building, fronting Grand street. The furniture consisted of three chairs, and a wide desk, extend- ing the entire width of the room, on which lay a number of circulars. On the door leading to the next apartment, was posted two notices, one of whiz informed visitors the modus operandi of obtaining admission. OUR friend knocked, and the door was im. mediately opened by a meek looking individ- ual, whose face seemed made to express, if possible, the absence of all expression--his eyes were turned up, as if in communion with heaven itself-Ills long black hair was thrown back from a high forehead, and cov. ered the back of his neck, with every curl in its exact place; his thin, and almost bloodless lips, moved as if it was an effort to descend from the high throne on which he had placed his thoughts, to the necessity of con. versing with the conmmon world. This specimen of the genus homo answered to the name of    ; for fear he would like the notoriety, we will call him Jones, and dignified him with the thought of being a fanatic. A word from our scientific friend, however, threw him partly off his guard, as he found he had no common mind to deal with. A chilling   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       71 smile, (if the movement of those lips could be called, a smile,)' informed us plainer than words could have ex- pressed it, that although he knew the motive of our visit, he had the vanity to cope with our unbelief. At this time another member mingled in the conversation, giving an opportunity for the serious Mr. Jones to withdraw. Our scientific friend conversed with the new comer until the hour of meeting arrived, (8 o'clock,) during which time the num- ber of visitors had increased to eight, including ourselves. Amongst those assembled, were a "Miss Nancy," and a Mr. Brown, the "( fast friend" of serious looking Jones. We readily perceived that they were of one team-a clique of three faithful disciples. "Miss Nancy" was tall, slim- young and pretty-neat-modest, and unassuming. Brother Brown yas a stout, well-built, middle-aged man, and he, like the rest, looked in the face as serious as an astronomer dur- ing an eclipse. At this hour, Mr. Jones appeared in the ante-room, with a book in his hand, into which he wrote the names of each per- son present, informing us that it a' had to be left to the pre- siding spirit as to who would be admitted into the circle." He then returned to the inner room, and in a few minutes sundry raps were heard, indicating, as we were told by Broth- er Brown, who were received, and who rejected. To us this was a critical moment-but soon a verdict was rendered, we being admitted, while one or more were repulsed. Perhaps it would please many of our readers to take a peep at the grand rules and gulations laid down by such a ( spiritual" clique, and as .fwrite to give information, the following is a correct copy:' OBJECTS AND RULES OF THE SPIRITUAL CIRCLES, ORGANIZED IN THE ROO0IS ENTITLED "THE GOLDEN GEM, GRAND STREET, NEW YORK. OBJECTS. The objects of these circles, and of the directing spirit, under whose guidance and dictation they are formed and   conducted, are, I. The unfolding ot demonstrative evidence of the immor- tality of the human soul, and of intercourse between man in the flesh; and spirits of the invisible world. II. Conversations with spirits of departed friends. III. The true unfolding of the spiritual perceptions and susceptibilities of individuals. IV. Investigations concerning the nature and order of the   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM E spiritual spheres, and their relations to this world, and man's relation to them. V. The proper, development of suitable mediums through whom spirits, acknowledging the truth of the Bible and Christianity, may communicate their ideas to mankind un. corrupted and unfalsified by the cunning and deceptive speech of the lower spheres. VI. The proper development of true ideas concerning God, and tHis relations to the'universe and mankind, and their re. lations to Him. VII. The final ushering in of a new era, such as, in its complete unfolding, may fulfil all true ideas and prophetic anticipations concerning the kingdom of God upon earth. RULES. I. For the purpose of securing these objects so far as pos- sible, it is designed to form a regular circle for each evening in the week, except Sunday evening, the members of such circles to consist of such persons as the acknowledged direct- ing spirit may admit, and who have paid an initiation fee of one dollar, except in cases of inability, to which sum as much more may be added as liberality and interest felt for the cause, may prompt. Each regular member of a circle shall have the privilege also of attending the general circle on Sunday, and also promiscuous circles formed during the mornings and afternoons through the week, provided they are present always before the circle is regularly opened, and they are not excluded, for that ,ane, by the directing spirit; and for these privileges he shalnliess otherwise ordered by the said spirit, be taxed fifty cFs a week so long as his or her membership shall continue. This is for the purpose of procuring and providing for suitable mediums, and advanc- ing the general interests of the cause in such way as may be directed by the acknowledged authority. Should this tara- tion prove to be higher than is required to pay all necessary expenses, it may be diminished. II. THE MORAL AND THEOLOGICAL PRINCIPLES which shall serve as the object of aspiration, and the rule of life to the members of these circles severally and collectively, are con- tained in Christ's entire sermon on the Mount, recorded in the 5th, 6th, and 7th chapters of Matthew's Gospel; and all who join these circles will be considered as in that act sub- scribing to those principles. "I. PROMSCUOUS CIRCLES; composed of members of the re- gular circles, shall be holden in the morning and afternoon of each day. The circle in the morning shall be opened at   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       73 half-past 10 o'clock, and that in the afternoon shall be opened at half-past two o'clock.             4 IV. Visitors, who are not members, may be admitted with" out charge to the morning circle, on being regularly intro  duced by members; but each member will be at liberty to deposite into the hands of the Medium, the President, or in the box, such small sums as liberality and interest for the cause may prompt, for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the concern. V. The session of each circle shall be opened by reading from the Bible and prayer, and order shall in all cases be en. forced by the President, or in case of his necessary absence, by a moderator, pro tem., appointed or sanctioned by the directing spirit. VI. Visitors or members, arriving after the regular opening of the session, cannot be admitted to that session, unless otherwise ordered by the directing spirit. This rule, how-. ever, does not apply to Mediums, who are admissible at all times. VII. All contingent matters not herein provided for, shall be submitted to the directing spirit, whose decision shall be strictly followed, until such decision shall prove manifestly wrong. On entering the inner room, we found a tall, slim, sapling. built young gentleman seated at a table with great solem. nity. This-we were informed was the presiding medium of the evening. "Miss Nan lwas also in the room. Let it be remembered we had b    old  prior to' our leaving the ante-room, that none but f  indicated by the spirit could be present. Our places being pointed out to us at the table by Brother Jones, we seated ourselves accordingly. Seated at the table was Jones, Brown, a Mr. Hammer, two young men, an aged lady, and the presiding medium, besides our- selves, forming the circle, "Miss Nancy " leaving in a Jfew minutes after the circle was formed; where she went at that hour of the night alone, we cannot say. After Brother Jones had read a chapter in the Bible, the medium gave three very severe blows with the palm of his hand on a portfolio, which lay on the table before him; then slowly raising his hand, he pointed at some imaginary object in thy direction of the long-faced Brown. A smile of intelligence passed between them, when we suddenly placed our eyes on Brown, who kept his mouth distended, as if to give us the idea that it was the ordinary expression of his features, though we could detect by the furtive glance he cast on us,   74       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. that there was more in it than "outsiders" should discover. Slowly his arm was raised above the table, (the legs of which rested on zinc,) then the fingers began to work, and soon descended on the portfolio with a startling effect. The young man on his right shuffled and agitated his body and shoulders, which was repeated by the dandy-looking youth next to him. It was now evident that the " spirit had begun to work." The medium  then spoke in a solemn, sepulchral tone, thus :"I, Luke, tell you that your bodies are yet too gross to hold communion with the other world. Beware, beware of pork! Beware of it, for pork is very gross food, except the fibres thereof. Eat vegetables, yes. for they are filled with magnetism, and magnetism is the purest portion of the body. Purify your bodies and sanctify your minds. Do not do not use tobacco in any form." This caused the young gent on his left a considerable agitation, we recollected his telling us in the ante-room that he had been a great smoker, but since joining this circle, he had no desire for it. ( Let you breakfast be very light, and your dinner the best meal," cried Luke's mouth-piece, " for this means onlr can increase the purity of your bodies, and obtain the magnetism neces- sary to become-mediums." During this speech, the two young men beat the table, sawed the air with their hands, pulled their- hair, and beat their bodies unceasingly. The medium whispered, ' sing, sing; and Brother' Jones, in a more melancholy mood than ever, struck up loudly, "Froml enland's icy mountains," being joined by the whole coin in chorus' Dead silence ensued. Suddenly then, three ere raps were given on the portfolio, the agitation of the two young men increased, and the medium shouted, "I, Charles Fourier, am with you-I am."  Glory to God," ejaculated the old lady in a squeel- ing voice. "I, Charles Fourier, tell you that a great day is coming, yes, that 'a good time is coming,' when this circle shall wit. ness the ascending and descending of angels, the world shall be filled with a blaze of light more brilliant than a prairie on fire, yea, than the noon day sun ; and "The Golden Gem," so little known now, will be looked up to by all on earth. Go on, g ngo on, good and ise riend, for J, Charles Fourier am sent by God    ' "Glory, gloryto God," shouted the old lady again, in a high state of excitement. "I am sent by God to tell you that your course is light  "Has the circle yet reached its seventh sphere?" inter- posed Brother Jones, in a low, sanctified tone. Here we   SEVEN -NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.        75 ached to jump up, and yell out, "Gammon," but were obliged, out of politeness, to obey the rules. "' I am 'not permitted to tell you, my friends," said the reputed medium of Fourier, " but the year 1852 will be a glorious and fearful one, for the end of the world is near at hand. But, friends, I cannot be with you long. I am called away, but will return agan some future evening, so good bye." "Good bye-God be praised," screamed the old lady in a transport of enthusiasm. Then again the rappings commenced with immense enthu- siasm, the gent on the left of the medium beating his head and breast in the most frantic manner, clutching at air, wriggling in his seat, stretching himself all ways, until sheer exhaustion caused him to desist. It was as much as we could do to retain our seats. "I, Emanuel Swedenborg, am permitted by God to be with you    " "Glory to God; glory-glory," cried the old lady, clap. ping her hands. "Amen," was echoed around the board. ( My friends, God is with you, and has sent us spirits to join with you in your circles. Get magnetism in your bodies, for I say a great epoch is near at hand. I must leave you No, don't go," interrupted the old lady. THIS same mummery was re- ated with the names of Eliz-  beth Fry, Shakespeare, John. and others, until the parties, were completely beaten out of strength, so much so, that it took one young man some min- utes to recover himself, being  smoothed the hair on his brow, at every stroke giving a shake  of the hand, as if something lingered there, that he wished to get rid of. At length the victim came to himself, talked  lerently about good spirits; his eyes were blodshot from      1 evere rubbing he gave them with the end of his long and perspiration stood in large drops over his face young fellow! whether sincere or not, we predicted that by weeks could not pass before he was a member of the       ; tic asylutm.   76      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. At the end of this sacrilegious performance, the venerable. looking old lady arose with benevolence, sincerity, and kind,- ness depicted on every lineament of her face, and said that she thought it her duty to rise and return thanks to the Al- mighty for the blessed privilege he had given .her of being permitted to take. part in the ceremonies of the evening, that she trusted her life would be spared long enough to witness the great events of the year 1852. After praying that God would continue to bless the happy circle as he lad done, she passed a 25 cent piece over to Brother Jones, who received it quickly, with an extended hand and a groan. The old lady gathered her shawl about her, and withdrew at that ad- vanced hour of the night, to gain her home, alone and unpro- tected. Thus ended in a shorlpne, this blasphemous farce. We could scarcely contain our anger. Here set these wolves, night after night, devouring the life-blood of the unsuspect- ing victim of delusion, and preying, even like Cannibals, on his remains. And here, night after night, they expeot to be- hold their great aim fulfilled-the coming in of silver and notes to their " spiritual store-house "--alias the pockets of the lazy, hypocritical firm of Brown, Jones Liz Co. There are certain dispensations of Providence, like plagues, crime, and waste, which are sent on the earth, for which it is beyond the comprehension of mankind to give a reason. Of this class is "The Golden Gem." iVe have given the exact truth in describing these meetings--"Nothing extenuating, or setting down aught in rmalice^ The lunatic asylums now groan with the sighs of victi it he like delusions, and is it not time that our public aut ties should take the matter ir hand, and by punishing these money-seekers, these un- goldly monsters, relieve society from wicked machinations, emanating from such quarters?   'NIGHT THE FOURTH. RjCOME OLD blew the winds of a bleak November night, when our old circle met to proceed once again to behold more of the mysteries and miseries of Gotham. The moon was slum. bering behind the far-off hills, and the stars twinkling brightly from their nestling places in the canopy of Heaven, as we passed through certain ques. I tionable streets in the cold, frosty, and chilling air. Scenes of drunkenness, haunts of theft and murder, dens of conspi. racy and prostitutioil, rookeries of-pauperism, were desig. nated, as We cautiously picked our way along by gas-light, where the lower staturm ofsociety dwelt. The venerable Wigglqsworth was our guide and adviser. Hobbs was with us, fortified with the old green umbrella under his arm. Judge Blower joined us with a hearty good will. The fine old gentlein was well bundled up, as well as the rest of us, and seeld to feel fine and comfortable for a nman of his enormous size. As we moved on, we al. lowed the theme of discussion to run upon all topics of gen- eral interest, and as we followed Wigglesworth, .ignorant of his sojourn, "Follow me, gentlemen," was all he said when accosted. "Chilly weather this, but just right for a travelling tramp, however," said Blower, buttoning up his overcoat, and shrug- ging his broad shoulders. "Rather smartish about the nose, that's a fact, judge," rejoined Kit, who fairly shivered. "' The fact of the matter is, Kit, you are so very tall, and out of proportiop, that it takes hold of you in the upper story, pretty sharply," replied Blower, who paddled on as fast as his corpulence would admit. "But, NWigglesworth, where the dogs are you taking us?') "Follow me, gentlemen," was all the reply made.   i\ 78       v "VEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "Well, you aret getting us, for a certainty, into some awful skittish-looking, street. Pray what is the name of it?" "Darned if I /now," said Kit. "Be quiet, gertlemen, and follow me," as he hurried on, cane in hand. i" "I guess he intends to show us Gotham, pretty thorough. ly, judge, we remarked. "Yes, and he's just the man to do it, too."' I'll be darned if I won't have to back down this time," said Kit, " for to ave my life, I'm altogether out of my reck- oning now. Won der where the old fellow intends to talke us to-night?"  t,                 . "Be still, Kit, afd follow on," said the officer again, author- atively. Gas light acquainted us of the actual condition of our whereabouts. L  sunken, dingy houses, filth, rubbish, old men and women, children poorly, very poorly clad, were some of the scenes presented to our view, as we gained block after block. Here a drunken man, there an intoxicated woman, with a half-starved babe yelling faintly in the arms of its inhuman mother, als if to make night more hidious, in sevelp ral places the sound, or rather squeaking of a rheumatic vio. lin could be heard. Around the doorways of low groggeries (and they can be found on every corner through the long low streets of Gotham,) gangs of negroes and sailors stood discussing matters and things in general belonging to their line of conversation. As we passed along, we encountered low women in the Streets, and about the doorways, charac- ters of the lowest grade, who ppeared as though about to die, conquered by some loa pome disease. Many were badly dressed, with bare legs and bare bosoms, while their own tongues pronounced them the vilest of creatures. We observed one young, pale-faced girl, as we were passing, whose under lip was cut in the shape of a V, soars were vis- ible all over her fa e, and no doubt was one of the 1" fighting Lize" kind. Here was one with but one arm, another with but one eye, another with two tusks or tushes passing through the lips. To us,.tthe scene was a sickening one, although observed by a dim ray of gas, how women can throw them- selves away in such a manner, and in so beloved a country as ours, is a question subject to a deal of discussion and care. ful consideration. "t For the love of humanity, stop one moment, if you please, Wigglesworth, and let me ask you a question before we go farther," said Blower, just after we had passed a scene of combat between Itwo drunken women who were fighing, curs-   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       9 ing, and swearing at each other. "How many, or rather, are there many low streets like this in Gotham r? "Oh yes, sir, hundreds of them   "    ^ "And equally as bad?" "Even so, judge." "Can it be possible!" sighed the judge. "Oh, New York is one of the places, now I tell you," said Hobbs, who stood shivering with long cotton snugly under his arm. "Friend Wigglesworth!" "Sir." "How, in the name of suffering humanity do all such poverty-stricken individuals keep from freezing and starving to death?" "' Well, it's a wonder, but the greater part brave it through. Do you believe that there are old buildings, in certain parts of this city, where three hundred families dwell? Who live on a loaf of bread day after day, sleep on the cold ground or hard plank? Yes sir--but let us go on, for I want to show you something."' How true is the old saying, that " half the world know how the, other half lives.," WHO has not heard of a house in Cherty to a hundred a  street b uilt for the accommoda. tion of two hun. dred and fifty faembered, that there are a number of houses in 'Which thirty to a hundred fami. lies live. We merely speaxce  of the old me tropolisto sho   w  to th e reader how New Yorpers p620 acrsk in their fllow beins,is almost nearly doublead, neck, and heels, for, be it remembered,-that the number of inhabitants toga dwell. ing house, is much greater in Gotham than in any other city of the Union. We even excel the old me. tropolis of London, that renowned city which stands upon 620 acres of ground. The ratio is almost nearly double that of the "Quaker City," the number being eight to one, while in London, seven and three-fourths to one, and in New York it is nearly thirteen to one. So say the records. 8 "Kit, were you ever down in the "Diving Bell?" asked  the officer. "Diving Bell," muttered Hobbs. "Yes--down in the ' Diving Bell,' as it is called?"   80       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "No sir- e," replied Kit, yet he was loth to say it, as he would like to have had us entertain the idea that he was well versed in all of the ups and downs of city life. "Well, now, I want to ask you another question, and I wish you to answer it, aside from joking. Can you tell me the name of the street we are now in?"T This puzzled Hobbs, and he was obliged to answer point. edly in the negative. "(Well, which way would you go now, providing you de- sired to reach Broadway the shortest cut?" Kit gazed around himself, and at last raised his hand and pointed a certain way. "Just as I expected," said Wigglesworth, ", but you are grossly mistaken. This mistake made-Hobbs feel abasned. There was no signs of any lights in the street, which gave it a very dismal and fearful look. Blower laughed at Hobbs, which rather touchedhis " passionate feelings," yet he kept his good nature, ind swallowed his wrath. ("Say, why did you ax about that place called the ' Diving Bell, eh?" asked Kit as we came to a halt. "Didn't you know that there was an ' awful skittish hole,' as the judge says, in this city, called the 'Diving Bell,' Hobbs?" "Well, no, not as I knows on, Wigglesworth." "But what kind- of a place is it, anyhow?" asked the judge. ("Well, I think I shall leave that for you to find out, as I'm about to take you all down there soon. Let me see- ten minutes of twelve; just about the right time. Hope none of you will be afraid, for it is one of the most wicked places you ever heard of; there's no other place equal to'it in this city." ' But give us an explanation-a little insight into it now?" asked Blower, who evidently began to tremble. "' \ es, do," added Kit. We were silent, as we had a great desire to visit the re- nowned place. "Time enough for that, gentlemen-but let me tell you before we proceed farther, that it is expected each of you will look out for yourselves, and mind your own business. Here, judge, take that pistol, and put it in your pocket, in case something might ' turn up '--be careful of it, for it's loaded. And Kit, you pocket the other," said the officer, as he present- ed a brace from his overcoat pockets. "No you don't, for I never fired off one of 'em in my whole born days. Give it to your friend- here, for if there's any   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.    '  81 swipingp to- do, I and the umbrellas can do it," and here Kit handed it over, but luckily, we were already well armed. "Oh, shut up, stop your nonsense, and put that pistol in your pocket," roared Wigglesworth. "But --- " "No ' buts 'here now, for I tell you we are going into a bad hole, and no one knows but what we may need them, as all kinds of fights are constantly occurring there, and a fel. low could be ' knocked' over there in no time, and nobody in the street be the wiser. Put it in youtr pocket, Hobbs." "But, Wigglesworth, I'm afraid of loaded iweapons. I shall raise Old Harry if I take it, and then again, it makes me ner- vous to talk and think about it." "Oh, you are a coward, Kit," said we to him. '; No I ain't, for I've knocked down many a fellow with my fist, and this 'ere umbrella." Here he displayed both fist and umbrella. "Do you put that pistol carefully in you pocket, if you in- tend to go with us to-nighit," said the officer. "Well, if I must, I must, but I hates to.'" Judge Blower was evidently alarmed at the " approaching crisis," for his very looks betrayed him. "Mighty glad I left old bull's-eye watch and wallet at home," said he. "Hadn't you better take command of this pistol?" he asked, addressing Wigglesworth. "Well done, judge, what's the matter with you all at once?" "Why, I ain't used to carrying weapons, and it -would puzzle me to fire it right." "You are smart, and very honest in telling of it," replied Wigglesworth, laughingly. "That's the pinch with me, too," rejoined Hobbs, who actually seemed frightened. "WELL, now,- gentlemen, ll tell you how it is-there are but two ways to decide this question. If you don't wish to visit this place, we will quit a4 once, and go home-but if you have a desire to go, then it is essential that we go armed. I don't pretend to say that we are bound to run a-foul of murders, but at the same time, it is well enough -to have some kind of defence in case anything should happen That is the all about the matter." "- Is it an awful skittish hole, friend Wigglesworth?" inquired Blower in a trembling voice. "Yes sir," was the stout reply.   82       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTIIAM. "And it's now about midnights you say?" "Just twelve o'clock. Hark! don't you hear Trinity Church clock striking, away in the distance?" "Then supposing we adjourn until some other time, when we can go at an earlier hour of the night?"- "But it's too early now, by good rights,"' said the officer. "Two o'clock in the morning is just about the right time to stop in to see the fun in its height." "Oh no, let's put it through, judge," interposed Hobbs, who began to manifest a little outside courage. "That's what we say, too," we added. "Very well then," said the judge, "' the right of a majori- ty to govern is Democracy all over, so push ahead, officer Wigglesworth." {' Then come on gentlemen, and in five minutes we will be there." "Not so fast," cried the judge, " for it makes me breathe short, very short.' "Strange, I never heard tell of this 'ere place," observed Kit. "There are but few persons who know its history," re. marked Wigglesworth. "Ever been there many times?" (' Only seven times in my life." "What street is it in?' "The lowest part of one of the lowest ones in Gotham,)" was the reply. ' You will now have an opportunity, gen- tlemen, of hearing some of the finest-toned music ever issued from the strings of the violin. But I'm not jesting," said he, as we laughed, " for I can assure you that it is enchanting and of a real magnificent strain. "Git oute,' cried Kit. "Very well, then, you will soon see for yourself, but re- member what I tell you," said TWigglesworth seriously. "Some old ' dance house' music, that's all," remarked Hobbs, smiling. - "Never you mind about that, whether it be ' dance-house music 'or not. But remember what I say, for when you hear music in a place almost sixty feet under ground, you can be sure that it sounds differently than it does in any or- dinary place." Alas! unfortunately the tongue of Wigglesworth had made a slip, for he had let the " cat out of the bag," when he men- tioned the depth. "Hold! see here--one moment, Wigglesworth, if you   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       83 please," and the judge gave utterance to his feelings. "What's this--sixty feet under ground, did you say?" "( Yes Sir-and a ' dance house' below that."  Blower and Hobbs stopped at this information, as the cour. age each possessed had been touched delicately. "( A well named place-the Diving Bell;' we tartly re- marked. "D---n awful looking skittish hole that must be, Hobbs, oh?" ("Yes, awful, judge. It aint no wonder at all that Wig- glesworth wanted us to go armed   " "Wigglesworth, my dear fellow, this aint no trap game, eh?" "Rather a 'trappish' way in getting down there, judge    " "By the bye, how do you get down?" "Oh, you leave the street, walk through a long narrow alley-way, pass down one flight of stairs, then work your way down by following a twisting pathway. Perhaps you may have to creep, jump, and stoop, in some places, and I can promise you that you will see one of the greatest sights you ever beheld. It's a good deal like going into a den, or a mound, when after you leave the top of the ground, you go down, and down, and keep going down until you bring up    " ' Very likely--quite a sensible remark," said the judge. "Yes, the ' bringing up' part is," added Hobbs. "Gentlemen, as you are visiting these places for informa- tion, let's put ahead and keep moving," observed the officer. But it was of no use, Hobbs and Blower 1" declined " at once. "' I'm a large, heavy man, and I don't want to get into trouble, especially at this late hour of the night " "But judge, I'm as old, you must remember, as you," said Wigglesworth. "That can't be helped, for to be plain, I'm rather skittish about poking down in such a- hole, anyhow." "And, judge, so am I. And then, you see, I don't feel none too well to-night," added Hobbs. "Well now that's cool, anyhow you can fix it. You've been taken ill very suddenly, I should say, Mr. Christopher Hobbs." After some little discussion, we prevailed upon them to go as far as the location of this renowned den, or cavern. (' The fact of the matter is," observed the judge in a shiv- ering state, as an old segar stump revolved about his mouth,   84       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. ' I'm a big coward on water, and quite as big a one on land, for there are as big ' land sharks' as you'll find in the ocean." "Well, I aint much afraid  "Oh no, Mr. Christopher H'obbs is a very courageous young man,"' interrupted the officer, in a squeeling tone, imi. tating him. "Well, what I was going to say, officer Ad "No excuse here, sir, if youi please--so come on," and on we walked. 'I don't think I shall go farther than down to the passage way," muttered Blower, out of. breath. "That's right, judge, don't let's. Wiggl6sworth overhear. ing the remarks of Blower and Hobbs, said nothing. When we arrived at the place; Wigglesworth, as luck would have it, espied an old ex-policeman of his acquaintance, who stood hard by a larn'p-post, conversing with- a couple of men. l Ned, my old boy, step this way ;half a second, if you please." He did so, and the other two strangers moved on. ' Old fellow, how do you stand fit--glad to see you," and here he introduced us. Wigglesworth then began telling him of their intentions- ' "You see, Ned, these gentlemen were very desirous that I should take them around, and show 'em some of the won. derful things which old Gotham possesses, as they are on a tour of observation, for information-I thought that the 4 Diving Bell' would be 6ne of the first places on the list, eh.. "Of course, of course-and so you're just going to take a peep down under ground, it seems?" said the strange individ- ual, a tall, robust man, of about thirty-six. "Yes--but the dogs of it is, the judge here, and our um- brella friend, say they are afraid." "Pooh! pooh! gentlemenq never fear, for I'll swear to you that that if there's to be ahy ' laming ' I'll attend to 'em. Go down, keep a stiff upperAip, mind your'own affairs, and all's right." "Where do you go in first?" asked the judge, who began to look about him. "Oh, just as you can catch ith5" said Wigglesworth's friend, who seemed full of '" blood and thunder." O describe the way of entrance is more than we can do with any degree of accurateness. The reader .must imagine dark alleys, dismal looking holes, bare and damp walls, low ceilings, bad air in a confined state, squalid cellars, doors of nar- row dimensions, that seem the entrances to dan.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       85 gerous caves, crooked passages, mildew entrances, ricketty steps, saying nothing about the array of cobwebs, and the headquarters of overgrown rats. After making out to plod your way down-down-down-you come to a miserable, underground room, which bears the name of " dance house." You are now a little below the " six-feet of earth " generally allowed man. The mamouth cave in the Bowery is nothing to the L"Diving Bell," in no particular whatever--save in un- repentant crime. But now to the point. Here we found a large room, well filled with men and women, at least, we will give them the credit of belonging to the two sexes, although by the looks of the greater portion of the gang, they, by good rights, should be stricken out of existence. Perhaps they numbered thirty, all told, all dancing to the tune of "Old Zip Coon," which emanated from an orchestra consisting of two violins and a banjo-played by three old, drawn-up looking "negroes."  We rejoiced that we had proper protection; for the old fellow who was " boss " of the establishment, recog. nized Wigglesworth and his friend-and hence the reason * why " the shilling" was not demanded of us as we entered. Half of the women here, were negresses of all shades and colors, the other half a mixture of all nations, poisoned with liquor. All indelicately dressed, and skeletons "Of what were once the fair and virtuous- Proud scions of a mother's care." Here were rowdies of every possible description, " armed to the teeth " with pistol or slung-shot; some unfortunate, straying, (" half seas over' sailors, with junk-knife in its sheath; negroes, too poor to think of owning any kind of a decent weapon, " mixed in " with the lowest seethmng-oaldron e of all shades of society. It is impossible ta ddedsr ibe the vulgar-souled women, who looked as thou gh, they had not seen daylight for months, and were ready to o]i' over with a mixture of disorders which would defy all themrinerals in existence to cause an improved change in their systems. To be short, all of them' looked as though there was only one fear that troubled them, and that was the dread of death! We shook our head, sighed at the alarming distresses before us, and turned away to view other parts of the den. Up' to this time, we had kept our mouths closed for fear that this lazar-house of pollution might send forth its ravages. Wig. glesworth, Hobbs, and' Skibbets, were looking about from place to place, mostly viewing some old, caseworn paintings, which hung up about the cave.   86       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. Although we were breathing in a place at a depth of some sixty or seventy feet, amid rascality and murderers, we felt quite easy in mind as we stood and looked on. Upon 'one side were gambling-tables-slim, narrow, pine boards; be- yond them, a " bar," where poison was dealt out at three cents a horn--while upon the opposite side were low, un. planed benches, where these bedizzened women and their victims sat to talk, and drink deep in the depths of the bonds of iniquity. People talk of the underground rooms of Pete Williams' celebrated dance-house-a cave known as "Dickens' Place ;" they are nothing to the "Diving Bell," or to other places of a similar kind, in various portions of Water street, al- though it bears the name of being the great cavern in Gotham. As we said in the beginning of this work, "Gotham, has its scores of dens, which are unknown to the reading public." THE remark made by Wigglesworth prior to entering the'"Diving Bell," respecting the " heavenly sounding music," was a just and correct one. Never did we listen to such delight. ful-toned music, however unclassical the tunes were played, in this im- pregnable cavern, where no sounds could ever reach the street. There was a kind of easy sympathetic strain about it-especially when Cooney in de Hollor " was played, touching in tone, and agreeable in pathos, causing one to be led along into a high state of delight, and to experience, underground, the charms which music possesses. It should be heard to be realized. "Don't let's stay here longer-do come and go." said the judge to the officer, as a fight occurred between one of these wretches and a rowdy, who it seemed took the liberty to spit tobacco juiob in her eye No doubt but what the advice was good, for as we left the cellar, all hands were assisting in the fight, knocking down, and we observed glittering knives lurking in the misty light. Fat as Blower was, he was the first one who reached the street, but in a state of profuse perspiration. Hobbs looked frightened, in fact all of us owned that we were glad that the party were safely landed when we were in the street. "There, there, now, I call that just about-yes, just about as awful a skittish-looking place down there under ground, - asaflasitihlo.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       87 as can be found in .this country. The Mammoth Cave out' in Kentucky, not. excepted," said the judge, as he stood in the chilly wind, wiping the sweat from his brow. All agreed with him. "Well, yes," saidl Kit, "Elephantine places down below are scarce; but darn me if J don't believe some chaps ' sees the elephant' down thar for good, forever and forever, when they once get fairly locked down. That's one of the places anyhow." "Wigglesworth, come, as we've seen what we have seen; had'nt we better put for home. I'm chilly, and its hard on to the ' short hours' of night?" "Just as you say, judge; but inasmuch as we come for information, Hed an idea of taking you to some other places, as we had got fairly started," said the officer. "You see, Judge, this is just about the right time to look in," he added. "They aint so scary as this last one, I hope?" "Oh, no." "Handy place down there to murder a man without any- body knowing it. out doors, eh?"      t. "Very true, judge ;and I guess that if the truth was known, a great many brutal outrages have been committed in the 'Diving Bell,' observed the officer. "There's most generally a fight every night," said Wig- glesworth's friend. "And I reckon some pretty tough ones," added Hobbs. While standing here, a watchman came along and politely advised us to be moving; but on recognising Wigglesworth, he smiled, and remarked that we '" needn't be in a. hurry." These gentlemen remained conversing for some time, about murders or arrests. "Only sixteen murders in this city during- the last nine vmonths," observed the watchman, as we parted. When we left this place, Wigglesworth took us into another den farther up the same street. It was on the first floor, but a rear room, where, after paying the small fee of six and a quarter cents, we had the privilege of looking in upon a sight, similar to the one we had just left. It was another of those uninviting scenes of drunkenness, gambling, fight- ing, and all of the auxilliaries that assist men and women in making themselves lower than brutes. Our stay here was not long after we had forked over four smooth sixpences. As we continued passing along the same street, it seemed that almost every dwelling was a groggery below, and a   88      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. brothel above. Quantities of degraded females were visible, music, dancing, liquor, tobacco, pipes, segars, harlots, and-, loafers, in one mass, This was at the hour of one in the morning; Wigglesworth informed us that it would be kept up until " daylight" caused them to hide themselves from his honest face. We noticed that blacks mixed in freely with the gang, and all seemed to go on as well. There could be heard yells and screams in one place, groans and wicked oaths in another. Wigglesworth informed us that these ne. groes would dance all night, and then be found at early morn "dancing for eels" about Catharine Market. This was their last move, prior to turning in for a sleep. We observed one thing in particular wherever we wan- dered. Jntemperance ruled. Oh, that the Maine Liquor Law might be enforced-what a check it would suddenly cause throughout these abominable channels! Let those who are against its enforcement, wander through a dozen or twenty of the lowest streets of Gotham, at the midnight hour, and they will very soon yield that stubborn prejudicial feeling, and go in heart and hand for its passage. "This is just about the time when thousands of a certain class are enjoying themselves," remarked the officer, as we passed on from street to street. "Thieves are out now at their work; dance houses, and brothels, and gambling hells, are in full blast, and all such dens are alive " "Awful place, gentlemen, is Gotham," observed the, judge. "Ned like to take one good long look at something just about now;  and I don't know but what I'ed give ten dollars if such a sight could be seen," remarked Hobbs, with green umbrella vibrating under his arm. "Spit it out," said the officer. "Why, I'ed like to have all the roofs of the houses lift up in such a way so that I could take a good view of several hundred thousand people lying flat on their backs!" "  Well, that is an idea, Hobbs; you aint so sleepy after "Would'nt it be one whopping sight, the seeing of ' the elephant,' eh, judge?" This created quite a laugh, for the idea was not a bad one. As we had become quite interested in our travels by gas. light, Wigglesworth led us along from one place to another. We stopped every now and then to talk with a watchman, as Wigglesworth knew almost every one we accosted. Through them, we obtained many a  new idea of night life in Gotham. When asked what the news was, they all, most generally, re.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      89 plied that there was a murder on such a night, in such a place, or a hard fight in such a den, pr a man found frozen to death in such an alley. One old watchman in Little Water street, informed Wigglesworth that sixteen females had been "sent up," out of one den, on that day, while to do justice, twenty times as many should follow them. He informed us that he could go in one hundred and fifty of these houses of low repute, and in two hours furnish sixteen hags out of each one, who, by good right, should have been " sent up on Blackwell's Is- land, or the House of Correction, months and months ago. Another watchman had a long account to tell Wigglesworth about a female robbing a Californian of some $1,800, by influ- encing him to drink liquor which she had drugged; while another fellow on the same night was enticed into one of the dens by a prostitute, where he had money and all of his clothes stole from him in the night, and the chap was obliged to wrap a sheet or a bid-quilt about him, so as to reach the vessel on which he belonged. As fast as Wigglesworth 'told a similar yarn, then would his friend "follow suit," which was the means of us standing at the corner of the streets for some time. In this way, did we gain much more information respecting all shades of life in Gotham. "We're having murders somewhere in the city, about every day now, you notice by the papers, gentlemen?" ob- served the last watchman whom we accosted, while passing up Broad street. "Yes, they are averaging about one a day,"' rejoined Wig- ,glesworth. "To what do you charge the great portion of them, sir?" we modestly asked. "Intemperance."   NIGHT THE FIFTH. ONE who would un. dertake to note the varied attractions in Gotham, the   task will prove  tedious and laborious. We pity such a romancer. For the last seven months have we wandered from time to time in quest of certain information herein to be found, but the more we searched, the more we discovered. We have look- ed in upon all classes and characters; we have seen some of the embodiments of good and evil fruits--some of the misery, some of the splendor, and some of the mystery which encircles Gotham-but we have not seen all. Far from it. Yet the insight already gain. ed, shows to us, in a conclusive form, that this young and growing metropolis, destined to be the leading city of the world, should. pass at once through a thorough regeneration, ere it passes, in a few short years, into the hands of those now too young, too good, to know evil There is much to be learned mid the general intercourse of society in examining the hidden springs of human affairs, for the eye of man becomes troubled, dazzled, and moistened, when fairly opened to the presence of mystery. This has been the case from the commencement, and will be until the close of ages, with the human family. By their sentiments, as well. as by their names, do persons recognize each other; and to the acute romancer who has an indomitable tenacity for the study-of society, and to comprehend it in all its frac. tions, the task before him is a lifetime. Hoe nust pass   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      91* through the storms of life ere he has accomplished well the great aim of his endeavors-to write such evidence as will be appealed to concerning man, wherein human life is laid down as in a map. This is the simple reason why the task remains unaccomrplished.          I After inspecting with a close and yet careless eye, the true every-day condition of the good and evil springing up in Gotham, it does no harm to describe what those themes con- stitute, what forms society, and even to lisp their tendency. The great wonder of the world is, how persons contrive Ito reach and live in a fortunate state-how society is supported! Confining these remarks to Gotham alone, we are obliged to bring forward to your critical-view, representatives of each and every class, so as to enable you to see what they consti- tute, when mixed up in one heterogenious mass. People live by all ways and plans. We have looked in upon the honest man and the virtuous woman-upon the man who lives by gambling and false pretences, down, to one still lower, who by heartless extortion and usuries, makes out to revel in pride and glory; while should we ask a friend to draw the distinction between them-point out the rogue and the honest man, the task would be hard for him to decide upon -We have looked in upon a great class of respectable individuals, at least so called, who make their- thousands by speculations on the starvation of the poor; others by insecure banks and insurance companies; others by banking without capital; others by living on the ill-gains of women; others by making rich men poor, and themselves wealthy, by en. dorserents, say for instance, a sixty thousand dollar note endorsed by the former, and then protested for non-payment; while other knaves, who devoutly worship the same god, Mammon, contrive some way to live on the ill-gained fruits derived from various sources. Golden enthusiasm is the ruling passion of a great people-and fraud, falsehood,and corruption are publicly sold in market to the highest bidder. With worthless stock you are robbed of your money in open daylight, and even within sight of the Tofifbs, or if you choose, Wall street, by a " respectable and very gentle. manly " financier; with a little brass, you are '"taken in and (done for " by an Isralite% who is the father of thirteen children, owns a fine palace " above Bleecker," and has his private box at the Opera, filled with eight interesting unmar- ried daughters. The merchant sells you adulterated liquor, and yet he owns a '; pew" at some ton church; the butcher sends to your house tainted meat, at an advanced market. price, perhaps ; the grocer cheats you in weight and genuine-   ,B 92     SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. ness of article; and even the milkman knows how to peddle a manufactured article, just as easy and scientific as the gambler robs you of your money, or the fancy dealer cheats your wife or your daughter, by demanding double the marked price which the very goods bears upon its ticket. These are every day scenes, and one can look in upon them in other cities as well as in Gotham. But; we regret to say that Gotham is: overstocked with such a clan,-who mingle and have intercourse in the moral and honest channels of our land. Advantage seems to be the order of the day, and those who get it in the nicest kind of a way, are considered bright and shining characters! Hence, the reason why we simply remark that Reform is needed. As the renowed Blower says, "' the fact of the matter is," in this city every- body is grabbing openly and slyly, never satisfied, and all bound to g'et what they can as they can, and run the risk of the consequences in this world and in the world to come. This, at the present enlightened, go-a-head time, is the prac- tice of all nations, but as a general thing, the Gothamites rank high, and if anything, are rather ahead of " all crea- tion " upon the point of getting-Money. '"Wheie to-night?" we inquired, as our old company sat " smiling " lightly--save Kit Hobbs, who never drinks--at Tammany Hall. WAS just telling the judge and Kit," observed Wigglesworth, "that as this was Friday night, we would get into a Broadway omnibus, and ride up as far as 25th street, and then across town, to see a 'Rat-Worrier.' But the judge feels very anxious to look in upon some' of these great gambling establishments in. Broadway, Barclay street, and Park Place.", "Yes," interrupted Blower, "I've heard tell so much about them big gambling palaces, that I want to see 'em. It's a place where I never was in my life---- Nor we either, judge; and as this was the understanding at our last meeting, let us forgo the ' Rat Worrier' business, and take a look for the first and last time into these hells." ' "' That's the talk, and it's a bunkham good night for it, too," added Hobbs.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       9 But you see, gentlemen, when I promised you the other night that you should look inside of the palaces of Pat, Sasm, Jack, and Frank, I expected that a certain gentleman's son, who frequents them, would see that you were admitted on lny account, but unluckily he sails to-morrow in the Baltic for the World's Fair. I am not acquainted at such places my. self, and could not get in because I do not know the crooks and turns." "That's bad-bad, unfortunate," said Blower. "Yes, it is kinder so," said Kit who walked back and forth with his guardian under his arm. For our part we were anxious to get one good inner view of some of these renowned places, as we had heard for many years, various accounts of their location, splendor, and ras- cality. We did not wish to visit the mere low " sweathoard' affairs-certain places hidden almost from the eyes of the Chief of Police, but rather those palatial and magnificent ,establishments, the location of which are so well known :th our City Fathers. We wished to inspect those hells, 'where thousands and tens of thousands of dollars, changed hands night after night, and gambling is carried on in defiance of the stringent law which was passed by the State Legislature expressly to break it up, and which seems to prove inade- quate, because it is not honestly and faithfully enforced. Yet the police know, says Greeley, "where gambling 4s nightly prosecuted to the ruin of thousands, and could chalk the doors of a hundred gaming houses of all sorts and sizes, in the 'course'of an evening's ride. They could instantly break up two-thirds of the gambling dens in our city, if they only would.' And we would ask, where are these edi- fices to be -found? Spot -the best looking houses in Park Place, and you then spot one, two, three, or more of these notorious dens of frauid, robber, and sometimes murder. Even they are to be found along the Acropolis of this modern Athens--in our Broadway, below rand " above Bleeker," in other popular and fashionable thoroughfares.. !"You will excuse me, gentlemen, but allow me to ask if you would be willing to be taken through several of these places by a leading ' fancy man' whose profession is to live by gambling. You see, gentlemen," continued Wigglesworth, "it wont do for me to undertake to go through with you ; and then again, you see, if you -have a desire to gain-the best information respecting them,. then work it so as to get in 'in with some 'sporting man,' who /will do the thing. up brown ---    "      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "And he's what may be called, I suppose," interposed ,Blower, 'a gentlemanly blackleg,' to use-a plain term, eh?" "Well yes, if you please; but judge, aside from all that, this chap whom I have in my eye, is an up-and-down good kind of a fellow, and I will vouch if he goes with you, he'll do his very best to show you all." i' Where is he? Can you find him handy?" we inquired. "Well yes, I think so. All I've got to do is to go over to the Astor House, where I think I can find him ---- " "But he don't board there?" inquired Blower. "Oh yes; but, judge, you wouldn't mistrust that he was a gambler if you should see him. Why bless my stars, you can find any quantity of such ' fast fellows' who live in style at such places as the Astor, American, Howard, and Irving House, Delmonico's,- United States, New York, and Union Place Hotel. As long as a man behaves himself, dresses with the times,and pays his bills- promptly, who dare open his head? But what do you say, gentlemen, shall I go and ' hunt him up? As you all expected to go o-night, I'll do my best in getting you fitted out for the adventure, as I don't want you to be disappointed." Here Wigglesworth got up and put on his old overcoat pre-. paratory to a start. "Well, I don't for one care much about mixing in with blacklegs," observed Blower, rather seriously. ac That's a fact," added Hobbs. ", But, gentlemen, ' when among the Romans, we must do as the Romans do,' and as Mr. Wigglesworth has informed us that we should make the acquaintance of some one be- longing to the profession, if we are desirous to obtain the right kind of infprmation respecting such places of which we arc entirely igniiant, why then, let us assent and take up with his offer. *We have w ' extra V' to present him for his trouble." "Make it twd for I'll consent, and will give a V myself," added the judge i' "Yes, ten dollars will be heaps of money for the fellow," said Hobbs, who can count his thousands, but who would see a man hung on one of his Wisconsin farms before he'd fork over a V on such an occasion. "All right then, gentlemen, I'll just run across the Park, to the Astor, and see if I can find the gentleman.' ("Don't be long away, Wigglesworth." "Yes, hurry up your cakes," added Hobbs. It was not long before back he came with his man. le was a short, thick-set fellow, of about eight and twenty, well   QK SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. dressed, but in a very plain way, however, like a regular business man. Of course, his tongue was a smoothing-plane, and he knew how to be affable and polite as a French danc- ing-master. Wigglesworth passed the compliment, and each of us were introduced to his friend, Tom M .exicks. "Call me Tom, for short, if'you please, gentlemen," said ha. "Wonder they didn't name you Mexico, and done with it," observed Kit, who was trying to spell Mexicks. "( Tom,' said the officer, " you'll find my friends pretty jolly fellows; but they are all right, however, and I want you to do youi very best now. Don't get them into any scrape, Tom, but take them in, explain things, and you'll be liberally paid for your trouble ----     " "Yes, we'll make that all ship-shape," interrupted Hobbs, much to our aggravation. ", Wigglesworth, you know I always tried to do my best, especially when you. put under my protection any of your friends, eh?" asked Tom. "True, sir, true." By the City Hall clock, the hour of nine had arrived. Passing from Tammany Hall into the Paik, we crossed into Broadway, and entered Park Place. Although "' Tom said that " ten o'clock was a very early hour," he ascended the steps leading into a fine looking mansion, and immedi. ately rang the bell. Directly a neat, well-dressed "' darkey" made his appearance, looked "Tom" scrutinizingly in the face, and instantly made a low bow, smiled, stood aside, and in- we marched. This showed to us that "Tom" was no stranger. He led us into a large, magnificent parlor, adorned with choice paintings, and classic sculpture of great value, and where the eye saw at once the finish of the upholsterer, the attractive design of the architect. Here the observer had a magnificent view by gas-light, of noting how the chisel had transformed the massy block of marble into the god-like image of man, endowed with Nature's form, as though life was impressed in feature and in every limb-perfect, but to breathe and think; how the magic pencil had with aston. ishing elegance of taste, touched for the natural eye, the rare and tender features of peerless beauty, the rich graces ot thought, form, and action. But look again at a more domes tic view. Here we discovered a large 'able in the centre of the room-in fact, another of one-third its size would demand the whole parlor-filled with all the delicacies of the market, the choicest and most delicate dishes that are generally pre- sented to meet the finest tastes. Everything wore the air of   B96      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. an aristocrat, and elicited praise from the lips of the whole circle. "Halloe, Tom, my good fellow, how are you. Won't you and your friends take supper, or is it too early for you?" asked the proprietor, a short, comfortable, careless individual, 'who looked as though he took the world easy. "Rather early yet-just dropped in-will be in again, by. and-bye-got to take a trip up town with my friends J' "But perhaps your friends will partake in some shape?" interrupted the proprietor, as he walked about with a large white linen handkerchief with a deep lace border, in his hand. As it happened there was no one in the room at the time, save the landlord, we bowed; and declined respectfully "And, Tom, my good fellow, what's the news?" "Nothing of importance, landlord. The California (run. ners' are doing a nice thing of it on the arrival of every steamer, and our old friend INat' made a handsome com. mission on a lot of gold dust yesterday, of about $2,700, in about three hours after the 'Crescent City,' came up the Bay."  "No, Tom!" "Oh, yes ; he made it out of three ' diggers'-but no doubt spent it all, or the greater part of it, before this." "Yes, yes," said the proprietor carelessly. "Very likely -very likely. Wonder he wasn't round here, last night," he added. "Oh, he was up town last night." '"With Em, I suppose-?" "Of course," answered "Tom," in a'tone indicating that "he was nowhere else." "I did hear that he put $1,200 in her hands, and told her to use it." "Very likely-very likely-and she will use it, und-oubt- edly. But, Tom, try that rare old Burgundy in the black bottle. And, gentlemen, walk up and make yourselves per. fectly at home, for this is as free a house as is our country. Here are all kinds-some Southside Madeira-.iced Cham. paign, Stalwarth Port--and here is lemonade, slightly ' stick- ed.' Come." "' Slicked '-slightly ' sticked ;' what's that mean?" whis. pered the judge, as he stood some little way from the table, observing the paintings. We explained that it contained a slight quantity of liquor. Out of politeness, we all partook lightly, with the excep. tion of Kit, who is for the Maine Liquor Law, tooth and nail, IThe judge, as usual, contracted for a stout horn of " gin and   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTA.        97 sugar," not forgetting to toast, "Here's to sound Democratic principles," which' was always sure to cause a smile around the board. "Twelve hundred dollars, you say, Nat handed over to Em?" remarked the proprietor, as he and Tom stood 'sipping.' ' So Moll told me to-day, and she knows, of course." "And pray, Tom, tell us, how long has she been Nat's mistress, do you know?" "(Ever since she and that Western member of Congress. had the flare-up in Washington; and let me see; that was eight months ago." "Lucky boy. Didn't he win $4000 at one slap, not long ago out at the ' Abbey,' eh?" ' Oh yes, he's up to-day, and down to-morrow;' and as "Tom " said this, the bell rang severely, which caused the proprietor to make his exit. We plainly saw that "Tom" was jusftthe man to " post us," to give us that required information so much desired by us. "Fine, splendid place, this, gentlemen?" To which we replied in the affirmative. "We called rather too early, but never mind. Walk back, into the room, and I'll show you where the business is done;" saying this, we followed on. ( No one is in yet, you see, as it's only just after nine o'clock. This long table here is where they play, or to use a religious word, Gamble."         -  It was a long, low table where were several kinds of ofrds, and sundry heaps of white and red buttons, which are used as the representative of money, the red ones equalling five dollars, and the white ones, one dollar each. Some have what is called." chips," and are used also as a convenience--in fact they are the same thing. There are fifty cent " chips," one dollar " chips," and five dollar " chips." You " change ydur money" for "' chips," and when you desire to leave, you then "change your chips for money." This is the method accord- ing to the explanation given by c"Tom." Everything looked splendid in this part of the establishment. (' There has been a deal of deviltry carried on in this room, at this verygaming-table, no doubt?" we observed. "Shouldn't wonder," said "Tom;" "EightyStwo thousand dollars have changed hands here in one nlight, to my certain knowledge." ' Oh my!" muttered the judge. ( And it was done just .as honest as they could do it in Wall street," he cooly added.   98      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. But one man did not loose or win that amount of money?" "Oh no, there were a score or more of gentlemen in the mess. But I'll tell you what I have seen here in New York," said "( Tom," with much shrewdness. "I saw a young gent win $16,000 of an old man, at one slap, and like a fool, staked upon one card 1" Here was a warning to us. "And the old fellow poisoned himself to death on that very night,"' continued 1"Tom.'" Here was another warning to us against the awful crime of gambling. "And on the day that the notorious Madame Restell was sentenced to Blackwell's Island, the young man was arrested for forgery," continued "Tom," " thus making it quite a singular case altogether, you see." And still, reader, here is another strong lesson, warning all those who are yet free from the attractions and allurements of such hells, to guard themselves against the synthesis of crime. Thousands of young men are ruined yearly by these infernal places' alone, and when once fairly harnessed, they forget their God and their own consciences. This selling souls to win bets, is deplorable to think of. Gambling wrecks a name, destroys a mausoleum of genius, brings riches down to utter poverty, a, home desolated ahndbroken up-in short, makes the victim in the end boldly " curse God and die," Beware, young man, beware of these tempting snares, is our simple warning to you. "I know of a young man," continued "Tom," who drew a prize in a lottery of $7000, and gambled every dollar of it away on the day he received it; but you see, he was a fool, and it was just right' for him. Then I know of a wealthy gentleman's son in this city, who is now about twenty-two, who is gambling a fortune away, left to him by an uncle. He hasn't much good sense, for he bets heavily, staking five hundred dollars at a time upon a single card. But he's bound to the d-- 1, and nothing can stop him." Thus they go. Reader we are giving to you facts. and we hope that they will be appreciated. Listen for one moment. Not long ago we followed to the grave the remains of a young man, who had ruined himself by the curse of ill-got- ten wealth. At eighteen he was a pious member of a church, and in heart was truly a follower of the Lord. At twenty his father died, and the son was still the same. He" left to him a princely fortune. Two years passed, and he had not   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       99 only squandered his wealth, but had become himself a very dissipated character. We had riot more than told one his history, before another was pointed out exactly like him. A few days ago we were told of another instance, the victim now being confined within the walls of a prison. Now in these few cases, these young men were what they should be, previous to receiving wealth as their own, and in how many instances of this nature, in a hundred, will you find the same unhappy result? If it was laid to heart as much as it is generally noticed, it would be better. Place a round half million of money in any young man's possession-say to him that it is his, and he shall command it, and in a great many instances the young man is eventually ruined. This is not merely talk--but truth.  Ill-gotten wealth brings down curses. PASSING from this well, we entered Broadway, passed over to the iron fence of the Parker, and out of a long line of car. riages, selected a dash. ing looking one, entered it, and gave orders to I drive up as far as the New York Hotel. These were "Tom s' direc- tions On our way over the Russ Pavement, he gave us an insight into a great many interesting thirigs; such as how gamblers associated with the "1 most notorious courtesans;" how each supported the other when one party got "broke; how the most "distin. guished lady-housekeep- ers," as he called them, made, out to obtain their wishes' and how most of the "' big guns" were al- ways anxious to. " get into the good graces" of some notorious character, such as a big gambler, a great fighting man, some popular writer, law,   10C      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. yer, or politician, the captain of some steamboat, or steam. ship, some wealthy merchant, or who was considered ' some pumpkins," so that it might be known, seen, and discussed by the " fancy,"' as well as by the great circle of Cyperians, in and out of Gotham. To prove this, he gave several in. stances with which we were familiar, showing that their great aim was to say, '"He's my man."  '( How is it that this law in regard to gambling is not en- forced in this city?" asked the judge, "Well, I can answer that in a very few words," replied "Tom." "It's because the keepers and frequenters of these gambling houses are serviceable to the party controlling, and to keep in power they play for their votes, and the great sticker is-those votes." "That's it, that's it, to a nicety," cried the judge. "Darn the politicians," said Kit, shaking his head and hanging on to his umbrella. "I wish to gracious that I could only be put in Mayor for once, if I wouldn't have a police as is a police, and if a wouldn't raise fury among these 'ere gamblers and g'hals, and these 'ere spurious Orange County Milk fellers, and, and these 'ere "There, there, that will do, Christopher," and the judge patted him on the shoulder, warning him at the same time not to 1" get excited." Reaching the New York Hotel, nothing would do but we must go in and " smile" with him. The judge, ever ready, ever anxious, and ever willing, followed on without the slightest hesitation. We sometimes think that "Tom " did it merely, for 1" outside show," for when he went to pay for the " smiles," he took a deal of trouble- to display a handful of twenty dollar gold pieces. It was not many minutes walk to the stately edifice, be-. fore he took us into a fine-looking four-story house. Through a long narrow hall we ascended to the second story, and entered the back parlor, or if you choose, rear chamber draw- ing-room. Here was a long Itable luxuriously' spread a la Park Place style, where we found some six gentlemenly dan. dies, who were helping themselves to the (" good things,"' the "fat of the land," without ceremony, also " without money and without price." All seemed to recognise ("Tom," and exchanged a smile with him at the appearance of the two eccentrics-Blower and Hobbs. "Dome foine weathah, Tom," said one of the party, a very affected dandy who would not be " unolassical to a degree," if he knew it. "Oh yes, d----n fine weather this; but hand over that   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTIIAM.     101 bottle with the silver-topped cork, if you please, sir," said i' Tom" carelessly. "Ah! yaus, of course." "Pippins, what's the news?" asked "Tom," as he passed the bottle to the judge. "Ah! Thomas, I've just awose from my nocturnal couch-- yaus! I have, I sleep during the day  " "Yes, and raise the d---- by night. Went to bed " tight" this morning, of course, eh?" "Fashionably so, Thomas-ah!" "The old man had better send you South again; New  York is no place for you; but come, gentlemen, if you wont eat, take a look in the next room. We did so, where we found some fifteen men of all ages, seated around a faro table. Four of them were playing. The stakes only one thousand five hundred dollars! We could observe that every one present were no strangers to well-bred politeness, nor to the garb of fashion. Many of them we had often met at various places by daylight and by- gaslight-five in particular, at Niblo's, Burton's, Taylor's, and in Broadway, but never knew before that they were educated gamblers. With them we exchanged a nod and a casual smile, inasmuch as the parties recognized each other. Never having witnessed a play before, we awaited with much anxiety its commencement. The game was between four young gentlemen of five-and twenty each-one of the party, a keen, dark-eyed fellow, looked smiling as each card fell, and seemed to fancy that on the duce there was'luck, inasmuch as three were out and one remained in. The game now- commences, the spectators draw around the board, and with dilated eyes watch with intense interest each play; as the excitement increased among the players, unequal breath- ings, sometimes suspended, again quickened, labored each breast. The dark-eyed one looked upsurrounded by hope and fear, passion began to stain his cheek at the thought of being unfortunate, his breast heaving steady gradually like an ocean billow; yet he endeavored to conceal it. We watched him and his companions carefully to see the mark of prosperity or adversity come and go upon their brows. 'i Ace, red!" cried a tall man. "Ruined-by all that's eternal, all gone," cried the dark- eyed one, fell back in his chair, closed his eyes, placed his hand. on his hot brow, and swooned. Bankbills and gold were gathered into a heap. We had. seen enough. Without saying a word, we beckoned for the judge, and out we came into the open air.   102      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "That fellow acts like a fool--very much like one, and just at a little loss," said "Tom," as he emerged from the door. "Don't say so-for I've seen enough-I've learned a lesson in there," answered the judge, as his very sensitive feelings caused tears to appear in his eyes. "Gambling-houses are hells." "Pooh! and I'll be bound if you are not worked up into a knot of nervousness, too," said 1"Tom," as he looked at the judge. "Get in, gentleman, and let's go home, for I've seen enough for one night." "Darn me, if I don't feel for that ere chap what got ' flummuxed," remarked Kit, as he hauled in his umbrella, ere the doachman closed the door. We said nothing--yet thought. "Well, the whole three of you look as. though you had just come, or were bound to a funeral;" and as "( Tom" took a general survey, he added, "D----n me if you don't " No one made a reply. "There is that gentleman, the proprietor of the establish. ment-the one, judge, who stood dangling his watch chain, I've seen him loose $65,000 at once,'but you couldn't perceive a change in his features, at all; he looked just so easy! And when he wins, he's just the same. Because that fellow lost a little ' pin-money,' he's a sniffling about it " "Did you know him?" we interrupted. "Oh, yes--the whole party; and they are all gamblers. That fellow who lost, lives on the strength of ten thousand dollars per year, aside from what he wins. He has -three sisters, and two brothers, and all are wealthy-live in Union Square. That yawning snob, whom we saw in the back. room, is the son of a New Orleans banker; his father sent him here to New York to reform him from his evil ways!" "Ha! ha! ha!" cried Blower, who could not desist from laughing at the idea; "When in a gambling-house, the fellow owned that he, went to bed drunk at early morn-slept days, and gambled nights!" "But it's a fact, gentlemen,?" continued "Tom."  "As he expected his father on one day, some five weeks ago, he ventured to get up about ten in the morning, so as to have things look straight, in case the old man did appear; but as he didn't come, he invited me to dine'with him, at his place of abode, in Ninth street. While at the table, where were some thirty ladies and gentlemen, he was so confounded ' tight' that he could hardly sit in his chair. The first thing   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      103 I knew, he took up a bit of white bread in his left hand, and with the other spread on a large quantity of butter, and in putting it to his mouth, he slapped butter, bread, all, into his face and eyes. I jumped right up from the table,ioaught hold of him, and by the aid of a servant, conveyed him to his room, where he began to act so ' hicgh-bred,' and put on i 'French airs,' in a state of drunkenness, that I looked him in his room-but I was no more than down stairs before I heard a devil of a racket, so I hurried up again, and there the fellow had knocked out the big pannel of the door, and was creeping through on all-fours." "And he's gambling every night, eh?" askes the judge. "Oh, yes, every night Pippins is at it, judge; he is not over two-and-twenty, yet he keeps his horses, dogs, servants, and mistress. Pippins is one of 'em-he's a hound, and no mistake, but he makes a perfect fool of himself, you see, be- cause he puts on so many airs." "His father had better send him to ---- " "Japan," said Hobbs, as Blower seemed at a loss for a word. "Yes, or some other uninhabited place," added Blower. "Well, there are a great many young men in this city as hard boys as Pippins, and they are all going to the devil about as fast as they conveniently can," observed "Tom," "and we will have a chance in Park Place and Barclay street, perhaps, of seeing some more of the same sort -- " "But. I for one, have seen enough of the gambling- houses," interrupted the judge, " and for my part, I don't care about going there."    .  "But you must, judge." "One moment, if you please-I have seen enough, and am satisfied."' "Guess we had better take a peep in," said Kit. "Yes?, we added. "No-you have seen enough to write about," was the re. ply made by Blower. "We'll go down to Tammany Hall- take a ' private drink,' and then adjourn for our next pro. posed tour." "Would like to take you into a real palace down in Bar. clay street, a few steps in the rear of the Astor House," said "Torn." The judge shook his head. The coachman had just passed Chanmber street. "Very well, just as you say, then. But perhaps, you'd like to visit a ' Pistol Gallery,' and try your luck at hitting the bell?"   104      SEVEN NIGHS m GOTHAM. "No, I thank you-pistols and I don't agree," was the re. ply made by Blower. "I've seen enough for one night, and to-morrow morning, bright and early, I'll go and see my three sons, and if I don't give them a lecture upon the subject of gambling, for their good, it will be because I cannot. They are three nice boys, but I'll make 'em promise never to gamble, and what's more, never to be caught in a gambling-house. If they are, and I hear of it, and the report proves true, I'll disinherit them forthwith.; Hobbs, poke your head out of the window, and tell the coachman to drive over to Tam- many Hall." As the judge gave this order, Kit obeyed, but instead of speaking to himn, he punches him with the end of his umbrella, much to the inconvenience of said coachman, who undoubtedly felt the insult both ways. Handing "Tom" a ten dollar gold piece, the judge said -- "Put that in your pocket-and a thousand thanks, too." "Tom" smiled, and looking the judge in the eye, said, "all right--all in the family." We then parted.   NIGHT THE SIXTH. THE Gas Companies had done it! Undoubt- edly they had consulted the almanac, and finding that the moon would certainly rise at an early hour, had been so considerate as to order the ready and bungling burghers, to allow the street lamps to remain unlighted! The nine o'clock gun had thundered from the Navy Yard; the hands of St. Paul's Clock had become frosty and would not move.; omnibus horses were slipping up and tumbling down over the Russ pavement; Forrest was play- ing Damon at the Broadway; and the City Hall Clock was passing through its ninth eclipse! But the streets were dark, cold, and dreary, thronged and well represented, free for once, from the black folds of poor city gas, which oozes so liberally, when allowed to run! To-night we are to wander with a feeling of hesitation, amid scenes of high life, circles of serenity and gayety, where we have no doubt many a daughter has often wished so sink back into nothingness, rather than live to advance amid the hard battles of an unfortunate life. We may be condemned by the narrow-contracted moralist at first, for thus entering a vale which should be forgot-at least overlooked, yet we honestly believe' that "the- sober second thought" of the prudish and exact, will overlook the hasty prejudiced verdict, and like true reformers, give ear to the embarrassing records respecting the rise and powerful progress of certain temples of a questionable character, as are herein set forth. We should remember that every man, and every woman, have their sufferings, and every family is a history in itself; that every age has its own sorrows, while at the same time, human nature has ever the same instincts, whether it regards the virtuous or vicious. From the commencement of our critical task, we have endea- vored to describe things and scenes as we find them, exactly   106       SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. as they exist, without increase or diminution, for the reason that everybody is contented with the simple truth; the people -at least, throwing overboard critics. "Shall we go now, up in Seventh Street? My friends, no doubt, are there, waiting for us. It is just twenty min. utes past eight." This question came from the lips of Judge Jerome Blower, and was addressed to us, as we sat in the Irving House, one evening during the month of February last. Shortly after this, we were snugly seated in a fine carriage, and on our way hence. "You look very dressy-very slick to-night, judge. with your high collar, blue coat with shiney buttons, white vest, and patent leathers? And you are pretty highly perfumed, withal." " The fact of the matter is," said he, smilingly, ' I thought that we had better look pretty nice, seeing as how we were going among--among-ladies," giving an emphasis upon that word. We nodded our head, and added, " of course." "And I'm thinking that you look rather dandyish too," he observed, after viewing us all ways. "Do we?" "Yes, I'm bound if you don't." "Well, have it so then," we remarked in return. There was a secret-in all this, and perhaps we ought to have revealed it before. Already had Judge Blower aocom. panied us on several tours during our circumlocutions in and about Gotham by gaslight. We had looked in upon the rich and the poor, the virtuous and the vicious; and of our tran. sactions, he had taken the liberty of informing several of his acquaintances, among whom were two distinguished divines! He had pictured out to them our night's tramp, from the monkey establishment to the cock-fight; from  the Model Artists to the theatre; from the high to the low dance-house, and so on. To them -it was interesting; so much so, that they took minutes of each night's wanderings, and also, at the present date, what promises had gone from us? After we had reached our "Night the Fourth," the judge, for the third time, renewed the same request as heretofore, in regard to allowing these two clergymen to accompany us on some of our visits, it being their wish; yet we at once declined, teiling the judge that we had rather journey without them, in fact, with no one, save our own constituted circle. Dur, ing this time, he was anxious to know when we should " get down a  night," expressly for a visit to some of the "Palaces e    SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      107 of Pleasure" to be found so publicly in Gotham, as he was very anxious to look in upon all such sights, 'ere we com- pleted our task. We sent back our answer always, "Let it be Night the Sixthl," and upon the strength of this promise he rested. Thus you now begin to observe where we are destined to journey., During our last tour, we after much persuasion, yielded to the desire of Blower, that on this occasion, we would allow his two religious friends to accompany us.' This was the understanding, and the reason of all this can be understood by the judge's own language to us when he broached the subject. "They are both rectors of certain churches up-town, and were very anxious to disguise themselves and to look in upon the vice and immorality carried on in such dens, that they may have ample power, knowledge, and experience to open a channel for a reformation--hoping to cause a reform." With this understanding, we agreed to accompany them and the judge upon such a tour of information and personal observation, having obtained the services of " one who knew the ropes," a wealthy gentleman's son, who had figured amid such dashing scenes to a great advantage, and whom Matdame  Rumor declared, was a ne plus ultra pet among the (' fancy" of Gotham. At the hour of eleven he had agreed to meet us at Delmonico's. Critically as we were placed upon all sides, amid ministers, a judge, &c., we came to the determination that during this sojourn we would act as free and as independent with the two ministers as with the judge, or our other warm friend. No Restrictions had gone forth, save that* the judges two friends were to associate with us freely, and sacrifice all un- willingness on the occasion-to pass from place to place-- through channel to channel, in that easy and agreeable way, which best suits an event of this nature. With these promises, we felt quite assured that as they had a great de- sire, to study for information, the best motto that they could adopt as an excuse for inspecting thoroughly this important subject, was the ancient one, ("When among the Romans, do as the Romans do." EAR Seventh street, orders were given to the coachman, and soon we were in front of a fine building. On entering it, we were introduced to a tall, slim, consumptive individual, the Rev. Mr.    , a gentleman of about six- and-thirty, in his way, exceedingly polite. Shortly after this, we were introduced to the other friend, Rev. Mr.   , who was on     108      SEVEN NIGitTS IN GOTHAM. the shadv side of fifty, and of about the same form as the other. Both highly educated. "Well, gentlemen, I for one feel assured that you, no doubt, consider this wish of ours rather out of our sphere," remarked one of the divines to us, " but be assured that Brother    and myself wish to act in good faith, and in a proper light. We are aware of the vast amount of sin in this city-especially upon the subject which we are to in- spect and discuss to-night--and we feel it a duty incumbent upon us to examine personally some of its parts and places, that we may be the more able to impress a reformation. Some of our friends, you are aware, commenced thus, about the Five Points about one year ago after a few had paid a. visit through its realms, you are now aware, no doubt, of the great improvement wrought already there, by a reformation. This is our business to-night, hoping to bring the subject be. fore proper judges hereafter, and to substantiate all the re- ports made in regard to the actual condition of the subject of prostitution in the city of New York." 'Yes, and to do that," rejoined the other divine, " we are willing to lower ourselves--to sacrifice for a short time, our pride,. in passing from one place to another, that we may be better able to understand the subject in all of its bearings." To this the judge made a very proper reply, that he was, like them, a stranger to such questionable places, and that he had a  very anxious desire to see for himself in as proper a light as the subject would possibly bear, the actual condition of such creatures. He  had, therefore, the same view before him. At the close of the,judge's very sensible remarks, we inti- mated a  similar mission upon our side-and then went on' to state what we must expect to pass through in obtaining the said information required by all of us. "And this friend of yours, you say, is well versed in these sinful channels?" inquired one of the divines. "Let me   reply," said the judge. "Now, one moment, gentlemen, if you please. The fact of the matter is-this young gentleman is a  ' high boy,' as they are called here in York, has a fortune, and he don't spare nothing for a good time. In fact, he's known all about; in all kinds of circles and is just the person to show and describe to us what we desire." With this understanding, white neckerchiefs'were dis- carded, and a  partial disguise of dress resorted to by both of the divines. When we reached Delmonico's, our friend, who is known as "handsome Charley," was ready to accompany "-'U 'v  VIullOY)    SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      109 us. Here things were described again-excuses advanced and overlooked-placing the, subject in such a light as to discard all vain suspicion respecting the purposes of the two worthy and very distinguished gentlemen. -"No excuses are needed, gentlemen, for it's all under- stood," responded Charley, as he stood before us, attired in prim fashion. "The judge and my friend here have pre- viously informed me about the affair, and as they are my very particular friends, I consented to do my best in gratify- ing your wishes and desires." Charley bowed, and talked as polite as possible. Perhaps it would be well to remark that " handsome Charley " is about three-and-twenty, fine built, very dressy as a general thing, having excellent taste, and may be put down in print as being a celebrated " lady- killer," of the first water. He's a great admirer of good wine and handsome women-is partial to kid gloves, and fine, curling moustaches,--has a black piercing eye, a deli- cate hand, a rosy cheek, and an admirable pretty foot. Of course, we need say no more--for this makes the man, so far as estimation and fancy have a hearing. "Gentlemen, it is very essential that we understand each other," said he, easing his hands in kids, " on such a tour as this, it being that we are going a little out of your gen- eral sphere. Your desire, if I mistake not, is to gain a per- sonal knowledge of these 'palaces' and 'castles,' and as you are, no doubt, quite fastidious, I shall take you only into a few of the, most select, or to use an expression of their own, the ' most magnificent' of these places." "( Yes, Charles, that's the idea," interposed the judge. "And in doing so, you will excuse me for whatever I do while within-and I will give you my honor that I will conduct myself as properly as the circumstances will per- mit. For instance, now, when we go in, it will be my duty to call for champagne, for the polite thing must be done-and after you have taken a good look at the state, of things, we will leave and go elsewhere. Of course, it is not essential that you should imbibe at all, for as long as I do the agreeable, by calling for champagne, and paying for it-three dollars per bottle-all is well. I merely speak of these things so as not to shook your modesty-and as you are the particular guests of my friend, the judge, we shall do our very best-shan't we, judge?" "Of course-of course we will Charles, regardless of all the expenses  " "Which are solely between us," interposed Charley. "Yes, solely between us two " "And we!"   "O      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "No, you go for information, and therefore are with the other guests," replied the judge to our question. We were soon wending our way up Broadway, and as the carriage rolled on, "Charley " was giving us advice. "It will be no use to evade my real name, as I am, un- fortunately," and saying this, he looked toward the two divines, smiled, and nodded his head, " well acquainted about town, but each of you can be called, Jones, Brown, Smith, or Higgins, and all's just as well, for it will go no farther. I shall address my friend here," pointing to us, " as ( Harry,' and as for the judge, I shall take the liberty of calling him- ' Judge,' at any rate." "Suit yourself, Charles, and I'm satisfied," was Blower's rejoinder. "4 All right then-and one thing in particular I will do at each place, request one of the drawing-rooms -for our private reception -- "Oh of course, and that we thought was the understand. ing," observed one of the divines. "Of course-certainly,"' added the other. "Yes, Charles, do that by all means, as my friends run great risk as it is-so do your best upon that point." "I understand,"'said Charley with a smile. "Bye-the- bye, each of you must know mv father, no doubt at least by reputation?" "I know him by reputation, well," remarked one. "And I've had personal dealings with him," said {he other. "The d---- you have-ah, excuse me gentlemen, for I often forget myself -you have then?" "Oh yes, sir, He's very busy of late, I -understand, in steam navigation?" "Oh yes, in fact, he's wrapped up in steam all of the time,:" remarked Charley. "But here we are passing out of Broadlvay into Duane street," said he. "Where do you take us first?" inquired the judge. "Down here just below, judge, to a notorious place called "Palace of --- ," where, after you get in, you will soon see from whence it derived its name." As we reached the side-walk, we observed that we stood in front of a neat looking mansion, with its free-stone door. way, "But this is not one of those houses, Charley?" we imme- diately asked. "Yes sir, this is one of the ' palaces' of Gotham. Come, ascend, gentlemen," and he touched the bell-nob.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       "I ' Can it be possible?" said one of the divines.. Oh my! who would take such a neat, rnodest-looking dwelling for a house of bad repute," whispered the judge. "Coachman--hold on until we return," said Charley. "' All right, sir-understand, sir," was the answer. OOON one of the small pannels in the door opened, and a voice within said, "Good evening -who's there?" i All right," spoke up Charley, "only five of us," but the female within hesitated. "Fact, she don't know me--she must be a new corter. Madamioiselle, please ask the Empress ----  ,' to step here," and off she went. We still stood upon the steps. "e Oh ho, why, dear Charley, is that you?" said a magnifi- cently dressed and voluptuous young woman, throwing off the chain which held the door, and opening it instantly. ("Do excuse the delay, as I've a new door-keeper. Hatty, dear, step here a minute. Whenever this gentleman calls, admit him. Take a good look at him now, and never make a sad mistake Do you understand it?" "I do," replied a young girl, the one whom we first accosted. ," All right, ' Empress'--all right," said Charley; 'but, 'Empress,' a private parlor if you please, as some of us don't wish to be known." ," Certainly--ertainly. 'll give you the main drawing- room, and it's the best, you know." Saying this, we were ushered into-what? Ah yes, the hell bears a true, name- "Palace of ---- ," for here we beheld large extended mir. rors upon all sides of the room, causing five to appear by re. flection of the mirrors, as though there were twenty. It was a magnificent, an alluring sight. The place, in other respects, was gorgeously furnished, vieing with the best furnished castle to be found in Union Square, or the Fifth Avenue. The surprise was so great that the judge and his friends could hardly speak, as if awed by such a scene of magnifi- cence. This, reader, is one of the most " arist6ocratio" homes of vice in Gotham, yea, in the United States-; and yet it is countenanced, although our City Fathers know well of its location and notoriety. It is said, upon good authority, that the mirrors alone, in this drawing-room, cost some $6,00O!  After introducing with one breath, ' Mr. Jones, Mr. Brown, lMr. Smith," and so on, Charley indicated that he was dry.   "2      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "At your old tricks again, eh?" and smiling, the ", coun. tess " made her exit. It was not long before the gingling of goblets, the noise of ice, and the pop of champaigne, followed-at the same time, no less than seven magnificently dressed women, ranging in age from sixteen to twenty-two, made their appearance among us. All bowed-and all seemed to know " handsome Charley." The two bottles of wine were soon consumed, all partaking, save Charley and the two divines, the former de- clining, no doubt, so as not to leave them alone in an embar- rassing state. Let us digress for one moment. We are informed that"in one of these expensive establishments, its regular occupants are about sixteen women, who pay each from ten to fourteen dollars a week for board, saying nothing about " incidental expenses." From this it can be seen that the greater part of their harvest is gathered into their employer's garner- into the purse of " boss of the establishment," thereby giv- ing them a miserable existence. These poor creatures, there- fore, have a severe time of getting a decent living, gained through indecent channels, at that. Now let us look at this subject in a fair and honest manner. In the first place, all kinds of ideas may have their bearings respecting the first "fatal step" of these unfortunates. We have known inu- stances, where, aside from rash seduction, many threw them- selves away on account of glaring poverty before their eyes ; another became crossed in love; another because forced to wed not the man of her choice; and others, as a spite to themselves or friends. This no doubt was the case with some of these women, who now flourish and revel amid elegance and mirrors, who feel irrevocably lost to every feeling of love, pity, or remorse. But reader, do look upon this subject for' a moment, truly, serious, and reflecting. Take either one of the seven before us, and what can you say in their behalf? They have a right to be heard. Here is a young creature, who was once the hope and the pride of fond and tender parents-nursed in the lap of ease, perhaps of luxury. Her young heart once throbbed with pure motives and tender emotions, and but for the destroyer's hand, she might have been fulfilling the duties of wife and mother, and enjoying the pleasures of a happy home. But deceived, down-trodden, wounded, and cast out, her nature rises exasperated at her wrongs. She cannot help it-at least says so. She is no longer the modest, retiring girl she was five, four, three, two, ; or one year ago. The bloom of innocence and of youth have departed-and with it her virtue; every generous sentiment f   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTIBM.       113 has been smothered, every noble effort crushed, every fond hope blasted-all scattered; and she, she has fallen to the lowest depts of abject degradation, the ridicule of man, and the scorn of woman! Heart-rending appeals are made upon the sympathies of. the public for aid to reform the drunkard, to emancipate the slave, to reclaim the vicious of every degree ; but where are the philanthropists that have fairly stretched forth their hands to receive the fallen daughters of Eve? No; from the pulpit, the bar, and the " high places in our midst," have proceeded denunciations and maledictions on these helpless and miserable creatures. How often do we hear the wise man talk ot the harlot, arrayed in soft attire, walking in every street, and laying in wait at every corner, to catch and kiss'the youth of simple mind and heart? And how often do we find this self same sage casting aside his wisdom and integrity to vie with him that is "( void of understand- ing," in the pursuit of a shadow which yieldeth only vex- ation and remorse-following her iike an ox to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the stocks-even to her den of vice and crime, striving to win her deceitful smiles and cold caresses? But we must return. After "( Charley " had chatted with the "Empress," (who it is said cuts quite a large swarth when she moves,) we took our leave. While riding in the carriage, the discussion upon the un- fortunate incident just passed throughi was truly exciting, consisting of religious, judicial, and worldly expressions from the lips of the circle. "There is one of the 'palaces,' to begin with, gentlemen, and you can draw your compari- sons," observed Charley. We did so, but time nor space will not allow us to go into the details of the subject. Suf- fice it to say, one opinion reigned supreme--" that these hells are not demolished by the proper anthorities." At the present datei prostitution is gaining a stronghold in this city. We have, as the records show, at the least cal. culation, Twelve thousand courtezans, and eighteen hundred public brothels in Gotham, and every day brings new vic- tims and dens into existence. See what temptation exists before the younthful mind-before thousands and tens of thousands, who are now rising into power and influence. And yet in-this wise and enlightened day, youthful vice and vagrancy have reached such an apis that- something must be done to check the growing evil. The Chief of Police of our city thus discourses, in an eloquent and well defined manner, with reference to the same subject:   "4      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. "No community can be considered well policed which per- mits the continuance of an -evil of such magnitude and aggravation, so contaminating to the public interests, as that which exists in our midst. Public economy, too, no less re- quires its immediate removal or restraint. The present state of things tends directly to pauperism and crime. To prevent these costs far less than'to support and punish them. Nor can it be believed that a community properly regardful of its own self-preservation, or of the present individual well-being and future hopes of its members, van see the evil in question festering on its very bosom, without making the most strenu- ous efforts for its removal." t"What do these poor creatures do when taken sick?" asked one of the divines. "They have generally no resource but the hospital, but in these high-priced dens, they are attended there at a heavy expense," replied Charley, who seemed to know their frailties. :' Their life is a short one?" observed the other minister. ("Generally range about five years it is said, sir, among those who are prudent. Those .who live after that, can then be found low, loathsome street walkers, drunkards in the kennels of the Hook or of the Five Points, and finally die and are buried in the Potter's Field! This is their end," said Charley, seriously. He then referred to the case of "Anna Benton," and the well-known dashing "lfledora Webster," both of whom opened their career in a " palace," and were buried at the expense of the public. We were surprised when he informed us that many a mar- ried man of his acquaintance kept his mistress; several of whom allow them " pill money," amounting to $3,000 per year, giving us some " striking proofs " of the same. Our next visit was at another similar place on the same expensive scale. The rooms were unusually large and lofty, and magnificently furnished. The " landlady" had expressed the heighth of her pride at an expensive rate, for upon the spacious wall she had caused rich orange-shaded satin to be arranged in narrow pleates, tasty and gaudy; large and magnificent chandeliers brilliantly lighted with gas; Wilton carpeting covered with fresh roses and various flowers, as it were; Egyptian marbles mantles; costly Parisian plate. glass mirrors reaching from floor to ceiling; magnificent paintings suspended from the walls; elegant furniture of a great variety, together with other attractive items, were to be observed within this well known palace to Aphrodite.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.       "S Equally in every thing, aside from the great number of mnir. rors, did it vie with the first den we visited. From here, we visited one next door, spread out on the same liberal scale throughout. "Charley" seemed to be more at home here than at the other places. Having a desire, as he said, to give us a fair sight into all the notable places, he took us into another one of these "aristocratic inlets," farther up the same street, where, in- deed, everything seemed to be of a highly aristocratic order. The landlady was very affecting, while the degraded and unfortunate Cyprians under her jurisdiction, strived to put on as many ("French airs"' as did their leader. Many inter- esting accountsrelative to this demoralizing and licentious brothel were given by our friend, but it will not do to parley. All that we have to say is, that it's a wonder that the keep- lers are not arrested and their nests destroyed, when they are' so well known by our authorities. But it may be interesting to our readers to known how all such places are furnished at such a costly rate, and as we have taken pains to inquire into the matter at " head quar- ters," we .will now in a few simple facts inform them; and let us remark here that we have the following from the best sources. ' There are splendid dens of shame in this city-palaces-- which are built and furnished in this way: A lease is first taken for a long term of years on the land. (Of course the owner of the land is safe enough, and irresponsible too. The most sanctified sinner, who pays. the highest rent in the most fashionable church, acquits his conscience of any heavy teax, for letting the land, on which is to be reared a den of infa- my.)  The next party who figures in the vile business is the builder; a man:ai of capital, of course, who incurs a small pecuniary risk-no other. He demands that the premises shall be, kept well insured, and receives at least sixty per cent. in cash of the value of the building. The-third and last party necessary to the building, furnishing and opening of an elegant brothel, is the upholsterer; and he receives, say forty per cent. with a chattel mortgage, and at policy of insurance of at least: seventy per cent. value. All these arrangements made, the parties never meeting, andlchf course incurring no moral responsibility, another gilded piece of crime and- temptation to crime is set up in this city! Now let us recapitulate, so that the reader may be possessed of the truth, the shameful, degrading truth! The owner; of the land receives, tree of taxes, ten per cent. on his property, and runs no risk, for the land can't be burnt down. 'The builder   "6      SEVEN -NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. of the house receives nearly two-thirds of his outlay in cash, and holds a policy of insurance for the balance-getting good interest, with all the profits on the building for the amount outstanding. The upholsterer, with forty per cent, of the amount paid down, a mortgage on the furniture and finish- ings-a mortgage backed by insurance to full seventy per cent. of the original bill, (of course there was thirty per cent. clear profit,) runs but a trifling risk.  So procured, built, and furnished is a modern, -fashionable brothel. Capitalists, seeking large profits, combine in the manner described! And yet if you were to say to any one of these capitalists, you are indirectly trading in prostitu- tion and- infamy, he would either knock the sayer down, or proceed against him in an action for slander! But still, and notwithstanding all the cant of hypocrisy-the fact stands out, that these three honorable men have built and furnished this infamous den, and are receiving a large profit on their in. vestments-and that all this profit is derived from female pros- titution! It does not matter whether the house is up town and apparently respectable, or dowp town, and openly adver- tised by shame.  In this way all of them are buil't." The above three notorious inns are situated in a street next to our great modern thoroughfare, Broadway, where aside from them, can be found some thirty other hells of a less attractive order, yet bearing a costly and magnificent air. We regret to note that this thoroughfare, so unfortunate to its many respectable inmates which are to be found therein, is Mercer street. Wherever we wandered, we were led to wonder more and more. Everything far surpassing the wildest imagination given our friends, so surprised as they were at the sights pre. sented before them in the space of two short hours by gas light. Gotham, what is to be thy end! Men of justice, for the love of mothers and daughters, for the perpetuation of truth and happiness, open a reform, and let it regenerate the existing corrupt channels where flow vice and degradation. Check the growing evil. ' We will go still farther toward the very roots of prosti. tution," said Charley,-as we left these places, and passed into Broadway.;  "How appalling is the thought; who dreamed that this evil was carried on in such a state of boldness in our city?" asked one of the divines. "Truly lamentable ;" rejoined his brother. '"Very much so" added Blower. " Gentlemen.," said Charley in rather of a meditative   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAm.      117 mood, "'you have not the least conception of the amount of deviltry enacted day after day in this city. It takes a man several years, and then he has to study closely and look about him, before he has learned ' all of the ropes,' which are almost of a countless number. I have been on what is termed ( the town,' for the last seven years, and I must confess that I do not more than half know what Gotham contains."  WHAT amount of money have you spent, no, not spent," said the judge, " but throwrn away during that term of years?" "Several fortunes, judge, although that is rather of a delicate question to ask me, plain and blunt, before your friends. As you have put the ques- tion, I'll tell you what I will say in reply to it--I have spent forty thou" sand dollars' during the last three years!: When this came out, the judge gave a long whistle, and then a sigh. His two friends felt the force of the re- mark, (not in their pockets, however,) and both looked as though such a con. fession was. what may be called awful papers." We believe that our friend told the truth. After a short drive, he tool us into another section of the city, and that too, situated within hailing distance of Broad- way. 'a Do you see this high and fine looking mansion here?'J he asked, as he pointed from the sidewalk. We answered accordingly. "And do you observe the one next below it, where you ob- serve the heavy drdpery and flowing lace'in the windows?" We replied in the affirmative. "And opposite this, do you observe that tall, neat-looking dwelling, next to the vacant lot?" "We do." "Well, you may think of it as you please-but the three are of the same kind and order as those we have visited this evening, and each on the same scale of magnificence." "Can it be possible?" asked the judge, as his eye turned upon the three. 4   "8,      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTiAM.  "(i Yes, and it can be proved. Come," said Charley, and we ascended the steps of one of them. "House is full of gentletnn--the parlors are crowded- can't adlmit yon for the present-you must come around this way again with your friends in about an hour) time," said a tall, slim, good' looking woman, of about six and thirty, as she looked out from within upon our circle. "Take another look, and see if you don't stretch. the truth. Then look me fair in the face now, and see if you don't know me?". Saying this, he placed himself in suoh a position that slb could not mistake him. She at once smiled-opened the door, admitted us. In doing so, she added as we passed in-- "Well, Charley, you'll have to overlook the intrusion, for to save mylife, I would have sworn that it'was ot; you, had you not looked up as you did." "Fine evening, my dear," said he. "Very moonlight, Charley.  Pass into the rear drawing. room, if you please, as the other parlors are full. "All right," and on led Charley. When arrived there we found it partly occupietld "Oh exause me, for I  forgot," said the landlady, " when I  spoke 'that there was any one there. Just take your friends, Charley, up stairs, into my room, if you please," This request seemed to please him. Up wewent, and were -ushered into magnificent apartments "Well, gentlemen, between us five, what do you think of carrying iniquity so far as this," asked Charley, in a half whisper. - "Awful, remarked the judge. "Truly to be- regretted, added one of the divines. Ah, .yes!" rejoined his friend. EVERY reader has but to reflect for a mo- ment upon this iniquitous subject, to be. come fully convinced, that in our own 'Gotham, the traffic is powerfully carrried on in temple, palace, and court, at such an extent as to give it'a lawful look in the'eye of the ignorant. and the innocent. Here comes the devotees and admirers ;- here move the, beautiful in looks, and the fashionable and aristocratic in attire here, in idleness and luxury, pass, mid suimptuous splendor, queens coun. etS;u, and belles, by-appellatioa t-viotimsof a  depraved life, yet arrayed in such a light-as to give the idea that they are gay, joyous, and happy inmates of such "palaees," or in   SEVEN ONIGTS N GOTHAM.     -  119 other words, c bowers of beauty,"' while all in all results in mere deception! Unfortunate daughters of fallen Eve! thy race is a short one--thy end miserable, unfortunate-dam- nable! While in these magnificent apartments, we were intrn.. duced to many a lovely ereature-in looks, and richly attircId. Here "Charley" pointed out to us an heiress, from *ViltnimtlJ ton, Notth Carolina, who had thrown herself away in a sti-tr, of ill-temper; he also-gave us the full particulars concernihtg another young girl who had appeared before us in her silks and jewelry, a miss who eloped -from the city of Roeheltee, New York, and entered boldly upon such a life, while she held in her hands the very verdict of " first belle of!ohes- ter." Many an unhappy circumstance did he repeat respedt; ing other victims. The public at large have no idea of the amnoutt, and of the extent to which prostitution is carried on in Gotham. Had we time, we would like to give them an impartial insight into the subject, the points obtained from the records themsrielves. We have taken a great. deal of pains to secure such informa- tions, but our modesty will not allow us to enter into that extended sphere, which by good rights,'the'subject demands. We visited the other two Leonard street dens of pollution -the one where a certain courtesan made herself more no. torious than her compeers, by her masquarade balls, and her public cowhide scrapes at various times in Broadway-the other, where in days gone by, the notorious   lived, and flourished on a more extended scale than others-and where now, the same iniquity is carried on under the very same roof, and in the drawing-rooms of this licentious deni of dissipation and crime, can be observed  conspicuously, large  costly paintings of "  Clhrist on the dross,"  and of "Mary and Joseph!" Think of that, ye reformers--ye lov- ers And defenders of virtue! We would ask honestly and sincerely, if we are not living at the present time where prostitution is fairly sweeping everything before it, when testing its tendencies upon ber. tain unqualified grounds. Look at our Broadway by' dAy light, and more especially by gas-light-and there see the hundreds upon hundreds who prerambulate it in their silks, satins, and velvets. Ente r our places of public amuseoment, we find there bad characters mixed- in w ith respeot able peo. pile. Visit our fashionable saloons, and there they are, mtak- ing them, what they have the notorious Art-Union for several years past, assignation houses of the first class. Such ia. the plain account of Gotham at this very hour, and among *              ?   20      #SEVEN NIGHTS JN GOTHAM, all of the reformers who have written boldly upon this same subject, we consider our friend S n, editor of the popu- lar paper the "D-y B-k, as one worthy of high consider- ation. Read his opinion; - THAT vice, immorality, and crime are incidental as a great evil in all large cities, is a fact, we regret to say, that admits of no denial, however -severe 'may be the laws to pievent. or punish it, and it will generally be found, the more severe are such laws the, more they are disobeyed and -become dead letters onri our statute books.  More persons are won by kindness from the paths of wrong than forced into the loveliness of virtue by strict and severe laws; but there is a point in the en- forcement of just laws  that we are called upon to speak of, for it is de- manded by the good of the community, and called for by those classes who are our best citizens, and unpopular, though it be, we shall insist on their being enforced. Vice concealed has no other effect than to sink its votaries into their beastly selves; hid from the public eye, its contaminating influence is not generally felt; unknown to the young or not apparent till their more mature years can guard them against its effects. How is it now in our city? Think you, our rulers, the maison of the courtezan, with its rooms of silver and purple, is not alluring, by its outside display, thousands to ruin and death, of both sexes, and these in our most publico thoroughfares? Does not vice, with its gilt and tinsel, revel in the haunts that were virtue's home-open its glaring, still damned, portals when the sun of heaven shines, presenting with its grog shop neighbors, allurements to the young and inexperienced that are hard, even-for one accustomed to the world to resist? And are they not tolerated even by those high in office--we had almost said supported by them? Walk down Broadway during the fashionable hours; see the painted bawds, dressed in their silks and satins, luring by their lascivious appearance and bold effrontery, weak-minded fools to their dens, and these dens offering in their magnifi- cence every stimulant that can appeal to man's worst pas. sions. Look at yon carriage with its outriders, on whose panels is emblazoned a crest of nobility, with its horses trimmed with ribbons cf various hues-inside is a notorious   SEVEN GHTS IN GOTHAM.       121 courtezan, one who probably has caused as much ruin in New York as any other person in the city-she has retired from active life, and now finds as her cavalier servant a son of one of our millionaires. The fool revels in her polluted arms, thinking, no doubt, the world does not despise both him and her. It is not our part and we have no right to speak of private matters, but we have a right, and it is no less our duty to speak of such glaring vice when it is set before us every day for we must suppose praise or censure, for the cause of virtue deserves it. Already, in a great measure, is our magnificent Broadway almost rendered useless to our virtu. ous maidens by the courtezans who infest it. Our Battery has been despoiled of its beauties by them, and the time is past when with the spring flowers -we could hail their loveli- ness and the beauties of virtue with each returning spriig. Who can gaze on the beautiful fountain in Union-Square, and not see in its mirrored basin by his side, the brazen-faced courtezan? It is a duty our rulers owe to society and themselves, to check this growing evil. If vice must exist, let it -be kept from the public eye as far as possible; and we would sug- gest, that while our most active police are so willing to drag to the Tombs the poor and miserable denizens of the Five Points, they would begin their good work at the schools that make them what they are, in Leonard, Church, and Mercer streets. Because the vice is gilded it is no less vile, and the ruin occasioned in one year by the latter class is greater than could be by the former in a century." 3 Yes, it is a duty resting upon our rulers to check this growing evil. We think that when the ministry alone can come together to take this subject in hand, that one of tho greatest revolutions would follow ever known in the metro. polis We wish that they would make the move at once, and let us say that we have our reasons for urging this re- form, having had the misfortune of beholding many victims, who, in days gone by, lived and flourished among us in hap. piness. Much more might be said upon the unfortunate subject, but we must stop. Hoping that we have not offended our readers in telling them the truth as gentlemanly as we possibly could, we here lay down our pen to rest, ere we enter upon the Seventh Night. , ,A   NIGHT THE SEVENTH. AND with this Night, we end our tedious task 'mid the pity of some, the smile of others, the indifference of many:  But it seems we have not fairly com- menced to look in upon what is partially hid be- neath the thick veil of mystery.    Can it be pos- sible? Bethink! Wig- Bigglesworth, that long-head. ed, serious old man, dares on this, the  Seventh night, to take from  a wrinkled morocco wallet, a bit of paper upon which is written a   long list of notable places, which in handing us, he assures us should be visited, by good rights, ere we allowed ourselves to think of closing the "Seven nights in Gothlam." Dear old soul!  We cannot accede to your wishes, for neither time nor space will allow us to enter into a more extended as. count respecting the bright and sad pictures of Gotham. We have, in a  plain way, strived to present tothe reading publio a slight insight into the lights and shadows of Gotham life; but we have not done all, for a reason that we have only entered upon such subjects as bear the rost mystery. Admittance fifty cents each, if you please, gentleren," said a rough looking customer, as we reached a chamber door, on the third floor of a narrov brick house in Ave- nue D.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      123. Within a good sized hall were assembled at about eleven o'clock at night, no less than seventy persons, consisting mostly of young and middle-aged men. Omnibus drivers, stable boys, low rowdies, and such like, mingled 'mid the scene, and those who tools the lead in heavy bets, loud oaths and the number of rats to be used at a time, seemed to be the rowdies We were at a ". Rat Worrier." A good sized ring ocuu, pied the centre of the room. Various dogs, mostly small terriers, were to be seen in various parts of the hall, under guarA, all evidently very eager and impatient for the sport. Some half-dozen "' down-town snobs" were there with their dogs, one young dandy had five, arM from all appearances, they had come upt o "test the bets." Presently, in .omes a sluggish-looking fellow with a large box of live rats; he gets into the ring, and begins taking them out with his hands. boon, some are crawling about his legs and up his back, and on the box, but he carelessly pushes them off 'f How many do you want to bet on?" he asks, as'he con- tinues to take them out in all manner of ways. "Oh I'll bet on thirty rats," said an omnibus driver, who  stood up to the ring with a terrier in his arms Let this be understood. He bets thathis dog can kill them all in so many seconds or so many minutes, and when the number is placed in the ring, in, springs the pup and at it he goes, nabbing the rats in all ways, while the crowd look on and 4" time."     - ' Our -stay here lasted for upward of an hour; during that time we saw some three hundred rats slaughtered by these dogs. Some of the rats were as large as small kittens, and as they were chased about the ring, some singly and some in clusters, the sight after all was rather a disagreeable one. Hobbs was very much pleased, for the cunning fellow, every now and then, would put his old long umbrella over- inside 4 of the ring, and punch rats to death. 'Blower was highly delighted, and take it. th in all, the visit passed finely. Many singular expressions were overheard of a-laughable and comic nature. The main topic of conversation, aside from the regular meeting, was respecting the "  Forrest Case" and the ' Maine Liquor .Law."  Opinions were ex- pressed freely upon both subjects, beth receiving their share: of cunrses and praises, without much hesitation, We next paid 'a visit to the "Beer Barrel," in the neigh. borhood of Tompkins Square, which is certainly one of the fare attractions of Gotham. The admittance fee was one'   124      SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM. shilling-the " sights," a large beer barrel which nearly filled up the entire of a large room, and out of which, from a dozen different streams, through various figures ,and pro- files, the devotees of Bacchus can help themselves to the tflowing liquid." It is a German concern, and is well. sustained by that class. As it was early in the evening, and we were in the imme- diate neighborhood of all foreign classes, Wigglesworth looked in upon German, Dutch, and French dance-houses which sights were truly amusing.  We next visited ten'pin alleys and saloons, where can be found women barkeepers, hired to stay there so as to draw attraction. This is getting to be of late a great practice in all portions of the city. In Broadway there are many of this stamrnp, of a dashing and expensive kind--a la " the Widow's," where can be found several dressy bar-maids during both day and night: It is here at such places, where young  men commence their juvenile , bust, ups," at an age;when permission is granted to carry a night-key; where with chumzs they " just call in," more on account of seeing and chatting with the "paint and powder attraction," than to " smile" or " whiff.'  It is here at such saloons, where pictures and paintings of an immoral tendency, admirably drawn and dolored, attracts no little attention, because mildly suggestive of nothing but nude women blasphemously called Venuses.  These saloons ave been the means of ruining thousands of young men, while at the present das , thousands are stepping the first step of vice on the same scale, for a reason that these laces are more notorious than ever. It is here, where at a late lour of night, are to be found old and young men in a high glee of intoxication, while various disgusting scenes are con- stantly enacted amid the crowd. They are openly con. sidere(d-assignation houses. During the evening, we called in at several such places. , and discovered at each that the great attractions were good looking bar-maids, who by gay dress and cunning archer attracts custom. Gotham contains tnany hundred saloons of this .stamp.  On our way through Division street-,the dashing thorough. fare for millinery establishments and pretty girls --Wigles worth gave us an insight into the secret way somre people make money under " false colors," viz., " segar and candy stores in front, and an assignation house up stairs." The officer informed us that in somne thirty odd streets on the east side of the Bowery, such kindls of establishments were numer. bus it is here, at such: respectable-looking places, where   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTHAM.      125 women go in the evening; Even these stores are carried on so slyly, that the next door neighbors have no cause to be suspicious. "Them are kind of places are thick enough in the Bowery and Grand street," observed Kit Hobbs, when Wigglesworth had given an explanation. "'You see," he continued, " you can go in and take a segar, or buy a glass of soda, or some candy, or fruit, then go into the balckroom, or up stairs, and find two, or a half a dozen woman, all married one's like enough, and then set down and chat, play a game at whist, call on for liquor, and, and-clear out when you get ready." Blower remarked that of all the places he would never mistrust these segar and candy stores. We next visited a noted house but a step from Grand, where, on this occasion, the price of admittance was one dollar. On ordinary nights, one shilling is the petty fee. We went here expressly on purpose to ehold a s" grand flare. - up," and as the " bills" about the dity intimated that a i" good time was coming," we anticipated rather an un- common sight. The expectation was fairly realized. On entering, we were led into an immense room, on the second floor, gaudily painted in fresco, with scenes of "a high life " among the old nations. Here were to be seen what may be called a "4 select fancy-dress ball,"' consisting of the first cour. tesans and fancy men of the city-all arrayed iIn magnificent style. Although the female part consisted of disreptuble women, the scene was a splendid one. Some two hundred of them alone were present, while-:twice as many of the '" rougher sex " mingled among them. Here we had a fine opportunity of beholding a little more of Gotham life--but we regret to say that such degrading and disgusting per- formances are openly allowed and chountenanced. From all sorts of dens of vice had these low creatures come, while here all kinds of characters constituting the two sexes, mingled together.  When we take into consideration the great marts of vice staring us in the face, no one can hesitate from saying at once, with a clear. conscience, that Gotham is well steeped in wickedness. Go where you may, and mystery stares you' in the face, while misery leans upon the other side to an enor- mous extent. As we travelled from street to street,-through. out various portions of the metropolis, by gas-light, we were sure to observe rowdyism in all its bearings. Speaking'of this, read from one of bur papers :-L "The streets at night are given over to unmolested rowdy- ism. The blackguard, bully, and knave are the only persons   126      sEVEN NIGHTS W GOTHAM. at all safe during the later hours. The quiet citizen, who religiously pays his taxes to have the streets lighted and watched, and protected at all times, ventures out after ves. pers, with a half certainty of returning with a cracked cocks- comb and a gutted purse. His hat is suddenly knocked over his eyes; his spectacles driven in upon his pupils; his nose tweaked ;- his self-respect annihilated by jibe and insult; and he has no power to punish his assailants. The police have become non-resistants. They who know the streets best, have the liveliest sense of the danger, and of the necessity of self-preservation. They-plead, too, that wherever they in- terfere and arrest, they are sure to come off second best be- fore the Alderman, who has untold allies, and voters among these swash bucklers and night-walkers.  Again, the source of evil turns up in the same shape. "The city is flooded with liquor shops. The thirstiest toper or the most avaricious rum dealers will grant you there are twenty where there should be one or none. The abun. dance breeds discontent, not only among the- temperate and abstinent, but among the trafficersrsthemselves. The subject has elicited endless protests and standing remonstrances, but the number is still undiminished. The bottle greets you half a dozen times in an average. block. It is everywhere. It hovers all about the theatres, and besets church-doors, and flanks the city offies, pokes its nozzle out of your neighbor's cellar, and lays its victims on your door-step. But all inter- vention is useless, People may will the contrary, and im. plore reform; but that everlasting obstacle the Common Council, stands across the path." Thus, the reader can; plainly observe from another pen, a alight insight into the reel, rather than the romantic scene wherein Gotham has toshine forth before all eyes. Even the rowdies -have been gaining the ascendancy of the police de! partment for. some time past to such an- alaeming extent,  that His Honor the Mayor issued, but a few days since, the following order, and forwarded the same. to each captain of police throughout the city . "The great increase of rowdyism calls for energetic action on the part of the police forces, Said. increase may be at- tributable to two causesj namely: the small number of policemen on duty in the day time:; second, the manifest want of prompt action on the part of the force on duty. "To remedy the, first, the night beats of your district will be covered during the day, precisely as they are covered in the night time.   SEVEN NIGHTS IN GOTIEAM.      12 '"To remedy the second, prompt punishment will inevitably follow neglect of duty.'" The reader can begin to perceive now, why we have taken it upon us to give a plain description of some of the certain channels of vice existing to such an extent in this city. But what we have said is but a preface to a continuous work upon the same unfortunate subject. When we commenced visiting these places, we had no desire to enter into a long and elaborate story, half real and half fictitious, for the siake of introducing ;' blood and thunder " characters, but rather to give an impartial account of what is to seen nightly in Gotham. Reform is needed in many departments, which are so conspicuously under the eye of our City Fathers: the breaking up of several rowdy clubs known as the "Short Boys," the "( Rock Boys," and by other names. The. arrest of some hundreds of gambling-house proprie- tors, especially those so well known in Park Place, Barclay Street, and in Broadway. The overthrow of notdrious dens of vice kept up on such a magnificent scale in Leonard, Duane, and Mercer Streets. The breaking up of Mock Auctions in thatham Street and Broadway. The abandonment of "(third tiers"' in theatres. Reform is also needed throughout the whole length of Church street, which may be justly considered at the present b time a foul lazar thoroughfare off prostitution. Reform is needed in certain parts of West Broadway,     , Cherry, Water, Anthony, Thomas, and hundreds of other low streets. Restrictions against allowing women of low repute to walk the main streets of the city by night, Broadway in particular. The breaking up of two thousand low degraded groggeries. Of hundreds of policy offices in Wall, Mercer, Green, West Broadway, Canal and other noted streets. ) And lastly, a thorough changt in the Police Department. We might go on and add to this many other enforcements - that are so much needed; but were these few to be carried out, our city would then become a more decent and praise. worthy place. . Something of this kind was partly. carried into effect by a former mayor of this city, but was over- thrown by his successor on account of the strength of votes arising from certain sources. Here seems to be the rub.. Something must soon be done to lessen the sad picture of Gotham life. //l                         128      SEVEN NIGHTS- IN GOTHAM. 'But we must lay aside our pen for the present. We, have seen enough. There are hundreds of places that we have left unvisited; dens, cribs, caverns and holes of:;an iniqui- tous stamp. .WiggleswQrth's list which he. gave!us, con- tains the names of a host of such places as ," Suicide Alley,"' "-Old Hen Betts," "Lucy's Lane," "'Hole in the Wall," "C East- River Joes House," Mrs. Zooke's, Fortune-teller," 4' Cstharine Market O(aves," ("Slippery Lane in Jackson street," ' Cross street Dens," Water street Caverns," toge- ther with a score of other singular and interesting places to  be found in Gotham. "Charley," too, has invited us to visit several very private and select places with him; one in particular bordering on ,St. John's Park:; lutJiwe are satisfied, although what we have seen is but -a fair introduction to the actual condition of the bright "and sad picture placed before us. We went for information and we -received it. Judge Blower and his religious friends intimate that they have seitn enough also to convince them that the mysteries and miseries of Gotham-are without precedent ini the annals of American History. oSaibs, 0fl$odealares that he 1" knew it all before," and at t he last accounts he stood down near Catharine Market, 4it4h1his umbrrella under his arm on a fine day, wondering what the New   Yorkers would do if the Croton water should gi e out all at once for a whole week. But we must close. We hope that the reformers of our land will look into this "' ect with an earnest zeal. All candid minds can perceiv.  i B e, that if Gotham does not pass-through some kind-of I ange ;fir the better, she may meet the fate of the once reriowned lind glorious city of Babylon! Let good old G(otham at heart pass through a change.    
         
       
   
